And then he made it into a button he could press.

Words appeared, floating free of any blue box.

Endless Aura, 1 second start + concentration, medium range, 100/10 mana/resons base reservation

Turn a portion of your power into a conductor of ambient mana to gather that ambient mana and enliven it to new possibilities within yourself. This is a fragile system and should not be used in combat. This is a tiring system and will stop when it is not concentrated upon. Disruption of this system incurs the loss of the reserved mana and resons.

10 ambient resources gathered per base reservation, per second.

You can have as many instances of this spell active as you can handle.

Beware if there is something truly toxic in the air, for that toxin will become a part of you.

Erick smiled at his new spell.

All around him was a shell of power with… looked like 15,987 starting points around the edge, like tiny holes drilled into a luminous barrier; the beginnings of threads. Where the threads started they were only visible as holes, but closer to Erick’s body, those tubes of ambient mana turned into quiet, iridescent light, that flowed into his body, joining his Status. It was sort of like his Mana Siphon Ability, but a lot more complicated, since ambient mana was dead and needed to be worked over to join with him, and even when it did join it wasn’t a full-joining right away. That took time.

It was sort of like…

Soulvore monsters, like banshees, mostly survived by eating living things. Like all monsters, they loved to accrete ambient mana, but only by eating the mana of people could they maintain their power as they knew it. If they tried to eat ambient mana they usually mutated into other things. So they tended to eat a little bit of the living things around them, as they attempted to conduct the mana around them into new life, to thus consume that new life.

Erick was similarly ‘waking up’ the mana all around him in order to draw it inside.

Erick’s thoughts multiplied as he looked all around him at the flow of mana coming to him, like he was the center of a planet. Like he was a manaminer core, actually.

“Lotta stuff here simply makes sense, now that I actually did it.”

Glancing at his Status, Erick watched his 1,505 mana per second gains turn into a lot more than that, shooting all the way up to 51,064 per second.

His other resources were similarly buffed.

Each of those threads coming down from that aura out there was 1 instance of Endless Aura, and while each of those 15,987 starting points had cost him 100 mana and 10 resons to start and maintain, each one was giving him 10 mana per second. He was gaining 159,870 extra resources per second, and each of those was becoming part of his Mana, Health, and Psyche, and even his reson cache, too.

Hmm. About that...

Erick was inside a bubble of his own resons, turning the air thick with Banned and hidden power, but he wasn’t absolutely crystallizing the air with his resons? Seemed like he should have been, since his reson creation number jumped up from 436.93 mana dedicated to it —which meant 48.54 reson-production per second— to 14,388 mana per second, which meant 1598 resons per second.

Erick looked at himself—

Erick made the mistake of moving more than just his head and his lips. He moved an arm, and that broke the entire spell. He had been forming something of a crystal shell around himself, but now that ephemeral shell broke, sending cracks throughout the entire mana/reson structure of the entire [Endless Aura]. The whole thing evaporated in every direction at once in a crackling, tinkling crash.

“Ah?”

… Erick cast [Endless Aura] just once.

A very thin white shell of mana reappeared around him, at around 3 meters out. A single thread of empty space extended out from that shell, right in front of Erick, forming a thread that twirled inside a cloying mirage of resons, before that thread touched the center of Erick’s chest. Mana flowed through that tube, becoming a soft white glow of many colors, before it touched Erick’s body and became one with his Status.

Erick smiled at that.

He stepped to the right and the whole shell broke again, but there was no crashing of crystallized resons this time; he hadn’t put enough into the working to cause that. Just a simple tinkling in the air that broke like cotton candy. He used the spell a few more times, just to see how he could improve the spell, perhaps. But then again, maybe he didn’t need to—

Rozeta stepped to Erick’s side. She purposefully kept her voice soft and even, as she said, “Hello, Erick. Can we discuss that spell you made?”

“Yup!” Erick produced a copy of [Endless Aura], and then held it in the air between them. Rozeta’s eyes went wide, and then she looked relieved. Erick asked, “I imagine it works better than whatever the Script does?”

Rozeta plucked the spell from the air, sighing in happiness. “The Script’s system is a lot more complicated than that. What this might do is simplify a great deal of the lead and other anti-magic systems that we use to scrub the mana of intent, to allow the ambient mana to more easily be used by others. I might be able to enable a part of the Script I never got working, either.” She smiled. “The part that allowed people to use true ambient mana to accrete.”

Erick laughed. “Was that ever an option?”

“Oh sure.” Rozeta said, “In the Old Cosmology that’s how people got power for themselves, usually. They picked out an Element and then accreted that Element, becoming that sort of person. That’s how magic schools were founded.” She added, “The Wizard made the mana, and the underlings accreted it, making themselves of the same school of magic as the Wizard. A lot of people even had multiple parts of their souls to draw in different elements for use in different spellworks, since Altering could only ever get most people so far. That was dangerous, though; impure, people would call it.”

Erick nodded. “Most people stuck to singular sources.”

“Yes. True ambient mana gathering is highly dangerous, but everyone used to get magic and power by taking in and separating specific manas, for use in specific spells.” Rozeta said, “The problem with that was that high-purity Elemental sources were highly guarded. Most people only had access to dangerous, multi-Elemental environments. Anyone who accreted in those areas would go insane through monsterization, so most people did not do magic at all.” Rozeta added, “This [Endless Aura] you made will bring power to everyone equally, though, and accomplish one of the major purposes of the Script; the empowerment of the masses…” She smiled softly, “I had a great big speech on the benefits of giving me a copy of your magic, but you made all of that superfluous.”

Erick grinned. “This should solve some of the problems of an individual not having enough resources to sustain a Personal Script, too.”

“Already working on that, and yes, you’re correct. It’ll be more complicated than that…” Rozeta looked a little too excited, as she said, “But maybe not for much longer! Solomon is working on the other half of this, though I don’t believe he knows it yet. He’s maybe an hour away from an enormous creation. Melemizargo has fully cordoned off the area against all possible influence.”

Erick breathed deep. “Oh?”

- - - -

Solomon drew diagrams on ten different chalkboards at once in a hidden room of his Black Castle. He was working on something he had tried before, but which had not worked at all.

Infinite Mana.

He was a Creation Wizard, right?

Right!

So he should be able to make infinite mana. And yet, the only times he had been able to make infinite mana had been when he had been in the throes of power with that damnable Lifeblood Heart, when he was ‘cultivating’ with a small slice of an infinity of Other Ericks.

Oh how that failure to contain that artifact had marked him. Destiny tried to tell him it wasn’t his fault, and she truly believed that, but Solomon still blamed himself. In the aftermath of Erick’s return, and the Day of Clouds, Destiny had gleefully delighted in saying ‘I told you it wasn’t your fault!’ in tens of different ways, and Solomon loved her for that. It had made the sting of it all feel distant. Better.

Destiny made everything better…

Solomon returned to his work.

His first attempt at infinite mana had been, of course, to try and make infinite mana out of [Duplicate] and [Cleanse]. Take a bit of filth, and then copy it, and then evaporate it away into the manasphere. Everyone had told him how this could not be done, and their words had proven true.

The mana used to make a real thing was returned in exactly the same amounts of mana that had been used to make it. This was basic conservation of mass, but extended to energy and mana.

“Gods,” Solomon muttered to himself, as he sketched out ideas in chalk, erased other ideas with a swipe of his aura, and considered how complicated this thing actually was. “Is this even going to work? It should, theoretically. Infinite mana is the hallmark of all Creation Wizards, and I can only do that temporarily, and only borrowing from other side realities…”

Solomon fell silent as he worked, thinking about all the lives he touched that were not his own, briefly linking hands with himself, and granting each other mana and power, in that singular moment when he was briefly ‘Ascended’ with the Lifeblood Heart. He hadn’t been able to replicate that action at all since then. Oh, sure, he was definitely a Wizard. That part wasn’t in question. Rozeta didn’t treat him like Erick at all —more like a pale imitation and that still stung all these years later— but she was at least cordial enough to tell him that his mana regeneration was indicative that he was a Wizard.

Destiny had been wonderful there, too, telling him that of course he wasn’t Erick, and that was fine.

Solomon smiled a bit at that memory, pausing as he worked.

And then he got back to work.

After his initial failures of using [Cleanse] and Genesis together to make infinite mana, Solomon had put that whole idea on the backburner. He had Forever War shit to deal with, and Black Gate politics and—

Solomon cut that thought short. Leave the politics aside for a time. Now was the time for magic.

When [Cleanse] was revealed as a major problem and source of Nothor Beasts, along with many of the other spells inside of a person, Solomon had tried a [Cleanse]+[Duplicate] thing again, using pure Elemental Destruction and Genesis together to make a source of infinite mana; a spell that just made mana. Didn’t work. Using that spell just vented mana into the open air. Once again, conservation of mana proved itself to be true.

He even used the new [Cleanse] that Rozeta had handed out in replacement of the old [Cleanse]. That one didn’t work that well at all, and somehow the rate of exchange was actually not 1-1 with that spell. Solomon used it and a 10 kilogram pile of shit turned into 10 mana, but 10 mana only made 9 kilograms of shit. So that was a dead end, too.

Solomon had no idea where Rozeta had gotten such a bad version of [Cleanse], but Solomon used it to clean water and that was about it. Everyone was taking baths these days, which was a worldwide change from how it used to be, but it was okay. Bath times with Destiny had been a wonderful—

Solomon focused.

He focused, because the answer was right here. Somewhere around here.

Somewhere…

Somewhere…

Solomon had heard about the Awakening Machine, as had everyone else. He had gotten hold of some of the research coming out of the research center, too. He had also spoken with Erick about resons and he knew how to avoid using resons now, at the very least. And he would do that.

This working of infinite mana was a creation of mana. Not of Fractal infinity.

“And I can almost see it!” Solomon said, shaking his chalk-covered hands at diagrams of ideas that had somehow escaped him all this time. It was messy and half-formed, but… Okay. This idea here could go onto the paperwork. Solomon pulled a paper out of the air, turning Genesis into paper and ink and exactly what he was looking at, and then he put it onto the stacks of paper he was gathering in the center of the work room. “Almost got it. Just need to figure out…”

Solomon went to a different chalkboard on the other side of the room and started writing.

He liked using chalk these days instead of just lightpainting everything. Years ago, Debby had suggested he find himself through distancing himself from Erick, and writing with chalk on real boards worked out well. He loved making physical things, and this was just another way to make physical things. As he held his chalk in his hands, Solomon briefly thought about Debby, and about the small words that Fairy Moon had shared with him the other day, about Sundering and Erasing and all of that…

Those words were still jangling around in his mind.

‘Instead of investigating the incident itself, could you corroborate the conclusions all around the unknowing, unknown answer, and arrive with more known knowledge?’

Those words hadn’t made the most sense, but there was something there.

Perhaps Solomon had been staring too hard at the sun, at the failure of the Lifeblood Heart, at the failure of Fenrir, at the failure of himself, in all those other worlds… Solomon glanced at his left wrist, where Debby’s black knot of a Shackle of Memory had indelibly been stamped into his very soul; her final gift, to keep him safe from the Red Sparks, to keep him here and protected. Solomon loved the black tattoo that was a bracelet. It kept him focused on what he needed; on what he had lost.

But he had been staring so hard that he had been blind.

He was the Erick Who Failed.

But that wasn’t him, no more than describing his eyes or hair or face was to describe him; not anymore.

He was more than his starting point, and so was his goal. And so, he was becoming the Solomon who would Succeed, now that the Red wasn’t holding him down—

He paused.

He stared at the chalkboards, with their diagrams and curves and small bits of easy math. Solomon still wasn’t one for math, but it was great for understanding basic conversions and rates of exchange. With a swipe of his hand and aura, Solomon made one more page of the workings of his latest attempt at Infinite Mana.

And then he assembled his book.

Pages gathered together, and Solomon held them, creating a binding in that grip, organizing them all together into a cohesive whole.

