Melemizargo stepped into the meeting, looming over a great portion of the gathering. “Every single person on the planet who has an eye to the Benevolent Sky or other prognostication powers has experienced a massive shift in everything, first from Erick, then from Solomon.

“But prior to today, in the month of Erick’s arrival and the Day of Clouds, the world has shifted dramatically, in too many ways to list in any reasonable time frame. But to name a few: Koyabez returned to real power with the Silver Surface. Erick returned with a weapon that could propagate and end the Forever War, and two gods willing to fund that eradication if need be, and which directly steps into the Forever War. Erick will be curing Kirginatharp of his Curse whenever the boy decides to lose power, meaning that the dragons of Ar’Cosmos are going to come out into the world and take over.

“And most of all: ten thousand defensive and offensive structures of Angelic and Demonic nature were erased.

“And yet, we are in a period of peace, due to the strength of Erick and now of Solomon. Erick has likely heard of the Week of Massacre on the Fifth Sphere, where ten million angels and demons fought and died and came back to die again, all to take a mountain that didn’t matter at all. That only ended because of Wizardly intervention, and now we have another Wizard back, and also calling for peace.

“But the Angels and Demons still outnumber every society we have here on Veird right now, and the return of Erick scares them.

“They have the power to sway this entire Relevant Entity court any way they wish, and I would not be surprised if they show up here, hand in hand, lying for profit and then doing whatever they want to each other, or to whoever gets in their way.

“It’s been two years with the Helm of the Host Adavido and Demon King Dinnamoth rising to true power on the backs of billions of followers, outnumbering every single one of you all here, and now the world shifts back against them. That they are choosing not to show up, this could only mean one thing, and we all know what it is.”

Melemizargo sounded correct about all of that, though Erick did not want to admit that the problem was that bad.

Erick frowned. He was not the only one.

Rozeta softly, sternly said, “I am specifically informing them that they need to show. If they retain any semblance of decency, they will show, and— Ah. Here they come.”

Two people stepped fully into the caldera at the same time. This was already a major upset to Erick, because for as long as he had known how this caldera-meeting-thing all worked, he believed the only ones able to fully manifest were those who were truly here, or those who were called to court to speak or defend themselves, or those who were the true powers of Veird. He had never seen Adavido or Dinnamoth stand where the gods stood, but…

Yeah.

Billions of followers for both of them kinda did that— Or rather, the collective power of a Living Afterlife for both Angels and Demons did that.

Where did dead angels or demons go when they died? Certainly not to the moons anymore.

The demons went to Sphere Five, to New Hell, and the angels went to Sphere Seven, to New Celes. The dead didn’t stay dead long when they were aligned to the Demons or the Angels, and if they died on Sphere Six, The Warfront, they almost instantly reappeared on their respective spheres.

It was a whole can of worms that Erick simply did not have the time to deal with in any real way, and so he hadn’t. Not yet.

If it weren’t for the constant real threat of Nothanganathor and the collective power of the ‘living’ people of Veird, then the Angels and Demons would have tried to truly kill each other, for real. They kinda were already on Sphere Six, because if they died there then they came back to life rather rapidly in the densest parts of the Elemental Vile or Elemental Exalted vortexes of Sphere Five or Seven, respectively.

If they died elsewhere on Veird, then it took them a while longer to come back.

Maybe only a day or two.

Both the Angels and Demons had necromancers and summoners and it was exceedingly easy to bring an Angel or Demon back to life, even if their souls had been partially decayed by soul magics. If an Angel or Demon was weakened too much then they simply came back to life on the Seventh or Fifth Sphere in a smaller, weaker form.

All those thoughts and more flashed through Erick’s mind as he watched Adavido and Dinnamoth stride forward, into the caldera. They glared with some sort of respectful hate at each other, and then they separated to the sides of the caldera which held their allied Relevant Entities, most of whom were insubstantial mist swirling in the gathering.

“I’ve been trying to get you two to come to the table for peace talks,” Erick said, and the caldera focused on the three of them. “Are you two trying to give me the runaround? Or did those small talks I had with your underlings make it up the chain of command, where good decisions got made?”

Demon King Dinnamoth ignored Erick and turned toward Rozeta. “Let us proceed.”

Crown of the Host Adavido also ignored Erick.

“This is not a good look for you two,” Erick said.

Tension filled the space.

Dinnamoth ignored Erick.

Adavido looked to Erick, though, asking, “If we fail to meet your lofty demands of peace, are you going to try and stuff us into those valkyries?”

“Do I have to?”

Adavido looked away from Erick, toward Rozeta, saying, “Speak your announcement, Rozeta, and know that I have 2.1 billion angels ready to leave this land today. We will abandon this world and take an out to Margleknot, and thus leave all of you to contend with these demons and Nothanganathor on your own.”

“Do it,” Erick said, instantly and before anyone else could speak. “If you have a shelter from Nothanganathor, then do it, and I wish you the best of luck.”

Silence.

And now Adavido glanced at Erick, looking for subterfuge. He would find none. Erick was serious.

Dinnamoth glanced Erick’s way as well, looking torn for a moment in only the way a powerful man could allow himself to look torn; which meant not at all, or only for effect. And then he frowned, and looked to Adavido. He lightly glared. “You would leave our home? You prove yourself as unworthy of this second life. Unworthy of Veird. Unworthy of the Element you claim as your own.” He glared harder. “Unworthy of life, and too stupid to know when your life is about to be taken from you, because We Demons have also received this offer of escape.” He looked out across the entire gathered assembly of Relevant Entities. “We’ve received an offer to escape this war and leave Veird behind. This offer came from Wraithborne, in Margleknot, and they would have us sign contracts to good terms, to help them switch over to Benevolence. We are not going to take it, because we love our home, and we will not see it eaten by Nothanganathor.” He glared at Adavido. “Where did your offer come from, Traitor?”

“I have 2.1 billion people to look after, you demon shit,” Adavido said, “The only reason you made the sudden decision to stay is because it makes you look good. That’s all you’ve ever been about; political maneuvering and the appearance of being something that shouldn’t be instantly crushed. Go to Wraithborne and be destroyed in your ignorance.”

“You leave, angel spawn,” Dinnamoth said, “Lords know we’d be better off without you. We incani could focus on actually fighting the real war against the Red, instead of the war you fight because you know no other way.”

Erick spoke, “One of you should take the offer, and in that taking you should lay this ancient animosity to rest.” Erick was calling their bluffs, and they did not like that. “Both of you should know that the Old Demons exist out there, that there are no incani, and there are no angels except in the rarest of places.” He asked Adavido, “Where did your offer come from?”

Adavido didn’t seem to want to answer that—

“The Celestial Observatory,” Dinnamoth answered. “They hope to restore angelic power in that land.”

Rozeta stood strong as she spoke, “We will win this war.”

Adavido spoke to everyone, “We should all leave before they lose this war for us all! Those two, right there, are the ones on trial.” He looked to Erick and Melemizargo. “Staying here means our people are fodder for the crush.” He said to everyone, “The illusion of power of Erick’s Return is just that; an illusion. He will be Erased by an enemy that is a trillion times his size, while Melemizargo will die for the supreme hubris of himself. We should all escape while we can. While we still have lives to escape with.”

Dinnamoth said, “Weak steel.”

Adavido rounded on the man, his wings of swords swinging wide—

Dinnamoth flared with black light—

And Melemizargo put his foot down between them.

Space moved.

Dinnamoth ended up to the far left, while Adavido was to the far right.

Melemizargo said, “Children, children. You’re both weak steel. That you feel this way at all in this dawning of this new age means that you aren’t worthy of bearing the Mantle of your power. So! Avandrasolaro!” Melemizargo gazed across the caldera at the wispy form of an angel who had worked for a peace between angels and demons for tens of thousands of years, while he was a demigod. “Do you wish to become a demigod once again? To challenge all angels for their power? To lead them all into a new age, and new Cosmology, when we win?”

Adavido looked absolutely furious.

Dinnamoth looked thrilled.

Avandrasolaro instantly said, “Yes.”

The world flashed Dark.

Erick wasn’t sure exactly what had happened, but what he saw was Avandrasolaro striding out of the mist, wreathed in the brilliant gold light of divinity, standing taller than Adavido, and with more swords to his wings—

Adavido said, “The angels are leaving Veird.”

And then Adavido left, stepping away.

Dinnamoth said, “We’ll work with Avandrasolaro.”

A lot was happening, and all of it was based on ten thousand things that had happened well outside of Erick’s sight and knowledge.

Erick added to the happening. “I would like to rapidly lower that year-and-a-day thing, Rozeta, and give easy accretion of ambient mana to all who sign on to a lasting peace treaty between Avandrasolaro’s angels and the demons.”

Solomon said, “And if we’re going to lose at least half of our mortal population, then my all-mana-generation-multiplier mini-Lifeblood Hearts can go out to whoever wants them, too.”

Chaos.

- - - -

- - - -

- - - -

- - - -

- - - -

Oozy Stormcaller sipped sweet wine from a cup made of frozen stone. The vessel was cold in his hands, providing a wonderful sensation that differed so much from the hot sun on his body, while his feet were deep in the warm sands of the beach, the grains between his toes. He wiggled his toes. It was all so different from the centuries of life as an ooze. This was so much better than the world of Veird. Life was good.

Everbless tossed around in the waters ahead, his avatar having fun like only a tentacle-thing could. He called out, “Watch this, Oozy!”

Oozy held up his drink. “I’m watching!”

Everbless leapt up out of the waters a good several tens of meters and then came back down. That simple action caused a tsunami to roll over the beach, but Oozy didn’t let the waves hit him. It was fine. The kid was having fun. When Everbless resurfaced, he said, “I did that just with my body! Not with any magic!”

“I saw! That’s pretty good control!”

Oozy didn’t mention how the beach —except for where Oozy held— had been washed away, revealing the black metal of Fenrir, the True God’s Throne. Oozy would have to put back all that sand if he wanted a nice beach… But that was fine.

Everbless was happy for a moment, his tendrils flopping around like only a giant creature could flop. And then he paused, his tendrils stilling, snaking through the waves.

He looked at the beach. “… Sorry. I washed your beach away.”

Oozy said, “Don’t worry about it.”

Oozy waved a hand and the red lightning cloyed across Fenrir. Sand erupted, and Oozy was back on dry land, while a second tsunami ripped out of the ground and bowled Everbless over. Everbless giggled like a monster and a child at the same time. It was all an act, though. He pretended at being a kid because it disarmed people.

The most recent victims of Everbless’s were way up the mountain, impaled on spikes, surrounding the base of his World Tree body, growing on the inside of Fenrir. Oozy had no idea who those guys were, only that they had come to see the giant Red World Tree, and paid for their curiosity with their lives. People just showed up on the inside of Fenrir all the damned time for some reason. Didn’t they know this was a battleground?

Well whatever!

Everbless roiled up to the beach, his long tendrils slapping to the sides of Oozy in an obvious threat display. The tentacled avatar loomed, though he knew better than to actually blot out the sun. The ‘kid’ wanted to kill Oozy, and he had tried several times, but Oozy was beyond him.

Oozy made a point of looking Everbless right in his many eyes, and then at one of Everbless’s tendrils that was getting way too close. The thing was as wide as Oozy—

It whipped at—

Red Lightning sliced.

Half of Everbless’s avatar body turned into fish meat. He recoiled back into the waters, screaming.

Oozy let him scream.

Everbless roared at him, “When are we going to kill Veird and take mom back from the Darkness?!”

“When the boss says so.”

The entire surface of Fenrir vibrated as Everbless’s avatar and his body both roared,

“ASK HIM WHEN!!”

Oozy made a point of getting off his butt, to stand on the beach, and then to look up at the sun. Nothanganathor was a squiggle of black upon the sun’s bright surface, almost invisible. But Oozy could see him just fine. Oozy got down on his knees, and prayed, “Oh merciful Nothanganathor, shining deliverance from Darkness, do we have a timeframe for attack, please?”

All the sky shook again, but softly. Controlled.

“When the fruit is ready, we will pluck the garden.”

Oozy got up off his knees and said to Everbless’s avatar, “There you go. Not yet.”

“But those Dark Gods put up that bubble an hour ago! Who knows how much time they’ve had in there!”

“And when they come out, thinking themselves ready, the real war can begin. Nothanganathor wants to take them for everything they have, Everbless, and they’re still making stuff.”

Everbless tried attacking Oozy again.

Oozy splattered the avatar completely, and the beach, the ocean, and the air was filled with blood and sparks. It was quite lovely, really.

