“The secret to Infinite Mana was not in resonwork, or this Fractal Cosmology,” Solomon said to himself, “If that were the case then there would be no infinite mana generators in the Old Cosmology at all, and we certainly know that Creation Wizards existed without the intervention of any Fractal power, and they still do. Melemizargo is a Creation Wizard. My fault was in focusing on what came before, and extrapolating. My fault was basing any of this on the old stuff, and especially on [Cleanse]. I should have instead focused on new stuff. I am a Creation Wizard.” For a moment, Solomon felt like Erick again, but different. Himself, and yet not. “I should be creating.”

Solomon held up a hand filled with Genesis.

Most people probably saw a jumble of things when he did this. Little bells. Faces of unknown people. A fork. A cup. A lamp. An enchanting knife. Countless little things. Perhaps Erick had seen the truth, but probably not. And yet, Erick simply hadn’t spent enough time around Solomon to see that truth; not yet.

Genesis was a reflection of the world around it, of the memories of those who used it, and in that vision, Genesis tried to Become something real.

Just like Solomon.

In a way, like how famous art or books or architecture or kingdoms or the teaching of magic to students could all create new possibilities, or make new possibilities themselves, Genesis could do the same, and Become more of itself at the same time…

Good art inspired people to do more.

Genesis could do the same, and in a much more real, tangible way.

The world pulled away from Solomon. Vaguely, Solomon was aware he had disconnected from the Script. Melemizargo was here, watching. Let him watch.

Silver light poured out of Solomon’s core, out of his body, into the world, like the release of a million memories held in silver reflections. He swept a hand through those memories and gathered a sphere of power. With Darkness all around him, Solomon crafted a Silver Heart, using his own voice, and his own desire.

“In Wizard hands the silver gleams,

“reflecting, it becomes a start.

“This mirror takes the forms of dreams

“And turns them into beating heart.

“Lovely empowered resonance;

“Give birth to endless Genesis.”

Solomon’s power twisted into the Heart, and then the Heart beat.

The very world thumped with power.

And Solomon felt like a new man. Like he was seeing a great wrong be righted, in a very small way, for the Silver Heart spilled something into the world that was more ephemeral than light, but it was so very similar to something Solomon had already seen once, and had been trying to recapture all this time. The Lifeblood Heart had turned the world to rainbows and shadows with rainbows in them, turning everything into a fountain of its own power.

The Silver Heart beat a second time, and the world turned iridescent in its presence. The stone of the Black Castle wasn’t nearly as black as it had been. It was colored like gasoline on a dark puddle. The very air shimmered with the same color.

The Heart beat a third time, and it almost seemed ready to falter, but then it beat a fourth and fifth time, like it was past the hurdle and into clear sailing.

All the nearby world shimmered with a silver sheen. The distance on the magic wasn’t very far. Maybe 25 meters. The main effect was closer to the Heart, where Solomon stood inside the area of effect and his shadow turned to dark and bright, silver rainbows.

Solomon breathed out easy in the light of the Silver Heart—

The Script came back in tiny pieces. Solomon felt his mana pool swirl away, back out of his direct control. The world turned a bit less silver, a bit less amazing. But it was still wonderful. The Silver Heart still beat. The world was now More than it had been before.

And then came a blue box of creation, and a few other fun things. Solomon had invented a major spell, after all.

Congratulations!

You have created a new Basic Spell. Your spell has been added to your skills for free!

The spell you have created will appear in the Script after a year and a day.

Your spell is the alpha version, and will shift with time and use.

The spell that appears in the Script might be different.

Here is your spell:

Silver Heart 1, instant, medium range, 5,000 mana

Create a creative work of power that multiplies the mana generation of all within its effect. This spell will falter if it is left unattended for too long. <The spell has a maximum range under the Script and cannot become propagative, but it might become so outside of the Script. Such a spell, if fed properly, might become a new Lifeblood Heart, or the heart of something.>

Genesis Mage Only

Rozeta thanks you for enriching the Script.

+250 ability points.

Amazing work, Solomon.

I’ll be removing your failsafe switch now.

-Rozeta.

Solomon smiled at all of that—

A little twinge left him, like a muscle unwinding in a hot bath.

Solomon stood there for a moment, looking at the Heart.

It didn’t really look much like a heart. It was the size of one, sure. But it was more spherical and calmly effervescing, almost like [Cascade Imaging] or one of Erick’s new Weavers. Tiny beams of half-there light came off of this one, though, highlighting the world in strange, different ways where it touched. Solomon looked at the floor and walls where the light shone, and saw… Carpets, and some nice lights overhead, and the erasure of his chalkboards and maybe a bed over there, or maybe some of those screens that Erick had brought back with him from Margleknot. He could also simply turn this into a tiny garden. A nursery for kids. Another library. And more.

Solomon smiled as he saw possibilities for the space that he had never considered before.

And then he plucked a chair out of Genesis and sat down to look at the Heart hovering before him. He assigned all of his new points into the appropriate Stats, and then he turned back to the Heart. Some of those lines in the light looked almost like veins.

Briefly, ever so briefly, Solomon saw a person without a face and without any real markings at all, floating, with the Heart as their own heart.

Solomon gasped deeply at that ephemeral sight.

The moment passed.

Solomon breathed out.

He promised, “I’ll get you back, Debby. Soon. I probably gotta kill a world-eating dragon first, but… soon.”

The Heart might have pulsed stronger at that, but Solomon could also have been seeing things. Genesis mana tended to do that, and this working seemed to do a lot of that.

Poi’s voice came to him, ‘Erick wants to see you now, along with about 32 other parties, and that number is growing fast. Avandrasolaro wants to come see you as well, or more accurately, the magic you just made. We’re getting pings from the prognosticators of Treehome, most of all— Ah. Looks like Rozeta is— I think you’re getting a blue box right now.’

Solomon blinked, pulling himself out of his mind spiral as he heard Poi speaking to him from the dungeon down below the castle. And then he looked to the side and saw a blue box. He sent, ‘Ah. I see the box now. Thanks, Poi. I will be accepting that invitation. Can you let the others know?’

‘Done.’ Poi sent, ‘Great working, by the way.’

Solomon laughed, and then he sent, ‘That fucker Nothanganathor was holding back everyone.’

Wordless assent came through Poi’s connection.

Solomon turned to the new blue box.

I, Rozeta, Goddess of the Script, am calling a meeting of all Relevant Entities, due to the creation of a new spell of Genesis. I have not told anyone what this spell does yet. You are invited to speak at this gathering as a temporary Relevant Entity, with possible raising to true Relevant Entity. Would you like to attend?

Yes / No

“Yes.”

Solomon vanished.

- - - -

Erick stepped out of a lightning portal, down onto the rippled, cooled lava of an ancient caldera. The air was filled with mist, flowing into the space, through knife-like edges of the volcano. That mist was the way in which most appeared in this sacred space, for from that mist stepped the Relevant Entities of the Script. Erick recalled a story that Quilatalap once told about this place. It was more than the meeting space of the Relevant Entities. It was the altar in which they had sacrificed the Goddess of Knowledge, and created the Script itself.

Rozeta came forward and nodded toward Erick, and that was all she did. Today was a major milestone meeting, and the nature of it all demanded special words, and proper protocol.

As the gods and otherwise were joining the area, another person joined to the side.

Solomon stepped onto the ground next to Erick—

Erick smiled upon seeing him, because he looked a lot different, and a lot better. Solomon, unlike Erick, usually kept his dragon horns tucked away and his size human-sized. Not here, though. Solomon’s black horns, which were a copy of Erick’s, were different. They were silver, and there were only four of them, two on each side, as opposed to a true crown of horns. Or maybe he would have called them platinum? Probably. The man’s hair and beard were impeccable, and his eyes were bright platinum and focused. He had undergone a metamorphosis with his latest achievement.

He wore glowthread clothes, just like Erick, and Solomon also wore a look of happiness that could only ever be found after achieving great success. It looked good on him.

Erick grinned a bit wider, and then he nudged the man with his shoulder, saying, “You’re looking good, man. Did you, perhaps, accomplish something?”

Solomon chuckled and his own smile went a bit wider. “Everyone heard that fast, eh?”

“I didn’t hear anything too specific, except that this thing was happening right now. Your horns are out and different and your eyes are mirrored platinum instead of muddled platinum.”

Solomon’s eyebrows went up in surprise. And then he reached up and touched a horn. “… Oh.”

Erick chuckled… And then, as he looked out into the mist, his mirth faded a little.

… Surely it didn’t take this long to call a meeting? This was a space outside of time.

The Relevant Entities were still gathering, like eyes and shapes appearing in the mist. Not only were they gathering slowly, there were also fewer than Erick remembered. Erick had known that many of them had been killed during the preceding two years, but Erick had never met many of them, so his sorrow at seeing the caldera remain half-full wasn’t a strong feeling. But it was still a feeling. He mostly dealt with the gods, and the gods were still gathering, too. Rozeta was a slightly animated statue, waiting for the gathering to come to order. Atunir and Sininindi spoke soft words to the side about storms and the security of small matters. Aloethag and Sumtir spoke with each other and a half-obscured mist-person about Carnage and war and battleplans and recent attacks that had failed to materialize.

Erick asked Solomon, “What did you manage to do?”

Solomon almost answered, but he was conflicted upon what to actually say. In that moment of introspection, he looked at Erick. His grin faltered a little as he realized Erick had done something big, too. His eyes went wide and he softly, almost playfully, accused, “You did something.”

“Ambient mana collection and Paradoxing that mana into personal mana.”

The caldera went silent.

Melemizargo grinned, swooping in like a dark shadow, saying, “A grand accomplishment. Now let’s hear Solomon’s.”

Erick realized that whatever he had managed to do, Solomon had outdone him in some way. Erick smiled at that. He was about to congratulate Solomon again, when—

Rozeta raised her voice above the silence of the caldera, “Please don’t answer that yet, Solomon. We have two important members of the Relevant Entities yet to arrive, and I would save the discussions and revelations for their arrival.”

Avandrasolaro, whom Erick had not seen in a while, appeared out of the smoke. He was only half here, with his dark skin and swords floating around him in the mist, but the revived angel and former emperor to trillions of people had a weight to his words that was still deep, still real. “I move to remove all Angels and Demons from Relevant Entity status immediately.”

Erick was stunned—

But as he looked around he saw only exhaustion in Rozeta’s face and a few sneers in the audience, primarily among the angelic and demonic forces. Many in the audience simply didn’t care for Avandrasolaro’s words at all, choosing to ignore him.

But Avandrasolaro’s words were massive?

Unless...

Solomon whispered to Erick, “We’ve been asking for that for a year now. Want to weigh in on our side?”

Rozeta instantly said, “Don’t answer that, Erick. I am putting out another request for a meeting. Usually these things do not take this long to gather.”

Erick had always assumed that everyone arrived at the same time to these sorts of things, since this was mostly a place outside of time. He had ignored that usual way-of-things, though, because he was a True Wizard now, unable to be affected by outside forces unless he allowed them, and so he had needed to physically come to this place, this time. So maybe some natural magics were a bit messed up in that way. It hadn’t been too difficult of a trip, but it had been a trip, here to this spot of Veird, the only remaining part of the Original Surface of the Painted Cosmology version of this planet.

The caldera was located above the Core, about a hundred kilometers up from the upside-down world, about a hundred kilometers below Erick’s feet. As per Erick’s understanding, it would move somewhere else after this meeting, and at Rozeta’s hidden discretion.

Erick said, “I’m not in any real hurry. I am wondering what Solomon got up to, though.”

Solomon smirked, giving Erick a hint, “I got a lot of points from it.”

Erick guessed, “50 points?”

“Much higher.”

The Relevant Entities stared—

Rozeta cleared her throat. And then she made a show of pressing a blue box button in front of her, saying, “I am sending out a third demand to gather right now.”

Erick looked out among the Entities…

He realized something deep, in that moment.

Who was missing? Well the Angels and Demons were missing. Not all of them; not by a [Long Bolt]. But enough of them were missing, and primarily…

The Crown of the Host, Adavido.

The Demon King, Dinnamoth.

The two main powers and gods of the Angels and Demons were missing—

Solomon noticed, now, too. He whispered, “Shit.”

The tension in the air tripled.

The meeting was starting now, and it wasn’t on the topic that Rozeta had gathered them to discuss.

Rozeta relegated herself to what was to come.

