It is a common claim heard from the civilizations of north and south, east and west, all across Integrated Earth that the most basic unit of warfighter is the individual. It goes that the System favors the individual above the collective, as we level and evolve alone rather than as a cultural collective.

We, the authors of this text, reject this notion and find it to be a facetious assumption. From the ancient texts we have covered, even the pre-System days had dramatic differences between individual warfighters and intelligentsia. As such, the quality of one is not shared among us all, and despite lacking the capacity to wield magic-possessed skills or evolve themselves based on their legends, the individuals of the pre-System were equally important based on individualistic factors such as personal perspective, insight, pedigree, and competence.

What can be said definitively and dramatically is that the influence and power of the individual have been dramatically increased under the System. A Legendary Pathbearer is worth an entire nation of Adepts in certain cases, able to match foes many times their own number. Such is why the Yellowstone Republic and the other so-called great powers view the individual as paramount. But if we are to capitulate to such a view, we must ignore the importance of the Republic's Poly-Magi, arguably their greatest force beyond any single individual. We must ignore their immensely capable logistical core that sees their forces supplied and transported across a myriad of battlefields in an instant. We must ignore the fact that their Legends still fight in teams rather than as singleton operators.

Though the value and position of single experts and elites have been greatly magnified in our present era, we must still understand that they are part of a greater whole, for the tyranny of time and devotion is still in play, and no genius is full-spectrum. As such, even a True Legend will have more skills in Master-Tier or below than they do at Legendary—for what fool of a commander would deploy a Legendary Vanguard when the assignment is an investigation? No, in such a case, the Legendary Vanguard must be relegated to a most potent guard force meant to dissuade anyone that impedes the investigation conducted by the Diviner or Investigator—even if they are of a lower Tier.

To be of a higher Tier is a privilege and a burden, but these are not absolutes. You still must be the right person for the job, and you cannot be the right person for every job. This is why you work in concert with your civilization for all the fruits a Legend reaps and all the labors they provide; they are still far too narrow to encompass the totality of what is needed to keep an entire nation running. And the same must be applied toward combat. No matter how potent you are in one aspect, understand that war is the most complicated operation you can ever partake in, and a Pathbearer possessed of legendary toughness would see themselves in other casualties when the enemy applies a scalpel born of magic.

This is why we at Lone Star believe the basic unit of combat to be Lance: five to seven Pathbearers in the unit, with a commanding officer at the head, telecommunications Pathbearer supporting them and keeping them connected to their Lance, Vanguards, and designated Rangers as combatants, and a designated Mage and Scout to round out the force. Even this does not encompass the totality of situations that war may inflict, but it does give full-spectrum expertise on all the threats our Rangers might face.

This also does not go into how essential logistical and supporting personnel are—or how Unique-Tier Pathbearers can change the conditions of the battle.

On top of that, if you are a golem master or a summoner of any kind, you stand apart from your peers. For you are capable of serving as your own relief and support. This changes the situation surrounding you until the individual on the lance begins to blur, making one many, and incapable of reacting and resolving their critical weaknesses and situations, albeit at a far diminished capacity…

—Essentials of Attuned and Automated Warfare Volume 1 (Lone Star Military Handbook

388

Sparring Partner [II]

“War is war is war is and will always be…” The Red Rider's Hand recited these words like a droning prayer, something beneath meaning, more intrinsic to reality than any kind of philosophy or opinion. The skin of the hand was shrouded by a layer of war-scarred atmosphere, blackened clouds choked with embers and ash, tumbling along its length, swirling and splashing, bathing the limb in a shroud of fire and darkness. But even that couldn't contain the gleaming vitality that grew brighter and brighter. Even that couldn't hide the sheer amount of mana the hand absorbed from the Supplicant’s blow.

Alone, Shiv could have never fueled the Red Rider's Hand. He was a Legend, but even a Legend was an insect in the face of a god. But the Stranger was a god as well, a diminished, decaying god that was plunging from uniqueness into being merely a facet under the System, but a god nonetheless. The violence he wielded was overwhelming; his wrath capable of drowning worlds, and all of that was poured into the Red Rider's Hand, awakening it for the first time.

“What… what is this…” the Stranger almost stammered. His voice emanated across time and reality. Even drowned in Chronomancy, Shiv could hear him clearly, unperturbed or impeded by the flow of past, present, or future.

Shiv, meanwhile, said nothing, for he too was consumed by near rapturous awe and more than a little horror at the new power he possessed. He knew that the Red Rider's Hand was unbreakable, or at least as close to it as his Last Morsel was. He knew that it drank in conflict and absorbed acts of violence committed upon it like a sponge would water. But there was always the fear, the terror of discovering what would come next, what would unfold when it was imbued with enough offerings to awaken.

He felt the hand come alive for the first time, something that moved to his will and by his decision rather than in correspondence to his relative position. The Red Rider's Hand had been slaving before, but now it was given purpose and power, and all that called to be unleashed.

And so, while the Supplicant and Shiv were both bathed in gold, wrapped in a sea of shifting chronomancy, as they took the battle across present to future, Shiv halted the charge of a god’s Avatar with his severed fist, and its blow was turned back upon the Supplicant in a haymaker that was charged with life and carried the full weight of war.

As the Supplicant sought to unleash apocalyptic destruction upon Shiv, the counterforce proved no less potent. The fist struck the gold-wreathed Supplicant, and as it hit, the world shook. Cracks formed across the face of reality. Ruptures caused mana storms to spill over, causing time itself to be swallowed by tides of tumult. The Stranger's Garden devolved into a maelstrom of hysterics, like reality itself was throwing a tantrum, trying to shrug both Shiv and the Supplicant free. Yet all that paled in comparison to the sheer devastation unleashed by the fist—for the Red Rider's Hand was violence incarnate. It was brutality unchained, the ruinous destination at the end of all things, and the retaliation it returned upon the Supplicant was more than physical, more than magical. It was, in a word, almost absolute: violence distilled down to its finest purity.

The damage the hand inflicted arrived across all spectrums. It struck magically, it struck emotionally, it struck physically, it struck metaphysically, and foundationally. The Supplicant's frontmost finger, so many times greater than the meager fist pressed against it, that tiny sliver of a thing that stopped its charge, was broken, fracturing down the middle. The massive beast screamed, howling like a child who'd just broken the first bone in their life, and as it shattered, a heterogeneous sea of blood spilled out in colors of gold, in Eldritch matter, in tarnished vitality, in enkindled fire.

And Shiv felt his adversary break upon him. And he tasted the thrill of the unraveling wound he inflicted and wanted more. The hand's glow died. The pad of the thick paw that shrouded it vanished like a dissolving glove. Once more, it went dormant, but in that single blow, in that single instant, the middlemost finger of a beast that could dwarf cities was folded down the middle, broken irreparably, as both vitality and bone were left jutting free along its lacerated length.

“Inevitability…” the Red Rider’s Hand whispered, before going dormant once more.

Devotion expended

The Red Rider’s Hand has run dry of converted mana

Feed it.

Feed it.

Feed it.

The words that greeted Shiv were more than notifications. They were the purest, most platonic truths he'd ever known. They were a hunger he needed to satisfy lest he unmake himself to avoid suffering the pain of deprivation; there was a primal pleasure in dominance. There was a privilege and pedigree when it came to wielding destruction unparalleled.

The Supplicant reeled away from Shiv, its voice wailing in a chorus of misery as it fled across time, displacing golden tides. But it wasn't respite that Shiv wanted. He was a whaler that had struck blubber. He was a man who'd just bled a god. He had broken something deep inside the Supplicant, and he wanted to drive his point in deeper so that the harpoon he wielded would finally greet bone and bring about a most desired death.

A feeling of apotheosis came over Shiv, even if he knew he wasn't himself a god. He had wounded one in a way more complete than ever before. He'd cracked Longinus, but that had been a mercy killing, an act of euthanasia conducted upon something that had been apart from itself for so very long. This was different; this was raw power derived from an enemy, returned to an enemy, breaking an enemy down to their very root. Shiv wished to unleash it again; he yearned to do anything to unleash such power again, for the Red Rider's Hand was glory and beauty and tragedy, and it was his to use, his to direct, and his to worship.

He didn’t need to swear himself to any other faith in Integration.

Shiv was but a dot in the grand expanse of Integration, but with this hand, through this power, even a dot could pierce the fabric of totality. Even a dot could murder the very existence that served as the structure upon which reality was mantle and see it—

“No!” the Harbinger cried. The skill’s despair and strain were so great that it cracked down the middle—nearly shattering outright. Shiv’s flesh was flensed open, gutting him down to the soul in a way that his Garden of Wounds and Broken Things couldn't assimilate. He felt his Unique Skills crack and threaten to break outright. He felt his sanity recoil and his heart crack, and thus a whirlwind of dissociation tore through him for the briefest of moments or the longest of eternities.

Shiv couldn't tell where he began and the hand ended. Though the hand was part of him now, transplanted onto his Unique Skill where the garden flourished from the ruins of all things, there was still an echo, a shadow, a sliver of the one he'd taken it from. And an echo of a High God was a great thing still. War is, war was, war consumed all, and war gave all, and was the most beautiful brutality, the most pleasant cruelty anyone could savor. It was more than a single heart could endure, or at least more than a mundane mortal heart.

The thing about Shiv was that he was built from a creature made to end worlds. He was partially forged of a Tarrasque, and though the addiction clawed through him, there was a part of him that was unassailable. A part of him that refused to bend to war, for it was made to feed on war—not only to fight it, but to see the deed done.

A normal Pathbearer would have been wrenched astray and cast into oblivion by the whirlwind of sensation and excitement. There were no words to describe how good it felt to be dominant, to be the very embodiment of destruction, to hold such power that no other could resist, and to use strife as an unparalleled weapon. But Shiv was beyond words. He had been broken a thousand times. He had been slain a thousand-thousand more, and he'd come back to where he began and rebuilt himself every single time—and this time proved no different.

His eyes snapped back into focus. His broken body, a seed at the core of the Garden, spilling out from him and the hand of the Red Rider now dim and faded but still there, still a conduit of force and bloodshed that left Shiv’s soul near-sundered—but couldn’t finish the job.

“War is,” Shiv snarled, spitting defiance at his own limb, his Harbinger synchronizing with him until—in that moment—they were one and the same. “War is, war will be, but war ends. Death follows. I don't end. Death doesn't keep me. You might touch my hand, but you will never have me. You're my limb, not the other way around.”

If the Red Rider's Hand had a voice, it would direct mocking laughter at him, but Shiv realized he didn't care, not anymore. Using the hand had its price. It left his Harbinger cracked along all sides, plunging in and out of the future and present, causing time to resume the flow of baseline and the near-halted state when his Chronomancy field was churned to its maximum speed.

