Even so, he bought himself some time by directing his cutting aura against the oncoming Chronomancy. He sliced into the golden waves and chipped away at the magics that threatened to swallow him. Shiv's Severed Shadow cleaved through matter like it wasn't there and hewed deep into magic, even when it was a far higher Tier of density.

Paired with his Nihilistic flames, he formed a protective cocoon that dramatically weakened the constant flood of Chronomancy unleashed by the Stranger.

Would be nice if I could have a constant layer of cutting aura and hollow fire around me, like a protective shell of absolute slashes, Shiv thought as he split waves of time magic like they were strings instead. And then his mind returned to what he saw within that Chronomancy tome. He could store actions across time. He could hide spells and attacks within his own Chronomancy if he anchored them in place. Gotta try that in the next run. For now…

Deprived of better options, Shiv did the wisest thing he could. With the Red Rider's Hand finally receding from his mind and heart, he dove Backstage and fell out and away from Integration's grip—

But the moment he toppled over, the Garden of Wounds and Broken Things peeled away from his body, receding and seething at him as the many runes and wounds ground together. It made a sound that was almost akin to a hissing noise, and Shiv felt an alien frustration and a deep wellspring of hurt emanate from the Garden itself. The hand that loomed above it glowed bright and red with acrimony, and everything below began to blaze with the faintness of black flame. Shiv read something from the depths of that Garden, from his Garden, and that was the sensation of betrayal.

The Garden would like you to culture it, not waste it.

Overwhelmed by all that had happened, Shiv did a double-take as he found his focus split between his shredded body, his outraged Garden, and the massive vitality signature back behind the screen of vitality portraying all that was happening back in Integration.

“What the felling…” Shiv shook his head to clear the cobwebs in his mind. When he regained a measure of coherence, he realized that an emotional core had formed in the depths of his Garden, and its animosity was palpable. “Wait, you have feelings?”

Hills made from severed limbs, littered organs, collapsed rubble, and shattered glass were pressed against half-fallen walls and slammed against the bases of skeletal towers that once stood testament to human ingenuity. The bashing sound came time and time again, as if someone was guiding a mace against a shield, and Shiv understood the percussive fury that his Unique Skill was trying to convey.

“Shiv? Why are you talking to the wasteland?” The girl nudged him with a foot. “Get back out there: you have the finger-fucker shitting itself.”

“No, wait,” Shiv said. “Garden? Do you have feelings? If you do, I’m sorry.”

The girl looked between Shiv and his garden of rubble. Her expression collapsed into one of absolute confusion. “Why the fuck are you apologizing to it? Wait, why do you think it has feelings?”

An answer came in the form of the Red Rider's Hand, which slowly turned toward Shiv and lifted a single finger at him. Its middle finger was long, bright, and burning with the anger of a disappointed charge, furious that its caretaker had allowed it to be diminished so much.

“I keep getting weird skills with a mind of their own,” Shiv muttered to himself in disbelief. “At least this one doesn't speak to me. Alright, Garden, I'm sorry. Really. Didn't mean to let the Stranger rip that much of you away. Didn't like that either. Listen, I'll make it up to you. I won't keep using you against its chronomancy. I'll let you eat some normal attacks later and suffer some actual injuries and double what you lost. How's that for an apology?”

The Red Rider's middle finger slammed back down with a resounding boom, and it fell lower, patting the rubble beneath as if trying to think. After a moment of grinding over gravel and glass, it rose again and extended a new finger: a thumb pointed straight up.

The girl frowned. “Hey Shiv, your skills are really fucking weird, you know?”

“I’ve noticed,” Shiv deadpanned. He pinched the bridge of his nose and sighed. “Okay, so I can't use the Garden against overwhelming magical attacks, especially magical attacks that just rip away things from me instead of leaving actual injuries.”

“Well, why the hells not?” the girl challenged. She placed both hands on her hips and glared at the Garden, narrowing her eyes in defiance. “What’s it going to do? It’s your skill—whoa!”

A piece of rebar tore through the air, accelerating so fast it would have caused a sonic boom if there was any atmosphere at all. Shiv reached out and caught it a centimeter away from her throat.

The girl's eyes bulged, and Shiv scowled at the Garden. “Alright, none of that shit. Be nice to her. It's my fault that you lost so much of yourself. You're going to take it out on someone; take it out on me.”

But the Red Rider's Hand waved at him as if in a mocking, dismissive gesture.

“Is that a no? What do you mean, no?”

It pointed at him with an index finger and tapped a nearby building made mostly of concrete and alloy. Though the building clanged and shuddered and a curtain of dust and glass fell, the structure itself remained standing. Then it pointed at the girl and immediately smashed through the building.

The girl shuddered; Shiv just sneered. “Yeah, I know she's really fragile and small, but if you break her, I'm gonna find a way to unbreak you. Turn you into a clean cube that never moves. Just keep your shit together, and I'll make sure to make things up to you, alright? Godsdamn. Even my own skills are becoming so felling needy…”

“Shiv,” the girl hissed. “Be honest: Are you fucking with me right now?”

“Nah, the Garden did make an attempt on your life—uh, well, I don’t know if you can die. Do you?” Her pupils dilated, and she slowly shook her head with an incredulous expression. “Well. Hopefully it behaves itself.”

“Hopefully?” she snapped. “That’s what you got?”

“Look, the hells do you want me to do against a skill that feeds off destruction? I’ll feed it right, and it should behave itself.”

Once more, the hand gave Shiv a thumbs up—that suddenly blurred into a thumbs down in the direction of the girl.

“Alright. Great.” Shiv nodded.

The girl’s jaw dropped. “No! Not great! It fucking did a thumbs down! Shiv!”

“You’ll be fine. I, meanwhile, have to figure out how to track and continue bullying the Supplic—godsdammit, I could have followed its vitality signature this entire time.” He clutched his own head in exhaustion and self-annoyance. “Keep forgetting what I can do.” While most Fingerlings were devoid of vitality, the Supplicant had cast a spell containing substantial life force, and the glow still clung to its presence, shrouding it in a moving patch of crimson across the Garden. Shiv frowned as he saw where it was: back at his starting position. “Asshole almost flanked me before I went Backstage. Shit. Godsdammit.”

He immediately started moving in the Supplicant’s direction—and smirked as he realized the Stranger seemed more confused and terrified than ever before. “Sorry, Valor, but it looks like my Intimidation is going to get power-leveled before my Stealth does—”

“Why don’t you do both?” the girl suggested.

“Huh?”

“Just keep jumping the Supplicant. Hop in and out of reality and smack the fucker while splashing it with your Creeping Void.”

“Well, one problem with that is I don’t expect to live very long in its vicinity,” Shiv answered. “I didn’t invest a lot of tides in these bodies, and the Chronomancy pouring out around the Supplicant is enough to drown a continent. I’ll probably… Huh, wait, with a few deaths, maybe I can sync up the two skills.” He paused as he asked himself a new question: did he even want to? “You know what? I’m going to ask Valor about this first. But before that—”

Shiv spun the Last Morsel in his hand, and its edges lit up bright red with a glow of Vitae. As its ripping waves of severing force pulsed out from the edges of his pan, he reached across the veil of vitality and hacked deep and hard into the tissues of the Supplicant—chipping the slightest bit of its field of time mana away.

The Supplicant flinched. Its huge fingers curled like the legs of a surprised spider preparing to jump, and it began sending blasts of Chronomancy in all directions through the gap between its steepled hands.

Both Shiv and the girl laughed as they watched the Outsider devastate its surroundings—shearing through its own Garden in a fit of paranoid hysterics.

Shiv sighed. “I’d do that more if it didn’t cost so much vitality for me to hit someone from the Backstage.”

“How much of the life force did you just spend?” the girl asked.

“A tenth.”

“Holy fuck! A tenth of all the shit you stole?”

“Yeah. This is a vulgar, vulgar act.” Shiv snorted. “The System hates it. Alright. Screw with him more in a minute. Let’s see how close we can get to the edge for Intimidation and Stealth. And this death—let’s do a little review.”

“Wait, Shiv,” the girl said. She shot a suspicious look at the Red Rider’s Hand before whispering low: “I think if you’re going to burn this life for levels, there’s one more thing you should try.”

“What?”

“You didn’t just get that hand when you dismembered the Challenger. Your Blessing evolved too.” A feeling of disgust washed through Shiv. He wanted to say no, but the girl intercepted his apprehension. “I know you don’t want to draw on the Challenger’s power, but you should at least know what that Blessing does—even if you never use it. Ignorance is not mercy or sanctuary. You gotta face it.”

And she was right. He didn’t like it, but he didn’t like a lot of things. “Alright. Any other ugly things you want me to do?”

She sneered. “Yeah. Make the fucker work for your death.”

Shiv chuckled. “Already planning on it. Alright. Watch this—and be careful about the Garden.”

Slowly, the Arrow who wasn’t turned, and saw the hand waving at her. “I don’t know which of us is in greater danger right now.”

“Probably you, honestly.”

“You’re really shit at making people feel safe,” Shiv

“I just don’t like lying to people. If the Garden eats you, I’ll tell Adam you died bravely. Someday. When I get to it.”

“Fuck you.” She flipped Shiv off, and the Garden did the same to her from behind.

Shiv grinned and repositioned himself. He needed a bit of distance before entering Integration again—because if he couldn’t use his Harbinger or Garden for now, then he needed to rely on avoidance for any survival. As he got three kilometers away, he activated his Creeping Void and jumped back across.

The moment he arrived with a splash of spreading blackness, the Supplicant halted—and the Stranger remembered his existence. “You!” he rasped, voice ragged with horror and fear. “I want you now. Need you gone-nonexistent. Challenger-spawn, begone!”

“I’m not the Challenger’s spawn,” Shiv grumbled. “I’m just the guy who took his hand. Now, let’s see what I can take from you.”

With that, Shiv triggered his Scion of Pain Blessing, and a wavelength of incandescent agony ignited Shiv’s active injuries in his flesh and soul—

Scion of Pain - I will come to know your highest potential, Deathless. And when the time comes, I will bleed you as you have bled me—or find a blissful end in the process. I grant you this boon as I have bequeathed you my former arm—Become the heart of agony; become the nexus of destruction. Live up to your inevitable promise.

—causing both him and the Supplicant’s middlemost finger to promptly explode into puffs of vitality and viscera.

Felt like every injury, every wound, every suffering, every bit of devastation—emotional, magical, physical, and spiritual—Shiv had suffered over the course of the last week or perhaps even longer, was drawn back to the present and unleashed on him and everything in his vicinity once more. He suffered all that, and he was unmade in an instant, and the Supplicant endured the same thing and saw its own devastation magnified. So the Deathless was unraveled, but he unraveled across every body that suffered harm, and even his Severed Shadow was not spared, with its vitality shattering, with its skills bursting entirely. He crumbled, falling to his knees within the bunker as everyone around him flinched back and reached out, trying to get him back on his feet to prevent him from disintegrating entirely.

“Shiv!” Uva cried out in sudden alarm.

“Whoa!” Jessica flinched, batting away chunks of crystallized Vitae before hooking her arms under Shiv’s torso. “What the hells just happened? What was that? How did you unleash that divine… oh, oh no. Oh, fuck me.”

“Fuck me indeed.” Hymn winced. “This was… unexpected. Deathless. What in all the hells did you do?”

“Tried a Blessing,” Shiv choked, gawking at what he saw, feeling both dread and elation come over him. “Tried an evolved Blessing.”

“The one you got from the Challenger?” Valor asked, his tone severe.

“Yeah. Might have been… better to ask one of you first about that before just using it. But I figured… You know, what’s the worst that could happ—” His voice broke into a low groan of pain as he felt his Toughness skill burst, and then start to blossom.

Meanwhile, his flesh flashed gold, red, and then finally, a bright hue of platinum that drowned the room in blinding light.

This Severed Shadow of Blood and Bladed Soul 291 > 306

Inertial Overdrive 364 > 369

