Using the hand left his mind raw and strained, his heart devoid of all emotion, an injection of anhedonia overtaking him, but he was still here. There was a will beyond the heart and the mind that defied this extension of himself. He would not be tamed by its baser pleasures; he would see it tamed in turn and used properly, as a virtuous weapon for war. It waited for a proper practitioner, for proper war, for a proper enemy to be unleashed upon; otherwise, there would not be war, there would only be death and the end, and the only one who returned from learning that lesson...

“I cannot accelerate our personal flow of time much longer,” the Harbinger warned. The skill's voice was deep with pain and exhaustion, and it, and only it, was the reason why Shiv hadn't succumbed to utter psychosis. The Pre-Legendary skill had burned away the worst afflictions unleashed by the fist, but now it was rendered brittle, raw, and an unsuitable vessel to ride these turbulent waves of time. All around Shiv were waves of lashing gold, each one falling like whips, bearing the weight of multiple avalanches. They crashed against him, broke more of him, caused him to take injuries in the depth of his soul rather than upon the flesh, adding to the bounty of his Garden of Wounds and Broken Things. “If I stay this current course, we will be broken. Both of us. We must ascend. We must.”

I know. You did enough. Thank you. Rest for a while. And in that moment, Shiv learned once more what true self-pride felt like. What it meant to be grateful toward oneself. What it meant to sacrifice for oneself. If he had obtained this hand a month ago, it would have driven him mad and converted him to the Challenger's will, perhaps even irrevocably. It was too much power for his once-starved soul, too much authority for his benighted understanding. It was too much even now.

But at least he knew how feeble he was. At least he felt how small, how overwhelmed. That gave him a reason to struggle. That gave him perspective and a means to fight.

The Harbinger vanished around him, that layer of golden glory portraying his future self dissolving as less than embers, mere fractals of a resplendent mirage, like the fall of a star beyond a rising horizon.

But in the absence of gold, another glow came, the glow of a grey flame scintillating as if a conflagration containing constellations of stars. The Nihilist was more nourished than ever, for though Shiv gouged his own heart in refusing to surrender to the Red Rider's Hand and feed it further, to give himself completely to a frenzied drive, a frenzy of violence and brutality, and devolve from any notions of humanity and civility he clung to. He inflicted his meaning over the Challenger, if only out of spite, if only because he wanted to spite the monster that he was made to be.

That construction of meaning was fuel unto itself. It was napalm greeting a sea of fire, and Shiv burned, and the Stranger's Garden around him burned the same. Through that flame came a single distortion, a massive chain that was so dense and thick that it might as well have been unbreakable, as unbreakable as the Last Morsel and the Red Rider's Hand that brought forth its creation.

Shape of Monstrosity 182 > 189

Harbinger of the Tripartite Ruin 332 > 335

Shiv grasped the chain instinctively, feeling that cord of absolute terror. He deepened that thread as he activated Dread-Tainted, lashing the god with Daughter the Deadly’s suffering, forcing the Stranger to experience another emotion: dread derived from humanity, a humanity that the Outsider god was slowly falling toward. With that taunt, with that promise, the chain grew yet thicker, and Shiv pulled. The Supplicant was still too large, its mass too great, both physical and magical, for him to overcome. Without devoting a significant portion of his Shapeless Tides, he wouldn't be able to even begin wrestling with it at all.

However, Shiv wasn't devoid of mass of his own, and his Garden of Wounds and Broken Things made him the size of a small town, a literal humanoid titan made from destruction. Instead of trying to overpower his greater enemy, he pulled himself toward the Supplicant that was now fleeing him in a blind, desperate flight.

The existential fabric within the Stranger's Garden tore. Waves of displacing time slammed into Shiv, and he found himself losing track of moments, seconds, and then perhaps even minutes. His perspective quickly became fragmented. He jumped from place to place, from body to body. He experienced the stuttering mutilation inflicted upon his understanding of present to future, and even momentarily thought he was existing in two places at once, a situation which caused his most baseline sanity to tear even more. Yet before true madness could take hold, he found himself drawn back to the bunker, back to Uva, draining away his madness, for he wasn't alone and he was guarded from the precipice of insanity.

And through it all, he never let go of the fear chain—for he remained that hateful whaler of metaphor prior, and he sought to do more than bleed the Supplicant.

“Let go! Let go! Know what you are now. Spawn of the Challenger. Spawn of strife. Weapon of the System. Weapon of war incarnate. War. War. War. Don't want war. Don't hurt me. Stop hurting me! Don't want pain when there shouldn't be pain. Why? Why pain? Why do I know this? Why? Get away from me, war bastard, child, abomination of ruin! Away!”

The Stranger's howls were hysterical, and through the chaotic tides that tore Shiv back and forth, he caught a side of the Supplicant surfacing from time itself. It had tried leaping into the future, but the future, the present, and the past were all still disrupted by the ruptures that were spreading. They were all dragged together, turned into a chaotic melange in this most unnatural of dimensions. There was a golden whirlpool building at the center of the Garden's great clearing, and the branches receded further, fleeing toward the horizon and even further beyond to avoid the System's wrathful destabilization. Through it all, Shiv saw the Supplicant as the sailor flung overboard from his ship would catch glimpses of a whale, wounded and poking its head out from the sea that despised them both.

Shiv could hear his mentors calling, could hear Uva trying to wrench him back to get him to stop, but he refused. The hand had rendered him pure, had made him raw of need, and even if he hadn't succumbed fully to its influence, it still left its imprint deep. The scar it left on his mind and heart guided him like a compass toward fated prey.

The wound the Supplicant suffered was one of demoralization more than physical disfigurement. Though it was wounded, it was also rapidly healing. The crack he'd inflicted upon its long finger was almost closed already. Shiv's enkindled flames wrenched at it, a darker, more enshadowed will clung to the Supplicant's presence, weighing it down and lashing it with confusion and emotional discord, but even that barely slowed its pace. Despite the sheer devastation Shiv had inflicted upon the Stranger’s Avatar with his hand, the physical damage was close to entirely faded.

But the spiritual blow he dealt meanwhile was something he couldn't overcome. The Stranger was not a child of sensation. He despised feeling. He despised thinking. He despised becoming an intelligent organism, a single unit rather than a system unto itself: a world or higher dimension. Above all things, however, he despised that notion, that infliction of mortality. Shiv had forced an unwilling enlightenment upon the Supplicant. It could be hurt. It could be wounded. It could be battered so hard that its soul and shell shattered in unison.

Shiv had chased a strange creature into the depths of its strangest den all to teach it pain—and the realization of its own possible, probable demise.

“Release me!” the Stranger howled once more. The very pitch of his words was like blades dragged across Shiv's brain tissue. His mind buckled. His stubbornness endured. And somewhere amidst all that unfathomable chaos, they broke free from the rupture, and Shiv found the Supplicant charging into the thicket of branches, each trunk larger than continents and with so many glaring eyes that every surface around him seemed painted by crescent irises of baleful hatred.

Where the Supplicant gracefully splashed through the thicket, merging in and out of the tree trunks and limbs of Eldritch make, Shiv slammed into this realm like a missile. His ruin-shaped broke and then grew from every bit of physical damage he endured. More than that, beams of mana tore into him, crude magical attacks devoid of shaping or sophistication, unleashed in their most primitive expressions, lances of retroactive Chronomancy that carved away pieces from his body, dealing the first true harm to the garden.

The Garden of Wounds and Broken Things has lost a wound.

The Garden of Wounds and Broken Things has lost a wound.

The Garden of Wounds and Broken Things has lost a wound.

The notification kept repeating over and over, and Shiv suddenly found his size shrinking. The towers that once composed him, lost walls and floors, the lattices of lacerations which chained his fallen edifices together, which served as churning rubble, granting him mass and serving as the spinal column to his magnified form, were stripped away and not returned. Once more, he was reminded of the Garden's weaknesses—without an infusion of his Physicality, he had no Magical Resistance and thus could resist no spells while in this state. And what the Stranger inflicted were not attacks; rather, they were deprivations, retroactive removal. Damages he sustained simply ceased to be, removed from his personal history by the will of an Outsider god, for a scar needed an origin to be a scar at all.

But while the aberrant Chronomancy unleashed upon him sapped his immensity and reduced his garden, every time he slammed into a branch, every time a Fingerling slashed at him, crashed into him, broke something upon him, he grew once more. Thus, an arms race followed between the physical harms he could suffer and the magical reductions he had to survive.

Through it all, however, there were certain injuries that couldn't go away. The divine wounds Longinus bestowed upon him simply refused to fold to another god's notion of time. For if there was one constant between all gods, even the lowest Demigods and the greatest of the High Gods, it was that they existed in a dimension unto themselves beyond common laws of space and time.

What few beams of tarnished gold struck those god-given injuries were simply ablated, dissipating in splitting rays as they splashed and scattered upon nearby branches.

But somewhere in all that carnage, Shiv realized something. He'd lost track of the Supplicant. Now he was simply being dragged along and deep in the mire of his enemy's Garden, as he was whittled down from all sides. Even with the divine wounds he possessed, his Garden would be rendered sallow in little time. And in the depths of his mind, he realized there was another problem.

The Supplicant wasn't a fool. The past few times he tried to make a run in the Stranger's garden, it attacked him, not directly, but striking his past or where he used to be. The Supplicant, now shaken, was not trying to fight him directly, but it wasn't without options. Shiv began pulling himself along that fear chain again, but devoid of his Legendary strength, he found himself grappling and sliding along that chain of terror with every impact that sent him reeling backward.

Shiv tried to use his Atlas of the Flesh Scryer to pin down where the Supplicant was, but the moment he triggered his skill, everything around him came ablaze in a glow of Biomancy. His understanding of the surrounding organic tissue was drowned by incomprehensibility, for Eldritch matter was recursive and nonsensical, a parody of how cells and biology should function. He could not tell apart the branches from the Supplicant, as they were ultimately one and the same when it came to the foundational biomass from which they were formed.

He activated his Song of the Vigilant, and a resonant web spread out around him, mapping his surroundings in vivid detail, but that didn't help either: the problem was his foe was utterly obscured by just how many other objects existed within his vicinity, and highlighting all of that in a brilliant way simply increased his cognitive load.

A knot of absolute frustration condensed inside Shiv. His greatest weakness had reared its head once more, and it was not a problem of direct combat, but rather a lack of Awareness and an inability to track or pin his foe down. This was not primarily a function of lacking power. This ultimately was his lack of options and depth when it came to using his skills. His Atlas was great for hunting and taking peeks at organic foes, but he had no idea how to use it in a place like the Stranger's Garden, and it was utterly hopeless when it came to mechanical or non-biologicals.

Just as the Garden was peeling him layer by layer, reducing him as if he were an onion, Roland's arrows would be falling in the future, striking him from all angles, bearing all manner of different mana, and he would be near helpless to retaliate.

Shiv still had his Grudge-Tethered Feat, and with every spell that struck him from a new foe, he was granted an opening, a connection to deliver a single blow back. And so he did. He sent cutting waves out, cleaving through branches and splitting crescent eyes down the middle with his rippling arcs of cutting presence. But this was a war of attrition he had no desire to fight, for the Stranger was near endless when it came to mana, and Shiv would be worn down to less than a nub in little time at all.

