A wide hole in the Realm Wave tears open, allowing enough space for us to fall through.

Explosions of stray silver threads and extremely strong silver, white, and purple aura fill the void around us.

There is a visible metallic and shimmering rainbow glow that comes off both Maria's and my origin bodies. This flickering aura mixes with the stray energy from the Realm Wave, and creates enormous violent dents in space that appear in every direction I can fathom.

The moment my blade slides all the way through the wave, it only collapses faster, bending backwards and around on itself like a snapped rubber band.

The speed at which this energy bends toward me after its backlash is very fast. I can easily shift my sword into new areas of space in time to block it, but it is the raw strength of the energy that hits me that wears on my senses.

One attack was manageable, but countless areas of the Realm Wave start falling in toward me.

Maria and I spin and bend through the void, and I slash across the wave over a hundred times.

Each slash tears the ring in half again, but it snaps back harder, bending in on us at even more strange angles.

Some of the residue from the wave seeps past our outer auras, and begins clashing against our Origin Bodies.

I feel the same exact pressure I did during our first collision with the wave.

Even though our minds, bodies, and souls have become billions of times stronger since entering this void, the same sense of danger washes through me.

I feel fragments of my consciousness being torn apart and twisted in directions of space with countless different flows of time. Some are trapped, unable to process information any further, while others wither away like thousands of years have passed before I can even sense any time passing from the core of my mind.

It is not an illusion either.

Real time is passing. If I don't sever these portions of my aura from my body, and truly allow my full mind to fall into a large pocket of this wave, I'm certain my lifespan would be completely used up and we would be torn to pieces in the void. Even though portions of my soul are returning now even after they were severed, if there was no main point of consciousness to return to, it would be a far different story.

This makes me focus on nothing but the waves of silver energy all around me.

My sword is devouring the threads that make up this wave at a rapid rate. Consuming tens of times more silver threads than the first slash. The sound of its digesting echoes in my inner ear.

The raw ether and primordial aura is extremely strong, it flows through my blade and its own crimson shield tethered to the outside of my body. For some reason, it feels fresher than the aura that pours out directly from Noctus when he talks to his surroundings using the far more purple-tinted light.

He's either in a weakened state, and this Realm Wave was created long ago... or he has just chosen not to use his full power to talk to us yet.

It's hard to tell.

I can feel my cores rubbing against each other, and even phasing through the space that one another takes up when my body is bent in strange directions. Every time I slice through a large portion of a Realm Wave, for a moment in time, it even feels like streaks of silver threads are taking root in my body.

It feels like there is a single point in the center of all three cores, where a rigid line of matter bursts out from like a momentary strike of lightning. Yet, it only stays on the inside of my body long enough to give me enough strength to either slice through my target or hold the fractured portions of my sacred body and origin body in place long enough for them to naturally heal on their own.

Like an extra divine skeleton that summons itself into existence when my consciousness is so overwhelmed it's necessary, and it is so quick to flash in and out that I cannot even focus on it when it appears.

Over a thousand slashes of this Realm Wave that has broken into a chaotic silver abomination go by, and I can finally start to feel the resistance and strength of each snap starting to drop.

My sword shakes in my grasp from the overwhelming amount of power it's taken from the wave and absorbed for itself. As many of the silver threads it devours settle in the sea of its core, pulses of energy move through the base, and the eye begins blinking and flashing new memories into my mind.

They feel much different than the countless images of memories I already obtained.

There are no auras like Maria's or Abby's or even similar ones to mine... I do not even sense the presence of a golden immortal core in the new stream of memories flowing into my consciousness.

Instead, I start to witness countless dead worlds aging before my eyes.

I can only perceive reality around this soul weapon from its point of view, and from every single image I see, the weapon is all alone.

In many memories it appears in a very familiar state. A small liquid blob of black matter. In some memories it pulses white. In others it shimmers with remnants of silver threads. In some memories it changes states, pulsing red, orange, and yellow just like the state I found it in back on my human world.

Yet, in other old and unfamiliar worlds, it even pulses green, cyan, blue, and purple.

This artifact sits alone on worlds that hold no signs of life, like cold rocks spinning through the void of space.

Others look like they're resting in forgotten tombs, like someone left it there on a pedestal, a throne, even caskets, pyramids, and countless resting places.

I even see some iterations of this soul weapon's life where it never even found a resting place on a planet at all. The small oscillating matter drifts alone through empty space, waiting patiently for its wielder to find it.
