Snuggled with Mama Bun in my comfy silk pyjamas, I smile as Lin, Mila, and Luo-Luo each give me a kiss on the cheek while Song offers a friendly nod and pat on the shoulder, which is a lot coming from her. Tired as I am, sleep eludes me as I lie in bed and stare at the ceiling even though I can’t make anything out. Terrible night vision, yet another way in which I am diminished, less than what I was. So many minor and major issues and inconveniences, all of which put together make the weakest human in existence. Freed from the haze of painkillers, my mind focuses and sharpens as the agony creeps back into perception, a slow and insidious sensation which usually lingers at the edge of awareness. I welcome the pain, because it means I still live, and where there is life, there is hope.

Gritting my teeth, I close my eyes, reach for Balance, and choke back my screams as my body is set aflame.

Not in reality, but in perception, and when it comes to pain, what’s the difference?

Lung’s heaving and chest damp with sweat, I lie in bed and wait for the agony to subside, the consequence of gathering Chi with a shattered Core and broken Spiritual Self, the Chi circulatory system if you will. I don’t try this often for obvious reasons, but it hasn’t gotten any better in the four months since Sinuji. I don’t know what else to do and Taduk didn’t have any suggestions on how to fix it besides bed-rest and time, but it would appear I’ve run out of the latter.

On the upside, my Oaths no longer work and I can talk about the Brotherhood or the Purge all I want, so there’s that. No idea if this is permanent, or the Heavens just won’t affect me till I fix my Core, but for now, it’s mostly a non-issue.

Today was a... not exactly an eye-opening experience, but a wake up call. If I were still Falling Rain, Number One Talent in the Empire, would Yang Jixing have the gall to march in here, where my father holds power, and straight up demand my woman? Ugh, calling Luo-Luo ‘mine’ feels so wrong, but in the eyes of this world, in Jixing’s eyes, she belongs to me and he thinks he can just take her. This crisis is only happening because I am weak, which means maybe it’s time I got working on a real solution instead of waiting for one to fall into my lap.

So what are my options besides waiting years for my Core to naturally heal? Well, I could go the Ancestral Human route and solve the age old mystery of how to manipulate Raw Heavenly Energy. My Core is shattered and I can’t use Chi, but who says you need a Core to use Heavenly Energy? Instead of jumping through hoops to turn Heavenly Energy into Chi, I could manipulate the Energy of the Heavens directly and grow myself a brand new body with a working Core or whatever it needs to withstand this hellish death world. Problem is, it’s kind of a tall order, doing what no human has ever done before, so putting all my eggs in the Ancestral Human basket seems like a recipe for disaster considering I don’t have the faintest clue where to start.

Another route I could take is the Demonic one and invite the Spectres in to refurbish and redesign me from the ground up. Demons create new forms when they take over their hosts, so presumably they could do the same for me, though I’m not exactly sure how to go about controlling the process or retaining control in the aftermath, not to mention the fact that I haven’t seen any Spectres since Sinuji. Apparently a broken Core means no Spectre vision, but I’m sure I can think dark thoughts and manage without it. Besides Gen figured out how to partially Demonize, so it shouldn’t be too hard to pull off, though if I’m being fair, no one has ever heard of another Defiled succeeding in a partial Demonic transformation, which kinda makes Gen a genius. Another problem is that Demons tend to lean on the side of the grotesque, and while I wouldn’t call myself vain, I’d rather not turn into a monster, which is what I imagine I’d become if I gave the Spectres free rein to remodel as they see fit.

Metal hands wouldn’t be the worst thing in the world, but what if I go full Pudge? I don’t want to be fat...

Or ugly.

Or an inhuman murderous monster.

But mostly, it’s the fat thing. Gross.

Initially, I thought those were my only two options if I couldn’t fix my Core, but Pong Pong’s poop offers a third alternative. Divine Poop gives rise to Spiritual Plants, which Bicorn Bunnies and presumably other animals eat to help Forge their Spiritual Hearts. If that’s the case, then theoretically, I could eat Spiritual Plants and turn my body into a Spiritual Heart too, or at least parts of me. How it works, I’m not entirely sure, but I’ll figure it out as I go. From past experience, I know Divine Poop can give rise to Spiritual Plants in as little as two weeks, so Taduk should have results in another ten days, but I’d like there to be more time between the ‘poop fertilization’ and the ‘going into my mouth’ steps, for both sanitary and sanity reasons.

Historically, studies have shown eating Spiritual Plants does nothing for humans, but no one has ever sat down and actually tested it out. Why would they? Spiritual Plants are too valuable to waste on feeding plebs, and while some have reported suffering complications from eating certain varieties of Spiritual Plants, that’s not conclusive evidence. It’d be like saying all plants are bad for you because hemlock is poisonous. Sure, there are certain varieties of plants people shouldn’t eat, but what if I grew Spiritual Turnips or Spiritual Rice? So long as I eat enough, I could have Spiritual Bones, Spiritual Muscles, Spiritual Organs, and even Spiritual Skin, turning myself into a nigh invincible warrior the likes this world has never before seen. Forget feeding an army of rabbits, I could feed an army of people and have indestructible warriors out the wazoo once Taduk figures out the specifics of how to grow the right variety of Spiritual Plant.

Okay, that’s not exactly how Spiritual Hearts works, but a man can dream. Seriously, personal power through eating has got to be the best training regimen ever. No sweat, no effort, just om nom nom and a Martial Warrioring I will go, right along the easiest Path to the Martial Peak. Besides, if it turns out Spiritual Plants don’t do a body good, then I can still use Pong Pong’s Divine Poop to grow useful resources like Idamare, fox-glove, Blood Needles and other stuff. The little turtle is now eating three servings of shrimp per day and pooping an equal amount, and the only reason he isn’t getting more is because I’m worried he’ll get bored of the taste.

I have a few other theories in the mix, like how raw cannibalism is the secret to the superior Defiled physique, but I’d rather not dive off the deep end until I’m well and truly desperate. There are also external sources of power I could use, but most of those would only put me in more danger, not less, because people are greedy. Lastly, I could appeal to the Legate for help, but I doubt he’ll care enough to keep me safe, unless the Prime Minister happens to be one of those political enemies he keeps harping on about. Even if they are at odds, relying on the Legate isn’t a viable long-term solution since once I no longer have anything to offer, he has no reason to keep sheltering me. I need personal strength, and essentially my options are as follows: accomplish the impossible and become an Ancestral Human, succumb to the heretical and become a Demon, or take a page from animals and form a Spiritual Heart. Those are my three choices for getting better, and each one is a tall order for a frail, drugged up cripple besieged by enemies on all sides.

Traversing the road to recovery will be a long and arduous journey, one I am determined to see through, but the problem is: will my enemies give me the time I need, or will they strike before I am ready?

There’s nothing I can do about it except take things one step at a time, starting with a letter to Broken Blade Pichai begging for advice. As for the rest, I have family to rely on, and besides, even without personal strength, I am not entirely without fangs. Yang Jixing may have a Prime Minister in his corner, but I have a family and allies of my own, not to mention a vast fortune, Spiritual Guns, Runic Devices, and Divine turtles to boot. If the little Imperial Shit wants to throw down, then I’ll gladly send him running back east, whether it be through economic, military, or terrapinian might.

Terrapin-ion? Terrapinician? Turtilian? Whatever. Turtles, I got them, and soon, maybe super powerful bunnies too. Then, the world shall know true fear as I, Falling Rain, unleash my hordes of heavily-armed heavenly floofs against them!

...

I swear I’m the good guy here.

...

Most of the time.

Chapter Meme
