She knew she looked like a mess. The Drake spat into the washbowl of white porcelain and saw phlegm and blood land in the water. It came out of her mouth, her nose, and when she stopped coughing up the Selphid Dust long enough to meet her eyes, she saw how bloodshot they were.
Burst capillaries bled like dying soldiers over yellowed ground. Her eyes had lost their regular color. Too much of the…the…King’s Draught? Sjerdenhal?
Something. Something was taking her eyes. Bad sign. She’d go blind in less than a week if she kept it up. The eyes would dry up and hollow out, and bugs would root around in them, even if they stayed connected to the face. She pictured a shaking Drake with maggots crawling out of his eye sockets, hands trembling as he begged for another drop of the Draught.
That was no illusion. Nor was the washbasin. That was a memory, and she was good at figuring out which was which, most of the time. Tessa stared at herself in the mirror again. Shriekblade gazed back, and both had the same thought.
“I look terrible.”
She knew it. She was thinner than before, and she had always been light for her height. She was—the Drake’s eyes stole downwards, and she saw blood running from her right arm. Bared scales, but no armor. Had someone attacked her? No…the scales were missing in a checkerboard pattern.
She must have pulled them off herself. The only way to make sure a needle got through scales. The flesh was puffy, and pockmarked underneath. The Drake ran her fingers over the injection sites and thought it again.
I have to stop. I’m pathetic. This is wrong. Bad. I’m killing myself and my body. No one will need me after this, not even Hekusha. Good thing…good thing I have an escape plan.
Always Have An Escape Plan. AHAEP. Good old Captain Groms. That was the trick. She’d get restored after this, and it’d reset her. Then—no drugs. Not for—a week. That was how you did it.
“After tonight, no drugs. Right. Then I’ll build up my body, get clean for a month, and—and finances.”
She felt at her bag of holding, and it wasn’t there. Had she lost it? Sold it? But she had her daggers, and that was alright. Tessa leaned on the washbasin again, relieved. Because she had a way out. That was the trick. She knew how bad it was, but she could save herself. Hekusha could save her body. And Tessa was going to do it, this time. She promised.
“I promise.”
She was fumbling something up to her lips. A little capsule filled with the pale, not-quite-gold liquid that looked like discolored piss. It stank the moment her claw breached the cover. King’s Draught was the foulest thing imaginable. A blind [Watchman] could tell you had it. But it tasted like—
Her head fell backwards, and she shuddered as it coursed through her veins. The second hit of it made the world wobble, and Tessa’s head turned left and right.
Around the washbasin and mirror was a hazy world where color, the floor and sky, dissolved into nothingness. That was how it worked. As she began to move, stepping away from the washbasin, it too dissolved, and she only saw what was right in front of her. Marble tiles, Hekusha’s palace. Blind, unable to hear anything not on top of her—chin raised, smiling with the pride of a king.
The highest feeling in the world. She swirled a cloak of her imagination around her and laughed. As her eyes bled yellow tears and she walked onwards, navigating the shifting world of colors with that uncanny instinct the Draught gave her. But the euphoria was already fading. It faded faster each time—so she was fumbling.
No more Draught? Something else. Something…she pulled out powders and vials, sorting through liquids, half-consumed capsules, trying to remember what did what. Higher. Ever-higher today. Nothing that dragged her down to reality.
The Drake was running, then, spilling the keys that led her out of this reality, sprinting as if she were trying to catch the fleeting joy in her body. She hit something and fell, crying out as the trove of her equipment spilled to the floor. Gathered it up—her adventurer’s tools. And she knew she was low, but it was okay.
She had Hekusha. An escape plan. Tomorrow…
Next week. She’d start next week. But she had an escape plan. There was always a way out. But she liked it down here.
She deserved it down here.
 
——
 
They told him the world was changing, and he knew it was. Change came for all men, and he feared it. Soon, it would knock upon the doors of his city. And it was his, his prison and fortress, his island of contemptible solitude, and he the warden and fool conjoined.
The world was changing so rapidly and greatly, but by the voices eternal—there was a comfort to living in Tenbault. Crowdcaller Merdon, the Named-rank adventurer, could see the New Lands rise, Archmages fly, and when he stood in the silent banquet hall and heard the panting, wheezing gasps from the addled Drake’s lungs as she scrabbled on the floor, licking at a spilled vial, he thought nothing would ever change.
A noblewoman—no, a woman with a rich dress—was backed into a corner, unwilling to edge around Tessa. Other ‘dignitaries’ come for the Healer’s favor were standing in the tableau, holding drinks. Servants backed up.
No one would go near Shriekblade. She was shaking, giggling as she rose, casting around and lifting her chin like royalty, mouth trailing that foul vapor. King’s Draught or something. He didn’t know how she kept getting it, even in Tenbault.
“Merdon. Merdon!”
Someone was hissing at him. One of Hekusha’s helpers, [Mana Conduit] Torbal. He wanted Merdon to get Shriekblade out of sight.
Crowdcaller Merdon downed his drink. He didn’t move. She was blind to the world, stumbling around the banquet hall, and almost heading back towards the bathrooms she’d emerged from. But even if you’d handed him an enchanted sword of [Bane], or a bow with an [Acidsplitter] arrow, he’d have told you to shove it up your own ass before taking a shot at her, even for a million gold coins.
Shriekblade never died. She never changed. She left and came back. She spiralled, and so long as he looked at her, he truly felt that dreadful relief in him, oozing down to his bones like piss soaking through his clothing.
The world would never change. Tenbault would not. Merdon raised his empty glass to the taut face of Hekusha, sitting behind her veils of floating cloth to keep her from the rest of the wretched world.
Her two greatest protectors, the legendary Healer. The city of miracles, Tenbault. Merdon said not a word as the murmuring rose, and Tessa stumbled past him. The Named-rank adventurer with a voice that had humbled Chalence, once said to be the youngest prodigy among his kind, stood there. Forty-seven years old. Old now. She was older too, but again, some things never changed.
We’ve done this forever, eh, Shriekblade? Who’ll go first? You or me?
This was the worst he’d ever seen of her, but she never died. Her head turned as she tripped, almost fell, going nearly horizontal, then catching herself with a leg sweeping around and a twirl, the grace of a genius. Hands going reflexively to the two daggers that were all she had left in the world besides her name and talents.
For a second, those eyes bleeding madness found his, and he shivered as she said:
“That’s not my name.”
They locked eyes as Merdon tensed, lips pursing, about to project a compressed shout, adrenaline flooding his veins. Had she read his—?
Then she turned and staggered on, and he stood there as meaningless conversation struck itself up in her wake, and a servant hurried forwards with a long-handled mop. The ‘noblewoman’ with the soiled cloak Tessa had thrown up on came forwards, smiling at him, and flirting with all the graces the Tonic of Charm could give her. He wondered how foully sick she was and whether it was contagious.
Merdon reached for another drink and met Hekusha’s simmering gaze. She jerked her head as her Veils of Deterge hovered around her, and he shrugged. She was so angry of late. What did she expect? Something to change?
In her city? He laughed at that, and his chuckle was like rich thunder. The greatest voice in Izril.
 
——
 
“It’s my fault, you know. Lay that upon my gravestone, old man. Of my sins, and I do confess they must be legion, that is one of my true and only regrets.”
The Dragonlord of Flames did not dignify that comment with a reply as he worked. For many reasons—he did not want to think of her gravestone. He did not want to imagine the sixteen year-old [Lady], all indignation at the state of the world and gentle heart, passing from this world like so many others.
And he disagreed that Magnolia Reinhart’s sins were that foul. When he looked up, he still had the image of the blonde-haired girl peering into his cave, wearing that black-and-green dress she hated so much.
—Then he blinked, and the woman was decades older, wearing an all-pink outfit and sitting in a chair as she watched him adjust a wheel with one claw, and he was out of his cave. The Brass Dragon had died. Come back to life. Lost his mind.
Been told the world was ending.
Again.
This time would be different, or so he felt. So, he gently placed another wheel in the air, anchoring it with a bit of solidified air, and began to resurrect the damaged chassis of the carriage from its stasis. Wood, so damaged and old it had begun to dissolve as the mana broke, needed re-enchanting. Too much for him to reconstruct, even with his powers…so he had to remake the entire chassis’ spellcraft and rebuild the carriage around that.
“Ironwood.”
He grunted, and someone spoke.
“Ah, we are lacking in that department, sir—”
“Fourth drawer, Giant’s cabinet. Ironwood.”
Someone dashed to the side and came back, swearing like a [Storm Sailor] as she hurled a huge log of it at him. He caught the heavy piece with magic and began to meld it into the carriage.
“Looks like Haelbrass for the fittings, and…I’m going to say Salazsarian Diamond for the windows. Good enough. We’ll fudge the rest. Giant’s cabinet, second drawer or something for the brass. I assume you have the diamonds somewhere, Magnolia.”
A tsk. But she didn’t get in the way as he continued his work. He was spending more than he normally would have on this, and she knew when he had to actually concentrate.
“One feels as though the windows are not what you should skimp on, old man.”
“I don’t do windows. Too fiddly. Every half-baked [Enchanter] and [Artisan] gets too precious with their windows. One-of-a-kind mixtures with crystal pulled from between a Crystal Elemental’s asscheeks blessed by a Unicorn dancing in the moonlight with a drop of Zesty Lemon. The windows will be fine. Sturdy, just not whatever they were originally made for.”
He heard a snort from Ressa. She appreciated it when he got pithy. Magnolia simply pouted. She wanted her carriage to be the best. And it would be! She walked around the floating vehicle he was literally remaking as if she were inspecting a vase for dust and he a Level 4 [Cleaner].
“This is Great-Great-Great Grandfather Corlitor’s best carriage, you know. It was a terrible ordeal for Reynold, getting it all the way here out of the family’s clutches. The only reason Regis never had it was because it was so big it couldn’t easily fit in his vaults—and so damaged even he couldn’t use it.”
“It’s fine. Serviceable.”
Her expression of outrage made him smile as he began melding the windows. He liked teasing her. This was, in fact, a carriage that would have been considered ‘good’ for royalty in any era. Far better than her old one.
Yep, this is going to take at least another hour. It was challenging, even for him, to remake. He sighed, but in truth, he relished this moment. Not the magic, but lying here next to her new mansion in the High Passes, talking with her.
Memories reclaimed. Never again would he be the mysterious Dragon and she the young [Lady] with a world to right. But now they were more equals, so he savored that. His mind flickered back to her first statement, and he replied.
“If Tenbault is your fault, then it is mine. Or do you mean only the Healer—what’s her name? Helluba? I was the fool you pestered into teaching her that spell.”
“Hekusha. And I insisted. I could have chosen better. I could have stopped her.”
“Hmm. It never works out right. She’d merely run to someone else. She was given power, and it revealed her soul. Was she always like this?”
“Possibly.”
“No.”
Magnolia and Teriarch turned, and they gazed at the woman who sat, stripped down to only her undershirt, smoking in one of the pink, upholstered chairs. Ressa. Not the silent [Assassin] street-tough girl she’d been, but not so different, even now. The [Lady] pursed her lips.
“Ressa, do you have an objection to your work clothes or something?”
“It’s hot.”
“It’s spring.”
“Fought a Lava Slime earlier this morning.”
“Ah, well…I suppose we could use some tea. Reynold?”
He came forwards with a teapot and cups, and Teriarch conjured Demsleth so he could have a sip. He still winced when he saw Magnolia being handed a literal pot of sugar, which she poured into her cup. Then he turned to Ressa.
“Was she better? This Hekusha? I don’t quite recall.”
The [Maid] shrugged.
“Sure. She and Magnolia were friends. New [Mage] just out of Wistram willing to put her magic to use in the name of the public good? Not bought by the rest of the family? That’s pretty damn good. One of your uncles offered to double her pay to switch over, remember, Magnolia?”
“Oh, that’s right. Dear Uncle Krallis. Though I don’t know if that was entirely her being loyal at the time. Didn’t he have a clause he snuck into his contracts that meant every servant had to sleep in bed with him?”
Teriarch stopped his mental magical work for a moment in pure distaste and outrage. Reynold had much the same reaction, but Ressa only cooly lifted another cigarette to her mouth.
“Yep. But she didn’t know that. Like I said, she was a good kid. Just got paid too much too fast. When she started building her mansion ‘nstead of teaching, that was the bad sign. I told you, but you didn’t want t’ hear it.”
Magnolia nodded simply.
“I recall being so busy taking charge of House Reinhart, and she did heal you, me, and our people so much. And became more resentful each time we called on her…it is no excuse. I should have set Tenbault to rights long ago, but I wished to stop being the executioner and judge. Now…I am simply ashamed.”
