“So, about Tessa.”
She lifted a finger, and he waited for her to finish her sip. Then Hekusha let one of her handsome younger servants pat her lips with a napkin. She smiled at the boy and spoke to Merdon.
“Mm. Yes. She was a problem today, wasn’t she? Was that really Midnight’s Laughter?”
He grunted.
“Looked like it. He might have killed forty more people if we hadn’t stopped him. Charging a Skill.”
“Charging a Skill? It was really him? Her? What species?”
“I couldn’t see. Too busy fighting for my life.”
“And you fought him?”
Hekusha turned vaguely wondering eyes on him, which annoyed Merdon. He was still a Named-ranker, even if…even if. Sometimes, he forgot she was a civilian. They both had power, but she didn’t know what fighting was like. He wondered, still, what she’d seen when the Goblins had kidnapped her. They hadn’t done anything to her; he was almost positive about that.
That had been for that [Innkeeper]. He’d known desperate people before, and they’d come trying to kidnap Hekusha with numbers, but never Goblins. Never like that…Merdon spoke abruptly.
“They’re gone, probably. Shriekblade said she might have scared them off. But about her—she’s lost it. Completely.”
“Because she attacked you?”
He rolled his shoulders, uncomfortable.
“Yes. No. It’s not just attacking me. It’s her using drugs in a battle.”
“That’s…new?”
Another moment when he and she eyed each other, and Crowdcaller Merdon grunted.
“It is. She never uses them in a fight unless she’s losing. Never to open a fight. It dulls her edge. She knows that.”
It had been the one thing you could predict about Shriekblade: when she was on duty, she was on. But that had rattled him. Hekusha tapped her lips.
“But she did fight off Midnight’s Laughter.”
“And she nearly killed me and that stranger! Your personal bodyguard!”
He snapped, and the servant backed up as he went to pour Hekusha a second refill. She tsked, and Merdon modulated his voice.
“She’s a liability. After her two stunts today, the Gold-rankers will leave rather than work with her. She can’t be used.”
So Tessa would be gone, and in the state she was in…no more healing meant she’d have to moderate her usage of drugs. Until she had enough gold to come back. Hekusha tapped her lips, and he felt odd. Merdon did his throat stretches a few times and used his spray. She was normally endlessly upset about having to heal him or anyone for free. But Hekusha was thoughtful. She was never thoughtful.
“Certainly, Shriekblade’s no good for helping you. But she’s…mm. Did you know that woman is actually from Ailendamus? Lady Gadrea of House Shoel. She’s rich. I thought she was some beggar.”
“She’s practically a Named-ranker herself.”
“Named? Really? She’s so old. And her eyes and blood—”
“What species is she? She bleeds blue.”
Hekusha took another gulp of wine and shrugged lightly.
“Some magical variant like the nobles of…that magical kingdom, perhaps. Half-Elven variant? I don’t know. Why would I? I’m going to heal her after this. I was just going to consult about Tessa first. Oh, here she is now.”
A figure had appeared at the doorway, and Merdon felt his skin crawl even though he knew she’d never hurt Hekusha. But those were the old rules…Tessa seemed awake, un-drugged for the moment, and almost chipper. Thoroughly confused, Merdon glanced at the servant, who stepped back, and he lowered his voice to a precise whisper only Hekusha could hear.
“Letting her go, you mean?”
She waved a languid hand at him.
“No, no. Tessa, you’ve been so much trouble today. I have to heal someone and Merdon?”
“My deepest apologies, Healer. I chased away Midnight’s Laughter, though.”
Tessa was staring at her feet, but Hekusha waved her forwards, and she shuffled into position next to Merdon. He glared at her. She ducked her head to him.
“Sorry.”
Hekusha jumped in before Merdon spat something at Tessa.
“You’ve done a lot of damage. However, I do have a way for you to make the issue up. Where’s my notes? Um…where? Here.”
The serving boy handed her something, and Merdon saw Tessa tense up slightly. He was confused, utterly. He wanted to grab Tessa, hit her, and ask her what the hell was wrong with her that she went to drugs in a fight. They knew how the other operated, and this—
Then Hekusha pulled something out, and he saw Tessa turn into that muscled knot that he associated with danger. Merdon’s hand fell to his mace—which he didn’t have because of being healed, nor his armor—and Hekusha spoke.
“Ah, here it is. Lord Gliven Everight, um, new head of House Everight, has a mine filled with what he thinks are Blank-i-pillars? I don’t know what those are. Tessa, I have a map here. Clear them out and report back. I have a Wistram carriage ready too.”
“Clear them—?”
Merdon blinked as Tessa stared at the ground. He balked instantly.
“I’m not healed, and my armor’s in shambles. Everight is far from here!”
“Reachable in a day with a carriage.”
“Who’s Lord Gliven? I thought House Everight was dead or something.”
There’d been a fuss about it, but Hekusha shrugged.
“Maybe he was installed into the family? I don’t know, but I don’t mean you, Merdon. Tessa can do it.”
That made less sense to Merdon.
“If it’s filled with Blankipillars, then it’s not a one-team job. That’s a full sweep with a Gold-rank team and a Named-rank. Especially if they’ve metamorphosed.”
He had been part of Orchestra, and he knew more monsters than most adventurers. If it really was that species, even he and Tessa wouldn’t kill them easily if they were in their non-larval forms. But Hekusha was calm.
“Tessa can do it. Didn’t she clear Creler-nests solo?”
“Yeah, for coin. But I don’t have any good gear, and I just got healed.”
“So? I did cast [Restoration].”
Hekusha looked blank, and Merdon clarified.
“You don’t fight well after healing, even if it’s perfect. Mentally, you’re less sharp, and your muscles don’t work quite right.”
“But you’re healed.”
That wasn’t the same as being ready to go. Hekusha lost interest with the explanations quickly and flapped the papers impatiently at Tessa.
“I’ll heal you. Just go in, clear the mines—it doesn’t even have to be perfect so long as the nasty…things are gone, and once you’re gone, Lord Gliven will take care of the rest.”
Was that a contract she was waving about? Merdon glanced at it as Tessa wavered.
“I, um, if it’s a big mine, I need backup. Local Watch and potions and…”
“Tessa, I can heal you. And you have caused a lot of trouble.”
Tessa’s eyes were flicking around like someone trying to escape a cage. She licked her lips.
“What if I—I went to this [Lord]’s rooms instead? That’s easier.”
Merdon half-swivelled, and even Hekusha blinked. Tessa rushed on.
“I know I’m not very pretty, but I can buy creams and illusion magic, and I’m Named-rank. That’s worth…something. I forget how much.”
For a second, Hekusha’s eyes flickered, but she shook her head almost immediately, and Merdon let out a huge breath.
“…No. No, that is unseemly and—this is the service you can provide, Tessa. We are not running a brothel. Do you think I’d make you do that? You can slay monsters easily, Tessa!”
The Drake woman didn’t seem reassured by Hekusha’s words. She fidgeted, fiddling with a dagger.
“Yeah, but…it’s dangerous, and you don’t want me to be hurt that badly, right, Hekusha? I lost a tooth today, too.”
Tessa’s voice was very small, and she stared up and smiled at the Healer. Her gap-toothed smile met Hekusha’s too-warm smile as she rose and embraced Tessa with her hands. She pushed Tessa back a bit, then cupped her cheeks.
“I know you can do this. And you need to make it up to me, all this healing, Tessa. You’re taking too many drugs. Less of that. Be good, do the job, and you’ll be back here by midnight. [Healer’s Orders]. Off you go.”
This time, the Drake just paused there for one moment before she nodded, swivelled on her feet, and began to wander towards the doors. Merdon was speechless. Hekusha stood there, and he waited for Tessa to pivot. To balk or refuse or draw those blades.
But she went. Then, Hekusha ditched the smile and drank a third cup of wine, fast.
“When she comes back, I want you to make sure the city is secure, Merdon. No more killers, and ensure the adventurers and Watch are manning the gates. Have you heard of The Wandering Inn? Some [Princess] there keeps demanding I turn Tessa over to her. As if she’s her possession!”
“I’ve heard of that inn.”
That was all Merdon managed. He kept gazing the way Tessa had gone. He wasn’t scared of her any longer. All the deadliness, the unpredictable energy, that hunger that she filled with madness…was gone.
And now, her tail was dragging on the ground. She wasn’t fighting Hekusha’s Skill, though he knew she could.
We are Named-rank adventurers. He didn’t want her to come tearing back this way. And he knew Hekusha had every right to demand what she wanted of Tessa, who would pay every price.
Yet she seemed empty. Too tired to argue, even if it meant walking into a nest of…
Hekusha was still speaking.
“—threatened me. I told you about her. Now she’s claiming Tessa. She says it’s for Tessa’s ‘wellbeing’, as if I’m mistreating her. But she clearly wants to take advantage of Tessa.”
“Mhm. What, put her to work?”
The Healer of Tenbault waved away her wine cup and servant.
“Get me a tonic of Remove Alcohol or whatever it’s called, dear. No, Merdon, use her unfairly. I get value out of Tessa. It’s a fair relationship. But this ‘Princess’, bah. It reminds me of Magnolia Reinhart, you know. Have I ever talked to you about her?”
Only when drunk. Merdon stood there, and she went on, taking silence for encouragement.
“She helped me learn my spell, of course. I shan’t deny that. But I paid my debts to her. Yet even now, the woman seems to think I owe her. That’s the relationship I hate the most. Her thinking I should be in her favor for one spell all my life. I worked to learn it and to cast it more than once or twice a day! But she kept pushing me, even when I was starting out. Remember when Tenbault was just a house in a village?”
“Yes.”
Screaming as the acid was burning its way across his eyes and throat, knowing he was ruined for life. Drawing that last breath even as he knew it was burning his throat to shout to save them all—blackness.
Waking up to see her smiling and standing over him, sweat covering her face, the sounds of Orchestra yelling and rushing to hug him. Healer of Tenbault.
Renderer of miracles.
Crowdcaller Merdon glanced around Hekusha’s mansion.
“It was a beautiful house. You were radiant back then.”
The Healer of Tenbault bristled.
“My looks may have faded slightly since then, I admit.”
“I didn’t mean—”
“The house was all I could afford. Magnolia gave me some support, but the rest? Everything else, hiring you, my investment in the city? That was me, Merdon. And she kept poking me to ‘do more’. To give away my wealth, to cast my spell for free. I put the lottery in place! Everything else I earned. But then she wanted me to—to—give away my magic. To ruin myself. To do all the hard work for this spell and toss a lifetime of studies to the wind.”
He said nothing. To the Named-rank adventurer, it did sound insane. He couldn’t imagine Deniusth or himself doing that. It was a crazy thing to ask an adventurer who loved money and power.
The Healer of Tenbault, the worker of miracles, lifegiver, pursed her mouth as if it spit on her own carpeted rugs. Then she turned.
“This [Princess] is coming for my Tessa. Don’t let her into the city.”
“Is she bringing an army or something? How is a [Princess] in Izril?”
Merdon roused himself from his circular thoughts to ask salient questions, but the Healer merely turned away.
“I had some [Spies] look into her, but they have all kinds of far-fetched rumors. I’ll have the report sent to you. You’re a Named-rank adventurer. Just shout at her if she tries anything.”
She left him standing there, and he walked back to his rooms and sat after having his backup armor taken out of storage and assembled for him. Then he did some reading.
The Wandering Inn. Merdon recalled that the Haven had gone there. The more he read the reports, the more he stopped. But unlike Hekusha…
Goblin affiliation with Chieftain Rags of Flooded Waters Tribe.
Erin Solstice.
Horns of Hammerad—Merdon’s eyes flicked back and forth like a man connecting invisible dots, and his stomach began to hurt the more dots he saw.
Goblin Chieftain Rags. Wasn’t that tribe the one who kidnapped…? That [Innkeeper] had died and come back to life, hadn’t she?
Someone in need of healing. And she was affiliated with the Horns of Hammerad.
The Horns that Colthei had joined. Colthei, who knew talent. The last kid among the old guard. And a [Princess] from Calanfer.
The inn, related to the Knights of Solstice. The inn, allied to Goblins. Merdon swallowed.
I have my voice. I have my voice, and Tessa’s…Tessa. Who would want her?
No one would dare attack Tenbault. Except a madwoman.
I have the Watch. The walls.
He was alone. A Named-rank without a team. One of the cowards of his kind. Not the madfolk still adventuring into death or glory. Just a guard dog for the Healer.
Tessa. After a while, Merdon put down the spy reports and sat there. Doing vocal warmups for the night. Finding a map. Looking up Everight and confirming that no ‘Lord Gliven’ existed as a relative. So where had he come from? When Merdon sent a runner to the Mage’s Guild, he got a reply that Lord Gliven was a distant relative not on the family lineage who’d been found after Lord Toldos had died. A number of nobles had ratified his lineage, including two Reinharts.
Then Merdon opened a little-used bestiary and read on Blankipillars, their habitats. He sat after that, simply thinking.
Sat…ordered some food. Read a book.
After a long, long, long time…
The coach returned. He watched the magical carriage roll into the plaza and the doors open. Merdon closed his book.
“Hekusha, healer needed in the plaza. Tessa.”
His speaking stone chirped, and Hekusha’s voice was irritable.
“I have a guest from Ailendamus, and I’ll see to her afterwards.”
Merdon dropped the speaking stone. He drew a breath and spoke as he turned to the balcony. The curtains ripped off their grommets, and his voice rolled across all of Tenbault. Bouncing off walls, freezing people in the street. Causing a woman in her mansion to jolt and begin moving before her body knew what was happening.
“Healer to the courtyard. Run.”
 
——
 
