Merdon roared, and everyone turned to him. Hekusha was fleeing down the battlements towards her distant mansion, and Tessa’s eyes were on the Frost Wyverns. But Merdon, breathing hard, was—
Terrified. Furious. He barked at the [Princess] who watched him as if he were nothing but an irritant. At the little witch, at—everyone.
“You—you think you can scare me with the same trick? I’m Merdon. Merdon, the Conquerer of Chalence! I’ve beaten armies! I am a Named-rank adventurer, and this is my city!”
He saw the Wyverns were splitting into attack vectors, coming at him from left, right, and straight ahead as the last one circled the city to hit it from the rear. And he already saw the plumes of dust dropping from their loaded bags of holding.
The exact same tactic. His teeth bared as he raised something to his mouth. A…
Speaking stone?
Tessa, turning her head to watch the Wyverns flying, was whispering.
“That one’s good. Maybe better than me at…”
Then she saw the speaking stone. She eyed Merdon as he took a breath, then put her claws in her ears. She was the only one who knew him. Because in the next moment, Merdon used the speaking stone.
A communication tool he had virtually no use for. Just like [Loudness] spells; he could project his voice anywhere he wanted and at any volume he wanted. The only purpose they would have would be if he wanted to broadcast his voice across the city from magical speakers. And amplify his prodigious voice—
Further.
Crowdcaller Merdon, the Named-rank adventurer, the Loud Lad, Merdon the Shouter, the [Stentorian Voice of Concerto], closed his eyes…
And sang.
An old recording crystal, the highest quality you could buy made from jade, played quietly at first, accompanying the lone voice. A violin’s faded notes stirred the air with a host of instruments, a band that would never again play the same way.
Only the voice filled the air with true force, and it was wider than the plains of Izril, deeper than the darkest river, and it flowed through the bones. Echoing from every building and surface in Tenbault, into the air, as the startled [Princess] and her company heard it.
And then she saw the air trembling. It was a song never finished, made of the deep projection of true opera, the vibrato of Merdon’s vocal cords, higher than a humming bird’s song, and lower than the rumble of the earth.
 
“Audite! O mundus testis!
(Hark! Oh the world bear witness!)
Canto ad gloriosum infinitum!
(I sing to the glorious infinite!)
O Gigantes, audite me!
(Oh Giants, hear me!)”
 
His voice! On the ground, Mrsha had clapped her hands to her ears despite the [Hush] spells Grimalkin had cast. That was nothing to the rippling of the air.
Oh no! Rags is in the air!
She wrote, and it was good she wrote, because no one could hear a word. She showed it to Peggy, and the Hobgoblin was shouting, waving her arms—at the Wyverns.
The Wyverns who were faltering in the air as Merdon projected the full might of his voice upwards, and the dust, the dust meant to choke him—
It was billowing away. Merdon’s voice was pushing the very dust backwards, and one of the Wyverns was actually moving in reverse. And—
He was getting louder. The song was in Latin, one of the few languages known to the world.
 
“Carmen numquam visum ex corde meo cantatum
(Song never witnessed sung from my heart)
Numquam ad veritatem cordis mei exprimendam.
(Never to express my heart’s truth.)
Cantate, Musae! Cantate, montes!
(Sing, muses! Sing, mountains!)”
 
The Frost Wyverns were diving. Trying to ground themselves, to drop their Goblins. But this time—Merdon’s voice rose and reached a climatic pitch as he sang. A pure demonstration of vocal mastery. A sound like a flute of a Giant playing, and each note blasted a Wyvern out of the air. Exploded a [Fireball]. Obliterated one of Bird’s arrows.
 
“A-a-A–ah–a–aa-a–oh—”
 
——
 
It was as bad as Ilvriss remembered from the Bloodfields—worse. Merdon had prepared for the attack that had caught him off-guard last time, and the Wall Lord pointed up and screamed at Nerul.
“Dead gods! They’re falling out of the sky!”
Two Wyverns were falling, and a third was diving after them. It caught one of the falling Wyverns, slowing the descent, and Ilvriss saw a figure leap towards the second—Grimalkin. He pointed, and the Wyvern and Goblins slowed, but that just drew Merdon’s attention.
“Fools!”
He blew Grimalkin out of the air. The Sinew Magus hit the ground, rolling to his feet as his barrier spells flickered. Ilvriss drew his sword.
“That’s it. Split and engage—”
Then he saw Merdon’s head turn, and the [Voice] barked another laugh. Something exploded in the air in a shower of lightning—Bird lowered her bow.
“Uh oh. He sings more beautifully than me. Elia, how do you shoot through sound? Elia?”
The Named-rank adventurer was forty feet away and booking it, running as fast as she could for a few rocks. Not running away; repositioning. Because Merdon’s first song-Skill had taken the Goblins almost out—and he was activating another.
“[Song: Refrain of—]. Argh!”
He shielded his eyes as something flashed at him from the band below. What was that? A Gnoll with sunglasses? Merdon shook himself, then growled. His Skill! He hesitated, but he saw the green Antinium with wings aiming another arrow.
He whistled and she flinched and a slash cut across her body—didn’t draw blood. She recoiled back into cover and he grimaced.
Body’s strong as steel. He was outnumbered, eyes flicking for foes, and his blood was alive. Alive—he knew how dire this was, but—
“Gold-rankers covering fire, cover me, you idiots!”
His smile was all twisted up like his stomach. Fear and a kind of mad joy, a familiar companion. He couldn’t back down. If he failed to protect Tenbault twice—
Back against the wall. So he opened his mouth and roared, buffeting everyone present with sound. Merdon was laughing.
See, Deniusth, you bastard? See, Larra? Do you see me?
—Then his voice faltered as he saw something rising upwards. The [Sinew Magus] had cast a spell. They had come prepared for him.
Sandstorm. A hail of stinging particles that blinded and choked made the Gold-rankers aiming bows down cover their faces and cry out. Incompetent—
Merdon saw the Antinium [Archer] poking her head up again and felt a crawl down his back. He couldn’t use his powers in the sandstorm. It would absorb his sound even if he could shout through so much of it.
Trapped. They thought they had him trapped, and he was unless…Merdon’s eyes flicked around, searching for any other tactic.
There was none.
He had to use it. Reluctantly, Merdon activated another song-Skill. One he hadn’t used since…
“[Song: Adventure of a Lifetime]!”
He touched that faded song crystal at his belt, and the music changed. Tessa tilted her head. She’d never heard…
No. Wait, she knew this one. She breathed a single word.
“Orchestra.”
And the violin began to play. Merdon’s voice stopped projecting the pure operatic music, and he inhaled.
 
——
 
What the heck? Mrsha’s mouth was open. She uncovered her ears for a second, and Nanette was doing likewise. She saw the young witch was bouncing on her toes, and Colfa and Relc, protectively shielding them, were glancing at each other?
This is a combat song? It wasn’t quite like the Singer of Terandria—the violin was in place of a guitar, and there was a brass horn, a drum and flute, but—
It was no opera at all. It sounded like a younger man’s song.
 
“—on the road to Haven’s table! 
We’ll send monsters to flight
Conquer the deepest dungeon—
So long as we’re fighting shoulder-to-shoulder.
If we sing together—yeah—then our music will triumph!”
 
Relc’s mouth was open, and he had completely forgotten to try to cut the song apart. Merdon was so far away that Mrsha couldn’t see him well, but she felt like his face had gone several shades redder.
But it was working. The [Karaz Sandstorm] that Grimalkin had conjured was a massive version of the spell, poised to blow across all Tenbault. But when Merdon sang, the storm…
Vanished.
It split apart, sand and wind turning into wisps, and then Mrsha’s jaw fully dropped because she saw the very clouds clear. The sun shone down, and blue skies bathed them with light.
The weather. He’d changed the very weather—
And Crowdcaller Merdon wasn’t finished. He spun around on his heels, and one of Montressa’s [Lightning Bolts] and two arrows from Bird and Elia burst on glowing barriers appearing around him. He shouted and hit a [Flame Strike] that had fallen from the skies. Flames landed around him, and he panted, breaking off the song.
It wasn’t as strong as the previous one. Mrsha got the distinct impression that something was wrong. Merdon’s voice was overpowering, and he was drowning out the other instruments. It was incomplete with him performing live. But he just didn’t stop.
“Merdon! Halt or I’ll—”
Elia drew a glowing arrow, and Merdon’s head snapped to her.
“You’ll WHAT, Arcsinger?”
The half-Elf went tumbling across the ground, and Mrsha’s mouth opened as she saw Elia’s ears were bleeding—and her nose. Merdon drew breath as someone went running her way with a healing potion. Calescent was holding a cleaver, but Merdon was way too far to hit. Crowdcaller Merdon pivoted, blasted Grimalkin and Pryde, and the [Lady] had her fingers in her ears.
“You think I’m scared of your numbers? I’m Merdon!”
He launched into a third song as Lyonette and Ilvriss glanced at each other. The [Princess] was grimacing and mouthing something as she waved her arms. The Wall Lord galloped at her as Merdon unrolled a spell, and he was rising, now, on a platform of dirt. Gaining vantage and shouting.
 
“You’re singin’ like you’ve got me on the ropes 
Too bad I’m the man who’s gonna crush your hopes
I ain’t no Gold-rank chump, I’m the realest thing you’ve ever seen.
Get ready, cover your ears, ‘cause I’m gonna sing.
It don’t matter who you bring!
 
I’m Merdon the Shouter!
I’m the Voice of Izril! 
There isn’t anyone who can’t hear my song!
So square up; this won’t take long.
 
[Bellow of Force], [Roar of the North], [Pests Begone]!”
 
His voice hit Lady Pryde and Grimalkin, and this time, they vanished. Mrsha cried out in horror; there was a groove of dirt ripped up out of the ground, like one of her math problems. A perfect area of ground blown away.
One of the remaining two Wyverns exhaled down at Merdon—the frost breath hit his combined Skills, turned into a cloud that developed a hole in it, and then the Wyvern spun and went crashing down.
Then Merdon turned his face towards the [Princess]. His eyes narrowed as he saw her standing there, arms raised to shield the wagons behind her. He drew his breath as a Wall Lord lifted a sword, and the [Princess] turned to him.
Lyonette and Ilvriss locked gazes, then turned to look at Mrsha, Nanette, and the inn’s staff, shielded behind Montressa and Relc. The [Spearmaster] had cut a tiny gash in the air that felt…
Quiet? But Merdon inhaled and shouted.
“RIDICULOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO—”
He didn’t stop. His voice rose until Mrsha felt it pressing against Montressa’s barriers, trying to knock them flat, and Lyonette was being shielded by Ilvriss and the two Thronebearers. They were all warded, but Montressa was screaming.
“No! Nonono—”
Her barriers were being stripped away! Merdon kept howling at them, and Mrsha saw Relc swing, curse, and then there was blessed silence.
For them. But Relc’s spear had cut a section of relief out for Mrsha and Nanette; everyone else was stumbling as the voice threatened to send them flying. Relc was tensed, ready to leap forwards, and Mrsha was shouting silently.
Mother!
She saw Lyonette holding a hand out as the air rippled around her, sending dust and dirt flying in front of the wagon. But she wasn’t being hurled away like everything else. And the wagon was…
Intact? Yes, it was shaking, but even Ilvriss’ horse was just tossing its head, not stumbling or screaming when the full weight of Merdon’s voice was on them. Mrsha’s eyes widened.
Then she saw something…blocking the sonic waves assaulting them. The intensity of Merdon’s voice seemed to lessen, and Nanette pointed.
“What is that?”
Mrsha heard Nanette for the first time, and she swore she saw something moving in the air as Ilvriss flung out a claw, palm up. It was blowing around him and Lyonette, covering the Goblins, Antinium, as Rosencrantz tried to shield Xesci and Nerul knelt with Yelroan and Colfa behind a wagon.
It looked like…
A cloak?
It didn’t exist. Not in the real world. It was a mirage, like magic, an image. A shiny cloak made of sunlight, as if someone had woven it out of the dawn.
No, wait. It was a cloak of scales! Purple, gleaming like gems.
It was…two cloaks? Mrsha’s eyes widened, and then the combined auras materialized fully. Wall Lord Ilvriss’ and Lyonette’s hands were raised, and where they stood, the voice of Crowdcaller Merdon split around them, unable to breach the flowing barrier the two were projecting.
Aura.
Merdon’s eyes were bulging. His face was a tomato, but Ilvriss and Lyonette held their ground. Both were panting, but they glanced at each other and raised their shaking arms.
Like they were lifting something incredibly heavy in Grimalkin’s gymnasiums, they tensed, and Lyonette’s fingers dug into the air as Ilvriss gritted his teeth. Then both swung their arms away like they were shaking out that very same cloak.
And Mrsha saw the cone of sound shift—and they tossed Merdon’s voice over their shoulders.
Then it was just ringing silence. The Named-rank adventurer stumbled, nearly falling, catching himself on the battlements, and he tried to shout again—but they’d thrown his voice!
“What—that—”
He finally managed to speak, panting, and Lyonette du Marquin shook one hand and grimaced as she rubbed at a cheek; her flesh felt like it was ringing. Wall Lord Ilvriss adjusted his doublet and grimaced.
They glared at the Named-rank adventurer as he faltered. Merdon drew in a breath, and an arrow pinged off his helmet. He jerked.
Elia Arcsinger was lying on her back, but she had her bow drawn, and she had another arrow nocked as she lay there, glowering at him. Bird buzzed down next to her, aiming her gleaming, silver bow at Merdon, and Calescent covered the two of them.
A flicker to his right. A pair of very annoyed bodybuilders were brushing dirt off of themselves. Sinew Magus Grimalkin wiped some dirt off of Lady Pryde’s head-bag as she cracked her neck.
“Merdon, behind—”
