He tried to slam her into the wall again, but she was stabbing with her one remaining dagger, and he had to let go or lose his hand. She stood there, slashing at him, hopping around, head tilted crazily to the side.
“This is insane. She’s supposed to be on our side?”
One of the Gold-rankers had a bow drawn and was aiming it at Tessa. Merdon was reaching for a healing potion, and then he grimaced, watching blood run down his armor.
“Don’t fire it or she’ll leap. Just back up—back up—let it drain out of her. Where’s that scrying orb?”
Madriga had one, and she turned to him, pale-faced, as Gadrea lifted her greatsword, one-handed. She’d tied off the spurting artery, and her blood was—blue? No time for that. Probably some other species.
“Got them, Merdon. What am I asking for?”
“Her Anchor!”
“Her what?”
Merdon spun and shouted in the Gold-ranker’s face.
“The person who can calm a Named-ranker down if they go crazy, you idiot! Get one of them on the orb NOW.”
 
——
 
It wasn’t well-known what an Adventurer’s Anchor was. Mostly because the Adventurer’s Guild didn’t like to advertise that their best adventurers could be—a bit crazy at times. Nor was it always standard to have one, but most guilds with a Named-ranker who regularly visited had one.
The rather panicked [Receptionist] in Salazsar’s main guild tore through the files on Shriekblade as the Gold-rank adventurer screamed at him and made urgent calls via the scrying orb. They had three people on the list.
The first was Saliss of Lights, but Pallass’ Guild informed the [Receptionist] that he was out of contact range. So the second one.
“A-Adventurer Meelstom? Hello? I have a rather urgent emergency. You’re listed as the Adventurer’s Anchor for Miss Tessa? They’re having a crisis, and we need you to speak to them.”
The Gold-rank adventurer on the scrying orb of another Guild stared at the [Receptionist].
“I’m on the…for who?” 
“Shriekblade? Adventurer Meelstom, if you could say something to her, I could connect you to—”
“Shriekblade? I don’t even know her! I did a single adventure with her five years back. What do you mean I’m her Anchor?”
The Gold-rank Drake appeared astonished, and the [Receptionist]’s heart sank.
“But you’re on the list. Surely you remember her or you had some journey together…”
“It was a group of eighteen of us hunting Crelers. I don’t—she didn’t stab me, but that’s all. I’m—excuse me, I’m actually on a <Quest>, I can’t talk, and I can’t help.”
“Wait—but—”
That left the final person on the list. The [Receptionist] was relieved to note they were actually in Salazsar and had a City Runner dispatched at once. But when the final Drake appeared on the scrying orb, he was…
“Captain Groms? I have a small issue with—”
“You have to stop doing this. Stop…stop calling me.”
The rasp from the scrying orb made the [Receptionist] double-check it, but the orb was dark. Because the Drake was in a dark room. His voice sounded haunted as he croaked.
“I told you, again and again, stop calling me. I don’t want to ever hear that thing’s name again. You understand? I’m not going to calm her down.”
He didn’t sound at all like someone who was even cordial with Shriekblade. The [Receptionist] stared at his name and contact details on the list.
“I don’t understand, sir, you’re on her list of Anchors. Surely you can do some—”
“You idiot!”
There was a wheezing hiss to Groms’ shriek, like lungs which couldn’t hold air properly. He coughed, then rasped.
“The reason…I’m on the list is because she takes everyone off it. Anyone who gets close to her dies or—or they’re foolish enough to try and help her. Then she turns around and guts them. I’m on the damn list because you idiots won’t take me off! Every other adventurer is active or dead.”
The [Receptionist] was going to write out Groms’ name on said list, but Merdon was screaming from the other scrying orb, and the Drake tried again.
“Sir, Mister Groms, she’s having a crisis. If there’s anything you can do, if you can just—”
“If she hears my voice, she’ll kill everything and me. I told you. Stop calling me.”
The Drake shrieked at the [Receptionist], and both flinched. For a second, there was a sliver of light. The [Receptionist] of Salazsar caught what might have been a face.
Half a face. Then someone opened the door wider.
“Captain Groms? Do you need a [Healer]? Is the scrying orb disturbing—”
“Don’t call me again.”
The scrying orb disconnected as the Drake hurled it, and the [Receptionist] heard a cry of dismay, then silence.
Was that Salazsar’s hospital? They had a huge building they used to treat mass-casualties when there was an accident in the mines; one of the ways the City of Gems was so advanced. Even so, the [Receptionist] was used to bad injuries at the main guild in Salazsar, but that was—
“Problems, Receptionist Jorge?”
The [Guildmaster] had come over. The Drake jumped and explained the problem.
“I’ll take Groms off the list, sir. I just can’t help with—?”
The [Guildmaster] was glancing at the scrying orb.
“Oh, no need for that.”
“But he’s clearly not helpful, sir—”
“Groms. Silver-rank Captain. Head of an adventuring company, oh, way back. Before your time, son. You never met the man before he retired, eh? Shame what happened. Adventurer-on-adventurer violence.”
Jorge shook his head as the [Guildmaster] placed a hand on the book of Adventurers’ Anchors.
“Shame about Shriekblade. She was a nightmare when she came in like that, on drugs. She’d come in bad, and the place would be blood and chaos. I thought the Watch would kill her some day. Still might. Damn shame for a Named-ranker, especially ours. Bones of our Ancestors, she used to be a good kid.”
He stared past Jorge as he closed the book, fastening the little latch and locking it to prevent someone finding the valuable information. The [Receptionist] protested.
“Wait, Guildmaster, Captain Groms? He’s been begging for his name to be removed.”
“Hm? Oh, that. Don’t you worry, we’ll get it sorted.”
The Guildmaster put the book back on the top shelf and dusted his claws.
“Eventually. Did you ever know what happened to his company, the Miners? Damn shame. You should look it up. A man like that ruins a lot. Other good adventurers, lives, even a Named-ranker—terrible what happened to him. But if anyone deserved it, well.”
The [Receptionist] stared at the closed book and the [Guildmaster] as he strolled back to his office.
“There’s no justice in this world, and the Watch doesn’t handle our affairs, mostly. Shame about Shriekblade too. Some things even that Healer can’t heal, eh? Ancestors, some days…”
Did that mean what Jorge thought it did? Should he…? The Drake glanced at the book of Adventurers’ Anchors, wavering. Wasn’t the right thing to do…? But then the other scrying orb screamed at him, and the [Receptionist] heard Crowdcaller Merdon shouting.
“Where’s my damn Anchor?”
“I’m—I’m sorry, Named-rank Adventurer. But I don’t have—”
Merdon appeared in the scrying orb, struggling with a writhing, biting Drake covered in blood. She’d lost both her daggers, but she was tearing at his arm, trying to eat his hand as he smashed her into the wall. He shouted, and she went flying.
Merdon looked around and then bellowed.
“SHRIEKBLADE. ENOUGH.”
It actually overloaded the scrying orb, and the entire Salazsarian Adventurer’s Guild winced as the scrying orb cracked. The horrified [Receptionist] saw Merdon pointing as a ringing sound came from the orb, Gold-rank adventurers streaming back, a woman with a greatsword catching an arrow before it could loose. Merdon was holding a hand up.
Tessa lunged for him, and he shouted again, and her form vibrated in the air before vanishing. This time, she left a spray of blood on the hallway. The scrying orb cracked further, and Merdon lifted his shield. Stared at something on the ground. Opened his mouth, then croaked.
“Tessa. Stop drinking that.”
In the silence before the scrying orb cracked to pieces, he lowered his mace and then his head. Then there was, faintly, a bright, humming voice. The [Receptionist] saw Tessa’s head lolling as she lay, boneless, covered in her own blood.
Eyes focused on nothing in this world at all.
 
——
 
She was dreaming of her childhood. Trying to remember all the moments before it had gone bad. Before Captain Groms, the Assassin’s Guild. Before it all.
A Drake girl sat on a farm’s fence, watching some cows munching on the golden hay outside of Salazsar’s walls.
It wasn’t the richest of farms, but the cows were bright-eyed, and the wheat climbed tall, sprouting and smelling like fresh bread. She kicked her legs, and the girl was free.
Not a [Knifemistress], a [Rogue], or anything else. Just…Tessa Sharpclaw of the Sharpclaw Farms. Her parents were shouting at her to come in, and the wind blew at her neck spines as she inhaled the fresh air.
Why had she ever left? A part of Tessa was weeping as the child hummed and swung her legs down, landing amidst the golden wheat, and a dog ran up, russet red fur gleaming.
She could have stayed. She was watching young Tessa run towards the door of the farm where, inside the barn doors, she saw a table laden with food. She reached for the vision—
Merdon’s hand dragged her up, out of the dream. Into pain and his staring huge eyes, and his voice growled at her from above.
“Stop lying, Tessa.”
“Let me go. Let me go. I want to be a child again—”
She was babbling at him as he dragged her down the corridor. Blood and pain and staring eyes, and she was trying to pull herself down into her childhood memories, but his voice was pulling her back like that gauntleted fist.
“Stop. Lying.”
“I wish I’d never left home!”
He screamed at her as Hekusha emerged from her ritual chambers, screamed that voice through her memories, dashing them to pieces.
“You never lived on a farm, Tessa! Your parents were [Coal Miners]! You didn’t fucking eat in a barn!”
He grabbed the vial of Roama’s Fancy and hurled it to the ground and stepped on it. Then he tossed her into the room beyond and she saw the Healer reaching for her.
Better, again. Healed, again.
Only this time…even Hekusha couldn’t put her all the way back together. Not this time.
 
——
 
Tessa stood in front of a mirror, and a tooth was missing from her mouth. It had fallen out. It wasn’t one of her main Wyvern’s teeth, the four main incisors, just one to the left of her lower left Wyvern’s tooth.
It was lying in the sink basin. Apparently, it had popped out when she was restored.
Hekusha’s magic could fix a tooth if you brought it to her, but it couldn’t grow you a new one. Tessa stared at it. The tooth was badly cracked; the roots had snapped off ,and she doubted it’d go back in even if Hekusha healed her again. How’d she lost it? Too much damage too quick or being hit by Merdon repeatedly. Or…had there been Midnight’s Laughter?
She couldn’t recall.
She looked worse. Tessa’s tongue felt at her missing tooth, and she saw she had lost more scales. They were dying or something. Wasn’t she supposed to be [Restored]? Or was she rotting?
“You’re dying. You can’t keep doing this. No more drugs.”
Tessa told herself. She’d attacked Merdon. Teamkiller. She didn’t…she had attacked someone innocent too. Hekusha had been telling her off about it. An innocent person seeking healing here.
Something dangerous as a sword and bright. Tessa put her claws to her head and tried to remember. Instead, something fell out.
A neck spine. She saw it land in the washbasin and rattle around; alarmed, she swept her claws against her head. To her relief, nothing else fell off, but this…
Rotting. Rotting from the inside out like the others. Even with Hekusha’s magic, this is it. Tessa took a few breaths in and out. Inside, she wanted to shout at her body. But she couldn’t because…she’d known this would happen eventually. In a way, it was a good thing.
“Okay. Okay, I’m going to quit. This is it. It’s—good. This is my breaking point.”
It was one thing to be sick until you vomited blood, shaking, incontinent, but if her tooth and spines were going, she wouldn’t last any longer. She nodded to herself. No more drugs. Absolutely not.
She’d start by throwing it all away. Aimlessly, she cast about her rooms. Found a capsule of Arrowsmoke and began to make a pile to set on fire. Then realized that would defeat the point and began to flush it all down the privy.
She had just popped the Arrowsmoke capsule with a claw and was about to pour the fine powder into the water when she hesitated.
It cost so much to get and…she put it aside. A pile. She’d make a pile, first, and not touch it. Then she began to count how many unopened packages and bottles she had.
This is enough for at least one more day. She began stacking it all up, counting how much she had, and a thought stole across her mind.
Tomorrow. First, she’d use it all up. All of it—Hekusha had a job for her, probably. One last hurrah, and then she wouldn’t have anything left, and it’d be easy to go [Cryomancer] on everything.
After this, it was over. She felt relieved and began to pile everything she could find up into a pyre for her addiction. It would be the greatest and most beautiful moment yet. Nothing to lose, one last…she was definitely going to quit.
You won’t.
“Shut up.”
She snapped at her reflection. She knew what to do. She’d escaped her addictions before. Numerous times!
Always Have An Escape Plan. AHAEP. So long as you had that, you could get out of the bottom of the well. She could do it.
She would.
It was just a tooth and neck spine.
 
——
 
In a way, Merdon was relieved. Not…happy, but he expected Hekusha to be livid when he met with her after his [Restoration].
She used a kind of ritual system where she drew mana from linked [Mages], or rather, [Mana Conduits]. People whose entire job was to have a lot of mana, not do any casting. She had floor sigils, rooms dedicated to the process—and cleanup.
It could get messy depending on what was in you, and she had a [Delayed Action] effect on [Restoration] that made it better or more effective or something. You’d wake up in a pure white bed in a similarly colored room, which probably felt like rebirth to many.
Merdon wondered if it was so Hekusha didn’t have to talk to anyone, but as soon as he’d finished cursing over the damage to his armor and checked himself for more scars, he reported in.
Obviously, to talk about Tessa. She was gone, obviously. She had to be. He broached the subject as Hekusha drank wine; it was 3 PM, so she was probably done with anything but emergency heals.
