“I’m not. I’m just…going to get a bit closer.”
The [Head Server] innocently skated ahead on his [Waxed Floors] Skill, and Yelroan sighed, but Nerul clapped him on the shoulders.
“Ah, let him take a risk. He’s young and new to his levels. Now, [Mathematician], I’m also warded as a [Diplomat], but I think we’re probably in breach of pure hospitality-laws. Still, if it gets bad, can you use your Skill-blocking ability and give me a shot at the Watch Captain? I’m looking for the fellow, but I think I can lock down the Watch if I can draw him into a [Sudden Negotiation].”
Yelroan peered at the city and smiled.
“I can. That’s him there. See the one peeking up?”
“My word, how’d you find him?”
“I have an image. The Mage’s Guild sent me his particulars last week in a routine inquiry. I did phrase it as if I was one of the Five Families, but their protocols are shockingly bad. Then again, I could do this to a Walled City.”
Nerul’s chuckle filled the air.
“Mathematician, Mathematician, you must stop. There’s only so delightfully titillated I can be before I try to recruit you for Salazsar again. Oh, such lovely files. And the man’s in debt? My, my…”
It was going to be bad—for Tenbault—if it came to a fight. But again, that first blow…if a Named-ranker was on the other side, there was no such thing as overkill.
Which was why you needed a ringer, obviously. Elia Arcsinger and Bird? Fine deterrants. A pet Wall Lord, Sinew Magus Grimalkin, Archmage Valeterisa? Decent, decent.
However, true security came from an actually competent, intelligent, gifted genius of war and perspicacity. If he could deal with this nagging issue first—which was why Dame Ushar handed Lyonette a scrying orb and a certain Duke appeared.
“Rhisveri?”
“That’s Duke Rhisveri to you, er, Your Highness! Give me fifteen—no, thirty minutes and I’ll be right over. I just have, uh, some complications this morning.”
His voice sounded unusually strained, and Lyonette frowned at the faint image of the rather-harassed looking Duke.
“Are you sick?”
He was all bundled up in a blanket like a sausage, rather reminiscent of his true form, and he snapped at her. His cheeks were crimson, and he appeared sick—but he sounded lively enough.
“No! Just some annoying—delay for thirty minutes, alright?”
“We’re fine, Duke. We have Valeterisa.”
“You need a real combat spellcaster, not some Wistram hack! She probably doesn’t even know how to counter sound attacks. I’ll be on my way! I need some time, and then I’ll do a [Gateway] and—”
Ilvriss was giving the scrying orb an affronted look.
“Is that the rude Human who kidnapped you last time?”
“It’s Rhisveri. We’re fine, Rhisveri. If there is trouble, come quickly as you can, but your involvement would be suspicious and political.”
“I heard that voice! And why are the children there? You have them behind barrier spells, don’t you? Who takes children into danger?”
“We have plenty of security on the road, and this is important, Rhisveri. They should see important things being done, and they wanted to be here—”
“I can see why your entire royal family is given tiaras. Utterly irresponsible, the lot of you. Twenty minutes! Don’t you dare hang up on me! Don’t you d—”
She handed the orb back to Ushar, whose brows were raised.
“The good Duke seems distressed for some reason.”
“He does. Oh, well. We can eminently do without. Everyone ready? Chieftain Rags?”
“Yep.”
The sounds of chewing from a speaking stone. Lyonette paused.
“Are you having breakfast?”
A swallowing sound.
“Nope. Get on with it, would you?”
Everyone was a critic. Lyonette sighed, but she saw people on the battlements, and she thought she detected Merdon’s aura at range. He wasn’t an aura-user, but he felt…er, loud. Where was Tessa? The [Princess] was rising slightly as the wagons slowed when the Healer of Tenbault appeared on the walls and began to shout.
“You! How dare you come here! Begone at once! I shall—”
Her voice was drowned out as Merdon spoke.
“Visitors to Tenbault. You are unwelcome here. Turn around and begone, or in defense of the Healer, I will raise my voice.”
Everyone went silent. Lyonette du Marquin’s chin rose, and she saw Ilvriss tense. But she held up a hand and stood on the wagon as Ushar activated a scroll.
“[Loudness] spell on, Your Highness. Do remember coughing and other sounds are picked up…”
Xinthe stood behind Lyonette, and the [Princess] spoke as some mage-conjured wind blew her hair back at the right moment. Makeup on, a blue-over-white dress like the clouds shifting around her, and a smile that said she was politely going to offer you tea before she kneecapped you under the table. She spoke.
“Tessa? Are you there? I’m sorry it took so long. I’ve come to bring you home.”
She ignored the outraged Merdon, the Healer. Hiding behind the battlements, shivering like a storm, Tessa flinched, then looked up.
“Lyonette?”
 
——
 
Crowdcaller Merdon’s heart was beating too fast, but he had the Gold-rankers spaced out around the walls, the Watch, the walls themselves, and Tessa with him.
His only problem was that he still felt outmatched—and that the Healer was on the walls too, despite his direct orders.
“Hekusha, get back, you’re in danger.”
He hissed at her, and she snapped back. Unfortunately, she’d cast [Loudness] too, so her voice echoed across the entire city.
“I will not hide from an uppity [Princess], Merdon! She cannot have Tessa! Do something about her!”
The Named-ranker winced, and she reddened, then snapped down at Lyonette.
“You are not welcome in my city! Begone!”
The [Princess] didn’t reply at once. She stood there, and Merdon glanced at the scrying orb, but to his relief, it was just showing that damn [Baker] or something. This was not a hugely televised moment. He didn’t need to become another Elia.
He was tensed up, his throat felt too tight, and sweat was collecting down the middle of his back. He recognized some of the people arrayed on the road, but he couldn’t back down.
—The [Princess] who seemed to be calling the shots didn’t even look at the Healer of Tenbault. She stood there, picture-perfect, and Merdon was wrong.
Someone was watching her.
 
——
 
The Duke of Ailendamus was watching as he had another puppet-Rhisveri doing an interview on television. He was—incapacitated, though, from doing anything more than talking. Distracted.
It was Ryoka’s fault, damn her. It always went back to—
His eyes were locked on the [Princess], who seemed weaker than when he had last seen her. Weaker and incomparably more…vast.
Levelling. Envy, jealousy, the eyes of a Wyrm on a Human appreciating in value. He watched.
Just like her mother.
 
——
 
Ielane du Marquin swore she still smelled like Dreamleaf. Who knew aura clashes could have such an olfactory component? She was displeased.
But as she watched her daughter on the scrying orb, she motioned, and Vensha stepped over.
“Inform Lady Rouslin if she is not already watching. Loudly and at speed. And get me a list of spells observing Lyonette.”
It wasn’t being televised, which meant anyone who was watching was both aware of her daughter’s movements—despite the inn’s hiding Skill—and intelligent. Vensha hesitated.
“The latter will be tricky. Scrying is getting more—”
“Make the attempt and go.”
“Loudly?”
Again, Vensha seemed uncertain, but Ielane’s plucked brows made her instantly signal for a Thronebearer, who procured three more servants who’d be running their mouths the moment they were out of earshot. The Queen of Calanfer spoke out of the corner of her mouth as she chain-smoked two cigarettes, then coughed.
“If she fails, she fails and it’s endearing or some such. She cannot hide, and the purpose of this exercise is only rewarded if we play it straight, not dance on the margins. We gamble, Vensha. At least she put on a halfway decent dress.”
Vensha, all severity and calm poise, who would have made a good [Queen] if only Ielane hadn’t wasted her sons and the woman were younger, watched as Lyonette began to speak.
“Is that motherly pride, Ielane?”
“Hah.”
After a moment, Ielane twisted around in her seat, brows knitting.
“Vensha, was that a jok—”
 
——
 
“Tessa. It’s me. I’ve come with everyone I could find. I truly did leave you for too long. I am so, so sorry. Can you show me you’re alright?”
The [Princess] spoke before Tenbault as people peered through the portcullises at her or looked up and heard an unfamiliar voice. Scrying spells captured her as she stood there. And her eyes roamed the battlements, never finding the Drake hiding next to Merdon and Hekusha.
“You—”
The Healer tried to speak, but then Lyonette looked at her, and Hekusha found her throat closing up. She wanted to claim Lyonette had threatened her, or assert her authority, but she couldn’t speak. She glanced at Merdon, and he called down to her.
“The Named-rank adventurer, Shriekblade, is in the Healer’s employ. She has not chosen to leave, and she is under contract. Continue to harass the Healer and I will treat you as an enemy of Tenbault. I am Crowdcaller Merdon, and I fear no armies, Goblins, or Antinium.”
Several of said Goblins and Antinium laughed at that, but Lyonette just stood there. Waiting. Then she spoke, and it seemed to the Calanferians who saw her that it was a stranger they beheld.
Where was the 6th Princess sneering down at them from carriage-back? It—it hurt to see. More than one rubbed at their eyes or glanced away.
She’s changed. She’s changed so much in such a short time. The old [Princess] is gone. And they had missed it. The pain became a gnawing hole in their chests. A desire to know all that had gone on, and when she spoke, it intensified.
“I’ve made your bed, Tessa. I don’t want to pressure you. Just take you away from this dreadful place. The Healer…isn’t healing you. We let you down. Erin, myself. We should have done more. You did so much. Please. Even if you’re angry, please say it to me, Tessa. I’m so sorry for leaving you alone.”
“Shut up. Liar. You didn’t do anything. Go away. Goawaygoawaygoaway.”
Tessa whispered. Merdon’s eyes flicked down to her. He drew in a breath.
“This is your last warning!”
At this, another figure galloped forwards on horseback and shouted, if less empowered by magic, than with considerable lung strength.
“In the name of Salazsar, halt! Tessa is an adventurer of the City of Gems, and we are here in concern for her wellbeing! I am Wall Lord Ilvriss! On behalf of Calanfer, Liscor, and Salazsar, you will stand down, Crowdcaller Merdon!”
Such a cunning Drake. Merdon hesitated as he eyed a Drake Wall Lord. Hekusha blanched.
“Salazsar? What are Drakes doing? S-summon the Five Families! They’ll chase them away! Merdon, tell them to go, and if not, we’ll have an army from House Veltras or the House of El here.”
“They won’t get here in time. Nor will they want a war.”
Merdon murmured to her more quietly, and Hekusha’s voice rose, again forgetting she had the [Loudness] spell active unless she whispered.
“I’m the Healer of Tenbault! I’m too valuable to be attacked! They’ll send that army unless they want me to hold back from healing everyone in their lands!”
Every eye shifted to her, and she glared around. This time, at least, Lyonette seemed to focus on the Healer, and she spoke.
“Healer Hekusha, release Tessa to me or let her talk to me. You are no fit guardian for her.”
“Liar! How dare you threaten me in my city! You have made threats against me, sent [Assassins] in the night to intimidate me—I found those warnings on my pillow, and I have the backing of the Five Families! House Reinhart! If you don’t leave, I will have Merdon shout your rabble to pieces!”
Lyonette glanced behind her and spoke mildly.
“My daughters are in this party. We have not come for war, Healer.”
“Well then—”
“Threaten her or my people again and I will have Elia shoot you somewhere nonlethal. The same for you, Crowdcaller Merdon. I simply want to talk to Tessa. Is there a reason you’re hiding her from us? Is talking so dreadfully frightening to a Named-rank adventurer and the Healer of Tenbault?”
This time, both Hekusha and Merdon glanced at Tessa again, but she was rocking back and forth. Hekusha whispered to Merdon.
“Don’t let her speak to Shriekblade. She’s bluffing. We have the support of the north—once she realizes she can’t intimidate us, she’ll negotiate.”
Merdon eyed Lyonette.
“She seems insistent.”
Hekusha clicked her tongue.
“Nobles are all the same. She’s trying to take my—our asset. Tessa! Unless she’s prepared to pay handsomely, she’ll go back empty-handed.”
“Pay…?”
The Healer mistook Merdon’s glance at her.
“Of course, she’s taking my bodyguard! If she’s rich enough to hire this many mercenaries, she can pay…have her back down, Merdon! She’s going to pay for this.”
He felt like she didn’t understand the gravity of their situation. Merdon turned to Tessa, wondering what her thoughts on the Healer’s position were. But the Drake didn’t even seem to have heard. She was peeking at Lyonette, ducking down whenever the [Princess]’ eyes roamed the battlements towards her. She gazed up at Merdon, eyes swimming with…tears?
“Don’t let her take me. I’ll ruin her life. I’m broken. Broken, Merdon. I belong here.”
The man glanced between Hekusha and Tessa, and then he set his jaw and his stance. He barked at Lyonette.
“I don’t back down in front of threats, whoever you are. The Healer has made her decision. Try these walls and suffer. Nothing and no one can escape my voice.”
“Even Goblins?”
That shout came from a little witch who shook her fist at him as she leaned out from behind Relc’s back. Merdon twitched. And then…either because they thought it was really thematic or because their Chieftain was getting bored with this standoff, someone screamed.
“[Aerial Detection]! It’s—oh dead gods! There!”
Anabeva pointed, and every head turned. A Gnoll with a suit standing in the crowd raised a paw.
“The Goblins are back! They’re coming on Wyverns! We’re all doomed!”
Merdon’s stomach flip-flopped as he saw distant specks appear from the nearest forest, rising and coming their way at speed.
The Goblins. The people at the gates began to stampede away as the Gold-rank adventurers panicked.
“Dead gods, there’s four Frost Wyverns, and they’re all Hobs—”
“It’s that tribe that killed Pallass’ army! Get off the walls!”
“Have the Watch shield us—they’re going to free everything and dust storm the entire—”
“HOLD.”
