“You will be pressed far harder as [Queen]. Sit and either confront me or address my grievances with you. Flee and I will run you down, Shardele.”
“You’re using your aura! That’s not fair!”
Shardele was shaking now, crying and backing away from the painful intensity Ielane was throwing at her. The [Queen]’s brows were a line of annoyance.
“I’m barely nettling you. Use your aura and training, Shardele. Light of Calanfer, you should win an aura-clash!”
“No one in the family has ever had to win an aura-clash, even father! You said it was too hard for anyone but you, Mother!”
Shardele wailed as she retreated to the door—the chair was sliding backwards. Ielane paused. Her aura flickered for a moment. She opened her lips.
“—My standards have changed. Shardele, sit down and demonstrate to me that you have earned the right to keep your lifestyle. If you run, I will begin restricting you until you show me improvement. Think logically. You know running will make this worse. Sit down and—”
The [Princess of Hazy Inspirations] fled. Sobbing, knowing her mother spoke the truth, and hating every moment of this cruel, organized reality that made her so pathetic. Running into her rooms and dragging a chair across the door, reaching for her Dreamleaf bowl and puffing it until she was soaring. Higher, higher into that space they shared, to get away from it all.
 
——
 
—In her study, Ielane stared at the door, in a dark mood as Dame Vensha closed the door Shardele had thrown open.
“You may be pushing her too hard, Ielane. She’s not ready for more.”
“Lyonette won an aura-clash with a [Princess] on hostile ground. Menisi could use her aura when she was ten.”
The 2nd Princess of Calanfer and 6th Princess were, in a way, the instruments of Shardele’s misery. Vensha glanced at the [Queen] meaningfully and handed her a handkerchief.
“Neither one is without flaw. Is the…poor gambler pressing?”
“It’s handled, Vensha. Get me an expert on Dreamleaf. Her levels were one thing, but if this is really clouding her mind…”
Ielane bent her mind back to her work. And she had no idea, no idea at all. She viewed Dreamleaf as a thing you could account for. An addler of senses in some ways, a bringer of happy, silly vibes.
Not really detrimental; she’d tried it herself and thought she ‘understood’ Dreamleaf. Hence why she’d allowed her daughter’s habit; unlike the destructive drugs like Selphid’s Dust or addictive Hazyflower, Dreamleaf had no such downsides.
But she didn’t understand Shardele’s class. If she had thought for a second with that logic she prized, Ielane might have realized—
[Smoker] was a class. [Drunkard] was a class. Negative, positive—there were classes and Skills for all things. This was just another route upon that strange path of levels. And it ran deeper than you knew.
 
——
 
Higher.
Shardele was floating up there. Escaping reality. She joined the panoply of peoples who came here for so many reasons. To enjoy themselves. To get away.
Maybe this gave them few Skills that were useful in other ways. But it was their place. Shardele drifted, seeing the beautiful visions that made her feel like the Eternal Throne should be open to everyone, and she waved at a fellow high-flier.
“Teliiiiim! Hiiiiiii!”
He was pacing around in a circle, having chewed down Carivek, the thinker’s drug, and he was on a tear. The [High Magus] was thinking about magic, and he didn’t often like to do it, but he couldn’t help it.
“Automated casting. Remote rituals. You can put it all together. Eldavin’s giving us drips and drabs. Does he see the puzzle? I could make something…even me, a [High Magus of Illusions]. Do I dare? Can’t see it all—oh, hello, Shardele. Bad day?”
“Sooooo baaaaaaad.”
She was like a spiral of smoke around him, unwilling to commit to the hard thoughts he was embracing. Carivek was a stimulant, but it was all mental. It boosted you—and then took away. Telim would be a sausage for at least a day after this, but he took the trade off.
Controlled, in their ways. They waved at each other, and Telim gestured at the magical formulas he was juggling.
“Can’t make sense of it all. D’you see?”
“I doooooo. That one looks nice. But it’s not complete.”
Shardele pointed, and her hand became a stream of light that danced across his magical sigils, altering them. Telim saw her body distort until she was a falling dawn of light rays in the shape of a smile. He was a collection of magic, elemental types constrained by his fleshy body, vectors of power running through his veins and organs, informed by but not bound wholly to his physical form.
Normal things. In this moment…he turned to his magic, and his jaw dropped.
“That’s it! No, wait. What do you see?”
“I dunoooooooo.”
Both were struggling to figure out what they were seeing. Shardele thought she had a glimpse of something amazing, but she didn’t know the magic, and Telim’s mind was racing faster, trying to piece together something with the power of Carivek.
Like a machine stacking blocks at a rate unmatched by mere hands—but only able to stack the blocks. Never able to throw one skywards like Valeterisa, to spread his wings and fly the same way. He was a tower of intellect, and each block had to be just so—
They had so many ways to get up here. They were regulars, experts, important people in this place that they forgot about when they woke. There was even community here; Shardele knew Telim, a number of [Mages] from Wistram, a [Merchant] who always came in the evenings—she brightened when another of her friends buzzed up. If not so high—she floated down a bit.
“Hellooooo little bee!”
There were even bees here. Sometimes you got animals. Even Wyverns; if they had a [Beastmaster], they could show up. This bee was very large, but she was friendly and buzzed upwards in a happy circle, as Shardele giggled and they flew around each other in crazy patterns, the best of friends. Telim ignored them as he went muttering onwards, and Shardele asked Apista how her day had been.
Naturally, she understood Apista. [Dreamer’s Tongue]. You could get…Skills here. Only they only worked here, and might not be real, but Shardele liked them.
The two were babbling at each other when they looked down, and there was a commotion ‘below’. And they saw her rise, blasting past the little dreams of the Centaur and all the others below.
Rising like a shooting star in reverse. So fast she passed them like a dream of great fish in the sea, terrifyingly large, unknowable, happy and joyous and wracked and confused, a screaming Drake flying on wings of pure thought towards the very roof of the sky itself.
Telim and Shardele paused.
“Oh my.”
“She’s going to reach the top. I’ve never seen her go that far.”
“So…painful.”
Tessa. Tessa made even their vantage points appear miniscule. She was on everything. Dreamleaf, Arrowsmoke, Elf’s Tears, Hazyflower, Selpage and Selphid’s Dust—
It’d kill her. It would have killed Telim or Shardele to take half of what was in Tessa right now. You only reached that high with practice, a kind of terrible training.
Both looked up, then away. You saw people like that, rising on furious Selphid’s Dust, screaming urgency into the air. Fading…fading and trying to climb as high on sheer rage each time.
They vanished from this place first, seldom to return. And Tessa?
Oh, Tessa. She drew her daggers which she carried even here, made of memory and suffering, and challenged the sky itself. Shardele called up at her as Apista fanned her wings, warningly.
“Noooo. Don’t do that. That’s, um, bad. I think?”
Tessa ignored her.
 
——
 
She was on an adventure. A quest, a battle against evil, and she left her body and all the suffering behind and became who she was.
A Drake who had no scars, who twisted upwards in a trail of her hopes, dreams, and ambitions…so many forgotten, faded things. But her form was willpower. She was a billowing cloud of blades, and her daggers were still clutched in her hands. The very edges of her soul that could cut and kill everything.
She was headed up. Straight for the sky itself as the others watched her. She shouted at them to follow her, but they were too far down, and some yelled at her not to do it. But she had to.
Tessa was crying tears of memory. Images of her leaping on Blankipillars half-morphed in the darkness of the cave, blind, stabbing everything that moved as they lacerated her insides, an unending scream—
Leave it behind. But it clung to her like spiderwebs, and her self-loathing was also dripping downwards like piss, little showers of guilt for this trip, for leaving the inn, for—
“I’m so tired of everything! I’m tired of being sick. I want to be well, I want to be cured forever! It’s your fault!”
The Drake screamed at the sky, and, as she reached the top of this place, the sky…
Moved.
It spread its wings made of wavy lines, and a lip made of the horizon curled upwards as its head swung down to her. The people below her cried out and fled, but Tessa?
She was laughing.
There was nothing in this world she couldn’t kill. It was her talent. If this stood between her and happiness? She dove upwards as the guardian of the firmament swung at her with claws made of the dawn falling, babbling in the voices of every person Tessa had ever met, a face of a beautiful [Princess] that stared at Tessa.
The Drake drove her daggers into the cracks of Lyonette’s face guiltily, ignoring the teeth made of the sound of her childhood dying as they dug into her.
They warred, as they had done before, but this time, she’d win. She was trapped up here, buoyed up by all the things she’d consumed, and the only way out was to rip the ceiling apart. Or her body gave out first, and she didn’t care which happened.
 
The Hateful Ceiling and Sky That Looks At You with A Million Eyes – Level 441.
 
What do you do?
[Attack]
[Skills]
[Items]
[Flee]
[Mercy]
[Kill Yourself]
 
She chose Skills. [Hazey Slash]! She dealt 561 damage. Then…[Tearblade of My Regrets]! Another blow that broke the ceiling-sky apart, but it was biting her. 
She took 1453365 damage, but she endured thanks to her passive Skill, [Drugs: Unending Journey]. Keep on the attack. She kept stabbing.
[Pride of the Highest King]! Healing—! 
She was a Named-rank adventurer. Her teeth were bared in a grin, and she was winning as she cut one of its manifold wings off. It laughed and thanked her.
I’m doing it. I’m saving myself. I’m going to be happy.
 
——
 
“She’s winning.”
Shardele was watching the battle above them, mouth opened. Apista was buzzing in circles, debating going to help or staying clear of the fighting. Telim wasn’t paying attention; he was doing magic, and many of the others weren’t aware of the titanic conflict above them. But they felt it, like ripples migrating down from above.
It was beautiful to the [Princess]. She’d never seen someone fly as high as Tessa and live. Or beat…the ceiling. Sky? Firmament?
Sometimes, they tried in teams, alone, even armies. But it always won. She watched as Tessa drove through the serpentine form coiled above their lovely little world, slashing through a body that was wrapped around everything like a protective egg.
“Tessaaaaaa. Don’t do it. It’s niiiice.”
She tried to talk the Drake down, but Tessa was laughing. She wanted to be free. Shardele hesitated, then waved a wand.
“[Dreaaaaamy Heals].”
She threw a Skill up there because she liked Tessa, then flinched and hid in her clouds as the ceiling-Ruler bared its teeth at her and spat a waterfall of down at her, trying to push her back into reality.
—But that was it. Tessa drove her blades through its head, and those watching gasped as she beheaded the huge body. It kept moving, growing a Hydra’s heads, but her Skills were cutting it apart.
A [Blademistress] beyond Zeladona with Archmage-tier Spells and a lifeforce beyond a Dragon. So few rose to Tessa’s rank—here, at least. It was so hard to survive the many things she had. And now…
She was standing up there, arms raised, as the sky itself died. Shardele watched, open-mouthed as it burst into an infinity of shattering glass. She saw an [Innkeeper]’s face, a Giant of old, a Dragon, a child-[Monk], all staring down at her with compassion and regret.
—Then it died, and Tessa was gasping.
“I did it. I’m free. I’m free.”
Now, Shardele was floating higher, puffing herself upwards. Apista followed, and they were all fascinated.
She actually…? The 1st Princess of Calanfer was staring upwards with Telim and the others. Tessa had killed the sky. Which prompted a question so few had ever asked of this place.
What lay beyond it? Tessa raised her claws skywards and saw what lay above the ceiling.
DARKNESS.
THERE WAS NOTHING BEYOND BUT THE VOID. IT DRIPPED DOWNWARDS AS THE DRAKE’S JOY TURNED TO HORROR. WITHOUT ANYTHING TO KEEP IT AT BAY, IT BEGAN TO RUSH IN.
“No. No, I’m supposed to be free. I—”
The Drake recoiled, but the darkness was flooding in, covering her as she stabbed at it, but this was nothing she could kill. Shardele cried out.
“What is—you killed it. It was protecting us, and you kiiiiilled—”
Tessa was screaming, then, a howl of despair and fury. She had thought—
THEN IT WAS EVERYWHERE. AN OCEAN OF EMPTY NOTHINGNESS DROWNED OUT SHARDELE’S CLOUD AND CAUGHT THE FLEEING BEE. THE [HIGH MAGE] GASPED AS THE WATERS FILLED HIS NOSE AND MOUTH, AND HE WAS DROWNING.
THEY ALL WERE. THE CENTAUR, THE VISITORS, AND THEN THEY SAW THE WORDS LAST OF ALL.
SPILLING DOWNWARDS ABOVE THEIR HEADS AS IT ALL WENT BAD, AND THEY WERE DROWNING IN THE LONG, UNFORGIVING DARK.
 
[Mass Skill: Reality Trips. A Midnight Journey]
 
And it got—
Bad.
 
——
 
A
bad
trip
Where truth
and maybe untruth
were fucking with each other on your sofa
and you were lying in the bathroom in your vomit
Wishing there were a way out. But there isn’t a way out, your eyes are open, and you can’t move, the killer is standing around the doorframe about to murder you, and you know he’s there, and you cannot move. He is waiting, and your breath is in your lungs, and you are lying there as the seconds become infinite hours.
Sitting in an armchair in the trip that will not end, and you know you have to come down off this bad high, drink a glass of water, do something, but each second is an hour, and you’re stuck here. This is infinity, and you’ll die of madness before it ends.
Her fault.
She did this. And now you’re paying the price, and it’s coming for all of you.
 
——
 
The Centaur was running. Running away from something, a huge undead monster chasing him. He’s Palt, but he’s not Palt. He’s Calvaron, and he’s dead.
