The blast kicked the [Warrior] out of his chair and sent him flying across the room. Armor or not, levels or not, he landed, crying out, tumbling, reaching for his sword and swearing—when he saw Merdon watching him, he froze, raising his hands.
“Fucking—I was just—”
“I don’t have time for your shit, any of you!”
Merdon roared, and they flinched. He slammed the mace’s handle down again and glared as some of his breakfast landed in his lap. No one dared laugh. He spat.
“There’s the serial killer in the city. Unless you want to join the hunt for that? I didn’t think so. Deal with the lottery or I’ll have you hunting for the murderer.”
That made them nod quickly. None of them wanted to fight an actual killer. He hoped they’d do their jobs for once. Merge was getting back up, swearing softly, forgetting Merdon could hear him.
“That fucking loudmouth bastard. I swear I’ll gut him someday—”
“Shut your yap, Merge. He’ll blow your eardrums out—”
It was all talk. None of them had the guts to take him on. If they were real adventurers, they’d be with their teams. Or, in the case of Madriga and Anabeva, they’d just be here for gold and not want to risk their lives.
That was it. Merdon sat back down and began to chomp down his food as conversation resumed, a few lame jokes, muttering about the damn crowd—the adventurers had learned to hate them, even the new ones—when there was a ratatat of knuckles on the door. Then a voice.
“Captain reporting for duty, sir!”
The female voice was loud, good-natured, and it sent a chill down Merdon’s back. He froze up, fork raised to his mouth, napkin tucked into his armor, and everyone went still.
“Is that a new adventurer or…?”
Merge was slow on the uptake. He turned to Merdon and saw the Named-ranker’s eyes on the door. There was a beat.
“Captain? Am I in the wrong place? Tessa Sharpclaw reporting for duty, sir!”
No one moved. If Merdon had commanded everyone’s attention and gotten a flinch from them, true fear swept the room in a moment. Everyone put their hands on their blades, and Merdon’s heart began to beat in his chest.
She was comatose this morning. Hekusha healed her. It’s barely been twenty minutes and she’s already on another drug.
“Shriekblade, knock it off. Enter.”
“Sir?”
The door slid open, and there she was. Hands tucked behind her back, standing straight, armor on, her neck-spines combed back. She looked and sounded like a young rookie adventurer, and she was smiling.
She scared him. Merdon saw her stride forwards and shoot him a salute.
“Captain Groms? I’m reporting for duty, sir.”
 
——
 
Tessa Sharpclaw was nervous her first day in the new headquarters, but Groms was a good [Captain], merely—grumpy. He glared at her as he motioned her over to the other adventurers.
“Sit down and shut up, Shriekblade.”
Not her name, but she sat, trying to show him she could handle the cut. He was a Gold-ranker, and she knew she was just a talented Bronzer, but Salazsar’s Adventurer’s Guild had recommended her for his company.
Company, not team; he oversaw a bunch of adventurers and organized them into squads for the day, unlike how they did it elsewhere. Working for him got her foot in the door, and if she had a recommendation—she came to a table of four adventurers, who leaned away from her.
“Hi, I’m Tessa. Do you mind if I sit…?”
One of them was a Human man. New to Salazsar? You didn’t get many here, but she realized the entire table was Human. She tried to smile and remembered not to show her teeth. She didn’t have a problem with Humans!
“N-no. Go ahead.”
“Do we have breakfast or do I get it…?”
Someone came over to take her order, and Tessa asked for some simple oats and a piece of gristle-meat, then sat. Everyone was pretty quiet, but when she asked, they introduced themselves.
Merge, Rave, Madriga, and Anabeva. Three women, one man. It made her feel excited! Women instead of men was a bit more relaxing—not that Tessa minded being flirted with occasionally. It was just—awkward.
Fortunately, Captain Groms never did that with her. She’d known him six-years already, and he was always looking out for her. Tessa leaned over to Anabeva.
“Are you new with the Miner’s Guard? I’ve been here six years, and I can’t remember seeing you. Tessa, Silver-ranker.”
“Wh—I thought you were new. I’m Anabeva. We’ve met. Gold-ranker.”
Tessa’s eyes widened.
“Gold? I’m so sorry! I thought you were one of the new recruits—I’m very happy to work with you, Adventure Anabeva!”
She leapt up and began bowing. The Human woman turned to Captain Groms.
“Merdon Captain Groms…what do I…”
“Sit down and eat. Tessa, knock it off. We’re here to work. Even the Healer will kick you out if you don’t fucking behave.”
She frowned at him, confused. What [Healer]…?
“Absolutely, Captain Groms!”
Breakfast came, and she began to eat. She was starving, and the food was great. After a while, the others relaxed as she made small talk. One of them, Merge, smiled at her.
“So you, uh, worked with Captain Groms for six years?”
“Yup. We go way back, right, Captain?”
He must have been tired today, because he raised his face from his plate and simply stared at her.
“Longer than that. Sixteen years.”
That was wrong, but she let it go. Merge jerked a thumb at his chest.
“Well, I’m a Gold-ranker too, so you, uh, listen to me, okay, kid? I’ll teach you the ropes.”
There was laughter as Tessa ducked her head, promising to, and Madriga kicked the man under the table.
“Merge, are you insane?”
“What? It’s funny. Look at her.”
Tessa was sitting up in her chair, stretching, preparing for the job. She had her daggers ready, and she’d set up her belt with tools for the job. Nothing fancy. A few potions, ropes, even a backup pickaxe in case of collapses, though it was just there for moral support. Groms noticed.
“Where’s your bag of holding, Tessa?”
“My what, Captain?”
He growled again.
“Dead gods—you. Find it for her.”
Her bag of…? Tessa frowned, but then she brightened. Was that a gift for her? She smiled at him and resolved to thank Groms later. He was giving out orders, sending the adventurers out to work.
“Tessa, you’re hunting a serial killer with me. Everyone else, get to your posts.”
They were all standing, but a few of the adventurers, who all turned out to be Gold-rank, were lingering. They were whispering. Merge was encouraging them all.
“C’mon. We’re never going to get a chance better than this. Say, uh, Tessa. How’d you get into adventuring? Got any stories or—or run into any Relics or whatnot? Any tips from your work?”
He strolled over with six of the Gold-rankers, and Tessa blinked at him.
“Relics? You mean, like, in Salazsar? Never with the Miners. I’m just picking up a paycheck right now—I quit Captain Groms’ employ, oh, three years back. It’s now good, steady work between adventures, you know? But sure, I’ve seen a few things. Mostly in dungeons. Why, you looking for a team-up?”
Fellow Gold-rankers would be good to roll with instead of having to find the odd team. Merge blinked and then grinned.
“Yeah, sure. We could hunt some monsters. What about—”
“MERGE. Get to work, and stop dancing with Dragons!”
Groms roared, and they all flinched as his voice passed over them, but he hesitated as the others drew back.
“You, uh, said you found Relics? Any of them unrecovered? Valuable spots you couldn’t get to? Or something?”
“A…few.”
She hesitated. You didn’t hit Named-rank and tour most of Izril’s south without seeing a few sights. Getting hints of a big score, but they were merely that: hints. It was all politics, and sometimes you had to pass on a potential prize. But he was excited now.
“C’mon, share a few. Aren’t I the Gold-ranker and you’re the, uh, new Bronze-rank kid?”
She jumped and then stared up at him, open-mouthed. She began nodding rapidly as the other adventurers turned to eye her.
“R-right, yes, sir! Of course! Let me, um, I have a list on me, actually. My diary.”
She began searching for it, and his eyes lit up. He was leaning forwards when Captain Groms howled. He picked up his mace…
Mace? Groms used a sword.
“Merge, you bastard!”
Tessa’s head turned, but Merge was whining.
“C’mon, Merdon! Aren’t you curious? Or has she told you everything?”
Who? Tessa turned, and Groms was gone. A Human with a huge jaw, wearing enchanted steel armor and pointing a mace, was standing there. His voice was beautiful and vast, and his eyes were desperately scared and huge in his face. He had a bit-too bulbous nose from being broken, and he gazed at her like he knew her.
He shouted.
“You Creler-brained idiot! Stop asking her questions! She’s hallucinating!”
“Naw, she’s remembering the past. I’m just—”
Merdon’s voice dropped to a piercing whisper that filled the room.
“She’s hallucinating, you idiot. She never liked Captain Groms.”
His words provoked a quietude that made the people around Tessa grow still like statues, but also filled her head with a kind of silence. A ringing silence in which a bell seemed to chime again, and again, and the world around her wavered.
This rich mess hall vanished. The Humans vanished. She was in a far dingier set of apartments turned into lodgings for the Miner’s Guard, and she saw a Drake staring at her across his desk. He had a scar across one eye that left it pale and milky and sat hunched over, eating a Minerat as he met her for the first time.
“I’m going to beat the cockiness out of you, you brat.”
She stared at Captain Groms, her smile faltering as her saluting claw fell to her side. She stood there, not sure what to say as he began to shout at her.
Groms. Groms. Groms—
Tessa’s head rose as he raised a fist to punch her again. She drew her daggers. She heard a voice louder than thunder.
“Tessa! Stop!”
 
——
 
The Healer of Tenbault’s first patient that morning was Tessa. Her second, barely thirty-six minutes later, was Gold-rank Adventurer Merge.
Of course, she complained to Merdon. His reply was a bark that made her recoil from her speaking stone.
“She’s already on drugs! Didn’t you get her to stop?”
“Don’t you dare shout at me, Merdon! I told her to stop for a day, and she promised she’d quit—well, do something about her!”
“I’m trying—is Merge going to make it?”
“Yes. She tore out part of his, um…well, stomach? It might not be fully the same, but the spell’s working.”
Merdon lowered the speaking stone when he heard that and breathed out. Payments to Merge, though it was the idiot’s own fault, and everyone had seen it. If Tessa had killed him, they might not get any other recruits.
Tessa was standing in the empty mess hall, staring down at the blood on the ground. A shaking [Cleaner] was mopping around her boots. She’d gotten him thirty-seven times with the daggers despite five Gold-rank adventurers trying to pull her off him.
“Oi. Tessa.”
He called to her. She didn’t move. Merdon raised his voice.
“Tessa.”
When her head rose, her gaze was flat. Her features were contorted until it seemed like she was sick of the world, and she seemed hungover, exhausted, in pain, and he was glad. Because there she was. Shriekblade.
“What, Merdon?”
“We’ve got work. Take any more drugs and I’ll blast your eardrums out.”
“Mfh.”
He waited. She stood there, swaying. Wiped her mouth and found a glass of water on a table. Drank it. Then peered at him.
“Well?”
“He’s in the city. I don’t know if it’s a ‘he’, actually. Someone’s cutting up people in the streets. Expert slices. Some kind of mad [Killer], maybe, or a gang? It doesn’t look targeted. They have to die. Also, people on the road got killed too. Mostly [Bandits].”
“Okay.”
Tessa checked her blades and then looked around.
“Where’s my bag of holding?”
“I sent someone to search for it. Did you sell it?”
“I don’t know.”
She drank more water and then began to eat from a plate. Halfway through she puked. He saw a multicolored stream coming out of her mouth, although instead of a rainbow, each color was putrid. He grimaced.
“What the fuck is that?”
It was a morbid curiosity. He didn’t take drugs aside from drink. He didn’t even smoke; his lungs had to be pristine. She responded, voice still flat.
“Looks like…Roama’s Fancy.”
“The fuck does that do?”
Another shrug. She began eating again.
“What’d I do?”
“Hallucinate that I was Captain Groms. Stab a Gold-ranker nearly to death.”
Her claws paused as she ate from a discarded plate. Tessa glanced up.
“Sounds like Roama’s Fancy. Maybe mixed with something else. It makes you remember better days.”
“Huh. What were you on last night? King’s Draught?”
“What’d my eyes look like?”
“Yellow.”
“Sounds like it. We going?”
She pushed herself up from the table as vomit pooled onto the floor. The [Cleaner] was staring at it and the two Named-ranks, but Merdon just pushed his plate back after a final bite. He chewed, swallowed, sprayed his throat with some alchemical formula to keep it relaxed, and nodded.
“Lead the way.”
She began to walk towards the doors.
“Where’s the way out?”
“Left, then straight and a right. Lead the way.”
“Okay. Where am I?”
“Tenbault.”
She blinked.
“Was I healed recently?”
“This morning.”
She ran her hands over her body, felt at her face.
“I don’t feel like it.”
“You’ve been here for months. Taking more damn drugs every day.”
Shriekblade stopped rubbing at her face, and her hands lowered.
“After the Winter Solstice. Right. Serial killer in the streets? Okay…whatever. Let’s go.”
She began to walk with more clarity, and he stomped after her. Everyone who saw them coming leapt aside or ran into other rooms. Merdon never got too close to Tessa, never let her walk behind him. So long as Roama’s Fancy was in her blood, he didn’t trust her. But she was here.
After a moment, he spoke.
“What the hell happened on the Winter Solstice?”
He hadn’t gotten a straight answer out of her all this time. Tessa merely shrugged.
“Draugr. Then assassins from Roshal. Failed my job. Client got kidnapped. I stabbed allies.”
“Huh.”
He’d heard it was bad there. Merdon exhaled, and Tessa stared at a wall for a moment. He poked her with the mace.
“Tessa, I’ve had it up to here with your shit. Get. To. Work.”
After a moment, she moved. Tessa spoke as she accelerated, and he had to jog to keep up. Now her face was like his. Bitter, alert, full of weariness to her marrow.
“I’m tired, Merdon. I hate it here.”
“Shut the fuck up, Tessa. Just find that killer, and then you can do whatever you want.”
 
——
 
