The Healer of Tenbault was clutching at her side and looked like she’d hurt herself running, which you had to admit was objectively hilarious.
But there was something rather credible about a Healer running to save lives. It was, in her guests’ opinion, the only thing credible about the woman.
However, they didn’t tell her that. They were all smiles and polite reserve when she came back, apologizing for the delay.
“When one of my patients is hurt, I must fly, of course.”
“Only naturally. Was that Crowdcaller Merdon himself I heard?”
“Merdon? Yes, my bodyguard. And I was healing Shriekblade, another employee of mine. Her services in eliminating monsters and other such matters are in trial, but if you had any tasks while you were visiting Izril, um, Lady…”
“Shierxun.”
The taller of the two women held out a hand, and Hekusha shook it, but to her surprise, the Terandrian noble of Ailendamus indicated the younger woman sitting and inspecting Hekusha with a faint smile.
“However, I defer to Lady Paxere, who is the head of our little family at the moment.”
“Oh my, so young. I do apologize, Lady Paxere of House Shoel. I, ah, knew a young matriarch who rose to prominence much as you did. Lady Magnolia Reinhart, a dear friend of mine.”
Hekusha smiled as Paxere held out a hand, and the younger Lucifen inclined her head.
“You do seem like a true servant of House Reinhart, Healer Hekusha. Truly, if there is anyone deserving to serve one of the Five Families of Izril, no less, it is you.”
The [Restoration Mage]’s face tightened a second, but then she was all smiles again.
“I, um, thank you! I am independent, however. All the noble families of Izril come to Tenbault for my services. Which is why I am delighted to aid one of Terandria’s noblewomen. Lady Gadrea was hurt while my people were fighting a serial killer. These things happen, of course—”
“Of course, but we had to just teleport over when we heard. It was lucky we were in the area, wasn’t it, Paxere?”
Shierxun drawled, and Paxere rolled her eyes.
“She is a handful at times. Our wayward lamb—we do not resemble each other, of course. Her side of the family has hereditary issues.”
“I did notice. I, ah, am sure my magic will correct all there is to be fixed. Though it is not a perfect spell.”
Hekusha licked her lips, and Paxere’s eyes brightened.
“Oh my, is it a spell? I thought it was a great miracle. Then, do you teach it?”
“Teach it? No, nonono, and do forgive me, it’s a spell but also Skills. I, ah, I can see Lady Gadrea at once; I was just informed she was busy ministering to some people in the city?”
The Healer wasn’t too clear about that, and both ladies grimaced. Paxere glanced out the window.
“The first thing she did was demand some gold to tend to those she saw as needy.”
“Despite the, er, holes in her body? And a ruptured…”
“Artery. An important part of the body, or so one assumes.”
Shierxun put in, watching Hekusha’s face. The Healer tapped her lips thoughtfully.
“Artery. Artery. Indeed, a terrible thing to rupture. I will heal it, of course!”
“Doubtless it could wait. I admire your ability to triage the most vitally wounded in order of importance, Lady Hekusha.”
“Well, one does develop an instinct after so long in the business.”
All three women smiled at each other, though Hekusha had the faintest impression she was not quite aligning with the two ladies on some level. Paxere glanced out the window again.
“And your city is positively amazing, Healer. So many people waiting for your miracles. Did you know we work as judges in Ailendamus?”
“Oh my, despite being nobles?”
Shierxun produced a badge with scales on it, weighing a horn against a feather.
“It is our calling. I find myself compelled to judge all those I come across. I wonder, Healer, how your deeds would weigh on that scale. I cannot help but imagine you have a weight beyond counting on your side.”
An odd way to flatter her, but Hekusha simply smiled and had more wine poured for them all.
“Well, if you would care to recommend me to any nobles of Terandria, I should be delighted to heal their maladies as well. Ah, not to be direct, but I know my patient is waiting—there is the custom of a small donation, you see.”
Paxere smiled brightly, and her red eyes lit up.
“Only naturally! Of course, Gadrea was injured by—Shriekblade you said? With a [Serial Killer] roaming your city? I believe she was also being imprisoned in the Plague District despite being completely well?”
Hekusha hesitated as a [Clerk] headed over with a clipboard.
“Ah, er…all regrettable incidents. I do hope you will not repeat some of the details; purely for public ease of mind, you understand. Midnight’s Laughter is gone, and my adventurers keep the city safe.”
“Only naturally. Allow House Shoel to make an appropriate donation—if you were to heal Lady Gadrea’s hereditary ailments, we would of course tip you a fortune. What would you put upon Gadrea’s health, Paxere?”
“A hundred thousand gold coins.”
Hekusha’s eyes bulged, and the [Clerk] inhaled as Paxere said it instantly. The young lady tilted her head.
“No, a million. I imagine King Itorin himself would throw open his treasuries for such a deed. Healing Gadrea, much less the rest of her kinsfolk, from her family’s hereditary illness would be a miracle of miracles.”
Hekusha’s beaming face froze.
“Er, hereditary, you said?”
“Absolutely. Incurable by so many magics—we have tried Djinni and even a Scroll of Regeneration, but her kinfolk have always lived such pained lives. I cannot help but weep to think of it—oh, do excuse me.”
Lady Shierxun patted at her eyes with a handkerchief. Paxere took over, dabbing at her own eyes.
“Do forgive us, Healer. Doubtless, she came here seeking your miracle cure. And to receive an audience—we shall shout your wonders across Terandria, House Shoel’s word upon it! I should not be so crass as to offer a million gold pieces to a woman of such charity as you, but whatever donation you feel is appropriate to your station. Simply speak the number, Healer, and I swear it shall be paid.”
She beckoned for the quill as Hekusha and the [Clerk] exchanged a side-eye. They’d tried a Scroll of Regeneration and it was a hereditary disease—Hekusha licked her lips.
“Ah—ah—give me a moment to confer?”
She didn’t see Paxere and Shierxun eye her as she hurried to whisper with her [Clerk]. After a moment, one of the two Lucifen glanced around the mansion. Paxere lifted a handkerchief to her nose and grimaced.
This place stank in ways neither of them could explain to those not of their kind. But worse than that…when Hekusha returned to quote a very, very low number of gold pieces, she wavered.
“Oh my, may I offer you another glass or refreshments, Lady Paxere?”
The lady blushed across her dusky features as Shierxun chuckled.
“Do forgive me, Healer. I should not like to trouble you long. Gadrea is waiting. I’m merely a bit…peckish.”
She licked her rather sharp teeth. Hekusha sighed.
“I would love to invite you for dinner, but…”
Paxere beamed and rose to her feet with Shierxun.
“It would be my pleasure to dine on your company, Lady Healer.”
The [Restoration Mage] wavered, then gave up and waved a vague hand.
“Ah, um, well—very good. I’ll have the servants set some more plates.”
 
——
 
Tormenting the Healer of Tenbault was only a distraction for Paxere, really. Eating with the woman was actually more annoying for Paxere than she wanted, but she couldn’t resist.
Shierxun was less approving, as was Gadrea. She flexed her arms and grimaced.
“Barely healed.”
“She didn’t even restore your flesh?”
Paxere was speaking to the brisk Agelum packing a rucksack of provisions. Shierxun was trying to reason with her, but Gadrea simply hefted the rucksack onto her shoulders.
“She was tired, and the fact she healed me at all proves she has Skills. Just not enough to do more than that. I’m leaving. Thank you for the help, but I told Visophecin what I wrote: it is my journey. I’m surprised he quit and left you in charge.”
Paxere flushed, but Gadrea was direct, as most Agelum could be. Shierxun murmured.
“Let us say that the elder members felt our judgement both impaired and our numbers reduced. Paxere leads by her merits. As long as they exceed her failures, she continues. I am merely here to ensure those failures do not reflect overly upon the kingdom.”
Paxere was not happy about that, but Shierxun was imperious, cold, and weighed lives with a dispassion even her fellow Lucifen admired. She inspected Gadrea, who met her gaze challengingly.
“If you perish, try to avoid bringing misfortune on Ailendamus. Or send back any valuable conclusions to House Shoel. Between the loss of yourself and Razia, as well as so many of our folk, we require some balancing.”
“Spoken fairly enough, cousin. I am grieved to hear of your parents’ deaths, Paxere. They surely fought like [Heroes].”
Gadrea met Paxere’s gaze, and the Lucifen girl turned away. She spoke, flushing coldly.
“They wasted their lives in a foolish endeavour. I am making the best of it. Visophecin’s judgement was in error.”
“They died in great deeds. It was not nothing.”
“It was foolish.”
Paxere would have stepped away, but a hand grabbed her shoulder like steel itself, and Gadrea’s eyes shone.
“No. It was not.”
Outrage flared in Paxere’s body. She experienced the emotion like molten metal coursing through her veins, a rising gorge of fury in her chest that beat like black wings. To Lucifen, hatred and anger were not entirely unpleasant emotions.
They could revel in negativity. She had once heard a [Lady] of her age describing fury to a [Thought Healer] like madness, some kind of all-consuming worm in one’s mind eating sense and reason.
Not so for Paxere. She had never lost herself to her worst furies. It always made her cold. Alive. Animosity was unto a pleasure even as it made her long to strike Gadrea, but there was no practical reason for it.
“Let go.”
Gadrea was beyond strong, but Paxere shifted, trying to throw her as she’d been taught, and the Agelum adjusted her grip—then grunted. Both were shocked and shared the same thought in the flicker of their eyes.
She’s stronger than she should be.
For Gadrea, it was the strength thought lost to the Agelum; they could only muster bursts of their true power and paid for it greatly. But she had fought, been wounded, and been standing and moving all day with no ill effects.
She should have been bedridden for months from this, let alone her journey. Truly, Gadrea had found something.
By the same token—Lucifen were strong, but not this strong. Gadrea felt like Paxere were half again as strong, and there was a tautness to her skin that made the Agelum think she could take far more of a punch than before.
Child, what have you done? A gleam in Paxere’s eyes then a flick right—
Shierxun was watching both Angel and Devil struggle, brows raised politely, as if waiting for two children to stop bickering. They stopped wrestling for momentum and locked gazes. The Lucifen and Agelum stayed still in perfect, utter disagreement until Shierxun extended a hand, and Gadrea abruptly let go and stepped back.
“Another example of why we are so unalike. Tell me, cousin, where do you go from here?”
Gadrea made a face. She didn’t glance at Paxere, who stood back and adjusted her clothing. The politics of House Shoel. Let us not destabilize each other’s positions, eh? Gadrea bared her teeth.
“Southwards.”
“Mm. To the Walled Cities? We could call for one of Wistram’s amusing carriages to speed your way.”
And tell you where I’m going so you can meddle in your kindly, unkindly ways? No. Gadrea snorted.
“I prefer my solitude. With great appreciation for your help, cousins.”
Shierxun rolled her eyes.
“Yes, yes. Great appreciation and distaste for any help. In five more days, we doubtless would have found you naked, having sold everything to feed some waif on the roads and prostituting yourself for coin. Highly amusing, but alas.”
She looked wistful as if wishing she’d caught Gadrea so. The Agelum woman crossed her arms. Truly, she did not get along with some Lucifen. It was in their natures, for all they’d lived together since Curulac of a Hundred Days.
Easier, perhaps, when I was so ill I could not move and I relied on them. But Gadrea had not spent her life without picking up Lucifen savvyness, which Agelum could lack.
She doesn’t know about what I’m sensing. Nor have the other Agelum told her, if they even felt where on Izril it is. Liscor…she made her features as guileless as they thought of her and snapped her fingers.
“There is somewhere I’d go, first. I heard the strangest rumor that Duke Rhisveri was seen at—Liscor, was it? What brings him there?”
Shierxun snorted, and Paxere rolled her eyes. The older woman replied.
“It is beyond the pale to tell the story now, Gadrea. He has some interest there. But we would take it as a boon if you did not encourage his distractions.”
Gadrea made a show of tapping one foot and glancing towards the High Passes.
“I could head that way. I had thought to climb one of the High Passes just once before I die.”
“All the better to visit Liscor, then. If only to see the city. I believe it sells charms, and it has a number of new species including the Antinium. And at least one orphanage. You could juggle babies or some such.”
Intriguing indeed. Shierxun was trying to get her to visit Liscor in her own way, and she clearly wrote Liscor off as Gadrea’s actual destination. She was rather…presumptious, actually. She didn’t understand that Gadrea was playing her.
Paxere, though, was very silent and smooth-faced. Gadrea pretended not to be looking at her and wondered if, perhaps, the younger Lucifen was more adept than her elders gave her credit for. She seemed to understand that the balance of power had shifted. Gadrea nodded.
“I suppose you’re right, Shierxun.”
The Agelum acquiesced, and the Lucifen nodded, not realizing that this time, it was because she was being duped. Gadrea would go to Liscor, anyways, but she wondered if Rhisveri had tapped into what she had.
The Wyrm of Ailendamus has knowledge beyond any other immortal. Perhaps he’s found what I seek by different means. If we clash, we clash. He and I will talk before we come to blows, and we might help each other, self-serving as he is. 
