Gadrea sagged against a filthy wall in the city, which was so overcrowded and messy with discarded bandages, people sitting because they had nowhere to rest—someone shoved at her.
“One side! Lord Gilthor to see the Healer!”
She went staggering and turned as she saw a group of muscled men beating a path through the city. They kicked over begging bowls, knocked people down. She heard a cry of pain and nearly reached for her sword, but stopped.
Not my continent. Better to help the fallen then swing a sword. She bent, then recoiled when she saw a woman clutching at an arm ridden with pox.
“Young woman, you’re infected. You’ll spread it—”
“Shut up! I’m fine!”
The woman screeched at her, but everyone around them had heard. They turned and began to scream.
“Disease! Diseased! Send her to the Plague Quarter! Guards! Guards!”
The woman tried to run, but the call attracted slouching [Guardsmen]. They poked long-handled ‘spears’ of wood at her, mancatchers, shouting, and then another group wearing enchanted robes and face-masks appeared. They began to shove the young woman towards a sector of the city that Gadrea was informed was where her kind had to be.
Informed—and tossed there herself. The walls of the high gates slammed shut as she argued with the gatekeepers.
“But I’m not sick. Nor have I touched—”
“Anyone in her vicinity goes here. If you don’t have any rashes or the like on the morrow’s morning, you can walk free.”
Over two dozen people in the street had been rounded up, and they were swearing at the [Guards], the woman, and Gadrea. The Agelum peered around and exhaled. Then found a spare shirt in her bag of holding to tear up. She began to make crude facemasks and handed them out to the others around her.
“Some city. Wear this and don’t touch anyone. Don’t drink from the wells.”
She was not immune to sickness herself; in fact, her constitution meant she might be more susceptible than they were. Gadrea wondered if jumping the walls was better than staying here, but she walked into the silent streets, avoiding the shuttered windows with splashes of paint marking them and the people sleeping under cots of filthy linens. She was ready to leap the walls and just run out of this city before it drove her to madness, but she halted when she found the first body in the alleyway.
 
——
 
It was a very, very neat cut. Merdon didn’t get queasy easily, but even he swallowed at the cut that went from shoulderblade to right under the heart. The corpse had begun to rot, and the insides were spilling out onto the street.
Plague Quarter. It was the scariest part of the city bar none; no crime compared to what might come out of here. However, the Healer paid for protections and enchantments on the gates that led in and out of here; she even received money from the Five Families.
It made more sense to send the sick here than keep them in their cities. So long as the plagues didn’t spread. Hekusha could also heal almost every sickness in the world. Those she couldn’t—
Well, Merdon had overseen a few times when they’d had to burn houses, quarantine those with a magical sickness, and evacuate parts of the city. Mostly, it was contained, but his skin crawled despite knowing he had all the gear on he needed to stay healthy. If he was sick, Hekusha would take care of it. But he wanted out of here fast.
Merdon had an enchanted facemask wrapped around his helmet that was supposed to help against such things, but he was going to have his armor washed and take a bath in the best soaps he had after this.
Tessa, by contrast, had inserted her gloves into the cavity and was feeling around.
“Dead gods, Tessa. Have you found anything?”
“Nope.”
Shriekblade drew her gloves away and wiped them on her armor. Merdon gagged.
“What the hell did this?”
“Blades. Sharp ones.”
Crowdcaller Merdon stared at Shriekblade. He was rapidly regretting taking her on this hunt, but Shriekblade knew her work. She stood.
“It’s not [Assassins]. Let’s go. I probably know where they are.”
“Wh—just like that?”
“Mm.”
She wandered out of the alleyway, and he waved at the Watch.
“Dispose of this. Burn the body or something. Shriekblade, wait!”
She waited as he strode over.
“How do you know it’s not [Assassins]?”
“No poison. Standard Guild policy to poison blades. Couldn’t find any in the wound.”
“You can read poison from the flesh even after it rots?”
That was impressive, but she shook her head.
“What am I, a [Hunter]? [Drug Hunt]. Works on poisons. Didn’t find anything I liked.”
…You could use Skills like that? He grunted.
“Most poisons don’t sound like something you’d enjoy.”
“You wouldn’t. Spider venom works if you’ve got nothing around.”
That was the tenor of most of their conversations. Merdon fell silent after a moment.
“How do you know who it is? Or who it isn’t?”
“[Assassins], [Thugs], all take coin pouches. Gangs leave markers.”
“Oh. Right.”
He’d missed that the dead man had his possessions. Tessa wandered into an alleyway, disturbing some of the residents who looked up at her and Merdon and began to beg. He opened his mouth, but she simply drew her daggers, and they backed up. Tessa glanced around, shook her head, and wandered out. She tried another street, seemingly at random.
“Also, I know who did this.”
“Wh—you do?”
“Mm.”
“And?”
She paused in kicking at shuttered and bound doors with the words ‘Plague’ slathered across the entrance. Glanced back at him.
“Ran into them before. It’s Midnight’s Laughter.”
If Merdon could have had a worse day—he stopped dead in the street.
“The Midnight’s Laughter? Aren’t they in Chandrar? The deadliest murderer in the world?”
“No, the other one, dumbass.”
He saw her walk on, then he was striding after her, head on a swivel. Merdon hissed at Tessa.
“But I didn’t hear any laughter! Don’t they use it when they’re killing their victims?”
And don’t they have a reputation for having killed even Named-rank adventurers? Nobles north and south, even a [General] in the middle of his camp? Merdon was about to call in every Gold-ranker when Tessa shrugged.
“Not always. They have to charge up their Skill. It’s…fifty…six people before it reaches maximum? They’re probably doing that here. They change continents sometimes. Kill in different ways to make it look like they’re someone else. They came here because it got too dangerous in Chandrar, probably.”
“And you can find them.”
“Sure, maybe. If I get close enough, we’ll sense each other. Then I’ll kill them or they’ll kill me, and we’ll get rid of them.”
She strode along as Merdon tried to work out how many levels of terrible this plan was before hissing at her.
“Forget about that! We’ll call the Gold-ranks up and go after them methodically! Lock down the city quadrant by quadrant!”
“Won’t work. When they know they’re hunted, they’ll run or hide. If you make them mad, they’ll get angry. Probably kill the Healer. Or you. Chasing them off is easiest.”
“Wh—and chasing them off won’t make them mad?”
“…Probably? But they’ll be mad at me.”
“And?”
“They won’t try to kill me. Too much work. Plus, we worked together on a job. Assassin’s Guild, before they murdered the old Guildmaster.”
Nothing she said made Merdon happy. He was sweating as he peered into the alleyways she was striding down.
“Should I hit them with a Skill or hold back…?”
They were rounding a corner, and Tessa was giving him a look of actual disdain. Coward. He read it in her eyes, and his blood boiled. He opened his mouth as she drew her daggers when they heard the giggle.
It was a soft sound that penetrated the ear and was just loud enough to make you realize it wasn’t your imagination. A shiver ran all down his spine, and Merdon and Tessa whirled. They stared around; she pointed ahead, and they ran.
The second thing Merdon heard was a clang. A muffled curse, and he burst around the corner of the alleyway and found the strangest sight in his life.
A hooded, cloaked figure with a smiling mouth grinning out of the black hood, an illusion of huge, yellowed teeth, was holding a shortsword in one hand, a curved kris–dagger in the other. They were anchored to the wall of the alleyway, crouching on the bricks as if they had sticky boots. Midnight’s Laughter, the famous [Serial Killer], leapt upwards, summersaulting, all the while giggling, and the greatsword cut the air under them.
Then the white-haired woman, who could have been Merdon’s grandmother, kicked up and nearly took the serial killer’s head off. The [Serial Killer] parried the blow in a shower of sparks. Gadrea landed, checked her greatsword, and sighed.
A huge divot had been taken out of the steel. But the impact had tossed the hooded figure down the alleyway. They caught themselves, skidding on the ground, and Merdon and Tessa eyed the fight.
Expert blade-users, both of them. Merdon opened his mouth and barked.
[Cone of Sound], [Stunning Shout].
“Halt!”
Gadrea slammed into a wall and braced as the sound wall hit her, teeth bared. Midnight’s Laughter just vanished with a giggle, appearing on the roof overhead.
Merdon thought a curse as he drew breath for another attack, searching for Midnight’s Laughter. He couldn’t narrow his sound attack enough to avoid hitting the strange woman or Tessa if they were that close. If they forced Midnight’s Laughter back and gave Merdon an opening, he could unload at full volume. Tessa’s job was to screen Merdon, and she went in stabbing—
—the wrong person. The Agelum woman staggered, then ducked the stabbing daggers that plunged into the crumbling brickwork.
“Ach. I’m not the killer!”
“Tessa, you idiot, wrong one!”
Merdon roared, but Shriekblade kept stabbing. She lanced the air, and Gadrea ducked the flurry of blows and threw an uppercut with her free hand.
Fast—the blow doubled over the Drake, and Merdon saw the old woman back up and use the greatsword to keep Tessa wide of her.
Is she a Named-ranker too? She’s fast—he was so busy watching them he didn’t see the other shadow until he heard a giggle in his ears. Only Merdon’s ears saved him.
Not behind, to the right—he barked one word.
“No!”
[Voice: Remove Recoil]. He deactivated the Skill and used the force of his words to blow himself backwards a step. The blade cut the air right where Merdon’s face had been, and he swung his mace.
“DAMN YOU!”
Merdon’s earthshattering voice made everything tremble, and it slowed the hooded figure as they whirled towards him. He saw them raise their blades, criss-crossed, and his mace swung through their face and…
Vanished. A giggle, and Merdon saw Midnight’s Laughter disappear—again.
Some kind of dodge-Skill. Great. He whirled, putting his back to the wall, looking up—only to see Tessa go flying past him. She slammed into a wall, landed, and he roared.
“Shriekblade, what are you doing?”
She flipped onto her feet, and her eyes were huge, dilated. Then she seemed to re-focus and shook herself.
“Did I get—”
“Wrong one, idiot! Where’s Midnight’s Laughter?”
Gadrea was backing up, panting, head spinning as her strange eyes flicked around, and now Tessa and Merdon were back-to-back. She was panting, reaching for a vial.
“Giggling. That’s their Skill. [Laughter of the Invincible Killer].”
“What? What!? How do you defeat that?”
Gadrea and Merdon turned to Tessa, and she popped another cork off of a vial with pale orange dust inside.
“Keep stabbing until they run out of charges. It’s only giggling. Got to be fast. Going to [Amplify Drug]. Fifteen seconds.”
“That’s Selphid Dust. Don’t do it. She’ll attack everything, and it’ll damage her mind.”
Gadrea called out. Merdon grabbed for the vial.
“Tessa, put it down!”
The Drake wasn’t listening. She was tilting her head left and right.
“You there, Laughy? Wrong city. Gonna diediedie if you stay.”
Merdon tried to break her grip on the vial of Selphid’s Dust. She pivoted and then put her body under his, and he swore.
“Don’t you dare! Don’t you—”
She threw him. The huge, armored man felt the world rotate, and he landed on the ground, but the air didn’t leave his lungs. He was ready to shout, and he felt a crawl down his spine as he heard a voice, breathless and high, whispering in his ears. Tessa was staring ahead of him, into the shadows.
Above.
“Gonna die, Shrieky. You’re all slow. Dying.”
Midnight’s Laughter plunged down, blades first, and drove both deep into Tessa’s shoulders. They would have gone through her but for the greatsword that flashed through Midnight’s Laughter’s body and made them vanish. Tessa stumbled, and the vial rose in her claws as the cloaked figure appeared half a dozen feet down the alleyway, hissing with annoyance. Tessa inhaled the dust made from a Selphid’s corpse, and her pupils turned into pinpricks.
Gadrea, Merdon, the [Serial Killer], all felt a prickle down their spines. Not fear, but pure instinct. The Drake known as Shriekblade went still for one second. Then her eyes rolled up in her head. She was stabbing.
“Tessa! Stop! St—”
Through the joints in his armor. At Gadrea as she dodged, unnaturally fast, then [Wicked Cuts] to her stomach, too fast. A slash across Midnight’s Laughter’s hood and a curse as she rammed the dagger through a hand. Across Merdon’s forehead, the [Serial Killer]’s legs, Gadrea’s arm—
All of them trying to back away from the blank-faced, screaming Drake who slashed and slashed, then fell flat on her face fifteen seconds later. Merdon would have hit the fleeing [Serial Killer] as Gadrea tried to bandage a bleeding artery, but then Tessa woke up. She moved half as fast as the backlash from the Selphid’s Dust hit her. Like a woman underwater.
Nevertheless, she planted a dagger in Merdon’s right foot, through his boot, and began to twist until he brought his mace down on her head as hard as he could. He raised the mace and would have swung it down again but for Gadrea’s arm. Only then did the Gold-rankers and Watch appear.
Midnight’s Laughter was long gone.
The Healer was not pleased.
 
——
 
“Stop it, Tessa. Stop it!”
Merdon was bleeding as he slammed her into the wall of Hekusha’s mansion hard enough to crack the plaster. Hekusha was waiting to heal him—and her—but not while Tessa was mad with blades.
The Selphid’s Dust was coursing through her, and she stabbed his arm again, despite his armor. He was panting.
“She’s…not going to stop. Someone get a [Message] spell, [Communication]—get a damn scrying orb to Salazsar now! Adventurer’s Guild!”
