Merdon was wrong about the killer. He had limited intelligence from a rather inept Watch, and he was no expert in the matter. What he was wrong about was this:
It wasn’t one mass-murderer with a sword.
It was two.
To be more precise, two killers in two locations. One of them was in Tenbault, the other was coming down the roads. The latter killer was riding on the back of a Griffin, actually.
A massive, black-crested one with a reddish beak and claws named ‘Knives’. He was an ill-tempered, vicious Griffin even by their standards, and refused to wear the custom saddle most days. However, he suffered one woman to ride him, the young woman who sat on his back.
The second woman scared the shit out of Knives, so he tried to pretend she didn’t exist. They were circling down as the stranger hopped off his back, and both Knives and Lilian Woods shuffled their feet.
“Now remember, if you’re actually set about your foolishness, you’d better practice that swing. Give me another—now.”
Embarrassed, especially because it looked really stupid, the young woman lifted her weapon of choice and swung it through the air. It made a wind-cutting sound, and it was a fast chop. All the more impressive to the rolling carriage and passengers who stopped to stare at the two because…Lilian was holding a bow.
The second woman, who appeared older than Lilian by a century—literally—was grinning. She had a rucksack over one shoulder, and she drew a sword one-handed.
“Good! Give me a combo. That’s it—”
The clack-clack of her sword meeting the bow was fast, like the beating of a drum. Lilian attacked, panting, then stepped backwards and fired an arrow and another, her hands moving so fast that the watchers assumed it had to be a Skill like [Rapid Fire].
It was not. The second woman pivoted out of the way of the first arrow, then caught the second. She critically eyed it, then flipped it back at Lilian.
“You’re still a bit slow.”
“Oh—come on. I’m…a member…of the Wing of Shame of Kaliv! I’ve fought in a war.”
Lilian was drawing a third arrow when the greatsword slapped the top of her head so hard she bit her tongue. The old woman lifted the sword one-handed, and Knives growled, then flinched as she swung one eye towards him. Well, one eye, three pupils.
Her eyes were very…odd. They had multiple pupils in both eyes, giving her an unnerving appearance. Her skin was pale, showing blue veins, and she appeared rather frail. But she wore leather armor, and, you had to point this out, she was swinging an old greatsword around with one hand.
“You’re not fighting a war, Lilian. You’re up against a legend. So you’d better be fast.”
“If it comes to a fight, I’m dead.”
“It’ll always be a fight with her. The fighting is merely to buy time for the rest of it to work. Again.”
Clackclackclackclack—Lilian was swinging fast, then firing arrows as the older woman, Gadrea, stepped left and right, pressing her backwards. She seemed to know where each arrow was coming from and barely moved to dodge them. She was smiling, enjoying herself.
Perhaps a bit too much. At one point, Lilian lost her temper and shouted.
“[Flicker Arrow]! [Fourfold Draw]!”
She pulled back, fired four arrows that vanished as she loosed them. Gadrea planted the greatsword in the ground and pushed her body up.
She balanced, one hand on the hilt of the sword, inverting her body until she formed a straight line, and the arrows thunked into the ground around her blade. Lilian lowered her bow, and the people in the carriage exclaimed. Gadrea laughed as she landed.
“Apologies. She won’t be that fast. Probably. I’m just feeling a bit more like when I was young. Definitely better. I’ve been dilly-dallying too long, but I can’t help it.”
She flexed an arm, and Lilian tossed down her bow. She sat, panting for air, and then the carriage door burst open.
“Miss Gadrea, Miss—please, won’t you reconsider?”
Someone raced out of the carriage and almost threw herself at the Agelum, but that was unseemly, so Lady Eliasor halted. The girl was desperate. Gadrea turned, and her face softened.
“Ah, child—”
“Please come work for me. Please?”
The [Lady] begged as her staff tumbled out of the carriage, and Gadrea brushed at her hair. Lilian sat up, panting, and then there were [Riders] on the road.
“There she is! Miss Adventurer! Miss, we have another offer! We’ll pay you—”
Gadrea lifted her hands, smiling ruefully as she backed up. The consequences of her actions besieged her—well, not Lilian and Knives, they seemed ready to sneak away—but she had been training the duo ever since she’d met them a week ago.
As for Lady Eliasor? [Bandits] on the road holding up the frightened young woman. And it had been a group of [Thugs] in the city the Watch were from. Or was that the [Kidnappers] for Eliasor, [Bandits] for the Watch, and…?
She had lost track. The woman with strange eyes smiled, laughed, and she was old. Older than anyone here thought, but as they all knew, old people could be the scariest. And she…
Well, she had somewhere to be. But she’d taken her time and cut a swathe down across Izril. Nothing grand. Nothing to shake the fate of nations.
Just a blade in the darkness. Though—that justice that Gadrea dispensed was often the simple edge of a sword. Lilian patted Knives as he squawked at the newcomers.
“I know, I know, we’ll get after the job soon. As soon as crazy lady over there lets us go.”
They were pretty sure that if she jumped into the saddle, Gadrea couldn’t catch them, but she had once beheaded an entire group of [Bandits] with three swings of her sword. Neither of them wanted to risk it.
Gadrea was letting down the young [Lady] gently. She knelt and handed Eliasor something.
“I know you’re a [Lady], child, but I have a calling, and I cannot stay. I’m not the hero you need: you are. There’s that lovely, tough [Lady] who mentors you, isn’t there? Zanthia. She was a brilliant flower of a [Lady] in her time, with a love to set continents ablaze. Learn from her and her ways for they’re no less strong than the swinging sword. But just in case—”
Eliasor nearly dropped the dagger Gadrea handed her, but clutched it to her chest. She gulped, and the others beseeching Gadrea to stay hesitated.
“We need you, though, lady. You could do so much good…not that you haven’t already.”
She gave them such a guilty, bright smile, but then pointed.
“I know. But something calls me southwards, and I must go. I am sorry. I must know it before I die. Forgive me, friends, each one of you.”
She had to hug them all, even Knives and Lilian, before she let them go. Then, as the Griffin leapt into the skies, Gadrea saluted them with one hand. Continued walking down her road, humming a traveller’s song from centuries ago, a greatsword propped over one shoulder.
From then on, she made only one stop on her journey south, mostly out of curiosity. Gadrea halted by a crossroads sign and was about to take the other path when she frowned at a name on the sign.
“Tenbault. Ah, right. It’s probably a waste of time, but we were always curious, weren’t we? Even if we knew…”
She hesitated, but then jogged briskly down the road. Curiosity was going to kill the cat anyways, and someone had better be there to stop it.
That was how the Agelum came to Tenbault.
To say she hated it, well…
That would be underselling things.
 
——
 
Within an hour of coming to Tenbault, Gadrea was broke, and she’d lost the jewelry that Eliasor had given her as thanks for saving her from…whomever Gadrea had saved her from.
She handed the locket and jewel over to the stunned family of four with a smile, closing the mother’s hand around the gem.
“There. Use it to get out of this city. Your boy is better served somewhere safer and warmer. Just as I said, if he trains his body, he’ll get a [Warrior] class; the Skills will better serve than waiting for miracles.”
“You’re sure? Lady—”
Gadrea felt at her belt pouch for more coins and shook her head.
“I’m sorry, I don’t have more to offer. I could give you this—”
The plain, steel greatsword wasn’t worth much, though. The family had to stop her from offering it, and Gadrea walked them to the entrance of Tenbault and helped them secure decent horses from the hostler. Then she exhaled.
“So this is the City of Miracles.”
“Hah!”
The [Hostler] spat into the straw. He went to cuff a horse trying to sniff at his dirty overalls, and Gadrea grabbed his arm.
“Hey, watch—”
He met her eyes and hesitated. Her smile was as gentle as her touch, but it refused to budge.
“We don’t mistreat animals or people where I come from, friend. The poor creatures are addled with flies. Isn’t there something for that?”
The stables were a mess. The [Hostler] began to bristle.
“Listen, you. You try dealing with a hundred damn visitors a day—at least! Everyone from haughty nobles to cheats and rogues. D’you think I’m mistreating them?”
“No, but the flies seem to annoy the horses.”
Gadrea indicated them as the buzzing cloud made several horses toss their heads. The [Hostler] glared.
“I don’t have any help nor a Skill t’deal with them. If I had but a day of peace, I’d muck the stables out—”
“Hoi, hostler! I need a horse!”
He cursed as someone struck a bell outside. Then he was striding off and away from the old woman. The [Hostler] found a horse for the man wanting to leave Tenbault, cursing the Healer, cursing this city, and who could blame him?
When the [Hostler] came back, it was with a guilty conscience to check on the horses. He couldn’t afford to get more than a potion to keep the bugs away for a while, but maybe—
—He returned to find Gadrea finishing mucking out the last berth in the stables. She brushed at her hair and grinned at him as she forked new hay into the stables.
“There.”
“Wh—how’d you do that so fast—”
The flies weren’t gone, but they were following the detritus she’d taken, and the horses were visibly happier. Gadrea just wiped at her brows, then cursed; she had muck on her hands, having worked without gloves.
“I used to be good with my hands. I’ve been feeling much better than I used to, of late.”
“Oh, come here for the Healer’s mercy?”
“Actually…I’m fine without, I hope. But if I was so lucky, I’d love to see it. I’ve been sick my whole life, you see.”
The [Hostler] shook his head as he hurried out with some water for her.
“If you want my advice, Miss, do as you told the others. Leave. It’s luck of luck to get the [Healer]’s attention, and there are plenty of [Gamblers] and the like who already manipulate it. ‘Lest you have the coin. And begging your pardon, but you don’t seem to have enough. It’s a hundred gold t’see her if you even get the lottery. Do you have that?”
“I gave my last coins to people in the camps.”
“What? Are you mad? They’re all [Beggars] there!”
“Some needed a hand and swore they’d leave if they had a chance. I hope they weren’t lying to me.”
She was insane. The [Hostler] stared at her, then glanced around.
“You cleared my stables faster’n a Level 20 [Stablehand]. I can’t pay you much, but…”
She forestalled him with a hand and smile.
“If you wanted to pay me in any way, I’d take bedding down in a spare loft if you’d allow me that? I plan on visiting the city a bit, but having a place to sleep tonight would be a comfort.”
“Just that? You’re going around giving away coins and labor for free? What, are you mad? Or is it a class?”
He looked her up and down, and Gadrea smiled at him with such genuine innocence he felt like he was speaking to a child or a bright stranger. Someone who didn’t fit in the world he knew.
“No. It simply feels good, doesn’t it?”
 
——
 
Good deeds did not always beget other goodness. But that was not why you did them. Nor were Agelum good by nature. They could be harsh. Cruel and dogmatic.
But the ones of House Shoel had been born into a strange union with their dark cousins. Their warring over the ages had ended, and this final peace was of a dying duo of species.
Gadrea was blessed by love, if not health. She had been fine with that, but this surge of strength that had brought her to Izril’s shores gave her hope that she might do more than rely on House Shoel’s wealth to make a difference.
The strength. She opened and closed one hand, and she had not felt so alive, even when she had been first born.
It was coming from further south. A conflagration of something beautiful. It lured her ever-closer, and she felt like there were other visions of beauty around her. Sparks of…something.
She’d even passed land owned by a Lady Bethal Walchaís that had some of what she wanted, but she wished to see the original spot that had called to her. And, the Agelum had to note, it was not all the same…whatever it was.
Faith. She intended to write Uziel a letter telling him and the Agelum what she had found and if it was an illusion or real, for it would change everything. One of her observations was that this growing phenomenon that she seemed to need and fed off of had variants.
Levels of strength. Conviction? As well as the targets. For instance, Lady Bethal had been a bit…desperate? And it had been aimed at something—someone. It had given Gadrea an uneasy feeling, as if she were encroaching into someone’s territory. Or pledging herself towards…
There was a danger here. So she had left quickly. The feeling to the south, around the High Passes, was far gentler in many ways and had no person strongly attached to it. Or maybe a person?
She couldn’t tell, but it wasn’t as committed. Gadrea would get there soon enough in her way; she was on a great and beautiful adventure, the kind she’d always longed for instead of all the wars and causes that had taken her time when she could stand and swing a sword.
However, rather to her displeasure…she found Tenbault had faith too. It was directed at the Healer, and it was strong, but it made her physically ill.
It was desperate, cloying, filled with madness and suffering, and it was wrong. It made her feel as though the people around here were exhaling foulness into the sky, and the faith was forming some cloud of ill-thoughts hanging over this city.
“—Foul as the wounds they bear.”
Gadrea was too sick to even use the few coins that the [Hostler] had given her to buy a meal—not that she could afford anything more than scraps. She was rapidly reconsidering a stay here, but the Healer was famous.
Like as not she can only cast [Restoration], according to our sources, but I should find out if she can help. Still, would Gadrea puke from staying here another hour?
