That was how they left Tenbault. The [Princess] sat with her daughters spilling around her, offering Tessa tonics and asking if she was well, if she needed a blanket, talking about all the things they’d do in the inn and checking on her, and the Drake just sat there.
She felt like Hekusha had looked. Stunned and confused. But mostly empty. She drank, ate, talked, and let the [Princess] and the others bathe her with kindness.
It leaked out her empty, damaged heart, and she felt not a thing.
 
——
 
Later, at some point, in The Wandering Inn, Tessa woke up when the Gnoll named Ishkr she vaguely remembered knocked on the doors, and she went down to breakfast.
Before that, she drank a tonic prepared for her specially by the [Alchemist], Octavia, and she ate a curated meal from Calescent. Then she’d hang around and talk to Lyonette, and if she needed to, she could go back to her rooms which were decorated, and someone would check on her regularly, but otherwise she could relax.
If she wanted to work, they had some tasks for her, and she was going to have duties when she was finished with the ‘detox’ process. This time, Lyonette would ensure Tessa ate three square meals a day, got exercise, sunlight, conversation, and she had prepared both alchemy and magic to help with cravings or mood swings.
Mrsha and Nanette tried to also talk to Tessa, and they’d given her a special blanket infused with some ‘warmth’ made by [Witches]. The staff would talk to Tessa, especially the chattering Asgra, and everyone wanted her to get better.
Tessa had a packet of Carivek in the sole of her left boot. She hadn’t told anyone she had it. She kept nearly opening it and mixing it into some water.
She wanted to drink it. She wanted to take some Dreamleaf from the Ashfire Bee. She wanted to inject something into her veins. Her own blood. Wine.
She thirsted for it like she was dying in a desert for a drop of water. The Carivek was the sweetest thing in the world, and she stared at the packet as it dissolved in the water and turned it black.
One sip.
Then Lyonette would forgive her, and they’d all try again. She’d probably try to sweep Tessa’s rooms, but the Drake could get more. Lyonette had plenty of stuff to sell. She could take just a sip…
Carivek was a downer. But it also made you smart. Tessa could drink it and find more in the city with it making her smart. Take enough, even in a Drake city like Liscor, to bring her back to that place only drug-classes found.
That’s how she’d done it in Tenbault. None of the [Fences] and [Drug Dealers] wanted to sell to her, obviously. She sometimes didn’t have enough gold…but she just bought Carivek, then figured out the rest. They found drugs if she raided their smuggling operations, enough to pay her off. Sometimes they tried to fight back or stop her, but they found out it was easier to just bribe her instead of die.
No. Nonono, she’d promised to try. Lyonette had come here. And this was The Wandering Inn.
Place of miracles. Only…
“There’s no more Faerie Flower drinks?”
Tessa stood there and stared at the little golden flowers in the [Garden of Sanctuary]. She bent down, sniffed at them, even tasted one, but they weren’t the same.
“I’m sorry. They’re gone.”
Lyonette sat with the weary expression of someone who had seen far too much, and Tessa saw one of the things she’d put her hopes on vanish.
A miracle, even if it wasn’t perfect.
Gone. She heard Lyonette speaking in a determinedly too-bright voice.
“Tomorrow, Tessa, we’re going to see Healer Demerra in Pallass, first thing, alright? She’s agreed to help and refer you to other specialists she knows if need be. She’s already seeing a Miss Streihart Silverfang. You don’t know her, of course…”
[Healers]. Tessa knew all the [Healers] all the places…but she just nodded because Lyonette was trying.
It will do nothing. The little voice in her head whispered, and Tessa stared at the flowers before raising her head.
“Streihart?”
“Hm? Oh, yes, she’s Ishkr and Liska’s mother. You didn’t meet her, but we’re trying to help more than just you, Tessa. I only wish we could implement more of what Doctor Scala told us…”
“I know her.”
Lyonette blinked as the Gnoll [Head Server] turned from collecting a bag of gold in the garden. Tessa bookmarked the spot he was digging up. For drug money.
Nononono stop it—she forced herself to focus. Lyonette was speaking.
“—sure you’ve never met, Tessa—”
“She has a spot on her face. Blonde fur here, and a spot on her ear. And stomach. She says, ‘silverluck for us, yes’? Hazyflower.”
Lyonette blinked, and Ishkr turned. Tessa spoke.
“I see her around.”
“W-where? You’d never been to Liscor—”
The world only they knew. Floating in a cloud unmaking her, away from all her miseries, never that high, only as much as she could afford. Tessa’s head sank.
“She’s never getting out of there. She’s as sick as I am.”
“I…”
Lyonette didn’t know what to say, and Ishkr? Ishkr was just standing there. He strode for the doorway after a moment, and Tessa stared at his back as Lyonette jumped up.
“Tessa, you’ll have to explain that. Let me just—”
“Yeah. Sorry.”
She watched Lyonette run off, and Ser Dalimont gave Tessa a long look before he strode after the [Princess]. What Tessa wanted to say to Ishkr was:
You should stop trying. You should give up on her.
But she was too tired. And she knew he probably wouldn’t. Tessa couldn’t tell if that made it worse, but she knew she clung to that. To Lyonette’s desperate kindness.
They can’t save us. 
There’s no Faerie Flowers.
This was a mistake.
 
——
 
Was it back to normal? Or was her damage still there? Was the ‘ceiling’ something that came back or a living thing? Or did they make it?
She didn’t really care. But she could find out, oh yes. If she took too much, maybe she’d go to the other side again. Pure reality.
She…could still hear that voice, which was merely herself, really.
Do you want salvation?
“Yes.”
Tessa whispered to the Carivek as it swirled there. Her claws trembled as she raised the cup. The first question was easy. Everyone had the same answer. Thus, the second question arose.
Do you want to work for your salvation?
“I try. But it’s too hard. I really did try, once.”
But she didn’t have the will to do it again. Tessa opened her mouth and tilted her cup up, then paused.
Lyonette came all that way for me. It hurt to see the [Princess]’ earnest face, to imagine betraying it. But everything Tessa had said was true. [Restore Addictions]. All her promises.
Her missing tooth.
Always Have An Escape Plan. Tessa put the glass of Carivek down. Then, after a moment, poured it out the window. It ran onto the roof’s shingles, and she realized it didn’t leak here.
Well, aside from the huge hole in the common room from the Goblin King, but it had a barrier spell on it. She hadn’t helped with that. She’d missed it.
Tessa stood in front of the mirror, panting with the effort that had taken. It felt good. She felt better.
“Okay. Okay. That’s how I’ll do it.”
She smiled at her reflection, at her gap-toothed smile.
“Three days. Then I’ll kill myself if I don’t find anything.”
It was, after all, the simplest way to avoid troubling Lyonette. Tessa walked out of her rooms and wandered down to the common room. She sat as Rosencrantz came over with a drink and asked if she wanted to see anything on the scrying mirror. And Tessa watched some television, played a game of chess, and felt no joy at all.
 
——
 
Time passed. The sun went up, and it went down. For other people, it mattered greatly.
For Tessa…
Lyonette du Marquin felt something was wrong with Tessa. The Drake had been good after her big return. Of course, other things had happened like Garry, but Tessa hadn’t been forgotten.
She was good. She didn’t cause trouble, she tried things, she ate food and drank the tonics and even commented on how much they helped or didn’t. She was doing well.
Too well.
Something was off with her, and Lyonette caught Tessa before they went to bed.
“Um, Tessa? Do you have a moment?”
“Sure, Lyonette.”
They sat in her room. Lyonette on her bed, Tessa on the floor, cross-legged, and Lyonette peered at her.
“How are you doing? I know I’ve asked that so many times, but, um, truly. How are you?”
“I’m feeling decent, Lyonette.”
Tessa smiled at the [Princess], and it wasn’t a lie that registered on the little [Detect Truth] stone that Ushar had given the [Princess]. But nor was it truth.
“Decent as in well? Do you need anything?”
“Mm. No.”
“So you’re feeling good?”
“I’m feeling…okay. Average, I guess.”
The Drake fidgeted, and that was true, but for what value of it? Dragonspeaker Luciva had revealed the stones didn’t work anyways. Plus…Tessa was eying Lyonette’s hand. The [Princess] ruefully showed her the stone.
“I’m sorry. I just felt like there was something else going on, Tessa. If you are well, that’s good, right?”
The Drake hesitated. Tessa traced a claw on the floorboards.
“I…I do feel decent. No real pains; I haven’t had that many urges with the tonics. I’m fed. That’s what decent is, right?”
“Yes. Physically, I suppose.”
Lyonette hurt at night. She hurt when she got near some people. Little things were painful, and she tried to hide it from Mrsha and Nanette, but she knew they could see. Colfa was worried about her, but she had chosen this.
Yet it seemed to Lyonette her suffering was more welcome than Tessa’s ‘decent’. The Drake also seemed to realize this was obvious, and she squirmed before blurting out.
“—Is that how it feels for you when you’re…normal?”
“I…I suppose so? Physically, yes.”
“And you like living like that?”
“I don’t think about it when all’s well, Tessa. It sounds like it’s not as pleasant for you?”
Tessa rolled her shoulders.
“It’s not like being in pain. But I’m decent. No complaints to speak of. And there’s nothing else. It’s just empty.”
“Empty how?”
“Empty everything. I eat food, and it’s good until I swallow. I’m warm when I’m warm. I sit in a bath, and it’s nice until the water cools. Is that…is that it? Is this what normal’s like? I can’t remember. Nothing else feels like—”
She caught Lyonette’s eye, forced a smile.
“But it’s better than—than—”
Than being alive. The silent implication of her words made Lyonette go still.
“Tessa, can you tell me what it’s like to have the drugs? Is it…is it really that much better than anything else?”
The Drake froze up, then she stared past Lyonette.
“Better? Yeah, it’s the best thing ever. Nothing comes close. It’s living and joy, and you never want to quit, but it always ends. I’d trade breakfast forever for a single meal when I’m on Dreamleaf. It’s perfect, and everything else is…”
She stopped, and Lyonette’s heart began to beat with anxiety, but then Tessa looked at her and shook her head.
“…a lie. It’s not that great. It’s still better than normal. It is. But sometimes I feel like…I remember liking breakfast more. Or baths. Or anything. So maybe it’s not the best thing, but it makes everything else worse.”
“That sounds terrible, Tessa.”
“Yeah. I wish I’d never started. But now I know what it’s like—sorry. You’re trying, but that’s all it is. Empty. But don’t worry! I’ll be okay. Right as rain, soon.”
She flashed Lyonette what looked like a genuine smile. That was one of the things Lyonette had been warned about. She licked her lips.
“Tessa. You’re not planning on running away or doing anything drastic, are you? You’d tell me if you were.”
The Drake didn’t react, but Lyonette sensed her aura waver ever-so-slightly. Tessa glanced at Lyonette, face blandly smiling.
“Why would you think that, Lyonette?”
“Because I was told it was a concern. Oh, Tessa. Can’t I help you? If you’re thinking of—”
Tessa stood too fast, and Lyonette nearly fell out of bed. The Drake caught her and gently put her back in her seat.
“I’m…going to be fine, Lyonette. I appreciate everything you’ve done. Really. No one could ask for more. I don’t deserve more. I don’t want to put you to any inconvenience.”
Warnings and warnings. The [Princess] rasped.
“Tessa.”
The Drake was standing by the window, and Lyonette knew Ushar was outside and perhaps listening, but she was devoted to Lyonette’s safety. Not stopping…Tessa held up her claws.
“You did everything for me, Lyonette. I see it now. I see…”
Her voice trailed off.
“I hate losing fights. I never thought I’d ever lose one against anything. Or if I did, I’d die stabbing. But this isn’t like a fight. It’s a war. It’s a war, and you don’t win, just buy time. And even when you’re winning…is this it?”
She gazed at Lyonette and flexed her claws, and the [Princess] was trying to think. But all she could say was—
“Yes. Yes, Tessa. But also no. It’s not all there is.”
The Drake paused, peering at Lyonette.
“Can you explain?”
She was so desperate to know, and Lyonette tried to. She thought of her daughters.
“I don’t like having a pleasant, do-nothing day, Tessa. But I’m so grateful for them because…because of all I’ve been through. Me, Mrsha. If I can hold her in my lap and talk about silly things, I’m so happy.”
“So it’s because you know bad things are coming? Because you have her.”
A bitter smile on Tessa’s face, and Lyonette shook her head.
“No, Tessa. Not only that.”
“Okay. Explain it, please.”
Now Tessa was peering at the little truth stone, and Lyonette was having to tell the truth. Was Ushar picking up on this? Could she block Tessa? But the [Princess] had to be honest, so she searched for the answer, and at last, she had it.
“It’s not merely wanting to be with someone I love, Tessa. Truly, it’s not. These pleasant days—yes, I want them, but not just a ‘normal’ day. I want a day where Colfa and I sing in the mornings, eat one of her bloody breakfasts with something delightful where I don’t feel sick, but I eat something that pushes me and I challenge myself, and to shop with Nanette. I want a day where I can curl my toes up by the fire and read a book. Not normal. Normal is boring. I want pleasant. I want happy.”
“It sounds the same.”
Shriekblade muttered, and Lyonette shook her head firmly.
“I believe you could make it so many days were that pleasant, but they are not only normal, Tessa. Truly. Listen to me. I want a day when Mrsha comes back from school and she’s done something incredible. Or—or when Calescent makes a new food or there’s something interesting on television. I want to have a fun time! Even if it’s ‘ordinary’, that’s different.”
