He turned his head in time to see the final Frost Wyvern who’d dodged his vocal attacks wheeling in the air. It was flying away from him. Reflexively, Merdon began to shout, then saw a pair of figures floating down towards him.
A short Hobgoblin with her arms folded and another who had a pair of swords drawn. He remembered Redscar and froze. They landed on the battlements, and a terrified member of the Watch raised a sword.
Rags kicked the [Guardswoman] off the ten-foot walls and put her claws in her ears. Merdon whispered.
“Gold-ranks, screen the Goblins. Cover me. Tessa—”
The Drake was staring at Redscar, who was eying her, and then she jerked her head.
“[Assassin] on the roof behind us.”
Merdon felt a crawl on his neck as Vaulont the Ash raised his head slightly, tapping the crossbow. But even so, Crowdcaller Merdon still inhaled, filling his lungs.
“I’m not done. I’m not—”
He coughed. Hesitated as he saw Lyonette and Ilvriss facing him. Glanced around as Madriga and the other Gold-rankers drew together, sweating. Searched for the Healer of Tenbault.
“Hekusha, they’re on the walls. Are you in your safe room? Orders?”
“Y-you’re supposed to be able to beat anyone! You told me your voice was invincible against crowds, Merdon!”
She was wailing at him, and he rasped.
“I can take them. I simply need you to order us to fight. It’s fifty-fifty. The Watch, our team—do we fight or negotiate? Healer? Healer?”
“I—I—you told me you could handle it!”
He lowered the speaking stone as Madriga whispered.
“Boss, those Hobs—”
“Take them out and screen me. I’ll hit them one at a time. Tessa, get the [Assassin]. Are you with us or not? They can’t make you do anything.”
“I’m not worth this.”
She was shaking, and he snarled at her.
“Do you want them to save you or not? Stab me in the back or get up and help me! But decide, Tessa!”
She didn’t say anything as she rocked back and forth. So Merdon’s chest inflated as his head rose, and you had to admire that in a way. The [Blademaster] nodded at Merdon as he raised his swords, about to see if he could cut a voice in half.
The people of Tenbault were frozen, fingers in their ears, watching the standoff. A few were trying to hide behind the Watch and Gold-rank adventurers, in the assumption they’d keep the civilians safe.
That probably would get them killed first when the Skills began activating. Madriga was about to shout for them to get inside and bolt the doors, for all the good that’d do, when she saw a Gnoll edging past Anabeva. He seemed terrified, open-mouthed as he pointed in horror at the Goblins, and he had on a rather formal suit. Like a [Butler] might wear.
Wait a second. Her eyes flicked back to him. Madriga started.
She’d seen that suit and Gnoll before. He’d been with the [Princess]’ group—
“Merdon! Behind you! [Swift Interception]!”
Madriga flung herself forwards, and Merdon whirled as Ishkr leapt, paws raised. His sneak attack nearly carried him into Merdon as the Named-rank opened his mouth, but Madriga slammed into Ishkr as he ran into her. And the two—
Vanished.
“Madriga!”
Anabeva screamed, and Merdon recoiled in horror. There was no sight of her. Merdon raised a speaking stone to his lips.
“Madriga. Respond. Madriga?”
She was gone.
 
——
 
One second, Madriga was lunging at the Gnoll in the chilly air around Tenbault, trying to get her sword in position to block and realizing he didn’t have a weapon, the next—
She was landing on the ground, slamming into glass bottles and cups behind a bar in a warm inn, and she kicked Ishkr as he stumbled.
“Ow. Damn. I thought that’d—”
“—attacking! Anabeva, cover—where am I? What did you do?”
The Gold-ranker swung around as she grabbed Ishkr and raised her sword, putting the tip at his throat. He held his paws up with a sigh.
“I’m not good at this high-level stuff, but I was trying. Er, welcome to The Wandering Inn, Liscor.”
“Wh—Liscor? Bring me back! Bring me back right now!”
Ishkr gave Madriga a resigned smile as he sighed. He’d have to figure out what happened later.
“I can’t. I teleported to work. Damn, I should have set a teleportation spot in Tenbault! Idiot. Rookie mistake. Onieva’s going to laugh her tail off at me. We’re in Liscor, the Floodplains.”
“What? What? There’s no teleportation spell that can do that under Tier…”
Madriga realized there were people in the inn. Mostly staff and a few guests, who were all eying her. She shoved Ishkr back in case he used another Skill on her, then tried to set herself against a wall.
Liscor? Wasn’t that countless miles south in the High Passes? Drake lands? How was she going to get back? What was—
Then someone tapped her warhammer on the floorboards of the inn. It was a loud tap, more of a ground-reverberating thunk. Madriga turned, and Captain Earlia of Gemhammer and her team advanced.
“Here I thought we’d miss all the action. So that’s why you told us to stay near the bar, Ishkr. Did you know about this, Todi? Is that why you volunteered for guard duty?”
Todi? As in Todi’s—Madriga saw a man get up from his chair and groan.
“Nah, that’s because I wanted to keep my hearing. Good thing he missed getting Merdon. Hey, rookie. Catch.”
Todi tossed something at Madriga, and she caught a glowing vial reflexively. Then it exploded. Todi sat back down as Ishkr backed up, and Gemhammer charged the stunned adventurer covered in hot, itching liquid that hardened like sap.
Ishkr shook his head as the lone Gold-ranker met a bunch of Silver-rankers with [Miner] strength. Neither side wanted to kill the other, anyways. He sat at the bar.
“This is so embarrassing.”
Todi poured himself a drink and shrugged.
“Eh, it beats having to deal with Loudmouth Merdon himself. How’s it going over there?”
Ishkr grimaced.
“He’s stronger than we thought. But Lyonette just took out one of his big attacks with Ilvriss, and most of the high-levels aren’t hurt. Plus, we haven’t used our secret weapon.”
Todi nodded a few times.
“Sounds good, sounds good. Sounds like Merdon; he’s not good with anyone above Level 40 who has a way to defend against his attacks. Even Level 30s can withstand his attacks. But he’s able to keep shouting. Real nightmare in a group fight. Uh…what’s the secret weapon again?”
 
——
 
Even Lyonette was surprised by Ishkr’s sneak-attack. She hoped he was alright, but she had to admit he’d been very daring. Merdon was swinging his head around, and she was sure between Rags, Grimalkin, and all the other groups they could take him. Merdon was better than she’d thought, it was true, but it was because he had a unique class.
If only they’d had someone with musical Skills of their own they might have had an amazing song-battle. If only. Lyonette felt a pang, and shook her head.
This has gone far enough. She turned to her company and called out.
“No more fighting! I want Merdon and everyone in Tenbault to stand down. He’s used up his Skills, and he knows he can’t beat us easily—send in our highest-level monster!”
 
——
 
Their highest-level monster? Archmage Valeterisa floated up a bit to see who that was. She’d been hiding behind Relc and Montressa since she was waiting for her part. Everyone here was so high-level.
Who could intimidate Merdon, who was definitely Level 40-something? She glanced around and saw Mrsha, Nanette, Montressa, and Relc staring at her.
“Who, me?”
Then she recalled that, yes, she was Level 57. Valeterisa’s eyes widened like a little owl, as if recalling who she was. Then the Archmage of Izril eyed Tenbault, and her features firmed.
She put one fist up into the air, because according to Kevin, that was how you did it—and flew. Kevin, fingers in his ears, peered out with Octavia from cover and sighed.
“Man. That’s so Archmage.”
 
——
 
Merdon was baring his teeth, picking his first target, when he saw the final figure flying upwards. His head spun, and he drew in a lungful of air…
And let it out softly. The Gold-rankers aimed at the short, flying woman in her robes, and Anabeva hesitated.
Then she lowered her bow. Not only because that final figure meant they were well and truly outmatched, but because—
The [Ranger] had an image of loosing an arrow. And then another image of being melted by a hundred thousand [Light Arrows]. She gazed up, and she was ready to fight high-level Hobs. Dance with an [Assassin] if the pay and odds were right.
—But the Archmage of Izril? The Gold-rankers remembered the sight of a woman dueling the Archmage of Chandrar and Mireden of Liscor, lightning falling around her. Rediscovering lost magic.
Holding Fissival over her head.
They dropped their weapons. The Watch was already holding up their hands. And Valeterisa seemed so bemused as she adjusted her spectacles, as if she didn’t know why they gazed up at her like that. She spoke, amplifying her voice.
“Hello? Erm, excuse me. I am Archmage Valeterisa of Wistram. Terras faction. Please halt all hostilities in the name of…Wistram? Yes. Wistram. And House Imarris. I will defend myself with exceptionally lethal force if I am attacked.”
No one moved. She aimed a finger down at Merdon.
“Um—um, a Named-rank adventurer with ranged attacks. Wait, is that Loud Lad? I know him from Larra’s inn. Oh dear. And he did so very well against Montressa, even with our hypothetical sonic preparations. High levels always do. [Prepare Spell: Valmira’s Opener].”
She was finally high-enough to cast one of her idol’s favorite spells, which Valmira had famously used to test potential opponents. If they survived the 8-spell combination, she acknowledged them as a threat. Valeterisa was so glad she’d set up the automated process to bind all the magic for her…
Rather to her relief, she saw Crowdcaller Merdon was not opening his mouth. In fact, he was raising his hands overhead. Valeterisa pointed her finger around, flinching as people ducked, then blinked a few more times.
“Is there anyone who wishes to attack?”
No. Everyone was too afraid to move, so the [Princess] called up.
“Archmage Valeterisa, I think we’re a bit behind schedule. If you would begin your part? Vaulont, is Tessa up there?”
“Yes, Miss. I have eyes on her. Next to Merdon.”
“I’m coming through the gates. Archmage, you have the sky.”
Valeterisa saw Lyonette hop off the wagon and begin limping for the gates. She blinked. And here she’d thought there would be more fighting and…
“Oh. Oh, I do? Well then, um. Where are my notes? Apprentice, where are my notes? [Recall Memory]. Yes, um, hello. I’m terribly sorry to take up your time today, but I would like to make a small presentation on a new spell I have uncovered.”
And then…everyone was just peering up at her. Valeterisa vaguely felt more scrying spells appear, focusing on her, and gave them her best fake smile.
She saw the Healer of Tenbault peeking out from behind a building with a considerable amount of magic in her, light magic specialty, higher-level than many even in Wistram, and Valeterisa waved at her, breaking off from her prepared spiel.
“—iscovery of magic I believe has profound effects on the—oh, hello, Hekusha. We meet again.”
The Healer jumped, and Valeterisa spoke down to the Healer as she floated closer to earth.
“I agreed to come here not, um, because of this business with adventurers. Though I am a very loyal and happy member of the inn! No…rather, I believed this was an opportune time to make my announcement.”
“Y-y-you can’t. You stole it from—this isn’t fair. We had a deal. I didn’t tell anyone anything!”
Hekusha was whispering at Valeterisa, and again, she had that [Loudness] spell on her. Which was sloppy casting. You could cast [Selective Loudness], and it was only Tier 3…but Hekusha didn’t know much magic. She was a one-spell caster, and that was okay.
Heidan the Fireball was very commendable in how he practiced magic. But Valeterisa just frowned down at Hekusha as they had a private conversation for the world to hear.
“Tell anyone anything about…what? Excuse me, I don’t recall.”
The Healer’s face went slack as she realized Valeterisa had utterly forgotten anything but the magic. The Archmage continued frowning, then shrugged.
“Regardless. I would like you to know that this is not magical theft, per se, as Archmage Eldavin did express familiarity with the same magic, and um, Wistram does not acknowledge theft of spells without physical removal of spellbooks or spell scrolls. So there. It is bad form per se, but I consider the economic and cultural impacts worth the effort. And I do not like you. I do not like your magic, Hekusha. So, um, there.”
She didn’t feel as good as she had hoped, to say it to the Healer’s face. Awkwardly, Valeterisa turned and gave the cameras another fake smile.
“Where was I? Oh, yes.”
She put a finger to her forehead, then smiled.
“Hello. I would like to announce a new service being rolled out by select [Mages]. For a long time, the [Restoration] spell has been considered lost magic. However, I am pleased—so pleased, smile here—to announce that I have rediscovered and taught others the spell. Apprentice, please stab yourself with a knife.”
“You can’t do this! You—you—”
Montressa hesitantly produced a knife as Valeterisa spoke, and then every eye was on the Archmage. There were gasps and cries as she floated down and found someone staring up at her in the crowd of people in the streets of Tenbault.
A little boy with a terrible rash across his face and visible skin. Valeterisa reached down, then cast around.
“Um, does anyone have a pair of gloves? Let me conjure…apprentice, un-stab yourself. The average [Mage] at Level 40 can cast this spell twice with appropriate Skills. Large mana-reserves are required, and it is technically difficult to learn. Which does limit the impact, but given the effects…”
It was a difficult spell to learn, and Valeterisa’s mastery of it meant she’d been able to pass it on to her apprentice, and she reckoned other good [Mages] like Grimalkin could learn it; she’d been teaching it to him on the way here.
Lesser [Mages] would require months of study, maybe as much as a year, and they’d have to link to cast it. But it could be done. She had trialed the spell under ‘Valeterisa’s Restoration Services’, but it had not been a widespread or well-known trial, which had miffed her until she’d realized she’d done zero advertising except to tell anyone she met about it—when she remembered.
But this? This was what they called ‘free marketing’, wasn’t it? And more…
