“Oh. So it has to be great.”
“Exactly! I can have plenty of baths that are purely—cleansing oneself. But when I have one that’s just right when I’m cold or it’s just so convivial? That’s worth it.”
Tessa scratched at her neck-spines, bemused.
“That’s funny. It sounds like you’re trying to have an amazing moment. Like…killing a big monster and levelling, only small things. I thought only crazy adventurers chased glory and excitement.”
“We all do, Tessa. Only, quiet moments as well as loud. Do you think you can find those here? If you keep trying?”
Lyonette smiled, desperately sitting on the edge of her bed. Tessa was still running her claw through her remaining neck spines.
“I don’t feel it anymore. Maybe. Maybe in time, but…I have another question.”
“Go on.”
Tessa glanced up and lowered her hands, facing Lyonette.
“How do you not hate being in your body or existing? Every second? How do you not regret being here and everything you’ve done?”
The [Princess] was silent too long. Her hesitation too revealing. Tessa grimaced.
“Yeah. I guess I messed that up, too. But…at least it wasn’t all my fault, right?”
She opened the window latch. And Lyonette spoke.
“Tessa, don’t. Please, please don’t.”
The Drake’s back was to Lyonette.
“The thing about having family or that fun stuff is…I don’t remember it. I don’t remember much of my life. I guess I ruined it. I really appreciate it, really. But I can see the future. I’ve done this before, Lyonette. I don’t want to ruin it for you so—”
She glanced back once, and Lyonette spoke.
“You have to know someone who made it, Tessa! You have to—to have met someone who quit! You did it before! What gave you the strength? How did they find a better life?”
Tessa turned and seemed to wrack her brains. Before she smiled and shrugged.
“You know. Some simply quit when they did something so bad they had to stop. Or someone helped them, and they just…did it. Sometimes it was after so many tries. Then they relapsed and I found them face-down next to me at the bottom. I met a guy who was doing everything I did. He quit, and I ran into him a few years later. He was looking healthy, and he had a life, someone who cared about him, all that.”
“And?”
Shriekblade chuckled like someone who got a joke no one else would until it was too late.
“I asked him what his secret was. He laughed and told me he wanted to go back to being down there with me. Every day, sometimes. He kept himself away because he didn’t want to let other people down, but he still dreamed of it. If I climb out of the well and I can fall back in a moment…I thought I deserved to at least see something different when I got out. But I don’t. That’s what sucks. I know I don’t deserve it, but—well.”
She opened the windows and stared into the long night.
“I’ve thought of this as a solution, a lot. It’s scary. But I’m really sick of doing this, like Merdon said. I’m feeling better, so—thank you.”
“Tessa, stop!”
Lyonette threw her aura, everything she had, but the Drake was gone before the first word ever left her mouth. The door flew open, and Dame Ushar rushed past her.
“Dalimont, she’s—”
Tessa was gone. Dalimont had been outside with Ishkr and all the staff he could find. He hadn’t even seen her move. A Named-rank adventurer. Lyonette begged Valeterisa for spells. She asked Mrsha to try to track Tessa, used the [World’s Eye Theatre].
They never found her.
 
——
 
The night passed into dawn, and Lyonette sat in her rooms, sleepless, waiting for someone to knock and tell her they’d found Tessa. With each passing moment, she was more and more convinced she knew how Tessa would be found.
She was trying not to cry, but when the sun rose, she felt her resolve break. She was sobbing, tears running down her cheeks, when a clawed hand reached down and brushed at the tears.
“See? I make people cry.”
Lyonette peered up, and Tessa was crouched against the ceiling, pressing her legs against a wall to keep herself in place.
“Were you—were you always—”
“No. I went into the Floodplains. I was gonna do it in the dungeon. Or the Bloodfields. That way you could think I ran off.”
Tessa landed on the ground. Her face was calm, and she didn’t appear…happier. Like she’d had an epiphany. But then why was she…?
Lyonette was almost afraid to ask, but she had to.
“Tessa. I thought you were going to hurt yourself.”
“I was going to kill myself. I promised and everything. And it was the one promise I was going to keep. Looks like I lie about everything.”
Almost miffed, Tessa scratched at her head, then sat there.
“Sorry. I know you were searching for me.”
“What—what stopped you?”
A monster? Something Lyonette had said? A little miracle unasked for? Tessa craned her neck back, almost embarrassed.
“Nothing like that. That’s how it happened other times. Other times, it didn’t stop me from trying. I bet I could do it properly this…well, it wasn’t any of that. I just…I didn’t hate myself as much this morning as I thought I was going to. So I couldn’t really do it. Now I’m embarrassed because it’s going to be a huge problem.”
That was it? Lyonette was trembling, and Tessa gave her a shamefaced smile, then turned away.
“I know it’s hard to get.”
“I’m glad. I’m…simply glad.”
The [Princess] was crying again, and Tessa hunched over.
“Sorry.”
In the silence, the door opened. Ushar recoiled, then ran to spread the news. Lyonette and Tessa sat, and the Drake confessed.
“Lyonette? I don’t think I can beat this thing. I don’t know if you can help me do that either. It’s not merely me wanting to. It’s…everything. Every moment I look in a mirror, I hate that face. I remember who I used to be. It’s Captain Groms laughing at me after I start crying in his bed. It’s every mistake I want to tear out. It’s who I am. I don’t see any way towards salvation. Not even with those flowers. Not even with miracles.”
She sat there, staring out at the morning light, and Lyonette whispered.
“Well…I do see it, Tessa! So trust me, okay? Trust me. I see a future for both of us. Please, just try another day for me.”
The Named-rank adventurer turned, surprised, and then for the first time since she’d left, she grinned at Lyonette.
“Liar. Your truth stone’s still here.”
She glanced at it, and it was flashing blue, but Tessa couldn’t remember which one that meant. But Lyonette’s chin rose.
“I’m a [Princess]. And we are in The Wandering Inn where miracles are half-off for lunch. We will make it happen, Tessa. This is a world of levels and classes. Anything can happen!”
The Drake stared at her and then nodded.
“…Yeah. I guess I can wait a while. Sorry.”
Lyonette threw her arms around Tessa, and then Ushar was back, and so was Nanette and a bunch of [Witches] who wanted to check Tessa and there was a fuss. It took the Drake a long, long time before they left her alone.
Even then, she rather suspected a Cave Goblin was staring at her from a crack in the door.
So much for not being a nuisance. Tessa really hoped she didn’t try to off herself again. It was still on the table, but right now…no.
If I can’t ever find that way out, what then? It was her greatest fear. The one thing she couldn’t out-fight. Not the fear of relapsing, but the fear of trying her hardest and then realizing it was all for naught, impossible.
Tessa stood in front of the mirror, and she looked bad, even if she had recovered a bit of weight. Still scarred. Still her. Still all broken pieces with nothing to offer Lyonette but a blade.
As always, she heard that voice. Captain Groms’ along with every other voice and moment that made her this. Only, her mind played a little trick on her.
For just one second, as she gazed into the mirror at that battered Drake’s face, she saw Lyonette, face alight with tears and determination. Shouting her apologies to Tessa. Bringing all the miracles she had to bear for this Drake who didn’t deserve it.
And then she heard Captain Groms’ voice.
“I’m going to beat the cockiness out of you, you brat.”
She saw Lyonette’s face blinking back at her and that fist rising. Tessa put her claws against the mirror. In her head, she caught that first punch.
She sat with Lyonette on that bed, and that moment…she fixed that moment in the little pile in her head that didn’t hurt. Tessa, Shriekblade, the Drake’s head rose, and her eyes gleamed just once.
“Not this time.”
She sighed. Well, that was a good enough reason for this month. She’d give herself a month to find another one. If she didn’t find it, then…maybe she’d go have a conversation before the offing herself thing.
It was such a pain. Tessa cast around, then climbed into her bed and rolled up in the Blanket of Warmth. She wiggled around, then sighed.
“Okay. It’s not worth living for. But it’s nice.”
It turned out that the only way to improve on this situation was if someone brought you a milkshake and you got to sip it while watching a scrying orb with dancing Fraerlings and Erin. After a while, Tessa slept.
