He sees Montressa and Bezale and Isceil waving at him, but Isceil’s dead too, and Calvaron-Palt knows she only liked him because he reminded her of her former classmate. He’s screaming for help, for his master. Galei.
But there is no Galei. Just a grinning Centaur whose face becomes Taxiela’s, and they melt away as he looks at his apprentice begging for help.
“You’re useful to me as long as it’s funny and amusing, Palt. But I’m never going to be there when you need me. See?”
He points, and Palt comes to an unsteady stop, in his body, and the monster is gone. But behind him, lying in a puddle illuminated by a stage’s light, is Imani.
There’s a hole in her chest, and Crelers are crawling out of it and eating her. Now, Palt is running at her, screaming, but he can only fire [Light Arrows].
He needs more magic, a wand, something, something—but he doesn’t have anything.
The inn. Where’s the inn? He looks around for the person who has all the answers, the [Innkeeper]. And he sees her door waiting for him.
Sanctuary. If he can just carry Imani in there as the Crelers eat his legs…but he’s running. He always runs. Had his chance.
The door—it’s covered up. Boards of wood and nails are blocking it off, and Palt is screaming for her, but then he raises a hammer and drives another nail into the wood. Adding another board as the Crelers begin to eat his legs.
“I’m so sorry, I’m so sorry Imani.”
He’s whispering to her as she sits up, and she’s beautiful and made of bread, and she’s rising past him, becoming something glorious, and she turns to him with a forgiving smile and says:
“I’m leaving you, Palt. You’re pathetic. Palt, are you okay? Palt? Wake up. Wake up, you’re moaning in your sleep. Here, use—”
 
——
 
Palt woke up with a gasp and scream and spat out the clear blue tube in his mouth. He jerked and nearly kicked Imani as she backed up from his flailing legs.
“Palt? Are you okay?”
“Dead gods. What—”
His eyes focused on the blue tube and the remains of a Dreamleaf cigar he’d made. They were in their home, and he—he—
Bad trip. He recognized the blue tube, a Cleanser Stick, and began to pull on it as hard as he could, inhaling the smoke into his lungs and exhaling plumes of discolored green-yellow smog.
Normally, Imani would have shouted at him for that, but her face was utterly concerned.
“I heard you screaming. What was that?”
“Bad trip. Bad—very bad. Thank you for getting me out of it.”
He managed a shaky response, and she blinked at him. Imani had partaken of any number of substances Palt had taught her about, and she eyed the cigar.
“Isn’t that just Dreamleaf? You told me it was practically impossible to have a problem with it.”
“Normally, yeah. But there was—something about—”
The memories were already fading, and Palt was trying to rid his mind of them. He shuddered, then sat there, head bowed, as she went to grab some water for him.
I’m pathetic. Imani was all concern, asking if he needed a [Healer] or something to eat and what he’d seen, but he couldn’t tell her.
Spellbook. I need to study—he saw her lying there, and then he glanced up and smiled at her loving, concerned face.
“Palt? I think you should lay off the Dreamleaf if you’re having negative experiences like that. Or is it that weird world you keep telling me about? Could it be a bad batch from your supplier?”
He stared into her eyes and smiled.
“I love you, Imani. Even when you leave me.”
Her mouth opened, and her brows crossed as she lost the ability to speak for a second.
“—What?”
 
——
 
That was someone who had a way out. Who hadn’t gone far up into that space now flooded and now lay sinking in a jelly of truths and understandings.
They were all…trapped.
—High Magus Telim, wiping at his face, wandering Wistram’s halls as students avoided him, and someone went to find Sa’la. Not having a delusion.
Locked into reality. All the way. His mind piecing together shards of a glass puzzle that cut his fingers to the bone.
“He knows. He knew about Valeterisa’s magic. Even when he saw her achieve it, he didn’t gasp, he didn’t beg her for it like Viltach, Feor, nononono. He knew. He’s known all of it. All the magics. Eldavin pretends he’s got part of the puzzle. He’s got it all. He’s giving it to us piecemeal.”
His eyes were boring holes in everyone he passed, and no one could meet the normally-jovial [High Mage]’s eyes. Telim’s voice was a rising whine.
“Cognita left because he could kill her. What next? What next? Magic on the rise, and he has us. We’re becoming old Wistram. Old Wistram, the ones who broke magic and put it together. Magical imperium. And I’m Terras. I’m there. Armies of summoned beings marching on—Halfling from the sky. Goblin King. He knows it all, and there’s no one who can stop him.”
Stumbling forward, haunted by a [Princess]’ words at a banquet. Seeing flying Earthers in armor. 
“Rihal’s Imperium. Sorcerous towers.”
He threw up at the truths his brain were coming to. He was lying there in a puddle of vomit, curled upwards, muttering, when Sa’la found him and began to cast spells to cleanse him, forcing a potion into his mouth.
But the dread conclusion stayed even when the man awoke. Truth and madness and—
“That damn Drake.”
“Who?”
Sa’la peered around, wondering if a student or another [Mage] had pranked Telim unkindly, but he lay, eyes staring upwards at the ceiling.
“So it’s real after all. Why the hell does it exist? What powers does it grant?”
He sat up and covered his face with a shaking hand.
“For once, I want something to not be important or meaningful. Can I level from wiping my ass right?”
The Selphid reached for another potion bottle, but Telim was out of it. He stared at his rumpled robes with Terras’ new colors on them and then puked again. He was still one of the lucky ones. His truths had been in him all along, just unwilling to be examined.
 
——
 
Shardele woke out of her dreams with no hallucinations. No visions, no nightmares.
Merely…clarity. A kind of clear-headed insight that was so perfect it was the worst of all things. If this was how Menisi lived, Shardele would have rather been mindless.
She wobbled as she left her apartment, and her servants rushed up to her.
“Your Highness, you’re in no fit state to—”
One of her nursemaid servants wanted to keep her out of the public eye. Or her mother’s. Shardele turned a pale, but unsettlingly focused, expression on the woman. Her [Caretaker] halted, and Shardele had no radiant, dreamy gaze of bliss. Only waxy features, red lips pressed together.
“Where are my parents?”
—She found them in her mother’s private rooms and threw open the doors despite the protests of the royal staff. Shardele halted as she saw three people sitting around a coffee table, playing from plush couch seats.
At first, they didn’t notice her so intent were they on the game of cards. Ielane was smiling at Thimiran as the [Duke] sipped from a glass of water, and Reclis was cutting the deck for Shardele’s husband.
“—And you were thinking we’d resolve the Ailendamus, mm, situation how, Thimiran? No wrong answers. I quite liked your opinions on Calanferian industry vis-à-vis these new pushes into the New Lands and this Earther situation. We have to acquire some—”
Ielane’s eyes flicked up, but her husband and Thimiran were too engaged in debate. She blinked at Shardele as the 1st Princess swayed in place.
The realization given to her by Tessa breaking the sky hit her in fullness as her husband laughed like a young [Lady] being flattered by a Level 30 [Handsome Suitor].
“My thoughts? Well, Your Majesty, if I recall your order of, um, operations correctly, I’d like to first take stock of my allies’ opinions. Not merely the Dawn Concordat, but neighbors and our true allies.”
“Ah, wonderful. Well, they would be—oh. Shardele.”
Reclis finally noticed his daughter standing there as the servants fled, and he froze slightly. Thimiran twisted around, and both men wore a slightly guilty expression. Shardele whispered.
“You’re teaching him? You told me I would rule, not—not—you’re playing cards with him, Mother? How long have you been doing that? Years?”
Ielane du Marquin reached for a cup of water and sipped at it.
“Shardele, this is a surprise. What drove you to this sudden realization? You were on Dreamleaf…could it be that? Drug classes always surprise me. This isn’t a strong argument for your continuing hobby, however. You’re not taking it well. Composure.”
Shardele’s voice rose as Thimiran stood.
“Ah, my lovely wife, I had the hospitality of Their Majesties and—”
“You’re teaching him. Cards were our thing! You—you—you never trusted me at all.”
Her eyes were filling up with tears, and Ielane sighed.
“Shardele, one hedges one’s bets in all matters. Did you learn nothing from our games? Thimiran, we may have to call it this evening. I foresee some strife. Shardele, your manners—”
Too late. The 1st Princess’s eyes were pouring over, and she screamed for the first time in a decade, and for the first time in her life at her mother. A wild, confused aura that burst around Ielane’s focused aura like a cloud of dying dreams and joys cut by a razor.
 
——
 
And it continued. Dreamers and smokers and people around the world shouting and trying to escape an adventure gone horribly, horribly wrong. Feeling cold reality dragging them back into nightmares they couldn’t escape from, trapping them within their own flesh.
All of them, from the greatest to the smallest, no longer protected by that shared realm, a creation, a Skill, a gift or a curse, who could say—made long, long ago by the greatest of their kind.
Truth dripping into their ears and driving their minds to madness.
A bee, buzzing upside down as she flew, panicking, Unable to hear the shouts of alarm from the people below her until a magic hand captured her and a [Princess] was hugging her.
“Apista? Apista, what’s wrong? She’s freaking out. Someone…”
The rot is deep and dark, and my kin are dying to slay the horrid things. I am alone, a stolen child given the blood of royalty by another child far from her throne, another pretender to true thrones.
We are all imitators of the crown. I have stung the eye of the Witch of Webs, but I shall never protect anyone, even if my form changes again.
Not from war.
Not from the crushing weight of imperium.
Not from grief.
I am a bee. I may be free, but only accidentally. There is no one like me.
She shivered, though her body could burn with flames, until Lyonette and Mrsha hugged her, and she warmed and crawled up to rest on their shoulders. Apista decided to lay off the Dreamleaf cigars for a while.
They cursed her, each and every one of them. The one who had caused it all, trapped deepest.
Tessa.
 
——
 
She saw it all. Shardele realizing how replaceable she was, Telim’s conclusions about what he had signed up for, Palt’s guilts and insecurities, and so many more.
They were below her as she sank, and it was no mind-bending trip she was on. That would have been pleasant, familiar.
This? This was the taste of vomit and regret in the moments when you woke after it ended. This was reality staring at you like your missing tooth in a mirror, the pockmarks in your flesh you’d dug out, the sight of your emaciated body, and the inability to lie.
You’re not going to get better. You’ll keep doing this until you die. You’re never going to quit, and there’s no way out of this. You can’t fight your way out of it by killing ‘the sky’.
There was no avatar of Tessa’s subconscious. Just her. She wandered down out of her beautiful dream and into a memory.
Ah. Right there. Here it was. She stopped and found a sixteen year-old girl covered in blood. Some of hers, but she was mostly shaken up. Miner Ghouls after a bad cave-in that had unearthed death magicore. No one had expected it.
One Bronze-ranker dead, five more in intensive care with a [Healer] despite potions, and the Silver-rankers were chewed up too. Captain Groms was in a fury, and she was so badly shaken a Silver-ranker handed her a pill.
“Here, settle your nerves, rookie. Let’s get a drink.”
She hesitates, that younger Tessa, because she knows it isn’t a potion like normal. But she’s so rattled, and she thinks what harm could it do? She wants to impress the Silver-rankers.
So she takes the pill, and it’s right there.
Right there.
Tessa touches her own face. And she thinks—if only I hadn’t taken the pill, maybe.
Maybe she’d be happier. Maybe she’d have a life instead of wasting away. She watched, instead, as the younger Tessa began hiccuping, and they laughed at her, mocking her for the thing she didn’t really want to take. Then one of them is going to buy her a drink, and she’ll be so addled by both…
They knew what they were doing.
Tessa blinked, and the memory was gone. Replaced by other moments that defined her life. Other people’s beds, often facilitated by drugs and pressure.
Captain Groms. First of many such bosses and employers. Setting the standard she thought was normal.
“I’m going to beat the cockiness out of you, brat.”
It was easier if he liked her. Only, he never really liked her, simply found her useful and then…she saw another Tessa rolling out of his grimy bed, staggering towards a sink and drinking. Drinking to drown horror.
But it never did.
Blink.
Assassin’s Guild. She wasn’t a traditional member, but when you were desperate and had a bad reputation as an adventurer, they’d let you in. If you proved you could follow orders.
Initiation rituals. Hazing. Until they recoiled away from her, realizing that she was outlevelling them. Then instead of predators eying a morsel, they became leeches sucking out wealth and bits of power, and she…
Blink.
Tessa walked down a lifetime’s road, and each and every memory was bitter. Even Ilvriss.
Especially Ilvriss. Because when she came to people who had been kind without artifice, and saw it in hindsight, she beheld how she wasted it.
Each.
And every.
Time.
The last one she came to was the [Princess], the inn, and the miracle.
A Faerie’s Flower. Tessa held it in her clawed hands.
“This was everything. And it still wasn’t enough. It made me normal. But it didn’t fix me wanting this.”
Lying in a puddle of urine and vomit as the servants cleaned around her, too afraid to even touch her in her rooms, a pile of burnt drugs and empty capsules surrounding her.
The present. She stepped back into the past. Saw the Winter Solstice. Iert pointing a paw at her without even bothering to take her seriously. Knowing he could disable her in a moment.
