Each day, the lottery took part in the squares where you were given a slip of paper and your name was noted down in the ledgers, guarded by City Watch with huge clubs. Lots of people tried to mess with the rolls, so a Gold-ranker was assigned to each plaza. Five were chosen from the lotteries; five more from the Healer as she pointed out whom she decided to save.
The rest were ‘private’ healings for [Merchants], nobles, and the like. But it would be a lie to say that the lottery healings were free.
The price to be healed of any ailment, most wounds save limb loss, and anything else by the Healer of Tenbault was simple: a hundred gold coins. As little as twenty if she picked you out personally. The [Clerks] would take what they could get, and there was the Merchant’s Guild for loans…if you were picked, you could pretty much pay the price.
It was getting to be one of the twenty-two lucky souls each day that was the nightmare, and it used to be far fewer. Merdon remembered a time when it was only four. Four per day…
Dead gods. He was shaving in his sumptuous apartments that morning, his double-king bed unmade and messy, the balcony leading into the interior courtyard blowing in perfumed scents and some leaves from the damn trees in the courtyard. He rose at dawn, and he’d be addressing his ‘team’, the Healer’s Wards, at breakfast. They had a private training ground, eating hall, servants, and staff—anything to keep them from being in the city.
In the city, everyone would be begging for them to take word to the [Healer], from the rich to the poor. Charm skills, threats, pleas, offers for sex, money—yes, everyone wanted to be on that lottery.
After all, the [Merchants] and nobles didn’t want to pay quite as much as the Healer cost, so they’d stick around for months until desperation or whatever they were suffering from made them pay thousands of gold for her favor. Tens of thousands, sometimes, for an overnight healing.
The richer you were, the more trivial your complaint. Merdon, as Hekusha’s bodyguard, had to be with her whenever she was in danger, so he attended every healing she had to do. And had to see what she healed.
Nobles? It was almost always something like pustules on the groin, a rash of warts, or an injury turned into a disease that a healing potion or regular [Healers] couldn’t treat. Sometimes a real injury.
Commonfolk? Lots of variance. Diseases were common, but anything infectious got you exiled to the Plague Quarter—and you could not exit it. They still had access to the lottery, though, overseen by very unhappy people wearing enchanted masks and gear to keep them from joining the sick. Otherwise, it was malformed bones, an inability to breathe right—
Children. Merdon had learned not to look too closely at the supplicants. Children were the hardest for Hekusha. Because she cast [Restoration]; she couldn’t always heal something.
That was when he was needed and it got ugly. Hekusha had a lot of Skills devoted to making the mana-intensive, difficult spell easier to cast and more applicable.
[Normative Healing], [Reduced Mana Cost: Healing], [Idealized Restoration]—it meant that even if you were born with, say, some condition that made your blood bad and your limbs turn blue from lack of air or whatever one ailment he’d seen had been, she could restore someone to a ‘better’ outcome than they’d been born with. Even get it to stick, sometimes.
Other times, the [Restoration] just—failed. Or a month later they were back, screaming she’d tricked them.
Hence the [Clerks]. They would take you aside if you were chosen and ask you every question Hekusha had come up with. Trying to ensure that she didn’t fail. The most-hated group in the entire city were the [Clerks], the adventurers being the second-worst.
In the silence of the morning, Merdon heard the artificial recordings of harp music being piped through Hekusha’s palace. But his ear could tell it was a failing music spell. The quality of the enchantments diminishing, too echoing, and it hadn’t been a great performance either. His hearing was too good; he could hear the oppressive [Mass Silencing] spell around the mansion. And beyond it, even at dawn, the swell of voices.
They were chanting for her. Begging.
Praying.
The praying was new. He hated it. Merdon nicked himself with the edge of his straight razor and cursed as he glared at his thick jawline in the mirror. Scraggled brown hair not yet combed back with his expensive hair products hung over his bloodshot eyes. His armor stood on a rack behind him, enchanted plate, a mace and shield. Tessa standing in the corner staring at him. Not the greatest artifacts, but he only needed to be safe. His voice was his weapon, and he reached for a spray bottle to treat his throat with.
He was opening his mouth when his mind registered the invisible Drake, and he whirled.
“Tessa!”
His [Cone of Sound] attack blasted the spot where she was hiding and knocked her and everything in front of her flying. Merdon spun for his mace and shield, but the Named-rank adventurer merely slammed into a wall, fell down, and stared up at him.
Like a lifeless doll. Strings cut, mouth drooling, eyes yellowed from last night’s drugs. Merdon seized his weapons and slammed his helmet onto his head, never turning away from her.
“Get out! I warned you—get out of my rooms!”
No response. He cursed and then raised his voice.
“Servants? Servants!”
They came running as he projected his voice out of his rooms, then froze when they saw Shriekblade.
“A-Adventurer Merdon?”
“Get my armor out into the hallway. Shriekblade, get the hell up. We’re working, you shit-for-brains.”
He snarled at her. When she didn’t move, he kicked a pillow at her. It bounced off her face and landed there. He spoke to the servants.
“Get the armor into the hallway!”
“W-what should we do with—?”
“Don’t touch her. Just ignore her and let her go. Armor. Now!”
It took three of them to wrestle his armor into the hallway, and when Merdon directed his attention back to Tessa, he felt his heart palpitate.
The pillow was in shreds. Ripped up, cut to pieces. She still lay there, but the down pillow had been obliterated. Why?
It was obscuring her vision. She never, ever let anything obscure her lines of sight. If Merdon was the greatest voice in Izril, who could blast an army with sound and leave them deaf or send a Griffin flying with his voice—Shriekblade was the dagger-expert.
Not a [Rogue] who did traps. Not an [Assassin] with stealth. Just blades. She came at you and didn’t stop. She was all offence; the scars traced all over her black scales were proof of what it cost her. If they fought, Merdon would kill her if he saw her coming at range or he could hit her in a place where she couldn’t maneuver.
If she reached him, he died. They’d fought before, when she was so mad on drugs she thought he was a foe. She never attacked Hekusha, but the Healer had saved his life more than once from her blades and her from his crippling sound attacks.
Only when the servants had his armor in the hallway did Merdon back up to the door and slam it. He put a foot against it as he wrestled his armor on and shouted.
“Breakfast in five, Shriekblade! If you’re not there I’ll have the Healer eject you from the city!”
No response. He cursed and whirled on his heel. She was worse than normal, and she was never good when she came to Tenbault.
 
——
 
“Healer.”
“Merdon. I’m counting the month’s takes. Is it low? Why is it so low?”
Hekusha sat with her Veils of Deterge hovering around her private bedspread, a sanctum of chambers far larger than his. The veils were enchanted to keep plague or anything else away from her. It gave her a gauzy, enigmatic appearance since they shielded her from sight. Merdon pushed them aside, and she glared at them.
“If you damage—”
“Shriekblade was in my rooms this morning. She needs healing.”
A pause. Hekusha’s eyes flickered, and she stopped poking at the abacus and scroll floating in front of her on anti-gravity enchanted pedestals. She slipped into Sariantwool slippers and clapped her hands.
Her bed was a pool of silk and mattresses in a vast circle, a swimming pool of cloth. It had been faintly humming to Merdon’s ear, though he knew she could not hear it. The heating enchantment in the sheets deactivated, and in another chamber, he heard the clank of motion.
Her Cooking Golem from House Terland stirring to life. Hekusha spoke.
“Golem, Chandrarian breakfast. Surprise me. I healed her last week! I don’t have mana to waste.”
He grunted as she walked towards the privy and heard birds begin to sing. She pointedly closed the door, but he leaned against the wall and projected his voice. He could be heard anywhere in the city if he chose. And he could hear everything, despite doors and walls. He was used to it.
“She’s unstable. If you don’t heal her, she won’t work.”
“I should be getting more effort out of her.”
He didn’t respond to that. Time was that Hekusha wouldn’t have admitted Tessa without a lot of gold, but the times were changing.
“We need her. There’s that serial killer in the city.”
The door opened, and he recoiled from the stench. Hekusha’s voice was plaintive.
“Can’t you find him? I want him gone, Merdon!”
He retreated a dozen paces, growling.
“Whoever’s doing it—I don’t have tracking Skills, and neither do the team. Shriekblade is the only one.”
“Can’t you hire someone? The—the whatshername. The Drake.”
“A Watch Captain of another city? No. If you want [Rogues] or [Trackers]—it’ll cost a thousand gold per head.”
“A thousand?”
“To fight someone who’s beheaded at least sixty people in this city and cut a hole across this region? If they’re Level 40 or higher, it’ll be ten thousand per. Only Shriekblade is crazy enough to do it for less.”
“I suppose that’s worth the…fine. Send her to me. And I want your team to watch the lotteries! Someone keeps forging names onto it.”
“I’ll tell them.”
“I want it stopped, Merdon! It’s costing coin! We’re down 32% this month even with potions being out of stock! And some keep trying to pay in other currencies. Like that Terland…whatever it’s called.”
“Terland Tithel. You don’t take any?”
That surprised Merdon; he’d acquired fifty such coins in case they appreciated in value, but Hekusha gnawed on a fingernail, then grimaced; hers were painted, and she’d gotten a chip in her mouth.
“Ptuy. No! My Merchant’s Guild representative assures me they’re a passing fad, and it’s too complex…only gold. But between that and those fraudulent scrolls on the market—”
“From Liscor.”
Again, Hekusha was surprised, but Merdon was a Named-rank adventurer. He might not be active, but he kept abreast on this kind of thing. He had [Informants], bought news…he’d tried to get one of those scrolls, but they were like healing potions: far too expensive for him to buy just to test their effects. He was Hekusha’s bodyguard; he didn’t need one. The Healer muttered.
“Whatever they’re supposed to do is impossible. I wrote as much to the news channel, but they didn’t take my letter! There is no magical spell short of [Restoration] that can do what is being claimed. None.”
She was the authority on healing magic, so Merdon took that as the truth, but…he’d heard they worked.
“Could they be a Skill?”
“Hah! No. Maybe? There can’t be that many. Healing is not that easy. It’s just an excuse for people to try to pay less, anyways. But why is commerce so poor? Even with all that, we should be up, up—visitors are down, spending in Tenbault’s shops are down—”
She was the de-facto ruler of this city. There was a [Mayor] but Hekusha had a percentage of the city’s taxes and incomes from businesses. Merdon sighed.
“It’s the New Lands. People are spending for that. And with the Last Light’s lessons to [Healers]—”
He made a mistake. Hekusha’s voice rose into a half-scream.
“She’s a fraud! That damn Dullahan isn’t the real Last Light! She cuts people up and sews them together like Stitch-folk! Why would anyone go to her?”
“…Because she answers their letters and has a segment on television where she gives out medical advice for free? I heard lots of [Healers] are counterlevelling because of the lack of potions.”
Hekusha emerged from the bathroom after the magical bidet activated. Her face was pale with indignation. She chewed on her lip.
“Twenty…three today, not including Shriekblade. Have the [Mages] all report to me now. No, after breakfast. Where’s my [Promoter], Rigle?”
“Probably drunk and lying abed.”
“Send him to me, now. I want more [Bards] to advertise to the north and south. Maybe the Drakes…has anyone come back from the New Lands yet?”
“No. They’re probably dying there.”
“Well, some will be rich enough. What are you standing around for? Leave me to my breakfast, Merdon. Go, go!”
He went, growling orders at the servants. He wouldn’t have to see Hekusha for at least four hours. She would be a long time at breakfast and in her quarters; the lottery was at midday, and she wouldn’t bother to leave the mansion until then. In the meantime, he addressed the troops.
 
——
 
“Listen up.”
No one did, so Merdon raised his voice and slammed the butt of his mace on the table.
“Listen up.”
His voice filled the dining room where hungover adventurers, sixteen of them, were sitting, and it was so loud they winced and swore, but when they glared at him, his eyes made them shrink back.
Gold-ranks in the presence of true greatness. He counted them.
Debtors like Merge and Rave; outcasts like Pilgim, scratching at his scabs and eating them, lazy; Clarenessa was putting her head back down; or just here for a paycheck like Madriga and Anabeva.
The latter two seemed like they were mildly sick despite not having drunk. They’d leave soon. Their contract was up in a month, and he’d never see them again. Merdon wanted more adventurers like the two Gold-rankers. He could trust them not to be bribed. He took a breath as he glared at his plate of rich food prepared by a [Chef] with [Expert Cooking]; something fanciful involving goat’s cheese and salad drizzled with a vinegar.
“Listen up. The Healer is tired of people forging their names onto the rosters. I want eyes on the [Scribes] and the crowds. Double-fucking check the names that get selected before you call them in. Whoever it is can’t forge all the lists.”
“Got it, boss.”
Anabeva spoke into the flat silence, and someone sniggered.
“Goody two-shoes rookie.”
The [Ranger] half-turned and began to rise, but Merdon shot a compressed [Cone of Sound] at the speaker.
“Merge. Shut—up.”
