“[Restore Addictions]. It’s not my fault. I tried. I swear, I was trying. I was going to die and do the right thing. I was.”
But instead—Tessa saw herself freeze up, then begin pulling out the Selphid’s Dust from the bag Iert had tossed to the side. Like someone threw a bone to a dog. Then herself going mad. As he took the [Innkeeper] away.
The flowers didn’t fix her.
She couldn’t fix her.
“You can’t fix me, Lyonette. Stop writing to me.”
Tessa sank to her knees, weeping, as letters fluttered around her, written with the [Princess]’ delicate scrawl. She saw Vaulont the Ash swearing and leaping away as she slashed at him, screaming for him to leave her alone.
She saw the future, a [Princess] holding a bee in her arms as she rode towards Tenbault. She saw Hekusha’s expression of vague contempt hidden by a smile.
She saw her body falling to pieces.
And she knew that as horrible, as painful as this moment was…
Tomorrow, she’d be back here again. So the Drake opened her eyes.
She was laughing as the servants fled. Laughing as she sat up in the dark of the night.
Despairing? Oh, yes. Hating herself? Always.
But mostly…
Just tired. She sat there for a long while, then got up. Mostly out of habit.
 
——
 
Madriga didn’t like Tenbault. She found it harder than some Gold-rank missions she’d been on, and she was counting the days until she could leave. Thirteen.
Thirteen and she’d collect her gold, thousands of pieces, and go. But dead gods, she wanted to leave and forfeit her pay.
It wasn’t simply the misery of having to tell people begging for healing they had to wait. It wasn’t just realizing the Healer of Tenbault was a piece of crap only in it for the gold.
It wasn’t only the danger of Shriekblade, even.
No…what made it hard for Madriga was seeing Crowdcaller Merdon and Shriekblade and realizing that the ideal she aspired to, Named-rank adventurer, was…well, them.
As night fell in Tenbault, Madriga walked into the city of Tenbault, leaving the secure, warded gates of the mansion to go to a moderately large theater close to it. The paint was chipping, and it wasn’t as glorious as all the gold lettering and interior carpets made it out to be.
There was a crowd, of course. There was always a crowd, so she stood near the back. Most visitors to Tenbault came once; after all, it was free, and what else could you do to pass the time?
There was only one performance. No modern plays. The performance ran nightly, and there was just one actor who stood on the center stage.
He had on a huge, pinstripe suit with a red bow tie, and his hair was combed back. He looked, in a way, more professional, more attentive than she saw him in the mornings.
Crowdcaller Merdon stood in the spotlight, and he spoke, his voice filling the theatre as bored nobles, the sick and dying, all watched him. His voice drowned out their murmurs and coughs, and it was beautiful and vast.
“I was at the bar the other day, and I heard a fellow say, ‘I could eat a horse’! The [Bartender] instantly came over to apologize. ‘I’m so sorry, sir, but we’ve only got cow.’ Ha-ha. Ha!”
He didn’t smile, but he did a pivot with his feet and then gazed left.
“I went to buy boots at a [Cobbler]’s the other day, and the man gave me a fair price. I told him his deals were like a grape. They were ‘raisin-able’.”
This time, the groan from the audience was so loud Madriga heard it. But that was the act. Merdon paused, then smiled glassily at the audience.
“Now, here’s a song from the northern highlands. ‘Oh, I was strolling down the boulevards…’”
He launched into an old folk song that Madriga actually knew, and he was a better singer than any she’d heard. His voice filled the air, and she realized, with a start, that he actually had some accompaniment. Either recorded music or a Skill—but Merdon still stood alone and sang his heart out.
When he was done, he didn’t even wait for applause. He did two more jokes, then performed an operadic. Both female and male roles.
He could sing, dead gods damnit! His falsetto was so convincing he could have made her believe he was some buxom lady instead of the Named-rank man. It was alluring and yet—
You didn’t come here twice. Merdon performed for three hours straight each night. Something about him standing there, performing to the crowds, made Madriga have to leave after only twenty minutes.
Then she returned to the mansion, and Anabeva, her [Ranger] friend, caught her.
“Hey, Madriga, where were you?”
“Watching Merdon. What’s up?”
There wasn’t much to do in Tenbault at night besides drink and waste your coin or hang out with other Gold-rankers, but they were miserable. However, tonight they had more entertainment.
“Look in the main courtyard. Shriekblade’s practicing. No one wants to get close, but look!”
—And there was Shriekblade. The Named-rank adventurer stood in the empty courtyard, and Madriga saw, from one of the balconies, a training dummy set up in the center. Eight more around her. Shriekblade stood there, stock still, then lunged.
She stabbed the first sack of rotted grain and stuffing so fast Madriga didn’t see her move. Stabbed and stabbed, but not mindlessly; she left a trail of dagger wounds up its body, then kicked the training dummy up—
“Five Families!”
Both Madriga and Anabeva saw Shriekblade hit the dummy six times in the air, leaping, striking, bounding off it, and striking again. Each time she landed, she hit another one of the eight training dummies. When her first target finally touched the ground, it was so badly cut apart it turned into a plume of dust which rose and obscured her in a cloud.
A whirling blade slashed in that cloud, leaving cuts, beheading the other dummies, attacking, a pure offensive onslaught that Madriga couldn’t imagine mimicking even with a full team. Shriekblade finally stopped in the center of the courtyard, panting, dripping with sweat as training-dummy carnage lay strewn around her.
Then she found more training dummies, began setting it up, and went for a second pass without Skills.
“They train like monsters. Merdon and Shriekblade. I thought he was all hot air and Skills, but he sings for three hours, doesn’t he? He must be able to level his class by performing. They work hard, even if they’re, you know, crazy.”
Despite her dislike of both, Anabeva was admiring. The [Ranger] leaned on her bow as Shriekblade finished her second round and went to set up a third. She was sweating hard, but Madriga disagreed with her friend.
“Ever been to the Adventurer’s Haven, Anabeva?”
“I didn’t stay long, but yeah. Who hasn’t? Why?”
The Gold-rank adventurer leaned on the balcony as she watched Shriekblade.
“There’s plenty of Named-ranks who go there. They don’t train like that. Even the younger ones like Colth the Supporter don’t. Sometimes, you see them practicing, but not for hours like this. Active Named-rankers don’t train. They’re going on adventures. This…this is what the washed up ones do to keep their edge.”
Anabeva glanced at Madriga, surprised.
“Come on, they’re working hard. You’re telling me that’s not impressive?”
“Merdon hasn’t gone on a monster hunt in years, Anabeva. Even when those Goblins sacked the city, he wasn’t leading the counterattack. I heard one of the Named-ranks at the Haven say once that an hour of combat was worth a month of dedicated training.”
“Huh. But they earned their levels.”
“Yeah.”
It was true that Merdon and Shriekblade lay in the territory of true monsters, the kind that even multiple Gold-rank teams would have trouble equalling. But when Madriga watched Merdon standing on his lonely stage without a band or other performers, or Shriekblade silently stabbing at a training dummy on the ground…
Maybe I should save up and retire. Named-rank was a dream that got you killed, and you could live for the rest of your life if you saved up rather than spent your gold on new gear. Madriga saw her future in the two adventurers, and if that was it…well, she’d hang up her blades tomorrow.
It looked like fear, Tessa’s relentless practice. Fear of losing the last bit of her edge. Then Madriga saw the Drake hurl a waterflask to the ground, begin punching at the courtyard flagstones, scream like she was wounded…and then reach for something, pull it out, and drink it. Anabeva shook her head as the thrashing Drake lay still.
“We’re going to be so much better than that.”
Gone again. Shriekblade got up after a moment and then began wandering about, giggling to herself. Madriga nodded.
“I wonder how much you have to mess up to sink that low.”
She couldn’t imagine it.
 
——
 
Crowdcaller Merdon was tired from his late-night practice, but he had to wake up at 4 AM. For Tessa.
It wasn’t as bad as last evening. Apparently, she’d calmed down suspiciously fast despite all the stuff she’d taken, then been practicing. But at some point, she’d fallen off the wagon and…
A terrified young [Manservant], the same boy that Hekusha liked, was white-faced and shaking. He sat in one of their staff rooms, and Tessa was watching him.
Peeking around the corner of a doorway, eyes wide, hunched. Merdon sprayed some tonic into his throat.
“Shriekblade.”
“Shh.”
The terrified servants ran as she glanced at him, and he tried to figure out which drug it was this time.
She’s lucid and talking, so not a normal one. Dreamleaf? No. Hazyflower? Maybe. She might be dangerous; her eyes were dilated, and she seemed unpredictable.
“What are you doing?”
“Watching him. That guy.”
She indicated the terrified young man, and Merdon waited.
“Why?”
“Because he’s the main character.”
“…The what?”
“Of the story.”
“What story? It’s too early for this, Tessa.”
She gave him an earnest, desperate gaze.
“No, listen to me, Merdon. We’re in a book. We’re all in a book, and he’s the important person. If we don’t do something with him, we’re going to be written out. You say something to him. I’m scared I’ll become the sacrificial character in a big fight scene.”
Her tail was lashing across the ground with her nerves, and Merdon glanced into the staff room where everyone was begging him with their eyes to do something. He didn’t do anything.
His armor was heavy today. He sank down with the wall at his back, sitting next to her. She peered at him.
“What’re you doing, Merdon?”
He was too tired to care if she started stabbing him. Merdon’s head bowed, and he took his helmet off. He gazed into the polished metal and spoke.
“Hey…Tessa. Do you ever get tired of all of this? How long are you going to keep doing the same thing?”
The Drake paused, and he saw her shift in the faint, blurry image of the helmet. When she responded, it wasn’t with that breathless credulity, but a reluctant tone.
“I’m—not doing anything. Listen, he’s…”
“Hekusha’s going to keep sending you on assignments. If you’re not dead within the month from that, it’ll be your habit. You could make enough to buy her healing doing missions by yourself. Why are you hanging around here?”
She was rapidly, unwillingly, sobering. Or perhaps his words were altering whatever state she was in. Tessa stopped peering around the doorway. Then she slid down the wall and sat with him.
“Why are you?”
He glared at his helmet.
“I’m earning gold, and I don’t fancy risking my neck. Orchestra will never have me back. I don’t combo well with other classes. I’m…fine. I’m fine. I’m choosing to do this. Are you?”
He glanced at her, and she avoided gazing at him. She traced onto the marble flooring, cracking the stone with her claws.
“I’m choosing too. It’s just hard to choose anything other than—Hekusha’s merely making me work for all the trouble I put her through. She cares about me. About us.”
“…”
“Merdon? She does.”
“…”
The Drake reached out with a claw and saw his head was bowed, his messy, uncombed hair springing up in curls around his head. A huge jaw and an older man, not the young, sturdy-jawed [Singer] he had once been.
The Vetrl-pill she’d took made reality distort around Tessa, and she smiled. For a moment, she saw him and glanced around the mansion.
“Three healings a day. Remember that, Merdon?”
“I remember.”
Tessa exhaled, and the contagious dust drifted over Merdon. [Shared Trip]. He coughed and waved it away, but it was too late. For a second, her voice transported him back in time.
“Three healings a day. ‘And if you need help, there is Master Glivs, who is a [Healer] and can see to any urgent ailments. I am so very sorry if I cannot heal you! Please, the most urgently in need…’ And remember the house?”
It was simply a house, a bit run-down, in a village, and it was barely large enough for three rooms. Bedroom, kitchen/dining room with a table for three at most, and the entrance living room which doubled as the place where she healed people.
Old and humble. Merdon whispered.
“Do you remember the roof?”
They both saw it. Tiles, not thatch. Not even good tiles; just cheap ceramics you could lay down and secure with a nail—if the nail didn’t break the tile. They needed replacing constantly, could leak, and every storm damaged them.
But the roof was the best roof there ever was. Merdon stood in front of the little cottage with the line of people, a hundred all waiting for the Healer’s help, and he could see the places he’d patched.
It was always perfectly tiled. Not a drop of water got in, even in the worst storms. Other roofs, they’d take a beating, and then the next time it rained there was a leak. Not hers. The day after a storm, there’d be someone up there hammering new tiles into place, even if it was drizzling.
The same with the woodwork and front of the house. The little garden had not a weed. He swept the tiles and saw, in the glassless shutters, a snoozing young woman.
Lying in her chair as the crowd stood respectfully silent. Sleeping—because she was so drained of mana she needed to recharge. In a bit, she’d get some Sage’s Grass tea and sip it, then cast her second [Restoration] of the day.
It’d be dark when she’d be able to cast her final [Restoration], and then she might need to be carried to her bed. Merdon rested his broom against the wall and placed his hand against the old wood. He saw something had been nailed into the wood.
A ribbon. There were ribbons hung to the wood that often needed to be taken down as they began to mildew, but more would pop up. At least three a day. Letters, which Hekusha had placed on the walls, then put in a Chest of Holding because she had no space for them. Thank yous.
