Not much gold, except from rich clients. She kept talking about hiring another [Healer], if she had the coin—her private bedroom was filled with scrawls, trying to write the magic she had been taught out and make it easier.
Tessa sat next to the door like a guard-dog, staring at the people as if daring them to rush the cottage. She was chewing on some sausage. The Healer of Tenbault never went hungry, and the basket of provisions was always more than she could eat, so she shared it out. In the distance, Tessa saw the camps and smelled cook fires from the people coming for Hekusha. The villagers grumbled, but they let the people stay, and there was talk of raising a second inn to accommodate more people.
The Drake lay her head back against the wall of the cottage and breathed in and out as she listened to the Healer snoring. She saw the young man who came here when he wasn’t adventuring with his team staring through the window.
Merdon the Shouter glanced at Tessa, and she smiled at him toothily. And he said:
“Wake up, Tessa.”
Her smile faltered. She reached out, and his voice was low and precise, and it made her veins thrum.
“You have to wake up. I don’t care about whether you live or die. I do not. I’m tired of dealing with your shit. Tenbault doesn’t need two Named-rank adventurers. This is my retirement, not yours. Get lost, would you?”
“Merdon. I—”
She blinked, and the cottage dissolved. His face was replaced by the older man’s. He lowered the Potion of Clarity and splashed her in the face with the rest of it. She recoiled, but he just bounced the bottle off her chest and pushed himself up. His face was shadowed as he put his helmet back on his head.
“That house and the village is gone. You don’t owe her anything. Neither do I. Some [Princess] is coming for you, and I’m not risking my neck.”
“Lyonette? But I told her not to care about me. I’m hopeless.”
Tessa whispered, and Merdon strode past her.
“You don’t need to tell me that. But they keep coming back regardless of how low you sink. I wonder what you did to earn all that?”
She gazed at his back and rubbed at her eyes.
“I don’t know.”
 
——
 
Hekusha was in a bad mood this morning. She was snapping at the servants.
“There’s a leak in the corner of the room, right there! Get the [Builders] to patch it, and have it re-enchanted by a good [Enchanter] properly. Merdon? Where are you?”
He stomped into the room, red-eyed and glowering. She was going over her ledgers from last night and about to compliment him for dealing with the fraud incident. And to tell him to send Tessa in for more work.
But the Named-rank adventurer was distracted. He held up a hand as she began to speak, and affronted, she glowered.
“Merdon! I was—”
“Something’s coming. Get to your safe room. Something’s…”
His voice sparked alarm into her chest. She put down her papers, dropping them and fumbling for the pages, which cascaded down to the ground.
“What? Monsters?”
“—I don’t know. Madriga, someone report! Is anyone on the walls?”
He seized a speaking stone, and there was an alarmed voice.
“Boss? My [Dangersense] pinged. Lightly, but—the Watch is calling in. There’s a caravan coming down the road. It looked like more patients at first, but there’s Antinium and fucking Goblins among them. And Drakes and—”
Antinium? Goblins? Hekusha’s eyes grew round with alarm, and Merdon cursed.
“Get everyone on the walls! I want eyes up for Wyverns! Hekusha, panic room!”
He was pounding out of the doors to her rooms when she shrieked.
“Merdon! Wait! What about my bodyguard? Send Tessa or—”
“They’re here for Tessa!”
He roared at her, and then she realized who it was.
The [Princess] had come.
 
——
 
They came riding down the road like a storybook. Like one of Tessa’s trips so surreal were they to Tenbault.
Madriga’s eyes were boggling as she peered over the low battlements at…
“It is Goblins. They’re simply riding along and—waving at us.”
Goblins on wagons, riding next to Antinium. One of the Ants was even on horseback, and the Watch wasn’t sure if they should be alarmed or what.
“They must be those Liscorians. Are they coming for the Healer’s favor?”
“I don’t—I don’t know. Merdon said to get to the walls and get ready for trouble. Are the gates sealed?”
“Uh, three out of the six are. Two’re jammed, and there’s crowds—”
“Seal all of them!”
Tenbault was not a defensible city. Nor did they have an army. Madriga reassured herself that it wouldn’t be a battle. No one attacked Tenbault. Even the Bloodfeast Raiders did not because everyone needed the Healer. The only time a force had ever sacked the city was when that Goblin tribe had…
Her eyes fell to the Goblins again, and she checked the shortsword on her waist. Anabeva had her longbow raised.
“Should I shoot one of the Goblins or something?”
“They’re riding with the group, Anabeva.”
“Yeah, but they’re Goblins.”
“I heard in Liscor you’re not supposed to kill them.”
The [Ranger] shot her friend an incredulous look. She squinted down the shaft of her arrow.
“Let me take a [Distant Scan]. Hmmm. Whoa. Whoa!”
She jerked, and Madriga tensed.
“What?”
“Some of the people are seriously high-level! And you know how nobles glow with my scan?”
“Yeah?”
“Well, I count three glows, and one’s all silvery! That woman sitting there with the white Gnoll kid?”
She pointed at a tiny figure. Madriga shrugged.
“How high are their levels?”
“H-high. There’s some huge muscle Drake, a fat Drake, a female Drake, the Drake [Lord], the other [Lady], uh, uh—the Gnoll in a suit, and I swear there were more, but even the lower-level ones are strong. Like, there’s a Hob that might be Level 30?”
“A Level 30 Hob?”
Madriga was horrified, but then Anabeva whispered.
“Yeah, but all the ones I named are higher level than she is.”
The two Gold-rankers stood there, and Madriga’s stomach began to hurt.
“You must be mistaken. There can’t be that many high-level people in one spot. Unless they’re bodyguards for one of the Five Families?”
It didn’t explain the Antinium or Goblins. Anabeva raised her longbow again, thoroughly freaked out.
“Those Goblins are dangerous. Hey, hey, everyone, get on the walls now! Where’s Merdon and Shriekblade? I’m going to fire a warning shot.”
“What?”
“Just so they stay back!”
“No, don’t do that. Anabeva, this is a bad idea—”
Anabeva was drawing back on the longbow, not aiming at any one person, but for the road. A clear warning shot for the danger only she could fully see. If you were watching her, and you had any understanding of archery, you could see she wasn’t going to hit anyone.
But then again, if you were watching her from, say, the window of a carriage that was half-rolled down, then you might have also been ordered to ensure absolutely zero threats came at you from Tenbault.
Also to make an impression. So, as Anabeva drew back on the longbow and hesitated, Madriga saw a flicker from the corner of her eyes.
“Watch out—”
The arrow hit the longbow as both Gold-rankers dodged backwards. It blew the bow out of Anabeva’s hands, and the [Ranger] cried out as it went tumbling off the battlements.
“How the—”
Madriga had already taken cover, and she felt her skin crawling.
I didn’t even see it coming this way. It curved—
Someone had seen Anabeva move, drawn an arrow, and loosed with pinpoint accuracy. Suddenly, the Gold-ranker was sweating. That wasn’t an [Archer] on Anabeva’s level. Then there was a crack and a scream.
“We’re under attack! Run!”
The Watch stampeded off the walls, yelling, and Madriga almost shouted at them to keep their heads down when she saw what had hit them.
An arrow arced up had fallen and hit the battlements. It had lodged in the crenellations that shielded you from archer fire, which suggested it had not only been fired with tremendous force, but that the archer had deliberately planted it there.
Especially because attached to the arrow’s shaft was a little piece of string and paper. Madriga stared at it, then reached up with trembling fingers and yanked the paper down. She read it out loud.
 
Kindly do not take aim at convoy. You are in my line of sight. 
—Elia Arcsinger.
 
“A-Arcsinger? But she’s washed up! She lost to a Gold-ranker.”
Anabeva’s eyes were wide, and Madriga almost chanced a glance over the battlements before hissing.
“Go get your bow! If she’s so washed up, how did she hit you?”
Anabeva was crawling towards the stairs.
“It’s okay, we’ve got Merdon and Shriekblade. We’ll—”
The third arrow blew a chunk out of the battlements, and both Gold-rankers screamed. The arrow went clattering down in a shower of unenchanted masonry, and Madriga saw a third arrow, this one of a different make, and another message attached to it.
 
Hello, I am also here. I am Bird. We have come to put a boot up the Healer’s posterior. Do not resist.
—Bird
 
She stared at it. Bird the H—
The fourth arrow clattered down next to her, and she decided she needed to be under more cover. The note this time read:
 
Sorry, I did not mean to destroy the battlements. My new bow is very pow-y. Be warned or something.
—Bird
 
Madriga read it, then she began to shout for Merdon to get here now.
 
——
 
Lyonette du Marquin was having a fine time. Okay, every time the wagon hit a bump she winced as her cracked skin pulsed with pain.
But she was in good company, and it was a fine day after a night camping out. There was Wall Lord Ilvriss riding on one side, Nerul playing cards with Nanette in the wagon, Mrsha in her lap, and Tenbault was on the horizon.
She wasn’t even mad about the shenanigans. She encouraged it. Chaos? Yes, please, with a side-serving of consequences. Pass the drama.
Tessa.
She was also aware of the danger, of course, and Ilvriss was leaning over his saddlehorn.
“Crowdcaller Merdon specializes in blasting large numbers of people. I respectfully suggest we spread out. I saw him fighting at the Bloodfields once.”
“I second that motion. Pryde, if we were to step that way?”
Grimalkin began to jog towards one of the other many gates the city had, but Pryde and Lyonette demurred instantly.
“No. We stick together. Shield spells I will take, but we can combine our defences. And it is the look of the thing, Grimalkin. We are not going to fight. If we have to fight, we will win, but we will not be seen to prepare for it.”
Lady Pryde nodded vigorously and shot Lyonette a thumbs up.
“Dignity. I keep telling you that, Grimalkin.”
The Sinew Magus and Ilvriss exchanged a look. Grimalkin cleared his throat.
“This would be dignity over practicality? A, ah, very noble concept.”
Pryde and Lyonette smirked at him. Ilvriss rubbed at his forehead.
“There’s some tactical element to it, I suppose. Magus, can you block a sonic attack at range?”
“I could try a [Hush] spell, and I was researching a way to turn it to [Mass Hush], but that might not work against a projected attack…Merdon is a fascinating issue since he’s creating sound waves, and we’re not close. Let me confer with Valeterisa.”
Grimalkin strode off, and Pryde followed, but Lyonette had to ask.
“He did a lot of damage at the Bloodfields, Ilvriss?”
The Wall Lord nodded tightly.
“Burst eardrums, chaos in the ranks—he could shout arrows and spells apart. Truly dangerous. We bled hard that year.”
“Why didn’t they use him every year, then?”
He smiled thinly.
“I suppose either the Walled Cities made him an offer to refuse or he was told—or just realized—that he’d be the first candidate for assassination if he became that much of an issue. Besides, if they kept bringing him, we’d have to call for Saliss or someone to counter him.”
“Oh, quite. Well, thank you for taking the time, Ilvriss. I know your digging is pressing, but this is so important—”
He smiled at her as he nodded to Peggy, Yelroan, and Rozencrantz, who were passing out snacks.
“I wouldn’t miss a real Solstice moment for the world. And as you said…I feel responsible for this too. I will say, though, that we must not discount Merdon. He might have been beaten once, but his guard was down. He is still a Named-rank.”
“We have one ourselves.”
Lyonette nodded to Elia, who was arguing with Bird about shooting at Tenbault. Ilvriss sighed.
“They have two. We don’t know how Tessa will act. If one side is fighting to kill and the other is not…let’s have the children hang back with Sergeant Relc.”
The [Spearmaster of Silence] was, in fact, the ideal candidate to both take care of the children and potentially ward off Merdon, though he seemed rather alarmed at the idea.
“I don’t even know how to cut, uh, sound, guys. Listen, if it gets bad, everyone just take cover behind a wagon or Montressa, alright?”
“It’s not going to get bad. What are they going to do? Fight? We have an Archmage, Grimalkin, Elia, Bird, and you on our side!”
Montressa assured Relc as Valeterisa woke up from her nap. Relc scratched at his neck spines.
“I dunno. That sounds really reasonable, Montressa.”
“Exactly, so—”
“Reasonable people don’t really exist in my line of work. You’d be surprised how many idiots take a swing at me even though they know I’m a [Spearmaster] and Relc and a Senior Guardsman. We gotta be careful.”
This sensible line from the Drake made Montressa blink, then start doubling her barrier spells. Mrsha held up a notecard.
Relc, when did you become so responsible and wise? You’re losing touch with your roots!
Relc twisted around and gave her a mock-grimace.
“I know, right? It sucks. I think Watch Captain Zevara gave me something. It’s the food you get when you’re promoted. By the way, how are we doing this? I didn’t actually get the full plan. Or I was eating.”
Nanette puffed up in outrage.
“You missed my lecture? First we get a boot and then—”
She began to joke around, then saw Relc had his spear in his hands and grew a bit more serious.
“U-um, well, we talk first. Lyonette wants to talk to the Healer of Tenbault and give her a piece of her mind. And Chieftain Rags is waiting in the wings. We do a show of force, and Archmage Valeterisa is the final blow.”
“Sounds like the Goblins are when it gets hairy. Or maybe just when the Healer appears. Got it. So we’ve got ward spells from our [Mages], and I think Ilvriss and Lyonette have some defensive Skills…”
Relc was calculating the inn’s defences, which weren’t as all-encompassing as he’d like. Not as many pure combat-classes. However, they had tricks.
Such as Yelroan, who was bickering with Ishkr.
“Listen, I’ll flash them with my sunglasses. Works on everything. I reckon I could get the entire city. Don’t take risks.”
