She was excited, Shierxun, clearly done with this conversation now that she’d manipulated Gadrea enough and gotten information about her next destination. Gadrea would have to evade a few [Spies]; she’d pull the tracking spell Shierxun had placed on her off tomorrow. It felt like slime. The Lucifen always forgot the Agelum might not be spellcasters, but they could deal with magic. Shierxun nodded to her.
“Fair thee well, cousin. Will you not stay and make this tedious dinner with the Healer amusing?”
“I long to scrub my tongue of this place. No, I shall not stay. I do not know how you tolerate her.”
In response, the two Lucifen smiled as one.
“It whets the appetite.”
This time, it was the Agelum’s turn to roll her eyes, and she hefted the rucksack up. She turned back only once.
“I feel poorest for that Drake girl the Healer was tending to. Were I back in Ailendamus, I would take her into House Shoel’s custody, but she is too far, too important, and I think, too dangerous.”
Paxere tapped at her lips thoughtfully.
“The one called Shriekblade? She’s addled by drugs, isn’t she?”
Gadrea’s eyes were sad as she turned away.
“Lost to them. And the Healer uses her like a Djinni of war, to see how close to death she lay. I had thought to try to talk to her, but…she saw something of my capabilities and is wary. She was already lost when I visited. Of all the world’s ill creations, such substances take hope the most.”
Neither Lucifen had anything to say to that rather reasonable statement. Paxere glanced out the window where they heard a faint, rhythmic cry. Like someone laughing or weeping.
“I was rather amazed at her tolerances. Three Minotaurs wouldn’t have survived what she took, by my calculations. It must prolong her lifespan, her levels. A cyclical relationship. Reduced lifespan versus rising levels.”
Gadrea snapped the leather strings of the rucksack. She turned and strode out the door, calling out only once over her shoulder.
“Someday, cousins, I hope for a world where everyone can be helped. Even her. I am only one pair of hands.”
It was a variation of how they always parted. Paxere called back to Gadrea as she lifted a hand.
“Someday, cousin, I will create a system where her kind shall not exist. And judge her every step and how it came to be.”
Then they parted, dark and fair, champion and predator. Upon their divergent roads. But neither Agelum nor Lucifen saw a path forwards.
Not for Shriekblade. She lay in her rooms, her entire stash of drugs shredded, imbibed, or just burning as servants tried to break down the door to put out the haze of smoke that dropped a Gold-rank adventurer who passed through it. And Tessa was gone.
Higher, higher, spinning out of cruel reality. Further than she had gone almost—almost—
Ever.
 
——
 
That was how you did it. You left. Sometimes, it was a cigar, like the Centaur blowing on one after work.
Or other times the door was found in the needle you pushed up an arm. An ampule of dusky liquid sold to you by a [Fence].
There were many doors. But so few…worked right. It had to be just right, you see. Too much or too little and you wouldn’t find it. Most of the ones who left reality were experts. Lifers, though the ones with the most experience tended not to touch the hardest stuff.
Still, they all came here. Temporary, flailing bursts of color who vanished, dissolving. Or those who found their way here, time and again, buoyed up by gentler currents.
Where was ‘here’? Ah, well…it wasn’t so much a place as a community. It appeared different to each person, but it was here they met.
The Centaur smoking his pipe was low down, a hazy cloud of Dreamleaf floating on his gentle yet intense high. His was all pleasant thoughts of his love, a daydream about her cooking barefoot in her kitchens and chuckling over the play-on-words.
But if Palt cast around, he had the vaguest…sense of community. If he had a bit more vantage, he might have sensed a few others.
Like, for instance, in the city of Celum, a boy who’d gotten into a packet of strange powder he’d found in a dropped bag of holding. He’d gotten a faceful of Arrowsmoke, and he shot past Palt, a screaming, whirling panic of senses.
Arrowsmoke made you sharper, but too much and you felt like your face was turning into a bunch of lines. Smell became a direction you could use to draw a map—if only you could stop your eyes falling out of your face.
The boy screamed once and vanished. Unable to remain…here. He’d be a shaking, juddering mess until his family found him and called for a [Healer]. Not enough of himself to remain, you see.
But there was another drinker around Palt’s level of high. Only, the Drowned Man had come down on Elf’s Tears, oozing out of the sky in a rain like the drug until the world was a single note he could understand. He and Palt glanced at each other only once, and Palt waved. The Drowned Man took another drink and sank upwards.
They did not really want to go that much further upwards. This was…comfortable. Most people hung here, the amateurs, the first-triers. Any higher and you didn’t last unless you were a professional, and how high did you want to go? And who were they?
Palt never really remembered. Not when he came out of those clouds. It was just a vibe he had. A feeling. But perhaps, if he ever ran into someone who bought his wares, he’d have that sense of déjà vu. As if they’d met somewhere, and the two would smile.
One of the people he half-knew was the woman who rose past him and the Drowned Man, rising above all the others. He craned his head back as she floated past him on a cloud of Dreamleaf he envied and a shower of tears.
“High today.”
“Mm.”
That was all the Drowned Man said. They watched the [Princess] fly higher. Away, oh, away.
Princess Shardele could fly into that transforming, shifting sky of colors like a bird. Higher than anyone. They waved at her, her comrades and friends. Admiring how she approached the very top of the sky itself. Today, she was flying high, and she was so talented. In this.
Shardele was running away. She shed reality in huge, fat tears of actualization as the Dreamleaf became a cloud, and she rained her grief and memories for a moment, just floating, her mind reaching out to brilliant things she could see only here. The sky became a radiant blaze, and she could admire a simple tree and understand why it was so beautiful. A child’s insight, a poet’s reprise—and a dream of being happy.
—The tears rained down, and one was a memory of this morning.
 
——
 
“Incorrect.”
Shardele flinched as Ielane spoke, and her mother’s voice was no rod across the shoulders, but it felt like one, sometimes. Adamantium.
She wished her father were here. Reclis never got angry, but her mother was her teacher. Ielane was pulling on a cigarette, and she spoke again.
“Your understanding of Calanfer’s economy is not a matter of opinion, it is a matter of fact. Don’t equate that with policy or politics.”
“But you can always borrow money, Mother.”
Shardele whined, staring at the cigarette and wondering if Ielane would just be kinder if that were a nice, fat roll of Dreamleaf. She wished she could smoke on one, but Ielane had forbidden her to take any. Especially during their lessons. Ielane stubbed the cigarette out, then exhaled some smoke.
“You may change Calanfer’s realities, but the amounts of gold in our coffers and what is pledged are hard numbers. Enough. Your tutors will attend you twice more this week.”
“But Mother, I already have—”
Ielane silenced Shardele with one look. The First Princess of Calanfer wanted to argue she was Calanfer’s heir and eldest [Princess]. Her husband was Consort Duke Thimiran, one of Calanfer’s foremost nobles, and even if he was not a great warrior, he was a powerful man with a huge selection of industries all in service of the crown!
She had done so much for Calanfer by marrying him. And he was loyal and loved their children and all that. She didn’t often speak of Thimiran with her sisters, the few left in the palace. Nor did he come up because, well…
He was Thimiran. He’d be [King] when she took the throne, but he wasn’t the family. And it was she, Shardele, who had all the pressure upon her. The family led Calanfer. Thimiran was loyal; she and he liked each other well enough and knew to let the other live happily, and they had good nursemaids for the children.
Shardele wondered when Ielane would train them. She didn’t want to do it. When she was [Queen], she’d be nicer to everyone. But the Queen of Calanfer in the present only spoke.
“Shardele. It has been a trying week. Focus. Let us move to politics. What would you suggest our next move in this long, and now drawn-out, war with Ailendamus should be?”
Open-ended questions. Shardele hated those. She was being trained to be next [Queen] of Calanfer, and it was…hard.
She wasn’t Menisi, who was gifted, but disloyal. Shardele hated thought-exercises, memorizing policy, but Ielane drilled it into her. Took away her privileges and allowance if she failed to study. Of course, it was because Shardele was important.
She was going to rule Calanfer, and her mother taught only her so much. Shardele just thought it was too hard. She’d hoped, once, that maybe Menisi would…and Seraphel had been so sharp…
Only her. Vernoue had run off on her adventures, and Aielef was too hot-headed. Lyonette was a brat, Ellet was young, and her brothers were bound to other nations.
Only her. There were some upsides: Shardele might get Ielane’s wrath, but they did things no other [Princess] got to do. Like gamble. Ielane loved to gamble, and she’d play all kinds of games with Shardele some nights.
That was special. That was their secret, and even if Shardele didn’t like the games that much, she played with her mother and had even won a few times, getting that rare smile.
Right now, though, Ielane seemed pained, and Shardele hesitated.
“Is it because of all the nosebleeds, Mother? Is it something the [Healers] could—”
“No. I have complete understanding of my symptoms and the causes, Shardele. I am focused. Ailendamus. Give me a hypothetical action. I have passed, and Reclis is dead. The people’s confidence in the Eternal Throne shakes. We are at war, and Ailendamus is building up while we have neither momentum nor troops to push beyond border-raids. Your actions.”
Shardele fidgeted. She squirmed, wringing her hands together. Then—
“U-um. Have Kaliv strike with their Griffins. Decisively! Then we’ll bid for peace.”
Dead silence from Ielane. She gazed at Shardele.
“Why?”
Oh, that dreaded question. Shardele avoided Ielane’s gaze.
“W-well, I think it’d look like something the people would respect, Mother. Public opinion and all that. It might scare Ailendamus, and then we could sue for peace, even if we gave up some territory or gold…?”
She knew it wasn’t the answer Ielane wanted, but the [Queen]’s flat tone made Shardele realize she had messed up badly.
“Completely incorrect. How are you erring this poorly? Are you that impatient to be done with this? Is it the Dreamleaf?”
“I-I just thought it might work. And it’s been a long day, Mother.”
And I’m tired of all these lessons! Why are you being so hard on me now? Ielane and Reclis were young! But suddenly, she was making Shardele work twice as hard, as if Shardele was failing all of Ielane’s rising expectations.
Why? Shardele was no incompetent. She wasn’t! With her mother, she complained and she hated lessons and having her allowance cut—what adult woman wouldn’t? But you know what she wasn’t?
A failure. She’d passed Ielane’s tests. She hadn’t had a tryst with a lover that resulted in public embarrassment, she had the affections of the Eternal Throne’s courts, she even had the support of her grandparents, who had sway in Calanfer. The people loved her—even if a lot of that was due to the Eternal Throne’s [Bards] and agents; Shardele was the [Princess] heir apparent that she needed to be.
Not a genius in politics or a sharp-as-razors mastermind like her parents. But she had time. She was the girl with all the pressure and eyes upon her, and you know what? Sometimes she was high on Dreamleaf, and maybe everyone knew that. But that was the only thing that kept her from snapping.
Snapping because she had no real friends who weren’t counting their allegiances or there for her power. Snapping because she and her husband didn’t love each other. Snapping because she had her mother breathing down her neck at all moments, and she had an allowance and lived with her parents even now. Snapping because every moment she was outside she was in the public eye, snapping because of all the pressure and expectations on her—
She knew more than she let on, and it could drive you insane, knowing the secrets of a kingdom. Shardele would have become some cynical, bitter, untrusting woman if she didn’t have the Dreamleaf. It let her feel like she was young and the world had hope in it. She had done well enough. She thought she’d been meeting Ielane’s impossibly-high bars, if not to clear them, enough to be the best [Princess] for the job.
Until now.
Shardele wanted to have some Dreamleaf in her lovely rooms, but Ielane’s voice was like a razor cutting through her hopes and dreams.
“Shardele du Marquin. There are a thousand reasons to make any decision, politically. The most heinous acts may be done for the sake of expediency. Even emotions are a valid reason if they are understood and accounted for. Conviction is an essential trait. Seeming, catering to your notion of what other people would perceive or want, is the weakest of all reasons. You. Know. This. You are not thinking. Engage your mind or I will view your habit as addling your capacity to act as a [Princess] of Calanfer.”
“That’s not fair, I’ve been doing my best! You already took away my Dreamleaf for a week!”
Shardele burst out, close to tears. Ielane’s brows bobbed up in genuine surprise.
“Your best? That is what you consider your best? No, Shardele, I am pushing you moderately hard, and you are folding. You and I both know you are capable of more. A week? I will remove your access for a year if I must.”
“You can’t! You can’t! That’s not right!”
“Stop squalling. I will remove it if you do not demonstrate you have the capacity to function despite your indulgences. Shardele, stop weeping this instant. Other rulers have peccadillos far more dire than yours, but they are functional. Sit up. Respond.”
“I—I can’t breathe. You’re stressing me out. I just need an edible—”
Shardele was panting for air, and she needed a breath of it, but Ielane refused to let her go.
