Another feeling the Dragon could empathise with. He nodded and blew out a stream of Dragonfire to purge some of the detritus his work was creating. It bathed the carriage in a stream of purifying blue flames, and the swirl of fire reached upwards, dissipating as Reynold stared up towards the High Passes.
They stood in the beginnings of a great project. A pass, still rough and unpaved, but a great foundation being laid by working servants. Hired Humans and even a few Drakes and Gnolls.
A bridge across this continent, even if it would look like a wall. Neither the Dragon nor [Lady] glanced at it. They were gazing at the future and past.
“I have to get going after this, Magnolia. The New Lands. I should send Demsleth ahead already. Too much mana, though. I might not check back for a week or two.”
“Quite alright just as long as you’re actually exercising your wings, old man. Not riding a magical spell.”
He coughed, then glared at her, embarrassed, but the fact that he was out of his cave and…doing things was more than either would have dreamed. But she needled him, a faint smile reappearing on her face.
“Changing the world?”
“In my ways. What about you?”
“What about me, old man? This is my project. I’m hardly likely to survive a return to the north, even if I cared to waste more blood trying to take the house back right now. Every single one of my family would join forces against me, and not even Aleieta herself could handle the viper’s den when it unites.”
“Wait for infighting, hit them with sticks one by one. Keep the [Assassins] off you long enough to get the most dangerous ones in line or in the grave. Got that, Reynold?”
Ressa snapped at him, and the [Combat Butler] bowed. What she didn’t say was the unspoken part.
If I die, that’s your job. Teriarch wondered what the man was feeling. He had lost legs and friends in service to Magnolia Reinhart, but he was a believer. She was good at finding those who believed…simply not in her allies, like the Healer. Teriarch glanced at Magnolia and tried to resist, but he had to. For old time’s sake, he nettled her a tiny bit.
“It seems to me, young lady, that you are making much of your helplessness and inaction. I grant you that you have House Reinhart against you, your grand Skill broken, even if it was to a great and noble cause. But the Magnolia I recall was even more adversely put-upon by her parents. Still, she managed to change Izril whereas you sit and drink your sordidly sugarly tea and whinge.”
She spat some tea out and glared at him.
“Old man, are your memories from another lifetime overriding your eyes? I’m building this and—”
She pointed at the huge blocks of stone being moved into place and hand-scribed with spells behind her, and Teriarch rumbled.
“Forgive me, Lady Magnolia Reinhart. A mere salamander of fire like myself has failed to see how diligently you toil daily. How many stones have you personally carried into place and enchanted? Ressa did but a paltry one hundred and five. You must have doubled her.”
Her mouth snapped close, and her forest-green eyes flashed ominously. However, Ressa cackled. Magnolia pursed her lips and began choosing her words carefully.
“The amount of effort I am expending in my own capital—social, economic, if not physical—is—”
“—not commensurate with one of Izril’s foremost [Ladies]. You could be doing more. Isn’t that what you always tell me?”
Ooh. Some of the servants, including Ressga watching from the sides with snacks and other provisions ready, were enjoying this. Magnolia reddened, but again, it was the outrage of familiarity, not true…okay, there was probably some real anger in her as she snapped back.
“Elucidate your comments, old man. Do you suggest I ride north or south and galvanize the Drakes or my kinsfolk, who love me?”
He was enjoying this and blew some flames over his claws and used the burnished bronze to polish his scales. They were regrowing, and he still had patchy parts all over. Plenty of wounds on top of his old ones, but the flame trick left them lustrous and bright. He’d forgotten how much of his old powers he’d left behind in his age. Reminded of that, he began to do pressups as he took measured breaths while working on the carriage.
“What—I—mean—is—”
“Old man, stop trying to look good and keep casting or you’ll explode my carriage and die of a heart attack.”
Embarrassed, he had to stop and continue casting. Teriarch coughed smoke into a fist, then continued.
“Why, <Quests>, Magnolia. Here we have an entirely new resource unknown to the totality of our existence, and I note so little of it being used. Some to great effect in other continents—did you see the Quarass’ work in Helios? Very tidy. And you yourself used to be splendid at making splashes wherever you went, even when your father was the House’s head. But instead, you sit when you could be in five places at once.”
“He’s got you there, Mags. Even the [Baker]’s faster’n you. He’s strafing the north and about to hit them in the south, and you’re just camping here, sipping tea.”
Ressa laughed, and Magnolia reddened. Then her cheeks stopped flushing, and she stood there, blank-faced. Thinking over their points and nodding. Accepting they might be right. Her eyes flickered, and she came up with an idea so fast it scared Teriarch. Her lips quirked with that aggravating smile so many enemies and allies had come to dread, because it meant she had a plan only she knew. Then she turned to Ressa because a Reinhart never left an insult unreplied to.
“You are absolutely right, Ressa. In light of this sterling reminder of my unused talents…I appoint you to oversee the committee helping our good [Baker]. Take Reynold, will you?”
“What? I don’t need to do that! It’s hundreds of miles, and we already have people in position—”
Ressa sat up, cursing, and Magnolia smiled sweetly at her.
“We must push ourselves, Ressa. And some time in the field is good for you. What if they sent a Face?”
“The Walled Cities are too cheap for—”
Ressa was already casting around, and Teriarch coughed.
“You can use the carriage when it’s done. It’s going smoothly. So you have a plan?”
“Something to show you that you’re not the only one who can make a splash, exiled or not, old man. Shall we wager on who can do more for Izril?”
She had a gleam in her eyes that he feared, because it might mean she put herself in danger, but the Dragonlord just smiled.
“You’d wager against my capabilities?”
“Certainly if it’s your actions alone, old man. Not the Order of Haegris, what money does for us, or connections. We ourselves. Put some real Relics on the line.”
He hesitated. Then bluffed.
“You don’t have enough to match my smallest bid—”
“I’ll bet you the Crown of Flowers. And a <Mythical Quest> upon it.”
Ooh. Ressga and the other servants gasped as he went still. Magnolia’s eyes were glinting now, with real intrigue. The Dragonlord froze, but he was a being of pride and myth and flame. There was no option, and he growled.
“Only the Crown of Flowers, brat? Up your wager and you have a deal.”
Who fell for whose trap? Neither one might know, but then they were hashing out the terms of the wager, and Magnolia was formulating the <Quest>’s terms. Teriarch muttered at her.
“Unless you gained some kind of power I don’t recall, you can’t post <Quests>, though?”
She hesitated, tapping her lips.
“Yes…technically I count as enough of a leader to do so. [Guildmasters], [Innkeepers], and a number of those with leadership or ruling classes can post <Quests>. But it doesn’t work on myself. I should do something with <Quests>, but I was rather hoping Erin would demonstrate a few. Alas. I rather fancy we should prevail upon Larracel the Haven for this. I trust Demsleth could do it? He can’t resist a good meal, and I imagine he’ll be peckish in the wilderness without a bowl of mustard sauce five seconds away.”
He glowered at her, but agreed to take the terms of the deal to her. And that…was that. After a while, they went back to finishing the carriage and waited. Teriarch held as long as he could as she sipped tea, smiling and writing down notes she handed to Ressga—preparation for her work. He tried to see what she was writing with spells, but she’d warded the memos, drat her. At last, he coughed.
“You wouldn’t happen to wish to elucidate some of your actions? Just in case we end up fouling each other in the field?”
A sweet smile.
“If we run into each other, I imagine we will cooperate or foul each other as we must, old man.”
“Er, naturally, naturally. But where…?”
“Oh, I imagine a Dragonlord of Flames already knows every action I’ve taken. Anything less would imply he is being outwitted by a mere chit of a girl.”
“You brat. I’m remaking your carriage and I died and this is the thanks I get?”
He roared at her, and she pointed a finger at him.
“You only get to use dying once, Teriarch. Any more than that is crass!”
“Says whom?”
“Yourself!”
“Oh. Er, well—”
“And I note your counterpart has been sleeping around so prolifically in Wistram he has developed a reputation for it. I fear for Miss Griffin, and I trust you were behaving yourself around her, memory loss or not?”
Teriarch began spluttering as his chest heated up with embarrassment.
“You can’t blame me for—that deranged half-Elf is entirely different from me, even with the core memories. Clearly, he took a few blows to the head on top of—of course I never touched—is she in a relationship with that Veltras fellow or not?”
Magnolia made a face and dribbled tea back into her cup.
“Teriarch, do not make me imagine it. I cannot even see…are you sure your [Geas] didn’t addle her brain?”
“Yes! 99.6% sure. I, ah, I could analyze her next time we meet. Listen to me, girl. You have to admit from an impartial standpoint he has prestige, a rather high degree of martial fitness, handsomeness in that classical Veltrasian way—”
She was staring up at him with an expression that said ‘I really don’t want you to tell me what is attractive about Tyrion Veltras’. Magnolia handed her cup off to Ressga and spoke.
“The blood of innocents on his thoughtless hands?”
“Yes, a quintessential cup of attractiveness for young women! And young men. Alright, the coach is nearly ready.”
Ressa had come stomping back with a bandolier of weapons over one shoulder and, again, no maid’s outfit. She pointedly blew a plume of smoke out as Magnolia eyed her, and Reynold watched the carriage descending. Teriarch smiled.
Marvellous work if he said so himself. This carriage was actually bigger than Magnolia’s old one, and it had a far larger driver’s section with actual armor shielding Reynold. Even the spacing of the reins was meant for horses far larger than normal.
“Note the uneven sectioning of each animal? I’ll wager they were meant for Bicorns or some other magical monster.”
“Hmm. Corusdeer, I think. Greater variants. They were a terror on the roads.”
Magnolia inspected the black-and-green pattern that was not nearly as garish as you might imagine. At night, the pattern of snake-flowers would probably appear to writhe at high speeds.
Obviously, it was a bit too much in the classic Evil Empire genre of construction for Teriarch’s tastes, but dead gods, you had to admire the lines on the vehicle. One curling strut, like a biting viper, was cooling from his magic, and he buffed it with the tip of his wings until it shone. Reynold’s eyes were lighting up with delight; he could tell what a specimen this vehicle was, and Teriarch himself had to sigh.
“Reinharts love their carriages. I did fine work on this, if I may say so myself. Would you like to take it for a test drive? I’ll need to enchant some [Spectral Horses] since I doubt you have any yourself.”
“I think it will be good to take Ressa to her destinations. What enchantments do I have?”
Magnolia paced around it as Teriarch began to rattle off spells.
“All the standards. [Soundless Wheels], [Sustained Invisibility]—not greater; it just drains too much mana. A few splendid ones; I’ll make a list. [Scythes of Chariel], utterly classic—”
“Most will take up too much magic. Recharging it is such a pain, and I will not have it inoperable in the New Lands or anywhere the Drakes could pick it up. I may test a few while we’re with you, but I doubt we’ll do much with them.”
…Dead gods but she could sometimes, genuinely, take all the joy out of life. Ressa, Reynold, and Teriarch glared at Magnolia, who was utterly immune to their looks.
“None of you are paying for this coach’s upkeep! Yes, it is splendid work, old man. It just needs one alteration…”
He was huffily adding a bit of flair to the mana-horses.
“I don’t see what could possibly be added unless you want your own name or crest on it? A stylish fleur next to the handle? Ah, that would be good.”
He was conjuring a bit of paint when Magnolia smiled at him.
“Not precisely. Nor do I need to trouble you with this particular part. I do have experience here. Reynold? The cherry blossom pink, I think. Though I will take a few swatches.”
Teriarch’s mouth opened in horror as Reynold paused, a look like a man stabbed through the guts upon his face.
“Magnolia. You can’t—I know you have your foibles, but this is a work of art. It would be a crime to—the art! The state of history—”
 
——
 
Eighteen minutes later, a pink carriage and Goblin stood, dripping in the sunlight, and Teriarch was staring at the ground with Reynold. Ressa merely shrugged.
Pink. The magnificent lines, the subtle embellishments of House Reinhart’s sigils—pinkified. Not even shades of it, simply one color.
“Do stop sulking, Teriarch, and get aboard. Reynold, have a backup driver since you’re going with Ressa. And someone wash Ressga off?”
One of the Antinium [Butlers] hurried forwards, and Teriarch eyed the new members of Magnolia’s servants.
“You never did say what powers you got from hiring the new species.”
“No, I didn’t. Though I am quite happy with Ressga. She brings energy and joy back to our household, wouldn’t you say, Ressa?”
“Hmf.”
Magnolia leaned over to Demsleth as they got into the carriage.
“She rather likes Ressga, but she doesn’t know what to do with genuine affection.”
“Naturally, a crippling issue she’s suffered all her life. The Healer couldn’t cure that.”
Ressa threw an elbow that had Demsleth doubled over, then kicked Magnolia so hard the [Lady] swore a blue streak. Rather spitefully, Reynold had also popped Ressga in the driver’s seat. The dripping Goblin could drive—but Magnolia eyed the backup driver with considerable dismay as they began moving.
