Valeterisa bent down, and the boy saw the Archmage of Izril raise a hand that glowed like salvation. The Healer of Tenbault screamed curses, but Valeterisa simply bent down, and the rashes vanished as the boy gasped. And then…
Then Crowdcaller Merdon sighed. A sigh that ran through Tenbault. He sat on the battlements as Hekusha ran towards him.
“Merdon! Merdon, she’s stealing my magic! She’s revealing—she’s going to teach—stop her!”
He took his helmet from his head and placed it next to him. Merdon saw the Archmage levitating the boy up, still not really wanting to touch him, and then asking for another volunteer and recoiling at the cries that filled the air.
Television. She was asking for volunteer [Mages] to learn the spell, and Sinew Magus Grimalkin was first in line—and so was a young woman from Ailendamus who just happened to be here. Lady Paxere, who grinned because of the luck and timing. House Shoel and Ailendamus learning such a wondrous spell. How fortuitous.
Hekusha was shaking him, screaming at him, red-faced, and Merdon whispered.
“It’s over, Hekusha.”
He put his head back against the battlements, and Tessa stared at Hekusha uncomprehendingly. Then she got up as a familiar [Princess] called her name.
“I’m sorry. I’m such a problem.”
She stood timidly in front of the weary Merdon, and he glanced at her once as he gazed at the sky.
“We all are, Tessa. Get lost. I’m going to have a nap.”
 
——
 
Many things happened in Tenbault, little of which were actually on the news. Only Valeterisa’s announcement got full televised coverage, and it was competing with Baker Garry’s expeditions, anyways.
Merdon’s brief battle didn’t even make the Channel 1 roundup.
That was not to say it didn’t happen or that there were not moments of consequence. Many Calanferians did see or find recordings of a certain [Princess] fascinating.
As did a number of nobles of Izril’s north, albeit with less goodwill. Many of the Five Families’ leaders saw the [Princess] besieging Tenbault and laid the resulting events with Valeterisa more or less correctly at her feet.
Perhaps it was what was best for the world, but she had appeared a bit too much, a bit too often. She was becoming a Problem, and unlike the [Innkeeper], a royal of Terandria was closer to home. Something might have to be done about her.
—Still, that was a later consequence. More practically, the fact that [Restoration] was now being taught and cast by more than the Healer of Tenbault sent shockwaves across the world. Wistram’s Terras faction was once again besieged as people flocked to Mage’s Guilds across the world only to be told that [Restoration] was beyond the scope of most [Mages] and so difficult to learn…
You’d need an expert teacher like, say, Valeterisa to learn it. Not that it was impossible.
In fact, Magus Grimalkin and Montressa du Valeros both demonstrated the spell that day to the crowds of Tenbault begging for the magic. Montressa could cast the spell once, Grimalkin only twice before they had to bow out. A reminder that the Healer could still cast the spell far more, but proof the monopoly was breaking. More surprisingly, and a sign it was now a magic for all, was Lady Paxere of House Shoel also managed to cast the spell!
Even Archmage Valeterisa seemed a bit incredulous at the young woman’s ability to master the spell in a day despite having the right Skills to learn it—but it was a reminder of Ailendamus’ magical mastery, and it put House Shoel and the Kingdom of Glass and Glory at the forefront of innovation once more.
 
——
 
Paxere was rather smug about that. She ignored Shierxun’s pointed looks; so what if it had been a bit showy and too convenient? It allowed House Shoel to cast the spell openly, and that would be very useful…
“I suppose it is your right, and daring is a mark of youth that often goes rewarded. At times. I shall see what the courts make of it.”
“I shall be quite amused by it myself.”
It was Shierxun’s smirk that alerted Paxere to the catch in her assumptions. The older Lucifen twirled a wand mockingly in her hands.
“Sadly, I believe I will have the luxury for at least a month.”
“Why would that b—”
Paxere stopped, and Shierxun’s lips became a full grin of mockery.
“Why, because Lady Paxere is now, publicly, officially visiting Izril. As far as Tenbault. Doubtless, it will take weeks, possibly longer for her to leave the continent. I do appreciate your tremendous sacrifice travelling so far in service to Ailendamus.”
Paxere bit back a curse as she stood there, realizing she was now locationally stranded for quite some time.
 
——
 
Little things. The last of which was a young Human woman with cracks on her face having a conversation with a scarred Drake in the Healer of Tenbault’s mansion later that day. The Drake kept inspecting the cracks on Lyonette’s visage, claws so delicate as Tessa felt her at her features that they didn’t hurt. And Lyonette just counted Tessa’s scars.
“You shouldn’t have come. I read your letters. I burned them. I’m not—not—well. The Healer can heal me, but the Faerie Flowers don’t work. Go away. I’ll stab you if you don’t. I’m dangerous. You’ll regret it. I’ll steal from you or stab you by mistake again. I’m worse. I’m not getting better. Why’d you—why’d you do all that for me?”
All the things Tessa had been meaning to say, all the things she hadn’t had the courage to write, came spilling out in no particular order. It was Lyonette who stared at Tessa’s missing tooth.
“Oh, Tessa. Was that from fighting or…”
Tessa hid her mouth with a claw.
“It’s just a tooth. I’ll get b—”
She stopped. Then shuffled around and curled up.
“Go away.”
Lyonette reached for her shoulder, and Tessa’s head spun around, and she snapped her teeth a millimeter from Lyonette’s fingers.
“I’m dangerous. I’ll kill you!”
Dame Ushar was there with shield in hand, but Lyonette merely waved her aside. She reached out again.
“Tessa? I’d like to touch your shoulder. Don’t stab me, please? May I?”
“Leave me alone. Why’d you even come for me? I’m not—not good at fighting. I’m getting worse. You don’t need me anymore.”
That was what hurt the most. Tessa curled into a ball, and she realized that dream she’d sometimes had of Lyonette coming and saying she was in danger, that the inn needed Tessa…wasn’t true anymore.
They had Elia Arcsinger and the Goblins and the Sinew Magus. But Lyonette simply sat there.
“We don’t need you. I want you, Tessa. I owe it to you. I promised I’d help you, remember? Erin did. We let you down. We didn’t go after you when you ran.”
“I ran away. You’re not supposed to follow me. That’s how it works.”
She was really stupid. But the [Princess] shook her head.
“You were our responsibility. You need help, Tessa.”
“Hekusha helps me.”
“No, she does not.”
“Yes she does.”
Lyonette took a breath.
“She’s exploiting you, Tessa. She heals you, but Vaulont told me she’d begun advertising your services. She’s not halting your use of—of substances. She hoards her magic and—”
“Don’t talk bad about her.”
The Drake uncurled and grabbed Lyonette’s shoulders. So fast, teeth bared, as Dame Ushar reached for her—Lyonette flinched, and a spasm of pain crossed her features. Tessa saw her skin—
Change.
Raised lines of flesh appeared on the [Princess]’ skin. Scars, hundreds of them, crisscrossing her, as if she’d been cut and wounded. Pockmarks and—
Tessa let go and retreated in horror. Lyonette gasped.
“Oh, Tessa.”
“Wh-what was that? A curse? Who did it to you? I’ll kill them.”
Tessa drew her daggers, but Lyonette merely pushed Ushar aside again. She collected herself, though it took a minute.
“Just…[Resonant Flesh]. I levelled up. It was my Level 40 Skill, Tessa. A trade of sorts. Sometimes, I feel how other people feel. Your skin—!”
What kind of Skill did that? She was so distracted she forgot why Lyonette had to leave. The [Princess] was explaining, and it was all confusing. Boxes? The inn? Erin?
Erin.
Tessa turned around again and hunched over.
“I didn’t protect her. That’s why it’s my fault. I could have. I could have killed Iert even if he killed me, but he broke me into pieces. With one Skill. I always thought—I always thought even if I was messed up, I could still kill anything. He didn’t even think I was dangerous. I’m not going to get better, Lyonette.”
“I have all the potions Ilvriss told me you needed, Tessa. And I’ve been talking to [Healers] and experts, from the Last Light to House Shoel—I know it won’t be easy, but—”
Tessa screamed at Lyonette.
“It doesn’t matter! I can’t help it! I promise I won’t take them, and I always break it! I always do. Again and again, I know I’m lying. I swear I’ll cut off my tail before I do it again, but I always do.”
She clawed at her face until Lyonette seized her hands, and Tessa whispered.
“I was trying. Really trying with the flowers because I knew it was my last chance. But it doesn’t matter. What’s the point? I can do everything right, be good and clean and healthy for months. Then all it takes is him pointing. One Skill. And it’s all over.”
There was no salvation if a Skill could reverse that. The [Princess]’ breath caught, and she hesitated, looking around Tenbault.
“Tessa. I know what he did, and Iert’s dead. I know that for a fact.”
“Doesn’t matter. It’ll happen again.”
“Only if a monster like that targets you, Tessa. And maybe you can resist it, next time! I know it feels hopeless, but if you were healing your body for months and someone stabs you—sometimes, we run into setbacks, but I want you to try again. Please. Everyone came all this way for you. Ilvriss, Nanette, Mrsha, Grimalkin—”
Tessa felt sick. She wanted to take some Roama’s Fancy and dream of a better reality than this. Because she had wanted Lyonette to come, had longed for it. But now that it was happening…
“I’m going to hurt you. I don’t want to, but I’m going to. I’m dangerous, Lyonette.”
The [Princess] opened her mouth, and Shriekblade glared at her. This time, Ushar stood there, and Lyonette flinched because a bit of the murder in Tessa, the ability to kill, leaked out. The Drake could do it. She could stab the [Princess] through the face, and the Thronebearer, Ushar, and the [Knight] who was hiding behind the pillar, Vaulont—no one—would be able to stop her.
I am death. The one thing she was good for. Tessa whispered.
“I’m not…okay. I can’t escape from this. I lie and think I am, and I won’t. Hekusha heals me, I hurt myself. That works because she can heal me. If I go with you…I’m going to get worse, and I’m not going to have a healer.”
“Valeterisa can cast [Restoration], Tessa.”
“Every day?”
Hesitation. Whatever the [Princess] had thought she’d find…Tessa laughed.
“Knowing I can be healed makes it worse. Then I can take everything. I’m going to! I realized it! I can’t stop myself! So just leave me alone, please! I’m going to make your life worse. Why are you doing all this for me?”
She wanted to curl up again, but Lyonette wouldn’t let go of her wrists, and Tessa didn’t want to hurt her by moving too strongly. The [Princess] let go and rested her hands on Tessa’s shoulders, then spoke after a long pause.
“To tell you the truth, Tessa. Some of this is selfishness. I—I’m lying to you a bit. And myself. I have to be honest. I must be.”
The Drake’s head rose ever-so-slightly. Selfish? Tessa felt a moment of hope.
Maybe she was in danger after all. Was the inn…bad? Tessa could do that. Shriekblade could do that. Go and let her try to help. Then die. Yes. The next time something came. Goblin King. Bloodfeast Raiders. Die doing something good for the only people nice to—
Lyonette’s eyes made Tessa hesitate. The [Princess]’ blue gaze was focused on Tessa, and it felt like Tessa had taken some King’s Draught after all, because the world fell away. It was just them, and there was a pride and grace there. Only it was aimed at Tessa, and she didn’t understand.
“I see myself in you, Tessa. That’s one of the real reasons. I promised to help, and I knew that you did not belong here. You were hurting yourself, and I had to come. Because you…you remind me of when I came to the inn. You know I’m a [Princess]?”
“Yeah. Of somewhere.”
Lyonette nodded.
“Calanfer. I ran away from home two years ago. During the winter, I was caught in Liscor as a [Thief]. I did so many terrible, petty things. I stole, I cheated, and I thought it was all I deserved…I was a dreadful, pathetic little villainess, and as punishment, I was exiled and left to die in the snow. I would have. But you know what? Someone found me. Erin took me into her inn and gave me a second chance. And a third chance. Because of that, I’m here today.”
She smiled, and she was fragile as a piece of porcelain. Tessa was afraid to move, because she felt like Lyonette might physically shatter if she did. But at the same time, the [Princess] felt…vaster. More sure of herself.
Like that art from Drath where you broke a pot and then glued it together with gold or something precious. She’d seen it in Salazsar’s museum once. Lyonette went on softly.
“I think you need that chance, Tessa. Maybe I can’t give you everything you need at the inn. Maybe you’ll fail, and maybe…maybe you won’t get better.”
Tessa’s heart hurt, and she bowed her head. The truth of the [Midnight Journey] hung on her, but Lyonette’s voice was soft.
“I don’t know the future, but I want to try. And I do know this: you’ll never be well here. That’s why I had to come and break Tenbault. Please, come with me. Don’t run. Or I’ll have to follow you. Give me a chance, Tessa.”
“You’ll regret it. You will. I’m…I’m not strong.”
Tessa saw Ilvriss in Lyonette’s face. A [Healer] from the Gaarh Marsh tribe. A [Receptionist] at the Guild. A Silver-rank adventurer.
Everyone who had ever helped her and their looks of regret, anger, despair. Betrayal. Oh, she was tired of adding more faces to the list. But the [Princess] held her hands.
“You don’t have to always be strong, Tessa. Just try? For me?”
Because she had come this far, because Tessa hadn’t the strength to argue, the Drake let her head hang.
“Okay.”
Lyonette gasped with relief and hugged her, and Tessa waited for the sun to come up and all wrongs to be righted.
They were not righted. She felt empty, sick, and tired. Then she knew.
A good person had come for her. She had brought wonders and miracles. But not for Tessa. She’d used all hers up.
That was okay.
