Tessa had a way out. So she relaxed and gently hugged Lyonette and let her fuss and ask about clothing and possessions, things she assumed Tessa had. She’d let the [Princess] be a good person and try to save her. The Drake wouldn’t inconvenience her long.
 
——
 
Lyonette du Marquin let Tessa collect her various possessions from her rooms and was taking a break on a bench for a moment. She tired so quickly, and the pain…
Tessa was in a lot of it. Lyonette felt like Apista, sick with so many residual drugs in her system that Tessa clearly could barely feel or assumed were normal.
They’d get back to the inn and begin work. Right away. Lyonette wondered what Valeterisa was doing; Tenbault’s people had been besieging her, and she’d had to fly away.
“This city is so dreadful. How could anyone live here?”
“I didn’t make it. They made it this way. They ruin everything. That damn Archmage will see. You’ll see.”
She was speaking to herself, shuddering, when someone spoke in a low, bitter tone. Hekusha stepped out from behind a doorway, and Lyonette jumped, but Ser Dalimont was there. However, the Healer wasn’t a threat.
She looked pale, bloodless, and was swaying on her feet. Valeterisa’s revelation had ruined the Healer’s prestige and power. But she was still rich, Lyonette supposed. There was not much sympathy in her for Hekusha, even after what she’d done. However, the two hadn’t actually spoken properly until now.
“Healer Hekusha. I do regret how I treated you, but your conduct towards Tessa was improper. I wish we had met under more cordial circumstances.”
Hekusha spat onto the ground. Or drooled. She wiped at her mouth.
“You think you’re so high-and-mighty. You come into my city with all your powerful friends. Just like Magnolia.”
“I’ll consider that a compliment, thank you.”
What a dreadful woman. How had Magnolia ever trusted her? Lyonette tried to keep the dislike from her face, but Hekusha simply laughed at her. She pointed at Tessa’s room.
“Go ahead, take Shriekblade. I wash my hands of her now you’ve ruined me. Merdon will be next. Then…no, go ahead. Maybe you can save her. But it’ll only be her. The rest of Tenbault? They’ll stay. They’ll run after Valeterisa and realize she doesn’t have the mana to spare on them. How many can the others heal? I can heal more than all of them put together, and none of them will spend the time healing. So take my Named-rank adventurer. I was the one who saved her.”
“You have used her unkindly. She was so grateful to you! She trusted you! Is this how you repay her? This city—why did you not help so many more? It’s a miserable place, and you made it this way!”
The Healer flinched back as Lyonette’s aura did what she physically could not. She cowered, then whined.
“You think you could do better? Go ahead and try! This is how it works! You save one person. Just one. Or only a handful, and everyone else dies and blames you. They’re never grateful. It’ll never be enough!”
Lyonette’s jaw worked as she rose, letting Dalimont support her. He was eying Hekusha with distaste, and the [Princess] pointed a finger at the Healer.
“Is that an excuse? You could have spread your magic. You had decades! You could have done so much more! You worked miracles, and if you had put the gold into [Healers], into other methods, students, you could have done a hundred, a thousand times more! But you didn’t! Was it just…greed? Did you want to be rich?”
Hekusha’s bloodshot eyes stared at Lyonette like some monster as she hid her face with her hands, her hair falling around her staring eyes.
“Spoken like someone who’s always had money and power. Everyone wants a miracle. No one wants to pay for one. It’s always damn shingling for my roof, a few loaves of bread. I work myself to death, trying to breathe at night, trying not to die of mana exhaustion and someone hands me three gold coins and gets offended when I ask for more! To buy mana potions to keep from passing out every time I stand up. Then they complain about taking six days for me to get to them or that I can’t fix their every, petty little wart!”
Her voice was rising into a half-screamed tirade, and her eyes rolled. Lyonette hesitated as Hekusha went on, vomiting words like her insides onto the marble tiles, foul as bile.
“They blame me for their son dying even after I heal them when their heart was bad. It wasn’t my fault. They expect me to know medicine when I’m a [Mage]. T-to work actual miracles. Then they want me to fight in wars, to save towns from the plague. I’m simply a woman. They break into my house and hold a knife to my throat and tell me to heal them. And I’m supposed to feel guilty for them?”
She pointed a hand out her windows, and the [Princess] stopped. Lyonette took in a breath, exhaled, and nodded.
“I’m sorry.”
Hekusha stared at her, and Lyonette bowed her head stiffly.
“It must have been hard. You worked miracles alone. That…must have made you bitter. Magnolia should have taught two people that magic. She should have kept you with her. That’s her fault. But some of it is yours. Nevertheless, you’ve saved thousands, tens of thousands of people over your career. For that, I thank you. But the knowledge had to spread.”
The Healer sagged down to the floor and sat cross-legged.
“You think you’re so high-and-mighty. Coming in and ruining it all. Go ahead, leave. You’ll turn out like I did.”
When she peered up, she flinched. Despite the fading light, Lyonette stood bathed in a raybeam coming from the ceiling. She leaned upon her golden knight’s shoulder as, in the courtyard, her daughters played catch with Goblins. Lyonette gazed out at them as a Wall Lord fielded a baseball and tripped.
“No. The difference, Healer Hekusha, is that I’m not alone. I truly am sorry. If you are ever down on your luck, I will offer you a chance at my inn or Liscor. Even a second chance, Hekusha.”
She turned and began walking towards Tessa’s room again, limping as the Healer stared at her back. Lyonette halted just once and turned her head to address the silent man who sat on a bench, watching her.
“But not you.”
Crowdcaller Merdon’s head dipped slightly. He didn’t look surprised at her words. If anything, he seemed confused as to why she’d even said that. His compressed lips didn’t open, and Lyonette continued.
“We are all deserving of a second chance, or even a third. I truly believe that if I can be this…”
She touched her chest and turned to Hekusha, who averted her head from the mysterious expression Lyonette wore that the Healer could not understand. It reminded her too much of Magnolia. A young [Lady] blazing with excitement and an idea, a chance for her friend.
The searchlights of the [Princess]’ gaze swung back to Merdon.
“However, we are all going to be needed soon. We must rise to this age of challenges. I wish it could be a peaceful era in which we can rest, but it will not be. Some of us must go forwards to face it. My inn is a place for wonders, magic, and sometimes, terrible war. But if it has reached the inn, it is too late. The New Lands await. There are beasts to be slain. Tessa needs healing. But I will hurl good men and women across the world if I have to. So this is how she felt.”
She closed her eyes and then turned, and this time, Crowdcaller Merdon saw someone else in her. Not the young Lady Magnolia Reinhart, but a [Wizard] standing on a table in the little inn she’d bought, retiring and trying something new. Larracel…
The [Princess] pointed at him.
“Not you, Merdon.”
Now, he almost growled back at her, annoyed. I know. I’m not asking for your pity, even if…he locked eyes with her, and the blue was blazing like a magical flame.
“I’ll see you in the field, Merdon. Hekusha may have her second or third. You’ll have to earn yours, if you even need it. You’ll waste your voice here. But if you go where you’re needed, you’ll find a song even more beautiful than the one you lost. I promise you that, Merdon.”
The Named-rank adventurer and Healer of Tenbault stared at Lyonette, and here, something about how she was talking clicked.
If you need a second chance.
Did she think he was still on his first…? Merdon blinked and then rasped, his throat scratchy and hoarse.
“If…”
He coughed.
“If you actually fix Tessa, you’ll take away her edge. That’s all that keeps her going. She’d be happier if you used her like a weapon. It’d be easier for her. Fixing herself…Tessa doesn’t care about herself. She’d throw herself into an Adult Creler’s mouth for someone else. But getting her to drink a cup of water is far harder.”
Lyonette grimaced, and she stood there. Then she jerked her head abruptly.
“Yes. It might actually be the right choice to do that in some ways. My mother would consider it. But I will not, even if she is needed, Merdon.”
“Why? The goodness of your heart?”
There was a glint in his eyes that suggested that if she said ‘yes’, he would shout his contempt and damn all the consequences. Lyonette faced him full-on.
“Not that. I simply want Tessa to be able to choose. Choose without her addictions and her mind being manipulated. As you have, again and again. Rightly, wrongly, cowardice or loyalty, whatever she decides. I hope that if she does, I will not gainsay what she chooses.”
He blinked at her, then averted his gaze. She walked past him, and Tessa stood in her rooms, her bag of holding in one claw. She gazed at the [Princess], not knowing what to say, and Lyonette offered her a hand.
“Walk with me, Tessa. Let’s find out who we are when we are free. Together.”
Hesitantly, Tessa placed her clawed hand in Lyonette’s, and they walked away from the Healer and Merdon. Tessa glanced back just once. Merdon raised a hand, and she waved at him. And she thought he smiled, for a second.
He should do it more. She’d forgotten how it made him look.
 
——
 
The Wandering Inn had swept Tenbault, found their lost adventurer, and were leaving. They hadn’t done much damage to the city; Merdon had arguably done more with his voice, which had cracked windows and stonework.
But they had still dealt a terrible blow to…everything.
People were leaving. Packing up, because even if the Healer of Tenbault would remain and she was still able to cast [Restoration] far, far more reliably than anyone else—
There were other places to go. Other [Mages] who might provide that miracle, and in a way—
The family that Gadrea had given the amulet to had come back. She’d been a day on the road when they’d had a crisis, wondering if that amulet and their good fortune might not lead to more. So they’d turned, despite their son’s breathless protests to listen to the kind lady, and been back just in time to see the fight at the city gates.
It was just as well that the Agelum was already far down the road, because the sight of the family returning despite her gift would not have broken Gadrea’s heart. It would have just made the crow’s feet around her eyes crinkle up in a grimace, that of someone who had believed in someone and been let down. Then she would take a breath and choose to believe again.
—The Lucifen were far less forgiving. You got one chance. There was little excuse for failure. Excuses were that: excuses. Paxere’s eyes flashed as she glanced at the family, but they were leaving, again.
“There’s other kinds of healing, just as the lady said. Liscor. Liscor has those scrolls, or we’ll find someone to help you gain that [Warrior] class. Perhaps if Archmage Valeterisa saw you—”
The father cast his eyes towards Tenbault, as if just now seeing all the grime and the amount of gold wasted there instead of the shining city and the miracle of the Healer. The boy, wheezing for a reply, glared up at his parents, but here it was.
The magic had faded. If Hekusha were just an exceptional caster of a magic spell, then she was someone providing a valuable service.
Not the Healer of Tenbault.
It was over.
 
——
 
—But justice had not been served, had it? Look at this city. Look at this city!
It was so miserable! The Plague Quarter—a place where the other cities sent people to wait for miracles and die. All the gold that the Healer had taken to build her mansion, which was richer than most nobles’ residences, all this vanity—
A Cooking Golem for hat’s sake! No, that wasn’t the outrageous part. The outrageous part was that Hekusha could have taught her magic before this. Been known as both teacher and healer and made Izril better.
Imagine it. A hundred students and practicing [Healing Mages] delivering a thousand times more people to health. It would have made Izril glorious, and this woman had squandered it. Tessa alone had earned Hekusha a punishment she was not getting. Ruining her reputation and business?
Retribution had to be dealt before they left. That was why, as Lyonette and Tessa were walking out of the city’s gates, assembling the inn to depart, a pair of arguing girls were hurrying through the mansion. They had bodyguards of course; Elia Arcsinger and Ser Dalimont. Bird was busy terrorizing the Gold-rank adventurers.
For once, just once—it wasn’t Mrsha’s fault. In fact, she was trying to stop Nanette.
Nanette, Nanette, this is a really bad idea. This is a classic Mrsha move, and you don’t want to see what happens when you get into me-levels of trouble.
“Someone’s got to give her a bit of comeuppance, Mrsha! And I have just the thing!”
Nanette had a boot. She wasn’t sure if she could really shove it as far as she’d been claiming, but a good boot hurt, especially if you bounced it off someone’s head at the right angle. Mrsha turned to their protectors.
Elia, Dalimont, do something!
“I’m just a bodyguard. So long as we don’t cross Merdon, it’s not my call.”
Elia was being professional, and Dalimont? He was looking the other way as Mrsha glared at him.
“As loyal Thronebearer of Calanfer, it is not my place to question Miss Nanette’s will, Mrsha.”
That damn traitor. He wanted to see Nanette use the boot! Mrsha rolled her eyes and pulled down her eyelids. She knew Hekusha was as nasty as diarrhea in your soup! She was a terrible person, but this was going to make an enemy the inn didn’t need.
However, Boot Nanette was coming, and the Healer of Tenbault was unguarded. She’d finished screaming at Merdon, and the Named-rank adventurer was in his rooms. Bandaging the few wounds he’d taken. Sitting.
Thinking of the future. Since he no longer had steady work.
She’d fired him. Fired him, instead of him quitting.
That long loyalty, this miserable city—
Back to the madness. Back to the death and chaos and…
He sat there.
Crying.
