Then they were off, streaking south towards the New Lands. And Tenbault…Teriarch sat there, letting his main body rest and practice breathing exercises as they spoke in the carriage. He watched the world streaking by as Reynold got a feel for the carriage, then tapped at the window.
“I say, should we let those people on board?”
Magnolia’s lips twisted, and she hesitated as they flashed by a flinching group of—she coughed.
“They are Vampires, old man.”
He gave her a severe look.
“Children.”
“Children who could rip my head off. They’ve made it this far, and I very much doubt they’d enjoy my company. Suspicion might attach itself to them if their kinsfolk see them in my vehicle.”
Doubtless, she was right. Teriarch sighed and sat back. They rode onwards at increasing speeds, and Ressga was gasping and giggling from the front. Magnolia smiled despite herself as she watched the landscape blur behind her.
Reinharts did love their carriages. Teriarch contented himself with inspecting the inside of the carriage.
“You won’t make this pink, will you? It would be such a sin—”
“I’ll leave the upholstery alone, old man. But I’ll need a few blankets, maybe a couple of hampers, certainly some good pillows—we have that lovely throw from Drath, don’t we, Ressa?”
He changed the subject to avoid puking.
“Er, one question occurs, Magnolia. This Lord Krallis you spoke of. The one with the contracts. Whatever became of him…?”
Magnolia stopped conferring with Ressa about the redecorating of the carriage and smiled. Just once, a blade of a smile unlike her genial, if sometimes pressing demeanor. A blade like a guillotine’s edge.
“If I recall correctly, he died four years after that, almost to the day. Ressa?”
“Blade in his cereal bowl. Tragic.”
Ressa didn’t glance up from writing in her journal. But Teriarch, Ressga, and Reynold were peering at her, and Teriarch had to ask…
“You mean in his cereal? Painful.”
“No, through the cereal bowl. As he raised it to drink the milk. Straight through the left nostril, through part of the brain, and then he drowned in his bowl. Tragic. Or so I was told. Took him three whole minutes to die.”
“Terrible.”
Magnolia agreed, and Teriarch sat back.
“Well, such is the fate of all poor men in a just world.”
I simply wish you did not have to be the hand of that morality. But she knew that, and so they sat in silence. Magnolia spoke after a few more minutes of riding.
“I do truly wish I could address Tenbault. I know it’s handled, but it is so embarrassing to have the young clean up after my faults. Especially the young women I dismissed as being completely superfluous to any change in this world.”
He smiled at her, then, in a grandfatherly way.
“Welcome to age, young woman.”
She groaned.
“I’m not old, old man. You are, both in spirit and age. I—oh, look, [Bandits].”
She pointed, and everyone twisted around to see a group of Drakes on horseback in the distance. Teriarch squinted.
“You’re very sure.”
“[Lady] aura. They reek of malice. Well, alarm. Oh, Reynold! Detour!”
He was already turning, and Teriarch recalled, too late, Magnolia’s fondness for a certain activity in her carriage. He was protesting.
“Magnolia, this is not how such carriages are meant to be used. I just made it—”
“This is exactly how Great-Great-Great Grandfather Corlitor would have wanted me to use it, Teriarch. Well, except that he’d have probably approved if I ran over commonfolk in general. Let me see, let me see…you know, it really struck me that you were right. I don’t change the world as much as I could, and I have grown complacent.”
Magnolia was fishing for the list of spells he’d written down, and she glanced up at him.
“…But in this, I like to think I made Izril different each and every time. Let me see. Oh—interesting. Reynold? Spin ninety degrees and activate ‘Trebuchet Mode’ at your convenience.”
“Er, naturally, Lady Reinhart.”
Teriarch was peering at the rapidly-approaching Drakes when he heard that. He twisted in his seat.
“What-mode? Let me see that. Which spell was—wait, that’s not a good idea. It doesn’t activate any magic, it just—”
Too late. The carriage, unfortunate [Bandits], and Dragonlord of Flames were introduced to one of Corlitor Reinhart’s favorite spells as Reynold spun the carriage until it was facing the bandits, hit the spell—and the magical horses and reins disengaged from the carriage. He and Ressga flinched as the front of the carriage shot down, engulfing them in armored ironwood, and Teriarch felt gravity anchor spells activating, pressing him into the seat. And then?
The carriage kept going. Only, the momentum of the sudden transition meant it was being hurled at speed—sideways—and so it flipped.
And hurtled through the air at the [Bandits] like a multi-ton stone thrown by, well…a trebuchet.
Hence the name. Gravity spells protected the people inside the carriage from being tossed around, but they did rotate multiple times as the carriage rolled over everything in its path. Only after eight turns did the magic pop it back onto its wheels and the driver’s compartment shielding retract to reveal a dizzy Ressga and Reynold.
And a lot of blood. Everyone began exiting the carriage, and Magnolia Reinhart wiped at some tea that had splashed all over her dress.
“Ah. Well. I think I will use that one in very specific circumstances, but you must admit, what style. Then again…I hope this has cleaning spells built in. Old man? Old man…”
She turned, and Demsleth staggered out of the carriage to empty the contents of his stomach. So did the poor Dragonlord’s actual body in the High Passes. Even if it was simply a copy of him, seeing through his eyes as the world rotated multiple times a second—
Magnolia patted him on the back. Then she glanced north.
“Back in the carriage in five, everyone. Ressa and Reynold have places to be. Oh, and Ressga?”
“Yes, Lady Reinhart?”
“I’ll drive on the way back.”
“Aw.”
 
——
 
At the same time as a Dragon was puking, an Antinium [Baker] was giving bread to the hungry and taking up the world’s attention. And, at the same time, unnoticed by almost all, an inn was preparing to go on a trip.
Preparing. A word not oft-used in conjunction with The Wandering Inn, but there it was. They had called for allies. Not in the expectation of great battle or loss, but for once, the opposite.
“Atten-shun, you miserable maggots! We are going to hit them here, here, and here! Each group has your orders. I don’t want a single casualty! No one gets hurt, everyone goes home, and we have a packed lunch! Any questions?”
Nanette had her boots on and a vest she’d hand-dyed to look like one of those Earth camouflage vests, though how exactly it was supposed to camouflage her no one had any idea. She had a helmet too, and she strutted back and forth in front of a blackboard as her guests sat there.
Rags’ tribe from Goblinhome. Grimalkin and Lady Pryde. Archmage Valeterisa, Montressa, Bezale, and Relc. Even a bemused Wall Lord Ilvriss and a grinning Nerul.
It felt like overkill.
It was overkill. Colfa was helping Lyonette and the staff pack; they had carriages loaded in Riverfarm, and so most people were simply hanging out enjoying the scene. Ishkr, Asgra, Peggy—the staff was going with the [Princess], and only Earlia’s team and some of the Calanferians were staying. Lyonette was fussing, of course, but a little Gnoll girl grabbed a basket out of her hands.
Mother, I’ll take that.
“Oh, thank you, sweetie. Do we have all our emergency potions? And the tonics?”
Lyonette reached for another hamper, but one of the servants dashed over and grabbed it. Xinthe bowed to the [Princess].
“Your H—Lady Lyonette, please rest!”
They ushered her to a chair as Lyonette grimaced, but she had winced when she was bending to pick up the basket. She sat, and her skin—cracked—slightly. Another servant was there in an instant with some makeup, and Dame Ushar spoke.
“We are ready to go in eight minutes, Your Highness. Emperor Godart has prepared a small escort for us as well.”
“Oh, good. Let’s let Nanette finish her fun, then.”
They watched as Nanette waved the little stick she was using to point at the board. Someone raised their hand.
“Question, eh, boss-girl?”
“That’s boss-witch to you! Go on?”
One of the Redfang warriors was pointing at the board where Nanette had posted several illustrations. Of Tessa, Hekusha, the city, Crowdcaller Merdon, and his Gold-rank team.
“You say hit them there, there, there, and that good. But what about there?”
Nanette pointed with the tip of her stick right between Merdon’s legs.
“Here?”
“Yah, is a good place to hit.”
Nanette circled the spot with some red chalk.
“Good idea. I want them hit here—any volunteers?”
The Redfangs all raised their claws, and Nerul laughed as Ilvriss shook his head.
“This isn’t a game. Tessa…we’ve let this go too long, Uncle. And this is a pair of Named-rank adventurers, and the Healer is famous and rich.”
The [Diplomat] patted Ilvriss on the shoulder.
“Nephew, life is made up of such regrets and ‘we should haves’. We have to make the best of it, sometimes. A bit of levity takes the edge off. We are going, so let’s fix our minds on that, eh? Miss Nanette! Had you considered hitting the Healer in the posterior?”
She pointed her stick at him.
“Good idea, soldier! Volunteers to put a boot up the Healer’s ass? I’ll take three…”
It was a joke from Nanette, but Lyonette would do just that if she had to. She kept pausing to stare northwards. Tessa—it wasn’t like they’d known her longest of all the guests.
It wasn’t like Lyonette even knew Tessa that well. And it certainly wasn’t like Tessa was the greatest asset that the inn had. Elia was nervously checking her bow as Bird counted her arrows. Tessa could be the greatest obstacle to helping Tessa.
But…Lyonette murmured as she pushed herself up.
“I am sick of leaving people behind. Living and the dead. Vaulont, any response from the Healer?”
“None, Miss Lyonette.”
He appeared, and she nodded.
“Then we are going. Captain Todi, Captain Earlia, hold the inn until we get back. Nanette, dear? It’s time.”
The girl fell silent and took off her helmet as she grew serious, and the people sitting there stood. Mrsha exhaled, Relc cracked his knuckles, and Montressa and Valeterisa winced at the sound. Wall Lord Ilvriss checked his sword and rose.
“May I?”
He offered an arm to Lyonette, inspecting the faint crack on her cheek, and she just smiled at him. He didn’t know where the wounds had come from, nor would she say. But when the Wall Lord turned, her two daughters were behind the [Princess], and the Vampiress swept forwards to hold the door open like royalty. Servants and staff followed Lyonette, and the bemused Sinew Magus, [Lady of Pride], and the other guests watched Lyonette as she walked slowly down the hall.
It was Pryde who grunted.
“I rarely see that.”
“What, exactly, my dear?”
Grimalkin got a glare from her as she turned her head and glowered at him from the bag over her head.
“Don’t ever call me that again. What I mean is…that. You don’t see it outside of House Ulta.”
She waved her hand at the procession. Grimalkin peered at it.
“So many species? Coordination?”
“No. Pride. They’re proud of her. Do you know how many [Ladies], [Lords], [Princesses], or [Princes] have the respect of those they lead?”
The Sinew Magus watched the [Princess] pass him by. He nodded to her as she passed, and he began to stretch.
“Let’s make a statistical spreadsheet instead of speaking anecdotally, but I like your hypothesis.”
It was her turn to roll her eyes. Then they were following the [Princess]. Joking, serious, moving.
Hoping they wouldn’t be too late.
 
——
 
Tenbault was known as the ‘City of Miracles’. The Healer’s city, where she could bring all but the dead back to health, or so it was claimed.
Only, no one called it that who actually came to Tenbault. It was always overcrowded, and the squatters’ camps could stretch for as much as a mile in any direction outside the city’s gates. The inside of the city was always overcrowded too, and there was constantly more trash than the [Cleaners] could keep up with.
It was a result of who came to the city. Supplicants hoping to win the lotteries for a healing that were taken daily, or important people who were willing to pay for a slot. After all, the Healer of Tenbault could only heal fourteen people a day if she had supporting spellcasters.
Twenty-two these days. She’d upgraded her magic. Merdon didn’t know what Hekusha had done, but after her kidnapping—and shouting at him and demanding more security she didn’t want to pay for—she’d done a lot of buying of magic.
There were these…wells. Literal wells of mana that captured it out of the air or somesuch. Like the Skills that [Mages] had. Merdon didn’t know; he was a [Warrior]-[Singer], and his old team, Orchestra, had never had a strong magical presence.
They had been a unique group of [Performer]-[Fighters] who needed no magic. One of the best teams of Izril. They had conquered Chalence, and he had made his fortune there. Squandered it…come to Tenbault and become the Healer’s bodyguard in exchange for handsome pay. He was seldom in danger, and if he could tolerate the lifestyle, it was a fine quasi-retirement. He’d lasted nearly twenty years like this. No one else had, even his ‘team’ of Gold-rankers, a hodge-podge of second-rates or impoverished adventurers he’d made into the security force of the city.
No one stayed long. Only Shriekblade came back. Tenbault was a miserable city. Only those in pain came here, and their desperation, their agony, seeped into the stones.
Everything cost too much in this city. Prices were high on food, bedding, and it was all aimed at getting the Healer’s attention. Bright clothing so she noticed you in the crowd, the right inns with tips on how to win the lottery or whom to bribe.
People…waiting. Waiting for months, years, or until they died for a miracle. Some had waited a decade. Those were the worst. They called out to Merdon when he walked the streets, preyed on newcomers for coin or out of spite.
Like parasites, eating and sucking the life out of newcomers to extend their own lifespans a while longer, bloated and writhing with disease or wounds, faces upturned to that mansion in the center of the city, the palace on a hill with white marble walls from which the Healer would descend to cure them.
Twenty-two a day. As many as a hundred new supplicants might come to Tenbault on a slow day. They would never, ever clear the backlog of patients here for Hekusha, but that, Merdon had observed, was how she liked it.
