The two girls and their protectors paused a moment by the half-open door to his rooms and heard the soft sounds from within. Then Mrsha held out a paw, and Nanette handed her a second boot.
They went to find Hekusha.
 
——
 
The Healer of Tenbault was in her rooms, voice raw from screaming, tears running down her face, besmirching the makeup and Foundation of Youthfulness that cost so much, and she knew it was ruined.
She would get revenge on that [Princess]. Somehow.
She didn’t need Merdon! She’d have to restructure Tenbault. Lower prices. But Merdon had always cost too much.
Golems. Golems were expensive, but they worked forever. They didn’t complain, they could handle crowds—she had funds. Hekusha was biting her nails as the doors to her rooms creaked open. She never noticed the shadow creeping into the room until there was a voice.
One final judgement. Or perhaps…
“Healer Hekusha. You have a caller waiting.”
Hekusha screamed, whirled, and the [Maid] was there, holding out a speaking stone. One of the fancy, long-ranged models few could afford.
The [Maid]…was she a new hire to Hekusha’s staff in the mansion? The Healer didn’t know, and she flinched back. Because that uniform, the way she’d come in and spoken—
“You’re one of her minions, aren’t you? S-stay back.”
“Lady Reinhart would like to speak to you, Healer.”
“If you’re going to kill me, just do it! I’m not afraid! I always knew she’d kill me once she had no more use for me. Her power’s gone. She’ll have to execute the rest of her family if she wants her authority back! Is that why she put the [Princess] up to this? Spite? Well, I won’t grovel before—”
A voice interrupted Hekusha’s ranting, coming from the speaking stone, and it was annoyed, unusually upset, and terse.
“Hekusha, pick up the damn speaking stone, would you?”
The Healer flinched. She stared at the stone, then snatched it and lifted it to her lips. The [Maid] stepped back, glanced at the doorway, and the two boot-armed children hesitated as they listened.
One last conversation.
 
——
 
When they were young, they’d talk.
Oh, they had so much time to talk. It wasn’t easy; they all had to find the moments. Magnolia had to escape her guards and leave the mansion. It got easier with Ressa helping her.
Bethal could ride from her lands, and she’d have a day before her parents would send someone to find her; she’d sleep in bushes or the stables and come out, crazy-haired, and always with stories to tell.
Hecky, Hekusha, would be last. Rushing out of her master’s workshop where she slept, ink on her hands from scribing scrolls or with gemdust under her fingernails from having to lay magical circuits.
They weren’t always…happy. Bethal had cuts and scrapes from her adventures, but it wasn’t the same as blisters on Hekusha’s fingers from being worked from dusk till dawn. And Magnolia…
She didn’t have visible injuries, but sometimes she’d just go walking and ranting for hours about her family. And because they knew the Reinharts, no one else would say a word.
Bethal, Hecky, Ressa, when she chose to speak, sometimes Pryde, or even Wuvren despite being older…but not just them.
Gladys of House Alice. Thibev the Cranky. Webvei, the only [Servant] who’d stand up to Ressa. Lady Errigat, ten years their elder and drawn to this gathering of young [Ladies]…
When she spoke to Magnolia after so long, Hekusha remembered the dead. They were so distant now. She didn’t have any pictures of them. Just memories.
Lady Gladys, lying on a bed of roses, hands clasped over her chest. Cut in half at the waist. Lying in a waiting room with the wounded Flowers of Izril after the Goblin King’s defeat at First Landing, and Bethal screaming at Hekusha. Screaming as she held her friend, begging Hekusha to save…
It would have been too late if Hekusha had been there the second Gladys had been cut in twain. House Walchaís dead but for their last heir. Her magic exhausted, seeing friends lying still and cold, faces covered by white veils.
Those they even found. And then Magnolia Reinhart, wearing the Crown of Flowers, standing with blood up to the neckline of her dress, eyes so distant and lost as she peered around—
 
——
 
“Magnolia?”
For just a moment, she forgot her rage. And they were children again. Running around in the shadow of great houses, dreaming of how to make it better.
—Then decades flew between them, and the resentment overflowed the well of Hekusha’s heart, and she snarled.
“You must be so happy.”
“Hekusha. Would you believe me if I said I wasn’t? Truly and sincerely, I wish it hadn’t come to this.”
“Oh, I know you wish it were otherwise. I know you wish I’d stayed dancing to your tune. Well, I didn’t, and you managed to win in the end. Are you going to have me killed like everyone else who crossed you? Between you and the Goblin King, you’ve managed to prune the north of all the nobility! Funny, I used to think that’d be so grand.”
All the grudges she’d carried, all the anger burst from Hekusha when she’d never dared to say it to Magnolia’s face before. Now this was the end, it was liberating.
The [Lady] paused. When she spoke, her voice seemed…honest. When she lied, she was bright, cheerful. But she sounded pained. And angry.
“Hekusha, no one is going to kill you. I realize you do not believe or trust me, and I confess, I have a significant grudge against you. I do not relish your downfall as much as I wish I could, but it is for the best. But kill you? You would be dead if I wanted you so, Hekusha. Believe me. I will kill Bethal. The moment she steps out of her lands, she is dead. You have not drowned in your own blood, so do me the courtesy of believing what I say is true.”
Hekusha flinched. Bethal? Dead? They had been the best of friends. The best of…
“You really are the Executioner of Izril.”
“I deserve that name as much as you do, Hekusha.”
The Healer was drawing breath for an insult when Magnolia went on softly.
“You earned it. But it is time to let it go, Hecky. I wish you had retired instead after creating a school of magical healers the likes of which the world had never seen. That was my dream. I thought it was yours, but I see I was mistaken.”
The Healer of Tenbault stood there. She wanted to spit insults and scream, but her throat was raw, and she was so damn tired. She collapsed onto a couch and rasped.
“You know what, Magnolia? It was. It truly was. I remember you suggesting it, again and again, and back when I first started, I was going to find an apprentice as soon as I had a day off. Start trying to streamline the spell and teaching it. When I first bought out Tenbault’s land rights to build the mansion, I was thinking of a school.”
“I recall. What changed, Hekusha?”
“What changed? Nothing. Nothing at all.”
“…I don’t understand.”
The Healer of Tenbault smiled, bitter.
“You wouldn’t. You’ve always been the same, Magnolia. It’s like you don’t age.”
“I take that as a compliment, Hekusha, I suppose?”
“Oh, don’t mistake me. Your body ages. You’ve aged like a bad pear. You’ve put on weight, despite whatever trick you’re using to keep it all off with that sugar, you’re out of shape, you walk and tut like you’re a decade older than you are—”
“Ah, so this is metaphorical. Thank you for clarifying.”
Hekusha wished there were any pleasure in this, but something was escaping her chest, like water releasing from an over-filled bucket, and it was neither pure insult nor…
“But you don’t change on the inside. You’re still that insane girl who swore she’d clean up House Reinhart. The same one who came to me with a dream and that half-Elf—Archmage Eldavin. Don’t think I didn’t recognize him. You were the same when you rode against the Antinium and the Goblin King. Pursuing that mad dream of peace with the Drakes. I’ve known you for forty years, and you’ve never wavered.”
“…Which implies you have.”
Hekusha drew breath, then screamed.
“Who wouldn’t? Do you think I can be that same girl who was trying to learn my first Tier 3 spell? Who—who was afraid of being beaten for failing to wake up and sweeping and wanted to work herself to the bone for your approval? I became my own woman. I gained power, and I finally became your equal, and you hated it.”
“Hekusha. I never thought of you as being anything less.”
Hekusha closed her eyes.
“Of course you didn’t. Just like Ressa’s your ‘equal’ despite you paying her. I enjoyed it, Magnolia, I did. You weren’t as bad as the other Reinharts. There. That’s the compliment of a lifetime. You gave me that spell and support, and I acknowledge this. But you want to know why we don’t talk, how we came to this? You let me down.”
“I fear I did. I was listening to you, Hekusha. Watching.”
The Healer’s lips twisted in contempt.
“Of course you were. Did you enjoy it?”
“No. I…knew you had been attacked before. I knew you put your effort into healing. I didn’t realize how bitter it had made you.”
“You didn’t realize…? You gave me a spell no one else had and left me alone!”
“I gave you gold, and whenever you asked for help, I connected you with people.”
Hekusha was shaking her head, like a dog shaking a bone.
“That’s all you do. That’s all you do, Magnolia. You hand someone a miracle, a bag of gold, a—an artifact, and then you leave them alone. You give a village the blueprints to build a new warehouse, the tools, and then you get mad when they don’t do it.”
“I give them a chance. Should I hold their hands? No one grows from that! No one levels without adversity, Hekusha!”
Now the [Lady] was getting angry, and Hekusha snapped back.
“I would have traded ten levels for your help!”
Magnolia fell silent. Hekusha drew in a shuddering breath, and a younger [Mage] was screaming into the speaking stone. When she had never dared to.
“If you’d only help me, Mags, take me into your mansion or—or just take over, I could do it. I’m not like you. I can’t manage all this myself. I’m just a [Mage]. I can’t be everything you want. Just help me, please. Help me and—”
She couldn’t breathe. She was doing her finances in her house as people banged on her shutters, begging for help. Cowering as someone held a knife to her throat. Trying to interview [Apprentices] while seeing how their eyes stole to her spellbook and seeing the greed in them.
“Not everyone can pull themselves up, you know. You think too highly of people. You always have. You hate your family, and you know exactly how petty, gruesome, and evil they are, but you think the common woman’s so much better. Sometimes, she’s neither [Hero] nor [Murderer]. Just a woman. Well, you’ve made me into what I am. I hope you see that.”
She poured it all onto Magnolia, hoping it would break the [Lady]. Just a bit. Just one iota, and Magnolia Reinhart was silent for a long, long time. Before she said—
“I suppose this has been my greatest sin, Hekusha. I…I forgot about you at times. But I also wanted you to be my equal, I think. I didn’t wish to help you because then I would be giving you orders. I dreamed of a day when you’d walk into a room and be more than me.”
“You naïve idiot. You were always like this.”
“Yes. I suppose I was. And I learned how to help people from someone who was too old. Too…used to being let down, perhaps. I shouldn’t have left you alone. I should have been right by your side.”
For a moment, Hekusha tried to imagine it. Her riding around with Magnolia and Ressa or flying House Reinhart’s flag over the city. Embroiled in politics, dodging assassins.
Was it better or worse? The vision flickered in her mind, and she turned away from it because it hurt too much.
“Too late for dreams. You got what you wanted. The magic’s spreading.”
“You could have taught them. What made you stop? Hekusha, I have to know.”
“What made me stop? You wanted me to give away the only thing that made me special. Me, Magnolia. After all I’ve done for Izril. I am the Healer of Tenbault, and those who come to me thank me, worship my feet, then the moment they’re healed, they’re riding away and never glance back once. Why do I charge them so much? Because their gratitude means nothing. If they even have it.”
Hekusha was rocking back and forth in her seat, like she’d seen Tessa do, and Magnolia’s voice was soft, now. Like she were about to slumber.
“But they do care, Hekusha. I have seen their tributes to you. Gifts from those who wished to do you some service, even if they had no coin. Merdon. Why do you think he stayed? It wasn’t just cowardice. I have seen art of you, heard tributes, songs—”
“Hah.”
“Hekusha. Have you forgotten what it looks like? Or is it just—invisible to you after so long? Because I know how that feels. Every criticism and critique is far, far louder than the thanks. But it is there.”
The Healer of Tenbault glanced around blindly, but her lavish rooms had nothing but her own possessions. Nothing…
Wait, there. She saw a little shelf with a few items strewn on it, above the enchanted fireplace. She stood and saw a sheathed dagger on it. A faded gold medal. A preserved flower in a glass case, and a handmade doll.
The very first gift she ever…
“I am too old. You should have replaced me. You should have entrusted your miracle to more than one person, Magnolia. Leave me alone. Please.”
Hekusha turned away from the mantle and walked towards her bed. Magnolia’s voice was soft.
“I do not know…how to grant second chances, Hekusha. It is not something I am good at. I judge. I like to believe I grant first chances, if not well enough. I am better at slaying monsters who wear the faces of people than making this world a better place. I will leave you, and I am sorry.”
Hekusha said nothing at all. She put the speaking stone down on an end table and lay on her bed as the [Maid] stepped forwards, and Magnolia’s voice continued gently.
“When I learn, I shall return, Hekusha. It is not over for any of us. My friend—I wish you the best. Thank you for your service, Healer of Tenbault.”
The woman said nothing at all. She just lay there and dreamed of the past for a while. Tears in the eyes of a Gold-rank adventurer. A nervous young Drake with black scales.
She slept…and no boots hit her on the head. The two girls left as the [Maid] gathered the speaking stone up and strode out of the room. Leaving regrets and, as ever—
A wish for a better world. A different timeline. But when the little Gnoll girl glanced over her shoulder, she just saw the reality of now.
Perhaps that too would change.
You could only hope.
 
——
 
