Finally straightening up, Ji Yeon blinks in surprise before nodding like a chicken pecking grains, uttering her thanks and gratitude as I call my medics over. Dismounting to lend a hand, I organize an impromptu field hospital a little ways away from the battlefield, though some wounds need treatment right next to the corpses. Infection shouldn’t be too much of an issue for Martial Warriors, but even then, it’s not a pleasant experience. The Society forces took a real pummelling at the hands of the Defiled, with amputations, gut wounds, and cracked skulls aplenty among the survivors. By the time Jigari and Abjiya arrive, I’m up to my elbows in caked blood, but none of the wounded have died, so I’d call it a job well done, despite Abjiya’s scathing glare for intruding upon her domain.

C’mon now. What was I supposed to do, stand there and watch people bleed to death?

Having stayed close throughout the ordeal, Ji Yeon continues to bow and scrape until I straight up ask her to stop. “So what will you do now?” I ask. “Return to SuiHua?” Which means I’ll have a big open flank to the north with no one to guard it. Not the best news for our first day out on patrol.

“Apologies Imperial Consort, but this lowly one’s hands are tied.” Telling her to dispense with formalities was next to useless, but at least she’s standing upright. “This lowly one lacks the rank to command so many soldiers, so we must return to seek orders.”

“It’s fine. At least I’ll know.” I should send someone to inform whoever is north of us too. “If you hurry, you can make it back to Sinuji before nightfall, but I’ll keep a screen of scouts to guard your rear and see you safely there.” It won’t do much if the Defiled return in force, but at least they’ll have advanced warning before they die.

“This lowly one is grateful for Imperial Consort’s aid.” Studying me as if I’d suddenly sprouted wings, Ji Yeon continues, “If this lowly one may be so bold as to say, but... Imperial Consort has changed in the years since our paths first crossed.” With a wry smile, she adds, “This time, Imperial Consort didn’t charge for his services. It may not mean much, but you have my, Situ Ji Yeon’s heartfelt gratitude.”

Cheeks heating at the reminder, I look away to hide my shame. “No need for thanks or gratitude. The Enemy seeks to destroy the Empire, so we must stand united, or fall divided.” Hoping I don’t offend her, I add, “I know little about Ji Jing or Gulong, but Situ Jia Zian is a man I’m proud to fight alongside.”

I’m not the only one who’s changed. No longer the mousy little coward I remember, Ji Yeon’s dark eyes are filled with promised vengeance as she glances eastward. “Imperial Consort’s advice is... appreciated, but some things are out of this lowly one’s hands. Ji Jing is this lowly one’s older brother and Gulong her betrothed, so her future is tied to both, for now.”

“My condolences.” Don’t offer to help, this is family politics and that shit is messed up. Besides, I can’t imagine her brother and betrothed would leave her to die for no reason, which means I should butt out.

Heeding my own advice, I keep the conversation light until its time for them to leave, tasking Jorani to escort the Society forces away and Orgaal to inform whoever’s patrolling to the north before we head back to our assigned route. The rest of the day passes by without incident, and after a dinner of dried fish and preserved vegetables, I lounge beside Ping Ping and watch Song playing with Mama Bun and Blackjack. Not watching in a creepy, perverted way, mind you, but she has first watch and I have the night off, so this is the only time she can play with them and I have nothing better to do. It goes against all my instincts, but I try my best not to lewd the sexy cat-girl, no matter how kind, loving, or gorgeous she might be. I have three beautiful betrotheds and a concubine which should be more than enough for any man. Granted, I’ve only slept with Yan, but sex isn’t all there is to love and intimacy. Also, Luo-Luo has been kinda cold and distant lately, though I’m probably at fault for giving her too much work. I mean, she hasn’t even had time to play music for the cattle, which I was looking forward to, but all in good time.

Her head resting in the dirt, Ping Ping’s eyes shine with amusement as I sing her silly songs, relaxed as can be while Roc’s flock settles in atop her shell. Back in SuiHua, on those rare nights when Yan wasn’t in the mood for canoodling, I’d sleep out in the courtyard nestled in Ping Ping’s embrace, her cool, supple skin great comfort on the hottest summer nights. She’s a big sweetheart and I wish she were small enough to cuddle, but I suppose I’ll have to wait until she reaches Divinity and turns into a tiny turtle like Pong Pong, assuming it happens in my lifetime. She’s been around Ping Yao for hundreds if not thousands of years, but it seems like she’s stuck on that last step. I considered speeding things along by sharing my Heavenly Energy with the big girl, but Taduk convinced me not to. Being given Heavenly Energy is not the same as learning to manipulate raw Heavenly Energy, so if Ping Ping starts transforming and I don’t have enough to fuel the process, then she might get stuck halfway and die or worse.

Then again, things might work out. Who knows. It’s difficult to quantify something without substance, so even though the wooden goblet sitting atop Baledagh’s nightstand is still the same size, it now holds many times more Heavenly Energy than it did when I crafted it. Two months in Sinuji netted me tens of thousands of Spectres and a month in SuiHua saw plenty of hitchhikers attached to soldiers coming back from the front lines. Who’s to say how much is needed to turn Ping Ping into a pocket monster? Either way, experimentation will have to wait until after Taduk Heals Mom back to the peak of health.

I can hardly wait to see her walking around again. She tries not to let it show, but Mom is super self-conscious about her current condition, especially around Dad. Will I feel the same way when I’m eighty and hunch-backed while Lin, Mila, and Yan are all still in their prime?

Still, aside from those first Spectres after she woke from her coma, Mom’s shown no signs of depression, supernatural or otherwise. One strange thing I noticed was that the labourers and slaves working on the Wall didn’t have many Spectres hanging about them either. What’s more, throughout the entire month, I didn’t see a single newborn ghostie spawn from them or anyone else passing through SuiHua. I only have Jorani and Awdar to go by, but both were near suicidal when they birthed their Spectres, so it probably means it takes more than suffering to attract or produce them. It lends credence to my theory that the Canston Trading Group was purposely trying to produce Spectres among their slaves, because plain old misery and adversity is not enough; they needed slaves who were hopeless and suicidal, hence all the torment and hardship.

Question is: why? I thought their Spectre farming might have something to do with the production of Anathema, but there’s nothing distinguishing about a newborn Spectre. From what I’ve seen, the other Spectres don’t treat newborn ones any differently. They all lie, scheme and melt in Spiritual Water all the same, so why go to so much trouble? Maybe the Legate discovered something from all the merchants he captured, but from what little Yuzhen knows, the higher ups from the Canston Trading Group either escaped beforehand, died fighting, or committed suicide. Mysteries upon mysteries, but I’m in no position to investigate. Ask one wrong question and I could tip the Legate off to my indiscretions or worse, about my one-time possession of an Elemental Spirit.

I miss Blobby... things were so much easier when he was around. For starters, he was an infinite source of Spiritual Water and could wipe out Spectres as I gathered them. Now I’ve gotta deal with their tricksy temptations while out on patrol and spend an hour meditating in a cold bath every day I’m in camp just to deal with the Spectre backlog. I have a fair bit of Spiritual Water saved up in my Natal Palace, but I’m keeping it for practice and emergencies, like if a Demon bleeds all over one of my Experts or the Defiled start carrying Anathema. Hell, I’m not even sure my Spiritual Water can even counter either of those things, but if it does, I should come up with an excuse beforehand. I can’t imagine all Water Blessed individuals are the bane of Demon Ichor, and while it wasn’t a big deal before when it was just people I could trust, with XinYue and Junior Yimu hanging around, I need to be more careful with my secrets.

So how to explain my need to vomit water all over an Ichor-covered warrior?

...

It occurs to me that my life may be the butt of some phenomenal, cosmic joke. Why else would my greatest Talents be Succ and Spew?

It’s so funny, I could almost cry.

Chapter Meme
