Torment's Shadow thought idly that there was something strange about that mana core. It was limited in how much mana it could hold, which was a great deal less than what Torment's Shadow commanded. But it seemed to bubble and boil in a way that no other mana core it had ever seen did, and mana poured forth from that disturbance like a spring.

It wasn't the Red Commander's own mana, it was sure. The mana was likely coming from somewhere else, though the Shadow didn't know where. It wasn't sure it cared, either; all it meant was that the Red Commander would survive its next blow, and the next, and the next.

A change of strategy might have been a good thing, in light of that, but the Red Commander was panicking. He didn't understand how his greatest spell was being so easily overwhelmed, and even if his face was hidden by his crumpled helmet, his mana was filled with his fear.

Which was the least that the Red Commander deserved.

Torment's Shadow hesitated for only a moment, but did not change its strategy.

It lost track of how long the fight lasted, in fact. The Red Commander fought back, trying new strategies every so often, and the density of their magic warped the land around them. The Shadow fought to kill him, but its opponent was resilient to an absurd degree, healing from nearly every blow and injury. Even soul-based attacks didn't last, the soul itself healing from some outside source and one of the relics on the Commander's belt.

It didn't matter. It would fight as long as it had to.

Though it was unbeknownst to most, the continent of Aersheld carried a great many small villages in combination with the kingdom of Thyrahl. Thyrahl itself was a massive, star-shaped city built in the midst of the tallest of Aersheld's mountains, nearly impossible for most to reach on foot. In spite of that—or perhaps because of it—travel to the kingdom of Thyrahl was considered something of a pilgrimage amongst the villages of Thyrahl.

Every year, those villages would select a handful of individuals to make the climb and reach the kingdom of Thyrahl. It was something of a coming-of-age ceremony, supervised by mountain mages whose spells could command both earth and altitude. It had been a full three hundred years since this tradition had started, and in that time, only a single individual had died on the journey, a hundred and twenty years ago.

That individual had been a goat.

Apparently, it had been about to consume some prickleberries when the shepherd taking care of it had called out for it to stop, using [Animal Communication] to ensure he was understood.

And of course, instead of stopping, the goat stared at him and began to chew the prickleberries, refusing to break eye contact the entire time.

It was discovered later that the goat had been rather badly sick—the sort of sickness that wasn't visible, but caused a great deal of pain, and was deep within its bones. When their best animal-speakers attempted to use their rituals to find out if there had been any mistake on the shepherd's part, they found only that the goat had decided to die on its own terms, and had chosen a form of death it had decided was funny.

They'd held a ceremony after that, though no one was sure if it was a funeral or a celebration. The latter seemed like what the goat probably wanted.

All of this was to say that the people of the many villages around Aersheld were close to the goat herds they tended, and the pilgrimage was meant not only to test the physical abilities of the would-be pilgrims, but their leadership abilities as well. They had to lead a herd of their goats up to Thyrahl with minimal assistance, at best accompanied by a younger sibling if that sibling wanted to come along. Those siblings could help, but would not be considered to have completed the ceremony, even if they succeeded.

And this was the journey that the young spiderlings Adyr and Hesa were on when the still-blazing, wrecked body of the Red Commander slammed into the earth with enough force to crack the ground near the back of their herd of goats.
