JR had done an amazing job, but the armor was a mana hog and no amount of sugarcoating anything would change that reality. The bird's estimations hadn’t even been that far off the mark. However, possibly due to a side effect of the overlapping chimes, growing his armor's additional abilities had proved about ten percent more expensive than they’d anticipated. It was still within their acceptable results, and Matt was personally okay with it. He was willing to pay a much higher price for such a boost in power.

He estimated it would take another hundred years to grow the first layer of actual armor with half of his Tier 30 regeneration. He was hoping the following steps were only going to double or triple the mana costs, but he was prepared for worse.

He had time, which was why he had one last thing to do before he returned to the Empire. The night before everyone else was to leave, he was preparing to meet up with Max.

That meant asking Allie to make a special trip back to the Empire, but she didn’t even hassle him.

Part of his planned [AI] modifications was to use one of the Corporations' most valuable high Tier trade items, a Spark of Intelligence. However, unlike his strange realm reward that was unique to him, anyone would fight tooth and nail to get their hands on a spark.

It was so valuable that Manny hadn’t let Matt take it out of the Empire at the start of the trip, despite the Corporations being the ones who sold them it in the first place. He claimed it was better to keep it safe and secure in some vault somewhere, but Matt never really bought that logic.

If he was Manny, he’d have kept something that valuable in his personal storage rings. While theoretically risky because of a forced ascension, there were few practical places more secure in the Realm than being on a Tier 50’s person.

The Spark of Intelligence Allie handed him was sealed but unsecured, which meant anyone could use it should they be able to grab it. Before he stored it in his Domain pocket space, he scanned it with his spiritual perception, wanting to get a good look at the priceless item worth as much as the dragon blood he’d found at Tier 4.

The Spark of Intelligence was true to its name, a single mote of light trapped in a specially made container that was more complicated than he could understand as a Tier 30. He didn’t particularly care about the container, he’d study it later, his attention was pulled to the treasure itself. Nearly intangible, its color warbled in a strange rhythm that reminded him of a song he couldn’t hope to comprehend.

It was beautiful.

Matt couldn’t help but feel it was more than a little wasteful to use something so valuable on himself, but Manny had insisted empowering his [AI] was the best use of the spark the Empire had.

A Spark of Intelligence was fairly simple as Natural Treasures went. That was also why they were so valuable, they basically had no restrictions and could be used on anything that wasn’t already alive. Normally, the first object the Spark of Intelligence touched would gain awareness. It wasn’t true intelligence at the level of a human, more along the lines of a low intelligence creature.

Matt could only find scattered pieces of information about the early Everlasting Kingdom of Prosperity and its development of the star that made both Sparks of Intelligence and Revelatory Mind-Gems. What he could find all remarked on how alien the awakened rocks, gems, and trees could be after receiving a spark, but it made sense to him. The items weren't alive in the traditional sense, so why should they conform to anything but the very natural objects they were?

Of course they were able to reason, but the logic behind their reasoning was alien. They were rocks and stones given… a Spark of Intelligence.

Matt knew he had hindsight helping him, but he found it hard to follow their logic. The early Kingdom, not seeing much value in the sparks and preferring the Revelatory Mind-Gems, had used the Spark of Intelligence to replicate a Hill’s Have Eyes Minkalla floor. For a painfully long time, they had been handed out to princes and important vassals as consolation prizes.

Nowadays that would be considered a horrendous waste for the same reason Matt himself felt bad about using it.

The Kingdom had eventually found a much better use for the Spark of Intelligence than helping a single person. It was a rogue researcher who used a spark on a planetary AI rather than his weapons who discovered the Spark of Intelligences true value. It was a practice that had, officially, continued unbroken to this day.

Already incredibly powerful, bestowing the Spark of Intelligence onto an AI was the same as giving an ember to accelerant. The resulting AIs not only became magnitudes more efficient and effective for a multiplicative bonus, they became able to act with some real genuine thought. They had a touch of creativity and initiative rather than blindly following their algorithms. That let them handle far greater loads, up to, and sometimes exceeding, entire star systems with unbelievable finesse.

Matt, alongside every researcher who had so much as glanced at the field of AI, had always been rather disappointed that the formed intelligences were especially inscrutable and utterly uncaring about anything but performing the function the AI was originally designed for.

They were singular in purpose. Something he was now grateful for as it was the only reason he was willing to empower his [AI]. He had no intention of sharing his head with anyone else.

Matt had looked into it and while it wasn’t made too public, two of the EmpireNet’s core servers, along with the Capital and Tur’stal’s queendom capital, had all been enhanced. He was sure there were others that had been quietly empowered, but the Spark of Intelligence weren't produced often, nor were they sold except at the highest levels. Any such ‘illegal’ uses were carefully hidden to not draw undue ire.

However, the most important improvement, and why Matt had wanted a spark in the first place, was that a Spark of Intelligence allowed AIs to directly interact with enchantments.

If Matt’s [AI] could directly interface with his sword and inner armor, he’d be able to increase his micro efficiency to an unheard of degree. But that wasn’t all he was trying to do.

Matt was willing to go farther to improve himself. To do something only Max and a few other of the most extreme mentalists did. Fully integrate their [AI] with their subconscious minds. Something a lot easier and more effective when the [AI] came with its own instincts on how to operate itself, rather than needing a human mind needing to build the appropriate, and all but guaranteed to be flawed, networks.

Having made his decision long ago when he’d started modifying his [AI] in the first place, he put the Spark of Intelligence in his domain pocket space and opened a portal to the front of Max’s estate.

Five more years of work and he could go home.

Best of all, they were going to visit a place he’d always wanted to go in the Corporations. The official name was Delta Nine Axim but the colloquial name outside of the Corporation was The Tomb or The Plunge, depending on the context of one's visit.

The very idea of a settled black hole exhilarated him to no end and he’d been eager to find a valid reason to visit. Originally he’d planned to go when Allie and Zack took their Corporation sponsored delves but he wouldn’t pass up this opportunity now that Max offered it.
