Throughout the process he could hear her trying to speak with him, but the words were foggy and indistinct for him to process anything.

The only thing he understood were the comforting arms wrapped around him and being horizontal.

And that was all he needed.

***

Matt woke up.

He opened his eyes ready to—.

His eyes drooped as he felt his dreams drag him back under.

***

Matt woke up.

The second time wasn’t much better than the first, but he knew a decent amount of time had passed thanks to feeling Aster up and about. Additionally, human Liz was gone, with only a passed out phoenix in her spot to give him company.

Matt contemplated getting up. He needed to do so many things, but instead he closed his eyes and pulled the covers over his head, letting his breath warm the space.

He'd get up in a few minutes when he gathered the energy and willpower.

He’d…

***

Matt woke up for the third time, coming to full alertness all at once, as if someone had flipped a switch.

His eyes inadvertently flicked to the door, half expecting to find Luna waking him and Liz up for some training in the middle of the night. He found no one, and that oddity was what made him spend the necessary seconds putting together where and when he was. As he looked around, he found even phoenix Liz had left the room, though from the warm pillow next to him, she hadn’t been gone long.

Matt’s body felt significantly better after several days of rest, but moving his increased weight was a struggle, as if he was in a resistance machine or underwater.

He growled as he tried to stand up. He failed.

The effort saw his seemingly abundant energy settle in his back and side, leaving him in a strange limbo state. Pushing through, he once more failed to stand. The sensations that rolled through his body in the attempt made him want him to return to his bed instead of waking up.

Giving up, he tapped into his mana where he found good news. He had recovered enough that using a few thousand mana to reduce his weight with [Gravity Manipulation] was just barely within his abilities.

That seemed to be a signal and he felt the presence outside the room stir. At the exact same moment, his connection to Aster became much sharper as he felt her focus on it. She was checking up on him.

There was no more time for dawdling and Matt forced himself to stand up and get moving before he could fall back into bed. He wanted to, but he resisted the urge, knowing active recovery was more efficient than passive.

His shower may have lasted a little longer than he intended, but his, or more truthfully, Liz’s, timing was impeccable as she finished plating his breakfast just as he stepped into the living room. He was profoundly disinterested in even the thought of food at first, but after one perfunctory bite, he devoured his entire plate before he realized what he’d done.

Neither she nor Aster, who appeared at some point he hadn’t caught, joined him; instead they waited for him to finish eating.

When he had, Aster reached out and grabbed his closest hand. “I want to say I’m sorry about how I reacted during the armor process. I really wanted to be there for you but it was… really hard.”

Matt took a long deep breath and rubbed her hand back, even as he said words he didn’t really want to. “I’m sorry too. I didn’t know it would be that bad. I—”

Aster shook her head, cutting him off. “JR, is a dick and could have warned me, yes, but I still would have wanted to be close in case something went wrong. There was no way I was ever going to be okay with waiting in the Empire while you had something this important happen to you. That would make me… not the person I want to be.”

Matt smiled, but continued what he was going to say regardless. “I still want to acknowledge that it was hard for both of you. I… It was rough for me too, but it's behind us. I already feel a lot better.”

Seeing both of their hopeful expressions, he backpeddled before he set expectations too high. “Don't take that as me being a hundred percent, I’m still trying to settle back into myself. I can barely use a few thousand mana without it hurting, but I can tell this isn’t actually dangerous. It's like I overtrained a lot. I can recover from this.”

Opening and closing his fist, he could barely detect the yet to be fully grown armor.

Liz and Aster misinterpreted his actions and words. Both of them tried to reassure him that he had all the time he needed and that he shouldn’t rush, but that wasn’t his issue.

“I know this sounds like I’m making a joke or a quip, but I can’t bring myself to believe I actually did all of those promotions for the escape talismans.” Wincing at his own choice of word, he let a slowly growing emotion out. “Oh and don’t get me started on that word. Quip. I think I've come to loathe it. Quill thought that word in what felt like every third thought. I can’t believe I was that bad. It's so embarrassing to remember that dinner we hosted. I interrupted Conor five or six times.”

Liz reached out and took his hand, giving him a soft smile, and he winced internally knowing it was going to be bad. “Our friends don’t hold it against you. Everyone could see how hard it was on you. As for the business? You went a little overboard near the end, but I’m not sure if you can say it was too much. Your logic was sound or I would have stepped in and redirected your… enthusiasm. Have you actually checked the numbers?”

Matt hadn’t. He could check Quill's memories, because he’d watched them like a hawk, but like a child who had just burned their hand on the stove, he didn’t even want to get near those memories.

When he opened his Corporation information, he wasn’t expecting to be assaulted by two numbers and felt his stomach sink as he processed what they were. The business itself had enough capital on hand to coast until he Ascended and well beyond, but the money was secondary to him.

What horrified him was the projected aura escape talisman sales Quill had tacked onto their login page. Even in the micro second since he’d logged in, it had already climbed higher.

Matt had already had the plans for the aura resonance tracking talisman, so he wasn’t surprised by their success there. He was actually impressed with what they’d made. It was a very clean use of resources and worked amazingly. He looked up Empire reviews of the product and found the majority were glowing, with the expected upset or angry customer here or there.

The aura escape talismans were another matter. One he didn’t want to touch with a twenty foot pole, despite their absurd success. It was that success that made him feel so sick. In a move of brilliance or stupidity, Quill had made deals that ensured a significant portion of the Realm’s less valuable aura sub-aspects, like a bright aspected fire aura, were redirected to aura escape talisman production, where the sub aspects weren’t as relevant.

Others had quickly followed suit, exactly Quill's intentions, and as a consequence, aura escape talismans were on the fast track to fully replacing their previous iterations.

It was already being estimated that in another nine or ten thousand years, the days of using elemental escape talismans that only wrapped their wielder in a bubble of the mana type and moved them in a straight line would be over.

Matt loved every individual step of that process, but he didn’t love how Quill had gone about such a large scale push in such a short time. He’d done hundreds of ads, dozens of talk shows, public question and answer sessions. He’d even sunk as low as doing cross-product promotional deals for other brands, all in the guise of advertisement.

While Quill had found it funny, he could barely get through a single ad without wanting to go back into JR’s lab and continue the work on his… armor. It wasn’t really armor any beyond the surface most definitions, but he pushed those thoughts aside for the moment.

What made everything worse was the fact that the aura escape talisman diagrams were really impressive. The talisman was a bit harder to make thanks to the inclusion of aura, but disregarding that obstacle, the design truly was a work of art. They grew in complexity in a steady and predictable way that meant anyone who learned any Tiered version would have little issue swapping to a different element, or learning higher or lower Tier variations.

It was clean and he hated every inch of it thanks to his shameful display in advertising the product everywhere. Even without his name, the portion of his body that fell back upon a Quill persona was still himself; Matt knew and accepted that fact, but it was the source of his frustration.

He didn't particularly like that he was capable of being so shameless for a product that didn’t really matter. No matter what Quill thought, Matt knew there was no chance that aura escape talismans would buy him allies for a true war. In a political maneuver or two? Maybe, but Quill underestimated how quickly people were to forget past good will when it came to future benefits.

Accepting what had already happened, he moved onto the rest of his efforts during the twenty years.

He couldn’t be upset. He’d grown quite a bit in several skills he'd let lapse from his Ascender standards. The flash talismans would require a little more work to get where he wanted, but he was excited to have access to an endless faucet for his mana.

While he was in the finances he looked at the rest of his friends' efforts. He found that things had gone about the way he’d expected. Most hadn’t been profitable, but they hadn’t been doing it for them, and their assistance would prove vital in the coming days as he tried to re-acclimate to being whole.

And empowered.

A not so small portion of him desperately wanted to test out his armor, but he knew that he wasn’t ready for that. Not yet. It would come soon enough, but first he needed to relax.

For what felt like the first time, Matt moved around the estate and used its many luxuries to relax and recuperate with his friends. Most of them used the three years of downtime as exits to their business, but Cameron was even busier than before, having to sell a successful business where the rest were simply shutting theirs down.

Liz, Aster, and himself, after Quill’s deliberate efforts, were the only ones who wanted to keep their business operational so they could continue to extract related resources from the Corporations. It would be a bit of additional work, but their local operatives would handle most things for them.

When he finally got to test his armor, he almost cried.

It was everything he dreamed of.

The armor made controlling his mana easy. He felt an urge to rush out and challenge the other Ascenders to a spar at the very least to see the difference, but he knew that was a terrible idea. Even if they kept their mouths closed about the armor, such a strategic power-up should be obscured for as long as possible.

His only chance at a proper showing would be when their treaties with the hostile Great Powers ended in another six or so thousand years. It was possible the Clans or Monster Collective could attack them, but Matt felt that was unlikely. The only other two Great Powers that weren’t treaty bound to not attack them were allied or in a defensive pact with them.

It was why Manny had been willing to let one of his Ascenders render himself combat ineffective for decades.

He was content with that. His armor would take time to grow. That did leave him with little else to do before the treaties ended, beyond getting to Tier 35 and preparing to form his Aspect.

In his own private tests, he had no reason to hold back, not that anyone capable of full-force sparing wanted anything less.

Matt spent three months slowly feeling out his new capabilities with Liz, Aster, Zack, Allie, Susanne, and Rah.

While in his day to day life, his armor had become something of a hindrance, thanks to the weight it added to his already formidable form. When he activated [Archmage’s Presence], all of that flipped. Even with only the initial body integrations and general mana control improvements, that single skill was enough to change everything.

It wasn’t the only skill he needed, but [Archmage’s Presence] had become even more important since he’d gotten the armor.

A Tier 44 spell, it didn't only boost all his physical abilities, but also bolstered all of his equipment’s enchantments. For the purposes of the skill, his newly converted growth power still counted, meaning the buffs were cyclical.

It started with his armor. It boosted his skills, including [Archmage’s Presence], which in turn empowered his items' enchantments, making them more powerful. Instead of stopping there, the loop continued over and over. There were diminishing returns, but his path forward was clear.

He was still heavy, but that was why he had been working on his gravity manipulation, from both the Domain and skill sides. He’d never live down the time he broke one of the floor boards in their living room when he got off the couch with a little too much enthusiasm.

It was almost too much. With the skill active, everything became easy. The Tier 44 skill gave him such a large power increase, it reminded him of the first time he accidentally walked through a wall in a low Tier building.

He’d had his eyes closed and was distracted coming out of the shower, worrying about a lesson from Luna he couldn’t even remember now. He hadn't noticed the non-existent resistance of the mortal wall. Luna had justifiably torn him to shreds for the lapse of control.

And that was before his armor was even boosting his physical capabilities. Then everything would only grow that much stronger, the loop growing and reinforcing itself with each cycle.

Matt only needed to pour more mana inside.

