“Here we part ways. Perhaps not all of us. I hope some return to His Majesty, but you know your purpose. I shall be here when Solstice dawns, but at least one of us will walk a different path. Now—I ask ye a favor. One of you to go and do what we know should be done. Yet to go it alone.”
 
The fae stood there. They knew what she was asking of them. Slowly, one raised a hand.
 
“I will do it! I will carry the r—”
 
Shaestrel threw something at Theillige, and the other fae cackled, breaking off the solemnity of the moment.
 
“Not you, you idiot! You know your place. Someone else.”
“I will.”
 
One of the fae broke off, raised her hand, and changed. Shaestrel saw a bright smile, and the crystal faerie shifted. The others did go silent then. A long silence. Shaestrel closed her eyes a long moment, then nodded to the other in respect.
 
“Can you find a door into the Crossroads?”
“Aye, if one exists. I am one of the greatest travellers, and if I must, I will run the breadth of this world. Have I permission to meddle?”
 
The faerie’s eyes glinted, and Shaestrel grew sad as she floated over and took the other one’s hands and felt fur, not frozen, crystalline skin.
 
“Oh, aye. No more rules. No more laws. Go, Vofea, and make such war against the gods in your way that they regret coming back to their shells of life.”
 
The winter fae laughed and sped downwards, coming to earth, and when she landed, she flew no more and looked no more like the winter fae, but rose in one of her true forms, and they waved at her and shouted.
 
“Goodbye! Hurry up and find them, Vofea!”
“Don’t forget where and when you should be!”
“Farewell forever!”
 
Then Shaestrel flew down for one last thing as the fae laughed and flew in wild delights. And she sensed fate itself had no idea how her kind were meddling.
But there was one thing in the world Shaestrel would pay dues to, in honor of it.
 
——
 
On the eve of the Solstice, Tekshia Shivertail was polishing her spear, and that was no euphemism. Her granddaughter had come by for a long chat about what might or might not happen, and Tekshia had told Selys to respectfully and lovingly mind her own business.
Selys had left with a harrumph, and Tekshia had closed the guild early. The adventurers were annoyed, but they’d stay and gossip like children and drink too late fretting, some of them.
Best they slept or pretended to. She was sitting and thinking of all the stories she’d seen come into guilds like this one with. Thinking of the future, the past.
The door opened, and Tekshia called out without looking up.
“We’re closed. Since the door was locked, you’re either my granddaughter or a thief, and you’ll get stabbed either way if I have to get up.”
 
“Nay, nae. We’re neither, and it isn’t a time for stabbing. Yet. We have business, Tekshia Shivertail.”
 
A voice like spring spoke, and Tekshia Shivertail hesitated—and lifted the spear anyways, for she had never heard that voice. She knew, vaguely, who was speaking, but when Shaestrel landed on the table…the Drake still stared.
“So that is what you look like. Hmph.”
She tried to sound casual, but her heart was racing. Ten faeries plus the bright green one were flickering about the table, and Tekshia heard their voices at last, not the faint bell-like chimes.
 
“Ooh, she’s got a spear!”
“Grumpy Drake, angry Drake, brave Drake. Lend us your ear!”
“She ain’t got an ear, hah!”
“Shut up, Theillige.”
 
Shaestrel ignored the lot and looked at Tekshia with eyes that were disconcertingly old, but not like a half-Elf who’d forgotten time. They scared the Drake, but Tekshia was too stubborn to admit that to anyone.
“Can I help you? We’re closed. Unless you have adventuring business, I’m out of cookies or whatnot.”
They giggled at her, and Tekshia feared they could see right through her. Shaestrel smiled.
 
“Ah, but my business is for adventuring. I have a small favor to ask. And I think this is how ye do it? One of you, give me a coin.”
 
They threw down a gold one, fat and bright, and Tekshia stared at it as Shaestrel kicked it across the table. It was wider than Shaestrel was and looked beautiful. Worth more than your average coin.
 
“This should do for handsome compensation.”
 
The Drake paused, eyed the coin, and sighed.
“That’s a Faerie Flower. I heard about Erin Solstice’s mishap.”
Shaestrel paused, and one of the faeries cursed.
 
“Shit tits and all! We can’t even scam people these days!”
 
“It’s probably worth more than a gold coin due to market value. What am I being paid for?”
Tekshia picked up the coin and marveled at how real it seemed. Shaestrel shrugged, seemingly at home with the oddities. Yet her eyes seemed to plead with Tekshia to be serious, so the Drake sat up.
 
“We would like to register someone with your guild. Can ye oblige us?”
 
Paperwork? Now of all times? Tekshia hesitated, then got up and rummaged in a drawer. She found a slip, pulled out a quill, and eyed the faerie.
“Okay, you have my interest. If I feel like I’m being pranked, I will stab you with this.”
 
“Very fair. How does one fill it out? Need we witnesses?”
 
“Bronze-rank adventurer? Nope. You pay a two-silver registration fee for the materials and, depending on the guild, a bit more. I charge three more silver. Five is steep for a kid, but it cuts down on the idiots who just want to say ‘I’m an adventurer’. No other requirements. If you want a higher ranking, you need all kinds of references. Otherwise, I file this. Is that all you want?”
Shaestrel hesitated and then raised a hand.
 
“…Can I get change on my coin?”
 
“No. If I’m doing this…name?”
 
“Vofea.”
 
Then the Faeries were serious. Tekshia saw them land, and Shaestrel spoke, and occasionally one would call out an answer.
“V-o-f-e-a. No last name?”
 
“Many names. None you need. What comes next?”
 
“Mm. Gender?”
 
“When she’s feeling it—female! Wait, what is she asking again?”
 
“I’ll write down ‘female’. Or else it’s ‘not applicable’ for a Selphid—”
 
“Do female. After that?”
 
They’d never filled out a form before and clustered around. They did debate, but they seemed intent on getting this right.
“Species?”
 
“Satyr!”
“Shh! That’s a secret!”
 
Tekshia’s quill paused, and Shaestrel hmmed.
 
“Write ‘Satyr’. And if there is room, ‘Fae of Avalon’. She was not born to us, but we claim her. She was born in our lands and danced among us and therefore she is ours. Will that suffice?”
 
It would indeed. There was even a subspecies column on the Drake forms. Humans didn’t have any, which played hob with filing. Now, Tekshia’s heart was picking up.
“Age.”
 
“Older than your mom!”
“Uh…I need a lot of fingers. How many do we have in this city?”
“Does age count if time matters less?”
 
Shaestrel raised a hand, annoyed at the shouting.
 
“Ten thousand eight hundred and ninety-two. She’s not as old as some of us by far.”
 
“Place of origin?”
 
“Avalon. But she belongs here, you know. Her parents remembered this world.”
“We opened the door! At great cost!”
“First of new children, even if they were not born of us in an age! No more. Nevermore.”
 
They chimed like singing bells, saying the saddest of things with laughter because you should laugh at fate, and thumb your nose at it. These folk bowed to nothing and no one.
Now, the faerie’s eyes were boring a hole to Tekshia’s soul, and the Drake felt like a force possessed her quill. The form needed very little you had to fill out. The Drake found herself reaching for some tea as she croaked.
“Is she good with a sword? Fighting capabilities…”
 
“Eh. She’s not that good.”
“She sucks. Not a bad left hoof when she gets kicking, though.”
“Hopefully nothing kills her right off! She’s quick! And she’s got the magic of her folk here, even if she gives up our powers.”
 
Magic…of…fae. Good legs. Tekshia’s quill paused, and Shaestrel was smiling, now. Smiling and smiling, and Tekshia whispered.
“I take it she’s going on an adventure?”
 
“Oh, aren’t we all? A fine one, I hope. She’s gone where I can’t see, you see. Hopefully it matters. Oh, put down for ‘team’—‘Horns of Hammerad’.”
 
“They’ve only got four members on file. Is that approved?”
Even now, Tekshia hesitated to mess with the files, and Shaestrel snorted.
 
“Four? Four!? Put down Colth of the Demonic Smile too! It’s only fair for now.”
 
She glowered until Tekshia pulled out their file and scribbled in a note. They were coming to the end of the page as the faeries laughed about her ‘equipment’ and all kinds of things they found silly to write down. Until one last entry made it clear.
“And lastly…before I witness this. ‘Next of kin’. Family. People we can contact if she’s…hurt. Or dies. Hometown too.”
Tekshia looked down at Shaestrel, and the faerie beamed at her through the tears.
 
“Leave it blank.”
 
“I have to fill it out. Otherwise, her possessions go to Liscor or her team…”
The faerie shook her head wordlessly.
 
“Leave it blank. She’s not going home. She’s come to it now. If—someday, there should ever be a chance, tell her deeds to the Court of the Faerie King. But Vofea will not be the one who tells it.”
 
Slowly, Tekshia Shivertail wrote that down, as close to word for word as she could. She stared at the bottom of the form and signed her name.
“Do you want me to make you a copy?”
Each document was made of thin paper, so the ink would come through and make a copy. It wasn’t the nicest thing, but as Tekshia tore the piece of paper off and looked up, Shaestrel was gone.
The fae were gone. The Drake held out the piece of paper, and a laughing, dancing being with horns and hooves, furred like a Gnoll but different, with a clean shaven face and twinkling blue eyes, turned as she raced through a frozen red land that Tekshia knew. The Drake could feel the cold and smell the tainted air; the two spaces melded in one moment like the lands of the fae.
The Drake recoiled, but Vofea reached out across time and space.
“One last trick says I, and to Shaestrel, I thank thee. Tell them I came back, and write it down for a few or all to see: my kin fled, and one came back for pride and glory. Thank you, Guildmistress. I wish I could stay, but we all have to run.”
Vofea took the form and stepped back, bowing. Winter Fae and Shaestrel’s green lights descended around her, calling a second farewell, and the Drake stared at a species she had only read about in books.
The old adventurer’s eyes tried to burn every line of the laughing Satyr into her memory. And Shaestrel shouted.
 
“Go on then, Vofea! And send them where you see it matter! Go, adventurer, go, wild kin and cunning tricksters. Let us meet again in some form, some day.”
 
So the Satyr sprang lightly to an ancient door and swung herself into it as Tekshia watched, longing to leap in after her, and the fae were laughing and crying.
Shaestrel liked to pretend it was all defiance and chaos, but she had known Vofea would volunteer. Each of them, from her to Theillige to Oberon himself, could see their own fates in part.
The difference was whether you went to it gracefully or strove the world over to change one thing for the better. Then the Satyr was gone, and Shaestrel was flying higher to set the last pieces upon the board before she threw it in Kasigna’s face.
 
——
 
Tekshia Shivertail did not rise for a long time after that. She simply sat, replaying what she had seen, the backup form held loosely in her claw. Her heart beating too fast. Her mind trembling, as it had on a thousand adventures. Reminding her how young she still truly was.
The hours ticked down to minutes, which fell to the ground of the adventurer’s guild, and seconds slipped between the cracks as Tekshia Shivertail rose, slowly and painfully, to file the most important document of her life. Then she was waiting with everyone else, wondering where the Horns were.
Where everything was. Bloodtear Pirates at sea, Roshal’s ghosts plotting, allies and enemies and a dead goddess all waiting.
So came the Winter Solstice. Thereafter, questions turned into answers that could not be taken back.
