“The Third Tide is blood in the water. See that ship in front moving faster’n the rest? The only reason we haven’t caught them is Earl Altestiel. He owns a tide, too. Zeres has another one…”
“Is the Last Tide a Skill, then?”
Irurx was interested by the phenomenon. Rosech spat into the water again and grinned.
“If it is—it ain’t held by anyone I want to meet. Irrel, go and greet the other [Captains]. Tell them to come by and introduce themselves. When Admiral Maxy gets here, she and I will get the conference started with the Alchemist.”
“Yes, Father.”
Irrel began to lope backwards, and Rosech called him back.
“Irrel, Irrel! If any of them give you lip, go and tell me or the crew, and I’ll kill them.”
His smile was like a ray of sunshine in the dark storm clouds. He meant it.
Irurx took this moment to turn and regard Irrel, and the boy’s nature said much about the Bloodtear Pirates, because he got greetings from almost every group disembarking. They waved; a Drowned Woman with pale, glowing skin, being led forwards by a younger one with veils all over his body to suppress the glow.
A Dullahan striding over the deck, head half-shaved, with cheering Newbloods shouting, half swearing at the sunlight: recruits from Izril’s shores.
A swearing half-Shark [Captain], clapping Jiupe’s back and shaking hands with other Bloodtear [Captains]—and making way for Admiral Maxy, who was another half-Elf missing one and a half ears and had more scars than even Rosech.
Every species you wanted, you could find. Selphid? Captain Ereiyne, the Shipbreaker, a top-tier [Geomancer].
Drowned Folk? Jiupe, half-Jellyfish.
Gnoll? Captain Aldrail and his first mate Gorry, swords drawn, having a mock-duel with some of the newcomers. They’d be first onto the other ships…
But Irrel? Irrel wasn’t any of them. He was a Dorhmin, and his eyes were bright green. He had rough, tiny scales more like a shark than a fish, his limbs were long, and his ‘hands’ were finned, and he had feet like flippers, too. His teeth were sharp, and his ‘hair’ resembled the seaweed he smelled like.
Sea-Ogres they were called. Dorhmin, a kind of monster analogous to Goblins or any other semi-intelligent creature group. They loved to raid ships and could use spears and nets, but Irurx had never met one capable of speech.
He would have loved to have Irrel as a sample…but Rosech doted on his boy.
“You raised Irrel?”
“Found the lad after a nasty skirmish on a ship. We rolled over ready to fight—and there weren’t more than dead Dorhmin and Drowned folk. He was yay high to a ship’s cat, new-born. They must send even pregnant mothers on raids or they were desperate. So I picked him up, and he bit me—and I knew he was a fighter. Must have been sixteen years since then.”
“I see. He’s fully grown?”
“Not quite. The big ‘uns get big. We’ve met them a few times. They don’t have ‘ships’; can’t make them work, and they don’t understand the rigging mostly. But they’ll paddle around with these broken shells of ships underwater; that’s where they get you from. And they’ve got their own tricks and food and such. None of it’s good to me, but Irrel’s seen them. They think he’s strange. Strange’n too smart for his own good.”
“The product of a Skill? Yours?”
Irurx was engaging with academic interest as much as his desire to be on Rosech’s side—but the not-so-friendly kick hurt and sent Irurx sliding down the deck. The [Alchemist] steadied himself—his crew on Shifthold stirred, and a buzz filled the air.
Heads turned, and the merriment kept going, but Rosech’s glare was only mitigated when a green ball of light landed near the crow’s nest. The [Lookout] immediately shared his sandwich with the odd Winter Sprite, and Rosech beamed.
“Now there’s a funny one. As odd as Irrel! Green in the winter? Irrel’s bright because I taught him. No one had to give him a Skill, Irurx. Remember that.”
“My apologies. I didn’t mean to denigrate his intelligence.”
“Yeah, well, I degenerate now and then too, so I forgive you. I hate it when people ask if he’s not that smart. Turns out Dorhmin can talk—no one ever bothers to teach ‘em. They’ve got their own languages and smarts. But no one knew that. Not even those fancy [Mages]. Not even you.”
Irurx had harvested Dorhmins for his work many a time and fought them off as well. He had to admit, Rosech was right. It was rather like meeting a Goblin [Pirate] your first time and realizing the rules were different.
“Will Irrel benefit from your…plan, Rosech?”
Then and only then did the Admiral look worried.
“Dead gods, I hope so. I gave him everything I got off that Thousand Lance idiot. He’s my boy, you get it? Everyone else is getting a share—he’d better get it, or I’ll kick whoever made that Skill in the teeth. There’s over a thousand of us with the Skill thanks to the ghost. It’s like it was made for us.”
It may well have been. Here was the thing Irurx had observed about the Bloodtear Pirates: they were, in their way, the most egalitarian group in the world.
Not a single Bloodtear Pirate ranked themselves on any principle other than who was better at killing. They came from ports, yes, but also many people you’d never expect. They were made up of [Serfs] who’d run away from their farmsteads, former prisoners, but also ordinary people.
When Rosech welcomed the other leaders onto his vessel, it was part of his speech to them.
“I was just chatting with Alchemist Irurx about this. So I figured I’d better say it twice in case any of you forgot—and to all you independent [Pirate] Captains.”
He nodded at the last group, which was over forty [Captains] of independent [Pirate] ships who had joined on for the promise Rosech had made to them. This, then, was a fleet almost the same in scope to the Terandrians—and they were all ready to fight, ready to die. It made Irurx smile as Rosech went on.
“We are the Bloodtear Pirates. Right here, right now, we’re aiming to steal the prize of prizes from the Terandrians. It’ll change everything. I daresay the Bloodtear Pirates might end after this—but remember who we are. We’re the folk who don’t have any future. Me? I was a boy when I joined the [Pirates]. Not marked for greatness. None of us were. Or if you were, you’re lucky and you left because what you had wasn’t what you wanted.”
A few eyes slid around, but the Bloodtear Pirates were nodding as a whole. Rosech went on, beaming.
“We have only one goal: to do whatever the hell we want. We have rules, aye. No killing each other without a good reason, no killing kids or doing foul things—that’s because we have to have them. But nothing else. We’ve always been free, and no matter what comes, I want you to remember who you were. Our foe’s the exact opposite. Yonder sails every rule, every blue-blood born to it, and those with classes and Skills better than ours because they were born or chosen. Let’s kill them all.”
The cheer that arose was simple, plain, and then Irurx saw why they were here. Admiral Maxy was the strategist to Rosech’s leadership, and she began giving a more detailed breakdown of the battle. Irurx listened, and they did defer to him…but he hadn’t hired them, he realized at last.
They’d just taken his money.
 
——
 
“We’re gonna have to split them up, and if they get too close to Wistram, we’re in trouble. If the Iron Vanguard hits us, it’ll be a slaughter—but the Dullahans saw we’re in this for good. No turning back.”
The mood was good after the meeting. Alchemist Irurx was standing and still going over the war plans, but the lesser [Captains] were happy.
It’d be a slaughter either way—so they had told the crews not to drink so hard they wasted themselves for the coming days, but to celebrate.
Some of the ‘regular’ [Pirates] were getting jumpy, though. They didn’t want to die, which was fair because none of the Bloodtear Pirates did either. One of the other [Captains] raised a hand.
“There’s no chance we can pull off and hit them while they’re landing? There’s other waves of colonists they have to send.”
“Nah. We’ll get warfleets up our asses. Terandrians outnumber us, and they can hire on what they don’t have. We can’t even stay together as an armada long; we’ll eat our stores of food out.”
That came from one of the Newbloods, Captain Zoler, the Dullahan with a half-shaved head and better armor than most. High-quality steel, one unit, not cobbled-together like many Bloodtear Dullahans.
In another fleet, it might have made her a target as she was clearly from one of those blue-blood families—but she’d risen through her ranks of the largely-untested ‘Newbloods’, and her crew was excited.
She was still a rookie though, so Jiupe cuffed her as the Drowned Woman walked past.
“Look at you talking like you know the fleet. This idiot is Zoler, everyone. She’s a smart one. Gets in the way of her killing people. But she is right; we don’t want their reinforcements. Dead gods, I heard Rhir’s got one of their fleets at sea. No one wants Rhir’s blood on their blades. But I’ll take this chance. ‘Sides, the truth is, we won’t survive another shot at them.”
One of the regular [Captains], leader of the Shoal Reavers, was trying to add to their odds.
“No? What if we took the Third Armada of the Bloodtear Pirates—”
Jiupe picked at her Human-half of her teeth with a toothpick as Rosech and his son sauntered over.
“Can’t. Third Fleet’s mostly sunk or scattered past Baleros. Hey, Rosech, want to tell them about the Third Fleet?”
“All dead! Hey, look at what I’ve got! One of them parrots—only its a Winter Sprite! Here, here—”
He was feeding some food to a glowing green ball on his shoulder and looked pleased as punch.
“Maybe that Skill’s paying off already, eh? I feel lucky as shit!”
“It’s green in winter, Admiral. Maybe that’s the reverse of luck?”
A timid voice from one of the Drowned Folk; the one with veils on his body. He yelped as Rosech kicked at him, but the older Drowned Woman blocked his foot with a staff.
“Don’t bruise my First Mate ahead of the battle, Rosech. We don’t heal like a Troll like you.”
“Captain Lidera, only for you. Since Irrel likes you so much.”
Rosech sighed as Irrel came over, and the Drowned Woman patted him on the head. Here were two more examples of what made the Bloodtear Pirates, though the two Drowned Folk were…different and alike.
Captain Lidera was a kind of translucent jellyfish, close to Jiupe, but luminescent where Jiupe was poisonous. She was old, so old that Jiupe found her a chair and was deferential where the Captain seldom was to anyone.
And not just because of old age, either. Captain Lidera was over seventy years old, and her skin on her Drowned Folk half glowed very faintly. Spent, you see.
She was someone whose past life had followed her even to the Bloodtear Armada, but they had welcomed her where no one else would.
After all, a spent Luminary of the Drowned Cities was mostly an object of pity. She might be cared for all her life, but without her powers to illuminate, Lidera was useless to the cities she had used to help define.
On the other hand, her First Mate was a boy who wore veils on his Drowned Folk side like some dancer because he was too bright. An aspiring Luminary and a burnt-out one. The Drowned Folk had a bounty on Lidera’s head that rose with each year. Her crime, incidentally, was joining [Pirates]…and stealing a prospective Luminary from his city.
Solwes had light-based powers so powerful that the Bloodtear Pirates could afford to dive and hide out in places normally uninhabitable even to them. He and Irrel skulked to one side as the older officers talked, trading murmurs.
“I was part of Third Fleet. You want to tell them or should I? We gave a damn good fight, but half our ships had to flee in every direction; the Iron Vanguard got us.”
The half-Shark Captain Dovom called out, and Rosech grimaced as the other [Pirates] learned, unhappily, that the famed Bloodtear Pirates had been on the outs.
“Keeping three armadas is tough. You can raid and raid and keep growing out of your losses, but one bad battle and it’s over in a way it’s not for a kingdom or nation. Third Fleet is proof of that. Dovom was there if you want to know.”
“The Iron Vanguard? And they’re not going to try to take all of us out in one go?”
A nervous [Pirate Captain] demanded. Rosech picked at his teeth, unconcerned, as the Winter Sprite flew up and landed on Zoler’s head next. The Dullahan froze as everyone laughed at her and offered it treats. But she had already been looking sick, even if no one did more than glance at her.
Dovom was one of them, and his eyes lingered longest. He spat onto the deck and got a kick.
“Yep. We ran straight into one of their Kraken Destroyers. Wasn’t our fight. If they want to try it again—there’s two [Admirals] and the Alchemist. I’ll take one of their Destroyers; it’d make a nice new flagship. But it won’t go down easy. Admiral Meetishek leapt onto their ship and was trying to break in, but it sits almost in the water. It’s round as a dome, and it was shooting lightning. Poor bastard got fried, and the rest of us were throwing rocks for all the damage we did.”
“Is it really indestructible?”
Even Captain Aldrail looked unhappy at the idea of a ship like that. The Gnoll didn’t often sail into Balerosian waters, so he turned for answers, and Zoler answered for him.
“They’re not indestructible. There are only two left in the entire world, and the Iron Vanguard has both. The hatches are sealed with a powerful magnetic spell; you’d have to have two people strong as Rosech to have a chance of pulling it up, and they’ll just electrocute you via the hull if you try to board. But it can run out of mana, and they’re out of the old fuel they used to use. If it enters the fight, you can outlast it.”
That kind of detailed answer was so specific that everyone turned to Zoler, but several [Captains]’ eyes had lit up. Zoler turned her head away, cheeks reddening.
“The problem is that Tulm the Mithril is in command. He won’t be in either Destroyer, but he won’t give either one up without a fight. So you’ll run into his [Strategist] level Skills on the way in.”
“I heard he’s not even Level 50. If he comes at us—I’d rather not dance with the Earl of Rains. Or that Baron of the Dance if he’s still around. Dead gods, even that [Prince] or whatnot seem worse than the Iron Vanguard’s ‘finest’ [Strategist].”
Aldrail’s offhand remark got a blaze of anger from Zoler.
