“Don’t underestimate him. He was Level 50, but his new class took him down ten levels. That’s how it works if you get a class that much better than your old one.”
“It does?”
Now, a lot of the independents were eying Zoler, but none of them got a chance to ask anything because Rosech spoke.
“Hey, Zoler, your Newbloods are picking fights with the others. Get over there and knock some heads together. I don’t want them getting anyone hurt.”
Sure enough, some of the new lot on Zoler’s ship were swaggering around—albeit in the shade—and calling insults to other Newbloods. Always ready to scrap, a few were walking over for a fight.
“Idiots. Sorry, Admiral. I’ll be back.”
“Take the fast route. [Light Bridge].”
The old Captain Lidera pointed, and Zoler charged over the light bridge, shouting obscenities. A silence followed as she threw a garlic bulb at one of her new crewmates.
“She’s got the stuff of Bloodtear in her. Nearly been killed six times proving her worth. The Bloodtear Armada don’t count who you were—even if it hurts sometimes, right, Dovom?”
The half-Shark [Captain] didn’t seem to agree with Rosech’s assessment, but he bared his teeth.
“You took her in after the third armada went down, Admiral. I’m just here for the promised rewards. Keep her away from my ship. If anything brings the Iron Vanguard in, it’s her.”
“She’s sworn to jump ship with a weight around her ankle first. That’s why they’re not going after us.”
Rosech’s backslap had to hurt. At this, some of the [Captains] not in the know looked at each other, and Aldrail plucked at Jiupe’s shoulder.
The two knew each other fairly well; they were Maxy’s lot normally, and had been at Savere with all the hilarity of that event. So the Gnoll pulled the half-Jellyfish woman back and whispered, careful of her poisonous side.
“What’s all the fuss around a Newblood Captain about? Who’s Zoler? I knew Third Fleet went down, but was she there?”
“She’s why they went down. She’s like Captain Lidera: brought some trouble, but Rosech’s crazy, so he likes them all. She might also be the reason the Iron Vanguard won’t attack, so that’s something. Rosech sinks a ship and captures two for every one he loses.”
It was a popular sentiment among the Bloodtear Pirates, and Aldrail grinned as Gorry came over to listen.
“But who is she?”
Jiupe gave him a smile full of twists as they turned to stare at the Dullahan.
“Guess.”
The Gnoll stared at her, and after a second, Jiupe sighed and whispered in his ear.
“Tulm’s daughter, fur-for-brains.”
Aldrail whistled, and he began to grin as the green Winter Sprite landed on Irrel’s head, and the Dorhmin stared up at it. He reached up and held the tiny thing in one hand.
A monster might just squish and eat it. But all the boy said was…
“Luck. Scary ships ahead. We’re going to die, but it’s worth it.”
He didn’t sound convinced, and he looked at his father, who did seem fearless as he strode down the deck. Captain Dovom overheard and grinned as he strode over to the boy.
“It ain’t just worth it, Irrel. It’s everything. Everything. We’re a rough, free lot like your dad said. This is gonna make us something. It’s why my entire crew is going to sail in there, blood in our eyes, tide at our back.”
“No surrender, no mercy, no regrets to be had. Waters gone red, skies gone black. Fearless all; we’ve ever been damned.”
The boy whispered the other end of the rhyme, but Captain Dovom’s smile widened.
“Not after this, lad. Not after this.”
So that was the Bloodtear Pirates. This was why they were here; they were a piece on the board moving without direction from anyone else, and no one could see the path they charted, no matter how hard they tried. The reason for that would become obvious soon enough, but not even Shaestrel could see why—not yet.
But it was a safe bet to blame the ghosts. After all. They’d gone everywhere. And one of them had left the Bloodtear Pirates a gift.
Aldrail could still remember it. They all could. The Gnoll could look out into that storm-whipped sea and recall a ship filled with holes, as if it had been eaten sailing out of the storms. Drawing his sword and preparing to fight—only to see a ghost laughing and striding onto their deck. To give the Bloodtear Pirates a single gift for a new era.
He could still remember laughing in the middle of the storm, like he was a cub again. Weighing anchor and sailing until the ghost vanished in his final battle. [Pirates], forgotten even by the dead, throwing a sword into the world of the living for chaos and hope. So the Gnoll turned his head towards the fleet and blew them a kiss.
“We’ll hit you harder than you can dream, Terandria.”
They had everything the Bloodtear Pirates wanted.
 
——
 
What had the Bloodtear Pirates been given? What was Kasigna’s plan? You would get the answer to everything, soon.
As for where they had been—the Horns of Hammerad had been on an adventure. As ever.
It all began over a week ago.
“Remember. It’s a bag of holding without any limit. You put all of your anger in there.”
“What if it gets overwhelming, Master Berr?”
A paw tapped Yvlon hard on the head. She glared into the huge, furry grin, but Berr had told her that was fine.
“Then your bag isn’t big enough! Upgrade it! Remember—let out anything that you can’t put in there. But keep everything else inside. There’s no limits on feelings. Gold coins? You can’t store gold infinitely, but you can with feelings.”
“But if I can’t—”
Tap, tap. The paw was rapping on her head like it was empty, and it hurt.
“Then you’re weak. If you’re weak, tell me, apprentice, and I’ll find a better way for you. But you asked me how I do it. So. There. Do you understand?”
Yvlon breathed in and out, calming herself—until the paw tonked her on the head again. Then she punched at it, but Berr hopped back around their fire in the middle of the Great Plains. Snow had melted in a wide radius around it, and Yvlon was grateful; it was cold as all hells, and the fur cloak she had bought was the only thing keeping her warm.
“I think I’ve got a hold on it.”
He threw a snowball at her, and she dodged it. Yvlon dodged the second one too with a quick twist of her torso and blocked the third one with a metal hand. She was looking quite pleased with herself when Ceria hit her with a gigantic snowball.
Ceria had been waiting on this part of the test Berr had set up, and the hovering snowball was roughly half as tall as Yvlon and just as round.
Ceria hit her friend hard, and Yvlon pitched forwards and lay on the ground a second as Berr cackled and danced around. Then he began kicking snow onto her as she got up.
Ceria was ready to run. Even for training and even as a [Prankster]…she felt like this one was playing with fire.
Yet when Yvlon Byres slowly sat up, she looked controlled. Self-possessed. She smiled at Ceria—and Berr slapped her with a snowball at point blank range.
You see, that was the Yvlon Byres way. She was very good at keeping control of herself right until she didn’t. Snowball from behind? She controlled herself. Someone kicking her when she was down? She rallied.
Snowball to the face as she was being reasonable and controlled? Yvlon Byres wiped snow from her face and exhaled.
“I didn’t care for that last one, Honored B—”
Then he kicked her into the fire. Ceria saw Yvlon land on her fur coat, yelping as she tried to roll out, and it was catching fire, and then the half-Elf began edging for the tents in the distance. Half a dozen Gnolls who’d been watching Yvlon’s ‘graduation’ from Berr’s training made tracks.
“Honored Berr!”
Out she came, singed, mad as hell, and the Gnoll didn’t wait for her; he threw a punch. It was fast, and Yvlon staggered as he hit her in the chest quick as a viper. She snarled as he raised his paws—then kicked.
And she blocked with her knee! Yvlon grimaced because that had to hurt, then blocked a punch to her chest. She was fully mad now, Ceria saw, and threw a punch back that the Gnoll used to throw her—
This time, Yvlon landed on her feet. She turned, raised her hands.
“Okay. Ok—”
She dodged the snow he kicked at her, and her right metal arm flattened and lengthened, forming a shield to cover her face. Berr skipped sideways, face still deadpan, and then kicked.
This time, the blow sent Yvlon crashing back so far she landed in a snowdrift. She charged out with a shout, swinging a fist at Berr, who made to block, grinning. And his left fist was moving to counter her. He swung fast and compactly, like that boxer in Invrisil, as Ceria watched with bated breath. At the last moment, Yvlon stepped back and threw a punch that extended.
Berr grunted in surprise; he’d forgotten her arms could do that as she punched him in the jaw. It wasn’t the hardest punch, but he missed clocking her across the ribs. Yvlon stepped back, and Berr shrugged.
“Good enough. I’m still not certain you get it, but you didn’t fall for that. Better than last time when you just charged in.”
Yvlon lowered her fists in exasperation. Ceria poked her head up from behind a snowbank, and the [Armsmistress] waved at her friend, looking at Berr with unconcealed annoyance as he grinned.
“It feels like half of my lessons were you teaching me how to grapple or fall or fight with my fists, Master Berr!”
“Yes, well, you were terrible at both controlling your temper and that, so I did both. Berr the Berserker’s students can’t lose bar fights easily. It’s part of my good name.”
He patted at Yvlon’s fur cloak as he came over, and Ceria stepped lightly over to Yvlon. The [Armsmistress] was panting harder than she should have—yet she had been clear-headed enough not to get hit by the sneak-attack. Perhaps more encouraging—she gave Ceria a scowl, and her arms extended too fast for the half-Elf to avoid.
She rubbed one fist into Ceria’s hair as the half-Elf tried to duck away.
“I should have known you would be part of it, Ceria. How do you get enjoyment from making people’s lives miserable?”
“I like to have fun. Hey. Hey!”
Yvlon pulled a bone-white circlet off Ceria’s head and stared at the pale silver of the magical circlet of the Putrid One. Ceria grabbed at it. Yvlon turned and skimmed the circlet into the far distance.
She could throw far. Berr watched as a Relic-grade artifact went sailing over a hundred feet in a second—and it had amazing aerodynamics. Ceria’s mouth opened as Yvlon dusted her hands in satisfaction.
“So do I. It’s for your own good.”
Then she patted Ceria on the shoulder and bowed to Berr the Berserker. He laughed and shouted for a feast; Yvlon had graduated from anger management training. It didn’t mean she was the same as before she had gotten her [Berserker’s Rage] Skill. The [Armsmistress] stretched as Ceria felt at her head and stared into the distance, and Yvlon looked mightily pleased with herself. Learning to express how she was feeling was one of Berr’s addendums. You didn’t hit people in rage unless you were doing it on purpose, but he definitely let you hit people. It was all about control.
 
——
 
Pisces Jealnet and Ksmvr of Chandrar were warming up as well when Yvlon found them. They were both practicing, a rapier and, in Ksmvr’s case, the two looted silver kris blades spinning in flashes of light that confused the eye.
They were fighting pretty hard, actually. Not each other but rather six formidable opponents who were attacking in tandem with wooden blades and practice shields.
A skeleton leaned out of the way of Pisces’ stab, then tried to give the [Necromancer] a flying knee to the face as Pisces swore. Two more were attacking Ksmvr, one calmly blocking his slashes with a shield as it jabbed with a sword, the other using its friend for cover before swinging in hard with a greatsword.
They were—fast. Yvlon Byres guessed that your average Silver-ranker would be pressed by any one of the Skeleton Champions, even with Skills. She was especially impressed when the Skeleton Champion that Pisces was dueling took a slash across the neck, nearly knocking its head off, but then grabbed the next stab and held the rapier bare-handed.
But it was a skeleton, so what did it care if its bones were sliced? Pisces hesitated a fraction too long; the second skeleton spun into him with daggers, and he shouted.
“Ow, ow, argh—stop! Stop!”
“Comrade Pisces is dead!”
Ksmvr slowed a second as the other two skeletons came around him. Then he jumped, switched sword for crossbow, shot the skeleton with a shield and sword in the head, landed and minced the greatsword holder, and got a stab in the butt from a spear.
Well, not his butt, but his back shell, but the last Skeleton Champion had been waiting. It jabbed Ksmvr twice as he halted and stared at the spear, and Pisces called out.
“Stop!”
All of the skeletons, including three ‘dead’ skeletons, paused, and he and Ksmvr looked at each other. Yvlon broke into the training session.
“Pisces. Did you just lose against your own creations?”
She was smiling sardonically, and Pisces turned red, brushed at his hair, sniffed—then sighed and let his shoulders sag.
“Embarrassing as it is to admit—yes. It is annoyingly difficult to best six-on-one without sustaining a deathblow with no potions or magic.”
“Or Skills, for me. Hello, Yvlon. Did you pass your test? Is Ceria dead? I have been intrusively sexed upon just now.”
Ksmvr sheathed his swords, rubbing at his posterior. Pisces stared at Ksmvr, and someone snorted and began laughing from the sidelines. Colth spat out his drink he’d been having, and Yvlon turned to Ksmvr.
“Ceria’s fine. I just threw her stupid circlet into the distance. Ksmvr…what was that last thing you said?”
“Have I used another word improperly?”
“Yes. You were stabbed in the rear with a spear. That is not…who told you that other part?”
Ksmvr hesitated, and his antennae waved.
“I have been intruded upon in the posterior region by a phallus-shaped object. Which is my understanding of—”
“Incorrect!”
“Ah. Then I will continue to ponder the mysteries of intercourse. I should send my associates in Liscor a letter. They may have been using this expression wrong as well.”
Ksmvr scribbled a note to himself as Yvlon heard Colth the Supporter keep laughing as he got up. The young-looking man seemed endlessly amused; Pisces was still stuck on his loss.
“Posterior jab or not—I swear they’re too fast for Skeleton Champions. Colth, did you see that last move?”
“I did. It looked like something you’d do. Maybe it has to do with a certain [Duelist] gaining [Undead: Duelist Instincts]? Class synergy Skills? It’s almost as if—”
Here he posed, sweeping his hair back and placing his chin in two fingers.
