“Wonderful. At least it’s tougher than anything we’ve ever had before defensive-wise. Offensive…well, we have Skeleton Champions, but that’s not the same as a new spell or Skill. We went defensive; at least our [Mage] is less squishy.”
Pisces opened his mouth defensively; as the fourth beneficiary of the armor, he had the un-stealthed part of Stalker’s hide. Both he and Yvlon would wear the underarmor below their robes or regular armor.
It certainly meant that even when Colth jabbed hard with his sheathed shortswords, Pisces barely felt it. That gave Yvlon some comfort; Ceria knew how to stick to the back row, but Pisces often threw himself into the thick of fighting.
“I say we start figuring out other interesting parts of the Crossroads of Izril. Even with new armor, we don’t run into the Bloodfields instantly. One good stab from a Watchertree and Ceria or Ksmvr are dead, and it’d hurt the rest of us like hell. Named-ranks can die fast. Well, Eldertuin’s hard to kill no matter where you hit him, but no chances.”
“No chances.”
Everyone agreed. But they were heading back into the Crossroads again.
 
——
 
The third day of exploration took them in every direction. Wer had agreed to check in when they wanted to return, so the Horns did a full seven-hour day. It would have been nice if he could do every hour just in case, but his limits to the Skill meant if he missed them the first time for whatever reason, he’d try again in an hour. If he failed to get them then, he’d try the next day at the same times.
From their base camp of the icy walls in the Great Plains, they headed east first—then realized they had a problem.
“Damn mountains. They’re the same here as everywhere! Weird, the gel’s not on them.”
Colth made an observation that drew all the Horns’ attention once again to the flora, and as Yvlon recalled…
“Wait a second. Didn’t we see the Watchertrees digging up the gel? And there’s actual plantlife on these mountains!”
She could see it. Long yellow fronts and huge vine-like reeds that were disturbingly orange or dark blue, at odds with the rock itself. The mountains were big, ominous, and the gel didn’t cover them. Where it didn’t cover them…plantlife grew.
Accordingly, so followed wildlife. Including, in this case…
“Acid Flies! Damn it!”
Acid Flies and plants! The Horns saw the glowing green things clustering around some of the vines, which seemed to be dripping a nectar.
Another species that didn’t respect their new armor! No one wanted to tangle with so many of them, especially a massive green one that Pisces swore had to be bigger than a Human.
“Thaaat’s an Acid Fly Queen.”
Colth observed the gigantic buzzing thing as Ksmvr tiptoed away, clearly reveling in the many Acid Flies he had eaten happily. Ceria just grimaced.
“First Bloodfields, now Acid Flies. My guess is that both came via whatever gate Theikha thinks is to the north. Natural monsters…who have no competition here.”
Colth scratched at his head, frowning.
“Sounds about right. But why are there plants growing?
That was obvious to Yvlon, and she pointed excitedly at the mountain.
“I see it now! The gel isn’t just for show, everyone. That’s why the Bloodfields are so slow to expand and why we saw the Watchertrees digging it up; it’s stopping plants from growing!”
Pisces snapped his fingers, and Colth’s eyes lit up. Suddenly, it made sense to Yvlon in a very noblewoman way.
“My mother would cover parts of the garden she didn’t want grown so that grass and weeds couldn’t get any sunlight. Think about it. If you wanted a safe Crossroads—one without bugs or vegetation, how do you do it?”
“Gelify everything. Dead gods. Did they do that? That’s the most…Drake thing I’ve ever heard of. The Gnolls are going to throw ten kinds of shit when they hear that! It didn’t even work!”
Colth was rather impressed, but it explained so much. The gel had zero value in most circumstances—unless you wanted to prevent flora from spreading.
“I bet the Bloodfields is like the one type of flora that can grow with that shit. And even that’s been slowed for a long, long time. Well, well, well. We have our answer. Let’s head back and take a look at the other directions.”
West or south, then. They could do other directions, but the road branched those ways, so after a short vote, the Horns went south. And there they found another sign there was definitely some…leakage.
“Water.”
“Shit water.”
“Ew, Comrade Pisces. I object to your terminology.”
Colth bent down, sniffed at the water, and rose with a grimace.
“No, Pisces might be right. Look at that rain. It’s not natural; seems like it rains, falls, evaporates, rains…but it’s the same water, and it’s foul as Rhir’s hells.”
The south didn’t last as long as it should have. Before they were even close to Zeres, just past Oteslia, the Horns ran into the sea.
Or rather, a strange sea that had clearly covered the land. Rain kept falling; that’s what they had seen, but a brackish, foul rain that made Yvlon’s skin break into a rash on her cheek.
“Looks like another ‘gate’. Dead gods, if there is something south of here, it’s covered in filthy water. At least the fauna’s natural. Well…what can survive here.”
The foul, marsh-like conditions had given rise to flies—the same ones those spiders ate, no doubt—sickly looking lizards and smaller animals, and yes, fish.
But horrible-looking fish. Yvlon saw a dead catfish being nibbled on by a few fish with too many eyes, and she wondered if the contamination in the water was more than just dead bodies. One thing was clear, and Ceria, as a water-expert in a sense, said it outright.
“It’s all stagnant water. Something’s leaked water in here from Zeres’ side, and the water’s filthy and foul. But it’s big enough to let some animals in. Look, there’s even a dead Rock Crab over there.”
The iconic shell of one of the Rock Crabs was more proof that some kind of sea-faring creatures got trapped here. Either that or one had come all the way via the Bloodfields only to die when it found water.
In fact, the Horns encountered their first larger type of animal here. Or maybe monster?
Fishing in the dirty waters was a crab—but not as big as a Rock Crab. Still massive, eight feet across, and with huge, long claws that looked sharp. Colth spotted one and yanked the Horns back as they toured the edge of this swamp biome.
“Oh shit. I should have known they were alive. That’s a Sword Crab! Looks sickly, though.”
A single Sword Crab was fishing for, well, fish. It was plucking them out of the water fast and chewing on them, but every now and then, it’d spit one out. Colth admired its black shell, a product of the waters.
“Poor bugger must have gotten lost. It doesn’t look happy.”
“So that’s a Sword Crab? Huh, I like Rock Crabs more. This one’s got pincers on it like Yvlon’s fingers.”
Ceria put her hands on her hips. Unlike some crabs, both of the Sword Crab’s long pincers were equally sized. It made it look dangerous and gave it that distinctive name.
“Careful around it. They’re a Gold-rank threat. Not the same as a Shambler, but still.”
“That’s a Gold-rank threat?”
Colth gave Pisces a deadpan look as the [Necromancer] snorted. Big and nasty as it was, it looked like a Silver-rank threat, which was what a Rock Crab was, not gold. But the [Supporter] nodded and patted Pisces on the shoulder.
“Yep. I know it hurts your ego, but that thing’s equal to you, Pisces. Might be a better sword fighter, actually.”
Pisces had had it up to here with Colth’s mockery of him. At this, the [Necromancer] flushed.
“Even for a joke, there are limits, Colth.”
“No, no, I’m serious. Don’t piss it off. Actually, let’s get out of here. I think it’s spotted us.”
Sure enough, the Sword Crab was slowly scuttling their way sidelong. It wasn’t as if there was much to see, and the Horns were a lot bigger than the fish it was eating.
Ah. Lunch.
Yvlon could practically hear it thinking that. It was moving at them fast, and she remembered the rules here meant…
“Ceria? Let’s go!”
The half-Elf had been snapping magical pictures of the landscape, and she looked up.
“Alright, run for it. I bet it’ll go into the water—whoa!”
The crab accelerated, and it was on top of them fast. The Horns knew how fast you could travel in the Crossroads, but even so, it caught them off-guard. The crab just seemed to appear, and Yvlon drew her sword, but Pisces waved her back.
“I have it. Back—”
The Skeleton Champions formed a wall, and the Sword Crab hesitated, scuttling away as they slashed at it. It focused on Pisces, who strode forwards. The Sword Crab snipped at the air in a warning gesture.
Pisces lunged. He stepped forwards in a [Fencer]’s stab, rapier extended, [Flash Step] carrying him forward so his rapier could pierce one of the Sword Crab’s eyes. His sword flickered—
And the crab caught the rapier with its claws.
Yvlon had been ready to jump in, but even she hesitated as Pisces’ hand jerked, and he tried to withdraw the blade.
“Huh?”
Then he nearly lost his head as the second pincer snipped right where his neck should be. Pisces leapt backwards, reappearing with [Flash Step], and Yvlon shouted.
“Pisces! Cover me, Ksmvr!”
She charged forwards—and ran right past the Sword Crab. Yvlon turned, thirty feet away, cursing. Her steps had carried her too far! Everything was off—
And Ksmvr was having a hard time.
“I have this under contr—no, I don’t have it under—it is very fast!”
The [Skirmisher]’s blades were cutting the air, two of them, performing his signature whirl of blades. He lashed out fast with swift strokes and jabs—and the Sword Crab started blocking him.
Two claws intercepting Ksmvr’s swords with a ting-ting sound. They were moving so fast that as Yvlon charged in from the side, sword raised, she barely saw the crab whirl, deflect her sword, then riposte so hard the tip of one claw punched her on the shoulder and sent her stumbling back.
It hit hard too! But that wasn’t the main problem. The main problem was—
Ksmvr took a step back and went way out of range, and his swords missed his parry. He tried to step in and got slapped so hard he skidded. Yvlon had the same problem; each step carried her too far in battle.
“The Crossroads is messing with your steps! Back up!”
“We’ve got this! Ksmvr, on three—”
Yvlon launched into a flurry of slashes with her sword as Ksmvr leapt and tried to land and slash the crab from above. It turned into a blur, and Ksmvr bounced onto the ground, rolled to his feet, and Yvlon grunted.
“Ow.”
Ksmvr rubbed at his side, and Yvlon recoiled, sword ringing with the impact. Pisces had found his rapier and had shuffled to the side. He stepped in—and once more, the Sword Crab parried his blade with one claw angled downwards. The [Necromancer] gaped at the crab.
Ceria was having trouble standing upright she was laughing so hard. Colth calmly fired a crossbow bolt. The crab blocked it, and Pisces leapt back.
“Are we—losing? To a crab?”
Yvlon couldn’t believe it. She had never, ever seen a monster with anything close to swordsmanship. Undead didn’t count. But this—this crab was taking on all three Horns. True, disoriented, but it seemed to be having fun!
It came forwards, snapping its claws together, and Yvlon had to back off. Pisces tried to get around its rear, and the crab just retreated, refusing to let itself be surrounded. Colth fired a second bolt at an eye-stalk, and it blocked. Ksmvr went in for a straight attack, a silver whirlwind meeting…crab claws.
“Ow.”
Ksmvr fell back with a long cut from the sharp claws on his arm. He stared at it, and Yvlon checked it.
“Do you need a potion, Ksmvr?”
It wasn’t deep, but the Antinium stared at the green blood.
“No. I need a potion for my pride. It is mocking us.”
The Sword Crab had backed up and was assessing its foes, but it seemed to also know how to taunt. Because it was bouncing up and down on its legs, snapping its claws together, scuttling from left to right…
Yvlon Byres had wondered how anyone could have trouble with a ‘colony of Sword Crabs’ as she’d heard Drowned Folk had run into on the coast. Now? Now she was wondering how the hell you took care of these things.
“It’s mocking us. Let me take another shot at it.”
Pisces was panting, unable to credit the crab beating him. Colth interrupted.
“Oh no. Send in the skeletons. I told you it’s good.”
The Sword Crab had stopped dancing in place and had clearly decided if they weren’t coming to it, it was coming to them. It was heading for Ksmvr, which the crab either regarded as the most appetizing food or closest in nature to it and the greatest threat. Colth still hadn’t drawn his blades.
“Back up. Skeletons…”
Pisces hesitated, for once struggling with literal pride. The Sword Crab turned sidelong and jabbed with its claw like a rapier! It flurry-stabbed at Yvlon as she threw a punch, which turned into an explosion of steel sp—
The crab parried her metal arm. It recoiled, backing up as her arm kept morphing, trying to stab at it, and the claw moved faster.
Tingtingtingtingting!
It backed away as Yvlon pulled her arm back, and it started dancing once more. Then it scuttled forwards. Yvlon swore—and Ceria spoke as she lifted her wand.
“[Icy Lance].”
The crab froze, raised a claw, and the giant spike of ice smashed into it. The crab jerked—and Ceria fired with her other hand.
[Ice Spike]!
Three spikes of ice shot out. Amazingly, the crab blocked another, but two hammered its shell and left poc-marks. It recoiled, then scuttle-charged at her—
And ran straight into an [Ice Wall]. Ceria saw the crab edge around it, then fired another spike of ice. This time, the crab’s claws twisted trying to deflect the giant [Icy Lance], and Ceria blew, holding her skeletal hand out.
“[Icy Wind]. And…it’s cold.”
The Sword Crab was backing up fast, but it couldn’t stop frost from appearing on its shell. Ceria’s aura and the spell she’d cast were freezing it! Panicked, the crab began retreating, and Ceria kept shooting [Ice Spikes].
“Wow, it can really block them all. But it’s no good against magic, is it, Colth?”
“You’re lucky it didn’t get near you. It might be able to cut an [Ice Wall], but yup.”
Colth had a wand in one hand and his crossbow in the other. He watched as the Sword Crab started backing away faster, towards the water. It was clicking in agitation now.
Pisces stared at his rapier; it had a faint notch in the steel. He raised a finger, concentrated.
“[Deathbolt].”
