In this battle? The most he could do was make the monsters coming up seem invisible—but the illusion instantly began fraying. He hadn’t even done that more than twice, actually.
What he had done was vanish and come back with more reinforcements. And said reinforcements?
They were everywhere, and Pisces was panting as he staggered back, clutching at his arm.
“Pisces! You’re on fire!”
“Their teeth are hot!”
Ceria grabbed at Pisces, but he was unharmed; his robes were burnt, but the underarmour had saved him. Ksmvr vanished again, whirling his cloak, and Colth stepped back from his side.
“I’m not fucking Bograms because you all know it—we’re getting slaughtered the moment one side wins. I count at least three factions out there. You?”
Yvlon Byres had wanted to know what monsters there were in the Crossroads; well, she was seeing three kinds.
Shamblers were fighting alongside the sharp-edged fauna of the Bloodfields against some orange, glowing…things. They looked like orange-red beasts, loping along, with huge teeth, and they ran from weird fanged anglerfish with legs to humanoid things with massive claws.
But they were also hot and literally set fire to things they clawed; the Bloodfields fauna was in full retreat against them. They had a hundred forms. Yvlon saw one spitting gouts of flaming…something in arcs at her, and she took cover, fumbling with her bag of holding.
Projectile weapons. More of the humanoid ones were climbing up, clawing at everything that wasn’t like them. They attacked fast…then would shamble back, as if recharging their energy. But they were so fast that Yvlon saw one graze Colth. He stuck his sword through its chest, and it twitched—then dove onto his second blade, and he had to bisect it at the chest.
Even then it kept trying to claw at him. It had no mouth. When Yvlon looked down, she didn’t see organs before Colth’s boot drove the head in.
There were a lot of them, and they poured into the fight, getting bigger and nastier. One rolled into a Shambler and revealed it was quadrupedal, covered in hard spines, and the Shambler’s slashing limbs caught on fire as it bit and tore.
The same species? The same people? They were all that odd, too-bright color of orange. They fought in tandem, albeit like a single wave of onslaught. As Ceria collapsed a wall of her fortress down, only the ones closest to the wall were hit by the falling chunks of ice; the others maneuvered away, even the ones locked in combat.
At this moment, they were currently smashing the flying insects, burning the Watchertrees alive as the frantic towers of pale roots stabbed everywhere. And accordingly, the Bloodfields was falling back fast.
If the Bloodfields fauna was running—but these odd fiery monsters were locked against the third group coming in.
Odd, purplish demi-people. They were largely people-shaped, but some of them were closer to cats or dogs that bit and wrestled with their counterparts. This last group had actual weapons, albeit primitive, and one of them was busy stabbing a Shambler to death.
Because they were tough. All three groups were no match for a Yvlon Byres stick-your-arm-in-them-and-they-explode-with-needles attack. But none of them had blood save for, ironically, the Bloodfields monsters.
Someone caved in the head of a weird lumpy purple person with a spear, and it got right back up and began stabbing at the burning red thing with claws. The furious attack by the orange clawer was deflected by a whirl of the spear. Then a jab so fast it looked almost like a Skill.
The orange clawer twitched as the purple spear-wielder drove the spear through it, impaling it on the ground, then began to wrench the spear up, smashing a foot into the other thing’s body as it writhed. It nearly had its foe destroyed when a bunch of small, orange claw-things scuttled over the purple one. It tore them off it as they began to light it on fire.
A second purple spear-wielder came to the first’s aid, stabbing the orange ones right off it. The first recovered its spear, and then the two were fighting side-by side, clearing dozens of the orange ones trying to get at them with fast sweeps of their spear, knocking the smaller ones flying. It was almost entrancing, and the Horns took a break to stare as the two sides clashed again.
“They hate each other’s guts more than us—but everything hates us!”
That was a brilliant way of putting it by Pisces. The Horns were watching as their ice fort began to melt under all the fire monsters, and it had already been taking damage for…at least a few hours.
Only a few things saved them from being overrun; firstly, Ceria’s [Fortress of the Ice Queen] which had been over half-diminished. Second, the Skeletal Champions that Pisces had thrown into the fighting and repaired, though the effort had left him taxed.
Third, the defense of the Horns at the chokepoints; numerous the foe might be, but they weren’t as individually tough as Colth, Yvlon, and Ksmvr.
Yet…they seemed like they were ramping up for an assault.
“Ksmvr!”
Yvlon whirled as she fit something around her finger and cried out. A new purple thing had leapt up. This one seemed more articulated, and it was a lot faster. It had blocked one sword slash of Ksmvr’s with a rock, and it held a fang ripped from the orange things in its other hand.
Ksmvr was the better dancer of blows; he ran the thing through the neck, almost taking the head off, and cleaved straight through where the ribs should have been. Mortal wounds. But it just ran onto him, stabbing fast.
Not wild—and when Colth leapt at it, the thing twitched its head his way—and something punched Colth out of the air.
Not another purple thing. Not any spell Ceria or Pisces saw. Just…something. And Ksmvr was under the same effect; he was straining with all four arms to push the thing off him or stab, but they were lying flat on the ground as Yvlon charged. The head turned, and she felt something slow her limbs.
Yvlon still hit the purple thing in a full charge. No rage, just intensity. She tackled it off the fort as Ceria shouted.
“Yvlon!”
The two landed hard, and the thing stabbed like Typhenous, the sharp tooth bouncing off her armor. Then it recalibrated, tried to wrench an arm up to go under one armpit—Yvlon’s arms exploded into spikes.
The thing was out of the way even as her arms turned into pincushions, impaling a bunch of the tiny purple creatures around Yvlon. But this advanced thing did a backflip backwards, rotating twice, landed, and froze.
It stood there, regarding Yvlon as she rose. Then the two spear-wielders came in from opposite sides, and it dove at her, dagger going straight for the gap in her helmet.
What incredible foes. Yvlon Byres would have saluted them in the past. Present Yvlon just raised one hand as the spears and fang struck in tandem.
A ring flashed on Yvlon’s hand as the blades skittered off a wall in the air, and the fang blade recoiled before it touched a blue current of something around Yvlon’s body. A nimbus of light that had become solid, a roiling blue mass like the sea, had decided to engulf and protect Yvlon. She brought her fist down before the recoiling purple leader could move.
It still dodged, slashing at the barrier around her. But Yvlon’s first ring glowed, a seam of blue river in a metal band.
Ring of Barriers. It hadn’t expected that. Her second fist extended, and the thing leapt over it—and the arm exploded into a pincushion.
Impaled it like a bug on a stick. It kept trying to move; Yvlon leapt on it, her other arm swinging like a scythe. She diced it as the other purple things attacked her in a mania, then shouted.
“Colth!”
“[Reel Her In].”
A rope fell, caught one arm, and yanked her up. Just in time; the blue barrier faded, and Yvlon checked herself as the purple things surrounded their fallen leader.
“They’re losing cohesion. Falling back—looks like you minced a big one. Now we’ve got orange!”
The purple things did indeed fall back, and Yvlon saw one of the spearwielders now clumsily fending off the orange clawers, which overwhelmed it in a second. It was noticeably slower, and its teammate just abandoned it. Even so, the purple ones fell back in neat order as the orange ones gained ground.
But Yvlon could tell the purple were reforming for a second push. And the tug of war just meant that now Colth was slashing down climbing orange things on the other side. Pisces was checking Yvlon for injuries, and snapped at her as she plucked the ring off and tucked it into her bag of holding.
“You used up one ring?”
“Got the other! Give me a sec…”
She had to catch her breath, barrier or not. Yvlon was exhausted, and she had seen the others going for healing potions. Her metal arms had taken most of the damage, but everyone else was flesh and blood.
Weaker than me. Even Ceria. How many potions did they have left?
She wasn’t angry, she realized. She was—concentrating. Fierce, but not losing her head. She couldn’t. If she got hurt in this moment—everyone died.
She noticed the orange things were once again more preoccupied with the purple than the Horns. In fact, they had raced to where the purple leader was and were…burning the remains? Strange. They were doing that to all the purple things and vice versa when purple hacked up orange. Yvlon rasped as they finished disposing of their enemy. Now orange was encircling them.
“We have to evacuate. Make sure all five of us are here. Then we go.”
“That’s what Bograms wants.”
Ceria was panting, frustrated. Yvlon raised her voice.
“Well, if we stay here, we’ll die! Do you see that?”
She pointed, and there was a glow in the distance.
“Looks like the flaming ones have called in a heavy hitter! That looks like it’s the size of a house. And there’s more. We don’t run, we’re dead.”
The Horns looked at each other, and Colth spun. Ksmvr was holding one arm, and the Antinium was very quiet when he spoke.
“Wer will be in danger if he appears.”
“Wer’s a big lad. He knows there’s trouble. Worry about us, Ksmvr. Bograms is hunting us—if we make it back here, it’ll be a miracle. Short of that? We have to find a gate. Yvlon, Ceria, Pisces, Ksmvr. If we leave this spot, that’s our only way out.”
The other Horns looked at Colth in silence. Then Pisces snarled as they all felt something hit the ice palace.
“I vote we go! Even if we survive this night, can we survive a day of this? These could be legions of monsters. Into the Crossroads, and if Bograms follows us, we’ve survived worse!”
“Stick together. And take this.”
Ceria produced a bracelet of ice and clipped it around each of the Horns. Pisces blinked, then copied it with bone. Colth grunted as Ceria checked the bracelets.
“Cold as shit. Good idea! Okay—I’m going to use my biggest Skill. Yvlon, clear a path and get that chariot up. Go, go—”
 
——
 
The Horns were shouting, and the night was burning, and Ksmvr’s head hurt. He stared at the purple things fighting the orange ones and thought…something was off.
He almost thought he could hear something, like a voice, running through the purple ones, and the purple and orange ones seemed to hate each other more than even the Bloodfields things.
Bograms was out there, and the Crossroads of Izril was dark. He hesitated once as he leapt from the melting fort, then threw something down in midair.
He hoped Bograms hadn’t seen it. If the Gnolls followed Wer, they might not see it—but they were smart. They could pick it up, and if they got clear of Bograms’ illusions, they’d see the note in the jar.
‘This is Ksmvr. We are leaving. Danger. Many monsters. Don’t trust us if we meet. We will make it out as soon as we escape Bograms.’
Then he was leaping down to the chariot as Ceria’s eyes glowed, and they were fleeing into the night.
 
——
 
That was over five days ago. The last the Gnolls heard of the Horns—aside from finding the ruins of their camp and countless, moldering bodies of monsters they could not identify, even Shaman Theikha.
Shaestrel listened to the summary Feshi gave to Erin in the [World’s Eye Theatre]. She even flew to the Great Plains to see herself, but when she returned to The Wandering Inn, moving via the fae’s routes, which were unknown even to the likes of Wer, the fae laughed at her.
 
“Aye, Shaestrel, ye look as pleased as punch!”
“Someone who’s punched, ye mean!”
“Shut up! One of Erin Solstice’s greatest allies is gone—even from my sight—and ye lot want to laugh and play games?”
 
Shaestrel was in no mood to play along with her flighty cohort. Most of them were idiots, pure and simple. Pixies and lesser fae who came to spread winter and frolic.
But…brave idiots. They all knew what they were signing up for this time. And a few of them…one of the fae joked around.
 
“‘Tis just like you to want everything so and so. Did yeh think you’d have an easy, neat board to play against Kasigna? There’s places even she’s forgotten to look into, and the Horns are in one of them. Better to have chaos than trust Shaestrel can play an equal board against that lot and win!”
 
Because this was true, and pissed her off, Shaestrel gave the faerie in question the biggest damn kick she could, sending the crystalline figure—the appearance they took—crashing through the air.
 
“Shut yer gob, Theillige. It’s the last day before the Solstice, and I cannot see them. I cannot…we play our hands as well as we might, but the Solstice is a locus of destinies. Beyond it, I see not a thing. Nor do I think even Kasigna can.”
“You mean Kaligma. Guess what that means. Hey, guess what—”
 
Aside from one idiot, the other Winter Fae were silent now. Shaestrel was almost happy.
After the Solstice…destiny itself would be asking for clues on what came next. She knew why part of it was broken to bits. It was good. It meant even the gods would pull on strings and come up empty-handed.
But it meant she could do little besides what she saw for Ryoka. Shaestrel spoke slowly to the assembled fae, and they were so few. They looked like they flitted around and were many, but only twelve had come.
Twelve for a world. A big job to deliver snow, but everyone knew it wasn’t about that. Eleven winter fae…of varying natures.
 
“I must stay with Ryoka Griffin and Erin Solstice. You all know why. I promised Ivolethe, and we are bound by prophecy.”
“Oh, aye, that one. I never liked those touched by the fates.”
 
One of the faeries laughed. Shaestrel shrugged tiredly.
 
“I like her a bit. ‘Tisn’t enough to die over. But now I tell you this, kin: this is the end of our fellowship.”
 
She hadn’t rehearsed a speech or anything so trite, but she remembered that movie and liked it. Shaestrel warmed to her theme as the fae went still, almost respectfully.
 
