One day before the Winter Solstice, now, and all the pieces were in a row.
Did you see them?
Were you even sitting at the board, or were you looking up and wondering if you could see the outlines of fingers against the sky? Because there were only a few players on the board as she saw it.
The Dead Gods, vying with each other for supremacy. Virtually uncontested. They had swept the board; they had always had an advantage, even from the very start. The other players who’d risen to their level, Elves, Gnomes, had been forced to quit. Seen how they had to quit or become the things they strove against.
Right now, it was Kasigna and Cauwine. Tamaroth and Norechl were in check; the odds might reverse, but they’d been sidelined from the Solstice by heroic sacrifice.
Laedonius was fallen. He might return, but Emerrhain was well and truly trapped. You didn’t trust such things forever, but they were not the main contenders.
Cauwine. Goddess of Last Stands. The Huntress of Victory. She had killed fellow gods and masters of war. In a sense, she was more dangerous than her mother.
Kasigna, Goddess of Death, the Three-in-One, Corpsemother, the Final Judge…oh, she had many names. Once, they had been to her credit, like laurels hanging upon her brows, a noble, distinguished, and yes, petty goddess at times, but no more so than the rest.
There had been a reason some, like Zineryr, loved her. Now, she was just desperate carrion, eating souls to regain a fraction of her power. So vengeful she was warring with an [Innkeeper] whom she had plucked from another world to play her games.
Not a worthy foe to play against. Not a foe you smiled at or treated with any respect. But a dangerous one? Oh, yes. She had survived so many deaths that had dragged countless gods screaming into oblivion.
All six of them were ur-gods, nothing like lesser numen or deities who could be killed with a magic sword. They were old as the worlds they had been born of, each one travelled here in victory or defeat, leaders of pantheons that could match entire religions at their fullness of strength. They were unto Cronus, not Zeus, to use her understanding of one of Earth’s religions.
No, wait. That was wrong. Cauwine was like Cronus, a firstborn Goddess who had risen far beyond her kin. The others were more like Gaea. Or could have killed the likes of her if pantheons made war.
She had not told Erin Solstice that, or even Ryoka Griffin; what good would it be for them to know they were up against the best of the best, even at their worst? It was plain from how dangerous they were.
And this was their world, crafted for them. So they were playing against at least two right now on their own home turf, during a Solstice.
She had seen worse games, but seldom. And seldom done well. Two goddesses of varying natures on their own sides. Erin Solstice making a stand, and the disparate peoples of the world…each piece moving of its own accord.
There were—variations in the game she didn’t predict, even now. The deadlands and the time travellers had warped the game. Her one solace was that even the gods couldn’t predict what was going to happen. Her one solace was that he, her liege, the King of Avalon, the Ruler of the Fae, Oberon, was on her side.
But he couldn’t enter this world easily, and so he was playing with fifteen pieces against him, forced to use whispers against Kasigna in her strength. Yet he did play, and he had watched his Queen die for this particular game.
That was why she was here. This board, this battle at the Winter Solstice and beyond?
That was Shaestrel’s duty, and she sat across from the goddess of death as they checked their pieces, drew cards, and cheated—for you cheated like you breathed in this game. She had told Erin Solstice how to play this game, of course, but the [Innkeeper] could barely even see the board.
These coming days—Shaestrel had done all she could. She had only a few pieces left to play—and she was watching the odd pieces move. The jokers in a hand of cards, the pawns that got up and decided to kick a bishop in the face because they could.
Kasigna’s eyes were all on the inn and the veil of shadows Erin had baked. Silly tricks, and the Goddess of Death was preparing a grand scheme that Shaestrel feared. But it meant things did escape Kasigna’s notice.
The fae’s as well. She had not seen these [Pirates] coming; it was a distant battle, and yet…she chose to fly over the sea on the last day before the Solstice. Eyes narrowed as she watched a fleet of over a hundred and twenty ships turning towards the Isle of Mages. Pursuers behind and coming in from the sides.
The Bloodtear Pirates. Now, who were they? Shaestrel’s gaze flicked right, and she thought there were two pieces even she couldn’t see.
The [Pirates]. And the Horns of Hammerad. She hoped she wasn’t missing any more. Her one comfort was that if she missed pieces, Kasigna almost certainly did as well. Sometimes, the board was an elegant game of bluffs, trickery, and artful plays the likes of which would make a fine painting if only you had the skill to put it to brush.
Other times, you turned off the lights, tossed the board at the other bugger, and stabbed them in the dark. Shaestrel was hoping either way she came out on top. But she had to know who was moving. So she swooped down and looked carefully.
 
——
 
The Bloodtear Pirates were a mystery. Really, they were.
Ask any seafarer and they would tell you all about them. One of the nastiest, most numerous [Pirate] groups at sea. Not the nastiest because they had an odd streak: they liked bravery and sometimes would let a person go.
Like how they’d escorted the Waterbear to harbor after seeing her survive a magical hurricane, or how they’d back off a fight to the death if they liked the other side too much.
By the same token, the Bloodfeast Raiders had sprung from the Bloodtear Pirates, and the apple had not fallen far from the tree. Look too closely at the nobility of these fickle [Pirates] and you’d forget they were known for slaughtering ships down to the last [Sailor].
However—who were they really? Where did they spring from? How could there be armadas of roving [Pirates] with no repercussions? And perhaps most importantly—what did they want?
From a selfish perspective, from a military one, even, their actions made no sense. The Terandrian Fleet was over a hundred and twenty vessels, many of them warship size. Even if they had a lot of colonists and valuable nobles—this was not a fleet any force in their right mind would take on, and the Iron Vanguard was right behind them.
The trap had been well done. A blocking force that had been ready to fight to the death to stall the Terandrians would have kept them trapped against the coastline while the rest came from the rear. Of course, this had presumed two things:
1. That the Bloodtear Pirates could even match Terandria’s finest at sea, their home turf.
2. That the Bloodtear Pirates were willing and able to go to the death against Terandria.
Both had been proven to be true. But why? Why, why, why?
[Pirates] were not insane. Even the Bloodtear Pirates were not known to literally throw themselves into suicidal attacks—and this was death, even if delayed.
Terandria would never let this slide. Every single Bloodtear Pirate would be pursued as no one had ever been—not just by the Continent of Humans, but by all seafaring folk. They had few harbors now, but would Savere look the other way and taint themselves by association? Would Zeres turn a blind eye to a few crews that might have suspicious ties?
This was their end—if they even won!
Bloodtear Armadas ran thirty-to at best. Two of these armadas, led by their self-styled [Admirals], plus a number of irregulars had all joined the mastermind of this entire affair: the Alchemist, Irurx. Thanks to him, they had healing potions in bulk and a lot of nastiness; his ship, Shifthold, was probably as nasty as any flagship in the Terandrian fleet.
Even so. Equal ships would have been considered too costly. It wasn’t like the Bloodtear Pirates recruited like a kingdom; they took over ships and had to hide if they weren’t actively sailing for blood.
Irurx could not afford them. Even with all the plunder over the years, even with his healing potions being worth a hundred times what they had been due to the shortages—he could not afford two armadas and the many independent [Pirates] who’d thrown in with the Bloodtear Pirates.
To say they were confusing to Earl Altestiel, the Shadewarde Doroumata, Tulm the Mithril, and every other sea-expert would be fair. Even for the Bloodtear Pirates—this made no sense.
The answer was simple. But only the [Pirates] sailing low to the water, laughing and drinking as they watched a storm slowing the Terandrians trying to undo the weather Skill—only they knew why.
 
——
 
“Winter Sprites above; sea storm brewing. Good luck for all or death’s got a date with us down below. Can’t be any other way. The omens’re clear.”
The merry voice had to shout to be heard over the storm. The man standing at the stern of the ship, a guest for yet another war meeting, turned his head reluctantly.
Alchemist Irurx disliked interruptions, especially as he stared at the Terandrian Fleet in the waters ahead, visible to the naked eye by now. Out of range of even magical fire…for now. Soon, they’d be closing, and the exchanges would send many of the ships around him to their doom before they even met.
He had prepared clouds of acid, and Shifthold had been hatching as many fliers as it could in preparation for the fight. Irurx had saved up two [Reactions of Calamity], one of his capstone Skills, to create a mixture that he’d throw at his half-Elven kin the first chance he got.
His scars ached. Such was the half-Elf’s reputation that even the regular Bloodtear Pirates stayed away from him. Again, they did not have a deathwish. But the man coming down the decks, almost singing, was not an ordinary fellow.
“Admiral Rosech.”
“And my boy Irrel.”
The [Admiral]’s good mood instantly became warning. He didn’t reach for his sword, but he didn’t need to.
The Admiral of the 1st Bloodtear Pirates, Rosech, had personally killed one of the Thousand Lances. He’d taken her sword; he wasn’t defined by a magic blade, more by the fact that he was an [Admiral] in class, leader of an entire fleet of the Bloodtear Pirates.
Irurx had seen him fighting. He’d been slashed twice by a sword that seared the skin, probably equivalent to a direct Tier 4 spell, and it hadn’t done more than ruin his fake uniform and cut him half an inch deep. Still bloody, but he had healed by the next day, and his strength had let him overpower his enemy—then jump down into one of the holds and butcher [Knights] in their own bulkheads.
“…And your boy Irrel. Forgive me, Admiral. My mind was elsewhere.”
Rosech’s good mood returned at once. He beckoned forwards his ‘boy’, who loped closer, and Irurx eyed the bright green stare without visible pupils and smelled decaying seaweed. But Irrel did carry a sword, and he could talk.
“Scary ships.”
“Oh, aye, Irrel. Scary ships. He can see them auras, y’know. Damndest thing. His entire people can. The lad’s afeared, but I told him there’s no turning back now. I’ll have Jiupe look after him when the fighting starts. All the Newbloods to the rear.”
“Really? That’s surprisingly noble of you.”
Irurx knew the Bloodtear Pirates fairly well, but time in their company had still surprised him. Then again, they had changed of late…Rosech leaned on the railing, spat into the water, and offered him a grin. He had missing teeth from bad hygiene, but after levelling, even plaque couldn’t touch him.
He was Level 50, at least. Irurx knew that almost for a fact. Rosech was one of the defining individuals of this era for his level and one of the reasons the Bloodtear Pirates were still around.
Well, that went for Irurx too. Two of the most famous [Pirates] leaned on the railings as Irrel offered them a drink, pouring it out of a big gourd he carried.
“It’s not ‘Admiral’ either, if you want it. That’s my rank, and we’ve got [Captains] like Jiupe, but we’re all Bloodtear Pirates. It’s not nobility that makes the old lot go first. Normally, we would tell the Newbloods to get in there and level or die. But everyone wants to be first. You understand.”
“No, not really.”
Rosech eyed Irurx. He patted his sword at his side; it was still bloody from the dead Terandrian [Knights]. Irurx had heard the fourteen ships that were part of the blockading force celebrating all day and night. A few ‘lucky’ ones who’d been part of the first wave had already jumped ship, apparently. They were headed to the New Lands.
Desertion? Not quite. He’d assumed it as such, but Rosech had assured Irurx no one else would leave. The ones who’d left had gotten what they’d wanted. It was the entire reason they’d come to fight, so Irurx tried to understand.
“It appeals to me very little.”
Rosech paused as he lifted a cup. He gave Irurx a sardonic look…brimming with fury under that gaze. He was a good-natured man, but he had what many Bloodtear Pirates did.
Rage.
“Of course not. You don’t need it. But my boy? Myself, even? We want it. Remember that, Irurx. Remember I’m an [Admiral], but we’re all Bloodtear Pirates to the last. We share the same creed, a simple one, and my boy is one of the lot. No one more or less. That’s why we’ve taken the last armadas, every single Bloodtear Pirate we can muster, those not too far to answer the call. Every single one, save for some idiots who got swept all the way to The Last Tide. After this, the Bloodtear Pirates might survive in some form—but every ship you see knows it might go down. And we’ll do it.”
They’ll charge straight into death for this one. Irurx had seen that. Canny the [Pirates] might be, but those three warships hadn’t died easy. They’d killed over four hundred [Pirates] before being overwhelmed—and the Bloodtears had kept coming.
They wanted this. It was worth dying for.
More ships were moving to join this flagship, Rosech’s Unsettled King, for the war conference. [Captains] were disembarking, howling greetings as the storm whipped on. Irurx could hear them singing.
 
“We sailed under flags of no quarter. We took no prisoners.
A storm at our backs. Blood in the water, blood in the sky.”
 
[We Sailed Under Flags of No Quarter]. [A Storm at Our Backs]. [We Took No Prisoner]. [Blood in the Waters, Blood in the Sky].
The song was a Combination Skill, one of the first Irurx had seen of this magnitude. Rosech turned his head, and the storms battering and slowing the Terandrians were so fierce that all the weather magic in the world couldn’t hold them back.
