“—having multiple classes makes sense.”
Oh dead gods. He was still smug about it. Yvlon rolled her eyes, but Ksmvr began applauding again, and even Pisces just blew out his cheeks.
“Well, my Skeleton Champions are so adept as to be undefeatable unless Ksmvr and I use Skills or magic.”
“Or Yvlon or I fight them.”
The [Necromancer] fell silent. Ksmvr stopped applauding and folded all four arms.
“This is an objectionable statement.”
Yvlon began grinning. She glanced at Colth and raised her brows.
“You beat them without Skills? That makes two of us.”
Pisces lifted a finger.
“As a matter of fact, both of you used tactics I object to. Yvlon’s metal arms are as close to magic as anything else, and Colth used arguable strategies to win.”
Yvlon raised her brows at Colth, and he rolled his eyes.
“Using terrain as cover and refusing to fight six-on-one isn’t cheating. I funneled them through one of the yurts, cut out the back side, and used a campfire. It wasn’t easy, but it can be done. They still fight better than almost any undead I’ve ever met.”
Pisces glared.
“If Ksmvr and I decided to use the entire Meeting of Tribes camp as our battleground—”
“You didn’t. Because it didn’t occur to you to. Therefore, I am better.”
Colth grinned without a hint of self-depreciation, his usual move with anyone but the Horns. Pisces bristled, and someone sniffed.
“Sniff. Sniff. I object to your arrogance, Colth.”
Ksmvr glared at Colth, and Pisces opened his mouth as Yvlon and the Ultimate Supporter began snorting. The [Necromancer] gave up. Glumly, he retreated to his Skeleton Champions, who stood in a row.
There were six. Each one had a different set of weapons.
Sword and shield. Greatsword. Daggers. Rapier. Spear. And lastly, the one Pisces and Ksmvr had downed before Yvlon arrived, one with a big battleaxe. Pisces tapped this last one.
“This Skeleton Champion was notably slower than the rest.”
“Probably because you don’t know how to use an axe. Give it something else. A rapier. If they all carried rapiers, they’d probably be better.”
Colth countered. Pisces began to sniff, glanced at Ksmvr, and desisted.
“I am passable with an axe, I shall have you know.”
“Then this one’s ‘passable’ as well. Which means it’s shit, and I’m not trusting my rear with it.”
“Or the one with a spear.”
Ksmvr rubbed at his backside again, and Pisces protested.
“We cannot give them all rapiers. It’s not—I am an aficionado of the weapon myself, but a sword and shield is an utterly practical style, especially for the myriad of roles we might subject them to.”
“Right, but you know a rapier. So either you have to practice and teach the Skeleton Champions to be better, or we’ll make them into a copy of you. A better copy.”
Colth was, as ever, blunt when he talked to the Horns about adventuring. It probably showed he liked them; Yvlon had heard him talking to other Gnollish adventurers, and he was far kinder to them.
“Better? How? I remind you that now I have [Duelist] Skills, I am more than a match for any one skeleton.”
Pisces was determined to win at least one argument today. Unfortunately, Yvlon was in a good mood, so she shook her head.
“Pisces, if you’re using your rapier, you’re out of magic. We talked about this. If we’re in a fight these days, Ceria’s our caster—and so are you. Ksmvr’s our duelist. His [Silver Illusion] techniques are excellent, and he can use his crossbow attack. I’m the vanguard. Colth is the adaptive one who can shoot, use magic, and do anything. If the Skeleton Champions can copy you, all the better.”
“Yep. You’re the mage. These are a superior Pisces. They take orders, they don’t sniff.”
Colth clapped one Skeleton Champion on the shoulder, and its blue eyes brightened. Ksmvr added.
“They are materially more resistant to harm unlike Pisces, who bleeds and needs healing potions. These Pisceses are expendable. Taller.”
Colth nodded, deadpan.
“More handsome.”
“Hey.”
“And they have armor.”
Yvlon concluded. At the end of it, Pisces stood there, looking at his betters and scuffing at the ground with one foot.
“Yes, well. I shall be content with merely pulling twice as much weight with my abilities as everyone else.”
He grumbled under his breath. Yvlon let him have that one. Colth just rubbed at his chin, taking Pisces’ words at face value.
“Maybe. You know, it’s hard to argue about the utility a [Necromancer] brings to the party. I feel like Pisces is a bit of a deceptive one, though. I have worked with [Necromancers] before, and most of them aren’t useful outside of death magic spells and their minions. They can’t fight, and their spellcasting is weak. If we run into an enemy, they panic, run the wrong way, get minced, and then all their undead go rogue.”
Pisces winced as Yvlon wondered where Colth had gone to meet with such people. But then…he was a man of mystery.
Not many mysteries, admittedly, and most of them had to do with ‘Demons’, at least as far as Pisces was concerned, but even so, having Colth the Supporter on their side had clear dividends.
Such as Colth bustling around the skeletons.
“Alright, alright. Enough messing with Pisces. Let’s armor these poor fellows up. I’m all ready for our first expedition today if you are. Yvlon did pass her test, yeah? Pisces, can they put these on?”
He had chainmail, leather, and fur leggings—Yvlon raised her brows.
“Colth! How much did you spend on this? Is this a full armor set for everyone? That’s expensive!”
Even unenchanted! It was too much to spend—until the Named-rank gave Yvlon a sardonic look.
“Listen. I know I’ve lectured you about not spending gold, but think for a second, Yvlon. No, wait, that’s my job. I’m also good at supplies. Look at this.”
She glowered as Colth showed her what he’d bought.
“Chainmail’s rusted. All the armor is from, uh—dead Drakes. See this breastplate? Some poor sucker got stabbed by an enchanted sword. I almost wonder if it was Rasea herself; it’s not even worth fixing. So here’s what we do…”
He had the skeletons put on the armor and then began stuffing something into the gaps where the armor hung loosely. Ksmvr protested.
“This is surely another naughty touch, Colth.”
“Only if they’re living, Ksmvr…no, wait. Don’t do this on anything but skeletons. Armor won’t fit otherwise.”
He had bought…a vast amount of pillow stuffing. Just down and feathers. And he was adding it to the skeletons like someone filling up a sock puppet! By the time Colth was done, the skeletons had protection inside and out.
Pisces hated it.
“Colth! The armor is fine, but if a single one gets damaged, I will have to repair the bones and undo their armor to mend them! It’s harder to reanimate undead like that!”
“Well, it beats you reanimating them during a fight, Pisces. If you’ve got mana to spare, you should be animating new undead. Buckle up, children. Doing things you don’t like is how you become a big, adult Named-rank like me.”
“Can I kick him?”
Pisces glared at Yvlon, and she shrugged.
“He’s got a point, Pisces. You’d have been happy if we spent half this much time thinking about how to make your undead so effective. Look, he’s even bought them bows!”
“Shortbows, arrows—and gorgets. Done!”
“No. That looks terrible.”
Pisces objected to the last part as well; a metal gorget around the neck, like some kind of distinctly unsexy collar meant to protect you. Colth’s head turned.
“Pisces. A gorget is the most valuable thing for a skeleton. If their heads come off, they die. Guess what this is?”
He slapped the metal gorget, and Pisces hesitated.
“Well, at least let me coordinate the armor sets a bit. You’ve mixed and matched!”
“Dead gods. I studied with a [Tailor] and [Dressmakers]—but we’ve got a real fashion designer here.”
Colth rolled his eyes. He and Pisces began bickering as the Skeleton Champions adopted more aesthetically pleasing armor.
“Horns of Hammerad! Are you lot ready yet? What are you doing?”
Someone came to find them as Yvlon told Ksmvr about her test with Berr. Satar Silverfang was writing things down, as usual, and the sight of Pisces and Colth stripping skeletons surely warranted a mention. Colth called out.
“We’re almost done, Satar. Is Wer ready?”
“Wer, Chieftain Feshi—they’re all waiting. I’m even recording this as a moment in history.”
The Named-rank jumped and cursed.
“Oh shit. We’d better hurry! Pisces, they look fine.”
“They do not! We should give them scarves. Can anyone sell me a scarf? And if we added some motif to each one—”
“They’re fine!”
Colth was grumpy, but Satar tilted her head and whistled, and several Gnolls who’d been watching the adventurers trotted over.
“You want some scarves, Adventurer Pisces?”
“I can sell you some silver paint. Something nice like a skeleton head on their armor? My niece is a [Painter]. Level 14, but she’s got a steady paw. Won’t take five minutes.”
Pisces’ eyes lit up.
“Yes!”
“Absolutely not! No! They’ll show up in a night engagement! No fancy colors; I deliberately unbuffed their armor so they don’t shine!”
Colth crossed his arms definitively. Pisces scowled.
“Well, black paint! If they were all one color—I’ll buy black paint.”
“No, you’ll buy grey. Black shows up too much! Dead gods, how have you all survived without a [Rogue] so far?”
They began fighting even harder, and Ksmvr raised a hand.
“I am known to be a cunning person myself, Colth. I have tricked many people, like Femithain of Illivere.”
The Named-rank grinned at Ksmvr.
“I guess that’s true. Dead gods, Pisces, listen to Yvlon. Fashion is overrated, especially in skeletons. We’re going to be late. Yvlon, can you pick up our food and other supplies? I’ll be with Mister Arts here. Ksmvr, go run and tell them we’ll be late.”
“Yes, Comrade Colth!”
Ksmvr saluted and went running. Yvlon shook her head, but she glanced at Colth and thought it rather than say it.
I think he’s sort of one of us. He hadn’t left or gone on his own adventure, and here they were, about to head into the Crossroads of Izril together. And Colth fit.
Not perfectly; he was still very much the stranger opposed to them, and he had strong opinions and sometimes seemed to be trying to be the ‘veteran adventurer’ too much for Yvlon’s taste, or maybe thought he was, but he did fit.
With her a bit more in control of her feelings and them all having had a break from the last big adventure—they were ready.
Even Ceria caught back up, panting and glaring.
“You threw that thing…four hundred paces! I had to dig it out of the snow!”
“Oh, you found it? Give it here and I’ll do it again.”
“No!”
Another new relationship was between Yvlon and Ceria. Yvlon was trying to remove the circlet, but Ceria ducked away. Yvlon kept walking towards a Gnoll they’d asked to fill their supply list, and Ceria caught up.
“What’d I miss?”
“Pisces’ skeletons fight well, and Colth is giving them armor. Pisces has aesthetic objections.”
“Hah!”
They walked along in silence a second, and Ceria seemed ready for Yvlon to grab at her circlet, but Yvlon wouldn’t…unless Ceria got on her nerves.
They weren’t the same friends as they had been for a long time. Ceria had that circlet of…well, she hadn’t even really said all of what it did. Yvlon had changed too. They were friends; Yvlon would die for Ceria. But she might kill her friend first.
It worked. It was going to work. Even so, Yvlon felt like the Horns were somewhat new again. And that was the same as ever, in a way.
“We’re a weird team.”
“I know. Colth is throwing us off. Five? I don’t know about a five-person team. It feels pretentious. You know? Like—we’re too good to be a big team like we were under Calruz, but we’re still calling ourselves ‘small’.”
Yvlon’s mouth opened as they stopped in front of a Gnoll adjusting some packs ready to go into their bags of holding.
“…No. That’s not what I meant. I meant we’re just weird.”
“Oh. Well. That’s what I was thinking. I think we should fire Colth.”
“Because five is worse than four? Hello, Supplier Torgrass. Are we ready today? We’d like to settle up.”
The Gnoll was nodding with a big smile as Ksmvr hurried over. Ceria muttered under her breath as he showed Yvlon her list and they went over it.
“No. I think we can’t trust him completely. Or even if we can, he’s going to bring trouble on us.”
Yvlon half-turned, and Torgrass stopped a second. Ceria gave them a big smile, and Yvlon shrugged.
“Well, I like him.”
“I like him too! I’m just saying. If we die, don’t blame me.”
 
——
 
She might be an insane [Prankster] with a potentially evil, mind-altering circlet on her head…but she also had a point. Yvlon really wanted to know if Colth was just coming on an adventure or if he had ulterior motives.
Fair was fair—if he had them, they could help.
“Colth, do you have ulterior motives?”
“Absolutely. Hey, is that sausage fresh? I love sausage.”
Colth and Pisces had come over to inspect the one thing adventurers couldn’t do without and why they were a net boon on the economy despite everything they did: supplies.
Food, tons of it. Water, as much as they could carry in their bags of holding. Reupholstered sleeping bags, tinder, firewood even, anti-bug charms, and a thousand other items.
It wasn’t just Ksmvr’s tools that he loved collecting, like the siren-beetle that attracted enemies, or a bunch of rope. You’d better have a tent if it rained…but if you did, had you pitched it where the water wouldn’t collect? Did you have a fire? Good. Did you have a pot? Also good! What about something to stir the pot with? Water for said pot? Seasoning for your beans, or were you going to live on beans the entire time?
This was one place where Yvlon liked having Colth around because he did what was previously her job.
“That’s a great variety of food, Colth. Not just beans. The Silver Spears once bought just beans for a six-day expedition.”
“Dead fucking gods. How was it?”
“We were picking grass and throwing it in the pot by the third day. And I love Ksmvr, but the last time he did solo shopping, we had an…incident with eggs.”
Ksmvr hung his head as Pisces, Ceria, and Yvlon shuddered. Colth glanced up, and Ksmvr sighed.
“I have bought too many discount eggs. Which I now realize are discounted because of the explosive diarrhea and projectile vomiting—”
The [Supplier], Master Torgrass, was someone else good to know. Because the Gnoll’s shudder turned into hastening to assure the Horns that this food was all good.
