Everyone got working. Yvlon scowled as she got down for manual labor, but Colth was already unslinging some spell scrolls.
“[Traps: Friendly Designator]. You’d be amazed how valuable this one is for low-level scrolls. I’ll put down six.”
Yvlon shook her head in bewilderment.
“Six. Are we made of gold?”
“We’re made of bits of edible flesh if we need to get into cover and whatever’s chasing us goes straight through the walls. How translucent are we talking?”
“Point. I’ve been practicing with my master’s old spellbook, and I had the Death of Magic to study…so look at this.”
What old spellb—Yvlon forgot her question as she watched Ceria demonstrating her new magic.
Ceria’s new icewall wasn’t thicker than her old one, or higher, but it was different. Rather than up the power or intensity or her spell, she’d managed to alter the ice quality. Pisces saw a glass wall rise and begin to turn vaguely opaque as the ice began to condense.
“So there’s air here.”
He muttered as he began raising his Skeleton Champions. They hadn’t known how the transit would affect them or the burden on Wer’s Skill; each Skeleton Champion came out of his and Ksmvr’s packs and rose smoothly with armor and all.
“Obviously.”
Yvlon grunted, looking amused. But Colth was serious.
“No, he has a point. You know how air’s different on mountaintops? This air is almost one-to-one the same as ours. It suggests we’re sharing the same air—or that this place is a very good copy. Wer, anyone ever died of lung-related problems in your explorations?”
They’d quizzed Wer on many things about the Crossroads, but the Gnoll had not been forthright, so sometimes asking specific questions got them nuggets he didn’t think were important. Such as now.
“Yep. Choked to death on a haze.”
Everyone stopped, turned to Wer, and Colth slapped his face.
“Jars of Air. It would have been helpful to know that.”
Wer shrugged harder.
“I have literally tried to forget the nastier parts of this place so I can use the Crossroads. The haze was visible. Sort of purplish, and we were seeing mushroom things way before we walked into it.”
“Good to know. So there’s fauna; you’ve said as much. What’s the cobblestone reveal, Yvlon?”
“That it’s a stone. Ceria, it’s a nice looking stone. Wide, flat; why am I picking this up?”
Yvlon waved a cobblestone that did indeed look suspiciously…cobblestone-like. No, but think of it. Most stones you put in a road like this were from riverbeds or the like, and you put down what you got. But this one was, despite not being perfectly round, fairly ovid, and the sides and bottom…were flat.
“Looks processed.”
Colth eyed it, and Ceria nodded. She was putting a finger to her temple.
“Here’s my orders. We don’t know if anything here is poisoned or dangerous. Wer’s our canary in a cage, so most things are probably safe if he’s not dead.”
“I resent that.”
“—But let’s not play stupid games. Put it in the temporary camp, Yvlon. Anywhere. Ksmvr, break out our empty jars. Scoop up some dirt from the road. And whatever this clear stuff is. Then the dirt beneath.”
Ksmvr instantly found some spare glass jars, and Pisces raised his brows.
“You’re taking samples?”
“Everything. Think we’re safe, Colth?”
The man was turning left and right, and he hadn’t drawn his swords, but Pisces knew he’d have them out in a flash.
“Never, boss. But I’ll tell you if I think we should ready up.”
Ceria turned her head, her pale, icy eyes alight with a confidence Pisces couldn’t help but find reassuring.
“Good! Then I’m assigning Pisces—can you cast [Magic Picture]?”
“No.”
“Then I’m assigning me—I’ll cast. We’ll work out slowly from here. You put some bones or some of your magic in this fort, Pisces. That way, you or I can hopefully find this spot if we leave.”
“What’re the pictures for?”
Yvlon was curious, and Ceria explained crisply as she drew a rectangle in the air. When it completed, she’d save a ‘picture’ of whatever she was seeing.
“Intelligence. We’re guests of the Gnolls, remember? And other teams will throw money at us for this. No one’s going to see what we are. That’s why we’re taking samples.”
Even Wer seemed vaguely impressed by Ceria’s methodical approach to this. Pisces hadn’t thought about…of course no one could tell what they were seeing! Pisces sighed.
“A shame we couldn’t link a [Scrying] spell via the Crossroads and here.”
Ceria actually slapped her forehead with the heel of her palm.
“Duh. Dead gods, this circlet must be doing amazing work, and it’s still not enough. We should try getting an orb and linking the pair—”
“Doesn’t work. I’ve tried that.”
Everyone turned to Wer, and the Gnoll was definitely proving he was not even remotely a team player. He might have thought he could do the team thing before this…he could not, and Pisces would sign an affidavit to that effect.
“Good to know.”
Ceria exhaled. She turned her head and nodded at Colth.
“Samples of everything, then what do you want to do? Explore here?”
“If it’s safe, we explore here, we use the roads—then we test the actual phenomenon of the Crossroads for day one. We clear?”
“Clear. Everyone, keep eyes on one another. If anyone vanishes, stop and shout. And if you see anything move—”
Even Wer looked relieved as Ceria got a chorus from her team.
“Scream?”
The half-Elf grinned crookedly.
“Or shoot it.”
 
——
 
The first entry into the Crossroads of Izril was more methodical than Pisces expected. Instead of wandering around, they set up a base camp, took samples and pictures of everything, then roamed out very close to their camp to understand the world around them.
No charging into the second floor of a dungeon. No casual jaunt; they took this one at full intelligence, treating everything as unknown and needing verification.
They were surprisingly good at it when Ceria pushed them. Even their least observant members, like Yvlon and Wer, got in the mindset of first confirming everything was normal. The [Armsmistress] nodded to Pisces, who was writing everything down.
“Gravity’s the same.”
“How can you tell?”
“I know how long it takes to drop and catch my sword from chin-height. You practice that sort of thing. What’s the dirt made of, Ksmvr?”
“…Dirt. It seems similar to the dirt of the Great Plains, if more reddish. It is dirt.”
“No interesting things about it? Does it have bugs or is it dead? Plant life? Is it more or less, uh…fertile?”
Ksmvr poked his dirt sample and looked up accusingly at Yvlon.
“I do not know, Comrade Yvlon. If you are asking me because I am an Antinium and live in the Hives…I do not dig. That is a speciesism.”
“How do you not know dirt if you lived in a Hive underground all your life?”
Colth wondered aloud, and Ksmvr looked hurt.
“Am I the foolish one?”
“No.”
Yvlon assured Ksmvr. Colth nodded.
“Yep.”
Yvlon glared at Colth, and he backed up, grinning, then pointed down to the ground.
“Dirt’s the same, I’ll bet. But whatever this layer of gel-stuff is…it’s weirdly adaptive. See how the place where Ksmvr threw up is still wet? It’s like it takes the quality of whatever’s under it…and everything sinks through.”
He tossed some of the dirt they’d dug up, and sure enough, it slowly began to sink through the first layer. Like molasses. Pisces glanced around and noted that was why everything seemed off. Not just perspective.
“Everything’s covered by this strange film. Yet it takes on the properties of what’s underneath. Fascinating. Have you ever—”
“No.”
The Gnoll was getting highly embarrassed at this point. He had never taken this approach to the Crossroads, only used it. How could you be this incurious? Well, Pisces supposed Wer was traumatized, and to be fair…Pisces wouldn’t have thought to marvel at a place like this.
Yet Ceria had brought it up, and aside from the novelty of confirming basic physics and feeling like they were doing this smart—there were things that suddenly became off once scrutinized.
“Whoa! Distance is off! Did you see that throw?”
Colth had been chucking little mud balls around, and he recoiled as one sailed straight past Ksmvr’s hand and into the distance. Pisces saw the toss go…far farther than it should have. And yet, when everyone jogged over, it felt like it only took three steps.
“Creler eggs, that’s going to make shooting at something hard.”
Yvlon swore, and Ksmvr drew a crossbow and fired it experimentally. The bolt flew…and flew…and kept flying…
They exchanged looks.
Distance was insane! Gravity might be the same, but it felt like they were able to shoot or throw things four times as far as they should. That, at least, Wer was happy to confirm he knew.
“I told you. The Crossroads are the best way to get around.”
Pisces was trying to make sense of how that worked.
“Is it…is it like everything’s compressed?”
“Nope. You just go faster. Want to test it?”
They were drawing lines on the weird loam—which refused to take any markings, so they ended up putting glass jars down. Pisces measured out increments of thirty feet, and they began hucking things around.
“Yep. A tiny toss goes thirty damn feet. And how fast can you jog that, Pisces?”
The [Necromancer] thought of himself as quick on his feet, but he would admit, it was all step and counterstep, like a [Duelist]. He did not ‘run’ like Ryoka or Garia for fun.
Nevertheless, when he tried a hundred-and-twenty-foot dash, he promptly broke any record there was and ever would be. Colth confirmed it with a whistle.
“Four-point-two seconds, and that was because you were slow at the jump. Wasn’t even hard.”
“It felt like ten feet!”
“Well, it looked like ten times that. Everything looks properly far off, but we move around like we’ve got Ishkr’s [Waxed Floors] and a [Speed] spell. Ceria! Be warned! Anything that we see is going to hit us fast.”
“Roger! I’m almost done taking [Magic Pictures]—anyone got landmarks? Hey, what did you do to my glass jars?”
Pisces, Yvlon, Colth, and Wer looked down, and Ksmvr was already on his hands and knees, staring at one of the glass jars that had been knocked over. The others had sunk up to their lids, so they could be pulled out slowly, with some effort, but the last one had been submerged.
And all the ‘ground’ around it turned to glass and felt slick. Pisces stepped on it, and Colth whistled.
“Dead gods, it does conform to it. Is it fragile? Let’s try—fuck!”
He stomped, broke the glass, and his boots were surrounded by razors of glass that sprayed around as he kicked out of the ground in alarm. Pisces shielded his face with his hand and felt a sharp edge—he swore and checked his hand.
“Colth! That cut m…oh.”
He had a small cut from the glass that Colth had accidentally kicked, but as Colth strode over, Pisces showed him the transparent gel stuff. It had been, for a second, sharp, fragile, and slick as glass…but as Pisces held it, it became that jelly again.
“Strange. It’s temporarily taking on the glass structure, and now it’s stopped. Here, let me bind that finger for you.”
Colth produced some gauze, and Pisces waved him off, but Colth grabbed his hand.
“You don’t want to be the first person to die of an infection in the Crossroads. Ceria, did you see that?”
“I saw it. My mind is working overtime, Colth. Let’s see…the gel stuff doesn’t conform to Pisces. Because he’s alive? Also, notice that it’s not doing anything in the jars? Maybe it has to be ‘above’ whatever it wants to copy or it only works when it’s all together. More experiments. I know we’re wasting time, but…”
“No, this is fun. Try this.”
Yvlon produced her signature silver dust, and after Ceria conjured some ice to use as a ‘table’, the Horns and Wer found the gel did have rules.
Firstly, it didn’t like the jars. It just became inert if you didn’t place it on a surface connected to the actual ground. But once placed on the ice, it became cold, freezing, and hard. But if you levered it up and placed silver dust under it…
“…Feels like the finest sand imaginable. Eugh. It looks like jelly, but it behaves like sand. I don’t like it.”
The dissonance made Colth shudder, and Pisces also felt that strange disconnect. Ceria was just shaking her head.
“Is this stuff valuable or useless? If it’s everywhere, it seems useless. Or else you’d have everyone digging it up. Replicating surfaces…I mean, you need the stuff beneath it, so it’s not like you’re able to copy a fun surface like a carpet…because you need the carpet beneath. What the hell is the point of it?”
It was a mystery until Colth raised a hand.
“I have a theory. This gel stuff is possibly like magicore. If you can make it do whatever you want, you can create a frozen area by putting ice underneath, and it’d probably keep the ice cold. It’s like…a building tool, right?”
Building? When Pisces turned around, he saw endless miles of the same blank ground, greyish red, stretching out for what he imagined was the Crossroad’s counterpart of the Great Plains. Only, even the Great Plains had some life. It had animals, insects, a sky…
This place was dead.
Just dead. That made even the [Necromancer] shiver as he added a final observation to the list the Horns were making.
“There are no dead bodies anywhere. No animals. No corpses…nothing.”
Every head turned towards him, and Pisces felt compelled to explain.
“Even without the battlefield at the Meeting of Tribes, you can still sense a dead rat or something in the ground. The world is filled with death—and life—and all kinds of magic. This one? It’s flat.”
“It is flat. And empty. Is this all the Crossroads are?”
Yvlon wondered aloud, almost disappointed, now. And Wer smiled as he adjusted his hat.
“Nope. This is just the Great Plains. The Crossroads sort of copy Izril, but they get a lot weirder if you head in any direction. North…I know north up to where the High Passes are. This is one of the safest spots, which is why I like travelling here to get around. Ready to move on?”
Every head turned to Ceria, and she scratched her chin.
“Not yet.”
 
——
 
She insisted on scoping out the area of the ‘Great Plains’ in the Crossroads, and it made sense. The Horns began testing how fast they could move, and they had no real landmarks in the real world, but Wer assured them they’d notice. What they mainly did was move in one direction until they almost lost sight of the road, then looked around for landmarks. Ksmvr would jump up for a big view, and Ceria, after some consultation, decided to place a pillar of ice as a marker.
