“I am a friend of Imlerith. The City of Inventions honors my craft.”
He waited as the other Horns peeked out from a safe distance. That was a phrase associated with Pallass. There was a flicker of light—and then the most uncanny thing happened.
Ksmvr swore he saw the door smile at Colth. Magic, the same light as the writing, formed a toothy mouth which spread upwards as words wrote themselves—Colth was halfway towards them at a sprint when he slowed.
‘Welcome, friend of Pallass! Please prove you are someone who adds to this world!’
Yvlon gasped.
“Dead gods, it worked! Colth, what’s the proof?”
“How should I know? Maybe it’s some token you get from Pallass? Ah, shit—”
The door waited a good five minutes, then the word and smile vanished. Yet that gave them an idea, and the Horns were clustering around the door in no time.
“Excuse me, I’d like to be let in. I am a friend of Manus. The, uh…City of War acknowledges my valor. Which is Manus.”
Yvlon tried next, and her wording sucked—but the door seemed to realize what she wanted. Again, it smiled, and the wording was different.
‘Be at ease, valorous of Manus. Please prove you have fought in defense of Izril.’
Yvlon hesitated. She and the other Horns felt pretty strongly that lying might be a problem. Yet the door just waited, seemed to lose interest, and they tried again with Oteslia, Salazsar, Zeres…
“A token of nature’s esteem. A pact of the waves. A sign of magic…this is excellent. If only the Gnolls were friendly with the Drakes; maybe someone’s got one of these? Wonderful stuff!”
Colth was writing this down excitedly, and Yvlon sighed as she leaned on the door, no longer worried it was going to kill them.
“It’s a shame there’s only six cities left. If only there were more.”
“Well, there were. What were the other ones?”
Ceria scratched at her head, and Ksmvr thought he’d written it down somewhere.
“I have it, Yvlon. Grunvel, the City of Pacts, gone. Lesegoth, the City of Shields. Mershi, the City of Stars. There was a City of Dreams, a City of Graves…”
Lots of cities. Ceria’s eyes lit up.
“This is a good chance for some intelligence, then. Let’s try it.”
“You mean…”
Ceria was knocking on the door.
“Hey, Ceria here. City of Pacts. Open up. I’m a Dwarf.”
The door paused, and then the words appeared along with the smile.
‘Any pactfriend of Grunvel is a friend of ours! Do you have a token of true friendship?’
It seemed like there had been the slightest moment where it had perceived Ceria was no Dwarf. However, Colth was writing that down and muttering.
“Too bad Dawil’s not here, eh? I bet they’d let him in with his axe. Try again?”
“City of Stars.”
It was Ksmvr’s turn, and he placed his hand on the door, and the Horns went quiet. He expected a smile—but instead, the door shimmered—and a sigh came from it.
Ksmvr had no hair to rise or do whatever it did, but he felt a shiver.
‘Mershi is vanished. If you come from there, show your proof to a guardian. May the dream of stars endure.’
“Oh snap. They knew the City of Stars was gone. But not Grunvel? Colth—we’re dating when the City of Crossroads got got.”
“Got got by what?”
Yvlon rounded on Ceria, annoyed by the flippant tone, and the half-Elf shrugged.
“By something. Or you’d think they’d be opening these doors asking if we had something to eat and where the hell the other Walled Cities have been. Bad luck for Lehra, though. The one person who does have a sign can’t get in. Okay, let’s try a few more then head out.”
Pisces strode up next.
“I am from, uh, the City of Graves. Whose name I am not quite familiar with, so if you could elucidate me on the exact nomenclature as well as the requirements to get in—”
He was joking around at this point, and the door stirred—and then a thunderclap sent Pisces sprawling. Ksmvr froze, and the smiling face didn’t appear—instead, a wrathful mouth and a voice that had the robotic quality of Golems—yet bellowed.
‘THE CITY OF GRAVES IS NOT WELCOME HERE. BEGONE.’
Then the door started shooting bolts of [Light Arrows], big as Ksmvr’s head, and the Horns ran for it. Wer was already sprinting away.
 
——
 
The door stopped firing after thirty seconds. But the shout had rang for miles in this place, and the warning shots had torn up the gel-ground. They had clearly been warning shots; they’d missed the Horns by a mile. After they were well out of range, a panting Ceria slapped Pisces’ shoulder.
“Well done, Pisces. Turns out no one likes [Necromancers], even the one city that welcomes all.”
“B—you were all getting away with it! This is classism! Even in the past?”
Yvlon shook herself.
“They must have done something. Dead gods, that face looked pissed. I hope we haven’t blacklisted ourselves.”
“Or drawn attention with that shout.”
Colth was glancing around, and now Ksmvr got worried again. Even Wer was disconcerted and harrumphed.
“You had to piss off the door. I’ve never seen anyone manage that. Adventurers. This was supposed to be an outing. Next time, I’ll drop you off, and you can do this on your own t—”
Then he fell silent. Wer’s white fur couldn’t turn any paler, but his eyes went round and huge, and he pointed—everyone turned without a word and reached for their weapons.
Because they’d just found the first big living thing in the Crossroads of Izril. And it did not look friendly.
Ksmvr observed it was big. It was big and had a uniformity of its ‘skin’ that Ksmvr really, really didn’t like. Because that said Facestealer to him—only in this case, it was red, stumped forwards slowly, and its ‘hands’ were trailing razors of thread or something it could swing and probably lay you open with.
It was followed by two shuffling, giant white stalks that walked on crab legs, and the war party of three made Ksmvr’s [Dangersense] ring.
They were coming straight at the door. The Horns had fallen back to a place where the road sloped downwards, and they crouched. Silently, Colth brought out his crossbow, and Ceria whispered.
“Wall spells on the big sucker. No one gets close. Screen with the skeletons and pull back. No one fights up close until we see what they’re made of.”
“What are those things? Do we know them?”
Yvlon was staring, and Ksmvr wanted to tell her they had definitely not run into those monsters before, but he was busy drawing a bead on one of the white things. Yet he somehow felt it too. The entire group stopped at the door, and one of the white stalker things began to dig at the ground. But the road was too hard, and it shuffled off to the side and began to…
Tear up the gel and soil underneath. Then Ksmvr stared because he did know what this was. It was Colth, of all people, who whispered in horror as Wer bared his teeth.
“Deniusth’s violin for firewood! I know what those things are! Those are—that’s a Bloodfields Shambler! Those are Watchertrees!”
Ksmvr saw the Watchertree slowly rooting itself in the ground, and he recognized the red color at last and saw it. The same color as the Bloodfields. And his heart sank, and Yvlon half-rose.
“No. Impossible.”
“Yep.”
Wer grinned with a horrible, scared expression on his face. He pointed, and the Horns turned north, and they saw that red stain spreading from the north, even to the Crossroads of Izril. The Gnoll whispered with a piercing voice.
“Welcome to the real Bloodfields. Most places north of the City of Crossroads has its taint. Looks like they’ve reached the gates at last. Though—if I were them, I wouldn’t stay there.”
Imlerith, the City of Crossroads, might be dead or inactive or whatever the case may be—but the door was still active. A pulsing warning sign was flashing up around the door as the Shambler cast around, clearly looking for whatever had made the sound. The other Watchertree was shambling away from the first, and when rooted, they’d kill anything they sensed by projecting their sharp roots out of the ground.
…But the door was getting mad. It began firing those [Light Arrows], and the Shambler reacted by smashing a fist against the door. The first Watchertree was clearly having problems with the road and the door—it was jerking, as if trying to burrow into something hard and impenetrable.
The barrier? 
Whatever the case, the door clearly recognized these things were not what it wanted hanging around, and it activated. Ksmvr saw a beam so bright he looked away, and when he turned back…there was a fiery ray running through the Shambler’s head.
Setting it on fire. The beam slowly moved down, and then a clawed hand thrust over the top of the gate.
Something came out of the magical barrier, tendrils of light fusing together to form a limb. Akin to Honored Deskie knitting threads together, if the threads were strands of light and formed a clawed hand in seconds.
The barrier’s magic flowed out and formed the arm, then shoulder, chest, head, legs—an entire Drake in moments—out of the bands of light. For a second, it stood above the gates, raising its claw higher and pulling a halberd with an edge of red light out of the aether. Then the figure leapt down from the top of the gates.
The ground did not quake as it landed, though it was nearly twenty feet fall. The articulated neck spines, the sharp teeth as it opened its mouth—these were pale green neck spines and a body of yellow light. No detail. It was a being of light, without such features like scales or nuance to the armor.
A gigantic yellow Drake made out of magic holding a halberd. The last trails of its essence flowed from the barrier as the construct swivelled to the intruders. It turned to the first Watchertree, opened its mouth—
The flash of light only blinded Yvlon, who had been staring, and when Ksmvr poked his head up, he saw the Watchertree was blackened and on fire—a second before the Drake began chopping it up. The second Watchertree began crawling away—slowly—and the Drake beset it.
“Well, that’s our answer on defenses…and that’s our answer about local fauna. Tell me that’s the worst of it. The Crossroads of Izril have been overrun by the Bloodfields for centuries. Possibly millenia.”
Ceria had taken a picture of the apparition before it vanished. Ksmvr was beginning to reevaluate the dangers as he remembered the Horns’ encounter with the Bloodfields. The only thing worse than the fauna had been literal Crelers.
He looked over, and Wer was smiling at last. Glad they’d gotten the message. He seemed to take special satisfaction as he shook his head.
“Nope. The Bloodfields are just the north—and a narrow strip at that. It makes travelling the road north up to where Liscor is hard—but not impossible. They haven’t passed the City of Crossroads, and unless they’ve spread really fast in the last two months, they’re not in the mountain range at all. They’re just one ecosystem around here.”
“Not the top dogs?”
Yvlon swallowed as she blinked rapidly. Wer beamed at her.
“Not at all.”
 
——
 
Before the Horns reported back on the second day, a lot of Gnolls had been talking about joining them, if only around the Great Plains, to look around themselves. The second day’s report quashed any interest once the Horns told everyone what they’d seen.
“It seems clear to me, then. The Bloodfields either originated in the Crossroads of Izril—or have become infected from our dimension. Either way—a door must surely link the two.”
“A door in the Bloodfields?”
Shaman Theikha shrugged as the [Chieftains] cried out in horror. Tkrn and Inkar were trading glances of alarm, especially because Tkrn was one of the few people who lived close to the Bloodfields. But the great [Shaman] knew her craft well.
“Maybe just seeds? Yet it seems complete as an ecosystem; Watchertrees and a full-grown Shambler? These things do not pop up exactly the same. Seeds, plants, must both cross over. There is a door? Perhaps, perhaps not. There was a door? So I believe.”
Sound logic from Gaarh Marsh. Yvlon was more disturbed at the implications.
“But there’s no winter in the Crossroads, according to Wer. And it wasn’t cold there…they go into hibernation every winter in Izril, but never over there! I saw Watchertrees moving, and one of those Shamblers is supposed to take an entire Gold-rank team to take out.”
“It gets worse if you head north. Not just trees; they can’t hit you on the road. I think it’s too hard for them to dig through. But if you hear buzzing, that means there’s a swarm coming. I’d warn you when we’re travelling around there, but…I’m not coming. You want to explore the north? You’re on your own. Actually, you’re on your own after this. I’m not going with you now you get it.”
Wer kicked his legs out and stretched, looking annoyingly happy. The other Gnolls growled at him or turned to the Horns, but they did not find terror. Just a kind of excitement—and caution—a trepidation but a desire to go back that even Adetr found off putting in a way.
Here be adventurers.
 
——
 
Knowing the threat, the Horns prepared accordingly. They had already prepared, but there was something to knowing what lay out there that gave them an edge to the third day of adventures.
For one thing—they got the finished Stalker armor from Master Shedrkh.
The old Gnoll had the pieces ready. Underarmor for Yvlon and Pisces, Ksmvr’s cloak, and Colth’s pieces. He watched as the Horns put them on.
“I will want to adjust and see how it wears on each of you. Take notes, yes?”
Colth was grinning as he activated the invisibility features of his helmet again to see how his new armor improved the effect, and Ksmvr swung the cloak around himself and vanished. Yvlon just felt comfy, even if she had the distinct, unsettling feeling of wearing Stalker’s skin so close to her flesh.
But she grew used to it, and she did feel tougher.
“A substantial upgrade. I’m a proper [Rogue] now. Stab, stab. Stabstabstab—”
Pisces yelped as Colth jumped him from the side. The grinning adventurer with the demonic smile reappeared like the ‘cheshire cat’, as Rose put it. Yvlon supposed even cats could be properly horrific.
They were ready for a real fight. Of course, as Colth cautioned the others, the new armor just made them tougher, not invincible.
“We haven’t really shaken down our teamwork in a real fight. We’ve done practice, but the Bloodfields monsters could press us hard. They have tremorsensing abilities, so Ksmvr’s invisibility and mine won’t have much luck against them.”
Yvlon rubbed at her head, sighing. It was always something.
