The crab tried to block that too, but the black magic passed through the claw, and the crab visibly staggered. Then it rallied and began scuttling right and left, like a moving target. Pisces stared at his finger. Virtually unbeatable with a sword and weak to magic?
Ceria and Colth kicked him at the same time. This time, he screamed at them.
“What are you doing?”
The half-Elf poked Pisces in the cheek with a wand.
“What are you doing? Stop bullying that crab! I like him!”
“Yeah. We just chased it off. What’s with the [Deathbolt]?”
Pisces spluttered as both senior adventurers shoved him. Colth pointed at the Sword Crab, now trying to sink into the water.
“Don’t piss off Sword Crabs. If there were more, it’d be calling buddies in and we’d be dead. This guy’s lost, and he was just looking for a meal.”
“Yes, us. And he took on all three of us!”
“Well, don’t take it out on him for bruising your ego.”
Colth scolded Pisces. Ksmvr had sat down, and Yvlon was shaking out the arm that had met the crab. She needed practice.
“Come on, Ksmvr. We won. That proves we’re better than your average Gold-rankers. Ceria chased it off no problem.”
“All my training. All my practice. Klbkch’s sword school. You should have just hired a Sword Crab instead of me.”
Ceria snorted, and Colth rolled his eyes as the Horns of Hammerad fell back from their first major defeat in the Crossroads. The foe who had no equal. The invader from the sea.
Sword Crab!
Colth shook his head.
“You all know it’s not even endemic to this place, right? You’re all underleveled for the Crossroads. Rookies.”
 
——
 
Two more directions explored, at least in general direction, and Colth was trying to cheer the three melee-oriented Horns of Hammerad up as they went back to camp.
“Hey, listen. Even Deniusth has had a moment when a Sword Crab slapped him around. Ever heard of his duel to the death with this old Sword Crab? It’s not a story the [Bards] will tell you. Mostly because every single one has died laughing when I told them the tale. I shit you not, there he was, wading into the surf, and he turns to Larracel, me, and Eld and says, ‘if I die, don’t go after it’. And the Sword Crab’s waiting there like some [Gladiator]…”
He had them all chuckling by the time they got back to the base camp. They were early, Ceria realized, and she told them it was a twenty-two minute wait. So Colth told them the rest as they broke out some food.
Yvlon was stuffing crumbled goat’s cheese into her mouth and thinking of dinner—she really did feel like she’d earned it, humiliating tale or not—when Colth stopped telling them about the grave Deniusth had paid for.
“—so if you ask about ‘his greatest duel’ and that damn statue, just tell everyone—huh. Arm up.”
He went from joking to serious so fast that Pisces was still blinking as Yvlon and Colth drew their swords.
“What is it?”
Ceria woke up from her nap, and Colth swung around, staring.
“Someone’s been messing with the runes. Two fired off. Should have been [Stun] and [Flashfire Jet].”
He pointed down, and Yvlon saw faint scorch marks around a burnt-in rune on the ground in the middle of Ceria’s ice walls. The half-Elf instantly whirled.
“No one’s touched my ice walls. Let me check the integrity—”
“Skeletons, form a perimeter. Ksmvr, get down!”
Pisces ordered, and Ksmvr stopped leaping up to the top of the ice walls for a good view. Colth’s head swung left and right, and he vanished.
“I’m going evasive. Ksmvr?”
“Yes, Colth.”
The two vanished, and Yvlon hissed.
“Stay close! It might have been something else. What about an animal, Colth?”
“There are no animals around here. What’s there to eat? Plus—I should have seen scorch marks beyond the spell going off. It looks like something triggered both but tried to clean up the marks. That’s why I didn’t notice. Damn, I should have checked—”
Colth’s voice was everywhere and nowhere. The Horns fell silent, listening, looking around as Ceria reported her basic spells were revealing nothing.
There was nothing to see for miles upon miles where they were. But Yvlon felt her skin crawling now, and sweat was suddenly running down her back.
Minutes passed. She was shifting around, wondering if she was hearing Colth or Ksmvr moving when suddenly Wer appeared just beyond the fort. He jumped as Ceria and Pisces aimed their wands at him.
“You’d all better be here or you’ll have to camp out here! And I don’t want to explain to Shaman Theikha why I don’t h—what’s going on?”
 
——
 
“Trap spells? Could it have been something else or an animal?”
“Maybe. It’s not the highest-tier magic, and there are animals there. We ran into a Sword Crab. It just looked way too neat.”
Colth admitted he could have been wrong after they got back. Feshi was rightfully concerned, but aside from that one thing, there had been no signs of real danger in the Crossroads.
Again, Wer claimed that since they’d stuck to the roads, the ‘real danger’ wasn’t going to show up.
“It’s all off-road. I’m telling you. You enter the mountain and you’re dead. You step off the road? Death. But even Watchertrees can’t strike you on the road; it’s funny to watch them try. A few things can hurt you on the road, but most of them you can literally outrun.”
“It could be nothing.”
Feshi agreed. Then she and Colth eyed each other, and the Ultimate Supporter grinned mirthlessly.
“I’ll bring more trap spells next time and set them up so anything that runs into them will trigger a lot more. I didn’t set them up in expectation of having to counter something smart.”
“Wait, are you going back? After maybe having something prowling around your camp?”
Rose was incredulous. The Horns just gave her a blank look. Ceria shoved pasta into her mouth with her bare hands, earning her looks of disgust from the Gnolls who were using utensils.
“Well, yes. You’ve got two choices here, really. You can go back, or not. Everything else is preparation and whatnot. We’re not running because of one thing.”
“I’d like to run. If I see anything bad, I’m heading out, got it?”
Wer growled, and the Horns all pelted him with pieces of bread. But they went into the Crossroads on the fourth day wary.
 
——
 
“Let’s see if we can tell if the Crossroads really do extend west. They shouldn’t….but we should be able to see if Ksmvr’s hypothesis was correct.”
Ceria decided to check the last cardinal direction the next day after the Horns had appeared and had a good look around to ensure all was well.
Nothing was off about their base camp from the last night, and Colth did set up a ton more trap spells. He even asked Ceria to melt part of her walls so he could angle and hide them; it’d be very hard to enter and not trigger a few from the two entrances.
The Horns didn’t waste time on paranoia; they kept an eye out, but their job was to keep exploring, and figuring out if the Crossroads were really extending over the New Lands would be huge.
Ksmvr believed they did. Colth, Ceria, and Pisces, as magic-users, all stated that it was impossible; the Crossroads had been made for Izril as it had been, not the new butt of Izril.
Yvlon…she trusted Ksmvr’s eyes. And she sort of wanted him to be right just so she could laugh at the [Mages].
“Hah. Hahaha. Hah!”
It turned out Yvlon’s laughter wasn’t very good. And her pointing at Ceria’s and Pisces’ faces when they used an enchanted spyglass and stared far further than they should have, even accounting for the rest of the western side of Izril—she stopped after a while.
“I’m measuring out rough distances. We go really far after…what has it been? Three hours of hiking? Edge of the Great Plains. But with Ceria’s ice palace and this elevation…I think I should be seeing the sea or something. It just looks like more land.”
The horizon was very tiny, but between the spyglass and height, it was probable—well, maybe Pisces’ calculations were off?
Yvlon was eating a hamburger, and she had just had lunch three hours ago! But she was hungry, and Ceria was shaking her head.
“I almost want to tell Wer we’ll be here multiple days. We can’t go that far if we don’t commit to travel. Maybe we can bully him into coming with us? Then we can transit out.”
“Works for me.”
Colth chomped down as well as Pisces folded his arms.
“I simply maintain that if there is a new part of the Crossroads, it was spontaneously generated, not hitherto existing. Otherwise, it makes no sense!”
“Ah, but you think it could be there. As opposed to you denying my eyes earlier. I have good eyes.”
“You have the best eyes, Ksmvr.”
Yvlon rubbed at his head, and the Antinium happily nodded. Pisces swung the spyglass south.
“We were hardly close to Zeres before we ran into the swamp, but I swore I saw…yes, I think you can see it, even here. See that blackness? Wait, are you eating my burger?”
Yvlon turned her head as Ceria hid Pisces’ half-eaten burger behind her back. Yvlon could see something on the horizon, incredibly far as it was. Since they only had sightlines south, it suggested to her that was the ‘end’ of the Crossroads.
“Looks like a wall of blackness. Reckon it’s like a bounded dimension?”
Pisces glared at Ceria as he started eating. He sniffed.
“If the Crossroads was meant to travel across Izril, it follows that they would end at Izril’s shores. We requested an eight-hour trip. What if we took another hour going westwards? I can see the beginnings of settlements again.”
“Works for me.”
Everyone got to their feet. Yvlon licked her fingers as Colth refused to share the last of his meal with Ceria. They were hungrier than she expected. Yvlon knew she got hungry because of her arms, and Ceria ate everything, but Ksmvr and Pisces and Colth?
Well, they headed out until they came once again to the end of the Great Plains. Here they ran into the first unsettling thing.
Ruins.
 
——
 
Not broken waystations of an empty city, which were disconcerting in their own right; ruined walls. Ksmvr was taking the lead this time; he was fastest on his feet, and he jogged back when he could confirm, yes, this was a ruined place.
“It resembles a city, Captain Ceria. But not a Walled City.”
“How d’you know, Ksmvr?”
“It has no outer walls.”
“Indubitably deduced.”
Pisces smirked as he nodded at Ksmvr. Ceria sighed.
“Sounds like we’ve run across a regular city, then. Drake?”
“I could not tell from the walls, Captain Ceria. That is all that remains. Just walls. And as Colth observed…there is not the same rubble from crumbling or overgrowth of plants. The stones look like they have simply turned to dust.”
The Horns were interested in that, and they had to jog forward to see. What Ksmvr pointed out to them was indeed odd and unsettling via their world’s standards.
The lack of much flora meant that you didn’t get vines or moss—here at least. What you did get was the effect of age and oxygen on stone; they wore away and just fell to pieces. But without wind, it just became a sea of dust, which in turn made the gel-stuff become dusty.
The entire effect was suddenly walking into a wasteland of grey desert. The same grey, Ksmvr realized, as everything else.
Had…there once been many amazing structures that just wore away into nothingness until they became the grey the Horns walked over? At any rate, the ruins were mostly buildings, the remnants of a city.
No outer walls, but a good number of free-standing walls. It seemed like the absolute lack of a breeze meant that the erosion targeted the thinnest parts of a structure first. Leaving the thick retaining walls or foundations intact at the last.
The Horns hacked up a storm for the first few minutes until everyone put on a piece of cloth that cut down on the dust. Then they stuck to the streets; wading through dust was no fun.
“Damn. Sort of makes it hard to imagine treasures sticking around. If this is what happened to stone…we haven’t found many valuables around here. Any. I wonder if there’s any profit here?”
Ceria wondered aloud, and Colth coughed and tapped her on the shoulder.
“Excuse you. Did you not see an entire Walled City protected by a giant magical barrier?”
“Oh. Yeah. Well, aside from that. I’m not confident we’ll be first in, Colth. What about our humble loot for being first? Just a few bucketloads of pearl necklaces would do.”
The Horns were chatting quietly as they passed through the city. At first, Ksmvr had been checking each building, but there were so many that Colth had advised him to let the skeletons screen their advance.
Pisces had the skeletons marching ahead, and so the Horns were chatting. Ceria was checking her timekeeper spell.
“Aaaaaalmost halfway. We should be going back soon.”
“Aw. Can we do some treasure seeking in this city, boss? I feel like there has to be something. Come on, luck. We all rubbed Wer’s head for luck this morning.”
Colth pleaded. Yvlon scoffed.
“I think he cursed us all. Wer talks about this place like it’s full of wonders and horrors, but everything we’ve seen is rather dull.”
Pisces was rubbing at his chin. He seemed to want to compete with Ceria’s circlet-intelligence, so he did his best here in his most scholarly voice.
“He did vouchsafe that the Great Plains was an anomalous zone, Ceria. I can postulate that the effect of the ‘gel’ substance has a stifling effect on flora and fauna. Not to mention that it is a historically Gnollish demesne. Therefore, it follows that the Crossroads of Izril, if they are a Drake holding, are the least developed around this region.”
“Yeah, that was what I thought, but it sounds more pretentious when you say it. Thanks, Pisces.”
Ceria smiled, and he deflated. Yvlon kept frowning.
“But this stuff is from the old era of legends. Where’s all the Gnollish glory?”
Colth answered that, simply and plainly.
“Easy. Straight down. Remember where Torishi fell?”
All the Horns fell silent at that. Yvlon’s back of the neck tingled as she had a thought. Maybe, then, the Crossroads was also…
They passed by another building, turned the corner, and in the middle of a house with all three walls still standing, save for the front, they saw a crouching Drake kneeling and weeping silently into the dust.
Only, the Drake was over twenty feet tall, and he had strange, backwards legs like another animal. Only, when the Drake’s head rose, he had only one huge eye that was yellow and had a regular pupil.
Only, he was so silent and they only heard him boohooing when they saw him. And his huge clawed hands parted to reveal that eye that swung down towards them.
“Boo. Hoo. Booo. Hoooo. I am so terribly sad and lonely. W-what’s this?”
