“Everything is fresh or plucked from preservation spells. One day of actual aging guaranteed. You aren’t going long, yes?”
Colth waved a hand.
“Should be in-and-out, but we wanted enough for two weeks. This is plenty.”
True, they weren’t even committing to one day, but no one wanted to enter the Crossroads of Izril without being ready. Colth held up an egg and sniffed it.
“[Rotnose]…nope. All good. No worries about eggs this time, Ksmvr.”
“This is a relief, Colth. You have once again proven your worth.”
“I even put in some foods in case you’re in there a long time, Adventurer Colth. I have for you…twenty-eight pounds of this if you want it. It’s better than most, but I won’t make you buy it.”
Torgrass held something up, and Colth took a sample of something red, vaguely solid, and tasted it. He shrugged, and Yvlon took a small ball of…
“Oh, Drake’s Ancestors. Not that, Master Torgrass. Did you get it from the stores? We didn’t even give it to the Plain’s Eye Tribe.”
Someone complained—loudly—and the Horns saw it was Chieftain Gireulashia. She was visibly unhappy about not being allowed to go with them, and she instantly shook her head.
Even the voracious eater hated what turned out to be…
“Pemmican?”
It was a dark red to a dark brown dried food that was essentially venison and fat ground up. You could make it into a bar or even ‘shape’ it; it wasn’t bad. It was just like a kind of jerky, albeit greasier.
Yvlon didn’t see what the problem was.
“We don’t make it as much up in the north; House Veltras has mostly jerky. I know this is good for travel, isn’t it?”
Supplier Torgrass was nodding energetically, clearly trying to upsell the stuff.
“It can last for up to half a decade without Skills. Even your beans won’t do as long, I think. Most of this stuff is made by a specialist, so it might last an entire decade.”
“And it’ll probably taste the same. No Gnolls like it. I hope it’s cheap.”
Torgrass was indeed selling the pemmican cheap for how much the Horns could buy. Colth was happy to add it to Yvlon’s bag of holding, and she frowned.
“Is it off or…”
“No, no! It’s more like—it’s the one food we Gnolls can rely on. So if a tribe has a bad time, they’ll run into another tribe and ask for their pemmican stores. Which they always have. Or if hunting is bad, we eat it. Or if we’re short of anything else—”
“Ah.”
So pemmican was the taste of starvation and poverty and eaten so much that every Plains Gnoll was probably sick of it. In hindsight…the flavor of the pemmican was sort of hard to get rid of, and it stayed even after Yvlon swallowed a few times. She had a drink of water to wash it out, and Ksmvr nibbled on some.
“This is perfectly edible. Why, it is the most logical creation after the Antinium’s own version of this.”
He kept chewing and, after a second, regurgitated his entire mouthful out onto the ground.
“Excuse me. I am having flashbacks. This is a horribly sensible creation.”
Gire was hopping up and down with impatience.
“From your lips to the ears of [Shamans]. Okay, are you ready? I want to see the Crossroads! Wer says he won’t even let me look, but I’ll get a glimpse!”
The Horns had packed all their goods away, and Colth had even sorted the goods by person so no one had all of one supply. Yvlon adjusted her bag of holding and snapped her fingers.
“Hold on, I forgot my weird gift from that Courier. Let me grab it.”
She strode over to the tents and found it lying on a dresser. She hadn’t used it yet, but Yvlon tucked the odd ‘Goblin pillow’ into her bag of holding, and the other Horns emerged from their guest-tents, having swept them for possessions.
“We should be back. But just in case…”
Everything they owned was now on them, everything they needed. Anything else was at their homes, The Wandering Inn, or stored in their tents. But who the Horns were…was standing around in a circle.
That was adventurers for you. Even the Gnolls might not be so self-contained. The Horns looked at each other.
Yvlon, Pisces, Ksmvr, Ceria, and…Colth.
He grinned, and Yvlon realized she was smiling faintly. Ksmvr was already smiling, and Ceria was rubbing her hands together with a huge grin. Pisces was trying to stay aloof until Colth nudged him.
“Ready?”
“Ready.”
“Ready, one supposes.”
“I am ready, Comrade Colth.”
“Yahoo! Let’s do this!”
Ceria punched a fist up and stopped when they stared at her. Yvlon was about to snap, but Ceria’s eyes were serious behind her playful look. Colth nodded.
“To the Crossroads of Izril then.”
They were going—
First.
 
——
 
Wer the Wanderer was a white Gnoll with a cloak, a seasoned traveller, as his name indicated, who used a staff and often wore a hat to hide his features.
He was unto a legend among the few Doombearers, someone who found and tried to protect white Gnolls. Now? He didn’t quite know what he was.
But he was definitely, 110% certain that he did not want to be doing this.
“You’re all crazy and going to die.”
Chieftains Feshi, Adetr, Gireulashia, Akrisa, and many more all stared at him. They were gathered in a circle outside the Earth Tent, which seemed like it had become a place for great events to happen.
Snow lazily drifted down as two-dozen Gnolls stood in the first layer of the circle, supported by [Shamans] and their followers, like Satar, in the second.
The other Gnolls had been forbidden from listening in, so they were skulking in the distance a few hundred paces away—still obviously eavesdropping.
The [Chieftains] were not out in their finery; they wore their traditional dresses, supplemented by a cloak or coat sometimes if they were old like Chieftain Orreh. It was an impressive gathering to send the Horns off…and not, at the same time.
There was no Berr. No Garsine Wallbreaker. Many of the tribes had left, and even Gamur the Axe hadn’t come by to make this a grand ceremony.
Adventurers and warriors didn’t. They had come by to have a drink or say something the night before. Right now, they were probably insulting the Horns in one of the bigger tents, grumbling about luck or swapping stories.
If the Horns needed help, they would be first out. It was that kind of gathering, then. One where everyone pretended the wind didn’t feel like it had an extra chill. Where only Satar, because she was young, was bouncing on her toes. Even Gireulashia had taken cues from the others and was tossing her head back so Satar could get her good side.
You had to act like you belonged here.
A thousand campfires lit up the pavilion of round tents in the distance, and the faint stench of burning cow manure had long stopped intruding on the Horns’ noses. A flat, white world stretched out from the Meeting of Tribes until it seemed like they were the only civilization in the flat pond of snow.
The rippling fabric of the Earth Tent was torn, patched from battle, and grander than the plain blue fabric it had once been. Someone had added greens and browns, even blacks, to mend the frame until it seemed almost like that jewel of a world that only Humans had ever conceived was their own planet. A sign.
Rose was fidgeting, her phone lighting up now and then, red-cheeked like her name as Inkar held Tkrn and Deskie’s arms nervously.
This was a moment Satar’s quill tried to capture all of this in mere words. Smell, sight, even the feel of new-fallen snow crunching under her light wraps. The way Pisces and Yvlon both lifted their chins with the same nobility, one trained, the other gained. Ksmvr looking to Colth for guidance and a smile that had no fear crossing the other’s face.
A glinting circlet gleaming like a half-Elf’s eyes. And it still smelled like breakfast in the air, cooking meat overwhelming the rest as the Gnolls stood there and tried to seem impressive.
Unless of course, like the sighing Shaman Theikha, you had been there and it didn’t matter because you were who you were. She turned to Wer, trying to reassure the most visibly nervous Gnoll here.
“You said you use it all the time, Wer.”
“When I have to. Note that I did not say ‘exploring’. I never explore. I told you, I have seen Gold-rank [Mercenaries] die there. I have nearly died there many times. Even Belavierr looked nervous when she was in there.”
“Yes. Because you and she are both cowards. The Horns aren’t.”
Adetr Steelfur shot back. The young [Chieftain] looked as mad as Gireulashia that he was forbidden from looking into the Crossroads.
His comment earned him a bop to the back of the head from Theikha’s staff. Wer just growled under his breath as he turned to the Horns—and found them unmoved. Ceria gave everyone a thumbs up, keeping her confident look.
“We know what we’re doing, Wer. We’ll go in an hour at a time, and we have synched our time spells. Pisces?”
“I have cast it already. One hour starting…now. And you shall be with us the first few times.”
Wer shuddered.
“Assuming we get more than a few times. Alright, let’s do this. Stand close to me, and hold onto one another. I can’t enter and leave more than twice per day. So if you miss it…”
“We stay in the same place. We fall back the instant we see something nasty, and we map—everything. We’ll be back by dinner, Chieftain Feshi.”
The leader of the Weatherfurs inclined her head.
“Good luck, Horns. Master Wer, if you need anything, we’ll be r—”
That was the last thing Yvlon heard from Feshi. She had been saying ‘ready’, and Yvlon heard the word—but it stretched. It seemed as if the word were just part of the entire world and that forever was encapsulated in a single word droning on and on—
But also that in a flash, the world changed, and Yvlon felt the world flip around her or move in some direction she couldn’t explain. Such that everything changed except for the Horns, each one linked to one another, her holding Wer’s arm, Pisces holding onto her metal hand. 
When the flip was done, the Meeting of Tribes was gone. The sky as she knew it was gone, and the sun was gone. Yvlon staggered and looked around, and Wer whispered as Yvlon’s nose was struck by a different air, and she felt nauseous and felt him tugging her towards a simple, paved road giving way to reddish dirt in a world that was devoid of the same grass or…or landscape as anything else.
The void, perhaps, but a void if it had been weathered over time. Blank nothingness, not white, not dark, just a kind of translucent matter that seemed to hint at soil below, a sky as grey and uniform as anything Yvlon had seen, terrifying, and a sense of nothingness before and ahead of them. Even Wer’s voice was flat and seemed not to echo as it should.
“Welcome to the Crossroads of Izril. Stay on the road. Scream if you see anything move.”
 
——
 
For a little bit after he looked around, Pisces just felt nauseous.
Which he felt, inwardly, wasn’t really fair to the moment. Here they were in the Crossroads of Izril, a legendary, lost place filled with danger that was at least Named-rank level.
The source of at least two of Erin’s quests. Arguably, and he hated to admit this, grander than what the Horns should have been allowed to meddle in.
But they were here first, ahead of everyone else in a land he knew was a different dimension. And all he wanted to do was puke.
Pisces was just glad he wasn’t the only one. Yvlon was gritting her teeth, Ksmvr was shaking his head slightly, and even Colth just said it outright.
“Teleportation sickness. I’m holding it together well, but that was a nasty one, even with practice. I would have liked to know about that, Wer. Let’s hold still until it passes—unless we’re in danger?”
“You’re not in danger yet. We’re in sight of the road, and the Great Plains are relatively empty. But then again, danger sneaks up on you. Stay on the road. I’m pretty sure it’s warded.”
The Horns all took a few steps towards the road, and Ksmvr regurgitated more food.
“I am very unhappy with this new adventure.”
“Steady on. Wer, is it always like that?”
The Gnoll was glancing around, holding his quarterstaff tightly. Pisces saw Ksmvr’s vomit land on the ground and sink into the translucent material that he was trodding upon. It felt like dirt…except where Ksmvr had thrown up. Then the ground turned soupy.
Strange. What is this material? Pisces almost bent down, and Colth kicked him.
“Up. Stay tight.”
Pisces was getting annoyed by how Colth talked. It was just one—
Then he met the [Supporter]’s gaze and drew his rapier. He had almost forgotten. This was a death-zone. It didn’t look like it, but it was.
“I didn’t realize it would be that bad. In hindsight…the few times I’ve taken larger groups it’s been worse. It’s normally barely a moment for me.”
Wer confessed, and Colth nodded. Ceria raised a hand.
“I’ve got no motion sickness. Felt nasty, but I’m good. Do we have a [Detect Life] and [Detect Death] spell up? Casting [See Invisibility].”
Pisces was feeling ill, and he blinked as Ceria began rapid-casting analysis spells. Colth frowned.
“Magic was said to be fine, but keep your casting muted, Ceria.”
“Can do, boss Colth.”
The [Supporter] looked unhappy to be referred to in that way, but he nodded. Ceria was frowning introspectively.
“Magic feels sort of dulled here. Not much ambient mana at all. Good thing we’ve got mana potions.”
“When did you learn to hide your mana flows, Ceria?”
She just tapped the circlet on her head, and Pisces grunted. He had been given a metric ton of homework by Az’kerash, and subdued mana flows was just one of the things—not even a priority for him. The fact that Ceria was passing him in magical acumen hurt…and also worried him.
Yvlon shared Pisces’ expression, but she was turning slowly to look around. She had her sword, but her other hand was free—and had morphed into a spear-like fist. Ready for her to skewer something from afar.
The road was simple. It was cobblestone in places, but dirt had eroded it, leaving bare patches and uneven terrain that couldn’t be fun to stand on. By now, everyone was feeling better, and Colth gave more orders, glancing at Ceria.
“Okay, we’re good. Instinct says set up base camp here. Defense wards, deploy skeletons—maybe use them as scouts, but walls. Camouflage; we don’t want to attract trouble. Wer, Captain, you have any inputs?”
“We’re all going to die.”
“Great! Ceria?”
She was tilting her head around, studying the blank, featureless terrain.
“Sounds good, Colth. I’ll put up some icewalls and try to make them transparent. Add anything else you want. How about that? Pisces, get animating. Ksmvr, keep an eye around us with Wer. Yvlon—yank up one of those cobblestones.”
