“Pisces. We’ve been Erin’s team since the day she pulled me out of the crypt and saved you from being stabbed by Relc. She made us, remember? She pulled over Ksmvr…Yvlon, you owe her the least. Are we The Wandering Inn’s team or not?”
Yvlon had never thought about it like that. But she sat there, thinking, and when she looked up, she exhaled in mild exasperation. Not because Ceria was wrong, but only because Yvlon was annoyed she had never thought of it in such easy terms.
“—So we’re going back for the Solstice?”
“Were we ever not going to?”
Ceria asked it as a serious question, and Pisces smiled and tried to hide it with a hand, and Yvlon exhaled and rolled her shoulders.
“I was going to get a souvenir for Mrsha. She’ll complain for ages if we don’t.”
 
——
 
The next day, the Horns and Wer entered the Crossroads. This time, they got more adventurous.
“Northwards, to the City of Crossroads!”
That was one of the few things Wer was content to do as their reluctant guide. Even then, he insisted on a full vanguard of the Skeleton Champions, and they headed north.
Snacking.
Now, for their exercise and because they weren’t slobs, the Horns elected to march rather than ride the ice chariot. Also because moving so fast might give them away, and Ceria and Pisces wanted maximum mana for any encounter.
They had both noticed spellcasting took a bit more out of them than they would have liked. Distances were greatly accelerated; mana casting was harder. Good things to know. Yvlon, Ksmvr, and Colth reported no lack in their abilities, though they all admitted the distances thing threw them.
So they marched and snacked. They couldn’t help it. Erin had sent some ‘new’ recipe of falafel over, and everyone had gotten a literal sack of the stuff from a Gnoll [Baker] in exchange for a place at the fire when they reported in tonight.
“Fink f’ll fee fom fonsters, Fer? I’m fondering fhat fy’re fike.”
Ceria asked, and Wer had to have a translation before he replied.
“You don’t want to see monsters.”
Ceria swallowed and frowned.
“I dunno. Knowing what to expect would be nice. You’ve never been specific on what they are. You said there’s nastiness on par with the Bloodfields—and some regular monsters?”
“I’ve seen some regular ones, yeah. They don’t last long. And I didn’t say nastiness ‘on par’ with the Bloodfields. You want to see why I’m so scared? The city is a perfect place to see why. Just north of there…you’ll see. Oh, you’ll see.”
The Gnoll chuckled to himself darkly, and Pisces wondered if a life of living on the run from Doomslayer squads and keeping your true nature hidden did something to your psyche.
Yes. But he would own that he was not prepared for the City of Crossroads when he saw it.
 
——
 
They came upon it so fast. Ksmvr, who liked to think of himself as Ksmvr of Chandrar, Ksmvr of the Horns, Ksmvr, Baron of the Trees, or just Ksmvr, who had friends, was amazed when he saw it.
Travel, as he had observed, was exceedingly swift. He estimated no non-magic horse in the world could match the speed of the Horns walking. Which had astonishing implications.
The Great Plains, for instance, was a vast landmass, but after only six hours of hiking and chatting, the featureless landscape began to change, and Ksmvr noted a few things. He felt he had to, as a deficient soil-expert.
Firstly, the ‘grey-red’ of the Great Plains was in fact a mistake. The natural color of the ground was probably grey. The red was an increasing gradient of color that made him uneasy the further they walked.
Second—the uniform landscape began to develop irregularities that he attributed to hills, lakes, and all kinds of geology that were represented here less visibly; the gel continued to coat the landscape.
But civilization had once been here, and the Horns slowed as Ksmvr saw the first ruined waystation on the road. Wer had an opinion, having passed by this particular ruin many times.
“I think these were once like inns. Stops for people to come to.”
“Everyone, halt! We’re grabbing samples, checking the spot out—Ksmvr, overwatch!”
Ceria was very much the good leader now, and Ksmvr obediently drew a crossbow along with his sword and leapt to the top of the ruined building. It was, to his eyes, all stone, an expensive proposition without much wood at all. The building might have been a half-dome of some kind? Another odd choice, but it had caved in, and most of it was just rubble, brown stone, and Ksmvr could see rooms and a second floor the Horns combed through as he looked around.
This was not the only building as they left the Great Plains region. No, wait. Were they even out of the Great Plains? If you were moving at a galloping horse’s speed…Ksmvr glanced around and decided to check.
“Wer, does this area correspond to the Great Plains still?”
Colth cleared room after room, sliding through the hallways with his new helmet rendering him invisible. Yvlon brought up the rear, and Pisces’ skeletons roamed around for threats as Ceria stood outside. The Gnoll called up in a hushed voice.
“I think it does. The Crossroads is at the northern part of the Great Plains.”
“Then it was not always the province of Gnolls. Or the Crossroads does not conform to current Drake-Gnoll boundaries.”
“Both, Ksmvr. Do you see anything moving?”
Ksmvr turned slowly and stared north where the red had become a strange, familiar color he did not like but couldn’t place—yet.
“Nothing. But I see many more buildings or structures north. The gel seems to…hmm. The gel seems to end. And I see the City of Crossroads. It is very large.”
It was like seeing Pallass from afar. Ksmvr was excited because that indicated much of the city was intact, but he was wary of his team checking the ruins. Colth called up.
“Swept twice, and Ceria’s spells found…nothing?”
“Nothing dead.”
Pisces called out. Ceria paused.
“Something alive.”
Everyone instantly tensed, and the half-Elf clarified after a second.
“Check the far room on the right. It’s not big. Looks like a lot of ‘em. What’re you seeing?”
Pisces called out four Skeleton Champions as Yvlon murmured.
“Nothing much. This place doesn’t even have any remnants; I can see what looks like cupboards, cabinets; but it’s all broken down. Not even dusty. Does it blow here, with wind?”
Colth shook his head, eyes sharp.
“Nope. Notice how there’s no stone dust? Things just fall over.”
“Right…so where are the mugs or chairs or…anything? This place has been scraped clean.”
“Could be there’s a cellar or hidden spot. Let’s take a look. Far right room. Cover me, Yvlon. Ceria?”
“Ready to [Ice Wall] your spot. Pisces, back them up.”
“Let me send a Skeleton Champion in first, Colth…”
Ksmvr listened with great nervousness as the Horns prepared. He kept glancing down, even though he knew he should be watching for threats from the outside. He was ready to hop down and paused as there were crunching sounds.
“Small, you said, Ceria? I don’t see—spiders!”
Spiders? Ksmvr jerked, aiming his crossbow down, and saw a swearing Yvlon, Pisces, Colth, and the skeletons all stomping on a horde of brown, little spiders.
Not Shield Spiders, but fuzzy-legged and hundreds of them. Ceria began laughing as the cursing adventurers left.
“Not funny! They might be poisonous! I hate spiders.”
Colth cursed as they backed out fast. But Ceria spoke as Ksmvr looked around in relief.
“Calm down. Oops, there’s one on your leg, Yvlon. Take a sample, would you? Now we know there are living things here. Which means something must be here the spiders eat.”
…That was true. Ksmvr jumped down, and the spiders were vaguely tantalizing to munch on. But he helped put a few in jars, and after some prodding, the only brave person who went back in there was Yvlon.
Grumbling, she overturned the spiders’ nest.
“This is disgusting. You like bugs, Ceria. Eh…eurgh. Okay, I can see wings and something that looks like…skin? So they’re snacking on something that flies and maybe a kind of lizard.”
“Very normal.”
Colth agreed in a flat tone as he and Pisces checked themselves. Pisces sniffed.
“Deceptively normal.”
Ceria sneered at them from afar.
“You two are bug-fearing cowards. Okay. Let’s do a second sweep for a secret room then get out of here.”
Twenty minutes later, the Horns decided that if there was a basement—it was either buried or they couldn’t find it. Colth opined that if it did exist, it was magically hidden.
“I’ve studied with [Geomancers] and [Treasure Seekers]—I have [Detect Void] as it pertains to walls. Very useful against traps. If it’s there, it’s shielded from me or caved in. North? Anything out of the ordinary, Wer?”
“Putting spiders into jars can be seen as a sign of insanity. Let’s move on.”
 
——
 
As they headed north again, Ksmvr stared at the spiders in the jar. They were sort of funny. No one else wanted to look at them; Ceria wasn’t going to eat them, and they grossed out the others.
But he thought they were funny.
“Ksmvr, what’s funny about spiders?”
“Well, the way they move. These ones dance.”
Everyone else was busy staring at the other ruined buildings that grew in number as they headed towards the City of Crossroads. Yet Ksmvr felt like the spiders were…odd.
They would hold still, then, if they thought they could somehow get free, blur around the inside of the jar or do this kind of weird back-and-forth dance. They moved fast. Ksmvr put that down to the nature of the Crossroads.
The spiders were clearly not great thinkers; they hadn’t figured out this was a jar. Nor were they overtly magical. Therefore, Ksmvr deduced these were Tier 1 fauna. They ate the literal lowest of the low, like flies or whatnot, and yet they could survive here.
Interesting.
Then he turned his attention to the City of Crossroads, which sat like some splendid forbidden land; the walls shining with faded mosaics of stylized Drakes, Gnolls, even Dragons and countless other species walking and smiling towards the pair of bright gates, whose metal had only slightly tarnished in the aeons since. And the proud sign above it which read in Drakish—
‘The City of Crossroads, Imlerith, welcomes all.’
Yet the gates were shut. Despite the way some buildings had clearly crumbled with time, the silence of this great city that was the size of Pallass—yet spread out, the walls the shortest that Ksmvr had ever seen on a Walled City, still forty feet tall, encircling this vast place—the city remained.
Empty? Occupied still? Filled with treasures?
No one could say. For a glowing barrier surrounded the city, rising from the walls and filling in the voids where even the wall had failed—save for the doors. The prismatic lights were too opaque to see through, but every now and then they, would part and give the Horns a view of a faded city beyond, lightless save for the barrier that enclosed the City of Crossroads. The doors were shut, and a glowing keyhole shimmered, waiting for the bearers.
Ksmvr had to admit this was slightly more interesting than spiders.
 
——
 
“Behold the City of Crossroads! I have never found an entrance. Nor would I advise you to break in the door. It has…guardians. I lost some of my companions the first time we tried.”
Wer was happier, now, and raised his arms and staff as his voice rose. The Horns just marveled at it. But that last part made them twist.
“What guardians?”
“Magical ones. They come out if you try to use force—or pick the lock. It’s very polite, actually. If you knock on the door like this—”
Wer rapped on it, and everyone flinched. Colth drew a blade, but writing appeared just over where Wer had tapped it.
‘Please present a key, friends. Or ask for a guardian to open the doors.’
Ksmvr could barely read Drakish, and Pisces had to squint and translate for Ceria and Yvlon. It was a very friendly door! Wer kept tapping, and the message changed.
‘Violence will not avail you in the Crossroads. Please do not try to force the door.’
“And if you hit it—”
Yvlon interrupted hurriedly.
“I think we’ve seen enough. Thank you, Wer. Well, dead gods. So this is what Erin meant by a ‘key’.”
It was more straightforwards than any of the Horns had thought. Almost disappointing, really. Yet at the same time…fascinating. They all turned to Wer. Ceria pointed at the gates.
“Are there other cities like this?”
“Yup. I’ve found another city—can’t make out the name—eastwards of here. Like I said, the City of Shields is just ruins, so it’s part of that damn mountain range. But I’ll bet if the City of Stars is here—you’ll need a key.”
“They all must have carried one. I bet the doors would open for travellers and citizens…but they’re all in lockdown. So now only someone with a key can enter—unless you find a secret way in. And the key’s lost.”
Yvlon murmured, staring up at the door. Colth nudged her.
“I sort of want to try picking the lock. If your hand can morph into anything—I’ve got [Rogue] skills. How bad are the guardians, Wer?”
The Gnoll scratched at his chin.
“I was here over a decade and a half ago. If I recall right, one was eighteen feet tall. A glowing Drake that shot beams out of its eyes, breathed Dragonbreath—it only stopped when we were a thousand feet away.”
“Ah.”
Pisces stopped reaching for the door and backed up.
“I see.”
The Horns backed away from the door. Even so, Ksmvr had the feeling that this door wasn’t impossible to open. If it was, he reasoned, they wouldn’t have a guardian.
And he had to consider the logic of Erin’s quest too. <Heroic Quest> was on the level of stopping thousands of evil Eater Goats and Gargoyles. Very, very heroic, but not impossible.
<Mythic Quest> was finding Mershi. Ergo, it was doable.
“What was Erin’s quest again? Anyone remember what it said?”
Ceria was thinking the same thing, and as it so happened, Colth had a copy. He unrolled it, and they all stared at the wording, then Ceria pointed.
“Reward: The Passphrase of Imlerith. Now isn’t that suspicious?”
“Ten gold coins? It’s so insulting. And she does say the passphrase unlocks all the ‘cool places’. So perhaps the key or passphrase is another way in?”
Pisces muttered, and Yvlon decided to sniff.
“Erin really needs better quest descriptions.”
“Agreed.”
“I know she practically invented them, but as the adventurer, staring at the destination, it’s just not that descriptive. Would it kill her to put in a two thousand word detailed summary or something?”
“Ten gold coins.”
Somewhere, an [Innkeeper] was sneezing as people badmouthed her, but it did give them an idea. Before they headed around the City of Crossroads, Colth strolled over, knocked on the door, and spoke.
