Not too tall, but the gel helpfully froze itself, and the magical ice remained for the hour they had allotted. By the time they were done, the Horns had found…
“Nothing. There’s really nothing here. We must have gone miles out in every direction, and this place is a dead, safe zone…but it’s not the entire Crossroads.”
Yvlon exhaled and felt like she let out a breath of wariness. But there was more to see. The Horns knew that because they could see other parts of the Crossroads and had compiled a vague map. Ksmvr’s jumping could get high, and Colth had used himself as a setter to launch Ksmvr even higher—until Yvlon had just used her metal arms to push him up as high as he could go. Then she’d snapped an arm when she made the metal too thin.
“I’m only bleeding! The torn metal heals…I only lost blood, okay?”
Yvlon stepped away from the splotch of red that had formed when blood started gushing out of her snapped arm. Ksmvr was worriedly offering her a potion, but she pushed herself up. Seeing her arm snap like that was bad. But the irony was that since Yvlon had learned to make her arms part of her body, it had resulted in blood loss. Ceria shook her head.
“Be more careful with your arms! Alright, Yvlon’s looking a bit pale, and we’re close to our hour. Back to the camp!”
“I’ll just stop adding blood to my arms if I think they’ll break.”
Yvlon muttered, and Pisces stared at her in abject fascination.
“You can do that?”
“Sure. I learned it from you. I have control over the metal…”
“But you can control the veins and arteries?”
“The tubes? Yep. It took a lot of work, but I figured it out. It feels better when the blood’s flowing. That’s how I cured myself of the sickness. Ksmvr, how about that map?”
The anxious Antinium was very concerned about Yvlon, but he did produce the map after a second, and Colth had helped with his basic competencies in…everything. What Pisces saw was this:
 
North—wide, open expanse and promising shapes until you reach huge rocky terrain of some kind. Looks porous even from here. Tunnels and mountains? Seems too close for the High Passes.
East—road seems bigger. Shapes in distance, but Ksmvr cannot tell what they are. 
South—decline in gradient. Sloping downwards towards something? First indication of ‘weather’: something falling from sky.
West—runs along said rocky mountains, but Ksmvr claims it’s the ‘farthest’. Can we reach the New Lands?
 
Those were vague, but each one was exciting. North seemed most promising by far, and Wer confirmed it.
“There’s the Crossroads past the High Passes, but I’ve never been. You want to see the city? North. We can’t get in, and it’s dangerous—and further north is where I’ve nearly died. South looks like danger, and east and west are…different danger. But that mountain is huge. It’s the City of Shields. Like I said; someone threw a mountain at it. The City of Crossroads is north of here. Would have been dead-center in southern Izril.”
He was chomping down on some lunch already; Pisces was peckish himself despite only being an hour out here. But the wariness and stress would leave anyone hungry.
“Time to head back or Feshi’ll think we’re dead.”
Ceria was consulting with the timekeeper spell, and Wer nodded. But then he developed a twinkle in his eyes.
The road that the Crossroads followed was not the same as the Drake’s trade roads, but they apparently branched out across this entire place from the City of Crossroads…which made sense. He pointed.
“Want to transit back to the real world after going that way? It’ll be a bit of a wait, but we can [Message] them. Then you can see the real effect.”
Curious, the Horns agreed and followed him five minutes down the road south. Then they stood with Wer as the Gnoll planted his staff in the ground. Pisces checked the base camp, and it was fine; the ice pillars were melting as Ceria’s magic vanished, and nothing wrong had happened.
It was sort of disap—
 
——
 
A thought that took forever and vanished in a second. The world inverted—and so did Pisces’ stomach. Everyone except Wer and Ceria promptly upchucked.
“Alright! That’s not what I signed up for.”
Colth growled. Then he stopped, looked around, and swore, and despite the vomitous incident, Pisces’ head swiveled, and he gasped.
They were not in the Meeting of Tribes. Five minutes of walking shouldn’t have even carried them outside the sprawling camp of countless Gnoll tribes trying to make a permanent settlement.
They could see the Meeting of Tribes. In the distance. Snow blanketed the Great Plains, and they could see Feshi’s dig and the gigantic Earth tent…and little else aside from smoke rising.
“We’ve gone at least four miles or something! We were just walking!”
Yvlon was astounded. Ceria was blinking as she turned to look around—then placed a finger to her temple to send a [Message] to the Gnolls—and Wer was grinning.
“I told you. You can travel fast.”
That’s when everyone started grinning. This was real magic, and Pisces actually jumped up and punched the air in delight.
“We could get back to The Wandering Inn in a week—in days! We could be zipping around Izril! Visit First Landing, get to the New Lands ahead of everyone—”
“And die horribly!”
Wer chimed in. Everyone threw snow at him, and Colth laughed.
“Larra, we’ve found the next big adventure! We should have found it when we were young, not these lucky rookies! Wait till I tell her about this!”
Everyone was excited again—until they realized they had miles to walk in the snow. Thankfully, they and their hosts were up to the task; Pisces was almost done adjusting his patented ice chariot with Ceria when the Gnolls appeared, riding winter dog sleds.
 
——
 
Chieftain Akrisa stared at the magic picture until she had to put it down because it made her so uneasy.
“So this is the Crossroads of Izril. It looks…like if you wanted me to draw a dream. Or if a child drew it. No features, everything off—you truly saw nothing?”
She looked at Yvlon, and the [Armsmistress] nodded to confirm.
“Nothing and no one. Not even grass. It wasn’t unpleasant to be in, but dead gods—it left you checking over your shoulder.”
That night, the Horns recapped with the Chieftains and Gnolls who were fascinated by the adventure. The jars of gel were whisked off by various [Shamans], and Gireulashia got one to experiment on, and even the soil was compared—although some of the testing was, uh, dubious.
A Gaarh Marsh [Shaman] tasting the dirt to see if he could tell any differences was upbraided by Theikha’s staff. On the other end of the spectrum, Rose was wailing like a siren about contamination.
“We could be bringing anything over from the Crossroads! Have you never seen Aliens? Inkar?”
“No.”
“Well I have. And if we die of chest-bursting parasites—can’t we make a clean room or something?”
Once Adetr understood the concept, he grunted.
“Oh, sure. Let me just lay a foundation, buy up a ton of metal and glass, and make a weird room. How much is that? Who’s paying for it?”
“You’ll regret it if we have a problem. I miss Yelroan.”
Rose grumbled, and Adetr poked her several times.
“Aren’t you going back to Liscor soon? You can make him buy one.”
That caught Yvlon’s ear as she hungrily helped herself to some fresh beef they were liberally ladling into some tortilla-type bread. They’d slaughtered one of the older cows in celebration of the Horns’ return, and she turned to Rose.
“You’re going back for the Solstice? What about you, Inkar?”
“Inkar’s staying, but I…I want to go back.”
Rose didn’t look at Adetr, who sipped from his cup, face impassive. Ceria just grinned.
“We’ll take you. We’ve got almost a week to head back; and with the Crossroads, we can make it a short trip! Here I thought we’d have to be experimenting on the road.”
“No, no. See, this is what I was warning about. That’s how you die. We can take the Crossroads north up to the City of Crossroads—then we should be on foot. I won’t use it in a lot of places; the entire north is out of the question unless I’m there for only seconds or I know the spot.”
Wer flatly refused, and Yvlon eyed him. He didn’t seem to be a coward; he’d fought Belavierr twice. She suspected the Crossroads had a lot more to show. Ceria nodded thoughtfully.
“Well, we’ll stay longer next time. And if Wer the Worrier is so nervous, he can just drop us off and pick us up. I figure once we visit the city and he warns us about the immediate dangers, it’s on us. We’ll take it just like today. Can I get copies of all the Magic Pictures, Feshi? You can all have some, but keep it secret; we’ll be trading intelligence with any other teams we meet.”
The [Strategist Chieftain] smiled as she nodded.
“Of course, Ceria. May I show the Titan? For an acceptable fee. It’s all valuable, what you’re bringing back, especially these gel samples. If we’re short of coin, Adetr, we can literally sell this to any Walled City or an [Alchemist]. But I do want the Horns to bear in mind objectives.”
Yvlon looked up as the Gnolls fell silent, and Feshi leaned forwards.
“There is surely one of the gateways Erin Solstice mentioned. If you could secure one and open it—”
Then Gnolls would not only be the first into the Crossroads, but the Horns might fulfill that <Heroic Quest>. Yvlon’s brows rose as Pisces sipped from a cup, and Ceria assured Feshi they’d try along with Ksmvr and Colth.
 
——
 
“Ceria? A word?”
The half-Elf was reading a book in her tent, which was colder than Yvlon would have liked—but the [Cryomancer] was immune to cold, so Yvlon just hunched into her coat as Ceria sat up.
“What’s up, Yvlon?”
They were a bit wary, but Yvlon sat down as Pisces followed her in.
“Just a quick word—what’s that you’re reading?”
“My master’s spellbook. Illphres’. Remember her? I told you about her.”
Pisces’ eyes locked onto the cover of the book rimed with ice, and he sat down hard. Yvlon just remembered…Ceria’s stories about her past.
The days of being a student in Wistram.
“When did you get that?”
“Gazi gave it to me.”
Yvlon started laughing—then realized Ceria was being serious.
“Wh—Gazi?”
“She picked it up at Wistram, apparently, when she broke Amerys out. I’ve been reading it ever since. Someone had hucked it into the ocean where it sank. Strange that it went that way. But now I have it. That’s destiny or something. Could be chance, but I like to think it isn’t.”
“You didn’t tell us you’d gotten it back! This is preposterous, Ceria! You’ve had it for months and not even brought it up?”
Pisces exploded, turning red, and Yvlon’s head snapped up. That was right! Ceria hadn’t told anyone she’d recovered her master’s spellbook. In hindsight…it explained the clear ice walls and Ceria’s advancing magic.
“Yeah, well, I forgot. And then I thought it’d be nice not to advertise it. There are too many people in Erin’s inn who love taking notes. If we run into, say, Revine, she’s going to get a fun surprise. I’m telling you all now: you’d have figured it out. Listen, don’t get mad. Yvlon didn’t tell us, uh, about something I’m sure.”
Ceria’s eyes were twinkling, and she was slightly defensive, but not apologetic in the least. Pisces looked genuinely hurt. Yvlon just narrowed her eyes a second but dropped it. Ceria noticed even so and winked.
“Hey. I’m just sneakier, but I’m the same Ceria deep down. Sneakier, smarter…”
“Wearing a mysterious artifact.”
The half-Elf paused. She scooted past the conversation as she had every time before. She was a noticeably smarter leader—and a far less trustworthy teammate? Yvlon honestly didn’t know about the second part. Ceria hadn’t done anything to hurt her team, and even this was just annoying sneakiness. But she felt like there had to be a drawback. And Ceria was tapping her circlet fondly.
“It helps a lot with memorizing new spells. And it’s not like I’m able to suddenly cast Tier 6 magic; the spellbook doesn’t even have any, sadly. Illphres’ notes say she could cast at least one spell, but she was too lazy to write it down. I bet it would have taken her months, but sheesh—I would have liked it.”
“Gazi doesn’t even like you. What prompted her sudden surge of generosity?”
Pisces was frowning, clearly recalling their encounters with Gazi hitherto Chandrar. Ceria’s eyes twinkled.
“Amerys insisted, and I think even the other Seven listen when she starts breathing lightning. Illphres was her friend…okay, as close as Amerys had in Wistram…and she threatened to magnetize Gazi’s armor forever if she didn’t hand it over.”
Ah. Well, that was probably why Ceria got the book. The thought of angering a lightning mage made Yvlon even more uncomfortable these days. She rolled her metal shoulders.
“That’s not why we came over. Maybe Colth and Ksmvr should have been here, but Ksmvr’s distracting Colth by learning how to knit. Ceria, did you mean it when you said we’d open up a gate for the tribes?”
The half-Elf paused, then twirled her fingers and sighed.
“You ask that after you signal me to put up a [Silence] spell, Yvlon. I bet the Gnolls listen in on us. Why not?”
“It’s…taking a side in a significant way. I’m not opposed—I like the tribes. They’ve been nothing but good to us. But I was just wondering if you had thought it through.”
Ceria sat back and used the book like a pillow for a second.
“Helping them with the Crossroads isn’t committing. But even if it was—let’s say there are ‘sides’. Antinium are their own side, and frankly, Ksmvr doesn’t speak highly about any of them even if we thought we could trust the Grand Queen. The north doesn’t have much sway down here, so if there are two broad sides, it’s Walled Cities and Gnolls—and even then, Oteslia would be on the Gnolls’ side for some things. Let’s say we found a gate. Would you be dying to turn it over to Pallass or Manus?”
“No.”
Pisces and Yvlon chorused, and Ceria sat up.
“Exactly. Erin’s on the Gnolls’ side. I bet she’d say that if you pushed her. They might not be the bigger faction, but they’re probably more honest, and our friends like them. Plus, they have the Earther tent. Pisces, objections?”
“Are we just taking cues from Erin, then? We are our own team, you know.”
The [Necromancer] sniffed, and Ceria burst out laughing. Even Yvlon smiled as Pisces looked affronted. Ceria tossed one of her pillows at him.
