The thing lowered its hands as Yvlon came to a dead stop, and Pisces bounced into her, froze, and reached for his rapier. Colth had already drawn his blades, and Ksmvr stared up with open mandibles, then pulled out a crossbow. Ceria’s laughing smile had frozen over, and then she stared up with frosty eyes. Yvlon felt her arms tingle and imagined them turning into spikes.
Ah.
Here it was. The figure peered down at the five Horns, and then, after a great pause, its eye swung across them. Counting.
“One. Two. Three. Four. Five. Six? Only five. But five! Five new friends met in this land of emptiness and woe! Oh, a glorious day! Hello, hello! Are you travellers? What are your names?”
He sat up, and his head nearly brushed the top of the crumbling house. Yvlon swallowed.
Dead gods, it’s bigger than the Adult Creler. What is it? It doesn’t look like any species I know. None of its body parts make sense! 
“Er…hi. We were lost. Know where the City of Crossroads is?”
Ceria Springwalker, damn her, was cool as a thousand cucumbers in the winter. And Yvlon was never more grateful for her. The half-Elf pointed right, as if genuinely lost.
It seemed to throw even the giant…whatever it was.
“City of Crossroads? You’re too far southwest for that. Are you visitors to Imlerith? Visitors at last? Oh, how delightful!”
He smiled, and Ceria gave him a thumbs up as Pisces stared and mouthed.
Skeletons didn’t see this cyclops thing. He was calling them back as Ceria bantered.
“Sure is. We’re looking for the key. Not that we don’t have the key; we’re all friends of Zeres.”
“The City of Waves. Oh, another old name. You know the names! You must be…wavefriends!”
“Friends of the Serpentine Matriarch.”
“Friends of the Serpentine Matriarch! Incredible!”
The voice rose even louder, and the boom should have shaken dust from the walls, but the rest of the city was silent. The figure crawled forwards on its claws and knees.
“I…I…I would like to be your friend, strangers. Are you a half-Elf? And you’re a Human, and you’re…a what?”
“Hello, I am an Antinium.”
Ksmvr waved as fingers pointed at Pisces and then him.
“An-ti-ni-um. Is it new to Izril? Is it new? I have not heard of them. But oh, let me know your names, first!”
The giant clapped its hands again, remarkably dustless for sitting in the home. Was it a denizen of the city? No, it was too big.
Yvlon had the distinct impression it had been waiting for them, and her bad senses—well, they were already screaming at her. But she was waiting for Ceria, and the half-Elf was still smiling.
“I’m Crossbow Stan. That’s Captain Todi, and this is Jelaqua. The fellow with robes is Halrac, and that’s Deniusth. What’s your name, big fella?”
She pointed at Ksmvr, Yvlon, Pisces, and then Colth. The half-Elf was so relaxed and so calm that Yvlon had to believe the circlet was giving her that. But she wasn’t stupid. 
Nor was the giant. For just one second, that huge eye narrowed, and the cyclops paused. Then it smiled with all its teeth, and it had three rows of teeth, narrowing to a circle in the back of its throat, which undulated as it spoke.
“I? I am Bograms. I’m a Drake, you know. Do you want me to show you around my city?”
“A Drake?”
Yvlon blurted out. She stared at the thing that was definitely not a Drake, and Bograms smiled wider.
“Yes. Can’t you see? I have scales. And claws. And sharp teeth.”
“You’re not a Drake. I’ve seen Drakes, you know.”
Ceria laughed at Bograms, and his smile turned into a frown, and that huge eyelid narrowed.
“You’re awfully rude for a visitor to my city. There hasn’t been a Drake on this side of the mountains for a long, long, long, long, long—”
His head descended, and now he was close and smelled of a strange pong, like a mushroom mixed with foul breath. Yvlon expected to feel the air over her face, but all she got was a stench.
“—long, long, long—”
“Time? Sorry to cut you off there, fellow, but I think we got the point.”
Now, Colth was smiling. Not his usual smile where he tried, but the smile that looked like a mask. Like a Demon.
Now, Bograms was getting upset, and he reared back.
“You’re not very nice to me. You should be. I can be terribly mean when I’m upset.”
“You mean, you weren’t going to be mean to us and this isn’t a weird setup?”
Ceria scratched at her head. She narrowed her eyes at Bograms, and the giant Drake-thing fell silent. Bograms’ mouth moved slowly.
“You’re a bit smart for a half-Elf.”
“Yep. And you’re full of hostile magic. I can’t tell what sort, but let’s be frank and negotiate. Okay? We’re adventurers. You live here or know the spot. Want to be open?”
Ceria raised her hands. Bograms hesitated, then got onto one knee.
“Speak.”
“Okay. [Icy Lance]. Run for it!”
Ceria’s wand flashed down, and she shot her spell straight at the thing’s groin. Yvlon heard a terrible crash of ice meeting something hard, and the house began falling in, and she was already turning and pumping her arms as Pisces shouted.
“Skeletons, attack!”
“Run!”
Behind them, Bograms was shouting in rage. Then a bellow was rising.
“Treachery! Treachery in the Crossroads! Bograms! Mahadak! ASGREL. I WILL EAT YOU FOR THAT.”
There was a moment of silence as Yvlon, swearing, arms pumping, glanced over her shoulders. Then she saw the house explode, and Bograms came tearing out, crawling, not running, mouth open and screaming at them.
“The skeletons didn’t do shit!”
Colth pulled his crossbow up and fired. The bolt disappeared into the maw, and Pisces screamed.
“He just ran past them! Run—[Bone Wall]!”
“[Ice Wall]!”
Ceria and Pisces both blockaded the street with walls, and the giant crawling at them hissed like a snake—turned—and began crawling right. Yvlon was alarmed at its dexterity; she’d have thought it would hit the walls.
“Run faster, please! I am about to have a nervous poop! It is very scary!”
Ksmvr was hopping, demanding more speed, and Ceria snapped.
“Pisces, ice chariot! I’m walling us off!”
More streets were filling with [Ice Walls], and Yvlon caught Bograms now crawling past buildings, screaming.
“Ceria. Ceeerriiaaaaa—I won’t forget this!”
Yvlon was sweating hard, ready to charge at it the moment it came at them, but she feared it’d swat her or swallow her like a fly. Her arms would surprise it. Ceria didn’t blink as she walled the street off; Pisces was pouring bones out, swearing as skeleton horses rose, and Ksmvr and Colth hooked them up to a sled. Only Ceria stood there, calm as ice. And she said this as Yvlon leapt into the chariot and pulled Ceria up.
“I never told it my name. It’s been watching us.”
The [Armsmistress]’ eyes widened, and Colth swore softly. Then they were riding out of the city on a chariot, speeding back the way they’d come. A second later, they saw Bograms slam out of another street and begin clawing after them. But he wasn’t as fast as the chariot—at least, not at first.
The Horns began leaving the city behind as Pisces and Colth fired spells after Bograms; Ceria was just poised, ready to cast [Ice Wall] if he spat something like the Adult Creler.
Yvlon was standing there, guiding the chariot with the reins. She glanced over her shoulder, seeing the giant receding fast as they sped away. Pisces let out a breath.
“What the fuck was that?”
“Boss monster? Miniboss at least. I didn’t even see my bolts making contact. Boss, that thing’s huge, and if we tangle with it, it’ll smash us. You need to slow it so we can carve its brain out. Assuming it doesn’t have tricks or backup. I wonder why it did that.”
Colth was checking his crossbow. Ceria was staring backwards.
“I think it was having fun. Right up until we started messing with it. Did you see it smile? It knew I was lying to it…ah. Well, that’s not good.”
“I believe I would like to use the restroom now.”
Ksmvr whispered. Yvlon looked back. Bograms had stopped crawling and was bellowing outside that ruined city of dust. As he looked at the Horns, he slowly, slowly pushed himself up onto his strange legs. Then he began to run.
The worst thing about this chase was that it was not fast. Oh, Bograms was quick. Faster than the galloping skeleton horse. But not that fast.
He began catching up in the distance, that one eye glaring, screaming at the Horns as they raced down the road, heading back the way they’d come. Ceria was counting down the time to Wer opening the door.
Behind them, Bograms ran with its backwards prehensile legs in a kind of galumphing run, clearly taxing it. It was catching up by virtue of its sheer size, but slowly.
It gave the Horns time to plan. Colth was speaking fast.
“I’m guessing it’s a magical experiment of some kind. We’re on-track to get to the shelter—early. So we land, hold it off…”
He glanced over his shoulder. They’d been over an hour on the road, and the one thing slowing Bograms down was Pisces and Ceria. They would raise a wall of bones or ice, and the swearing giant would dodge around it, cursing. That would slow Bograms down, but both [Mages] would have to rest. And Pisces snapped back.
“Well, you’d better hope we have enough mana potions to survive a siege! Because I just realized something—my mana isn’t regenerating!”
Colth looked up, and Yvlon turned.
“What?”
“Pisces is right. It’s not even mana-neutral. I’m getting a trickle of regeneration from my circlet; nothing from my own body. Pisces?”
His eyes were flickering.
“My skeletons are due south of us and I could pull my mana out of them, but I had to drink a mana potion already. The Crossroads of Izril are—we’re at a disadvantage.”
Colth grunted.
“Then we give you a crossbow, Ceria, and we hunker behind your walls and hope it can’t break through. Try to go for that eye.”
Yvlon was panting hard, and she was nodding. Ceria was rubbing at her head.
“We’ve been an hour on the road and it’s still chasing us?”
“Two hours. It’s got no end to stamina.”
Pisces reported tersely. Ceria’s head snapped up, and she stared back at that giant pupil staring at them as the thing lurched around. Then she swore, looked at Yvlon, and for some reason, slapped her friend in the face.
Yvlon jerked, but it didn’t hurt as badly as it should.
“What was that for, Ceria?”
“You didn’t swing back. Dead gods damn it—we’re under a [Confusion] spell! Dispel, dispel!”
Yvlon blinked at Ceria stupidly, and Colth’s head jerked up. He swore, reached for something, uncorked a vial, and then held it under his nose, blinked—
“[Dispelling Fumes].”
When he held it under Yvlon’s nose, she woke up. The stench was so potent, so painful that it shook her into wakefulness. She turned and wondered what the hell was going—
“The eye?”
Pisces’ head slammed back, but he was on his feet, panting. Ceria took a deep sniff, and her eyes focused.
“It’s draining our mana on purpose! That’s why it’s letting us try to slow it down! It knows we have a limit to magic! There’s more—I need to think!”
Ksmvr was the last to ‘wake’, and when he did, the Horns felt the tension ratchet up. Yvlon couldn’t believe it. How long had she been driving the wagon like some addle minded idiot in a never ending horror sequence?
“I’m coming for you, Stan!”
Bograms was roaring, and he picked up speed, clearly waiting for Ceria or Pisces to try and trip him up. When they didn’t, his eye narrowed. Then he began running full-tilt.
He was almost on them when Colth tensed to leap. Ksmvr shot an arrow, and Ceria glanced at Yvlon as the woman prepared to jerk the chariot around and enter the fight. But then Bograms pulled back. He jogged, letting them pull ahead, and tilted his head.
“Too many swords. Too scary.”
He muttered and slowed. The Horns looked at each other as Bograms fell onto all fours. Ceria was glancing ahead.
“No way. He’s not letting us go.”
Bograms was crawling now, staring at them and at Colth’s shortswords warily. Was he that afraid of them? Ceria’s lips were moving.
“Anyone see the camp? I can sense it mayb—”
“There!”
Yvlon pointed. She saw the camp in the distance, the walls of ice, and Colth shouted.
“Here he comes!”
Bograms must have seen the camp too because he was clawing across the ground now, following them down the road, and now he was on all fours, mouth open, screaming.
“Bograms, Bograms, BOGRAMS!”
They leapt from the chariot as it galloped past, and Yvlon rolled, and Colth motioned them over the trap runes. Yvlon had never been so grateful for his ability that let them detect which were which.
“He’s coming, and he’s not stopping! Get ready! Wer’s—”
The giant thing hit the ice walls like thunder as Ceria fired an [Icy Lance] at it. The shockwave snapped at Yvlon’s face, and she heard him screaming, Pisces shouting, and saw a [Deathbolt] flying. She charged in and swung her sword and let her arms explode into a pincushion of metal as she heard Ksmvr shouting.
“[Aggregate Volley]!”
The battle with the cyclops was over fast. Yvlon swore she missed all her strikes, but someone had gotten it, because when she whirled, she saw Bograms screaming as blood ran down his scaly arms.
“The pain! THE PAIN!”
He was fleeing now, and she saw half his teeth had been smashed out from the ice walls. Colth was swearing.
“I missed him! Get on the chariot and—”
“No! Don’t go after him!”
Ceria shouted, and the Horns hunkered down. She stared at the ice walls, then raised more around them, remelding the old ones. Panting, the Horns saw Bograms vanishing.
“Wer. How long do we have—?”
“Thirty-eight minutes.”
It was a long thirty-eight minutes, and they only managed eight of them before Ceria started swearing.
 
——
 
“We’ve been duped.”
Ceria Springwalker realized it eight minutes later, far, far too late. All the clues. She stared around, half admiring, half in horror.
Everyone else was tense, but she thought Colth had begun to realize it too. He’d been studying the trap spells, and Ceria turned to Yvlon as the [Armsmistress] lowered her sword.
“Ceria?”
“This isn’t our camp. This is all a trick!”
Ceria snapped, and Colth began swearing a blue streak, but even Pisces had to have things explained for a second. Ceria pointed at the ice walls, sweating now.
“Those aren’t mine. At least—the ones we ran behind? They felt like they were sort of mine, but I just checked, and I’m not even sure they’re real. I’m not even sure Bograms is real.”
“How?”
Ksmvr was stunned, but Pisces put it together too.
