“My death mana isn’t in here either. That thing didn’t notice. Curse me for a fool with a glass bowl for a head, I didn’t either! He never hit our wall spells. He gave us way too much time to get away…and my skeletons weren’t destroyed by him. Dead gods, they’re still catching up. And they’re s—”
His eyes widened, and his look of alarm grew.
“They’re south of us. They should be due west.”
“You mean we took the wrong road? But the camp—”
Yvlon started, and Colth leapt up, swearing.
“He’s tricked us! Dead gods, look!”
He’d just slashed a blade through his trap runes, and they hadn’t gone off; they just kept glowing. Colth spun.
“Even my new runes! Copied down to a tee! We’re at the wrong camp. We’re north and lost, and Wer is about to appear in thirty minutes, and he’s either going to be jumped or we’ll miss him!”
The Horns stared at Colth—then they were running, dashing out of their ice walls and back into the chariot. Ceria snapped as she leapt on board.
“We’re not dead yet! I can sense where my original magic is…there! This guy’s some kind of top-tier illusionist, everyone. He’s fooled even my circlet!”
Colth bellowed.
“Faster, faster! What if he was asking our names so he could trick Wer? He already knew Ceria’s!”
Exactly. All of it was coming together to Ceria, but what she didn’t know was why the thing hadn’t gone after them while they were looking around. Maybe it had been biding its time, sensing their abilities.
Or was it just an illusion?
 
——
 
They arrived at the camp after an hour and forty minutes. Too late. Ceria leapt down, and Colth checked the spells. They didn’t like what they found.
“Wer’s gone. What the hell happened here?”
It wasn’t like they stored much, but Wer had left a message on one of Ceria’s ice walls. He must have dashed it off fast; the message was literally carved in the ice, and all the trap runes on one side had exploded outwards. Wer wouldn’t have set them off.
The message was simple, and it made Ceria’s hair stand on end.
IT WASN’T YOU.
“We’re two hours too late. He must have showed up twice. One of the times…Bograms was trying to pretend to be us. We’re stranded.”
“Did he get Wer?”
“Doubt it. He’s still Wer the Wanderer, a Doombearer. If he can fight Belavierr, I think he’s smart enough to get away from Bograms. But we have been played like Bronze-rank rookies. Damn. This is my fault. I hate [Illusionists].”
Colth leapt down, swearing. Pisces looked around, and Yvlon was hunkering down, eying the trap spells and trying to see if she could glean anything from the tracks. But there was so little to note…
“Okay. Okay. Let’s—”
“Ceria! Yvlon, Colth, Ksmvr! There you are!”
A loud voice called out, and they jumped. Wer sat up from the soil, a concealment charm fading as he became visible. He waved at them.
“Come on! Let’s get out of here!”
“That is not Wer.”
Ksmvr said that decisively. Not a single Horn moved. Wer ran over, looking around nervously and wringing his paws.
“I barely got away. Take my hand and—”
Ceria stuck her hand through Wer’s face, and he recoiled too late. His worried look became a snarl. Pisces smirked.
“That one wasn’t even good. Hand, not paw? And Wer’s no coward. He could probably fight—”
“Don’t tell him what he’s doing wrong.”
Colth snapped, and the Gnoll jumped back and began bloating. Ceria saw Bograms emerging out of Wer’s body like a puffing kernel of popcorn exploding the Gnoll’s body and revealing scales, that one eye, gleaming with joy—
“Well done. But Bograms isn’t done playing.”
“Yeah, well, we’re done with you. No wonder he looks so damn stupid. See? Someone just made up his body and thought he looked horrific. I doubt you could even swallow with a mouth like that. What is he, half leech, half Cyclops…and his legs don’t even work.”
Bograms’ eye narrowed as Ceria pointed up at him. He bent over and raised a fist. Ceria stared up as the giant thing held it there…and held it…
“Capt—”
Bograms swung, and his fist passed through Ceria. She swore despite herself. Then the giant, laughing, sank into the earth.
“Bograms is watching you, Ceria. Bograms won’t forget this. Bograms will eat your bones.”
“You don’t even know my last name. Piss off.”
Ceria raised a middle finger, and the giant’s eye narrowed again. It glared as it sank into the ground, and Colth muttered.
“Assume it’s here and watching us. Also, might not be the wisest thing to piss it off, Ceria.”
“I don’t know why it’s after us. Did we make it mad at the City of Crossroads? Or is it just some roving horror?”
Yvlon was looking around, clearly ill-at-ease, and Ceria was trying to think.
“I don’t know. Pisces, get your Skeleton Champions back here. I’m going to upgrade this fort. We need to hold here until Wer gets back.”
“What time, Ceria?”
Ksmvr tilted his head, and Ceria half-turned.
“At—”
Then she hesitated. Hesitated…and someone waved frantically through the image of Ksmvr.
“—did not ask. I did not ask!”
Ksmvr, the real Ksmvr, screamed, and Ceria grabbed him. She shouted as Pisces, Colth, and Yvlon spun.
“Link arms! Everyone grab each other, got it?”
“Dead fucking gods, I thought you were just there, Ceria! I just told it Feshi would have reinforcements!”
Yvlon shouted. Ceria was sweating, now. It was everywhere, and her circlet was telling her, screaming at her, that whatever Bograms was, it had magic superior to [Greater Invisibility].
She’d only noticed that wasn’t Ksmvr because he didn’t say ‘Captain Ceria’—and he would know when Wer was coming back.
“Pay attention to no one and anything. Just hold onto each other. Even if one of us says something right next to you—we move as one. It has superior illusion powers, but I think—that’s all it has. Or we’d be dead. If you don’t know if it’s us or not, ask for something only we’d know. But don’t tell unless—we have to make sure to always ask for a new secret. Got it?”
“Got it.”
The Horns stood together, and Yvlon exhaled.
“Good thing that monster didn’t have me swinging a sword around.”
“Or make us think one of us was Bograms. I wonder why it didn’t try that? I’ve done that to—I mean, I’ve seen it done a lot of times.”
Colth wondered aloud, and Ceria frowned harder. But she relied on instincts in times like this, and her instinct was the same that Pisces whispered.
“Easy. It’s having fun with us. It smiles like a [Slaver] of Roshal.”
The others fell silent, and Ksmvr’s mandibles clacked in the silence. He pulled out two crossbows as they stood together.
“I am disliking these Crossroads of Izril more and more by the second. 2/10.”
 
——
 
The Horns of Hammerad spent a long, long night checking each other and watching corners as Ceria added more mana to the fort here.
She didn’t want to play into Bograms’ trap, but after some thinking, Pisces, Ksmvr, Colth, and Yvlon agreed her logic was sound.
Assuming this all wasn’t some gigantic illusion—Ceria had to trust she had one thing Bograms didn’t: her circlet. And her circlet had helped her fight off his tricks and led her here.
Touch was a valuable thing. Bograms might be able to fake touch, but could he fake Pisces bringing up the skeleton fashion sense issue, or Colth reciting their breakfast?
Possibly, but he’d have mind-reading powers then, and Ceria was fairly certain the one thing that was safe was her mind.
Her circlet had let her down, in a sense: she’d never been duped with it on. But it gave her intelligence, clarity of thought, and most importantly, powerful magical casting. She supposed it wasn’t perfect.
The other thing that Bograms couldn’t fake was Pisces’ skeletons or Yvlon’s arms. The skeletons jogged back and took positions around the ice fort, and Yvlon realized she could use her arms to manipulate things even while they held each other.
Therefore, while linking arms, Yvlon broke out their rations, and everyone got some food.
Not any rest. They were sitting together, trying to figure out how badly Bograms could mess with them if they slept, and Ceria pointed out that the moment they woke up, he could take the place of the other Horns, maybe even make them dream something.
“I say stamina potions and wait it out.”
“Peeing is going to be horrendous. Just do it where you sit. If you take a crap, pull your pants down, and we’ll kick it out, but don’t let go.”
“Dead gods, Colth.”
The [Supporter] growled at the Horns.
“Don’t argue with me. You want to know how many people I’ve seen die because they took off armor to piss outside of it and a bug wriggled into their armor and started eating them from the inside? One! And you don’t need more than that!”
Here was the thing. Ceria was almost certain that Colth was Colth right now. She was even certain Bograms wasn’t here.
Why?
Well…nothing had happened. Maybe Bograms could play the long game, but it had seemed rather capricious. It was sort of like an evil Wesle, actually. It had tried to really scare them with the routine of pretending to be a ‘Drake’, and it had seemed royally pissed when they refused to be scared or even banter with it.
Ceria supposed she’d met one too many monsters. After Skinner, Bograms seemed like a horrible imp. But not a terror.
She was just about to ask the others for theories on what it might be—though honestly, it might be anything based on their limited understanding of the Crossroads of Izril. They’d have to make real certain they didn’t take it with them when Wer arrived, and hopefully Feshi had taken countermeasures.
If Bograms wasn’t already in the Meeting of Tribes. Ceria had the image of Bograms slaughtering Gnolls, and she felt…cold.
She’d be guilty, she supposed, but she didn’t have the same panic that Yvlon, Ksmvr, Pisces, and even Colth were feeling. The circlet, again. She just had to keep the Horns safe.
Ceria was about to speak when her head snapped up. A spell she’d set up went off, and Ksmvr muttered one word.
“[Dangersense].”
Colth’s head rose, and his eyes gleamed, and they stood together. They stared around, and then Ceria began speaking quietly.
“That Elf-kissing, tree cutting piece of Creler-infested wormwood bait. Guys? I think that’s not an illusion. I think Bograms got mad.”
She pointed, and there, across the flat Crossroads, they saw them coming. Not one, not two, or even dozens, but hundreds of what Ceria’s eyesight spell picked out as Bloodfield Shamblers, crawling creatures with sharp legs, a galloping deer-thing with dripping horns and bared teeth—
Denizens of the Bloodfields. And why were they coming here?
Well, possibly because they were following five shrieking figures. Each one looked like the Horns, but their heads were thrown back, and their mouths were open wide, wider than their jaws could move, forming giant ‘o’s from whose black depths the most ungodly shriek was echoing.
The Bloodfields did not appreciate that kind of sound. And something—Bograms—had led hundreds of them at the fort.
No guesses why.
“He wants to drive us out of here! If we don’t stay, Wer will have no idea where to find us! Up! To arms!”
Colth roared, and he pulled a glowing bolt out, inserted it into his crossbow, and fired. It hit the deer straight in the face and, after a pause, blew the thing’s head off.
It kept coming in a staggering run, and the torso opened up, revealing a second set of jaws. Colth began swearing oaths.
“Don’t leave the ice fortress no matter what! Yvlon, hold the front! I’ll keep the ice as high as possible. Pisces! [Frostmarrow Behemoth]!”
“We don’t have the mana, Ceria!”
He didn’t. Ceria reached for her well of mana in the circlet—and hesitated. What if this was a trick, though? If this wasn’t actual Bloodfields—
The first crack of something hitting her ice walls made her believe it was. But she just took aim through a window and began firing [Ice Spikes].
I might need all my mana, and it isn’t regenerating. Ceria Springwalker snarled as the first monsters began to climb the frozen battlements, and one of Yvlon’s fingers pierced straight through a Shambler’s body. But it kept coming; it was all plant life. And another one exploded and began to rain the horrible flesh-eating insects.
“I hate the Crossroads! 0/10! -5/10!”
Ksmvr started screaming, and no one could argue with that.
 
——
 
Bloodfields Shamblers had no nervous system in the same way a regular person did. It had some kind of root-structure that if you severed it, mostly killed it. But it was at the center of its mass.
They went down hard, but Yvlon Byres was at least happy to fight them. Unlike Bograms where she’d been useless—
She punched a hole into a Shambler, and it exploded as her arm turned into jagged needles that arched out of it. Yvlon pointed, and her other arm punched through a Watchertree trying to burrow down. She grimaced and checked the metal of her arm; it had bent a bit to do that.
“I can turn to steel in a bit!”
“A bit isn’t going to save us! They’re fucking coming from everywhere! Pisces, get your skeletons back!”
Colth—was it Colth?—was howling as he slashed Shamblers down. But in this moment, in the thick of fighting as they pounded on Ceria’s fortress, Yvlon was the strongest Horn of Hammerad.
Even Colth couldn’t destroy the Shamblers as fast; he was a blur, dodging and cutting, but Yvlon had the most destructive arms of all the Horns.
The problem was…it would avail them little. She didn’t know if Ceria was going to say it first or she was—but they had to run.
Pisces’ Skeleton Champions were holding the line amazingly well. One staggered as a Shambler hit it with those whip-vine flechettes, cutting into even steel armor. It would have given the plant-thing all the blood it wanted—but the skeleton just stabbed back with its daggers. The two were locked in combat until Ksmvr delicately bisected the thing.
“I am observing Bograms is not smart enough to create an illusion of the battle! Though he is trying!”
The Antinium shouted, and Yvlon punched something red with too many teeth and a strangely humanoid body climbing the ice walls. It exploded, and she stopped breathing as the red dust surrounded her.
“[Windblast]!”
Ceria blew it off her, and Yvlon inhaled. She had a tang of something—but the half-Elf knew it was her.
Bograms might be an amazing illusionist, but he had limits. He hadn’t been able to replicate more than one big, chaotic event like him hitting the fake base with ice walls—and even then, Yvlon had noticed she hadn’t hit him.
