

“You're welcome.” Lara said. “When do you think you can finish it?”

“With the plans already done? Maybe 20 minutes.” Ren said, and Lara's mouth dropped open.

“But... but...”

Ren reached out and touched her forehead with a single fingertip. “I'm cheating.”

“Oh, my god.” Lara said after a second. “Ren, you have to make them as fast as you can before they realize what you're doing!”

“That's what I plan to do.” Ren said. “I know as soon as it's discovered, something is going to happen.”

“Yes, pandemonium.” Lara said and smiled. “Have fun.”

“I will.” Ren gave her the plans back. “Thank you very much for your help.”

“It was my pleasure.” Lara said and stored the plans, then stored the plans on the table as well. “I'll walk you out.”

Ren took her hand and she led them back through the hallway and out of the Library. “I'll see you back at the county Library.”

Lara nodded and watched him walk away with Xuunah, Officer Holly, and Artemis. Ren led the three women back to Princess and attached the carriage to her.

“I guess that means we're still keeping this pretense up.” Officer Holly said.

“Why blow cover?” Ren commented and opened the door and held a hand out to Xuunah. “We may have to come back again sometime.”

Xuunah took the offered hand and Ren helped her into the carriage, then he turned to Officer Holly. She had her hand out already, and he smiled as he helped her climb in and sat her down. He helped Artemis next, shut the carriage door, and climbed up and sat in the driver's seat.

“Princess, to the main gate, please.”

Yes, my Lord. Princess thought and sauntered out into traffic, then made her way through the city and back to the main gate. It actually took longer to do that than to travel across the country to get to the city, and by the time they reached the outside again, Ren completely understood Princess' aversion to going so slow. It really was maddening to have people force you to go much slower than even normal traffic would allow.

Once they were through the gate, Princess trotted along the wall and went around the first corner and out of sight. Ren helped the three women out of the carriage and stored it, then replaced it with the covered cart and helped them climb back in. Ren hopped onto Princess' saddle and she ran up into the air and poured on the speed.
