This is the force I focus on while Deploying my Domain, Stabilizing reality even as the Anathematic Energies seeks to destabilize and destroy. My efforts bear no fruit as the world continues to unravel before me, but it’s not that I’m having no effect. I’m just not doing enough, meaning there is still so much more I am missing. Focusing on my Domain once more, I Reinforce reality, giving it more strength to endure the Demon’s efforts to unmake it, and though I sense it making an infinitesimal difference, this is still not enough, and yet what more is there to do?

Balance.

A memory springs to mind, of beloved Mila’s contented expression as she leans against my shoulder and searches for the words to answer my question regarding Blessings and affiliated Chi skills. “The Four Primal Blessings are generally associated with two Chi skills each,” she begins, looking so cute and defenseless I’m tempted to gobble her up right then and there in the middle of Taddy’s bamboo garden. “Water Blessed Warriors are supposedly gifted in matters of Deflection and Resonance, while Air have advantages in Lightening and Guiding. Fire is Honing and Amplification, while Earth is Reinforcement and Stability.”

She went on to say there wasn’t any proof that the skills were tied to each Blessing, but also reminded me that the Primal Blessings were not really all about Earth, Fire, Air, and Water in a physical sense. Instead, each one represents a subset of the myriad of unique forces in the universe, all of which were broken down into four broad but distinct categories. Earth isn’t really earth like dirt, but rather the forces associated with Reinforcement and Stability, something I only sort of understand even now.

What I do understand however is that according to Taddy, the world, and reality itself, was not created with Earth alone, so I must add Fire, Air, and Water. Not the elements themselves, but the forces they represent, forces even I have no name for.

Armed with little more than Insight, instinct, and intuition, I exert my Will and apply all eight basic Chi skills to my Domain, Deflecting, Resonating, Lightening, Guiding, Amplifying, and Honing alongside Reinforcement and Stability, eight categories of forces which come together in what can only be described as a natural and organic manner without need for direction or guidance. The Energy of the Heavens surges to embrace my Will in exchange for what I have to give, but I offer it nothing and everything all at once. I am, and the Heavens are, and together, we are One as my Domain manifests into reality and solidifies everything around me. This is not an act of Creation or Destruction, but merely an effort to keep Balance in place, which is by far the strongest force in the universe, for without it, there would be no universe for life to inhabit.

Seconds stretch into eternity as the Anathematic Energies crash into me time and time again, pounding away at the barrier I have placed to keep it from unmaking matter, but it will find no purchase here for my Will to protect is stronger than Vyakhya’s to destroy. It’s only natural. Vyakhya has nothing to gain from his efforts, but I have everything to lose, so of course I come out stronger for it. On the outside, all the audience sees is the Demonic Divinity standing with spade and skulls in hand, while I lean on Unity jammed up against its smooth, ken-doll crotch. Hardly the most inspiring of sights, but even the Irregulars can probably feel the tumultuous storm of Heavenly Energy raging all around us before it finally dies out without warning and we all can finally breathe again. For a single, quiet second, all of Meng Sha watches on in confused wonderment as the Demonic Divinity stares into my eyes and I stare back at its empty sockets, unflinching before the cold hatred and seething fury hidden in those dark, fathomless depths.

Then I offer it a tiny smirk of smug satisfaction, the very same smirk Vyakhya offered me earlier, and its rage knows no bounds.

Rage isn’t even good enough to describe it, this bitter, burning resentment which washes over me, tinged with so many different emotions it’s impossible to pick them all out. Regret features prominently, as does anguish and despair, and let’s not forget the hefty helpings of loathing and remorse, but it is all too little too late as the last vestiges of Vyakhya succumb to the weight of the Spectres bearing down upon him. Gone is the calm and stoic Monk-like Demonic Divinity, and in its place is something that looks exactly the same, but far more feral and ferocious in demeanour. The ghoulish smile twists into one of murderous rage as it exerts its Will to destroy once more, but reality holds firm within my Domain, held together by my Will to protect as the Energy of the Heavens flocks to me rather than it.

And then the Demonic Divinity slaps me upright the head with a string of blackened skulls, and the world goes dark for a moment.

Coming back to my senses mid-flight, I discover Taddy’s Healing energies mending the shattered fragments of my skull back together, as well as the remnants of his Plated Domain which took the brunt of the Demon’s blow. Leaving him to his work, I set my mind back to keeping a grip on reality as the Demonic Divinity tries to nuke Meng Sha a second time, and it howls in rage as its efforts are denied. Then it is upon me, striking with skulls and spade both as I rally a pitiful Domain Plated Defense which shatters time and time again before my foe’s prodigious might. Taddy’s valiant efforts are the only thing keeping me alive as he places himself both figuratively and literally between me and the Demon. Though clearly capable of blocking the Demon’s blows head on, Taddy only does so as an option of last resort, much preferring to dodge and Deflect as much as he can. Grabbing me by the back of the collar, he cautions me to relax and not resist as he leads the Demon up and away from Meng Sha to take this fight to the wispy white clouds overhead, having rightly discerned that it is wholly fixated on killing me.

But here in the skies, we stand in my teacher’s Domain, for he is of the lineage of the most illustrious creature of all, a Cloud Chaser Hare.

Dazed and distracted though I might be from the head trauma and my efforts to keep reality from unravelling, it’s difficult not to notice Taddy’s sublime movements, which are wholly natural yet comically absurd at the same time. Holding me close in one arm, he hops, skips, and generally hauls ass in the most efficient manner possible, without a care for grace or dignity at all. This isn’t to say he’s not graceful, because his movements are deft and nimble to the extreme, but the manner in which he executes them can only be described as ‘cartoonish’. Ducking under a slash is all fine and good, but rather than dipping his head, he goes full squat and hunches down with his free hand on top of his head, flattening his hare ears to avoid the blow. Then he jumps, except not with a graceful leap into the air, but rather a frog-legged hop that sends him up and over the Demon before coming down head first. Not so much of an issue when you’re fighting in mid air, yet Taddy takes it to the next level by not bothering to right himself again and just runs away in circles while still upside down as he jostles me about in an effort to get a better grip on my limp frame.

I’d help him out and hold on tight, but I think the Demon’s slap shattered my spine, or at the very least broke my neck and left me unable to move anything under my chin. Not a problem, for even as Taddy Heals my injuries, the Energy of the Heavens flows through me and senses the damage, bolstering my teacher’s Healing efforts while simultaneously making me even stronger than before, a most refreshing and exhilarating discovery which has me yearning for another beating.

For the gains. The pain I could do without, as contrary to what the rumours and my actions would have you believe, I’m no masochist, but those sweet, precious gains are just too tempting to pass up…

Putting aside my plans for a more strenuous work-out regimen, I focus on Taddy’s efforts to defeat the Demonic Divinity and come to a startling realization. Dodging and Healing is but the least of what Taddy is up to as he battles the Demon in the skies, his offensive efforts going wholly unnoticed by me until now. Though he has yet to launch a single punch or kick, his Domain has engulfed the Demon’s and repeatedly counteracts its efforts to Cloud-Step with any real force. Rather than zipping around through the clouds at inhuman speeds, the Demonic Divinity is barely able to keep itself afloat in the skies as Taddy disperses its efforts to Cloud-Step time and time again. In practical terms, the Demon is comically pumping its legs in a frenzied effort to stay afloat, like a cartoon character that’s run off a cliff and has yet to realize there’s no ground beneath its feet. This is not how I expected a battle between Divinities to unfold, with one side going through the overexaggerated motions of avoiding the other side’s slow and ponderous attacks, all the while working its legs at hyper-speed just to keep themselves from plummeting out of the skies.

Hilarious as it all is, I remind myself that not only do both combatants possess enough strength and skill to kill me a hundred times in the blink of an eye if they should so choose, Taddy is literally risking his life up here to keep me and Lin-Lin safe. Eight seconds is how long it takes for me to regain feeling in my body, the first and foremost sensation being pain, but in those short, eight seconds, Taddy blocks and dodges more attacks than I can count without retaliating even a single time. Not because he’s unable to, but because he’s building up to a counter-attack that will actually do some damage, for in these last eight seconds, the wispy white clouds have transformed into dark, ponderous thunderheads just brimming with power and potency.

The how is beyond my understanding, but Taddy makes it look all too easy as the dark clouds converge around him like a fluffy, coiling dragon. No longer does he need to dodge, for those clouds now protect him by negating, dispersing, absorbing, or Deflecting the force of the Demon’s attacks time and time again. Not like a wall or hard barrier, but rather like trying to punch through molasses, the Demon’s speed and force siphoned away by the dense yet permeable surroundings. Huffing from exertion, my teacher takes a moment to breathe and I use this time to take in his calm and lovable smile, so serene and relaxed you’d think he’d been out for a run instead of fighting for his life and mine. Every time the Demon strikes, the dark clouds move in to intercept, but they are not consumed in the process of blocking. Instead, they shift away from Taddy’s body and transfer over to the Demons, encircling it in weightless and unrestrictive bonds. Were this Vyakhya still, he might have some concerns about the growing mass of storm clouds affixed to his body, but the Demon ignores it as it has yet to cause any harm, but only because my Teacher is a merciful soul who cannot bear to hurt even a fly.

Which is why he intends to put this Demonic Divinity out of its misery in one, singular strike.

The time to act arrives, and without warning, the storm cloud thickens and engulfs the Demon entirely, blocking it from not only sight, but also Spiritual Perception. The Energy of the Heavens surges to heed Taddy’s Will and with a bone-cracking crunch that threatens to unravel reality, but my Domain holds it in place. Just like that the battle comes to an end, the Demonic Divinity’s presence fading into nothingness behind the shroud of Taddy’s dark clouds, but I feel no joy or relief, because I can feel my teacher has lessened in a visceral way as he huffs and puffs in the aftermath. Nothing about him changed physically, since he looks the same as always, but metaphysically he is just… not right, the equivalent of having just lost a whole bunch of weight and looking all weak and sickly in spirit.

Because…

Because energy can neither be created or destroyed. Eager and pliant as the Energy of the Heavens might be, a Divinity must still pay the price to harness it directly, a price paid in what I now believe is not just emotion, but also a portion of soul. Remembering how Guan Suo died while looking healthy as could be, I hug my teacher close and ask, “Will you be alright?”

“Nothing to worry about, Rain my boy.” Patting me on the head, he beams and wiggles his eyebrows because he still sees me as a baby who will smile at his silly faces, and credit where it’s due, it works. “Your Teacher still has life in him yet.” Gesturing at the Demonic Divinity still embroiled in the storm clouds, he adds, “That being said, I assume there’s a reason you didn’t just Devour the Demon or set your Heavenly Droplet upon it, yes? Too soon after the merging, most likely, but how about now?”

