Record scratch.

Freeze frame.

You see that guy? No, not the hulking Chad of a Demonic Divinity with his creepy empty shell of a bald head about to unleash hell and break the world. The other guy. Pan down. A little more. Almost there. Stop. That guy. The lean, sinewy young man with his mid-length hair pulled back in a neat little bun. That’s me. Don’t judge. I literally just woke up from a two-month coma and found my hair like this, though I do have to say I pull the look off pretty well. Anyways, I bet you’re wondering how I got here, huh? Well, it’s a long story, and I mean long, full of angst and apprehension as you follow the journey of a rambling idiot struggling to find his place in a savage world, one in which the strong thrive, the weak survive, and bloodshed is just a way of life. Beset on all sides and caught in perpetual conflict, peace is a luxury few can afford here in the Azure Empire, but then everything changed when the Defiled nations attacked.

…

Alright, no one loves memes more than I do, but I need to dial it back a bit. This is too much even for me. They just keep coming and they don't stop coming and they don't stop coming and they don't stop coming and they don't stop coming and they don't stop coming.

Wow. Okay. I need help. Serious, professional help.

In more ways than one, I’d say, considering I now have an unhinged and unleashed Demonic Divinity to deal with. Not gonna lie, I did not see this coming. I really thought Zhen Shi would want to keep this one for his collection. That stuff about being unable to control the Demon was all bullshit, but it gives Zhen Shi plausible deniability to claim he’s not responsible for its imminent, Treaty violating actions. In all likelihood, he’s planning to have his Demon attack, destroy Meng Sha, then retreat so he can study it, a greedy scheme in which he hopes to have his cake and eat it too. Too bad for him, but if he’s willing to take things this far, then the Treaty be damned. He wants to play apocalypse chicken? Well I never liked this shitty world to begin with, so as long as my loved ones are safe and sound, I’m more than willing to hit the big red button and kick Armageddon off with a bang. Soon as I finish dealing with this calamity here, I’m going to hunt down Zhen Shi and show him he done fucked up for messing with me and mine, but I can’t help feeling disheartened knowing I’ve failed everyone here in Meng Sha. Even as I stand here stewing in defeat, the Demonic Divinity gathers its strength to unleash an attack that will raze this harbour to the ground and kill everyone within. A select few might survive with help from the various Divinities already booking it as fast as they can, but the vast majority will die once the Demon attacks, for the massed destruction of an unchecked Divinity is this world’s version of a nuclear strike.

There the creature stands in all its unholy glory, a gnarled caricature of everything the Brotherhood truly stands for. This is a perversion of Vyakhya’s misguided truth, this ‘Monk’ Demonic Divinity here, holding its spade and string of skulls in sickening mockery of the same pose Mahakala took up at my wedding banquet with Luo-Luo. Though still as a statue, I sense it exerting its Will and the enthusiasm with which the Heavens respond as the metaphysical storm clouds gather to herald the coming avalanche bearing down upon us. To make matters worse, the Demon’s focused Intent is not directed towards me, nor to Taddy, Hua Lie, or any other possible threat. Instead, it fixates on the weak and defenseless, those soldiers and Irregulars still standing with weapons ready even as the Defiled army flees the fortress in droves, their vile leaders like Mataram YuGan having long since left them all behind to die.

And die they will, every last one of them, even the Peak Experts already Cloud-Stepping away, for the Demonic Divinity has locked onto them all and intends to end their lives here today, so that it might feed on their corpses to grow even stronger.

The real frustrating part is that in your standard Demonification, the amalgamated Spectres would be contesting against Vyakhya’s Will for ultimate control, but their goals are aligned in this act of destruction, the human seeking to bring his twisted vision of peace to the world he so abhors, and the Demon vicariously indulging in his host’s rage and despair. As such, there is no conflict between them for now, an uneasy ceasefire as they work in concert to fulfill this singular, matched desire, resulting in an unfortunate harmony of Wills and Souls that makes this monster just human or Balanced enough to render it impervious to my Devouring and unpalatable to Blobby’s predatory tendencies.

Which is just… the worst news possible…

With my aces neutralized, there’s nothing I can do to stop the Demon from attacking, and nothing I can do to save the heroes and villains of Meng Sha. It took me a full two seconds to gather up enough Will and Heavenly Energy to cut Vyakhya down, and I only managed it because he stood there with his thumb in his ass waiting for me to attack. Were I to attack a second time now, my strike would connect just under two seconds after the Demon unleashes its attack, assuming I survive and it doesn’t dodge. At this point in time, my ability to survive a Divinity’s attack is still a matter up for debate, because even though I’ve Shattered the Void, I haven’t really finished refining my body just yet, much less my mind and soul.

Yea… about that… See, I know I said I was ready and willing to take the next step, but while ruminating in the sheer agony of my mangled soul, I had something of an epiphany. Call it Insight or Inspiration or Heavenly guidance if you will, but everything just sort of came together in the moment and I knew what I had to do. Rebuilding my Spiritual System was fairly simple, since between me and my Natal Souls, I’d seen enough flawed examples here in Meng Sha to know what not to do, as well as a general inkling of how everything should come together. All this meant that I could use my Will to direct the process of carving out my Spiritual System in my body, mind, and soul without the Energy of the Heavens going hog-wild, meaning what I did was in line with what the Heavens expected. A good thing too, because I was not looking forward to experiencing what the spiritual equivalent of unchecked tumours would be, but then I was left with the same dilemma as always. I’d fixed my flawed Core and Spiritual System, but how was I supposed to improve upon my body, mind, and soul? How do I refine my entire being into a Spiritual Heart?

In keeping with the theme of taking the complex and making it simple, the answer came easily enough. I don’t.

See, all this time I’ve been agonizing over how to go about the next step, when in truth, I don’t really need to know how. Case in point, Mama Bun is in the process of Refining a Spiritual Heart, so as complex as the whole procedure might be, it can’t be all that difficult to do considering my sweet bicorn bunny is… intellectually challenged, to put it nicely. More to the point, Kukky, Rakky, and Tai Tai all succeeded in less than a hundred years from their birth, and I doubt they’re smarter than I am, so surely I can do it too. While all three are exceptional cases, their success proves that it’s possible to direct the Refinement of a Spiritual Heart so long as you meet the necessary requirements. What requirements might those be? Well, the obvious answer is a source of usable Heavenly Energy, which in their case came from either Spiritual Plants or dead Defiled, or possibly even the flesh of a Divinity perhaps, as the Abbot does seem like the type to cut off his own flesh to feed his pets. The cost must have been staggering, as I know firsthand how difficult it is to heal a body that’s been refined, as there’s more required than just Heavenly Energy and nutrients. I would imagine it’s probably a hundred times worse for someone who has actually ascended to Divinity, though I suppose I’ll find out eventually. That being said, I had plenty of usable Heavenly Energy thanks to my Natal Soul’s valiant sacrifice out there in the Void, allowing Blobby to Cleanse a whole host of Spectres in one quick go.

As for the rest of the requirements? Much as I would have loved going in with both eyes open and a checklist of things to do, I was kinda in a rush and figured I could wing it as I went. I mean seriously, this is Mama Bun we’re talking about, a bunny who still thinks Zabu is afraid of her, rather than being too well behaved to eat one of my beloved floofs.

That wasn’t the only reason I jumped in feet first, because what really tied it all together was the sheer agony of my soul. No pain, no gain, something I tell myself often when training, and it turns out, that was the answer staring me in the face all along. How do you refine a physique without incurring the wrath of the Heavens? By doing it naturally, duh. And what’s more natural than a bout of self-inflicted suffering followed by rest and recuperation, or as everyone else might call it, good old-fashioned exercise? Yea. That’s right. Spiritual Beasts Refine their bodies through exercise and exertion. Rakky went out hunting in the Arid Wastes and Refined his skeleton to raise his chances of survival, while Kukky Refined his voice-box to put predators to sleep, and sweet Tai Tai Refined his fangs so he could better munch on Spiritual Bamboo and get all that sweet Heavenly goodness inside. In the same vein, Mama Bun is Refining her neckbones because she’s injured herself so many times headbutting things she probably shouldn’t, in a process so natural she doesn’t even know she’s doing it. It’s just like doing cardio, lifting weights, or having people beat you with iron poles to create microfractures in your bones, totally normal and not at all crazy training regimens. After incurring minor damage to the bones and muscles, the body’s natural response is not just to repair the damage, but build everything back even stronger and tougher than before, assuming you have a suitable source of nutrients. Martial Warriors take it a step even further by utilizing the Energy of the Heavens to mend what ails them, not through Healing, but restive meditation, a process I’ve been using for years and years.

Since the day I first set foot on the Martial Path, I have been steadily progressing towards Divinity using the patented Falling Rain method of great effort for minimal gains, and just like sweet, stupid Mama Bun, I had no idea I was doing it.

Of course, this doesn’t really explain why Spiritual Beasts end up remaking their bodies to become Ancestral Beasts, or Divine Beasts in the case of Ping Ping and Pong Pong. Assuming I’m on the right track however, then there’s no reason the same process can’t be applied to Refining the mind and soul using the same principles, and wouldn’t you know it, I have spent every waking moment of the last ten or so years (and most of my non-waking ones too) immersed in a daily regimen of self-inflicted mental anguish, one which has left my mind a complete and utter mess and ripe for fixing. Also convenient is the fact that I’ve been engaging in the self-mutilation of my soul ever since I first Formed my Natal Palace, what with all the remodelling I did and Natal Souls I created, all of which I believe was only possible for a number of reasons. Ignorance for one, since I never would have done any of it if I’d known what I was doing, but also the fact that my mental age does not match the age of my body and soul, allowing me to more easily adjust and adapt to this new life while also providing me with a more mature perspective to work with inside the confines of my Natal Palace.

Or maybe not, since calling myself mature is a bit of a stretch, but I digress. The how doesn’t matter, not until I have a better grasp on the what.

So with all that in mind, I figured the only thing left to do was meditate and let the Energy of the Heavens fix what ails me, something I’ve been avoiding because… well, I thought there was no value in meditation. Stupid, I know, but I have seen the error of my ways, and even if I was barking up the wrong tree, it wasn’t like meditation would keep me trying something different later on down the road. That’s what really sold me on giving this method a go, the complete and utter lack of downside. Either it would work and I’d be crowned a verifiable genius, or it wouldn’t work and I’d have wasted Heavenly Energy to get myself back in working order. Win-Win.

Why didn’t the Energy of the Heavens simply restore me to my saved state? Because I wasn’t Healing, just Channelling the Energy of the Heavens, and similar to what happens with the human body, the Heavens saw all the damage I’d taken and decided I needed to be stronger in order to endure my subsequent trials and tribulations, all in a process as natural as breathing. Or maybe there’s a more scientific reason to explain why, but same as the how, the why doesn’t matter just yet. No, the interesting thing to note is that I’m now pretty sure that the Forms are a standardized method of Body Refinement, but a partial one at best, missing several crucial elements that would lead to a more complete success.

The real question is why would someone go to all this effort to spread an incomplete method? Parts being lost to time is a possibility, but the whole Empire has the same standardized Forms and Movements, which makes this unlikely. Call me crazy, but I think the outer provinces only have a partial method so that the Eastern Province can retain Martial superiority.

