That’s a conspiracy to delve into on another day though, some real deep state shit that I intend to blow wide open. The important thing to take away from all this is that even though I’ve started the process of Refining my body, mind, and soul and made some progress along my Path, I still have yet to form a Spiritual Heart. Much as I would have loved to accomplish so stunning a feat, there was no way to rush it any more than I have, as it would’ve taken more time than I had on hand and more usable Heavenly Energy than even the generous amount Blobby could provide. While I technically could accomplish this without usable Heavenly Energy, having it really speeds up the process as it is more malleable to my Will and therefore more responsive to my needs both conscious and subconscious. Another reason why I wasn’t able to wholly Refine myself is because my appetite was too big, aiming to get the whole kit and kaboodle done in one go instead of focusing on one area at a time like animals do, which together really shows that there’s plenty of room for improvement in my newfangled method, but for a first trial, I’d say it’s not half bad.

To remedy my lack of useable Heavenly Energy, I intended on doing some more Devouring and Demon killing to help further me along, but then Vyakhya happened, and while he is technically a Demon, I’m not sure if my current stats are high enough to take on a Divinity. This isn’t to say there’s been no improvement, as I’ve come a long way in so short a time. Physically, I’m stronger than ever, though still weak enough to break my arm punching Vyakhya. To be fair, he cheated by reflecting the force of my strike back at me through some combination of Deflection and Reverberation, but that’s not the only area in which I am lacking. Even though I feel like I’m faster, stronger, and tougher than ever, Vyakhya he kept up without any real effort, so it’s difficult to say how I’d compare to a Peak Expert like Dad or even a stand-out Martial Warrior like Alsantset without sparring with them first. As for my mind, not only are my thoughts and reflexes lightning quick, allowing me to parse through all these thoughts in the split second it takes for the Demonic Divinity to attack, I also sense something constantly guiding my thoughts and actions, a form of basic Insight nudging me in the right direction. As for my soul, well… I don’t really know enough about it to comment on any improvements, but I’m no longer in crippling pain, so there’s that. Oh, also, I’m pretty sure the whole Chi working slash temporary Keystone slash metaphysical Rune thing requires a powerful mind and soul to pull off, though I’d have to run some tests to be sure.

So when you look at the cold, hard facts, I can only conclude that the reason I was able to kill Vyakhya so easily was because he literally stood there and took my attack on the chin. He underestimated my strength and misread the power behind my attack because he could only sense the Heavenly Energy contained within the Movement itself, and not the massive metaphysical weight eagerly chasing after it. All this means I’m still not entirely sure where I stand on the sliding scale of strength. No longer do I tread the Martial Path, and instead forge a Path all of my own, so it’s difficult to compare myself with Peak Experts or Divinities. I am stronger than even Divinities in some ways, namely in the tools I have at my disposal thanks to my understanding of Heavenly Energy, yet weaker than even a Peak Expert in other aspects, such as my lacking experience with combat and familiarity with Chi in comparison to the veterans who’ve been fighting and training all their lives.

And now I’m about to go head-to-head with a Demonic Divinity, but I doubt he’ll play nice and help me get acclimated to my newfangled strength.

“Get everyone to safety,” I Send while initiating my attack, but to my surprise and chagrin, Taddy Sends me more or less the same message at the exact same time. While my new and improved brain is faster than it was before, the same old rules of physics still need apply, meaning there’s a limit as to how fast I can process and react to new information, to say nothing of change actions mid-movement. In terms of actual time, it’s not actually all that high, as even a base human’s reaction time is fairly impressive, but under the State of Enlightenment, the split second I’ve already committed to Pierce the Horizon feels like a veritable eternity. Honestly, it’s probably a better idea for me to run, considering I already gave the Demonic Divinity my best shot with the gun and didn’t even scratch it, not to mention the fact that Taddy won’t leave without me, but I can’t. Much as I fear death, I only recently discovered that I fear living in regret even more. When it’s a choice between life and doing the right thing as dictated by my conscience, I cannot help but gravitate towards the latter, every single time.

And for once, the Heavens are in agreement with my conscience which are both telling me that I will never be able to live with myself if I don’t at least try to stop the Demonic Divinity from killing everyone in Meng Sha.

Praying I haven’t harmed my loved ones with my actions, I trust Taddy to get everyone away to safety while I full send on the offensive and barrel stuff the Demonic Divinity’s crotch with Unity. Only because it’s more or less the closest target to aim for, rather than out of any intention to shoot it in the dickless nether regions, but it doesn’t matter. The rushed Chi bullet impacts against the Demon’s Domain and glances off without so much as a grunt, and its empty eye sockets fixate on me with what I swear is smug satisfaction. Even though he surrendered, Vyakhya is still stubbornly clinging to his awareness whilst a feeding frenzy of Spectres ravage his soul, wholly conscious of what he is about to do and all-too pleased about it, which makes him even more of a monster than the Demon he’s become.

And when they unleash their attack, reality unravels before my eyes.

A pulse of raw, unmitigated Destruction emanates from the Demon’s left hand, the one clutching its rosary of skulls. Invisible to the human eye, this energy radiates with a malignant malevolence I’ve encountered before, a dread aspect of foul loathing for all existence derived from Vyakhya’s focused Intent to kill and destroy. I once believed the Canston Trading Group was purposefully abusing slaves in order to create Spectres to process into Anathema, but I see now I was wrong. Spectres were merely an added bonus of the process, but their true goal was the creation of Demons instead, for Anathema is a by-product of the energies released during the creation of their physical forms, the foul gaze of the Father above, as it were. That’s why I was thrown into a pit of bodies and no one noticed one missing. It wasn’t a mass grave I crawled out of all those years ago, but a Demon feeding pit, which seems so obvious in retrospect considering the Empire burns its dead. This leads me to wonder just how many of my fellow slaves truly died, and how many turned Demon instead, and where those Demons went. Mataram YuGan’s armour held a Demon within, so what if Gen’s armour did too? Perhaps the Butcher Bay Bandits weren’t making all their armour in house, but being supplied by the Canston Trading Group, showing just how thorough Zhen Shi was in planning his invasion of the Empire.

Not for the first time, I realize just how close the Northern Province came to sharing in the Western Province’s fate, and I puff my chest in pride at the minor role I played in fucking up his best laid plans.

That being said, this Anathematic Energy is unlike the black gunk I’ve encountered before, for the physical incarnation lacked the Will of a Divinity to propagate it. In practical terms, the black gunk Anathema was… well, soulless, for lack of a better word, lacking agency as well as the same ineffable quality that Spectres lack which makes them delicacies in Blobby’s eyes. On the other hand, this Demonic Divinity’s attack is driven by its Will and propagated by its Domain, which is still unpalatable to my Elemental Spirit thanks to Vyakhya’s lingering presence of mind. Or perhaps that’s not the case, and Demonic Divinities are just built different, but even if I’m right and I’ll soon be able to Devour and Cleanse it out of existence, it would only be after its attack kills everyone in Meng Sha.

Which is less than ideal.

Nothing is ever easy, and all I can do is watch in sinking horror as the Anathematic Energy crashes over me and eats away at my Domain. No, eats is the wrong word here, for that implies consumption or absorption, and it would be more accurate to say it unmakes my Domain, stripping it of that which makes it mine and rendering it back into the raw Energy of the Heavens. Then it unmakes even that, breaking it all the way down into the core components of reality, base building blocks of matter and energy so tiny and imperceptible even my Spiritual Senses are unable to perceive it in any detail, but I know it is there. I also know that those base building blocks are supposedly indivisible, the smallest unit of matter in existence, yet the Anathematic Energy seeks to unmake even that and shatter the bonds holding a single individual block together. There’s an element of Creation too, nestled deeply within layers of Destruction, though I cannot say what purpose it serves, for whatever is created is promptly destroyed in a process which is not simple and requires more force than all of the steps before it combined.

Then, after a brief, miniscule moment and a tremendous amount of unsee effort, this tiny, indivisible block breaks and splits in twain with a trivial burst of energy.

A pitifully meager result, all things considered, but once that first block crumbles, the two free-floating components make it laughably easy to shatter more blocks in quick succession, which will, if left unchecked, set off a chain reaction that will destroy all of Meng Sha and a considerable portion of its surroundings while rendering the land uninhabitable for decades, if not centuries to come, all in the blink of an eye.

Time comes to a standstill as the pieces all come together in my mind, and I almost laugh at how obvious the answer appears now that I’ve figured it out. I’ve been calling Divinities walking nukes for as long as I can remember, but only now do I see how apt the comparison has been. Without the ability to control the Energy of the Heavens, Divinities are beholden to its whims, so when they strike with the Intent to kill, the Heavens leave nothing to chance and launch a literal nuclear strike. That’s what this Anathematic Energy is, a working of pure Destruction capable of splitting fucking atoms, which is the same principle behind the atomic bomb.

A Divinity is literally a living, breathing nuclear bomb, which is just… all sorts of terrifying.

Atoms. The base building blocks of matter.

Atoms have protons, electrons, and neutrons.

Positive. Negative. Neutral.

Heavenly Energy is the power of Creation and Destruction, kept in Balance by forces beyond my comprehension.

I’m sensing a pattern here.

Sort of. I think. Maybe? I dunno.

Whatever. Nothing ventured, nothing gained. I need to stop this, but the question of how to apply my newfangled knowledge is quickly answered by Taddy’s actions as he Deploys his Domain around me to counter the Demon’s Anathematic Energy. Though unable to perceive the full extent of what he’s doing, I instantly recognize his Healing efforts as he wields countless needles and threads to repair the damage and keep the tapestry of reality from unravelling. A valiant effort, but it is much easier to destroy than it is to create, meaning my dear sweet teacher is fighting a losing battle and it’s only a matter of time before the Anathematic Energy reaches critical mass. “Run along now, Rain my boy, and bring Lin-Lin and Yan with you,” he Sends, sounding none too strained by what must be a phenomenal effort of Will. “Hua Lie has the others in hand, so it’s long past time you left. You’ve done more than enough here today, so survive to fight another day. Or don’t. Fight that is. You should definitely survive, but there’s no need to concern yourself with petty matters like vengeance or guilt. I do what I do because it pleases me to do so, the same motivations which drive you. We are kindred spirits you and I, a Truth I uncovered the moment I laid eyes on you, so do not mourn my passing. I only ask that you be happy, because you, my boy, are deserving of it.”

That’s my Taddy, so laid-back and free-spirited. To hear his tone, you’d think he was heading out for a trip to the city for a week or two rather than sacrificing his life to see me to safety, even taking a moment to advise me not to blame myself for his death. I won’t, because he’s not going to die, not today.

Rather than run, I Deploy my Domain and push past Taddy’s, because it’s faster to show him than explain. He’s going about it all wrong, countering Destruction with Creation, which seems like the right move, but really isn’t. Even the Anathematic Energies can’t easily split atoms without effort, because each one is bound by a myriad of different forces working in concert packed within the smallest of spaces, but putting them back together takes even more work and effort. It doesn’t seem fair, for Destruction to be so much easier than Creation, but that’s the way life is, so in order to counteract the Anathematic Energies, what we need is not Creation, but stability.

Or, Stability, with a capital S.

