“Right.” Or I was too distracted and in pain. Sensing Blobby’s eager desire, I Cloud-Step over with Taddy supporting me from behind, and the dark storm clouds dissipate as we approach to reveal the cracked and scoured corpse of the Demonic Divinity. A web of curved fractures are etched all across its frame, and the frozen mask of its face sits broken in twain inside the empty cavity of its head, all of which Taddy keeps suspended in the air so as to ensure Blobby could Cleanse every last drop. The eager Elemental Spirit dives in as I study my Teacher’s handiwork, and I’d be lying if I didn’t say I was impressed. It seems like he used some form of Lightening and Stability to squeeze the Demon and a combination of Deflection and Honing to scour it until it broke from the inside out, fracturing like a porcelain vase toppled over on its side. The results speak for themselves, but the method belies belief, because it’s as if someone walked up to a body builder, placed a hand flat on their chiselled pec, and ripped the meat off the bone using lateral pressure alone.

Wax on. Wax off. Except the waxing motion is so powerful it rips the glass apart.

Not the easiest way to kill a Demon, meaning that if Taddy really wanted to, he probably could have killed it much easier, but he’s too kind for his own good and not a proponent of the Martial Path, so this might be the only way he knows how to fight. As soon as Blobby returns from his feast, I transfer the Heavenly Energy over to my Teacher until he closes himself off and refuses to accept more. “Keep some for yourself, Rain my boy,” he says, pulling me close for a hug. “I don’t know what you’ve done with yourself, but I can tell you’ll need it more than I.” For a second, there’s only me and him as we both forget about the trials and tribulations of the world to appreciate each other’s company. Then, he pulls back and cocks his head to ask, “What did you do, if you don’t mind me asking?”

“Welp,” I begin, not really knowing where to start, “It’s a long story, so I’ll tell you after we clean up in Meng Sha and head out on our way.”

“Oh? Where to now?”

Turning south to stare out at the horizon, I sense my foe’s hateful presence lingering within the Void, hidden from all except me because he still holds a severed piece of my soul within. “Shi Bei,” I answer, taking his hand as we descend back down to the harbour for no real reason than I want to. “Where we can end this once and for all, just as soon as I tie up a few loose ends.”

Such is life, trials and tribulations aplenty, but now it’s my turn to play the part of calamity and bring the pain to Zhen Shi, a role I embrace with eager enthusiasm.

Chapter Meme 1

Chapter Meme 2

Chapter Meme 3

Chapter Meme 4

Chapter Meme 5
