Focus on the fight, she told herself firmly. The suppression hummed in the background, heard by the minions she had left back in the Spirit Realm as the array devoured more and more mana drawn through the space-affinity magicite from her domain. At least now, she finally had the opportunity to study the full extent of the boss and its abilities. I can’t afford to miss a thing. Certainly not because she was being distracted by pain and grief and the meaningless taunts of an undead, regardless of whose form it wore.

The fight stabilized, an impressive contrast from every prior attempt that had resembled giants stomping on ant nests. The suppression array prevented the tanks from flying off and dropping control of their targets the instant they hit the trees. Even with the four main trees locked down, hordes of treants appeared constantly as the formations of Mass Summoning flickered and flashed, and the raid group scrambled to deal with them. But Ali’s gaze was drawn inexorably to the twisted face and the echoes and outlines of the Dryad’s body as it pressed partially out of the heartwood of the giant treant to taunt them.

The Tree Stride formation suddenly appeared, shockingly more potent than any she had ever seen, and the partially formed shape of the dryad vanished, suddenly appearing within the tree they were targeting with the majority of the raid damage dealers.

It teleported? She had felt the strain on the suppression array as the low hum had risen to a shrill whining crescendo before fading back down. Somehow, this spell had punched through it, but Ali’s fears did not materialize; the suppression array didn’t shatter, scattering the raid to the trees.

How did she do that? It was just the dead specter of the dryad that moved. Sage of Learning was ticking over constantly, but it was hard to tell if there was anything she could learn from just watching it.

“Switch to Basir’s tree! This one is immune,” Aiden yelled.

Surprised, Ali slipped her awareness into Tol’brekk’s mind, and sure enough, the immense greataxes were bouncing off the suddenly impervious tree. She flitted across to her Sylvan Warriors, but even the flame from their enchanted swords fell from the treant like water from a duck, sizzling as it was quenched by the damp fungal creep at their feet.

“Switch,” she commanded, echoing Aiden’s command, and impressing upon them the image of Basir and the next tree over. But as her warriors turned, Lira’s specter called out once again.

“Why don’t you stay a while?”

The resonant, taunting voice filled her mind with strange echoes, and through the connection to her warriors, the sudden disorientation was proved abundantly clear by its contrast to her own mind. The warriors immediately spun around and returned to the prior tree target, slashing ineffectively at its immune branches and bark. But Tol’brekk and Joraa followed her instructions, splitting the group.

“Malika, that’s a proper Taunt!” Ali yelled, recognizing the effect in an instant. The minds of her warriors and rogues were not protected by the high wisdom of her berserker and shamans, and they were critically vulnerable to the mind-influencing attack. She couldn’t pull them off their target, even with her skills; they were convinced they were doing her will.

Out in the thick of things, Malika turned her head at Ali’s shout, hesitating as if she had attempted to teleport and failed. Then she sprinted back to the tree, and a large spherical ripple of blue-white magic pulsed outward from her, washing over the entranced melee. Instantly, they all turned around, shaking their heads in surprise, and sprinted off to engage the proper target.

“Thanks, Malika,” Ali said, using Kir’mogan’s voice from beside her friend, rather than try to shout over the battle.

“Ok, all damage on this tree,” Calen said, directing the flow. “Area damage on the loose treants. Let’s lock them down and clear them out.” Beside her, she could see him firing volley after volley of brilliantly glowing arrows, trailing chains of light into the spawned treants, gathering them up and ensuring they were all cursed with Slow from his bow or bound in place by his magic.

Ali turned her attention back to the Malevolent Oak, directing her minions to coordinate their attacks, and she cautiously watched as the tree’s immense health began to slowly drop.

It’s working. Slowly. Need to stay sharp, I’m sure there’s more trickery here.

For the first time since they had encountered this boss, they had the semblance of a workable strategy. The tree’s health was noticeably dipping, first only by about two percent, but after a minute of continuous damage, it had passed five percent as their raid got into the groove again. She rearranged her melee warriors to get better angles for their flaming sword strikes while not interfering with the rest of the attackers as much, and their damage crept up to almost ten percent.

Suddenly, a dark green formation blossomed within the tree, and Ali’s eyes widened as she recognized the spell. She scrambled to react, but she was too late, and the Dark Restoration, a far more powerful version of the druidic magic wielded by her Sylvan Dark Druids, infused the giant treant with a rush of healing. Their hard-earned ten percent instantly shrank to five percent.

Then, the formation reappeared.

Oh, no you don’t! Ali understood this spell; she had studied the Sylvans extensively. Hurriedly, she summoned her golden shards, scrambling to assemble the correct anti-formation in time. At the last possible moment, she released them at the treant. Her darts of delicate disruption shot out, crossing the distance in a sparkling flicker, punching into the treant right as the spell would have completed, and she ripped it to shreds.

Thank goodness, she thought. It had been a close thing, but she had at least preserved half of their progress.

But then the Dark Restoration formation suddenly appeared in the three remaining Malevolent Oaks, and she could only watch in despair as the trees healed their clone back up to full while her disruption remained on recharge.

“Smile, Aliandra dear! Why are you so sad?”

Argh! Stop using her voice! Ali’s lip trembled, and she wanted to scream. She knew this was one of those fights she’d have nightmares about. Come on, Ali, that’s not Lirasia anymore. Focus. She deserves… a better end than this.

Tears overflowed and coursed down her cheeks.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledge

https://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledge

https://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg

https://topwebfiction.com/listings/dungeon-of-knowledge/
