Nu turned and smacked Delta on the back of the head.It was such a solid smack that Delta was stunned for several seconds. Contact.Actual physical contact.She turned and grabbed both of Nu’s hands. They were solid, firm, a little cold, but they moved.Delta let out a delighted laugh as she hopped around, spinning Nu as she moved. His hands moved a fair distance away from his body before it was forced to follow.“Nu, I can touch you! Before you felt like wet paper, and now you feel like a person!” she said with a bright smile. Nu’s box tried to form words but every rotation of Delta’s spin made the text fade like a sketch pad.---Renny shook his head and shook Gob and Hob’s hands before casually walking down the tunnel.The Mime nodded to the spiders as they began their 2nd afternoon royal ball. Renny slowed near the pond where the duck watched him. He had not forgotten their battle previously.The way his powers had utterly broken after the duck had cursed him. It was... unpleasant.He began to turn to head back down to the second floor when he paused. He felt... a vibration. A hum.He travelled down the path he had never been down. Being a contracted monster, he didn’t feel uncomfortable or out of place on another floor the way a dungeon born might. Still, there was something in the air that wasn’t quite to his taste.To him, it might be just a personal taste. To a dungeon born, it might be a slightly more physical reaction. His respect for the mushroom, Mr Mushy, rose with each step. The monster never showed any discomfort at visiting the second floor.The duck as well. It had fought him on another floor. Even if it had the demon woman as a shield.Renny slowed. Did he feel a rivalry with the duck? He couldn’t stop adding the beast to his thoughts.Was it a contracted thing?Renny had no idea.But he’d like to see who would win on equal ground. The duck had so much growth to go through. Renny knew of its kind. The duck was barely fresh from the nest...He entered some form of a storeroom. Simplistic but the torches and luminous mushrooms made it look more peaceful. The air had also turned almost tasty. Renny followed the sound of humming to a part of the wall. He pushed and felt the wall didn’t have much weight behind it. A secret tunnel?Delta was full of surprises.Like with Nu. Evolving a tool into something more. Monsters he could understand. It was the natural path. He himself had such an option a long time ago.But it was like evolving a sword or a book.How had Delta done it?Renny wasn’t sure but he could only hope when it came time for him to suddenly become a super-mime, he would have some warning...Not that he would mind that much. With nothing else left in the world and his only home now a permanent fixture of the dungeon, Renny didn’t mind being in the dungeon. Under a slightly less human core, he would have been removed as a threat.That would have been that. Delta had come to him, in the darkest pit of his soul and offered him the choice. Much like his father. He offered Renny a choice everyday. Stay or be free.Always a choice.For someone who could not speak naturally, being heard was something he would always cherish. Even if it was from one of the weirdest woman he had ever met. He knocked on the wall and the humming stopped. There was a hiss as the wall was pulled back and Renny briefly saw a retreating vine-like thing vanish around a corner.“Oh, a guest! Well, don’t be shy! I never turn down an audience!” a voice filled with mirth and purr called out.It reminded Renny of a performer. A very, very energetic performer.Turning the corner, he was surprised to see the tunnel expand into a giant room with some stone pyramid-like structure, the stone itself covered in veiny fungal growth. Upon the top, like some growing figure of worship, sat a giant mushroom.Renny really didn’t know why he should suspect it would be anything else at this point.It leered down at him, its face a thing of nightmares but its eyes held a welcoming glint. Renny, confident in his powers to at least escape, walked forward; noting as he did so the several tiny mushrooms which grew on each layer of the pyramid; like a line of watchers. Various odd fungal instruments seemed to grow from the floors and walls as well.As he climbed up the first step and passed another layer, the mushrooms burst into a long choral hymn; the higher he went, the higher the mushrooms’ pitch went until he stood before the biggest one of all.It swept out one arm in a wide arc and every mushroom went quiet.“Now, look at this! Delta has let some cats in before but I don’t think we’ve met. Now, I’m just dying to hear all about you!” he tapped one long needle-like finger across his cheek.Renny tilted his head at the unusual creature. The mushroom seemed to blink and then snapped his fingers.“Of course! How rude, let’s talk about me first! Quite wise. Well, let me introduce you to a little mushroom that goes by the name of Maestro; please, no autographs until the end of the tour,” Maestro winked. A joyous piano sounded out to accompany the action.If Renny hadn’t already seen his own face reflected in various lakes when yawning after a bad nights sleep, he might have been disturbed.Renny bowed in a smooth arc.“Ohh the strong and silent type eh? Off to save a princess? Nyahhaha! Just a jest, forgive me! What brings such a gentlemime to my little slice of heaven?” he asked. Renny shrugged, looking around at the room. Vines and fungal growth seemed to vanish down into the ground itself as well as into the walls.“Curiosity melted the cat. You’re a lucky fellow that I put my edgy self away and only melt critics now,” Maestro purred. Renny walked around and saw growths of drums, a thin film growing across the surface to act as the drumhead.Out of habit, he mimed the action of drumming. He produced no sound but he felt the Delta part that now rested inside his soul buzz in reaction.Maestro paused.“Interesting...” he murmured. For the first time, Renny felt a little wary as he turned back to Maestro.The giant creature held out two hands and from the ceiling, something dropped into them.It was a metallic instrument covered in yet more mushrooms.“You got the power honey, but have you got the touch?” Maestro asked, voice turning serious.“I’ve got a case of the lonely blues and a fellow player walks into my little room? How can I turn that down? Come now, don’t be shy, bare your soul and show your moves!” Maestro pointed dramatically at Renny.Renny itched his chin, thinking about it.He could just go home, play with Wilhelm, annoy Devina, sleep, tidy up the statue, sleep, go on another gathering trip with the goblins... or he could stay awhile and listen to the odd talking mushroom.That seemed to be able to hear his musical abilities.Renny itched a little harder as he brought his full smile to the surface.He stretched out his hands and brought them down across several surfaces. He only knew how to play some instruments; a habit one learned when a circus’ music for a show was all homemade.The thumps of drums buzzed his soul. Maestro let loose a mighty laugh and every tiny mushroom echoed it, making the room sound like a bustling entertainment hall.Maestro brought the metal instrument to his lips and sounds Renny had never heard before blasted out the wide mouth of the thing.It was wonderous and Renny decided he could stay just for a while, before Delta did something else and changed everything.This was his home now and Renny didn’t mind it so much.---Maps updating coming up next.
