“Did you have an accident or something?” she asked in a joking tone.

“Oh, yeah, clumsy me stumbled into a couple of hundred arrows, you know how I am,” Jake joked back as he sat down, still very much in pain.

“You got quite a beating, eh?” Artemis asked rhetorically, shaking her head.

“Sure did,” Jake chuckled.

Artemis smiled as she looked at him. “Seeing you so elegantly accept the loss was a relief. I’m not gonna lie, I feared you would decide to use other skills than what we agreed upon once it was clear you would lose. That your Bloodline wouldn’t allow your ego to suffer the damage incurred by losing to someone else whom you should rightfully be able to beat.”

“I’m a bit offended by that,” Jake scoffed. “This is just sparring, not a fight to the death. If failure doesn’t mean death, it’s not real failure; it’s just practice. Admittedly, there was probably a time right after I awakened my Bloodline when I wouldn’t have accepted the possibility of ever losing, and my parents did mention that I was overly competitive when I was really young, but now I really don’t care. I guess alchemy really desensitized me to the concept of failure, as hot damn do I fail a lot when doing alchemy.”

“That makes sense,” Artemis smiled. “I guess that means you’re not going to be angry even if your next few opponents beat you as handily as Gladiel did?”

“I would prefer to at least feel like I have a fighting chance,” Jake chuckled, shaking his head. “But I can’t deny it was a good experience. Even if I can’t directly adopt anything my opponent does, just seeing them and their Path makes me think.”

“And we both know how hard it is to make you do that,” Artemis teased him. “And luckily for you, there are plenty more archers who were more than willing to get a chance to spar with the Chosen of the Malefic Viper.”

“Let’s just hope this doesn’t end up with my reputation being ruined,” Jake sighed.

“Bold of you to assume anyone cares how good you are at archery,” Artemis shook her head. “All that matters is your overall power. This kind of practice isn’t all that rare either. Several extremely skilled archers suck if forced into melee combat, so they purposefully spar with people that can force them into such a situation to improve, even if it inevitably ends with them getting their ass kicked.”

“That makes me feel a bit better,” Jake said with relief.

“Though it would be super embarrassing if you lost to all of them...”

Jake glared at the god as she smiled. “Pleasant recovery, and good luck with your next opponent. Don’t worry, he’s not as strong as Gladiel, but, well, your prospects still aren’t good.”
