“Look at the time! I really need to go meet up with my parents.”

I probably couldn’t have resisted a rainforest souvenir either. Avowed didn’t get to visit beautiful places on Earth every day. But I’d have taken, like, a rock or a stick or something tiny and normal. He dug up a plant the size of Lute.

Lexi had just emerged from his room with a stuffed backpack and the bag full of all the rhinestone jewelry he’d collected at Benjamin Velra’s birthday party. Before he could say anything, they received a group video call from Lute.

When they answered, they saw him standing in a store aisle surrounded by boxes of hair dye. He had a pair of large sunglasses on top of his head.

<<Hello,>> he said. <<Alden, don’t come pick me up. I changed my mind.>>

Thrown by the fact that Lute was speaking German all of a sudden, it took Alden a second to reply. “Okay. You’re staying in the penthouse with all your relatives?”

<<At a time like this?>> Lute scoffed. <<I barely made it out of the building without being chased by a drone flock or grabbed by a hysterical cousin who wanted me to use my S-rank charisma to speak to the Grandwitch on his behalf.>>

“Will you show us your S-rank charisma sometime?” Haoyu asked.

“Do you think German will keep people from recognizing you somehow?” said Lexi

Lute grabbed a box of brown hair dye and shook it. <<The German is only the first part of a plan!

<<I’m going to hide out with Dad and one of his friends for a couple of days. He seems to think me coming to save him plus the drunken armpit apology was…>> He made a face. <<I have work Wednesday afternoon anyway. I might stay an extra day or two and ask my boss some questions. I can watch from a safer planet to see what this situation becomes.>>

“You want me to sleep in your bed and see if an assassin attacks me in the night?” Haoyu offered.

Alden automatically looked around for Drusi-otta.

<<Before I let you guys go: ‘Raven’s Wing’ or ‘Nutmeg’?>>

“Are those hair colors?” Alden asked. “Or are you thinking up a new codename for yourself?”

******

Haoyu managed to send three group text messages mentioning “Nutmeg Velra” before they even made it into the garden.

“Should I do Lutewing van Nutmeg next?” he asked as they exited through the dormitory’s sliding doors.

“You should stop your dad from tasting things out of the planter labeled ‘Painful Vegetation,’” said Lexi, nodding toward the other end of the garden. Haoyu’s parents were there, both dressed casually. His mom was laughing at something his dad had just said.

“I know they won’t hurt him,” Lexi continued, “but I’m sure the people who are growing those don’t expect someone to come along and eat—ow.”

Haoyu sideswiped him in his hurry to get to his parents, “You came all the way here! I thought I was taking the bus. Come see our lodge!”

“Lodge?” a voice asked from behind them. Kon had just come out with a small duffel bag. “You call your room a lodge?”

“No,” said Lexi.

“You’ve been too suspicious for too long now. There had better be marble floors and a gold-plated toilet when I finally break in, or I’m going to be so disappointed.”

Before Everly appeared, they had a couple of minutes to say hello to Haoyu’s parents. “I was so excited when I heard there was a Rabbit in Haoyu’s class!” Mr. Zhang-Demir said. He insisted on bumping elbows with Alden since ordinary handshakes were out after you’d been handling the painful plants. “I’m coming to the gym as soon as they’ll let me, to see what you all do!”

“You are?” Haoyu asked.

“You thought he wouldn’t?” his mother replied. “He filled out the alumni volunteer form twice because he didn’t believe the website when it said it had been submitted.”

“Cool! Guess what I got to ride on today?” Haoyu pointed toward the roof, where Alden had parked the nonagon at an angle against the shingles.

His father’s eyebrows shot up. “What’s that doing here?”

“Hn’tyon Esh-erdi loaned it to me for the day.”

Both of Haoyu’s parents looked confused by that, but if they had questions, they kept them to themselves. It was obvious the whole family was happy to be together again. Haoyu’s smile was high-wattage, and he couldn’t seem to finish telling them about one thing before moving on to another.

I’m relieved for him, thought Alden as he stood in the center of the nonagon and directed it up into the air a short while later.

Haoyu’s face on the bus, when the sirens had first gone off, was impossible to forget.

“How high do we fly?” Kon asked curiously, looking through the platform’s surface. “Higher is actually better, isn’t it? Because if you fall you need time to call for that ET.”

Everly, who was on her knees and leaning over the edge to shout at some girls she knew down below, suddenly stopped and crawled closer to the center of the platform

“I’m not going to drop you all. Just don’t jump. But I should probably…um, Drusi-otta, do you want to ride with us? We’re going to F-city. That’s the island to the south.” He spoke to the air because he didn’t know where else to speak.

Or are you already riding with us? There was room, and if the votary was silent and good at dodging people…

Lexi, Kon, and Everly all looked at him.

“Are you inviting a random Artonan?” asked Kon.

“Are you on the phone with a wizard right now?” Everly said.

Lexi’s sigh spoke volumes.

“I just had to ask,” said Alden. “She’s…a person who works with Esh-erdi who I should touch base with.”

Several seconds later, he received a message:

[I still watch over you in my own way. Live as though I do not.]

******

The flight went smoothly and quickly.

They didn’t fly particularly close to The Span, but they did keep glancing toward it as they went.

“Why couldn’t you have borrowed The Nine-Edged Son Whose Own Mother Forsakes Him on Friday night, Alden? Your timing is terrible,” said Kon.

“I know right? Sorry about that.”

From where she sat beside him, Everly was staring toward the bridge, too. “For some reason, I told my family it was easy. I suppose it was, if you think about it in a certain way. We only ran a bit, and then Maricel flew us. It was just a few minutes of being scared, really, and I didn’t get hurt.”

“Easy is still not the word I would have used,” Kon said.

“I know. And you lost your teeth.”

“That part was fun! I moved a car! Lexi sliced one! We’re officially real Avowed now. But everything else…” He shrugged. “We’re all okay. That’s what matters. And Lexi’s boat became slightly famous.”

“Your boat!” Alden exclaimed, turning to look at Lexi, who was standing up on his right. “What happened to it?”

“It’s on top of our building,” Lexi answered. “It got stuck there somehow when the water fell away.”

“The little white roof boat is yours! I saw that on the news!”

“I should’ve sold it last weekend,” he said.

He didn’t sound as grumpy about it as he usually would have.

Either Lexi’s happier when he gets sunshine and a breeze, or he’s happy to be going back to his family.

Less than two minutes after they crossed the coastline, Alden was lowering the nonagon down toward the parking area in front of a small warehouse. Everly had called ahead, so their arrival wasn’t a surprise. Her father and grandfather were outside waiting on them, and before the platform had even stopped, she sprang off to run toward them.

“Mr. Kim’s a cryer,” said Kon, as Everly’s dad grabbed her in a hug that lifted her off her feet. “I saw him use an entire pocket pack of tissues when he watched her in one of our school plays, and she didn’t even have a major role.”

He jumped off to take Everly the bag she’d left behind. Before Alden could decide if they should all disembark to say hello or not, Kon was bounding back toward them.

They lifted off again and watched Everly wave goodbye with one hand while she had the other arm around her grandfather.

Not long after that, Alden did park the nonagon and go inside to meet Lexi and Kon’s family. They were staying in an apartment that a friend owned. It had been unfurnished, but people who knew them had been generously donating over the past day. They had a bunch of mismatched used furniture making the place more livable.

Their parents were nice. Mrs. Roberts made Kon hold still and show her all of his remaining teeth, apparently under the impression that he might have damaged another one without knowing it. And their dad made him stand side-by-side with Irina, who had recently lost her first tooth, so that he could take a picture of them both grinning.

Alden had the impression from some of the questions they were asking in between hugging both boys that Kon wasn’t going to escape from explaining why he’d thought it was a good idea to magically move something the size of an automobile without ever having practiced it before in his life.

“You can stay longer if you want,” Lexi said, when he finally looked up from helping his little sister sort through the bag of costume jewelry and realized Alden was leaving. “I don’t know what dinner is. But I’m sure it will happen at some point.”

“No. You guys have so much to discuss with each other. I’ll see you when you get back to school.” He smiled as the rhinestone choker in Lexi’s hair slid toward his ear. “You’re totally right about that necklace, Irina. It makes a perfect crown for him. Make sure to get his picture, too.”

******

Where do I go from here?

Alden was high over the water, heading toward Apex because he felt the need for motion, and he’d told SkySea traffic control he was going back to CNH.

He’d actually had a loose plan in mind to offer to ferry more people in either direction. Flying vehicles were a hot commodity right now, and it was such an easy way to help. And it seemed like it would justify his temporary possession of Esh-erdi’s extremely cool and highly visible ride.

Taxi Rabbit sounded fun earlier, he reminded himself.

He just felt a little off now.

Stupid advisement meeting. Stupid Joe. Stupid art’h’s.

Maybe Esh-erdi was going to want that tour this afternoon. That would be about the right level of activity. And it wouldn’t be as draining as being the third wheel in everyone else’s post-disaster family reunions.

He pulled up a search engine and typed, “General Esh-erdi latest.”

Esh-erdi had left Apex about an hour ago. The people reporting on his  movements said he was going to clean up some contaminated water to the west.

Alden didn’t know how long that would take, but it sounded like a full afternoon’s work.

He flew back to the dorm and spent several minutes in the common area, eavesdropping on one half of the fascinating call Jeffy was having. His grandmother seemed to be talking him into investing in a stock portfolio.

“Okay, Nana,” he was saying when Alden finally decided he couldn’t pretend to be washing his hands at the sink in the community kitchen any longer. “But shouldn’t I pay you and Grandpa back for the tractor first?”

Upstairs, Alden emptied the robot vacuum’s canister, then he sat on the sofa and played with the infrared fireplace remote for a while.

I usually enjoy peace and quiet.

Right now it was lonely.

I should just go back to Matadero and make sure the Artonans haven’t killed Kabir or roped him into a lifelong crouton-making deal.

Decided, he jumped up and left.

Before he reached the stairs, he turned around and went back for his learning cushion.

******

Cube sweet cube, thought Alden, wheeling his giant B-list-battered blue suitcase down the Matadero corridors. He hadn’t wanted the cushion to be exposed to the elements, and this was the only bag it would fit in.

He checked the kitchen first, but Kabir wasn’t there. A note on the fridge said he’d be back at sunrise. It was written in logograms, which made Alden think a wizard had posted it rather than Kabir himself.

Back in his room a few minutes later, he gave Tiny Snake fresh water. Earlier today, Liam Long had sent a text with a ton of happy emojis to say that he did want Candy Corny returned.

“He doesn’t even know your real name,” Alden told the snake. “I’m so sorry.”

The snake stuck its tongue out. The reptile was getting more appealing by the minute.

I really need to get Victor back now that he’s no longer the return point for a U-type.

“System, call Boe. Video if he’ll take it.”

Boe picked up right away.

Alden gasped at the sight of a familiar street. “You made it!”

[I did,] Boe texted instead of responding verbally. He looked exhausted. The bright yellow tank top he had on was completely inappropriate, both for his image and the Chicago weather. [They sent me to the consulate. I’m a block from home now. Time to find out what happens when a runaway comes back after months.]

That’s right…he’s about to have to figure out how to do school again in some form and work things out with Jeremy. And see his parents again.

“Are you gonna be okay?”

[Right now I really wish I hadn’t had to use the escape option. I’m better, but I trashed everything else. But yeah. I’ll figure it out.]

“Um…good luck with your mom and dad. Tell them I said hi.”

Boe stopped walking. [I will. Thank you.]

“I’ll let you go. Go find yourself some glasses. And walk faster. You’re gonna freeze.”

[Are you all right, Alden?]

“Yeah. I just got attached to a snake I found, and I’m upset someone’s taking it away from me. Get home safe. It’s been long enough. And I was going to call Connie anyway.”

******

******

