Connie Hatcher had just opened the door of a climate-controlled storage unit when her nephew called. He was sitting in a chair beside that orange snake he’d showed her the other day, and he was looking sharp in one of those black school uniforms she’d only seen in pictures on the Celena North website before now.

He was smiling.

School must have gone well.

“Hey, Connie,” Alden said. His green eyes widened. “Is that the storage place?”

“It is.” She stared at the stacks of boxes, plastic tubs, and everything else that had been stuffed inside years ago. “I haven’t been here in a while.”

“I almost forgot it existed. You did mention it a few times. What are you getting out?” he asked curiously. “Or putting in? Are those antlers?”

She looked around until she found what he’d spotted. “Those are antlers. Your grandpa went bow hunting about three times if I remember right. Do you want them? Do you want anything out of here? Some of it’s yours.”

“I want the antlers if you don’t. Probably nothing else right now. There’s not a lot of space in the dorm room. But I’ll come look one day!”

He talked about flying around Apex on an alien disc while she searched for what she’d come for—the three-ring binder her mother had kept in the kitchen cabinet for years, the one with all her favorite recipes in it.

“There was this pimiento cheese version of macaroni and cheese she made. Your mom and I loved it when we were growing up,” she told Alden. “And I thought maybe I’d make it. Brodie’s family invited me to come over for Thanksgiving. I want to bring a dish.”

His chatting stopped for the first time since it had started up. But only for a moment. “That’s cool. I used to love macaroni and cheese.”

“I’ll make it for you if I get good at it,” she said. “If you decide you want to cheat the diet a little?”

Connie didn’t know why he’d gone vegan. I don’t know why so many things.

“I pulled up the carpet,” she blurted as she yanked the next container off of the pile. “In the hall.”

“The puke carpet?”

“I hope all those stains weren’t puke,” she said. “Somebody puked themselves to death if they were. But yeah. It’s gone. New vinyl. You’ll like it when you see it.”

“So you’re going to bring a covered dish for Thanksgiving?” he said slowly. “And you’ve done the puke carpet…what else are you working on?”

“Everything I can,” she said. “I bought Artonan pudding squeeze tubes the other day because soccer moms said they were popular with kids, and Brodie’s nieces were staying over. Are you sure you don’t want anything but the antlers right now? I can show you some other stuff.”

“The antlers are good. You wanted to talk to me about something the last time I called. What was it?”

She set aside a stack of old magazines.

Alden looked interested. He’d had a good day flying something with his new friends.

“It was a little serious,” she said. “And I’m not good at that kind of thing, you know?”

He waited.

“I just wanted to tell you that it’s fine for you to take me off that special list of two people. Whenever you want or need to,” she said. “I don’t want you to feel like you have to keep me there because I’m your aunt. If you find some nice person…a friend or someone you want to be with….

“You’re growing up, and you’re living somewhere new. So things change fast. And I know that. Plus, Brodie’s got an engagement ring he’s going to offer me if I don’t screw everything up again.” She smiled at him. “So, in a year or two I might be asking you to take me off the list anyway. But if you need to before then…I just didn’t want you to feel stuck and like it would hurt my feelings. It won’t, okay? I’m pulling myself together over here finally. I hope you’ll be a little proud of me when you get the chance to come visit.”

******

******

Sitting in his hospital bed with his laptop propped on his knees, Alden stared at the footage he was supposed to study for combat class.

It was a double Adjuster battle. They tended to be more fun to watch than most.

But he wasn’t seeing it.

When he realized he needed to rewind for the fifth time, he shut the lid instead and stared at the ceiling.

“I’m glad she’s trying,” he said. “Good for her.”

He didn’t mean it.

“I’m glad. There’s nothing bad about her making a casserole for her boyfriend’s family. That’s a good thing. Casseroles. Thanksgiving. Love. I’m glad.”

Why didn’t she try sooner? Why couldn’t she have tried just a little sooner?

He covered his face with his hands. He took a breath that shuddered on its way into his chest.

Why did something I wanted so much not happen until I was out of the picture?

He threw himself out of bed and then just stood there, not sure how to escape from the sucking vortex of his own hurt and anger.

I can’t…I can’t…

His auriad had slithered helpfully down to his hand. Maybe so he could use it to blow a hole in the wall.

[Video call from Twenty-seven Hundred and Sixty-first General Evul-art’h, Artona I. Connection fee waived.]

Alden stared at the notification for so long he figured he’d probably broken some kind of record for keeping knights waiting.

He shoved the auriad back up his arm. “Answer.”

Stuart’s face appeared. He was smiling eagerly, and his sister was nowhere to be seen.

“Hello! Would you like to be my guest at the Rapport?”

Alden processed Stuart’s expression, the fact that he was being allowed to call, then the question.

“In December?” he asked.

“Yes,” said Stuart. “But also…now?”

“Now?” What a strange word that was.

“Now,” said Stuart. “Unless you are busy? If you’re busy, we could—”

“I’m not busy,” said Alden. “I’ll come.”

******
