I was able to achieve a good version of [Prismatic Ward] back when I was your age, though I did have 30 years of magical learning under my belt by that time. Some would call my achievement with [Prismatic Ward] a great thing, but for me, it was but one moment in a very long, very confusing part of my life.

By comparison, you have achieved much more than I in a much shorter time. [Reflection] should prove no problem. [Prismatic Ward] is just a matter of perseverance.

Good Luck,

Archmage Fredar Hocnihai the Freed, of Veird.

Erick held the letter in his hands, and somehow felt a profound emptiness. He asked, “Hocnihai calls himself ‘the Freed’. What does that mean?”

Poi said, “It means he’s absolved himself of the Quiet War.”

Kiri needled, “Exactly. Which means he was okay to talk to.”

Poi ignored Kiri as he looked down to the green book. “The Foreigner Mage is a banned book in both the Republic and the Wasteland. Holding one in those lands is a cause for censure at the very least. Imprisonment and death at the worst. Though it may not look it, Hocnihai gave you a bomb, sir.”

Erick picked up the little green book. “Really?” He opened the book, and read the first few lines.

Take heed, power seeker, truth speaker, monster slayer!

The vast majority of Civilization is a brutal place, and while the walled cities of Veird are a bulwark against the darkness, a different sort of darkness lives inside those walls, and fear turns many good souls toward hate. May this guide help you navigate the traps set forth for people like you.

Foreigner Mage is a practical guide to identifying and avoiding the widely known tactics by which the many governments of Veird imprison, coerce, subjugate, and brutalize, their high-level populations, with a focus on surviving, fleeing, or negating, the chains that others may attempt to wrap around your body, and your mind.

Take care, out there!

Erick flipped through the first few chapters and saw the possibilities of what a life started in the Republic would have meant.

He already knew that if he and Jane had appeared in the Wasteland Kingdoms, instead of Spur, he and she would both be dead. But with a brief read, if what this book said was true, if Erick had displayed the ability to create new spells in the Republic, they would have either killed him as a heretic, or labeled him a ‘Dangerous Mage’, and wrapped him in tattoos that drained his mana to 0 and put him in an immediate state of Mana Exhaustion.

Erick sighed and closed the book.

Poi was still standing beside him, but Kiri had moved on to breakfast. Teressa was going for seconds, while Rats was already elsewhere.

Erick asked, “Is this book true?”

Poi said, “Probably. I haven’t read it, but I’ve heard of it.”

“Tattoos to drain mana?” Erick asked.

“Common practice for most societies.” Poi said, “It’s a temporary measure in most cases, mainly until a decision has been reached. The experience is horrific for anyone who is not a Scion of Focus. For a Scion of Focus, it just means 0 mana. Spur and a few other cities in the Crystal Forest do not do much of what is in that book; we just banish those who choose to be dangerous.”

Kiri spoke up from her seat at the table. “Hocnihai is not mottled, and his scales weren’t turning white with age, Erick. They were white from being regrown so many times, after being ripped away to inscribe tattoos upon his skin.” She said, “It’s amazing what you can find out from a few Knowledge Mages.”

Poi sighed, long and suffering. “Knowledge Mages sell their information to all sides, Kiri. This is why they’re illegal in Spur—”

Kiri said, “I know how to talk to a Knowledge—”

Poi spoke slightly louder, “Hocnihai is a dangerous man, Kiri. It’s not as simple as—”

“Hocnihai sent a man here at midnight. He wanted to come in the middle of the night to talk to you, Erick.” Kiri said, “But Poi denied him, to wait until you awoke. So instead of getting to talk to you, Hocnihai’s man returned to the archmage with a ‘no’, and the archmage went rushing off back home.” She said, “He wanted to talk to you, Erick, before he dies, and all he knows is lost forever.”

Poi said, “He came calling at midnight!”

“So what, Poi!” Kiri said, “The man is literally dying! He might already be on the pyre!”

Erick cut further argument short, saying, “Of course I couldn’t talk at midnight. But if he really was dying… A choice was made, and it’s fine.” He held Hocnihai’s books, and felt a deep sadness. “I think I would have liked to have talked to him, though.”

Kiri, wisely, remained quiet. She even managed to keep the smug look off her face.

Poi stood tall, and said, “Of course, sir. I apologize.”

“No need to be sorry, Poi. It happened, and you made a decision. Continuing to do what you do is how we’ve all survived thus far. And that is no small feat.” Erick said, “Don’t worry about it.” Erick walked over to the kitchen, saying, “Now about that breakfast. It certainly looks good.”

Erick dug in.

When Krigea showed up, Erick bade good night to Rats and Teressa, as he, Poi, and Kiri, went back to Oceanside for the day.

He left Hocnihai’s books at Windy Manor.

- - - -

Professor Tinawa Ulogai, the man in charge of both Warrior Training for Mages and Ethics for the Warrior, shouted at yet another student on the sandy arena floor. Underneath his full body, pale yellow [Conjure Armor], his words were mostly unintelligible, being as forty pairs of students loudly fought across the hundred meter space, bashing each other with staves, or swords, or whatever people felt comfortable conjuring. Some even used [Envelop Item] to protect their real swords with a layer of Force.

For the last hour, Erick had switched around from partner to partner, striking with a staff of his own, sparring with strangers, and mostly flinching. These people had no idea who he was thanks to [Conjure Armor] and a full helmet, so they treated him accordingly. Erick ended up on his back more than once, but with an 8500 point [Personal Ward], and a much stronger layer of defensive [Ward]s stretched across the arena, the chances of anyone actually suffering injury were rather small.

Erick was just another one of the students, wrapped in plain white [Conjure Armor] out to get his ass handed to him by people he had never met before. Some of the people here were clearly on the other side of that equation; they were the ones dishing out the pain. Among those dishing out the pain, was Kiri. Covered in green cloth armor and moving like a whirlwind, Kiri crashed through defenses, flipping people up and kicking them away.

And all the while, Professor Ulogai yelled at people who fought wrong. Compared to Draz’s remedial recertification classes, this was about five levels above that. And Kiri was right; a [Conjure Weapon] staff was much better than a [Conjure Item] staff.

After a morning of getting punched, kicked, tumbled, and launched, Professor Ulogai called an end to the day’s sparring.

Erick grabbed lunch with Kiri and Poi at a ‘sushi’ joint; Krigea had already moved on for the day.

“That was intense.” Erick said, picking up one of the rice balls with red fish on top. He gobbled it down. It was pretty good, but there was no soy sauce or wasabi on the table, or anywhere, as far as Erick could tell. “And this fish is good, but you guys don’t do what we do with it.”

Kiri’s eyes were bright ever since she left the arena. She picked up a piece of fish wrapped in rice and dark green seaweed, saying, “Professor Ulogai is amazing. I’ve never had such a competent instructor. He saw exactly what I was doing wrong with my feet, and it’ll take some time to get used to, but I think it’ll help a lot in the long run.” She ate her sushi.

Poi dunked strips of pink fish into a clear vinegar, before sprinkling green dust onto the slices. “This particular class is going to get much rougher. This is only the first week. In the coming weeks, you’re going to be dueling with spells. I’m not sure if you should continue this, sir.” He used two forks to put rice onto the line of fish, and then rolled it up, saying, “But maybe you should. You did… not do well out there, sir.”

Kiri laughed. “You were pretty rough out there.”

Erick smiled. “I suppose I was.”

Poi lifted his head toward Erick’s dish, asking, “What do your people do with sushi?”

“The shapes are all more or less the same.” Erick looked down to the vinegar and the spices, saying, “But we have a salty, brown liquid made from beans, and wasabi, which is just another spicy seasoning, though it’s not spicy in the normal way things are spicy— Ah… Hmm?” Erick thought. He said, “Actually, Jane once told me that the wasabi you get with sushi is usually always horseradish. I have no idea what wasabi is, but I do know the taste of horseradish. I could try to make some. I have no idea where to even begin making soy sauce, though. I’m not even going to try that.”

Poi nudged the container of green dust toward Erick. “Try this.”

“I thought you didn’t like spicy stuff anyway?” Kiri asked.

“I don’t. Normally.” Erick tried the green dust on his next piece of redfish, and sure, it was spicy, but…

Kiri said, “That stuff isn’t nearly as spicy as the stuff Erick made at Jane’s farewell party.”

“I was just about to say that the average level of spicy on Veird is not much compared to Earth.” Erick sprinkled more green dust on his sushi, saying, “But this stuff is pretty good. I like it.”

Poi’s eyes went wide as he saw how much Erick put on his sushi. Kiri frowned a little.

Erick ate his sushi, and as his eyes teared, he said, “Now that is almost wasabi.”

Kiri began a giggle, that turned into a laugh. Erick laughed, while Poi chuckled. Each of them ordered more sushi. Fresh fish like this was a real treat, after living in the desert for months.

Soon enough, it was time to go back to class.

Ethics for the Warrior was held on the same arena, with the same Professor Ulogai. Only this time some of the sands had been shifted into rough benches, and Ulogai’s pale yellow, full body armor had been transformed into casual clothing, revealing the blond-haired, blue-eyed, aged and pale human man underneath. He looked like an old general, and spoke like one, too.

Ulogai conjured a blackboard and spoke of war, and the place of the individual in that war. From Ulogai’s words, Erick gathered that almost everyone in the audience was either here pursuing an academic education, or mage work, but mostly, they were all warriors, holding the line against the monsters in the darkness, or in the forests, or in the mountains.

Ulogai spoke of battles fought against wyrms, and what to do if your partners on those battlefields should fall. He spoke, mostly, of the nature of war; war against the monsters, and war against each other. Of when enemy generals launch surprise attacks. Of when monsters invade in the middle of the night. Of when it’s a holiday, and a party of citizens reveal themselves as monsterized cannibals. Of the responsibility of the individual when everything goes wrong and all your family is dead and all you have is a thousand mana, [Fireball], a room full of enemies all around you, and no hope of escape.

Of the grim reality that so many people face, every single day, out there, in the forests and mountains and prairies and cities of Veird. Of the need to be hard, and the need to be vigilant.

Erick felt sick to his stomach. But he listened. He learned. He watched. He saw a young kid in front of him puke out all his lunch, as Ulogai went on about a nasty example involving oozes and children. Erick felt sorry for the kid, and for the people in all of Ulogai’s examples.

- - - -

Back home and feeling a lot more somber, Erick sat in his chair with Ophiel at his side and read about [Reflection], as he channeled mana across the ocean to the farms of Spur.

Hocnihai was a classically trained mage from Tower Town, and his journal reflected that, with lots of math and runic representations for both [Ward] and [Rebound], and how the skills went together. Erick did not understand how all the math fit together, but he didn’t need to know all that right now. He focused on the smaller notes in the margins, and the larger paragraphs here and there. He read about Hocnihai’s purpose; his journey as a mage in search of [Reflection].

In the beginning, Hocnihai only wanted to protect what was his. Events unfurled, and that want turned darker. Hocnihai needed to turn back the incani menace, to reflect their sins upon them, and in that singular journey, he achieved [Reflection] after his fifth try. It was easy to redirect spells back at their caster. All magic was based on Force, after all. Hocnihai did not have the best defenses in the world, but he had enough to bring the fight to the enemy. He stayed in the back, and while he mostly protected the other vulnerable casters, he also cast [Reflection] when necessary, sending fireballs, lightning, and ice spikes, all back at the enemy incani lines.

Erick took a break for dinner, then went right back to reading.

The incani incursion struck south from the forests, and from the northern shores of the Republic. The Kingdoms had gained a foothold, and exploited that land grab for all it was worth, killing villages and towns, while harrying the roads between the more distant cities. [Reflection] was not enough. Hocnihai needed [Melee Reflection], for the daggers and the swords and the spears were getting to him. He had almost died twice already.

[Melee Reflection] was not like its spell counterpart, for there was something very different between reflecting Force-derived objects, versus physical objects and other people.

Hocnihai’s breakthrough with [Melee Reflection] came after years of study, when he finally managed to construct a particularly complicated diagram joining the natures of [Reflection] and [Strike]. A Mana-based skill and a Health-based skill made for a very difficult combination. After his breakthrough, Hocnihai waded into battles without worry. He was an unstoppable Warder on a mission: to end the Incani menace forever, for they had taken his brother, mother, and father, and he would take everything from them.

Erick set the book down, and looked at the book for [Prismatic Ward]. He almost picked it up, but it was late. Too late to read more about how one man had fallen to the darkness inside himself, and decided to reflect that darkness back on any who would chose to fight him. Obviously, Hocnihai eventually switched sides, but that was a story for another day.

So Erick went to bed.

When he woke up, he started in on the second book.

