Markus read it twice just to be sure, then took that shit immediately. Sounded dope as fuck. Who wouldn’t wanna be a Thrust King?

What’s that? Can’t hear you. Too busy being a Thrust King over here.

Markus smiled, satisfied with his decision.

Now there was the Path Evolution to consider. Let’s see:

[Greater Respite I (Rare): The natural healing rate of your body is increased by 800%. Natural healing is modified by Constitution. Greater Meditation can be induced in a quiet and safe environment to heal one targeted area of the body at 1240% of its usual rate and regain and cycle mana of one type at 240% of usual rate for up to six hours per day. Greater Meditation can be induced at all times, but has a 50% reduced effect, requires focus, and cannot cycle mana. Healing during Meditation is modified by Constitution and Spirit. Mana Regeneration is modified by Spirit.]

Okay, so just 8x natural recovery at all times. That was more than he was getting while sleeping before, and the increase during sleep/relaxation had been removed entirely. From the looks of things, he got the greater benefit always no matter what.

Easy choice? Fuck no. Not when the second option was:

[(Unique: Mana Manipulation) Reforge, G Grade: Channel your Spirit Mana into a healing and fortification energy that can be used to effectively bolster different areas of your body or another’s and greatly speed their recovery if injured at a rate of 3000% of usual healing for a length of time determined by mana invested. Only one limb can be targeted by this ability at a time, and excess healing on a limb can be transferred into increased fortification for that part of the body that lasts until damaged or until focus wanes. Spirit modifies the rate of healing and fortification. Constitution modifies the effectiveness of excess healing.]

Okay, this was a healing spell. It had limitations, sure, and it wasn’t an instant recovery like [Devour] was, but it was a fucking healing spell, and that was enough that Markus was a hundred percent willing to take it. Being able to use something like this on the go or while fighting easily trumped the permanent 8x on respite. He already got 3.5x passively, plus 7x when relaxing or sleeping, and he didn’t think the increase, while nice, was worth giving up a full blown healing spell for, especially a versatile one that’d likely continue to grow.

And so Markus made his decision.

And then he realised that in all that time looking over his options and asking questions and reading and reading and reading, he’d managed to level [Identify].

To level 10.

Where he could unlock a Mastery.

Markus wasn’t sure whether to be excited or roll his eyes. He thought he was done.

He almost decided to put off putting a Specialisation into [Identify], but then he read the first option, and he was 100% down.

[Treasure Seeker I: This specialisation fits those sufficiently keen-minded to look where others will not and brave enough to search where none dare tread. Objects of value or special interest will be easier for you to both single out and spot from a distance, and the rough worth of simple items below 50g value will be determinable at a glance, provided a basic economic understanding of Firrelia. Strength of identification and ability to deduce item values and uses for magical and specialised items will depend upon user knowledge and Arcana score.]

Okay, it wasn’t just gonna give him all the information on items without him finding some stuff out for himself, sure.

But it was a fucking item radar.

A treasure radar.

Who wouldn’t take this shit?

Someone who wasn’t a fucking Thrust King, that’s who.

Markus was a Thrust King. Markus took that shit.

“Alright. I’m ready. Let’s get moving.”

Thus spake the Thrust King, the Jumpmaster, the Finder of Stuff.

He spoke even as he began to cast [Identify], immediately curious and on the prowl for something new to pocket. The imp had mentioned something about treasure down here, and he was eager to see if that had been literal.

There had to be something down here, right? Who made a whole ass dungeon and didn’t stick a chest or two in it?

Assholes, that’s who. Then again, Firrelia’s stock in assholes seemed to be sky-fuckin’-high.

Markus, in fact, felt it was far more likely that he would instead search for a full hour only to find a sheet of paper with a chest drawn on it, annotated with the words ‘here’s where we would have put a chest if u weren’t a little bitch’, accompanied by a picture of Drathok smiling.

He chuckled at the thought as he walked. Somewhere in all of this bullshit was a small inkling of wanderlust mixed with the anxiety and anger and hope. Maybe the absurdity of this situation had finally driven him mad, or perhaps he’d always been so.

Either way, it felt nice to walk around and do his own thing. To truly do things on his own terms. He hadn’t done that since he’d gotten here, no matter how hard he tried.

He hadn’t done that before he’d gotten here, either, always—

Eh, fuck that noise. Guess what Markus just spotted?

A chest. Sat at the end of a long, dark corridor, pitch black besides the faint, golden glow afforded by his [Identify], revealing it as a resplendent ray of hope against the shadowy backdrop of despair that permeated this twisted world.

Markus eyed the corridor. It was long as hell, and besides the chest, he couldn’t see or hear shit.

…fuck it.
