n the ruins of the camp, gripping Karn’s collar tightly.“No magic blade here, boy... no friends among slaves and no heroes,” he said and Karn didn’t feel fear at the sight of the man. He had seen far greater men and demons bear their teeth at him.“I was a hero and Gamma was the coward,” Karn said flatly and it all broke apart.He was abruptly back at the pool, head in Luna’s lap as he rested in the calm pool.“I failed,” he said with a blank tone.“Oh, adventurer. The only mark of failure at my hotspring is the unwillingness to face your demons at all. Running is failure... but I think seeing things from a different perspective helped a little,” Luna said soothingly.Karn just sat in the steaming pool for a moment longer before speaking.“I don’t get the lesson,” he finally admitted.“Depends on how you want to take it,” Luna said, bemused.“Perhaps seeing the fact you were a boy who was used and left made you not a failure nor a coward. Perhaps seeing the options you had that if you had left the slaves to perish then you would be a different... lesser man with a cowardly blade at your side,” she said with a long sigh.Karn blinked once then looked down at his pruning fingers.“I choose to be free... even when they put the chains back on and branded my back... I had tasted hope. Hope from a traitor, like poisoned wine. I was free in my heart,” he said slowly. Luna smiled at him and Karn couldn’t say he was into frog-people, but she was pretty in her hazy hotspring air and calm aura.“Now, you can be free to hunt down a traitorous blade and snap it like a man’s private pride into two then melt those pieces down to make fashionable earrings!” Luna advised brightly.“Anyone else passed?” he asked and Luna gestured to the side where Silver waited on a bench, holding a rather tiny shell of some hairy fruit that had a pink umbrella in it. Karn needed one of those things so he joined the odd Silver on the bench.“How was your trauma?” Karn asked politely and Silver turned his head to Karn with unnatural rigidity.“Inside, I am a storm of howling beasts that slather and drool for serene release from these memories that hound my soul like hornets that have knives instead of stingers,” Silver responded tersely.“So...” Karn trailed off, not sure what to say.“It sucked and I am now on the path of cathartic healing... supposedly,” Silver summed up.There was a violent explosion from the pool Estal had been in and she stood up, barriers forming together in such a way she made two giant hands that were attempting to squish somebody’s head.“FATHER!” she screamed before she spun and stormed forward, still in whatever illusion she was in.She began to knock over something in her vision.“I hate your porcelain duck collection! I hate your stupid pen collection! I hate your stupid books!” she yelled, throwing the ‘objects’ down with glee.Luna cautiously prodded her back to the pool with a long stick.“I AM A MAGE! I don’t need... your or anyone’s approval,” Estal concluded as she flexed her magic and pointed forward.“I am the Barrier-Mage, Estal Unnamed. I discard your name, Mage Thunderblaze!” she announced and Karn stared as her swimsuit was tearing from the magic.“Worth the trauma,” he said with excitement but Luna swaddled her in a large colourful towel.“Mage names? I remember that being important,” Karn commented and Silver nodded.“Mage names are the very magic they wield. It's rare to see one have such a powerful effect as Thunderblaze. It would be worth a lot of clout in magic circles,” Silver explained.Karn remembered a few mages, but they had ‘wiggle’ or ‘tapping’ in their name. He hadn’t fought one that had a real mage name before!---“Quiss Firesmasher,” Alpha said, making note of it.The scruffy blond man sighed as his companion leaned over with a wide smile“Salvation! I am Sethamus PurgingRiver! I am life-companion of Quiss. I cool his burning tongue,” he introduced and Alpha stared at the man with utter bafflement.“He’s a longtime friend who stops me setting rude people on fire,” Quiss translated as he nursed his drink.“Isanella said I should introduce myself to ten people so I can get over my crippling fear of socializing,” Alpha said as to explain why he was bothering the wizards.“Quiss, isn’t he funny!” Seth said in that weird tongue that used mana.“I thought I was being serious,” Alpha frowned in the same tongue. Seth and Quiss turned to him with surprise.“You’re a mage?” Quiss asked and Alpha paused.He was a lot of things, if he was being honest.Nodding, Alpha watched as both men eyed him.“What’s your ‘name’?” Quiss asked slowly.“Alpha,” he responded simply. That was an easy question!“No. your mage name,” Seth asked with excitement.Alpha mentally checked his stats and didn’t find a title that fit a mage name.“I don’t have one,” he admitted as he wondered if he should flee the bar and try somewhere else, but the only other interesting place was a bank and the man there asked if Alpha was donating blood, memories, or gold.“Hmm... that can’t be left alone. A mage with no name is like a man with no underwear on. Just rubs the wrong way,” Quiss said as he stood up and took his very nice hat off.Alpha stared at the magic hat as Quiss waved a hand over it.“By the power of a named wizard and someone who's worked a double shift today, I open a way to the realm of names,” he said and the hat shook before there was a sound like a plug being uncorked and cold air began to leak from the hat.“Don’t be nervous. Just reach in and pluck a piece of paper!” Seth said in magic-tongue, clapping his hands excitedly. Alpha got a quest to do just that so shrugged and reached in.It was a lot like pushing his hand through thick pudding that was cool and occasionally parted to reveal pockets of air that had jellyworms in them. After some fisting of the pudding-like realm, Alpha finally felt what seemed to be a scrap of paper.He pulled his hand out which was now covered in a dark purple slime, holding a piece of paper. He read it.‘Alpha FirstKing’---Far across the land, near the capital, a series of tools and instruments began to vanish off a very shocked , now naked, old man, leaving him standing nude in the great hall of the Wizard Clan.It was soon discovered that there was a new position above Grandmage and it’s name was ‘Mage King’.In a single act of pulling from a hat... magic as they knew it was forever changed... or as Sister would say ‘finally moved out of Alpha’.
