Ren made it to the Library a few minutes later, and was surprised to find a large ornate coach parked in the alleyway outside.

Teepo.

“On it!” Teepo said and flew to the door and squeezed his way in. “There's a couple of people in here.” He said. “Second floor.”

Anyone I know?

“Yeah.” Teepo said. “It's Dorcot's wife Angeilin, and her boss.”

What about the Librarian?

“Third floor.”

Thanks. Ren thought, walked over to the door, and went inside. It feels really weird not wearing my Dire Wolf Hooded Cloak. He thought. I miss it's weight.

“Why aren't you wearing it?” Teepo asked.

I haven't worn it since Laurelia gave me the Dreaded Foe title. Ren thought. I don't want to have nearly all of my Auras boosted with Fear. He smiled. Plus, my Aura's area of effect drops to 50 feet when I'm not wearing it, and the House Neram pendant only adds 25 feet to that.

“But isn't that one of the fear boosted ones?” Teepo asked.

Yes, but at least it's fear of the House, and not of me.

“That makes sense.” Teepo said. “I think.”

Ren chuckled as he heard a little squeal on the floor above, then the pitter-patter of little feet. He waited at the bottom of the stairs as Angeilin came over to them. She froze at the top of the stairs, and stared at Ren.

“My... My Lord!” Angeilin squeaked in her high pitched voice and pointed. Ren looked around, and then at himself.

“What is it?” He asked, and her small hands went to her face and her fingers fluttered on her chin as she walked slowly down the stairs. Ren laughed, and did the same movement. She got to the second to last stair, and waved him closer. He stepped over to her, she grabbed his beard with both hands, and tugged.

“Ow.” Ren said. “Yes, it's real.”

“Oh, my.” Angeilin said.

“Who is it, Angeilin?” A woman's voice said. “I can feel someone's Aura.”

“It's... um...” She looked at Ren, because she didn't know what to call him.

“Lord Neram is fine.” Ren said reluctantly, and she grinned.

“It's Lord Neram!” Angeilin squeaked loudly.

Notice!

You have spread the name of Lord Neram enough that you can now safely assume the name without demeaning his memory. Everyone will know you are a separate person when the name is spoken.

Personal Aura Bonus: None* (Personal Aura Mastered)

House Neram Aura: +5 levels

Influence: +3,000

*bonus levels converted to Influence: +15,000

Pledge Complete!

Your personal pledge of Honor gains to Lady Neram, to replace Lord Neram's Honor that she lost over the years, has been fulfilled.

Honor: +30,000

Ren dismissed the popups and stared at Angeilin. She reached a hand out, he took it, and she started to lead him up the stairs.

“EEEEE!” Ren heard the Librarian scream from the third floor. He heard her heavy boots clomp along the wood and just as he and Angeilin arrived at the top of the first stairway, the Librarian arrived at the top of the second on the third floor.

“Your HIGH-” The Librarian stopped mid-word as she saw his beard. “By the GODS!” She yelled, then walked calmly down the stairs. “Is... is...”

“Yes, it's real.” Ren said, unable to keep a smile from his face, because of the complete shock he could see on the Librarian's.

“H-h-how?” She asked when she got to the second floor and stood in front of him.

“I'd like to say it's a long story, but it's actually pretty short.” Ren chuckled. “A healer gave me a magic cream that grew it.”

“Oh, my.” The Librarian stared at it. “Can I touch it?”

“At least you asked.” Ren quickly glanced down at Angeilin, to see her huge grin.

The Librarian touched it with a single hand, as if it was an animal that was skittish, and would run away if you scared it too much.

“How...” She shook her head and touched the top of his head with her other hand to compare them. Her eyes widened, and she rubbed both his chin and the top of his head. “How is that possible?”

“What is it?” Lady Longore asked as she came over to see what was going on, because her curiosity wouldn't let her stay in the chair she had sat in.

“Feel this!” The Librarian said to her, and moved her hands over to make room.

“May I?” Lady Longore asked Ren.

“You might as well.” He said and smiled. She smiled back at him, and touched his beard.

“Is... is that...” She put her other hand on his head, and her eyes widened as well. “No.”

“What is it?” Ren asked them as they rubbed his chin and head.

“I didn't think...” Lady Longore shook her head. “Lord Neram, I've never... ever... felt a beard like yours before.”

Ren chuckled. “I'm tempted to ask you how many you've felt to compare it to, but I'm not that vulgar; nor do I want to insult you or how you choose to live your life.”

Lady Longore chuckled herself, and stopped rubbing his head and chin. “I like my men much stockier and shorter than you, so you don't have any worries on that front, Lord Neram.” She said. “But your beard doesn't feel like a beard at all. It feels just like your hair. Soft and fluffy.”

Ren nodded. “That's what my fiance says, too.”

“That's some magic cream.” The Librarian said, and Ren nodded slightly. “So.” She said and smiled. “Now that I've mauled you for a few minutes, what can I do for you?”

“I need another book made.”

“Ooo. What is it about this time?” The Librarian asked, excited.

“Giants.” Ren said, and the women gasped.
