Before they entered the tower, Master Grediv stopped. “You should leave your dimensional storage with the receptionist, since it is still not soulbound to you so it can’t teleport with you. Can your… friend wait within it?” He looked meaningfully at Terry.

Tala regarded Terry, and the terror bird looked back. Finally, he squawked in resignation and bobbed a nod.

Tala shrugged. “Sure. I could just put my storage on the outside wall, here?”

Master Grediv nodded. “That would be interesting to see. Those always manifest a bit differently. I assume you’ve merged it with a syphon fascia?”

She gave him a mildly surprised look.

He chuckled. “I’m old, child. If it exists within the human cities, I’m likely aware of it, at least tangentially.”

She grunted. “That’s fair.”

He hesitated then smiled. “Well, with all that you’ve likely brought with you, that isn’t as true as it was a few hours ago.”

Tala laughed. “Once we’ve sorted this, I’ll see what I can do to correct that alteration.”

“I look forward to it.”

She pulled Kit from her belt. She took a moment to consider. “Do you want to go to the hills?”

Terry squawked noncommittally.

“Fine, just somewhere near where I usually find you, then.” She tossed Kit at the wall, and a door grew to perfectly integrate with the side of the tower, near the main entrance. As usual, the entrance seemed to fit perfectly, looking like it had always been there.

“Fascinating. Thank you for allowing me to watch.” Master Grediv smiled.

Before Tala could open the door, it was ripped open, and a nearly fully flayed beast-man lunged out. “FREE! I’M FREE OF THAT FEATHERED DEMON!!!!”

The bullman then saw Terry and squealed in abject terror. The next instant a flick of energy extended from the city’s defenses and turned him to ash.

Tala spun on Terry. “Terry? Why was he still alive? You were supposed to kill him quickly!”

Terry looked down and idly scratched at the ground while decidedly not looking her way. He trilled mournfully, clearly trying to play on her sympathies.

“Get in there. We’ll talk soon enough.” She pointed vehemently through the open door.

The terror bird flickered away, appearing within before the door swung shut at Tala’s will.

She turned back toward Master Grediv and found him and more than a dozen other Archons staring at her with various expressions of bewilderment.

Tala’s eyes flicked around to the suddenly present Refined and Paragons.

One woman spoke up. “Master Grediv, sir?”

Master Grediv just shook his head. “I’m as much in the dark as you. Mistress Tala?”

Tala scratched the back of her head nervously. Rusting Terry. You couldn’t have just killed him when I asked? “Well, that bullman tried to kill me, so I tricked him into my sanctum, and left him for Terry to kill. That bird was supposed to be quick about it, but it seems like he was not quick about it.”

Master Grediv cleared his throat. “First, you had a…” He seemed to be searching for the right word. “Elder?”

“Mature.”

“Mature, right. You had a Mature arcane, fully drained, in your… sanctum? Isn’t that a special designation?”

She opened her mouth, then closed it. “It is… I have a lot to tell you, Master Grediv. Can we deal with my unwelcome passenger first?”

The other woman, clearly the leader of the Archons who had responded to the now eliminated threat, cleared her throat. “The arcane wasn’t your unwelcome passenger?”

“Well… he was one, yes, quite unintentionally so. I didn’t know he was still in there.”

“How likely is it that there are any others?”

Tala frowned, then went over and opened Kit. No one waited on the other side but Terry, who was giving her a chastened look.

She closed the door then opened it again and saw Rob sitting on a shelf beside her bed.“Oh… Well, he’s not really a passenger? But he’s not actually a…” Tala muttered to herself, struggling for words as she closed the door. “Never mind. No one else in there. Just the one in here.”

She smiled with false cheer as she tapped her own chest.

The woman frowned, then Tala felt herself be delved with a form of magesight once again. The Paragon’s eyes widened, but Master Grediv intervened.

“We’re dealing with that now, Mistress Ges.”

Mistress Ges’s eye twitched, but she gave Master Grediv a firm, shallow bow. “As you say, Master Grediv. I do hope you will explain what is going on at some point.”

“I will, when I know myself.”

“Very well.” She bowed once again, and then she and the other city defenders seemed to vanish.

Tala turned to Master Grediv. “I am so excited to be able to do that.”

He cocked one eyebrow. “You could now, if you had the right magics.”

She frowned. She’d been a bit afraid of that. “Well, rust. Fine then.”

“We’ll see what we can do, but after we deal with the creature. Yes?”

“Yes, please.”

Master Grediv hesitated, looking at Kit on the wall of the tower. Finally, he sighed. “Bring that inside. We’ll find a better place to set it up that’s closer to where we’ll work. It seems like you might have some rather more dangerous things in there than I was expecting.”

Tala sheepishly did as he asked and hung Kit from her belt once more.

Together, they entered the tower.

The receptionist inside was obviously a mageling, and he looked incredibly nervous.

Tala felt bad for the kid. He’d likely just had all sorts of alarms going off, then probably seen the city defenders appear just outside.

“G… Greetings, Master, Mistress. How can we serve you, today?”

“We need a self-cycling teleport. Foreign will purging, please.”

That got the young man to focus. “Yes, sir!”

As the mageling manipulated a slate in front of himself, Tala heard several people in the tower begin to move quickly.

She was still keeping a good distance from Master Grediv, but she spoke quietly, now that his privacy working was down. “Is this common?”

“Yes and no. This is usually the best way to cleanse people of foreign issues when they pass a certain stage. You’d be surprised how many plagues we’ve stopped in their tracks by judicious use of the teleporter. Mundanes also often have their own bodies turn against them, either attacking their own biology or growing in ways they shouldn’t. A teleport of this type resets their anatomy and can allow them to get back to their lives.”

Tala hadn’t considered that, honestly. So, my idea wasn’t very revolutionary.

-But it seems good. That’s what we need, right?-

That’s true enough.

Soon, they were escorted to a teleportation room off to one side.

A Fused woman explained what was going to happen. “Do you see the receiving circle over there?”

Tala looked and did see it. This room, unlike the one she’d arrived back from the Academy in, had both a launcher and a receiver. “I see it.”

“Good. We will simply teleport you over there. You will be fully sent out into the ether and drawn back. Please place anything not soulbound to you there.” She pointed to a series of empty shelves and stands.

Tala walked over, removing Kit and her bloodstar holster from her belt.

The bloodstars would have been fine, but the material that surrounded them would be needlessly stripped away if she tried to bring them with her.

After a moment’s hesitation, she realized that that was it.

Her clothing were her elk-leathers and bound to her. Flow was the same.

“Alright. I’m ready.”
