“Afterward, the Highlands will expand, for we are stability and safety. For Terror Peaks to attack us with everything they have, and to still come up short, will gain us many other allies. I suspect Songli will expand rather darn fast after this war is over, and Terror Peaks is laid low.”

Erick shook his head. “If they know they’re going to lose, then why do this?”

“Ah.” Kaffi said, “I have misconstrued something. Terror Peaks, the myriad of cities which call themselves part of that Clan, will no longer exist, but the Clan will remain. We have destroyed their cities many times over, but they always rebuild in some other place, because the ones who need to perish to stop this fight always manage to get away.

“It would take ten years, but they will rebuild based on assistance from other clans.

“This problem is thorny, and it has to do with Terror Peaks being one of the major powers to stand against the Highlands, and many of the smaller warlord-led clans out there will give them assistance in order to keep them around as a shield to use against us. But that’s only one of the issues with ending Terror Peaks.” She asked, “Do you know of the tank-born?”

This was rapidly becoming a lot more complicated than Erick liked. As for the tank-born? That had seemed too fantastical, but he had heard too many variations of that sort of talk to discount it entirely.

He asked, “Are they truly grown in vats?”

Kaffi said, “They’re not grown in tanks of slime, like those ancient monsters, though the process is little better. They’re normal kids, but they’re produced by fanatical mothers who want nothing more than to produce more children for their society. They raise every child for war over there, and they Matriculate early, at age 10. Once the first few levels are gained, they assist every single child to level 45 by helping them kill mist stone gluttons. After that, the kids are put into training programs, which they call tanks. Inside those closed systems, the children are raised upon near-death battles with each other, while they are educated about the horrors of the rest of Nelboor, and of the Darkness.

“By the time they’re let out, they’re fanatical, insular, and also some of the best soldiers and monster hunters in the world.” She added, “When we crush Terror Peaks, it is never without great losses on both sides, but the majority of Terror Peaks’ elders and otherwise always escape the final [Strike]. The mothers are a major problem, too, for they are always the first to [Teleport] away, often raising their children in ‘tanks’ all on their own, before rejoining the main clan when the kids are old enough. Right now, if you were to look at the cities of Terror Peaks beyond the Tribulations, the people you see in the cities might only be a quarter of the actual population.

“Terror Peaks is named as plural, because of this cell-raised strategy of their culture. Terror Peaks is a land of a thousand peaks, each raising together to lift the world out of Darkness and into the terror-filled light.

“And when I say that we destroy their ‘cities’, I mean that we destroy several dozen trading centers over a thousand kilometer area.”

That was a lot to take in.

Erick sat still for a moment, thinking. Maybe he needed to send an Ophiel to one of these cities of Terror Peaks to speak to them. Or maybe that would be a bad idea, all around.

Kaffi watched him think.

Erick asked, “And you can’t simply give them the chelation treatment, because then they could unlock the few Elixir’d people who you’ve managed to get?”

Kaffi frowned a little, then said, “That is not what would happen. Terror Peaks does not suffer weakness, so everyone of theirs that we have ever Elixir’d, has probably taken their own life. But then again, they were trying to get Tadashi to make it for them, so this knowledge might be incorrect. Terror Peaks likes to show the world one face, but its people see their land in a different light.

“Even if we cannot confirm, we think none of their people are afflicted, so if we gave them chelation, then they’d use it as leverage against other clan states and bring them under their aegis with the promise of an end to the antirhine affliction. That is what we think that they were trying to do with Tadashi’s capture, but they failed.

“Once under Terror Peaks’ power, those smaller clans would begin their conversion to Terror Peaks ideology. It wouldn’t take long. A year. Three. Star Song’s projections of chelation taking a year or more would certainly give Terror Peaks a large timeframe in which to convert other clans with Elixir’d people. That would be enough. For all their fanaticism, Terror Peaks takes very good care of its people. Usually.

“Aside from when they fight us, or when they go against clans they suspect of dabbling in the Dark, they are a stable and prosperous country. If they weren’t so damned righteous, then the Highlands and Terror Peaks would be ideal neighbors. Even allies. But they are who they have always been, and so we are enemies.”

Even more to take in.

Erick asked, “What does me staying and defending look like?”

Kaffi nodded. Then she moved to a nearby bench and sat down. She said, “Everything continues as it has, and after the war, which we will win, you help us hunt down and eliminate Terror Peaks with your locator spells. We also ask that when the war is happening, that you prevent any atrocities you see around you. We have every confidence that you do not need to be part of a command structure, and if needed, then your guard can fulfill this role.

“As for problems of which you should know: It is only a matter of time before the assassinations begin, and we have agents of Terror Peaks in our homes. You shouldn’t have to worry about other archmages, for we will deal with them if they choose to bring out their [Familiars]. I merely informed you of them to inform you, and for no other reason.”

Erick asked, “Is there a way to get Terror Peaks to truly back down from this war?”

“Likely, no, and we are not going to put much effort toward that path.” Kaffi said, “Our efforts will mostly go to unlinking Terror Peaks from their temporary allies.”

Erick frowned.

“You, however, can feel free to do as you wish.” Kaffi added, “It would be reasonable for Erick Flatt’s Ophiel to show up after he has been called out as a Wizard. If you choose to pursue peace, I warn you to not expect much from Terror Peaks. Many of them are true believers of the light, and they feel certain ways about certain things. If they find a shadow collaborator in their own land, they have a tendency to enact a ‘three-fold ruling’, which is the execution of anyone three steps or less from the shadow collaborator. This fanaticism was why we banished them from the Highlands 300 years ago.” She said, “But the Church of Koyabez is reaching out to them today, anyway. I could direct you to them?”

Erick wanted to stand, and declare ‘Yes! I will talk to them and then go and prevent a war!’ but another, darker part of himself latched on to the ‘three-fold rule’ and the horrors of an enemy state that refused to die, which grew upon the backs of child soldiers, and which spread a doctrine of absolute hate against the enemy. In a normal Veird, if certain things had happened differently, if the Shades had killed Jane, or if they had pushed him into other parts of the world, and if he had met Terror Peaks in other circumstances… He might be their ally, right now.

In a Veird where Last Shadow’s Feast had not happened, and Shades still ruled, Erick might have gone to Terror Peaks, seeking allies against the Darkness. But today? Of all the thoughts circling in Erick’s mind, one stood out above the others: It didn’t matter if the shadelings of Candlepoint weren’t agents of shadow, Terror Peaks would never let those people live.

Terror Peaks would never believe that Erick wasn’t an agent of shadow, no matter what he had done.

As temporary emotions flared and died, and thoughts of a different Reality vanished like mist under harsh sun, cold rationality took hold, and Erick thought. His heart skipped a beat. He blinked. He breathed.

He looked away, and down, then back to Kaffi, and said, “I will pursue both paths to peace; through Koyabez’s church, and through my own actions as Erick. I doubt either will work, but I will try.” He added, “I also won’t promise to Image for anyone; not yet.”

But if Terror Peaks came after him, then…

Then he would make new plans.

“Understandable.” Kaffi said, “A desire for peace is an honorable emotion, but in this new world without Shades, people like Terror Peaks have no place, and they know this. So they will fight to the death, inventing shadows where there are none, and drawing others into their abysses of lies. Do not get drawn in.”

Erick frowned at Kaffi. “I appreciate the warnings, but do not take my appreciation for full acceptance of your words.”

Kaffi straightened. “Your castigation is acknowledged. I apologize for overstepping.” Kaffi bowed in her chair, then raised, and asked, “Shall we go to Koyabez’s temple?”

“I will go there on my own.”

Kaffi stood, and said, “Please be careful, Erick. I believe the Peace Envoy is leaving in an hour, at noon.”

- - - -

Erick did not head for Koyabez’s temple right away. He remained on the sixth floor of Southern House, waiting for Kaffi to leave. It didn’t take her long to get back to the temporary Teleport Square outside of the central pagoda. The meeting of Scions and otherwise was already over. The white Solid Ward inside the space was gone, and so were the people.

Erick turned to his people; to Poi and Teressa. “What do you two want to do?”

Teressa laughed a little, then said, “Whatever you choose is great by me!”

“Your choice is our choice.” Poi said, “But I’d advise us not to go to Terror Peaks, in person. I would have to strenuously counter such an idea if it were to come up.”

Erick asked, “What if the peace team from Koyabez plans on meeting the people from Terror Peaks in a neutral location?”

Teressa glanced to Poi, one of her eyebrows raised.

Poi glanced away from Teressa, back to Erick, saying, “You should not join this expedition. But we can certainly go and ask them for an impartial idea of Terror Peaks. And then we come back here, to a defensible location, surrounded by allies of convenience.”

Teressa eyed Poi, saying, “You could just tell us about Terror Peaks. Was Kaffi lying? She didn’t seem to be lying to me, but I’m no mind mage.”

Erick nodded, agreeing with all of that. He looked to Poi.

Poi sighed, then said, “Terror Peaks is fanatical and their inquisitors are worse. There were no lies in what Kaffi said, or at least there were no lies that she considered lies. It’s hard to read her, but I already asked about Terror Peaks long before she came here to talk, and everything she said matched up… with… what I...” His voice trailed off. He turned toward the west, toward Eralis.

The three of them watched as a fireball a kilometer across rose from a far part of the city, turning from white to red as it lifted into the sky. It was not a large spell, or effect, or whatever. The fireball was now little more than smoke on the horizon. Erick had stood, and found himself at the edge of the railing, at the edge of the [Sealed Privacy Ward], with a hand outside of the space. He questioned the Ophiel still high in the sky.

The target had been a collection of buildings, according to Ophiel; a central cathedral, and a few surrounding structures. The fireball had been large enough to blacken everything, but only the central location was completely gone.

“That was the Church of Koyabez.” Poi stood beside him. A few of his tendrils of thought were wiggling past the edge of the privacy. “Quick estimations have it at 350 dead. More injured.”

With growing rage in his heart, Erick whispered, “Okay.”

He went to help—

He stopped.

He watched as Eralis responded to its own problems.

Guards spilled from booths and stations. Fires were put out. Stone flowed away from ruins, revealing injured people who were then healed by guards who trained for this sort of thing. Erick would have gotten in the way.

Right.

He was currently superfluous. So he did what he could do in a situation like this: He made a spell, in order to prepare for what was to come. He channeled his normal, white mana through [Treat Wounds] in one hand, and [Regeneration] in the other. Ophiels gathered around, helping him to pick apart the spellwork.

The sounds of complicated healing rose to a crescendo. In a strange flow that was similar to how Elder Ari had described it two days ago, Erick heard the ‘lock’ of [Treat Wounds] crumble open when exposed to the ‘key’ of [Regeneration]. A bit of his soul bloomed where yesterday, it had broken. A rift healed over.

A blue box vanished.

Treat Wounds X, instant, touch, 100 mana

Heal the injuries of the target. Increase the natural healing of the target for a while. Increases Health Regeneration. Effect breaks if damage is incurred.

Another blue box appeared in its place.

Greater Treat Wounds 1, instant, touch, 250 mana

Greatly heal the injuries of the target. Greatly increase the natural healing of the target for one full day. Greatly increases Health Regeneration. Effect breaks if damage is incurred.

It took almost a minute to level [Greater Treat Wounds] to level X. Erick just cast the spell from one Ophiel to another Ophiel. While he cast, he considered his options. When his new spell was completely leveled, Erick changed who he was, and had an idea.

Ezekiel asked Tiffany, “So? Have you tried prognostication yet?”

Tiffany frowned. “Haven’t gotten far with it. Not in any useful way. What are you thinking?”

“According to Redarrow’s notes, Treehome might have the best prognosticators in the world, but places like this, and like Terror Peaks, will have lesser fortune tellers. There’s bound to be counter-prognostication going on in a situation like this, with both sides capable of seeing the large attacks, so I doubt we’ll get much warning, but any warning at all would be good.”

“I think you’re giving them way too much credit, Boss. A church was attacked right in front of us.”

“Not just that church.” Paul said, “Every church of Koyabez in Songli, all at the same time.”

Ezekiel’s heart sunk.

Tiffany frowned, then said, “Only Redarrow is capable of good counter-prognostication. I doubt that the fortune telling around here amounts to more than throwing runes and reading the random outcome. But I will do this.”

“… Thank you.”

