Raidu’s woman leveled a spear at Erick’s lightform. The spear turned to flames, then the woman launched herself at Erick.

He was in absolutely no danger. The magic of the spear was minuscule. The woman was barely buffed up. Erick let it happen. He held Ophiel's [Animadversion] back, too, so that the woman didn’t explode herself in her own fake zealotry.

Erick, Raidu, the entire audience, watched the woman attack.

The woman burst into scattered light the instant her spear touched the [Prismatic Ward] that defended Erick’s lightform. It was as though she had exploded away…. Because she had?

Huh?

Red mist, burned flesh, and sliced bones scattered in the air.

She… She killed herself?

Is that… Is that what happened?

“Murderer!” exclaimed a man, right on cue. “Murdering Wizard!”

Erick was still trying to process what he had seen.

His first instinct was that this was some sort of [Teleport] farce. But he had [Soul Sight] running. Through [Soul Sight], he watched as the woman’s soul broke apart and vanished from where she had been. She had not done some odd [Teleport]-like effect. She had truly killed herself.

That had actually happened.

Erick shivered, but he was not so deep in revulsion that he didn’t recognize when a new person [Teleport]ed into the nearby air.

The newcomer was a man in flowing red robes, hovering a hundred meters from Ophiel. Erick recognized him. Everyone did. The chanting stopped, as Patriarch Xangu took the field. He was the man who claimed credit for the attack on Koyabez’s temples.

Xangu’s voice filled the world, “The Wizard has shown his true nature. He is aligned with Shadow and Darkness.” A spear appeared in Xangu’s right hand. It was a thin thing of craggy metal and a single brittle point, but it was also a solid-red brightness upon the manasphere, filled with enough power to drown out everything else in the sky. A second passed, and suddenly, Erick felt fear. He watched, transfixed, as that red brightness turned to white, but not just any white. It was his own color. It was the exact shade of white as his own soul. Xangu declared, “And thus, the sentence is duly passed.”

Xangu didn’t point with the spear, or move the artifact at all. It moved in the manasphere, becoming a Forest-tree-sized weapon of a thousand, thousand points, each curving through the mana without care for the physical, each trained on its target: Erick’s soul.

The singular weapon struck each Ophiel as though it was aimed from every angle.

The spear popped [Prismatic Ward]s. It drank in the light of [Lodestar] and [Greater Lightwalk]. A handful of spear points reflected upon [Animadversion], but the vast majority got through, into the soul of Ophiel—

And then further.

Erick had already retreated from his [Familiar], back into his own body.

The spears followed.
