Raidu exclaimed, “He doesn’t deny it! Do you see?! He is working with Darkness! He is a Wizard, and if you allow him to sway your hearts, the Darkness will win! Already Holorulo tries to sway the Headwater Clans of the Warzhi River with words that are a little too knowledgeable, and with promises of relief from the Elixir! Already Songli is expanding down the Peninsula south of Eralis, killing thousands of innocent Clans! Songstresses have destroyed the scattered Clans north of our homeland of Terror Peaks, and they continue to prevent proper monster farming of the South Central Tribulation Mountains!” Raidu said, “Songli is an Abyss, swallowing all, and making them weak to the Darkness! Everyone knows that Shades openly walk in the streets, and that the Highlands only exist because the Shades allow it! They’ve had their summer homes there for a long time, but now that their destroyed city has become yet another lie of Melemizargo, to delude the rest of the world into believing what he wants you to believe, they’re living in their summer home, permanently!” As though driving a nail in a coffin, Raidu declared, “And let us not forget Candlepoint! A new home for shadows! UNDER THE CONTROL OF ERICK FLATT!”

Back in Eralis, in the Southern House, Erick stared out the window, and hated, just a little bit deeper.

He spoke through his sunform Ophiel, “Stop killing civilians.”

Raidu exclaimed, “We must be vigilant, now more than ever before, because Melemizargo has never been this devious. World Trees grow under darkened waters, while a second option of the Dark God grows on storm-tossed shores, under the auspices of a goddess that has always been closer to shadow than all the rest! Shades have abandoned their city, to make their marks openly upon a world that has been deluded into thinking that most of them are dead! Wizards subvert the natural order, creating Particles and…”

The man ranted. Erick couldn’t listen to it anymore, so he tuned it out. Soon enough, the man hit a lull, expecting a continuation of their ‘conversation’.

Erick merely said, “Stop killing civilians.”

Raidu’s eyebrows twitched, but he kept it under control, and he ranted again.

Ideally, Erick should have shut down the man with a rant of his own. Letting the opposition speak without interruption would only lead to the opposition ‘winning’ the ‘argument’. But he couldn’t control his anger to that degree. He couldn’t muster up the desire to yell over the enemy like that.

And, almost more importantly, he had already said his piece; he didn’t want to be the guy who always had to outsmart the opponent, for there were some opponents that could not be outsmarted, simply because they weren’t playing with a level field. This dude certainly wasn’t.

At the next lull in Raidu’s rant, Erick decided to speak a little more than before.

“I don’t have all the answers you’re looking for, but if you’re looking for war, then come at me, directly. Don’t involve others. That’s rather cowardly.” Erick said, “Strike me down if you wish for war, otherwise kindly go away, and stop killing civilians.”

Raidu said, “And now he threatens when he cannot convince! Such is the surest sign of Evil, because—”

Erick had a fourth Ophiel, in just a normal lightform, lightstep in and expand the other aura he had running: his [Physical Domain]. From one second to the next, in an expert control of aura, Discord held the sky around Raidu, silencing him completely.

Erick felt a perverse rush of pure satisfaction as Raidu ranted for three more seconds, before he realized something was wrong, and then he yelled louder. Erick almost laughed. He really, really, wanted to. But he did not. As Raidu roared in impotence beyond his silencing effect, Erick spoke to the gathered, suddenly-more-wary crowd, “I have merely silenced the man. This is not an act of aggression, but of procedure. I might not know all of you, but I welcome open discourse. I welcome the honest exchange of ideas, with equal time given to both sides, as long as both sides are equal in nature.

“You wouldn’t give a murderer the same time to talk about murdering as you would the headsman about what needed to be done about the murderer, would you? Under such an understanding, I feel I have given a murderer of priests more than ample opportunity to speak of truth, but all he speaks of is zealotry. I cannot, in good conscience, abide by Raidu’s continued zealotry. If Raidu’s zealotry doesn’t get him dead, it will surely result in the deaths of millions. I don’t care what this man does with his own life, but I do care about what he does to other people. I don’t think Raidu cares about anyone else but himself, and his own goals. He’ll send you to your deaths, for sure, just like he sent those hundred soldiers last night to their deaths! And then, when he didn’t win? He broke war protocol!

“He could have told Koyabez to piss off, but he didn’t do that, did he? No. He murdered priests because he needs this war. I’m not sure why he needs this war so much, but he’s doing everything he can to get it. Maybe you should ask yourself why. That’s what I’m doing right now, and all the answers I can think of are not good ones. Whatever the case, he’s certainly not looking out for you. From what I hear, Terror Peaks will start a war, and lose, but they won’t lose their major forces. Nope! You’ll lose yours, instead! Your sons. Your daughters. Your wives and husbands! Like cows to the slaughter, all for the good of Terror Peaks, and only Terror Peaks! That’s for sure.”

It didn’t take Raidu long to understand that no one heard him, no matter how loudly he yelled. But Raidu did not attack the source of his silence. He blipped to the left, which was not fast enough to escape Erick. Discord followed the man like a bubble reappearing.

Erick continued his speech.

Was literally silencing the man the best method to deal with him? No.

Was killing Raidu the best option? … Maybe. But also, likely not. Especially with the audience looking unsure. Koyabez had spoken of world war. Now that Erick had a good bit of distance from that conversation, and now that he saw the lay of some of the forces arrayed against him, he knew that a world war was inevitable.

The end of Ar’Kendrithyst could only ever mean one thing, and this right here was merely the loudest, first true hint of that eventual world war.

And that meant that Erick was never going to draw first blood. That would make all these fence-sitters flow into the opposition. Striking the first blow would make Raidu’s forces stronger, which was probably what Raidu was hoping for.

… This was, of course, discounting the option where Erick hunted and murdered every single opposition leader who would ever stand against him. He could do that…

He would never do that. He would never let this war get that far.

So what the fuck was Raidu waiting for? Destroy his Ophiel already, and be destroyed in return! Erick might not be willing to put down every murderer on Veird, but one nation? Sure. He could do that.

If they pushed him again.

They had already pushed him pretty fucking far.

Even if he wasn’t personally impacted by any of the deaths he had seen today, he wasn’t ever going to turn his back on obvious injustice.

As silence stretched and Raidu never advanced against Ophiel, it seemed Raidu wasn’t going to strike first either. It seemed like he was waiting for something else to happen. Perhaps an attack on Eralis while Erick was occupied in this ‘conversation’? In that case, the joke was on him. This right here? Keeping Raidu’s dishonest voice silenced? This took barely any effort at all.

Erick raised his voice, flexing his [Physical Domain] into sound to fill the sky, speaking toward the scattered groups of non-Terror Peaks forces that floated all around, and waited on the roofs of the city below, “If anyone has any questions they would like to ask, to ensure that I am not the monster you believe me to be, please approach. I will not attack, and I will attempt to answer your questions to the best of my ability.”

For three long seconds, silence filled the sky. Raidu had stopped trying to escape Erick’s [Physical Domain], and now he just watched, though tendrils of thought betrayed that he was speaking to at least a few people. Others in the scattered audience also spoke to others through telepathic signals. Some whispered to their compatriots, but not many. There were about 325 people in the air, though that number fluctuated as some people left, and others appeared.

“I have a question!” came a bright voice from the lightning wolf; Shendeng, the archmage Rain Mage.

The gathering turned to the [Familiar] as the lightning wolf padded closer to Erick, tiny storm clouds appearing wherever the wolf touched the sky. His archmage wife’s [Spear Familiar] followed closely at the wolf’s side. Though Erick had no idea what the wife’s Class of Fulmination Spear meant, exactly, he had some ideas. Shendeng was the storm, but Xida was the lightning.

The lightning wolf stopped 25 meters from the map, and from Ophiel. With perfect calm, Shendeng asked, “How did you steal my Rain Magic?”

Uh?

Erick startled, and it showed on his projection. “Uh? … What?”

“I have no problem with some competitive theft among fellow archmages, but I had considered my fortress unknown and impregnable.” Shengdeng said, “Tell me what methods you used and how you discovered where I lived, and I and my Xida will ignore this war thing which we have been drawn into. Consider it a bit of reciprocal courtesy. I will also ignore that you have flaunted my methods to the rabble of the world, which I believe is more than fair; it’s positively magnanimous.” He added, “We only took this war option because from what we heard, you did not seem like a reasonable sort of man. Obviously, this was a lie. So. Tell me now how you stole from me. How did you manage it?”

Erick almost listed every single reason why Shendeng’s claims were completely baseless, from the fact that Erick had never heard of the man before an hour ago, to the fact that Particle Magic did not exist before Erick came along, but he quickly recognized that his conversation was a minefiel— No. Wait. This conversation was not a minefield. This was a single landmine, and Erick had already stepped on it. There was not a single thing he could say to prove his innocence, for Shendeng had already exploded. The [Familiar] gave away none of the turmoil and vitriol of the archmage on the other side, but it was there, for sure.

Well fine.

Fuck ‘em!

— No! No no. No.

Let’s step back a bit.

Erick tried, “Why do you feel that I stole your magic?”

The lightning wolf eyed Erick’s light projection. “You know why.”

So that was a non-starter. Okay.

Erick tried, “[Call Lightning] was the first spell I made. The rest flowed from there. Rain was a byproduct which I expanded upon afterward. All I know is that you’re a Rain Mage, so… I’m not sure what to tell you. Rain was just a happy accident of my own spellwork. I’m sorry. I cannot help you in this.”

Shendeng said, “Just admit it was Goldie, the Shade of Assassination. She got in here and she gave you my spellwork. It’s why she’s still alive and Blessed by you while all the rest are dead. It’s why she’s running around setting notes on pillows, threatening the release of even more secrets unless we cooperate with Melemizargo’s plans for peace and prosperity.”

Erick sighed.

He didn’t know much about any of that. But...

Erick asked, “Is she actually doing that?”

“Yes!” Shendeng said, “And since Songli is working with her, then Songli needs to die!”

“How about this: I will find her and stop whatever she is doing. I found her once, I can probably do it again. Finding people is not hard for me; and that is my own magic, completely.” So even if I did want your fucking magic then I could probably just find you and take it you pompous… Erick didn’t say that. Instead, Erick asked, “Will that be acceptable? No more of your secrets will spill out into the world. Or at least not through Goldie.”

The lightning wolf stared for a long moment. Then, he said, “Not my preferred outcome, but it is more acceptable than working with priest-killers and civilian murderers.” He paused, then let out a sudden laugh, and said, “A pet Shade on a leash!” More seriously, he added, “And they won’t turn on you if you make them slaves. A fitting punishment if I ever heard one.” The wolf retreated, adding, “I demand satisfaction soon, Archmage Flatt! Or else I will work with these priest killers even though it pains me! We cannot have Shades moving in the shadows of Songli. You might not have known they were doing this, but it’s a bad look for you either way.”

Erick had a very, very low opinion of Shendeng, but he kept that opinion to himself. Instead, he said, “I will need time to find her and inform her of my displeasure, and to investigate all of the new information I have received today. How about no one do any war for a month, and we revisit this problem then? We can even get a priest of Koyabez to erect a [Zone of Peace] in the talks, so that no one can cast any harmful spells at each other.”

Many of the gathered people seemed to approve of the idea; it was written on the relaxation of faces, and in the loosening of shoulders, and fists. But just as fast, the other people, the ones from Terror Peaks, went hard. Raidu was still behind a bubble, but the other ones weren’t. They made their opinions known.

“Shades have always walked the streets of Songli! You all know this!” The speaker was a woman who was at Raidu’s side, but far enough away to not be in the same bubble of Discord. Erick didn’t want to trap her when she hadn’t spoken until now. She shouted, “Erick controls the Shades! He admitted as much! He is an agent of Melemizargo!”

Another one, on the other side of the sky, yelled, “Don’t be taken in by the Wizards words! My clansman! Don’t fall for his lies!”

Raidu’s woman yelled, “He has all the New Stats!” She gasped, as though in realization; an act. She was a terrible actor, though. “He has Charisma! The Wizard has Charisma!”

That single word sent a ripple of change through the audience. Many backed away.

“Shield your mind!” a Terror Peaks clansman yelled.

Another yelled, “Kill the Wizard!”

And just like that, as though it was planned, for it likely was… There was a chant. One voice was joined by three, then by ten. Not everyone who chanted wore the style of armor of Terror Peaks, but half did.

“Kill the Wizard! Kill the Wizard! Kill the Wizard!”

