Tiffany said, “If I’m not [Future Sight]ing all the time, there are going to be holes in the visions. There’s only one of me, so it might not work out that well.”

“This is true, and you should have your mana sense active whenever you can, but we’re in an odd situation here.” Ezekiel said, “With this Worldly Path, you might get lucky.”

Tiffany startled. “Ah. I see.”

Ezekiel glanced downstairs with his mana sense and his Odin, and said, “And now it’s time to put away this privacy. Got clansmen looking this way at the obvious-security-problem, and Hangzi is back.”

With a wave, the [Sealed Privacy Ward] popped, revealing the three of them. The clansmen who had been watching from the central pagoda stopped caring, now that they could see there was nothing special happening here.

- - - -

Ezekiel stood at the railing of the fourth floor, gazing downward to the third. He watched as Scion Hangzi stepped up the stairs. As if sensing eyes on him, or maybe due to the guards with him whispering about Ezekiel’s presence above, the young man turned his face upward. The two Scions locked gazes.

Ezekiel said, “I was thinking about joining Koyabez’s Peace Envoy to stop this war before it truly began. Now I’m not sure what I’m doing. Need help with something?”

Hangzi blinked, once. Then he rapidly said, “The mana sense blocking spell for my brother, eventually, but all that is necessary at the moment is for you to assist with Clan Star Song’s defenses, and in particular, the defense of Southern House. The duration of this assistance will last until the end of this war. Might be days, or weeks.”

Ezekiel nodded, slowly. He asked, “What is going to happen next?”

“They will attempt assassinations. We will retaliate in kind. Have you investigated Terror Peaks with your [Familiar]?” Hangzi quickly asked, “Would you be interested in assassinating some of them? I’m sure you could do it easily enough, and there is little they could do to stop you if you stay away from certain people, of which I can brief you upon before you go.”

“I will do what I can to protect this space.”

Hangzi hid most of his disappointment, but not all. “The attack at Koyabez’s temple was not a singular incident. Every major Koyabez temple in the Highlands was hit at the same time. Terror Peaks is saying that the God of Peace has Darkened, and joined with Melemizargo, so they’re purging everyone that has a Silver Star, or prays to Koyabez. So far, the death toll is at 7800 people, all in the last hour.” He stared at Ezekiel, asking, “Does this change your mind?”

If he hadn’t been holding onto the railing, Ezekiel would have collapsed to his knees. Three heartbeats later, his anger finally bloomed. He sighed out, and said, “Yes, but not in the way you imagine.” He walked away, into his rooms.

Down below, Hangzi stayed at the stairs for a moment longer, then walked into his office.

Ezekiel briefly watched as Hangzi reunited with Yorza and Warzi, but Ezekiel had other people to concern himself with at the moment.

For the first time in a while, Erick prayed.

- - - -

Weightless.

Directionless.

But then, substance.

Down. His feet touched a solid surface.

Erick opened his eyes. He stood upon a dusty silver land that stretched to the horizon in every direction. The sky was black and full of stars, except for a pink moon to the right, a white moon to the left, and Veird, hanging above. Erick’s current home was illuminated like a crescent moon, of blue, green, and white. Small lights brightened some of the darkness, but mostly, the dark overwhelmed.

There was Spur, in the middle of Glaquin, along with two spots of illumination in Ar’Kendrithyst. There was Kal’Duresh off to the west. Frontier seemed dimmer than it should have been, but there were lights there, too. Erick hadn’t looked upon that land for a while, for Silverite had told him to stay away, and he honored that request.

A presence stepped down onto the silver sand beside Erick.

Koyabez.

He was the same lanky violet-skinned demi that he had always been. He wore a loincloth that barely hid anything, while small horns poked out of wavy hair.

Koyabez’s voice was peaceful. “Hello, Erick.”

“Hello, Koyabez,” Erick said. “I saw some tragedies today.”

“You saw the barest bit.” Koyabez spoke without rancor, though his choice of words seemed otherwise, “Terror Peaks has purposefully destroyed all of the normal paths to peace. With this action, it is all but certain that Nelboor will have another Continent War. The last one was 125 years ago, and that war claimed 53 million souls. Back then, there were 400 million people on Veird. Today, we have 550 million. I suspect this new war will be larger than the last. Much larger.”

Erick felt a weight. “Is there a way to stop this war?”

Koyabez said, “The only reason that the Continent War ended was because it interfered with the plans of the Shades. Now, there are no Shades.”

The weight increased.

With a slight desperate edge to his voice Erick said, “So there’s a chance to end this.”

Koyabez turned sad eyes to Erick. Tears fell. He said, “The option you imagine is always an option for people of your power.” His tears dried, as though they had never happened. Hard-edged, he stared at Veird. “But make no mistake: Murdering the opposition is not the only way.” He said, “But sometimes, the only path to True Peace is through removing the causes of a war, one way or the other.”

For a long moment, no one said anything.

And then Erick said, “I’m still having trouble, mentally, seeing that a God of Peace is willing to kill and go to war to prevent greater tragedies. I did not understand this about you before… Even when Silverite spoke of the Black Order, it still hadn't sunk in. I think my problem was with how you spoke of the Shades, back when I came to you that one time.”

“I have to consider timelines larger than most people; especially angry archmages.” With a sad smile, Koyabez said, “I’ve been helping people against the Shades ever since the Sundering, when they became corrupted by Melemizargo’s insanity. My people led the fight against Ar’Kendrithyst for the longest time. Silverite was there, killing Shades as best she could. But...

“But after the Great Purge of Spur, for the last hundred years the Shades stopped raising any more of their kind, and so I pulled back from my normal aggression.” He said, “And now we’re here, in this place, where zealots of small nations are scared and banding together, becoming major threats to the rest of the world. It’s the power vacuum left by the removal of Ar’Kendrithyst; it tempts people, and when enough people are tempted, someone falls, and to borrow a term from Earth, the dominoes start falling. This is the opening act of a much larger event, Erick; one with possible outcomes far beyond what we can see.”

Erick felt Koyabez’s words in his soul, as he gazed up at Veird. The planet looked so peaceful, up there in the sky. Of course, it was anything but.

Erick asked, “Got any thoughts on using this Crystal Star against the people of Terror Peaks? Or against anyone else?”

“I only have one observation to share with you, to ease your own choice, but it is your choice, Erick. Not mine. The choice of how to enact justice is always in the hands of the living. But everyone touched by the Crystal Star no longer fights. They choose something else out of life. Most have chosen to help their fellow people in one way or another.

“To make homes out of desolation. To clear souls of corruption. To plead for forgiveness, and have it denied, and in some cases, allowed. To teach magic. To raise new life, in order to restore that which they have damaged. To aid those who plot toward peaceful power.

“To counter-assassinate, but in only the broadest sense of the term.

“For even the assassin isn’t killing anyone anymore. It is too painful. As they had once broken others using much more vile methods, you have broken them in return, and they will never recover who they used to be. Instead, they will do what they can to undo the damage that they have done.

“They will never purposefully strike down another life. This is their fate. This is their burden.

“You can do this to anyone you meet.

“Some deserve this fate. Others do not. And so, in order to separate one from the other, perhaps there is only one facet of this argument that truly bears weight:

“If you break every warrior in the world, then who will fight the monsters?”

A profound moment passed.

Erick and Koyabez watched Veird turn, as the full weight of Koyabez’s divorced perspective unfolded for Erick, and he understood what the god meant. There were no real morals to the argument for the use of the Crystal Star, were there?

This ‘Chelation War’ was temporary. Wars between people came and went. But the war between monsters and everything else would never end. In dealing with the wars of people, one must always consider the loss of life, and what it meant for fighting back the monsters.

“How many people directly died in that Continental War you mentioned?”

“Several thousand key people dead, due to assassinations. 5 million in population centers, due to massed attacks. 48 million due to failures of civilization, and over the course of the next ten years, before stability returned with the next generation rising from the ashes.”

“You know…” Erick said, “I didn’t consider that as a reason for Peace. I really should have.”

“You considered the fact that peace means prosperity. This was not wrong thinking.” Koyabez smiled, gently and full of divine love, and said, “You’re not part of the clergy. Knowing this other truth is not expected of you.”

“I should have considered this aspect, though.” Erick said, “And I should have considered this reasoning as a simple answer to the question of the Crystal Star. I was just blind, for some reason. Thank you for your help in understanding.”

Koyabez said, “That’s why we gods are here; to help.” He lost the quiet joy on his face, and turned to cold acceptance, as he said, “Good luck, Erick. The rest of us will need it.”

Erick blinked.

- - - -

He blinked again, and Ezekiel was back in his chair, in his room at the Southern House, under the safety of his [Prismatic Ward]. Tiffany sat on the other side of the room, reading, as she mana sensed the world around them. Paul was talking to people through [Telepathy].

Ezekiel looked to Paul, and considered how to explain that he was going to start using the Crystal Star, if needed.

Paul looked to him. He opened his mouth, but then he snapped shut, and turned to Tiffany.

Tiffany jerked her head up and around, coming out of her [Future Sight], sudden worry on her features as she yelled, “Attack from the south! Big! Caustic!”

Not even a moment of peace. Well fine then.

Ezekiel’s heart beat hard, and then he calmed as [Hunter’s Instincts] flowed through his veins.

Paul began sending out Tiffany’s warning, the tendrils around his head multiplying from three to dozens. Ezekiel sent instructions to Odin, who twittered in an orchestral understanding, each of him unleashing their sunforms. Brilliant magenta bubbles scattered across the skies, inside the room, and outside, sitting on the trees here and there.

Downstairs, Hangzi was in his office. He startled three seconds after Ezekiel had already started moving. The Scion of Devouring Nightmare began yelling at people to get defenses up and active. Everywhere Odin looked, people began to move. The warning had gotten out, but it would never have been fast enough.

A [Gate] opened to the south, maybe a kilometer away, in the center of the Alluvial District. It was lined in white. An orb of metal came out of the [Gate]. It was three meters across, dark silver, and resembled a globe. And the [Gate] closed. The entire action had taken less than a second.

A magenta sunform Odin still reached the orb in time.

Contact with the metal disrupted magenta light —radioactive— but not fully; not with the power of a Domain backing up [Greater Lightwalk]. It was a bomb. A massive bomb, charged to explode, but it couldn’t have gotten through the [Gate] if it was lead. Indeed, the Odin on site mana sensed through the whole structure, and saw no dead spaces that denoted antirhine. He just saw a lot of dense spellwork, and a heavily enchanted item.

Ezekiel didn’t bother looking too deeply, though.

Odin lightstepped the bomb out of the Alluvial District, toward the north, dripping pieces of the weapon all the wa—

Twenty three kilometers north of the Alluvial District, near the coast of the Wanzhi River, the grenade exploded. It was not an atomic bomb. Ezekiel had panicked for a good moment in the middle of transportation, wondering if the gods had lied to him all this time, thinking that maybe atomic magic was real, and was possible, and that now he had to account for all of that shit.

And also that he was very dead if it was an atomic bomb, anyway.

But.

No.

It wasn’t an atomic bomb. It was a dirty bomb.

Green and white light flared from within the remains of the three-meter wide grenade. The weapon exploded into a flashing bright orb that burned and scattered, and Decayed the world with Extreme Light. Odin vanished under the onslaught of magic-killing magic. The radioactive materials spread on the shockwave.

The initial blast was a fireball half a kilometer wide. But the shockwave expanded radiation out to wherever the light touched. In moments, the fallout of the weapon began to rain upon the land, exposing pieces of the land to radioactive effects. It wasn’t an antirhine bomb, but it was the next best thing.

Ezekiel moved another Odin to the blast site, but three kilometers out, Odin’s sunform was already twice as bright on the leading edge, where radiation ate away at spellwork. He couldn’t see shit. He didn’t really need to, anyway. The blast was outside of the Alluvial District. If the bomb had exploded in the air, where it had appeared, and where it had been set to explode, that radiation would now be covering the entirety of the Alluvial District. Defenses would go down, and they’d stay down for some unknowable length of time.

