Erick would find out soon enough. Back in the Alluvial District, where the grenade pieces had fallen, those pieces broke the magic they touched. The white road of the Alluvial District was darkened for ten meters from where a single square of radioactive shrapnel had fallen. Half a Domain of Fire around one of the nearby Clan Mountains was now gone where a trio of pieces had struck. A similar scene played out all along the path that Odin had taken to get out of the district as fast as he could, for pieces had fallen from the weapon all along the way.

Ezekiel sat up in his chair and conjured another Odin. Was that the entirety of Terror Peaks’ attack? It might have been. Tiffany was sitting down in a nearby chair, her eyes glazed over as she sought to view the future. Paul was not sitting. He paced, with twenty tendrils of thought swirling around his head.

Ezekiel asked Paul, “What’s next?”

Paul startled, and looked to him. “There’s no consensus.”

“Did Terror Peaks send that dirty bomb?”

“I’m asking, I’m as— They have not yet claimed credit.” Paul added, “But they have officially claimed credit against the Temples of Koyabez, and we… We feel that this bomb was the work of Terror Peaks; yes. If it had worked, they would be claiming credit for this, too. They’d likely be attacking right now, as well.”

Ezekiel leveled his gaze at the man. “What kind of credit claims did they put forth about the temples?”

“It just went out; timed to the explosion of this bomb. [Viewing Screen]s here and there around Eralis, Alaralti, Holorulo, and many of the cities outside of the main three. Wherever they destroyed a temple. So far, seven major temples have been destroyed. 1700 dead.”

Ezekiel said, “I want to see it.”

Paul nodded.

- - - -

Ezekiel stood in a town square somewhere. Not inside Eralis, but close.

A smoking crater laid ahead, maybe a hundred meters across. People cried out all around, but most of them were out of sight. The viewer of the scene also cried. Ezekiel couldn’t move his eyes to look around. All he could do was watch the burning crater before him.

Suddenly, a flat pane of Force materialized above.

The viewer looked up, and Ezekiel looked up with them.

Images appeared.

Ezekiel recognized Raidu from yesterday, but the Scion of Terror Peaks was not center screen. He stood to the left. A woman in a red dress was also not center screen; she stood to the right. The man in the middle was old, perhaps in his eighties, but in the red robes of his office, he looked like a proper dictator. The vision supplied the man’s name as Patriarch Xangu.

With fire and power, Xangu announced, “Repent, sinners of Songli! You have trafficked with Darkness for too long, and it has corrupted you! You have allowed the corruption of your Temples of Peace! And so, your priests have been sent to their god, to atone for their sins. The Darkness has corrupted your casters into accepting his Wizard Flatt’s Particle Magic as the way of the world! You attempt to turn antirhine into power! And worst of all! You have kept your people weak in the face of the danger of the Darkness, as you have always done! For ALL OF THIS! You must atone in blood and fire! Repent and die, and find the truth of your vile nature in the arms of the gods!”

The screen vanished.

- - - -

Ezekiel came back to himself.

A dark fury held in his chest. A need to destroy.

He hadn’t been sure of where he stood, before now. It was all so divorced, wasn’t it? Sudden, and different. Like seeing a fireball on the horizon. What did that really mean? Nothing good, but it was all the way over there. Wasn’t affecting him at that particular moment.

And yet...

He didn’t know what he was going to do about any of it; not really. Run? Hide? Help? Pray it all blew over and that the politicians handled it? But, no. Those solutions would not work. They never worked.

And Ezekiel knew this.

Back when he had no power at all, back on Earth, he was persistent with phone calls and filing paperwork and getting people to come to the table. He was persistently friendly, too. Or at least he tried to be. Maybe that was just the past playing tricks on his thoughts, but Ezekiel helped people as much as he could. Even here, on Veird, he tried to help as much as he could, too.

And his ability to help had magnified, a million fold.

All of that meant that he was in a certain position in the world. He had tried to deny it, to go incognito for a while, but he had ended up here at Clan Star Song anyway. He had responsibilities to his power, and to his ability, and to use what he had to help others as best he could.

He did not want to get involved in this fight, for it was not his fight.

Except it was his fight.

They were calling him a Wizard. Did it matter if that was true? No. And besides: he wasn’t a Wizard. The only ones who called him such were gods, and they hardly counted… Right? What did gods know! Nothing! The goddess of Knowledge was dead, after all.

This was his fight because Terror Peaks had made it about him.

And Ezekiel was going to win it.

Ruthlessly and immediately, as Terror Peaks had tried to do—

… No.

He’d give them one chance.

Yes.

One chance.

Erick was, after all, still himself.

- - - -

The cities of Terror Peaks were not hard to find. One major location sat just beyond the South Central Tribulations, while more laid on the horizon. This nearest city was like a castle, expanded out thirty kilometers in diameter, with firebreaks between each major housing block and not a single location looking more important than any place else. The city was a study in wartime preparation. Solid red banners hung from every rooftop, curling in the wind. Doors were shut and barred. Barricades filled every street, while the gates were closed and barred with thick metal.

Every building looked like stone, but the material here was called ‘Flowstone’, according to what Erick had overheard. Erick suspected the structures here were anything but stone. These cities were ‘grown’ like the clan mountains of Eralis, for sure. Terror Peaks did get its start in Songli.

Not a single person was out on the streets, but the buildings were filled with warriors ready to attack. Even the mothers were prepared to fight, though Erick could only tell the mothers apart from other warriors in red because of the toddlers on their hips, or in the room with them, or in carriers on their backs. Everyone was human, though. Fully human. Which was odd. The Highlands had lots of demis, but maybe they were the only nation like that? Perhaps there was some Quiet War shit going on here, but Erick had not heard of such casus belli in any of the proclamations for war.

But also: it wasn’t called the Quiet War for nothing.

All in all, Erick saw several good landing zones in that first city place. A market that was empty of buyers or sellers. Courtyards. Fountain squares.

If Erick didn’t know much about this place, he would have thought them a prosperous, nice society. A bit austere, perhaps, for there were little decorations anywhere. Ah. Wait. There was a nice mosaic of a woman killing a monster on that wall. And the geometric designs of that fountain over there were well done. There wasn’t much wealth on display, though…

Ah. Erick noticed, now.

There was no wealth on display. There was nothing truly beautiful anywhere. This city was built for war, and thus, everyone there expected to die.

He had seen enough. He passed the city over.

Well… Ophiel passed it over. Erick was not there in person. Ophiel wasn’t looking like ‘Odin’, either. He was resplendent in his full form, of three dozen hard-edged wings, three times as many eyes, and glowing as bright as a second sun. He was vaguely surrounded by a [Prismatic Ward], cast onto a bit of wood and held inside his body, just to allow him to Rest, so he’d be at full mana the whole time.

From several kilometers up, Ophiel followed one of the main roads leading out of the first city, lightstepping quickly to hover over a second city that looked the same as the first. A second and third Ophiel joined the first, each of them running their own sets of spellwork.

Erick passed the second city, and then arrived at the third, for this one still had people outside, and it looked nicer. More murals. More fountains. Still no wealth anywhere, though.

… No wealth anywhere.

People walked through markets, taking what they needed from stalls and vendors. No money exchanged hands. No guards stood by, goading anyone into selling anything they didn’t want to sell. The ‘sellers’ were all old men and old women, while the ‘buyers’ were younger.

A young boy took an apple from a vendor’s stall and lost a hand for it. Snick-crack went the boy’s mother’s knife, and the hand fell to the ground. The mother started to reprimand the kid, and such a harsh reprimand likely would have gotten a lot further, but people started to see the three Ophiel hanging in the sky. The kid grabbed his own hand as the mother raced away from the open market, to get under cover. Apples and sausages and more went tumbling to the ground as people rushed out of the market with rapid, yet oddly orderly manners. It was as though they had all trained their whole lives for situations like this.

According to what Erick had heard, they had.

From three kilometers above the city, Erick cast [Cascade Imaging], targeting Scion Raidu.

The map began to populate.

It took a minute.

Down below, the city transformed into wartime readiness. Bars went over doors. Windows got shuttered. No [Ward]s though, strangely enough. Erick tracked the boy who lost his hand for a little while, but then someone cast a [Regeneration] on the boy, or perhaps it was A Child’s Protection activating, and by then, Erick had other concerns.

Four red-armored soldiers had appeared in the center of the city. They ascended toward Ophiel, and the map. One of them was Raidu, according to the blue dot that followed in sync.

Erick had his lead Ophiel shift his sunform into a copy of Erick, himself, as he stood back in his room in the Southern House. As Erick moved, the sunform moved. There were a few feathers and wings left in the skin and clothes of the resulting ‘illusion’, but only because Erick wished it so. He thought it a nice effect, if only to throw the scent off his own, real form, even though they had to know what he truly looked like.

Raidu and his three followers hovered to level with the map, keeping about 50 meters distant. Others blipped into the area, but kept far away. These extra people were mostly red-armored soldiers that were hard to differentiate from each other. A few people wore red robes, leaving their faces exposed, though Erick had no idea who those people were. And then people who were not obviously from Terror Peaks began to appear, though to a casual observer, they might be confused; they wore red armor, but of clearly different styles than Terror Peaks uniform style. At a quick count, Erick spied a good dozen extra groups of people not directly affiliated with Terror Peaks.

The archmage [Familiar]s that Kaffi spoke about, the lightning wolf and the floating spear, appeared after everyone else had already arrived, but they kept more distant than the rest.

As though waiting for the archmages to appear, Raidu began to move. He approached Erick’s image, speaking to the world, “I did not expect the Wizard to show up himself, and I was right! He sends his [Familiar]! Like a weak-willed sycophant of the Darkness!”

Erick ignored the jab and spoke his own mind, asking everyone, “Is there a reason you’ve started this war? Some provable reason? Or have you been deluded by the Darkness into believing that I am an enemy? What you are doing now is what the Darkness has done to this continent since forever. The most recent, active Shade responsible for this was known as Torika, the Shade of Ashes, but she’s dead now. One of the many Shades that I helped to kill at Shadow’s Feast. You’re not ignorant of this fact. You’re not ignorant that the Shades have controlled the people here to war, over and over and over again. So why are you continuing to war? Why are you doing this?”

Raidu instantly answered, “You killed no Shades! You are working with them! The Shade of Opulence works in Holorulo, working for Songli, so that they may swallow all of Nelboor for themselves! The Shade of Assassination leaves threats on pillows across the continent! And now you are here! A Wizard, stripping away the only defense we have against the predations of Songli, to keep that monster from overrunning us all! You’re ridding the Highlands of the only weapon we have to keep them in check!”

Erick would be checking up on all of that. But for now—

“When those in power overstep the bounds of good sense, most of us can only hope that those in power will somehow be held accountable for their actions, and to be excluded from the bloody act of counterbalancing the evil we see. Sometimes, though, we need to get involved. And since you are directly involving me in this war of yours, I am thus involved.” He stared at Raidu, and said, “I don’t want to be involved in this. I don’t want this war. I am asking you to stop, because I cannot let you harm civilians. I am asking you to please stand down. Don’t send any more Extreme Light Bombs through to Eralis. Don’t bomb any more churches. Don’t continue this war. End this now, before it escalates, and before this archmage must stand up to your tyranny.” He said, “Stop killing civilians.”

He spoke his words to Raidu, but he was not the person who needed convincing. Raidu was his own puppet, and convincing him would require Mind Magic. The people watching were the ones that needed convincing; the ones that were able to be convinced.

