The other five stiffened in muted alarm, and one almost let a tired groan slip out before they realized it was merely a jest, but Hongji forgave them for their lacking enthusiasm. Few young men cared to dabble in poetry anymore, for gone were the years of Mitsue Juichi’s ascent when his calligraphy poems were all the rage in Central and beyond. Hongji himself still had one such poem, a replica he purchased from a street side vendor catering to impoverished intellectuals like himself, or those who wanted to appear intellectual without spending a vast fortune on the originals. Nowadays, the children were more keen on feats of strength and agility, a newfangled craze sweeping the provinces thanks to the tales of Legate Falling Rain’s wedding demonstrations. Even the military had adopted those obstacle courses for their own use, because one of the greatest hurdles in teaching new Martial Warriors was waiting for them to acclimate to their rapidly changing bodies. There was a saying that a girl changes twelve times between childhood and adulthood, but Martial Warriors of both genders changed maybe thrice that. One only needed to look at Tam Taewoong to see the truth, who’d come to Hongji in Sinuji as a slim and pasty youth, a pretty boy who tried so hard to appear older than he was. Now though, there was no need to pretend, for the boy had grown into a slender yet rugged man, blessed with broad shoulders and a straight back. His arms were no larger than they were before, but chiselled and defined through countless hours of harsh combat and gruelling training, and he held himself with a grace and confidence that others would kill to match. This young Warrior came to Hongji as a pup, and now he was a wolf in truth, though one that still fell far short of the talented Falling Rain.

Putting aside his internal musings, Hongji brought his aides out on a tour of the harbour fortress. Meng Sha had originally been a military encampment, but little remained of the original foundation as far as Hongji could see. The fortress was eight times larger than its previous incarnation, with walls so tall they blocked out the morning sun until it was almost time for lunch. As an added benefit, it also blocked out the dry wind which not only sapped the warmth from his bones, but also wicked away the moisture from his skin and mouth and left a sandy grime in its wake. To make matters worse, winters in the West were wholly devoid of snow, for in midday, the temperature would rise until even a light shirt left him in a balmy heat, only for all that warmth to disappear in the blink of an eye as soon as the sun sank below the horizon. While natural ice was rare to find, a cup of tea would easily freeze over if left out overnight, and suffering through these two extremes left Hongji in an irritable mood that the damned sand only exacerbated to a nigh unfathomable degree as it somehow made its way into every nook and cranny of his body. Spit on the stones? Sand. Blow his nose? Sand. Wipe his ass? Yes indeed, there was sand there too. Madness is what it was, but the worst part was that Meng Sha meant ‘Dream Sand’, or perhaps more accurately ‘Sandy Dreams’, and Hongji admired the man with the gall to make light of this hellscape. Were it not for the loyal Imperials still trapped and tormented within these lands, Hongji would happily cede this forsaken, sand-blasted province over the Defiled in a heartbeat, for only then would they know true suffering.

Time passed slowly as Hongji led his aides through the dusty clouds of granular discomfort and inspected the camp, a far cry from the minor fortress which once stood here. This was no box of a fortification, but more of a wall running along the bowl-shaped coastline, with a straight section of wall in the centre and an ‘arm’ on either side that stretched out into the water itself. While a dedicated enough besieger could simply swim around the barricade, they would be in for a rude awakening if they should try, and Hongji looked forward to seeing the aftermath of the first fools to dare test the waters. The walls themselves were both tall and sturdy, wide enough for two ranks of warriors and three ranks of irregulars to stand atop and fight comfortably, with room to spare for moving reinforcements up and down the lines. Four stately concrete towers overlooked the wall, one at each ‘joint’ between centre and arm as well as two more on either side of the main gates. Their lofty heights were bedecked in deadly bolt-throwers aplenty, but their true purpose was to spot for the catapults sitting on a platform further back, one built into the centre of the fortification and surrounded by soldiers on all sides. From there, these weapons of war were free to unleash death at any and all opposing armies, regardless if the Enemy decided to come by land or by sea, having fast become the pivotal weapon in all their engagements against the Defiled.

It felt strange leaving their backs open to the water, but the natural harbour wall ensured no ships could ever make it past the blockade sitting in the entrance, a bulky merchant vessel manned at all times by no less than three volunteers with orders to scuttle the ship if the Enemy were ever to try and run the blockade. This was a fortress built with non-standard tactics in mind, but Hongji saw no flaws in the designs put forth by Grandmason Gwangjon and Quartermaster Cao Cuo. The latter had even more to offer, having drawn up plans for a shifting camp rotation that could better obfuscate the sleeping areas of high ranking Officers, a necessity now that the Enemy Wraiths were using crossbows themselves. Hongji’s own force of crossbow soldiers had impressed him with their deadly effectiveness, but even he shuddered to think how he would fare if faced with a similar unit on the battlefield. An all out cavalry charge would do the trick, but at no small cost to the cavalry who were far more difficult to train, while the best case scenario would be to stand and return fire at the Enemy, trading bolt for bolt and life for life until one side ran out.

A trade which would inevitably end in the Enemy’s favour, for if there was one thing the Defiled did not lack, it was Warriors willing to die for their cause.

Still, on paper, the war efforts were going well. No one expected the Enemy to give up these vital harbours so easily, but Lieutenant General Akanai was wise not to rise up and take the bait. Four harbours was already stretching the limits of what they could hold, but she didn’t even try to hold LuZhuo or Huang Hai, giving up both to better secure the more defensible positions of Meng Sha and Dong Jiang. While two weeks was but a blink of an eye in terms of construction, that was before the Legate’s incredible vision brought about the wonders of concrete and cast iron. Not only that, but Grandmason Gwangjon had mastered the art of construction to near perfection, his facilities put in place within hours of landing and work beginning mere minutes after the plans were finalized. The Defiled could either assault the walls en masse and clump up for the engines of war to rain death from above, or wade through the shallows and try to circle around the walls, where they’d make easy targets for the Irregulars standing guard.

Formidable though the defences might be, Hongji was more concerned with the soldiers manning said defences. The air was rife with fear and tension, and the soldiers were all on edge. They’d set out two weeks ago with an army over a million strong, but less than a thousand in total had seen battle thus far. There was another saying of Papa’s that suited the occasion, that you should never put the cart before the horse. This army was the horse, harnessed and ready to go wherever the road might lead them, but first, they needed to fix and hitch the wagon. The Legate had expected a fight to claim these harbours, and so too did the soldiers, so they worked themselves into a fevered frenzy in anticipation of the bloodshed only to have nowhere to unleash their frustrations. It didn’t help that they’d lost seven Peak Experts since departing for the West, the sum total of the entire army’s casualties, but the effect on morale was more detrimental than losing seven thousand common Martial Warriors. Then there was the fact that the Legate was out of commission once again, with no sign of waking even after twenty days of rest and recuperation, though Hongji had felt firsthand the powers young Falling Rain wielded on that fateful day, and would not fault the boy if he slept for an entire year.

All this and more meant that while discipline was still firmly in place, Hongji saw signs of it starting to slip as bored and frightened soldiers were wont to do, so unless the Enemy were kind enough to attack within the week, they might have a whole different crop of issues to deal with.

As a ‘lowly’ Brigadier however, all this was above his pay-grade when it came to this particular army, so he continued his rounds and set his aides upon the soldiers as they passed, keeping track of the issues they spotted and how they went about solving them. There was no real point system, as being a commander required flexibility and nuance, but no matter how he looked at the matter, young Tam Taewoong was the best of the bunch. The boy was not only a talented Warrior, but also an able commander willing to listen and adapt without direction. The boy would make for a fine protege, but Hongji lacked the confidence to properly guide him along his career path, to say nothing of the Martial Path. That was one thing he’d hoped to ask the Legate about, finding a proper Mentor or supporter for young Taewoong without injuring the Central boy’s pride, but it seemed like such a minor matter in the grand scheme of things, Hongji had never gotten around to it.

And now, it might be too late.

Suppressing his dark thoughts, Hongji vowed to persevere as he dismissed his aides and headed towards the Bekhai camp. Greeting the Khishig sentry that stopped him, he inquired if the Lieutenant General had time to spare for him, and to his surprise, the woman simply Sent a message and pointed out the direction to head in while remaining at her post. It wouldn’t be so much of an issue if the camps were still laid out according to Imperial Doctrine, but Liu Xuande had recently overhauled many standard practices, a move which was supported by the Legate, Akanai, and even Colonel General Nian Zu himself. This meant Akanai’s Command Tent would not be in a standard, easily found location, but as Hongji wandered through the camp, he found plenty of Warriors seemingly at ease who were happy to point out the way without needing to be asked. Security through obscurity, the young Legate had called it, and truth be told, Hongji was rather impressed by how well it worked.

Stopping outside a yurt that looked exactly like his own, he hesitated as to whether to knock or declare himself first, but the decision was taken from him. The door opened to reveal Akanai’s hulking husband behind it, whereupon he offered a scarred grimace which might have been his version of a smile. “Chen Hongji,” he rumbled, in a distinct, lyrical burr which Hongji found rather enchanting, for he wondered how it would sound in song. “C’mon in.”

To his surprise, Akanai was not the only other person inside the yurt, for Baatar, Nian Zu, and Du Min Gyu were all sat on the floor waiting for him to join them. So taken aback by the sight of so many lofty individuals, Hongji almost made a fool of himself by bowing over their heads, for though the yurt was larger than most tents, it was still rather cramped with so many seated within. “Sit,” Akanai commanded, eschewing any polite greetings in a brusque manner others might take offence to, but Hongji had come to realize was her way of displaying comfort and familiarity. If she wanted to be rude, she would not say a thing at all, and her invitation was akin to open arms and a warm smile from other, more politically apt individuals, though she was far more genuine than any politician could ever hope to be. Gesturing at the map on the table, she continued, “We were planning the attack, or at least putting together a plan to bring to the other commanders. What are your thoughts on what we have so far?”

Again, despite the straightforwardness of the request, Hongji knew what an honour it was to be included in the planning, for it meant they valued his opinion. There was no need for explanations either, as the movements were made clear on the map in front of her, with pieces to denote the moving forces. “A three pronged attack,” he muttered. “Bold.”

“You disapprove?”

“I did not say that.” Three cities under Enemy control, all out in the shifting desert dunes where two armies could pass within kilometres of one another and never be aware of the other’s presence. “You’ve a method to arrive here undetected I presume? At Pan Si Xing? If not, you risk giving the game away.” Whoever named these cities and harbours had a flair for the dramatic. First Sandy dreams, and now a homonym for Death Sentence. “A coordinated attack on three targets at once. Bold and ambitious, but it denies our Enemy the time needed to gather its troops together to overwhelm any of our forces in one go. Much to be gained, but not without risk, which can be mitigated if we can hide our approach to Pan Si Xing. Make it look like we’re targeting Shi Bei, with this second in place to intercept reinforcements from the northwest, and possibly even catch out forces moving from here and here once we go on the offensive.

“Good, good.” Flashing his wolfish grin, Baatar fixed his pierce gaze on Hongji and nodded in quiet glee, one darkened by murderous intent. “You were right. He sees much in a glance. I agree.”

“With what?”

