“Our scouts report Bai Qi is mustering an army in Pan Si Xing,” Akanai declared, so casually one might think she was speaking about buying groceries on her way home rather than the Commander General of the Defiled forces. “I’m of a mind to send the pup out to take his head, but I would like you to go with him to keep him in check.” So it would seem there was something to the rumours then, or Akanai believed her efforts were better spent elsewhere. In answer to his unasked question, Akanai gestured at one of the targets Hongji picked out and added, “I will be leading the attack here, at Tian Zangli.” Heavenly Funeral? This was just too much. “Bai Qi’s head is a prize to be sure, but the pup can handle him well enough and will benefit more from the honour and glory. I will content myself with the head of the Mataram Patriarch instead.”

This woman did not do anything by half measures, and he feared to ask who was waiting at Shi Bei, but she simply sat in silence and waited for his answer, which meant she was not yet ready to share. Regardless of what she intended, it was clear she had the means to feasibly accomplish her plans, so there was no point bringing up minor matters like terrain or travel time. “Then I will offer Lieutenant General Baatar my utmost support, whatever that might be worth.”

“More precious than gold and diamonds,” Akanai replied.

“No titles in private friend,” Baatar added, clapping Hongji hard on the shoulder while fixated on something only he could see, visions of slaughter and bloodshed no doubt. “Not from a man who matched wits with Bai Qi and emerged victorious.”

High praise from anyone, but it meant so much more coming from one of the stoic Bekhai, and Hongji felt his cheeks warming from the compliment. Before he could come up with a response however, Akanai interrupted and said, “We will discuss the details in depth, but first, what brought you here to my doorstep?”

“Nothing of importance,” he stammered, instinctively reaching for the notes before thinking better of it, and his movements did not escape her notice. Even knowing she was seven or eight times his age, it was still difficult to accept that he was standing before a senior, and his pride protested having to behave like a startled schoolboy before his teacher. Not enough to sway him from his actions however, so he simply swallowed his pride and explained, “The Legate asked me to share my thoughts on my Martial Path and the Ethereal Palm in particular, and though I agreed to do so, it turned out to be much more difficult than expected. I’ve no shame in admitting that I’ve given up, and hoped to be rid of what I have by handing them over to you. When the Legate wakes, I will be happy to discuss the Dao to his heart’s content, but I could not rest easy without handing these notes over to someone for safekeeping.” Shrugging, he adopted a stoic manner and stated in his most matter-of-fact tone, “Nothing is certain in life except death.”

To his surprise, everyone smiled upon hearing Hongji quote his father, but Nian Zu explained readily enough. “Young Rain has a similar saying, only he adds, ‘and taxes’, at the end.”

That got a rise out of him, and Hongji laughed without restraint. “That certainly sounds like the Legate, both wise and fatalistic.”

“Do you mind if I read through this?” Of all the people to ask, Hongji was surprised to see the fabled Great Teacher Du Min Gyu chomping at the bit to get his hands on the notes, already reaching over as he asked for permission while Akanai’s hand slammed down to pin the notes in place.

“Of course,” Hongji said, and then he froze as Akanai disappeared from in front of him and reappeared at the other end of the yurt, flipping through the pages like a woman possessed. So she wasn’t just being respectful of his privacy, but also keeping the notes so she could read them first, and he could not for the life of him understand why.

Grumbling in disappointment, Du Min Gyu glared daggers at Akanai before heaving a helpless sigh. “Hmph. A woman her age should give way to her juniors, but some manners can never be taught.”

As he turned to reach for a chest behind him, he was beat to the punch by Baatar who offered the Central hero a passing nod of commiseration, his smile so full of mirth and lacking in bloodlust it almost seemed out of place. “This is for you,” he said, removing a stack of papers so tall he needed both hands to bring it out of the chest, with more still waiting within as he pressed them into Hongji’s hands. “You will have to memorize it all here, as it is not safe to make copies just yet, but it is not so difficult once you pick up the boy’s trick. No need to read the page in its entirety and memorize the words themselves, simply commit the image before your eyes to memory and you can read it whenever you like.”

Blinking in confusion, Hongji stared at the papers and back at Baatar, for he was the only one still paying him any mind. The others were busy committing Hongji’s notes to memory, passing them down one after the other like one of the Stonemason’s assembly lines. “What is this?”

“The notes we and many others have written regarding our respective Martial Paths.” Turning to stare beyond the wall at what Hongji could only assume was the Legate’s hidden location, Baatar’s features relaxed as he smiled in the most calm and peaceful manner Hongji had ever seen from the man save for the recent New Years celebration which coincided with the Legate awakening from his coma. “My son has grand dreams, ones my Mother shares. Where she sought to spread the teachings of the Martial Dao to the people of the Saint’s Tribulations Mountains, the boy now seeks to do the same for the rest of the Empire. He has not yet given voice to this particular aspiration, but we all know him well enough to see what he intends. He has written his own primer as well, there at the end, though you should take care when reading it as his perspective is rather unique and difficult to follow at times. For example, he opens with a statement regarding a powerhouse, and it took some time before we understood that he was using the term not to denote a powerful faction or individual, but instead as a synonym for a source of power.”

Taking a moment to steady his breath, Hongji stared at the papers before him without daring to blink, for within these pages sat a wealth of knowledge no amount of coin could buy. These were the experiences of some of the strongest Warriors of this time, so to read their personal notes was akin to becoming an unofficial Disciple. Hardly a fair trade, his experiences for theirs, not to mention a priceless look into the mind of the Legate who defied all common sense. Were he to study these notes, he would undoubtedly uncover a weakness which could be used against them, which showed just how much they trusted him. Allowing him to read this was the same as giving him a dagger to hold over their heads, and they didn’t even bother to ask him for an Oath.

“A gift too precious to accept,” Hongji said, holding fast to his conviction and pushing the papers away before he could read them. “I appreciate the gesture, but I could not rest easy knowing I have taken advantage of you so.”

“If anything, we are the ones taking advantage of you.” Cackling as he looked over Hongji’s notes, the famed Sanguine Tempest seemed more crazed than fierce, the glint in his eyes approaching madness. “Your Ethereal Palm? The boy, he believes it to be an advanced form of Domain Plating, a skill which thus far can only be learned, but not taught. However, I’ve barely scratched the surface of your notes and already have an inkling of where to proceed, and yet you say you have taken advantage of me? To think that a talent like yours could languish in mediocrity for so long... Pei! Between the two of us, you are far more worthy of the title ‘Great Teacher’ than I, a fact I will proudly admit to all.”

“He is correct.” Nodding as he pushed the papers back over, Baatar promptly added a second pile beside it, followed by a third and a fourth. “The Brotherhood believes strength is a poor measure of progress along the Dao, and I have recently come to agree. Even among Divinities, your mastery of Domain Plating is exceptional, it is only your ability to apply it that is lacking. For example, rather than a direct attack, have you tried condensing it in a similar manner to how Brother Du uses Wind Chi, targeting the ears to deafen your foes and throw them off balance?”

“It’s not as easy as simply condensing the attack,” Hongji replied, happily accepting a cup of tea from the fearsome Husolt, only to cough as he discovered it was a cup of wine instead. Matching the hulking man’s grin, he nodded in thanks and set to discussing the Dao with Baatar, while Nian Zu, Du Min Gyu, and Akanai listened in. Gratifying as it was to be taken so seriously, it was even more gratifying to learn, for this single discussion with so many great minds helped him find where to place his next steps along the Martial Path.

This was the Legate’s dream, a world in which Martial Warriors shared their experiences rather than hoarding their secrets like gold, and while there were risks associated with openly sharing their methods, there were many benefits to be had as well. So many that Hongji did away with his initial intention to choose only one successor out of all his military aides, for so long as he was willing to put in the time and effort, then there was no harm in taking all of them under his wing and instilling them with not just his tactical acumen, but his morals and ethics as well. A matter for later however, as he spent the rest of the afternoon parsing through those notes and progressing leaps and bounds along the Martial Path, and while he was still no match for Bai Qi, perhaps he would have a few new surprises to unleash against the Enemy in Pan Si Xing.

Hopefully effective ones at that, for from the looks of things, they would need every bit of help they could get and more...

Chapter Meme
