A move to set himself up against Legate Falling Rain, anyone with eyes could see as much. Even if backed by an Imperial Family, Hongji could not for the life of him understand why Shuai Jiao could not bring himself to work alongside the Legate, for he’d proven himself time and time again to not only be a commander and Warrior worthy of admiration, but also a man willing to compromise and make allies of former enemies. Even Situ Rang Min sat firmly in the boy’s camp now, driven there by circumstance but never made to eat crow for his failures and even elevated to a position of no small importance. The former Clan Patriarch was now second only to Marshal Yuzhen in terms of political and mercantile powers of the North, and no slouch when it came to military power either, having clawed out a place for himself in the hierarchy of factions after his fall from grace not even a year past. If Shuai Jiao were to approach the Legate with a willingness to cooperate, then Falling Rain would have welcomed him with open arms and likely given the Commander General everything he’d already claimed for himself and more.

Which perhaps was the crux of the issue, for much like Hongji himself, Shuai Jiao had arrived at his lofty heights based on merit alone, but alas, he did not seem too keen on allowing others to follow in his footsteps.

A shame Shuai Jiao had not seen fit to try and win Hongji over to his camp, for there were many things he would’ve liked to say. Thankfully, the Legate smoothed things over without having to resort to bloodshed, though to be honest, when Hongji heard tell of the Legate’s impending arrival in the Citadel, he’d said a small prayer for the boy and Shuai Jiao both, for he was certain one of the two would not live through the night. One mountain cannot hold two tigers, but the Heavens were merciful and both men merely butted heads before agreeing to work together, though even Hongji was not so naive as to believe this was the end of it. No matter how he approached the matter however, he only saw one of two ways this could end; either this offensive would stall or fail and Falling Rain would return home in disgrace, or he would set out what he hoped to accomplish and return home with an unshakable foundation from which to rule no matter what Shuai Jiao did to oppose him. If the Legate could truly drive the Enemy out of the West, then he will have won over the hearts and minds of every man, woman, and child of the Outer Provinces in a way even the Emperor could not match.

Which in turn could give rise to another whole host of issues, but one problem at a time...

Answering questions for his two aides while enjoying his hot breakfast, Hongji put off discussing actual work until the rest of his aides arrived, for there were no pressing matters at hand which couldn’t afford to wait. Outside his yurt walls sat Meng Sha, the second of four Western harbours the Imperial Army had retaken in a single night, and the new headquarters for the entire Western offensive. This meant that there were many storied Living Legends on hand to deal with the day to day minutia of military management, leaving Hongji uncharacteristically free these past two weeks to put brush to paper and write. A more difficult task than he expected, to put his thoughts into words others might read and understand, and he envied young Han BoShui’s ability to turn a phrase into lyrical verse and paint a vivid picture in his readers’ minds with only a few strokes of the brush, an ability Hongji tried to emulate without success. Were those bound papers on his desk meant for his own perusal, he could hardly care less, for he was quite fond of scribbling poetry in his spare time for no one to read besides himself. Only rarely did he care to share his work, a mere handful of occasions over a lifetime of composition, so to make the jump and present what amounted to a full-fledged dissertation was something of a shock to say the least.

Once all his aides were readied and gathered, including the most promising of the bunch, Tam TaeWoong, Hongji stood from his chair and set out to make his rounds. Stopping at his desk to retrieve his notes, he held the two stacks of paper in hand and for a moment, considered feeding it all into the blazing brazier which was fast turning the yurt into a steam house. A waste of charcoal just to heat his breakfast, but Hongji couldn’t muster up the will to stop the manservant in time. Now, those alluring flames offered him a different temptation, a chance to consign these literary atrocities to the flames and start anew, or perhaps give up altogether and never try his hand at it again, for anything worth doing was worth doing right, and he feared he lacked the capability to do this justice. What did it matter anyways? Who in their right mind would care to read about Hongji’s Insights into the Dao? Though a Peak Expert by definition, he stood firmly in the rear of the pack, a Warrior of middling renown who stood out only because of his tactical acumen rather than Martial abilities. Almost any Peak Expert in existence could defeat him in single combat, for his speed, strength, agility, and reaction time were all lacking to say the least. His only saving grace was his unique Insights into the Dao which he used to create his own personal fighting style, wherein he formed his Domain into the shape of an Ethereal Palm to affect the physical surroundings, but even that wasn’t impressive enough to warrant coveting. It was far from the most effective or efficient method of combat, overly reliant on the element of surprise and wholly lacking in raw destructive power, while being costly and draining to utilize for more than an instant. Though visibly impressive, he rarely won his fights with the Ethereal Palm alone, and it was not as versatile as it might appear, lacking any and all dexterity and resembling a hand only in image alone.

When he first tried to use the Ethereal Palm in a duel, his opponent had laughed and called it the ‘Ethereal Flyswatter’, which, loath as he was to admit, was a better interpretation of the skill’s function. It was a hammer strike of Chi that was spread out over a wide surface area, making it useful for battering weaker opponents about and keeping them at bay, but not so useful when it came to killing someone of equal or greater strength. That being said, the Legate had personally expressed interest in the Ethereal Palm, so much so that he carefully requested Hongji share his methods without applying any pressure or obligation. It was done in such a hesitant, roundabout manner, Hongji hadn’t even realized what the Legate wanted until long after their meeting ended and he recounted the exchange to Min, whose eyes immediately went wide with excitement. “He wants you to teach him!” she’d said, clinging to his arm with a vice-like grip as if afraid he’d run away. “Oh, imagine it now husband, you could be Mentor to the Legate himself!”

All nonsense of course, as the boy already had a Mentor and a formidable one at that, the fierce and intimidating Lieutenant General Baatar, a successor to not one, but two Living Legends, Akanai and Nian Zu. Some even whispered that Baatar was the strongest of them all, due to an errant comment Akanai made about Baatar’s ability to ‘easily’ dispatch Bai Qi. Having seen all three Warriors in action, Hongji wholeheartedly agreed, for though the Colonel General was a fearsome combatant few could match and Akanai on a level he could not even discern, if given the choice, Hongji would much rather fight either one of them than the Bloody-Fanged Wolf. There was something utterly unnerving about Baatar’s piercing blue eyes, a wild look within that promised death and violence to spare. It was far more than mere bestial fury, for as reckless as he might appear, his actions hinted at a core of iron discipline from which he would never waver, a fact which made him all the more fearsome. A crazed man is feared because he is unpredictable, but a sane man who could match that was far more terrifying to oppose.

What’s more, from what Hongji could tell, Baatar was a formidable tactician to boot, lacking the classical education to explain his thoughts and responses, but wholly capable of matching the likes of Bai Qi and Shuai Jiao in matters of military tactics through little more than experience and instinct. No, Falling Rain most certainly was not looking to take Hongji as his Mentor, but merely coveting the methods behind the Ethereal Palm and unsure how to properly ask for it. A simple enough task in theory, as Hongji had no Disciple to pass his teachings onto and in truth never truly cared about keeping his methods to himself. Most martial skills were kept secret because they offered their user an advantage in battle, one which would no longer exist if the secret were shared, but the Ethereal Palm was hardly a heaven defying attack like Nian Zu’s Shooting Star or Mitsue Juichi’s Mountain Collapsing Stomp. The Legate was simply a curious man who enjoyed ruminating on the Dao and all its workings, and the Ethereal Palm had likely caught his eye due to its unique and flashy nature.

So Hongji set out to write a primer on how he devised the Ethereal Palm, but it was difficult to do as he had no real understanding of the details. It was simply something he did, like sitting up or jumping, so natural he didn’t understand why other Warriors were unable to replicate his efforts. Chi was a real, tangible substance, something that could not be seen, smelt, tasted, or heard, but existed all the same. Anyone with a Core could feel the Energy of the Heavens stir when enough Martial Warrior’s gathered, sense it pulling at the hairs on their skin and rushing through their veins like a surge of anger or desperation, elation or excitement. Knowing this, Hongji never thought twice before trying to use his Chi in a more direct manner, and wasn’t all too surprised when he succeeded. It existed, and anything that existed could be used as a hammer, so long as you applied sufficient force.

That was another of Papa’s nuggets of wisdom, though Hongji suspected his father might have been drunk while dispensing it. Didn’t make it any less apt, and it was one of his favourite phrases to use when teaching junior officers how to lead a charge.

And so, since he lacked the ability to explain the concept behind the Ethereal Palm, Hongji tried to tell the story of how he came to discover it, which then required him to add in the story of how he arrived at those circumstances, and so on and so forth. That was the first book, something of an autobiography of his Martial Path leading up to his discovery of the Ethereal Palm, while the second contained all the Insights and observations he’d uncovered in the decades since. This was no sagely primer of detailing how to learn the Ethereal Palm, but more of an old man’s rambling put onto paper, a tangled mess of a narrative that he feared failed to educate or even entertain the reader.

Who knew a story spanning a few dozen pages would be so difficult to write? Had he known this beforehand, he would’ve simply offered to tell the Legate everything he wanted to hear rather than promise to write it all down for fear of seeing the look of disappointment in the young hero’s face when he discovered how useless Hongji’s Ethereal Palm truly was.

Stifling a sigh with little success, he resisted the urge to consign everything into the flames because despite his reservations, he still held out hope that what he’d written would be of use to the Legate, slim though the chance may be. Young Rain had done so much for Hongji, so how could he balk at such a minor, insignificant request in return? Tucking the two books into his sleeves, Hongji offered Tam Taewoong a wry smile, the only one of his aides who dared question his actions. Not in so many words, but merely a single raised eyebrow, a skill Hongji had spent countless hours in front of a mirror mastering. The young Warrior needed no such practice however, as his expression was the perfect blend of idle curiosity and lacking judgment. “My collection of poems,” he declared, flashing his aides a wicked smile. “Whichever one of you performs the most poorly today will earn the privilege of spending your evening writing a detailed report on your three favourites of the bunch, as well as why the others were unable to make the cut.”

