Nestled in the warm embrace of his cot and blankets, Hongji did his best to enjoy the comfort while he could rather than lament its ensuing inevitable loss, for though the day was young, there was never a dearth of work to be done when out on campaign.

Back when he was a younger Warrior, one hungry for fame and fortune, spending his nights in a field tent was no worse than life in the soldier’s barracks, and in many ways even better. There was less chance of waking up in the morning to find your cot infested with lice or bedbugs, a constant concern with groups of young men of questionable hygiene sharing a living quarters. While enemy attacks were a concern, if woken in the middle of the night, he could at least turn his weapons against them to alleviate his stress, unlike the drunken louts stumbling home past midnight every night and never punished for breaking curfew because of who their parents were. In contrast, sharing a tent with seven other soldiers seemed akin to paradise, and while the base wages for an unranked soldier were far from impressive, he’d grown up on a farm where his parents earned less in three months than what he earned in a week, so even after sending half his wages home to support them, he felt wealthy indeed. Those were simpler times then, but as he progressed along the Martial Path and military career both, he learned just how high the Heavens truly were.

Cotton stuffed mattresses, goose down pillows, silken bed-sheets, covered braziers, scented incense and more, Hongji fell in love with the lifestyle of the wealthy elite as soon as he was exposed to it. Luckily, he had enough good sense to wait until he could afford these comforts before buying them as opposed to going into debt, all thanks to his humble upbringing as a lowly farm boy. Now, as an older man, he still enjoyed all these creature comforts, but he would trade them all to go back to simpler times when he was but a boy sitting at his father’s side and hearing how his day went. While his parents had long since passed, he still missed them each and every day, but it was a small solace knowing they’d died proud of their boy who’d become an esteemed Colonel of the Empire. Then again, they would have been proud of him no matter what so long as he did not lose himself, and they often said they’d be happier if he’d become a father instead.

His greatest regret was that his parents never met their grandchildren, for his sons and daughter could have learned much from Papa and Mama both. No matter how high Hongji soared into the skies, they never let him forget his roots, a calming influence that helped reign in his growing hubris. Alas, they passed before he met his beloved wife, a wildcat of a woman twenty years his junior who loved him more than the luxuries he provided, which didn’t sound like much, but was far more than what most of his peers could say. A merchant’s daughter, born Yom Min Seo, his Min was a wonderful wife and mother both, but as with any woman willing to marry a man old enough to be her father, she had ambitions and aspirations aplenty, ones she never forgot despite forgiving him for failing to live up to her lofty expectations.

Which had since become a point of contention in recent days, her yearning to rub elbows with the wealthy elites and show her childhood friends that she’d made the right choice marrying Chen Hongji. Truth be told, he owed her this much, for she stood by him when his career stalled and reputation faded away to nothingness, leaving him a ‘mere’ Colonel after so many decades of dedicated effort. As such, against his better judgment, he brought her and the children to the Citadel and introduced them to all manner of powerful and influential people, including two of the most incredible Warriors he had the honour of fighting alongside in the entirety of his career, Lieutenant General Akanai and Legate Falling Rain.

Unfortunately, this wasn’t enough for any of them, and they all wanted more from him. None of his children followed in his footsteps to form their Cores, another sore spot in his family life, but truth be told, Hongji was glad they remained commoners, even if it meant his family line faded into obscurity after he passed. Too many second generation heroes lay dead on battlefields far from home, and much like his parents, he only wanted his children to grow up healthy and happy so that they could start a family of their own. Min however, was not so pleased at the thought of her children and grandchildren living out their lives in mediocrity, and thus wanted to secure jobs for each of them in the future. Initially, she was adamant that they all work in her father’s merchant company when they became of age, rather than letting them follow their dreams as youths should, but now she saw better prospects looming just over the horizon, for her father’s business would ultimately never go to her. It wasn’t a large company as far as such things went, but not small either, and if her eldest brother wasn’t such a spendthrift wastrel, he might have made something of his inheritance. Instead, he let it lie fallow and plundered whatever profits it produced each year to pay off interest on the debts he took on in order to fund the lavish lifestyle he could not afford.

To make matters worse, his children saw the way their favourite uncle lived and believed it a better life than the one their own father provided. While they missed out on inheriting his Martial abilities, they shared their mother’s drive and ambition, and thus all believed he should leverage his friendship with Legate Falling Rain to secure favourable contracts for the ‘family company’. Never mind that it wasn’t his family, or theirs for that matter, for his children were surnamed Chen, not Yom. A simple enough request, they all insisted, to ask the Legate for this minor favour, but Hongji’s pride would not allow it. He’d come this far on his own merit without throwing in with a faction or professing allegiance to anyone besides the Emperor Himself, and thus his children should strive to do the same, but they were not brave enough to even try. “Come up with a business proposal and I will bring you to present it to the Legate,” he told them, but they couldn’t even do that, but to be fair, the boys were barely even old enough to grow a proper beard, much less put together a plan that the Legate wouldn’t laugh at. Thankfully, Hongji’s children were not so shameless as to directly go asking for a handout. No, they wanted their father to do it for them, because they were not truly interested in securing any actual work, as that would require too much effort on their part to fulfill.

Granted, the Legate had a reputation for threatening death or bankruptcy to merchants who failed to uphold their contracts, but as far as Hongji could tell, he’d only lashed one merchant in all his time as Legate and offered more than generous repayment schedules to the victims of his admittedly predatory compound interest schemes. He had no pity for those willing victims however, for Mother knows how many of them did the same to the commoners under their thumb, and most were not even half as benevolent as the Legate. Truth be told, Hongji had hoped his children would at least make the effort and fail, for they needed a swift kick in the pants to set them on the right path, but he loved them too much to treat them so harshly. How could they all be so blind as to think failing to uphold a contract would ruin the ‘family’ company? Becoming indebted to the Legate was no different from tying themselves to his wagon, for as he rose, so too would they, because if there ever was a problem he needed a merchant to solve, who better to go to than a company that was already firmly in his pocket?

These contentious issues made home life less than blissful, and as much as he loved them all, he also needed some time apart. Then, as soon as the campaign began, they stumbled across the atrocity in LuZhuo and suddenly his family’s failings didn’t seem so important anymore. It was all a matter of perspective, and now he missed them dearly once again, but he was not a man who would shirk his duties even if he could. Thus, even though no one would say a thing if he stayed in bed a little longer than usual, he smacked his lips and sighed as he emerged from his blanketed cocoon to brave the chilly late-autumn morning. Repressing a shudder as his bare feet touched the frosty ground, he dressed himself as quickly as he could and regretted not leaving his socks on while sleeping. As a younger man, he’d gone to bed in full armour most nights on campaign and suffered nothing for it, but there were some luxuries he could no longer deny himself, and sleeping in comfort was one of them.

Min often told him he should take on a maid or manservant to make his life easier, but he knew his wife better than to fall for her ploys. Though still as beautiful as the day he met her, she’d grown more and more concerned of late that he would take another lover, or worse, another wife. That was a vice for younger, more foolish men, for Hongji had his hands full with just the one, and taking on a maid would only make her that much more jealous. As for a manservant, that was even less needed, as he was more than capable of trimming his beard and laying out his clothes himself. For everything else, he had eager military aides waiting around every corner to see to his needs, many of whom had their own manservants who could darn Hongji’s socks or launder his clothes just as well as any other, so why waste coin hiring a servant for himself?

As if summoned by the mere thought of them, two young aides arrived with breakfast and tea, carrying the trays in as if they’d cooked everything themselves, when in reality they had their own servants do all the work save for these last few steps. Those same manservants busied themselves lighting the brazier and cleaning up around the yurt, a wonderful travelling domicile that made campaigning a hundred times more tolerable, as the leather warded off the cold far better than the thick canvas walls of his standard issue Officer’s tent. One of the servants even went so far as to make Hongji’s cot, a wonderfully comfortable contraption of supple leather stretched over a sturdy cast-iron frame, all of which folded up for easy transport. Sleeping in the cot was like sleeping in a grassy hollow, neither too hard nor too soft and so functional it appealed to his simple and subdued nature. Other Brigadiers had whole squads of servants accompanying them out on campaign, but while Hongji enjoyed the luxuries of home, there were risks associated with getting too comfortable while out in the field.

“Ah,” he said, stopping one manservant in his tracks as he moved to tidy Hongji’s desk. Only two roughly bound books, a used fraying brush, and a dried inkwell sat atop it, but servants to noble elites were nothing if not meticulous about keeping things tidy. “Leave that for now. My own personal work you see, which I’d rather not have anyone read.”

The manservant simply nodded and puttered off to clean something else, while the young aides responded with understanding and enthusiasm as they lied through their teeth about how it’d be an honour to hear him wax poetic, but he knew their hearts weren’t in it. They were here for one reason and one reason only, to be taken under his wing and hopefully nurtured into capable Warriors and outstanding commanders. That was the way of it with young Warriors whose families had plenty of wealth but were lacking in powerful connections, and there were few more noteworthy than Hongji himself these days. The two aides were not his first choice for protege by far, but they were neither lacking in ambition nor potential, so he took them on to give them a chance, as well as four others who were of more humble origins and were thus currently busy getting themselves fed and dressed. The advantages of wealth were not small in life, but he was determined not to allow these minor gestures get in the way of his final verdict of who to take on as his true successor.

That was yet another sore spot for Hongji of late, finding someone to inherit all of the lessons he’d learned over so many years of service. It wasn’t just about Martial strength or tactical acumen, but also his ethos and philosophy, for he had come so far based on merit alone, which in his opinion, should not be the exception, but the norm. If there was anything to be gleaned from the past few months, it was that there was no room for politics in the military. Much as he still respected Colonel General Shuai Jiao, Hongji was devastated to see the Living Legend fail to live up to standards and be the impartial hero Central and the rest of the outer provinces so desperately needed. Without Ryo Dae Jung and Mitsue Juichi to keep him in check, Shuai Jiao’s true nature was revealed to all as he consolidated his power base in the aftermath of Bai Qi’s devastating siege, gathering allies and subduing enemies with a wanton lack of his prior magnanimity. The people of Central were either with Shuai Jiao or against him, an ultimatum delivered not in so many words, but in actions which spoke much louder. Merchant companies were forced to kowtow to Marshal Yo’s demands while Officers were denied rewards and promotions if they failed to swear fealty to their Commander General, with the unspoken implication that they were all expected to obey his commands above all others, save for the Emperor or those who spoke in His name.

