It seemed like a good B-grade project to combine the hearts of True Dragons with the Starlight Heart and juice it all up with Primeval Origin Energy to see what he could create.

Jake didn’t fear that he could somehow recreate Ell’Hakan’s Bloodline, even if he did use the Starlight Heart that contained Records related to the Bloodline. That simply wasn’t something Jake believed he was capable of doing... but should it happen, Jake was at least happy he was planning on birthing an entirely new creature and not helping an existing one evolve. Sure, it was still a little fucked up to kill a newborn baby dragon, but if that’s what Jake had to do to ensure Ell’Hakan’s Bloodline remained dead and gone from the multiverse, he would have to be a Dragonslayer once more.

Admittedly, Jake had one minor problem with this plan... if he wanted to create a newborn dragon, he would need an egg. A proper True Dragon egg, and he had a strong feeling getting one of those wouldn’t be easy. He would have to ask Villy for some assistance on that one, that was for sure. Approaching the Dragonflights directly was also an option, but Jake was hesitant to do that as he didn’t want to force the born True Dragon into being part of the Dragonflights as some freak creature of intrigue.

But he would cross that bridge when he got there. For now, he would focus on digesting more of the desolation World Core so he could eat the hearts, and in the meantime, he planned on going on a proper crafting spree. Just full-on experience grinding, and while it would definitely be boring, it was just the kind of thing one sometimes had to do if they wanted to reach B-grade and do even more cool shit post-evolution.

With all that in mind, Jake pulled out his cauldron and decided to start with churning out some good old regular potions. That way, not only would he get some experience, he’d also create something actually useful to others.

Truly, Jake was a benevolent and worthy World Leader who totally didn’t just want to use the variant Lavender flowers Rick had given him earlier that day. Nope, definitely not.
