Rebecca motioned for the first of the workers to come into the house, while she asked Erick about money for the metamonds, and Erick agreed to what he had already stated; 150,000 gold apiece. An actual Bracelet of [Self Rejuvenation] would work better than a wand of the same, and Erick offered to make and sell those for 250,000, but while the Iron Bandits’ coffers were deep, they weren’t that deep. Or at least they weren’t deep enough for Rebecca to approve such a sale right now. Other people might take him up on the offer, though.

To pay him for 20 [Rejuvenation]s took little more than Rebecca saying, “Payment of 150,000 gold from the Iron Bandits to Ashes Woodfield, per [Rejuvenation] metamond, to be carried out now.”

The 20 metamonds vanished from the table, and some ghostly writing appeared in the air in front of Erick, indicating the transfer. The gentle rain of coins sounded out from the storage room, and Erick smiled.

“I didn’t know it would do that?” Erick stepped over to the storage room. “… Ah? I guess the transfer is mostly in a banking sort of way? I don’t see millions of gold on my floor, or in the chests.”

Rebecca stayed outside of the storage room, as she said, “Tell the dungeon to display the current gold total.”

“… Dungeon: display current gold finances.”

Balance: 3,000,000 G

“Well alright then.”

The words began to fade almost as fast as they appeared.

Rebecca said, “We don’t carry gold around too much, except to bring it in to deposit into storage and to use in some of the places around town. For the smaller amounts. Some people take their gold out to Veird, but Greendale has a pretty aggressive tax rate and they’re rather pushy about it, too.”

Erick smiled as he said, “Feel free to look over the other gems if you want, or I can tell you if I might have something you want.”

“We have store space in the main square if you wish to set up a store. We’ll sell everything you make for you, for 5% of the final cost. Or, if we purchase what you make, then we’ll pay you the full cost.” Rebecca said, “But honestly, except for the [Rejuvenation]s, most people can make their own necessary magics, or they find them as special rewards in the lower levels of the dungeons. Commissions for specialty items are probably where you would be making your most money, and unless my information network is malfunctioning, you told everyone that you desired to do specialty commissions yesterday.”

“… Yesterday?” Erick looked out the window. It was still bright as noon out there. “… Has it been a full day already?”

Rebecca smiled gently. “It’s been about 13 hours since last I saw you, Ashes, and the sun doesn’t set down here all that often.”

“I need to get home.” Wood groaned and snapped in the other room, echoing throughout the house as stone flowed like rushing sand. The workers wouldn’t be done for another hour, at least. “... But I can wait a little while longer.”

Rebecca said, “They’ll work quickly, but not instantaneously. Besides, there are still some small matters to discuss… Unless it is vitally important that you get back right now?”

“I can wait a little while longer.”

A nod. “I’ll keep it short, then. If you wish to have us act as a front for your commissions, then we can do that, too. We’ll take 5% of the commission fee from that, but other than that, we can handle all of the customer-facing aspects of that interaction.”

“… Well now. There’s a nice idea. Sure. I’ll agree to you all sorting out the commissions for me, but I’ll decide what I want to make, and I’ll have the clients meet with me or the other way around, on my own time schedule.”

“Agreed. Now about the specialty items that the Iron Bandits want made, if you’re available for that?”

“Sure?”

“Bracelets of [Hidden Wind]. All the Health metamonds you can make. Reflective shields. And the largest, best [Blood Corruption] weapon you can make, which will allow us to infect a target and then run away, letting the monster die on its own without us needing to put ourselves in close range danger.”

“Ah… Hm.” Erick went to the table of metamonds, and plucked out a few pastel pink and black and white metamonds. “[Hidden Wind], of varying strengths. Health is easy enough to make. Reflections are fine; I can make those. The [Blood Corruption]… I’ll make one, and you can report back to me how it worked in the field before I make more. I’m not comfortable making weaponry, but I understand the need for it. I would much rather make buffing or defensive magic.” Erick [Identify]ed his belt. “Like this.”

Belt of Many Functions, attuned artifact, 50/50, 50/50, 50/50

Blessed Memory, self, perfect buff, 1 mana per minute

Your mind is a palace.

Eternal Benediction, self, perfect buff, 1 mana per minute

Your body is a fortress.

Benediction of the Unseen, self, perfect buff, 1 mana per minute

Mana does not record your presence unless you desire it so.

Mana Density Multiplier: 75%

Rebecca read the air and her eyes went wide. “… I feel we might need to reevaulate the level of requests we can ask of you…” She went quiet for a moment, then reoriented, saying, “Forget the [Blood Corruption]. Let us discuss buffing magic…”

Half an hour later, Rebecca’s people (who were now Erick’s people, in a way) had placed groceries in the pantry, [Eternal Preservation Ward]s all over the kitchen, a bunch of new furniture here and there, and also, of course, they had remade the mage tower into a proper workshop. Erick was out one second floor library, but now he had metalworking furnaces, an anvil, hammers of all sorts, chain and pulley warehouse-crate movement systems attached to the tracks high up, and a much, much less chance of anything burning up, since the entire interior of the mage tower was now layered with stone.

It looked professional.

And, according to what Erick could see, there were no spying magics nestled into any corners here or there, though he would certainly be going over all of that with a fine-tooth look later. He bid Rebecca and the rest of the Iron Bandits farewell and escorted them off the property.

Once Erick was alone again, he said, “Dungeon: Remove all of my property permissions granted to anyone else.”

Done.

And that was that.

Erick had a few sheets of paper with some buffing magic requests from the Iron Bandits to fulfill next time he was back, but for now, he exited the dungeon.

As Erick stepped out of the dungeon keep, all of the inquisitors were gone and the sky was full of stars. Ophiel tackled him lovingly, and Erick sent warm affection Ophiel’s way, and soon they were off, into the sky, headed back home.

- - - -

Erick spent the morning making pancakes for everyone. Kiri would have taken her pancakes to-go, because though she had barely gotten any sleep, she needed to get back to work, for people depended on her, and she wanted to be depended on. She was the Gatemaster, now, even though House Benevolence still hadn’t announced that to the world, and likely wouldn’t until after Yggdrasil’s resealing went well.

But Erick couldn’t see Kiri like that; halfway run down. He offered her, “Would you like Ophiel to give you some [Hasted Shelter]s every now and then?”

He had offered her this option once before. She had said ‘no’, then.

But this time Kiri froze, as the pure desire to say ‘yes’ almost caused her to say yes. She knew ‘yes’ was the easy answer, though, and not one that she should actually rely upon. “… Yes, for a good night’s sleep. But then no. Phagar still doesn’t want me using Time Magic.”

“You can rely on me more than you do.”

Kiri smiled softly. “I know. Thank you, anyway.” And then she stressed, “So about that Shelter for the next 16 hours…”

Erick chuckled.

Soon enough, Kiri went back to bed, for a truly good sleep.

After Kiri got back to work, which was only 20 minutes after Erick cast the Shelter, Erick decided to sleep, too. His bed was comfortable, and Ophiel twittered in a little bit of joy upon the headboard as Erick fell asleep. He was not in a [Hasted Shelter], and that was kinda great.

- - - -

Erick returned to his home in the dungeon with a current goal and some secondary goals that would come later. Eventually he’d begin making some [Rejuvenation]s and Bracelets of [Self Rejuvenation]s to sell in town, but before that, he wanted to obscure his property with illusion magics.

But there was a problem.

“I can make a wand of illusion, that makes a wall that I have to recast every once in a while, or I can make a wall of permanent illusions that I never have to cast again, or I can make a mana crystal that automatically casts the illusion wall for me… Which might be possible.”

Erick looked around his workshop. It looked great; it was very ready for the creation of whatever Erick wanted to create. Rebecca had even left behind some metiron ingots for Erick to make whatever he wanted to make out of them.

“… The wand is too easy,” Erick decided.

He was going to go for the impossible magic; the metiron and metamond that made its own spellwork, automatically. You couldn’t do that on Veird. But according to what Erick had read of mana crystals…

“It should be doable here… Maybe.”

Erick got to work. First, he made some basic metamonds that would serve as tests. He ran into a problem on his very first creation.

Force Wall, instant, medium range, 50 MP

Create a stable, stationary wall of hardened mana. Lasts a long while.

Standing in the mana chamber, holding the metamond, Erick read the description floating in the air again, then said, “You were supposed to be colored and fading through the spectrum to visually show your remaining stability.”

… Maybe he needed to plug it into a wand to see if he had made it right. [Identify] and even Script boxes didn’t always tell the whole story.

So Erick exited the mana chamber and went to the forge. Making a wand was easy enough, but making a single one would still take Erick a good hour of various prep work and the final execution, while making ten at once would only add another half hour to his workload.

So Erick made ten wands.

After cooling down a wand, Erick slotted the [Force Wall] into the wand, and [Identify]ed it.

Wand of [Force Wall], attuned artifact, 100/100

Create a stable, stationary wall of hardened mana, directly in front of you. Lasts a long while. 50 mana per cast.

A test outside the house produced a flat wall of transparent white Force, positioned perfectly up and down, and perpendicular to where Erick pointed. This was different from how it was in the Script. With this metiron, there was no ability to shift the angle of the wall, or to shift the shape; what Erick put into the wand was what he got.

Which was perhaps part of the problem.

Erick looked at the octahedral wand, with its white gem at the base, and muttered, “I should have primed you with coloring first… And a whole bunch of other stuff.”

Erick discovered another nuance of metirons that he had known, but which hadn’t really registered until that moment, when he needed to dismiss the [Force Wall] to take the direct route to his front door.

And the Wall didn’t cancel.

“… No canceling of set-and-forget spells in metirons, eh?” Erick frowned. He looked down at his wand, and at the metamond he had made and set into the hilt. He narrowed his eyes at that glowing whiteness, and mentally commanded it to cancel; for the metamond itself to unravel.

Nothing happened.

He tried again.

Nothing.

“… I guess… The mana crystal is out of my power once I make it? Well… That’s certainly a difference.”

Erick wasn’t sure how he felt about that.

Erick walked around the Wall, and went back to the workshop. An hour later, he came out with another wand in his hands. This one was also octahedral, but its gem was twice as large as the original had been, and it was much more prismatic than white.

Wand of the [Prismatic Wall], attuned artifact, 500/500

Create a stable, stationary wall of hardened mana, directly in front of you. The wall registers damage done to sections through progressive color fading, starting at white, then fading through blue to red. Lasts a very long while. 100 mana per cast.

The first white walls that Erick had put up were still there when he cast his new spellwork upon the front yard. As magic took hold in the air before Erick, it took the shape of hexagons, like a hundred small shields interlocking, spreading out from left to right in a slightly curved shield 5 meters in every direction.

Erick evaluated what he was seeing. Among the first things he noticed was that this Force Magic didn’t have any mana density modifier, so it would work well in 0% mana density air. So that was good.

And then Erick went up and tapped one of the hexagons. It remained white.

He punched the hexagon.

It rapidly flashed from white to… Only barely purple. Erick smiled at that. And then he punched it seven more times. When he was done, that section of the wall was translucent blue, or roughly 10% weaker than it had been when it was first cast, if Erick had made that magic correctly, anyway. He felt he had.

His punches weren’t worth much down here in the Glittering Depths, where his Stats and innate power as a dragon were quite lessened. But he still wore his Belt of Many Functions, and that still had his body enhancement magic going strong, so he was punching… Quite a bit above his weight class. Erick wasn’t sure how much damage he could do with a punch, but it was enough to put a dent in a very, very well made [Force Wall].

And now, he had a [Force Wall] that should fade through colors as it lost spellframe cohesion. It was the perfect tool to test the veracity of the theory that mana crystals could automagically cast their own spellwork, because if the hexagons stayed white, then that meant that the spellwork was fully strong, all the time.

The metirons and metamonds were already capable of constantly casting a spell when it affected a body, but ‘the body’ was a very solid magically-identifiable baseline, which gave off mana all the time, so that made sense. A designated spot of air, or something as ephemeral as ‘a property line’ was not easily understood by magic at all.

… Now Erick just needed to figure out how to make ‘a property line’ magically recognizable.

… The dungeon was doing it, after all.

And look! The dungeon was also creating a nice demarcation line at his property line, with a mana flow differential.

For his first test, Erick went to the wall of his property and set the wand atop the tumbled stone, half inside his property, half outside. With the mana density in the property at 50% and the mana density outside at 100%, this might work.

