With a bit more aura control and shaping, Erick flickered more actual Elemental Healing into the droplet in the center of the chamber, to begin to form the actual spell. Whatever white glows remained in the air began to filter out of the collection point, while more cerulean blue power filtered inward. Four points of mana became the basis for Elemental Healing to inhabit the body. One remaining mana was to time the release of Elemental Healing properly, and to ensure the other four mana did their job properly. The five point spell was not a large spell, but that’s all [Rejuvenation] needed to be, because it wasn’t focused on healing anything in particular. It was just a buffing spell, basically, and in a very specific way where true intent or specific actions were not needed, or wanted.

Then Erick blasted the collection point with intent, crystallizing mana into magic.

A tiny cerulean dot of a metamond coalesced into the air, taking a great deal of the blue glows of the chamber with it, and implying a whole lot of stuff with that simple action. That exact same thing had happened all the other times Erick had made a metamond; that dimming of a specific element, almost like it had drained out of the chamber. Which it had.

First, Erick plucked the new metamond out of the air and used his ring of [Identify] on it.

Rejuvenation, instant, touch, 5 mana per cast

Grant a touched target increased healing, condensing a week of recuperation to 10 minutes.

So that was good. Exactly what he wanted to make. The little cerulean dot glowed, while the interior was filled with fractals like a pane of artistically-shattered glass. It looked normal; just like the other ones Erick had made before. Except now, Erick could really try to understand what had happened in this creation.

There had obviously been a mana drain in the air, which would account for the lessening of Elemental Healing glows in the air. This could only mean that, even though Erick had made a 5 point spell, the crystallization of that spell had taken a lot more than 5 mana. How much more, though? According to what Erick remembered of his previous experiments, and this one here, it had taken…

“Maybe 400 mana? 425, to crystallize?”

Erick flicked his aura at his bracelet and began to pump more Benevolence mana into the air, to restore what was lost, because it wasn’t just the Elemental Healing that had been taken. The Benevolence in the air had decreased, too.

Erick tried an experiment with his next [Rejuvenation].

He barely put any effort into that creation at all, simply crushing Elemental Healing together to see what popped out.

Harmful Healing, instant, touch, 47 mana per cast

Cause unknown healing effects in the target, with a greatly increased chance of causing cancers and other malignancies. NOTICE: Using this spell on yourself or any other friendly target will heal them once, and use up one of their Saves. If the target has no more Saves, then this spell will allow the target 2 minutes of life, and then they will be forcibly resurrected on the entrance floor, where they will be expelled from the dungeon to receive proper treatment.

Erick smiled a little bit at the brilliant little gem in his hands. That was a pretty insidious little spell, and it looked no different than [Rejuvenation]. Higher mana cost, much different effect, and proof that Erick needed to actually try to make Healing Magic down here; the Script wasn’t here to smooth over bad outcomes, and, his Wizardry didn’t smooth over bad outcomes, either.

It was time to see exactly where the line lay between good, useful mana crystals, and bad, harmful mana crystals, and what sort of oddities Erick could make on that spectrum.

- - - -

Erick calculated a few different things that told him almost nothing at all, but which fell in line with what was generally known with mana crystals.

It took about 500 mana to make a basic meta-diamond, with the cheaper final-cost ones costing less atmospheric mana to create them. [Rejuvenation] took about 400 mana from the chamber, and only cost 5 mana to activate. [Harmful Healing] took 650 mana from the air, and cost anywhere from 30 to 65 mana to activate. By really focusing on actually making [Harmful Healing], and not some other Healing spell, Erick was able to make a [Harmful Healing] that only took 30 mana to activate, and which drained 500-ish mana from the air.

So that told him that directed thoughts created spells with less mana costs and mana-from-the-air, which was pretty much his experience with mana anyway. It was good to know that some baseline understandings remained the same.

But every single cerulean gem he produced ended up being the same size.

Erick started to wonder why that was. Shouldn’t a spell that cost 650 mana from the air be bigger than one that cost 450? The mana density of crystals was a variable thing, of course, so that accounted for some of it, but not all. The fractals inside [Rejuvenation] were a lot less intense than the fractals inside [Harmful Healing], though.

And normal mana crystals did not have fractals… Or at least that’s how it was according to the books Erick had gotten from Kirginatharp, and from other sources.

“So obviously there’s some sort of crushing going on,” Erick mused to himself, as he held up one [Rejuvenation], and one of his larger [Harmful Healings]. “Some sort of… inner infinity? Instead of expanding outward, the gems expand their magic inward? Well that sort of makes sense.”

All metamonds were round things, and a little squishy when they were inside a mana chamber. Outside of a mana chamber they were perfectly spherical and hard as, well, diamonds.

All the shapes for mana crystals inside the books were of normal crystal shapes, and all normal mana crystals expanded outward as they grew. But meta-diamonds expanded inward… Somewhat.

Erick’s staff, with its fist-sized iridescent white metamond, was a clear outlier, but that spellwork was also the largest metamond spellwork Erick had done so far. Staring into the interior of that gem was like staring into a kaleidoscope funhouse without end.

So now Erick needed to do some tests with making bigger and bigger spells. Just cramming everything he could cram into—

Well. No.

Actually. Erick needed to do something actually constructive. And so Erick crushed all of his [Harmful Healing]s and took half an hour to change them all into [Rejuvenation]s.

That satisfied his bargain with the Iron Bandits! Now, moving on…

Erick decided to make Bolts of every possible flavor, and begin mushing them together just to see what happened.

- - - -

[Fire Bolt] with an [Air Bolt] became [Plasma Bolt], which was a rather normal occurrence. All three spells had rather normal-looking [Identify] results, too, because Erick didn’t spend more than a single moment making any of them, and so they were simple.

Fire Bolt, instant, long range, 5 mana

A bolt of fire unerringly strikes a target, igniting them for fire damage.

Air Bolt, instant, long range, 5 mana

A semi-invisible bolt of air unerringly strikes a target, and might unbalance them.

Plasma Bolt, instant, long range, 10 mana

A bolt of plasma unerringly strikes a target, enveloping the target in highly damaging plasma for a short time.

One gem of glowing red fractals, the size of a thumbnail. One gem filled with vaguely magenta fractures. Together, they became one gem filled with bright pink fractures, which wasn’t any bigger than the original two gems. So there was definitely some condensing happening there.

Erick broke that [Plasma Bolt] and the room filled with the thousand-ish mana of the original two Bolts. With that much saturation, re-condensation happened almost instantly…

Erick could have stopped that recombination. But he decided not to. No aura touched the liquid mana. No intent reached the pink glows—

The gem coalesced again, all on its own. It was a little larger than it had been before, so something was happening there, too. Odd. Erick [Identify]ed it.

Uncontained Plasma, instant, touch, 50 mana

Release a burst of plasma.

“… I’m pretty sure that one would literally blow up in my face if I tried to use it.”

Erick crushed the gem, releasing the mana back into the air.

This time, he put intent into the working, to make a Bolt exactly as he had made through the combination of the Fire and Air magics.

A pale pink dot once again coalesced out of the air. It was the same size as the previous [Plasma Bolt] had been —small as a thumbnail— but did it [Identify] the same?

Yes, it did.

Plasma Bolt, instant, long range, 10 mana

A bolt of plasma unerringly strikes a target, enveloping the target in highly damaging plasma for a short time.

Erick frowned in concentration. “I think I need to take pictures, or something, to compare the interior fractals… Could I make that here?”

Making such a spell under the Script would be rather difficult, but Erick knew how he would do it. There’d be Particle Magic involved, for sure. Some light to scan, and then some polymer-drawing/drawing from the CO2 in the air, to lay down a copy of an image onto a sheet of plastic paper that the spell would create at that moment…

Or maybe, Erick could take ready-made paper, some light or maybe Elemental Radiance, and scorch an image into that paper—

Ah.

Erick had actually planned to make a one-way-mirror [Force Wall], hadn’t he? So he could stop people from spying on his property.

Ah. Let’s do that, then…

A few hours later, and after deciding that he didn’t want to make a simple mirror and that he wanted to make something much more useful, Erick had to stop with his experiments because he was getting lightheaded, and he rapidly realized that the mana chamber didn’t have any vents for air.

Erick burst out of the chamber, breathed clearly for the first time in an hour, laughed a little, and then went back in to collect the few hundred meta-diamonds he had made. All of those metamonds went into the front room and Erick went back into the mana chamber.

He’d return to the property-illusion spellwork when he felt like it, but otherwise, there were so many other things that were much more fun right now.

- - - -

A knocking broke Erick from his focus.

And then he realized that anyone knocking on his door was at his door, which was inside his property, and no one should be able to do that? According to Kinder?

Erick was partway through condensing the next metamond but he didn’t have to finish, so he opened the door to the mana chamber and all the mana in the room flooded out into the 50% density of the house—

Another knocking.

… Not at the door, though. More like, in the air?

Erick went to the front door and opened it up.

A group of people stood at the edge of his property. They had wagons filled with crates and boxes of all sorts. Rebecca was there with them, standing in front, shining in her silver fullplate. She saw Erick at the door, and then she smiled, and knocked on the empty air in front of her, at Erick’s property line. The air vibrated at her gauntleted touch, sounding much like the knocking at a front door.

Ah. So the property line was rather solid, then. Good to know.

“Hello again!” Rebecca said, “We’re here for the first exchange of hopefully many.”

“One minute!” Erick went back into the house and made sure he was presentable, and that he had on the right metamonds to hide himself from mana sense, which he did. And then he went back outside, rushing to the gate, saying, “Welcome, welcome. You’re all invited in.”

Rebecca smiled and stepped through the empty air, onto the property line. “I am eager to see what you’ve made, and also to set up all the stuff we spoke about. We’ve also got a full setup of blankets, pillows, some extra furniture, and otherwise. And a bunch of metiron to sell to you, and money to exchange for [Rejuvenation]s.”

“That all sounds really great! Thank you.” Erick waved them forward. “Come on in.”

Rebecca moved forward and her people followed as she asked, “Where would you like your workshop set up? It cannot be outside. We don’t get rain all that often, but it does happen rather regularly.”

Erick led the way into his house. “This way.” He moved toward the mage tower, saying, “I was wondering if you had the capability to retrofit the mage tower into a full workshop, with all the stuff I found in Marii’s tower on the second floor. I liked that setup. You will have to knock out the second floor.”

A pile of a good 500 gems sat on the dining table, there in the middle of the front room. Erick gave them no mind as he passed them by, but Rebecca’s eyes went wide as she took them all in. And then she moved right along.

“Oh sure.” Rebecca followed Erick into the mage tower. She looked up at the wooden floor overhead, and said, “We can open the tower up. Shaping spells are another rare drop, but we have all of those available and usable by our people, and they’re easier to make than [Rejuvenation]s. Speaking of which…?”

Erick smirked. He went back to where the gems sat in half-organized piles on the dining room table, like precious stones being divided after a heist. There was probably some better way to organize them, but Erick didn’t really care to do that right now. He knew which were which, anyway.

Erick gestured to a pile of cerulean spheres, saying, “There’s 20 of them there. I would have made more, but I didn’t care to. I would be fine with making actual bracelets, too, and I will be doing that as soon as my workshop is properly created.”

Rebecca stared at the gems, her grin turning a tiny bit surprised and overwhelmed, the corner of her mouth rising to show a rather long canine. “Ah… This is rather amazing— May I [Identify] one?”

“Oh sure. Go ahead.”

Rebecca stepped forward and plucked a cerulean gem from the pile. The words for [Rejuvenation] appeared in the air, exactly as Erick promised. Rebecca chuckled. “We need to get you some more resources!”

“I would like to speak to others who have had success with metamond creation. You know they’re mana crystals, right? These things cannot be made on Veird, but they can be made here.”

Rebecca’s eyes glinted as her gaze fixed upon Erick. “Not many people know that… But of course you do.”

“The mana crystals here are different from how they usually are, and I want to find out how, exactly.”

Rebecca looked at Erick for a moment longer, then said, “I would speak of this some other time, in a more private setting. For now, would you like to get your workshop installed?”

“Of course!”

