“You... you've always looked great...” Nathalia said as her breath started to even out. “But now...” She shook her head. “You look exactly how I imagined you would if you had a beard.” She shut her eyes and licked her lips. “I've fantasized about it ever since I saw you that first time.”

“You have?”

Nathalia nodded slightly. “Every man should have a beard.” She said and opened her eyes. “When they shave it off, or lose it for some reason... we... we all think there's something wrong, or off about them.”

Ren looked at her with surprise on his face. “Why didn't you ever tell me?”

“What would be the point of that?” She chuckled. “All that would have done was hurt your feelings, and show you how prejudiced we are.”

“So why tell me now?”

“You've got a beard.” Nathalia said. “It was only fair to tell you once you did.”

Ren sighed, equipped his clothing, and stood up.

“Where are you going?” She asked and equipped her clothing, too.

“I... I need some time to think.” Ren said.

“About what?”

“About how you really see me.”

“Ren!” Nathalia exclaimed and stood up herself. “I love you!” She said. “I don't see you that way!”

“You just said...”

“I said 'we' as a people! We! Not 'me'!”

Ren closed his eyes. “I don't know if you actually believe that.” He sighed. “I show up with a beard, and you act like... like... well, I've never seen you act like that before.”

“Ren!”

“You bit and shook it, and growled for gods-sake.” Ren said, and opened his eyes. “It's like I wasn't even there, and all you cared about was the beard.”

Nathalia started to get angry. “That's NOT true!” She said, and poked him in the chest with her index finger. “Now listen to me, mister.” She glared at him. “I. Love. You.” She poked him in the chest again. “Not your money!” *poke* “Not your clothes!” *poke* “Not your extravagant gifts that you throw around as if they were nothing!” *poke* “And definitely NOT your godsdamned MAGIC BEARD!”

Ren stared at her. “Nath-”

“QUIET!” Nathalia shouted. “I'm speaking!”

He closed his mouth and listened.

“When you showed up with the beard, it fit right in with my fantasy, and I was turned on by it!” Nathalia said. “It was exciting to see it come to life, and I didn't want to waste any time by picking it apart, or wondering how it happened.” She started to lose steam in her argument, and she sighed. “When I realized there was even more of you to love, I couldn't help myself and I jumped at the chance.”

“But...”

“I lost control of myself, okay?” Nathalia said as she turned away from him, so he wouldn't see the tears as they started to flow. “I... I wanted to enjoy it as much as I could before... before anyone else did.”

“Oh, Nathalia.” Ren took her into a hug from behind, and held her tightly. He kissed her cheek, then took out a piece of cloth for her to wipe her eyes. “I'm sorry that I jumped to conclusions.” He said. “It's just... you shocked me.” He sighed. “You've never even hinted that you could act that way.”

Nathalia sniffed and sighed. “I didn't know I could act like that, either.”

“What?”

She turned in his arms. “I really did lose control, Ren.” Nathalia's eyes were puffy and red. “I couldn't let another woman have the new you... not until I did.”

“Twice.” Ren said and smiled. “At least I think it was only twice.” He said. “You kind of blew my mind a little, and I wasn't really keeping track.”

Nathalia chuckled, and he kissed her.

“I love you.” She said.

“I love you, too.” Ren said and let her out of the hug. “Let's go home and get something to eat, then I have to take care of some Adventurer's business.”

“Wait.” Nathalia said, and looked around. “Where's the portal?”

“Probably the only place we can't see it.” Ren said, and opened the door to the storage area behind the counter, and there it was.

“Should I go through it to test it?” Nathalia asked, and he shook his head.

“Not right now.” Ren said. “I want to be waiting for you on the other side when you go through.”

“Okay.” Nathalia said, and they left the restaurant. Nathalia locked it up, and they walked back to House Neram Keep, while Teepo flew around and scouted the area. They went inside, then Ren and Nathalia enjoyed a good supper with Ereka, who didn't even ask what had taken them so long to come home to eat.

I don't feel her Aura, though. Ren thought. She must have stopped concentrating on it. He looked at Nathalia. “I'll be back in a few hours, hopefully.” He sighed. “You should plan for me being gone all night, though.”

“Alright.” Nathalia said and gave him a kiss. “Goodnight.”

“Goodnight.” Ren said to her, then looked at Ereka. “Goodnight.”

“Goodnight.” Ereka said.

Ren left the table and walked into the main room, then sat on the couch. See you later, Teepo.

“Bye, Ren.” Teepo said as he flew up to land on the ceiling.

“Logout.”

*

“Thank you for the meal, Nathalia.” Ereka said. “I'm heading to bed.” She sighed. “I really need to get some sleep.”

“Do you want me to tuck you in?” Nathalia asked. “I'm sure you'll sleep well afterwards.”

Ereka looked at her with wide eyes. “I... I haven't been tucked into bed since I was a kid.”

Nathalia chuckled. “I used to do it all the time.” She said. “But all of our schedules changed since then, and now I go to bed before the ones I care about.”

Ereka smiled. “Well, I'm kind of running on willpower, so if you can help me get some sleep, I'd appreciate it.”

“Of course.” Nathalia said and followed her into the old bedroom. Ereka took off her business suit and skirt, left herself in just a thin slip, and climbed into bed.

“What did you think of Ren's beard?” Nathalia asked her.

“I was surprised when I was walking home and saw him with it.” Ereka said. “Do you want to know what my very first thought was?”

Nathalia nodded slightly as she flipped the top end of the blanket a little.

“I thought that you were going to love it.” Ereka said. “Because it fits him perfectly.”

Nathalia smiled as she tucked the blanket up and under Ereka's neck.

“There you go, little one.” Nathalia said in a sing-song voice, and Ereka laughed. “Are you all nice and comfy?”

Ereka nodded slightly, and Nathalia reached behind her head to fluff the pillow a little. When her hand was out of Ereka's sight, it glowed a little blue, and then Ereka fell fast asleep.

“Sleep well.” Nathalia said, then left the old bedroom and shut the door.

********

Ren took off the VR headset and sighed.

“That was quite the adventure.” Denise said, and Ren chuckled.

“Yeah.” He slipped out of bed and went to use the bathroom and clean up. He came back out and Denise served him sandwiches for lunch. They were a little bland; but, that was to be expected. Denise checked his diet schedule regularly, and knew he'd had chocolate and soda the night before.

“Did you know that Stella is supposed to show up here to-”

His room door opened, and Stella came in. She wore a pair of dress pants, had a small briefcase, and a blue blouse that looked like it was a couple of sizes too big for her.

“Speak of the devil.” Ren said and grinned at her.

“I thought I felt my ears burning.” Stella said, and smiled. “Hi, Denise.”

“Hi, Stella.” Denise said. “Can I talk to you for a minute?”

“Sure.” Stella said, and put her briefcase on the chair. “Let's go have a coffee in the break room.”

“Are you going to be okay for a few minutes, Ren?” Denise asked him.

“Good god, no!” Ren said, and reached out with a grabbing hand. “Don't leave me all alone!”

Stella snorted a laugh. “Come on, Denise. Let's see if he can actually survive without you for 5 minutes.”

Denise laughed and followed Stella out of the room.

*

“So, what's going on?” Stella asked, and Denise gave her the rundown about the situation, and what Barbara had told her about Cheryl's late night interview on the news. Stella put her head in her hands and rested her elbows on the table.

“How could she be so stupid?” Stella asked.

“Cheryl never was the sharpest tool in the shed.”

“It was going to be hard enough keeping him under wraps as it was.” Stella said. “But now that everyone knows who he actually is...” She shook her head. “I didn't see any extra security in the lobby, or here on the floor.”

“That's because there isn't.” Denise said.

“What?” Stella asked, surprised. “Why?”

“The board is complaining about budget cuts and other gobbledygook.”

“Goddammit.” Stella said. “What about Ren's Trust Fund?”

“It's already 'tapped', according to Doctor Hobbard.”

Stella sighed. “I'll have to talk to Ren about this.”

“The doctor doesn't think that's a good idea.”

“Why?” Stella asked. “Ren can pay for extra security himself.”

“He thinks if Ren gets too excited worrying about stuff like that...”

Stella sighed again. “Goddammit. How are we supposed to look after him, when we aren't allowed to look after him, or tell him that we can't?”

“Don't ask me.” Denise shrugged. “I just work here.”

Stella snorted a laugh. “Well, our jobs are going to get a lot more interesting from now on.”

*

Ren finished eating and pushed the empty tray aside. He looked at his watch, and saw it was quarter past 12.

I hope Gloria gets here soon. Ren thought and looked at his laptop. No, I still don't want to look at all those emails.

*

Gloria pulled into the hospital's parking lot an slid into a parking space. She hopped out of the car and grabbed her backpack.

I am so late! She thought as she ran towards the front door of the hospital.

*

Ren looked up as Stella came into his room. “Where's Denise?”

“Paperwork.” Stella said and picked up her small briefcase, then sat in the chair. “While I'm here visiting with you, she can catch up with it, rather than trying to do it after her shift.”

“You do that?” Ren asked, and she nodded. “I always thought you had someone else to do that for you.”

“Why would you think that?”

“You've all been so busy taking care of me, where do you find the time to file paperwork, too?”

“We manage.”

Ren shook his head. “And I thought you were a blessing before.”

Stella chuckled and opened her briefcase. “I've got other paperwork to do, too.” She said and took some of the forms out that they would need to hire Gloria.

*

Gloria rode up in the elevator. It felt weird, because the last time she was here, she had to sneak around and bribe her way in. The doors opened and she held her head up high and walked down the hallway as if she owned the place. Everyone stared at her as she passed them; but she was used to that reaction, so she ignored them and kept walking.

*

“So, do I get to know her real name?” Stella asked.

“Sure.” Ren said. “As soon as I ask her if I can tell it to you.”

Stella looked at her watch. “She's really late.”

“I know.” Ren said. “Something must have happened.” He said. “She logged out over 3 hours ago.”

Just then, there was a knock on the door, and Gloria came in.
