Janice laughed, and Ren looked at the metal pipe. It was 2 feet long and had only a tiny little hole in the center.

“Janice? Does the pipe have to be this size?”

“Not really.” Janice said. “That's just the one I have.” She said. “I've seen some that are about 4 feet long and have a big hole for airflow, and I've seen ones only 6 inches long and had a pinhole for the air to pass through.”

“Hm.” Ren gave her the metal pipe back after cleaning off the end, and dumped the molten glass back into the furnace. “I think... maybe...”

“You think what?” Janice asked.

“Give me a few minutes.” Ren said and started the forge. He put another iron ingot into the smelter and let it melt. Ren used the same paving stone and bricks to make a long thin mold, and poured some metal into it. He let the system actually make the pipe for him with his chosen dimensions, absorbed the heat from it, and picked it up.

“You can make them?” Janice asked, surprised.

“I have the tools to make it if I want, like a wire to mold the metal around; but, it's just easier to let the system make the little things that don't need to be high quality.” Ren said. “It saves a lot of time, too.”

“I always make everything by hand.” Janice said.

“I usually do, once I know how to make it.” Ren said and held it up. “But a small pipe like this?” He shrugged. “I'd barely shave any time off it's creation if I did it by hand.”

“I never thought about it like that.” Janice said.

“I've spent a lot of time playing.” Ren said, and then grinned. “I've done a lot of things lately; but, waste time is not one of them.”

“I distinctly remember someone doing a face-plant on solid water not too long ago.”

“I wasn't wasting time then, either.” Ren said. “I had to keep you all occupied with something, just so some of you wouldn't think that I would be a good option to keep you occupied instead.”

Janice chuckled. “You mean Candace?”

Ren nodded.

“She wants someone to dominate her, but only when she wants to be dominated.” Janice said. “If you try to do it when she's not in the mood, you better watch out. She'll explode and try to take your head off.”

Ren laughed. “I'm really glad I'm never going to find that out first hand.” He said and took out a sack of small diamonds, picked one out and stored the sack.

“What the hell was that?” Janice asked with wide eyes. “That wasn't... it couldn't... you don't have...”

“A bag full of tiny diamonds?” Ren said and held up the 1 gold coin diamond. “Yeah, I do.”

“Good god, Ren!”

“What?” Ren asked, put a finger on the diamond's surface, and enchanted it with a single Wind rune.

“How many... god, I don't really want to know, do I?”

Ren grinned. “Nope.” He said and added the diamond to the end of the pipe and used his Gemsetting skill to secure it in place.

“What are you doing?” Janice asked.

“I knew it was going to be too dangerous for me to blow through the pipe; so, I'll let a constant enchantment do it instead.” Ren said. “I can activate and deactivate it as much as I need.”

Janice watched wordlessly as Ren poured out some molten glass into his hand and stuck the open end of the metal pipe into the blob, and activated the enchantment on the diamond on the other end. A perfect bubble formed in the molten glass, and Ren held the pipe in his mouth as he used his other hand to form the glass into a sphere around the slowly growing bubble. It had been a bit too much glass for a normal potion bottle, so Ren let it grow until Janice told him to stop.

“That's good.” Janice said. “Any more than that, and it'll be too brittle to hold, let alone use.”

“My mom mim.” Ren said and deactivated the wind enchantment on the diamond on the end of the metal pipe, then used her wedge tool to make the ridge on the top of the bottle and grabbed a wet cloth. He used his Absorb Fire ability to suck out the heat evenly as he rubbed it with the cloth to smooth the glass, rather than let it cool normally, and then tapped the metal pipe just above the wedge with the small metal rod. The large potion bottle popped off the end of the modified metal pipe and dropped onto the stack of cloth pieces.

Notice!

You have learned a new skill: Glass Blowing. This sub skill under Glassworking allows you to add air to molten glass, which can be used to make various bottles and shapes. Higher levels will allow higher quality items and more intricate works to be made.

“What did you say?” Janice asked as she picked up the bottle.

Ren took the pipe out of his mouth. “I said, 'I got it'.”

“You sure do.” Janice said and handed him the potion bottle. Ren took it and examined it.

Larger Potion Bottle (Rare)

This bottle, despite it's large size, was made by Ren The First on his first try. The proper application of air and cooling combined perfectly to make this container. Since it holds more potion, it is that much more effective in that potion's application.

“Ha ha!” Ren said, and held it up. “I knew using an enchantment would work better for me.”

“I can't believe you did that on your first try.” Janice said. “That's amazing.”

“It's the wrong size, but that's okay.” Ren said. “I didn't use your technique for gathering the molten glass, so it's only fair it didn't come out like one of yours.”

“Well, then.” Janice said. “You know what that means.”

“Yep! Practice, practice, practice!” Ren said and smiled.
