The small white dot at the center of the ceiling grows, and the rank-up light pouring out of Ember's body becomes so bright that it completely covers the sky.

Warmth even pierces through the silver threads holding this dome together, as they are all ether commands, divine energy, and primordial aura woven from his own clawed hands.

Every passing moment, it appears as though a white void descends from above.

Even the visuals of the purple zone I have collected from the many primordial trees in the ritual domains are watching. They too all begin to be blinded by a bright white glow from the center of the Primordial Garden.

Those that are too far away, further out in the previously demon-owned lands around the neutral zones, only see the sky light up in a bright white aura.

It is a strange white light.

Not only is it infused with pure, high-quality ether, but it is refined even further into something unrecognizable in this zone. It is an ether so fine, only the system itself can process it fully. A calm and pristine Advanced Primordial Aura flows through it, that is both black and white at the same time; its true color cannot manifest in this zone.

Yet, even the outer settlements are blinded by the aura. It appears bright white in their senses too and easily phases through all of the Dryad's ancient protective barriers.

Even Ren, far out in an isolated domain hidden in the outer settlement, sees a white glow penetrating in from the sky.

When it shines to every single area of the Primordial Garden, the light begins to pulse in a rhythmic manner. It pulses so brightly that energy even starts to seep through the floor of the purple zone down to the zones below.

It is pulsing in rhythm with the same white aura that is in the film between each zone, and the reactors at the center of each of them. It is also synced with the artifact in Marcellus' chest, the Fortress in the Green Zone, and the enormous black planet-sized artifact that was once known as the Demonic Realm.

While it manifests as a white glow in the Purple Zone, the lifeforms in the zones below cannot sense the radiation he is giving off.

The only thing that can be tracked is the fact that the pulsing rhythm is getting faster.

In the Blue Zone, the growing leaves of Abby's enormous green tree are showered in this invisible aura. It invigorates it even more, spreading the branches and growth of the lush new leaves to expand faster.

Some of the newest sprouting leaves grow high enough to start touching the upper limits of the Blue Zone and produce small purple cracks in the air.

The zone barrier between the Cyan Zone and the Blue Zone is being torn apart, and the stability of both zones is shaking and breaking apart.

There are only two living entities inside both of these zones combined: Abby and Seraphel.

So, when dense blue threads pour down into the Cyan Zone and devour the cyan threads, forcing them to compress and equalize the pressure, so do the green-haired human and blue wyvern's cores. Dense blue threads easily fill their celestial bodies, and the Advanced Primordial Aura being shared by the Rising Emperor keeps them sturdy and intact to handle this breakthrough without any harm done to their divine cores.

While Abby stays near the base of the tree, glowing bright in her Dryad-like form, Seraphel soars to the sky and easily breaks up into the Blue Zone through the many cracks in the sky.

He circles the growing branches of the trees and lets out a strong, victorious screech that echoes through the entire two zones.

Below both of them, there is an enormous white blinking barrier that has held strong for billions of years, surrounding the Ravine in the Cyan Zone.

However, it is being completely overgrown by this tree's roots. What first only cracked its outer layers and feasted on its ether reserves to grow is now breaking through entire sections of the enormous demonic seal.

Huge cracks and holes in the bright white prison array are appearing, and green roots of a primordial tree are flooding down into the vast network of caves and temples in the empty and dark ravine.

In the Green Zone, every single elite, general, and warlord have locked onto and killed the demons invading their citadels.

The horrific shockwaves have shaken the entire zone and filled the air outside of the citadel defense arrays with raw celestial energy, demonic essence, and even high-quality ether that cannot be digested by normal citizens.

The worst of the danger has passed. There is no longer a single Ancient Imperial Soldier left in the Green Zone. The mindless soldiers and the intelligent Outer Guards have all been killed.

Even in the Lower Realm, the intelligence network has grown to such efficiency that even with millions of Demonic Soldiers with the power to destroy entire solar systems with a flick of their wrists, every single one of them is being tracked down and killed in mere seconds.

The bursts of light that flash throughout the galaxy will alter the patterns of the sky for hundreds of thousands of years.

Enormous supernova-like explosions of ether and celestial energy fill areas of space near the outer edges of the galaxy that were not lit up and only held forgotten worlds.

Now, over 120 billion worlds are connected to the World Wide Connectivity system, and every single battle is being hosted through live spectate feeds.

The true power of the Admins, Commanders, and Knights is being shown to everyone and captured in history as they save more and more civilizations from extinction with every passing second.

–

I am not the only one that feels this running in the back of my mind. The chaotic demon I face still has his own system connections to the army he created to exterminate the Lower Realm.

He feels the deactivation of all of his soldiers one by one, alerting him that even that surefire plan has not gone the way he desired.

"You're messing everything up! Do not believe the dreams that dragon has spouted to you! Do you really believe that the cycle can be reset? Why would you trust something you cannot test or see with your own eyes! An immortal paradise is waiting for me right here! I must claim it no matter what!" Marcellus cries out in a murderous roar.

Two more blasts of shockwaves shake the now blinking white dome around us as we break free from the collisions with his daggers.

Maria and I are sent flying backward, but both swing our blades across our bodies and step through the air in seemingly random patterns to send dozens of full-powered long-range attacks back.

The growing orange chaotic aura is destroyed by enormous red flames and blue sparkling waves of ice at the same rate that it grows.

Both of the chaotic daggers begin trailing us through the air and trying to catch us. However, the further away from the Demon's true body at the center of the domain they get, the slower and weaker they become. We quickly work this into our attack strategy and lure his long range strikes further and further away. Chipped chaotic soul mass starts to fly off the blades, and there are even glyphs that explode and spin out from the daggers when clashed with hard enough.
