“I came back to Earth and discovered that it was broken. Even worse, the founder’s former familiar Noreth was still around. He thought that I was another stooge of Knowledge come to further her plans, which I now know he was correct about. He’d been preparing for years, but had become an extremist. A man some of you will know as Mr North. Leader of the Engineers of Ascension.

“Plan A for the EoA was to wreck the grid and send the Earth spiralling, forcing the World Phoenix and her agents to more overtly step in to correct things. That did damage, but Farrah Hurin was able to work the Network and prevent complete disaster. Plan B was an army of super-soldiers who could fight Knowledge’s forces once she invaded. Unfortunately, the former familiar’s grasp of the magic was insufficient to the task. His shortcuts and fumbling, inhumane experiments led only to abominations and madness. That project was ultimately taken up and perfected by the Asano Clan.

“While this was happening, the broader world still needed fixing, and I just happened to have the tools. Enough to get started, anyway. It’s been a long process that I can only complete in full by returning to the other world. And when I’m done, Earth will be stable, with a much higher level of magic than it had before all this began. Most importantly, there will be not just a link between worlds but a bridge. A bridge that a goddess can cross. Then she won’t be a god of knowledge anymore; she’ll just be God.”

“Back on Pallimustus, Knowledge’s manipulations have continued. People were worried as the goddess of Knowledge started building up a holy army, but then came the invasion of the messengers. The world believed that she had used her knowledge to prepare, not realising that she plotted the invasion herself, centuries ago. And when the invasion is over, she will have an army, blooded and strengthened in war. An army ready to invade Earth.”

Jason took a deep breath and let it out slow.

“Some of you are aware that there is a body of rules called the Laws of Intrusion. They govern things like who can invade a world. About how one god can invade another’s territory to conduct a holy war. Knowledge has been playing fast and loose with those rules, preparing the Earth for invasion. But now the Cosmic Throne I mentioned has been repaired. Those rules are back in place and contravening them is not easy.

“What this means is that Knowledge can’t just shove herself across the bridge and claim her place as God Almighty. This world has gods, and whether or not they’re real, the faith behind them is. Knowledge can’t just come in and usurp their place. Instead, she has to conduct a holy war. A crusade, to claim this world for her own faith. She needs to take it, and eradicate the temples of the closest thing Earth has to an actual deity in residence.”

He grimaced and stared awkwardly at his feet.

“That, and I’m just going to pull off the band-aid here, is me. I’m not a god, but my domains — the Asano Clan territories — function like the divine ground held by gods. They are, mechanically speaking, temples of me. Knowledge needs her army to conquer the world, then conquer my temples, and then she can come to Earth and take her place as its one true God.”

Jason ran his hands through his hair.

“Now, I’ve skimmed over a lot, here. I’ve tried to keep it to the portions relevant to what’s coming, and the context to let you understand that, but I know I’ve left a lot of holes. So, who has questions?”

A room full of hands shot up.
