The Azure Empire could really do with more court jesters.

Stage magicians and stand-up comedians could work too, and there are probably other professions I’m overlooking, but the point is, the Empire suffers from an appalling lack of entertainment options, especially in the family friendly category. Besides playing music or reciting poetry, there’s not much else one can do to hold an audience’s attention without ample preparation, and the aforementioned activities might not even do that. It’s probably why we always end up fighting at these stupid social events, and even though I get to sit this one out, it’s still nerve-wracking to do nothing while Song risks her life in the sparring ring.

I’d introduce improvisational comedy games to the Azure Empire, but I fear for all the audiences that would turn Defiled from boredom...

Luckily, my Martial Aunt is a formidable Martial Warrior who can kick ass and take names with the best of them, and she deserves more than a smidgen of perfunctory applause. Condensing her Aura was probably the least impressive part of her accomplishments tonight, considering she just defeated eight of Central’s reputable young warriors without breaking a sweat. Were she not an Oath-Bound half-cat slave, she’d probably get a standing ovation for this phenomenal performance, but instead she gets a polite golf clap to acknowledge her entry into the Empire’s Roll of Experts at twenty-two years young, liberally sprinkled with muttered comments about good breeding and healthy stock which could have been politely Sent instead. Backhanded compliments everywhere, but Song takes it like a champ and saunters back to her table with head held high and without a hair out of place.

It sucks that I had to lead the charge just to get this minuscule amount of recognition for Song, not to mention how the crowd is only playing along because her opponent cheated and they have to give me and Akanai face. Even Nian Zu, Yuzhen, and my other allies seem less than enthused about clapping for Song, although Grandpa Du looks mighty pleased with himself. It’s a shame the Empire is so fixated on status and face. So what if Song is bound by her slave Oath? That doesn’t make her accomplishments any less impressive, but a slave’s achievements are ‘hardly worth celebrating’, which is just wrong seeing how the Empire needs all the morale-raising stories it can get. I guarantee you no one will be talking about Song’s stunning victories come tomorrow morning, but the city will be abuzz with gossip about Ken-Kitchi’s disgraceful defeat at the hands of a slave, while overlooking his attempt to Aura-cheat his way to victory. I’d call him out on it, but I’m only guessing at what happened and Wu Gam is sitting in the audience. I’d rather not have to answer any uncomfortable questions he might bring up, seeing how I pretty much did the same thing to beat him and take my title as Number One Talent in the Empire.

Honestly, I should’ve just lost and let him take the title. It’s brought me nothing but grief.

...Besides Luo-Luo, I guess. She’s alright. Okay, better than alright, and looking oh so fine in her tight, low-cut dress and long, flowing skirts, but still. My point stands. Being the first ever unaffiliated Imperial Consort sucks donkey dick.

The applause cuts short the moment Song returns to her seat, as if no one in the audience wants to risk being the last person clapping, but I continue for a little while longer until the twins stop too. Following this is a minor lull, during which Luo-Luo nudges me with her knee to spur me into action, but I have no idea what she wants me to do. To buy time, I take a bite of my peach-lotus bun and try to look real interested in what I’m eating, while inwardly reviewing what I know about banquet protocol.

Let’s see... Don’t speak while eating, don’t chew with mouth open, no elbows on table, no chopsticks stuck in bowl, don’t slurp your noodles, don’t use your hands... I don’t think I’m doing anything wrong. I’m using chopsticks to eat my bun, even though it’d be easier to use my hands instead, and I’m not taking giant bites or chewing loudly either, so what’s got Luo-Luo’s panties in a twist? Does she wear panties? No, focus Rain. Get your head out of the gutter. I wish she could do more than just repeatedly nudge me with a knee, and I don’t mean in a sexual way either. Sad thing is, I can’t be seen taking instructions from her or else I’d lose face. Not only is she a servant and concubine, but she’s also a woman, which means I, as a macho warrior man, outrank her in every way possible and must therefore be the dominant person in the relationship. It’s silly that Martial Warriors would still have a male-centric viewpoint, since Chi is the great equalizer between gender disparity, but that’s how things be, so Luo-Luo has to play the part of dutiful and obedient concubine rather than the able political advisor she truly is.

Seriously though, what am I doing wrong? I should eat slower so I have time to think. That’s it, small bites. Chew thoroughly. Why is everyone watching me eat? Do I have lotus paste on my cheek or something? Was there a specific order I was supposed to eat my desserts in? Don’t look at Luo-Luo or Mom, everyone will notice and they’ll think you’re an idiot. Don’t worry, you can figure this out on your own, you got this. Wipe your lips, but be casual about it. Handkerchief is clean, so that’s a bust. Did a button come undone? Nope, collar is still uncomfortably tight, but at least I can breathe, which I’m not sure Luo-Luo can do in her skin-tight dress. My spear is still leaning against my chair, so that didn’t fall over, and there’s nothing out of place on...

Oh right! We’re publicly feuding, and since the opposition sent up the first challenger, I’m supposed to send out the next one. Doesn’t make sense if you ask me, since Song just fought eight matches and left undefeated, but that’s the game. Shit, now it looks like I’m eating slowly on purpose just to be an asshole about it. Whatever. Might as well lean into it. Damn this peach-lotus bun is good. There’s no peach in the dessert, but the white bun has a pinkish cast to it which makes it look like a peach, but really it’s just a steamed bun with lotus paste and some creamy, yolky filling. It’s kinda weird to look at, being a pinkish white bun leaking thick, golden fluid, but damn if it isn’t delicious. I need to learn how to make this. I’ll send someone to ask the chef later. It’s weird how chef isn’t a prestigious position, but probably because they’re all slaves too. No point investing money into training someone if they’re free to seek employment elsewhere.

This world sucks on so many levels...

Taking a long sip of tea to punctuate my stalling, I take a deep breath and do my best not to hem or stutter. “What a rousing series of matches.” Why am I speaking weird? Be normal. “Are there any other young heroes who’d like to...” Not take the stage, because I’m sitting on it, but er... Maybe I should just trail off and gesture at the impromptu sparring arena. Yea that’s fine. It’s fine. Everything’s fine. Man, if I’m gonna be this awkward, maybe I need a drink or three to loosen up.

Coughing to hide his smirk, Fung steps out from the crowd with spear in hand and makes his way front and centre, just as we planned. “This one is Tong Da Fung, Disciple of Akanai, Young Magistrate of Shen Huo, Third Grade Warrant Officer, and twenty-three year old Expert of the Empire.”

Though we all agreed he would fight second, Fung’s opponent comes as a surprise, not because he didn’t make the list of young Central Warriors to watch out for, but because he’s technically supposed to be on my side. Striding out amidst the hushed whispers and shocked gasps of the crowd, Wu Gam bows to the Legate and offers Fung a salute, looking sharper than ever in the fashionable grey and black robes I gifted him, which contrast so well with his white-furred fox ears and tail. “Warrant Officer Third Grade, Wu Gam. Twenty-four years old.”

Dammit dude. This better not be a betrayal...

Fung’s a much better politician that I am, which isn’t saying much, but even I can tell he’s surprised by Wu Gam answering his challenge. The half-foxes have no skin in this political game, which means either they’ve chosen a side that isn’t mine or Wu Gam is here to have fun. The answer soon becomes clear as Eccentric Gam shouts, “Flirt on your own time, boys. We ain’t here to watch you two stare lovingly into each other’s eyes.”

Oh good, so Wu Gam just wanted to fight. Guess he got all excited watching Song beat the shit out of so many people he knew...

Spurred on by his Mentor and sibling, Wu Gam makes the first move and Fung responds in kind as staff meets spear in a boisterous blur. Sinking back into my seat, I watch them both trade blows and cannot for the life of me tell who’s winning. Wu Gam has the raw strength, but Fung has firm control of the tempo and seems to be matching his opponent thus far, so it could really go either way if they’re only fighting to first advantage. Not bad odds for Fung considering he’s up against one of the Hwarang, who are supposed to be Central’s best and brightest, and Wu Gam himself is a cut above the rest. Unfortunately, judging by the disapproving stares emanating from the crowd, it seems like most people think this is a poorly veiled act for Fung to improve his status, and honestly, I don’t blame them. I know Fung has the Martial chops to stand at the forefront of our generation, but like me, he has an image problem. Where I don’t fit the image of a proper young hero, Fung perfectly fits the image of a spoiled dandy, the likes of which are quietly looked down upon by actual Martial Warriors, but tolerated because of their families. The problem is, now that it’s been revealed that the Ryo Family is standing firmly in my camp, there have been whispers about how Fung’s match against Ryo Geom-Chi in Nan Ping might have been faked, which obviously isn’t true, but the truth matters little when it comes to public perception.

I should know. Maybe I should hire on a PR rep. Mother knows it’d probably be cheaper than paying Bulat’s tab so he and his friends can talk me up in bars and restaurants...

After a few minutes of steady smashing, Fung and Wu Gam appear equally matched, which does nothing to quell the whispers of foul play. Then, they kick things up a notch and their weapons sound off in a brisk symphony of violence, hammering out a speedy, reverberating rhythm as they plant their feet and unleash hell. Ten exchanges, then twenty, then forty and more, the whispers quiet as their match slowly swells in speed, volume, and intensity. Soon, it becomes clear that neither warrior is holding back as the paved floor cracks beneath their feet, but still there is no clear advantage. Their weapons cross in a clash of steel and the resulting clap sets the stage to shaking beneath my feet, only for Fung and Wu Gam to draw their weapons back for yet another clash. Again and again these two titans meet, and it occurs to me that even with my admittedly high evaluation of Fung’s skills, it’s clear I’ve sorely underestimated him.

First Mila, now Fung, how are they so physically strong? Even Song seems like she’s kicked it up a few notches on the brute strength scale, seeing how she kept knocking her opponents into the air with a single hit, so either Akanai’s been feeding her Disciples magical steroids or there’s some secret I don’t know about.

...Dammit Dad, why you gotta be such a terrible Mentor? I still love you, but c’mon man. I’m dying out here.

Then as suddenly as it started, the clash comes to an end as Wu Gam and Fung both step back. Arms heavy, brows glistening, and clothes in disarray, they pant and stare at one another as their final ringing note of battle lazily fades into nothingness. Difficult to say who moves first, but they both grin, salute, and step back before offering the Legate his expected bow, at which point the audience finally remembers to applaud for the stunning display of strength and skill they just witnessed.

I don’t miss the constant near-death encounters, but I do miss sparring with my friends every day. It’s no fun being on the outside looking in, and now Wu Gam and Fung are probably going to be BFF’s, clasping hands and walking off together with Fung’s arm over Wu Gam’s shoulder. Shut up brain. I’m not jealous. You’re jealous. No, wait... just shut up.

Whatever. Who needs bros when you have floofs? Leaning sideways to pat Ping Ping on the beak, I smile at the big girl as she rests her head on stage, blinking sleepily while also trying to keep a close eye on me and the Legate. She does not like him at all, which is weird because she usually likes everyone, even random strangers who come up to pat her on the street. Maybe she hates him because she picked up on how nervous I was that first time we all met in Nan Ping, but so long as she doesn’t attack or spit on him, I’m perfectly okay with things as they are.

