It’s fine. We can handle them. I hope the Situ Patriarch does make a move, so Ghurda can put him in his place. Then Nian Zu can take over and we can finally bury the hatchet with the Society of Heaven and Earth. Wouldn’t that be something...

Still not quite done, Huu spars with a few more opponents and wins without using his saber before calling Dienne out for a match. The Southern Number One Talent graciously accepts, striding out to the floor in his shimmering, multi-coloured carapace armor, for the first time tonight, Huu takes his stance and readies his weapon for the match. A stance which mirrors Dienne’s own, the same one he displayed to great effect during the Grand Conference. Weapon held low in both hands with the tip angled and pointed back, it’s a flexible posture which allows for a wide range of movements including several powerful slashes, and both men settle in for a silent duel of minds. It’s not about who makes the first move, but rather who makes the first mistake as Huu and Dienne posture and feint while barely moving more than a centimetre at a time. The first blow will set the tone of the rest of the match, if not outright end it, so they’re each seeking out every advantage they can before that initial exchange.

Huu inches his back foot forward, and Dienne responds by dropping one shoulder. Both men reset, and Dienne shifts his weight forward while Huu alters his grip so his saber is at a forty-five degree angle instead of seventy five degrees. Reset. Narrowed posture is countered by straightened posture, lowered knees thwarted by loosened grip. Back and forth the two men shift, and while a layman might find it boring and fidgety, I can barely remember to breathe as I parse through the myriad of Movements the two Warriors allude to and discard with every micro-movement and reposition. Hanging Branch matched with Darting Fang, Standing Fury with Rending Fang, Pierce the Horizon with Lumbering Gait, Huu and Dienne rattle through their paired Movements at breakneck speeds and I follow along every step of the way. This is a dance of a different sort, one played out in the minds of Martial Warriors with eyes to see it, and I can scarcely bring myself to blink for fear of missing even a single exchange.

There is no warning before the blades meet, but I anticipated it nonetheless, jaw clenched and ears covered as the thunderous crash and shrill shriek of metal on metal echos through the banquet hall. Luo-Luo starts in her seat beside me while the twins cringe and cower into Alsantset’s distracted embrace, and even Ping Ping lifts her head to see what all the fuss is about, but the match is already over. So fast I didn’t even see a blur, all my eyes could catch was a hint of motions and both men had finished shifting positions, but I piece things together solely on how they were standing before either one made a move.

Arm extended in a full swing, Huu holds his sabre high in the air after an attempt to part Dienne’s head from his shoulders using Wolf Form, Twisting Snap, an arcing diagonal slash which, in this case, started low and ended high. The dusky Southerner saw this coming and countered with Raising the Winds to parry Huu’s powerful swing and force the saber safely overhead. In the same motion, Dienne turned his parry into an attack and brought his giant scimitar straight towards Huu’s abdomen and lower chest, where its wicked edge currently rests. Had Dienne followed through, Huu would be lying in a puddle of his own organs after having all but thrown himself onto his opponents blade, all thanks to the Southerner’s perfect control over not only his own strength, but Huu’s as well.

On the surface, it just looks like Huu swung and Dienne ducked, but this was a victory won through a difference of mere millimetres. Catch the attack at the wrong angle or move a hair too slow, and Huu could have easily smashed through the parry and won the day, but unlike Gulong, Dienne is both talented and experienced in the ways of war. After all of a heartbeat, both men return to their starting positions and put their weapons away, only to exchange a silent salute before retreating from the stage.

Dammit, first Fung and Wu Gam, now Huu and Dienne. That’s tried and true bromance right there, a bond forged in the heat of battle. Next I bet Zian and BoShui fight and become best friends too, assuming they already aren’t, all while I sit here on stage and twiddle my thumbs. This sucks. I wanna be healthy again, before I lose all my best bros...

Well... At least I’ll always have Dastan, so that’s... something, I guess.

Chapter Meme
