Beneath the table, Luo-Luo nudges me once more and I return to my proper seated position, but this time I know what’s expected: my silence and attention. Perfect timing too, because who do I see approaching the stage but good old Gulong himself, Zian’s pitiful clansman and unworthy successor. In these last three days of frantic preparation, not once did any of us mention Situ Gulong for two reasons. First of all, Ji Yeon used to be his betrothed and he tried to leave her for dead on the front lines, which would make things awkward for him if we decided to press the issue. Secondly, he’s not exactly the cream of the crop when it comes to Martial Warriors, seeing as he has no Aura or Natal Palace to speak of at twenty three years of age. Now that’s not to say this is a bad thing, seeing as how most Martial Warriors are considered geniuses if they reach both those milestones by twenty five, but considering this is a gathering of the Empire’s best and brightest, little Gulong is more snake than dragon, and not even a local one at that.

This is gonna be great. I wish we had popcorn, or even just corn would be great. Ohhhhh, I can make fries! I haven’t seen any potatoes, but yam fries should work too...

“A shame Fung is no longer fit to fight,” Gulong begins, addressing the crowd after offering the Legate a courtly bow. “I’d hoped to challenge him myself and put him in his place, but such is life.” Implying Fung worked with Wu Gam to avoid him. As if, but the crowd mutters in quiet agreement, because Gulong truly does look the part of Noble Young Hero, face painted and feathered up like a real Central dancer. Lip curled in a hateful sneer, he salutes me with a burning hatred in his eyes. “Perhaps Imperial Consort would permit me to play with his betrotheds instead?”

The double entendre sets the crowd to tittering as I lament Mila’s distracted condition, because I would love nothing more than to watch my beloved red-headed beauty smash Gulong’s leg bones into itty bitty pieces. “Don’t be silly, this is your big debut.” Flashing a smirk of my own in response to Gulong’s sneer, I add, “I’m sure we can find you a more suitable match, someone who isn’t already betrothed. You shouldn’t waste this chance, seeing as you no longer have a betrothed of your own. I’m sure there’s some fair maiden in the audience who would be more than happy to play with you.” Making a big show of peering out at the crowd, I ask, “Any single ladies in the crowd? The young master here would like to invite you out to play. Come on, don’t be shy. This is Situ Gulong after all, Young Patriarch of the Situ Clan, recently single and ready to go all night.” Given how I phrased things, there are no takers as anticipated, and I let the silence linger for longer than necessary. “Anyone? Don’t be fooled by his looks and inexperience, he has a really long... tongue. Shockingly long, really. First time I saw it, I just knew his future wife would be a happy woman. His father sure is, as are all the Clan Elders who endorsed him. Happy, that is, not women, though I suppose some of them could be. I don’t really know.” Choked laughter sounds from the crowd, and Gulong’s pale, powdered cheeks take on a vibrant shade of crimson as I turn to him and quietly ask, “On that note, what are your thoughts on playing with a man instead? Now, think before you answer, because beggars can’t be choosers, and we’ve already established that no women want to play with you.”

I almost feel bad for bullying the poor guy, but he makes it so easy...

It feels good to finally understand how to properly insult people in public. I was mostly goofing around since it was clear Ishin Ken-Shibu was looking to start shit, but after Luo-Luo made a big fuss about how amazing I was in the opera, I spent a bunch of time analyzing what I did and came to one simple conclusion: innuendos and allusions are the way to go. Puns work too, but I’m not great with those on account of Common being my second or third language after English. I bet ‘that’s what she said’ would go over great with this crowd though, and while it’s not as fun as outright calling Gulong an ass-licking brown-noser, implying he’s one is almost as good and far more acceptable in polite company, which is a huge plus.

Still, at least now I understand why people get so mad at me when I like... demand kowtows or say something innocuous which could also be misconstrued as a subtle insult. A direct insult must be answered for the sake of face, but in the same vein, subtle innuendo must be ignored at all cost, lest others believe you think the insinuations are true. Shit’s complicated, but I think I’m getting the hang of things.

Having ground his nose in the grisly remains of his shitty joke, I let Gulong off the hook and ask, “Are there any Warriors who would care to exchange pointers with Situ Gulong?” Since we didn’t plan on his appearance, I leave it up to others to decide who will meet him, even though I’d love to send Dastan out to slap the teeth out of Gulong’s face hole. We already pushed our luck with Song, and sending a second slave would invite derision according to Binesi, because a slave’s accomplishments are somehow less impressive than a free person’s. One slave sent to fight can be overlooked, especially since Song is Akanai’s daughter, but if we send another slave out, our enemies will whisper about how the North has no warriors of note, only slaves.

I wish I could’ve gotten seats for Dastan, Sahb, Balta, and the other survivors from Sanshu, but alas, a place in my honour guard is the best I could do. None of them seem to care much for this banquet, and appear perfectly content to watch my back, but I’ll be damned if we celebrate the heroes of Sinuji without them. I tried talking the Bannermen into coming as well, but aside from Yaruq who’s in attendance as Tenjin’s guest, Naaran who’s a part of my honour guard, and Ghurda who was invited by Nian Zu, the rest of the Bannermen claimed they were too busy for banquets, though I assume they’re lurking around outside in case things go south.

I don’t exactly know where they are or what the plan is, because Mom didn’t share it with me since ‘I can’t give away what I don’t know’. Kind of hurtful, but true.

The first person to accept Gulong’s challenge is a kid from the Lin family, and after a handful of careful exchanges, I lose interest in the match and palm a couple dried berries from my pouch instead. Pretending to watch the two mid-tier warriors trade blows, I lean on the table and rest my head on my knuckles while leaving my hand open so Pong Pong can covertly munch on the treat. The little turtle is still chillin’ on my shoulder, just like he has been all night, and much like Ping Ping, he does not like the Legate, though in this case I think I know why. The trio of old decrepit beardies are nowhere in sight, but there are two suspicious looking shadows on either side of the Legate’s palanquin. Furthermore, Pong Pong has been careful to keep my neck between him and the Legate all night, and since Pong Pong is never this careful around anyone else, I can only assume those shadows are hiding the Beardy Divinities.

I should stop calling them that. They’d probably get mad if I ever let it slip, and if history has taught me anything, it’s that I’m not very careful with what I say.

Gulong’s first match ends in a narrow victory over his Lin Clan opponent, who slinks back into the audience in low spirits with a bloodied cheek. Hardly the most thrilling of matches after what we’ve already seen, but I clap just as politely as everyone else did for Song, albeit with care since I’m still holding one of Pong Pong’s berries. The little guy’s been so stressed all night he hasn’t had much of an appetite besides eating all my shrimp and shellfish, but I didn’t really have a choice. It was either bring him along or risk leaving him behind if things went south, and while I wish I could do more to soothe Pong Pong’s nerves, I’m not exactly comfortable sitting in spitting distance of a Divinity either.

At least things are going better than expected. No one’s tried to kill me yet, or insinuated a better person should be sitting up here in my place. All they did was leave my table off the stage and ignore me for most of the night, which isn’t even high-school levels of mean. Hell, I actually prefer things this way. Idiots. As if I even want the attention...

Gulong’s next opponent is one of BoShui’s younger siblings, but I’ll be damned if I can remember his name. I’m sure he mentioned it before they started fighting, but I wasn’t really paying attention again. There’s too much to focus on, so between my good manners, proper posture, Concealed threats, and possible Divinities, I’ve no time for scrub shenanigans.

Or at least I don’t until Gulong earns his second victory of the night, once again scoring a narrow victory after an extended exchange which ends with yet another cheek injury. Same cheek too, and using a similar move as well, I think, though I’m not entirely sure. Maybe Gulong isn’t as terrible a Warrior as I thought, which makes his shitty attitude and underhanded schemes that much worse. If he’s actually talented, then why not use those talents to earn his place in the Clan instead of undercutting the competition? Whatever, from what I can tell, Zian hardly misses his Young Patriarch title, and it almost seems like he’s happier for the loss, though I have been pretty busy lately and might not be seeing the whole picture.

It turns out I wasn’t the only one who noticed Gulong’s skills, as his next challenger is none other than Big Huu himself. Or perhaps he’s upgraded to Huge Huu, because while BoShui hit a growth spurt in these last two years, Huushal has transformed himself into a demi-giant of titanic proportions who looks suitably imposing in his plain Sentinel leathers. Standing well over two meters tall, Huu’s rippling frame towers over his opponent as he makes his introduction. “Huushal, Son of Ghurda, Chakta, and Elia, twenty-three year old Third Grade Warrant Officer, and Sentinel of the People.”

Somehow not registering the massive disparity in size, reach, and sheer mass, Gulong’s disdain is clear to see. At least he’s confident, I’ll give him that. “Hmph. I remember you. You were there during the Society Contests, the oaf who rode Falling Rain’s coattails to success. I’d hoped to teach one of his women a lesson, but I suppose beating his dog will do just as well.”

Welp, guess Gulong’s gonna die now.

The two combatants take their places, and after a moment of stillness, Gulong makes the first move, bringing his longsword down in a two-handed overhead slash. Huu sidesteps the attack with ease, but doesn’t bring his giant sabre to bear, instead keeping it tucked against the back of his arm in a reversed grip as if he doesn’t intend to use it. Snarling in anger, Gulong whips his sword about in a vicious barrage of attacks, but they cut clean through empty air as Huu dances around the edge of his range. Round and round the two Warriors go, Sentinel and Noble dancing across the sparring grounds as Huu dips, ducks, dives, and dodges about while Gulong mounts an all out offence. Rage and frustration growing as his sword repeatedly fails to connect, he soon loses his sense of caution as his swings grow wild and wide, a sure sign the Young Patriarch is losing control of his actions. Rage helps in a fight, but it also makes it easy to lose focus, and the latter is vital to survival.

Gulong is decently strong, but he lacks life and death experience, which is evident as his fury overwhelms his better judgment. So fixated on striking his opponent, Gulong fails to notice the broken tiles left by Fung and Wu Gam’s exchange and slips on a loose shard. Having foreseen this as a possibility, Huu bull-rushes his opponent with a meaty shoulder check and sends the Young Patriarch crashing to the ground. The air rushes out of Gulong’s lungs as his sword clatters across the tiles, and even before Huu rests his sabre gently beside his opponent’s neck, it’s clear to everyone that this was a decidedly one-sided match. “Balance,” Huu enunciates, once he’s sure Gulong is paying attention. “It is a simple concept, yet so difficult to grasp, for the Mother left us no tools to discern where Balance truly lies. How does one find the midpoint between calm and anger? Love and hate? Joy and sorrow? No one can say for sure, because no two people are ever the same. There are Warriors who stride into battle as cold and calm as a frozen lake, while others fight with a raging heat burning from within their chest. Both retain Balance, but it is easy to see they are different states of Balance. Curious, is it not?” Removing his saber from Gulong’s neck, Huu hefts the blade onto his shoulder and turns to leave. “I suggest you seek out an alternative state of Balance, before you draw too close to the fire and burn yourself.”

If anyone can spot an at-risk Defilement, it’d probably be Huu, but Gulong doesn’t take the warning well. He doesn’t say anything, but the hatred in his eyes is clear as day, for he sees this as utter humiliation rather than the sound advice based on personal experience that it actually is. Granted, many others would also see things the same way, but I suppose Huu felt it necessary to chide Gulong in public instead of offering him a friendly Sending. Then again, fuck Gulong and fuck his dad too, though judging from their similar stares of seething fury, it seems like Huu has just become the Situ Clan’s public enemy number one.

