“Ah, I know the feeling of not wishing to leave home quite well,” the man agreed, drawing Delan in with his good nature. “Your sect is beautiful; a silver ring atop a hill. It made quite the sight travelling up the road!”

“Yes, it is our pride!” Delan replied, a smile forming on his own face. His son had truly made a good impression on this man, for him to look so favourably upon their sect. “The greatest work of our ancestors is still beyond us, but thanks to the benevolence of your disciple, I’m sure we will be recreating them in no time.”

It was this man before him who had given back the Azure Hills their hope, after all. The works of their ancestors had been returned to them by the grace of this man.

Master Jin gave him another firm nod, and turned to Delan’s wife. “Lady Liquin, a pleasure. My daughter had only fine things to say about your carving skills.”

Liquin blinked and flushed at the praise; he had actually bothered to remember their names.

“Thank you for the praise, Master Jin. Your daughter is very skilled.”

“That she is!” he agreed, before he looked upon their son. “Delun! How's the shoulder?”

“Not a trace of the injury remains, Master Jin. Lady Meiling works wonders,” his son replied.

“Excellent. Though speaking of Lady Meiling…” Master Jin turned, and allowed his own wife to take the center of attention.

“Lady Meiling,” Delan greeted, bowing again.

“Master Delan,” the woman replied, her voice calm and imperious. Her amethyst eyes were sharp and assessing, but after a moment, she graced him with a smile. “Thank you for inviting us into your home, and for taking care of both our little ones; especially a little one who I thought was supposed to be in the north, taking care of her duties to the survey teams.”

She raised an eyebrow at Tigu, who had walked forward, just a bit sheepishly.

“This is on the way!” Tigu deflected.

The babe Lady Meiling was carrying perked up

“Bi’ sis! Bi’ sis!” he babbled, reaching for Tigu.

“I’m sure it is,” the woman replied with one arched eyebrow, handing her son to her daughter, who immediately started snuggling him.

“It is our pleasure, Lady Meiling,” Delan said honestly, and the woman graced him with another smile.

“You’re very much like your son, Master Delan,” she told him.

Delan took it as a compliment.

The rest of Master Jin’s retinue was introduced after that, bringing things back to more of a formal tone, but Delan found he had a small smile on his face.

Then he realised how quickly and utterly Master Jin had dominated the conversation and the mood. The disciples, once tense, were relaxed, and smiling as well.

Delan was already treating him like an old friend.

… it was humbling.

They went to the feasting table, where they ate rice together; the great dragon Wa Shi pointed out the dishes he liked the most, and Master Jin ate them, praising the flavours.

But there was one thought on his mind that needed soothing.

“You do us a great honour by visiting us first, Master Jin,” Delan said, his voice quiet while others made their introductions. “But might this one inquire for the purpose of your visit?”

Master Jin cocked his head to the side. “Ah, it appears there has been a misunderstanding, Master Delan. This is indeed just to greet the parents of our good friend Delun. We were going to be travelling in the area, and we stopped by. Nothing more and nothing less than that.”

Delan let out a breath, relief taking hold.

This was going much better than he had hoped already!

=============

=============

Editors: Aaron “Pastafarian” Sofaer, BargleNawdleZouss,
