“You do remember the requirements, right?” Ren asked. “One stored item, one equipped item, and a percentage of your money.”

Gloria sighed. “I know.”

“Well, it's time for supper.” Denise said. “Ren, do you want to eat here or downstairs in the kitchen?”

“That depends on what we're having.”

“Beef stew.” Denise said. “You gave me the idea.”

Ren smiled. “I hope it tastes good.”

“Well, 9 out of 10 canines preferred it; so, it's the best dog food in a can you can buy.” Denise said, and Ren laughed.

“It's not really dog food, is it?” Gloria asked.

“No, but depending on the brand you buy, it sure smells like dog food.” Denise said. “I actually bought a can once to compare, and I found something disturbing.”

“Oh, god.” Gloria said. “Don't tell me it was a finger or something.”

“No.” Denise laughed. “That would have been preferable I think.”

“What did you find?”

“The dog food looked like a higher quality meal.” Denise said. “Bigger chunks of meat and vegetables, thicker broth, and it came in a can twice the size for half the price.”

Gloria blinked her eyes for a few moments. “Okay, yes. I think finding a severed finger isn't as bad as seeing dog food as a much better meal!”

Ren laughed. “Denise, I think you've disgusted her enough that she's not going to stay for supper.”

“My plan worked!” Denise said, and Gloria chuckled.

“I think I will eat in the kitchen.” Ren said. “Right after a quick visit to the bathroom.”

Ren went into the bathroom and Gloria gathered up her gear and packed it away. She looked at what she was wearing and figured it was good enough to get her home in without having to change. Ren came out of the bathroom and sat down in the wheelchair.

“Gloria.” Ren said, and she turned to look at him. “I'm sorry you died in the game.”

“So am I.” Gloria said.

“Did you learn a lesson from it?”

“Yes.” Gloria said. “Sneak attacks only work when they don't know you're coming.”

“That's just common sense.” Ren laughed. “I meant about letting me help you before running off.”

“You've never cared about that before.” Gloria said. “I've left the business apartment lots of times without telling you.”

“We've never been asleep in bed together before when it happened.” Ren said. “I would have mentioned it before now if it had.”

“But...”

“You'd do it again, wouldn't you?” Ren asked her, and she sighed.

“I still can't tell you where she lives.”

“I don't care about that!” Ren said. “I care about you!”

“Ren, it... it's just a game.”

“Maybe to you it is.” Ren said. “To me, it's...” He sighed. “Never mind.” He looked up at Denise. “Please take me to the kitchen.”

Denise pushed the wheelchair to the door of the bedroom and took Ren over to the elevator in the lobby on the second floor. Gloria gathered her things and walked down the hallway. The elevator door opened and Denise pushed Ren into it facing the back of the elevator, hit the first floor button and the door close button, then stepped back out.

“Hey!” Ren said and the elevator door closed.

Denise turned and looked at Gloria. “Look, I know I don't really have a right to say anything; but, Ren cares a lot about you. Waking him up and explaining things would have just been common courtesy.”

“Look, I know I messed up; but, it's not that big of a deal.” Gloria said.

“You're wrong. It is a big deal.” Denise said. “He's supposed to trust you. If you just leave as soon as a friend calls, how is he supposed to trust that you're going to stay around from now on?”

“What do you mean?”

“You were cuddled in bed together. You comforted him, and he felt safe.” Denise said.

“How do you know how he felt?”

“Experience.” Denise said. “Then you snuck out and left him all alone.” She said. “He didn't go into panic mode because of it, thank god.”

“I only left because-”

“You didn't leave him.” Denise said and squinted her eyes at Gloria. “You abandoned him.”

“I... I didn't!”

“Those were his words, remember? That's how he described it.” Denise said.

“You're right about what you said before.” Gloria felt her anger rise. “You don't have a right to talk to me about it.”

“I'll stop talking about it if you promise that you'll never do it again.”

“I'm not going to promise you anything.” Gloria said and walked around Denise to push the elevator button. “It's between Ren and me, and...”

There was a dull ringing sound, and they didn't hear the elevator move. Gloria hit the elevator button again, but the light was still on and the elevator wasn't coming back.

“Don't tell me it's broken.” Denise said, then what she said hit her. “REN!”

Denise ran across the lobby to the set of stairs that led down to the main floor. Gloria had dropped her things and ran after her, then beat her to the bottom of the stairs. The dull ringing was significantly louder as she ran across the large space between the sweeping staircases and through the large double doors to the elevator, then staggered to a stop with Denise right beside her. Before them was an overturned wheelchair, it's wheel slightly warped as it spun, and Ren was sprawled out on the floor.

He wasn't moving.
