“Oh! A skill selection! I guess you actually can tutor.”

“Nah, that was mostly you. You really did a good job turning things around.”

Stella beamed, then turned her attention to her system screen.

[Silver Tongue: Words are more convincing when the user believes them as well. Increases the chance of a good deal when bargaining with merchants.]

[Goat Magnet: Attract goats in any location. Goats are responsive to your commands.]

[Herb Identification: Identify any herb and its uses as long as you've consumed it before.]

Definitely not [Goat Magnet]... I could get better at identifying herbs with the [Herb Identification] skill, but I don't think I want to start eating random plants. Plus, herbs aren't really my passion. [Silver Tongue] is by far the most useful and the most relevant.

[New skill [Silver Tongue] has been added to your status.]

Name: Stella Algos

Stage: Queen Dragon Fledging (11% to next evolution)

Class: None

Renown: 1

Wealth: Peasant (+1 to all stats)

(C: 55 S: 4 0 G: 0)

Stats: (0 points available)

Power: 28 (27)

Vigor: 24 (23)

Grace: 21 (20)

Intellect: 10 (10)

Skills:

Wrath Of The Ravenous (Grade SS) - Level 2

Elemental Breath (Grade S) - Level 6

Silver Tongue (Grade B) - Level 1

Strength In Numbers (Passive)

“Awesome! I just got a really cool skill. It's called ‘Silver Tongue' and—”

“Yeah, I have it too. Good job.”

Stella sat down with a big sigh, ignoring the green goo still only partially absorbed into her dress. She would get it cleaned later.

“So, what other cool skills do you have?”

“Quite a few. But the one I'm hoping to transfer to you is ‘Keen Eye’. It helps when you want to know the approximate value of something, or spot something of value. You basically just have better intuition, but as it levels up, it becomes more useful.”

“That does sound cool. H-How exactly do you transfer skills?”

Michael chuckled.

“I forgot, you're clueless.”

“I'm not.”

“Okay, you're not.

“Transferring skills can be an active or passive process. But you have to be a tutor to do either. Tutoring isn't a class or a skill, it's an innate ability, like walking or talking. If you can tutor, you don't have to even be good at teaching. You automatically transfer and enhance the skills of those you pass knowledge down to. The better you are at tutoring, the more stuff you can do with it.”

“Wow, that's so much. I don't think I'll remember it all.”

“I doubt you would've remembered it anyway. And did you just try to sell those potions at two for 15 coppers? That makes less money, y’know that right? We’re lucky they only bought singles.”

“I was trying to make it more enticing!”

“You already priced them at 10 coppers!”

Stella stood up in a huff and marched away.

“Where are you going?”

“Somewhere I'm appreciated!”

Stella walked over to the dessert stall she'd been eyeing all day.

“Yes, I'll have two caramel banana buns please.”

“THE DESSERT CART DOESN'T APPRECIATE YOU, IT JUST WANTS YOUR MONEY!”

Stella stuck her tongue out at Michael and then turned back and smiled politely at the old lady behind the counter.

“Here you go sweetie. And may I say what beautiful red eyes you have.”

“What?”

Stella nearly dropped her bag of buns.

“Your eyes, dear, are a very bright red and it reminds me of cherries in spring time. Don't be ashamed, I promise I'm only complimenting you.”

My eyes… Oh, how long have I been here!

Stella ran straight for the edge of town, pushing through people as she went. She could feel it, her body reverting, sweat covering her as she held it back with pure willpower.

“Hey! Where are you going?!” Michael called behind her.

“I'm done for the day, right?!”

“Oh! Well, you forgot your half of the money!”

“I’ll get it later!”

Stella was consumed by the crowd and then spat out at the edge of town. After wading through the grass, she disappeared into the forest, making her way towards camp as fast as she could.

Keep it together. I have to learn to keep it together.

The last thing she wanted was another torn dress.
