None did. Lord Alman flushed, and then saw one of the other [Lords] move. A man with white hair and a trick leg advanced with a limp. He had a sword-cane, and while his clothes were magnificent—they were also old. Heirlooms, the enchantments weakened, the fabric fraying despite best efforts to keep them maintained. He addressed Magnolia curtly.
“I would never deny your presence at the Sacrifice of Roses, Magnolia Reinhart. But that is not the issue. When Lord Tyrion was poised to take Liscor, deceptive as his actions were, you stopped him. Rightly or wrongly—war with the Drakes isn’t something I yearned for. But the way you did it was to threaten his children. You held their lives—and other innocent lives to achieve your ends.”
His voice was steady. Teriarch turned to stare at Magnolia. She waited, her face expressionless. The [Lord] went on, his eyes never wavering from hers.
“That is a coward’s act. So I believe, Lady Reinhart. I stand by the rose I sent myself. And I was not there that day. I would never deny the truth of your bravery. Then. Now—I question your honor.”
Some of the other [Lords] murmured support, including Alman. Magnolia’s stare was flinty. But after a moment, she nodded. Not without respect.
“Lord Toldos. Well spoken. It seems, then, we came at odds with one another.”
“So it appears. Now, this [Trade War] threatens my people. They suffer for it. I will have it ended.”
The old Lord Toldos looked at her. Magnolia looked at him.
“Why?”
“Because it is unfair—”
Again, Lord Ranga was transfixed, this time by Magnolia’s stare. She looked at him, and then spread her hands delicately with a sigh.
“Gentlemen. Here we are again with that word. Unfair. Iniquitous. I am attacking your pockets, your gold reserves with my ‘underhanded’ ability to apply economic pressure. Would you prefer if I challenged you to a joust and ran you through?”
She didn’t wait for their reply. Magnolia raised a finger.
“Whilst you studied swordplay, I studied ledgers. This is how I fight my battles and you are simply weaker. Would you dare complain if I were a [Warrior Lady] who had just thrashed you on the field of battle?”
“Probably.”
Ressa muttered. She smiled politely as half a dozen glares turned on her. Teriarch just waited. He had heard all of this before. Perhaps Lord Toldos would have replied then, or Alman, who was working up to a reasonable argument.
But Lord Mel, son of Lord Ranga, pushed forwards. He was bristling with fury, on his father’s behalf as much as anyone else. He pointed at Magnolia, face red with emotion.
“We demand you stop your Skill! We outnumber you! And there are over a dozen noble houses—and dozens more who will have our backs if it comes to a conflict!”
Lord Alman’s head snapped up. He heard Ranga hiss between his teeth.
“Mel! Don’t be a fool!”
The [Lady] looked amused and annoyed at the interruption. She turned to face Lord Mel.
“Young man, you have a very simple view of the world. But since that seems to be on the level of most of the [Lords] here, I’m willing to entertain it. If you would like to persuade me with violence, go right ahead. Ressa, don’t touch the lad. You too, T—Eldavin.”
The [Lordling] hesitated. His father was hissing at him, but Magnolia gestured at him.
“Go ahead. It should prove interesting for both of us. How will you force me to change my mind?”
“By any means necessary. I shouldn’t want to, because you are a [Lady], but I don’t respect your title.”
The young man hotly strode over. Magnolia raised one eyebrow.
“Oh yes. And I am much aquiver in my shoes. Lord Mel, I would advise you to shut up. Your father is not a good example in that regard, but one can always dig deeper, I suppose. What can you do to me? End my [Trade War]? Threaten me? Or will you run me through with your sword?”
“Lady Reinhart, don’t tempt me.”
Mel was breathing hard. His hands were clenched. Magnolia sighed.
“Young man, I am not impressed by heavy breathing. Let alone empty threats. Nor can you—”
He slapped her across the face. It was a fast blow, open-handed.
Magnolia blinked. The [Lords] susurrated. Lord Alman closed his eyes. Ranga snapped.
“Mel!”
The [Lady] rubbed at her cheek. Lord Mel opened his mouth. Teriarch stirred—Magnolia raised a hand.
She slapped him back. And Lord Alman felt that slap. He saw a figure fly back, twisting. Lord Mel spun around and hit the ground so fast Alman swore he heard something crunch.
Everyone stared at the motionless Mel. Magnolia rubbed her cheek again. Then she shook out her hand. Calmly, she looked around.
“[Insult to Injury]. Would any of you like to try stabbing me? Ressa, block them if they try that.”
Lord Ranga knelt by his son. So did Alman. Mel’s eyes were rolled up in his head.
“I don’t think he’s more than unconscious. Ah—his fingers.”
Alman winced. Lord Ranga rose to his feet, white-faced.
“Magnolia Reinhart. You will answer for that.”
“I rather think I did, Ranga. Your son may well be able to force his future wife to agree, but not me. Not with the threat of violence. I hope he recalls that on his wedding night.”
Magnolia’s eyes glittered. She looked around, one of her cheeks glowing red.
“Let us end this pointless argument. If you would like to attack me, [Lords] of Izril, go ahead. I will, regretfully, order my people to break as few bones as possible. If you would like to mobilize an army against me, again, you are welcome to try. But do not dare assume that you have a right to order me to do anything. You have insulted my honor and I have no obligation to do anything. Indeed, I am rather less inclined at this moment than I was this morning.”
“Reinhart. My people are suffering.”
Toldos spoke up. Magnolia looked at him.
“One feels you should have considered that along with my impugned honor, Toldos. If they dislike it so much, I will offer them an incentive to move to my lands.”
He paled in fury. Magnolia turned, and waved a tired hand.
“That is all. This was exceedingly stupid, my [Lords]. Begone from my estates, please.”
The [Lords] felt her pushing. They held their ground.
“This isn’t over, Reinhart! Don’t force us to take this to a more severe step!”
“Bring your armies, Lord Villmen. And we shall see how well that goes. Or you might try an apology. Diplomacy!”
Magnolia whirled around and pointed at him. He stumbled back. Towards the open gates. The [Lords] looked at each other. And then they realized.
The crowd was still there. They had listened to the entire debate. And now—they were looking at the [Lords]. Who had made this about a [Trade War]. Something…Invrisil’s people didn’t care about.
They were very quiet. Lord Alman realized. The mob was staring at them. Alman felt his feet moving. He tried to get his legs to stop taking him out of the gates—but this was Magnolia’s ground.
“Reinhart! Be reasonable!”
Ranga was supporting his son on the horseback. He looked back. Lord Toldos was pale. His retainers clustered around him.
But Lady Reinhart had lost her temper. Alman saw that too late. From the beginning she had been incensed. He could not have known why. But he should have remembered what a Reinhart’s wrath looked like.
Slowly, Magnolia raised her hand. The gates swung closed. And her last words rang in the [Lord]’s ears.
“You provoked a riot in my city, gentlemen. I think it’s only fair to hold you accountable for that.”
 
—-
 
They ran. Magnolia watched them go. The [Lords] fled. Not that she had doubted it. Even lower-level, they had money. Artifacts. She was poised—but she only needed to use [Deft Hand] once to trip someone up before they seized Lord Mel.
The crowd charged after the [Lords], converging on Invrisil.
“Well, that was a mess.”
Magnolia muttered after they were gone. She had noted that the two Drake [Commentators] had fled ahead of the [Lords]. They weren’t complete fools.
“Who thought it was a good idea to broadcast a riot? Wistram and two Drakes from Pallass. Of course. The masters of societal understanding.”
The [Lady] rubbed at her cheek. She felt a soothing bit of liquid; Ressa dabbed at her swollen cheek.
“That stupid boy. I didn’t think he’d actually slap me. I thought even Ranga’s son had more sense.”
“You did provoke him.”
The [Head Maid] wasn’t exactly sympathetic. Magnolia sighed.
“I did. Well, let that be a lesson.”
She turned. And nearly ran into Teriarch.
There the Dragon stood, arms folded. He looked at her, mismatched eyes—not disapproving. But not complimentary either. Magnolia hesitated. And in front of the Dragon she felt younger.
“What, old man? I’m not in the mood for a lecture.”
“Neither am I. What did that [Lord] say? You held children hostage?”
“Oh. That. I shall explain the entire business, Teriarch. It was a bluff. I knew Tyrion wouldn’t risk his sons. To prevent a Drake city from being taken—”
The Dragon listened. Magnolia felt the swelling in her cheek grow down. She sighed.
“And so, you see—I play the villain nicely. Which leads to this debacle. But at least there is a chance for negotiation with Oteslia.”
“In the meantime, the [Lords] and this crowd are your enemies.”
She smiled thinly.
“One must give to get. I realize that isn’t a Reinhart tradition, but we tend to just steal. And make no friends at all. Teriarch, what would you have done to that crowd?”
The Dragon gazed at the gates; the mob was gone. He remembered countless riots. Protests over lack of food, deranged figures—hatred of him—
In his mind, he saw an [Empress] flying down to address tens of thousands of her subjects. Fearless. He blinked—and saw a dead [Prince] who had tried the same. A [Lady] savaged for trust—
He set them to flame and they ran, screaming. Ranks of armored [Knights] put down the insurrection with force.
The Dragon looked at Magnolia and shrugged.
“I have seen every answer. None is perfect. There have been [Orators] who quelled a riot with words alone. It did not mean they were right or the problem was solved. What would I have done? Better not to have the riots to begin with.”
“Spare me the philosophy, old man. If you have a suggestion, I will listen. At least those damn Drakes have left. I—agh—Ressa, handkerchief.”
The [Head Maid] was a beat too slow to get it to Magnolia. The [Lady]’s nose began to bleed profusely. Teriarch started.
“What? The feedback?”
Magnolia pressed the linen to her nose as Ressa pinched the bridge.
“Too many people to hold still. At least I put on a good face. Now—the riots. They’ll be centered in Invrisil. Reynold—”
Magnolia waved her free hand. The [Butler] appeared.
“Milady?”
“Send the Golems.”
Magnolia’s eyes glittered. Teriarch waited.
“To put down the riots?”
His tone was neutral. His eyes though—Magnolia rolled hers.
“I’m not a [Tyrant] yet, Teriarch. Reynold, deploy them around the Mage’s Guild. Merchant’s Guild. Any hotspots. The Watch will keep order as it can. But let’s not let the rioters destroy Invrisil. The Golems are not to fight back unless provoked. Minimum damage.”
“By your will, Lady Reinhart.”
Teriarch saw the Golems marching out the gates.
“Minimal force is something only a higher Golem knows the nuance of.”
“And I should then let them torch a building full of [Mages]? Should I have coddled the [Lords]? Better to be feared than loved after all. Or do you disagree?”
Magnolia held the bloody cloth to her nose. Teriarch looked at her and shook his head.
“That is certainly how Dragons ruled. And a soft hand usually invites rebellion. I am not condemning that.”
“But you have a point.”
They stood together. The Dragon looked at the [Lady]. And he saw how much had changed. And how little. But he wondered if the girl of sixteen years would have acted like the [Lady]. He couldn’t imagine her sending Golems into a riot, even to protect. But that did not mean she was wrong.
“Tell me, Magnolia. As I understand it—this entire affair with the [Lords] was you declaring a [Trade War] over their insult to you.”
She sniffed and regretted it.
“Argh. Yes. They put themselves as my foes over the outcome of Tyrion’s gambit. They could have chosen not to. Wherein lies my flaw in replying to the insult? They impugned my honor, Teriarch. Would you have let that go?”
For a long while, the simulacra was silent. Teriarch watched the Golems disappearing towards the city. He smelled smoke. He still heard the distant din. After a while, he looked at Magnolia.
“No. If someone insulted me, I would reply just as you did. Because I am a Dragon. You need not be one, though.”
He turned and walked back towards the mansion. Magnolia watched his back. Then she turned with a curse.
“Ressa, make sure none of those idiot [Lords] die. If you can.”
 
—-
 
The Watch of Invrisil was about as efficacious as Liscor’s Watch. They pulled back, guarding important streets to them and let the riots move through the streets. The [Lords] were in flight, but they found themselves driven into the city, unable to escape streets of angry people who wanted their blood.
Meanwhile—Steel Golems marched into Invrisil. They stopped around the Mage’s Guild. The crowds attacked them. Once. The Golems threw down the crowd in seconds. So parts of Invrisil were madness. Parts contained. And that meant the city burned all the brighter in the areas where no one was halting the madness.
Parts were also safeguarded by individuals. The Adventurer’s Guild was untouched. About two-dozen adventurers, Silver and Gold-rank, loitered casually outside. And even members of the riots like Todi weren’t about to clash with fellow adventurers.
That was Invrisil. In Pallass—Chaldion declared martial law. The Walled City was as large as Invrisil, but in Pallass, the riots ended fast.
1st Army and 3rd Army as well as 4th Army sent [Soldiers] to break up the fighting. Even the hottest of flames were quenched by hundreds of armed [Soldiers] willing to apply force. The [Strategist] hunted down pockets of violence like he was fighting an insurgence against a guerilla force. He stomped the embers into ash and an uneasy peace reigned in the Walled City.
That was a fact Noass and Sir Relz would have gleefully pointed out—if they had made it back to Pallass. Unfortunately, they were hiding in Invrisil’s sewers, having also been turned on. When the riot struck Invrisil—minorities like Revi’s friend in the Stitchfolk districts hid. So too did Garuda and Dullahan populations in Pallass, by and large.
In Liscor though—the Antinium Workers had been caught out. And the Humans ran in terror. The Watch was doing its best, but the thing about the law was that it was always outnumbered.
