She planted the thing she was carrying on the ground, in the street. And the bundle of white cloth unrolled. The crowd looked—saw only a white bit of cloth.
A flag. White. The Hobgoblin stared at it. Erin looked at the murderous riot. She shook her head.
“This isn’t justice. You don’t know what fighting for something important is. So I’m sorry for this.”
For what? The young woman raised the flag. She hefted it higher, taking a two-handed grip on it. The people of Invrisil—the riot—uncomprehending, saw the young woman look behind her.
The Hobgoblin tensed. The Antinium with the bow plucked an arrow out of a quiver. He drew—loosed.
The arrow went through a woman’s knee. She went down with a scream. Erin Solstice ran forwards. The crowd saw a second arrow flash forwards and hit a second knee. They stared. What was she—
“Charge!”
The [Innkeeper] shouted. The word reverberated down the street. The people flinched. And they saw that strange group charge. The Rose Knights surged past Erin and rammed into the crowd. Bereft of weapons, they punched with gauntleted fists, ignoring the panicked blows on their armor. The Hobgoblin thrust Erin back and knocked a huge man flying.
A Centaur galloped to the side and began to unload spells on the crowd. Arrows of light. A Minotauress punched through on another side, her skin like iron.
Montressa du Valeross calmly pointed. A barrier rose around the [Lords]. Disbelieving, Lord Alman saw an Antinium fighting side-by-side with the huge Drake. Grimalkin grimaced as he swatted a man down and then pointed.
“[Delain’s Fist].”
The spell sent a group of Humans flying. With some relish, Relc grabbed a spear—a knife tied to a length of wood and snapped it. He decked the man holding it.
“She’s mad!”
Lord Ranga exclaimed. The young woman was charging. The half-Giant, the Hobgoblin—they all followed her, trying to keep her back. But she screamed and charged, holding the flag like a [Banner General].
Erin had seen battle. She ran forwards, the [Barkskin] potion warding off a stone that grazed her cheek. She blocked a club with the haft of her flag and kicked someone in the stomach. Out their lunch came. She bellowed.
“Forwards, you cowards! Let’s go!”
She charged past a disbelieving Grimalkin. Ser Kerrig spun, blood on his gauntleted fists. Erin ran as if there was an army at her back.
And there was. The mob fractured. It was just angry people. Erin had all the sympathy in the world for them. But not to murder.
Like Liscor—the answer was simple. To stop them burning down a home—or killing anyone—Erin charged.
“One arrow, two arrows, three arrows…three legs go ouch…”
Bird hummed as he shot more people through the legs. The [Mages] were knocking people back. Palt blew a cloud of smoke that rendered those inside it breathless. They staggered away, choking.
Erin ran. She drew Keldrass in her wake, blocking weapons with the burning armor. Her friends streamed after her, but Erin didn’t slow down. She swung her flag, and people ran from it as if it was a sword. Numbtongue hadn’t drawn his. He just punched people flat.
Her ring was glowing. The golden shine made Grimalkin’s eyes widen. He turned. Words were spelling themselves out.
“Impossible.”
 
SALAZSAR.
 
—-
 
Inside the Walled City of Salazsar, a voice began to scream an alarm. A Daughter of the Walls called for aid. Wall Lady Navine heard the siren as well as her ring lit up. Her eyes went round.
“No way. Invrisil? What—”
 
—-
 
Erin didn’t notice. Nor was this the place.
She charged past a Gnoll with a top hat. He blocked a knife thrust meant for her and his club blurred. A Drake cursed as he kicked someone’s legs out and then struck a head. They took their eyes off her for one second and—
“Split them in half! Come on!”
Erin shouted. The people parted in front of her. She saw a ring of steel, a shimmering barrier. Lord Alman stared at Erin Solstice as she broke through the crowd. The people hammering on Montressa’s shield on the other side gaped at the young woman.
“This way! Follow me!”
She pointed. The [Lords] needed no further urging. Insane or not—the young woman was life and behind them lay death.
They ran. The crowd made one effort for them. Right up until the half-Giant got tired of people trying to stab him and punched a hole through the crowd. A huge Selphid wearing a Raskghar’s body thrashed the ones on the ground. A Dwarf, unconcerned with the niceties of this attack, broke someone’s leg with a swing of a hammer.
They were all here. As many as she could call. Erin Solstice ran back towards the inn. And the crowd broke. They ran, rather than fight the invincible Rose Knights, or clash with the Hobgoblin—the Drake [Mage].
Quality over quantity. Ressa stared from the rooftops. She was so amazed she forgot to sheathe her blade. The young woman had chosen a small army of everyone who didn’t take wounds easily and punched through the lower-level mob.
“Ressa? What’s happening? Ressa? Did Teriarch make it?”
The [Maid] glanced up. A puffing Dragon flew through the air. Well, a half-Elf, his robes fluttering wildly.
“Where’s the riot? Where’s—”
He stared down at the chaos below. Erin Solstice herded the [Lords] through the door. The Rose Knights fought a rearguard as Montressa’s barrier collapsed and the crowd charged them. They moved through the door—and it swung closed.
Teriarch stared down, and then met Ressa’s eyes. She expected his fury—or annoyance at the very least. But instead, the Dragon sat down and laughed. He looked at the closed door the mob was smashing to pieces. His eyes crinkled up with mirth.
“I’ve only seen that before twice.”
 
—-
 
Maviola El looked at the [Innkeeper] in the silence afterwards.
Erin had a cut down her face. Two more spots of blood on her clothing from where she’d been stabbed. But Saliss’ potions had taken the blows.
Not many people were hurt bad. Moore had taken a knife wound nearly through his foot—that was when he’d lost his temper. Numbtongue had torn a nail clean off and was annoyed.
“What was—who are—”
One of the [Lords] was stammering. He looked around, so shocked he didn’t register the high non-Human presence at first. But when he saw Numbtongue, he reached for his sword.
“Goblin!”
It was a classic response and the other [Lords] jerked upright. Numbtongue eyed the sword the man was waving at him. He calmly walked behind Lady Bethal.
“Oh, put it away, Ranga. This young lady has just saved your lives. In stunning fashion too.”
Bethal Walchaís’ presence made some of the [Lords] gawp. But most had eyes only for Erin. She was walking around.
“Everyone okay? Pelt? Moore? How’s the foot? Grimalkin?”
“Fine.”
The [Sinew Magus] stared at Erin’s ring. But it was dull. His mind was racing. If she had activated that in Pallass, let alone Liscor—Ancestors!
“You actually did it. You attacked them.”
Erin turned as Maviola approached her. The [Lady Firestarter] looked strangely at Erin. The [Innkeeper] exhaled. She poked an injury on her side and winced.
“Healing potion…there. Yeah. It was the only way. You were right. I can’t control a mob. So I beat them up.”
She popped a cork and drank. The [Lady] just looked at Erin.
“That was your solution?”
“Only if they attacked people. I had to save Visma’s apartment that way. Well—that was easier. I just needed the [Knights]. Hey—Ser Kerrig? Thanks!”
“Milady Solstice, my pleasure.”
The [Knight] bowed to her. The [Lords] turned back to Erin Solstice.
There she stood, wiping blood from her cheeks and asking for a towel. The flag was only a bit covered with dirt and blood. It had looked far worse.
“She charged them under the flag of truce. Who is that young woman who saved us, Bethal?”
The voice came from Lord Toldos. He looked at Erin. The [Innkeeper] turned. She offered him a weary smile.
“Hi. I’m Erin. Erin Solstice. I heard you were all in trouble. So I went to find you. Guess I made it just in time, huh? Who’re you?”
The [Lords] looked at her. It was inconceivable to some that they should be saved by someone by chance. Lord Toldos bowed after a second.
“I am Lord Toldos of House Everight. I am in your debt—Lady Solstice?”
He glanced at Ser Kerrig. Erin laughed.
“Oh, I’m not a [Lady]. I’m just an [Innkeeper].”
Again they gaped. But the truth was undeniable. Erin stood there, panting, wiping her brow.
“Hey Lyonette! Got any water? And more healing potions. That guy doesn’t look good.”
Lord Mel was indeed still out of it. Even healing potions didn’t do for concussions well. And as the [Lords] relaxed, coming to grips with their rescue, they finally noticed the people in the inn.
Drakes. Gnolls. The Human [Lords], some of whom had never been surrounded by non-Humans in their entire life and only seen them when they clashed at the Bloodfields, checked their arms nervously. But Erin walked around.
“Thanks for coming at the drop of a hat, Jelaqua.”
“Well, Moore was already insisting we see if Mrsha was alright. And my man was in Esthelm so we were right there. Right, Grimalkin?”
The Selphid threw an arm around Grimalkin’s shoulder. The [Sinew Magus] deliberately folded his arms and ignored the now-copper ring. He wondered how many had seen it. How many knew.
“I consider it a small debt, Miss Solstice. I will have you oblige me with some…help with my training regimen. Later. I understood the necessity.”
“Thank you. And you, Pelt.”
“Hah. I got to break a few legs. Felt like the old days with Terandrian snots. Just give me free drinks for a month.”
The Dwarf trooped over to the door. Erin rolled her eyes and gave him a hug from behind until he grumped off. She went on, talking to the others, speaking to Yellow Splatters, thanking Keldrass, who shrugged, somewhat pleased at being able to punch Humans.
A mixed group. Some close friends. Others—acquaintances. Maviola watched too. Erin had splendidly called them to her. An [Innkeeper]’s power. Someone who cultivated friendship like Magnolia and the others cultivated sheer power, force of arms.
But it disturbed her, slightly, to see Erin use it like that. Maviola was no stranger to war. She could see the necessity of putting down a riot. But Erin Solstice had made the jump from trying to calm a riot with no violence at all to the most expedient route: beating them down with a group of elites.
“What a dangerous girl. She has both flower and sword in either hand.”
Maviola shook her head. She had misjudged Erin slightly.
“Excuse me. But where’s Lord Eick?”
“Dead. They killed him.”
Alman answered curtly. He was shaking. Now he came to grips with it—Magnolia Reinhart. He closed his eyes. When all was said and done—his grudge to her was deepened this day.
“Where are we, father? Are we safe? Can we go home?”
Lord Mel was dizzy. Lord Ranga knelt by his side, worried, checking his head.
“I—we are safe, Mel. Lady Bethal, where are we? Might we go home?”
“You’re in Liscor, Lord Ranga. Home is far away. Fortunately, Erin has a magical door connecting to Invrisil. Or—she did. I rather fear it’s broken for the moment.”
The exclamations drew Erin over. She blinked, then smiled at the worried looks—not just on the [Lord]’s faces. The Players of Celum and Veeid and the other Invrisil citizens were alarmed. She waved a hand, laughing.
“Don’t worry. I used a spare mana stone on that door. The door to Veeid’s inn is there. See?”
She opened the door. Everyone relaxed. Then they marveled.
“A magic door! Dead gods! So this is that inn that Reinhart travelled to? And we’re in Liscor? A damn Dr—”
One of the [Lords] caught himself. He saw Relc grinning at him. The Drake blew on his knuckles.
“Say. I can punch anyone I want since I’m getting kicked out…”
He eyed the man. Erin just laughed.
“It’s fine. Liscor is nice to Humans.”
She faltered.
“…Usually. It’s been a kind of sucky day for everyone.”
No one disagreed with that. Well—Pelt might have, but he was gone. Montressa just looked at the [Lords]. She counted minor houses, but some, like Lord Toldos, were known to Wistram. In Erin’s inn.
She wasn’t one to miss the opportunity. Nor—it seemed—was Palt. He was going around, shaking hands, casting [Calm] spells.
“Palt, sir. Pleasure to help. Of course, I couldn’t refuse when I heard—from Wistram. Yes, Ullsinoi. I don’t know if you heard…a steadying smoke? Something stronger? Please, allow me…”
Montressa began doing the same. After a bit, Erin wandered over to the [Lords]. The first person she met was a tall fellow. Almost too skinny.
“Innkeeper Solstice? My name is Lord Alman of House Sanito. I am in your debt. As are we all.”
“Oh. It’s my pleasure. Like I said. I heard you were in trouble. And I had to do something.”
The [Lord] peered at Erin.
“…It’s a rare young woman who would charge a crowd that murderous.”
She laughed as if he’d said a joke.
“Well, that’s just me. We can’t let people be murdered, right?”
“…Surely. May I ask—what this place is? I assume your inn?”
The [Innkeeper] looked around. She smiled broadly.
“Of course! This is The Wandering Inn! Welcome! I forgot to say that! It’s safe here. We have drinks, food—hey Lyonette! Bring over some blue fruit juice and a pizza! That’s good for the nerves, Alman. Can I call you Alman?”
“Er…yes?”
Taken aback, Lord Alman saw a lovely young woman hurry over to him. He was presented with a bow, quite formal, and a cup of blue…liquid…and a triangle of what he was assured was food. He found himself sitting down.
“Is this…what is this, may I ask?”
“Um. Blue fruit juice. It’s sweet. Go on!”
Erin urged the man. Somewhat apprehensive, and hoping this was, in fact, blueberry juice, the man took a sip. His eyes widened.
“How sweet! And this—”
He nibbled at the pizza. The hot food was comforting. Erin beamed.
“Good, right? Here—this is for you.”
She took more drinks from a relieved Gnoll who had found his sister, gave them to Lord Ranga and Mel. The young man just stared at his cup for a while. Lord Ranga blinked and took a sip.
“I—it is sweet! What is this? It’s not blueberry…”
“This is the Amentus fruit.”
Lord Toldos stared into his cup. The old man blinked at the drink. The other [Lords] nearly spat out the drink.
“Amentus wine? Dead gods, that’s expensive!”
“What? No, this isn’t alcoholic…wine?”
Erin looked surprised. Lord Toldos peered at the drink.
“Does this come from a blue…fruit with a toxic center, Miss? I know it germinates in southern Izril. It comes so dear up north.”
