Riots were like wildfire. To use a Maviola-expression, the anger spread from person to person. But until now, riots were still contained to a city, a region, a nation at worst. What no one had predicted until now was the effect of something like…the world’s most popular and only news show broadcasting that kind of fury to other disgruntled cities.
In Liscor, people watched Invrisil’s protests. And the fury there amplified. Spread. If the Humans were rioting, well, why in Rhir’s hell shouldn’t we? The fury that had been suppressed by the Watch bubbled up again. And this time it ran hotter.
Pallass too. Chaldion emerged from the [Healer]’s clinic on a crutch, snapping orders.
“Stop those broadcasts! Someone go to Invrisil now and get those two idiots to stop! Send a [Message] to Wistram!”
Too late. Pallass’ protests on the 5th floor turned ugly so fast Chaldion saw the relatively peaceful crowds turn on the Watch. The [Guards] holding back the crowd from the Merchant’s Guild were hit by something. Chaldion saw an explosion, heard screaming—
Flashpowder Orb. Someone had tossed an alchemical weapon. The [Guards] reached for their weapons. Which was a mistake. The instant one of them drew a sword, covering his wounded friends, the crowd reached for their weapons. Chaldion pointed.
“[Long-Range Command]. [Rapid Retreat]. By my order as Grand Strategist, do not engage the crowd you idiots—”
Too late again. Someone leapt forwards. A hothead Garuda with a dagger, brandishing it. Chaldion saw, with his one good eye, a Drake whirling. The Garuda youth was fast, but the [Guard] was quicker. The sword came up—the Garuda blinked. Everyone stared at the sword buried in his gut.
In the silence, the Grand Strategist cursed. And then—Pallass erupted.
 
—-
 
By the time Erin returned with the sword—things were very bad. An hour, or even a minute could change a lot. And the noise from the city—Liscor—had taken on a bad tone.
“Uh oh. Uh oh. Uh oh.”
From his tower, Bird saw bad things. He heard bad things. He felt bad things.
Liscor was on fire. He counted seventeen separate sources of smoke. And he heard very many angry people.
The Antinium Worker saw no birds. That was always a sign. You had to watch the Birds. He always told Mrsha this.
 
Look up. There are probably birds.
            –Bird’s Observation on Birds
 
Usually, they flew around the Floodplains, even if they kept out of his range. But right now—everything was hiding. Animals sensed moods. And accordingly—so did Bird.
It was like an entire Hive of angry people. Bird listened.
“—they’re fighting with the Watch! Erin, what’s that sword—”
From his tower, he heard Drassi’s voice. Bird was always in his tower. That did not mean he saw or heard nothing. In fact, he often saw and heard more than everyone else. Just from a different perspective.
“Bad, bad. Uh oh. You stay here.”
The Workers who had been helping make his tower looked at Bird. The [Bird Hunter] waved at them.
“No going to the Hive. It’s bad-bad in the city.”
“Bad, Hunter Bird?”
One of the Workers looked at Bird. The communication between them was—odd. Workers didn’t usually ask questions. But these ones had been at Erin’s inn. They had experienced luxuries like time off, snacks, and so on. Bird nodded.
“Bad. Stay here.”
“We may use the secret passages, Hunter Bird.”
The same Worker pointed out, speaking for the others. Bird looked at him. The [Hunter] shook his head.
“No. Silly Worker. Be sh—be quiet. That is not the point.”
They looked at him. Bird glanced around, counting.
“You stay. So we can fight. If needed.”
The Workers went still. Bird remembered other Workers. An inn under siege. Right now—he felt the same tension in the air. But instead of undead—it was Drakes and Gnolls. All of them turned towards the city. Bird whispered.
“Can you feel it?”
They looked at him. Bird’s antennae were waving rapidly. He turned his head. He could hear Erin below, demanding answers of Drassi. Other people—Lyonette telling Mrsha to go into the garden again. But his senses reached beyond sight, smell, hearing. He looked towards Liscor.
“Bad things are happening. To us.”
 
—-
 
What did people in Liscor have to be angry about? So many things.
Monster attacks. The Golden Triangle. The damn sewer stench. But that was just backdrop. There was more.
The Antinium. The Humans coming into their city. Goblins. Some people didn’t care. But Liscor’s election had been fraught. And of late—the Human population had swelled. The Antinium’s true numbers in their Hive had been exposed and Lism had run on a campaign of distrust.
It just took angry people. People who had lost gold. People who really didn’t like Antinium.
There had been mobs on the day The Golden Triangle fell apart. But the Watch had suppressed them fairly effectively. Now, though—they looked at the images of Invrisil and when they took to the streets this time, the people were armed.
“Disperse back to your homes! This is an unlawful gathering!”
Watch Captain Zevara bellowed as a line of [Guards] advanced. It wasn’t martial law—yet. But the armed crowd had converged on the Mage’s Guild and the Council had ordered her to protect the building.
A hundred [Guards] blocked the streets. More were surrounding the Merchant’s Guild, other sources of fury. The crowd shouted; some people threw rocks, bricks; there was a surplus of ammunition with the new district under construction.
“Hold ranks! No one is to return fire!”
Zevara shouted at the Watch hiding behind shields and barricades. She wasn’t about to risk a clash. And indeed—the crowd wasn’t about to charge a line of [Guards]. Zevara saw people milling about. Her eyes narrowed.
“What are they doing? Are they pulling back…?”
That was when she saw the first smokestack rising. And she realized—
No crowd of people attacked a line of [Guards]. They weren’t mad. They were furious. And since the Watch was guarding this street—the riot just moved to the next street.
Market Street began to burn. Zevara’s head snapped up as the first report came in.
“Watch Captain! They’re torching buildings!”
“What? Why?”
“Residential apartments! Places where members of The Golden Triangle were!”
The Watch Captain cursed.
“Get me a squad of high-level [Guards]. We’re taking everyone who was part of The Golden Triangle under protective custody! Move!”
Then she had a thought. Relc. Zevara turned her head. She left her line of [Guards] behind. Took a squad of forty into the city.
The first thing she saw was Humans on the street. Refugees from Celum—fleeing. They’d been evicted from their homes. Then Zevara passed by a burned shop front.
“A member of The Golden Triangle. Find them.”
Jeiss took a second squad. The Councilmember had left the rest of the Council in City Hall. Zevara ordered her [Guards] to speed up.
They came upon the first mob attacking another target. The Drakes and Gnolls saw Zevara’s squad coming around the street and fled. She saw a shape lying on the ground. The Watch Captain pointed.
“Guards! Arrest that group!”
The [Guards] pursued—but the mob was too fast. They just ran. And Zevara saw the shape on the ground huddled into a ball. She approached. And saw blood. But not red.
Green ichor. The Worker lay on the ground. He had tried to protect himself, but without fighting back. He’d managed to shield his face, body—from the worst of the kicks and blows. But his antennae were torn off.
“Healer!”
Zevara shouted. She approached the Worker.
“Worker. Hello. Are you—”
The Antinium jerked away from her. The Worker scuttled away, running. Zevara turned. Her view of the mob changed again.
“They’re going after the Humans and Antinium. As well as members of The Golden Triangle.”
“Watch Captain? We lost the mob. What order, Watch Captain?”
A [Guard] panted, coming back from chasing the crowd. Zevara hesitated. Her instinct was to tell them to fan out, secure any Workers and escort them back to the Hive now along with the Humans. But then she heard a roar.
“No more outsiders! No more lies!”
A distant shout. Magnified hundreds of times. Zevara and her small squad looked about. They saw torches, armed Drakes and Gnolls. They filled the street, some hurling objects. Others were taking advantage of the confusion to loot shops.
Here they came. The squad of forty saw a flood of angry people coming at them. Zevara didn’t even pause to think.
“Back to the Mage’s Guild! Move!”
The Watch retreated. The mob spotted them and broke into a run. There was no individual person there—who might respect the Watch, know a few [Guards] personally. It was just angry people whose every grudge was out in the open. The Watch retreated. The injured Worker hid in an alley.
Bird felt the Worker’s fear.
So too did the Free Queen. And Xrn. In the Hive, Yellow Splatters looked up as the first Workers began to flee into the Hive. Pawn ran for them and saw the blood.
 
—-
 
Erin had thought it was bad before. Now—it was worse.
Pelt’s sword was almost an afterthought as she returned to The Wandering Inn and found that things had escalated without her knowing. The Invrisil broadcast had lit sparks. For once, Maviola’s analogies were appropriate.
“They’re kicking out Humans. Attacking Workers. But they’re mostly after members of The Golden Triangle. I should have stopped Noass and Sir Relz! I just thought they were going to report what was happening! But people saw the riots in Invrisil and—it got bad, Erin.”
Drassi was panting. She’d gone into Liscor but fled after only a few minutes. Ishkr was missing. He’d been allowed to go home early.
But that was a bad thing, now. Numbtongue was inspecting his new sword. He grunted.
“Inn’s safe. No one else. Don’t go into hallway.”
He sat by the door to the common room. Ironically, the magic door had been moved to the common room. The danger wasn’t something coming through there—it was a mob converging on the inn. Erin looked around.
“What’s Zevara doing?”
“Holding parts of the city. Economic districts, the Watch House—only a few streets. There aren’t enough [Guards].”
Drassi answered for Erin. The [Innkeeper] looked askance.
“What about the rest of the city? She has to protect the Workers! People are attacking them?”
“Yes.”
Bird had come down from his tower. He had brought his bow. He was, Erin realized, handing out crossbows to the other Workers. She saw Numbtongue nodding.
“No. What are you two doing?”
Both Worker and Goblin looked at Erin.
“Preparing.”
“For a riot? No. We’re not killing people. We can still do something. Maviola. You have your aura! I have [Crowd Control].”
“Don’t be an idiot. You can’t control a riot. Even a [Queen] hides when the mob marches on her palace!”
Maviola snapped. Erin shook her head. She looked around.
“Palt! Get over here! And my lanterns! Where are they?”
She had an idea. The [Innkeeper] marched into the kitchen. When she came back—she was holding something.
The cold-fire lantern. Maviola eyed it.
“What is that?”
“Depressing fire. Palt—come with me. Montressa, Beza, do you know any spells like Palt?”
The Centaur [Illusionist] looked up. So did Montressa and Bezale. They blinked to be addressed by Erin.
“Us? Well—sure. But why?”
“We’re going into Liscor. To stop the riots. Palt, you know [Calm], right. Can’t you cast it on…?”
Erin waved her hand at the door. The Centaur frowned worriedly.
“I have a lot of spells, Erin. But mass mind-control spells aren’t a good idea.”
“I don’t want you to control them. I just want you to stop them from attacking people. I’ll use this.”
Erin opened the shutter of her lantern. Maviola shaded her eyes as the depressing, cold flame washed over her. Montressa shuddered.
“Hey, that’s—wait, you’re going into Liscor?”
“Yeah. And you’re coming too.”
“Erin. This is not a good idea.”
Lyonette began. But the [Innkeeper] whirled.
“I should’ve tried this on Invrisil’s riots. Palt, Montressa, Beza—Maviola? Uh—Lady Bethal?”
The [Lady] looked up blankly from where she sat with Thomast. Maviola just shook her head.
“No. Absolutely not. Erin, your Skills aren’t going to work like you think.”
“What am I supposed to do?”
“Stay here!”
Half the inn chorused. Palt shook his head as he trotted over.
“Erin. Even the Elusive Lot would have trouble with this. I don’t think—”
He halted as Erin turned to face him.
“Palt. I need your help. Please help me. Montressa—Beza. Please.”
The Wistram Mages looked at each other. Doubt was written across their faces. But after a second, Beza nodded.
“Better than sitting around.”
“Beza!”
Montressa looked worried, but Erin took that. She yanked the door open.
“Let’s go!”
“Erin! This isn’t a good—”
Lyonette didn’t reach Erin in time. Something slowed her on the way to the door. Maviola cursed; of all the times for Erin to learn—
Beza strode after Erin and then Palt and Montressa followed. Erin found herself in the streets, suddenly surrounded by noise. She looked around.
“Okay. Okay—let’s do this.”
“Erin. This really isn’t going to w—”
The [Aegiscaster] was cut off by Palt. He blocked her with one hand. Erin wasn’t listening. She had to do this. She’d caused crowds to appear. She could force them to stop, right?
It wasn’t hard to find the mob. Erin just had to follow the shouting.
She found them outside of City Hall. A group of Drakes was surrounding the lines of [Guards], throwing things at the building. A few had made primitive firebombs out of alcohol or alchemical items. Or just oil.
“Stay back!”
Senior Guardswoman Beilmark was leading the [Guards] holding the doors. They weren’t advancing and the crowd wasn’t getting closer. They were chanting, Erin heard.
“No Lizards! No Lizards!”
“Give us the Minotaur!”
Erin’s blood ran cold when she heard that. She counted; there were hundreds filling the square. The [Mages] looked worriedly at each other.
“That’s a lot of—”
Palt raised a finger to his lips. He pulled out a black cigar, but didn’t light it. Montressa du Valeross watched as Erin Solstice surveyed the crowds.
Montressa liked Erin. Despite it all. The [Innkeeper] was extraordinary, besides her nature as someone from Earth. She was the most accomplished, highest-level Earthworlder that Montressa knew of. She was also—insane.
Not just about this. She made friends with Goblins, liked the Antinium—but she had the same kind of mad genius that some of Wistram’s best [Mages] had. Montressa could respect that. But in this—Erin was over her head.
“Okay. Cast [Calm] and spells when I start talking. Got it?”
“It’s not going to work.”
