The riot had reached Magnolia’s mansion thirty minutes ago. Now—the mansion was under siege. Lord Alman saw people trying to scale the walls. Break down the flimsy-looking metal bars on the gates.
Unfortunately—of all the riots occurring in the world, this was the least successful. Those two wretched Drakes were reporting on it.
“—hearing reports of riots from Pallass! Ancestors! Should we go back, Sir Relz?”
“I think so, Noass. The protests here have hit a standstill. As you can see—the people cannot even get into the mansion. And from what we understand—Lady Magnolia Reinhart doesn’t even appear to be in residence! Something of an embarrassment, yes?”
Lord Alman glowered at them. Drakes. But they were right. He saw someone trying to climb over the walls of Magnolia’s mansion. The man got to the top of the low-flung wall—and the air shimmered. He was casually knocked off the wall and into the crowd below.
“Ensorcelled walls. Even the damn gates.”
Lord Ranga was cursing, his face pale. A team of people were hauling on the gates, having attached ropes to them. But a team of two hundred couldn’t so much as make them budge.
Magic. The high-quality kind. The [Lords] sat together, feeling foolish. The mob was growing restless. They had gamely tried to draw Magnolia out. But a [Maid] had appeared and told them she wasn’t even here.
Worse—the people weren’t trying that hard to enter anymore. Mainly because they had spotted something that made even the angriest rioter pause.
A sixteen foot tall Steel Golem. It was armed with sword and shield. And it was just—standing at the gates. Not just one, either.
The tall War Golems weren’t the same as the ancient ones Magnolia had used on the Goblin Lord. But that was like saying a Gold-rank adventurer wasn’t as bad as a Named-rank. Lord Alman started sweating just imagining trying to fight one without an army.
“Ranga. I think it’s clear that this is a disaster. We should go.”
Alman spoke intensely. Ranga hesitated. He clenched his fists on his reins as his horse danced nervously.
“We’re so close! This is on the scrying orb!”
One of the other [Lords] was actually giving an interview to the two Drakes, talking about the unfair [Trade War]. But Alman was more and more convinced this wasn’t a good look for his House. He shook his head.
“I’m minded to leave myself, Ranga.”
“Alman! We’re in this together!”
“I apologize. But frankly, I don’t see the point of—”
The [Lords] heard a roar. They spun, hands on weapons. And then they saw it.
At last. A pink carriage shooting down the road. The crowd stared. Then they surged forwards. The [Lords] wavered. Then they spurred their horses.
“Magnolia Reinhart!”
The roar was fury. Noass and Sir Relz spun, and the camera-Gnoll raised her device.
There she was. The pink carriage raced towards the mansion as if the driver wasn’t even aware of the crowd. They were spreading out, angry people with ropes, weapons. Ready to slow the carriage—
When it slowed. But it didn’t slow. The carriage moved faster than any horse in the world. Everyone knew its reputation. A bandit-killing vehicle on the road. But Magnolia Reinhart wasn’t crazy. She could see—
It didn’t slow down. The angry sea of people wavered. They began to turn. Now trying to get out of the way. Just in case—
The carriage raced at them. People screamed. Lord Alman’s blood turned cold. She wasn’t going to—
“Dead gods! Noass! Are you getting this? She’s going to ram—”
At the last moment, the carriage’s wheels glowed. It rose upwards, and shot over the heads of the crowd screaming in horror. Everyone fell silent.
They stared at the flying magical pink carriage as it casually flew over the gates of the mansion, the mob, and landed on the other side. Lord Alman’s jaw dropped. Ranga turned pale.
“It can fly?”
“—Er. Of course, anyone familiar with the specifications of the carriage would recall that—but it appears Magnolia Reinhart is there herself!”
Sir Relz recovered. He pointed.
And there she was. Magnolia Reinhart. The doors opened—
And a grumpy half-Elf emerged. Everyone stared at Teriarch, or Grand Mage Eldavin, as he kicked his way out of the carriage.
“Infernal magical devices. This one feels slower than it used to be. I’m going to rest.”
The Dragon grumpily walked out of the carriage, addressing the person inside. Magnolia Reinhart herself. He hadn’t noticed the crowd. Indeed, it was only as he was walking across the grounds when he heard their roars of fury.
The Dragon stopped. Perplexed, he looked around. Rubbed at one ear.
Then he saw them.
He stood there and saw the angry mob approaching the gates. The Dragon heard their furious shouts.
“Magnolia Reinhart! Come out!”
“Give us our money!”
The [Lord]’s voices were mixed with that of the protest as they tried to ride through the throngs of people who weren’t willing to part for them. The Dragon blinked. He stared at the furious faces and then at the [Lady] emerging from the carriage with Ressa.
“What is this, then?”
“Mm. It appears to be an angry mob.”
Magnolia Reinhart herself hadn’t known about the riot until recently. She’d had difficulty extricating herself from Lady Edere’s company at the Sanito House. Now—she wished she’d never left. She stood there, looking at the angry crowds.
“Ah. Ressa, how disappointing. Do you see? So that is where Lord Alman was.”
“Yes. And several [Lords] of the realm.”
The [Head Maid] surveyed the crowd without fear. More people were trying to climb the gates, or bring them down. Without success; they could hit the barriers all day.
The two women were calm. Even if Magnolia was annoyed. She tapped her lips, just surveying the crowd.
“How disappointing. And I suppose—ah, yes. I even see those two Drakes. So that is why half the cities in Izril are suddenly rioting.”
She’d been perplexed by the reports. Now it made sense. Magnolia Reinhart’s eyes narrowed. But the effect on Teriarch was far more immediate.
The Dragon turned to look at the mob. Magnolia saw his face harden. Turn bitter. She glanced at Ressa, worriedly. Then she saw the Dragon’s shoulders slump. He looked at the gates, at the people pounding on it, demanding Magnolia to come out.
“As I understand it. You did nothing about this Golden Triangle nonsense, Magnolia?”
“No, Teriarch. I rather think this mob has been persuaded to call on me to demand their money back. By the [Lords].”
The Dragon nodded. He bowed his head. Magnolia clenched her fists. Of all the times! He had been perfectly happy this morning. But now—she saw a shadow cross his face.
“Your subjects, Reinhart. See how quickly they turn to drag you down? That is the nature of people. Devouring. Thoughtless. How will you deal with them?”
He judged them harshly. With weary cynicism. How many protests had he lived through? Magnolia’s lips thinned.
The shouted insults and jeers didn’t affect her as much as the Dragon. She spoke, crisply.
“I should usually let them bang on the gates until they go home. But since this crowd would have never come here but for those [Lords]—I rather think I should grant them the audience they desire. Ressa?”
“As milady wishes.”
The [Maid] smiled. Or her lips did something equivalent. Teriarch looked at them. He snorted once. Turned away.
“Do as you will. I find myself too tired to deal with this. I will watch.”
He walked over to the mansion, the spring out of his step suddenly. Exhausted. Magnolia looked at him and then turned to the gates. Her eyes narrowed. Oh yes. Someone was going to pay.
This was how she greeted them. The [Lady] swept forwards in her shockingly, affrontingly pink dress. The crowd grew louder as Magnolia approached the gates. Like a beehive sensing the intruder.
Magnolia Reinhart waved an elegant hand as the [Lords] and [Commentators] fought forwards. She spoke, brightly.
“Good evening, ladies and g—”
Someone threw a rock. Well, a lot of people threw things as she came into range. They bounced off the shimmering force field in the air. Magnolia sighed.
“Excuse me? I say, might I have a—”
“We want our money back! Stop this [Trade War]!”
Voices roared at her. Magnolia waved a hand, but the noise was overwhelming. She shrugged. And brought her foot down.
“Silence.”
A shockwave rippled through the crowd. Noise stopped. Teriarch sighed; the only sound in the sudden hush. Magnolia Reinhart stood there, calmly looking from face to face.
“That’s better. Now, good evening to you all. What, may I ask, has brought you all here?”
Lips moved. But something was holding the shouts of fury down. Some of the higher-leveled members of the crowd could speak, though. Magnolia heard a voice.
“The Golden Triangle. We want reimbursement!”
She stared at a face in bemusement. It was a Gold-ranked adventurer. She blinked at him.
“You, my good man? Aren’t you an adventurer? Tobi the Turbulent, or something.”
Todi, the leader of Todi’s Elites, hesitated as every eye fell on him. But he shouted, clenching his teeth against her Skill.
“I lost almost everything on The Golden Triangle! Same as everyone here! You’re the [Lady] of Invrisil—shouldn’t we be paid something back?”
Yes, exactly. Todi wasn’t the ideal mouthpiece—but the crowd managed a swell of voices. Magnolia waved them down. She looked calmly around.
“Ah, I see. This terrible business with The Golden Triangle. You’d all like your money back, would you?”
Yes! The [Lady] paused to let the noise fall.
“And why is it my fault? Did I tell you to spend the money? Did I end the Golden Triangle? Why not petition Wistram? They rather crudely brought the scheme down. But at what point did I assume responsibility for your decisions?”
Silence. Then someone shouted.
“But it wasn’t our faults! We were tricked!”
“Indeed you were. And that is quite tragic.”
Magnolia Reinhart smiled. Only, it wasn’t a smile. She looked at the shouter.
“I still do not understand why it is my responsibility to fix your mistakes. You all invested money of your own will. Perhaps it was too much. Perhaps it was tricked and you lack for everything. But why must I amend your faults?”
“Because you’re Invrisil’s [Lady]!”
Todi bellowed back. The crowd echoed him. Magnolia sighed.
“And that means I should hold your hands? Cover your every ill? I am quite happy to end a plague, or reimburse damages from a storm. But this was no storm. This was your choice. Should I then replace a baked loaf of bread you let grow stale and moldy? If you lame a horse by your poor care and riding, should I buy you another?”
The stinging words were not endearing her to anyone. And Sir Relz and Noass were capturing it all. Todi blustered, pointing a finger at Magnolia.
“So that’s it? What’re you going to do?”
“Nothing.”
Magnolia’s calm reply made the Gold-ranked Captain freeze. She looked at him and he quailed. Magnolia Reinhart glanced around.
“I do not owe you money. I rather believe you have been misled to protest here. Ladies and gentlemen—I am a great fan of charity. I do not believe in covering for other’s mistakes. You may demand as much gold from me as you wish. And you are welcome to protest. But you may not enter my mansion. You may try, of course. That is your choice. As it has always been.”
The crowd waited. But Magnolia Reinhart was done. She pointed.
“Now, if you will excuse me. I believe the fine men who prompted you to waste your time here would like a word. Milords? You may enter. No one else.”
The gates swung open. The crowd backed up. Some tried for the opening. A few could make it past Magnolia’s aura. They moved forwards—
And the Steel Golems swung down their swords. Todi—a handful of others backed up. Magnolia Reinhart gestured.
“Come, [Lords]. You wanted an audience? You shall have it. Now.”
Lord Alman, Lord Ranga, the other dozen [Lords] and their retinues hesitated. But she gestured and they came. Riding through the silent crowd. Lord Alman was sweating.
The gates closed. The crowd waited outside. But now—now—it was too quiet. Magnolia Reinhart didn’t move as the [Lords] dismounted slowly. Ressa stood with her. Teriarch got up for a better look. Some stared at the tall half-Elf. Others looked warily at the giant golems.
A bright clap made all of them jump. Magnolia smiled, sweet as sugar.
“Well, gentlemen! This is an unexpected house call. I would have set out tea, and refreshments if I had received a missive. Since I did not and you have brought so many guests here, do understand if I refrain from niceties. Here you are. You have your audience with me. I hope you will have cause to regret it.”
They shifted. Magnolia ran her eyes down their ranks. Few were high-ranking [Lords]. She focused on two, and her smile deepened.
“Ah, Lord Ranga. Lord Alman—I just spoke with your wife. How terribly disappointing to see you here. I shall have to tender my regrets to Edere regarding our talk.”
Lord Alman started. Eyes swung towards him, accusatorially. He paled.
“You spoke to Edere?”
“Just this morning. But that feels like ages ago. Tell me, Lord Alman. [Lords] of Izril. Why are you here?”
They hesitated. Lord Ranga thrust past his son.
“To put an end to this damned [Trade War], Reinhart! It’s gone on too long! And it’s crippling our economies! We’ll have an end to it. This unfair business—”
Magnolia Reinhart’s eyes narrowed. Her lips thinned. Her hand came down against the side of her carriage with a slap that made all the [Lords] start. Magnolia rubbed her hand with a wince.
“Unfair. What an…extraordinary word to come from you, Lord Ranga. This crowd, which had come here at your direction has more claim to that word than you. This Golden Triangle fraud was unfair. Had I been able to see and prevent it, I would have. But your complaint? My [Trade War] is unfair? Need I remind you that this all began when you sent me the black rose of shame? An insult to my name and honor?”
Outside, the crowd stirred. Sir Relz pantomimed exaggerated shock for the viewers. And the [Lords] shifted. Teriarch’s eyes burned.
“That was—”
Lord Ranga saw Magnolia snap her hand closed. His jaw clicked shut. Outraged, he tried to speak. Magnolia Reinhart ignored him. She looked around at the gathering of [Lords], noting their arms and armor with clear disdain.
“Tell me, my noble [Lords] and members of the realm—if I had the audacity to slap you in the face with a glove and call you a coward, would you not seek to reply? Or are you saying that I was not at the Sacrifice of Roses? That I did not march against Velan the Kind? Say so, now, if any of you believe that.”
