“Psst. Pelt. Pelt. I want to introduce you to some friends. [Mages] from Wistram.”
“Hm? Oh, fine. This parade’s for me, but ruin my day, will you? I suppose knowing a few decent [Mages] is important. Although I was going to work with Hedault of Invrisil. Who’s this lot?”
The Dwarf turned around. All three [Mages] bowed. Montressa lifted her staff.
“Master Pelt? I am Montressa du Valeross, an [Aegiscaster] of Wistram. This is Bezale, a [Spellscribe], and—”
Erin nearly shoved her aside. She grinned eagerly as she indicated the Centaur with two hands.
“Pelt. I want you to meet…Palt. Hah!”
The young woman looked around excitedly. She laughed, slapped her thighs—and realized no one was laughing.
Pelt blinked at Palt’s name, but the Centaur just bowed.
“Master Smith. It’s an honor. I’m an [Illusionist]. I realize our classes aren’t that complimentary, but we wanted to introduce ourselves to such an important [Smith]. All our factions would love to speak with you.”
The Dwarf looked at Erin, still waiting for someone to laugh with her. He opened his mouth to shout something insulting—then caught himself. He nodded at the Centaur after a moment.
“I’m sure they would. But I’m getting set up. Come by later, I suppose, Emessa will make an appointment. You want more of that thing, huh? Something’s odd about the insides. Crystal magic? Fine. But later.”
He pointed. Montressa jumped. Everyone turned to stare at the brass shock orb hovering behind her. Palt bowed. And the Dwarf went on.
“I don’t like Wistram. But a [Spellscribe]’s useful. You—Minotauress—we’ll talk. You’re staying at The Wandering Inn, right? Anyone who can put up with her deserves some sympathy.”
He jerked a thumb at Erin. She looked indignant.
“Hey! Is no one going to talk about the names? Pelt? Palt? Huh? Huh?”
The others looked at her. Umbral, Pelt, Palt, Montressa, Beza…the Centaur slowly puffed away on his cigar. He offered Pelt one; the Dwarf refused it.
“I pity you bastards. Alright, Umbral, show me my forge. And do me a favor?”
“Anything, Master Pelt.”
The man bowed. And the other leaders of Esthelm and craftspeople were coming forwards. Pelt jerked a thumb at Erin.
“Get rid of her. She’s bothersome to my work.”
Erin saw every head turn to her. She wavered.
“Hey now. Pelt, that was a joke, right? We’re best buds! Hey—don’t shove—Pelt, say someth—Pelt, you traitor! Traitor!”
 
—-
 
Pelt of Deríthal-Vel heard Erin’s voice growing softer in the distance. He had travelled far from his home. But he would always be from there.
The Dwarf was old. Old—and young. A lad, really. They called him a master. But he had seen masters. If he had stayed—
Perhaps it was better he’d left. As he had told Maughin, greatness came from challenging, not copying. If only he had known that and left with his head held high. Rather than disgrace.
The Dwarf’s eyes grew dark. He nearly stumbled and fell—in front of all the Humans. But though that blasted girl had—knocked the rust off him, he couldn’t confront the last.
This was enough. Pride in metal. Pride in your craft. Pride in yourself. What good is the quality of the steel if there was no heart in the hand the held the hammer? Damn that Dullahan.
Maughin would be a master in his own time. For now—Pelt murmured something as Umbral led him to the forge.
“You don’t have to kick her out of the city. That was a joke. Didn’t you say you owed her countless favors?”
“Of course, Master Pelt. But you said—apologies.”
The man bowed, flustered. The Dwarf saw him hurry off. And he sighed as he beheld his forge.
“Ah. That is what I wanted.”
The others stared. Some dismayed. Liscor’s Council, other [Smiths]—the aghast [Senators] made no effort to hide their disdain.
But the [Mages] were smarter than that. Out of the corner of his eye, Pelt saw the fiery-haired Maviola—much like the old woman he’d refused to serve—inspecting the forge.
“Hm. Interesting.”
The forge was—primitive. Not like Pallass’ grand forges ready to shape steel, or even Liscor’s new one meant for him. At first glance it seemed crude.
Oh, the people of Esthelm had worked hard. The stone and mortar made a large, large building. Three times larger than any other forge. And they’d built it carefully, leaving no flaws.
It just lacked pomp. Expensive wood, color—who needed that? It had more. Pelt stomped into his forge as his apprentices stifled their dismay.
“Living quarters. Good. Don’t care. Put my stuff in a room.”
He shouted at the apprentices. Then he turned to regard the forge. He found the smart ones already there. Palt, the Centaur, nodded to him as he trotted around an anvil placed in a magical circle.
“Sub-compartmentalized rooms. Each one blast-enchanted?”
“Good eyes, Baleros brat. You’ve seen smithies before?”
“Not like this.”
Beza murmured. The Minotauress eyed the multiple anvils. One was made out of stone. Another in the magical circle—and there were multiple forges. Mostly shells; Pelt would have to customize them.
“What is this, Master Smith? I have been in the House of Minos’ forges, but never seen this.”
“Bah. That’s because your lot doesn’t forge magic. This is magic. I’ll need to hire someone to make sure the forges can get hot enough. Stone melts, damn the stuff. You’ve never seen Wistram’s smithing halls?”
“Few smiths come to Wistram with the talent anymore.”
Montressa emerged from another room, brushing frost off her robes. Grasgil would be made there. Pelt grunted; he didn’t mind them looking. Wistram had stolen forge designs; they wouldn’t get his metals, though.
“What a waste. Alright. You lot clear out! It looks decent. But where’s the standard anvils?”
“Here. Master Pelt—”
There were mundane ones. Pelt chose casually; they were all alike.
“Get it out there. In the open. Huh. That one’s got a fucking crack. Get rid of it!”
He kicked the offending anvil. There was a flurry and other hands dragged his chosen anvil out.
The crowds were still there. Pelt strode past the annoying flies—people from Liscor and Pallass. He looked around.
“Apprentice! Emessa, damn it. Get your tail out here!”
The Drake appeared and Esthelm’s people murmured. But the Antinium had rebuilt their walls and she carried a hammer. She was familiar to them because of that.
An angry [Innkeeper] was dancing about in the street. But she’d brought a Gnoll and one of Terandria’s [Princesses] to see him. Pelt recognized the hair color. Also, the way Lyonette carried herself.
He didn’t care. The Dwarf looked at Emessa.
“Set up the outdoor forge. I’m not hammering hot; steel temperature. And get me the crystal.”
Her eyes widened. The others stirred. Maviola glanced at Pelt.
“You’re going to do some hammering?”
The Dwarf didn’t reply. He glanced at Maviola, and then narrowed his eyes. Grandfathers, it was her. The same flame! You couldn’t copy that. He shuddered. Magic potions and immortals. He was just a smith. He didn’t say a word though; he had kept far greater secrets than hers faithfully.
He only knew one thing. The Dwarf saw the [Innkeeper] approach. He made no sign he saw her. She had a big enough head already.
“Say. Centaur. Palt’s the name, right?”
The [Illusionist] jumped. He took the cigar out of his mouth.
“That’s right, Master Smith—”
“Enough with that. I don’t care. Nor do I care about Wistram. Or petty Walled Cities or anything else. I just move metal. I was happy enough to drink myself to death. Or so I thought. That damn Human. Just—tell me something. In her inn. She has a Hobgoblin, right?”
The [Mages] exchanged a worried glance. Maviola just narrowed her eyes and looked around. Palt nodded slowly.
“One. Numbtongue.”
“Right. I saw that bugger a few times. Uses a sword, right? Longsword? Decent steel but someone’s notched it a thousand times.”
“Yes…”
The Dwarf nodded. He’d known that before. He didn’t bother asking if it was the preferred weapon; odds were the Centaur didn’t know and Goblins used whatever they could grab.
“Where’s my crystal and fire, apprentice?”
He roared. The crowd jumped. Emessa, though, was used to it.
“Heating up, master! Any pick on steel?”
She had billets ready for him. Pre-made. Pelt knew the steel on each was perfect, but he still chose carefully, examining micro-fragments. The minutiae of the alloy material in the steel itself. He selected one, grunted.
“It’ll do. Heat it up. Now—I’m ready.”
There he stood. The crowd was murmuring. At last, one of them called out. She was a [Smith]. A Human woman, talented for her brief time. That was the thing. Smiths leveled faster the shorter their lifespans.
Ah, but true skill took decades. Centuries, even. That was the unfairness. Pelt felt for these young children. He had been born with an advantage—and he hadn’t squandered it. Every day of his youth he’d swung a hammer. And he had longer than them left to live, even with diluted blood running in his veins.
But don’t scorn them. The Dwarf inhaled. And then he bellowed.
“That’s right, Mistress Smith! Have you not heard of the tradition of every Master Smith who has mastered at least five of the great metals beyond steel?”
The crowd blinked up at him and shook their heads. From Pallass, the [Smiths], including Maughin raised their heads. Pelt kept one eye on the steel in the fire. He drew a hammer and looked for Erin again.
There she was. The Dwarf’s voice was no less loud, but more conversational as his apprentices laid out tools for him.
“Well, it’s simple. The custom is that a true master should—nay—must, upon moving to a new place, a new land, prove his worth. For great masters move seldom! They travel—ah, but when they move, they should demonstrate their craft. By forging in public some blade or work of art. Large or small. It’s no grand tradition like Terandrian kingdoms have. Just respect for the metal.”
“You never did that when you came to Pallass!”
A voice. Pelt threw his hammer. Senator Errif ducked as the hammer cracked the very flagstones of the street and then flew back towards Pelt. The Dwarf roared back.
“Well, I didn’t feel like it. I do now. Apprentice! Where’s my crystal?”
“Here, Master!”
And there it was. The Dwarf sighed as he drew something out. Everyone saw a long, long sliver of…red-gold crystal? Mrsha climbed onto Erin’s head and then leapt onto Maughin’s shoulder for a better look. The Dullahan tried to make sure she wouldn’t fall as he called out.
“Master Pelt! What is that?”
“Crystal. That’s all, Maughin. The kind that cuts sharp and hurts whomever it touches.”
The red was mixed with gold. Truegold—a ghost-killer’s blade. But the crystal could cut mere steel. And it would not break easily. Nevertheless, it was too costly; all he had was a tiny amount, stretched long.
An edge. The crowd murmured. Maughin stared at the beautiful, thin crystal. The Dwarf was taking care not to even lay the edge down on the anvil, lest it cut into the iron.
“Does it have a name, Master? It must.”
The Dwarf glanced up, irritated. But perhaps that was the act. He replied curtly.
“Everything has many names in smithing, you Dullahan pest! Some call this crystal Cridel. The deadly blood of Baleros! Others knew it of old as a different thing: Dragonblood Crystal.”
Silence. Someone laughed, disbelievingly. The Dwarf shrugged.
“The edge is good. I have little of it. But this would make a fine blade, even with steel to hold it. Steel and iron. So look, people of Esthelm. I am Pelt of Deríthal-Vel! And look, you annoying [Innkeeper]! You insane wretch of a girl!”
He bellowed as he raised his hammer and pointed it. Erin jumped. She saw the Dwarf raising his hammer high, as he grabbed the steel out of the forge at the perfect temperature. He bellowed.
“This is my art! ‘Let the world remember only what I have made!’”
Fine words, uttered by his friend. The Dwarf’s hammer fell. It struck the metal, bounced up, and came down again.
First, it was a single beat. Then—a ringing in the air. Then drumming.
Faster. Faster. Until each blow rang in the air and the watchers thought the anvil itself jumped with each blow. The steel moved like water under the hammer, but not without function. Shifting, changing.
Folding. Lengthening. Erin had seen the Dwarf do it once before. For her knife. He was using the same technique; folding the metal to create a sandwich. And there, a glittering edge waited.
But the difficulty of it was different. When the smith placed the glittering edge in his waiting sword—his thunderous hammering became as quiet as butterflies landing on the anvil. He refused to strike the crystal, melded the steel around the edge so gently that it seemed like each individual tap did nothing. But slowly, the metal engulfed the glittering edge.
A master’s work. He couldn’t have been at his work longer than an hour. Just one hour, to forge a sword. Insultingly short for anyone else. But before the hour was done, Pelt was removing scaling with a single motion, adding a design into the edge of the blade, fitting it to a hilt.
And when he was done? The sword had only one edge. The steel was polished, and it gleamed like a grey mirror. Beautiful with oil and polish.
But the red and gold shone like the very edge of the blade dripped with the blood of some magical beast.
Dragonblood Crystal. And Truegold. It was attached to a simple handle with a guard for the hand. And the smith regarded it thoughtfully.
“A simple piece. I had not the materials for anything greater yet. The edge—the rest of the blade is expendable. But the edge can be fitted again and again. And if treated with care, it shall last a year of war. A decade without. A century if only worn about and carried like a damn heirloom. While it lasts, it will cut down anything it touches. Like so.”
He turned the blade and brought it down. Erin saw something fall from the anvil.
The horn. The Dwarf sliced again, and another chunk came loose. The crowd gasped; the blade was beyond a razor’s edge. Pelt held the blade and Erin saw him smile.
“It will be long before I forge a blade worthy of legends such as I have seen. But for now—this suffices. So. Take it.”
He stepped out from behind the anvil. Erin saw him walking towards her. She looked around and stepped out of the way. But Pelt followed her. He held the blade in a cloth grip.
“Don’t touch the edges, girl. If you lose a finger, I won’t take responsibility for it. Don’t trip either.”
She blinked. Lyonette gasped and Mrsha stared. From where she stood, Maviola’s eyes blazed. The [Mages], the other [Smiths] were silent. Erin looked down at Pelt.
“Wait. Me?”
