Her friend. Someone she’d reached out to. The proud, broken Dwarf [Blacksmith]. He walked across the 9th floor. Past lines of [Smiths], ignoring the [Senators] and people trying to get him to stay. They approached, and now heard his voice, a roar that could have been heard over the sound of hammers hitting metal.
“Enough! I’m done with Pallas! I’ve been here over a decade; I repaid my debts. This is my choice! Shove off before I split your hands with a hammer!”
Maviola and Erin saw the Dwarf shrug off a pleading hand, reply with a rude comment that caused the speaker to recoil. He looked ahead—and his eyes met Erin’s for a second. The instigator. Then he wheeled, answering sharply to someone else.
This wasn’t the drunk Dwarf that Erin remembered. This one had fire. He was still sort of a jerk. But he walked between the [Smiths] and they made way for him.
“Look at him. You lit his fire.”
The [Lady] turned to the [Innkeeper]. Erin saw. She saw what Maviola meant. To her it was different, though. She shook her head absently.
“No. I didn’t. I just found the real Pelt and woke him up.”
Maviola’s warm hand gripped Erin’s arm. Her smile was wide.
“That is what you and I do. You see?”
Erin did. Now, they were closer, on the edge of the out lookers. Pelt walked past the ranks of silent [Smiths] until he stopped. He looked up at a kneeling giant.
Maughin the [Armorer]. The Dwarf looked up at him. Said something. The Dullahan, holding his head, smiled. But uncertainly.
The [Smiths] looked like they were afraid of what was happening. Of Pelt—leaving. But Pelt’s reply made Maughin stiffen, then nod. The giant Dullahan [Blacksmith] put his head on his shoulders, then extended his hand.
Pelt shook his hand. He smiled, one of the few times anyone in Pallass could remember the expression on his face. Then he turned away.
His voice was louder now. Erin caught a fragment of it.
“You’d never level with me anyways, Maughin. Not chasing my shadow. I was not the greatest smith of Deríthal-vel. Nor will I ever be. Even of those of us that left—I was only the second. Find a better way of forging and surpass me. If you don’t—I’ll put you out of business.”
He walked on, never looking back. Erin Solstice saw three apprentices follow the Dwarf. One of them was Emessa. The Drake apprentice didn’t hesitate as she left her home behind. She followed her master. And he had lit a spark in her soul. She walked taller now.
Erin hadn’t done that. It had been Pelt. Maviola saw flames igniting each other. Erin just saw—connections. Pieces on a board. But also her friends.
And then he was walking towards them. The Dwarf looked at Erin, and she was conscious of every head swinging towards her. The [Senators] hissed or growled or fluttered their wings at her. The Dullahans just stared.
“Uh. Hi, Pelt. What’s up?”
He grinned. The Dwarf’s teeth flashed in the sunlight.
“Heard that damn Golden Triangle thing caused protests. Decided it’d be a good day myself. I’m leaving Pallass.”
“He can’t. We hired him! We paid your asking price! Master Pelt—don’t listen to this—this lowly [Innkeeper]!”
Senator Errif howled. He chased after Pelt. Erin saw everyone following; to avoid being caught by the angry ones, she and Maviola stepped after Pelt and the apprentices following him.
“Who’s the other Human? Smells like fire. Keep away from my forge.”
Pelt grunted at Maviola. She bowed.
“Master Pelt? My name is Maviola—”
“Like that old crone who tried to hire me for the House of El? Gah. I already don’t like you.”
The Dwarf snorted. Maviola’s mouth slowly closed. She raised a fist and then punched Pelt in the back. He stumbled, swearing.
“Gah! What’s your problem?”
“That’s my—namesake!”
Grimalkin glanced sharply at Maviola and his claws twitched towards his belt and a quill. Erin saw Pelt snort at her. Something came out his nose.
“So? You can tell her what I said. Word for word. You another fire freak like she was? Feels like it. First you—then you—I almost joined El over Pallass since it was closer, but I got tired with her fire-talk after the first minute.”
Maviola turned pale. Erin had to actually hold her back from kicking Pelt down the stairs. He strode on.
There were protests. The entire fifth floor downwards was filled with angry people. Erin saw the Watch keeping them back, though. Pelt snorted.
“Just another reason to get out of here. At least in a smaller city I’ll have less idiots bothering me at my forge. Incidentally—”
He pointed at Erin.
“—That’s the reason I left. Not because of you.”
“Sure, Pelt. So—I guess people are angry about it?”
The second crowd chasing them seemed to be a good indication of this. But the [Senators] weren’t as fast on their feet and their robes slowed them down so that even Pelt could outdistance them. He jogged towards the door on the 8th floor, puffing.
“Don’t let them leave! [Guards]! Close the checkpoint!”
Sergeant Kel had a bad day. But Grimalkin put one claw out.
“Belay that order. Master Pelt is authorized to travel to Liscor.”
“Hey Kel. Tell Venim this wasn’t my fault either, okay? It was Pelt’s decision, right?”
Erin nudged Pelt weakly. The [Sergeant] stared at the master [Blacksmith] and then at Erin. Pelt strode through the gates. But the Assembly of Crafts put out one last desperate attempt.
“Master Pelt. We’d hesitate to stop you by force. You are a lawful citizen—”
“And you couldn’t stop me. I know my rights in your damned Walled Cities. You hold me a day and Dwarfhome will cease all trade with Pallass. And you lot still need our knowledge!”
The Dwarf glared. The [Senator], Errif, hesitated.
“—That aside. Master Pelt, we are all too willing to d—triple whatever Liscor is paying you.  Consider it a signing fee for another—five years?”
Erin inhaled. Pelt only thought for a second then shook his head. The door swung open and Erin heard a commotion on the other side.
“He’s coming? Is it the Dwarf? Everyone line up! I can’t wait to see the looks on Pallass’ stupid faces—ahem.”
The Council of Liscor was on the other side. Pelt glanced up at them and then rounded on the crowd. He pitched his voice so they could all hear.
“You want to know why I’m going to another city? Easy. They made a better offer. Also, I don’t feel like having my work stolen by a thousand damn spies. I want to forge in peace and quiet. It was too much work to move before; this time it’s easy. Out of the way.”
He kicked a Drake [Senator] as he strode through the door. Erin covered a smile with her hand.
And Liscor’s Council was waiting there. They jumped as they heard Pelt’s words. But Lism bustled forwards, full of self-importance. Raekea and Alonna practically sprinted from the inn. Erin heard Raekea panting to Alonna.
“We have to get them to finish the woodwork! He didn’t tell us he was coming—where’s Master Hexel!?”
Inside the inn, everything was sunshine and gloating expressions.
“Of course. Master Pelt, your forge awaits. Free of charge, of course. Rent-free! And we’ll work out the particulars of your stay…”
Lism was rubbing his claws together, trying to bow and shake Pelt’s hands—both of which the Dwarf ignored.
The Dwarf looked at the Drake. And looked through him. At Erin. The [Innkeeper] saw him push through the Council. And the short man looked up at her. He paused a second there, contemplatively looking around Erin’s inn. Then Pelt grunted.
“Well, this is your fault. I told everyone that.”
“Um. Thanks.”
He grinned. But he was alive. Burning as Maviola saw it. But Erin just saw him put his hands under his apron and scratch at his stomach.
“Thing is. I always liked Scales and Tails. But you promised me drinks. And Lasica’s cooking isn’t that good. I drink my meals, so if you can replace Rufelt’s fancy stuff with a keg…think it’s a good idea? You told me to try.”
The [Innkeeper] looked at all the angry people. But that was a byproduct of almost everything she did. She looked at Pelt and saw the smile on his face. So she smiled too.
“Yeah. I think so. So—you’re coming here?”
“Hm. Let’s see.”
The Dwarf looked around. He narrowed his eyes.
“Too much damn wood. Flammable. But there’s magic here. Even if it’s channeled. Good ore comes from Liscor when it’s winter. Drake cities—there’s worse places to be. Nice security. I hate water, but it’s better than having Human gangs running the place.”
Everyone held their breaths. The Dwarf touched the hammer at his belt.
“I could make a masterpiece. With privacy. With proper apprentices, equipment—I’ll have to forge the tools myself, source the ingredients. But if no one steals my work, I could make proper blades.”
He spoke to shake Pallass and Liscor, as if everything before now, even the Grasgil axe, all his begrudging art had been just trash made in his sleep. The Dwarf inhaled.
“Yeah. A forge here…what do you think, Emessa?”
He turned to his apprentice. The Drake’s eyes were shining.
“We could make a proper forge, master. To your specifications. Even here…”
She gestured around the inn. Erin’s breath caught. The Dwarf nodded. Liscor’s Council looked at each other. The [Senators] looked like they were having strokes. Pelt looked around.
“Liscor. Hm.”
He walked down the hallway. Senator Errif ran after Pelt, through the magic door. The others fought to get through and it turned off, leaving only a handful with Maviola and Grimalkin.
“Master Pelt! Let’s talk about this! We can offer twice the space Liscor has! And far better accommodations—”
“Excuse me! This fine Dwarf has made his decision!”
Lism jostled with the Gnoll as the [Senators] and Councilmembers fought to get Pelt’s attention. Threats were exchanged—fighting broke out. Erin just followed Pelt.
The Dwarf walked back and stopped at the magical door again. It was open to Liscor. He looked back at Erin.
“Miss Solstice. I still owe you one favor. Despite the damn mithril thing. Not sure…”
He passed his hand over his face and his expression went perfectly blank for a moment. Then he shook his head. And then he smiled. For a moment, he looked at the magical door. Krshia had set it to Liscor. And he looked like a grandfather, many decades older than Erin, a young man remembering his passion, a [Smith] regaining his fire. He reached out—
And slapped the door shut. Erin jumped. Maviola blinked. The fighting Council and [Senators] stared as Pelt reached up. He was too short.
“Apprentice! Change the door!”
Emessa hurried forwards. She adjusted the dial. Everyone stared. Erin’s mouth opened.
“Wait a second. That’s—”
The door opened. Pelt strode forwards.
“Aha. I’m expected, am I? Is my forge ready?”
And the Human man on the other end bowed.
“Master Pelt—it is. We’re honored to have you.”
The Drakes, the Gnolls, stared. They looked in horror as Pelt walked forwards, through the door. He had been stolen. By—
“Humans?”
Lism whispered in horror. Errif’s jaw dropped.
“Invrisil?”
And Erin’s smile vanished. She shouted.
“Magnolia Reinhart?”
She looked at Pelt, her eyes bulging. Betrayed. The Dwarf looked back. And he laughed in her face. He laughed his ass off. He laughed—and Erin realized—she was wrong.
“Wait.”
The door had opened onto a street. Not an inn. And even if it had been moved—this was the wrong street. Her eyes narrowed. Then widened as she realized the trick Pelt had played on them. On them all.
It wasn’t Invrisil. It was—
“Esthelm.”
The small Human city of [Miners] situated north of Liscor was turned out to see the Dwarven [Smith]. Pelt walked past their Watch Captain and head of the militia, a man she’d met before—
Umbral. The man who had taken over the city’s security. He had helped Erin with a coup this one time. He was bowing to Pelt.
“Master Pelt, we’re delighted to have you. We have your quarters for your apprentices. And your forge. We even have a small celebration in your honor…”
“Good to hear it. But I want to make sure my forge is ready first. Save your celebration. Maybe cheer these idiots up with it.”
Pelt jerked a thumb over his shoulder at the speechless crowds. He smiled, in the best of moods and walked forwards.
Esthelm cheered him. The people turned out of the stone houses built into the city that lay in the middle of the High Passes and the road heading north from Liscor. The mining folk—who had suffered the Goblin Lord’s assault—were shouting Pelt’s name. And why not? Here was a master [Smith]. In their city.
Not Liscor. Not Pallass. Not Celum or Invrisil. It left the others speechless. But despite herself—Erin found a huge smile on her face. Maviola was crestfallen. But she didn’t get it.
Look at him. Pelt looked so happy.
“But why Esthelm? It doesn’t have anything!”
Lism spluttered. The [Senators] were just as appalled. It was Pelt who snorted.
“Doesn’t have anything? Esthelm provides all the damn ore in the region! They offered me iron for copper.”
And that was what mattered to a [Smith]. More than drinks. More than a Walled City. Erin marveled. Of course, someone like Pelt wanted those things. So it was a good thing he had a magical door.
“You brilliant jerk.”
Erin whispered. Then she was through the door like a shot. She hugged the annoyed Dwarf, but he didn’t brush her off for a good six seconds. Erin laughed until he shoved her off, growling curses.
They left behind the angry people in Liscor’s inn. Esthelm’s ruling body of Master Crafters—who had replaced the military leader that Erin had helped get rid of—cheerfully body-checked the [Shopkeepers] and [Senators]. Esthelm’s legislative body was made up of [Miners], [Shepherds], and tough people; in the war of knocking each other down, they were Gold-ranks.
“I hear there’s some good lots in Esthelm. Umbral, was it? [Sigilists]. [Gemcutters]. I want to talk with all of ‘em. Some of the magical metals take tricky things. You give me what I want—I’ll pay for it. No one spies on me but my apprentices. And I’ll cut Esthelm in their share of my sales.”
“Of course, Master Pelt. They’re all waiting to meet you.”
“They are, are they?”
That pleased him. Pelt walked past cheering faces, affecting not to notice them. But Erin saw him glancing at children waving little hammers, people who knew his name. His reputation. He smiled, and hid the expression in his beard.
“Grandfathers, but I never get peace and quiet anywhere. The price of being too good at my trade, I suppose.”
Erin snorted. Umbral gave her a mystified look as he nodded. Maviola, fuming, stomped back to the inn.
Someone else trotted after them. Erin turned her head. She saw Montressa—Beza—and—her face broke into an excited grin.
