“Oh, that’s blue fruits alright. We’ve got an orchard, don’t worry. Here, have some. On the house. Everyone feels better after blue fruit juice and pizza. Don’t look at me like that, Grimalkin. It’s comfort food.”
The [Innkeeper] offered more pizza. The old [Lord] nibbled at it. Alman had finished his slice without even knowing. He chewed on the crust, reached for another since they were on offer.
A little white paw grabbed his slice. The [Lord] peered under the table and saw a white…dog? No, a Gnoll! He nearly jumped out of his seat. Mrsha scurried away and shared her pizza with Visma and Ekirra.
What an inn. What a place! His head was spinning. But he had to ask.
“Is that…is that Hobgoblin er…t—safe?”
He almost said ‘tame’, but he was catching up. Numbtongue glanced up.
“Usually. If people attack me, not very.”
He answered for Erin. Then he went back to strumming on his guitar. The [Lords] checked their drinks to make sure it wasn’t wine.
Erin Solstice laughed. It was an infectious sound. It didn’t change the world. Bring back the dead, or stop a riot. But Maviola thought it was as compelling as Magnolia’s charms. Perhaps more so. She laughed, leaned on a table, and sat down.
“Whoof. I’m dizzy. My legs are shaking. That was crazy. That was…I’m so glad.”
She looked around, smiling at the others. And Lord Alman was compelled to put aside his drink.
“Miss—Miss Erin. I should like to say that House Sanito owes you a debt, once again. If we can repay you in any way…”
He hesitated. Now, he was thinking of his house. That damn [Trade War] wasn’t going to end anytime soon. But there was that and this.
“…I should like to oblige you. I would be dead but for your intervention.”
The young woman looked up at him. Her eyes opened wide.
“Really? Well—there is something. But…hey. You don’t have to do anything for me. I just did what any person would do.”
The ridiculousness of that statement made Alman smile. He saw the young woman lean back, sighing.
“So what happened? I just heard Magnolia kicked the riot back into Invrisil. That was…bad of her. I don’t like her, but I didn’t think she was evil.”
The [Lords] exchange a glance. Uncomfortably, they saw Bethal—and the young [Lady] with the fiery hair looking at them. Lord Ranga cleared his throat.
“We—were trying to force Reinhart to end her [Trade War].”
“Wow. That was never going to work.”
Erin commented. The [Lord] narrowed his eyes; gratitude only went so far. Lord Toldos sat there.
“It was a fool’s errand, I suppose. Still—if we hadn’t angered her…the riots were our fault. She would have listened to reason if…”
He trailed off. And Erin looked at him. Really…looked at him. Her easy smile vanished.
“…What did you just say?”
 
—-
 
In the news, the riots were said to have ended after law reasserted itself. A rather shaken Noass and Sir Relz reported that. They’d missed the fighting, having hidden in the sewers.
They looked more aware of their roles now, and culpability they shared. But the [Commentators] still made a point of showing the living [Lords], safely ensconced in the inn.
“…We’re returning to Pallass now. And once again—I think this is a learning experience. The—the synchronization of these riots leaves us all with some soul-searching, however just the reasons, right Sir Relz?”
“Absolutely. We have to condemn violence such as this in unequivocal terms. I’m only glad that good Samaritans like this young [Innkeeper] exist.”
Sir Relz gestured at Erin, who was folding her arms and glowering at the [Lords]. But they left it at that.
To most people—it was just the ending to some drama. They wouldn’t even glance twice at Erin’s face, except to maybe comment how lucky she was or venture that she was the [Innkeeper] with the magic door. Someone to remember, maybe.
For Archmage Nailihuaile, Erin Solstice’s name and face was burned into her retinas. The Lamia Archmage sat in front of her personal scrying orb.
“An ordinary [Innkeeper]. With a magic door. Hm. Beatrice? What did Montressa’s last report say about this Erin Solstice?”
The Lamia brightly turned to a Dullahan. She’d taken Beatrice under her wing. The Dullahan bowed.
“She reported that after investigation, Erin Solstice was not from Earth. Her original reports were in error, due to Erin Solstice meeting those from Earth and learning recipes. She is sheltering this ‘Joseph’ in her inn, but Montressa has been unable to make contact due to the Ullsinoi faction’s influence and complications in Liscor.”
“Complications in Liscor…? Ah, that fight with those adventurers she was after. She didn’t get them either, did she?”
Beatrice’s grip closed on the notes.
“…No, Archmage.”
Nailihuaile affected not to notice. She was good at that, especially around Viltach and Feor. She looked at Erin Solstice.
“Well, well. You know something, Beatrice?”
“No, Archmage Nailihuaile. What is it?”
The Lamia sighed. Beatrice was no fun. She was very competent—but not fun. Montressa could be fun.
“Beza’s report says the same thing. The Scriptels shared it with me. And you know—I think Montressa is lying. Lying through her teeth. About this ‘Pisces’ fellow that we expelled. About Erin. I think she’s become a bit traitorous.”
She smiled brightly. Beatrice’s expression was thunderous. She stared as Sir Relz and Noass returned to Pallass.
“What will you do, Archmage Nailihuaile?”
“Call me Naili, I keep telling you, Beatrice!”
The Lamia laughed lightly. She slithered over to the orb and disconnected it. Then she turned.
“I think I should make sure. With someone other than Bezale or dear Mons. And before Viltach and Feor wise up—if they haven’t already. And when I do—if Montressa has been lying to me?”
Her smile was very happy. But Beatrice saw the gleam in the Lamia’s eyes. Like a serpent.
“…Montressa may just have to be expelled from Wistram too. Beatrice, let’s find out. I hope she’s been honest. She is your friend, after all.”
The Dullahan woman looked at the dead orb. She shook her head.
“She was, Archmage.”
 
—-
 
Erin Solstice was angry. She was indignant. She was many things. But at the end of it all—she wasn’t going to kick the [Lords] out of her inn.
Not just yet. She sat in her inn, arms folded. The [Lords] looked at her.
They did not like being judged. Magnolia had judged them and they had hated her for it. Somehow, this young woman was worse. Magnolia had contempt. Erin had disappointment.
“Over a [Trade War]? People died.”
“People…are dying, Miss Solstice. Perhaps not directly. But our lands cry out for want of resources. Invrisil is a trading hub. We have given Reinhart offense. But I hoped she would relent.”
Lord Toldos inclined his head at her. She narrowed her eyes.
“Couldn’t you have just apologized? That was what she wanted, right?”
“Apologize?”
It was as if they were speaking different languages. The [Lords] looked aghast. Lord Toldos hesitated.
“I stand by my insult, Miss Erin. What Magnolia Reinhart did was, to me, an affront. Perhaps I should have made reparations. I would have if this failed. Now? I fear apologies will be the least of what she requires.”
The other [Lords] went still. Gloomily, they nodded. They had the air of a defeated squad, to Embria, who had come to check on her father. Relc was in a good mood, despite losing his entire apartment. Or perhaps it was an act. But he was rubbing Mrsha’s head and smiling. For now.
“What’s going to happen?”
Erin looked at Maviola. The [Lady], whose hair was almost a match for Embria’s scales in places, made a face.
“If I know Magnolia, it will be…costly reparations, Erin. Magnolia Reinhart will likely keep up the [Trade War] at least another week or two. Perhaps a month. And then lower it for a number of concessions. Political or otherwise.”
The [Lords] flinched. But they were beaten. Perhaps they might rally in time, but the near-death experience had humbled them. Erin looked at them and then at Maviola and Bethal.
“But that’s just bullying.”
“Magnolia does that. Only, not on the battlefield like Tyrion, but with gold. At least she doesn’t kill her enemies. Usually.”
Bethal looked unconcerned. Even unsympathetic; she was on the side of the rioters in large. The [Lords] had caused a mess and this was just deserts.
Erin understood that too. But she wished that no one had died. Liscor was a mess. Pallass was okay, but Chaldion…and now Invrisil. She sat down at the table.
“I get that. It just sort of sucks.”
“We were insulted first. You cannot know how severe of an insult it was, Miss Erin. Given the circumstances, I would normally seek vengeance. But one [Lord] has died already and Thomast is, unfortunately, disinclined to add to that number. I might not be.”
Bethal’s eyes glittered. All the [Lords] stared at the [Chevalier]. And they looked around.
When you came down to it, Liscor was the city over this entire affair. Liscor would have fallen but for Lord Tyrion being held hostage by Magnolia. And so they had insulted her, only to be saved at the last moment by…a Human girl from Liscor.
There was something odd about that. Ironic, even. But for now, the men just looked at each other.
“Lady Walchaís. We are not rich in lands like your House. If I may be candid—we are at Invrisil’s mercy. May I assure you the black flower pertained only to your actions around the siege? Not the Sacrifice of Roses?”
“You may. I hold a grudge, Alman.”
The [Lady]’s retort made the weary Lord of House Sanito flinch. Erin felt compelled at this point to show some mercy.
“Look—I guess you could say Magnolia did do wrong things. But no one’s in the right here.”
“What a brilliant way of distilling every political dispute.”
Lyonette muttered sourly from the back. Maviola stifled a laugh. The [Lords] stilled.
“There is little more recourse. I shall ride back after purchasing a horse. My house is in your debt, Miss Erin. I—I wonder if there is a way to avoid going through Invrisil? I should return, but not directly.”
Lord Toldos rose to his feet. He looked tired. Erin hesitated.
“You don’t have to go yet. I didn’t mean all those things I shouted. Well, I did—but I was angry. Stay the night. I can move the door so in the morning you’re outside of Invrisil. Where’s your home? If it’s far, we can’t move the door more than a couple of miles, but we can at least get you away from people who want to kill you.”
Toldos and the other [Lords] blinked.
“Move…the door? You said you sacrificed one.”
Alman carefully reached for another pizza slice. Mrsha snatched it again and raced off over to Relc. She liked the garlic-sprinkled ones.
“Oh, I can move the door. Not much further than Invrisil, but it has a huge radius. I just put it at Invrisil because it’s convenient, see? But if you’re south of Invrisil I might even be able to get it to your home.”
“My estates are south of Invrisil.”
Lord Ranga raised his hand. Erin nodded.
“Cool! If it’s too far west or east—same problem. But what if I…darn. Who can I get to move the door? What if we paid Hawk—he’s this Courier—but he might want to be with Selys…”
“Any City Runner could take the door south. Or anyone with a wagon, Erin.”
Maviola remarked softly. She was glancing at Erin. And she had a thought. Some of the other [Lords] had it too. Toldos was checking his cup of blue fruit juice, nearly empty.
“You only need the stone anyways. The doors can be set up.”
“And, pray…is there a limit? To what can be sent?”
“Yup. Used to be I could send two people over and door goes dead.”
The [Lords] deflated. Erin went on.
“But…I’ve improved the door with the help of this [Farmer] I know. Wailant. He planted Sage’s Grass and now it can do like, fourteen, and recharges quick. And you can use a [Mage] to recharge it faster. Don’t worry! We can get you all to Lord Ranga’s place.”
She was oblivious to the mood moving through the inn. Lyonette was looking at Maviola, gesticulating, and the [Lords] were coughing, glancing at each other. Lady Bethal was the last to catch on. Her jaw dropped and she sat up.
“Wait a minute. Could you then transport goods through the door?”
Erin looked blankly at her.
“Nah. I mean—I could. But the Merchant’s Guild got really mad at me the last time, so I stopped. Anyways, the door has a mana limit! That’s for people!”
“But perhaps—if someone were to pay for the…access. One could in theory, transport some goods through the door?”
Lord Alman remarked carefully. Erin’s brows creased. Finally—finally—she looked around.
“Well…yes. I suppose they could. But Magnolia wouldn’t like…it…”
A thoughtful silence fell around the room. Everyone exchanged a meeting of the eyes. A nudge. Mrsha gave Lord Toldos a tap on the nose. He blinked at her. Numbtongue grinned from behind the bar and toasted Relc. The Drake raised a thumb-claw and grinned.
Magnolia Reinhart wouldn’t like it indeed. But of those who cared in this place? Perhaps it was only Lady Bethal. Slowly, the [Lords] turned to Erin Solstice. Lord Toldos was the one to say it.
“Miss Erin. We have debts to pay, it seems. We have erred gravely. Had our [Ladies] spoken to us—or been with us still—”
His face twisted. He went on.
“—We would have known better. Age makes fools of better men than I. But I hope you will at least listen to our request. Would you…care to discuss a business offer that might solve our woes? It stands to benefit you as well.”
Erin Solstice stood there. She looked at the [Lords] who started a riot. Silly men. But not evil men. Just desperate. Sometimes stupid. Rather like rioters. And with very real reasons for anger, sometimes.
Just misdirected. Could she forgive that? Well, the answer stood in Montressa, Beza, Palt. Friends like Relc.
So she thought for a moment. And then she smiled. They were not perfect men. But she saw people. And people changed.
Pieces on a board. So she moved one and spoke.
Her reply would make Magnolia Reinhart well and truly lose her temper. Yet there she danced. A young woman, laughing and tap-dancing on a flaming stage. Aided and abetted by Maviola. Bringing the best-laid plans to destruction.
Chaos. A kindly [Innkeeper]. The owner of The Wandering Inn.
Erin Solstice.
 
[Magical Innkeeper Level 44!]
[Skill – Inn: Compartments of Holding obtained!]
 
[Conditions Met: Warrior → Bannerlady Class!]
[Class Consolidation: Warrior removed.]
[Bannerlady Class obt—
 
“Nope. But yes to [Innkeeper]. Ooh. Oooh! Numbtongue, guess what!?”
