Watch Captain Zevara found Relc Grasstongue. He was sitting outside his apartment. She looked at him.
“Relc…?”
He was covered in soot. His apartment was gone. Torched. The Drake glanced up at her.
“Oh, hey, Captain Z. My home burned down. Sorta sucks.”
“Are you alright? Someone get the [Healer]—”
The Drake shrugged away Zevara’s claws.
“I’m fine. Just a bit singed. Had to get my puzzles. Most of them got out. Guess it helps with packing, huh?”
He looked up at her. Grinned weakly. Zevara looked around.
“Where’s Wing Commander Embria?”
“She’s got one district locked down. But 4th Company can’t hold more than a few streets. Only a hundred. You need a tail?”
The Watch Captain looked at Relc’s soot-covered smile. She hesitated, then reached down.
“That’s right, Senior Guardsman. Gear up.”
He rose, stiffly, shedding layers of ash, and saluted briskly.
“Aye, aye, Watch Captain.”
They were marching back towards the Watch House when Zevara heard the sound of screaming. She turned.
“Get ready to pull back or fight!”
The Watch braced for a fight with the mob. They’d clashed a few times already with larger groups. If it came to it, they’d run rather than fight.
They saw a wave of people coming at them. Hundreds. Zevara didn’t even bother to count.
“Fall back! Down Turnip Street!”
She pointed. But Relc grabbed her arm.
“Captain! Look!”
The Drake whirled. And then Zevara saw something strange. The crowd was running at the Watch. But not like a ravening horde. She heard screams. They were fleeing.
Then she heard the drumming. It sounded like a thunderous beat. The Watch Captain halted, confused. She frowned.
“What is that sound?”
Footsteps. Marching. The crowd fled, splitting up in every direction. The two Drakes and the [Guards] heard the second group behind the first. Then they saw. And Zevara felt her scales turn to ice.
“Antinium.”
They marched down the street in formation. Soldiers, Workers. Painted Antinium and regular. Even the other varieties. The people of Liscor fled, screaming.
The Black Tide marched. And leading them was a blue Antinium. Xrn. And beside her—Yellow Splatters. Pawn.
“What are they doing?”
A [Guard] turned pale at the sight. Zevara just counted.
“…Three hundred. Or I’m a Lizard.”
“What, Watch Captain?”
Relc glanced at her. Zevara looked at him.
“Three hundred. They’ve deployed the Hive’s garrison. They’re securing the streets.”
Indeed, the Antinium were clearing street after street. No one was fighting them. The individual rioters took one look at the Antinium and ran. Meanwhile, they were finding Workers.
It still chilled Zevara to see them. The Watch moved to one side. She saw Yellow Splatters break off as the Antinium marched in thunderous silence down another street.
“Yellow Splatters! What is the meaning of this?”
“We are restoring order. And locating members of the Hive. I have ordered this as Prognugator of the Free Antinium.”
The [Sergeant] replied calmly. Zevara’s mouth opened. Her eyes flicked to Relc. And she had a moment where she decided…to do the only thing that was logical.
“—Very well. The Watch requests the Antinium to cooperate! We need to lock down streets where the riots are burning parts of the city! I can show you—”
“It will be done.”
The Antinium marched. And the riots ended where they moved. But those who saw them felt mixed relief at best.
 
—-
 
The fire was going out. Maviola saw the riots quelling, order reasserting itself. She still waited. Waited for the crowds to turn on The Wandering Inn.
And it came close. But the sight of Bird and dozens of Workers standing on the roof of the inn—perhaps the distance outside the city, the knowledge of the inn’s sturdy walls—saved it. At the very least, no large mob converged on The Wandering Inn.
If they could have gone through the magic door, that would have been another matter. But the crowds found the magic door missing. And indeed—they saw very little of The Wandering Inn after Erin’s first mistake.
Ekirra’s family was sheltering in their apartment. They hadn’t joined the fury—even though they’d lost gold. The protests, yes. Afterwards? No. Ekirra’s father and mother and his siblings all sat together, talking, playing little games with wooden tops. The little Gnoll was worried. Also upset—he wasn’t allowed to kick the ball inside. Everyone had snapped at him when he tried to kick it off the wall and practice what Mister Kevin had showed him.
When the angry people passed by their streets, everyone went silent. The last crowd had been mostly Drakes, but they’d been looking for things to steal, not to burn homes. Ekirra had heard them.
Now, he nibbled on the fur on his arm, a nervous tic he wasn’t supposed to do anymore. No one stopped him though.
When the knocking came on the door, Ekirra’s parents stiffened. The room went silent; there wasn’t any light in the room. They were quiet.
“Make no sound.”
Ekirra’s mother whispered. The knocking came again. Ekirra’s father stood up. He reached for a belt-dagger and his family stared at him. Then—a voice came.
“Ekirra! Hey—is anyone in here? It’s me!”
The others jumped. That was Erin! Ekirra’s tail began to wag. He finally sniffed her scent over the smell of burning.
“Miss Solstice?”
The father whispered. He went to the door, peered through the spy hole.
“I don’t see you.”
“I’m invisible. Hey, Numbtongue—hold that door steady! Palt, can you re-visable me for a sec?”
The door opened. Someone entered the room. Erin reappeared. The Gnoll family gasped. Erin waved at them.
“Hey! Glad to see you’re okay. Do you want to come with me?”
“What? I don’t understand. Miss Erin, how did you get here? There was a crowd—it’s not safe. Come in!”
The Gnoll protested. But Erin pointed.
“I was invisible. We’re going around, making sure people are okay! We’ve checked on Selys, Visma, Ishkr’s good, but he’s looking for his sister.”
She waved towards something. Ekirra, peeking around his father’s legs, saw the magic door. It was being held up by…he sniffed. Mister Numbtongue and Miss Minotaur?
“If you want to stay here, that’s fine. But we can let you come to the inn. It’s safe. There’s the Garden and no one’s come to bother us.”
Erin was telling Ekirra’s family. The parents wavered only a second. Then they nodded.
“Hey! Anyone else who wants to come to the inn! Come on through!”
The young woman was aware of the power of Gnoll hearing. More than one apartment opened and disgorged the largely Gnoll residents. She herded them through the door. Then she turned.
“Okay, Palt. Invisibility time.”
She vanished and Numbtongue, Beza, and Erin all hurried down the street. When a crowd came by—they put the door down. No one noticed.
“I think that’s nearly everyone. Let’s get this door close to the Watch House or the Adventurer’s Guild.”
Erin panted. Numbtongue growled an affirmative. Erin walked forwards—right into Bezale.
“Ow. Sorry, Beza. Let me just—oh, that’s you, Numbtongue. Sorry, sorry.”
Swearing, the three got the door down another street. They found 4th Company locking down the area around the Watch House. Here they ran into trouble.
“Captain! I’m sensing something! Invisibles on approach!”
The [Mage] attached to the blockade of Captain Wikir’s squad couldn’t see them, but even low-level [Mages] had their ways. Erin, Numbtongue, and Palt saw the [Soldiers] curse.
“Halt!”
Wikir roared. The [Mage] pointed his wand.
“[Dust Wind]!”
Erin coughed as the dust suddenly covered her invisible body. She waved her arms as the [Soldiers] aimed weapons at them. Unlike the [Guards], 4th Company stuck to their blades.
“Don’t shoot! Don’t shoot! It’s me! Erin!”
The [Soldiers] lowered their weapons. Erin staggered forwards, coughing, as Palt dropped his spell.
“We’ve got a lot of people in the inn! We’re taking the magic door to the Watch House. We can do that, right?”
“Hm. Granted. Send a runner to Wing Commander Embria and the Watch Captain.”
The Gnoll [Captain] eyed Numbtongue and Beza’s silhouettes, but he waved them through. Gratefully, Erin staggered down the street. Then she turned.
“I think we did it. Okay, everyone! We’re in the clear! Anyone got water? I’ve got dust all on me.”
Inside the inn was packed. Even the [Grand Theatre] was stretched to accommodate everyone. The Knights of the Rose and Lady Bethal were standing around with Maviola, Mrsha—who was greeting Ekirra with Visma and urging him and his sibling into the [Garden of Sanctuary] to meet the beavers—Lyonette, reassuring people, and everyone else.
“I’ll admit. This is a better plan than your last one.”
Maviola herself brought over some water. Erin washed her face as Numbtongue grumpily reappeared, sneezing. Beza trotted into the inn.
“Thanks, Maviola. It’s not everything. But you’re right.”
Erin had seen the riots. Looting shops. Harrying Humans and Workers. Apart from one instance, she hadn’t confronted them. When she had, though…well, Numbtongue had skinned his knuckles.
Lady Bethal eyed Erin as the young woman splashed more water on herself and yelped because it was cold.
“You’re a young woman after my heart, Miss Erin. You don’t believe in sitting around, do you?”
“What good does that do? Hey, thanks for lending me the [Knights].”
They bowed. Kerrig, Nil, Welca—there were six in all. But you didn’t need more than six. Maviola glanced at them.
“You’re not going to go anywhere else?”
“…No. Not unless it gets bad. But it sounds like the Antinium are helping to keep order. Apparently there are hundreds of them stopping the riots. That’s good.”
Lady Bethal and Maviola both glanced up at that. Thomast nudged his wife, and Maviola just nodded slowly.
“Yes. ‘Good.’”
Erin ignored that. She turned to Drassi, who was monitoring the news and the door.
“Anything else, Drassi? How’re the other cities?”
“Good. Sir Relz and Noass aren’t on-screen. It’s this Garuda.”
A Garuda was filling in for the two absent Drakes. Erin nodded.
“How’s Esthelm? Celum?”
Drassi shook her head.
“Calm. Celum’s too banged up from the raid to really explode. I checked; Fals said it’s fine.”
“And Esthelm?”
A wry smile. This came from Palt. He was passing around something—Erin nearly objected until she saw it was just little sweets. Mints. Not everything was an edible edible.
“Peaceful. Even besides Master Pelt showing up, I don’t think Esthelm was a huge target of The Golden Triangle. They’re not as connected and they didn’t have as much money to spend.”
“That’s a relief. Selys is at the Adventurer’s Guild and Keldrass’ team is there. So is Hawk and Tekshia. So Selys is safe. I talked to a [Guard]—Jeiss—who says they found Relc and Olesm’s helping from City Hall. So…I guess that’s it.”
Erin leaned back with a sigh. She was tired. But she’d done something. She looked at Maviola.
“How’d I do?”
“Aside from trying to stop a mob with your aura alone? Well. Besides—we just saw Magnolia doing the same.”
The [Innkeeper] sat up with a frown.
“Really? Aw, so that means I’m too low-level.”
“To a point. The riots are contained in most cities, but she seems happy to let them run in Invrisil. I suppose that’s in contrast to Pallass. Grand Strategist Chaldion put the riots down hard.”
The [Innkeeper]’s heart sank.
“Chaldion did…? How hard is—hard? What about Saliss? I bet he didn’t do anything like that.”
“He is a Named Adventurer. Not the law.”
Maviola didn’t reply to Erin’s first question, which was telling. The [Innkeeper] looked around. Then she saw Visma’s mother hurrying over.
“Miss Solstice. Is Liscor safe? We’d like to check on our homes if it is.”
“Not yet. But soon. The Watch is outside—I’ll get people to check on it, okay? You just sit tight. Have something to eat. On the house.”
Erin soothed her. The many people in the room were nervous, but the Players were putting on comedy bits, and Lyonette was passing out free snacks and drinks. Erin sighed, sat back—
And Ishkr was there. The Gnoll hovered at Erin’s side.
“Erin. Miss Erin, have you heard about my sister? Liska?”
Erin sat up.
“Oh—Ishkr. I didn’t. I’ve asked, but she’s not at your apartment and no one else saw her…”
The Gnoll [Waiter] growled under his breath. Erin began to stand up.
“We can go look for her. Numbtongue, Beza—”
They glanced up. But the Gnoll shook his head. He hesitated, bent down.
“She—she may be with the rioters, Miss Erin. It would be like her.”
“Oh. Then should I…?”
“I’ll go look for her.”
The Gnoll wanted to go through the door, but everyone blocked him.
“My dear young…Gnoll. If your sister is with a mob, there’s nothing to do. Sit down, please. Ser Kerrig, perhaps you could go look. Even a mob is unlikely to stop you. Is there a description for this young Gnoll…woman?”
The Rose Knight nodded, donning his helmet. But Ishkr shook his head again.
“No. No. Thank you. I will wait. She’s probably with—it’s fine.”
He was glancing at Visma’s mother and around the room. Clearly nervous. Erin hesitated, but Ishkr strode off.
“I will help wait tables. Please let me know if you hear from her.”
“Of course. I’ll get Drassi to check.”
The [Innkeeper] looked around. She saw Drassi raise her head and glance at Ishkr. Then the Drake [Gossip] slid over to Erin.
“Um. Erin. I think Ishkr’s really worried. Liska might actually be with a riot. That’s like her. I can go through. I’ll stick to the safe zones.”
“You sure, Drassi? What’s Liska like? You know her? I’ve never even met her.”
Drassi rolled her eyes, indignant for a second.
“Erin, I know everyone. Yeah. Ishkr’s sister is two years younger. She’s uh…difficult.”
And that came from Drassi, who had few bad words about anyone. Erin frowned. They headed into the kitchen, where even Gnoll ears would have trouble if they whispered. Lyonette glanced at them as she pulled more pizzas out of the oven and distributed them for the guests.
“What’s wrong with Liska?”
“Oh—that’s why Ishkr doesn’t want anyone to find her but him or maybe you. She’s uh—well—I happen to know this, but you shouldn’t tell anyone. I haven’t! Obviously! Ishkr asked me not to. But she gets in trouble because she’s often with…female friends.”
Erin stared blankly at Drassi as the Drake [Gossip] looked uncomfortable.
“Okay. What kind of female friends? [Thieves]?”
“No, Erin. Female…friends.”
“Uh huh.”
The [Gossip] gave up. She leaned over.
“Turnscales, Erin.”
The [Innkeeper]’s eyes slowly narrowed. She…knew that word. But the meaning was…
“Why’s that bad?”
