Jasi leaned out of the crowd and spoke, her voice melodious and measured. Her scales glimmered and Mrsha longed to touch them. She looked less like the weary [Washer] and more like a—star on the stage. The others cheered up, especially Emme.
“We could charge tickets. Why not? Dead gods, that magical door is a blessing!”
“But about the riots—”
Erin looked back at the door, but everyone else was happily following Bethal’s suggestion. Mrsha turned to stare at Bethal from the [Innkeeper]’s arms; she had Erin-energy. Mrsha liked her already.
“Oof, Mrsha. You’re getting heavy. Did you grow again?”
Erin had to put Mrsha down. The Gnoll child sighed, but she was relieved. The others were in a buzz, taking Bethal’s suggestion. A play! And Lyonette was hurrying to get people seated. The Wandering Inn itself had learned to create a moment even without the [Innkeeper].
She kept staring towards the door to Invrisil. But Ishkr walked over and changed it to Liscor and Mrsha poked Erin in the leg and begged for Erin to teach her chess.
 
Pawn to E3. That’s called the Van’t Kruijs Opening, you see. It’s an irregular opening and it’s not that aggressive, but you can transition into a reversed King’s Pawn—Mrsha, are you paying attention? You see, the idea is to control the center and blah blah, I’m boring and stuff when I play chess.
            –A Symposium on Chess Opening, by Erin Solstice, [Innkeeper].
 
“Oh, alright. Let’s sit down. Hey, Maviola. You gonna throw more poo or teach me stuff?”
“I could. I should find Olesm, but what’s this about chess? I’ve been meaning to play you. Olesm says you’re the best player in the entire continent. Perhaps anywhere.”
Maviola’s eyes glittered. Mrsha saw Erin smile and Bethal turn her head.
“Chess? Why, I play that too. Thomast dear, this is wonderful! Don’t make that face. I won’t make you play chess.”
The Wandering Inn bustled and hummed, and Mrsha successfully distracted Erin. Which was her job, and everyone else helped her distract Erin from going out there and somehow turning the riot into a mega-ultra riot or something. After all—it wasn’t something that mattered to them. And what could you do about riots, anyways?
 
—-
 
Riots.
In a way, it was like Erin. What could you do about her? Well—a lot of things came to mind. Kill her, incapacitate her, drug her, imprison her on numerous and justified legal grounds.
The problem, to Magus Grimalkin, known as ‘Grimalkin the Fist’, or the Muscle Mage of Pallass—all monikers he had accepted because they disclosed the underlying truth about him—wasn’t in execution.
He could snap Erin Solstice’s neck in a moment. Unless she was prepared, the [Innkeeper] was very defenseless. He wouldn’t ever do that of course, but Grimalkin had lists of people who could kill him. He had thus, empirically, and logically analyzed everyone he had ever met to see if he could kill them.
No, you didn’t kill Erin Solstice. Like the damned riots; the [Sinew Magus] strode along Pallass’s 8th floor and heard the shouting. The Watch Captains had their claws full.
“Not riots yet, at any rate. But Wistram has done us little favors. And it will just take a spark. Riots…”
There was one in Invrisil. Grimalkin was keeping abreast and ahead of the news, mainly because Sir Relz and Noass were in Pallass. And they had just gotten word about the riots and were having a viewer-mage go there to suss it out. They’d tentatively cancelled his hour-long special report on weights for that.
The Drake was annoyed. But not just by that. He’d just received another complaint about Erin and this one—well—the [Senators] wanted her head on a platter.
And he wouldn’t be the one to pull it off. Indeed, the problem with Erin and riots was that killing people solved nothing. You could disperse a mob with a [Siege Fireball]. But where did that leave you? With dead bodies. Loss of citizens of Pallass. Lingering fury—a bad stench—
In the same way, Erin Solstice was an asset. Look what she had wrought. You couldn’t kill someone like that. Not unless you were certain she wasn’t on your side.
“And therein lies the question. Whose side? Liscor’s? The Antinium? No—before you can change her allegiance, I must know where she comes from. And that question…”
That question he was so close to unearthing. Grimalkin had all the pieces. He’d taken her innocuous statements, her little hints, the knowledge that shouldn’t be there, the ignorance—and put it together. In the way of a true Fissivilian [Mage], he had logically compiled it into a visual format. He had an entire room in his studio devoted to analyzing her.
But his conclusion was…extreme. Even for him. The Drake shifted uncomfortably as he walked and a passing Gnoll paused to stare at Grimalkin’s entire body ripple as muscles all moved together.
His conclusion was extreme. But the evidence supported it and there was no other…alternative. Grimalkin didn’t know if it was the truth. But if it was—
No one could kill Erin Solstice. And indeed, the truth might drive the Walled Cities to their knees. However—it assumes I am correct.
Either way. The Drake shook his head. He quickened his pace. It still didn’t excuse Erin Solstice’s actions. Regardless of her origins, she was still someone who meddled in Pallass’ affairs. Who had cost the city—helped it—and caused trouble. Today, she had dealt Pallass a major blow. But Grimalkin had spoken out in her defense against the Council and Pallass’ high command. Because of his suppositions. If it was true—they needed Erin.
He just needed to be sure. Sure…the [Sinew Magus] had to lean on a wall as he approached the magical door and checkpoint. When he saw the waiting room inside, he did have to sit for a second, in one of the chairs. He stared at the newspaper, the vase of flowers, and the drawings on the wall. His eyes narrowed.
It had to be true. Grimalkin the Fist Mage waited until the door opened. He knew what Erin was.
“Dead gods. Ancestor’s bones give me strength.”
He whispered. The [Guards] shifted; they couldn’t square Grimalkin with the nervous Drake that sat there. And when the door did open—Erin Solstice herself stood there.
“Yeah, yeah, I’m checking, Lyonette! I—oh. Grimalkin! Hey!”
The huge Drake stared at her. At the brass ring on her finger. At the young woman’s clothing—casual. Even bright. But he had observed the others, with their strange clothing. Outlandish designs. He had heard their whispers, looking at him. Calling him a ‘bodybuilder’. Also, a ‘narcissist’, but that wasn’t the point.
“Erin Solstice. If you have—no. There is a situation that requires your presence.”
The [Mage] stood up. Erin blinked.
“Uh—is this about this morning? I can put this stuff away. I don’t want to cause Venim trouble.”
“This morning?”
Grimalkin glanced around. He shook his head, distractedly.
“This is a minor inconvenience compared to—the Assembly of Crafts is in uproar, Miss Solstice. You will have to come with me. Now.”
“Uh oh. I didn’t do it! I think!”
Erin began to panic. Grimalkin saw another woman appear behind Erin. Who was this? No, wait, he recognized her.
“What is it, Erin?”
“Nothing, Maviola! I mean—what did I not do, Grimalkin?”
The Drake folded his arms. He spoke one word and saw Erin’s face change.
“Pelt.”
“Oh. That…might be me. What’s happening?”
“He’s leaving.”
Maviola gasped. Her eyes went wide. Erin? Grimalkin saw her half-smile and then cover it. Her face turned into innocent shock.
“Oh wow! I mean—that’s not my fault! But good for him, right? He’s not happy here, anyways.”
She peeked at him. The Drake said nothing, but his eyes narrowed slightly.
“The situation demands your presence. Now, Erin.”
“Fine, I’m coming. Maviola—”
“I’m coming too. This is exactly what I was trying to teach you about, Erin.”
The [Lady] looked excited. Grimalkin sighed but took it in stride. He stepped aside.
“Let’s go. 9th Floor. We may make it in time.”
“Okay. Lyonette! I’m going to Pallass for a bit! It’s not my fault!”
Erin shut the door. The two Human women began walking. Grimalkin followed them. Looking sideways at Erin.
“You don’t seem that remorseful.”
“I didn’t do it. M-mostly.”
She avoided looking at him. Grimalkin thought about the things he could do. The things the [Senators] wanted to do to her involved at least a public quartering. But they needed her. Dead gods, how would he convince even Chaldion of his hypothesis?
But it was true. Grimalkin was not an idiot. He exercised his mind like every other body part. He had noticed Erin’s inconsistencies. And over time, methodically come to the one logical explanation. He tried not to stare at her back, tried to make his silence feel like anger rather than—shock. Awe.
“How much trouble am I in, Grimalkin? Um…asking for a friend.”
He didn’t reply. The [Sinew Magus] followed Erin. Staring at her back. Yes. There was only one thing she could be. He had considered everything.
That she was the daughter of a Wall Lord of Salazsar. That she was a [Princess]. An adventurer. A Drathian—the disciple of Niers Astoragon?
A member of the King of Destruction’s court? A child of Rhir? Related to one of the Archmages—no—a descendant of a real [Archmage]? Nothing had been off the table.
But the truth was that there was no trace of Erin. Nor did she know enough about…anything. She knew too much, and too little. She had taught him about protein shakes. But she wouldn’t explain what a ‘protein’ was. He had no doubt she knew.
So—the Drake would learn. For now, he contained his awe. He worked on validating his theory. He looked at the back of the…time traveller. The girl from another era. It only made sense. The question he had to ask was simply: before, or after now?
It would make all the difference.
 
—-
 
Grimalkin was rather quiet as he marched them towards the 9th floor. Maviola was staring about, playing it cool. But this was her first time in the Walled City and she seemed—antsy.
“Something wrong, Maviola?”
The young woman jumped. She smiled at Erin.
“No—er. It’s just that this is something I never thought I’d see. My family hasn’t been to a Walled City…ever.”
Oh. Of course. She was Maviola El. This was probably the last place she wanted to be known. Erin had a crazy urge to mention her name to Grimalkin just to see his eyes pop.
But the Drake was already in a bad mood and that seemed like a stupid thing to do. Erin was tempted nonetheless.
“So…Grimalkin. Buddy.”
“Keep walking, Miss Solstice. This is a matter of high priority.”
Erin gulped. Grimalkin stared down at her.
“How mad were people…?”
“There will be a number of [Senators] present. I believe they were attempting to convince Master Pelt to remain. They also voted to censure your inn or even eradicate the doorway to block the move. The vote failed.”
“That’s a rel—”
“By six votes.”
“Ah. Um. Er…I’m sorry.”
Rather to her surprise, the Drake didn’t lecture her about responsibility, the consequences of her actions and so on. He just folded his arms as he walked.
“…I rather imagine you have no idea how close a vote like that is in the Assembly of Crafts since you did not grow up around Pallass, Miss Solstice. A democracy such as this…it was a close vote.”
“No, I know. I mean—I didn’t know about the Walled Cities.”
“Until you came here.”
The Drake glanced sideways at Erin. She shrugged, self-consciously.
“Uh—no. Not at all.”
His head drooped.
“Hm. Troublesome. One would have assumed the Walled Cities were a household name. When–wherever you were.”
Erin bit her lip.
“Well, I’m used to big cities. Buildings just as tall.”
“Oh? Well, names can change. But this kind of architecture isn’t unfamiliar?”
The Drake brightened up. Erin drew out her words slowly.
“No…er, but hey! I like Pallass! How’s the weight training going?”
“Oh, that? I have a lot of new apprentices. Most washed out, but there’s a lot of talent…enough about that. So, when you say buildings of similar architecture—”
The Drake cut off as they ascended the 9th floor. Maviola gasped.
“Craftsman’s hammers. So these are the forges of Pallass!”
Erin and Grimalkin both looked at her in some surprise. Of course. The 9th floor with its endless forges wasn’t anything new to them. But then they saw Maviola’s shining eyes. The wonder in her expression. And they looked again.
The pride of Pallass. Massive forges for working steel—and steel was what Pallass made. Enough industry to supply the entire Walled City and other Drake armies with Pallassian steel!
“There is no one place with equivalent industry. It’s a marvel. Why, if we had this in the north, we wouldn’t have to hire out to damn—”
Maviola El looked around. Grimalkin straightened in pride.
“Yes, well, Miss Maviola, isn’t it? Pallass is known for its metallurgy. We do not specialize in magical goods, but our steel is second only to Dwarf-craft. A fact Miss Solstice knows full well.”
She turned her head and pretended to whistle as he fixed her with a meaningful eye. Maviola broke out of her stupor and glanced about.
“That’s right. You had Pelt. W—er, I heard the Five Families tried to buy him.”
“Wait, you know Pelt too, Maviola? Small world!”
The [Lady] rolled her eyes along with Grimalkin. She turned to face Erin, exasperated.
“Erin. Everyone who wants to hire the best knows Master Pelt’s name. He is one of the best [Smiths] in the world. Or—was. There was a time when he was one of the Dwarf-masters of Terandria. His name was one you memorized if you wanted the best. Well, along with Cinadel of the Lapis Anvil, Doon of Invinctel, Forgemaster Taxus, and so on…”
“Uh huh. Okay. Pelt was a big deal.”
“Was. And now is again. Thanks to someone. Which also makes this moment even more inauspicious.”
Grimalkin pointed. And Erin saw—across the usually-busy 9th—every forge had gone dark. The hammers had stopped pounding. Only the smelters continued—burning, but unmanned.
There was a gathering around one forge Erin knew very well. She saw Drakes, a few Gnolls, Dullahans—a familiar giant of a [Blacksmith]. And some people in robes. [Senators]. But as Erin walked forwards, she saw a shorter figure than the rest, standing there, arguing with the ones in robes. Speaking with others. She felt it in the air, even over the angry chanting coming from the lower floors.
“Pelt.”
Erin breathed his name. One of her…special projects? Her allies? No—
