“Oh?” Apell said, “No need to worry about that. We use [Watershape] to sweep them up for harvesting in a side room where none of them see what the others see. Ah. Well. Twenty at a time is normal.” She paused. She said, “Actually… You’re on floor five right now, aren’t you? If light slimes are already spawning… We might want to hold off on fully lighting the dungeon. The partial lights you’ve put up might be enough.”

Merith said, “We can reroute the water. That should be enough to limit spawning.”

Apell paused. She said, “That’s a much better idea. Yes. Let’s do that. Continue with the full lighting, Erick.”

Erick smiled, saying, “Of course.”

For a little while, as Apell and Merith walked on, discussing the river running through the dungeon, Erick watched Sunny curl through the pool around the light slime. Ophiel twittered on his shoulder. Erick mentally asked him if he wanted to play too, but Ophiel's response was a non-committal cello hum. Erick nodded. They were both a lot younger than Ophiel, so it was understandable that Ophiel didn’t want to get involved. Both the light slime, which was barely moving through the water, but clearly trying to follow the green snake, and the green snake herself were both barely a day old. Ophiel, who puffed himself up like a bird banishing the cold with fluffy feather, proving that he was bigger than the babies playing in the water, was much more mature than them.

Erick stifled his smile, as he took in all of these emotions coming off of Ophiel.

But after a minute, Ophiel trilled in tiny violins, then hopped off of Erick’s shoulder. He fluttered over to the pool of water, just to be closer to the snake and the slime. He didn’t directly play, but he did start to sing in harps and violins, quickly drawing the attention of the other two. Erick chuckled.

After a moment of watching the kids play, he went back downstairs to keep working on the dungeon.

The initial lighting, flooring, and layout would be done in nine more days.

- - -

Erick had had enough of this stupid dungeon! Sure, the benefits would show themselves soon enough, but heck! He had things to do!

Even if Spur was doing fine with all the Headmaster’s people, and the de-worming was complete, and the Farmer’s Council was working overtime to make up for mistakes…

They didn’t really need him in residence. Not right now.

But still! Erick felt like he should have been on the scene, providing… some sort of help? He wasn’t sure on that matter. But what he was sure of, was that he could, possibly, make this dungeon-crafting go faster, if he had some better enchanted rings— No! Not rings. Rings definitely couldn’t hold plus-20 All-Stats apiece; he wasn’t able to stick two gems on a ring without it exploding. And he didn’t want to wear bracers. Bracelets, though… He could wear a pair a bracelets, probably.

Erick had looked for a solution to his Stat item problems for a while now, and found nothing. But the answer was probably a great deal simpler than he was making it. Hopefully, the answer to this problem was the answer that worked for almost every other problem, ever:

Throw money at it!

He didn’t want to believe that gold and silver actually did produce better enchantments, mainly because none of the normal enchanting books said so, but enough of the nuanced and non-standard Stat enchantment books mentioned the use of gold and silver in higher end enchantments, and even the Headmaster said that some people had found those metals could hold a better Stat enchantment, that Erick went ahead and bought some of those precious metals down at the market.

(In the course of his search for workable gold, Erick found out many things about the currency he used every day. ‘Gold coins’, the standard for pricing objects, contained very, very little gold, if at all. Some weaselly people even struck coinage out of brass and copper, and treated them to alchemical baths that made them look and feel and act like normal gold coins, until a month or more had passed. Some unlucky people, when they traded for some of these look-alikes that pop up across the world from time to time, were surprised to find at the next transaction that their fakes were fake.

To combat this, many of the smaller city nations of the world didn’t use coinage at all. They preferred rads, since rads could always be used to power some device or another.

Long story short: Erick could not use any of the coins he had to create his new jewelry. So he went down and bought the raw materials.)

Now, he was back in his enchanting room in Windy Manor, with a few assorted, new-to-him metals, and 7 grand-rads worth of silver and gold. It was a lot less precious metal than he expected. Maybe 5 ounces of gold, and the same of silver, in two little bars, each the size of two of his fingers.

Kiri watched from the side. Sunny curled around Kiri’s neck. She lifted her snake-like green head up to watch Erick; her green eyes glittering at the sight of the gold, but not so much at the sight of the silver. Erick held the gold aloft, watching as Sunny’s head swiveled to stare at the bright, yellow metal.

Erick said, “So dragons really do like gold.”

Kiri admonished him, saying, “She’s a couatl, Erick. Not a dragon. You never saw her in a dragon form.”

As though Reality was destined to prove Kiri wrong, and as Erick held the gold aloft, Sunny shifted from couatl to dragon. Feathered wings transformed into little arms and hands, and little legs and clawed feet.

Erick laughed.

Kiri frowned at Sunny, wrapped loose around her neck, saying, “Sunny. Couatl. Please.”

Sunny shifted back to a winged snake. She promptly ignored Erick holding the gold bar and turned thin, and small. She curled around Kiri’s neck like a loose, green, feathered necklace. Kiri stroked her back, in the direction the scales and feathers grew. Sunny’s tail curled out from her hidden position, flexing outward as Kiri petted. Sunny’s tiny head peeked over Kiri’s shoulder, her bright green eyes drinking in the sights of Erick’s enchanting room, from the six glittering diamond spheres sitting on a holder in the sun, waiting to be used, to the pools of platinum water that lay beside the window.

Erick cast a Cyan-Ultramarine-Cinnabar-Crimson lightmask across the platinum pool. The combined masks formed a purple air that took hold across the bowl, as Erick picked up the six diamond spheres and put them into the pool. He flashed a [Cleanse] into the waters, dispersing any possible oils that had adhered to the diamonds’ surfaces. Erick took off his rings and canceled his [Personal Ward]. He briefly considered canceling the [Prismatic Ward] around the house, but that was bad for a hundred different reasons, and strangely enough, that particular piece of magic did not seem to interfere with item creation in any meaningful way. It must have been because of the ‘operate without restriction’ part of that spell, or maybe there was some other reason. Even his [Personal Ward] didn’t really interfere, but he was trying to be as baseline as he could be for these experiments.

Erick touched all of the gems at once, under the platinum water. He channeled mana through all of his Stats. Purple glows, brighter than the purple maskward, radiated into the spheres and out of the water, like submarine lights under the ocean’s surface. Erick soaked the gems with his power, up until the point where he felt equilibrium take hold in the gems. He flashed out [Cleanse Aura] and [Diamond Aura] into the bowl, sealing the diamonds in a layer of metals and bubbling the water; the unknown byproducts of Erick’s item creation methods fell to the floor of his enchanting room as thick air.

He canceled the spells and brought out six new plus-12 All-Stat gems. They would be plus-10 by the time they stabilized.

Erick said, “And now to do that five more times.”

“I could work on the bracelets, if you want?”

Erick smiled, saying, “You should play with Sunny.”

Sunny perked up, hearing her name. She flickered five shades of green.

Erick and Kiri both noticed.

Kiri said, “I think she likes that idea.”

“Have you seen her shift any other colors?”

“I haven’t seen her shift any colors, at all. Except for right at the beginning.” Kiri said, “That was new.” She added, “I’m going to go train her a bit.”

“See you later.”

Kiri walked off, while Erick went back to making gems. Ophiel twittered on his perch, beside the workbench. He wanted to go play with Sunny, too.

“Maybe later, Ophiel.” Erick said, “Kiri has to form a bond with Sunny before there’s too much playtime.”

Ophiel hummed in soft flute sounds.

“I know, I know. Sorry, buddy.”

Erick quickly made a lot more All-Stat gems. After waiting for his mana to recover a little, he got to work on the gold and silver bracelet. But since gold was so soft, he looked first to the bars of Rustless Steel he had also gotten down at the market. He would have called it ‘stainless steel’ if he was sure that that was what it was. All he really knew about the metal was that it was alchemicaly treated and would not rust for twenty years, but other than that, it was a plain, grey-silver metal, and it was rather hard. Harder than iron, for sure. This metal came recommended by some of his enchanting books, if someone wanted to use something besides plain, normal, wrought-quality iron.

Privately, Erick wondered how long it would take the rest of Veird’s enchanters to figure out how to make better, longer lasting items, once his methods became public knowledge, and artifact-level Stat items that never degraded (or at least took a really long time to degrade) became the norm.

When someone else figured out the true nature of light, that is. Maybe Ryul would let some of the secret slip. He was there for that aborted lecture with the Headmaster, after all. That would be nice. Erick couldn’t be blamed for it if it happened like that.

Erick whipped up a test bracelet across his wrist, [Metalshape]ing the rustless steel into a solid torc. The gems would go into two slots on the underside, interior of the bracelet. When he had a good fit, he physically removed the bracelet.

He moved his creative process to a blast box, located on the other side of the room. The box was pretty much just five walls of thick wood, a few wardlights inside to provide adequate lighting, and one wall made of thick glass that was actually a door. Erick placed two gems into the blast box, alongside the torc and a clip of the gold bar, and shut the door. He put his hand to a hole in the side of the box, cut there to provide an unimpeded line-of-intent to whatever was in there. He had injured his hand doing this before, but such was the price to pay for progress!

Over the next ten minutes, with [Telekinesis], [Metalshape], and [Ultrasight] to properly see his work, Erick crafted a torc inlaid with two gems, and a circuit of twisting gold that ran along the outside of the solid metal bracelet.

It did not explode!

Erick laughed. He left the torc there for a minute, while he went to the kitchen to get a drink of water.

While he was filling up his cup, a pop echoed from upstairs, from his enchanting room. He sighed. Ophiel commiserated on Erick’s shoulder with a soft flute hum. Erick drank his water, then went back upstairs. The blast box had contained the explosion; doing exactly what it was meant to do. He salvaged as much of the gold as he could, but most of it was mixed with the rustless steel.

Over the course of four hours, Erick exploded twenty more designs. Multiple All-Stat gems went into slots on the bracelets, and then the bracelets exploded. From thin-stringed woven gold, to thick banded silver links, to variations on torcs, and solid bracelets that had to be formed directly over Erick’s skin if he wanted that idea to work. He didn’t actually wear the solid bracelet to test it out; it exploded after forty minutes of sitting in a separate blast box, though.

Erick recorded every single variation. When Kiri came back to check on him, Erick handed her the experiment log. She read them over.

She said, “It seems that the thicker bracelets last longer.”

“Yeah,” Erick said, wrapping the last remnants of silver into some imagined circuit-board sort of design. He added, “The problem is obviously the integrity of the item, but maybe that is a false conclusion. No one puts a lot of effort into Stat-item creation because they always decay, but now that decay is a problem of the past, I don’t know what roadmap to take. I’m guessing that the explosions might be a resonance problem? Or maybe its a flow problem.”

“You could try items besides metals. Wood or glass, for example?”

“… I don’t have [Woodshape].” He added, “But I could make it with [Watershape]… [Watershape] and [Grow], right?”

“Yes.” Kiri said, “I actually have [Woodshape].”

“Good! Make me some bracelets. I’m going to try glass.”

An hour later, wood exploded and glass shattered, as the power of Erick’s All-Stat gems proved to be too much.

“So what’s the problem?” Erick asked.

“Destructive resonance.” Kiri offered, “Make a diamond bracelet. A completely diamond bracelet. Or let’s make something out of the metals that you’ve [Distill]ed out of your growing rain.”

“I can’t put a bracelet on my wrist if the bracelet can’t move at all.” Erick amended, “Well. I could. But I don’t want to. Ugh. Okay. Let’s try that.”

“A crown, too. And a solid diamond ring.” Kiri said, “People don’t make Stat items this way because the gems just aren’t strong enough; there’s always an inclusion, or something that weakens and interrupts the interior. But your diamonds have no such problems.” She added, “How about a diamond ring with a diamond inset, too? Connect them with the barest bits of metal.”

“All good points. Let’s try all of that.”

Erick tried the fully-diamond ring, first. Kiri carved a few of them in different diameters, while Erick carved a few sized for his own fingers.

He enchanted the solid diamond rings, and covered them in a layer of platinum. They did not explode! He attached All-Stat gems to half of them. Those held, too, while Kiri and Erick went on to carving larger, completely-diamond bracelets, and even a crown. The crown broke rather instantly, as soon as Erick tried imbuing it with purple light. It wasn’t a large explosion, but it was enough to cut that experiment short. The diamond bracelet met the same fate.

