“Thanks,” Veron said and arranged the pieces of his shield he'd managed to recover. Most of the lower half was still around, he would just have to connect the pieces again.

Breathing in deep, Veron focused on his earth harmony and started fusing the cracked and broken lines. It felt easier than before. As if his magic just flowed better. He knew he had more Focus, but now that he had the time to really observe it, he could tell that it felt stronger too, more substantial. He could fuse the rock faster, could make it denser, harder. Veron knew through his Harmony that this shield, when it was done, would not shatter as easily.

The realization was both exciting and frustrating. Veron would be done with his shield faster than expected, but now he wanted to remake his entire armor. And he wanted to experiment with his Wind Harmony too. He stopped when he started to feel the familiar strain of a near empty Focus, already almost done with the lower third of the shield. Of course remaking the top part with new stone not yet formed into the right shape would take longer, but by now, he was confident he could finish it today.

Hayden returned soon after with a bag of rocks.

“Thank you. How much was it?” Veron asked.

“Five silver. Absolute rip-off if you ask me.”

Veron handed him the coin and looked at the rocks. It looked like a pretty random assortment. “Well, someone had to collect and then haul them here after all. I'm glad they were available in the first place.”

“You'll be able to buy most things in this city. The question is just how long you have to look for it. I see you've gotten quite far already, ready to start?”

Veron stood up and they walked a little to the side. “Do you know by chance how long it takes for me to recover my full focus, now that I’m at the Modest level?”

“It's similar for most people. Modest should still be below two hours. But not by much.”

“I assume it takes longer with every level in my Path then?”

“Yes. Adequate is a little over two hours. But overall, you’ll be able to do more magic, more quickly. And you’ll be able to fuel more advanced techniques as well.”

Veron grabbed his spear and held it in both hands.

Hayden handed him a shield. “Borrowed that one.”

It was simple. Pretty much just a wooden board but he supposed it served its purpose for sparring.

“I've seen you fight a few times now. But let's see how you hold up against me. Fight me as if I'm a monster in the dungeon. We both yell stop if we need to stop,” Hayden said and raised his shield and hammer.

Veron prepared his own weapons. He had fought beside the man, had seen him stand unmoving against whatever creatures they faced. And now he stood in front of him, protected by heavy plate and wielding both war hammer and the shield he knew Hayden could use offensively just as well as for his protection.

Veron got the feeling that Ivera was more dangerous than him. And yet she had only ever used her greatsword. Getting past that with his spear just made more sense than facing someone like Hayden. He attacked anyway, using his superior range to try and keep him at bay. Hayden blocked three of his strikes and already, Veron was on the back foot, trying to keep the distance as he started aiming for the other man's legs.

Hayden simply sidestepped and kept advancing, not using any of his magic as he closed the distance, smacking away Veron’s spear until he got close enough to use his hammer.

Veron raised his shield but Hayden didn't strike, instead grabbing the shield and pulling it aside, smacking his own shield straight into Veron’s chest. The blow made him stagger back but Hayden kept close, repeating the strike a second time. The third one made Veron fall on his ass. He tasted blood in his mouth, Hayden now standing over him with his hammer raised.

“Do you yield?”

Veron let go of his spear, pushed himself up to try and grapple his opponent, only to be met with another shield bash to his face.

“Let's try that again. This time, no spear.”

Veron raised his eyebrows. “No spear? How am I supposed to fight you?”

“Figure it out.”

He looked at the weapon on the ground and breathed in deep. Okay.

“Ready?”

Veron felt a little dizzy. His chest hurt and his lip was split. He raised his shield, his right hand empty as he advanced on Hayden. For some reason, he found that it felt more comfortable now that he had ditched the weapon. Veron smiled, and focused.
