I am still only using a single buff, my Greater Energy Form.

The second seal holds back the full activation of my Noble Human form, but letting my first seal dissolve releases the surface-level restrictions on both my demon core and soul energy core.

After completing my training beneath the Sea of Corruption, even without my Noble Form activated, weaker vibrations still ripple off me.

Dense mana and demonic energy pour out from my body with these waves of vibrations, making my greater form grow darker.

I instantly pull more stats from my Links of Loyalty, upping the amount I'm borrowing to reach 1%, and catch the hot blade of this Dark Berserker Giant mid-swing.

Now, with my senses restored—and even enhanced greatly—I can see the entire arena around me in perfect clarity. The clash of my Noble Vibrations against the strange cold and dark vibrations coming off this Berserker's Greater Form explodes outward in a shockwave, suppressing every Lord left under the dome.

I can still see the sharp green eyes staring down at me from behind this monster's sword, even more filled with excitement and bloodlust upon the realization I've caught his blade.

Though, behind its head, I see the countdown for this arena event drop below 5 seconds remaining.

I lean backward and pull with both my hands, making the white sword jerk forward at an awkward angle—but with so much raw force, the jet-black Greater Form of this monster is yanked with it.

In the same motion, I let go and spin my body to land a full-powered kick on the Black Giant's chest and feel cracks breaking apart its avatar.

However, it's only sent flying upward. The monster survived one of my hits without instantly dying as expected.

When I follow it upward again, erupting into a purple, red, and white pillar of flames and demonic energy behind me, the black monster lets out another screech and jumps down off the sky, not backing down for a second.

I let out a loud laugh and charge two enormous fireballs filled with both mana and demonic soul energy, and throw them straight at the falling beast as it tries to kill me again.

Two enormous explosions go off one after another as it slashes through my attacks with two swings, creating a hot white X in the sky and forcing the demonic flames from my attack to rain down on the already destroyed biomes below us.

The blasts in the sky stretch outward over 2,000 kilometers wide, and the energy waves and pressure from the collision reach every single portion of the inside of the dome, which is 40,000 kilometers in diameter.

More and more notifications fill my ears as the aura from that shockwave killed hundreds of straggling Lords too close to the blast.

I even watch Ren, who is on top of the same icy mountain at the furthest point from this fight, open their eyes and instantly create thick barriers of mana and ether in front of their body to shield them from the pressure even over 20,000 kilometers away.

Both myself and the Berserker are gaining thousands of points per second, but by now, neither of us care about these meaningless rankings.

I twist my body past the incoming downward strike of its blade and shoot up past the monster, gaining the high ground as I see the timer right above my head show less than 2 seconds remaining on the clock.

I clasp my hands together and pull even more stats, climbing close to 2% taken from my Links of Loyalty.

While neither my Noble nor Astral Forms are activated, and the two seals remaining on my body still hold back my ether control and Noble Vibrations' full potential, the amount of force I'm building up right now is about three times more than was necessary to kill Andras Vermillion, a Noble Demon...

I have a lot of questions surfacing in my mind about how another race could get this strong, as I thought it was only demons that held this kind of aura and raw strength. I don't sense any blood-transfused Noble Vibrations in its body, like the Demonic Cyclops under Ellipsia. This black aura is the real deal, a natural phenomenon...

Though, I push them all to the back of my mind as I create a single enormous flaming ball of fire, ether, and demonic soul energy, and point it down at the Berserker's back as it twists its body my way.

It looks like a Demonic Sun has formed in the sky, and as the timer for the match hits 1 second remaining, I thrust my hands downward to finish what I've started.

The Berserker's screech is all I hear as it attempts to slice through the dark purple ball, but it is too massive and dense.

My attack engulfs the Giant entirely, and the crackling of its avatar melting and being destroyed is all that can be heard before the fireball below me explodes.

[Kill Confirmed!]

[Points Awarded: 28,261]

[Total Points: 49,815]

My entire vision below turns to a raging fire the moment a kill notification rings in my ear, but at the same exact time, I feel teleportation magic engulfing my body.

My senses all go white-hot for a moment, and I feel dense black cuffs attach to my arms and legs, along with avatar debuffs ringing in my ears.

I begin to comprehend the situation further and deactivate my Greater Form, along with letting go of the borrowed stats I've taken. Then, I even activate Seraphel's temporary Noble Vibration Suppression technique.

I land in a large white room, with a single glass-like panel on the back of it, and see the remains of an exploding fireball so massive, it almost fills a quarter of the whole arena.

Then, I look to my left and right to watch about two dozen other Lords of varying races in the room with me, but they're all wide-eyed and taking steps back as I approach the glass wall looking down on the dome.

Ren stands right next to me with cuffs on their arms and legs too, commenting, "Good fight, it looks like we're moving on to the main event," in a nonchalant tone.

I smirk, "Yes, it looks like we are," I comment back in an equally calm voice, making the already terrified Lords in the room shiver more.

–

The Spectate feed in my head shows exactly what I see before me, paired with slow-motion visuals over and over of me throwing the demonic fireball down on this Berserker Giant.

The holographic replays don't do it justice, as they cannot feel or see the Hot Vibrations in my attacks clashing with the Berserker's cold energy.

Even the Demonic Soul Energy I've imbued into the attack just appears to be purple fire...

Though, I'm certain there are better energy trackers built into this arena, and a few strong Lords with keen eyes watching this event know what I've really done.

Even without these technical oddities, the fact that a fireball big enough to cover multiple biomes was used as a finishing move by a human is more than enough to make every Lord watching in the stands get up from their seats.

"The human was still holding back! Did you see that?"

"He really beat one of the Elites... it's actually possible... Maybe we just haven't been training hard enough. What does that human know that we don't??"

"Easy profit!!! Best gamble I've made all year, I'm putting more ether down on him for the main event!"

"He's not human... there's no way... it must be a trick."

"Yeah, what was in those flames that made them so strong...?"

As the crowds talk amongst each other, the Announcer yells out with a wide smile as well.

"And that's the end of Round 1! The human really pulled it off! Quite the explosive finish! We have 27 entries moving on to the main event, see them here!"

All of the Lords present in this room show up with their faces and point totals. Second place below me has just over 6,000, while the majority of the rest are all between 1,000–3,000. I'm certainly the outlier of this match by far, in many more ways than one.

At the same time, the glass wall in front of us pulses and turns completely green. So does the live spectate feed the announcer points to, making the fading ball of fire an image of the past as he speaks again in his generic tone.

"We will be doing a total reset of the Arena commands, so stay seated and prepare for the show to go on. Round 2 will be starting in a few minutes..."

I nod, and then take a seat, sitting up against the green glass panel and looking back toward the other Lords in the room. Ren mimics me and does the same as I whisper under my breath, "Very good. I think that went well... Now, we wait..."

–

At the same time, these final moments of the Arena event are being spread even further than just the Inner City of the Citadel.

Many Admins start forming private chats, trying to figure out who submitted this Lord. The handful of servants that witnessed this fire-wielding human get captured out in the wilderness all watch the replays with wide eyes, now grateful the avatar command suppression worked before they were taken out in a single hit like this Berserker...

News of the event even makes it further, outside of the Grand Citadel to all of the Vermillion Family Demons that have access to the large-scale events and news from other Citadels.

One Demon in particular, Sisco Vermillion, looking over the Mensa Citadel now with both arms crossed, still in a bad mood from his inconclusive search for the Berserker Giant in the Scarlet Clan, watches that video recording of the match with extreme detail.

Not only does he watch the fiery human's movements, but also the Black Greater Form of the Berserker Giant fighting.

"A human with exceptional mana control fighting 1st Class beasts... I'd believe it... but a human actually gaining enough strength to defeat one of those monsters from the Obsidian Clan... Something is not right... Could a human have awakened a path of their own?"

The white-horned Demon's gaze tightens, watching the demonic energy flowing inside this fireball, and even surges in power every time borrowed stats are infused in the red greater form, and his intrigue grows.

"Whatever the case may be, Miriel will deal with it in the main event..." he shrugs, then turns the recordings off to look out over the green rolling clouds toward Ellipsia.

–

In the same instance, far away from all active Citadels; the large Demonic Cloud filled with beasts from the Fortress finally begins to descend, dipping down into the green clouds, headed on a direct course toward the Sea of Corruption.
