Something was drastically different. For someone who used a bow nearly every day of his life, even the smallest changes in his technique and ability were immediately noticeable, and this was anything but small.

Ever since he had set foot in Myrin’s Keep, every shot he fired into the crawling sea of undead monsters had the ease of rightness to it. Aiming came easier to him, and as soon as the path of his hand dipped, or the track of his elbow was off by even a hair’s breadth, he was instantly aware of the discrepancy. His arrows met his bowstring faster and far more accurately, and a vast amount of what Nendir had been trying to teach him – things he’d been practicing hard since his first lessons – suddenly became easy. Like all the practice had just distilled into his body, settling in like a new instinct. Curiously, he already knew what it was.

Radiant Archery must have reached the second tier!

This was an advancement he’d been eagerly anticipating for a while now. The impact was both subtle and profound; his proficiency with the bow had just taken a giant leap forward as he internalized a thousand little details that had been floating around in his mind forever.

Finding a moment amid the chaos of battle, he opened his notifications, and sure enough, his suspicions were immediately confirmed.

Realm Hunter has reached level 197 (+9).+90 attribute points.Radiant Archery has reached level 103 (+3).Arrows of Brilliance has reached level 98 (+4).Motes of Light has reached level 76.Explorer has reached level 112 (+3).Blessing of the Dawn has reached level 82 (+4).Eclipse has reached level 55 (+3).Eyes of the Archon has reached level 79 (+3).Righteous Fury has reached level 65.Azrael's Wings has reached level 53 (+2).Mirage Armor has reached level 78 (+4).Bowcraft has reached level 16.Radiant Archery has reached a base skill level of 100.Radiant Archery has advanced to tier two.

Wait, one hundred and ninety-seven? In his excitement to see his primary archery skill advancing, he’d almost missed something nearly as significant. Just a second…

Quickly, he scanned through his storage enchantment, searching through his collection of rings. Specifically, one of the lowest-level Charged Bands of Electrocution they had recovered from the Crypt of Kings.

Charged Band of Electrocution – level 197A band of gleaming electrum, so charged with lightning mana that it continually leaks sparks into the air. +108 Intelligence.+86 Wisdom.+43 Dexterity.+118% spell power to Lightning skills.21% chance to cast level 182 Shock on hit.Requirements: Intelligence 690, Dexterity 394.Ring – Electrum

Monstrous, he thought, studying the ring with undiminished awe and a small shiver of anticipation. For an archer like himself who had invested heavily in triggered magical payloads and inflicting the maximum number of strikes with his conjured arrows of light, this ring was unreal. They had recovered so many of these rings; after all, they had killed fifty-seven Bone Fetishes as they had delved through the Crypt of Kings. Fifty-eight, he corrected himself. He always forgot that one they had stumbled into in the temple-labyrinth after Haverron. It wasn’t the level two hundred ring they had pulled off of Grim Spark himself, but it was almost as good – and he could always upgrade when he leveled up again.

Shock was one of the simplest lightning-affinity spells, one that many lightning mage classes offered as an initial skill, but this one was a second-tier version at level one hundred and eighty-two. With a twenty-one percent chance of triggering on every hit, Calen’s strategy of piercing his arrows through hordes of monsters would draw immense value out of the enchantment. To say nothing of the one hundred and eighteen percent increase in lightning damage and the over one hundred intelligence to boost his damage further. Even more impressive was the fact that lightning had a well-known partially stunning effect on monsters when they had flesh or muscles to jolt into brief inaction. A battlefield control tool that would go well alongside his many others.

But his grin of excitement faded to melancholy when he moved to replace his current ring.

Pathfinder Guild Ring – level 95An elegant silvery ring crafted in the shape of a wreath of leaves, signifying membership with the Pathfinders Guild.Owner: Calen Avery.+50 Dexterity.+50 Perception.+50 Intelligence.Requirements: Pathfinder, Dexterity 333.Quests: --Mana: Teleport yourself and one other to Ciradyl. Recharge: 7 days.Created by Nathaniel Sunstrider.Ring – Silver

Damn. He had been so proud to earn this ring. He remembered being filled with the ambition to be a great Pathfinder and follow in the footsteps of Lyeneru, his mentor. He had looked up to Nathaniel Sunstrider as a walking legend, but now the Pathfinder guild was all but destroyed by his defection to the Blind Lich.

He frowned and pulled the ring off. It was not even a question about which ring he should replace, but he needed to acknowledge that his attachment to this one was purely sentimental now. Still, removing it felt a lot like admitting the Pathfinder guild was no more.

Firmly, he told himself, I’m just being silly. While Lyeneru was still around, the Pathfinders were still alive. Besides, they were finally at the last ring of the dungeon, and once they defeated the Wraith of Nathaniel Sunstrider, they could recover Ciradyl. And Ali can even regrow the trees. With his resolve restored and his feelings under control once again, he stored the Pathfinder Guild Ring and replaced it with the new Charged Band of Electrocution.

Immediately, his attributes skyrocketed.

With slowly mounting curiosity, he drew his Scourge of Deadly Creep and fired volleys of conjured arrows out into the sea of undead monsters trying to scale the battlements. Eleven conjured arrows fanned out, flying with uncanny smoothness and accuracy, piercing through undead flesh like mundane arrows through ghosts. But, unlike the challenges of hitting the incorporeal undead with steel, his arrows detonated on impact, passing clean through each monster to pierce the ones beyond, detonating again and again. Roots exploded in a chaos of magic, while poison spores drifted downward – mostly worthless against the undead.

However, the explosions of light were lit from within by the incandescent flashes of lightning, unleashing a ripping crackle of power that tore through the dark horde of the dead in a wave of convulsion and spasmodic twitching. Zombies, at least, were affected by the stunning jolts of electricity.

The grin finally crept back onto his face as he studied the impact of his new tier-two archery combined with the power of his new Shock proc. This is going to be fun!

He was well past a hundred kills when the sonorous gong filled the air – the unmistakable sound of the zone notification.

[Zone] The Vengeance of Mi’ir Valdanis has advanced to the third tier.

Oh! So that’s what her class is called!

A second later, a dark figure appeared in the sky above him, radiating lithe readiness and a mana density that matched Kryostria. A frisson of goosebumps trailed down his spine. A bow appeared in her hands and suddenly ignited with a crimson blaze so intense he could feel the waves of heat even down on the battlements. A second formation triggered, and all the exposed hair on his body stood on end as he, and everything around him began to leak ghostly fingers of white flame that seemed to dance upward, seeking to join with her outrageously amplified power. Her magic swelled, rising toward some unfathomable crescendo, and all the white flames arced upward, continuous lightning bolts that writhed and sizzled, connecting her to the ground below.

And then, she fired.

A single arrow flew from her bow, igniting into a rapidly growing orb of roiling flame and crackling lightning. It hurtled over the battlements with a rising hiss of fury, stray bolts caressing the ground in explosions of rotting undead flesh and flying dirt. By the time it struck the ground, it had reached the size of a house.

Calen failed to hear the explosion. Instead, the world went absolutely dead silent. Everything bloomed into pure white radiance. He could see nothing, hear nothing. Then, the shockwave struck, hurling him from the battlements like he’d been struck by a boulder fired from a catapult.

He coughed, winded, and flared his wings to catch himself as he struggled to see.

The soft touch of Belmar’s holy magic infused him, and his sight and hearing rapidly returned. All he could hear were the raucous cheers from those lucky or smart enough to have ducked behind cover instead of gawking. Out in the center of the battlefield, nothing but a vast crater remained, flickering flames and lightning still lingering as it slowly faded.

Holy shit! That’s insane!

But Lyeneru was drawing her bow again. And this time, he wisely ducked behind the battlements.

Naia slithered through the Rift and into the realm beyond. Immediately, she felt the prickle of a strange magic along her various membranes, duplicated again and again as she sent more and more oozes crawling into that opaque darkness.

“That’s a neat trick,” Cael observed. “You don’t even need to risk yourself, do you?”

“I am inside the rift,” Naia said. “And here.” She recognized now that most of the people she knew did not sense the world the way she did. They were all woefully unaware – unable to even feel anything through more than one body. What a… limited way to live.

Her way was much more flexible. She could shift into any of the oozes that she had just sent slithering into the Realm of Creeping Shadows through the rift at the heart of Cael and Gage’s maze. Or she could simply feel the vibrations and taste the mana from where they were instead of here. It was so much simpler.

She could imagine what it must be like for them; after all, she had experienced what it was like to have most of her minions destroyed by something powerful, but that feeling always made her quiver in fear. To live like that always, must be awful.

She tested the shape of the strange mana within her oozes.

You have been afflicted with Creeping Shadows.Flickering shadows seem to dance along your skin.+1 Shadow damage per second.Creeping Shadows has a small chance to grow whenever you take Shadow damage.When Creeping Shadows reaches a count of 100 or more, your race gains the Shade trait permanently.Corruption – Realm Aura – Count: 1

Naia puzzled over the strange corruption aura for a moment, but she dismissed it as irrelevant. It didn’t seem that important. Instead, she tried to do what Calen had shown her. She tasted the ground, searching for signs of the oozes that must be there somewhere. It was a lot of ground, and it tasted strange, but she had made a lot of oozes, and even now, she was spawning more and more, sending them into the realm.

Your Creeping Shadows has increased to 2.

Quickly, she spread out, ignoring the shifting all around her, but the ‘shadows’ – whatever those were – did not wish to ignore her. Something struck her oozes from above. Bolts of consuming magic.

Flying, she thought, rippling a series of furrows across her membrane. She had learned how to deal with flying in her deep caverns, but she lacked a roof here from which she might drop onto her attackers. What to do…

Instead, she tasted the air.

It was far harder than feeling the ground, but her sensitive membranes were spread out over a wide area in this twisted realm, and soon she found herself forming a picture of the air above the ground. And the strange, annoying flying beings that attacked her began to emerge.

Dark Shade – Shade – level 59-83 (Shadow) Swarm x46.

The instant she found them, Naia unleashed her attacks. Arcane bolts flew from her new Faen Glob, but it was still at quite a low level. She added bolts of water from her Brine Oozes and high-pressure blasts of steam from the Scalding Slime. This seemed more effective, but it still wasn’t nearly enough. Rot Oozes, Zombie Puddles, Sparkling Oozes, she made them all, sending them crawling into the realm as Naia searched for the most effective spells. And soon, her flying nemeses came crashing down to be consumed for the mana they possessed.

Your Creeping Shadows has increased to 43 (+41).

There were many such notifications, all of differing amounts, but Naia ignored them and pressed on.

She had found a scent.

She wound her way around rocky outcrops, through dense pools of mana, and crawled through tiny crevices to reach the other side. And eventually, she found them.

“Mine,” she said softly, her membrane vibrating with sound where her main body was pretending to be an arcane crystal tree right outside of the rift.

Your Creeping Shadows has increased to 95 (+52).

Imprint: Shadow Slime completed.

“I got one more,” she said, trilling again. “Shadow Slime.”

“Good job, Naia!” Gage cheered. “Ali would be proud of you.”

“You think so?” Naia wiggled at the thought of showing Ali her beautiful new Shadow Slime. Will she love it too? Of course she will, it’s so pretty!

But just then, something new happened. Naia froze in place, so surprised that she let herself take the form of her rock again.

“What’s wrong, Naia?” Cael asked.

But Naia didn’t respond, still feeling out the notifications in her mind. Ripples of information coming from the slimes she had exploring in the rift:

Your race has been changed to Shadow Ooze.Imprint: Shadow Brine Ooze completed.

What is that?

Your race has been changed to Shadow Ooze.Imprint: Shadow Scalding Ooze completed.

Again?

Your race has been changed to Shadow Ooze. Imprint: Shadow Blaze completed.

Message after message chimed ripples across her distant membranes. And suddenly, understanding flooded into her as her intelligence began to skyrocket. Creeping Shadows. The realm’s corruption aura was turning all her oozes into shadow oozes!

“I just turned into a shadow ooze,” Naia said, finally answering Cael’s worried questions.

“Oh, no!” Gage exclaimed. “It got you? I told him it was dangerous, and now you’ve been corrupted!”

“No… It’s good,” Naia said, trilling curiously at his fear.

“What do you mean?”

