“Why are they here?” Ali asked, not truly expecting a ready answer. For certain, the undead were not known to explain themselves. Battle raged in the streets below, but Mato, Sabri, and Havok were all slowly advancing toward the breach in the wall, while deadly spells and arrows rained down in a deafening assault that had long left her ears ringing.

“It was only a matter of time,” Calen said, his arrows shining brighter than even the lightning.

“What do you mean?” she asked, turning to stare at the calm half-elf. Whatever it was that he was thinking, it was somehow eluding her.

“Your cursed title,” he said, nodding briefly in her direction and then shifting his bow to thread his arrow through the empty eye socket of a troll zombie clambering over the rubble below. “They’ve been watching you constantly ever since we left the Crypt of Kings.”

Ali opened her mouth to deny his theory, but the words died on her lips. A dread certainty filled her heart, and she knew he was right. The eldritch eyes appeared now and then, frequently enough that she had simply grown accustomed to them appearing and being shot down by her minions or friends. There had even been one that Calen destroyed during the boss fight earlier – just because there were no obvious consequences most of the time did not mean that the enemy wasn’t planning something appalling.

Those were merely scouts. He knows I’m here. It was not a fresh realization; rather, she was confronting a fear that had been lurking deep inside ever since the encounter at the Well of Eternity.

Her mind shuddered at the terrifying image of the Blind Lich as she had last seen him. It was not Baaoht Yll’shuum that hunted her as she had naïvely assumed at first. The terrifying Eldritch Monstrosity was a minion of the Blind Lich, and, just like with her, the minion’s actions were always bound by the will of the summoner.

“They’re ready for you,” Calen announced, breaking her train of thought as he gestured to the knot of adventurers plugging up the gap.

She glanced down to find the tanks had finally reached the wall, driving back the sea of undead, and leaving a dark trail of foul, rotting severed limbs, bodies, and ichor, turning the street behind them into a treacherous mire.

The frenetic yet graceful blazing sun paused her flickering dance of violence and precision, standing calmly and radiating a blue-white, healing light in pulsing waves from her body. Malika turned her head, fixing Ali with eyes that shone with radiant power, and yet Ali could still read the intent she carried as clearly as if she had spoken. She would protect Ali with everything she had.

The tiny golden dragonet circling above the battlefield let out a high-pitched screech, folded its shiny, scaled wings, tucking them in along its flanks, and plummeted toward the carnage below. Right when it was about to strike Malika, it flared its wings, arresting its headlong dive, and Ali teleported.

The appalling stench of blood and undeath hit her like a brick. Her body rebelled, coughing and choking at the same time.

You have gained Clarity.

It didn’t help.

Ali held her breath and summoned her magic. A broad golden barrier snapped into place, spanning the breach in the wall with an audible crack, and she bound it directly to her domain. It was weaker than she would have preferred, much of the proximal power of her domain going to support the champion Sylvan archer atop the roof behind them, still raining arrows down into the press of undead outside the wall, but it would have to do. The din of combat suddenly quietened, muffled by the power of her barrier magic, leaving only the staccato crack and sizzle of magic shattering against the golden wall, draining mana into her domain to recycle it back to her dungeon.

But before the undead could breach it again, she summoned her Grimoire and the power of Domain Mastery. Golden runes and strands of viridian green burst from her Grimoire, piercing the walls and the ground. Under the persuasion of her mana, the stone of the battlements began to glow. Boulders turned to liquid, rubble was drawn to the hole, and the huge, enchanted wall reassembled itself.

The noise dimmed yet again, as almost every sound outside the town wall was cut off. Only the magic and skills of the adventurers mopping up stragglers continued, but soon even that too quietened, leaving the ruined street strangely silent.

Ali flexed her domain, and the mounds of mutilated undead, the rubble, and the ichor rapidly dissolved, leaving only a thinning cloud of golden sparkles that drifted away.

She took a breath.

“That’s much better,” Malika murmured.

“Everyone! To the battlements,” Lyeneru ordered. “By groups. Let’s make sure they don’t break through again.”

Ali frowned, flying up to join her friends as they flew, leapt, or climbed to the top of the wall, offering a barrier disk to levitate Mato, but her heart dropped at the sight that greeted her as she crested the top of the battlements. While fighting, she hadn’t had the time to spare for sightseeing, but now she could study the full extent of the undead army arrayed below, and it was overwhelming. From the battlements to the blighted forest, as far as her demons’ eyes could see, all was a writhing, crawling sea of undead. Not a single patch of bare land could be seen.

Nevyn Eld’s new army had arrived.

“Thanks for fixing the walls, Aliandra,” Lyeneru said dryly.

“No problem,” Ali answered, frowning again. “There are still elves stranded in the trees.” High above the seething hordes on the ground, frightened elves peered down from the heights of the Ciradyl branches.

“I’ll get a few rescue parties organized,” Calen said, and his wings flared with brilliance as he peeled off to see to it.

Lyeneru nodded, and Ali turned to regard her.

“For what it’s worth, I would have made a different decision if I’d known it was this bad,” the Night Elf said. Her focus never faltered, nor did the constant stream of arrows flying from her bow, but somehow Ali could sense the roiling conflict within her.

“People died,” Ali said, allowing her frustration and anger to seep into her words. She had no idea how many, but even one was too much. It had all been the Pathfinder’s decision, and it had made Ali quite furious – if Lyeneru had just chosen to abort the fight, nobody would have needed to die.

And yet… Calen’s words twisted like a knife in Ali’s gut. The reason the army was here in the first place was because of her and the wretched, cursed title she bore. She couldn’t shake the feeling that the eyes had been waiting for an opportunity just like the one she had provided by despawning all her defenders in the town. Guilt gnawed at her, like a bitter poison festering in her belly.

Lyeneru glanced at her, and for the first time, Ali saw raw pain and anguish etched upon the Night Elf’s face. But a moment later, she looked away, her vulnerability locked away behind her stoic mask as her lips pressed into a firm line and her bow buzzed again.

Ali tried to find something polite to say, something civil, but when she opened her mouth, she was unable to find the words. She had never doubted Lyeneru’s experience or authority, following her lead whenever she ran the raids, but now her heart was so conflicted and twisted she had no idea what to even think. What even to do.

They’re dead because of me.

She hovered there as the awkward silence drew longer.

“Congratulations, Lyeneru,” Calen said, swooping down to rejoin them.

The stoic Night Elf nodded once, not interrupting her assault on the undead below for even an instant.

Congratulations? Why is he… For a moment, Ali thought Calen was congratulating her for the disaster that had befallen Myrin’s Keep, but she couldn’t believe that of him.

Wait… Ali squinted at the Night Elf.

Archer [Pathfinder of Legends] – Night Elf – level 250 (Fire / Lightning)

Two fifty… that means… Ali opened her mouth, but her guilt and anger conspired to stifle her words. She hated that Lyeneru’s decision had resulted in people dying. She hated that the undead had come.

And yet, was Lyeneru really the one responsible?

Why was Ali angry at the Night Elf when it was Nevyn Eld that hunted her, who had sent this army not only with the purpose of wiping out one Fae, but every creature that lived within these walls? And yet her feelings would not let her go. She hated it more that she was most likely the cause.

You’re better than this, Ali thought. Lyeneru had reached her second evolution, and feelings or not, if she unlocked a powerful class…

“If I get you to the shrine, can you clear this army?” Ali asked.

“I thought you were upset with me,” Lyeneru answered, her gaze not deviating even slightly from the unfolding battle.

“I am,” Ali admitted. “But I’m more upset with him.” And with her words, she felt the truth of it ringing clearly in her heart.

Silence drew out for several long moments before Lyeneru said, “I do not know if I can.” The ghost of that internal pain flickered across her face again. “But I have to try.”

It was only then that Ali recognized that it was the very same guilt eating her up from the inside that was being reflected back to her from Lyeneru’s face.

“Let’s go right now,” Ali said. She could fight remotely, and the adventurers manning the battlements would not be in grave danger without the two of them for a few minutes.

Ali and Lyeneru flew most of the way to the Shrine in silence, but as she crossed the glittering Forest Cavern with the glowing lake and began to approach the grove, something within drove her to speak.

“I’m sorry for what I said earlier,” Ali said. Lyeneru remained silent, and so after a few moments, she continued. “The undead army is probably here because of me.” The fact that one of the first monsters she had killed was an Eldritch Horror made it all but certain. “They’re suffering because of my cursed title. You’re not responsible.”

Ali touched down on the mossy ground beside her shrine, and Lyeneru alighted beside her. It was not far from the spot where she had first met the Night Elf in a dramatic showdown involving her bow and the summoning of a field of flowers.

The legendary Pathfinder took a deep shuddering breath. “You were right to be upset, Aliandra,” Lyeneru said. “If I had not been so close to this threshold, would I have been more willing to heed your warning? Might I have made a better decision if I couldn’t see the cursed form of the vile betrayer, Nathaniel Sunstrider, lurking just beyond that final barrier? I do not know. The truth is, I made the decision and people died.”

Ali glanced up at her, but she was staring off into the distance, struggling with memories and inner turmoil.

“I trusted him, Aliandra – I made myself willfully blind to all the warning signs, and now, Nendir’s death and all the souls lost at Ciradyl are forever burned upon my heart. I will hold these new souls there beside them until we deliver justice and rid the world of his evil. I’m sorry. I should have listened. The adventurers would have most likely survived the abort, and then the townsfolk would have survived.”

Stunned by the sudden glimpse into the heart of the stoic Night Elf, the raw honesty, and the depth of her wounds, Ali simply nodded, moving to unlock the shrine for her. In some strange way, Lyeneru’s guilt helped her to grapple better with her own. It did not lessen in any sense, but it was somehow better knowing she wasn’t alone.

“This won’t end until Nevyn Eld is dead, will it?” Ali asked.

“No,” Lyeneru said, and then she stepped forward to place a palm upon the surface of the Shrine. “All we can do is get stronger and hope it will be enough.”

Soberly, Ali turned to her notifications as a way to distract herself from her feelings while Lyeneru’s eyes glazed over at the touch of the Shrine’s magic.

Dungeon of Knowledge has reached level 206 (+8).+80 attribute points.Arcane Insight has reached level 124 (+3).Arcane Recall has reached level 61 (+3).Barrier has reached level 106 (+2).Runic Script has reached level 92 (+4).Sage of Learning has reached level 93 (+3).Martial Insight has reached level 125 (+2).Empowered Summoner has reached level 105 (+3).Domain Mastery has reached level 68 (+2).Minion Teleport has reached level 70 (+4).Reading has reached level 21 (+2).Identify has reached level 46 (+4).Inspiration has reached level 36.Calligraphy has reached level 16 (+2).Empowered Summoner has reached a base skill level of 100.Empowered Summoner has advanced to tier two.

Eight levels for the Avatar of Annihilation? It had been a level two hundred and forty-seven champion boss, and the win had come under extreme pressure after countless attempts and strategy changes, so perhaps her growth was understandable. It pushed her above two hundred – a symbolic milestone more than anything else. Not like Lyeneru’s third-tier threshold. Still, she had eighty attribute points to spend, and Empowered Summoner had reached the second tier. She glanced at her skill, but she could already sense the growth. The base range had swelled from an already impressive sixty meters to over three hundred, allowing her far more freedom to arrange herself and her minions strategically in battle. Furthermore, she could tell just from the sense of it that the amount of additional damage on hit it provided had grown, too, though how much exactly would require some testing. A significant step toward growing stronger, as Lyeneru had articulated. And a lot more needed!

Ali spent eight points on vitality and two each on endurance and dexterity before turning to her most critical attributes. After juggling the numbers in her mind for a moment, she made her decision: twenty-nine for intelligence, twenty-two for wisdom, and seventeen for perception.

Before Ali could move on to begin exploring her newest tier-two skill, the shrine reacted with a surge of incredible power. Mana howled, drawn in toward the tall figure standing beside it, compressing, growing far denser, and erupting as an aura of pure flame.

[Zone] The Vengeance of Mi’ir Valdanis has advanced to the third tier.

Wow! What – what the… she could only shake her head, utterly overwhelmed at the implications of that announcement.

Lightning arced from Lyeneru’s eyes and crawled lazily up and down her arms as her blazing eyes studied herself. “Yes. Yes, this will do,” she murmured, and then nodded at Ali, a fierce grin appearing upon her lips. “Thank you. Come.”

She vanished, reappearing high overhead above the town, and Ali followed, her excitement mounting.

