But the guards in the tower to the south were all incani; their horns were prominent, their armor utilitarian, but slightly ornamental. They looked down from their tower, not bothering to make themselves look like they weren’t there to specifically observe the confrontation on the road.

The woman on the road stepped one step forward, toward Ezekiel, and spoke in Ecks, “You will now be questioned under a truthstone. Fail to give the right answers or attempt to flee, and you will be dealt with accordingly, as is our lawful right as a Border Clan of Eralis.”

Ezekiel stepped forward, but maintained a five meter distance between them. “We will be happy to answer anything that is not a problem for us to answer, and we will do so right here, and now.”

The woman nodded, curtly, then raised her head to the right, barely. A man stepped forward with a box. He opened the box, exposing a clear jewel. A truthstone, no doubt.

The woman commanded, “State your names.”

“No.”

The woman paused again.

Ezekiel said, “We will not be interrogated unduly. That I am deigning to answer anything at all is a gesture of goodwill, and a desire to make this as quick and as informative as needs be. Ask your important questions.”

The stone glowed blue.

The woman said, “Strange accent you have there. Where are you from?”

“Far away.”

Blue stone.

The woman seemed to relax. “Do you have any designs on this land?”

“Allies, information, the secrets of the Songstresses, but not if those desires would make me enemies.” Ezekiel asked, “Do you have any of that which I seek?”

Blue stone.

The woman had paused when Ezekiel mentioned ‘Songstresses’. Several people, on both sides of the roads, went still.

The woman sighed. Ezekiel could tell that she had been looking for something in particular in his answer, and that she did not get it. The guards on both sides had been Scanning them since this whole confrontation started, too. Maybe the woman had gotten her answers from those scanning people, for the scanning man right next to the woman had lingered their magic in a few conspicuous places, like the small bag of loot that they had taken from the Hunters, and held open a telepathic connection between himself and the front woman. The Hunters didn’t have much gold, but they did have rings and gems, most of which had already lost their enchantments, but all of which looked personal.

Ezekiel asked, “Is there something you are looking for in particular, with all your mostly-invisible Scanning magics? Maybe I could help.”

The scanning people on both sides startled.

They scanned harder.

The woman weighed something in her mind. Then she asked, “Do you meet any people out the way you came? Anyone at all?”

“You already know the answer. I see you talking to someone through [Telepathy], and the Scanning man to your left gazed upon the rings and jewels that we collected as spoils of that encounter, and his gaze locked for several moments. I wasn’t able to tell exactly which interested him so much, though. His Scan was too broad.”

The woman in black gave no hint that Ezekiel had struck at the heart of the matter, but others had. The incani guards to the south all seemed to sour at once. The human guards to the north turned hateful, all at once. Most of the humans’ ire was thrown directly across the road, toward the tower full of incani guards. Only a few humans still looked down at Ezekiel, Tiffany, Paul, or Julia.

This was momentary.

In the next second, the crowd focused on Ezekiel. Hands tightened on sword hilts. Mana swirled.

Ezekiel needed to defuse this. He angled backward, saying, “The small bag of loot.”

Tiffany handed him the bag and the crowd drew back from open hostilities. It seemed that neither side knew where Ezekiel’s loyalties laid, and they were mostly content to watch, until watching became untenable.

Ezekiel put his empty hand forward and down, conjuring a waist-high pillar with a shallow bowl on top. The guards on all sides stiffened, but did nothing. Ezekiel spilled the bag’s contents onto the pillar. Gold and silver rings glinted in the light, along with a few loose rubies and sapphires. Three pearls were adorned with lettering, of which Ezekiel was not able to read.

“Taken from Hunters, as you have all likely guessed.” He asked, “Is there something in particular you seek?”

Anyone could have heard a pebble drop.

The guard woman spoke, “All of those are spoils from Hunters who have been attacking our lands and the lands of our allies for months. All of it was taken from us. We wish it all back.”

Blue stone.

“What will you give us in return?” Ezekiel said, “It is only right that we get payment for eliminating a threat.”

“What do you want?”

“Directions to good places to stay in Eralis. Pointers for contacting the Songstresses without angering them, for I know not the protocols of this land. Some of this loot that we rightly took from people who don’t deserve it; enough for a night in a good inn. A gold equivalent would be acceptable.” Ezekiel looked from the incani guards, to the human guards, and the human woman standing in front of him. “To know if this is some Quiet War aggression, and to know how to stay out of it.”

Blue stone.

The woman lifted her head, just a bit. Her tone bordered on disbelief, “Quiet war agg—”

One of her fellow guards, the Scanning Man, spoke, “He has a Silver Star. He won’t believe us.”

The atmosphere shifted to something lighter, something that was happening around Ezekiel and his people, instead of to him and his people. One human up in the nearby northern tower even began to chuckle, as he stared hatred across the road, at the incani in the other tower.

Ezekiel heard him whisper, “Not on their side, then.”

Another one whispered, “Not on anyone’s side.”

The woman silently straightened her gaze at Ezekiel. She spoke more easily, but louder, and no less forcefully, “Please give us what was taken from us. In exchange, we can give you food for the night, and a welcoming to our home, and tomorrow, we can escort you to the city—”

“Don’t believe her, Scion!” The incani guard in the other tower called out. “They kill demis, too.”

The woman, unperturbed, said, “We kill those who take from Clan Grey Cloud, no matter their species. And I’m demi myself. Half of us are.”

The truthstone had not shifted from blue this entire time, though it had grown brighter, then dimmer, then brighter again.

Ezekiel stepped aside from the pillar, attempting to divorce himself from the situation, saying, “Thank you for your offer of hospitality, but I am not getting involved in this. I’m sorry for your loss. Upon further inspection, these are obviously tokens of successful Hunts and they should go to the loved ones of the deceased. We’ll have nothing to do with this.”

The woman stiffened, then nodded. She gestured backward. Her people swung off of the road, toward the north, unblocking the way. They backed up to the short wall of the northern farms, to stand next to the tower.

The woman remained at the edge of the road, and said, “The Quiet War has nothing to do with any of the issues that you walked into, foreign Scion. This is just a blood feud between Clan Grey Cloud and Clan Red Lotus, and it has been for a long time. Clan Grey Cloud apologizes if we have given an incorrect impression, and we extend, again, an offer of hospitality for the night.”

“Apology accepted,” Ezekiel said. “But we will not spend the night here. I don’t need reimbursement for killing the Hunters, either.”

The woman said, “Then I must ask now, as rude as it might be: Did you see a pair of humans that looked like me?” She touched the black helmet of her conjured armor, dissipating it.

… Ah. Yeah. Ezekiel did not need to have her remove her helmet, but now that she brought attention to it, Ezekiel mana sensed through all of the people present, again, just to ensure there wasn't some trick.

There was no trick.

He had seen two people that looked like the woman. She had pale skin, bright eyes, distinctive red glints in her hair, and a deep sadness upon her face. She was likely somewhere in her thirties. Ezekiel connected everything about her to two of the human-shaped monsters that he had just killed, back there on the prairie.

He said, “I am sorry for your losses. The Hunters who took the bodies of your relatives are now dead, and the bodies burned to ash. Apologies if that is not your custom.” He looked to the Scanning man, saying, “I’m sure your man can follow our trail, if you must. We left the battlefield intact.”

The woman’s face did not betray her emotions. She reconjured her helmet, then she reached over and closed the lid on the box that contained the glowing blue stone. The man that held the box stepped back.

She bowed. The rest of her people followed suit.

She stood, saying, “Thank you, Scion. May Clan Grey Cloud know your affiliation?”

“Clan Phoenix.”

And in that moment, it was true. The stone glowed blue inside its container, though only a few people here saw that blue glow.

“Clan Grey Cloud thanks Clan Phoenix.” The woman said, “Clan Grey Cloud wishes to impart some knowledge to Clan Phoenix, if you would hear it.”

“Go ahead.”

“The Songli Highlands accepts wayward Clans and those seeking the Songs all the time, but if you have trouble finding a path forward, for your service today, Clan Grey Cloud will assist. We are a minor Clan under Clan Star Song. Our word will carry weight with them, if you wish to be known through us.” She added, “And the Quiet War is a poor reason to start a fight around here, foreign Scion. Those who do so are punished rather ruthlessly by more than a few major families, including Clan Star Song and Clan Void Song, two of the major powers of the Highlands. Both are filled with either demi progenitors or sympathetic humans and incani. We do not revere Koyabez as much around here as we could, but parts of his will are upheld by most.”

“I am glad to hear that. More than you might guess.” And he was. Ezekiel decided, “I will find my own way forward, but if I have trouble, I will keep your words in mind. What is your name? Does your name carry weight?”

“Shuu Grey Cloud. My name does not carry as much as some, but it is not tarnished.”

Ezekiel nodded. Then he looked to the Scanning Man.

The Scanning Man said nothing. Ezekiel could tell he was important, though, based simply on the fact that the clothes he wore under his armor were wildly more expensive than the armors of everyone else in the gathering.

Ezekiel ignored the Scanning Man.

The woman in black armor bowed again, along with her fellow guards. The Scanning Man did not bow; not since he was found out.

Ezekiel walked on, past the demi woman and the man who was some sort of boss to her, keeping to the center of the road, followed by Julia, Tiffany, and Paul. The four of them passed between the two feuding Clans, following the road to Eralis. He did not speed up, but he did not break stride, either. Soon, they were out of the range of crossfire.

- - -

After the foreign Scion walked away, Shuu raised her head. Through the sightless gaze of her full-face helmet, she stared at the incani guard on the tower opposite the road. Even though he hadn’t done it himself, that man had surely killed her brother and sister, and he would pay, eventually. She just needed to prove his involvement.

As the foreign Scion disappeared beyond the hills, and propriety allowed her to go about her business, she checked on several missives she had already sent out. To her left, the young master [Teleport]ed away, likely to give his own report to the elders, or to do whatever he wanted to do; it was not for the likes of her to gainsay his decisions.

One minute later, Shuu was at the site of the battle. She was too late. The people she had sent ahead could only stand there and explain their failure.

The young master of Red Lotus’s farms had beaten her to the stab, for of course he had; he had likely checked in on the Hunters the very second the foreign Scion had entered the sight of Red Lotus with his bag of retrieved ‘trophies’.

All that was left at the obvious battlefield were burned grasses, and nothing else. When the people she had sent ahead had arrived, the entire space was already in the process of being scrubbed by a large-scale red magic that flashed and sparked with lightning and shadow. When Shuu arrived, even that much was gone.

She had nothing. Nothing to fight the Red Lotus in Clan Court. Nothing to prove guilt, or to start an official inquiry. [Witness] was not admissible if the area to be [Witness]ed was gone, and no bodies meant no proper burial. The magistrate would not listen to her testimony, or even care about the retrieval of signet rings and identification pearls. They would see this whole event as Grey Cloud having a fortuitous encounter, and happily close the book on this current iteration of the Red Lotus and Grey Cloud feud. The Greater Clans wished for prosperity, more than they wished for justice.

They would just tell her, “So what if a few people died on the borders to murderers and thieves! You’re the Border Clan! That’s what you signed up for when you took this power. If you didn’t want it, then give up your power to Red Lotus, and abandon your ancestral homes!”

They tell all the Border Clans as much, almost every time a Border Clan brings up a claim against another.

Shuu’s rage flamed higher.

Her anger almost landed on the foreign Scion and his disregard for the dead. Burning the bodies! Who does that!

… Foreigners do that. Shuu understood her anger and she calmed. The foreign Scion knew not what he did. It was not his fault that this happened. And besides that…

