Jane stared at her father, then at everyone else. “You’re all overthinking this. The options are to kill them, or to make them better people. There’s no reason to think that changing who they are is a bad thing.” Jane stared at her father, saying, “Do it, and don’t look back. Or, if you need to have a line you won’t cross, then only do this to those people who personally try to murder you, which every one of these people tried and failed to do.” She stressed to her father, to Poi, to Teressa, and, it seemed, to the very mana itself, “This is not a dark moment; don’t make it one. This is righting a small part of the world into something better.”

Poi cut in, “The problem is not here. The problem is in escalation. When does the solution not become soul-control, once soul-control is on the menu? It’s the same problem of [Mind Control]. When does the evil action that’s used for good become just another evil action?”

Teressa sighed, but said nothing.

Jane said, “I already said when: when they come after us directly and they could obviously use some empathy. Besides! We’ll never see these people again, either way, but if they’re Blessed, then they might do some good after doing all the bad they’ve done. Do you see those collars? You don’t even need to tell me that they’ve done wrong! I can see it already.”

“You have this concept of Free Will.” Poi said, “You understand the need for this. Why is this a hard concept for you?”

Jane said, “Because we had jails to lock up the bad guys. Not everyone should be free, but since there’s no jails here, except for jails of the mind, then we should use these ‘jails of the mind’ against those who deserve such treatment.”

Poi went dead silent, not giving a flicker of emotion away as his face became a hard mask.

Teressa looked on.

A minute passed.

Erick said, “I’ve decided.”

Poi looked to Erick. He nodded. Teressa crossed her arms.

Jane asked, “What are we doing?”

“In what is likely stupid, but the only way to be sure: I’m giving them a choice.”

- - - -

He woke up, stripped of everything. A bubble of opaque pink Force surrounded him—

“That damned pink demi basta—”

The man touched his neck, and the collar that he had used on so many other young brats dug into his skin. His status read zeros all across the board. He was fucked. Royally fucked, maybe. He pressed against the capsule in his groin— There was a dimple in his inner thigh; already healed over. God damned scions. They even took his emergency potion! What the fuck was a scion doing out here!

The man called out, “If you’re alive and you can hear me, shit-for-brains! I’m gonna kill you! You hear—”

A voice asked, “Accept soul mutilation so that you will never work this line of terror against anyone else ever again, or die right now.”

He froze. He paled. He would have pissed himself if he hadn’t gone minutes before the alarms tripped, and a target of opportunity had appeared.

… Ah.

He was royally fucked.

These were the threats made against him, then.

Ah.

The man went cold. A resolve formed, quick enough.

The voice asked, “Your choice?”

“Death!” He said, “I choose death, and when I get to Hell, I will raise up armies to visit horrors upon you for all eternity! I will contact my sisters and brothers and my whole clan! They will summon me, and I will descend to this Melemizargo-fucked abyss and destroy everything you love!”

The world tilted.

He felt nothing. Not the pricks of the collar around his neck. Not the feeling of his hands, or his legs. He caught sight of his body, as he fell to the right. The body fell to the left.

He died.

- - - -

The incani chose death. The humans, who were not, chose death. The ‘harpy’ chose death.

The harpy was not actually a harpy. Erick noticed her truth imprinted upon her soul, as if her words weren’t convincing enough. She was incani. She had just Hunted the harpy and had taken her form. Recently, too. Erick had a hard time hearing her rant. Upon hearing the harpy’s words, and what he had heard from the rest, he knew that none of them were who they appeared to be.

Erick had encountered people like this before.

Poi apologized, for giving wrong information based on surface thoughts that were not entirely correct. These people were not going to try to ransom Erick and everyone to the fake Clan Phoenix. If these people had won the fight, Erick, Poi, Jane, and Teressa, would have been dead, and then their bodies would have been used for other, terrible purposes.

Erick’s first introduction to Nelboor had not been Clans, or Soldiers, or being found out as the Archmage Erick Flatt, or being ostracized or worse for appearing to be adventurers. His first introduction to this continent had been the same plague that had afflicted all of civilization, one that he had purged out of the Crystal Forest, and helped to kill within Treehome. A plague of body snatchers.

A plague of Hunters.

- - - -

They burned the bodies and slagged the collars, and then Erick erased the site of their questioning from the manasphere with a few casts of [Sealed Privacy Ward]. He did not erase the site of the battle. If someone came looking around here, they would see what had happened, but they would not see the full outcome.

In a moment of paranoia that even Teressa considered unfounded, Erick went and had Ophiel erase most of their walk from where they had landed on Nelboor, to here, back when they had talked too openly about too many things. He had already done this, but he wanted to be sure.

Erick walked on, toward Eralis, surrounded by Teressa, Poi, and Jane, feeling numb.

- - - -

Ten minutes of walking later, Erick broke the silence. “What a fucking mood swing.”

Teressa said, “Didn’t think Hunters would be our first introduction to Nelboor. And so close to civilization, too. I said it before, and I’ll say it again: Nelboor is a shit continent.”

Jane said, “I forgot these types of people even existed. Dad killed all the ones around Spur.”

Erick suddenly felt like all the energy had drained out of him; but he kept walking forward, barely breaking stride. He was being weak again. He thought he was past this.

He would never be past this.

“And those answers…” Jane scowled. “It’s like they weren’t even prepared for their own deaths. Like Hunting people would never have rebounded on them.”

“That’s the disconnect of the mortal condition, for ya. That’s just how people can get through the day.” Teressa said, “Living next to monsters… Living next to war and death. You can only think that ‘it could never happen to me’, or else you’d go crazy. Because it does happen to you. It happens to your neighbors, and your family, and yourself, eventually.”

“I guess that’s true,” Jane said, mollified.

Teressa said, “And yet… That harpy…” She shivered.

Poi spoke up, his voice strong, and sure, “We just met some killers, is all. People who have abused the good works that were given to us by the gods. We will surely meet more, in the future. That’s all that was. Cherish that we had the power and the luck to drive off the darkness, and that we did not lose ourselves in doing what had to be done.”

They walked on. A warm wind blew across the prairie.

Time passed.

Poi said, “… That’s what my sister used to say. It’s served me well for many years.”

Jane focused forward, on the path ahead. Teressa glanced backward, toward Poi, and then away, toward the horizon. Erick just thought, and considered, and weighed, as he walked; [Mana Sight] active on one Ophiel, [True Sight] active on the other, and with Yggdrasil’s eye trailing behind, watching.

After a minute, Erick said, “Your sister sounds like a smart woman.”

Poi looked away for a moment, then turned back, and nodded.

Ah. His sister was dead.

Poi did not break stride, though his breath halted, briefly.

They walked forward, across the prairie, no one looking at anyone else. If Poi wished to talk about his sister and all of this morality stuff later, then Erick would listen, but he would not bring up such a subject here, or now.

Jane broke the silence, “We should have just killed those Hunters after we subjugated them. Soon as we found out what they were.”

“I agree,” Poi said.

Teressa said, “Right about that.” She frowned. “I still can’t get that harpy out of my mind.”

“They were all Hunters.” Jane said, “She just reveled in it more than most.”

Erick said, “I thought they were humans and incani working together. I would have liked to have believed that. You know, even if they were on the other side of the battlefield.”

Poi said, “Yeah… That would have been...” his voice trailed off.

Jane said, “They were all incani, and those ‘humans’ were just part of their recent… conquests.”

The wind blew.

Erick wondered if—

Poi spoke up, “All of you are messing up your names, and it’s driving me crazy.”

Ezekiel said, “Shit.”

The same time that Tiffany said, “Dammit! I can do this!”

Julia chuckled, then laughed.

Tiffany was not far behind with her own laughter. Ezekiel chuckled.

A gloom seemed to pass, like the breaking of a dawn.

Julia, “Thank you, Paul.”

“No problem, Julia.”

Tiffany asked, “How much further till the first villages, Ezekiel?”

“Just over the horizon, Tiffany.” Ezekiel said, “Half an hour. Then a few hours till the city itself. We have to cross the delta, but we should arrive at Eralis in the afternoon, unless something else happens.”

“We have lots of money now.” Paul said, “I would like to find a nice place to drink a lot of liquor.”

Tiffany happily shouted, “Damn fucking right!”

“The good stuff too. No beer or ale.” Paul continued, “I can [Cleanse] myself afterward, but I would like to get piss drunk in the shortest amount of time possible, unless it appears we will not be able to.”

Tiffany laughed.

Ezekiel put on airs, declaring, “I will arrange such a treat for my loyal people! Drinks for the unrepentant spy for the elders of Clan Phoenix. Drinks for the party girl. And drinks for the daughter I didn’t know I had till last year!” He put on a stern face, saying, “But do not forget why we are here.”

Julia happily asked, “And why are we here, honored father?”

Ezekiel said, “To reclaim our place and power in Clan Phoenix, filial daughter!”

“And to drink!” Tiffany said.

“And to drink,” Paul repeated.

“And to get drunk!” shouted Julia.

- - - -

Fields of grain stretched across the world, with dots of houses here and there amid the waving gold, except they were not just ‘dots’. They only seemed like that because of the distance. They were actually sized like minor mountains.

The people out here did not build small. They built for defense. The only thing small about this furthest farm around Eralis was the small wall that encircled the entire compound; fields, buildings, guard towers and all, to delineate where occupied territory ended and the prairie began. Those guard towers placed all down the wall and in the centers of the fields were more appropriately sized to the mansion beyond; they were each at least twenty meters tall, and thick as extra-fortified lighthouses.

Guards were everywhere. Farmers were everywhere.

Like a dark mirror to a similar arrival, a year ago and half a world away, Ezekiel and Julia were watched as soon as they crested the previous hill and exposed themselves to the civilization growing before them. As they got closer, just minding their own business, Ezekiel waved at the staring guards. The people in the tower —a few humans, wearing steel armor— did not wave back.

Ezekiel led the way south, around the field, giving the short wall a great lot of distance. He had seen a road down this way, and they were close to it.

Soon enough, they found that road. It just ended, right there, before it got too far past the northern farm. Despite being in the middle of near-nowhere, the edge was meticulously maintained. Grasses grew from the prairie, but did not touch the road, while the road itself was ten meters wide and lined with white stone. The road was perfectly flat, like someone had scraped the world with a planer, and it was the best way to walk forward to Eralis, so that’s what they did.

Their new path brought them closer to the guard towers of the northern farm than Ezekiel would have liked. The farmland wall was only ten meters north of the road. Ezekiel heard, as much as saw, the guards atop those towers talking about them, as they walked past.

It was either stay on the road, or cross through the other farmland on the south side of the road, which also had towers and guards, though fewer than the farm on the north side. They were threading their first needle, it seemed, and there was no way out but through.

Ezekiel sighed.

Julia observed, “They’re all looking at us.”

Tiffany said, “This is the road to Eralis. We’ve every right to be here as anyone else.”

They walked for five more minutes before they could not. They stopped.

Several guards lined the road in front of them, along with one woman who stood out front. She seemed in charge, and wore black, spiky armor that would fit the style of any villain in any of Julia’s stories that Ezekiel had ever seen. Ezekiel blinked his mana sense active, and looked past her completely smooth helmet. No horns. Pale skin. Human coloration, mostly. Probably human. None of the guards with her seemed anything other than human, either.

