Wind flowed north to south across a prairie of vibrant green grass that spanned horizon to horizon. Far to the south, well out of sight, the blue ocean lapped against tall cliffs. Wind rushed over that dark edge, to fall down to the waves far below. A couple of blips to the east, the South Eastern Tribulation Mountains formed the coast of Nelboor.

To the west, laid the target.

This was a good spot to start the walk into Eralis, the first city of the Songli Highlands. They didn’t want to just blip into the middle of town, after all, and the border was a lot more nebulous than Erick, and everyone else, had originally thought.

Magenta light flashed.

Erick, Jane, Teressa, and Poi, stood atop tall grasses. There were only two Ophiel visible, and both of them were bright magenta. Both of them were on Erick’s shoulders, though neither looked like they usually did. One resembled a hunched-down bird, with a single pair of wings, and only two eyes; there weren’t more eyes hiding under the wings, either. Ophiel was getting better about keeping himself hidden by being out in the open, but he was very energetic, bouncing up and down as he was wont. This was probably to counter the other Ophiel, on Erick’s other shoulder. That second Ophiel resembled an unmoving decoration of magenta feathers and magenta eyes. Perfectly still; perfectly disguised as yet another part of Erick’s magenta [Conjured Armor].

The hopping Ophiel got a bit too excited, though, being in a new place. He twittered in happy violins. He fluffed out his wings. A few extra eyes appeared then disappeared from his forehead.

Erick playfully tapped him on the forehead, saying, “Careful now. I saw your extra eyes.”

Ophiel whistled in guitars and flutes, then solidified himself back to two eyes, two wings, and a bird-like body. He chirped in fiddles, which was like a guitar and violin at the same time; an uneasy happiness. He was still getting the hang of these new forms, but it would take time.

Erick said, “It’s okay Odin. You’re doing great.”

Both ‘Odins’ chirped in conspiratorial harps. And then shoulder Ophiel squirmed, fluffing out in several extra eyes to make up for the lack of eyes elsewhere. Both of them chirped again, asking for approval.

Erick said, “Shoulder-Odin can have extra eyes and a few extra wings, sure. Mobile-Odin only gets two, though. Shoulder-Odin has to pretend to be jewelry.”

More harps—

Jane was already walking west, plowing through the tall grasses, flattening them with her conjured boots. She called back, “Daylight’s burning!”

Teressa and Poi followed.

Erick caught up, saying, “We got time, Julia.”

Julia smiled as she walked backwards, still easily flattening the grasses in her path, saying, “Eralis is hours away, Elias.” She looked to Teressa. “He could have gotten us closer, for sure. Right, Tiffany?” She asked, Poi, “Probably a lot closer, eh, Paul?”

Tiffany said, “I don’t want to appear in the middle of some place where I’m not supposed to be, and neither do you, Julia. You’d at least have the chance to pass off as a normal resident. I cannot.”

“Tiffany is right.” Paul said, “We walk in from the outside, and hope we don’t hit a roaming clan or soldiers. Hopefully, they won’t instantly attack, but we’re kinda naked out here.”

A lot of things had been left behind. Paul’s guard armor was left behind, since that was very clearly ‘guard armor’. Tiffany’s, too. But both of them had their backup, [Conjure Armor], which would work just fine. All of them wore [Conjured Armor], in fact. Tiffany’s was slate-grey and blocky and covered her entire body, with a helmet that fully covered her head almost like a dome. She could see through it, of course, but when the time to fight came, she would use her impeccable mana sense, more than any visual sense. Poi, for his part, was very blue, wearing a meticulously-conjured fullplate that was thicker than most any Erick had ever seen on a person. It was still weightless, but it looked uncomfortable. Poi had insisted that it wasn’t, but Erick—

Erick— Elias, caught himself.

Paul had insisted that his armor wasn’t uncomfortable, but Elias— Yes, his name was ‘Elias’ right now—

Paul said, “We’re going to mess this up so quickly.”

“Ohh!” Julia walked with eyes forward, calling out, “It’s gonna be fine, Paul! Believe in Clan Phoenix!”

“Yes, Paul.” Elias repeated, “Believe in Clan Phoenix.”

Paul groaned.

Elias asked, “Are we sure there’s no Phoenixes?”

Julia laughed, saying, “They’re here now!”

With a sigh, Paul said, “There are all sorts of elemental birds. Fire birds. Ash birds, too. Water birds. No birds that self-resurrect, though… Maybe some undead birds do that?”

Tiffany said, “There have to be undead birds somewhere. My money is on Quintlan, inside those lich kingdoms.”

“Phoenixs might not exist, but Thunder Birds exist. They’re called Tribulation Birds, though, and as you might have guessed, they’re all over the Tribulation Mountains.” Julia thumbed backward, to the east, saying, “They mate and nest in the South East Tribulation Mountains but they make their actual territories all over the entire scattered Tribulation Mountains of Nelboor.” She added, “I read that the royal family of the Songli Highlands has the Thunder Bird as their Clan symbol.”

“How do you even make monsters?” Elias asked, “How would you make a Phoenix?”

“Blood Magic, Elemental skill or Mana Altering —not sure— and [Husbandry] secrets,” Tiffany said. “[Husbandry] is a very deep spell.”

Julia said, “The resurrection part would be difficult. If anyone could do it, the Life Binder could.”

Paul said, “If such a bird existed, it would be hunted down with extreme force. We should not talk about that sort of monster, anyway. If any conversations go that way, just call it a Thunder Bird Variant that turns to ash when it’s weakened and comes back as fire to enact vengeance, or something.” He stressed, “[Resurrection] does not exist. All the spell does is make cannibal monsters.”

“But the spell does exist.” Julia said, “Politically, it doesn’t. But it does.”

Poi gave a disapproving sigh.

Erick said—

Dammit.

Elias said, “—

Paul said, “You’re literally never going to be able to get your mind to think of us as our names, Elias.”

Tiffany laughed. “I’m having a lot of trouble, too.”

“We just need time.” Julia said, “We can do this.”

Erick asked, “But no last names?”

“We’re not nobles.” Teressa said—

Dammit. Her name was ‘Tiffany’. Tiffany.

“—We’ll be surname-phoenix, if anything.”

Elias spoke aloud part of their story that they had come up with, as though he was recollecting, “Those nice summer months watching the wheat and rice turn gold in the shadow of the North Tribulation Mountains. While our uncles and aunts protected us from the larger threats, we went out and killed the small things to keep our land safe.”

“It was a nice time while it lasted.” Tiffany smiled, saying, “But alas, young scion Elias Phoenix’s dalliance of 20 years ago came knocking; named Julia. Thus he was disgraced, and forced to abandon his home. Luckily, his two retainers decided to go with him.”

Elias frowned. “I’m not exactly comfortable with… parts of that.”

Julia happily continued the story, saying, “But he can regain his position through alliances and power and bringing prestige back to Clan Phoenix. Meanwhile, his daughter can also prove herself in the Clan’s eyes, by being a positive influence on her father’s quest to regain his Clan position.”

“How about we just want ties to better clans? None of that other stuff.” Elias suggested.

Paul laughed, then continued the story, “Meanwhile, Paul is on assignment to ascertain the validity of his master’s—”

“Do they really use the term ‘master’ here?” Elias asked.

Paul smirked, and continued, “Yes, they do. Anyway. I’m here to ensure that things go well. I want to get back home but I can’t without Scion Elias.” He added, “The other term they use is ‘Scion’, but that denotes a much higher class of Clan. Do you want to try that one?”

“Ah. Probably not,” Elias said.

Paul said, “The second we meet other people, they’ll likely choose what you’re called, anyway. Don’t get hung up if they call you ‘master’.”

Tiffany continued the story, “Meanwhile, Retainer Tiffany is just here to kick ass and have fun—”

Julia laughed.

Tiffany continued, “But more practically, because of some political game her parents are playing that is way over her head, and also to get rid of her. She must return in triumph alongside Master Elias, or remain away in disgrace or die in a gutter; it matters not to Clan Phoenix.”

“You’re much more valuable than that, Tiffany,” Elias stressed.

Tiffany smiled. “And that is why Tiffany is here with Master Elias. Where else would I be?”

“Meanwhile…” Julia took the lead, saying, “Julia was raised by Demis over in Kal’Duresh, in Glaquin, but when she turned 16 and matriculated, her adoptive parents told her the truth of her parentage. She went to Nelboor and found her father in their village in the North Tribulation Mountains, in the Tempest Forest, though we don’t talk about where the Clan actually is. There were problems then, and there still are, but she just wants the stability and power of being in a Clan.” Julia said, “My goal is to put Clan Phoenix on the map and to usurp my father’s place, but I need a lot of resources and contacts.”

“See? Now that’s just hurtful, too.” Elias said, “I never would have abandoned you.”

Julia smiled, nodded, and said, “And I am finding out that you didn’t. I was actually taken from you. We already had our fights about all of that when I came to Clan Phoenix last year. Which is why I am happy to finally be around you. Working together to gain a place in a Clan!”

Tiffany said, “Hear, hear! So let’s get to town and start drinking! Ale fixes everything.”

“This is going to fail, so fast.” Paul said, “So very, very fast.”

Elias ignored Paul and said, “I already scanned a lot of that part of the Tempest Forest. We’re going to tell people that we’re from around there, but not exactly where. We don’t want to fail this because someone got a bright idea to actually look for our Clan.”

Paul glowered, like a spoilsport. “That’s only one of the ways this is going to fail.”

Elias waved him off. “No one talk about anything too exact, anyway. Openly lie.” He added, “Except, we are Clan Phoenix. That’s not a lie. Just a lie… in the eyes of the legality of Nelboor.”

“Ha!” Tiffany scoffed, “The ‘legality of Nelboor’. People invent towns all over this shitting place, claiming any and all trashy things they want to claim. In that same tradition, we are Clan Phoenix, by the very act of claiming to be Clan Phoenix. That’s literally all it takes. Lying about the location is normal, though.” She shrugged. “Far as I heard.”

“It’ll show up as pink on a truthstone,” Paul said. “Half-truth.”

Julia said, “One truth is that we have very little money on us. Dad’s still technically rich, but they won’t let him access it, which is true, in a sense. They kicked us out with whatever we could pack, but no valuables. Told us not to come back unless it’s at the head of a parade of money or power.” She added, “We chose to try for the power route.”

“They didn’t leave us completely bereft.” Elias said, “We have our rings, which are proof of our Clan’s backing.”

Though the rings were solid bands of diamond and encased in platinum rain ‘silver’, they now sported covers made of Deep Sky Silver, tooled to look like wings and eyes and with little flame motifs.

Everything else had been buried back at the beach, inside a sealed stone sphere fifty meters down; adventurer’s badges, guard armor, clothes, everything except the essentials, which included Erick’s eye dyes and a few other things which could fit on their persons. Any of them could find the location with a simple [Teleport]; that spell would place them directly above the proper spot.

Tiffany said, “So the first order of business is to make some money! Can’t adventure for it, though— By the way. I just decided I came from adventurers. That’s how I know how the star-ranking system works, if we happen to visit a place that uses that. We shouldn’t, though.”

“Ah. Good idea.” Julia said, “I come from adventurers, too. Or rather, raised by. Didn’t you know I’m actually the next in line to be Young Master of your Clan, since my father is the Clan Scion? I found out several years ago, hence this journey. Too bad the Elders don’t like me.” She added, “I left Glaquin well before all that Particle Magic business.”

Tiffany said, “You’ve got a long way to go if you ever want to be respected by those old Phoenix Elder bastards.”

Julia said, “Hopefully the Songli Highlands have opportunity. I heard they oversee this whole area, keeping the peace and making prosperity.”

Paul said, “We should cut the chatter, now. We’re still hours out from sight of civilization, and this is the territory where we’ll be attacked, for sure. Elias sticks out like a flamboyant fern.”

Tiffany laughed. “Pink is a good look!”

“I like it.” Elias defended his [Conjured Armor], which was a breastplate and gambeson ensemble, with shoulders for Odin to rest upon and an open-faced helmet. “It lets Odin easily disguise himself.”

Julia said, “We were never going the Stealth-route, anyway. But yeah. Let’s talk about what we know of this place; Eralis.”

Erick paused, as he just realized something.

