That man could have killed them all.

Shuu changed plans. She would send a missive to Clan Star Song if the young master allowed her to do so, or if he didn’t already send one himself, which he probably had. They might not be able to use the wandering Scion and his small fragment of a Clan to directly combat Red Lotus’s encroachment and devilry, but when you see a man walking around with that much power, you stand up and pay attention, or you would soon find yourself dead.

Hopefully, Clan Red Lotus would be the one to receive that death.

Except…

Shuu would still send those missives. But she decided that it would be for the best if she never dealt with that foreign Scion ever again. He seemed like a reasonable sort, so she let him walk on, unimpeded. He and his team had killed seven high level Hunters, after all.

They looked like they could kill several hundred Hunters, if they wanted. Shuu had never seen such perfect reflective shield magic.

Ah. Yes. Don’t reach for the heavens, Shuu. They will smack you down.

Shuu returned to the Clan House and went over the trophies.

She had no proof that the Hunters who had plagued the Clan for the last year were actually bought and paid for by Red Lotus, but she knew of the Hunters themselves. Shuu counted trophy rings from Clan Grey Cloud, Clan Ward Stone, and several others, each of them from other Outer Clans responsible for the border, each of whom had been approached by Red Lotus to ask them to sell their farms, and their bases of power along the border. There were even identification pearls from Clans she did not recognize.

No trophies from Red Lotus, even though there should have been some in there, if the Hunters had been hunting evenly. In this circumstantial way there was some proof that Red Lotus had been hiring Hunters to disrupt the borders, to take over through force what they could not achieve through diplomacy and merit.

But.

Circumstantial evidence did not matter.

If only they had had the bodies! They could have beseeched the Court Necromancer to call back the souls of the dead…

The foreign Scion didn’t want that, though, did he? That’s why he burned the bodies, perhaps? Or for some other reason? Koyabez was against necromancy for its part in the Quiet War, so perhaps that was why…

But! If only he hadn’t burned them! She could have gotten to—

Shuu’s anger rose, but she clamped it down. She wished to say goodbye to her sister, at least. If she had the body, she could call back the true owner, for one last farewell.

But...

She could not go against a Scion, even if he wasn’t from around here, especially if he was actively looking for allies, for whatever reason. With that shield of thorns upon his arm that was packed with enough ambient reflective magic to stave off even the young master’s senses, and rings of true power upon the hands of every one of his, admittedly, uniquely poor-seeming people? He was likely both a great Warder, and a walking calamity.

So, as the grand-elder used to say, ‘Ignore the dragon buying drinks at the bar, and calmly make your way to the exit.’

It was good advice.
