“<…But,>” Ranthia agreed, “<I’m just… I’m not ready to be a parent. I don’t know if I ever will be, honestly. Gemheart, I’m terrified at the prospect of being a mother. Yes, Tatius and Pupius helped me, but I don’t know if I can agree that they truly raised me. I consider them my fathers, yes, but… I also did much to raise myself, not as a parent, but because of my knowledge and whatever weight of experience that I carried into my new life. Gods, I don’t even know what a parent’s tenderness truly feels like—those two were always kind of awkward. Some essential piece of parenthood is entirely foreign to me. Yes, I could learn …probably. But not in a godsforsaken war zone. Even with just you here—even with how incredibly capable you’ve proven yourself to be, time and time again—I still feel terrified sometimes. At least when I’m feeling low.

“<Even if I could be a mother… Even if I wouldn’t fail both you and our child at every turn, I honestly don’t think I could function if our child was here. Each time we faced danger… I don’t know what I would do.>”

Ranthia had started crying at some point while she spoke. She never even noticed until the words finally stopped coming. She hadn’t meant to say even half of what came out, but once she started giving voice to her fears, they kept coming. The result left her feeling raw and vulnerable, as though she were back in her [Mind Healer]’s office. Gods and goddesses, she probably needed to write to the woman again.

No matter how many years passed, she still continued to find rough edges within herself.

Ranthia made an effort not to make Avyna’s beautiful hair too gross as her face continued to leak unabated. But they both remained silent—and continued to embrace—as they each struggled with their own thoughts.

“<Very well, my love. I accept your decision; I simply wished to make an offer.>” Avyna finally announced.

Ranthia was pretty sure that Avyna’s good cheer was somewhat forced. She was certain that she had disappointed the love of her life…

But Avyna still freed an arm to brush away Ranthia’s tears, before she kissed her. Because she truly was perfect.

“<What is this, my love?>” Avyna called out.

It had been a few days since the… offer, and life had returned to normal. Avyna hadn’t brought her offer up again, nor had she ever displayed any hint of disappointment. It was almost enough to convince Ranthia that the entire conversation had been some especially twisted nightmare, but even she wasn’t willing to be so deluded.

They were in the midst of cleaning up their home and going through their accumulated clutter, driven by Avyna discovering that one of her missing books that she rented out was (quite inexplicably) hidden in a drawer amongst Ranthia’s sexiest undergarments. But honestly, they had accumulated quite a few possessions from traders and from their visit to Coalition City, things that neither of them truly needed. Many of the items would be donated to the small tent where unwanted items were free for the taking for anyone stationed within Remera, but there were already a few things that Avyna intended to add into her shop’s stock.

Ranthia ducked through the partially open dividing curtains, still carrying the lid that seemingly failed to fit atop any pot or pan contained within their home. She wasn’t about to set it down—the darn thing would have undoubtedly vanished if she did.

Once Ranthia laid eyes on her, Avyna hefted up a massive book. One that Ranthia had completely forgotten about.

“<Oh! I… had meant to gift that to you sometime as a joke.>” Ranthia offered a lame explanation as she suppressed the urge to cringe. Somehow, the idea of a tax book as a gag gift was considerably less hilarious after so many years.

“<Oh? Let me see…> The Tax Codes of the Nation of Devils?” Avyna carried it into brighter light and checked the (marginally darker red on bold red, because some people just hate eyes, apparently) title.

“<Yeah… like I said, it was a gag gift. I got it when I got that cursed book that we buried.>” Ranthia confessed, feeling extremely stupid. It was one thing to give someone a gag gift that had ceased to be funny, but it was even worse to have completely forgotten about it until Avyna found the thing.

“<My love, this is perfect! Thank you, this promises to be helpful. I look forward to studying its contents.>” Contrary to every expectation, Avyna was beaming a bright, happy smile Ranthia’s way and her words were unambiguously sincere.

“<You are a very strange woman sometimes, Gemheart.>” Ranthia deadpanned. Who would ever look forward to reading about taxes?!

“<You, my love, do not sufficiently appreciate the life of a [Merchant] that wanders Pallos.>” Avyna sassed in return, a grin on her face.

Okay, that was fair.

“<Will it really be that helpful?>” Ranthia asked.

“<Yes! It is marvelous timing; I will likely actually use what I learn from this within a short time after we part ways. Thank you so much, my love! I was not even aware that copies of such tomes of study could be found anywhere beyond their borders! I should have plenty of time to memorize the contents in full, even with its obvious size. Forearmed with their laws is forewarned, when it comes to the devils.>” Avyna seemed to be downright giddy.

She even practically pranced while she approached Ranthia to reward her with a quick kiss.

Ranthia was only barely able to appreciate it. Her heart ached far too much at the mention of how little time they had left.

Just forty-five years. Only slightly better than half of their time together remained…

Ranthia was sixty-seven, but—absent obvious tragedy—she would live an immortal’s life. Forty-five years was nothing. Gods and goddesses, she had already lived longer than that!

And every year that passed left her even less convinced that she could face life without sharing it alongside Avyna. But ever since that damned conversation, it was increasingly difficult to hold out hope for Avyna to change her mind.

Avyna was true to her word and spent an inordinate amount of time studying the dense book of tax laws for some distant nation. Their home gradually became littered with paper, as Avyna took notes and organized them for active referencing. The elf was especially excited that there was an appendix in the book that listed the four previous versions of every law and rule that had ever changed, along with explanations of when and why each change was made. Somehow, for reasons that were beyond Ranthia, this was a great thing because it “future-proofed the knowledge” that the outdated book had to offer. They were words that Ranthia understood, but she was left confused by the implications that had left Avyna so adorably giddy.

Ranthia remained silently concerned that the book was just as cursed as the horribly unromantic dullahan ‘romance’ had been. She had even thrice prayed to Xaoc to break any curses that might affect the woman she loved, but to date her god had refrained from responding to her pleas.

Though after Avyna swore her to silence about the book’s existence, she nearly gave in to her petty selfishness and burned the book, just to be safe. …But cursed books were (probably, gods willing) just a ridiculous superstition, much like ghosts or islands that flew across the skies of Pallos.
