Each of these Hybrids blossomed from within the ice, their apricot-colored blood expanding. These bodies littered the ground we passed, leaving the Hybrids lingering as beautiful yet hollowed corpses. Shifting around them, Kessiah and Florence swam in the water. Florence used basic healing magic and a few other tricks to pull most of the Hybrid gunk out of the albony. Kessiah followed up, doing a deep clean of the individual using vials of her blood.

We made quick work of it, clearing out large areas of the city in seconds. We hastened further as we kept going, despite our rapid initial blitz. Torix was the cause of that, his necromancy pulling its weight. The lich took the corpses floating above, turned them into footsoldiers, and they helped pull agni and albony out of their homes and Hybrid pits.

He disrupted many of the enemy soldiers as well, though quite a few vagni opposed us in conjunction with the Hybrids. It was an odd feeling, seeing one for the first time try and bite my face off. They were kind of like angler fish, though a bright red with green splotches over their upper half. Their eyes lined the sides of their heads, and their teeth were like needles in their mouths.

They roared out sonic bursts to disrupt us, but they lacked any real potency. Unlike the espens or gialgathens, the vagni were highly underleveled. It was so bad that it was rare to see one exceed level one hundred, let alone level one thousand. I couldn't understand how they even survived, and that wasn't considering this was a fringe world.

Yet here they were, fighting a worthy opponent like the Empire thanks to the Adair's help. It didn't add up as we passed block after block of the coral expanse below. I had plenty of time to think about it despite our rapid progress. It turned out that Saphigia was enormous. It rivaled the largest cities on Earth, this ancient city of organic corals spanning dozens of miles.

It carried signs of an old culture, one with surprising depth and majesty. In the marine cliffsides, they carved eldritch gods, their primitive artwork beautiful in its own way. Stylized like the Aztecs, the vagni used thick lines creating images with no gaps between their flowing decorations. They stuck to universal but straightforward symbols like the sun, water, waves, and creatures of the deep.

Across certain parts of the city, temples were made by farming coral into specific shapes. These buildings owned much cleaner edging than most, likely due to their religious significance. Many of these temples housed vagni hiding from the onslaught surrounding them, these civilians caught in the crossfire.

Without fail, they hated us on entering the temple. Their skins flushed even redder than usual, and their teeth grew in length just from spotting Victoria and Alastair. At first, I thought it was just a specific group. It wasn't. The vagni despised any albony they saw, and eventually, I wanted to know why.

Of course, the vagni couldn't speak very well. They used low tones and wails, kind of like whales on Earth. My speech didn't carry through the water, but that wasn't the only way to communicate. After finding many hiding groups of vagni, I telepathically connected with an elderly member of the group.

It caught the priest off guard initially. After sending him my intent, he had no issue whatsoever belting out his grievances with the albony. In a fragmented sort of speech, he signaled,

"They take our temple...ruin them...they mar our way of life...they leave nothing behind."

I thought back, "What do you mean by mar your way of life?"

"They tear down our gods...they tell us worship new god...new god evil, kill old gods..."

Victoria and Alastair walked into the room, finding me eye to eye with a vagni. They winced as those hiding here gave them death glares, so I turned towards the albony,

"Come on, let's get these guys to Helios."

I helped them move the group of vagni towards the others for safety. While we traveled, I kept talking with the priest.

"So, Schema was telling you to kill your old gods, the eldritch?"

The priest swam with us, hidden amongst his kin,

"They...they steal from us...they stop us from worship...they tell us make food how they want...they eat our young."

My eyes widened at his last remark. We reached Helios, the blind albony generating portals towards a secured location behind us. As the priest swam through the divide, he gave me one last wide-eyed glance,

"They...are evil."

Our mental tether snapped as the portal closed, and his words left me unsettled. Helios looked none the wiser, the albony peering at his claws. He murmured,

"Why the slowdown? You seem unnerved. Perhaps you find the vagni as repulsing as I do?"

I blinked a few times, shrugging my surprise off,

"Yeah. Sure."

Helios eyed me from under his mask, but he let the issue drop. After that portal closed, three more popped open. Our other team members assembled around us as my mind raced for answers. Simple creatures or not, these guys didn't deserve to be food. They could talk for god's sake, and that was enough for me not to serve them on a dinner plate.

I calmed myself down. This was the observation of some random priest in the middle of a panic, not a record made by someone with a clear head and keen mind. That being said, I wasn't about to ignore it entirely. This might result in some serious issues further down the line. Confronting it directly, I turned to Florence who caught up behind me,

"Hey Florence, mind if we chat in private for a bit?"

Out of breath, he used rings with enchantments to stave off the water around him as well. He nodded,

"Yes, of course."

We paced off, stepping a few hundred feet away. I met his eye,

"So, we've been fighting these guys for a while now."

He sighed, "I know it all too well. This has been very difficult for me." He stood taller, "Though a surprisingly refreshing challenge. It feels good to work...sometimes."

I waved my hand, gesturing to the cities and ruins around us,

"Here's the thing, every vagni we've seen has been terrified of you guys, the albony."

Florence shrugged, "We're more developed, and what people don't understand often terrifies them."

I leaned over him, "I know what real fear is. This isn't the kind of fear you get when staring at an algebra problem you can't solve. These guys are rabbits, and they're looking at you all like you're wolves."

Florence raised an eyebrow, "You sound like an eldritch, my friend."

I narrowed my eyes, "Stop derailing the conversation."

"Hah, I do that when I'm nervous, huh?" He wrapped his clawed hand around his elbow looking for a way out,

"Hmm, how to say this. We've committed certain acts that are deemed inappropriate to some. Therefore, we are...not viewed in a positive light."

Florence smiled as he finished as if that would dismiss the issue altogether. I raised my fingers as I made points,

"The vagni are underleveled, their temples have all been ransacked, and one of them told me you guys eat their children. I'm not easy to convince, but I can't just ignore all these signs. Some of this needs an explanation and right now."

Florence frowned, peering down. A deep discomfort radiated from him, along with more profound sadness. Anguish might have been a better way of wording it.

"It's complicated."

I stared, "I don't have time for complicated. Make it simple."

Florence leaned down, rubbing his temple with each hand. He took a deep breath and looked me in the eye,

"The vagni were allied with the eldritch when we first arrived. Think of that realistically. They worshipped them as gods. Obviously, we weren't about to let ourselves get eaten for their irrational worship. Therefore, we culled the majority of the eldritch near their settlements, though there are still remnants of those populations left."

"I'm guessing they didn't like that?"

"That's an understatement. The vagni despised us, and they started a civil war against the Empire. During that time, we discovered that their temples were the center for most of their resistance. Their weapons and militarized eldritch were housed there. Using that knowledge, we came in, crushed them, and ended the war in weeks."

"What about the whole eating their children part?"

Florence grimaced, "That...that is an unfortunate side effect of our colonization. Just like all societies, the Empire has criminals, poachers, and thugs. Though it is considered highly illegal in civilized society, there are some circles that enjoy eating the vagni's young."

Florence's brow crinkled as he uttered, "It is a miserable practice, but we've done all we can to stop poachers from harvesting their young. It's difficult to police an entire planet, especially one that hasn't been productive since landing here. The Empire came here to gain resources, not act as saviors."

Florence turned a palm to me, "That is why what your guild is so inspiring. It's the kind of guild that many wish they were a part of."

Disgust spread over my face, "But I'm helping a guild that harvests other sentient species children and serves them with champagne and fruit?"

Florence winced, "I, I don't know what champagne is, but I can promise you that we've done all we can to stop the practice. There just isn't enough altruists who are willing to help this species. There are even factions that would rather we rid the Empire of them altogether."

I let my hands flop on my sides, "So genocide? Is that just a thing for every large guild?"

Florence raised his hands, his voice rising, "Do you think I haven't tried to stop it? I've invested a personal fortune in creating protective practices for the vagni. I've ruined my reputation by trying to research a solution to coexist with eldritch. Time and time again, I've made sacrifice after sacrifice."

Florence's eyes widened while he grabbed my shoulders,

"It is never enough. It will never be enough."

He peered down, "I just...I just can't do any more than I've done." He let his hands flop against his sides, "I just can't."

A silence passed over us, and Florence shrunk in my sight. He shook off a deep sense of sadness before glaring at me,

"I understand you believe the Empire's policies are evil. Recognize that your time on Giess wasn't perfect either. Over nine out of ten gialgathens died during your stay there, and the entire planet is about to get wiped out tomorrow. At the very least, we've stopped the eldritch from consuming this world entirely, even if we've left our fair share of scars behind."

Florence spread his arms, "I just ask you to understand that it's hard to do these things perfectly. Situations devolve. Complications arise."

I peered down, thinking about what he said. From what I understood, Florence didn't seem like the lying type. If anything, he left his feelings on his sleeves, being too open and honest at times. The other albony viewed that as a weakness, but I considered it a strength. It meant I could actually trust what he said.

From his spill earlier, he'd done everything he could to resolve the issues with the vagni. Even if I tried my best in his situation, I doubt I could've done much better. I mean, I left Earth in a state of disrepair and went to Giess to get rid of my own guild's bounties. It was a safer route for the people I cared about longterm and me. At the same time, the people back on Earth wallowed in poverty during that time. Someone could judge me for that, just like I judged the Empire for what they did.

I couldn't tell if I was just making and accepting bad excuses, however. It all left a bad taste in my mouth, leaving behind situations like this. Surely the circumstances didn't have to turn out like this? My eyes widened as I shifted through my memories. I remembered being the espen's hero, the one they rallied behind to take down the gialgathens. I helped aid the Adair family as they started the Blighted Schism. I still regretted it today.

I winced at myself and how selfish I'd been. Compared to that, Florence was a saint. On an individual basis, he wasn't that old either, good education aside. Even if Florence had everything handed to him, in some ways, the guy was worse off than I was. The people around him threw him in situations he wasn't ready for, and even though he called out for help, he didn't get any. Instead, Florence got jeers and an awful reputation. Despite all that, he persevered.

I'd do the same.

I put a hand on his shoulder, "You're right."

Florence narrowed his eyes, skepticism painted on his face,

"I am?"

"Yeah, you are. After this is all over, I want to help you with the whole vagni situation. I think that we can do something if we worked together on it."

His eyes widened, "You really think so?"

I let my hand drop, "Yeah. I do."

Florence believed me when I said that. To him, I was a larger than life figure. To me, I was just some dude trying to help out. If anything, I found Florence impressive. It took a lot to give up his standing in society to help the vagni, especially considering they hated him in return. That spoke a lot about Florence's character.

Either way, I couldn't just watch the poor guy struggle through this alone. Helping him out here for even a month or two would make a world of difference, and we could handle the issue by then. The situation could be better, and I could be a part of making it better. Knowing that felt good.

I tilted my head back to the group, "Come on, we'll talk about it more later."

Florence nodded, "Thanks for this. It's rare someone listens as you do."

I grinned, "Eh, it's actually not one of my strengths. I think it isn't for the Empire either though. They seem set in their ways."

We walked back towards the gang, everyone taking out lunch and eating something. Helios stepped through a portal towards another world off in the distance, offering for Victoria and Alastair to join him. They did, and it was the most casual use of portalling I'd seen yet.

