It got me thinking about it. I hadn't realized how rare it was for Helios's kind of portalling to manifest. Now it was apparent how unique the talent was. His generation of portals was so fluid that everyone I'd seen thus far looked like amateurs. Well, outside of Obolis, but he was an exception too.

Maybe Helios's blindness was what made him so good at visualizing and using portals. For most people, it was an exercise of the new. For him, it was an exercise of the old, and his sheer experience showed itself in his fluency. He'd made hundreds of portals today, and that was more than the portalists mustered over our entire siege of Giess.

Thinking of Giess made me think about the glassing. It was tomorrow, and it made my stomach drop in my chest just thinking about it. It was like a shadow looming over my head, but not because I thought it would be blown apart. The Adair's had actually ramped-up operations as we pulled out, their harvesting of silvers intensifying with each day. They held absolute confidence that Giess would be fine, and that unnerved me.

I hated complimenting an enemy, but Tohtella wasn't an arrogant individual. She was calculating and soulless, sure, but not arrogant. The Adair family knew something we didn't about the glassing. Seeing Obolis offer to watch the spectacle was mind-boggling in its own right as well. I mean, it was a more systemic sort of issue than one individual mistake, however.

Everyone that grew up with Schema questioned him less than I did in general. To me, the A.I. was a shady sort of drug dealer figure, except instead of drugs for money, Schema offered a different kind of exchange - power for control. People that wanted influence were more than willing to trade their souls for the status he could provide. If anything, the standard morals I grew up with were literally irrelevant at a galactic level.

It created a strange system where everybody stomped on each other to get ahead. The more you stomped, the better Schema treated you. By comparison, Schema's approach to me was a mixed bag. I was a  productive worker, yet also a risk. I did listen to most of what he said, but not all of it. That's why I ran into a lot of complications with the nigh omniscient A.I.

My defiance stemmed from not needing him as much as most. I mean, a lot of my personal power stemmed from my work outside the system, such as my cipher runes or unknown skills. Schema accepted my lack of outright obedience since I was capable, and this put me on the fringe of the system in many ways. This gave me an outsider's perspective.

By comparison, the Empire seemed more like Schema's ideal guild. They were industrious, stable, and controlled. They relentlessly hunted further status, fighting amongst each other for it. It resulted in tremendous success for some, though based on Blegara and the vagni, it left some in abject poverty. It made me wonder what kind of guild mine would turn out to be.

We already culled millions on Giess, and if the Empire had its way, we'd do the same here. Schema seemed content with what the imperials did as well, the whole eldritch worship thing not sitting well with the artificial intelligence. Personally, I didn't want to spend centuries culling planets entirely.

I'd rather build something instead of break everything down, even if that was what I was good at.

Those thoughts left me deep in a state of contemplation before Althea nuzzled up beside me. She looked up with a cheeky grin, "Hey."

I turned to her, wearing a soft smile,

"Man, you can't know how great it is to see you. I missed you while we were on Giess."

She raised her eyebrows, "Really? Why didn't you text me more?"

I coughed into a hand, "Well, ahem, I'm pretty bad at texting. I, uh, didn't want to bore you."

She rolled her eyes before squeezing me close, "Pshh, like I care. I prefer seeing you in person anyways."

I hugged her close, taking comfort in having her with me for once. The blissful moment passed as quickly as it came, everyone finishing lunch. Victoria stood upright,

"It's time to get back to clearing Saphigia. We're close to done." She turned to me, "If that's alright with you, of course."

I stood up, and so did the others. I rolled my shoulders, "You're right. It's time to get this done."

We went back to slaughtering Hybrids and saving the albony. Working our way through the city, time passed. The light fractals shifting above our heads waned as the sun crossed above and over the water. Creatures of the night came out in droves, alien beings reaching out from the depths. Their bioluminescent glow made them into tiny stars floating around us, each a different color and hue.

I held Althea's hand as we ended the day's work. Florence gasped for air, utterly drained from the grilling work. Victoria, Alastair, and my team also showed some signs of exhaustion, many lacking an alert sort of look in their eye. Seeing that, I turned to those around me,

"Everyone, excellent work. We'll go ahead and get a good night's rest and hit it hard tomorrow."

Florence hit the ground while mumbling, "By Schema, I thought ruling a planet was hard. I had no idea."

He fell asleep on the spot, so I lifted him with a few gravity wells, keeping him level. Hod molded out of the shadows behind me, his flames weakened from earlier. Torix and I retained vigilance for the others, our builds tailored for it. Once we zoomed back onto the ship, Victoria took hold of Florence,

"I'll handle him. This is probably the hardest he's worked in his life, so good job wrestling an honest day's work out of him." She glared at Florence, "Somehow."

As she walked off, Ophelia stared at Florence with an edge of concern, the kind that she tried hiding. I noticed it but didn't point it out. Of the new team members, the only person that wasn't tired outside was Helios. The blind albony stared at his nails with boredom, as if this was a typical day like any other.

He raised his brow while looking at me, "Are we finished?"

"Yes. Can you warp us home?"

"Indeed. Before doing so, Obolis wished to speak with you one last time. You wouldn't mind, I assume?"

I shook my head, "Naw, it's fine."

Helios sent a few messages before closing his status. A portal opened, and Obolis stepped out into the dreadnought's control room from the level below. As the warp closed behind him, Helios lunged to the floor, kneeling as he usually did. Obolis raised a hand to him,

"At ease, as always."

Helios stood, grimacing as he did so. He might be more drained than he looked. The Emperor lacked any sign of weakness, however, as he gestured a hand to me,

"It's good to see you. I wanted to discuss a few details of our siege, along with a few personal matters if you have the time."

"Alright, sure."

"Excellent."

Helios turned between us, "I'll excuse myself until I'm needed."

He stepped away towards a restroom in a side area. As we walked away, Obolis's face darkened,

"I've never met a better actor, not on a stage nor in life."

I frowned, "What, me? I can't act for shit."

Obolis nodded, "And it makes you trustworthy. I'm of course speaking of Helios. In that washroom there, he's vomiting his guts out."

I turned towards the orichalcum doors, listening closer. A slight hacking radiated from them, almost unheard given the constant hum of the vessel's engines. Yet, it was there, and Obolis heard it with ease. The Emperor turned towards me,

"He will drive himself into the dirt in order to appease me and my wishes. I would ask of you to offer mercy where needed and discipline where warranted."

"I can do that."

Obolis walked forward, peering at the glass panel overseeing Blegara. He peered down, "It is my own failings that have resulted in this massacre. To think a people would be led so astray that they believe in an enemy as ruthless as the Adair family. Pitiable as it is, they've sowed their own fates, and now they reap the consequences of their actions."

Obolis turned to me, "What do you think, Harbinger?"

I tapped my teeth together, "Hm...what do I think, huh...Honestly?"

Obolis raised his eyebrows, "I mentioned your merits earlier, honesty being one of them, so of course."

I pursed my lips before saying, "Well, for starters, it seems like you guys really mishandled Blegara."

"We are agreed on that matter."

"And you really should have considered alternatives to essentially wiping out the vagni's culture and way of life."

"Most certainly."

"And you probably could have thought of some way to make eating their children more difficult. I don't know, the death penalty, maybe?"

Obolis closed his eyes before turning to me, "Perhaps you may offer criticism that is more constructive in nature? A solution, perhaps?"

I peered at Blegara, its vast oceans of blue stretching across the planet,

"I don't know honestly. It reminds me of how I handled Giess. Looking back, there's a lot I'd do differently. Just like on Blegara, the situation wasn't clear cut on Giess. It was complicated and messy and hard to look at. I mean, when you're in the middle of a situation like that, it's difficult to make the right decisions."

Obolis sighed, "I agree...That is why I sent Florence here. What he lacks in will he makes up for in talent. He has a means of seeing through what others find complicated, and I believed that talent would manifest in his rulings."

He shook his head, "It did not. His ideas spiraled into the forbidden, and his results tumbled into the abysmal."

I shrugged, "It sounded to me like the guy just wasn't given the resources he needed to succeed."

A light grin cropped up on Obolis's scarred face,

"If it were so simple. Your guild has offered support without needing compensation, likely due to its brevity of existence and recent rise to prominence. As time passes, your guild members will demand appropriate compensation for their time and effort. Otherwise, they will leave your guild for places that will give them what they desire."

Obolis turned a palm to me, "Offering those resources and remaining competitive with a galactic environment is more than difficult. It requires the management of class and position. I gave the albony an elevated position in the society I constructed for this very reason - I retain the albony's talent."

I creased my brows, "Can't you get people to stick around without something like a payout? Many in my guild follow me because they follow my cause."

"A cause is fueled by inspiration, and inspiration is fleeting. By comparison, an individual's ego and fear are far easier to rely on, and I've done so with the very framework of my society."

"Like with Helios. The guy wants status and security. You give him those things, so he follows you."

"Indeed."

I raised my hands, "What about people like Florence? He's talented in his own way, but from what I've seen, you guys have done an awful job cultivating that talent....No offense."

Obolis frowned,

"Truth is a rarity, so there is no need to excuse it. It is as you say as well. Many of those in my society have been raised within a very rigid rule system. This fosters rule-followers, not rule-breakers. For that reason, an individual like Florence is so valuable. Blegara was a place that required someone with their own sense of creativity and insight. The rules I set up would not function here, not without the loss of millions."

Obolis closed his eyes, "And as such, the worst has come to pass. Regardless of my actions, both those past and those present, we failed here."

Obolis gripped a hand, squeezing it into a clawed fist. He carried a well-controlled kind of sadness, one that anyone could see. Obolis pulled through that sadness and sighed,

"I've done all that I can do here. Now it is to late to save the vagni and elevate them. We can't have our worlds become lost, and our people killed for others that refuse to be helped. In the end, this is all we can do."

I disagreed, but that was okay. I intended to solve this problem with Florence anyway. Besides, I didn't have to agree with everything the guy said anyway. Obolis gave me a smile,

"On a lighter note, I was wondering whether you still wished to view Giess's glassing or not. Before you seemed rather hesitant. Perhaps that view has changed?"

I raised my brow, "Hm, I don't know. It still seems risky."

"It will be a sight for centuries. Glassing is a rarity and knowing when and where it shall occur? Doubly so."

I took a deep breath, "You seem convinced it's worth seeing, and you're a guy that seeks out fun-to-see things...Sure."

Obolis perked up, clapping his hands, "You shall find the greatest pleasure in viewing it, of that I'm certain. You'll be offered the finest of luxuries during the event, as will your guildsmen."

He gestured a hand to me, "Think of it as a final note of your stay on Giess, a closing of that chapter in your legacy."

I raised my eyebrows, "It will definitely be the end of Giess, one way or the other."

Obolis scoffed with oozing confidence,

"Schema is absolute, Harbinger. You'll learn this tomorrow. It will wash away your doubt and allow you to look into the future. It will also be an excellent opportunity for our guild leaders to mingle in a different setting. An evening with wine and pleasantries allows for meaningful relationships to form after all."

I raised my eyebrows, "Speaking of pleasantries, I was wondering how you did that whole 'living magic' thing. It was awe-inspiring."

Obolis frowned, "It's simple really, though difficult in practice. You create a centralized orb of mana before granting it a consciousness. Once the mind has been generated, you suppress its will with mental magic, graft the mind onto your magic, and have it enact your will accordingly."

Obolis shrugged, "It shall only live for a few minutes at most as the energy will naturally scatter outward. You can dramatically augment a magic's potency by having it guided in such a manner, however. Think of it like this-"

