The albony around us pounded their chests and let out their own roars. They growled like lions, their imposing minds and wills united under this figure. That figure turned towards us,

"Let us see the Harbinger in his full fury."

I nodded, "Eh, after that, I don't think I'll be all that impressive."

Obolis raised a palm, "That isn't true at all. If anything, you'll surpass me one day, of that I'm certain. A little guidance would go a long way in that regard. For now, however-"

He turned towards the Hybrids in the distance, "You need no instruction in the art of war. Come, let us paint with their blood and sculpt with their corpses."

Obolis opened another portal towards the surface, "You all shall handle the Northern, Western, and Eastern sections of Saphigia. I'll handle the Southern section." Obolis pointed at me,

"Follow the legion's orders absolutely. They've fought in this kind war before, even soaked themselves in it and come out living. I wish the same for all of you."

They gave a unified snarl as he finished. Obolis grinned, his teeth sharp,

"We'll take this planet once more. For the Empire."

He leaped out into the surface of the water. As he did, the portal closed. A rippled echoed out from above right after, and that was where he went. I turned towards those here. Since I was the guy in charge, I needed some information.

"Tell me what you guys can do?"

Victoria stepped forward, "I am a knight skilled with lances and shields. I prefer light magic to focalize various heat attacks. Alastair is a kinetic warrior, and he abuses his natural strength to that end. Ophelia casts living magic, giving her a large range of output."

Ophelia raised a finger, and a fireball with a smile formed over her hand. It hopped for a second before burning out. I crossed my arms, "Huh, interesting."

Florence pointed at himself, "I'm terrible at fighting. Absolutely awful at it. If anything, all I can do is heal people. I'd much rather stay back with whoever else is also healing."

I pointed at Alastair and Victoria, "You're frontliners, right?"

They nodded. I pointed a thumb at my chest, "You'll be joining me. We'll be making a vanguard."

I pointed at Helios, "You'll be joining Hod and Althea to offer support for our charge."

Helios crossed his arms, "As you wish."

Althea's eyes narrowed, and a chill ran up my spine at the sight of it. Shy as she may be, in the end, she was a firecracker underneath. I turned to Torix and Ophelia,

"You two will be following them and helping clear out the enemies in our wake. Torix, you can use your mind magic and necromancy to engorge our force with troops to compensate for our lack of manpower. Ophelia, you can wipe out the bits and pieces we leave behind with your AOE abilities."

Ophelia grinned, "Naturally."

Torix gave a slight bow, "But of course."

I gestured to Kessiah and Florence, "You guys follow behind and near them. We'll be placing bodies out for you guys to heal and stabilize. Stay safe, alright?"

Kessiah gave us a thumbs up, "Sure thing, boss."

Florence glanced at her before mimicking the gesture, "Indeed."

He took up other cultures fast. I peered into oceanic abyss, "We're heading out. Light knight and the big guy, get beside me."

I stepped forward while Victoria and Alastair lined up at my sides. The knight of light brimmed with excitement,

"I can't wait. This shall be fun."

Alastair frowned, "I'm always in front. Some things never change, I guess."

I lifted a hand, the outer portion of our coral capsule smashing apart. Suspending the ocean with gravity, I looked behind me. Hod let out all of the air in his body, his chest shrinking into a stringy twig. As he breathed in, his body imbued with the might of shadow, and he strengthened into the shadow walker as a consequence.

Florence took a step back, "So, is he alright?"

I pointed at him, "This is how he looks when he fights."

Hod's bones cracked, and umbral flames poured from his back and shoulders. Muscled and heaving, other Hod peered up at me,

"I am here to serve, Harbinger."

Helios shook his head, "His mana is...unusual, to say the least. I would've never imagined he was so adept."

Other Hod looked at Helios, hostility brimming from him,

"Your mind's limits are shallow, sheep."

Florence let out a laugh before other Hod turned to him,

"And you are a coward."

Florence had a cheeky grin on under his mask, "Oh most definitely. I'm more than okay with that."

I turned towards the ocean, "No more wasted time. Let's go."

I bent my knees before jumping. The water rippled as I shot into it, and Alastair and Victoria followed suit. A cold ocean covered me from head to toe, liquid filling into my lungs. It made no difference since I didn't need to breathe. Despite that, a lingering mental block unnerved me for a split second. My mind screamed that I was drowning before I silenced it.

Another kind of quiet echoed that silence, a muted humming droning in my ears. The ocean swallowed the sounds around us, which would otherwise leave many deafened. It couldn't devour all explosive echoes, the largest thuds making their way to us.

Turning down, I glared at the Hybrids while my helmet slid over my head. My trademark, helmeted grin crawled across my face, the jagged teeth menacing and feral. Starting with the Western side of the city, I shot myself through the water with gravity wells. Vast swaths of ocean swirled around us, waves coursing outward from the resulting propulsion. Alastair did something similar, creating extended kinetic panels under his feet as I once did. His steps left heavy thumps in the sandy ground where he made contact, tiny eruptions lifting beneath him as he moved.

Victoria took a different approach. She channeled magic for a moment, generating three yellow spheres that floated around her. Their light siphoned into her armor, the ebony armor-wearing albony brimming with energy. She shot through the sea, leaving evaporated water in her wake. We three landed on the ground of Saphigia, the coral beds contaminated with Hybrids. Here, coral degraded and clams cracked. This entire lot of Saphigia was left with no survivors remaining.

Without needing to hold back, I waved Event Horizon over the sand and stony corals. The Hybrids squealed out with muffled howls. At the same time, I shot forward, water rushing past me. I crushed through a glassy Hybrid before draining its remains in a fluid motion. Four other monsters followed in its death as I darted around the crumbled lot.

My gravity and telekinesis gave me a firm footing, my mobility unhampered by the sea around us. I left Alastair and Victoria behind, both of them unable to keep up for now. They acted as a cleanup crew, handling any Hybrids I missed. Above us, many adapted Hybrids darted above, some in swarms.

As the Hybrids schooled together above me, I peered up. The water splintered the light of the sun, creating an ever-shifting expanse of light fractals. They cast rays across the seabed as far as the sea, towards the sea's horizons. It would've of been beautiful if not for the mass of metalled flesh launching towards me.

The school of blighted demons rushed at me like a concentrated blast of Hybrid. Mana flowed through my bones and blood at a rapid pace, my skin glowing with heat as the energy channeled through me. With an enormous wave of gravitation, I collapsed them into a mass of writhing beast. Cracking under pressure, they crushed as I heated them into a soupy liquid. The water in their blood evaporated, releasing bubbles off the craggy sphere.

With a wave of Event Horizon, the corpses disintegrated as if they were never there. Victoria and Alastair gawked at me, both of them stunned. Beneath them, Hybrids drilled through the sand below for an ambush. I raised a hand and stabbed it into the sand beneath me, a tidal wave of force rippling through the sand around us.

That wave of sand carried charged quintessence that flooded the area with heat. As it neared my allies, I pulled Alastair and Victoria from the ocean floor with a gravitational jerk. Rushing past them, the sandy tidal wave left a sea of molten sand behind.

Pulling my hand from the ground, waves of orange, glowing slush rippled across the landscape, splashing over the decimated lot of Saphigia. Hybrids drowned and burned in the bright sea. The few that escaped crystallized as the molten sand solidified into dark obsidian.

Many Hybrids failed to break their obsidian prisons. These members clunked back into the rippling, glowing sea beneath them, drowning in the abyss. The few that somehow escaped the obsidian were augmented kinds of Hybrids, both blighted and enraged.

Handling them, I lifted my other hand, massive splatters of molten sand smothering them. They struggled once more against the hardening mush. With a wave of quintessence, I flash froze them, ice forming around their bodies. Once they were encased, I spread my arms wide.

Slamming my hands together, I created a massive sonic wave through the water. It shot up and outwards, resonating with the frozen Hybrids. Their frozen bodies shattered before burning away in the molten pit beneath them. With this patch of Hybrids culled, I stomped my foot.

Through my heel, I drained the heat out of the seafloor. By the time it cooled, the water around us had warmed until the cold ocean turned into an endless hot tub. A wide, expansive patch of obsidian formed over the destroyed area. From my system's voice chat, Alastair's sounded out,

"Uhm, just remember we're trying to save the vagni."

I nodded as more Hybrids awaited us from the front. The largest of which, a mechanical tendril, went to grab me. I reached out a hand, encircling the mass with a gravity well. I collapsed its metal shell with a burst of energy. With another jerk of my arms, I rived the splintered mass apart. Another rush of quintessence flooded the leftover tendril with heat.

It melted, bubbled metal pouring from the tendril's surface. It sunk down onto the ocean's bed in long lines of glowing, yellow metal. I leaped from the obsidian beneath me, sending cracks through the entire patch. I shot through the water, the light liquid brushing past my face like heavy, chilled wind. Landing on the mechanical tendril's root, I reached my hand through it. Finding bodies stored below, I drained the rest of the life out of the massive spire, freeing the albony trapped in its remains.

The orange, nanomachine soup drifted out in the water before pouring towards me. It collapsed like a living, orange cloud onto my skin before Event Horizon disintegrated it into nothing. Beside me, Alastair landed with a thud. Several aquatic Hybrids darted towards him, and he knocked them into mush with each strike of his fist. Hell yeah, that's more like it.

Victoria followed suit, using lances of light to pierce and purge any Hybrids attacking her. She impaled them, and the impact point spread outward, consuming their bodies. Once engulfed, the Hybrids exploded from the inside out. Their remains showered down from below, sparkling trails of prisms passing through the water. She coalesced these yellow shards, creating sharpened energy spears at her sides.

Reaching out a hand, she stabbed through several more Hybrids in front of her. From behind, a Hybrid shot to her back. I reached out a hand, generating a sharpened pillar of metal behind her. It rose from the ground, glowing white with quintessence. The Hybrid bisected itself from the force of its crash, the halves drifting past Victoria.

Glancing at me, her eyes widened as a Hybrid bit into my shoulder. Its teeth shattered while I turned towards it, casually inspecting the monster up close. I grabbed it as it tried swimming away, letting me look longer. They were similar to Giess's Hybrids, but these were cultivated for a different purpose.

They evolved extended flippers lined with glass that gave them the ability to move quickly. Their jagged metal surfaces filled in with a glassy exoskeleton, so they remained aerodynamic. Some kind of phosphorescent glow ebbed from gaps in their scales as if blue light coursed in their veins. It was some variation of the nanomachine soup, no doubt, but it carried a glow as if it were the concentrated essence of the ocean.

Satisfied with my inspection, my armor drilled into the beast, its entire body filling with branching, dark spikes. They drank its innards before a lifeless husk floated off me, its broken teeth from the bite wafting in the water. A wave of Event Horizon disintegrated it, and Victoria gawked at me as if I were a monster.

Eh, maybe I was. With Event Horizon, I sterilized the water near me, keeping the devastating aura away from the bodies below. From above, spears impaled enemies like skewers, pinning Hybrids to the seabed. Althea took aim with a morphed cannon, pulled from her dimensional storage.

Wielding it with deadly intent, she moved her sight in a fluid sweep, pinning six Hybrids onto the landscape. Ophelia's robe fluttered under the water as she followed up Althea's attacks. The imperial mage cast living, engorged water beasts that swallowed Hybrids and funneled them into these spikes. From piercing one to piercing many, the spears turned to skewers with Hybrids stacked over them.

Hod finished their attacks, morphing from the shadows beneath the Hybrids on the spears. With tearing slashes, he carved them into chunks, each piece burned by his blackened fire. Near him, Helios eyed the battlefield, his gaze measured. He covered the backs of several team members, encapsulating Hybrids in ice if necessary. Unlike Obolis, his ice was instantly voided, the negative resonance leaving gray chunks of frozen Hybrids behind.

