It was almost too much for Serma.Escorted to the giant building shaped like a colosseum with a red domed roof made from some exotic metal. She watched as the streets were cleared ahead by Zane as he simply kept a sedate pace. People moved when a Royal Knight walked.They were sworn to protect the Royal Family. Their kindness need not extend to the public. Serma knew they couldn’t kill but she reminded herself that people who returned from the abyss of the Royal Dungeon had more than simple power under their belts. Even Zane.Especially Zane...Keeping her eyes up, Serma watched as the small shops and twisty side streets passed by. Serma tried to be positive. No matter how her father and mother blustered or demanded solutions. The Dungeon’s words were clear. Serma was to reach the 10th floor with Bronze star adventurers. Rank three at best...Orders to slip Royal Knights in as disguised warriors were shot down as well by the head Priest.The Dungeon would be watching for refinement. Serma looked skyward as her lessons came back as words. Being the Princess of the Capital meant her education was important... as a benefit and a requirement. “Mana refinement” was the term used by the world at large to refer to someone whose Mana became potent and strong by constantly using or training their combat, magic and/or rare skills in Dungeon space. She adjusted her braid slightly as she avoided the public’s staring gaze. Serma had insisted on walking... to get into the spirit of things. She kind of regretted it now, having the three Royal Knights making an awkward blank space between her and the people of her kingdom.Sure, assassins would always be waiting but... Serma just felt like a exotic creature to be stared at now.She was close to the Guild building, so she kept her eyes averted.It was almost impossible to fake untested or raw unrefined Mana that was unrefined. The best tactic was to simply not use Mana around people... but the Dungeon would know. It was a God unto its own realm and trying to trick it… was unwise.A new Dungeon or a common one may be somewhat confused or even manipulated but one as old as her Kingdom’s? It was asking for Serma’s name to be stricken from the books of history if the Dungeon caused a calamity.Serma was sure that even if her Father managed to negotiate a proper contract with Fairplay and used his own army… The Royal Dungeon would not be so easily held to its current form. It’s awareness had evolved into bored intelligence. If it were to be pushed to a breaking point by the Kingdom holding it’s floors hostage...Serma felt her heart go cold at the thought.The idea of the Level hundred boss monster breaking out and-“Breathe,” Brilda urged quietly. Her features, so often accused of being cut from beautiful stone, watched her for a moment.“We shall not leave you in the hands of louts or thugs,” she promised and the slight tapping of her spear on the ground made the chill retreat from Serma’s chest.“Thank you,” she smiled back. Brilda merely nodded, the slight tone change of the tapping spear letting Serma know the woman was pleased.Brilda did not open to people nor explain herself. Serma had learned to understand Brilda the way one learns to predict storms on the sea or the change on mountains. With great patience and fear... then love. If there was one Royal Knight that Serma would say fit the title, it was her guardian since childhood, Brilda.That wasn’t to say Gionha, or even Lieria was a slouch... but Brilda had such grace she hadn’t seen since the only other Royal Knight that read her a bedtime story. Serma felt a twinge of pain as she thought of Wei-She broke out of her thoughts as the doors were loudly pushed open by Zane. His appearance silencing the chaotic cheerful noise coming from within. Serma pressed her hands tight against her waist. Her royal white dress and adorning gold tiara was only offset by the out of place green bead bracelet on her arm. Her good luck charm. Serma felt she would truly need it today.The guild hall’s main entrance was a large, wooden, double door affair that was more of that cheerful red. Above the door was a sign, as if it were imitating the many Dungeon’s the patrons inside would have visited.The PlaceIt was cocky when they named the place all those years ago, her Father had mused once, but now? Everyone knew what each other meant when they said they were going to the usual place or the place to be.It was annoyingly relevant in the city. She walked in with Brilda at her side. It was hard to disguise how Serma craned her neck in wide sweeps, trying to take it all in like she was one of those tourist folks that wandered into the city.It was almost like the ghost of her mother’s hand on her back was real as Serma corrected her posture and retained her regal pleasant-but-distant expression. The inside of the building, the main hall from what Serma could see, followed more of the red and gold theme the building promised from the outside. Serma actually felt like the place was a bit... too much. Ironic coming from a princess who ate with gold and walked on gems but Serma felt it odd that a gathering place of rough and tough thrill seekers was more akin... to a hotel entrance.A large section of the room was dedicated to a open fireplace, sofas, chairs, stools, and a bar near the corner. The prices, Serma noticed, were far higher than the local businesses’. As someone who was forced to study the economics of imported grapes, barrels, ale, and peanuts for two weeks until she could recite it backwards, Serma knew the alcohol they served here was both overpriced and weird.The common drinks were a thief in a bottle but there were drinks Serma had never heard of...Devil’s bum... Liquid Courage and Wisdom... Ferlio’s brew… Dragon spit.Did this place have... an alchemist? A Spirit alchemist? Not to be confused with a necromancer who became an alcoholic but an actual master of the wines and spirits of the world? Serma had heard the things they made were so delicious and powerful that one sip of the right brew could make a mouse into a hero.Serma blinked then smiled slowly to herself.A mouse hero! That would be slightly delightful and adorable. Serma doubted this place had one but she couldn’t help check the bar for a tiny mouse door that would lead to some secret league of mice with swords and staffs.It would be called the League of Little Heroes!Serma was almost washed away into the lands of fantasy as she imagined them riding frogs or rabbits before Brilda cleared her throat and guided her towards the stairs and, once on the second floor, to a door that was guarded by two men in armour that gave off... adequate power.Serma felt sort of bad, growing up around Royal Knights had dulled her respect for levels of Mana Refinement that didn’t make one fear for one’s life. Inside the room were many nice sofas, and a window that had a wonderful view of her fair city.Verluan, how Serma had only ever seen it’s best features. Now, even from this guest room, Serma spotted cracks... nooks... people walking around in clothes that didn’t cost the same as a small field.It was refreshing... and a little scary.“Me and the Spear witch will go talk to the Guild Master, see which sorry wretch we can find in this place that won’t get you killed,” Zane announced. Serma blinked and eyed the room that was clearly for… waiting.“Yup, stay and don’t die. Lorsa will be doing whatever Lorsa does,” Zane added dryly. Serma turned to see the empty room suddenly filled by the third Royal Knight of her entourage. Lorsa, the person in such a heavy cloak that all details were guesses at best.Lorsa had not been in the room a moment ago and Serma was talking to Zane who blocked the only door in and out. “Doing what I do best,” Lorsa agreed. Serma tried to at least look politely assured to have a guard but she might have failed.Lorsa was in the group of Knights that Serma had dubbed the ‘Weird’ ones. Really, the Royal Knights only had three sub-groups to understand. The straight-forward scary ones. Brilda and Zane would belong to this. The Weird ones that enjoyed freaking people out and had abilities not fit for a public spar… then there were the ones that were off.Nothing quite looked wrong nor did anything stand out but being near one of those Knights made good people and creatures flee and the light dim... just a little.These were the ones her father had on a very short leash or as far away as possible.All for the best, Serma thought. Lorsa was hardly the worst. Brilda carefully reached out and brushed Serma’s single loose lock of hair back behind her ear.“We won’t be long,” Zane reminded and walked off, Brilda at his heels, more to make sure he didn’t divert to the bar than following in line.The door closed and Serma turned to speak to Lorsa, but the cloaked figure was gone. Vanished as fast they appeared.“Oh, I do not like that,” she warned the empty room... maybe empty?Lorsa was a weirdo but at least they didn’t act like a creep or scare her by appearing out of nowhere. It just made her uneasy to be unsure whether she reallywas alone or not. That feeling was quickly overtaken by annoyance as she sat with proper posture on the plush sofa, facing a fire that had more Fire stones in it than strictly needed. This was Serma’s task! Should she not be there at the table, viewing her potential warriors with her own eyes? Was she expected to walk into danger with strangers?Serma watched the fire burn without tinder in the stone fireplace.“Yes... yes you are. The best of the best that are available will be chosen and I will accept them with grace. This is about more than yourself,” she reminded herself sharply. She sat straight and placed her hands into her lap, her only breaking of proper appearance was a single finger fidgeting the green bracelet.If she failed then the Dungeon would enforce the punishment it had warned about. The Prince of the Dungeon’s warning words not to be trifled with. Serma swallowed hard and nodded.Serma’s desires would not dare come at such risk to the City. She would sit here and let others handle her life... as always.Serma blinked up slowly at a sudden tapping noise.She stared at the door for a long moment. That didn’t sound like it had come from the doo-Serma froze, there it was again! A firm tapping noise growing frantic. It sounded like the noise at so many royal balls.Glass being smacked against something. Usually other glass...Serma spun to see a hand banging at the second-floor window. Staring in surprise, the sudden tapping pushed the window open and the knocker pulled himself into the room.“Ow ow ow! My fingers feel like they got caught in Aunty Hop’s cookie jar again!” a young boy complained as he fanned his fingers, which indeed looked very red from... Serma could only guess hanging on to her window ledge!Serna should call for guards or scream or develop some sudden hidden royal magic to blast this intruder to ash but honestly, Serma was just too shocked at the sudden appearance to do more than stare.Her Father would sigh as his various sword lessons went to waste and her mother would join him at Serma’s rudeness. The boy was younger than her, or at least very small for his age. His black hair was pulled back in a ponytail that brushed his lower back. Unlike Serma’s own braid, so tightly made and decorated, this boy’s hair looked more like a contained wild animal. He kept blowing on his fingers which allowed Serma to fully take in the rest of him,He was an odd-looking thing with slightly-too-blue big trousers tied tight with a black belt, a torn white shirt that looked far overdue to be burned, and he had what appeared to be a book hanging off his belt like a handy tool by a piece of thread. Then there was the sword on his back that Serma saw as the boy turned to survey the room.It was a horrid, chipped, dirty grey blade. But...It had been used well. Serma’s weapon master’s words whispered in her ear in memory that the reinforced handle, the way the blade looked less damaged by ill-care and more by long time use fending off deadly blows.“Are you the Guild Master?” the boy said, snapping Serma out of her stupor. The question was both unexpected and bizarre.What sort of logic would one have to assume that a girl in a dress, a crown, and sitting in some waiting room would be the Guild Master? Her frustration leaked just a little at having her moody thinking interrupted by some boy!.“Yes, clearly I am. What gave it away?” she snapped. The boy sighed with relief.“Right room after all! Told Xan she was wrong. My name is Mas, I wanna be a hero!” he announced. He thrust a hand out and years of inbuilt instincts took over. She neatly shook the hand and smiled as if the other person was some important diplomat from some country she couldn’t pronounce.“What?” she replied, still wearing her best fake smile. Mas beamed.“I wanna join up with the Guild and take on the Dungeon! I tried to apply downstairs but I was rejected! So I thought I come straight to the head honcho and deal with you! I’m so glad you’re nice and much prettier than the bat behind the desk,” Mas said in a ‘just-between-us’ whisper as if the ‘bat’ downstairs had the hearing of one rather than just the looks.“I think you have the wrong-” Serma tried to explain, seeing now that sarcasm had done what her Mother had always warned it would.Get her in trouble.“So, what do I need to do? Beat goblins up? Wrestle a dragon? Rescue a princess?” Mas demanded, eyes glinting so brightly that it was slightly adorable in it’s own way. Serma also took offence to that last one until she remembered she was sitting in a Guild building waiting on her protectors building her a defence to save her from Dungeon dangers...“Maybe you could help a princess rather than simply assume she is usele