 perhaps we should adjust the numbers until a better one comes along?” came a smooth voice that sniffed after speaking. Serma peered around Brilda and her brain shut down as a giant white furred mouse man stood there wearing a royal blue coat, fine grey trousers, some well-used wraps around his clawed feet. On his face was huge thick bottle-glasses that expanded his little beady eyes to large volumes.“Xan! Xan! It’s a mouse,” Mas pointed out with a smile. The man glared at Mas.“I am clearly a Rattis, do notice the strong tail and fine fur,” he retorted, he withdrew an almost ruler-like wand and gestured to his tail in example.“Mousekin have on average 4-inches smaller tail with less muscle mass by a factor of up to 10%!” he began to lecture. Serma’s mind tried to fall into her default good-student-mode but it wasn’t quite working.She stared at the group before her that her Knights had assembled.The Dwarf priestess of stone, her own personal choice of Mas the sword-user... and a Mouse Hero!“Ah Princess Serma, a pleasure,” the hero in question bowed with elegance.“I thought she was a Guild Master, so you might wanna double check she is a Princess, just a tip,” Mas nodded wisely before Xan picked him up by the ear.“One more word and I’ll have you so black and blue that a sea troll would look healthy in comparison!” she growled.“Princess, you wanna tell your father you’re a bonafide bronzer or do we make some poor servant do it?” Zane yawned. The words were enough to drag Serma’s gaze away from the Rattis-“Sir Denomin!” the Rattis said as she turned.Her confusion must have been evident because Zane laughed a dark chuckle.“You think the Royal family is going to accept the dishonour of one of their own merely being a Bronzer? Think again, kiddo,” he said and Serma remembered that she was indeed a Princess of the Royal Family.One who was expected to be in the top tier of... anything… they pursued.“Team Ultra-Dragon-Exploders are going for the top! Serma isn’t afraid of anything!” Mas promised from behind Xan’s hand. Zane looked amused but the weirdest thing came from Lorsa.“Too cute... I am going to enjoy this,” they announced to the room. Xan looked nervous as Denomin twitched his adorable whiskers in some attempt to sense danger.Serma eyed the bronze badge that was passed to her a minute later.Her reflection was smiling.How... weird.She had no idea what had caused these series of events but she gave a small, silent prayer of gratitude. This was the best day she had ever had...---Many... many, miles away, Delta paused as she watched the web room fix itself.“Hm? Did you say something Nu?” she asked and the text box gave her a long flat ding.That joke was funny about the first 500 times. Hurry up, The option just opened up and I want to see what the requirements are!Delta rolled her eyes but she could get why he was excited.It was the Third floor after all... Delta would have to make sure the second floor was ready but she felt a tremble of buzzing excitement. That was when her menus vanished again and Delta spun to see the weirdest thing from the outside world yet. Kemy, the innocent girl from before, fell down her stairs with a blindfold on.“Oh, mighty Goddess of Truth… guide me!” she yelled, then stumbled forward, arms stuck out in panic.The spiders all paused in their webbing and gave Delta the Royal ‘We pity you’ dance. She took it for the intended message but what made it all worse than the only Monster available capable of speech besides Maestro who did short musical bursts... was... Cois.The rest were busy and Fera would not leave her post.Mushy had gone to the second floor to show off his new power to the Pygmies, Hob and Gob were out gathering and Billy and Numb were blackout drunk under a tavern table... Delta felt a headache coming already as she called for Cois. What kind of person wandered into a Dungeon blind? Well, besides Delta but she didn’t have a choice!Ignoring the feeling of dread, Delta put on a winning smile and was sure she’d get this sorted out in a few minutes.Before Kemy fell down some hole Delta didn’t know she had or something.It would be just Delta’s luck.--
