ss and needs a man,” she replied hotly. Mas shrugged.“If you know one that needs help. I’ll help! My hero book said they always need rescuing so I just assumed they were off being cool anyway and just ran into trouble,” the boy scratched at his nose. Serma stared at him and raised one brow.“You clearly don’t know what Princesses’ daily schedules are. Adventure and excitement are clearly on the ‘never happening’ day,” she sat down, not feeling like she had a lot to worry about from the boy now.An energetic lad - but in the end… just someone looking for a fantasy.“I don’t know any Princesses! But if you know any, can you let them know that Mas is here to sav- er- offer them a hand!” he placed his hands on his hips making the tattered book shake slightly.Despite her hollow mood, she couldn’t help the small smile.“Noted, I will pass the note on to any Princesses. Why were you rejected?” she suddenly asked, which made Mas huff.“You need a recommedata thing and money!” he said, looking unimpressed.“‘Recommendation’, you mean? I suppose that’s not too bad but a fee isn’t unreasonable. They do give you a Guild Seal in return, those things do take money to make,” she pointed out. “Yeah but what if don’t have a rec...rec... someone’s word and I don’t have money?” he fired back. Serma blinked. Not have... money. Right. That happens to people and Serma now felt like a stupid royal brat that had zero understanding of the world.“If you show off your skills with a few unpaid kills or work around town, that can also be a form of a recommendation. If you keep it up, the Guild would see you as an asset and waive the application fee,” she explained kindly. Mas waved his hands as he dropped onto the sofa next to her, slouching so much that Serma felt the lessons of her Mother die of shock.“I brought them wolf fangs, snake skins, even a few goblin things but they just said I shouldn’t lie and took the stuff away as dangerous. I even did tasks and wrote down the people I helped but... they don’t wanna check... waste of time the bat said,” Mas grumbled.This story has been taken without authorization. Report any sightings.That... was…“They stole your items?” Serma focused on the first thing wrong. Mas sat up, nodding furiously.“They wanted my sword but said it was gonna break anyway! I worked hard and no one cares. So I came to you because I hoped not everyone who was an adventurer... a hero... could be bad,” he trailed off and for the first time since Mas appeared, his bright spirit dipped.“They’re not. Heroes are real but what they did is wrong. Mas... I’m not the Guild Master, I apologise but I was just being sarcastic due to my bad mood!” she dipped her head in apology. There was a beat of silence.“Ohh... that makes sense I guess. Your office looked way too boring,” Mas agreed before he blinked at Serma.“So... who are you?” he asked, leaning in closer than Serma usually experience people being. “I’m Prin…” she cut herself off for a second before she smiled.“Serma, a pleasure,” she held out a dainty hand as her blood demanded. Instead of the practise kiss on the back of her palm, Mas shook it hard again.“Serma! That’s a sweet name. Sorry for busting in here and all but if you’re here you must wanna be a hero too!” he stated, the boy’s brain making truly impressive leaps in logic. Serma was about to correct him but... wasn’t it the fact she was angry that she wasn’t being allowed to truly experience the Dungeon the whole reason she was here?“Sort of,” she ended up saying. Mas looked annoyed.“Must have turned you down too! Did they take your weapon?!” he stood, actually looking her over for the first time.“You just noticed what I have on my person?” Serma had to ask blankly. Mas grinned.“I was too busy staring at your face. It’s nice!” he said, crossing his arms with the confidence only a boy could have. What royal etiquette covered this? Laugh fakely at the compliment? No, Serma actually did feel something at the compliment. Deny it with grace? She wasn’t sure Mas would understand the social gameplay of the false denial...Declare war on his nation?Wouldn’t that just be civil war? Call for his head? But then he couldn’t keep speaking to her like a person, which Serma really enjoyed! She was trapped between royal secretive smile and utter indifference. Her baffled mind went for both and she ended up smiling with her wide eyes. The look was not to be painted anytime soon but Mas laughed cheerfully as he pulled her up, her horrified mind making sure she put up no resistance.“Let’s go find the Guild Master or show off our skills and get registered! Then we can team up with my friend Xan then we can take on the Dungeon and I can marry a princess!” Mas explained very quickly.“Marry a what?!” Serma’s mouth yelped before her mind could wrestle control back. Mas’ strong grip had her out the door before long and while Serma did protest, she also felt... better.She gathered herself as the ‘bat’ of a receptionist gaped as Mas dragged the Royal princess towards her. The woman was pretty but the eyes held a gleam of something that irked Serma.Perhaps it was high time she finally used all this Princess influence for something.Chewing a thief out in a highly respectable place would be simple; a fine place to begin. But she had to make sure to do it such a way that Mas didn’t... learn of her status. How he didn’t know with the crown, the white gown and the VIP room, she had no idea but she was actually having a good time for once since her Birthday!---Upstairs, Lorsa put their cup of tea of the table in front of the sofa where Princess Serma and the boy had been sitting moments before. The cloak dropped to reveal shocking white hair that hid a smiling face.“Ah youth. To be young again,” Lorsa toasted with empty hands. The Princess was safe. There was nowhere she would go that Lorsa could not be in less than a second. Even then, Lorsa’s watchful eye had claws and hid well. The boy was just funny, and his ability to pull the Princess out of her slump was cute. Now Lorsa just had to keep delaying the Guild Master down the street from the Guild Hall another... oh... forty minutes until the Princess and the Boy would pass the little test... Lorsa was a big fan of pushing the chicks out of the nest. Too often, snakes devoured the scared chicks that dared not fly.The tea was drunk in an instant and Lorsa was gone before the cup landed back on the table.---It was no surprise that Mas now had a decent recommendation, a quick word had also seen to it that his items returned before long. Mas was in awe of Serma’s apparent ability to make people do what she wanted.“Are you some sort of Puppet Mage or are you using some scary fear power?” he inquired. Serma rolled her eyes as they were lead to the small off-hall testing room.“It’s called manners and firmness,” she responded. The pale receptionist gestured to a row of seats where a few other men and women sat, waiting.“P-please wait for your names,” she stuttered. Mas waved at her with a winning grin.“That’s right, you’ll hear the name Mas and Serma, the dynamic duo!” he bragged. The woman looked to Serma with fear and alarm. She merely shook her head and walked to the seat.Only once she was resting on the hard wooden chair, almost a stool really... did she consider what she was doing. Brilda was going to glare at her... Zane wouldn’t care unless Serma really turned out to be a pain to find. Then he'd be annoyed, and that was bad for all involved.Lorsa would do... something.But why was she taking the test to become a bronze star adventurer?! “I’m so excited! You’re going to do awesome, Serma. Believe in yourself. Even if you don’t pass, you can join my guild!” he promised kindly. Serma took comfort in that. If her Mother found out she had escaped her guard and went in public without even a disguise... she might need somewhere to run and hide.The nervous people around them merely watched as some no-named casually called Serma by her first name, they seemed to inch away from him as if Serma would set him on fire any second.But soon enough, names of groups were called, and sometimes just single names. Serma had agreed to be on Mas’ shared application. Something groups could do, if their strength was more in-line of teamwork like Priests or mages. To be honest, this was good! Serma was actually getting to see the process in action and if worse came to worst... one of these people could be in her group to reach the tenth floor. Seeing who came out with defeat and who came out with smirks said a lot.The test took place on the other side of a simple door and soon enough a plain man called out calmly as if he truly had heard and seen it all...“Mas and Serma of ‘Ultra-Dragon-Exploders’?” The hall was too quiet other than Serma’s slowly turning neck as she stared at the already striding Mas.“Wow...” another testee said bluntly. Not even three hundred years of noble blood could keep Serma’s chin high and proud.“I should have expected nothing less,” she admitted to herself as they walked into the room. The plain man with short hair and dull eyes walked over and stood at the centre of an empty room.“You have three minutes to land an attack on me,” he stated. Serma had to remind herself that Bronze rank 1 was basically ‘had used a weapon once’. It was not weird for such a basic test. The man hadn’t looked scratched that much so Serma did wonder how the others passed.Still, the faster this was over, the better, hopefully before Serma was found by an irate Royal Knight... The only downside was that Serma lacked a blade, her preferred weapon. Mas’ body was almost vibrating with anticipation.“Remember, he is trained,” she gave him a warning. Mas’s answer was brief.“As long as you got my back, we can do this!” he promised. The enthusiasm was nice. Serma would have to extract it and bottle it to cure the world of depression. Could there be another such cheerful boy in this land?Without a blade, she only had one thing... a single spell she had been able to master.“I can take a hit, so use me a shield,” she promised. She half expected an argument or some sort of knightly refusal but Mas, as Serma was quickly growing to like, only grew excited.“Got it! Side by side then!” he charged and Serma followed as she hiked up her dress. How this instructor felt facing a boy waving a sword as big as himself, yelling his head off, and a Princess running in heels and a dress with a determined expression, Serma had no clue.The only thing to complete this group would be some tall hulking man swinging a huge weapon, he’d have to have blond or red firey hair to complete the look. Focusing, Serma watched as Mas’ first swing was fast and the man actually kicked off the ground with a surprised look. He struck a leg out, but Serma put her training into action, standing in front of Mas as she cast her spell.Really... it wasn’t... exactly a combat spell to be honest. Really, it was a cosmetic spell that Serma had utterly butchered. Her clothes became wrinkle free as the magic smoothed the creases and wiped dirt from her clothes.Serma’s magic struggled before it did what it always did with this spell. It doubled back and the fabrics became thrice as durable, the white dress now being able to deflect a weak dagger, something she learned in an assassination attempt one time. The leg bounced off as the man recoiled in shock. Serma followed it up with a swift kick and the man toppled over with a gasp.“Woah! Serma, you won the fight for us!” Mas praised. The bonus of the spell she used meant that Serma didn’t have to worry about looking haggard or roughed up. A blessing really.“A spar, nothing else. He clearly was going easy on us and didn’t use a weapon,” she dismissed but her smile made Mas grin harder.“You pass... you can tell the receptionist... that Bart gives the aye,” the man wheezed. Serma was about to help him up but Mas was already running out the room with her.“I’m sorry!” she called, needing to say something before becoming rude.Inside, she felt... happy. Serma had to parse this feeling. She was pleased about passing some test? How silly was that? “We’re going to beat trolls up, and rescue lords, and discover the city of gold, and ride dragons or dragon people!” Mas listed with such joy.Pretty silly but Serma started to pick up the pace and run with Mas towards the receptionist desk. The awaiting trio of her Royal guards and a man Serma knew to be the Guild Master almost put a damper on her cheer but not quite.In front of Zane and Brilda were two very... odd people. The one glaring at Mas was a stout woman who had to be a dwarf. Her skin was ashen grey like stone, showing some power or influence. Her hair was hidden under a well dented helmet. Her armour had a familiar symbol stamped on it. A mountain with golden veins flowing through it, Serma could only barely remembered it belonged to some Deity of the Earth. Her giant book bound with iron had the same symbol. A priestess of some kind.“You daft son of a bucket! I told you not to do anything rash, and you go and bloody kidnap the Princess?!” she demanded. Her voice was as soft as a thorny bush. Mas shrank under the woman’s glare but he held out his hand to her, still holding Serma’s.“Team Ultra-Dragon-Exploders won the test! We’re Bronzers!” he beamed then paused. He seemed to actually hear her words before he turned to Serma.“She thinks you’re a princess. You get mistaken for a lot of things, don’t you?” he mused. A shadow fell over them as Brilda glared hotly at the held hands. “Woah... she looks angry!” Mas whispered. Serma let go before her guard killed her friend.“If this is not the best time,