“… I can almost understand the dungeon cores,” Erick said, “Sure. I’ll be murdering every single monster I can find over the coming decades, and yet you need mana, and monsters produce mana, too. Monsters grow quickly and die just as quickly, so they make more mana than people, overall. So monsters need to exist somewhere since there aren’t enough people yet… And I suppose the removal of the main way in which wars turn truly deadly makes sense. The millions who died in Songli might even still be alive if it weren’t for [Teleport].

“But I know why [Teleport] was put in the Open Script, and so do you. It was given to the people because monsters threatened to overrun Veird. And you’re bringing that back. Even if I put the Gate Network out there again, millions will die because they won’t be able to get away from the big threats… though millions more will live easier lives, not worrying about someone [Teleport]ing into their homes and killing them like they did at Songli.

“On the whole, I understand why this is happening, and I know what I can do to alleviate the problems these changes bring… But this is too much, too fast.”

The mist shifted.

Melemizargo appeared as a black fog, overlooking all, his eyes rapidly forming, looking like twin white suns. Then the black fog retreated, revealing the dragon God of Magic in all his usual ways. Black scales. Wings, a tail. The same thing that Erick saw when he transformed into his own dragon form.

“It’s exactly as much change as it needs to be.”

Erick glared up at the big dragon. “One of my people asked me this morning if I’m you. Why did you make me look like you?”

Melemizargo grinned. “Surprisingly enough, all I did was make you black! I have no idea why you look like me so much, but I imagine it’s because you had me in mind when you thought of power. I allowed it because it pleases me, for all the best dragons have wings like me, which makes this a world of two.”

...While that might have been part of the truth, it was hardly enough to really qualify as an answer.

Erick moved on, asking, “Are you going to help me mitigate this disaster, Melemizargo? I don’t know… Slowly seep in the [Teleport] lock from the wilds, down to the cities? Not deploy it all at once?”

Melemizargo grinned even more, showing off glowing white fangs. “An excellent suggestion! I already thought of this and offered it and it was accepted. This is how the deployment will happen.”

“… I suppose we puny mortals can only ever toil under the decisions of you gods, eh?”

Melemizargo leaned in, eyes going bright. “Do you want to become a god?”

“Maybe some other time.” Erick suddenly asked everyone, “You couldn’t wait for at least ten years before you started to make these sweeping changes?!”

Melemizargo smiled. “Nope!”

Rozeta glared at her father, then said, “Unfortunately not. The option for more security existed, and I took it. In a generation, no one will be able to purchase [Teleport], and all the world will be empty of monsters. The Lock might come down then, but likely not. As for the other issue: Much like the Dragon Exodus, the Dungeon Exodus is happening, and all the true dangers to Veird will be soon be drawn beyond the veil of mortals by the promise of rich mana, sequestered behind Gate Spaces as far beyond mortals.”

“And people will learn of true magic in those spaces, too!” Melemizargo said, “Maybe the entire Script could change based on whichever dungeon eventually rises as the best one. Set yourself as a dungeon master in a few places, Erick, and test out your dungeon of [Cleanse], [Mend], and some basic healing magics. Make an entire city out of your choices, using the random person character option to spawn endless random people! Maybe even connect your dungeons through the Dungeon Network I plan on making, so that a real fake culture can develop on the other side of shadow.”

Erick’s eyes went wide.

That wasn’t in the black book. Just how much was missing in that black book? But besides that—

“That’s… Perhaps the most insane thing I have ever heard you say.”

“Ha! Why?”

“Because the dungeon slime clones would be…” Erick organized his thoughts. “Because the dungeon slime people would have memories of being not that and they wouldn’t be able to grow in power or as people. They couldn’t have children with each other. They couldn’t really form a society at all! They would be slaves to the mana, acting out parodies of real life, only existing for the killing of all who would come in afterward! That’s all they would be. A horrible life as a person who was made to be killed, and they would know that. A living nightmare. A horror.”

“Then I suppose I will have to make some changes!” Melemizargo looked to Rozeta, happily saying, “You heard the Wizard of Benevolence! Let’s make the dungeons fully sapient, this will, of course, trigger the anti-Slave protocols I placed in the Script so long ago.”

Rozeta rapidly said to Erick, “Take back your words right now, or else these dungeon cores will cause untold devastation.”

“Wait a fucking second! Melemizargo made those anti-Slave magics?”

“Yes,” Koyabez said, “And he made them apply to everyone. It was yet another purge he was responsible for, and just like back then, we turned that tragedy into something good for us all. We took control of that change and worked it into what it actually should have been, if Melemizargo had been his usual self. We took the Mind Mages and made of them a positive influence. We repaired the Script after he tricked the Old Demons into committing the Death of All Halves, re-enabling love between interspecies to produce children once again, but not nearly as much as we used to have. We have taken every single great one of his additions to the Script and made them good for us all.

“And as the dungeon slime core system is right now, before any changes, the copies created inside that space are not fully sapient. Whatever the copy gains from the dungeon master truly goes into the core itself. The people-like things walking around are like [Familiar]s, or like fugue-state shadelings. The only truly sapient things are the cores themselves, once they gain enough maturity, or once they are assisted in gaining sapience through a dungeon master.” Koyabez said, “And so, the only way to make this a nightmare scenario, as you say, is to enact this change you wish, to make them all fully sapient from the start.”

Erick rapidly shifted through a hundred thoughts and came upon a question that emerged from this new knowledge. “What happens when the [Familiar]s become real?”

“They spill out into the world, and find other dungeons!” Melemizargo said, “Or they become real people. Depends on the dungeon’s proclivities; a break, to invade other dungeons, or a birth, to make real what had once been little more than imagination. In this way, a lot more people are born in ways impossible through normal means, and soon, we will spread! We will fill this universe with life, Erick!”

“… My vote does not matter, then?”

“No,” Rozeta said, “This is happening.” She looked to her father. “And you’re not changing what we already agreed upon.”

“Fine! Fine! I won’t change anything! It will happen as we have already agreed.”

“I abstain from giving more opinions.” Erick said, “If this turns into a horror I will use all my power to end this magic.”

As though the entire caldera breathed a sigh of relief—

Melemizargo suddenly laughed. “That’s what they were all counting on anyway!”

- - - -

Erick opened his eyes. He was back in his room.

And he felt weird.

He did not like how this decision about the world was made without him. But also, he wasn’t a Relevant Entity of the Script, so of course it was made without him. And yet, he could solve this dungeon problem on the back end, with killing every core as they spawned out there in the world. Or at least on the Surface… if [Cascade Imaging] even worked that way. He would need to make another [Cascade Imaging]; something that could search for mana signatures, to search for Darkness Rifts… But no. That would not work. That particular search would just ping on Melemizargo, who was already everywhere in this world already. Probably.

He could figure it out.

He would need to greatly expand his Gate Network to solve the [Teleport Lock] problem, though. Work with the Wayfarers to do that… Ah. All those people were going to lose their entire life’s work. Forget simply purchasing [Teleport] from the Script for a point. Many of those people learned how to work [Teleport] properly. And now all that learning was useless, even though it was still relevant. They were the ones who had given him a guide on [Teleport], and had truly started Erick down the Worldly path—

Now that pissed Erick off. More so than much of the rest.

Made him mad enough to call out to the shadows in the corner, “Melemizargo. I want to know if you’re going to invalidate every single Wayfarer’s life’s work— If you’re going to make every single Teleport Mage obsolete.”

Melemizargo whispered from the Darkness, “Rozeta has a plan for that. It involves you giving those people [Reincarnation]s. She hasn’t spoken to you about that yet?”

Rozeta stepped into the room in her human form. “I haven’t had the chance, but yes. [Reincarnation]s from you was one option that I have considered. If you donated a copy of that spell to the Script I can have registrars do that instead, like how you donated [Exalted Rain] to Atunir. It would be a lesser working of that magic, to simply reset a person to their current age and body and such, but it would reset their soul in the process, and that is what I would ask for you to give the Script.”

“… Yes. Fine. I agree to donate a copy of that spell. I had been wondering when we would get around to that, but I suppose since we’re doing a lot already, we might as well add more to the pile!” Erick said, “Anyway! That’s not what I meant when I complained about the Wayfarer’s loss. I mean the loss of Spatial Magic as a type of spell taught in school because it’s no longer usable.”

“Derelict magic is what Wizards are known to keep in their towers in case it is ever needed again. This event you see as a problem is not much of a problem at all.”

Erick could barely believe what he was hearing.

Rozeta said, “There are millions of magics that no longer exist. Spatial Magic is a large part of Veird right now, but it is not necessary for it to remain that way, and it would be better for us all if easy [Teleport] went away.”

Erick didn’t understand. “What about The Worldly Path?”

Melemizargo’s eyeless shadow looked to Rozeta, and though there was no way to really tell, Erick imagined it was a pointed look.

Rozeta said, “The [Teleport Lock] will only exist on Veird. Subsequent worlds will not have this lock. The Lock might go away in 50 years, too, once most people don’t have that spell anymore. Probably longer, though. We had considered stripping the spell from everyone—”

“But I disagreed on that. They gave that magic to everyone, and now they have to live with the consequences.”

Erick glared.

Melemizargo told Erick, “Make some dungeons that allow for people to properly learn Spatial Magic if you desire. A dungeon master can disable the natural [Teleport Lock] in there, and allow for easy teaching of that magic. I imagine that Fate is already lining up such a dungeon in order to keep the Worldly Path open, always, but it might take a while before either you or I end up with a Walker at our doorsteps, ready to take that final Step Into Eternity.”

Erick sighed a little. “About that: Tell me if I have this correct. Do I simply transform someone’s mana signature into Benevolence? And they can [Gate] through it as easily as I did?”

Melemizargo chuckled. “Not quite as easily, but yes! That’s the gist of it all. It’s just so convenient that you already have [Reincarnation] made, isn’t it!”

“… I suppose so.”

Rozeta sighed. She glared at the shadow. “Fate is locked up for a reason, just like all the others are. You and I are going to have long discussions until you agree with me on which elements and magics are allowed to return and which are to be kept Forgotten.”

Erick asked, “Which ones threaten to come back the easiest, that need to be stamped out?”

“There are a few that everyone knows about, but which are ‘Forgotten’—”

Rozeta spat, “I will speak on these, father. Not you.”

“Fine fine!”

Rozeta rattled off, “Contract Magic cannot be allowed to happen again. That one is insidious in its ease of creation and how it corrupts an entire world. The Demons always try to make that one, and the New Demons are no different. The next easiest magic to name which can never happen again is Elemental Love. Horrific. Almost as bad as Slave Magic, which was a variation on Contract Magic, and which were both eliminated through the elimination of Contract Magic. Then we have Theft Magic, which gets reinvented every hundred years in a new way, in order to allow a different person to steal something from another. Elemental Pirate was the last time that happened, but there have been others which need not be remarked upon. And then there are the various governmental-themed Elements. Elemental Tyranny. Elemental Freedom. Those two are locked away and cannot happen again… And that’s the extent of magics that I can tell you about at the moment, Erick.”

“Maybe in several generations, several iterations of expansions… Some of those magics can come back, yes? Once the future Scripts of this universe don’t allow for such easy proliferation as the Script of Veird.”

“Veird will always be the most secure planet of this cosmology, father, and that takes precedence over all the ways in which you think that Veird should be. You will accept this and not threaten how we run things ever again, or we are at an impasse which cannot be solved.”

“I am not threatening you. If I were threatening you, you would know it. I was merely pointing out that how you do things here is exactly the reason why Veird is both secured, and so very fragile at the same time.”

“No. Father. The reason Veird is fragile is because of you.”

Erick interrupted, “Why are you moving so fast on this dungeon and anti-[Teleport] thing? I still don’t understand this. You two are obviously still against each other—”

“I am not against Rozeta! Bah!”

