Rozeta looked askance at her father, disbelieving, then said to Erick, “Because none of our futures are assured, everything is in chaos, and I need ten thousand different trajectories toward the future in the hopes that one of them works well enough to save all the rest. You started the spell rolling, Erick, but every single one of us is needed to keep it going in the right direction, and I plan on keeping it going from here until eternity. To that end, I have recognized that almost every one of those trajectories leads toward a different type of Script than the one we have today. The dungeon cores will allow for extensive testing of variations of the Script before those prototype Scripts become a reality, so, according to the numbers, it really doesn’t matter how many fake people or real people we kill. We’re building for the rest of eternity here. Obviously, I do not want to cause undue harm, but poison can work well as medicine in the right dosage.”

Melemizargo laughed. “Ah! Wonderful! Wonderful! So let us all get the dosage right, right!”

Rozeta’s lips were a tight line. She said nothing.

Erick said nothing, either.

- - - -

Erick stood just outside of the [Tea Party].

Every single person who had come to the Feast, aside from Fallopolis and himself, were seated around small tables, drinking tea and talking of [Teleport] in a calm, rational manner. It was completely unnatural. Erick hated it for so many different reasons, but he had allowed it to happen because the alternative was everyone killing everyone else.

And now it was time to end this horror.

“This has gone on long enough, Fairy Moon. The discussion is cyclical and you are purposefully keeping them all under your control.” Erick said, “End it in a controlled manner.”

Fairy Moon stepped away from refilling Quilatalap’s cup, a large pot of tea in her hands. She did not look to Erick as she went to fill Zolan’s cup, saying, “Then be prepared to claim their calm yourself. Quilatalap quickens quickly.”

Quilatalap’s head jerked. He blinked. He set down his tea cup and then flicked it with a finger, sending it far. But not to the ground. Tea cup floated in the air, then came back to Quilatalap’s saucer, where it landed perfectly. All the spilled tea flowed through the air, back into the cup.

Quilatalap frowned at that, but it was an incomprehensible sort of frown, as though he couldn’t understand what had happened. And then he blinked again, and again and again. His soul stirred. Those internal teeth of his anima expanded, ripping at the ephemeral threads of Elemental Fae all around—

Quilatalap shoved away from the table, regaining more and more control of himself, growling out, “Fairy Moon… I will rip… I will…”

Erick spoke, “Quilat Alap Aloon Alee. Holy Necromancer of Koyabez. Peace be upon us all, please. Please come out of your justifiable rage.”

Quilatalap paused on hearing Erick’s voice. He shook his head again, blinking hard as Erick spoke his full name, while naming him a priest of Koyabez. His eyes briefly turned red before Erick asked for peace, rapidly returning to their normal dark green, a subtle redness flowing away from his whole body. His Rage was over, but his anger remained strong as he pulled himself away from the [Tea Party], his fang-filled soul ripping at the Fae Magic ensorcelling him, his steps labored but quickly growing in surety.

He stared at Erick, standing twenty meters away, and then he began walking toward him. As he got closer he whispered a demand, “Get me away from her.”

Erick wrapped the man in light and stepped them both to the throne room at the top of the tower, more than 400 meters away.

Quilatalap instantly rounded on Erick, his voice full of calm rage, “I need you to do two things, Erick. I need you to explain to me what happened while I was ensorcelled, and I need you to attempt to tell me why you did not rescue me from that ensorcelling right away. The second you will explain in words. The first you will explain through [Telepathy] dump. If I am unhappy with either explanation, you and I are over. Either way, I need some time alone after this. It might be a day. It might be a year.”

Erick calmly said, “I am sorry that I did not command Fairy Moon to cease her [Tea Party] right away. I did not want people to fight and—”

“YOU AND I COULD HAVE TAKEN THEM.” Quilatalap calmed, but not really, as he said, “Those who had died would be brought back. Chances are the fight would end after either of our first salvos.”

Erick waited a moment, then he said, “I did not want people to fight. I was furious myself. I needed answers and... I made a call that was not the call you would have made. I am sorry. I was…” His voice trailed off. He almost spoke of his own fears of that [Tea Party]. But...

Quilatalap breathed. “I have never spoken about a certain thing with you, and you have thankfully never asked, though you know that she and I are… She and I are not on good terms. You have never spoken of your own time under that fairy, but everyone knows what happened to you, and the reasons you hate her, too. You were ensorcelled for a few days. She had me for years. I will not speak on this with you, not right now, but I need you to know that I know what you went through, and if she had done anything like that again to you, I would have tried— I would have tried and failed…” Quilatalap breathed. “Let us move on.”

Erick watched Quilatalap’s Rage surface beyond his dark green eyes, like glitters of red among the rest, and Erick felt that Rage himself. He didn’t know exactly what Quilatalap had gone through. But Erick knew enough.

“I’m sorry.”

Quilatalap spat, “She wouldn’t have touched you. You could have walked right into that [Tea Party] and pulled me out.”

The pure terror that filled Erick’s mind surprised even him. He could walk into that? No. No he could not. Never. “I… I couldn’t walk into that. I’m sorry.”

Quilatalap breathed. He stepped away. He stared at the ceiling, at the nebulae and billion stars and the rainbow ephemera of a universe that might exist out there, but which was only visible with telescopes and special Elemental Light spells, or Elemental Star spells. Or maybe it was all an illusion cast by Melemizargo’s Feast Barrier magics. The only thing Erick truly knew about the sky at that moment was that it was a distraction for both of them.

After a moment of silence, Erick repeated, “I’m sorry, Quilatalap. I came when I could.”

“… I’ll take that overview of the last several hours now. I don’t need the density of the reports you have given to the Mind Mages, but I do need to know what happened, and what you were doing while I was… Under the fairy.”

“Okay.”

Erick sent the telepathic message.

Quilatalap closed his eyes, pulling apart what he had received, as he said, “You can go back downstairs now.”

Erick left.

- - - -

Extracting the others from the [Tea Party] took time.

Erick focused on those who had almost gone to war, first. Zolan and the hidden powers that the castellan had placed into the feast came out of the party. Perhaps unsurprisingly, Zolan and his seven hidden Elites were able to make themselves calm and coordinated rather quickly.

Zolan said, “Looking back on it, that was the most uncomfortable thing I have ever been through, but now I know a great deal more about what went on in that dungeon and how millions will die from the loss of [Teleport] and—” He took a breath. He said, “We have a lot of work to do. Have you spoken to the gods at all?”

“I have done that and a lot more. Use your Book Magic and read this first—” Erick tried to hand off the black book Melemizargo had given him, but the book passed through Zolan’s hands like so many shadows. “… I’ll send you a telepathic drop.”

Zolan frowned as the shadowy book returned to solidity inside Erick’s hands. “I would hear your experience with the godly decrees instead. Hollowsaur and Fairy Moon and the three elites from our collected allies—” He had to bite back fury. “They had a great deal of insight into the dungeons. I am sure I will learn whatever specifics are in that book in time.”

“I’m sorry I couldn’t respond sooner, Zolan.”

Zolan just shook his head.

Erick sent Zolan an overview of his own experience of the last several hours, and then he had Aisha and Volaro come out of the [Tea Party]. He apologized to the two of them as well.

Volaro said, “This is not worthy of an apology; we were prepared to explode over each other, and that fight was prevented. This is not the first time Fairy Moon has done this, and it will not be the last.”

“The way the fight was prevented is an eternally distant and non-important thing when compared to the reasons for the fight.” Aisha said, “I am glad, however, that we were able to have that calm discussion, for the work that comes next will save millions of lives, cause a rapid and unavoidable expansion of the powers of House Benevolence, and cause untold hatred against us, for people will think that you did this on purpose so that you could have power over the transportation of the world, and the gold gained from that power.”

Erick said, “I saw some of your conversations on all that. I’ll drop the [Gate] fees to a silver… or less. A copper. I don’t know. Free? I would do free, but free means that I cannot pay the people who will be necessary to upkeep the system.”

Aisha relaxed a fraction—

Zolan spoke up, “A silver per transport is reasonable; a tenth of current costs. The infrastructure expansion alone will not support anything cheaper, and that’s not even counting our king personally making the Gates for the next few years.”

Volaro asked, “Places like Enduring Forge and Ar’Cosmos and Stratagold will assist with Gate creation, though, yes?”

Erick said, “I hope so, but I don’t know.”

Aisha said, “The technique is too difficult. Of course, we could just make them out of platinum now that everyone will know that Erick has [Duplicate].”

“The Headmaster will provide the materials if the Geodes don’t.” Zolan said, “We could keep that [Duplicate] knowledge hidden.”

“Possibly.” Aisha said to Zolan, “I like your idea for a chit system for the Gates, instead of paying every time someone crosses one. It will save a lot of time and effort on paperwork.”

Erick said, “Sounds good to me. I was hoping to eventually get something like that set up, anyway.”

Erick continued to pull more and more people out of the [Tea Party], with Goldie coming out next. She was calmly detached about everything, but it was a facade. All of the Shades came out of the ensorcelling with a deep facade; they were not willing to show how terrifying the experience had been. Many of the normal people, the Cooks and the staff, came out with trauma written deep in the lines of their faces.

When the [Tea Party] was down to the last person, Fairy Moon brought Bright Smile out of the ensorcelling herself, taking the dragon empress’s hand and bidding her good day.

Bright Smile blinked a bit, smiled, and said, “What a wonderful little party, Fairy Moon. Such wonderful talks we have had.” She turned. “Erick? I would speak with you about a vast increase in our Gate system, as well as several more runes of [Renew]. Made in adamantium, if you could do such a thing.”

She looked ready to inflict genocide on quite a few people, with her bright smile inscribed upon her too-wide face, her red eyes glittering with red Carnage. She was back to normal. Thankfully, the Benevolence-lightning ring around her neck did not reappear.

Erick said, “I would be delighted to talk to you about all of that, but as we will be discussing those matters in depth, I would ask for a moment of time with Fairy Moon, first.”

“Of course of course! Then if there are no objections, I will take my inquiries to your castellan, and your wrought… Unless you know how to make adamantium yourself? Or will they sell you that precious metal?”

“I’m not sure I can make the metal myself, but I have never tried. I would be ordering the rune from Stratagold or another source, either way.”

Bright Smile kept her grin as she gave a queenly bow that was little more than a nod, then she walked past Erick, toward Zolan, Aisha, and Volaro, and a few others who all stood together far away from where the [Tea Party] had taken place.

And then it was just Erick and Fairy Moon, standing between many tables that looked more like lace doilies than anything else. They were fake tables. Soon, tea cups, saucers, pastries and then the tables and chairs themselves, all began to fade into the air, vanishing like the breaking of spellwork, but not at all like it should break. Erick got the impression that the setup was merely returning to Fairy, not actually breaking at all.

Fairy Moon asked, “Is there something to say?”

Erick nodded. “Please join me outside.”

- - - -

Erick reappeared upon the newly-forested roof of House Benevolence, north of the main structure and above what might one day be office space below. That space might end up being an office area a lot sooner than Erick had expected, since it seemed like he was set to replace the current [Teleport] options in the Script, and soon. Maybe he would leave the forest up here, since it seemed rather nice. The trees were normal size. Loose stone paths wound through the wild groves, offering a gentle ambiance to the place that was heightened by the starry sky overhead, and by the coolness all around. He’d have to inspect the roof below to see if there was damage, but for now…

It was nice.

Fairy Moon stepped onto the clearing next to Erick. “Salutations, singer to Darkness! Are you as excited about the eternities in the dungeon cores as I am? I cannot wait to set up some self-copies, to see what my other selves are up to!”

… Ah. Would that be a problem?

Probably.

Erick said, “Fairy Moon. Quilatalap was very upset about the [Tea Time], and he’s not the only one. I appreciate that you saved us all some war, but I do not appreciate how it happened. I would like a true apology from you, to him, and to all the rest of the people you ensorcelled.”

“Easily done! I’ll do it when we’re done here. Is that all?”

“… No, that is…”

Erick had wondered about this inevitable confrontation for a long time. About what he could say to make Fairy Moon not a threat to him, or his people. Every time he thought on the subject, he came up empty. The fact was that Fairy Moon was beyond him in a way that not even gods could change. Probably.

