Erick wasn’t sure why gods didn’t deal with her in a more permanent manner. Probably because of pantheon agreement not to interfere in these sorts of material matters more than necessary, and certainly never directly, or because Elemental Fae had to exist in some way, and they couldn’t close off every Band of Intent for fear of breaking something important, which was likely very true, or maybe Fairy Moon was simply beyond the gods, too. Probably the last option, if Erick was being honest with himself.

And so, there was only one thing that Erick could really do.

“I don’t want to ever be affected by ensorcellment from you and yours ever again, and I want to be able to protect others from you, as well. Is there some way to ensure that happens? Beyond the alliances I have already forged between us?”

Fairy Moon suddenly stared at Erick. She lost most of her joy, going quiet.

Erick waited.

Fairy Moon looked away, and her face turned impassive. For a long moment she stared off into the sky, and then she turned back. She was the Fae King, as she said, “You already know what to do to yourself to ensure this eventuality as you envision it being, but be warned, Erick Flatt, Wizard of Benevolence, Guiding Light to the Future of my Free Family, that in the way you can always kill anyone who truly displeases you, we can always do the same as well. But vulnerability to the soft sideways manifests a minor version of the final fate of final lives. A small sequestering of the self, as opposed to the need for deadly death to solve solutions. You ask for ascension, without knowing that ascension brings boons, but also a solidifying of stance. In cases of war, do you want for one to only wage annihilation? Or would you prefer the possibility of amnesty?”

Erick was pretty sure he knew what she was saying, but. “A clearer answer would be best.”

“Accrete to full Wizard, and don’t attack my family in a way that can actually hurt them.” Fairy Moon said, “The second statement was a warning, by the by.”

“And why does that work?”

“Because you will have made of yourself a paradox of power and perishing at the precipice of all. You will be untouchable and unchangeable by that which cannot reach, and only you will be able to reach yourself at all.” Fairy Moon frowned. “Now ask no more of this danger to myself and mine own! Let us talk of possibilities and production! Besides! I have no aims on you or yours; I have already not touched you at this latest [Tea Time].” She stared, “And anyway! You know that I did the right recourse. Even if you and your damned damner of souls could have salvaged all the death back there, I stopped a slaughter and led us to this better benevolent future fate, where everyone talks, and no one ruins our race to the future.”

“I will not admit that.” Erick paused, then he said, “I will, however, have you apologize to everyone that you ensorcelled.”

Fairy Moon pulled back a fraction, her tense eyes widening. And then she smirked. “Then I shall go give my apologies, and I shall call it my gift for the Feast. What gifts are you giving out?”

“Do you need a gift?”

“I want one.”

“I’ll figure it out, then. I was imagining Gates for a lot of people, but those are looking less like gifts and more like necessities to stop the collapse of modern Surface civilization.”

Fairy Moon nodded. “I will accept an assortment of rings from you, Erick, even if they are square-shaped and multiple meters wide.”

Erick frowned at her, saying nothing.

He lightstepped back into the House, back to everyone.

The entire population of the House was already deep in talks about everything, again, but thankfully it wasn’t layered with threats. Every single person there, from the Shades suddenly seeing a chance at real redemption if they did this right, to the overseers, writing down what areas of the Surface needed to be supported first, to the Cooks and servants, anxiously wondering about the safety of far-off relatives, to questions of the safety of Candlepoint…

They were all focused on the goal. To save as many lives as possible, and to keep civilization strong in the face of the coming [Teleport] apocalypse. Reluctantly, and in small whispers here and there, everyone was glad that the change would take a week to fully manifest; It could have been a lot worse.

Melemizargo could have laid his [Teleport Lock] upon the entire world in a flashing instant if he so desired.
