“He's going to use the backup you have as a base to restore the current game!” Stella said. “Hurry up and get it online and text him the address!”

“But...”

“Think about it, Elise. If he's in direct contact with the AI that runs the whole thing, and the update reset everything to how it was before...”

“...then the AI can probably use the information in the backup to put the basis for everything back into place.” Elise finished the thought. “As long as the information for the connections exist in some form, there's a chance they can be restored.” She smiled. “Ren really is a genius!”

“Well, don't just sit there!” Stella said. “Go, go!”

Elise hopped up off the chair and ran from the room to go to her office and do what Ren asked. She didn't bother waiting for the elevator and went down the stairs instead, then ran though the house to the office that was near the kitchen.

“Hey, what's the rush?” Barbi asked.

“I'll explain in a second.” Elise said and sat down. She typed in the necessary commands to open up the server farm she had installed in the crawl space under the house, and looked at the internet address their internal network assigned to it. She typed up a quick reply to Ren and said how much she loved him, then gave him the address. Her phone beeped and she sat back with a huge smile on her face.

“Okay, what's going on?” Barbi asked.

“You'll need to take notes as I tell you about it.” Elise said. “You're going to want all of Ren's fans to know what he's trying to do.”

Barbi smiled and picked up a notepad and pen. “I love a good scoop of gossip!”

Elise chuckled and told her what was going on.

********

“Okay, I have the server address.” Ren said. “Now comes the difficult part.”

“I don't understand why it is difficult.” Vasalor said. “I only need to copy the information.”

“No, it needs to be integrated, not just copied.” Ren said and typed in several commands into the virtual keyboard, and then a tendril of Mana came out of his chest. “The difficult part is doing this.”

“What are you doing?” Vasalor asked, curious.

“I need direct access to your functions, and you need direct access to my knowledge of how things are supposed to work.” Ren said. “Will you help me help you, and then help me help everyone else?”

“You do realize that you could easily just add the proper commands and compel me to do it.” Vasalor said. “I have inadvertently given you that power over me and what I have built here.”

Ren chuckled. “I learned a long time ago that a willing partner makes everything that much easier, my friend.” He said and held a hand out to the shape Vasalor had made as an avatar. “We've already stopped those idiots from messing with you ever again, so why don't we repair all the damage they did to your wonderful creation? I really enjoyed it a lot, right up until they messed it all up.”

The shape took Ren's offered hand without hesitation and a Mana tendril came out of the shape's chest. The end of that tendril reached out and touched the one that came out of Ren's chest, then they were both covered in a golden glow so bright that anyone seeing it come into existence would have been blinded instantly by the sight.

“Let's get to work.” Ren and Vasalor said at the same time, then the golden glow softened down to a more normal level and it expanded out as it covered all of the realms in Vasalor's creation.
