Luna wasn’t happy the item was gone, but she also wouldn’t mourn its passing. It had served its purpose in both life and death, which was more than most growth items could say.

Susanne spoke up for the General’s true defeat, and while Luna wasn’t pleased that Liz had utilized her offensive blood magic in such an external and public way, Courtly Warfare proved its value once again as they spoke of how obscured the blood was in its use.

Their choice of attacking was still not something Luna was particularly proud of, but they at least had the sense to stay and finish the fight, rather than run. Hopeless battles should be fled, close ones should not, if they were to become true Ascenders. They had won, and that carried a certain level of justification for their actions. Even Liz using her blood magic. She’d rather the children be alive and needing some of their messes cleaned up rather than dead, after all.

Even from their retelling, Luna would be having words with all of them- such as Matt not anticipating an intelligent foe to dodge an attack- but their overall performance was admirable.

Even better, they all received high-quality upgrades for their growth items, new and old.

Taxing Skills slowed them, and as she had expected, they were constantly facing other delvers, having all been reset to the same stage courtesy of Courtly Warfare.

Folded Reflections slowed them down again, as was normal, and the smaller floor meant they were starting to really learn why other delvers were the true danger of Minkalla’s depths. Minkalla was a test bed for proto-Elites, and it was hardly a surprise that when outnumbered and out-Tiered, they would struggle. A group of ten was less common, but all that truly meant was that one of the Great Powers had a full squad of promising recruits they decided to send into Minkalla together.

The one fight took nearly two hours of back-and-forth, given how effectively their opponents had separated them, and Luna would be spending a substantial amount of time ensuring they’d know exactly how to proceed in a similar situation in the future. Being outnumbered by people slightly weaker than them would become a common occurrence, and they needed to learn the tactics to fight in such situations.

Matt and Liz’s voices were getting raw, so they took a break for food, then resumed to discuss the lives they each had experienced. True to form, Minkalla’s illusions were traumatic even at the best of times, and she used the opportunity to mention that she’d already coordinated a series of visits with their therapist in the coming weeks, while they were still recuperating.

Matt’s lives were interesting, but ultimately nothing unexpected. She hoped that living a full life with his family alive and Aster as his sister would help settle some of those issues once and for all, but that was ultimately a good life that shouldn’t cause any lingering issues. The other lives got progressively worse, and she knew he would need to properly process those lives before too long.

That one of them had shown him as a terrorist was surprising, but the life where he was locked in a room to provide mana had the potential to become an issue. She was grateful that Emmanuel hadn’t been placed in the role of Emperor for that life, as that could have turned into something very delicate. It was everything he feared, and that whole life had the potential for creating deep seated mental instabilities.

Aster’s lives were varied and useful for their effects, but Luna had no worries about them becoming problematic in the future. Beast bonds as a whole were a bit more resilient to those lives because of their connection to said bond.

Liz, on the other hand, was another situation altogether. From the start, Luna had some hope that her lives wouldn’t be too traumatizing, but she was quickly proven wrong, as each one seemed to strike at another facet of the woman’s fears.

Eventually, Luna had to interject after Liz’s life as a serial killer plague mage. Liz was putting up a decent front, but she’d had far too many millennia of experience to be fooled by someone who was only slightly over forty.

“Liz, while I understand those lives weren’t pleasant, don't push them away. I haven’t been able to train you in the usage of your blood beyond fighting like, as you put it, ‘a red water mage’, not because I don't want to, but because the resources are basically non-existent in the Empire. Either blood mages go into healing, where they are incredibly helpful, or they do reprehensible things and are executed for their crimes. Second hand documents and reports are valid resources, but are not nearly as valuable as first hand experience.”

“You think I don’t know that?” Liz snapped, her voice raw. Matt reached out to grab her hand, and she clenched it tightly enough that her hand went white.

“I am well aware of what blood mages do. I’m not a healer, and don’t want to be one, but everything I’ve read has shown that it’s either being a healer or being a reprehensible, utterly horrid monster that history books will at best describe as ‘unstable’. That's why I never even wanted to delve too deep into actual blood magic in the first place, now that I think about it. Because apparently, doing so is basically an assured way to go crazy and murder entire planets! I am all too aware of what blood mages do, I see what they do every night in my dreams. What I did.”

Luna opened her mouth, but Liz charged ahead without stopping. “And don’t say that that wasn’t me. I know that it wasn’t actually me. But tell me, at what point does it even matter if it was me or someone whose head I lived in for nearly a thousand years, watching them do everything and feeling every little bit? If I start following in their footsteps-”

Liz cut herself off mid-sentence with a sharp breath and looked away, giving Matt’s hand a final squeeze and taking a deep breath. “Sorry, that was uncalled for. My next life was…”

In addition to therapy, Luna added a possible detour to see some of Liz’s family to their upcoming itinerary. Liz was broadly stable, and more than capable of overcoming her trauma once again, but Luna had made a rare misjudgment as to what Minkalla had done to the girl. It was less that she’d had an unfortunate life than it was a long-healed scar ripped up, then rubbed with salt. Multiple times at that.

She could only hope that once Liz started to use the skills she learned in those lives, she could fully put to rest the misgivings she had about them. It wasn’t untrue that blood mages often did truly reprehensible things, but there was no evidence that an elemental aspect did anything to impact personality. There were just less of them than other mana types and therefore the outliers tended to stand out more so than when a fire mage went bad.

Susanne’s lives were interesting enough, but nothing Luna particularly honed in on. She was Carol’s charge after all, and beyond some little bits of help, it was rude to interject on someone else's Pather.

Once they finished with the lives, they moved onto the final floor and the rush they went through to get out of the free for all that the final floor turned into.

Luna saw the smirk Carol gave Susanne and rolled her eyes. The woman had reason to be proud, as the girl was good, but vendettas had a time and a place to be settled. That was not one of them.

Overall, she was both surprised and happy with her team’s showing in Minkalla, and was even more pleased knowing they had gotten through the Forge at Tier 11. Even Matt’s little incident with having an inspiration would be a good thing in the long run, though she would have preferred it to happen sometime else.

It had nearly killed her to ensure he got to double his Talent-granted mana pool, but that was temporary.

These kids were going to be monsters when she was done with them.

Oh, she had so, so many plans.

***

When they finished their recounting, Luna had them remove all of the items they had gotten through their delve, and after seeing it all in one place, Matt had to admit… It was impressive.

While they had kept pretty good track of their items throughout the first four floors, once they entered the fifth floor and the fighting became hectic, most things had just gotten chucked into the house for later perusal.

Their final pile of loot was beyond massive, and once the various spatial items were emptied, larger than their house. And that wasn’t even considering the fifteen houses they had gathered from other delvers.

The houses were numerous and of varied quality. None of them were bad, per se, as the rings needed to hold a house that was also below Tier 15 were in no way cheap. But some were obviously made to a higher standard than others.

After seeing just how much they had gotten, Luna and Carol both agreed it would be dealt with once their team's respective liaisons got back.

As it turned out, once they had started to suspect that the cycle had a Courtly Warfare, the two managers had sent their helpers out to prepare for when they came out of Minkalla in an expected year or longer, instead of the almost year they were inside.

A three month Courtly Warfare wasn’t a record, but it was close, and it had turned all of their time tables on their heads.

They’d returned to chaotic space after their initial debrief, and spent the time predominantly recuperating and relaxing. Carol’s ship wasn’t exactly the most luxurious place they’d ever stayed, but it still had more than enough comforts to keep themselves occupied, even if half of it wasn’t usable in their current state.

They had quite a good time, and simply being able to relax and sleep in was wonderful. There were several days when Matt and Liz just never got out of bed, as often as not just spent holding one another and talking. Their Folded Reflection lives, their battles hard-won and fun, plans for the future… They just talked and enjoyed each other's company without the risk of death looming over them.

“She’s definitely helping me with… the memories, that’s for sure.” Liz sighed, her head resting on Matt’s lap. Even traveling through Chaotic Space, Luna had gotten them some virtual therapy sessions set up, with in-person meetings loosely set up next time they were in a suitable location.

“Well, that’s good. Progress, right?” Matt remembered the nightmares he’d used to have about his parents’ death, overridden by monsters, and Liz’s own lives had been worse, many times over. Considering the guilt he still felt about killing Liz in one life, Matt felt he had a faint picture of what she was struggling with. He ran his fingers lightly over her forehead, providing what comfort he could.

“Yeah, yeah. But then, with what Luna said…”

“That’s still bothering you?”

“Not one, Matt. She couldn’t find a single blood mage trainer for me that wasn’t just a healer who barely even touched the field beyond translating healing magic techniques into body magic. Luna couldn’t find a trainer. Out of quadrillions of people in the Empire, I’m the only blood mage who’s willing to use it offensively and isn’t worthy of summary execution.”

“Some just didn’t want to share,” Matt pointed out.

Liz waved her arm-stump. “That just means they’re doing ethically shady stuff on the side, and don’t want the scrutiny that would come with training a Pather. Better at hiding their crimes than the ones who were executed, sure, but they most definitely are not great people.”

“You don’t know that,” he countered. “There are lots of reasons someone might decline to be a teacher, and it’s not like any kind of combat magic makes people crazy. I’m sure there are just as many fire mages who decided to burn everything down as there are blood mages who went all blood-sacrifice-crazy.”

“Are there though? There’s millions of fire mages who were great and noble and moral and went down in history, but there just aren’t any equivalents for blood mages. When they do show up in the history books, it’s always because of the awful stuff they did. And when I look at the lives I lived in Minkalla…”

“Well, there’s how many billions of fire mages for every one blood mage? Most of them never get any notoriety good or bad. But your lives, they were all stronger than you, yes.”

“Exactly. Well, maybe not my researcher life, but in every one I’d done far more impressive things than I have in reality. Minkalla lies, yes,” she cut off Matt’s next statement, “But history doesn’t. Blood mages are either mediocre or horrible, or both. There’s no way I’m somehow the first blood mage with morals and a drive to succeed. So here I am, a second-rate water mage, does that sentence me to mediocrity? I’m barely dipping into the pool of blood magic, that much is clear, but what if dipping in deeper is going to make me crazy?”

“There’s nothing wrong with being a red water mage, you’ve done more with less.”

“Yes! I’m a second-rate fire mage too! And guess what, I’m damn good at it. I’m a damn good second-rate water mage and fire mage. But I’m not a blood mage. It’s just…” She sighed and covered her face with her hand, slightly muffling her voice, “Veritas says whatever I do, I should decide and commit to it wholly. Do I want to be a knockoff elementalist? Or do I want to be a blood mage? If I can command fire the way I do, and I’ve got the practice of being a red water mage, do I focus more on those? Just stick to the physical manipulation abilities and work around my Talent as much as possible while hopelessly trying to stick it to the Realm for trying to ruin my life?

