Matt was pretty sure she was at least partially motivated by the burns she had received, but she insisted that wasn’t the main reason… though she admitted it was a reason.

A Tier 20 version of [Hail], [Absolute White] summoned a cloud of snow and fog which slowed people, objects, and even spells which entered its radius, in addition to the more ordinary concealment it offered. Ambitiously, Aster wanted to modify it to not make its own fog, but instead apply the slowing effect to any other concealing mist, such as what her growth tiara could make, which was precisely the kind of advantage a flexible innate slot could offer.

Doubling up on area denial skills, [Cutting Hurricane] summoned gale force winds that also cut at targets inside its huge area. Against most strong targets, it wouldn’t do all that much, but it was great for clearing chaff and contesting flying targets who couldn’t brace against the ground.

The upgrade orbs were pulled out of their loot piles to be used after April came back, in case she got a Tier 8 or 14 skill that needed an upgrade.

After they settled that, it was left to their liaisons to beg, barter, and steal any other skills on their list. When Luna told April exactly that, Jeremiah laughed, seeming to be thinking that the cat was joking, but at her glare, quickly shut his mouth.

Despite the insane amount of wealth they had given her, the list of items Luna wanted in return was just as daunting, and Matt said a silent apology to their liaison for what she was about to have to deal with.

April though, seemed completely unbothered, saying she would handle it within three months, which made Luna grin.

In cat form, the grin was probably a little more threatening than otherwise intended, but it felt like April had passed a test just as much as they had coming out of Minkalla.

Once April and Jeremiah were set with their loot, the rest of them immediately left the system.

Even while recovering, none of them truly stopped training, but their training was substantially more relaxed, averaging about four hours a day, and focused on things which wouldn’t aggravate their wounds.

Carol focused primarily on light Concept usage, taking advantage of the comparative non-stress that Mind Over Matter had left their Concepts with, and got them to explore and grow used to their new Folded Reflection abilities, with more focus on Matt due to his healed spirit. All of them got training in how to best utilize their enhanced spiritual senses from Eternal Darkness, though.

Luna, for her part, gave more lessons on how to stimulate their cultivation to guide their bodies to lessening the healing cooldown, usage and integration with their new growth items, and some light Skill modification lessons. Matt wasn’t sure if it was more disorienting to be receiving lessons from a cat, or for Luna to not be pushing them to their very limits.

The latter at least made sense. All of them were well past the healing cooldown and usually spent at least seven hours a day sleeping— several times longer than what someone of their Tier would normally need. While they were recovering, they were still being healed. Luna kept a close eye on the progress of their healing, but left physical therapy in the hands of the healers.

Granted, things like limbs and such were a minor concern to the healers, who focused on healing their internals first.

Matt earned himself a raised eyebrow and shake of the head from the Healer who inspected his heart and lungs, before finishing the healing that he had received at Minkalla.

But at long last, he was whole once again.

Even if half his limbs were artificial.
