“Or, do I stick it to the Realm and legitimately go the blood mage route, with blood curses, sacrifices, plagues, and all? Do I want to find out what drove all of my predecessors to either abandon the field or go insane? I want to say that I’m better than that, that my other lives have prepared me, but did they really? Every one of my predecessors shared the same fate, am I really better than all of them? I’m good at this Matt, almost too good. What happens if an almost-Ascender or even outright Ascender quality blood mage goes crazy? Is that something I want to risk? Is that blood I want on my hands? ”

“Well,” Matt pecked her on the lips. “Whatever you do, I’m sure you’ll do great.”

“Mmm. That’s almost the problem,” she mumbled back, pulling him in close once again with a smile.

Still, difficult conversations aside, Matt couldn’t remember the last time they’d had such a stress-free time together. It was entirely possible they simply hadn’t since they started dating. Perhaps the Pather War, but even then, they still had something they needed to do, as opposed to being consigned to bed rest and movies. It had been decades since Matt had watched some of his favorite movie series as a child, but he had to admit that Liz’s running commentary about all the things they got wrong about Duke Waters in the movies’ ‘about’ him certainly changed the viewing experience. Whether it was better or worse, he couldn’t tell, but he enjoyed it nonetheless.

Their break eventually came to an end when Susanne’s liaison, Jeremiah, April, and Kurt met them at their next stop in realspace.

It was nice to see the silent man once more, and better yet, to get an update on The Unbroken, his friends from his time at the PlayPen and fellows from his home planet Lilly. They were doing well, and were trying to decide if they wanted to do their own run through Minkalla.

That gave Matt some mixed feelings. Melinda’s Talent may have granted her Overhealth, providing perfect healing with no cooldown, but he’d been inside Minkalla, and wasn’t sure if that alone would be enough to get them through the planet, especially if it started singling her out like it had with him.

And that didn’t even consider the fact that other delvers were just as dangerous, if not more so. Let alone the possibility of the six of them getting a floor theme that stopped her from using her skills altogether.

After making a note he needed to visit them in the next year or two, Matt and the others turned to their loot.

April looked torn between dismayed and delighted at the literal pile of work they had brought out of Minkalla.

Before they even separated the loot between teams, she and Jeremiah needed to go through all of it and give things at least a tentative value, which took three full days.

Once they had a rough estimate of the total value of the loot, the hard part started.

Divvying it up between the two teams.

Not because they fought over the loot, but because Matt, Liz, and Aster kept trying to give away too much of their loot to Susanne.

The three of them never had money issues since they figured out he could charge rifts, which was a luxury Susanne didn’t have.

But things were never that easy, they couldn't weigh things too far in her favor without breaking the rules of the Path, and there were rewards they wanted.

In the end, the lesser spoils were divided in an equal half and set aside to be sold off in the general exchange between Great Powers, if only to buy more needed items and useful things like natural treasures.

Though, they had an abundance of Natural Treasures in their own right.

They weren’t sure who they had killed, but one of their victims had dozens of different natural treasures along with many duplicates in his spatial ring, tucked away and untouched.

Some were simple natural treasures like Eternal Embers, only good for replacing firewood in their natural state, but others were much, much rarer.

Susanne ended up taking, at Carol's insistence, a natural treasure that would help her split her mana pool and a leaf from a Sicklebranch bush, which an alchemist could process into a potion that would both aspect one half of her mana to air, and even help with sharpening her air spells into honed blades. Combined with the bottle of Mercury’s Might from the challenge room on the seventh floor, she would have a split metal and air mana pool, which would give her plenty of flexibility in the future. The natural treasure she’d be using to split her mana pool would also make it somewhat easier to integrate additional mana types in the future, or develop existing mana types into higher-order ones, which made Matt wonder a bit about what they were planning on doing.

It was unlikely to be Void— though the attack power it provided was undeniable, since there were practically no natural treasures that granted the affinity. Those which did exist only tended to show up once every few dozen millennia, and nobody had figured out the right mix of lower-level elements to make the ultimate Nothingness, if it even existed. A seventh floor Blood is Thicker was the only way he’d ever heard of doing so reliably.

Matt already had the Sliver of True Night's Sight, so he passed on a similar natural treasure that Liz took. He took some Ironsight Salt for himself, which when dissolved into water and dripped into his eyes enhanced his vision by a fair margin, mostly in his ability to track moving targets and notice fine details. It was exactly the kind of thing he was aiming for with his focus in sense cultivation, and would help with both combat and enchanting. Ordinarily, the natural treasure would turn his pupils gray, somewhat like Susanne, but his Concept overpowered the effect, leaving him with his white, swirling pupils that bled into his green iris.

Aster ended up grabbing a Feather of Falling, a natural treasure that gave the person who took it the ability to better control themselves while they were falling. She didn’t need it for that effect, but it was one of the core ingredients in a wind potion that would strengthen her control over air mana.

The next big-ticket items were the houses. Some of them were quite nice, and Susanne and Aster each decided to take one of them. Aster took one so she had somewhere to call home herself when she was separated from them, once she reached Tier 15 and went off to the beast academy. Susanne took the other because the house was simply better than the one she had gotten from the Tier 10 Pather tournament.

Luna tried to tell Aster she would have little need of the house, but she set her mind on it and refused to budge, so they let her have it. The rest of the houses were set to either be absorbed by Matt’s growth house once he reached Tier 15, and could use a larger spatial ring, or were to be sold outright for other helpful items.

Most of the swords went to Susanne so she could absorb them into her Concept, even the void longsword Matt had used to defeat his reflection during the final fight of the sixth floor. While a void weapon was handy, it wasn’t a growth item, and he would have little use for it as a Tier 13 that would be delving in at least Tier 15 rifts. Void was strong, but changing his entire style for a weapon that would ultimately only be useful for a few Tiers was pointless when Susanne could get much more use out of it, once they confirmed it would be safe to shove inside her spirit.

The rest of the arms and armors were divvied up to be sold en masse at the Corporation’s moon orbiting Minkalla, which hosted one of the largest inter-Great Power markets in the realm. April informed them that some of it would be shipped away back to the Great Powers proper, but most would end up back inside the planet one way or another, which gave Matt an odd feeling.

Skills were the next biggest debate. They had nearly a thousand Tier 8 skills, twice that in Tier 14 skills, and nearly one hundred and thirty Tier 20 skill shards. It was a staggering amount of wealth, far too much for them to properly assess in a reasonable amount of time without help.

After looking through the piles of skills, they took the few they wanted and then gave the rest to the liaisons to sell and barter off in exchange for a laundry list of skills that Carol and Luna wanted their respective teams to take. The first was [Arcane Powershot], which was most commonly found in the Corporations, Clans, and Sects under the names of [Conjured Weapon NM20-AR], [Skypiercing Bow], and [The Divine Arrows of Distant Vengeance] respectively. It was a skill that summoned a magical bow, then allowed for channeling mana into a single magic arrow that was fired off at incredible speeds. With a base effective range of fifty miles, it was considered an ‘extreme’ range skill, far better than what even [Cracked Mana Spear] could accomplish, but that wasn’t what made it special.

While the mana arrow was being reinforced, the skill also allowed other bow skills to be applied, giving a wide latitude of additional effects with the appropriate setup. There were some drawbacks, however. When releasing the arrow, it kicked like a mule, and the spell itself anchored the caster in order to prevent them from being flung backwards. Effectively, he couldn’t move while firing. Additionally, the mana control requirements for making the arrow and layering effects on top of it could become quite high. Normal mages had trouble when using half their mana pool per shot, and Matt expected to use several times that amount.

With that in mind, Matt collected a few skills that would bolster his new ability, putting his Taxing Skills reward to good use. He had the mana and outer skill slots to spare, and there was no compelling reason to not use a few skills supporting his new ability and corresponding new strategy. [Telescope] would help him see his targets past the normal limits of his sight, [Piercing Shot] would add some basic armor piercing to his arrows, [Illusory Arrow] would project an illusion of the arrow following a slightly different arc as it flew, and [Pinned Shadow] would stick a person in place when their shadow was struck by the arrow.

Aside from the bow skills, he also found [Hypersonic Edge], which he had seen the utility of firsthand. It wasn’t quite as good for him as it was for Susanne, but it would boost a substantial part of his arsenal.

Susanne took [Searing Weapon], a Tier 20 version of [Fire Weapon] which focused more on heat rather than flames, and could get hot enough to burn through metal armor, given a few strikes. Typically, this heat could damage the user’s weapon if too much mana was used at once, but weapon Manifestations didn’t have that problem. She also grabbed [Bulwark], which they had in their pile of skills. She wouldn’t be able to abuse the skill as much as Matt did, but it remained a staple skill for melee fighters for a reason, and she would likely be able to infuse it into her shield Manifestation with some practice.

Additionally, April identified the light skill they had found from their challenge crystal on Folded Reflections as [Corunthican Defense], a skill not usually found in the Empire which reactively shot down incoming magic with focused rays of light, disrupting their structure and typically causing them to detonate harmlessly. It had its limitations, mostly against very large attacks, but it provided a strong and cheap counter to tactics like Matt throwing out [Fireball]s as fast as he could cast them. Susanne took that skill with a grin, remarking that Matt hardly needed a dedicated defense against being whittled down.

Liz wasn't left out of the new skill splurge. [Heartpiercer] was a spear skill meant for piercing both magical and mundane armor by making the spear heavier and heavier as mana was channeled in, culminating in a shaped explosion when the spearhead struck the target.

Despite the name, [Shadow Sword] worked nearly as well on spears as it did swords. It paired well with a number of other skills, especially [Rapid Thrust]. Unfortunately, that skill had broken when Liz brought it into her spirit, but [Illusory Feint] still had potential. She’d absorbed it during Folded Reflections, but the illusions hadn’t become real blood as she’d hoped they would, instead becoming illusions of blood spears. It was on the list of skills Liz was planning on moving to her outer spirit or outright ejecting from her spirit altogether, but she hoped combining the attack with [Shadow Sword] would be just as effective as it was normally.

Ideally, the combination of the two skills would make three insubstantial blood copies of her weapon, and one very real one. It wasn’t an entirely original trick, as illusionists had whole books filled with similar misdirections, but some things were classics for a reason. Her Courtly Warfare boon would throw even more mud in the water, making any opponents who she did hit fail to notice their wounds, and conclude that they’d only been struck by an illusion. Once her spirit was in good enough shape, she was looking forward to trying out her preemptively-christened [Pulmonary Echo].

Aster took her own share of skills to round herself out. [Ice Skin] was a Tier 14 skill that few took prior to Tier 15, as it could kill the user through hypothermia, but it otherwise provided some strong defense by hardening the skin and making many attacks slip off the user, at the cost of slowing the person down some. Aster had plans for it, though, and using one of her Folded Reflections lives as a basis, she planned to modify the skill to turn her fur into ice instead of her skin. In addition to negating the movement speed drawback, it would let her fur act as ablative armor that could be regrown far more easily than her skin could.

