Yawm grabbed the sphere of green energy in his palm, “Now this is much more interesting.”

Once more, I doubled the mana generation. It was time to pull my last wild card. With how my armor worked and how much extra mass I had, I might outweigh Yawm. As I did, I pulled in the aura dispersing my weight. My weight increased along with my mana generation.

At the same time, I reached out with event Horizon. Once my mana generation reached its apex, cracks formed under my feet beneath me. This was where the act’s main event came into play.

The runes along Yawm’s skin glowed green, his own mana filling into the carvings. He raised a hand, excitement building in his voice,

“It’s been many years since I’ve seen a warrior generate this level of energy. I might actually get some exercise from crushing you.”

As we both amplified our energies, hordes of the lake’s fish came closer. Attracted to the light, they hoarded around us. I reached out with Event Horizon, avoiding Yawm and Torix. I covered the surrounding swarms of fish.

Event Horizon drained from hundreds of them. As it did, my own mana generation increased. First it doubled, then tripled. It increased higher and higher, creating a tangible discharge around me.

I condensed the aura of energy, the cloud of mana thicker than water. I kept increasing the output until my hands shook with an unrestrainable fervor. Without the mana having runes to fill into, it coursed through my own viens. The power was adrenaline, giving me a euphoria. I felt invincible, even though I understood that I wasn’t.

Reigning that in took all I had as I turned towards Torix,

“Leave.”

Torix reached out a hand towards me. He sent a message,

(Torix Worm, of Darkhill, 3:01 P.M. 1/15/01) - What are you doing?

Using the mental functions of Schema, I sent back a message,

(Dimension C-138, 3:01 P.M. 1/15/01) - Making Yawm think I am much stronger than I am. I already have a plan. Leave.

Torix bit his lip, before turned and walked into a shadow portal. I turned back to Yawm, standing my full height. I raised a hand to him,

“I’ll let you have the first hit.”

Yawm raised an eyebrow, “If you are so inclined to destruction, allow me to act as your destroyer.”

He reared back a hand. An aura of green formed around us, soaking the area with radiation. The sensation burned, like I was standing in a microwave. Around us, the green coalesced into Yawm’s fist, taking the green aura with it.

Another aura of green siphoned into his fist. As it did, the energy cracked with a sound like shearing iron. Yawm stepped forward,

“Let’s see if your abilities are worth your confidence.”

His fist went forward, and I didn’t see it. The movement was too fast and too quick. The fist slammed into my chest in a flash of green light. A wild smile was on my face. Your thinking I’m insane at this point. That was at least partially true. Without anything to channel into, my mana was instilling a sense of abandon in me.

That was part of why I was so confident this would work. I had a tree called Invincible. Here’s what it said.

Invincible(Tier 5) - Only 70% of your total health may be deducted from any single attack. Any damage received over 70% of your total health will not do damage. Instead, it will be added to your next attack as flat physical damage. This flat damage is affected by your physical damage multipliers.

This meant that I was guaranteed to survive the first strike from Yawm. The second strike? Not so much. From what I’d seen of Yawm though, I doubt he thought he would have to strike more than once. After taking the brunt of his attack, I would heal using the surrounding wildlife. Once that finished, I would retaliate with everything I had using the damage bonus from invincible.

Once he took that single attack, I’d negotiate using Ajax. If this worked out like I planned, Yawm wouldn’t believe we were at his mercy anymore. That was the main problem with our plan so far. If Yawm took me and restrained me until Ajax needed him, Yawm could do so without a problem. It was a terrifying prospect.

Ajax would come back, and we would be tools for Yawm to use for whatever he wanted. That was the problem with relying on Ajax immediately. Yawm would know that we were no match against him. I needed to trick Yawm into thinking I was a match for him, even if it took some bullshit tactics to do so.

So that’s exactly what I did. Relying on the system, I took the brunt of Yawm’s attack. If I told you it hurt, I’d be lying. If anything, I didn’t feel a thing. My body was wrecked beyond belief. It was obvious that he would one shot me with a charged attack like that. I honestly thought I died from the attack, and my conscious was just floating in the afterlife.

That wasn’t the case. My status screen was still around me. I looked at my health bar. 30% was still left. The light from Yawm’s attack still hadn’t faded though. Whatever he did to our surroundings, the lake was still there, along with all the fish. Like a giant health sponge, I soaked up their energy, rebuilding my body.

My hands, eyes, hell, even my brain all came back before I stood in the blinding light. As I did, a sense of extraordinary strength filled me. It was like all that damage I took was charged into my fist, turning it into a nuclear warhead. The light faded over the next few seconds, revealing the decimated room.

Around me, a forcefield of green encapsulated the destruction. Every particle of matter within the room had disintegrated into nothingness. Outside of the shield, a plume of white dust filled the air of the room, blocking Yawm’s vision. I could only see his palm making contact with the forcefield. From what I could guess, he locked me in some sort of anti-matter field.

I was on the other side opposite to Yawm. From him hitting me, I was blown away. Before the dust particles cleared from the outside of the room, I lifted a hand. I suspended myself with gravity magic, floating just in front of Yawm’s palm. With all the might of Yawm’s overkill amplifying my strength, the green capsule of energy faded.

I landed beside Yawm, my feet cracking the white ground. My entire frame shook at the energy being held within. It took all my willpower to stay calm, but I somehow spoke with nonchalance,

“Was that it? My turn.”

I torqued on my heels, discharging my runes and lining up all my skills. Adding every little bit that I could to the attack, I discharged 50% of my health with the strike. The mana electrocuted the nerves in my hand, numbing them. My fist propelled forwards, the white dust in the room dispersing as my fist smashed into Yawm’s stomach.

The metal bone at the center of my arm crumpled on impact. The shockwave dispersed through the room, tearing the ice apart. The shockwave kept destroying the space around us. The water waved outwards, the lake splitting down the middle. Above us, a wave of wind shot outwards.

Trees bent, nearby ones snapping like twigs. Boulders were sent flying. Floating islands were pushed away and aside as a cloud of dust ebbed outwards. My entire body broke, skin rupturing as my body held together by a string. Blood dispersed from my broken arm and mouth, tearing me apart. Tears poured down my cheeks, my body crying for no reason.

I blinked again. A sheen of gray covered my vision. I wasn’t crying. My eyes were bleeding. After shaking that feeling off, I looked in front of me. Like all my other strikes, I shot my fist into a telekinetic pad, firing a telekinetic bullet into Yawm. It landed on his stomach. It punched a hole through his chest and out his back.

Yawm was keeled over by the monstrous attack. There was no floor beneath us, not even water below that. My attack managed to disintegrate everything around us. Before we both fell downwards, I raised a hand, suspending us with gravity. Carrying both us took a bit of mana, but I still regenerated through it.

The water of the lake still hadn’t returned from my attack. Yawm floated with green blood dripping from his chest. He looked up at me, both his fists clasping with strength still in him,

“Incredible...To think such a warrior was sitting here in a backwater world on the fringes of Schema’s domain.”

I left my helmet over my face. Otherwise he would see all the blood. I focused all my healing onto my broken arm, pulling it together. I lifted it, clasping it into a fist. I tried speaking, but blood clogged my throat. I swallowed a mouthful of blood, then another before speaking,

“I pray I made my point clear.” I leaned towards Yawm, “I do not fear you, Yawm. It is you that should fear me.”

The entire time, my hands and feet were shaking. My arms shivered. Beneath this mask, there was a deep fear. Yawm disintegrated me. How Schema kept me alive, I don’t really know. The fish around us were gone, tossed ashore from the impact of my strike. Without their health pools, I wouldn’t be able to get back on my feet should this fight continue.

Despite that, I kept my voice firm and my face strong. Even if I felt like falling over, I wouldn’t let Yawm know that. Even if I had weakness, I wouldn’t reveal it to him. I would hide it, making him believe I could call upon this strength at anytime.

Yawm lifted himself up, spreading out his arms, “Hah, hah! Incredible. Just incredible.”

Around him, the green aura formed once more. It coalesced over his stomach. The radiation condensed back into flesh, healing him in seconds. Yawm turned around. He lifted a hand. A wave of green energy came in from all around us once more. As it did, it carried the water and fish of the lake.

The water sloshed into the empty lake beneath us before Yawm spread his arms wide. He pulled them together. As he did, the castle of ice formed once more. Within seconds, the room of white materialized around us. The effect occurred fast, so fast that it was surreal. It felt like he was reversing time almost.

With the same view of a lake overhead, Yawm turned towards me. By now, my body regenerated in full. I even absorbed the blood off my body, making me look unharmed. Beneath the surface, my mind was still shaken. It’s kind of like running in front of a train. It’s hard on the mind, even after the deed is done.

Yawm raised a hand, frenzy pouring from his voice, “You strike with the power of a Sentinel! It’s remarkable. Come, we’ll go elsewhere for the rest of the battle.”

I shook my head, raising a palm to him, “I didn’t come here to fight. I came here to show you that I fear no one, and that should you choose to battle me, I will retaliate. Besides for that, I wanted to learn the cipher.”

Yawm’s shoulders bent down as he tilted his head, “Are you not a warrior?” He growled, “Do you not want a worthy battle?”

All of the sudden, his warrior king background made sense. After the polite spill though, there was an odd dissonance hearing him speak. On one hand, Yawm was educated and intelligent. He had charisma and a principled approach to his life, albeit a twisted one.

On the other hand, here was the monster within that destroyed worlds and deformed people for experimentation. Once the monster was out of its shell, it didn’t want to go back beneath the surface. If I didn’t reign it back in, Yawm would destroy me. I needed to use what Yawm told me against him.

With all that flashing through my mind, I frowned as I spoke,

“If you win that fight, then you lose Ajax. Without him, you’re trapped here, meaning you die once the planet is glassed. If I win that fight, then I lose your knowledge of the cipher. It’s a lose-lose situation, regardless of how good the fight is.”

I raised a hand at Yawm, “You mentioned having all these grandiose goals, right? Words are cheap. Put some actual action behind them. I can help you if you help me, but if we keep fighting, we aren’t gaining jack shit. We’re just wasting each other’s time.”

Yawm shook his head before sighing. He looked down at me, “That...That is understandable. Perhaps we could spar or exchange techniques at a later date. Keeping focused on the goals at hand is a more amicable course of action. A good fight can always wait.”

It was like the scholar in Yawm was taking back over. Feeding into it, I nodded, “Then after you’ve taught me about the cipher, I’ll release Ajax to you. If you show me what and how your fighting, I can give Althea to you too. Is it a deal?”

Of course I had no intention of doing so, but Yawm would be none the wiser. I put out a hand, gesturing him to shake it. He stared at my hand, then back up at me,

“What is this?”

I looked at my hand, “Uh, it’s a handshake.”

Yawm raised out his hand.

“What does it symbolize?”

“A deal. It’s like giving your word in a conversation.”

“Ah, it’s an informal agreement between two parties.”

I frowned, “I guess so.”

Yawm shook his hand about furiously.

“Like this?”

I laughed for a moment before grabbing his massive hand. Two of his fingers wrapped around my wrists as I said, “No, this is how its done. You want to keep it firm, but not crushing the other person’s hand.”

Yawm used his free hand to grab his chin,

“Ah, I see. Excuse me if I dishonored your customs.”

I shook my head, laughing a bit. It was a nervous laugh more than anything. Here was some god of destruction messing up a handshake. It was refreshing seeing Yawm turn mortal, if even for a moment.

I shook my hand, “You’re fine. It’s not some huge insult or anything. Now can we learn the cipher this time?”

Yawm nodded, lowering his hand,

“I hope you’re unlike the others I’ve tried teaching before.”

“Uh, what do you mean?”

