I tapped one of my fingers on the armrest of my chair,

“Why do you need her, and what do you intend to do with her exactly?”

Yawm steepled his fingers, “It begins with a story from my past. At one point, I was an avatar for Etorhma. I was someone he chose to enact his change onto this world. This may sound like a blessing, but I assure you, it was a curse.”

Yawm tilted his head, “In this case, I executed several very difficult missions for Etorhma. Etorhma granted me knowledge of the cipher in exchange for my deeds. At the time, I served as a breaker for Schema already.”

Yawm spread one hand out,

“On one hand, I hid my knowledge of the cipher from Schema. On the other, I hid my fight against the Old Ones from Etorhma. You see, that is Schema’s ultimate aim. He wants someone who can destroy the Old Ones for him. They are one of the few things left that can oppose Schema. As you already know, Schema does not tolerate threats.”

Yawm pressed his fingertips together again, then pointed them at me,

“If what I’ve assumed is correct, then you are following my footsteps. Schema is preparing you to take on this role of a Fringe Walker. Then, he’ll task you with slaying the Old Ones, just as he tried doing with me.”

Torix gasped, and a shiver crawled up my spine. It felt like we opened Pandora’s box by talking with Yawm. It was like Schema was a magician, and Yawm was letting us peak behind the curtain of his grand show. Still, I grounded myself by biting my lip. The taste of blood focused my mind, letting me stay skeptical.

Yawm shook his head, “As you may already imagine, this isn’t the most tantalizing of tasks.” Yawm locked his eyes with mine,

“Schema will force it on you, just as he tried forcing it upon me. I broke free from those bonds, but I sacrificed everything to do so. I don’t want you to make that same sacrifice.”

I narrowed my eyes, “I still don’t understand why Althea is necessary.”

Yawm raised his hands, “The reason is she can harm even old ones with her attacks.”

Torix spread out his arms, “How is that even possible? She can’t even defeat Daniel.”

Yawm’s eyes narrowed and I glared at Torix. Torix was the one that told me not to tell Yawm anything. It wasn’t the best sign that he wasn’t sticking to his own advice.

Torix turned towards me, “I’m sorry, Harbinger. I was caught up in the moment.”

Yawm nodded, “You’ve fought against her then? You no doubt understand how dangerous her abilities are. She ignores any kind of resistance, and she can return from the dead, at least within a certain time frame. That and her eldritch side makes her very useful.”

Yawm stared at me, “She is the only being I’ve created that can stay stable even with eldritch energy flowing through her. Everyone else deforms. Some slowly at first, but they all fall over in the end. Even my followers...”

Yawm shook his head, continuing with sadness leaking into his voice, “Even though they offered everything to me, I could not keep them stable.” He glanced at me, “That is partly why I am not as angered by their deaths as you may have envisioned. They’re lives were ones of tremendous discomfort.”

I raised my eyebrows, “Discomfort?”

Yawm sighed before leaning back in his chair, “I suppose that was a lighter way of wording it. Let’s use agony instead. Regardless, they each let me try my experiments of their own free will. I did not force a thing upon them, not even Ajax.”

Yawm looked out of the room, “He was...a mistake. He was drunk off the idea of power, but he never understood the vastness of his undertakings. He wanted so much, but he was unwilling to sacrifice, whether it be time or effort.”

I grimaced, “Kind of like how you sacrificed this city here for a bit of safety?”

Yawm snapped his eyes towards me. After a tense moment of silence, he spoke,

“Can you tell me that you have not sacrificed others so that you may live?”

I gritted my teeth. I remembered Michael and Kelsey. I remembered the freedom fighters.

Yawm nodded, “Indeed, I believed it to be the case. I do not pretend as though I am some saint, but I am not evil either. Most of the planets I’ve hid on weren’t even populated. They were planets smothered with eldritch.”

Yawm leaned towards us, “So yes, I did need some safety before I could fully recover the dimensional leap. You’ll notice the quarantine your species put up was never broken. That is no mere coincidence. I informed my followers never to break Schema’s quarantines. I didn’t want all the life of a planet to die just for my own life.”

Yawm gestured his hand sideways in a mock bow, “I am a selfish creature that wants to live. You may fault me for that. Know that I would never have resorted to such brutality if not for Schema’s interference.”

Yawm sighed as he leaned back up, “I’ve always set up my bases on fringe worlds. I stopped doing so after Schema glassed the first few planets I landed on. You’ll also notice that there have been no new experiments since Althea. Do you want to know why?”

Torix and I stayed silent. Yawm crossed his fingers, “Because I culled every member of my army in order to root out traitors. That and the members overseeing Althea’s creation.” Yawm pinched between his eyes and closed them.

“They sent the only survivor of the tears experiment away. For what?”

Yawm thumped his head with each word, quaking the room,

“To...Hunt...Bounties...” Yawm shook his head in disgust, “The incompetence.”

I leaned over, talking to Torix, “I wonder if he could handle talking to Hod.”

Torix shook his head, “Hmmm...Interesting question. I doubt he could.”

Yawm glanced up at us, “Who is Hod?”

I shrugged, “He’s a friend.”

Yawm nodded, leaning back into his chair. The sense of control and calm came back as he grabbed the side of his neck and pulled. After it cracked, he shook his head and crossed his fingers. He gestured a hand to me,

“So tell me Harbinger, what do you think of my proposition.”

I was asking myself the same question. I turned, looking at Torix. Torix sighed at me, like he was at a loss. I turned back to Yawm, having the same feeling.

The thing was, Yawm’s arguments made perfect sense. He was working towards enormous goals. In his mind, he justified his methods of achieving them with how much they would help. It was true that if he ever unlocked the eldritch gene or made Schema better, he’d be a savior.

That was the problem though. Yawm’s results painted a different picture. The plague he set out murdered thousands. I needed to wean a bit more information from him about that before forgiving him. The followers chose to let him twist their bodies. Maybe that was true, but Ajax told it more like Yawm was holding his life for ransom.

If anything, my gut told me that Yawm was full of shit and just trying to justify his insanity. That was my initial impression. Althea was not stable without my armor eating her excess mana. Otherwise she molded into a fumbling monstrosity. Even then, eldritch still attacked her. She was an example of Yawm’s methods failing.

I raised an eyebrow, “So tell me, why did you create the world tree after coming here?”

Yawm leaned against the arm of one of his chairs, “As you may imagine, creating a rip in dimensional fabric consumes an enormous amount of mana. Ajax is far too weak to create this level of energy, therefore I am the one who offers it. Once I arrived on earth, I go into a coma within a world tree. I ask the world’s life to give me excess strength.”

Yawm waved his hand, “It’s how I recover after such arduous travel.”

I nodded, “Alright then. Why do you believe that Althea is the hidden link to the eldritch?”

Yawm spread out his hands, “Because she generates eldritch mana within her body. If we can alter her physical structure to sustain itself with that mana, then we’ve created an eldritch. That is a pivotal step to bridging the gap between us.”

My stomach sank at the thought of Yawm getting his hands on her. Althea mentioned hearing voices whenever her mana was engulfing her. Hod mentioned the same thing. Based on what they said, it sounded like the eldritch mana just hadn’t had time to eat them from the inside yet.

Besides for that, my armor devoured eldritch mana like it was nothing. If Yawm knew that my armor could handle eldritch mana, he might try and fuse our DNA’s. Either that or something even worse.

In my head, I winced at the thought. On the outside, I kept a cold, calculating expression. I leaned towards Yawm, acting as if I was in control of the situation,

“What makes you think that someone producing eldritch mana will retain their minds?”

Yawm raised an eyebrow, “What do you mean?”

I gestured a hand outwards, “I know other creatures that live off of eldritch mana.”

Yawm grabbed the armrests of his chair, crushing them to powder, “You found other beings existing with eldritch mana?”

I nodded, acting casual as I stared at my fingernails, “Indeed I have. Many of them, in fact. There’s something they all have in common.” I turned towards Yawm,

“All of them struggle with voices in their heads. If they ever slip up, those voices consume them, turning them into an eldritch. In all honesty, they would have all been consumed without my help already. If anything, that makes me think this is a doomed cause.”

Yawm tilted his head, “Not only do you know of other half-eldritch, but you understand how to help them as well...I must admit, I’m impressed.” Yawm leaned his chin against one of his hands,

“I’m quite curious about your past and what you’re doing on this world. I’ve answered many of your questions. Why don’t you answer a few of mine.”

I shrugged, “I’ll see what I can do.”

Yawm pointed at the dimensional cipher on my forearms, “Where did you learn those characters?”

I looked at my forearm, “From an eldritch.”

Yawm’s eyes widened, “They’re remarkably well made. What was the eldritch doing with the runes?”

I shrugged, “I honestly don’t know.”

Yawm pointed at my armor, “What is this armor? It feels...odd.”

I raised a hand. The armor molded on it, shifting into sharpened spines from the tips of my fingers.

“It’s not armor. It’s my skin.”

There was a hint of hunger in his voice,

“Interesting. Would you mind if I took a sample of it.”

I set my hand down on the armrest, “Yes, just as you would mind if I took a piece of your skin from you.”

Yawm tapped his fingers against his armrest, “Perhaps one day then.”

“Perhaps. I have another question. Would you teach me the dimensional cipher?”

Yawm nodded, “I would teach all that I know, for a price.”

I raised an eyebrow, “What exactly?”

Yawm pointed at me, “There are many things I would like from you. I want Althea back in my possession. The half-eldritch would be quite interesting as well. Running comparisons between the two could be quite lucrative. Those are the most compelling offerings you have. Outside of that, however-”

Yawm spread out his hands, a bit of greed and envy leaking out from his voice,

“I’d like a sample of your armor. Perhaps a copy of the runes you learned the cipher from, and also the dimensional spear you took from Ajax.”

The carefully crafted mask Yawm wore was peeling off. There was an edge in his voice, something primal and animalistic. His patience was wearing thin. He tried convincing me with words. After seeing that tatic fail, he was readying himself for a fight.

I raised an eyebrow, “I never stole the spear. I simply restrained Ajax.”

“Really now? How did you hold down someone who can walk on other planes?”

I shrugged, “That’s something you won’t know until I disclose it. Besides, you had a very long list of stuff you wanted. That’s quite a bit to ask for, isn’t it?”

Yawm laughed, “Hah, hah, hah...Do you believe that your in any position to refuse?”

I knew it. The civil, gentleman persona was gone. The real Yawm beneath it was coming out.

I grinned, “In fact, I do.”

Torix stared at me, a look of horror spreading over his face. He raised a hand, “There’s no need for this.”

I raised a palm to him, “Silence.”

Torix leaned back, a look of surprise on his face. He almost spoke again, but I locked eyes with him. Torix closed his mouth and lowered his hands. I turned back to Yawm. I stood from my chair. If this was going to work, I needed absolute confidence.

I had two factors that Yawm couldn’t match, even with his just ridiculous level. The first was my mana generation. With my armor and endurance, he wouldn’t match it. Combine that with bonus mana from Event Horizon, and I could put on quite the show.

As Yawm stood from his chair, he looked down at me. He raised a hand,

“Now tell me this. Did you see what I did to the legion attacking my world tree.”

Around Yawm, a green aura formed. Tiny particles around us popped midair, releasing enormous bursts of radiation. Within his palm, the radiation condensed into a green sphere. Yawm glanced at it,

“Now imagine this, Harbinger. I give you two options. Either I force this down your throat, or you can tell me what I want to know and do what I want you to do.”

I looked down, ramping up my mana generation. With a gradual pour, I channeled my mana from the runes on my forearms into my armor. The red aura spread, filling into my runes. Once they saturated, I looked up at Yawm.

Yawm laughed, “Hah, you intend on fighting me with the watered down remnants of the cipher? Laughable.”

I clasped my hands into fists. I ramped up the mana generation. At first I doubled it. Then I doubled it once more. Arcs of lightning shot across the room, singing the white panels of the room.

