Most people do not truly understand their own flaws. It is easy to notice what weaknesses you have on a surface level, but past that, your problems are usually systemic and structural, majorly influenced by your environment and the context you face. This is where things get complicated; it is why many Pathbearers, even those who attain great power, are cut down in battle.

Oftentimes, we say someone is clumsy or inattentive. These things can be generally true. These might indeed be weaknesses, yet in an active war zone, they suffer from no issues. In fact, they seem to be tuned into the battle itself. This is because they are not clumsy or inattentive in the proper way. Their focus jumps fast, taking in stimuli, moving from one moment to the next. This allows them to process the battlescape around them, meaning that their so-called weakness was actually structural strength. Then, in the same circumstance, someone who is extremely attentive in their daily work is overwhelmed. There is too much detail for them to sift through, and they are cut down in a moment of hesitation.

This, then, is systemic weakness, and this is what many Pathbearers miss. They think simplistically, and there is a great benefit to doing so. If you make things that are complicated simple, you reduce the cognitive load you have to bear in combat and allow yourself to become more efficient. But this does not let you understand yourself, and you cannot afford to have a shallow comprehension of your own capabilities to the limits when you become a Legend. Before this point, everything else can be sustained by a single superior skill.

Overwhelming Physicality will allow you to get far, but there is a term for a Pathbearer that is Legendary in terms of Physicality and lacking everywhere else: a tragic corpse.

Because, despite the potential lingering in their immense strength, they will not be able to wield it properly, because one skill cannot be a pillar. No, it has turned into a post, and everything else has become a liability. The structure must be strong; the structure must be everything.

-Valor Thann

180 (I)

Trust [I]

The prison cell that the elf led them to looked no different from any other. Shiv stared down into its Orichalcum length and saw a moving spell pattern gliding along its cylindrical shape. He tried to make out differences in the spell shapes that comprised the patterns, but failed. Each of them resembled specific symbols, codified expressions of intent. Even as he used his Farsight skill, he couldn't tell anything wrong with them. And once more, Shiv experienced the problems that came with an incomplete education.

Most of what he knew about magic was instinctive. He'd picked up a few pointers from Adam, Uva, and Valor since his arrival in the Abyss. But past that, his formal education remained nonexistent. He had no idea why spells became specific patterns when one composed them. He had no idea how spell patterns were layered into a physical object beyond their caster.

He was about to internally vent about Roland Arrow again when his Psycho-Cartography Skill pulsed inside his mind. Instead of saying anything directly, it fed him a single feeling.

Don't.

A sour taste crawled over his tongue and stung his very mind. Shiv stopped himself from complaining. He understood what his evolved Psychology skill wanted from him. It wanted him to move on. He was allowed to feel things, but the more he fed its feelings, the more he would reinforce those feelings. Being angry at Roland Arrow forever would lead him nowhere. He wasn't any stronger for it, any wiser, and the problem wasn't anywhere near solved.

And where Shiv was lacking in education, he had more than enough experience working with anger. He could hate someone and still be useful while hating them. And that's why he decided to pay attention rather than sink deeper into his mental malaise.

"Are you sure it's here?" the elf asked. She kept a few meters of distance between herself and Shiv, and he noticed around three golden shadows lurking to his right and left. Bonk had alerted him to the Chronomantic constructs, and Shiv thought he was about to get ambushed again. Yet they kept their distance as well, and eventually Shiv understood that they were means of preemptive defense. The fear chain connecting him to the elf remained as hard as ever. She owed him her life, but he took from her respect and fear. He caught her looking at him then, and she ripped her gaze away, unwilling to face him for longer than a fraction of a second.

Psycho-Cartography: Georges once told us it was best to be feared and respected at the same time. Fear made you able to make someone do things for you. Respect made them want to do things for you willingly. We have the former. It feels good. But I think we should build toward the latter.

Psycho-Cartography 66 > 67

Five leaned over the cell door and grinned. "Yes," Five said, "this is the right place."

The Aviary agent waved a hand, and the automata heads on his back flared to life. All of their optics were flickering, and a rush of electricity and mana flooded through his limbs. The spell patterns gliding within the cell came alive with activity. Mana pulsed out from them. They began circulating faster and faster. Shiv watched, trying to understand what the wolf-man was doing. He felt a strange pull in the atmosphere. Five was clearly trying to rearrange something in the cell’s spell patterns, but he wasn't sure how or why.

A few glowing shapes intersected as some of the revolving spells twisted at an angle. They collided on a perpendicular axis, and when mana kissed mana, a few fragments and geometries were swapped. Shapes belonging to one spell pattern were inherited by another, and the insides of the spells pulsed. It was then that Shiv noticed the burst of Dimensionality spewing free from the top of the cell. It overflowed like water gushing out from a bottle, and it briefly crashed against Shiv’s ankles, but it couldn't push through, and instead it rebounded from his Shapeless Tides, countered entirely by his vector-shaped Magical Resistance.

"What are you doing, little wolf?" Urri asked.

Five didn't respond to the Vulteg. Instead, he continued waving his hands, pinching at the distant spells as if they were right in front of him. He moved a few more of the patterns, intersecting them, and then swiped, switching a few pieces over. As Shiv observed, he began to gain an intuitive understanding regarding the spell patterns. Intent could be exchanged between each chain of spells. They weren't swapping mana. Shiv knew that because he could see a few Biomancy spells acting below, and they didn't get any weaker. Instead, it was like the commands guiding the spells were being alternated.

"It's a bit like the prison, isn't it?" Bonk said. A wry grin painted the orc's face, and Shiv took a moment to realize what he was hinting at.

Yeah, it kind of is. Shiv thought about the cubes, how they slid beside each other, how they all swapped positions, as if pieces of a moving puzzle. The spells were the same. And something told Shiv that there was no coincidence. Magical Skills were designed to follow certain lores. Lores were shaped by people's understanding of the world; their beliefs. That was what Valor had said. Perhaps this spell that was being assembled had something to do with the very architecture of the Rubix Well. It made sense. They were probably going to teleport somewhere using the Dimensionality mana powering the spell.

With every passing second, Five's hands moved faster, and even Rebis seemed to be having a hard time following what the wolf-man was doing. Soon, the Dimensionality mana within the spell began erupting outward, spraying higher in bursts of static black. Shiv looked around briefly and felt his hair begin to stand inside his Voidmantid armor. The Avatars had been inactive for far too long, and there were no wardens here. He didn't believe that they were just being let go, so there were only a few other possibilities besides that.

The first was that the Avatars were busy, trying to handle the rest of the prison. Once they gained control, they would come back for him in force. The second was that they had other problems to deal with beyond the prison. That was just as likely. Shiv hadn't seen the Tarrasque Quest come to a close yet, so he knew the giant creature was still alive. There was every possibility that the Tarrasque had returned to the Republic's territory and that the Ascendants were busy trying to fight it off.

But something wriggled inside his flesh. Something uncomfortable. For the first time, he wondered if Adam was truly all right, or if something had happened to him by now. If the Ascendants had captured him, or if—

Shiv didn't finish that thought. He didn't want to finish that thought. He'd faced horrors beyond his ability to comprehend—and killed them anyway—but the idea of Adam being dead bothered him. It bothered him enough that he had to burn off some of his anger before his Berserk Skill triggered.

He channeled it into his Psycho-Cartography, and immediately the skill began talking to him, indeed at length.

Psycho-Cartography: Valor told you about this before. He called it the wound. The scarring. You're going to lose people in this life, Shiv. You know that.

Shiv tried not to lash out in denial. It was his own skill that was telling him this, after all. But something inside him just couldn't accept it.

Psycho-Cartography: You can't accept it because you're desperate to maintain some control over your own life. For most of your existence, you've lived under Roland Arrow's thumb. But he was too soft and weak to press. So you lived under the thumb of a reluctant tyrant. Everything you suffered was from indecision. Indecision is entropy. And you want something more than rot. You want control. You crave it. Anytime the System or the world tries to take something from you, it sinks its fingers into your wound. And you’re tired of being hurt.

I can get better. I can get stronger. I can make sure that nothing happens to anyone or anything that I care about.

Psycho-Cartography: You are growing stronger than most people can ever dream of, and it still won't be enough. You know this. I'm telling you this because this thing you face isn't logical. It's emotional. And I'm going to say something else that you're not going to want to hear. You don't want to deal with this right now. You're not going to beat it right now. You don't have the emotional bandwidth to process it right now. If I tell you the truth, you will push it aside, and it will hurt worse once you experience it. Hopefully, we won't suffer this with Adam, but it's coming. The blow is coming. If we live long enough, we will lose more people.

The System is not going to let us go, the skill whispered in the back of his mind.

Shiv wanted to continue arguing, but he didn't know what to say. A feeling of dread climbed up inside him, and it corresponded with a loud cackle that sounded from Five.

"Oh, those tricky, tricky Ravens," the wolf-man hummed. He brought his hands together, and with a final click, the insides of the cell turned into a large whirlpool of Dimensionality. Swirling tides of static black began to churn, and soon they solidified into a dense shape. Shiv no longer saw the cell itself. Instead, there was a solid tunnel forming before, leading to another place. As Shiv looked across, he saw that red-gold texture of Orichalcum, but then it was drowned by Dimensionality once more. Whatever place he'd just seen, Shiv guessed, was still part of the prison. It wasn't just an easy escape.

And why would it be? Shiv thought to himself. Nothing is ever that easy. Not in this life.

"I must go across first," Five declared. He regarded the Legendary prisoners and then Shiv thereafter. "There is a code in the spell. Morse. They wish for me to identify myself and confirm who I am. If I do not, they will not establish a proper connection, and we will not be able to find them. One of you should come with me, just so you feel a little more at ease. You wouldn't want me running off with my own people now, would we? And leaving you all lost and abandoned?"

Shiv frowned. “Are you trying to make us suspect you or something, Five?”

"It's what several of you are thinking. Why avoid it?" Five was studying Urri’s face. The large Vulteg just grunted with annoyance. And that's when the Deathless realized that a few of the prisoners were paranoid about a lot more than just Shiv. "I can't say I blame you," Five said. "However, I can give you a reason to trust me. Or at least a reason to think that I am a controllable variable."

Despite how thoughtful Five seemed, the way he operated made Shiv ever more wary. Bonk leaned down and whispered to the Deathless, "Be careful of this one. They are a clever operator. Spies often are."

Shiv wanted to volunteer himself, but stopped when he realized how that might look. He was in league with the wolf-man, at least from the other prisoners' perspectives. If he said that he would make sure the wolf-man wouldn't betray them, it just might cause a bit more of a problem.

Instead, he decided to extend his trust and mercy to the only Legendary prisoner he'd faced in battle so far.

"Elf," Shiv said. His tone was rough and direct. "Go with him."

The elven Legend’s head snapped around to stare at Shiv. Her mouth was slightly agape. "You would rather me go?"

"Yeah," Shiv said. "I got your measure, don't I? It’s why I trust you more than most anyone else. Besides, you have those Chronomantic clones. You can send them to scout for you for something. It's more effective than what I can do. If something goes wrong, just swap places with one of the clones like you did earlier."

