She didn't know what to say for a moment, but slowly she nodded. “Very well.” Her gold eyes flashed once, and she let out a sigh. “I am called Kura the Omen. I have been placed in this prison due to a series of assassinations I performed within this Republic. I've killed a great many nobles for benefactors whom I cannot remember nor will I name, and today you have given me back my life. Despite my discomfort, despite my shame for failing to slay you, I acknowledge your mercy and your clemency. I will do as you say.”

"I, uh, okay," Shiv said, uncertain why she was stating all this out loud.

"I will serve your interests until you are satisfied. I see that you are of the honorable sort." The elf shuffled uncomfortably. "I might have misjudged you in my past, but I find myself at the mercy of you now. Whatever you desire, I will do my utmost to make manifest. Such is the debt I bear.”

One of the Legendary prisoners snorted. It was the man with blades growing out of himself. He scratched his chin. "Shit, you know, I get it. If you wanna fuck him right now, go ahead. I’ve been pent up in my own cage long enough that I wanna fuck him too, and I’m not into men. But since you’re willing, we could all use a show."

And then something cracked him across the back of the head. Shiv saw a golden shadow materialize and then fade in the same instant. The man turned. A few blades exploded out from his body, cleaving through the air. It struck the Orichalcum walls and left faint dents in the surface. Shiv blinked, barely reacting to what just happened, and the elf's expression didn't change. Most of the other prisoners responded the same way, and a few laughed.

The blade-covered man snarled and prepared to push his way free from the other prisoners. Kura tensed, ready for combat, but both of them flinched as Shiv yanked on their fear chains. The bladed man jerked to a halt, planting his foot hard against the ground and using a skill to root himself in place, stopping himself from being dragged forward. The elf, meanwhile, switched position with one of her shadows and got free of Shiv's grip.

Before Kura and the bladed man could continue their scuffle, the Deathless snarled. “Knock that shit off!” All eyes were on him now, but he just glared at the two troublemakers, unamused. "Alright, I'm gonna put this plainly too. If anyone has something funny to say about me, it had better be actually funny. And my metric for funny is making me laugh. I also would like to say that you'd better all start acting like fucking Pathbearers and not worthless thugs from some back alley. You're Legends. Felling act like it. If you’re going to act like children, then I’m going to beat you like you’re my stepchildren. We don’t have time for this shit. We can't be fighting amongst each other if we want to break out here. There's still Avatars and wardens waiting for us. Save it for them."

A tension entered the air, and the other prisoners watched as the bladed man began to twitch. He glared at Shiv, and the Deathless' Psycho-Cartography Skill realized why.

Psycho-Cartography: You've offended his sensibilities, and more, his ego. Threatening him makes him look pathetic. If you don’t adjust what you said, he might have to fight you just to prove that he is the greater Legend. Weakness is fatal in this place—and you have failed to give him any respect.

Shiv struggled not to sigh. So far, the Legends he'd run into in this prison, aside from the Avatars, had been uneven. Some were absolute monsters, while others are seemed like little more than overpowered children. The bladed man was closer to the overpowered child side—but Shiv really couldn't afford another messy fight right now.

“Consider it a favor to me," Shiv added, trying to soothe how the man was feeling. "I'm asking, not telling."

The blade-covered Pathbearer considered Shiv for a moment, and then he let out a scoff. "Asking. Fine. Sure, Deathless. Seems I can be merciful too. With the right people." He eyed the elf and spat on the ground. "Fucking bitch."

Kura was about to respond, but Shiv cut her off. "Don't talk to him, don't look at him, get in the portal after Five. We've wasted enough time."

She seemed like she wanted to resist, but then remembered that she'd just sworn a long oath of loyalty to Shiv. Finally, she let out a brief sigh and took her position behind the wolf-man. The wolf-man jumped down, and she followed thereafter. In her place, however, remained a golden shadow. It glistened in the air, and it lacked any detail, but Shiv could still feel the vitality seeping out from it. More importantly, he could see a faint trail of Chronomancy painting the world. He hadn't noticed that before, mainly because the trail was almost transparent with how thin it was.

As the wolf-man and Kura remained gone for a few moments, Shiv stared at the prisoners and tried to shrug off the awkwardness. "So, do you all know each other or what? Before the whole prison break thing, I mean?" He gestured at the group.

Several of the prisoners looked at each other, and Urri simply folded his arms. "We have laid eyes upon one another during our allotted activity time. But we were not allowed to socialize.”

“We are made to change cubes and cells every few months,” the glistening, column-shaped Pathbearer said. Shiv still had no idea what kind of creature it was or if it was simply someone who had evolved into being a crystal column. “It prevents us from establishing lasting connections. When freedom came, we burst out and found ourselves faced with a shared foe. That is why we are together. When this moment is done, we will be strangers to each other once more, but for now we are a horde."

"More like a gaggle of fools without any better options," the binaric crown-wearing automaton declared. "It is purely calculus that we are standing together. Alone, we might be able to overcome a few wardens, but they know our capabilities, and this prison was built to keep us inside." The automaton paused. "What you said earlier, that you have a Unique Skill that will allow you to trespass beyond the temporal loop, is that true?"

"Every word," Shiv said. "It's the same skill I showed you guys earlier. The one that kept making you forget where I was over and over again.”

"How does it work?" Urri asked. The Vulteg was trying to be slick. Too bad he had about as much social finesse as Shiv did during a blind rage.

"Don't know how it works," Shiv said, shrugging. "It just does. Do all of you understand every single one of your skills?"

A chorus of affirmative agreements greeted Shiv, and he tried not to wince. There was a faint hint of judgment in their eyes, and slowly, they were beginning to understand that Shiv might not be a conventional Legendary-Tier Pathbearer.

I don't know how to feel about most of these prisoners being more refined and well-learned than I am, Shiv thought. While also being barely more than emotional children at the same time. How the hells does that even work?

Psycho-Cartography: Settle for using that as motivational fuel when you begin making up for your lacking education.

"So I've got another question for you," the blade-covered Pathbearer said. Instead of staring at Shiv now, he was looking at Bonk. "How'd you get an orc bodyguard?"

"Bodyguard?" the gray-skinned brute said with a laugh. "I'm no bodyguard. I'm simply serving my Insul."

And a flash of comprehension passed across the bladed man's face. "The Vaketh-Insul. Shit. You actually did the ritual." The man threw his head back and began laughing. Slowly, his laughter climbed higher and higher until he finally shook his head and let out a breath. "You know, I'm beginning to regret not taking that myself. Might have led me down a different path. Hell, Lone Star might still be after me, but at least I would have someone fighting by my side instead of being a fugitive in this forsaken shithole."

"The Challenger offered you the deal too," Shiv said, surprised.

The man nodded. Several other prisoners muttered about getting certain offers as well, and suddenly Shiv didn't feel quite as special.

The Challenger is amused by your jealousy.

"And most of you didn't agree," Shiv confirmed. The Legendary prisoners scoffed or just shook their heads.

"Becoming the Insul is more venom than one,” the blade-covered Pathbearer said. “Mingling with orcs? Oh, that's an eventual death sentence. Besides, now that you're a Legend, you're going to probably draw the attention of the Culturist at some point. And let me tell you, that's not a bastard that you want to get to know.”

“Who the hells is that?" Shiv asked. "Never heard that name before." Or had he? He couldn't recall everything that was exchanged between him and his orcs. But then he noticed a look on Bonk's face. It wasn't the look that Bonk usually had. If Shiv had to describe it, it was as close to true awe as an orc could muster.

"The Culturist," Bonk breathed. "Insul, if you'd ever met a Legendary-Tier orc, you would understand that we contain even greater multitudes. Multitudes that sometimes leave us feeling…" Bonk trailed off as he tried to recompose his speech. "He is an aberration. I wish to kill him someday and be the reason he must reincarnate.”

"You sound like you admire this guy, in a fucked-up orc kind of way," Shiv said.

"I find him deviant. I find him incomprehensible. I find him terrifying." The orc drew in a long inhale. "And I find that intoxicating. Imagine one of your own kind, but you can't understand them. One of your own kind that has drifted so close to the races you face, to the peoples you hunt, that they have become almost like them in certain ways. He experiences true sympathy, true empathy. He learns their emotional baselines and briefly understands what it means to hate us, but then he returns to himself. He becomes the orc of orcs, and when he leads, we win. If he leads, that is.”

“If?" Shiv repeated, not understanding why the orc used that word.

“If,” Bonk confirmed. “Because sometimes, the Culturist turns on us. For that, he is also known by another name among our kind: Anzeth-Insul. It means Arch-Traitor.”

Bonk’s gaze turned distant, as if stuck in a fantasy or a memory. “Often, the Culturist learns how best to improve our species by betraying us first. He fights on the side of the enemy and learns how they approach our extermination. He teaches them how best to kill us if he deems them interesting, and then, when the balance is tipped, he will return to see if he can figure out how to let us win anyway. Like war vaccination.”

"And the Challenger is fine with that?" Shiv asked.

"The Challenger delights in it," Bonk replied. "The Challenger loves nothing more than to see us grow, and to grow in any way possible. The Culturist has taken the exo-school of thought to the extreme. In fact, he is the paragon of that entire clique: to steal from other cultures and races and adopt their virtues for our own. Why, it's someone like him that is half the reason we orcs have non-orc skills anyway."
