Mato crouched in a dirty alleyway in the dim predawn light, extending a morsel of food on the palm of his hand to the timid stray dog. He held the pillow under one arm and tried not to get it dirty. Under normal circumstances, he would have avoided even entering such a dangerous part of town, but he needed information.

At least I’m level eleven now. It wasn’t a particularly high level, but, pitted against the typical denizens that lurked in the slums of Myrin’s Keep, he should easily be able to hold his own. It was the higher-level thugs operating under the authority of those officially sanctioned organizations masquerading as ‘legal’ he would have to watch out for. The Town Watch – Kieran Mori’s organization – was particularly aggressive about snapping up anyone with dubious morals who managed to raise themselves above the dross.

He wrinkled his nose at the stench of something rotten emanating from further down the alley past the first half-collapsed building. The dog looked mangy and underfed and seemed to have made its home in a hole behind one of the collapsed walls.

Commander Brand’s aide at the garrison headquarters had proved unhelpful, having no information about Calen or Malika’s whereabouts, mentioning only that Calen’s mother had been there looking for him, too. Every day.

Mato had thought that describing their attackers would have gotten him some help, but that had proved to be a big mistake. He frowned at the memory. As soon as he had described the hooded and masked rogue with a spear, and the instantaneous Impale attack, the aide had turned the color of a starched sheet. Identifying the man as Kieran Mori he immediately dismissed Mato saying that nobody could face the man known as Sudden Death.

He could have bitten off his own tongue. Stupid mistake. Both Calen and Malika would have known better.

It took a lot of digging before he turned up a lead. Someone in the market with connections to the darker underbelly of Myrin’s Keep had let him know that a Kel’darran slave caravan had visited town – and left almost a week ago. It was the timing that had caught his attention.

Mato had stopped by Calen’s house to let his mother know what he knew – precious little – and had borrowed one of his pillows. Which is why he was crouched in this smelly alleyway trying to converse with a stray dog using his strange Beast language.

The dog limped closer, hopping awkwardly on three legs, favoring a severe injury to the one held off the ground. The paw looked broken and badly infected. It seemed hungry and scared, but also extremely suspicious of this strange person offering a scrap of meat. Mato waited patiently for it to get just a little closer.

As soon as the dog entered his Sanctuary aura, he connected, communicating calming feelings and a friendly intention. The dog froze. Mato relaxed, not making any sudden movements, and simply allowed his mood to flow outward, carried somehow by his aura. After just a few moments, the dog decided he really was friendly and limped over, wagging its short stubby tail in a way that Mato could only describe as tentative. As soon as the dog reached his hand, and the morsel of food, it began to relax too. The combination of his friendly intent, food, and the advanced regeneration shared by his Sanctuary seemed to be calming it down, and it looked at him now with more curiosity than fear.

Mato held out Calen’s pillow for the dog to sniff and concentrated on his connection to the dog’s feelings. Immediately, Mato’s awareness was drawn into a fragment of the dog’s memory, recalled by the scent of the pillow.

He was hungry and shivering, cowering under some boxes. Fear! There were people moving around on the street in the early light of dawn. Large, wrapped bundles were dragged out of the house and loaded into a wagon. Hungry! He crept forward hoping for food. Sniff! The scent of the bigger bundle matched the pillow. He crept forward again. One of the men turned and shouted, kicked him in the leg with a steel-tipped boot. Yelping in pain, he fled.

The sensation of the memory faded, and Mato fed the rest of the food to the dog, scratching him gently behind the ears. “Good boy,” he murmured. “Good dog.”

Calen and Malika were alive – at least they had been when they were loaded onto the wagon. And the several gray, lizard-like Kel’darran faces confirmed the lead he had uncovered in the marketplace. Knowing that they had left by the south gate just reinforced the story solidifying in his mind.

Mato waited there for a while, giving his aura more time to work as he considered what he had learned. Eventually, finished with the food he had offered, the dog pranced around a little, clearly happy that his fractured leg had been healed, and then he scampered off.

Thanks, buddy! Mato sent feelings of gratitude to the dog through his connection before it disappeared into the abandoned building.

What kind of ass kicks a defenseless dog? I’ll kick his diseased gonads through the side of this wagon when I lay my hands on him! After memorizing the face for a future drubbing, he decided he felt better about life.

He straightened up. Time to get Aliandra, she should be fully recovered by now.

There was no chance Ali was going to stay home while Malika and Calen were held captive, prisoners to some slave caravan out in the wilderness. But when Mato told her that the caravan was a week out from Myrin’s Keep, the specter of her domain withdrawal crawled its way down into her gut and twisted inside her.

“A week?” her voice betrayed her fear by cracking embarrassingly.

“Yes,” Mato answered. “I organized for us to hitch a ride with the courier. He’s leaving in about an hour.”

“Mato, I can’t survive that long away from my domain.” Her friends were being taken ever further out of reach, and there was no way she could travel for a week, rescue them, and still make it back home before her withdrawal killed her.

“I need your help if we have to fight the caravan guards to rescue them,” Mato answered. “I bought these, what do you think?”

Mato handed her a small pouch designed to be attached to a belt. Curious, she reached inside and pulled out a vial filled with a goopy viscous black sludge that seemed to swirl and twist without rhyme or reason.

Potion of Recall – level 10 (Smoke)Break: Creates a cloud of black opaque smoke, teleporting you to a set teleportation locus.Locus: Novaspark Academy of Magic, Myrin’s Keep.Created by Morwynne Fizzlebang – “Run away!”Potion – Consumable

Ali had never seen a potion like it before. Teleportation potions were not that unusual, and they were usually fairly expensive, a tool of the well-to-do and important folk who, for whatever reason, didn’t have access to their own teleportation skill.

Smoke magic? It was the sight of the mana with its curious smoke affinity that captured Ali’s curiosity. Deep within the viscous black, she could see the mana billowing, somehow confined within the vial by the skill of the alchemist. It seemed to her sight that someone had captured an enormous cloud of black smoke and trapped it in the tiny vial.

“How much did this cost?” Ali asked him, examining the vial and its magic. Whoever inscribed this mana signature is a smartass. She wondered at the kind of person who would add ‘run away’ to what was effectively an escape potion. Carefully, she wrapped it up in the cloth and tucked it back into the pouch.

“Don’t ask. I figured after the ruins, we shouldn’t take any chances, even if it’s expensive.”

His rueful grin, and the three other pouches he was carrying, told Ali everything she needed to know. He must have broken the bank to afford these.

“Will it work?” Mato asked, a flicker of what looked like hope playing across his features.

Ali’s hand touched the pouch she had just fastened to her belt. Would it work? It was an incredible idea and Ali was amazed at Mato’s thoughtfulness. Just having the potion would allow her to travel for nine days before she needed to return, and then she could return instantly.

Provided I don’t lose it or break it. There was always a catch.

“Yes, this is perfect,” she answered him. “Thank you, Mato. That’s some sharp thinking.”

And now I don’t sound so useless for making him find them on his own.

As Mato led the way out of the cavern, he pulled a few things from his bulging pack. “I have sandwiches if you’re hungry, and the fruit seller in the marketplace had some ripe plums, too.”

Ali’s stomach cramped instantly, this being the first time she had seen food in over a week. “Maybe a little.”

Her gut promptly produced a growl better suited to Mato’s Bear Form than a delicate and cultured Fae like herself.

***

Ali gazed around at the quiet main street by the pre-dawn light as she followed close behind Mato. Having not been above ground in weeks – or, if her class description was correct, millennia – she was somewhat disoriented to discover it was just before morning and the sun had not yet risen. She had been awake for what felt like more than half a day already.

Malika had not been kind with her description of Myrin’s Keep, and neither Mato nor Calen had corrected her on it, so Ali had been a little concerned about what awaited her when Mato finally led her up and out of the sewer and into the town itself.

The reality of it was quite a lot worse than she had expected. The first thing she saw as she climbed up out of the sewer was a discarded body lying in a pool of drying blood at the back of the dingy alley.

“Sorry,” Mato said, following her gaze. “It’s not a nice town.”

“Is it safe to walk around like this?”

“No, keep your Kobolds nearby, and we’ll try to stick to the bigger roads. We should be safer with more people around.”

Her Kobolds vanished into the shadows at her command, and Ali kept a careful eye out as she followed Mato. By the dim light, Myrin’s Keep felt uncannily similar to walking the ruins of Dal’mohra – only without the tripwires and the bone-spraying monsters. Several of the buildings they passed by were gutted and run down, some consumed by fire and others simply neglected, adding to the feeling that she was walking through some kind of dilapidated ruin.

It can’t be that dangerous in town, she thought, reminding herself that Kieran Mori didn’t know they were alive – and if he did, he probably didn’t care that much anyway.

On the other hand, here and there she saw some of the earlier merchants already setting up for the day. It still blew her mind that there was a large town up here, above what had once been the forest from her childhood. And they seem to have no idea. She looked at a baker who was setting out buns and bread that steamed slightly in the cool dawn air and shifted uncomfortably. Her wings, folded up against her back inside the tattered Kobold robes, were beginning to rub a little raw against the ill-fitted coarse fabric.

Her stomach grumbled a cranky note of discontent, reminding her that she still hadn’t finished the food Mato had given her. She took out a purple plum and nibbled on it slowly. While she was ravenous, and the fruit deliciously sweet, her stomach clenched painfully at the unfamiliar intrusion of food, so she decided to take it slow lest she make a personal contribution to the general nastiness of this alleged civilization. She wrinkled her nose at the delicate fragrance emanating from a rotting trash heap in an alley as they passed by.

“This is it, the south gate,” Mato announced, as they reached a small open square near an enormous stone wall. There was a giant archway with a raised portcullis through which Ali could see a road, some grass, and in the distance, a forest.

Near the gate was a sizeable, expensive-looking wagon being loaded with packages under the supervision of a tall man dressed in some kind of uniform. Mato immediately approached him and, as they talked, Ali’s attention was taken instead by the giant bird hitched to the front of the wagon.

Plains Moa – Bird – level 18 (Wind)

The avian was huge, much broader and heavier than a horse, and it stood on two long legs that ended in wicked-looking taloned feet that clawed impatiently at the ground, as if eager to run. It had no wings, but its feathers had a beautiful, iridescent green sheen to them that caught the sunlight in a way that seemed to proudly proclaim its handsomeness to all onlookers.

Mato helped her up onto the front seat of the wagon and then took a seat next to the driver – the courier, Ali deduced.

“Hi,” she said. The man nodded back politely but did not meet her eyes. Mato produced a meaningful growl perhaps designed to remind the man to keep his distance to a maximum and his curiosity to a minimum.

The wagon would take the packages to the next town, using the fastest transport available. According to Mato, there was a big market for the transport of items that were important enough to transport quickly, but not so important that the merchants were willing to pay for expensive magical teleportation services.

The courier gave her an odd look when her two Kobolds joined her in the wagon, but he didn’t make any comment, simply turning and picking up the reins, and flicking them gently. The gorgeous Plains Moa raised its head and began strutting toward the gate. The guards waved them through, and before she knew it, they were outside the town.

“Hold on, please,” the courier said, before clicking with his mouth and snapping the reins.

Ali’s eyes widened at the sight of the Plains Moa reacting to his command. Transparent white wisps of mana billowed outward from the bird as it leaned forward and suddenly took off, tearing down the road at a speed Ali couldn’t believe.

Much to her embarrassment, she let out a squeak of surprise as she snatched the rail to prevent herself from flying backward.

The courier let out a good-natured chuckle. “Fast, isn’t she? She’s expensive and fussy, and most people can’t be bothered to train them, but she more than makes up for it in speed.” He sounded inordinately proud of his bird.

“She’s beautiful,” Ali answered breathlessly, watching the subtle play of the creature’s magic.

***

“Stop!”

At Mato’s shout, the courier hauled on the reins, and the powerful Moa dug its talons into the dirt, raising a billowing cloud of dust but stopping the entire wagon in a display of pure power.

Ali’s head snapped forward from the sudden change of momentum, but when they came to a stop, she saw what had caught Mato’s attention. Through the trees on the side of the road, she could make out several upturned wagons, with crates scattered about. Several of the wagons were burnt-out husks.

“You can let us out here,” Mato told the courier.

