“But we’re not even halfway to the next town?” The courier had told them that it would take five days to reach the next town, but they had only been on the road for two days so far.

“Our friends were kidnapped by that merchant caravan,” Mato explained.

“Tsk,” the courier clicked his tongue. “Is this the Kel’darran caravan? I heard they like to play loose with the law in places like Myrin’s Keep but this – this is something else.”

“Yes,” Mato answered, handing him a small pouch that clinked like coins. “Here’s the amount we agreed on.”

The courier pocketed his earnings with the air of a man well pleased to be paid full price for half a trip. As Ali dismounted from the wagon using one of her rogues for assistance, the man gazed speculatively at the wreckage.

“Do you want this kept secret?” he asked, his voice suddenly flat and completely neutral.

“No, feel free to report it to the authorities as you feel appropriate,” Mato answered, earning a smile from the man. As soon as they were out, the courier bid them farewell and tore off in a fresh cloud of dust, rapidly dwindling down the road.

“He’ll probably get a finder’s fee or bounty if he reports this,” Mato said. “Let’s go search the site – but be careful. There might still be trouble around.”

Mato shifted to his Wolf Form and loped forward to investigate the wreckage of the caravan.

“Keep alert for danger, and guard me,” Ali commanded her Kobolds.

“Yes.”

“Yes, Ancient Mistress.”

The soft chirps of their draconic speech sounded unnaturally intrusive carrying over the otherwise completely silent wreckage in the middle of the forest. The two Kobolds vanished from her sight. Must be a martial skill, using only stamina, Ali noted idly as she had not seen any mana usage, nor could she detect their presence using her Arcane Insight. Similar to what she had just observed when Mato had turned himself into a Wolf. While it made sense that he’d use his Wolf Form for a task like this, Ali frowned inwardly. He could not have many levels on his Wolf, could he? Was it wise to level up in an imbalanced way?

Ali walked forward and began examining the wreckage. She had no particular expertise in tracking or hunting, but it was immediately clear to her that someone or something had stripped it clean. While there was the occasional broken sword, spear, or snapped bow strewn about, there were no bodies. All of the crates had been smashed open and most of the contents were missing. It looked like the caravan had careened off-road back at the bend, and the passage from there to here was strewn with burnt wagons, smashed trees, and torn-up dirt. Only two of the wagons appeared to be moderately intact, and one of those – the one right in front of her – looked like a cage with wheels that had been flipped upside down. It, and the ground all around it, was scorched black from the aftermath of what looked very much like a Fireball.

Recent experience. Ali swallowed hard and almost summoned a barrier before thinking better of it.

She let Mato roam around outside, while she got one of her rogues to help her climb up and into the cage through the open door. There wasn’t much to see inside, other than some small sections of severed rope, so she decided to leave, but as she turned, something caught her eye, a glint of metal nestled up in the corner almost covered by a half-burned scrap of tarpaulin. Walking over, she picked it up.

In her small hands, the black steel cuffs seemed overly large and somehow ominous.

Cuffs of Greater Suppression – level 20Sturdy steel handcuffs, designed to restrain people with classes by sapping mana and stamina. Requirements: None-20 to level requirement-227% to Mana and Stamina regenerationCreated by Indacus Argyle.Hands – Handcuffs

Yuck! Ali was so horrified by the thing she was holding that she almost dropped it. Who could do this to someone? I really hope Malika or Calen weren’t forced to wear this.

Suddenly eager to leave the cage wagon, she handed the cuffs to her Kobold. “Please hold onto these,” she instructed and then got a hand-up from him so that she could clamber back out. Once safely outside again, she set off to where Mato was sniffing intently at the ground.

“Find anything?”

Mato’s body shifted, fur receding, face twisting, tail disappearing, until the Beastkin stood in the place of the wolf.

“Goblins,” he said. “Lots of them. I found Malika and Calen’s scent – it’s faint, but they had a fight here, and then they went that way into the forest.”

“So, they’re alive?”

“They were,” Mato said cautiously. “At least, they survived the wreckage.”

He sounded anxious, so Ali added, “They’re both fast and smart and they have their classes, I’m sure they are still alive.”

Mato huffed audibly. “Yes. They must be.”

“I found this in that cage,” Ali said, handing him the cuffs she had found.

“Oh shit, that’s nasty!” He looked at the cuffs like they might bite him at any moment. “How did they get out of this?”

Mato had unwittingly confirmed Ali’s suspicion. Somehow, she was certain that Calen and Malika had been bound aboard that cage wagon and forced to wear suppression restraints.

“No idea. What should we do?”

“Can you make some wolves to help me track? We can find them quicker that way. You follow along with some of your Kobolds in case we run into any Goblins. I’ll check in with you regularly.”

“Ok,” Ali pulled out her Grimoire and got to work. I have a lot more mana now, she thought, considering for a moment before deciding how many creatures to make. It’s a good thing I put some time into growing my domain. With her domain providing ninety extra mana, she decided she could afford to be a bit extravagant. Hopefully, it will help find them faster.

Starving Alpha – Wolf – level 5Starving Wolf – level 1-3 x4

She had made her own wolf pack.

“Nice,” Mato approved. “The trail goes that way, just keep heading in that direction if you don’t see me nearby.” And with that, he transformed himself back into a wolf. He seemed to confer briefly with the other wolves with a brief series of strangled-sounding barks and eerie growls before they all fanned out in the direction he had indicated.

I don’t want to be caught unprepared, she thought, considering her next move. And Mato thinks there were a lot of Goblins. Checking on her mana, she summoned three more Kobolds, and gear to equip them.

Warrior – Kobold – level 8-9 x2Rogue – Kobold – level 9-11 x3

Their gear is a bit shoddy, she thought, wondering if she should have bought something better when they were in town. But of course, she had no money. She had created leather armor for all of them, daggers for the rogues, and swords for the warriors, but the weapons were cracked and pitted and seemed to be of poor quality. The best I could find in a three-thousand-year-old ruin, overrun with Kobolds. But she had her own little army now, and that made her feel both proud and much more secure.

“Let’s head out – follow the wolves, watch for Goblins,” she instructed, the draconic syllables still unfamiliar and awkward in her mouth. She struggled most with the strange yips and chirps – sounds that seemed unique to the anatomy of the Kobolds’ vocal cords. Immediately, her rogues melded with the shadows, silencing their chirping, while the two warriors fell in beside her, clearly taking a guard role. It surprised her still, that they would interpret her orders if she was vague. When she had been using Sewer Rats, she needed to give far more precise commands, but the Kobolds seemed so much more intelligent, able to understand that the threat of Goblins meant she required protection.

Mana: 410/795 (385 Reserved)

The wolves didn’t cost a whole lot anymore, but the highest-level Kobold rogue was taking up a whole eighty mana on his own. Makes sense though. It seemed reasonable to her that a level eleven creature cost a lot more, given that it was substantially more powerful than her level two Starving Wolf, for instance – and she had personally witnessed just how much stronger they were down in the ruins. But she hoped that reserving almost half her mana pool for summoned creatures wasn’t going to be too much if it came down to a fight.

Up ahead, Mato’s dark Wolf Form slunk silently among the dappled shadows falling across the trail. It came as something of a relief that, even though he was mostly unseen, he was still nearby. Her own Starving Wolves were smaller and seemed perfectly happy deferring to him as a pack leader, especially with her encouragement.

She had been walking for over an hour and she was growing quite bored. Nothing had happened, and although her minions remained vigilant, Ali’s active mind was searching for something to do. Mato and her wolves continued to range widely, and she only caught sight of them briefly, unless it was Mato stopping by to tell her when the trail changed direction. Counting the sightings had occupied her attention for all of five minutes before she had decided that was a stupid game for children.

“What do you call that?” Ali asked in her rudimentary draconic, pointing to a giant oak tree. I may as well work on my language skills.

“It is a tree, Ancient Mistress,” the Kobold told her.

“Do you have to call me ‘Ancient Mistress’?” she asked grumpily. Even though the Kobold was obviously using it as a term of respect – or perhaps a title or marker of authority – it didn’t sit too well with her. Of all the descriptive traits it can see, it has to choose ‘ancient’. I feel like I should be the wise old woman of the village that everyone comes to for stories or love potions.

“Yes, Ancient Mistress,” the Kobold replied in the same calm voice. She looked at him sharply, but it didn’t appear that he was sassing her. It wouldn’t have surprised her though; she still wasn’t used to the idea of her summoned creatures being able to speak at all. She turned her attention back to the forest.

“Tree.” She tried to emulate the pronunciation as best as she could to familiarize herself with the word. Can I learn to make trees? She wondered idly what it might be like to create trees down underground to go with her moss and mushrooms. “What kind of tree?”

“Oak, Ancient Mistress.”

She frowned, but continued with her questioning; rock, bush, stream, the list continued endlessly. Fortunately, her minions never tired of answering her questions. The forest was pretty, and Ali enjoyed the oak and maple trees, and the myriad ferns, bushes, and wildflowers she found along the way. With each new discovery, she doubled down on her intention to level up her Grimoire of Summoning so that she might learn as much of this as possible.

When night finally fell, Mato returned with the rest of her wolf pack. “I found a good camping spot,” he announced and then led the way to a clearing with a small bubbling brook.

He pulled out some sandwiches for a light dinner and, as they ate, he shared what he had found. Calen and Malika’s tracks continued more or less in a straight line, even though he had found signs of many clashes with Goblins, and he had guessed roughly where they were headed. He had a lot of thoughts and explanations which Ali listened to even though she didn’t quite follow, but she thought it summed up to ‘they went south’. Which is away from town, she thought, somewhat confused as to what they might have been thinking.

“Do you think I could grow trees next to the shrine?” Ali asked, once they were both done eating.

“Naturally? No, it’s dark,” he answered. “But … if you can grow moss and mushrooms, and make Kobolds that don’t need sleep or food, I’d imagine trees should be easy.”

“I think I want to try to learn to make them.” She studied the various trees that surrounded their small camp, imagining a few oaks growing around the shrine like her father once had.

“Does it matter which ones you dissolve with your skill?”

“No, I think I just need variety for the magic to know what is normal.”

“Then I’d rather you didn’t destroy any of these,” he said, indicating the nearby trees. “These are newish growth, and just becoming developed. I think it would take a long time for the forest to recover.”

Ali was surprised by his serious tone and disappointed that she would be causing damage to the forest to learn the trees, but then Mato continued.

“That one over there looks like a good choice,” he said, pointing a little way beyond the stream. “It looks like it was struck by lightning, and it will not recover well. It’s also in a crowded spot, so removing it will make space for the new growth.”

“Thank you,” Ali said.

“No problem. I can mark a few along the path tomorrow if you like,” he answered.

“That would be perfect.” She smiled and walked over to the tree he had pointed out. It was a majestic old oak with broad boughs that reached almost to the ground. Part of the trunk was blackened and split, clearly damaged from the lightning as Mato had just pointed out.

She carefully placed her hand on the trunk of the damaged tree and activated her magic, a spectacular light show of information and mana, now that she could see the magic in action. Her magic ran its course and the tree shimmered and exploded into tiny motes of mana drifting upward and slowly fading among the softly rustling leaves of the forest canopy.

Grimoire of Summoning has reached level 10.
