The female dwarf chuckled. “Without it being your main building? It'll be a bit more; maybe 10 gold or more, assuming they let you have the plans.” She said. “They're pretty stingy about things like that.”

Ren nodded slightly. “I tried getting a copy of the city map and was politely and firmly refused.”

“You actually tried to get a map of the city!” She laughed as she dug out the plans for the stable, and put them on her desk. “If there's one thing the Council doesn't want, is for people to know where everything is.”

“Why is that?” Ren asked. “Why is information that should be general knowledge, held like secrets?”

“Isn't it obvious?” She asked back. “They want you to go to them. For everything.”

Ren put a gold coin on the desk and leaned over to examine the several pieces of parchment the plans covered. It didn't take long before he had them memorized, and he stood up straight.

“Aren't you going to take them?”

“I did.” Ren said and tapped his temple. “Thank you.”

She picked up the gold coin and tried to hand it back. “But you didn't take a copy!”

“Yes I did.” Ren smiled. “It's just in my head and not on paper.”

Her mouth dropped open, and Ren grinned.

“Yes, it's a loophole.” Ren said. “Can I show you another?”

She nodded, and Ren took out a platinum coin.

“No! You're not paying me...” She started to say, and Ren interrupted her.

“It's a shiny new toy.” Ren said, then spun it on the desk. “Hours of fun, until you get bored with it.” He said, then spun it and left it there. “Have fun playing with it.”

She watched the coin spin, and Ren opened her office door to leave.

“I'll send a messenger over when I get the stable built.” Ren said. “Then you can send over the workers and horses.” He shut the door and left the female dwarf alone in her tiny office.

*

She sat there with shock on her face, as the coin finally stopped spinning and landed face up. She stared at the face of the dragon, and it's frozen gaze stared back at her.

“A... a toy...” She said. “He's giving them away... as toys...”

*

Ren went to Princess and looked at the list of names and addresses, then was surprised when he got a popup.

New Quest!

You have to gather the workers quickly in order for them to get a full day of work done in time to be home for supper.

Rewards: 100 XP per worker, if they finish their work today.

Penalty for Failure: No XP, No Bonuses, and a chance workers will not return tomorrow.

“Princess! We have a Quest!” Ren said and climbed into the drivers seat, and told her the first address. “Let's go!”

They went to each address on the list, and picked up each worker. Thankfully, there was enough room in the cart for the 12 women to fit, albeit a bit snugly. Ren had warned each of them that it was only temporary, and he'd have a bigger cart tomorrow; assuming he didn't have the stable built by then and multiple carts ready. They made it back to House Neram quickly, and Ren drove the cart up to the workshop. Ren hopped down and ran around to the back of the cart.

“It's an easy job today.” Ren said and helped each woman climb out. “I just need some of you to shovel silt from the pile into the opening on the side of the building.”

“Some of us did that before.” One woman said, and 4 of the women raised their hands. “The others were busy today and couldn't make it.”

Ren nodded slightly. “I changed it slightly inside.” He said. “Two bags can be filled at the same time now.”

“That's much better!” Dorathy said. “Can I get Ruck to help this time, too?”

“I think so.” Ren said. “I'll go check.”

*

A few of the women looked to the ones that had done it before.

“Don't worry.” One of them said. “This is easier than cleaning out a cow stall.”

“You're kidding!” A woman said. “I had heard it was easy money...”

“We take turns, too. Half shovel for a while and the others bag, while Dorathy sews them shut.” She said. “Then we switch.”

“Is he slow or something?” Another one asked.

Dorathy stepped over to her and got in her face. “Don't you dare say such things!”

“Why is he throwing his money away like this?”

“He's a kind and generous person.” Dorathy said and stepped back, calming down a little. “And he's not throwing the money away. We were hired to do the work that he obviously can't do himself.”

“He can't shovel?”

Another woman snorted. “Of course he can shovel! Did you see the huge pile of dirt over there?”

They all looked to see the 5 to 6 foot tall mounds of dirt all along the whole back of the Keep.

“He's just too busy to do this kind of work.”

Princess huffed and they all turned to look at her.

“Just look at that!” Dorathy said. “Doesn't that show you how considerate he is? He took the time to make armor for his mount, and it even matches his own!”

“I guess.”

“You'll see things differently by the end of the day. Trust me.” Dorathy said, then turned to wait for Ren to come back. “By the way, don't be frightened. Ruck is a walking backpack that looks like a giant beetle.”

“Ruck's a WHAT?!?” Several women said together, and Dorathy laughed.

*

Ren ran to the stable and knocked on the door to Ruck's area. “Hey, Ruck. Dorathy, the woman you helped sew up those sacks, wants to know if you can help her again.”

Ruck opened the door and gave Ren the 'okay' gesture.

“I really do feel bad you can't ride on my back anymore.” Ren said as they left the stable. Ruck pat him on the leg and pointed. Ren nodded and they ran up to the workshop. He was surprised that no one gasped as Ruck appeared, though. He got everyone positioned, made sure they knew what to do, and started the oven.

“By the GODS!” One woman exclaimed, and several other women chuckled. “What?” She asked. “No one is surprised it just lit up like that? He didn't light it! Where's the stoking? Where's the wood burning smell?”

“It obviously doesn't need any of that.” One woman said. “I've seen something like it.” She turned to look at Ren. “It's enchanted, isn't it?”

Ren nodded slightly. “Yes. No wood or fuel needed.”

She smiled and turned back to the woman who had exclaimed. “It's just like the stone torches in the Main Keep.” She said. “Someone activates them, and poof! Fire.”

“Oh. Okay.” The woman who exclaimed said. “I guess that makes sense.”

“All right, everyone, let's get to work!” Dorathy said and the women outside started shoveling.

Ren left them to it and went to his room with the forges. He took out a paving stone and dug out a 2 inch square from it's surface with a chisel, using his Stonemasonry skill. He dismissed the popup that he'd gotten Level 1 in it, and kept working. He took his time and let the system highlight where to cut. When he was done, he had 100 of the little squares cut out of the 2 foot by 2 foot surface, leaving a slight divide between each square. They were only half an inch deep, so when he poured in the molten metal, it didn't take much to fill them all.

Ren spread the metal out with his hand to make sure it was even, and absorbed the heat from it. He enchanted each of them with the House Neram crest, granting it the House Neram 10 foot Aura. Ren knelt on the floor and tipped the mold over, letting the hundred metal squares fall out. He gathered them up, stored them, and went out to where the women were working. They had several dozen sacks done already and he smiled.

“You're all doing great work.” Ren said. “I'll be back in a few minutes.” He left the workshop and led Princess back to the stable by the house and unhooked the cart. “I'll need your help again, before supper.” Ren said and dropped several pieces of french toast into her bowl.

....bribe..... accepted.....

Ren chuckled and left the stable, then ran to the Main House. He went inside and to Ereka's office, then knocked on the door.

“You don't have to knock.” Ereka said, and Ren opened the door. “It's your House, after all. You built it.”

Ren smiled, and noticed she wore the same red skirt and white blouse. “Is this your professional outfit?” He said and motioned to her clothing.

Ereka got a surprised look on her face, looked down at herself, then pat several places with her hands, trying to find something. “Is there something wrong with it?”

“Of course not.” Ren chuckled. “You look great.”

Ereka stopped patting her clothing; with one hand on her breast and the other on her hip, then looked at Ren.

“I was just wondering if we'll make that the official uniform for working here.”

“Oh.” She said and dropped her hands. “If you're going to do that, a nice suit top would be a good idea.”

“Why's that?” Ren asked, curious.

“So the men and women would match, of course.”

“Then that's what we'll do.” Ren said, and took out some fabric. He made her a red suit top, like a blazer, and added the white edge along it. He handed it to her a few minutes later, then made her a skirt to match. “There you go.” Ren said, and handed that to her as well. “If I can get around to it, I'll have several copies made.”

Ereka stood there and marveled at how quickly Ren had made her a new set of clothing. “I thought you were a blacksmith.”

“I can do lots of things.” Ren said, and took out the House Neram brooch he had made for her. “Before I forget, here's the House Neram brooch.”

Ereka gasped as Ren handed her the diamond brooch. “It's... it's beautiful.”

“Put it on.” Ren said, then taught her how to activate it herself. Since he was standing right there, it matched up with his and she sat down.

“Oh... oh my...” Ereka said and clutched the brooch.

Ren smiled and attached several of the House Neram metal squares he'd made around the office. He proceeded to put them all around the Main House and went back to Ereka's office.

“If you liked that...” Ren grinned. “...you're going to love this.” he concentrated on all of the small metal squares with the House Neram enchantments. Activate!

He'd put 50 squares all over the Main House, and with Ren activating them himself, they combined into a single Aura and went out 500 feet.

“By the GODS!” Ereka said in shock.
