Honestly... kinda wish I kept a few around since not many poisons work on Martial Warriors, so it would’ve been nice to study one that does, especially now that I think it’s not Demon related. Maybe I should’ve let a Wraith poison me to see what it’s like. If keeping Defiled artifacts wasn’t punishable by death, I might’ve been tempted to squirrel a few away for research purposes, but with how much scrutiny I’ve been under of late, it’d be a stupid risk to take. I’d also like to study an actual Wraith, but considering I don’t know the first thing about autopsies, that’s a bust too. Besides, the last guy who cut up corpses for research ruined things for all science-minded individuals in the Empire, what with being branded a heretic and all. Not to say his reputation wasn’t deserved since Zhen Shi was certifiably bat-shit crazy and totally stepped over all the lines, but it’s ass-backwards for the murder-crazed Defiled to be more innovative than the supposed Balanced Empire.

With my leadership duties taken care of for the day, I head over to the training area hoping to steal Mama Bun and Blackjack while Song is busy sparring, but alas, I arrive just in time to see both long-eared floofs hop into her bosomy embrace. Averting my eyes, I sigh and thank the Mother Yan’s still in bed, else she would definitely have noticed something was up. I need to keep my feelings a secret and never, ever tell anyone about them, because Song deserves to be happy, which she can’t if she knows I’m lusting after her body. Despite everything she’s been through, she trusted me with her chain, and I don’t want to do anything to betray or jeopardize her trust.

Grabbing an iron striking post, I bring it back to my yurt and ask the Death Corps to set up my bath tub, much to Ping Ping’s delight. Once the partitions are up (minus a section for Ping Ping to lay in), I head in and plant the striking post into the dirt to be used after my bath. Slipping out of my clothes, I settle into the cold water and step into the void, where I turn Chi into Water Chi while wishing there was a less embarrassing way to do this. When I’ve gathered enough for my purposes, I climb out, get dressed, and turn the bathwater into Chi-Tea, saving two gourds as per usual for me and Pong Pong. Gesturing for Ping Ping to have at it, I pat her cheek as she drains the tub dry and try not to think about the hidden Experts judging me with their looks of disgust. Technically, I could have the Death Corps empty the tub and make Chi-Tea from a barrel of water, but it might raise questions regarding what’s actually going on. So what if the world thinks Ping Ping likes to drink my bathwater? She’s the Divine Turtle, and she wouldn’t drink your bathwater if you begged her.

Honestly, I wish I could Conceal myself to hide this one humiliating detail...

Once finished with her drink, Ping Ping settles down to watch me work as I take my stance in front of the striking post, standing about five meters away with sword in hand and ready to begin my actual training. There are so many steps to get to this point, but as much as I’d like to streamline the whole thing, there’s no point. As things stand, I have no real use for Water Chi, so until I do, why bother wasting time optimizing the gathering process?

Maybe I’m getting ahead of myself, but I figured if I don’t make progress over the next few days, then I’ll rethink my strategy.

Settling down in a wide, open area, I make sure Ping Ping isn’t touching me before drawing Peace and closing my eyes. Though I no longer need to reach for Balance to gather Chi, I do so regardless because sometimes it helps me think. The Energy of the Heavens is unruly as ever, a torrent threatening to sweep me away, but I struggle and endure to resist the undercurrents. It’s a world of difference from Devouring Heavenly Energy for Chi, but the familiar conflict sets my mind at ease and I set to pondering the mysteries of Water Chi.

If Water Chi behaves like water, then how do I turn it into a weapon? Hone it?

Taking a deep breath, I take a few minutes to calm my mind and reflect on how I got here. It’s been years since I’ve practised with a striking post, and the first time around, I used it to practice Honing with Peace. Today, years later, I’m standing before a striking post to practice Honing again, but this time, it’s not with my sword.

I’m going to Hone Water Chi.

It makes sense right? If water is water and requires outside assistance to do non-water things, then why can’t I use Honing to make water cut? I don’t understand how Elder Ming made an actual sword of water or how Pudge made tentacles, but if all I want to do is cut, then Honing is the skill to use. With this in mind, I hold Peace horizontally before me and focus on the flat of the blade. If I want to wield Water Chi in battle, I can’t be popping into my Natal Palace to prepare, so I’ll need to learn how to materialize it with eyes wide open and it’s best to start now. Time passes as I picture the cold metal drawing moisture from the warm air to form beads of dew across its shiny surface, but reality is not so kind. My first attempt is a failure, as is the second, and the third, but then I stop counting. Try, fail, repeat, until finally, I succeed, my focus sharp as the blade I hope to forge. The Water Chi pools across the flat of my blade and I command it to Hone, envisioning the water churning about in a whirling chain of jagged edges. When the time feels right, I flick my wrist and launch the stream of water at the striking post, where it splashes across the metal and does little else.

A failure, but again, this is nothing new. How many times did I fail in front of my first iron striking post? A thousand? Ten-thousand? It doesn’t matter, because eventually, I succeeded, as I will eventually succeed with this.

Eventually.

Maybe.

I hope.

Fuck, there goes my focus.

Chapter Meme
