His words were warm water welling up in her chest. The disgust threatened to subside.

“Liar,” she snapped, the sound of her own voice shocking to her unwitting body.

“Val, look at me.”

His eyes were long and fine, elfin almost, his lashes thick enough to look like mascara.

“Everything I did,” William’s voice was hoarse. “I did while thinking of you. She was going to take everything away, all your hard work. Your father would be so disappointed.”

Valorie suddenly felt sick. The manipulative bastard.

“You’re such an ass,” the word came out harsher than she intended.

“If an excess of love is fault, then—”

She glared at him.

She felt the loathing pass through her, clean and cold and clinical, and underneath it, like a water table, her desire for warmth. The two seemed inseparable, and this oxymoronic sensation frightened her. Eppie was right. Something was terribly wrong here.

“I know what you did to Mio,” she allowed the accusation to land like a punch.

William stared at her, as if digesting his new information. Then he smiled disgustingly, his handsome face caught between guile and manic desperation.

"For you, I would do it again.”

BUNG—she slammed the door. The solid oak door that weighed a ton. William withdrew his hand the split-second before his fingers were caught. The oaken panel sliced the roses in half, scattering them all over the floor like a gory carpet. Valorie stood in the corridor, her body shaking, panting, because she couldn’t believe that she had just done it.

She had to grip the railing for support.

That was the singularly most shameless, insane shit—

Ding— DING—Her phone buzzed.Valorie was about to hurl the hated thing from her when she realised that it wasn’t William texting behind the door.

She thumbed the screen open.

Saturday, 12:47 PM

Dearest Valorie

I'm writing on your father's behalf regarding this weekend. Given the developments regarding the Tule Lake designation as a new Memorial Monument at the behest of the President's office, the Senator will be meeting with senior staff and JACL community representatives from Saturday through Sunday. He has asked me to let you know that he will need to cancel all his prior arrangements, including yours.

This includes dinner on Saturday, the Saturday evening programme, and breakfast Sunday morning.

He asks that you understand. He will be in the Tule Lake Internment Camp. The matter is a solemn one, and the Senator feels it best to keep the weekend focused. He will be in touch when his schedule allows.My apologies for the short notice.I know how much you were looking forward to dining with Senator Sanders.If you wish, I am more than free to take you to Spring Awakens myself.P.S: The Senator says don’t anger anyone Japanese, 🤓.

— M. Teel

Valorie suddenly felt as though low on blood sugar. Had she eaten, she would have hurled like a kicked cat. She knelt on the floor, her knees smearing the petals into the plush carpet, feeling suddenly disembodied.

The iciness of her torso and the hotness of her face made her dizzy.The January cold penetrated through her shirt, through the silk beneath it, into her skin.

The door quietly closed behind her. It wasn’t as though she had locked it. Not to mention, William knew the PIN code.

The young man didn't speak. Her boyfriend stood there like a whipped dog, holding a fucked up bouquet of roses, waiting for her to say something. He was tall, taller than her father, and he was right there, and her father was gone somewhere she did not care about.

A part of her searched for the disgust, and was shocked by its absence.

“Val,” William’s voice was deep and hypnotic. “I did it for you.”

It stirred something in her, calling up warmth where the cold now permeated. Her fingers were tingling, as were her teeth.

He leaned in.

She leaned in.

His hands moved around her shirt—then under her shirt, as if he had known the exact moment, as if he had been waiting for the exact angle of her surrender. Like a princess who had found her knight, she pressed her face into the warmth of his shoulder while his sword-hand cupped her heart like a grail.

Click—

The door closed. The roses were forgotten on the floor. Valorie’s nostrils filled with William’s cologne, and then—

“Val—ARRRRRRRUGH—!”

She bit him. She bit him hard enough to make her jaws ache.

William tried to push her away. He twisted her arm. He slammed her against the wall, hard enough to fissure the plaster, for such was the vengeance she exacted upon his traitorous flesh.

She hated him so much.

She held on.

And in her forgiveness, between her pearly teeth, William screamed like a man covered in lime and sulphur.

When finally the sun set, there were roses everywhere. Petals and blood, scattered stems and a pair of soiled shirts lay on the floor. There was blood on the bannister, blood on the door. Blood was on her cut lips and drying against her teeth. Her intimates were in the Steinway, ruined like herself.

William was in the bathroom, disinfecting himself. After six hours of cardio, the man was in dire need of antibiotics.

Valorie lay splayed on the floor of the study, the room closest to the front door, her newly acquired fever pounding her head with soft hammers that came on like a drumline.

She thought, Could Mio ever forgive someone like me?

She thought, Am I the worst person to have ever lived?

She thought, Was that the worst thing I have ever done?

Then she stopped thinking. Valorie Sanders, sticky and sick with the taste of iron in her mouth, started to sing.

In the pines, in the pinesWhere the sun don't ever shineI would shiver the whole night through

Ha! She could sing it as well as Eppie!Valorie laughed, then she coiled her body until she was foetal, panting from the pain. She would channel this, Valorie told herself. She would channel this rare and exquisite feeling into Lavinia.
