//She will remain in a secure location until they are confirmed eliminated.

Solfis’ voice brooked no objection.

“I will make sure we are ready,” Sidjin assured.

The plan was simple in principle: rush their forces through portals to the edge of the Nemeti stronghold, deploy as fast as possible, and engage as the sun rises. The attackers would have it in their face which was less than ideal but it would be compensated by the Nemeti being weakened. The main point of failure, for Viv, was the narrow nature of portals. It would take entire minutes for the tens of thousands of soldiers to sprint through the aperture, a fear she didn’t share considering the generals were aware of the issue. In any case, they agreed it was the best plan and that was it. Viv didn’t feel like contributing. She knew when things were above her paygrade. The most important aspect was that she would be placed in the middle while the right flank would carry the brunt of the offensive based on some subtle terrain thing she’d not quite caught. Once the plan was decided, the generals filed out and she had the displeasure of being addressed by a northern leader she’d never met. A smarmy guy in an annoyingly cool robe she wanted to steal.

“You should consider who you keep as allies, ‘Your Majesty’. There is a cost to defying the order.”

“Thanks for the ‘advice’ but I don’t go back on my loyalties for convenience or profit. I’d go to war over Sidjin and I’d win it too.”

“You are quite arrogant for a self-proclaimed Empress.”

“Yes, it’s in the title. I’ll add that unparalleled arcane might is doing wonders for my self-confidence. Test it at your own risk. Now, you will excuse me.”

Viv left to find Sidjin who’d gone first. He was standing near the edge of the artificial hill, inspecting the incoming troops and supply wagons with his hands behind his back.

“We have changed everything,” he said.

“You have. You’ve solved supply lines.”

“Perhaps. We shall see if this lasts, if others can be taught as well. Shall we go?”

The trio left for their camp which was on the other side of the column. Fortunately, a detachment simply paused to let them through, a perk of being dressed like some dark lady, Viv assumed.

Sidjin was being sad. Quick, a distraction!

“You know, I was thinking.”

“Oh Neriad protect us all.”

“Har har. No, seriously, back on earth, the entire perception of magic gave it such a mystique! Witches were supposed to brew potions from rare and exotic ingredients, then dance naked withershins around a bonfire on a full moon singing incantations at the top of their lungs. And I feel like it’s actually a bit lost here. Not that I’m really complaining since it would make things much more complicated, just… what?”

Rather than distracted, Sidjin was getting increasingly pissed off which was not the expected result.

“Witch traditions mostly work that way. Witches of the Thorns may only cast offensive spells if they have imbibed a brew made from theirs and monster blood. They cannot cast to attack otherwise.”

“What? Is it… acting as a focus? A battery, perhaps?”

“No.”

“What then?”

“The spells will not trigger unless the potion has been consumed.”

“But… that’s preposterous!”

Sidjin threw his hands up.

“Exactly! Exactly, this is how I feel about all of your entire spell library! Do you know I had to invent an array and a formula to calculate the distance between two portals so I don’t end up buried alive? And you? You? You slap three axis and a bunch of identifiers on your targeting hex and that’s enough for, and I quote, ‘letting Nyil know where to aim’. And that’s it. And it WORKS! Scandalous! And then you just shadow port away to avoid having to explain yourself which is, by the way, supposed to be an assassin path master ability. Arrrrggg.”

The two stared at each other, then chuckled.

“I need to express my frustration more often. It soothes the heart,” Sidjin observed. “Oh look, is that…”

A messenger was running towards them, one of the temple acolytes. She looked exhausted, with wisps of hair sticking out of her ponytail in sweaty strands.

“Your Majesty! Ah. Reinforcements have arrived.”

“Reinforcements? We didn’t expect anyone.”

“We know. This way!”

The girl led them by the side of the Harrakan fort which was now surrounded on all sides by other camps being raised. Viv took pride in the fact theirs looked the most professional. A column of warriors waited by the gate in good order. Their reddish skin was unmistakable. Viv rushed at the leader with enthusiasm.

“Marruuuuuuk! It’s so good to see you!”

“Hahahaha!”

The large Kark looked wider and more muscular than ever. Her armor was yries-made and showed a few more scars than last time. Her shield showed considerably more marks and Viv almost laughed when she realized the Kark had someone engrave a stylized handle near the middle. Viv stopped before she could hug or pat the stout girl since she remembered Marruk wasn’t a fan. Instead, she opted for words.

“I see your crusade against doors is still ongoing.”

“It helps me be recognized. It is like a human flag but more convenient and less phallic.”

“Less visible too.”

“I can make it very visible. From up close.”

A few of her Kark shifted uncomfortably. Viv wondered if it was the unkark-like banter or just an intimate knowledge of Marruk’s bashing implement.

“And you brought back… more Kark than you said you’d lead home? I thought you wanted to rescue them?”

“I did! Too many idiots in the clan!” Marruk bellowed, forcing the first five ranks of the formation to huddle around their pikes.

“They say thank you and ask which chief I want to marry! They want me to raise many strong and smart children for their tribe while my husband leads the warband. Idiots! IDIOTS! It was I who brought people back, I who brought us more steel than three trade caravans filled with precious sweet meat! It was I who got our gold back from the Enorian liars! I should be chief! My husband should raise MY children to be strong and smart while I RULE. I have proven myself more than them! We need… Pah. You know this. My people, they are too… set in their ways. See change as a surrender. Losing oneself.”

It was obviously a sore spot.

“Then, uhhh.”

“I make a new tribe with steel and ruse and girl warriors. There are three. Do not mention it. They think I cannot tell. We conduct guerilla warfare and we speak softly.”

“That’s great!”

“I, uh, I was hoping you could help. With the guerilla part. We need new paths. I cannot do it myself. I need to stay as Pillar of the Kark.”

“But of course! And who knows, if we manage to liberate land to the far north, perhaps some of your people can move in. Solfis mentioned the climate was similar to what you guys have in the steppes, except, you know, the soil isn’t shit.”

“That would be perfect, yes. Later. For now, we fight together again. I will help my warriors settle down for the night with minimal screaming. Goodbye!”

Viv let the Kark busy herself with housing. Since their coming was unexpected, Rakan volunteered to expand the base to accommodate them. For some reason, all the other armies gave them a wide berth so there was enough room to raise new barracks next to the Order of the Blue Rose’s poetry tower. Viv finally, finally retreated back to her secured bunker, only to scream in fright when a figure pretty much unmerged from the wall.

//This is Irao, Your Majesty.

“Oh, ok, ok.”

The Hadal blinked slowly, then tensed a little.

“I will give you some space,” Sidjin allowed. “I need a bath and a glass of spiced wine.”

“See you. Irao, I… did Zero Five tell you?”

“He told me many things.”

Viv couldn’t be sure but the old assassin looked dejected.

“I’m sorry for your loss. Your friends came and… they protected me.”

“Yes. Death. There have been many deaths.”

He paused for a while.

“We will bury their ashes in our home. Death is… more a part of life than it used to be. There is life too. Hope. I was the first, you know? First successful one out of the vats. First to be trained. For a long time, I also feared I might be the last. But no longer. Now we have children. I have held those children in my arms. They are very squirmy.”

“Hmm. That’s a good thing?”

Irao nodded wisely.

“Very much so. I feel safer. I feel like death has meaning. But I don’t think I want more of it from my friends. Now, I want to see how the scaled ones wield fate like a dagger. It will be… a nice challenge. Something new.”

“You sound like Solfis.”

Irao stared right into her eyes, for once.

“Yes. We are both old. Sometimes bored too. I think… this will be interesting.”

The Hadal disappeared and Viv knew the Nemeti would regret making themselves interesting.

***

Solfis sat across the path to the Empress’ bunker entrance, not far from its charging station. Data influx was processed by part of its processors while the rest of its mind remained idle, churning the emotions that blazed through its peculiar soul. The one that interested it right now was anticipation.

The Nemeti blades were coming. It could feel it in the way reality shifted ever so slightly, as their fate carried them to its mistress. Solfis had worked out the way they functioned during the first night. A thread carried them to their victim, where they struck with unerring accuracy. It was a powerful ability made even deadlier by the number of assassins and their total disregard for self-preservation. In order to win, the only option was to block every last possible path to her. There could be no fate if there was no possibility of victory.

And so, Solfis calculated every possible path.

And it blocked them.

The shadows shifted. Solfis bent backward, letting the first assailant dig his blade in the packed earth. In the same movement, Solfis lifted itself on its hand and swung both legs around in a circle, catching two more. Pandemonium was unleashed on the camp. Dark-scaled Nemeti battled Enorian rangers, Baranese assassins, and northern dark blades in a flurry of quiet slaughter. Blood soaked the ground. Solfis’ second had cut the first in half as he retreated, then he lunged forward and caught a fourth with the very tip of its right leg. It pinned the body down and twisted.

A sword came at Solfis’ face. The golem twisted its head and struck at the same time, its attack dodged by a hair. A series of swipes was avoided. To the side, the Paramese beat a hasty retreat against a fierce foe that killed them quickly. Another dark figure engaged the master killer and the dance resumed.

Solfis was left against its singular opponent.

//Sent against me specifically, I see.

//Unfortunately for you…

//You are too weak to touch my destiny.

The exchange quickened. Solfis deflected a series of thrusts and managed to catch the foe’s hand, but it slipped away and the golem was forced to pin another assassin to the bunker’s door before it could attack the enchantments guarding it. It was both frustrating and challenging to oppose the assassin without dueling mode, for the golem could not afford to lose sight of its mistress’ abode.

The adversary teleported to Solfis flank. Solfis hip checked him. He was off balance. Solfis surged forward. The dance reached a paroxysm but every time the golem cornered its opponent, the foe slipped away with deceptive ease. The assassin grew bolder and more desperate as time passed and more of its allies fell. Blood soon covered its scales from glancing slashes.

Another Nemeti found the bunker door and placed a package at its base.

Solfis turned. In three quick lunges, it was at the gate, twisting on itself and sending the dangerous item high into the sky. It was the moment the assassin had waited for. He bypassed the golem’s guard and jumped.

The assassin’s dagger plunged deep into Solfis’ eye cavity in a sound of cracking bones. One of the baleful eyes dimmed when the blade pierced the entire skull.

//Well done.

//But my head holds nothing vital.

With a ghastly sound, the golem punched through the Nemeti’s chest.

Some of its sensors were damaged. The repair system kicked in, focusing on the more damaged areas first. Overall efficiency was decreased. Overall confidence remained high. The shadows moved again, revealing the hooded form of Irao, surrounded by a cadre of hadal elders. The old killer touched his shoulder. Glitening blood coated his fingers.

“Interesting.”

//Those are poisoned.

“I am aware. And immune.”

The battle had moved south towards the Baranese camp. More soldiers were joining the shadow war as they returned from patrols or rushed out from tents. It was getting so noisy, some of the sentries might even notice.

//How about… a bout of friendly competition?

Irao’s eyes narrowed.

“Speak.”

//I knew you would take the bait.

***

Dawn rose over the plains of Halluria for what would be the third day of battle. Viv moved after her soldiers through the massive portal made by Sidjin, an active casting the likes of which he’d only deployed once before, when saving the merl from their doom. The Harrakans were among the last to deploy because Jaratalassi assessed there might be a chance they could locate her in real time. Around her, the witchpact walked tensely as they were still mostly out of quarrels. That was fine. Other groups were tasked with carrying the day.

Viv cast a concerned glance at Solfis, still showing signs of damage to his skull and ribcage. The bone was somehow repairing itself but what concerned her was how smug the golem looked. One would think it was difficult to appear smug with no facial expressions, yet here they were.

