Viv followed officers to an exquisitely decorated tent sitting on a hill that hadn’t been here this morning, because nothing quite said majesty like casting tactical spells to make yourself taller. For this occasion, she could only take two people with her since space was limited and she went for Sidjin and Solfis. The explanation as to why became clear as they climbed up nicely carved stairs and saw the flow of soldiers rushing out through the witch gate. It was not just the Enorians and the Baranese coming. The flood gates were open. Right now, northerners in white robes over mail marched out with the twilight sun shining on their spears. Sidjin tensed as he watched the display by her side, prompting her to pay more attention to the flags.

Glastia was here.

That was… well, even if he were still an outlaw in his homeland, which he was not, they still couldn’t arrest him due to the rules of the Paramese Alliance. Nevertheless, the past was not something he could easily let go off. The way Nyil made minds more resilient only worked so far. It was already a miracle he could function after everything he’d been through.

A surge of anger rose in Viv’s chest, though she quelled it quickly. Glastia was a frontier city under constant siege. They were expected to send a token force every time the alliance gathered, and they would be held to higher standard for decades afterward. Of course, they couldn’t afford not to come. She should have expected it. She just hoped they’d sent someone who wouldn’t cause a scene.

Viv walked in, everyone stopping to spare a glance at Solfis. He was getting quite a reputation, and she wondered what would happen if she insisted he attended meetings after he’d regained his original frame. They’d need larger tents maybe? In any case, Jaratalassi was already present alongside helpers who were finishing adding little flags in front of comfortable chairs. A quick study revealed that the arrangement was made to prevent animosity. Notably, she was close to the entrance with Glastia a quarter of a circle away to her right, Helock a quarter of a circle to her left, and Enoria facing her. Out of immediate stabbing range. The more powerful nations filled the back of the tent around the commanding chair which belonged to Jaratalassi. Harried ladies in waiting rushed from spot to spot, placing sealed cups around which a nondescript man checked for poison. There were a few of them around the tent, actually.

//This place is secure.

//For now.

“I imagine attacking anyone here would be suicidal.”

Viv was one of the first to sit, mostly because she was still feeling sore. Solfis came to stand at her side which meant she was given a wide berth, a double-edged tool when other groups were talking in low whispers. She would get a much better chance at socializing during the conference anyway. Right now, she needed a breather. So did Sidjin because, as the two of them discovered at the same time, Glastia had sent Prince Medjin. The same person who’d turned Sidjin’s mentor and Sonagi against them in the arena. Also he was an absolute bastard that looked like an opera villain and the way he glared at Sidjin made it clear he had something in store. So help Neriad, if he tried anything…

Slowly, other groups sat down. The susurrus of conversations covered three different languages and their variations, giving the tent a cosmopolitan ambience reinforced by the vastly different styles of armor people wore. The last of the whispers died down a moment later which Jaratalassi used to open the meeting.

“Gentlement, and ladies, it is my honor to welcome the alliance today. We stand at a decisive junction. You arrive— yes?”

Medjin had lifted a hand under the glaring disapproval of most, especially the two kings. Viv got the distinct impression the man wasn’t aware he wasn’t in the Glastian palace anymore.

For once, she wasn’t the one who would get a culture shock. Nice.

“Before we begin, I wish to make a request related to the presence of Prince Sidjin of Glastia here,” Medjin said, that snake.

Of fucking course.

Viv noticed the imperceptible tension on her lover’s shoulders. Sidjin was one of the most composed people she knew. He kept his calm with a level of control that bordered on mania, a quality in a mage but sometimes a trap as well. She felt the sleeping rage awakening again for the first time since the duels back in Helock when that wound on his soul was freshly reopened. It pained her to see him like this, taking upon himself to bite everything back once again for a city that he still loved, even after everything they had done to each other.

“Prince Sidjin of Glastia is a notorious traitor. The rules of the Paramese Alliance allow for the presence of, shall we say, disreputable elements. However, nothing warrants his presence on his council and I daresay he represents a security risk and should be excluded from every strategic meeting where important information might be shared.”

All eyes turned to Viv and Sidjin so she cast a quick sound-canceling enchantment. It was considered acceptable and faster than a recess.

“I will leave,” Sidjin said, “If you ask me, although this is nothing short of bullying and you should not accept it as a sovereign.”

It was obvious to Viv that Sidjin was exhausted after two days of very heavy fighting. All of her casters had fought until they were almost completely out of mana and then they’d focus on replenishing it, rinse and repeat. It made the usually unflappable Sidjin a bit more raw than usual. He bared his teeth as he glared which was a much better than deep depression.

“Sidjin, you’ve never actually spoken your mind about the whole treason thing. Not in public.”

“I shared it with my father, after he… after my merl friend died.”

“After they murdered him.”

“He ignored me, said it was for the good of the city. There is no point now.”

“There is an obvious one and I think you should share it.”

Sidjin frowned, the whole concept foreign to him.

“We do not play this game in public. It is unsightly.”

“But he started.”

“Viviane, love, we must maintain a certain level of decorum.”

“Which means we can reciprocate when insulted, which he’s just done. You’re not just you anymore. You’re my advisor and my most powerful caster, remember?”

“Viv.”

“If you don’t stand up for yourself, I will.”

“Viv.”

“And I’ll be fucking rude about it.”

“Viv, I…”

“Sidjin. They’ve been slandering you and you’re just biting it all back. Just for once, let it out.”

“I…”

“Let it all out.”

She could see the moment the scales tilted and collapsed, the moment his jaw unclenched and she knew the dam had broken. She dropped the sound enchantment just as he started speaking.

“The moment seared in my mind, the one that changed everything, that wasn’t the treason accusation. It wasn’t being thrown in a cage or even what came after, the torture, the humiliation in front of the various families who’d lost a son fighting for a wall they should have stood on from the start. It wasn’t my father’s scorn or my mother’s tears. It was the moment I left the battlement and felt the heat singe the back of my head. The moment I turned and saw my merl friend Siul’s charred corpse fall, and the moment after, when I turned in horror, and I saw your nephew step away from the upper wall with a sneer. He DARED sneer at me.”

Sidjin breathed in and it was harsh, like the wind howling through a half-closed window.

“For two years I fought on the wall every damn day until they called me the Red Mist. I sacrificed every minute of free time to the cause. I bled and I cried for it, but I didn’t mind, because I was fighting for Glastia. My Glastia. I would have faced the dark gods for her and for you. I would have charged head first into the tide if it meant victory. I would have given my life without hesitation. Glastia could have asked for all of it and I would have given it gladly if it meant it would all stop. Just stop. But you didn’t ask for this. You asked for my principles and my soul! You… you murdered Siul because he was asking help for his people, a people that was dying on the wall alongside ours! Alongside me! A people fighting for us! And you… you just had him murdered… and you had him murdered with a spell that would have slaughtered three dozen beastlings! The sheer, callous, honorless, audacity of it! And after all that, when I freed them and you actually had to fight for your own nation, after you killed your own allies, you dared call ME a traitor? You have tossed every last shred of dignity your entire bloodline could have possibly possessed and to this day, here on this council, you are still searching your pockets for more. The shamelessness of you. The utter absence of decency. There are whoring fisherwomen with more prestige than your entire clan and I am telling you now that I am done with you. I cannot control what you say in your viper dens but if you spit your venom in my presence again, I will demand satisfaction. I will go through your entire retinue and all your battle mages with relish and I want you to remember that I have killed for duty, for honor, for survival, but you… you? I would kill for pleasure.”

Viv cleared her throat then leaned forward, adding her comment in a calm voice.

“For the record, Archmage Sidjin is here as my Arcane Counselor, my paramour, and a vital part of the Harrakan military. His Glastian past should hold no relevance to this council. I will also add that it is the official position of Harrak that Prince Medjin of Glastia’s opinion has no value whatsoever and we will disregard it.”

Silence returned to the council though there were a few half-smiles. It was Jaratalassi who spoke next.

“Prince Medjin, this is a sovereign meeting held for the purpose of developing a strategy to defeat the Empire of Dawn. Our time is extremely precious. Please do not waste it by airing your petty grievances and I will refrain from comparing your contribution to that of Archmage Sidjin. Thank you. Now, I’d like to continue where I left off…”

What followed was mostly Jaratalassi bringing the commanders up to speed, something he did with alacrity and using numbers like range, proportion of elite to standard infantry, or casualty ratios. The description was succinct and really exhaustive. It was mostly the generals around the table who nodded as he spoke. Afterward, Jaratalassi recounted the events up to this day, shared his strategy, and finished with the existence of fate magic. The assassination of Eikart troubled everyone.

//The enemy assassins are capable.

//They are also immune to pain, continuing their initial attack no matter what.

//This piece of information cost us dearly.

//However, they can be stopped by our own specialists.

//I am willing to share what I have learned of their techniques.

//As a gesture of… goodwill.

Solfis’ way of saying the word felt terribly ominous, but there were signs of agreement around the table. Viv wondered if the canny golem was making himself seem like more than a killing machine. It even surprised Viv no one had objected, perhaps a sign her reputation was finally reaching far and wide.

“Concerning tomorrow, I have a suggestion,” Jaratalassi continued.

What followed was a masterclass in tactics that Viv appreciated although she had difficulties following. Her polymath skill let her infer the meaning of several expressions so she could at least get the gist of what was going on. Essentially, Jaratalassi didn’t have a plan. He had a complete roadmap. There were presets, conditions and contingencies with triggers left in the hand of career commanders with a deep understanding of their own forces. Sometimes, one of the generals suggested engaging at a different range, or swapping two units, and most of those suggestions were accepted but Viv was completely out of her depth. It was a great example of the level of thought that went into battles she’d only seen from outside so far. She also realized that Jaratalassi had been playing with only four ducal-sized forces so far which was like forcing a maestro to perform on a shitty flute. Now, Jaratalassi had the full orchestra under his command. He was going to wield the entire might of Param and he was going to make the Empire Dawn regret every second of it. Viv was a little wowed, and also a little jealous. She wanted her own dedicated commander so she could focus on her favorite thing: spellcasting.

Jaratalassi also came up with an idea she’d had as well.

“We should strike the enemy at the time when it is the most vulnerable: in the morning while the land is still cold. Their strange constitution will make them sluggish until the sun warms the earth, which should take at least an hour.”

“Why not attack at night?” somebody asked.

Jaratalassi allowed the interruption.

“We have no guarantee that the Nemeti perform worse at night than we do. Speed and energy are not the only factor. Lack of visibility and confusion matter as well and they could be exploited by our enemies. They have already demonstrated a great ability to adapt and to organize themselves. It is not a risk I am willing to take when we have a much safer option.”

“Not to mention the Hallurians certainly tried,” another added. “They favor night attacks.”

“Yes. I also love the irony of handing the Empire of Dawn’s collective asses to them at dawn. The scaley bastards deserve no less. However, in order to achieve a morning assault, we will need gates. Archmage Sidjin, Empress Viviane, may we count on you to set them up?”

“I’d need to be present at both ends…” Viv said.

//My mistress has been the repeated priority target of their assassins.

