After making our way up a colossal flight of stairs to the top of the Wall, Baatar pauses mid-sentence before quickly Sending his voice into my mind. “Ah, right, be polite, do not ask for too much and try not to incite a riot. Now, back straight, head up, knees high, and... March.”

Moving like a soldier on parade duty, I move in stride with Baatar and come to a stop in front of the Justicars. Behind them, held firmly between a pair of enforcers, Zian stands dejectedly, his arm reattached. Joining me at my right stands Akanai, who nods approvingly at my entrance, a faint smile on her lips. On the other side stands lovely Yuzhen, the Marshal, Yang, and Zian's hot, sexy mom, the latter two glaring furiously while I avoid eye contact, staring straight ahead with enormous effort, studying all the unknown guards standing around facing us, and only one man with his back turned, looking out at the horde of Defiled.

Baatar clasps his fist and bows and I quickly mirror him. “Major Baatar and Private Falling Rain, awaiting your orders.”

A robust, aged gentleman turns about and begins pacing in front of me, studying me intently. His resplendent gold-trimmed armor and black cloak make him look like a hero out of a children's story, his sharp eyes staring deep into my mind. Noting the Situ crest on his cloak, my stomach drops and I steel myself, forcing myself to stare back at him.

The seconds pass as our gazes lock, fear steadily building up within me as I lock gazes with this formidable stranger, power exuding from every fiber of his being, a man who demanded obedience and threatened violence without effort. Looming above me, he grows taller with every beat of my heart, able to crush me with only a single finger, a vicious animal, fury and savagery barely restrained, force is all he knows, brutality a way of life.

My mind screams at an unseen danger, sending me leaping back, instinctively drawing my weapons and settling into a defensive stance, ready to sell my life dearly.

Time moves slowly as my eyes dart about, ready to act to defend myself, hands gripped tightly around my weapons as the adrenaline surges through me, but something is wrong. Everyone stands motionless, watching me carefully, with no confusion or distress. In fact, Akanai seems pleased, openly grinning now, her eyes filled with approval.

The danger fades without warning, and I stagger beneath the sudden freedom, panting heavily as I hold my stance, confused and disoriented. The old gentleman shatters the heavy silence with his booming laughter, clapping Baatar's shoulder in a friendly gesture. “Damn me, and you're telling me he isn't even the strongest youth in your village?”

“Strongest, no, although he is talented. Only time will tell if he can live up to his potential, Colonel General.” Understanding dawns upon me, the formidable stranger standing before me is Nian Zu, Commander at the Wall, the highest ranked soldier in the Northern Province, a living legend.

Turning to Yang, Nian Zu cocks his head, waiting in silence until Yang nods ever so slightly. Turning back to me, he waves me closer. “Put away your weapons, my apologies for testing you but there were allegations of misconduct.” My heart continues to hammer away, my mouth dry with fear as I shakily shoulder my weapons and step forward. His oppressive demeanour is nowhere to be found, only a delighted old man in armour standing before me.

His hand rests gently on my shoulder and I tense up, feeling his chi probing my body. Glancing at Baatar, he smiles and gestures for me to relax, indicating I shouldn't listen to my gut and stab the old soldier. After an in-depth examination, Nian Zu nods in approval. “Good, good. Falling Rain, I, Colonel General Nian Zu, offer you a position in my army. Accept and be bestowed with the rank of Captain, standing here at the wall in defense of the Empire. What say you?”

“No thanks.”

The banners flap loudly in the wind, filling the silence following my swift refusal, Akanai closing her eyes in consternation, the vein throbbing visibly in her forehead. Erupting into uproarious laughter, Nian Zu claps once, grinning wildly. “You've no shortage of nerve, I'll give you that. Ah, a shame, a shame, such talent, I was hoping to steal you away from Baatar.” Shaking his head with a smile, he lets out a regretful sigh, tossing Akanai a token of authority. “Let us move on to business.”

Turning to face Yang, Nian Zu speaks sternly, all signs of the kind old man erased in a heartbeat, falling back into his role as Ferocious Dragon. “The trials have ended and the Society has lost. After you pay the ransom for Zian's life, I want this enmity to end, here and now. I have taken Your shadow warriors into custody and sent word to Rang Min and the other leaders of the Society that should any of them act against the People or Du Min Gyu, I will publicly denounce the Society and stand against them in open combat.”

Visibly red with rage, Yang's veiny neck throbs as he struggles for control. “You would side against your own people for some... savages?”

“Hmph. The citizens of the Empire are my people. Blood means nothing and actions everything. I have commissioned Lieutenant General Akanai to retake the border fortresses, and later today, I will hold a ceremony promoting Major Baatar to Major General and second-in-command at the Wall.” His declaration raises gasps from everyone present, including Baatar, but Nian Zu powers through and continues. “Even if I were to overlook his formidable skills in single combat, the man is a one in ten million talent when it comes to command. You saw his skills at work when you arrived, the coordination and organization is awe-inspiring even to me. When I retire, Baatar will succeed me as Commander at the Wall, and nothing short of an edict from the Emperor's own hand will change my mind. It is time to end this foolish 'tradition' of overlooking talented Half-Beasts. The Empire is in need of heroes, and I will accept them regardless of origin or standing.”

Yang's temper seems ready to explode, but a simple touch from Zian's mom keeps him calm, struggling to rein himself in as Nian Zu stands defiantly, almost inviting the challenge. After a long pause, Yang turns to me and snarls, “Name your price runt and be done with it.”

Still reeling at the news, I take a moment to consider my options while congratulating Baatar and Akanai. Money? I do love money, but how much is he worth? Sighing deeply, I look over at Zian, pondering my options, a plan forming in my mind as I notice how often Yang and Zian's mom glance at him, worried for their little champion. Glancing at Akanai, I tilt my head and silently mouth in the language of the People, “Play nice?”

Hiding my grin as she shakes her head, I turn to Nian Zu and ask in my most innocent and naive voice, “Um... Do I have to let him live?”

My question catches him off guard and he glances at Baatar, who shrugs without speaking. “No, you do not, but the Justicars have requested you be lenient. Young talents like yourself and Zian are the future of the Empire, and these are trying times.”

Pretending to look concerned, I idly scratch my neck, feigning conflict. “It's just that... letting him go is putting another weapon back into the hands of the Society. He is very talented, and I'd rather not have to duel him again.” All true, which lends strength to my performance. “Ah, what to do, what to do?” Pursing my lips, I turn to Yang, enjoying the moment. He already hates us, might as well make him sweat. “How's about this, you tell me what you're willing to pay for him, and if I don't like it, we'll just hang him from the Wall, here and now.”

The Marshal's laboured coughing masks his laughter, overshadowed by Nian Zu's outright howls, both old men enjoying the scene. Society politics, I'm guessing, but who cares. I'm about to get paid!

Show me the money!

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Akanai roughly mussed Rain's hair as they walked away, the young man walking proud as a peacock with his spoils in hand. “Well done, I thought Yang's eyes were going to explode when he saw your sour expression while you considered his first proposal.”

“It's all a matter of leverage. They had none, so it was easy to let them hang themselves.” Handing her the heavy case of gold plates, he grinned in triumph. “This is for you, I didn't do this alone and I'm not very good with my money. It should be enough to cover all future wages I owe, right?” She accepted the small fortune with a wry nod, making no comment of the fact that he kept Yang's purse for himself. He needed a trophy and the arrogant man seemed ready to die of shame when placing it in Rain's grasping hands. The boy could squeeze blood from a rock if he were so inclined, and she hoped to never be on the receiving end should he wish to try.

He weathered Nian Zu's Aura valiantly, reacting in the manner of a warrior, fierce and decisive, bringing pride to the People. She freely gave oath to the Justicars, as did the pup, allowing the test to go ahead without any possibility of misconduct, the accusation driving her to new heights of fury. She still could not understand how he was able to withstand the Aura, and worse, neither did he, but it mattered little in the grand scheme of things.

Upon returning to their barracks, she brought him into a private meeting room, sitting comfortably and serving him a cup of tea, a well-deserved reward. Sipping quietly, he hugged his new armor to his chest, unwilling to put it down for even a moment, treating it like one of his pets as he cuddled his prize. A Runic Breastplate, a near priceless item, it had taken the boy several longing glances and a direct reference before Ying realized his intentions, costing them dearly as they tried to buy him off with more gold, slaves, and women. In the end, he took the armor and a significant amount of coin, unsurprising considering his greedy and cowardly nature, still disappointed by the fact that it was only a breastplate and lamenting his actions in the duel. She chuckled at the memory of his indignant declaration, 'So I could have just cleaved his head in two? Then why did I let him stab me?'. Truth or fiction, it struck a nerve in Zian, shattering his confidence and impacting his future progress. Rain was truly vicious.

Clever too, offering medical advice to the Marshal, build a rapport and chatting amicably with the attendant about possible strategies to combat his illness. If successful, the People would have another powerful man to call upon, Rain's foresight and political acumen surprising even her.

Good, good.

Wiping away her smile, she spoke sternly to the boy. “Well then, the Sentinels ride east in two weeks.” Continuing as he nodded along, she laid out her plans. “You will not be joining us. As impressive as your performance has been of late, you are unreliable and unsuitable for the task at hand. I am left with no choice but to send you home.” Seeing his satisfied grin, she frowned, leaning forward and exerting her Aura on him, delighting in his look of alarm. At least she could still cause him some distress until he learned to condense his own Aura.

“This is not a reward, but rather a punishment. You and your squad will be placed under Gerel's instruction, and he will forge you into a cohesive unit of warriors, worthy of being Sentinels. In return, you will pass on your healing method to him and all others he brings before you. In six months, you will return to the Bridge with your squad for inspection. Should your Mentor or I deem them unsuitable, there will be grave consequences. Understood?” Without his sister and the pup to protect him, perhaps Gerel would succeed where others had failed, teaching Rain to be a proper soldier.

Smiling to herself as she sat alone, she reflected quietly on the day's events, shocked by their good fortune. The pup was growing into a man of power, the boy looking to follow in his footsteps, and the People soon to be well-respected in the North. Content and satisfied, she strode off to find her husband to celebrate, already planning her strategy for retaking the east.

A loud cry of anguish pierced through the halls. Leaping to action, she charged towards the source of the cry, Rain's voice echoing clearly through the halls. Did the Society act rashly, or was there already an assassin in place, too late to be recalled? There would be blood and fire to pay if the boy came to harm, no matter the consequence.

Kicking open the door to his room, she scanned the area for his source of distress as he knelt pitifully on the ground, shirtless and quivering, tears in his eyes as he looked up at her, mournfully wailing, “It doesn't fit.”

Blinking in confusion, she looked at the source of his despair, the Runic Breastplate so painfully earned, little more than a paperweight if he could not wear it. The absurdity of the situation struck her hard, and she howled in helpless laughter, collapsing to the ground as she panted for breath. Ignoring the gathering crowd, she continued to laugh, the boy's hurt and tear-stained gaze only fuelling her hysteria.

Only Rain could have such dog shit luck.

-End of Volume 6-

Chapter Meme
