The short moment between sleep and waking is the best.

Eyes still closed, I yawn loudly while slowly stretching, my body contorting in odd, but comfortable directions. Warm beneath my blankets, the chill air surrounds me, invading into my fortress of coziness as I shift about, wiggling my hips left and right to ease out the kinks in my lower back.

A tiny form presses up against me, and I open my eyes to find my little runt cat blinking slowly at me as he suckles the blankets, too-large paws stretching out lazily and kneading the bed as I run my hands through his soft fur. Closing his eyes to savour the attention, he purrs in contentment as I rub his black-tipped ears and coo at him. “Who's a cute kitty? You are, yes you are.”

“Please brother, have some dignity.”

Ugh. “C'mon now, no one's around, and how can you not melt when you see his little stripped face and green eyes? The only way he could be cuter is if he meowed.” Lifting the limp animal to my chest, I continue to stroke his head while meowing at him, trying to elicit a response.

The door to my tiny room cracks open and Lin's adorable little head pops through, her twin braids trailing as she cheerily smiles. “I thought I heard you wake. You're so silly Rainy, wildcats don't meow. Are you feeling better?”

“Great! My chest feels a little tight, but that's to be expected.”

“Yay!” She beams at me, happy at the news. “I'll go get Daddy and have a bath prepared for you, we couldn't get all the blood off. Rainy, you need to win more fights like your first and third matches, ya? Your other fights were too messy.” Sticking her tongue out at me, she closes the door and runs away, the sound of her footsteps fading down the hall.

Resting for a few minutes more, I finally scrounge up the willpower to slip out of my blankets and step onto the stone floor, icy cold to the touch. Opening the window to let in light, my room overlooks the inner courtyard, a number of Sentinels training and relaxing in the early morning sun. Yesterday, I had a sword lodged in my chest, and today, through the miracle of bunny-eared healers, there isn't even a scar to show for it. “It's good to be alive.”

“That it is, brother. You missed out on the applause again, it was incredible. I tried to walk off the stage but failed, my apologies for my weakness.”

“Ah, don't worry about it.” An errant thought strikes me mid-stretch, but I'm unable to frame the question delicately. “... Do you ever take over when I'm sleeping?” Visions of me running around in the night haunt me, humping every woman in sight and starting fights over face and pride.

“... I can't. I've tried for hours since I woke up, you slept for so long I almost died of boredom. It doesn't really seem fair, we should be able to take control in shifts, then we would never have to sleep.” His exasperation is clear as he hurries me while dressing, impatient and ready to set out once again.

“I don't think that's how it works, our body still needs to rest.” Relieved at his limitations, further conversation is interrupted by Taduk's entry, happily smiling as I run over to hug him. I'm in a hugging mood, I almost died like a hundred times yesterday. “Good morning Teacher.”

“Hmm, I don't recall you hitting your head in the match. Quickly, what are the characteristics and preparation methods of the frost horse nettle?” He quickly checks me over while I roll my eyes and answer. “Good, good, your mind is in working order, just a little more affectionate today.” Giving me another hug, he thumps me heavily on the shoulder. “Celebrating being alive are we? Well fought my boy, but next time, leave some glory for the others.” His levity fades as does his smile. “Perhaps you should think about coming home now to focus on your studies. You've all the markings of an extraordinary healer and you've had plenty of adventures. A rest might be in order, hmm?”

“Absolutely, I would be thrilled to go home. Everyone seems to forget, I never wanted to leave.” After chatting some more and another hug, I make my way downstairs to the bathing area. As I walk past, Sentinels smile in greeting, patting me and winking, one lovely older woman even giving me an enticing look, setting my heart to fluttering. A world of difference from before, the added attention makes me intensely uncomfortable as I awkwardly smile and nod at each person in passing. It's like being in Shen Huo after my fight with DuGu Tian Yi, except now it'll follow me home. Other me loves it, pride and satisfaction emanating from him as he prattles on about his 'well-earned respect and praise'.

A little egotistical, but then again, he fits right in around here.

Inside the bathroom, a steaming hot tub of water awaits me, little Lin working quickly, and I soak comfortably in the relaxing bath, scrubbing away flecks of dried blood from my skin and hair while my kitten paddles around in the tub with me. Clean and refreshed, I stride out of the bathroom where Mila stands waiting for me with a smile, while her ever-present shadow Li Song skulks nearby, absently hugging the only female kitten while warily watching my every move.

Happiness surges through me when I see her waiting, cheerful and perky with an almost mischievous grin, a far cry from her tearful face as she watched me fight. Closing the distance quickly, I open my arms and embrace her tightly, my arms wrapped around her shoulders as she tenses up from my unexpected affection. “Hey you. Sorry about not giving you a turn on stage, I got a little too excited.”

Blushing furiously as she pushes me away, she pouts adorably and pokes me in the chest. “What are you doing? We're in public, stop it.”

“So does that mean you want me to hug you in private?”

Snorting daintily, she ignores my teasing and retorts, “I can't believe you, always complaining about having to fight and then hogging the stage during public duels. So unfair, I was looking forward to being famous.” Flipping her short hair, she grabs me by the arm and leads me away, scolding me the entire time. “You went too far against that poor man, slitting his throat like that, it was macabre. You should have just removed his head cleanly, what did you gain in letting him suffer?”

Mentally telling Other me to pay attention to her lecturing, my mind wanders as we move through the courtyard, watching the other Sentinels take notice of my passing. There are no bows or compliments, simply an acknowledging of my presence. I wish things could go back to normal, when I could walk past everyone without the scrutiny, everyone minding their own business. All this eye contact and fake smiling is exhausting.

Mila leads me to the corner garden where Yan slowly moves through the Forms in silence while Zabu, Shana, and the biggest, meanest kitten laze about, snuggled closely together. Graceful and elegant, her movements are sharper than before, evoking a sense of danger she previously lacked. Her hair is a little longer now, still shorter than Mila's but longer than her close-cropped man cut, carefully tucked behind her ears as she practices, oblivious to our arrival. Limiting herself to a select few forms, she speeds up through the repetitions until her movements become a blur, her weapons audibly cutting through the air as she leaps about in a dazzling display of skill.

Exactly two months to the day since she left with Du Min Gyu, she's improved so much in a short time, leaving me ambivalent about her progress. On one hand, her new teacher is working out well for her and I'm happy to see her gaining strength, but on the other, I was almost hoping for it to be a disastrous choice, and for her to stay with us after being reunited once more.

Plus, I don't enjoy being completely dominated in combat by adorable young women, it's not really my thing.

Her practice comes to an abrupt halt after a vicious one-two thrust of her weapons, and Mila and I burst into applause, startling her into a defensive posture. Laughing at her discomposure, I walk up for a hug, Yan emulating Mila and freezing at my affectionate embrace. C'mon now. “Incredible Yan, we should spar later. Thank you for the weapon, it came in handy as you saw. Ah, it's so good to see you again!”

Carefully extracting herself from my embrace, Yan smiles frostily at me, wiping away her sweat in an alluring manner. “Oh, how kind of you to notice me, I guess it's easier when I'm the only one around.”

This again. “Look, I'm sorry about staring at Yuzhen, but I didn't know who she was and I was being cautious.” Trying to appear contrite, I extend my hands towards her for another hug.

“Hmph. Yuzhen is it now? How familiar you are, I'm delighted for you.” Batting aside my hands, she busies herself tidying the area.

“Oh, come on, that's her name, what else am I supposed to call her?” I need to keep a lid on my hormones or else someone is going to castrate me.

“I feel sorry for you Mila, having to watch your betrothed turn into a drooling idiot at the sight of another woman.”

Mila glares at me as well, their emotions resonating off each other and growing to unprecedented heights. “I'm not so sure about marrying him anyways. He's just a glory hogging, skirt chasing idiot. Let him do whatever he wants, it's no concern of mine.”

Hands held high in surrender, I casually slip behind the quins, using them as a physical barrier between us. “What do you want, you want me to never look at another woman again?”

“Yes.” Their voices harmonize as they glare at me in unison, ready to go off on a joint tirade. Thankfully, Lin appears with a large tray of food and Mila and Yan pull back at her arrival. Settling down for a tense meal, I eat in silence while Lin chats mindlessly with me, all smiles and affection, keeping all accusations and complaints at bay. Lin really is the best, unlike stupid Other me who can't stop laughing and offering terrible advice, like 'embrace them both' and 'be firm, tell them we will not be constrained or limited'. I feel like he should be strictly a combat advisor from here on out.

Dragging Mila and Li Song away with her to help clean, Lin winks at me as she leaves me alone with Yan, the atmosphere a little awkward. Patting Zabu while he snores, I glance over at Yan, who sits sulkily, pouting as she leans against Shana. “I really did miss you while you were gone, you know.”

Responding with a sullen glare, she buries her face in Shana's fur and mumbles back, “I missed you too. Still, it wouldn't have killed you to smile at me or something, instead of staring at some stranger.”

“You're right, I'm sorry, I'll keep that in mind for our next reunion.” Smiling wryly, I brush her hair aside, the bangs hiding her lovely blushing face. “I like your hair this length, stylish yet practical. It suits you.” Compliments, everyone loves to hear compliments, and talking about themselves. “So tell me about your journey with Du Min Gyu. How did you get a weapon heart?”

She brightens up and launches into the tale, animated as she acts out the battle, enlisting Zabu as the Meng-Zhua. Lin, Mila and Li Song return soon after and we spend the morning laughing and chatting with one another, enjoying our brief reunion before Yan leaves us for the second time. Conveniently, they'll be travelling with a Justicar who is returning to the Central Province, offering them a good amount of safety from reprisal. According to her, even the Society isn't suicidal enough to attack a Justicar's entourage. Everyone nods sagely at her declaration, making it too awkward for me to ask why.

After lunch, Baatar stops by with my weapons and armor, and after I change, he leads me away, his smile wide and eyes twinkling as he marches me away, one hand on my shoulder. “You fought well disciple, brought honour to the people. You have grown from the scared little child we found into a true warrior.” Frowning down at me, his grip tightens. “Not all is well, however, and I expect you never to repeat the same mistakes again. Such hubris and audacity, ignoring my mentor's orders and taking action without approval, I will not abide such disrespect.”

“Yes Mentor. Apologies, Mentor.” Meekly agreeing, I lower my head in contrition, a little annoyed I am once again being punished for something I didn't do, meekly nodding as Baatar's lists out my errors.

“You will kill your opponents quickly and without delay. You need not make a display of it, show your strength and people will talk. You are a soldier, not a performer.”

“Yes Mentor. Apologies, Mentor.”

“And you are to never again threaten anyone with torture or rape. Understood?”

Sigh. Thanks Other me. “Yes Mentor. Apologies, Mentor.”

“Make no mistake, I am very proud of you, but I hold you to a high standard. I hope for you to become an honourable and respectable warrior, even if you think it tiresome.” Pulling me in for a one-armed hug, his voice softens. “I know you were only trying to scare your opponents with empty threats, but a thousand tongues wagging can do more damage than a single sword. Innocence and good intentions matter little when the world believes otherwise.”

Continuing to lead me away, Baatar rambles on, instructing me on proper behaviour and etiquette. Some of it is completely crazy, but I take mental notes in any case. I can't let Baatar down, not after all he's done for me. I can't let any of them down. We continue to walk for almost half an hour, Baatar speaking through every second without pause, more complete sentences than I've heard him speak in six years.

