While part of me struggles with this newfound truth, another part assesses my current dilemma, and all becomes clear. Rather than my manor bedroom, I am now in the bathroom, but not in the marble bath chiselled into the ground. Instead, I sit nestled in the portable stone tub which I came to enjoy so much, but it is not water which I seep in, or at least not water alone. A medicinal bath has been brewed for me, done so using a formula put together by Taduk and Li TieGuai, with help from Taiyi ZhuShen, Taokang Geyan, and Lishan Suzhen, the three Healers I made connections with way back in Sinuji. It feels like a lifetime ago, but was in fact less than a year, yet so much has happened in the time since. All of them are present here and now, on standby to ensure nothing goes wrong and that their expertise is available should it be needed. Mom has Mama Bun in hand, while Tokta is also here, alongside an army of junior Healers from all walks of life, packed into my massive bathroom and inspecting my naked form with enough focus to make a life-long nudist blush.

“Slow and steady,” Li TieGuai says, cautioning his Mentor who’s doing the stirring. Despite his many failures, Taiyi ZhuShen is still the most experienced man in the room when it comes to making medicinal baths, so everyone involved thought it best to leave this to him. “Rather than one, long bath to refine the body, it is safer to use a succession of shorter baths instead.”

“Yes, absolutely,” ZhuShen replies, proud as a peacock of his brilliant Disciple and more than happy to take orders, sprinkling in some sort of powder from a measuring spoon while stirring the heated water thoroughly. “I don’t know why I didn’t see it before. Haste makes waste, as they say, haste makes waste.”

“Careful!” TieGuai leans forward on his crutches while his Junior Brothers, Tao Zi and PingGuo, help support his weight, their injuries long Healed and pride restored. Word of their exploits have spread far and wide, and no longer are they referred to as failures to their faces, though behind closed doors, many still call them freaks and abominations. That doesn’t matter though, because all they care about is their Mentor’s reputation, one which has now been restored thanks to their heroics, heroics they feel they could not have accomplished without my help. For this and more, this Master and Disciple quartet have committed everything to helping my recovery, even browbeating the other strangers in the room to swear an Oath to keep it all a secret. “The medicine must penetrate down to his blood vessels, but not so far as to reach his bones. Too much too quickly could hurt more than help, because we must build up his foundation in order to support his finished, refined body.”

“Of course, of course, my mistake.” Not really. ZhuShen judged my limits correctly and TieGuai is just being overly cautious, but that’s fine because this means more time for me to think. What do I do? Whisper lies into their ears to get them to stop? No, I can’t do that, because then I’d be no different from Zhen Shi. The truth won’t work either, because I can’t bear to admit my weakness to the people who love me most, and I’m not sure it would even sway Mom. She’d probably bring me back to life kicking and screaming all the way, then lecture me about how I’m being selfish for wanting to leave them all behind. Which is what I’m doing, but I can only bear to do it because I’m not sure how real any of this is. I do know that if my body is refined as expected, the leftover Heavenly Energy will reshape and reform my Core, and then I’ll no longer be able to isolate myself from my perceptions. I’ll have no choice but to wake, because my body will force consciousness upon me once my bladder fills and my instincts kick in.

My Path to Oblivion will be defeated by my need to piss. What. The actual. Fuck?

Worst of all? I was the one who planted the idea in TieGuai’s mind, so did I sow the seeds of my own defeat? Or did Zhen Shi hear what I told ‘TieGuai’, and is using it to force me back to the waking world and face the pain and suffering which awaits me? Frozen with indecision, I sit at the monitor and stare at the proceedings, wondering what I am supposed to do next. I still have some weeks before the medicinal baths show results, but that’s nothing. The clock is ticking, and even with all the information in the world, I have no idea what I can do to stop my inevitable return to reality.

I can’t do this. I’m not ready. I need more time.

Please.

Help me.

Someone.

Anyone.

...

And as always, my prayers go unanswered, which means if I want to stay here in the void, then I’ll have to make it happen myself.

Chapter Meme
