Because... it simply felt like something he would say, exactly how he would say it. “No need to worry about it,” she could almost hear him saying, shrugging as he added, “It’ll all work out.” And all the while, he’d be inwardly fretting about the exact same problem, as well as a thousand others Song would’ve never even considered, one or more of which might well inevitably crop up. Was he somehow communicating with her despite his coma? It would explain Mama Bun’s insistence on trying to wake him, since she never bothered him like that the last time he lapsed into a coma, immediately after Ping Ping’s ascension to Divinity. Perhaps the sweet bunny knew something the rest of them didn’t, that Rain was aware of the world around him and somehow responding to it.

...

How ridiculous. Song had read one too many of BoShui’s flowery sermons on ‘the glory’ of Falling Rain.

“It is not ridiculous.” Somehow reading Song’s thoughts, Sarnai smiled and shook her head. “You are not as difficult to read as I once believed.” Turning her gaze towards Rain’s window, Sarnai repeated, “It is not ridiculous. I too feel his presence around us, so inspiring, yet wholly lacking in enthusiasm and good cheer. I believe he is in there, locked away and sulking in his dreams, but still somehow aware of what is happening around him.” If anyone would know, it would be Sarnai, seeing how she recently spent six months in a coma, but Song was still not wholly convinced. Seeing this, the older woman smiled and said, “It does not matter if you harbour doubts, for my faith will not waver. He is in there and he needs our support. When you have time, speak with him a bit. Tell him about things the animals have done, or your concerns regarding the Martial Path, or anything at all really. That is all I ask.”

Again, it took Song an effort of will to remind herself that this was not an order, nor was she compelled to obey if it was. Picking up on her discomfort, Sarnai raised an eyebrow in question, but Song shook her head and sank back into the kind woman’s embrace to watch Luo-Luo Demonstrate the Forms and twirl her chain about in dizzying, hypnotic patterns. While Sister Mila and Sister Tursinai fought with similar weapons, they stuck to whirling their chains in simple arcs, tracing a large, circular pattern typically from overhead. In contrast, Luo-Luo’s chain was shorter in length, but the Imperial Servant made it come to life in her hands, its movements reminiscent of a flying serpent. Back and forth it wiggled in an undulating pattern, seemingly slithering in place before darting forward to strike without warning, all done with a gentle flick of her wrist that betrayed no intention. Her recovery was sublime as well, the snake’s head rearing back before whipping around again, this time in a horizontal sweep instead of a darting snap, and so long as she had strength enough behind the attack, Luo-Luo could clear a dozen Defiled away with this seemingly careless attack. That was the greatest danger she presented, for Luo-Luo’s Demonstration looked elegant and harmless until it didn’t, only to revert back into a calm and delicate dance.

So much progress in so little time, all while Song languished in mediocrity.

Were that all of humanity as mediocre as you. You have your own strengths and talents, so do not despair.

Warmed by this rare moment of self-confidence, Song glanced at Rain’s window for the umpteenth time. Sarnai’s faith was strong, but Song merely harboured unfounded suspicions. Her suspicions deepened when she followed Sarnai upstairs with all the pets to help get Rain dressed for company, for when she greeted Ping Ping, Mama Bun, Sorya, Anrhi, and him with a touch of friendly Aura, she found that she could no longer reach him, as if he’d been closed off to her an instant after her Aura connected. She said as much, but Sarnai merely frowned and shrugged, saying, “Strange. I thought he overcame his inability to feel Aura, but perhaps the problem has resurfaced. No matter. He fixed it before, he will fix it again.”

Putting Blackjack, Tawny One, and the red panda down on the bed, Song pondered the problem while Sarnai fussed with Rain’s clothes and hair. Unable to come to a suitable answer, Song massaged Aurie’s cheeks and gestured at the red panda instead. “It is unkind to keep calling him ‘red panda’. We should give him a name.” Watching Rain for a reaction, she added, “A proper name, different from something Rain would choose.”

He gave no response, but Song hadn’t expected him to. “He does have a strange naming sense,” Sarnai admitted, fondly patting his cheeks. “Though I find these little nonsense names rather endearing. Like George and Floofybunnikins, meaningless gibberish, but amusing all the same.”

“He’s a red panda, so why don’t we call him Red?” Always happy to chip in, Sorya left off tying Rain’s robes and poked the red panda’s tail, only to laugh as he jumped and clutched his rear close. “HongHong is so cute.”

“Too common,” Anrhi declared, and from the looks of it, Sarnai agreed. “Go to any stable and I guarantee you’ll find a HongHong waiting inside.”

“What about...”

While the twins bandied names about with Sarnai, Song focused on Rain and Sent, “What name would you give him?”

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Another day, another text. Or maybe it’s the same day. I don’t know yet.

Don’t answer it.

Just ignore it.

I can’t see the screen, only the light it emits, and that will soon go dark if I leave it be.

That said, the phone wouldn’t light up if it wasn’t something important, like the safety and well-being of my loved ones. That’s how I set all this up. The computer is a big connection to the outside world, limited omniscience and all that jazz, while the phone is... smaller in scale, with less processing power and applications, mostly just a way for the outside world to reach me. Technically, I could use either one to do both, but division of Intent is important when crafting Keystones, even ones which were hastily thrown together through unconscious need.

Which means this is important. It could be life and death.

I should just check.

It can’t hurt too much.

I can always sever more emotions if need be.

Besides, who knows how long I’ve been sitting here in the darkness of the Void? Could be seconds. Could be years. Won’t know until I check the phone, right?

The moment I decide to check, the phone appears in my hand, though I don’t recall reaching for it or even moving my arm. That’s good. It means I’m becoming more detached from my physical body, that my mind is adapting to oblivion. Progress. One step forward, two steps back however, as I scroll through all of Mama Bun’s snoot selfies. Too cute, but I can’t keep comforting her, because that’s probably how she figured out I was still in here. Thus far, she’s the only one who’s noticed though, so that’s good. Passion and yearning from Yan, tender frustration from Mila, wholehearted devotion from Luo-Luo, love and platitudes from Mom, the works essentially. Warm and fuzzy feelings, all which pains me to sever, but I do so regardless of my reservations. The only other messages of note are a few stray thoughts from Sorya and Anrhi, both of whom are stronger than they let on. Not physically stronger, but mentally, because sometimes even I forget that they’re both technically slaves. They’re just so chipper and happy all the time, it’s easy to overlook the fact that they both lived harsh lives, but they never gave up. They never surrendered. They smiled and soldiered on, because there was nothing else they could do.

Not like me. I gave up. That’s why I’m here. Because I can’t cut it out there, in the real or imagined world. I should feel shame or guilt, but I don’t. Those are gone, severed with the rest of my emotions. I’m beyond all that now. I’ve accepted my weakness, because that is the only way I can endure.

A surge of emotion accompanies the next text, and I unconsciously cut it off. I’m trying to divest myself of all emotion, so I can’t be accepting it willy nilly from other people or I’ll never reach oblivion. The Aura is from Song, a friendly greeting, and I can tell she’s been using her Aura more often of late. It’s cute, she doesn’t know how to express emotions with her words or actions, so she just does it through Aura. Not a bad way to go about it, since you can really only share genuine emotions through Aura, just like you can only Orate with genuine passion. Emotion. That’s what Heavenly Energy craves, and that’s why I need to get rid of all of mine. Emptiness within, matched by emptiness...

Holy shit. Song wants to name the red panda.

...Okay. This is big. This is important. What do we name him? Guan Suo? That seems tactless, and might not even be accurate. I should’ve thought about it while I was omniscient, but I didn’t, so I have no idea who this red panda really is. I suppose it’s the Ship of Theseus paradox. The red panda might well be Guan Suo reborn, but if nothing of the original Guan Suo remains, is it still Guan Suo? It might also just be Ping Ping’s Natal Soul given physical form, the giant red panda she brought me to visit every time I was there. Huh. Natal Soul. Yea, that seems right. Does that mean all the other living creatures in Ping Ping’s Natal Palace were also Natal Souls? Or was she creating non-denominational Spectres, severed portions of her own soul shaped with Intent and infused with Emotion, the very emotions she felt when meeting their real life counterparts?

That seems… dangerous. Couldn’t one of those Natal Souls take over? Should I check on Ping Ping’s Natal Palace? She most certainly reformed it by now. No. What am I thinking? It could be a trap. After what happened last time, why would I ever leave again? Why am I so stupid? This is probably another clever ploy from Zhen Shi, attempting to lure me out once again. Hell, I might not even be safe. Who says he can’t stroll right in and pluck me out? Just because he hasn’t done it before doesn’t mean it’s impossible. It might’ve just been easier convincing me to leave on my own.

Shut it down. Shut it all down. Forget naming the red panda, forget checking on Ping Ping, forget all my questions and curiosity. Forget my fear, my shame, my anger, and self-loathing, forget my love, my affection, my longing, and more. Sever it all, seek emptiness within, and peace and tranquility will follow.

The phone goes dark and I subsist in the Void once more.

I am no one, of nothing.

This is where I belong.

Here, alone with the nothingness.

Time passes. A minute, an hour, a day, I don't know how long.

My nerves tingle, from my scalp down to my toes.

The pores on my skin open.

A warm refreshing breeze moves through me.

It settles in my stomach, a soothing feeling.

One which sets my anxiety to spiking.

Heavenly Energy. This is Heavenly Energy, settling not in my Core which sits shattered and emptied, but my physical body itself. In my distress, I find myself unable to cut off the flow, because I’ve already severed all connection to my physical form, or so I thought. No, I did sever those ties, but the Heavenly Energy is rebuilding them, and in my current, quasi-dormant state, I lack the power to sever them once again. The Heavenly Energy seeps into me, and I can do nothing but watch its progress and mourn my failure, until it occurs to me to check the phone. There’s nothing there to explain what’s happening aside from the presence of a few old friends, and I’m left with no choice but to turn on the computer and don the headset once more to try and figure a way out of this mess.

The long wait torments me with its agonizing lethargy, the PC slow to boot up because I made it so. It’s part of the call centre package, where dreams go to die, and as cute as it might’ve been to make this an authentic experience, it’s really biting me in the ass now.

Fucking hell. I spent all that time divesting myself of emotion, memory, and personality, yet now it’s all back again in spades.

The monitor flickers on, and my renewed limited omniscience tells me I was not as successful as I believed, because once again, my powers of denial and self-delusion carried me far. I only thought I was making progress towards oblivion, but I’m no further than when I first started, all on account of my constantly buzzing phone. I got to pretend like I was only taking the most important messages, but instead, I was barely filtering anything out besides Ping Ping’s Loving Aura. The poor girl is beside herself with grief, but at least she’s not so far gone as to succumb to weakness, and is even having herself a fun little swim at this very moment. The Spectres of her mind are not what I originally thought, and in fact might be more beneficial than harmful, but only because she is such a pure and kindhearted creature. No wonder Pong Pong’s Natal Palace was devoid of life, because any Spectres he created would be tainted by his own experiences, fruit of the poisoned tree as it were. Same with me, which is why I unconsciously found all my Natal Palace villagers creepy and unsettling, though thankfully I eventually got rid of them all.

Well... all except one, one I clung onto until it was almost too late. Mahakala saved me in more ways than one, and I am only now just realizing it.

