It felt good to be back in the Northern Citadel.

The creaking chains, the rustling wind, and the gurgling fountains, these familiar sounds set Song’s mind at ease as she idled the morning away on the swings, just as she’d done every morning for the past week. It was still a novel feeling to do nothing with her time, but seeing how she couldn’t move too far from Rain’s person, she found it difficult to maintain productivity. Sister Mila and Yan left early this morning with Kyung and Teacher Du in tow, off to visit Niece Alsantset and meditate in the bamboo grove. While Song couldn’t join them on account of Rain staying in the Citadel, she wouldn’t have wanted to even if given the option, as she still had more than enough Insights and Inspirations left to digest. Too much was as bad as not enough, so it would be inconsiderate to ask the Mother Above for more than she could handle.

Normally, Song would find Mister Rustram or someone else from Rain’s retinue to spar with to pass the morning, but due to a friendly rivalry cropping up between Rain’s retinue and the rapidly improving Stormguard, Mama had taken them all out with her on a training trip. The Death Corps made for poor sparring partners, because without an express order from Rain or Luo-Luo, they tended to hold back when sparring against anyone who was not another Death Corps guard. They couldn’t help it, because they were compelled to do so by their Oaths, which included a caveat about not making trouble for their Master. Forcing them to commit to such a broad Oath was cruel and spiteful to the extreme, since ‘trouble’ was so vague it could be interpreted as almost anything, including the trouble of feeding and housing them.

Which only proved that no matter how bad one’s life might be, things could always get worse.

Beset by a fit of melancholy, Song put her thoughts aside and aimlessly swung back and forth, going higher and higher until she had to work to stay in her seat. Letting her momentum play out, she smiled as she spotted Blackjack and the red panda perched in the boughs, creeping closer with every pass as if too shy to let her see them move. The red panda was shy at least, and Blackjack was simply playing along, happy to have made a new friend who he could bully without reprisal. Slowing her swing down to a reasonable pace, Song reached in and condensed her Aura to deliver a friendly invitation, one tinged with hints of comfortable exhilaration and harmless glee.

A wonderful thing, this advanced Aura of hers, allowing Song to convey all the emotions she didn’t know how to express with words, expressions, or actions. Although people didn’t always respond to this form of non-verbal and non-somatic communication in positive ways, animals were a different sort altogether, more than happy to accept her messages at face value and react appropriately. For Blackjack, this meant taking a moment to time his jump so that he landed in Song’s lap at the apex of her swing, where she promptly took him in hand to ensure he didn’t accidentally fly off. The red panda was more hesitant than Blackjack, but as Song slowed down, he gathered his courage and leapt off to join them, his paws all akimbo as he hurtled through the air.

Except he timed his jump perfectly as to miss Song’s lap by a long shot.

Leaping off the swing, she caught the red panda as gently as she could and suppressed a giggle at his befuddled grimace. Clenching his paws against her forearm in nervous anticipation, she could see the wheels turning inside his little head, wondering if he’d been tricked out of the safety of his perch, but Song deployed her Aura to full effect in order to soothe the apprehensive beast’s nerves. Even then, he didn’t relax until she sat back down in the swing and set the chains to creaking once more, at which point he loosened his grip enough for Song to sit him into her lap like a toddler, her arm wrapped around his belly and Blackjack at his side so both animals could wholly appreciate the wind in their fur.

A shame Princess didn’t enjoy the swings as much as Blackjack and the red panda. The gently rocking couch already tested the limits of her tolerance, a couch she claimed for herself and gracefully allowed Sister-in-Law Sarnai’s calm and still presence beside her. The bears, wildcats, and even the rabbits were banned from joining them because the weasel-bear didn’t like how they jostled the swing about, and she was quick to express her discontent whenever any of them tried to approach. Luckily, Brother Baatar was all too happy to share the second couch swing, though only Sarankho and sweet George were brave enough to join him, as Brother Baatar’s boots touched the veranda roof overhead with every swing.

A good thing the window there looked into an empty hallway, as opposed to Song, Yan, or Luo-Luo’s bedrooms, else Sister-in-Law Sarnai would have his hide even though he had access to Scrying and therefore a much easier method of peeping if he so cared to. He wasn’t the type though, wholly lacking Rain’s roving eye, and Song feared for her privacy alongside the privacy of all women in the Empire once he mastered that trick for himself.

A joke, mostly, but not entirely. Rain always did have issues with impulse control.

No, not did. Does. Though unable to see into his bedroom window, she knew he was lying in bed with Mama Bun and Ping Ping beside him, the two dutiful animals still waiting for him to wake up. No amount of love, comfort, or acceptance expressed through Aura was enough to sway either of them from Rain’s side, and lately, Ping Ping had even taken to expressing disgruntled discontent whenever Song pressed the issue, though the sweet turtle always followed up her ‘harsh’ rejoinders with a burst of loving Aura, just to make sure Song knew she was still loved.

Sunrise came and went as Song frittered the time away, and Brother Baatar left with it, off to surprise an on-duty unit with an impromptu inspection. Hardly the best use of his time, but after clashing with Huanhuzi’s pirates on the field of battle some four weeks ago, he considered the Imperial Army an outright disgrace for being less disciplined and put together than Defiled bandits. Soldiers and officers alike trembled with his passing, and while the rank and file were punished with gruelling physical training, Brother Baatar was none too shy about stripping Officers of command. Three Majors and a Lieutenant Colonel had been busted back down the ranks thus far, and judging by his grumblings delivered at the dinner table last night, today’s ‘randomly’ selected unit would soon have need of a new officer as well. What rank, he never said, but Song suspected he’d set his sights on someone of high status, perhaps even a Colonel or Brigadier to show he truly meant business.

A good decision, most agreed, even the soldiers being punished for their mistakes. The former Officers might wail and moan, but deep down, every base soldier yearned for a leader worth following, and there was no dearth of talent within their ranks. Since abandoning the second line of defences, the Empire had seen an upsurge in new emerging Talents, with fresh-faced rookies and grizzled veterans alike finding new direction upon the Martial Path. This was in addition to the three-thousand plus Irregulars who returned as Martial Warriors, an incident which all-too-quickly blew up into heated debate. There were those who believed the storm to be a benediction and baptism from the Mother Above, while others like BoShui and MuYang insisted that it was Rain’s work instead, an argument which led to much confusion when carried out in conversation. Then there were those who lacked faith and believed it was all a ploy from their Legate, an ‘obviously fake miracle’ meant to bolster Rain’s standing, as if that was enough to explain all the strange happenings in the last month.

Personally, Song was torn between the first two camps. Attributing all these miracles to Rain seemed a little far-fetched, but there were too many strange coincidences to deny it out of hand.

Upstairs, Song heard Luo-Luo sneak in to check on Rain and knew she would be out for breakfast soon. Though still a late start at eight in the morning, it was a marked improvement from the days when the Imperial Servant woke an hour before lunch, and when she finally arrived in the courtyard, Song hopped off the swings to greet her with a nod. “Good morning Li-Li,” Luo-Luo crooned, her voice as melodic as her zither. “You really don’t need to stop enjoying yourself on my account. I could always go do my morning practice elsewhere.” Shaking her head, Song shooed the animals out of the way while using her Aura to assure Luo-Luo she was happy to do this and that it was no real trouble, and the Imperial Servant promptly responded by wrapping Song in a tight hug. “Oh Li-Li,” she said, lifting Song off her feet in surprisingly strong arms, “Your stony expression hides so much love and affection, I really never would have known if you didn’t have this wondrous Aura.”

Cheeks heating up from the tall woman’s warm embrace, Song considered fighting free of the hug, but she wasn’t sure if she could do so without hurting Luo-Luo. When they first met, the Imperial Servant would’ve lost a fight with Mama Bun, but now she was a Warrior in truth. Though not quite strong enough to serve as Song’s sparring partner, it might not be long before Luo-Luo caught up, for she was a phenomenal talent especially with her sceptre-flail in hand. The weapon was one reason why Song was happy to clear the courtyard for Luo-Luo, because the less who saw her practice, the better. As long as they believed her a weak, frail, stand-in Legate, her foes would continue to underestimate her resolve and think her easily bullied if push came to shove, meaning they would be in for a rude awakening when they finally opted to try.

Still carrying Blackjack and the red panda, Song scooped up Tawny One before joining Princess and Sister-in-Law Sarnai on the couch. The older woman was lost in her thoughts, but still remembered to welcome Song with a smile, to which she responded with an outpouring of supportive Aura. “Thank you, dear heart,” Sarnai said, wrapping Song in a one armed hug. Upset she was being left out, Princess carefully laid herself across Sarnai’s lap and rested her chin on Song’s thighs, eliciting a low chuckle from the older woman. “Truly a marvellous wonder,” she murmured, resting her cheek atop Song’s head as they all snuggled together and watched Luo-Luo Demonstrate the Forms, which was what she thought Sarnai was alluding to until she continued, “Humour an old fool once more and tell me how your Aura works?”

Though merely a polite request, the way Sarnai worded the question made it almost sound like a demand, and Song had to fight down a surge of momentary anxiety as she tried to obey on reflex. It was times like this when she missed Rain the most, because he always carefully chose his words whenever she was involved, a habit she’d only just come to appreciate now that everyone else was forgetting to do the same. Still, it wasn’t much, as most of the problem was inside Song’s head, and she happily answered Sarnai’s query. “I am not sure how it works,” she began, just to make clear that she was not replying with the objective truth, but rather how she perceived it. A minor distinction, but she’d seen slaves die for less. “I simply tap into whatever emotion I am currently feeling, and kindle my Aura from there, as if lighting a candle from a burning flame, or drawing water from a bubbling wellspring.”

“Or filling your Aura with the wind of emotion, and packing it tight with soil of the same.” Smiling as she patted Song’s arm, Sarnai said, “I see you have been hard at work coming up with better explanations. Such a sweet, dutiful girl you are.”

Song’s cheeks coloured once more, no longer able to hide her emotions as easily as before, the one downside to being more in tune with them. Yet another unexplained miracle from that incredible battle, one of too many to name. Not for the first time, Song’s eyes went to Rain’s bedroom window, and she idly wondered if he had anything to do with her improved Aura, or with the elevation of Irregulars into tried and true Martial Warriors, or the widespread Insights regarding Panacea based Healing so many different individuals had received since then. The world of Martial Warriors was experiencing an unprecedented upheaval, with miracles occurring almost each passing day and common knowledge being challenged at every turn. Add to this the internal strife caused by Rain’s absence, the Defiled departure from the battlefield, the growing dissatisfaction with the luxury tax, the crumbling divide between nobles and commoners brought about by Rain’s burgeoning ‘middle-class’, and a thousand other factors, led Song to believe a great trial and tribulation was waiting ahead.

The Mother never gave Her children more than they could bear, but given how She directly acted to increase the strength of humanity as a whole, this meant that the coming calamity might well be a challenge on a scale they’d never before seen.

Somehow sensing Song’s trepidation, Sarnai soothed her nerves with little more than a pat on the arm, the most she could do while they were already huddled in a warm embrace. No, it wasn’t just her presence, but another sensation as well, something telling Song that she had strength enough to bear whatever may come, but she knew not the source of this reassurance. Again, her eyes were drawn towards Rain’s bedroom window, somehow suspecting it was his reassurance she was feeling.

