The reservoir holds.

The Current guides.

All else must flow.

“My…pack…”

Blind, deaf, and nerves fried, Harker didn’t know if the Thrysalid understood his words. He could only wait, breath coming in short gasps, as the enormity of it all tried to smother him. Calm stitched across his belabored chest, a fitful emotion as slick as the sides of the enameled basin.

The mud! The elixir! Please understand—!

Pressure hit him before the heat, and Harker found that his nerves weren’t so fried after all. He seized, the vibrations quaking through limb and viscera as the scalding solution filled the basin once more. Mud coated him back up to his chin, brutalized skin blistered anew, but there was more. Blind and deaf he might have been, but Harker could almost see the elixir as it hovered above—like a lantern in the mist.

Ironwine poured it in.

The Last Grace hit the mudbath like a heavy stone. A wave of sludge poured over Harker—through him—pushed along by the descending force of a Second Depth elixir. It crushed him like the abyss itself. The mudbath sparked, thrown into sizzling upheaval as the elixir cut through its treacle thick bulk.

The mudbath pressed against all of him, filling the basin, and  the elixir was no more than a half full vial—yet it sought Harker out immediately. It was a serpent, hungry for flesh as it slithered across his shoulder, side, and elbow. Shocking ice amidst boiling gruel, it might have been a relief to those with the strength to withstand it. Harker was not so blessed, and his abused, reddened skin puckered against its frigid length. It wormed its way into his palm Lock regardless, pressing through like a living thing—only to be hurled back out by a rush of untempered Sea.

Harker choked, but the grin on his face was sharp enough to cut glass. Water refluxed out of his pores, nostrils, even his ears and the mud and elixir both were pushed back from his body. Eddies whipped outward through the scorching solution, a blue-green spray scattering where the elixir spread rapidly. It heaved into tidal swells that buffeted his body, catching the frozen elixir within its grip until it spun like a Winter sun toward the inevitable horizon. A vortex convened on Harker, sloshing over chest and limb, the molten heat and gelid thread slapping against his cheek and chin with every rampant revolution.

Even in his near-comatose state, Harker could not ignore the sizzle and spark as the solution crashed at speed. Light cascaded off of the crests of wavelets, intense enough to almost cut through his closed lids, and as the vortex surged so too did the blue-green sparks.

“S-sovereign Sight…”

Harker’s awareness returned in a brutal rush. A ragged gasp almost sucked boiling slop down his gullet as he embraced the pain he could not escape—his Talent ensured that. Sensation and awareness amplified by the coursing of bright Water, he curled inward, focusing his attention on the medicines as they raged just at the edges of his flesh.

Diluted by his refluxed Water, the mudbath should have once again absorbed slowly into his Locks…but there was a new variable. The Last Grace, an elixir meant for Second Depth Talents, interrupted that interplay. The Water sparked dissolution in a spray of blue-green, while the toxins boiling in the mud crossed violently with the elixir’s relentless cure. For all that they were liquid, they burned against one another. Noxious fumes steamed into the air on leaden clouds, trailing into rapid circles alongside the spinning vortex.

The poison was cut, Last Grace was half-spent, and the gush of the untempered Sea carried it all downward in a riptide directly into his Locks. There was balance.

All that remained was healing.

The ad hoc solution soaked through him, pulled inward by Harker’s own weakened flesh. Mud, elixir, and Water alike surged through his tributaries and into his blood. The infection had resurfaced, but it was broken down in moments before the chilling heat scoured him. The lingering wounds across his organs were washed clean, a wave of blood-borne remedy that banished blemish and puncture alike. Strength returned to him, a steel that lifted his chin above the sinking surface—but it failed to penetrate to his deepest center.

Why isn’t this working?

There were too many variables to count, let alone keep track of, and Harker floundered for a moment. Symptoms and treatments rattled through his thoughts, but all he could focus on were the untouched corners of his internal wounds. The medicine sluiced through his tributaries, cycled by the pressure in the basin as much as his own lagging Current. Poison and elixir clawed at the border where his smallest tributaries sharped into thorned edges, pressing with an unnatural weight as if each to carve them deeper.

Deeper…

Molars grinding, Harker cut. Medicine gushed as he split the intersection of spirit and flesh, newformed branches all but clogging as he opened them wide. It hurt, but no more than all the rest, and for every slice through his spiritflesh he felt a burgeoning heat that soothed something else. Harker copied a bit of what Adhira showed him of hers, widening his tributaries in pass after pass, and extending the smaller branches into wide spiraling pathways down each of his limbs. Yet no matter what he added, it didn't work like it should have. His attention to detail had increased the flow of his Current, pressing faster through him as the medicine hurled the Water in his body to greater speeds. The medicine was carried around, but still refused to sink deeper into him.

I need to spread it out. The thorned edges…they’re where it's being delivered most accurately.

He'd copied his tributaries from Stillwater, at least in part, but Harker couldn’t recall the shape of what came next. Stillwater's bramble was not there to copy, but there was someone else.

Harker reached out, a blind spike of Talent that brushed against the iron carapace that stood just beyond the basin. Immediately, he met resistance at least as strong as Stillwater…only this time more than physical sensation filtered across his Talent. An ineffable sensation slung like sly fingers across a tender back; amusement, dry and warm. Somehow, the Thrysalid was aware of him, but before Harker could retract his attention, the resistance vanished.

See what you will, Harker Shoalborn.

Like the sun dawning on a darkened country, Ironwine's tributaries opened up before his awareness. Harker stifled a gasp. A beautiful, complicated knotwork puzzle hummed beneath the iron carapace, spreading from a rumbling center in convoluted patterns that were both orderly and natural.

Where the Gilken’s were a bramble, the Thrysalid seemed to possess an undulating wave. Each primary was wound around another, until they resembled nothing more than delicate knotwork spread from a powerful, beating reservoir. Mighty thorns stuck out from the primaries, cutting deep into the Eidhrin's vitals—organs that bore only a passing familiarity to Harker.

Those were of little use to him.

Instead, he focused on where the primary split off into smaller branches, each time diminishing as the thorn-like capillaries penetrated into muscle and carapace alike. Stature spread throughout the Thrysalid, propping up each branch in a way that Harker could not match, even before the liquid rush of the same potency poured through the waves.

But he could try.

Harker cut, splitting each tributary into subsections the branched ceaselessly into his spiritflesh. Every turn grew smaller, thorns that grew thorns infinitely, until they were nothing but hair-thin cracks into the deepest portions of his leg. Medicine slipped all the easier through it, nourishing the depths of him and leaving only a bloom of vitality in his wake.

Heat forgotten, icy grip ignored, Harker pressed further into his left leg with a relentless intent. The rest of him ached, but it was distant; a problem for the future. Yet, with every thorn and jagged end, he couldn't help but think back to Adhira. Her own inner workings were far different and just as potent. Without quite realizing it, the spread of his tributaries swept outward in elegant imitation. He drilled down through muscles in wide spirals but festooned them with Eidhrin thorns that curled between fibrous strands.

Skin, muscle, fat, and organs were pierced in turn, and the elixir mud followed. His Stature stretched like taffy in the spaces between and each beat of his heart spread it further. His refusal to die seemed more than enough for his newest Bargain to pay dividends. The structure was gossamer, but like a hand under his elbow, it gave enough support to stand and keep moving on.

It was exhausting. Invigorating. Harker lost himself in it, too close to his process to even notice when the mud ran dry. The elixir, however, did not. Its potency resurged, no longer bound by the restricting toxins. It was a glacier passing through his veins, freezing all that it touched even as its passage broke.

“More…!”

For his part, Ironwine did not question or hesitate. More of the medicinal mudbath poured into the basin. The poison met the elixir, all but steaming as its putrid heat met unyielding ice. Harker began again, spiraling down into thorned webs through vessel and muscle and fat and bone, scouring himself deeper toward his center.

The mud ran dry.

The mud was replenished.

He no longer needed to ask.

Mud and Sea and Second Depth elixir raged around him, a bubbling morass that passed through his Locks like thickened breaths. All the while, his Current swirled, a dimple in the surface of a torrent.

He cut. He breathed. His Talent spun, and Harker felt it all.

He could do nothing else.