The Hummers' whale, as Rinka had called the strange flying creature, led them toward the north-west, to where the Humming Wall used to stand, according to Jordo.

Several times, they attempted to get closer and have David jump over, but each time a small swarm of tentacles would extend from the creature's flank and stop him. He could savage them, but he couldn't exactly fly, and Niala had to dive in after her falling husband each time.

They stopped trying after three attempts.

The tentacles also intercepted Niala's potions, even sacrificing themselves when she used poison, separating at their base and falling off.

Neither was willing to take a chance and hit the creature with a strong attack, for fear of hurting the prisoners inside.

And so, they kept up their pursuit. David kept feeding Niala his mana, and she kept refreshing her summon. As the chase spread into the night, they took turns napping, held in Jordo's arm so they wouldn't fall, using a sip of sleeping potion to get some rest despite the buffeting winds.

The sun rose, crossed the sky, and settled for another night.

David managed to retrieve some food and warm clothes from one of his cargo cloths without losing too much in the process.

And still the chase continued.

By the end of the second day, kept alert only thanks to energizing potions, as the northern reaches of the inner sea came into view, their target finally began its descent.

The land below had changed, as well. A few bells ago, they had flown over a wide gap where the Hungerwoods stopped abruptly, and another kind of forest began a few dozen metres later.

These new woods were somehow darker, the light of the sun seeming reluctant to approach, with the trees forming a denser canopy.

Here and there, alabaster-white structures poked through the heavy leaf cover, all sharing the same sepulchral style that the small mausoleum had. They radiated an unsettling hollowness, as if they were long-dead shells attempting to pass as something else.

If the Hungerwoods felt alive, hungry, and dangerous, this forest was the complete opposite. Deadwoods.

The flying creature angled down toward the biggest structure they had seen yet: a grand temple, outlined by pillars which would individually put to shame any castle. And still, as they kept approaching, it grew larger, and the smaller details became apparent.

The creature headed for a large plaza at the mouth of the structure, with obelisks lining its perimeter. When Niala's summoned hawk attempted to follow, the top of the obelisks opened like eyelids, and, from within, an eye-like orb tracked their movement for a heartbeat.

Sickly-yellow beams of energy sprang forth, aimed at them. They barely managed to avoid them by diving hard and through the treetops.

They landed, Niala released the aetheric construct, and they rushed toward the forest's edge bordering the plaza.

They arrived just in time to catch a glimpse of the last few prisoner being led into the towering temple, their hands bound by long white tendrils instead of chains. As the last one stepped through the threshold of the enormous doorway, a stone slab melted down from the ceiling and reformed as a door.

David and Niala looked at each other.

Her ears twitched. “I'm tempted to ask you to just smash the door in.”

“I could do it.” He affirmed.

“I know! But that's not what I meant!” She pointed at the temple and to some of its features. David followed the line her finger drew. “The whole thing just looks like a much bigger version of the small building we fought around. What if it's a giant creature, and the walls are filled with tentacles?”

David tilted his head, giving the building a second look. “...That could be a problem.” He turned his head back to Niala. “We need something bigger.”

She wiggled her ears. “Or something a lot more potent.”

“...Do you have something more potent?”

“Not on me, right now, but...” She looked at Jordo. “How far away are we from Sabi?”

The golem's eye flashed a few times. “By my reckoning, roughly five hundred sixty-one kilometres. At the speed your summon was carrying us, it would take roughly four point three hours to reach the Radiant Archive.”

David slowly nodded. “So you'd want to go there and prepare a special potion? Didn't you ransack the alchemy lab there?”

“I mean, yes, but Sabi has recombinators, right? She can just cook me up whatever I need, plus I didn't take everything! I'm sure I left a few beakers and phials...”

He rubbed his chin. “So, choices: go in right now, as hard as we can, and try to escape with the prisoners. Or, we go back to Sabi, spend a day finding the ingredients you need and brewing up the mother of all poison, and hope the prisoners will be fine until then.”

“That's... about what I can see. We also need to signal my sister, let them know where we are, so they can get over here with whatever airships they manage to scrounge up.”

David looked up at the barely visible rose-tinted sky. “It'll have to be a pretty big signal for them to see it from Riverwall.”

Niala hummed, tail swishing, as she looked up as well.

“You have an idea?”

“Welllll...” She turned to face him. “You know my gift from Anaakendi?”

“The wind powers?”

She nodded. “Right, that, but it's not just manipulating the winds. You remember how Anaakendi said the winds carried messages? I think I can do that too, and if I can, I'm almost certain she'll be able to receive them.”

“And how do we know it worked?”

She fidgeted with her hands. “We... don't, not exactly. But! If I can use your mana again, and I add in my weaving, I'm certain I can get a wind-borne message that she'll be able to catch!”

He stared at her for a second before smiling. “Ok.”

“I'm telling you, it'll wo- huh?” She asked, blinking.

He shrugged, “If you're confident, that's good enough for me, though we still need to decide how exactly we're getting into that creepy flesh temple.”

She let a breath through her nose. “Right... I'm guessing you want the front door option?”

“It's the quickest, so the white stick people don't have time to do weird things to the prisoners.”

“You- you think they'll do weird things to them?”

He held a hand up toward the temple. “Have you seen what they used to capture everyone, Niala? Tentacles. Hundreds of them!”

“...Yessss? ” She said with her ears lopsided.

It took him a second to realize he didn't know how to explain further. “Just... trust me.”

She looked at him for a few seconds before nodding once.

He secretly thanked her for not asking to elaborate.

RIVERWALL

Angeline stood next to Captain Bastonian, keeping track of his orders and acting as his orderly. The Captain's actual orderly, relegated to the role of a messenger, stood behind them. He might have been sulking or glaring a hole in the back of Angeline's head.

She didn't care.

As soon as the survivors of the mausoleum battle had gotten back to the town, they had activated one of the single-use long-range message crystal balls. One spoken message on this side was copied to a linked ball, no matter how far it may be. They could only be activated once, and thus were limited to emergencies.

A full work detail, thirty Azure guards and the heir of the Wardenfel family counted as an emergency.

The call had gone out for all military airships and troops within a few days' travel time from Riverwall to report there immediately.

Angeline had also sent a signal to her father, using a similar, though more limited, magitech device, which sent a single alarm signal. Cornelius would only know that Angeline had triggered a call for help.

She knew it would be enough. And it had been; the Alchemical Star was the second airship to arrive, just about thirty-six bells later.

By the end of the second day, three more airships had arrived, as well as the Bellharbour military garrison and militia. While not up to the level of Azure Guards, these troops nonetheless offered numbers, and the small garrison was also well-equipped with long-range weaponry.

Which they would need; the sky above the Hungerwoods was the territory of all manner of large flying beasts, some as big as smaller airships by themselves. Airships did not, in general, venture north past Riverwall.

This time, they'd load up all the strum cannons, mana rifles, and enchanted arbalests they could, to support the military airships' on-board artillery and armament.

Volume of fire was a valid tactic, and Angeline was making sure they had every single weapon that existed in town, along with all the ammo and mana stones they'd need, on top of medical supplies, potions, and whatnot.

The Captain didn't even bother telling her what he needed; after the fourth time he'd done so, and she'd replied it had already been arranged, he just focused on planning their rescue operations. Everything the troops and airship crews needed kept appearing in the right place at the right time.

Rumours about the ghosts of quartermasters past having descended to give a helping hand had begun to circulate. Captain Bastonian would have believed them himself if the hidden master of logistics wasn't right there at his side.

Even then, he kept wondering how the blonde woman was managing it.

One issue arose as preparations progressed: the Alchemical Star was not a recognized military vessel, and the other captains had asked that it be kept out of the fleet, claiming that caring for a defenceless vessel during the trip would put the operation at risk.

Cornelius had been rather offended at the implication and rejected the order to stay behind. He would be sailing forth with or without their authorization.

When challenged and threatened with further actions, he had huffed up and called everyone over for a demonstration of why the Alchemical Star would not be a “weak link.”

Reluctantly, the Captains and their aides had gathered and were now standing in a group near the moored red-and-gold airship.

Cornelius, at the front, feet planted and hands clasped behind his back, glared at them. “Good, everyone is here. Don't worry, this won't take long.”

He retrieved the small crystal slate that he carried around and spoke into it. “Captain Plerigass? Deploy the defensive armament.”

The Captain's voice acknowledged the order, and soon, panels over six hidden compartments, two to a side, one at the prow, and one at the stern, slid out. Metal boom arms swung out, with a swivel-mounted multi-barrelled naval-grade strum cannon at their end.

The four airship Captains remained silent for a moment, with a mix of surprise, consternation, and envy on their faces.

These weapons were not cheap. Even the kingdom's military limited them to a single unit on most of their airships. The fleet's flagship had three.

This thing had six.

And the man had called it defensive armament.

They were not defensive; they had nearly the same power, shot-for-shot, as a normal naval-grade strum cannon, with ten times the rate of fire.

One of the captains ripped his eyes from the stupendous display of wealth and power to look at the smug catkin. “How? You shouldn't even be able to purchase these!”

Cornelius smirked. “As a civilian? No, but a properly registered mercenary company can.”

Another captain narrowed his eyes. “Are you saying your organization is a mercenary company?”

Cornelius shook his head and chuckled. “Oh, not at all! I simply employ a mercenary company.” He let his words settle, looking at the assembled captains in turn. “Tell me, have you heard of the Ardent Prowlers?”

Several heads tilted in recognition. “The airship mercenaries who managed to defeat a Sonnelian patrol, outnumbered five to one, during the skirmish wars? The ones who were lost over the inner sea when five patrols hunted them down in revenge in the closing days of the conflict?”

Cornelius nodded. “Them, yes. They weren't lost, however. Their Captain and a few of her crew survived.”

Another captain huffed. “Even if they survived, they'd be over a hundred years old by now! You can't possibly be saying you hired them!”

Instead of answering, the catkin walked up to the group of Captains. Holding his crystal slate in his hand, he spoke openly so everyone could hear. “Captain Plerigass, would you mind telling these men how old you are?”

The dogkin's voice came through the crystal slate. “Officially, sir?”

“Actual age, please.”

A short pause. “A hundred and sixteen. But I don't look one day over forty-one thanks to your potions.”

Cornelius put his slate away and looked at the wide-eyed Captains. “So, as you can see, the Alchemical Star is a mercenary airship, flying under a mercenary charter from the Skirmish Wars.”

One of the captains grunted. “And the charters from back then gave basically unrestricted access to military hardware due to how pressed the Kingdom was for airworthy assets... and these charters were declared non-transferable because of that.”

He looked Cornelius straight in the eyes. “So you went and fed possibly the last living mercenary captain with such a charter with youth potions and hired them.”

The catkin smiled, his fangs apparent. “Yes, and so, I would petition for the strongest asset in this little impromptu fleet to lead the formation.”

The Captains couldn't find a reason to refuse.

Most wondered what the ship's actual armament was, if the strum chain-cannons were considered secondaries.

None was willing to take a guess.

Late in the evening, a gate sentry interrupted the ongoing planning session in the Azure Guard compound's war room, stating that an old lady was demanding to speak to the Captain, saying she had critical information.

The sentry described the old woman as very insistent.

A few minutes later, Anaakendi walked in, both Angeline and Cornelius recognizing her from Niala's wedding.

Captain Bastonian looked the stately old woman over. “Well, miss, you said you had important information, enough so to interrupt us. So, what is it?”

The woman, with all the tact that someone speaking to a bug could muster, harrumphed. “I see that leadership does not guarantee manners.” She turned her head toward Cornelius and Angeline. “I have received a message from the girl. I know where they are, and where you must go.”

One of the airship captains around the table quirked a brow. “A message how?”

Anaakendi glanced at the man from the corner of her eye. “It does not matter. What does is that we can leave now.”

The spurned Captain squinted. “What do you mean, we? We are not bringing an old woman along! This is a military operation!”

The “old woman” turned to face the man fully, a scowl on her face. The winds inside the room began picking up. Loose papers began flitting about, and clothes flapped. The woman's skin cracked like glass, showing glimpses of the turbulent air contained within her human envelope.

Everyone recoiled, hands grasping sword pommels as the woman's earthly form kept disintegrating.

From within emerged a seven-feet-tall wind-scorched crystalline being. The gusts within the room died down as the creature walked up to the Captain who had refused her.

The man took a step back as Anaakendi loomed over him. She spoke with a voice of breaking glass. “I was not asking, whelp.”

Another Captain muttered under his breath. “What in the pits is wrong with this town?”