“Well… I do,” he said and glanced at Hayden.

They repeated a few times after some light healing.

“You’re holding up well,” Hayden said when he fixed up a few bruises from several heavy strikes against Veron’s chest.

Silvie seemed to enjoy herself too, commenting on what she would do if she would be part of the fight as well. She normally used Claws to lock down or occupy large or defense oriented targets, attacking them from a blind spot or sending in her wolves as well to overwhelm whatever she was facing.

“Let’s try again,” Veron said.

“You remade your armor,” Hayden commented when they shared dinner, approval in his voice.

“I think Claws would’ve chipped through the old version,” Veron said. The issue he had with the bear was its relentless energy. One slip up and he was on the ground, and once he ran out of steam, the bear would overwhelm him with sheer strength. But Veron could hold his ground for a while, and with more experience, he was sure he could take him down as well. Almost as durable as I am. And she can just summon something like that, he thought, glancing at Silvie.

“You’re confident then?” Reka asked her.

“Yeah. I can still fight. I’m just more exposed while I summon, and I’m less effective, but that was obvious. The balance issues, I’ll just make sure not to extend too much. Less effective, but still deadly.”

They were all quiet for a long moment. “So then we can leave,” Reka said finally, then looked at Veron.

He breathed in deep. “I’ve decided to stay in Anvakar.”

“I thought so,” Reka said.

“Ah, that’s a shame,” Silvie said. “It’s fun hanging out with you. Sure you don’t want to join our venture?”

“I’m sure,” Veron said with a smile. “But yes, it’s fun, and I learned a lot from all of you.”

“You’ve made a lot of progress,” Hayden said and tapped his back.

“Bittersweet, hmm?” Silvie said. “This calls for drinks.”

“Does it?” Reka asked. She looked at Silvie for a moment, then smiled. “I suppose it does.”

“Oh, let’s go to Macy’s! The weather’s pretty clear,” Silvie said.

“We should save silver,” Reka said.

“A few drinks, come on. You said it yourself, we’ll make it work.”

Reka sighed and then seemed to relax a little. “Yeah, you’re right. Sorry, it’s new for me, all that.”

Silvie soon led them through the city, Veron enjoying his warm coat, and soon, they made their way up a stairwell, coming out on a roof. There were a dozen or so braziers and a few minutes later, they were sitting on comfortable benches covered in blankets and holding spiced mulled wine.

Veron took a sip of the wine and looked at Silvie, listening as she talked about their plans. Despite the injury and everything that had happened, he felt that she seemed more lively than before. Hayden seemed more relaxed, and Reka, well, he could tell she was thinking about a lot of things, but she also seemed less, stuck? He wasn’t sure, but it made him happy to see them talking like this.

He would miss them.

Veron felt a bit tipsy when they made their way back, Silvie and Reka giggling as they supported each other. Hayden was quiet.

When they reached the Willard Inn, a bright flash of light made Veron turn. Somewhere to the south, he could see a pillar of blue light reaching up into the clouds, beyond, and to the stars. The whole world took on a tinge of blue, everyone looking up towards the sky.

“What’s that?” he asked.

“I have no idea,” Silvie said.

The blue light flickered and turned into a sickly green.

“Magic that is visible from this far away…” Reka murmured.

Something was coming closer, the air itself moving.

“Get down!” Hayden shouted.

Veron got into cover and kept his head low, waiting with the others behind a low stone wall when a wave of air rushed past. Coats fluttered on those who hadn’t sought cover, the nearby windows shaking slightly.

“Was that a shock wave?” he asked.

When they got out from the cover, the light was fading, and then vanished entirely, the night turning darker, and the stars were visible once more.

“What the fuck was that?” Reka asked, dozens of adventurers rushing out to look southwards, conversations and shouts all around them.

Veron kept looking towards the south. He smelled iron in the air.
