It certainly wasn’t the most interesting skill to upgrade description-wise, yet it was perhaps the most impactful. Having his general crafting skill upgrade like this meant that every poison would be better going forward, courtesy of the small change in the final sentence of the description.

As usual, Jake wasn’t certain just how big the bonus would be, but any improvement was a good thing.

The skill upgrade and successful craft naturally also meant something else, as Jake found himself on the receiving end of quite the windfall of experience, and as always, his first craft, resulting in a rarity upgrade, proved itself to be quite something.

’DING!’ Profession: [Heretic-Chosen Alchemist of the Malefic Viper] has reached level 338 - Stat points allocated, +35 Free Points

’DING!’ Profession: [Heretic-Chosen Alchemist of the Malefic Viper] has reached level 339 - Stat points allocated, +35 Free Points

’DING!’ Race: [Human (C)] has reached level 335 - Stat points allocated, +45 Free Points

Two levels didn’t seem like a lot, but to Jake, it was honestly more than he had expected. He’d gained a lot of profession levels recently, which usually meant it was harder to gain more. Plus, even if he’d gained fewer levels, he wasn’t afraid of not reaching the cap of C-grade sooner rather than later, considering he also had a Palate skill to fix and a Meditate skill to upgrade.

It wasn’t like he didn’t also have plenty of bane poison crafting left to do. While the weak humanoidsbane poison was a great start, it was only that: a start. Jake had a long way to go before he was at a stage where making a dragonsbane poison was feasible, but today, he had at least moved one step closer.

One step closer to reaching B-grade, and one step closer to finally fulfill his dream of hunting down an actual dragon.

Smiling, satisfied with his progress and happy to be back in the saddle doing some alchemy in the Order, Jake got up and went back to the living room of the house to rest a little, seeing as his resources were nearly empty. He was feeling pretty good about himself... at least he was until he took out his token to see if he’d received any messages, only to find a few dozen waiting for him, with one of them giving him some weird feelings.

... why the fuck would Villy make me do that?
