“I am still the warchief until someone takes my place. The Pure League will be in turmoil. Some of their members will fall into their rage like into a mud pit. They will try to make us pay for it. I need to remain vigilant. I also need to tell my people about the human nations I have come across and how I understand them. They need to know more about this continent if we are to find a place in it.”

“Well, the gates of Harrak will always be open.”

“And I will return often. Our ties, they must not be broken.”

Marruk placed her fist against Viv’s chest. For someone who disliked physical contact, it was a very strong gesture. Viv smiled.

“They won’t be.”

“What will you do next?” Marruk asked.

“Link up with Rakan and visit the Blue elemental archmage so we can try and repair his core. The poor lad’s been working around it for too long. If I can save him, I should, then it’s back to Harrak. There is a ton of work to do if we want to bring the remnants up to speed. And regain control of the capital.”

“You can call upon my mercenary group. I will leave them with Odon because I will be too busy.”

“That will help. And, I wanted to ask. How are you with your dad?”

Marruk scratched her ears, a bit nervous.

“He accepts me as warchief. He still wants me to marry, though, but he said that the husband must accept that I am warchief.”

“Will it be difficult?”

Marruk shrugged.

“Maybe? Time will tell. I do not need a man, but having a good one would be really nice.”

Viv ought to leave before Arthur set up a matchmaking agency or something.

“I will be sad to see you go,” Marruk whispered.

“Actually, there was one last thing we should do together before I leave.”

***

The Sky Mirror Lake encampment heard the drums first. No tribe was expected for now, so the people left the safety of the bazar to sate their curiosity. Those who approached them on pakar, shining with the glint of metal in the light of dawn bore the last flags they’d expected.

“Is that… the Red Tribe?”

It was, in fact, the Red Tribe garbed in metal, with more metal in hand, and their chief carried with him an artifact upon which their flag had been affixed. The chief came carrying many Lutenese blades — more metal for all of the kark.

For those who could afford it.

“Welcome,” the Great Bazaar’s Mediator said. “You have brought much, and you are here away from your lands. Are the rumors true? Have you triumphed over the enemy?”

It was a woman who answered. Only after she spoke did the merchants remember that this was the witch’s companion — the head of the mercenaries.

“The Pure League has surrendered. They have retreated away from their steppes, and their border fortress is destroyed. Now, a tree of black magic stands in its place.”

Whispers, well, kark whispers shook the crowds with a mix of relief and disbelief, for although few would lift a finger for another tribe, none wanted Luten to win.

“We hope you will return to good health now that the crisis has passed. Trade can now flow again!” the Mediator said, bobbing that huge hat of his. The onlookers could see how brittle that smile was, for the joy of the people wasn’t reflected on the Red Tribe’s demeanor.

“Yes, trade will flow again,” the woman continued. “We will be taking offers for that captured metal.”

“At a good price, I hope, haha.”

It didn’t look to the Mediator like there were going to be good prices.

“An auction. Our… trade advisor suggested it. And for the prices, the Red Tribe remembers their friends.”

There was only one friend concerned and the merchants could see she sat on a pakar, gently massaging her thighs with a new fancy cloak around her neck. She was barely paying attention.

“Yes, we remember. The auction will begin soon. In the meanwhile, I see there are farmers of other tribes currently on our land? Since the harvest is already complete, they may now all leave. All of the renting agreements are hereby revoked. We are taking back our land. Now.”

***

Viv left the steppes behind with only her backpack, and her daughter for sole company. It had been a very long time since she hadn’t been surrounded by people. The quiet gave her an opportunity for contemplation. It was good to take a break from everything once in a while.

Since Arthur was easily bored, Viv left her to wander while she slowly levitated herself to the shore so as to avoid the brunt of the Pure League’s territory.  Just because they were nominally at peace didn’t mean that those guys wouldn’t try something. She wasn’t stupid enough to risk it, no matter how strong she had grown.

It was almost impressive how very few forces could still stand up to her as an individual. Undoubtedly, she was now a dominant force on the continent — though still far from invincible. That made her wonder what other old monsters and hidden horrors waited in the recesses of this world. The hero Oleander had been trudging the Shadow Lands for decades now, for example. How strong could he be? She couldn’t let her guard down.

Her only advantage was luck. It couldn’t be entirely relied upon.

Viv was lost in thought, letting her mind wander while she climbed to the cloud cover. The wind had died down, so now she could enjoy the quiet while condensation clung to her cloak and clothes. Nobody bothered her here.

In the years since she’d arrived, she had helped resolve four of the five lingering conflicts afflicting the continent. The Enorian civil war was concluded for good, the Hallurians were beaten for a long while, the beastling tide had been slain, and the Pure League was on the verge of disintegrating. The only crisis that was left was, amusingly, the one she had first encountered.

The deadlands.

There were still a lot of mysteries and a ton of resources left buried beneath a sea of undead. That would be her next goal, once Rakan was healed. After all, luck was prone to sending her into danger and if there was one thing that could stop a huge threat, it was that which was buried under the Great Ziggurat.

After all, it had taken the lives of a nation to create it.
