Ashlock didn't have time to check on him, as he had to return to Moros. Grand Elder Ren was fast approaching, so it was time to leave. Unleashing another barrage, he punched a hole in the shield so Khaos could easily escape.

"Did you get everyone?"

"No, I failed, my lord," Khaos said, kneeling on the bow of Moros.

"There were a hundred on board, and I gave you less than half a minute. Expecting you to slaughter everyone is asking for too much," Ashlock reassured her.

Khaos stood back up. "There's another matter, my lord."

"Yeah, what is it?" Ashlock asked as he pulled Moros back into the aether plane before Grand Elder Ren was in range. Not a second too late, as a sudden explosion erupted from the dreadnought, sending a wave of fire and shrapnel in all directions and making the shields of the nearby airships flicker and glow in protest.

"What the hell was that?!" Ashlock asked as a mushroom cloud of hellfire erupted into the sky, crashing down to the earth and setting the world alight.

"The Elder of the ship was in the Nascent Soul Realm. Their defensive artifacts saved them from me, and then they started going supernova. I cut their head off, but it didn't stop the process."

Ashlock watched through his Gaze of the Tree God in awe at the physical manifestation of a Nascent Soul Realm cultivator going supernova. So much power stored in such a tiny vessel, let loose in a single explosion. He wasn't the only one watching. Grand Elder Ren, alongside many Nascent Soul Realm cultivators, stood in the air in silence. Their expressions looked mortified.

"My lord, the tree has been planted," Thanatos's voice rang out through the shadow plane.

"Excellent," Ashlock said, directing Moros toward his next target. "Let's plant a tree on a few more of these dreadnoughts first. One will be mighty, but when I turn them into Bastions, they will attract a heavenly tribulation. I wonder how much heavenly lightning the Flagship can bear before it's blasted from the sky."

Sometimes, it was best to make use of the heavens' fury to smite down one's foe.
