e screen, but there was no resistance.Letter 300...“...On your way to Durance! I’m so happy. You’ll finally get some nice friends and there’s someone very important to meet there!”L-letter 246“You seemed to have stopped looking to die. But you aren’t alive. I feel so hopeless.”180“Please stop this... please. Quests won’t make you feel better. Head to Durance! Head anywhere!”100“-Happy 100 letter. I put a little ritual circle in the letter to conjure a cake. I... hope it tastes okay. I got some tips from Delta’s kitchens! Please eat. Please.”On and on they went, he skipped dozens in a numb manner, flicking through them to the point there was less emotion and more simplistic messages.He reached the last letter he ever opened. The tone between the newest letters and this one was stark.Letter 10.“Alpha,The village of Muriee is gone. No trace can be found. It would appear the cult called the Silence attacked there to get to you. This was beyond your control. You need more strength. This will not stop. The Silence will always be your concern, you need more power. Keep moving and you will be instructed on where to proceed.Soon Beta will come and your fear will end.Then Gamma, and your doubt will cease.Then Delta, and your weakness will be removed.-System.It hurt then and it burned now. Alpha saw every word as a warning, every name as a nail in his coffin. Without his fear, what was Alpha? He feared the day heroes with those names rose up to make him obsolete and now... Delta was a dungeon?Beta was a monster that devoured monsters and revealed Silence members?Gamma was... well according to the last letter he skimmed through which was quite a while ago according to its date, Gamma was being used in some underwater rebellion led by a shark prince as a sword?!Since then, Alpha had so many letters and it was like the System... changed. No longer some ambivalent deity judging him for his weakness, but someone with fears and doubts of their own and it made him deflate as his fear took an uncertain step backAgain... because there was still no answer from when he first asked... without his fear, what was Alpha? Slowly, he looked up at the large puzzle door that it had taken him a single attempt to open, lining up the symbols of Alpha, Beta, Gamma, and Delta to make the doors slide open.There was one way to find out what life without fear was and it laid inside that door.---“My beautiful face!” Wyin howled as she ignored the others attacking her to send dozens of thorny snakey vines after Grim who screamed in terror.“It was just a cat!” he yelled back as he jumped over the ground exploding in wrath as Wyin glared, three claw marks on either cheek scratched downwards, giving her a whiskered appearance.“It was more than a damn cat! Delta is howling in laughter and telling me to ‘believe it’ over and over! I’ll show you catty!” Wyin promised in rage.Grim just ran faster, hoping Amenstar and Poppy were nearly done popping the birdcage open with their combined powers, Grim was tiring and he did not want to know if Wyin would see what was inside his heart the good ole fashioned way.Dissection via being pulled apart.Not the cleanest way to go.He scowled at the feeling of vines on his heels.If anyone told him the trees needed to be protected ever again, he was going to strangle them.
