The cold and squishy texture was horrifying, and the noodles sunk in between his fingers. Mysterious, half-rotten food gave way when he gripped it, his hands breaking through a hard shell to reach a soft, cold but gooey inside, and Rhys barely suppressed a shudder. Don’t think about it don’t think about it—

“Gross,” Bast commented from the ground.

“Oh, shut up.” He tossed the armload onto the pile and kept going.

Even with tossing fresh fuel on the decomposition, he still couldn’t keep pace with the enhanced process. Rhys wrinkled his nose. He extended his hand, activating Trash Manipulation to call trash to him, but only organic trash. Instantly, the skill strained. It shuddered, then broke—or rather, opened up. All the trash appeared before Rhys, all of it ready to be called. He couldn’t see everything about the trash, but he could sense certain things about the trash. Hardness, strength, the mana held within. He closed his eyes, attuning himself to the trash. His awareness expanded, and the difference in the types of trash opened up before him.

“Rhys? It’s gonna eat itself,” Bast warned him.

He reached out to the trash pile and scanned it. The fresh set of rotten food melted away, but he got a sense for it before it went. Volatile, full of organic particles and gas, ready to decay, in fact, already decaying. That was what he had to look for.

Then… everything like that, let’s pull it to me! Rhys reached out and grabbed, yanking the trash with that signature toward him.

A great lump of trash welled up out of the garbage near where he’d been digging out cafeteria food, the food decayed beyond recognizability, but not beyond the stage of compost. Rhys threw that into the decay and reached out further, further. Another pile opened up higher on the trash, deep and old, full of mana and trash potential. Eyes still shut in intense concentration, Rhys gripped it and pulled it, too, toward him. It stuck, moving slowly, so he put more power into it, yanking with all his might.

From below, Bast watched the pile shake. It shuddered. Bits of trash shook off the pile, tumbling down past Rhys. High above Rhys, a broken dresser fell out of the shifting pile, rolling head-over-end toward him. Lost in his technique, Rhys stood in its path, unmoving.

Bast narrowed his eyes. His sword flickered, flashing silver for but a moment before it vanished back into its sheath. The dresser tumbled one more rotation, then split into two, the two halves falling harmlessly on either side of Rhys.

“Did something happen?” Rhys asked, momentarily distracted.

“No. Keep going.”

Rhys turned his attention back to the great lump of organic garbage under the pile. He strained, pulling with all his strength and all his mana. His veins stood out on his face and limbs, and his eyes glowed faintly under his closed lids. From out of the depths of the garbage rose a great lump of half-rotten food, stinking, reeking, and dripping, trailing a length of tangled roots, noodles, and other garbage behind it. His hands trembled. The weight of the garbage pressed against his body as though he himself lifted the trash. He gritted his teeth and pushed, putting all his mana into it—but it wasn’t enough. His mana passages ruptured, unable to bear the load. His control trembled, on the verge of breaking.

No. I refuse! Rhys pushed his foot down and absorbed the garbage around him into his core. Thanks to him absorbing the condensed impurities from Bast, the rats, and everything else, he still had plenty of fuel for the heart of the trash stars. One after another, he ignited them, putting all that power into strengthening his own body and mana passages so that he could keep lifting the organic garbage. It held. Barely, but it held. He rotated, taking the garbage with it, then dropped it into the rotting pile. At last, panting, drenched in his own sweat, Rhys opened his eyes.

The hypercharged compost pile eagerly devoured fresh fuel. The already half-rotten organic waste quickly blackened, transforming into rich compost, and the hypercharged organisms sped upward, devouring the whole lump. When they reached the top, they finally slowed, back down to the speed Rhys was used to, then even slower, until it finally slowed to a halt.

Rhys wiped his brow. “Phew.”

Bast stared at the pile of compost, then chuckled under his breath and glanced at Rhys. “Think we have enough?”

Rhys looked it up and down as well. The compost towered over him, easily ten, no, fifteen feet tall, and about as wide. He laughed. “I think we might.”
