Poi remained silent, but his silence quickly turned uncomfortable. He said, “I don’t like [Polymorph]. You have to wear [Conjure Armor] and get naked all the time to use the spell.”

Erick laughed. “I would have thought the army would have beat that out of you.”

Poi’s face scrunched. “Why would you think that?”

“Yeah? Why would you think that?” Kiri asked.

“Oh. Wait. Yeah. I forgot for a moment.” Erick said, “You don’t have to undress to get clean. There’s probably no showers or cleaning stations anywhere on Forward Base, are there? Jane never really talked about that, and I never asked.”

Poi smirked, saying, “[Cleanse] is a great spell.”

Kiri said, “I just don’t like [Polymorph]. I have the spell, but no reason to get another form.” She added, “Though, with all the books we’re reading on [Polymorph]... Maybe I will. One of those books is a listing of every single monster known on Veird. It’s 1300 years out of date and people like Messalina have been crafting monsters for centuries, but there are some interesting picks in there.”

Erick nodded, saying, “Maybe I’ll look at that book, too. But for now: This.”

He slipped back into Ophiel’s senses.

There wasn’t much water left near the remains of the stone statue after the explosion, so Erick had Ophiel blip East, to the ocean. He picked up some seawater with a quick [Watershape], then blipped back to the statue. With another trio of shaping spells, Erick recreated the waterlogged stone statue. He was ready for the final combination. The result might be bad, or it might be good, but he was going to try it without a rhyme, for the sake of experimentation.

He cast through Ophiel.

As a dual thickening of air slipped around the stone statue, like Yin and Yang, water broke out of that grey and tan stone to flow across the surface like flickering lightning. Tendrils of water reached for itself and its neighbors as the water began to bubble away, and gasses separated into thickening air.

Erick came back to himself to watch from a safe distance alongside Kiri and Poi. Ophiel blipped into the air beside him. The four of them watched the statue and the spell do whatever it was doing. Notifications did not appear. Erick counted the seconds in his head. Nothing happened for 30 seconds. 40. 50 seconds passed. Erick was starting to worry. Just before a full minute had passed, lightning flickered through thick air.

Fire ignited. Light bloomed in a ten meter explosion, fully engulfing the statue and some of its surroundings. A shockwave of folding air expanded like an angry slap in every single direction. Smaller test poles and walls near the epicenter burst away, but past twenty meters, the only effects of the explosion came from scattered debris that had become shrapnel in the blast. If there were softer materials out to 50 meters, they would have likely been affected, but Erick had only set out hard targets.

At 200 meters away, and under 5 [Prismatic Ward]s, absolutely nothing happened. The shockwave didn’t even ripple the outermost ring of dense air.

But the sound!

The sound did reach Erick, even through all that dense air, and though it was lessened, for sure, it was the sound of a volcano, all at once. A rock band testing their equipment while you weren’t prepared. A crash in another room, while you were sleeping and everything should have been fine. Erick’s heart leapt into his throat. Kiri yelped as she jumped back. Poi grumbled; flinching despite himself.

When the fireball cleared, the stone statue was simply gone.

As Erick collected his scattered thoughts and started giggling, three notifications appeared.

Electrolysis Bomb, instant, medium range, <1000 mana>

Turn a target’s water into the instrument of their demise, dealing <damage> until enough protected resources are collected to deal <damage>. Lasts until triggered or dismissed, or for 1 minute.

I gotta be honest: I like it, but others are wary. That’s a lot of incalculable physical damage that obliterates the target, sure, but it also creates a large explosion. This is a dangerous spell, and it will not remain at this tier, or this cost, or maybe something else will happen. We’re debating it all right now. Everything is getting worked over soon. Don’t make any more of these higher tier Particle spells for a while, except this potential [Particle Scan].

I am going to give you a bonus for doing something no one else has ever done, so don’t take this restriction too hard. They can’t stop me from doing this much. ~Rozeta

+2 Points!

Just because!

“What’s it say?” Kiri asked, nervously laughing a little as she watched Erick read the air.

Erick handed her a copy of the first box, and then handed Poi one, too, when Poi silently raised his eyebrows.

Poi said, “Nice,” as he dismissed the box.

Kiri, excited, said, “Okay! Proof of concept works! Tiered Particle spells! Wow.” She said, “I can already see a few easy ways to overcome this spell, though. There’s [Dispel] of course, and especially at that cost, but the main one for those who know what’s happening is going to be a [Cleanse]. But that’s only for the explosion. It’s still going to be a Withering effect and an electrical effect until then. Maybe you can trigger it early, too, because that hydrogen is still explosive, right?”

Erick said, “I imagine that’s what the ‘protected resource’ is about. The hydrogen and oxygen from the water shouldn’t be able to interact with other elements until the explosion. And it’s not a suffocating spell, either, I think.” He added, “I’ve got testing to do, and dungeons to light. What are you going to do today, Kiri?”

“I’ll help with the dungeon, of course! Diamonds gotta be carved, right?”

Erick smiled. “Right.” He held his hands out to Poi and Kiri, saying, “Then let us be off.”
