Erick woke up much earlier than normal. Poi was already downstairs, making breakfast. The sky was still dark with stars in the west, over the ocean.

“You’re up early?” Erick asked as he sat down at the kitchen table, and poured himself a cup of coftea from the pot on the table. “I guess I’m up early, too.”

Poi frowned as he flipped homefries on the stove. He was mad at something, or more likely, someone.

Erick asked, “Want to talk about it?”

Poi blurted, “I confronted the people who blocked me from noticing you were wormed. It did not go well, but I can’t really talk about it, anyway.”

“That wasn’t your fault. Blame it on the Headmaster or Messalina. I’m not sure which one I blame more. Probably her? Yeah. Blame Messalina.”

“… Thank you.”

Erick said, “Back to the dungeon, for now, I think. Or maybe I’ll try to make some plus 200 Focus belt, so I can cut the construction time down to 6 days. The Headmaster said that there were parasites all over that mountain when we first got there, but that our naturally higher Health kept them out. If the Headmaster isn’t going to impair your ability again, what are your thoughts on the risk?”

Poi said, “You could wear the belt inside this house, and work through an Ophiel, while 8 of them continue to lay up the rest of the lightwards. I would be comfortable with that.”

“Doesn’t work. I tried it once, and I think I could make magic through Ophiel, but those lightwards are works of art, and I just can’t do that through him.”

Poi sighed, then grinned, seeming to disperse his own dark feelings in that moment. His mood turned brighter. “Then keep the rings you have and we will continue to physically visit the dungeon. Perhaps you might think about making stronger enchantments? Bracers would work, too, if you could figure out how to overcome the exploding.” He opened the oven behind him and pulled out a large egg and cheese casserole, then walked over to the kitchen table. He set it down in front of Erick, next to the stacked plates. He went back to get the potatoes, asking, “What do you think is the actual problem, there?”

“I honestly have no idea.”

Poi brought over the home fries, still in their pan, and set them on another cloth on the table. He sat down and served Erick, then himself, asking, “Some sort of resonance problem?”

“Partially. Sometimes the items explode right away. Sometimes they don’t explode until I’ve put them on.” Erick stuck a fork in his cheesy egg casserole, saying, “If I had a year or two in Enchanting maybe I could know the reason. That Enchanting professor isn’t the most forthcoming man.”

“The only limiting factor to getting good at Enchanting is money.” Poi said, “Wyrm season is mostly over, though.”

“Yeah…” Erick thought to his failed staffs of [Exalted Storm Aura], and all of his mostly useless spell wands and rods. They were good for learning how to enchant, but he had not gotten that far with the profession. He must have spent the equivalent of a hundred thousand gold putting together all that junk, and his starter dungeon. If it wasn’t for the monsters Mog asked him to kill that got too close to Spur, and her sending out some rookies to go harvest the bodies to put the rads into his bank account back home, he would have run out of supplies long before now. The money from the farms of Spur was a great deal of currency, but it was simply not enough compared to how much he was spending. He said, “25% of this Light Slime dungeon should help with that problem. You guys are getting enough money, too, right? How much is Liquid paying you all?”

“We’ve gotten several raises. We’re paid more than enough.” Poi smiled as he sipped his coftea. “Especially since you’ve paid for everything we eat or need.”

“Well, okay. Good.”

Soon, the others woke. There was more than enough breakfast for all.

- - - -

With Poi and Kiri in tow, Erick went back to the dungeon after breakfast. After some pleasantries with Apell and Calzin, and some apologies from Calzin that Erick told him were completely unneeded, he was wormed, after all, Erick got to work. He first summoned his Ophiel and set them to diamond making, then he went into the dungeon.

The first three floors were carved into slides and pools and walkways that rose above the main floor, so that people could walk around without stepping in the future slimes. It was also fully layered in glittering white stone. Shadows lingered under some of those walkways, but Erick fixed that by adding prismatic lights to their undersides. The river still had yet to be turned on, but Merith and Apell had already run their initial tests, and everything looked good to them.

After an hour of fixing up the first floor, Erick moved onto the second floor. It was just as architecturally complete as the first floor, with white stone and slides and pools that were waiting to be filled with water. Erick spent the rest of the day on that second floor, filling in the arched alcoves of the ceiling with kaleidoscopic lights and filling out the shadowed undersides of raised, white-stone walkways.

Work stopped for lunch, which Kiri went back to the Manor to make for the three of them, and for raining at Spur and dinner, which brought all three of them back to the Manor for a few hours. It was then that Krigea dropped off the [Polymorph] tomes that the Headmaster promised.

Erick and Kiri sat on the couches in front of the large windows of Windy Manor, reading very large and very old well-kept tomes, each of which was more impressive than the one before. They were each easily two feet tall and half that wide, with leather or metal covers, and composed of thin sheets of vellum or acid-etched metal. Krigea had handed over a crate of them with extreme reverence, and according to her, they were lightly excerpted copies from the Headmaster’s personal collection. They were expected to be returned as soon as Erick was done with them, and under no circumstances were they to leave the relative safety of his [Prismatic Ward].

Erick was currently forty pages into the first tome. It was adorned with the Ancient Script symbol for [Polymorph] on the front, and bound in black metal with pages made of vellum that crinkled as he turned each one. He had to set the book in a conjured holder in order to hold the thing; it easily weighed 25 kilos. Kiri had to do the same with hers. She was still on her first book, too; hers was a big wood-bound tome, with pages made of pale purple, almost-white leaves that had been crafted into rectangular sheets. Her eyes went wide at every other page.

Erick desperately wished that Jane was here to read these books. She would have undoubtedly gotten a lot out of all this ancient knowledge, for most of these tomes were written directly after the Sundering, by people who had survived that cataclysm and who were rushing to remake their magic under the overview of the Script. There was very little math at all in any of the books; Erick had already checked them all before he focused on this black one. Almost all of them were about form and function and how to connect intent to meaning to mana, and how the mana reflected all of that back to the caster, and onto Reality.

“Listen to this.” Erick read aloud, “ ‘Perhaps the greatest examples of the desired [Polymorph] spell should be taken from the now dead elven people. When they cast their [Alter Fate] spell, it was to take a string from one part of Reality and reweave that string into a new location, while tying a knot in the joining before they severed the original beginning, so that the recipient of the spell would not fully lose themselves in this process of reweaving Reality. But this poses problems, since time magic is now fully restricted, and [Alter Fate] could only ever safely be cast once on a person. In addition, it was also used primarily as a punishment; to strip someone of their ancestral heritage and cast them into one of the ‘lesser’ species.’ ” Erick continued, “ ‘As an aside, I, for one, am glad those awful elves are all dead. Their magic was great, but I am very glad that slavery is becoming so strictly disincentivized.’ ”

Kiri said, “This book is the same way. It’s all personal insights into the Sundering and how magic was before the Script.” She added, “She talks of strings too. Of harmonies that guided the proliferation of life and mana, and how becoming in tune with the harmony of another species was one way to [Polymorph].” Her eyes went wide as she stared at the purple pages of the book, saying, “And of how difficult it all was. What’s an ‘emotionfeeling’? What’s a ‘thoughtform’? There’s lots of mentions of those, but no definitions.” She said, “There was certainly a lot less math, though.”

“My guess is that all of these people knew all of those things, and there was no need for them to record what everyone already knew.” He added, “And there’s a lot of math in harmonics, but it's certainly not this circular Ancient Script kind of math.”

Kiri said, “Oh! Harmonics!” She flipped through her book, saying, “They talked about that in the beginning of this book.” She said, “Here it is. Did you know that elves had double vocal cords, and could circularly breathe, producing a never-ending song?”

Erick stepped over to Kiri’s raised book. He looked at the page. It was an image of the dissection of the upper body of a tall, thin person, with pointed ears. Their ribcage had been pulled back, revealing lungs and other interesting things. Erick said, “Multiple vocal cords? I expected a second throat, or something, at the bottom somewhere.”

“They didn’t sing through air. They sung through pure mana flowing through their bodies.” Kiri’s voice turned to a whisper. “This is amazing.”

Erick patted Ophiel on his shoulder, saying, “You can sing endlessly, can’t you?”

Ophiel trilled in violins.

Erick added, “I bet anyone could do that these days.”

“Well...” Kiri said, “Yeah. I guess. Maybe.” She added, “This woman didn’t manage to make [Polymorph]. She just put together everything she knew about what had come before, splashed with a bunch of stories of her other forms and how they all worked.”

Erick said, “The one I’m reading is a lot of the same, and a lot of re-threading fate, which is off-limits now, so that’s a non-starter.” He asked, “Do you know of fate magic?”

“Only that it doesn’t exist anymore. But. Here. Look at this:” Kiri leafed through the leaves of her book, saying, “When they translated everyone to this new universe, a lot of things broke… where is it… ah!” She found the proper section of her tome. “All of these...” She flipped through the book. “All of these are of the bodies of people before the Sundering.” Every page was filled with images of every sapient species. “Like this one. These are orcs, from before they were mashed up with the trolls, and brought back to sapience by the transmigration of Aloeth to Aloethag. See here? They have two stomachs.” She looked at Erick, saying, “Orcols only have one stomach. All people these days have one stomach.” She flipped through the book. “Harpies had much, much bigger wings, and different lungs.” Another page. “Dragonkin had tails!” Another page. “Alvani had three eyes. And, they used to exist, of course.” She added, “The translation to the New Cosmology changed everything, but I didn’t think it changed everyone, too. Not this much.”

“They must have done that to survive. I guess they picked one form that worked and gave everyone new bodies?”

“Exactly right!” Kiri flipped through a few more pages, landing on an illustration of divine hands plucking some wavy lines from the dark and using them to repair bleeding and broken people, and to give them new forms. Dense writing hung below the artwork, explaining the image. Kiri said, “This is it. They don’t teach this stuff in arcanaeum because it’s all pseudomagic now, but look at this. They harmonized everyone with this New Cosmology. The Relevant Entities of the Script used a divine form of [Polymorph] on all the survivors, because barely anyone could survive in this new Reality.” She said, “This book was the personal journal of Archmage Berilyn. She didn’t create the [Polymorph] that we all use today, but she got a good look at what the Relevant Entities did to everyone, and she was an accomplished doctor, so she knew what she was seeing. The foreword says she was a Minor Entity of the Script, too, which is a designation I’ve never heard before.”

Erick looked back down at the crates of books Krigea had dropped off. There were at least a dozen there. He said, “[Polymorph] is a lot more important than I thought it was.”

Kiri said, “Me too.” She added, “And your own harmonic magic stuff is a lot like what I see here… I’ve always heard that the first magics crafted in this New Cosmology were rudimentary things compared to the [Comet Swarm]s of today. But these people were all at the top of their fields, weren’t they?”

“The book I was reading had some of the old spells in them, if you want to try it out.”

Kiri’s eyes went wide, again. She calmly exclaimed, “Yes. Yes, I do.”

Erick showed her a spell that had been fully and carefully recorded, called ‘Alter the Candle’, where the practitioner would take a red candle, and turn it blue. More advanced forms of the skill would alter the color of the flame from red to blue. Erick left her with that book while he went onto another. Soon enough, it was time for dinner. Poi had cooked fish again, to the surprise of no one. Erick and Poi brought two boxes of leftovers to Teressa and Rats, who were back at the hospital, and then Erick and Poi went back to the dungeon for a few more hours. Ten hour days weren’t so bad.

When they got home, Kiri was standing beside a table with a red candle, a pool of water with a leaf floating in the center, a coiled piece of string, and a feather, while she went back and forth through the black tome, looking for answers. Sweat dripped down her forehead, but she was careful to keep it away from the book.

“No luck?” Erick asked.

Kiri yelped, noticing Erick and Poi in the house for the first time. She sighed out, saying, “I don’t think I would have been a good mage in the Old Cosmology. There’s a whole collection of ‘mage tests’ in the back of this black book that any prospective mage should be able to do without any training. I couldn’t do any of them.”

“Oh?” Erick said, “Show me.”

Half an hour later, Erick couldn’t do any of them, either. The mana didn’t even move under his intent. It hadn’t moved under Kiri’s intent, either, but Erick had expected something.

