The Centaur [Illusionist]’s voice was too reasonable, too calm. Ceria saw how furiously Palt was smoking the dreamleaf, but Beza didn’t. She rounded on him.
“We let him—”
“It was no one’s fault, Beza. There was nothing we could do. If it was anyone’s fault, it was mine. I couldn’t save him.”
Montressa whispered. She leaned on her staff. She looked pale, exhausted. Overused from too much spellcasting beyond her limits. Ceria knew how she felt. The [Aegiscaster] inspected Ceria and Pisces.
She said not a word. But the hatred, the wild hate and fear in her eyes wasn’t there. She was just tired and sad. None of the Wistram [Mages] said anything as Elirr struck a ball and sent it flying. The crack made some of the people sitting in the grass glance up with interest, though, especially the Gnolls.
“I—didn’t like your friend. Isceil. But he did the right thing at the end.”
Yvlon tried to sound gentle, but the Selphid spoke shortly.
“Don’t say that.”
“What?”
The [Armsmistress] met the Selphid’s gaze.
“Don’t say it like that. Like he was just a…a…you didn’t know him. He was awful to you, but he was our friend. He was brave.”
Yvlon paused. Then she nodded.
“I’m sorry. You’re right. He didn’t run. But for him and we might have all died.”
“‘Drakes don’t run’. He could have, but he didn’t. He stood and fought. Of all of us, the Creler feared him the most.”
Pisces murmured. Everyone nodded at that. After a while, Beza’s tears stopped. Palt brushed some ash off his clothes as he studied Yvlon’s arms.
“You killed it. You’ve all changed.”
None of the Horns replied to that. After a moment, Ksmvr glanced at Palt.
“What now? Do we continue our battle?”
“No. I’m done.”
Montressa stood up. She looked down at Pisces, then at Ceria. She shook her head.
“I’m done. I don’t know if I can ever forgive you, Pisces. Beatrice—she still hates you. But Palt has his deal. He’ll be hanging around Liscor.”
“The inn’s gone. Maybe Miss Erin will…”
“No. I don’t know what I’m going to do, but I’ll see. If anyone wants to come with me, I might…Palt? Ulinde? Beza?”
The Minotauress didn’t respond at first. Palt glanced back towards Erin.
“I have to stay for a bit, Montressa. Beza?”
“I—what are we going to do?”
“Keep going. Search. Go back? I don’t know, Beza.”
The Minotauress nodded.
“We have to deliver Isceil’s remains to his home.”
Palt and Montressa nodded.
“We’ll do that at least. Ulinde?”
The Selphid was quiet. She rose, her Gnoll body turning to look in the same direction as Palt. But not at Erin. The Selphid hesitated. Then she looked at her team.
“I’m going to quit. I’m going to join the Halfseekers.”
Ceria blinked. Montressa stared at Ulinde.
“What?”
“Ulinde—”
Beza began, but Ulinde ignored her.
“Miss Ivirith forgave me. And it’s my dream. They need a [Mage], a dedicated spellcaster. Why not me? I could do it. Moore and Seborn said they’ll consider it. They’re rebuilding their team. If I can—”
She looked at the others pleadingly. Palt exhaled slowly. His eyes were still on Erin.
“If you want to, go.”
Montressa leaned on her staff. She was just…she watched Ceria.
“We should talk, before…”
“Another time.”
Ceria stood up. Montressa nodded, looking relieved as the Horns rose with her. Palt hesitated, then he turned. He held out a hand.
“I misjudged you. Forgive me?”
He reached out to Pisces first. The [Necromancer] hesitated, but then he took Palt’s hand. Neither Beza nor Montressa did the same. Ulinde was already approaching the Halfseekers.
“I’m sorry.”
The Centaur shook Ceria’s hand. She nodded, looking again at Montressa. Beza’s horned head was in her hands. Silently, Ceria got up.
“What do we do now, Montressa?”
Beza whispered. Montressa just wiped at her eyes and watched as the Horns of Hammerad walked away. Palt blew a cloud of smoke that eddied into the air.
 
——
 
The baseball game was underway, and Octavia was smiling as she greeted the hooded shape that hopped out of the gate and made a beeline for her. Numbtongue and the [Alchemist] sat together and watched the game.
On the baseball pitch, Grimalkin was thinking over the logistics of baseball and the merits of the game. He casually caught a ball shooting at his face with a bare claw. And the spectators groaned.
Two on base, one out. The audience was filled. But they were not all together. Some of the Antinium had come out of the Hive and Yellow Splatters was organizing a team of Painted Soldiers and Workers. Bird was curled up into a sulking ball as Anand, Belgrade, and Pawn tried to cheer him up. He glanced up as the Horns passed by him.
Olesm was refereeing the game, but the others were sitting together. Erin, Lyonette, Mrsha, Krshia, Selys—a familiar sight. Mrsha was happily balancing, one foot on Krshia and Lyonette’s hands as they hoisted her up into the air. The Gnoll cub was giggling silently and reaching for Apista as Lyonette warned her to keep steady. But they’d catch her if they fell.
Still, it was to the Halfseekers that the Horns looked. And there was the one note of discontent. Jelaqua sat silently as Seborn and Moore argued. Ulinde was trembling in front of them.
“I—I have gold! And contacts at Wistram. I can be of use! I promise! I can put more into the team if you need me to—I could probably get an artifact if I asked—”
“That’s not the issue.”
Seborn growled. He was trying to prop himself up on a pillow. Moore gently tried to help him and the Drowned Man swatted at his hands.
“I’ll do it myself. Leave off, Moore.”
“What’s the problem, Seborn? You said we could use more members. And I think it’s worth a shot. I don’t mind being the other [Mage] on the team. I’d prefer another one, actually—”
“I’m not against Ulinde, you idiot. I’m for it. But I’m asking whether we’re a team, or a glorified bunch of [Layabouts]!”
The Drowned Man snapped. He looked at Jelaqua. So did Moore and the Horns. Ceria put a hand out to keep Ksmvr from walking over and joining the conversation. Erin and some of the others were not-so-secretly listening in as Seborn glared at Jelaqua.
“You’ve been dancing off to Pallass every damn day since you met that Dullahan.”
“Maughin. His name’s Maughin.”
“And is he a member of the Halfseekers or not?”
“I like him.”
Jelaqua’s expression was closed. The [Rogue]’s Human hand tightened on his bandaged side.
“And so you’re abandoning your team? For what? When the Crelers came through that door, where were you?”
“Seborn! That’s not fair!”
Moore was shocked by the accusation. Jelaqua went still. Seborn scowled at his friend.
“Is it? We had to drag that damn door around for days. We’re going to Invrisil! We’re adventurers! Jelaqua is our Captain, our leader! Not some lovesick child! If we’re going to be a team and take on new members, I want to know we’re actually going to work, and that we have a leader I can respect. Otherwise, I’d rather go find work elsewhere.”
“You don’t mean that. That’s—Seborn!”
The [Green Mage]’s voice was rattled. Ulinde’s expression became one of horror. Seborn looked at Jelaqua.
“I mean every word. I’m not going to wait for another week, much less a month. If Jelaqua can’t stay with us while we’re working, I’m out. She can take her time off however she pleases. But if we’re going north, we won’t be coming back to this inn every night!”
“But Jelaqua can come back if we’re nearby. She’s been gone a bit—”
The half-Giant shut up as Seborn pointed a finger at him.
“Stop taking her side. You’ve been just as annoyed as I have. What if we take a request that puts us a month away from Invrisil, Moore? Jelaqua has to make a choice. Her personal life or her team. Which is it?”
Jelaqua was staring at the ground. Now, she paused. Moore opened his mouth, but then he slowly closed it. The two Gold-rank adventurers waited. Ulinde stood, petrified, staring at her idols. And then Jelaqua—
—burst into tears.
Moore, Seborn, the Horns, and everyone else froze. Jelaqua began to sob. She didn’t cry, but her body did everything short of producing liquid. She even wiped at her eyes, giving great, hiccupping sobs in her Gnoll body.
It was so unexpected that Mrsha began to cry as well.
“Jelaqua?”
Erin gazed over uncertainly. Jelaqua was sobbing, and something was running from her nose and eyes. Not tears. She tried to speak, hiccupped, tried again.
“It—it’s not fair! It’s not fair!”
Seborn stared at Jelaqua, too taken aback for words. The Selphid turned her leaking, sobbing face to him.
“I just—I don’t want to go! I like him! He’s the first person I’ve found that I like. Why can’t I stay? It’s not fair!”
Moore and Seborn exchanged a glance. The half-Giant raised a hand and patted Jelaqua on the shoulder.
“There, there, Jelaqua. Seborn was being angry.”
“You damn traitor—”
“There’s the door, Jelaqua. We can work around Invrisil. You don’t have to avoid Maughin. It’s just—”
“I know! But I don’t want to quit the team, guys! I don’t want to—but I know we’ll have to leave! If we take a big mission we’ll be gone for months! And I can’t ask him—I just wanted to stay for a bit longer. But then the Crelers got you and Seborn and I nearly lost my guys—”
Jelaqua’s outpouring of liquid was rapidly stopping. The Selphid sniffed something up her nose and Ceria had to look away. She was making wet, bubbling sounds as she spoke.
“I—I’m sorry. I know, Seborn. I know. I wasn’t there for the fight, or the Crelers—we can take Ulinde. We can try. I just need to talk to Maughin. But it’s so—”
She began to hiccup. Loudly. Moore was staring at Jelaqua, helplessly. And enviously. Seborn was studying the sky, glaring at the people watching him. At last, the [Rogue] growled.
“Fine. Shut up. We’ll do it.”
“Huh?”
Moore and Jelaqua both blinked at him. The [Rogue] sounded like he was spitting nails. He nodded at Jelaqua.
“We’ll work in the south. Take jobs around Pallass. They have work anywhere we go.”
“What? Seborn—”
Jelaqua’s eyes widened. The [Rogue] lifted a finger.
“If you sail off on us when we’re working, I will quit. But we’ll take jobs, work from Pallass. We did it once. On two conditions. We’re getting steady work, not taking breaks for your little holidays. And second, we recruit. We try Ulinde out. And we find more teammates and—”
“Seborn!”
Jelaqua tackled him. The [Rogue] vanished with an oath before she could hit the stretcher where he was lying. Jelaqua grabbed him as he reappeared to the left, hugging and kissing him.
“I love you! Thank you, thank you, thank you—”
“Let go of me, you damn idiot!”
Moore was beaming and smiling as he tried to hug the [Rogue]. Seborn drew his dagger, and both Moore and Jelaqua let go. Ulinde stared at the three Gold-rank adventurers.
“D-does that mean…?”
“She’s not getting a full share of the bounty.”
Moore poked Seborn affectionately.
“Shut up. That’s right, Ulinde. You’re a member of the Halfseekers. We’ll try you out and—”
Ulinde’s screech made even the baseball players look up. She threw up her arms.
“I did it! Palt! Montressa! Beza! Did you hear? I’m a Halfseeker!”
“Oh.”
Montressa smiled, but she ducked her head, and her shoulders sagged. This was how it ended. This was how it began. As Ulinde rushed over, Erin got up.
“Congratulations. Jelaqua?”
The Selphid was smiling fit to burst. Seborn was irate, but Moore was smiling.
“I guess we’ll see you on Pallass’ side, Erin. We don’t want to tax your door. But we’ll be around.”
Erin blinked at the Halfseekers.
“That’s good. But—who’ll take the door to Invrisil?”
Seborn paused.
“Right. We left the door.”
Jelaqua shrugged.
“We could always finish delivering it. It’s not too far.”
“Let’s just hire Hawk to deliver it to Invrisil. We only didn’t do it to save money and because we were going that way.”
Moore nodded sagely.
“Where is he? On delivery? We can take it out of Jelaqua’s share.”
“Hey!”
The debate between the Halfseekers cut off as Ceria walked forwards. She raised a hand.
“I think it’s us.”
“What do you mean, Ceria?”
The half-Elf smiled at Erin. The young woman blinked as the Horns came over. While the Halfseekers had been debating, they’d had their own conversation. Now, Erin turned to her friends. It was Yvlon who began.
“It’s been a while since we finished the dungeon. And we always knew we wanted to go to Invrisil. I mean, we have to, in order to exchange our…”
Seborn nodded in agreement.
“We have contacts there. We’d have done it already if it wasn’t for someone jumping that Dullahan every time she—”
“Hey, Seborn? You made your point. I’ll hit you right where the Creler bit you.”
Silence. Ksmvr took up where Yvlon had left off.
“I have never been to Invrisil. But it seems that this city is quite important for Gold-rank adventurers to visit, is that not right, Comrade Pisces?”
“It is certainly one of the major cities of Izril. And it would present us with a chance to update our equipment, purchase new spells—and work.”
The [Necromancer] was watching Erin. The [Innkeeper] had a blank—perhaps deliberately blank—look in her eyes. Ceria concluded.
“And we’re done here. I mean, I’d love to stay. But we can’t. We need to…go. So if the Halfseekers aren’t going north, we will. We’ll take the door to Invrisil. It’s, what, only a bit away, right? We’ll go through the door, head north. Maybe do some work along the way, but we’ll open the door in Invrisil. And then…”
The [Innkeeper] was peering at Ceria. At the Horns.
“We’ll stop by every chance we get. But we might be away for a while.”
Erin Solstice took the news silently. Mrsha popped up from Lyonette’s arms. She’d stopped crying, but now she began to howl.
“It had to happen someday. And we’re not going to be away forever. Erin—”
“No, I get it. But you’ll stay for a bit, right? You need to recover. And we need to have a farewell party! I can—”
Erin stopped. She slowly caught herself and looked around. So did the others.
The Wandering Inn was barely visible from the baseball field at the southern gate. It was to the east, a small building on a hill, past the tall walls of Liscor. Even from afar, Ceria saw how it was broken. The walls caved in. The floors crumbling.
She had seen it broken before, but never this badly. Erin trailed off. There was nowhere for the Horns to stay. Slowly, she cleared her throat.
“You’re going to come back though, right?”
“Of course.”
