Talking. The first person to come up after the handshakes, backslapping, and so on was done, was Selys. She paused. She looked first at Pisces, then the others.
“You did it.”
“Yeah.”
“Good job. I—I heard about the attack, but Keldrass and the other teams were in the dungeon. And they ran into a bunch of undead. So I—”
“No one expected the Crelers.”
Ceria shook her head. She was looking around the room. A lot of adventurers were there, but few had approached. The ones who’d escaped through the door were hanging back. But Ceria thought she saw a familiar face among—she frowned, looking back at Selys.
“Wait, a dungeon attack? What happened? Was anyone hurt?”
“Oh—no. I mean, no one was killed. It was another undead assault, a big one. But the Gold-ranks and Silvers held the line. Some got chewed up, but no one was killed. Bevussa was stabbed, though.”
“What? Is she alright?”
Yvlon looked around as Selys raised her claws.
“She’s fine! She’s at the [Healer]’s. Her team is all there—they got overrun by Ghouls! And they were saying something about a traitor in the dungeon. But only Bevussa saw—well, she’s out cold, still. She took a Ghoul apart with her talons! Keldrass and his team had to bail them out. They must have burned at least a thousand undead.”
“That’s good.”
Ceria relaxed. She looked around. Hadn’t she seen…?
“Keldrass?”
That wasn’t who she’d spotted. But the Drake was a familiar sight. He looked perfectly hale as he strode towards her. Out of armor, of course, although Ceria had seen one of his teammates wearing the Heartflame Breastplate. The Drake paused.
“Ceria, congratulations. Hell’s Wardens.”
“Oh, that’s not—look, don’t call us that.”
The half-Elf flushed. Keldrass just shook his head.
“It’s an official title. You slew an Adult Creler. That means you’re allowed to claim the title; the Blighted Kingdom itself sent a commendation and the reward this morning.”
“They did? I mean—a commendation?”
The Drake nodded. He eyed Pisces; the [Necromancer] was absently loading his plate, but nodded as Yvlon and Ksmvr came over. He hesitated at Ksmvr, but spoke to them as a group.
“That’s right. Aside from money, the Blighted King does honor all those who slay Adult Crelers. I’m not sure of the specifics; it’s a decree. Not a noble title or estates, but apparently it can do something for you. If, say, you’re a [Shieldbearer], you might become an [Honored Shieldbearer].”
“Nice. I mean, two of us have changed classes, and we’ve all leveled up…”
Ceria stumbled over her words. The Drake nodded. He was looking at her and glancing over his shoulder. But he paused.
“Miss Shivertail—the younger—also looked up your feat. You’re the 1268th team to kill an Adult Creler at the Silver-rank level. Before you became one of us, obviously.”
Us. Ceria focused on that word, then what Keldrass had said.
“Wait, over a thousand Silver-rank teams have…”
Her face must have fallen, because Keldrass’ serious face turned into a smile for a second. The Drake shook his head as Pisces wandered over. The adventurers were congregated at one side of the guild mixing with some of the civilians, but they were…waiting. Keldrass looked at Ceria.
“Miss Springwalker, think of it another way. In the history of our world, of every confirmed Adult Creler kill, of teams who would go on to become Named Rank, or at least Gold, over the last six thousand years since the Creler Wars—since a time before the Demons, when Crelers fought Dragons and overran nation after nation and every species in the world fought them!—only one thousand and two hundred Silver-rank teams have ever killed an adult.”
“Oh.”
The half-Elf blushed. That did make more sense. Keldrass grinned at her amusement, then became serious once more. He glanced over his shoulder.
“It’s not something my team’s ever done, even in a larger group. I—well, we were fighting undead. You held the line. You and the others.”
The Horns sobered. Ceria nodded shortly.
“Yeah.”
“Some of them are here. You might have words—hear them out first. You need to see this.”
Keldrass jerked his head backwards. Ceria blinked at him. Then she realized the Drake was looking at her somewhat warily. She had a…premonition.
A face in the crowd. She saw Walt seeming uncertain, Alais talking to someone in the midst of the adventurers. They made way as Keldrass led the Horns over, and adventurers parted. Some shamefaced. Others staring. A few, like Keldrass, looked ready to stop a fight. Ceria’s heartbeat quickened.
Could it be?
“Stan—”
Pelico turned. Desirel broke off from eating a bit of cake. Hauntgheist, five members of their team, stood still as the Horns saw them. Ceria halted in her tracks.
“What?”
Yvlon dropped her plate. Ksmvr dove and caught it. Pisces stared. The [Armsmistress]’ gaze locked onto Pelico.
“How—”
Surprises. Some of the adventurers who’d fought at the Bloodfields had gotten away. Not Kam. Or Stan. But some. Hauntgheist was the truly astonishing thing, though. But Ceria realized it wasn’t a miracle.
“Scrolls of [Lesser Teleport]. Our entire group has one. It’s our final insurance. I came up with it—it costs a lot, and all our members have to buy into a scroll or go without. We always set it for a quick escape. As it is, we lost three. That damn Adult hit us with those spikes. But the rest of us bailed out.”
Pelico spoke quietly to Alais’ team, Walt’s, and the Gnoll, the survivors. To the other adventurers as well, the Silver-ranks who’d fought then fled through the door, or just ran. Keldrass and some of the older Gold-ranks like the Lifwail Blades stood next to Hauntgheist. Preventing a fight, perhaps.
Ceria just stared. Pelico’s face was pale, but the [Rogue] spoke to everyone present. But mainly to them.
“We took cover in our bailout spot. We saw how many Crelers were out there—and the Adult. We just…we hid. I thought it would be suicide to…”
He trailed off, glancing away. Keldrass eyed Ceria. And every eye turned towards the Horns. The others had seen Hauntgheist before, it seemed. Walt was clenching his fists, but he hadn’t thrown a punch yet. Alais wasn’t looking at Hauntgheist. And Ceria—she looked at Yvlon. The Human woman gazed back, waiting.
“Good. You made it.”
Hauntgheist started. But Ceria’s face was calm. She tried to smile, and in fact, it wasn’t hard.
“I wish we’d all had scrolls. But they’re expensive, right? You made it. I can’t say I wouldn’t have done the same. I’m glad…I’m sorry for the ones who fell. Were they…?”
“Chaida, Sell, and Vend.”
Ceria vaguely recalled Vend’s face. She nodded. The other adventurers relaxed. At last, the wary tension resolved, and more broke up, talking with the civilians.
Non-adventurers. Ceria found herself shaking Drakes and Gnolls’ claws and paws respectively, letting them thank her. It never occurred to her to say it was nothing. But neither was it entirely hers, not by a long shot.
“There were three teams out there with Hauntgheist. The Watch hasn’t even found their bodies.”
“Who were they?”
“The Scales of Anarchy, Traveller’s Yawn, and…anyone know?”
“I—I didn’t stay. We went for the door right as it opened.”
“You were right with us up till the end. We’d have gone if we weren’t on the other side of that Creler.”
“Has anyone seen Montressa? The Wistram team?”
“They were burying their own. The Oldblood Drake.”
“Isceil.”
Yvlon murmured it as she shook Reikhle’s paw. The [Master Builder] looked Yvlon up and down, and only now did someone broach the topic of her arms.
“Miss Yvlon, I can’t help but notice your change. Is it part of a new class?”
The polite question made everyone in earshot look over with interest. Yvlon smiled.
“That’s right. I’m an [Armsmistress] now. It healed my arms. And changed them into…”
She gestured at the silvery metal that was now her flesh.
“I see. That is, may I see? I am a tiny bit interested.”
“Go ahead?”
Ceria bit her lip to keep from laughing as Reikhle bent, nearly touching Yvlon’s arm as he carefully peered at it, sniffed it—he might have actually tried licking it before he caught himself. But he was a [Builder]. Yvlon looked up as Walt wandered over.
“[Armsmistress]?”
She nodded. The man paused.
“You don’t say.”
Ceria burst out laughing as the room erupted with it. Even Yvlon had to laugh, although she punched Walt on the shoulder. He swore.
“My arm!”
It was easy to laugh. Harder to note the missing faces. In time, Ceria found herself standing with adventurers, in the center of the larger party. People who had been there. Alais delivered the harder news.
“The confirmed dead—I found Kam. And…Stan’s on the list too. All the Boltspitters but Gerit are.”
Ceria’s stomach twisted.
“They found his body?”
“His bag of holding. You saw him go down, Ceria?”
The half-Elf saw Stan turning, trying to reload—she closed her eyes.
“Yeah. I don’t think he made it out of that. Did they—”
“No.”
No one was in charge, but Keldrass was present, like a…teacher. Or a helper. He cleared his throat.
“There’s a bounty from Rhir on all Crelers the world over. The Blighted Kingdom pays it on top of whatever local bounties are in place. Izril’s Adventurer Guilds have standard rates too. So…there’s gold for killing the adult.”
He looked at Ceria. Instantly, she raised her hands.
“We don’t want it. It goes to the dead. Their families—it goes to them.”
“Yeah.”
Alais and Walt both nodded. So did the Gnoll, the lone adventurer. Keldrass nodded. Ceria had to turn.
“I’m sorry. Can I ask who you are?”
“Egliv. Part of Steelhowl.”
The Gnoll clasped Ceria’s hand and repeated it for the other members of the Horns. He seemed worn. So tired. Ceria knew the feeling. But something in his eyes lit up as he looked at her.
“You took down that cursed Creler. Thank you. It got half my team. The rest…I’m not sure how I made it.”
“Nor are we.”
That was it. But Egliv, Alais’ teammates—Caddin was dead. The other two introduced themselves.
“Shelda and Poiv.”
“Right, we’ve met…”
“You punched my lights out.”
Poiv pointed at his eye, and Yvlon ducked her head. Shelda was a [Shield Warrior], only, she used armor made of chitin. Poiv used bone arrows as an [Archer]. Walt waved a hand in forgiveness.
“My boys and I got through it. Yvlon, Ceria, Pisces, Ksmvr—this is Dogil, Grant, and Terrim.”
The three men nodded at Ceria. Grant’s eye was gone, and he had a patch over it. Dogil had wounds all over his arms, but the man had kept fighting with his axe to the last. Terrim—he clasped Ksmvr’s hand first. The orange-haired man grinned.
“Took down the adult. Nice fucking jump! Tommie would have been proud.”
“Thank you.”
The Horns looked at the other seven. Ceria did not know any of them well, save for Alais and Walt, but she would remember them. Egliv accepted a drink; alcohol was flowing freely in the Adventurer’s Guild along with Erin’s food.
There were things to do, even now. The Council came over to thank the adventurers again. Ceria missed part of the speech on the way to the bathroom, but she heard Elirr speaking solemnly to the others.
“Liscor’s Council has allocated funds for all the teams who stood and fought. I know it is not much, but it’s what the city can afford. We shall pay a pension to the dead as well.”
“And we had to go to the Antinium to pay it and keep on budget.”
Lism muttered from the back, so quietly only the Gnolls and Ceria heard. Krshia reached over and punched him.
The other adventurers accepted the monetary reward, as did the Horns. That was extra. But the Crelers’ bounty on top of the one Izril’s Adventurer’s Guilds put on all the Crelers would go to the fallen. Ceria had a word with Keldrass about it as Walt and Alais joined her.
“Do you know—what will happen with the adventurers’ things? Their bodies?”
The Drake hesitated. He waved a claw, and Selys came over.
“We’ll have to burn the bodies. Or rather, the Watch is doing that. The Adventurer’s Guild will distribute the possessions of the adventurers to their families or listed recipients if they have wills. Why?”
“I—Ksmvr?”
Ceria looked around. Ksmvr stepped forwards. The [Skirmisher] bowed slightly.
“I would like to purchase Captain Crossbow Stan’s bag of holding and crossbows. If it is acceptable. I understand this is a form of inheritance that adventurers practice.”
“Crossbow Stan’s…”
Alais looked startled. Keldrass peered at Ksmvr, then Ceria.
“Market price?”
“Yes.”
“That’s better than what the Adventurer’s Guild would offer. I’ll—I think that’s fine. Let me make a note.”
Selys looked for a quill and ink. Alais looked blankly at Ksmvr and shook her head.
“I can’t believe he’s dead. You’re sure you saw…?”
“I’m sure. There’s no way he survived that, Alais.”
“It’s just—he’s Crossbow Stan. He’s been around forever.”
“I actually knew about his team.”
Egliv put in. The Gnoll gestured around the guild as Selys came back, writing.
“His team was around thirty years back. The Boltspitters. They came south once, my father said. They were good. Not Gold-rank, but they helped kill a bunch of Wyverns with other teams.”
Alais chewed on her lip for a long time before speaking.
“Stan was a veteran. He just—earned money. For his kids.”
“Oh dead gods. His kids.”
Ceria murmured. Walt nodded.
“How old’re they?”
“Must be—thirteen and fourteen? Dead gods. Seems like Stan’s been watching them for decades…”
“Nah. He married late, remember?”
“But he divorced—”
“Do you think she knows?”
“The Guild will inform everyone. Don’t worry. And I’ll get Ksmvr the bag of holding. We’ll do the transaction later, alright? And his family will get the gold, from the bounty and everything else. I’ll make sure of it.”
Selys broke in gently. Ceria nodded. The Drake patted her arm and stepped back. After a moment, Alais broke in.
“So. Did you level, Ceria? Your eyes…”
The half-Elf’s eyes were less noticeable than Yvlon’s arms, but they had changed too. Walt started; he hadn’t noticed. Ceria nodded.
“Class change. You?”
“Not a class change, but…I leveled four times. And I gained a few Skills. To help with my lightning. Look. I can throw it without it going everywhere.”
So saying, Alais conjured a bit of lightning and threw it from one finger to the other, catching it in midair and creating a small ball of lightning. Ceria and the others recoiled at first, used to Alais’ unpredictable magic. Ceria smiled.
“That’s better control than a third-year Wistram student, Alais! Congratulations.”
