“A few. They were hiding, but Zevara said the Watch is getting every single corpse. And the adult. Nothing gets left behind. Grimalkin’s overseeing the disposal. They’re burning the corpse, blasting it into parts so it’ll actually incinerate, throwing the acid jars on it—”
 
——
 
“Another live one! In the corpses over there! One—no, two!”
Tkrn’s fur bristled as he whirled. But the [Scout] who’d found the living Creler was already backing up. And two [Captains] from 4th Company were already advancing with their squads.
“Sergeant Gna! Have your [Soldiers] take down the Crelers properly.”
Embria bellowed as she strode across the destroyed grasslands. Tkrn looked up and saw the [Soldiers] advancing on the pile of Crelers. They did uproot the Crelers, jabbing with long spears and baiting the monsters into coming out. The Crelers tried to burrow under the Drakes and Gnoll’s feet, but the movement was seen. The squad divided, hit the Crelers as they unburrowed with spells and magic and impaled what remained.
“Two more for the heap!”
One of the Drakes announced as he slung the Creler over his spear and deposited it in one of the piles of corpses. Tkrn’s stomach roiled as he did the same. The Watch was disposing of the Crelers.
“Junior Guardswoman Jerci, drop that Creler! You do not hold them with your paws, even with gloves on!”
A voice bellowed, and Tkrn saw a nearby Gnoll drop the Creler she was grabbing guiltily. Embria stormed over. The Wing Commander was overseeing the cleanup and a night of work hadn’t done wonders for her temper. She pointed.
“Use the long-handled tongs! If you want one of the Crelers to bite your arm off, by all means, grab it! That’s also a great way to get an egg growing in your arm! And you do not want to see what happens when a Creler decides to make your body its nest until it’s nice and big!”
Jerci blanched. She grabbed the tongs and lifted the Creler up. Another fell into the pile of tangled limbs and oozing innards. Tkrn bent to grab another one himself and paused.
Crelers littered the battlefield. Parts, dead ones—the torn ground and all the limbs meant there was no end to the clutter. The Watch was out in force with 4th Company, cleaning them up. But what was dangerous were the Crelers hiding among the dead. And even the dead—some were still twitching.
“Guardsman?”
Embria saw Tkrn raise his spear. The Gnoll aimed at a larval Creler. Its belly had been torn out and the glowing gel part of it torn away, but it was still moving.
“Just making sure it’s dead, Wing Commander.”
She nodded as Tkrn stabbed the corpse a few times. The Creler twitched, but it was just the dying motion of the limbs. Shuddering, Tkrn lifted it up with the tongs. And paused.
“Wing Commander? I have a…”
Embria turned. The Drake paused as she saw what Tkrn had uncovered.
An arm. Orange-scaled, at least, part of it. The Creler had been tearing it apart. Tkrn blanched, and Jerci dropped the Creler she was holding. Embria nodded at it.
“Bring it to the others after you dispose of the corpse, Guardsman. Carefully. Make sure it’s inspected first. For eggs.”
Tkrn nodded. It was just one part among many. Dead adventurers of all species had died here. And parts of them kept being found. He took the arm, feeling sick, and brought it over to the other…collection.
The piles of dead Crelers were one thing. But the remains of the deceased occupied another spot. It would be wrong to say the Watch and [Soldiers] just shoved the corpses and parts they found together. But they did have to match them. What remained.
Armor and weapons and so on were placed neatly on the ground, and adventurers were lying in the shade under a tarp as a [Healer] tried to…reconstruct them. Identify them if nothing else remained. And made sure none of the bodies were infected. They would all have to be burned in the end.
This was the task that came after the fighting. It had to be done. The Crelers could not be allowed to remain as corpses. Tkrn approached with the arm, and the [Healer] looked up. He wiped at his brow.
“Place it—over there.”
Tkrn did so. He saw the Drake pale as he studied the orange scales, then move it next to a little mound with a cloth covering it. Tkrn tried not to inhale. He was already using a little nose cover with herbs, but it wasn’t enough.
“We need more wood! Someone get more from the door! Two wagonloads!”
Embria’s voice rang out again. Tkrn saw someone trot through the magic door and soon emerge, pushing a handcart. The door was set up—not connecting to the ruined inn, but directly in the center of the city. Wood was pushed towards one of the burning piles of Crelers. They were being incinerated, but even that was hard.
“They’re having a lot of trouble with the adult’s body. It doesn’t want to burn.”
The Drake [Healer] nodded towards a huge shape in the distance. Tkrn looked. The adult Creler’s body was still immersed in the bonfire that had been burning since last night. It was a huge inferno, but the corpse didn’t seem much smaller since it had begun. Tkrn stared at the twisted, broken form.
“I heard Crelers were nearly fireproof. That is tough armor. Has no one thought of making it into armor, like Shield Spiders?”
The Watch had some Shield Spider chitin armor. It wasn’t as good as pure steel most of the time, but it was light and could take some blows. But the [Healer] just shook his head.
“People have tried. They find eggs buried in the armor. Or they get mysteriously sick. Rhir sets down guidelines, and everyone agrees: nothing remains.”
Tkrn nodded. He trudged back to his spot on the battlefield. As he did, he passed by the crimson-scaled Wing Commander.
Embria paused, turning her head tiredly, listening to [Scouts] calling out living Crelers, the Watch and laborers collecting and burying the dead. She was tired, but she was used to working for over a day without rest. More than anything, she was frustrated. There had been a battle and she had missed it. All she could do was bury the dead and finish off the stragglers. That too, was familiar.
Even so, her helplessness bothered her. Especially when she saw the huge, muscular Drake stomping back towards the work. Embria rode forwards and met him. Her warhorse snorted, avoiding the dead Crelers; it was the only animal even willing to enter the area.
“Magus Grimalkin. Do you need assistance…?”
“No.”
The Drake replied shortly. Grimalkin was covered in dirt, and his expression was even more annoyed than Embria’s. He paused, stretching, and shook his head.
“The Creler nest is dealt with. I incinerated every inch of it and my detection spells tell me I’ve gotten all the eggs. There may be more caches, but I can’t sweep any further.”
Embria nodded respectfully. She looked over Grimalkin’s shoulder, towards the red.
The Bloodfields sat in the distance. The brown stain where the Crelers had been was already being reclaimed. And the Watch and 4th Company didn’t venture near it, for all that was the origin of the Crelers.
“High Command’s policy is to sweep the area for all Creler eggs, Magus Grimalkin. I don’t suppose it’s possible to…?”
The huge Drake looked up at Embria, and she paused, embarrassed. He outranked her, even if he was of Pallass’ military. But he was also Grimalkin, the Fist Mage. The Drake shook his head tiredly.
“No. It’s impossible, even if I had the time to walk through the Bloodfields and fight every damn thing in it. I saw the flora and fauna attacking Creler bodies; they won’t suffer them. I’d like to think the Bloodfields can handle larvae-form Crelers, but Liscor will have to keep an eye on the Bloodfields. Pallass as well, of course.”
Embria nodded. Grimalkin went on, staring at the adult Creler burning in the distance.
“I’ll begin vaporizing parts of the adult soon. It looks mostly immolated, save for the shell. But it must be destroyed down to the last piece.”
“I regret that 4th Company’s [Mages] can’t even break the armor, Magus Grimalkin. We have a group ready to go with warhammers if you think the fire’s done its job…”
Again, the younger Drake was embarrassed. Grimalkin just shrugged.
“Let me hit it with spells first. The spell resistance should be weakened by the Creler’s death and the fire. Ancestors, I forgot to grab that juvenile’s corpse I saw back there. A Watchertree downed it, but…”
The Drake grimaced. Embria dismounted and stood with Grimalkin for a moment. He spoke, absently.
“In my report, I will state this, Wing Commander: I believe the Bloodfields can defeat any number of larval-stage Crelers and a number of juvenile-stage Crelers as well. But adults and Crelers in numbers can and did infest a portion of the Bloodfields. If they had not been caught, or the adult had escaped, this situation would have become drastically worse.”
“My thoughts as well, Magus Grimalkin. May I ask, though—why was it imperative to slay the adult Creler at once? My company has only ever battled nests with juvenile Crelers or smaller. But High Command’s doctrine is to pursue adults even to the point of risking a company’s defeat…”
It was a question she should have asked her superiors, if they were in the field. But Embria was far from the main army. Grimalkin answered her, rubbing at a scratch on his scales. He’d walked into the Bloodfields alone to destroy the Creler nest.
“The risk of leaving Crelers alone is always that they’ll multiply, Wing Commander. But adults are far, far more dangerous than smaller Crelers. It is perfectly acceptable to let young Crelers stay where they are while proper steps are taken to eradicate them. Adults—no. Adults will retreat if they think there’s real danger. They think. So they have to be hunted down, or they just hide for a century or a decade and then there are ten.”
“If this one had escaped…”
“It would have fled. Into the High Passes, although something might have killed it, Ancestors willing. But most likely, into some other remote area, and it would quickly rebuild all the nest’s numbers. It has happened before. All of this—is what I would consider acceptable casualties. The adventurers saved more than themselves and Liscor.”
Grimalkin met Embria’s eyes and the female Drake nodded. Grimalkin stared at the burning adult as the flames began to die down. He rubbed at one arm unconsciously.
“Adults are cunning. This one never thought it was in danger or it would have fled. And Crelers always attack when they have the upper hand. These Crelers were trying to grow—and fast. There was no brown spot reported last year, and we must have missed it during the battle with the Humans this year. Or perhaps the Crelers infested the area only a month or two ago?”
“Then all their numbers…”
“Crelers evolve faster with more to consume. We might have had two adults within as many years. More, if they ate the entire expanse of Bloodfields.”
Embria shivered. Grimalkin went on, quietly.
“Oteslia fought off six one time. Six adults. I heard Manus’ report on the battle claiming that if two Elder Crelers had attacked the city, it might have fallen.”
“Elders? How many classifications of Creler are there, Magus Grimalkin? The army doesn’t—we find nests every other year, but that’s all.”
Grimalkin folded his arms and glanced at her.
“There are two classifications above adult. Elder. Ancient. Elder takes at least a century. Adult takes at least a decade and a half. The world has done a good job of destroying most of them, Wing Commander. More than Goblins, Crelers have to die. There hasn’t been an Ancient Creler spotted since the Creler wars. Be grateful of that.”
“And Ancient? Is the difference just size or…?”
“No. Elder Crelers are apparently capable of far more than adults. I have never fought one, but they are allegedly capable of wiping out armies alone. And ancient? There have only been five Ancient Crelers back when they first emerged from Rhir, before it was recolonized. It’s all in the history books.”
The magus sounded reproving. Embria flushed and tried to recall her readings, but she honestly couldn’t. It might mean those battles were outside of modern history, or not fought on Izril. Grimalkin went on after a second.
“One of them killed two Dragons. In an era where they were still seen. But a Dragon brought down one in turn, so I suppose that proves nothing save for a baseline of strength.”
He left Embria with that. The Wing Commander stared after his back as Grimalkin walked towards the adult. The [Sinew Magus] paused as he stared up at the dead shell and the vacant sockets of the adult. He looked at it without sympathy or remorse. But he did nod once, as he uncrossed his arms.
“Not bad. I should attend the celebrations after this.”
 
——
 
The Horns of Hammerad entered the Adventurer’s Guild of Liscor and paused. Yvlon had expected it after seeing Erin’s expression, but Pisces and Ceria were caught unawares by the crowd waiting for them.
Adventurers, Gold-ranks from the dungeon, Silver-ranks of Liscor’s own, Bronze, and friends, familiar faces like Octavia, were gathered in the guild. They turned as the Horns walked in.
The celebration was already underway. Eight other adventurers were at the center of it all. Walt and three of his friends, Alais and two others. And a Gnoll.
The survivors. All eleven of them were gathered in the guild now. Eleven. The other teams had just…Ceria looked up and saw a single member of the Boltspitters who’d made it to the door. Part of another team. A few stragglers.
But those who hadn’t run—eleven remained. The workers from the road crew, some of the adventurers who had retreated—Liscor’s Council—they were all there. Alais was holding a piece of cake.
“What’s all this?”
Ceria blinked around at the gathering. Erin smiled as she pushed Pisces into the guild. A loud, irritable voice rang out as the Horns paused in the entryway.
“You know, I’ve heard of idiots walking through the Bloodfields before, but never in my life have I heard of a Silver-rank team stupid enough to challenge an Adult Creler.”
Tekshia Shivertail walked forwards, leaning on her cane that was occasionally a spear. She glared as the people around her fell silent. The Horns stared uncertainly at the Guildmistress and Pisces stepped behind Yvlon. Tekshia glared at him, and then looked at the Horns.
“Well, come on. You’re late.”
“Late for what?”
Ceria walked forwards with Yvlon, Ksmvr, and Pisces. Tekshia waited until they stopped in front of her. She looked up at them. And her tone was waspish. She prodded Ceria in the stomach with her cane, but gently.
“You really are cooked in the head, aren’t you? Mages. Figures. Just stand there and smile.”
