“[Armform]. This is my duelist form. I can make them normal as well. And this—let go, Ksmvr?”
He did. Yvlon whispered.
“[Armform (Razorkind)].”
Her hand changed. Erin inhaled sharply, and the crowd stirred. When Yvlon raised her hand next, a cutting edge had developed along the outer edge of her gauntlets. But that wasn’t what was unsettling.
Yvlon’s fingers were blades. Not just as if she’d put on a metal pair of gauntlets. No, the fingers, what should have been flesh and bone were now edged, longer, cutting razors. In silence, everyone stared at Yvlon. She looked up, her face a bleak smile—
Mrsha began applauding. Yvlon started, and then someone laughed. A few others began applauding uncertainly, but then there was laughter. Yvlon relaxed, and her hands returned to normal.
“I can even make a cutting edge on other parts of my arm. So if someone grabs me, they’re in trouble. It’s not too useful.”
“It’s powerful.”
That was all Keldrass could offer. Ceria hesitated and put a hand on Yvlon’s shoulder. It was cool, but not as cold as metal. The woman could feel her—she looked at Ceria.
“Something to get used to, huh?”
“Just when I got used to having metal in my arms.”
The [Armsmistress] joked weakly, but Ceria had seen her expression.
“Are you okay with…?”
“I have my arms. I’ll live with them changing. What do you think, Ksmvr?”
Yvlon glanced sideways. The Antinium was inspecting her arms, poking at her fingers cautiously. She wiggled them and the [Skirmisher] looked up solemnly.
“We must analyze their strength, Yvlon. Your arms are a valuable asset to this team and we must be certain of their exact strength.”
“Go ahead.”
Bemused and amused, Yvlon let Ksmvr inspect her hand. He prodded her fingers, flexed them, seeing how far they’d move, poked her palm, the inside of her elbow—
“Stop that. It tickles.”
Yvlon laughed. Her skin wasn’t as pliable as regular skin, but it did move. It was nearly as sensitive too in its regular form, or so it seemed. Ksmvr was oblivious to her discomfort.
“Does it tickle more or less depending on your duelist form? Please change one arm to your duelist form so we may compare sensations, Yvlon. This is important data.”
“Stop it. Ksmvr, I’m serious—”
He began tickling her. Yvlon tried to pull away, but gently. Then she began laughing. And it was such a refreshing sound that Ceria joined right in. She tickled Yvlon’s sides—until the [Armsmistress] smacked her gently on the head. And ‘gently’ was something Yvlon had to get used to.
After Ceria’s head had stopped smarting, Ksmvr announced his findings to a very few interested people.
“To recap, Yvlon’s base skin strength is already stronger than average skin, but her [Duelist] form lacks sensitivity and has a comparable strength to enchanted armor. This is good, because I had been concerned with the weakness of skin in my teammates—”
Ceria wandered away from Ksmvr’s analysis. She’d seen Tekshia sitting down at one of the intact tables. The old Guildmistress looked up as Ceria approached.
“Something you want, Miss Springwalker? If you’re looking for hugs, go find my granddaughter. Although she seems to be reserving them for the [Necromancer].”
She glared at Selys and Pisces, who were talking quietly together. Ceria shook her head.
“I’m fine, thank you, Guildmistress.”
She sat down across from Tekshia. The Drake eyed her then snorted.
“Out with it.”
“You…didn’t say anything about Pelico’s team. Or the other Silver-ranks.”
The ones that had run. Some had come up to Ceria to apologize. And she’d forgiven them with words, at least. Others hadn’t. Ceria wondered if they’d avoided coming to the party. Pelico—she could sense him looking at her and the others from time to time. She wondered if she could ever sit and drink with him in the same way. Or if there was really anything to forgive.
The old Drake [Spearmistress] snorted. She looked at Hauntgheist and shook her head. Then she gazed at Ceria.
“Say what? It was your decision to ‘forgive’ them. What should I do? Smack their tails for doing the sensible thing? They’ll remember their choice for the rest of their lives. As Silver-ranks. That’s what they’ll be. They had a chance, and they ran from it. Sensible. Which is why they’ll never be Gold-rank.”
She leaned back in her chair and fished in her belt. Ceria was surprised when she saw a familiar, fat cigar. Or maybe a spliff was more accurate. The Drake paused and offered one grudgingly to Ceria.
“Puffer?”
“Is that—you smoke them?”
Ceria was a former Wistram student, and she could smell the dreamleaf. Tekshia smiled as she lit hers.
“When someone’s in the area. I got a bundle because I threatened that horse I’d eat him. I still haven’t forgiven those [Mages], but they did nearly die, and one did, so I suppose I’ll let it go. Funny how real monsters change things, isn’t it?”
Ceria nodded. After a moment, she accepted the spliff and the match. She recognized it from Octavia’s sh—Ceria’s eyes narrowed. She looked around for the [Alchemist] and realized that Octavia had been stealthily doing a bit of business. Some things never changed. But the [Alchemist] was genuinely listening to Ksmvr as the Antinium explained the difference in Yvlon’s skin to her.
“Whew. That’s strong stuff.”
“Not bad. This is the kind of hobby you can afford now.”
Tekshia nodded as Ceria took a few deep inhales and coughed out some smoke. The Drake was more steady, but Ceria had a purpose.
“Not happy, huh?”
The [Arctic Cryomancer] hesitated.
“Is it that obvious?”
Tekshia put her feet up on the table, leaning back in her chair.
“I don’t have to look. Day after a battle like that? With all the dead? I told the Council not to throw a party, but they insisted. Your little [Innkeeper] friend too. At least she makes a decent cake. But what did they expect? This isn’t a party. It’s a wake.”
She pointed at the workers on the road crew. They were speaking solemnly and toasting with their mugs. Ceria realized that the food had mostly turned to drinks. She wondered if Tekshia had been instrumental to that; it wouldn’t have been high on Erin’s list. She didn’t understand some of the pleasures in life.
“I guess I can’t really be happy. I wish we’d—being here after all of yesterday—you know?”
Tekshia nodded silently. She took a drag on her puffer and exhaled.
“If you were smiling the entire time after all that, I’d stab you, girl. Mind you, that’s what some Named Adventurers look like, even after a slaughter. I remember one…no. No, you don’t need to smile. And you don’t need to be here. It’s just silly idiots trying to make themselves feel better.”
For some reason, that helped more than anything else. Ceria smiled and looked at Tekshia.
“What do we do?”
“Do? You’re Gold-rank. You’ll have time to figure it out. I’m sure everyone has an opinion. Just sleep. Wake up. And keep going as long as you want. Then—stop. I stopped. Some of us don’t.”
The Drake lazing waved her spliff in the air. The half-Elf nodded. They sat together, smoking, until Erin Solstice came over.
“Hey! Are you doing pot? There are kids here, you know!”
Tekshia glared at Erin. She very deliberately blew a cloud of smoke at Erin.
“This is my guild, girl. You may exit if you don’t like it.”
“Well, maybe I will!”
“Good. Get out. Leave the cake and cookies.”
Erin hesitated. She gazed at Ceria, and the half-Elf waved at her.
“It’s not bad, Erin. Honest.”
“Well—well—I’m going outside! Krshia says there’s something cool by the southern gate, so we’re going to all head that way. Olesm’ll be there. And the Horns. And Montressa and the others.”
Ceria sat up. Tekshia gently snorted as the crowd inside made for the doors. Some remained, but after a moment, Ceria got up and followed Erin. She reluctantly froze the spliff for later.
“Where’d you get that?”
Pisces muttered to Ceria. She pointed. His brows shot up.
“She’s not going to give you one. I don’t know how Ceria got one off her. She never shares anything.”
Selys complained. Erin gave her a betrayed look. The [Heiress] rolled her eyes.
“Oh, Erin. It’s fine! Grandmother’s been having those for ages. I used to get into them as a kid.”
“You’re all stoners!”
“And you’re being a hatchling.”
Ceria didn’t listen to the argument erupting behind her, which was mainly Erin and Lyonette versus everyone else. Yvlon seemed on Erin’s side, but she elected not to join in. The adventurers and civilians walked down the street, heading towards…what?
Just outside the southern gates, Ceria realized what it was. She saw curiously flat ground in a wide space, nearly a thousand foot diamond next to a flat, stone road. Newly-laid.
Master Reikhle’s workers had been active here as well. No; they’d continued their work here instead of the Bloodfields. But they had also smoothed the lumpy terrain of the Floodplains. And standing outside was a Drake. Olesm turned in the middle of consulting with Octavia. She’d snuck out of the party early. Now, she was helping him lay down a bright, white powder in the grass.
It took Erin only a moment to figure out what was going on. She exclaimed at the same time as Relc and a few others.
“Baseball!”
“Whose balls?”
Walt growled. The Drake was smiling as he came over to the Horns. But he faltered as he looked at Ceria. He opened his mouth—and she hugged him.
“Hey, Olesm.”
“Ceria.”
The [Strategist] returned the hug, awkwardly. He looked up and Pisces held out a hand. The two smiled as they clasped palms, and Ksmvr and Yvlon patted him on the shoulder. Time changed a lot.
“Hey, you jerk!”
Erin glared, but even she couldn’t be angry. Olesm ducked his head as he saw Selys, Krshia, and the Gnolls. They regarded him with stately politeness, but Lism beamed.
“And what is this, Nephew?”
“Baseball, Uncle. I told you—”
“How’d you do it? No, wait—why didn’t I think of it? This is amazing, Olesm!”
Erin was agog as she popped up in front of Lism. The [Strategist] smiled slightly. He pointed at the temporary field Octavia was working on, and a few people warming up on the pitch. Some of the Drakes and Gnolls who’d played last time were already swinging the bats. And more were watching from the walls and the grass.
Including the Halfseekers and the Wistram [Mages]. All four of them. Ceria started and pointed them out to Pisces. The two abandoned the group as Olesm spoke.
“It was simple. I mean, I know the game just requires flat ground. So I asked the team working on the road here to move some dirt around. The Antinium were able to help since this is close to the city. It’s obviously not feasible in the spring, but for now we have room for at least one game. And people can watch and play—I’m going to have teams sign up for time. There’s a lot of interest.”
“I’ve got to play! Klb, we’re going to get on a team! And look! There’s Grimalkin!”
Relc bounded forwards, excited. Klbkch spotted Grimalkin, swinging a bat experimentally. Erin was delighted.
“This is so cool—and look! There’s the Halfseekers! Jelaqua! Seborn! Moore! Are you all okay?”
The three adventurers glanced up. They were all speaking together, Seborn half-lying down. The Drowned Man was nearly immobile from his injuries, but Jelaqua and Moore had lifted him out on a stretcher. Jelaqua was wearing a female Gnoll’s body. Moore was heavily bandaged and wincing, but he smiled as Mrsha leapt into his lap.
“Careful, Mrsha, careful…”
“Hey, Erin. You’re alright.”
Jelaqua smiled as Erin walked over. Seborn nodded and grunted. Erin threw up her arms.
“Did you see? Baseball! In Liscor!”
“Yeah. It’s going to be fun watching Grimalkin hit the ball. I think the Watch might also enjoy playing. I checked in on them; they’re nearly done with getting rid of the Crelers.”
Jelaqua smiled a bit. But she gazed back at Moore and Seborn. The Drowned Man just stared at her and the Selphid glanced down at the grass she was pulling up bit by bit. Erin wavered. She turned to Seborn.
“How are you doing, Seborn? Moore? I didn’t get a chance to thank you—”
“We’re alive. No thanks to Jelaqua.”
The [Rogue]’s voice was flat. Jelaqua hung her head. Moore paused in patting Mrsha’s head, and the Gnoll peered at Jelaqua’s body, sniffing the Selphid and sneezing at the smell of the preservative the Selphid was using.
Jelaqua’s wasn’t the only dead body sitting in the grass. A ways away were the four Wistram [Mages]. Ulinde, Beza, Montressa, and Palt.
Bezale was crying. The Minotaur’s head was bowed. Ulinde just stared ahead. She was wearing a Gnoll’s body too. Female. She bore no physical scars from yesterday. Nor did Palt, really. But they didn’t move.
Montressa’s eyes were red, but she had no more tears to give. And her guilt was less, in a way. She hadn’t run. But nevertheless.
Isceil was dead. The Wistram [Mages] looked up as the Horns approached. Beza stirred, staring at Yvlon, her arms. She wiped at her eyes and the [Mages] got up. Nervously. But the grief was written across them.
Perhaps this was the first teammate they’d ever had die. Even including the accident at Wistram, they might have never lost someone fighting. Their expressions were too familiar to Ceria. Palt slowly exhaled a bit of smoke as he got to his hooves.
“We’re not going to fight. Please don’t—”
“Who would do that now?”
Ceria’s head turned. The Wistram [Mages] were silent. It felt like yesterday and forever ago that Ceria had been willing to try and kill them—hurt them at least, to keep them off her backs. Now? Ceria cleared her throat.
“Can we sit?”
“Sure.”
Montressa whispered. The eight sat down, all watching as, in the distance, Olesm marshaled the Council and some interested citizens of Liscor into playing a game of baseball. Grimalkin was on the other team with Relc and Klbkch. Ceria felt vaguely sorry for the Council, even as she watched Grimalkin staring at Klbkch. But that was background.
As the first pitch was thrown and Elirr swung one of the baseball bats, Ulinde spoke.
“Isceil’s dead.”
Everyone looked at her. The Selphid’s expression was bleak. Lost. Yvlon paused. She turned to Ceria and said nothing. Neither did Ksmvr or Pisces.
“I’ve failed. I had to flee. I left my teammate’s body behind.”
“We had to run. If we’d stayed…I’m sorry, Beza. But I’m no hero.”
Palt spoke quietly. He smoked his cigar, then inclined his head to them. Ceria nodded back. So did Pisces. Beza’s tears rolled down her face.
“You should have left me. We should have protected Isceil.”
“How? The adult was too fast. It went for him because he was the most dangerous.”
