Alais smiled weakly. She was still barely on her feet and leaning on her staff hard.
“It’s what I wanted. I’m stronger now. I can feel it. If I had it back when we were fighting—if I—if I had—”
Her voice broke. Poiv and Shelda reached for their Captain and she buried her face in her arm. Ceria stared at her and the others glanced down.
It was a common adventurer’s refrain. Those that survived the worst battles invariably leveled. Becoming stronger. And yet, too late. If I could go back and do it again, as I am—
You couldn’t think about it too long. Down that road lay madness. Ceria turned to Walt as Alais went to sit down for a moment.
“What about you, Walt?”
The man would have normally bragged about a single level. Now, he just smiled quietly and exposed one thick arm. He flexed it, and then held it out for Ceria to lean on. His arm didn’t move as much as a centimeter.
“Look. [Enhanced Strength]. Fucking unbelievable, right? It’s like that Minotauress’ scroll is working on me all the time. Dead gods, I’m going to hit Level 30 before I’m thirty. I never thought of that.”
Egliv too. The [Axeman] was now a [Savage Axeman], owing to the Crelers he’d hacked apart. He even had a [Furious Rage] Skill.
“Must be the [Barbarian] in me, yes? Not that many Gnolls qualify for the class.”
“You’re too civilized. What’s the requirement for [Barbarian] anyways? Seems so…what’s the word?”
“Pejorative?”
Pisces came over, massaging his head. He seemed to be getting over his mental mind-blanking better than Ceria. She nodded at him.
It was Yvlon who looked around.
“How many Silver-rank teams are left? Out of fourteen? Five? Six?”
Keldrass sighed.
“Eight, but only three full-strength. Some, like the Boltspitters, will have to be disbanded. Or…find a new team.”
“Dead gods.”
Egliv nodded.
“I have an invitation from The Pride of Kelia. Nailren, he invited me. I might take it.”
“Nailren’s good. They’re a ranged team, but they could use someone like you. Hell, Gemhammer might have you, Egliv. They’re all about muscle and melee combat.”
“I—I guess Thunder’s Solace needs to recruit too. We’re going to still…I mean, we have to keep going.”
Alais looked blank as she rejoined the conversation. Walt stared at Egliv.
“Yeah. Our team’s down too. Hey. You want to join us?”
Ceria, Yvlon, Alais, and Pelico all stared at Walt. He looked around.
“Can’t hurt to recruit in Liscor. We could use more fighters. We’re all shields, but…I think the Ensoldier Shields need a [Mage] or two. [Archers], at least.”
“I’ll think about it.”
Egliv looked surprised, gratified, but he shook his head. Keldrass did too.
“Don’t think about adventuring just yet. You all need rest.”
“Even so, so many teams…”
“That’s what happens.”
A steely voice cut through the conversation. The adventurers turned and saw Tekshia walk past them. The Drake sipped from her cup as she entered the group.
“The Silver-rank teams around Celum are torn to bits. It’s the Bronze-ranks and a few Silvers left, now. But we have at least two teams who might be Gold-rank in the future. And one who made that jump.”
She nodded at Walt, Alais, and Ceria’s teams. They looked at her. Tekshia’s voice was strict, but not unkind.
“This is what happens, children. Good teams die, and the survivors level up. You, Horns. Did you level or did that [Necromancer] just pop in a few new eyes and some arms?”
Yvlon choked on her drink. Pisces nearly exhaled his pasta all over everyone else. Only Ksmvr clapping a hand over his mouth saved everyone. The Antinium politely wiped his hand on a napkin as everyone looked at the Horns. Ceria hesitated, but now wasn’t the time to keep secrets, surely…?
Pisces broke the silence, coughing and thumping his chest. He pointed at himself.
“Two levels in my [Necromancer] class for summoning both behemoths. However, my [Mage] class hit Level 20 for a second time.”
Ceria blinked at him. The young man shrugged.
“I gained a new Skill. A powerful one, in my estimation. [Mana Well]. Ashen.”
“Ooh.”
“What’s ooh?”
Walt looked confused as Alais and Ceria both nodded. One of Keldrass’ teammates was nodding as the [Necromancer] explained.
“Of the Skills which [Mages] obtain to increase the font of their power—and they are the lynchpins of most sources of power. Rather than increasing the body’s natural mana regeneration, or changing the very world or body itself to conduct mana better—”
He gestured to Ceria.
“—I simply have deeper reservoirs of mana to draw upon. And I may…charge my reserves with ambient mana of a specific grade. Death magic, in my case.”
Walt frowned.
“So…”
“He’s got an extra amount of magic in his body to use.”
Tekshia snorted as she chewed on a cookie. Pisces looked at her and she glared.
“You use too many words, brat! Yes, that Skill’s useful for a [Necromancer]. Not earth shattering. What happened with you, half-Elf?”
She poked Ceria, aiming her fork at Ceria’s eyes. The half-Elf flinched backwards.
“I changed classes. I’m…an [Arctic Cryomancer].”
It was a modest class change, but it got another ooh of appreciation. From almost everyone this time. Shelda frowned and looked around.
“What does arctic mean? I’m not familiar with the word.”
“Cold. You know, arctic weather?”
“Oh, right. So that’s an upgrade? Cold [Cryomancer]?”
“Colder. I think it’s a hint about my specialization. I didn’t get a powerful new spell, but I did get two Skills that change…well, look.”
Ceria gestured, and a wall of ice rose. Instantly, Tekshia struck it with her cane, lancing it out like a spear.
“Not in my guild—”
She paused as her cane thwacked into the ice. The tip of the cane vibrated away from the ice wall, chipping a bit with it. But it didn’t break. Keldrass raised his brows. Behind Tekshia, Relc pointed and crowed.
“Oh snap. Old Tekshia’s lost her—don’t throw it!”
Tekshia lowered her cane as Relc ducked behind Klbkch. She turned to Ceria, and the half-Elf gestured at the [Ice Wall].
“[Glaciersheet Ice]. And [Adept Iceform]. An upgrade of my old Skill. I can make my ice different, see?”
She gestured, and a row of spikes emerged from the [Ice Wall]. Ksmvr brightened.
“Ooh. It has spikes. There is much potential here for pushing.”
“Push people into a wall, have the wall come up and impale them…”
Pelico was impressed. Erin, Lyonette, and Mrsha popped over with a crowd, to watch Ceria’s demonstration. Lyonette frowned as Mrsha tried to touch the spikes, so Ceria made the ice wall flat again. Erin looked at Ceria, beaming with pride.
“You did it! It’s tough, right? And you can shape it? Can you do a couch made of ice? No, wait! Make a castle!”
Ceria’s head was smarting. She winced—even this one spell was giving her a migraine. But she tried the couch. She had to give up halfway as her headache became blinding.
“Palt said no magic!”
Alarmed, Yvlon touched Ceria’s arm, and the half-Elf gave up. The others inspected the angular bit of ice.
“It looks sort of like a couch.”
“Someone sit on it. How long will it last?”
“Longer, I think. Darn. My head—”
“No more magic, even for demonstrations.”
Ceria nodded, and someone pushed an unlucky volunteer onto the couch. It turned out to be Ishkr. The Gnoll tensed, and then shuddered.
“Cold! I’m stuck to it! Help me off!”
His fur was frozen to the ice. Laughing, Ceria watched, massaging her head as half the [Mages] volunteered to burn Ishkr off, including Keldrass’ team. In the end, some hot water did the trick. Erin waved a hand.
“But you can also make snowflakes! You have that cold…bubble around you! Show them, Ceria!”
This wasn’t magic. Or at least, it didn’t hurt to show off. Ceria concentrated, and the air around her grew frosty. Ice began falling from the air and Mrsha put her paw out and caught one. It melted when she tried to pull it out. Lyonette put her hand towards Ceria and drew it back fast.
“It’s cold!”
“[Aura of Rime]. That’s my big Skill, I think.”
“Is it that powerful? Seems sort of weak if all it does is make snow.”
Walt commented as he stuck a mug next to Ceria’s cheek to cool. She narrowed her eyes and his drink froze into a slurry. Selys raised her eyebrows as Walt swore.
“Auras are physical manifestations of magical fields. Hers could boost her abilities, freeze things more quickly or act as a weapon. I’d say it’s good. Like Pisces said, [Mages] get different Skills that shape how they perform higher tiers of magic.”
“Is it like your master, Captain Ceria?”
Ksmvr looked at Ceria as he experimentally waved a burning torch near her and watched the fire go out. Ceria’s aura was pure cold, not just a manifestation of winter. The half-Elf shook her head.
“Illphres didn’t have one. But she only cared for her magic. Her style was more…well, I don’t know what she had. But I’m okay with my style. Besides, I don’t feel cold. The real trick is turning it off.”
The half-Elf smiled. Everyone turned to Ksmvr and Yvlon. The [Skirmisher] waved one hand helpfully.
“I regret that I did not gain any noticeable level advancement or class. I am a failure—”
“Ksmvr!”
The Antinium paused, looking straight past Ceria and his team to Klbkch. The other Antinium’s arms were folded. After a moment, Ksmvr looked away and nodded to Ceria sadly.
“Oh, very well. I cannot even be a failure. But I have only gained two Skills. One of them is [Surefoot], which is a very practical Skill with little entertainment value.”
“We could make a mud hill and push you down it.”
Relc was grinning as the other adventurers nodded. Ksmvr considered the option.
“I believe my other Skill is more applicable to demonstration.”
“What is it, Ksmvr?”
Ceria hadn’t been able to ask yesterday amid the bigger concern of her freezing everything around her and Yvlon’s new arms. The Antinium took a few steps into the center of the room. He raised his arms—
And back flipped. Erin’s eyes nearly popped out of her head. Ksmvr did a tight, springing backflip, landed, front flipped back, and then flipped to the side.
The Worker’s squat body and rounded back shell was not meant for that kind of aerodynamics. Antinium didn’t…do that! But Ksmvr did. Everyone stared, and then Mrsha broke out into applause. Ksmvr landed on his feet, looking pleased as he smiled.
“[Evasive Flip]. Whee.”
Lyonette exclaimed.
“That’s amazing, Ksmvr!”
“Whoa! Do it again!”
Erin agreed. Ksmvr happily flipped forwards as the crowd watched, then sideways, back—after about ten flips in a row he paused and held out a hand.
“I am growing very sick. I may expel the contents of my stomach. Stand clear.”
After that, everyone turned to Yvlon. The [Armsmistress] smiled.
“I gained a new class. [Armsmistress].”
“Just [Armsmistress]?”
“There may be a few more words in there, Pelico. But just [Armsmistress] for now. I don’t know everything about my class, but I did change my [Crescent Cut] Skill. It’s now [Sword Art: Curve of the Moon].”
Yvlon drew her broken, battered Sword of Weight with one arm to demonstrate. Erin blinked at Yvlon.
“I thought you’d turn your [Crescent Cut] into something that breaks armor. Like your mordhau thing you did on the Crelers. Into…[Ultimate Mordhau]?”
Some of the [Warriors] laughed, and Ksmvr made a chuckling-clicking sound. Yvlon smiled.
“You’d think that, but apparently I qualified for a sword art. Which means I’m good enough with a sword to use an actual technique.”
“You can’t change your original Skill into something completely different. A sword art is an indication of ability. This one wouldn’t ever get it, for instance, just a Skill.”
Tekshia poked Walt, and the Human glared at her. Keldrass was nodding.
“Sword arts need to be used in combat at the right time. You have to set them up, not like Skills. They’re powerful, but situational. Drathians are reported to be experts in that field. As are [Martial Artists], [Blademasters], [Sword Dancers]…”
Erin was struck by a sudden thought.
“Relc’s a [Spearmaster]. Hey, Relc! Do you know a spear dance then?”
Everyone looked at Relc. The Drake folded his arms smugly.
“Maybe I do, maybe I don’t.”
“It’s Level 30+ Skills. I know he’s got [Triple Thrust]—that might be the only thing.”
Selys eyed Relc critically. The Drake scowled at her.
“Well, at least I’ve got that! And it works with a spear and in bed—actually, I’ve never tried it in—whoa!”
He broke off as Yvlon demonstrated her Skill. She’d begun cutting in arced cuts, building up to the sword art. When she unleashed it, Erin saw a flash of silver—and Relc and Klbkch dragged her off her feet. Half the audience stumbled back as Yvlon’s cut went across the floor, hit a rafter, and sliced a table a good eight feet in front of her in half.
“Dead gods! The table!”
“My floor!”
Tekshia hissed. She glared at Yvlon as the [Armsmistress] halted her blade and stared, wide-eyed at the damage she’d caused. Her Skill had extended the reach of her sword!
“Oops.”
“It’s got range.”
Walt breathed. Then Tekshia jabbed Yvlon in the side. Yvlon shouted as the Drake hit her in one of her bandaged spots.
“Use another Skill in my guild and I’ll use you to fix the cracks! Ancestors, you overexcited—”
The Drake grumbled as she stared at the rift Yvlon had cut in the floor. Krshia growled as she inspected the broken table.
“Good thing we were planning on moving the guild, yes?”
“I’ll say. But can we not damage parts of the city?”
Alonna eyed the cut in the rafters. Flushing, Yvlon sheathed her blade.
“That’s the best Skill we’ve seen yet! No offense, Ceria, but Yvlon wins here.”
“Yeah, yeah.”
Ceria waved a hand as the [Warriors] crowded around Yvlon. Keldrass eyed Yvlon.
“Any more Skills, Miss Byres?”
“Aside from that and the Skill that turned my arms into this?”
“Well, yeah. Aside from those. Obviously.”
He cleared his throat, embarrassed. Yvlon smiled. She raised one hand.
“Well, as part of my new arms and skin, I can apparently do this.”
Her arm slowly changed as the crowd watched. Keldrass recoiled as Yvlon’s arms, a perfect mimicry of Human flesh, shifted. The metal moved, reshaping until it looked like Yvlon was wearing armor—over the outside of her arms. A smooth, silver metal gauntlet protected her forearms, and more armor appeared on her arms, stopping at the shoulder.
If Yvlon had been wearing her breastplate, it would have been a perfect fit. The [Armsmistress] regarded her hand, now a gauntlet, and held it out. Keldrass shook his head, but Ksmvr touched the arm softly. The woman looked around, a crooked smile on her face.
