The half-Elf opened her mouth, and Yvlon nudged her. Tekshia looked around, meeting all of the Horns’ eyes.
“I don’t tolerate fools in my guild. Much less idiots who can’t take a hint and keep trying to stab things above their rank. Any Silver-rank team that takes on an Adult Creler is brain-dead. And also dead. Since you’re not, I suppose you’re just idiots, and there’s a rank for that.”
Erin covered her smile as Guildmistress Tekshia’s words provoked a wave of confusion in the crowd. But then they understood what she meant.
Yvlon’s eyes widened, and Ksmvr looked back at her and then at Tekshia and his one antennae went still. Pisces frowned, and then he stood straighter. Ceria just looked blank.
“What, Bronze-rank? We’re being demoted?”
Someone guffawed in the back. Relc doubled over, laughing and clutching at his stomach.
“Ha! Ow! Hahaha! Ow!”
More laughter followed his. Tekshia stared at Ceria.
“Shut up.”
“Grandmother! Can’t you at least be nice? Today?”
An exasperated voice called out. Selys pushed to the front. The [Receptionist] glared at her grandmother and then turned to face the Horns.
“What Guildmistress Tekshia is trying to say, Ceria, is that no Silver-rank team can slay an Adult Creler. So you’re being promoted.”
The half-Elf’s eyes went round. She stared at Tekshia. The old Drake nodded and raised her voice.
“As Guildmistress of Liscor’s Guild and by my authority I…make you Gold-rank. Congratulations.”
She tapped Ceria’s ankle with her cane. Hard. Ceria yelped, and Selys swung at her Grandmother. Tekshia blocked with her cane and walked away.
“What? Just like that?”
Yvlon stared at Tekshia’s back. In the crowd, Alonna and the rest of the Council sighed. They’d been hoping for more pomp, and so had Erin. But this was all Tekshia had been willing to do.
“That’s right. You’re Gold-rank. We’ll announce it to the other guilds tonight. Everyone in Izril will know you’re a Gold-rank team by the end of the month. Um. Congratulations?”
Selys smiled at the Horns. They blinked at her. Then Yvlon let out the breath she’d been holding. Ceria swayed on her feet.
“Us?”
She looked at her team. Then she heard a whoop. Erin threw up her hands.
“They did it! Gold-rank! Three cheers for the Horns of Hammerad! Hip, hip—hooray!”
If there was ever a hype-woman for the occasion, it was Erin. The confused audience cheered along with her. And they shouted. Tekshia grumbled as she watched, but approvingly. And then it hit Ceria. She looked at Pisces with tears in her eyes.
“We’re Gold-rank?”
Even the cynical [Necromancer] was blinking in surprise. It hadn’t even occurred to them. In a dream, they looked around. But then it hit Ceria. She looked at Erin. She spotted Octavia in the crowd, Drassi, Ishkr, Lyonette, holding up a waving Mrsha—Relc, leaning on Klbkch—and she realized it.
This was their triumph. This was their party. The half-Elf looked up. She smiled. And she stared at her team.
“Wow.”
 
——
 
Gold-rank. Erin had meant for it to be a surprise, a joyous occasion. But—strangely, she realized Tekshia had been right. Perhaps it was just the old Drake’s natural contrariness and irascibility, but—as the party began again, Erin thought the old Guildmistress knew more than she had let on when she’d refused to make a huge speech congratulating the Horns.
They weren’t celebrating. Or rather, they weren’t running about waving their arms and screaming, which was how excited Erin had expected them to be at first. But she’d forgotten. This wasn’t their first triumph. And the battle was too close. The dead were still being counted. The moment of joy, the wild exhilaration of being alive, the triumph—that had been when they had stood in Erin’s inn. This?
This was just good. Good, not perfect. Good, not all-consuming. The moment had depth. Bitter, mixed among the sweet.
Not to most. Erin lost track of the Horns for a second as people surrounded them, wanting to shake hands, congratulate them. The [Innkeeper] looked around the full guild. The first person she spotted was Tekshia herself.
“I’m not giving them a medal. Adventurers don’t get medals. Besides, they’re not even Liscor’s team.”
The aged Drake was serving herself some of the cake Erin had made, partly ignoring Jeiss and Lism who were trying to convince her. She waved a fork dangerously near Lism’s eye.
“You don’t even like them. Fair’s fair—I don’t either, particularly. Let them have their rank.”
“It’s the look of it, Guildmistress. We have to congratulate them—”
“So let them eat cake. Not all of it. I’m having another slice. Move over.”
Tekshia grabbed the strawberry cake as well as the carrot one. She caught sight of Erin at the same time as Jeiss and Lism. The two male Drakes eyed her, and Lism nodded.
“Miss Solstice.”
“Hey, jerk! And Jeiss.”
He glared at her. But then he moved aside, and Jeiss followed. Tekshia glared up at Erin.
“You make this?”
“Yup.”
“Hmf. It’s sweet. Got any cookies?”
“Over there.”
Erin had salvaged some from her kitchen. Tekshia made a beeline for the cookies and grabbed four. The old Drake had sweet teeth. So did Relc. He came over with six, munching on them.
“Hey, Erin, these are great. You doing alright?”
“Oh, hey, Relc. Yeah. I’m good. I, uh—how are you?”
Erin was staring at Relc. He was covered in bandages from head to toe. He looked like a mummy, but the Drake was happily eating. He noticed her stare and slapped one of the bandages on his arm.
“What, this? I’m fine! See? Ow. Damn. Uh—well, I’m mostly fine. Creler poison stops healing, you know? But I can eat cookies! In fact…”
“I have more. I took a lot from the inn, actually. All the food’s…”
Erin pointed vaguely at the spread which she’d catered to the Adventurer’s Guild, mainly because it was out of her kitchen and would spoil soon. That meant the party had everything from pizzas to steaks to spaghetti and risotto and scrambled eggs. And saffron rice.
Most of it was still basic food, but there was a lot of it. And the guests were only too happy to scarf it down as they talked. Erin saw Relc brighten as he grabbed a whole hamburger and a steak and then spotted a pitcher of blue fruit juice.
“This is amazing!”
“You are eating the food meant for everyone to share. Try to show some level of restraint.”
Klbkch appeared at Relc’s side with a bowl of the saffron rice. The Drake was trying to eat both hamburger and steak at the same time.
“Shut up, Klb. You’re not the one who got half-eaten trying to save people. I’m a hero.”
“Which makes the Horns of Hammerad, what? Legends?”
“Sure, if they want. Hey! I got hurt saving Erin.”
He pointed at Erin, and the [Innkeeper] blushed. She hung her head, and Klbkch nodded.
“Yes. And I died saving her.”
“Braggart.”
“Glutton. Please stop eating with your mouth open at least.”
Relc tried to reply and choked. Erin was laughing and smiling. But there it was again. This wasn’t a celebration. She kept seeing the Crelers pouring through the inn. Almost reflexively, Erin clenched her hands—
“Erin, have something to eat. The act of eating is wholesome in all examples save for Relc’s.”
Klbkch offered Erin a plate. She started and blinked at him. Then she looked around, and realized he was right. She smiled, took the plate, and nodded to him.
“Thanks, Klbkch. Are Pawn and the others…?”
“They are eating the food you delivered to the Hive, but their presence was not necessary at this moment. I believe they would prefer to celebrate in number in the Hive.”
“Oh. I thought Pawn at least—”
“I declined the invitation on their behalf.”
Erin paused. She stared at Klbkch for a long moment, and then she slowly nodded. She peered at his bowl as she changed the topic.
“Okay. I’ll have to see them later. Can you—is the rice—I thought you couldn’t eat bread!”
“Rice is not gluten, Erin.”
“Really? Wow.”
Erin began wandering through the crowd, hunting for food. She remembered there was some kind of platter with meats and cheeses somewhere and she was snacky, not hungry. She found it at the same time as she found Temile.
“Temile.”
The [Director] looked up at Erin. He waved—and she saw his missing thumb. The man paused, seeing her look, but he smiled. And it was only a tiny bit forced.
“It’s a souvenir, Erin. Besides, I don’t need it to teach [Actors] how to act!”
“Are you okay? I mean…”
“Yeah. I didn’t get eaten. And this—it’s a good story, right? I was too slow so I got bit by a Creler. Well, I cut one.”
“I heard you got the rest of the Players out first. Mister humble [Actor] who’s actually a hero.”
Temile smiled, turning a bit red.
“I’m the [Director], aren’t I? Emme would kill me if one of the lead actors got eaten. Besides—I leveled up. So…”
He trailed off. Erin squeezed his shoulder and one of the [Actors] found a drink for Temile. Erin lingered there. Oh yes. Not appropriate for rewards and celebrations at all.
“Erin?”
Some people could genuinely smile. Like Mrsha. The Gnoll was happily trying to eat everything from a bowl as Lyonette carried her about. For once, the [Princess] didn’t scold her about what she was eating, and Erin smiled as she bent down.
“Hey, Mrsha! You having a good time? Eat up, because this is all the food we’ve got! But don’t eat too much because we’re going to eat at Wishdrink’s later! And it has good stuff too!”
“What Erin means is don’t stuff yourself.”
Lyonette prodded Mrsha’s stomach and got a swat from a little paw. The [Princess] looked at Erin over the little Gnoll, and her smile faded as she shifted Mrsha.
“Belgrade will take a look at the inn tomorrow. If the Watch will be done with the cleanup by then? I mean, the Antinium can help. He says the inn might be…”
“We’ve got money. And the city is going to pay us for helping get rid of the Crelers. Right?”
Erin looked around for Krshia. The [Shopkeeper] was talking to the one Gnoll survivor amid the Silver-ranks. Krshia looked up and nodded and Lism rolled his eyes. He was bogarting a pudding. Lyonette nodded.
“Later. We’ll—later.”
Erin nodded. She bent and rubbed Mrsha’s head.
“Did you have a good sleep, Mrsha?”
The Gnoll looked up and nodded. She signed a few words.
“Ooh. Comfortable? Not too cramped? I slept at Selys’ apartment. It’s big! Ceria and Yvlon will be there too, and Pisces and Ksmvr get, uh, a room in an inn.”
“At least she has room. You don’t need an apartment that large, Selys.”
“Well, it’s perfect since Erin’s inn doesn’t work right now, right? And I’m not having you move in, Grandma!”
Selys hissed at Tekshia. Erin smiled.
“And Bird’s going to sleep in the Hive. The Halfseekers are in the same inn as Pisces and Ksmvr—are they still there, Lyonette?”
The [Princess] nodded.
“Moore and Seborn are resting. Both got chewed up pretty badly. But they’ll make an appearance later.”
“Got it. And what about…our guest?”
Lyonette met Erin’s eyes as Krshia turned her head.
“He’s resting too. I left him a book.”
 
——
 
Numbtongue realized halfway through the book that he had to pee. So he got up, wandered over to the toilet, and stared at it.
It was apparently connected to Liscor’s sewers. Plumbing. Now there was a handy invention! The only difference was that the Hobgoblin would have added a bolt hole so you could jump into the sewers if you needed to.
But perhaps that was paranoia. Numbtongue peed, and then went back to lying on the couch. After a moment, he realized he was hungry. But he could only have liquids right now. His torn stomach needed to heal.
The Hobgoblin drank a bit of the broth Lyonette had left him. He was lounging on a worn couch. In the middle of Krshia’s apartment. Lyonette, Mrsha, and Krshia had all left for the party, leaving Numbtongue behind.
Not alone, though. Apista buzzed past Numbtongue and landed on the bed of Faerie Flowers that Lyonette had rescued from the upper floor of the inn. The Ashfire Bee fanned her wings and Numbtongue stared out the open window.
“Hrgh.”
He touched at his stomach, feeling the faint pain from his half-healed wounds. This is why he hated Crelers. The Redfang had never fought them himself; the High Passes were deadly to even smaller Crelers. But according to Pyrite’s memories the poison would prevent healing for the next few days.
Still, there were worse fates than drinking chicken soup and lying in a warm apartment with blankets and a pillow. At least Reiss’ ghost couldn’t follow him here. He was bound to the inn, or so it seemed.
He’d saved Numbtongue. But he was…the Hobgoblin shook his head. He winced—then he glanced out the open window.
The issue of finding Erin’s guests and the occupants of the inn homes was a small problem, but it was a problem amid all the rest of the drama over the Creler attacks. Much had been said, but in the end, the facts were clear. Despite…no, even in the given situation, a Goblin could not be in Liscor.
Not after all that had happened, the unresolved debates and arguments. So a Goblin was not in Liscor. Especially not in Krshia’s apartment, in a street full of Gnolls. And they weren’t sniffing at him from their windows.
The Goblin sniffed back. He smelled a lot of…Gnollishness in the air, but they could definitely smell him, he was sure. Despite all the strong-smelling things Krshia had hung around the room to disguise his scent. But if there was trouble, Numbtongue wasn’t about to start it. And the Council had decided to not let him into the city. It was just expedient. He wondered why they’d agreed. Because he was fairly sure he remembered another time when Goblins hadn’t been let in.
He never forgot. But for a moment, however it happened, the Hobgoblin luxuriated in where he was. Here. After a while, he got up to pee again.
 
——
 
Gold-rank. It was a bemusing thought. Incredible. And yet, Tekshia had hit Ceria with it so fast the half-Elf couldn’t really process it. Much less in her fogged-up mind after casting so much magic. Ceria felt like she was both hungover and drunk at the same time and exhausted—that was how hard it was to concentrate. Stupid indeed.
But still. Gold-rank. It was what her team had dreamed about. The original Horns of Hammerad. It was the dream of all adventurers, really. This was it. The big leagues were waiting. Fame, glory—it was all in this rank.
And yet, it was too soon. This party was nice, but for once, the half-Elf wasn’t stuffing herself. She was eating some fries, but she was mostly just standing with her team.
