Ceria realized her eyes were stinging. She tried not to cry. This was silly! They’d always known this day would come. And she wasn’t even leaving yet. It was just her…aura. Conjuring a bit of snow.
That was all. Slowly, Erin regarded her friends. At Ksmvr, pausing, head turning towards the distance, already calculating provisions, supplies, thinking of his team. At Yvlon, feeling at her arms, smiling crookedly. Ceria, trying not to cry and failing as she looked at the young woman. And Pisces. He seemed…tired. But happier than when they’d met. He bowed slightly.
“Thank you for taking care of a rather wretched fool, Miss Solstice. Erin. But we all must go. We shall come back. That is a promise.”
“Always.”
Ceria sniffed.Then Erin did cry. The last day of spring was a bright one, too bright and warm for tears. But they fell anyways. For good or ill. For that truth of truths.
Everything changes.
 
——
 
He saw no light of day in his cell. Nor did he see his friends. Calruz the Minotaur could neither move nor stand. But he was alive.
“I’m alive. I’m still alive.”
The Minotaur wept and laughed, uncontrollably. Despair and a fierce relief ran through him. Despite it all! He had hurled himself into the heart of the inn, into death.
And it hadn’t been given to him. He could have died with honor. But they had found him. Erin had. And she’d pulled him back.
Into hell. Into damnation. Calruz saw a little rat scurry over him and nibble at one of his bandages. It fled as he laughed again, hysterical.
“You should have let me die. Why? Why didn’t she? Why didn’t you?”
Watch Captain Zevara sat on a little stool across from Calruz. She looked at him.
“I suppose because I’m a cruel person. Because I think you can still earn redemption. Because I don’t want you to die. As for Miss Solstice? She can be cruel.”
Calruz looked at her. The Minotaur laughed again hoarsely.
“I leveled. I changed my class.”
The [Honorbound Prisoner] stared at the [Watch Captain]. She smiled slightly. Then she looked past him.
“I can’t change your cell, Calruz. Nor can I pardon you for your crimes. Or prove your guilt or innocence one way or another. Not yet. But I can do what is in my power as Watch Captain. You won’t earn your freedom for risking your life once. Even against Crelers.”
“I just wanted honor. And death.”
The Minotaur whispered. Zevara paused.
“I know. But I can’t give it to you. I still see an innocent person in my cells. One day, I’ll prove it. Until then, I’m sentencing you to hard labor. To—certain death. Should the Watch be in need.”
“Again?”
Something like hope surfaced in the Minotaur’s eyes. Zevara looked at him.
“There’s always something. I can’t offer you anything else.”
“But you’ll let me fight? Let me—face odds like that again?”
“It’s a promise.”
The Drake looked at Calruz. Slowly, the Minotaur sat up. His body screamed. But his soul shouted louder. He looked at Zevara. And he recalled the nature of the Skill he had gained. His new class.
Maybe it was wrong. Or maybe he could believe he’d reclaimed something he thought lost forever. Perhaps it wasn’t for the system to decide. But for a second, Calruz let himself believe. He looked at Zevara and closed his eyes. The Skill burned its name into his mind, louder than the whispers. A promise.
Salvation.
[Death Before Dishonor].
“Thank you.”
 
——
 
After a while, Erin stopped crying. She sniffled, wiped at her eyes, and hugged Ceria fiercely. Then Yvlon. Pisces demurred until she squeezed him tight, and he hugged her back, gently.
Ksmvr was last. The Antinium looked at her, and she saw their history together. But she reached for him, and he uncertainly spread his arms.
“You!”
A furious voice broke the peaceful moment. Erin whirled. And she saw a furious person charging at Ksmvr.
Bird. The Worker rammed into Ksmvr, knocking the [Skirmisher] back. But true to his new Skills, Ksmvr just caught himself. He backed up as Bird attacked, all four arms swinging wildly.
“You! It is your fault! You—you bad Ksmvr! Idiot! Fool! All of you!”
He swung his arms wildly at Yvlon. She raised an arm, but Ksmvr blocked Bird. The [Bird Hunter] flailed at Ksmvr as Erin, startled, cried out.
“Bird! What are you doing?”
Klbkch turned, his hand on his sword as the other Antinium and audience rushed forwards. Bird shouted, furiously snapping his mandibles together as he battered at Ksmvr.
“It is your fault! You should have killed the Crelers and not brought them to the inn! Now the inn is broken! My tower is broken! My tower is always broken!”
The enraged Worker hit Ksmvr with all four arms, slapping him on his back shell and head, battering him. Not hard, like, say, a Soldier might. More like a child throwing a tantrum than deadly force.
Even so, he was smacking Ksmvr on his injuries. Erin rushed over at the same time as Yvlon, Pisces, and Moore.
“Bird, stop that! Stop! Ksmvr didn’t call the Crelers! Stop hitting!”
They gently pried Bird away from the [Skirmisher]. He flailed at them. Then, abruptly, he sat down and curled up. Bird turned into a ball, ducking his head down, immobile. Much like Pawn once had. Erin hesitated.
“Bird?”
“I want my tower. I am sad.”
The Antinium’s voice was small as he curled up. Erin knelt by him as the others drew back. She hugged him.
“Bird—I know you’re upset.”
“I am muchly upset. It is all gone. Why is it all gone?”
Erin studied her inn. Mrsha began to sniff again, until Lyonette cuddled her. Erin’s voice was very soft. Her own heart hurt too as she stared at the distant inn. It was broken. But it was hers. She looked up at the Horns standing around her. What mattered.
“Bird, sometimes bad things happen. But do you know what the good thing about the inn being wrecked is?”
“…You do not have to cook?”
“Exactly—no. It’s that we can make things better next time. Okay, Bird? Sometimes, things break. But you can make them better. So—so don’t be mad at Ksmvr, alright? It wasn’t his fault. Or anyone’s but the Crelers.”
Bird paused. After a long moment, his head popped back up.
“Oh.”
He looked at Erin. She smiled.
“I know you’re very sad, Bird. So am I. But you should apologize.”
“Yes. I was very angry. But I did the wrong thing. I am sorry I hit you, Ksmvr.”
The Worker turned and gazed at Ksmvr. The [Skirmisher] hesitated, but then he nodded. Yvlon was checking his bandages.
“I accept your apology, Bird. I have made mistakes as well. I should apologize for them too. Properly.”
He looked past Bird at Pawn. At the Antinium, who stared at the once-Prognugator. Erin let out her breath in a sigh.
“After all this, does anyone else want to pick a fight? Say something sad? Anyone? Now’s the time!”
She looked around. No one did. So, slowly, Erin got up.
“Why don’t we have a bit of fun, then? Come on, there’s baseball! And—and some of us might be going, but this is a celebration! Right?”
“I think it can be now.”
Ceria smiled. She stood with her team. And they smiled. The adventurers looked at the baseball game, at Grimalkin at bat and the outfielders standing deep. And Erin smiled. She laughed, and looked around. At Palt, waiting for a chance to talk to her, Selys, tickling Mrsha, Numbtongue, so relaxed and tired that he was sleeping in the shade.
A perfect moment. Or nearly. The Horns sat back down, and began talking about Invrisil with the Halfseekers. About the future. Some of the adventuring teams opined that they’d like to try baseball themselves. Grimalkin hit a baseball and snapped the bat he was holding like a twig. Ksmvr dove and caught the pop fly.
Even the Wistram [Mages] looked up. Beza took a bat when it was offered and stared at it. Something lit up in her eyes and she took a place in line and practiced a swing. Montressa looked at Pisces, and then turned to stare at the distant mountains, just thinking. Palt surreptitiously edged over to Lyonette, who was counting over the inn’s funds with Belgrade. Apista buzzed overhead as Liscor’s Council played baseball or retired, panting.
It was a perfect day. And summer was oncoming. But for the broken inn on the hill, you might have never known something had occurred. But for the pause sometimes on the faces of the living, a moment of silence, you’d never guess.
Why was it that the inn was such a source of danger? Perhaps it was cursed. Or maybe that was just the fate of inns. They were, after all, places where stories began and continued. The inn sat on the hill. Waiting.
After a while, someone entered it. A young woman. Not really a traveller. She sat down at a table, eying the collapsed second floor, the place where the basement was exposed. A bit of floorboard was hanging above her head—she avoided it, walked around a fallen pillar.
The Crelers were gone. And the inn had been swept, and the blood was mostly off the floors. But it was wrecked. So much so that Erin couldn’t imagine repairing it. That—that was probably a support beam, right? You couldn’t just replace that, surely.
Not even her [Grand Theater] Skill was working anymore. There wasn’t really a room for it to activate in. Erin looked around for a chair and table. Then she slapped her forehead.
“Duh. [Partial Reconstruction].”
She pointed, and a chair and table reassembled for her. Erin tried it on a few more tables and chairs. But it wouldn’t work on the broken floor, or the sagging ceiling in places. And she’d known that. She knew her inn was…
The young woman put her head down on the table and closed her eyes. Her inn was dusty. And she was so tired. She told herself that it didn’t matter. But in truth, it did. Not as much as her friends.
But it did. Who would ever lie about that? This was hers. And it was—breaking. But she would give it up again, a thousand times! In a heartbeat, to save a single one of the people who mattered to her!
Again, and again. In the silence, Erin Solstice closed her eyes. Far, far away, the people played baseball and smiled in the sunlight. But here, the [Innkeeper] closed her eyes. She was so tired. So Erin Solstice relaxed…and…slept…
 
“[Magical Innkeeper Level 40!]
[Conditions Met: Innkeeper → Awesome Innkeeper Class!]
[Skill – Inn: Unlimited Mana Pool obtained!]
[Skill – Kamehameha Punch obtained!] Whoo!”
 
Erin burst upright, waving her hands. She looked around wildly. Waiting, hoping for the magical voice.
But nothing came. So the young woman sat back, laughing and shaking her head. She looked up, struck by a thought.
“I wonder if there’s any popcorn left.”
She stood up, turned, and saw him. He stood in the kitchen’s doorway. Still as a statue. He’d been there the entire time, but she’d missed him at first. Now his eyes burned with purple light. The skeleton moved. He grinned as he spread his arms, welcoming her back. Home himself. At last.
Toren.
