Solomon had ten thousand thoughts, and then he focused. “I need to do some experiments. A lot of experiments. Probably sundering experiments, too.”

Destiny patted his chest. “It’s pretty deplorable, but we can sunder some mice.”

- - - -

A month later:

Erick stepped down onto the entrance roof at Solomon’s Black Castle, where Poi stood waiting by the door, along with one other.

Tasar the Summoner stood beside Poi, with her little Spatial chipmunk [Familiar] upon her shoulders, Sengaralo. The green and black adamantium wrought smiled upon seeing Erick; her words were as solid as her, as she said, “We have results.”

Erick’s heart beat hard.

For the last month Erick had been doing politics with practically everyone the world over, giving them assurances and demonstrations of his power here and there, but not too much. People got scared when there were 3 kilometer long dragons in the area.

Which was understandable.

They got even more scared when Erick wanted to practice war with them, to train with people. There was a lot of pushback, but Erick would get to that practice soon enough. He’d let that idea percolate for a while, before it was ready.

When he wasn’t running around the world, getting everyone war-ready as much as they could be, he was experimenting with the valkyries inside Veird’s Authority, to get them ready to work with all the other parts of the army he was gathering. Erick had a few plans for the upcoming war, but his strategy was mostly described as ‘leafs on the wind’, and played to the strengths of the fact that Nothanganathor was sun-sized and everyone else was mostly Erick-sized, or smaller.

While Erick had been doing that, Solomon had been working on the Erasure problem.

Honestly, Solomon’s contributions were likely going to be more important. He had recently invented a spell that Erick had shown him a few times over, but done in a way that the Script had been able to codify, for Erick certainly hadn’t tried to codify it at all. He hadn’t even thought to codify ‘[Summon]’; that was just something he did occasionally. It was not Spatial Magic for Erick, and it wasn’t even Spatial Magic for Solomon, or rather, it wasn’t Time Magic, for Spatial Magic was all really variations of Time Magic. [Summon] was Genesis Magic that did a very good job of looking like Time Magic and thus Spatial Magic.

Thus, Tasar, former Spatial Mage, had become involved. And also the whole wrought angle was important, too. Maybe even more important.

Erick contained himself for as much as decorum demanded, and then he asked, “What kind of results?”

Tasar smiled, and then she turned to Poi and bowed just her head, saying, “Tea was wonderful.”

“Anytime.” Poi said, “I’m headed back to the dungeon.” He turned to Erick, grinning. “Don’t get your hopes up so much.”

Erick laughed. “You have no idea where my hopes are right now!”

Poi smirked. “Don’t need to be able to read you to know you’re somewhere past the heliopause.”

Tasar tried to contain her excitement, too, but she also failed. She said, “[Gate] to the Project, Erick!”

Erick rapidly opened the [Gate] and went through with Tasar at his side.

- - - -

Erick stood upon a white crystal road that was minimally lined with gold, in a land known as Human Copper Neighborhood 97.

Spires of white crystal with gold striations rose up from 75 kilometers of depth and light and wind to plunge into the sky, traveling another 45 more kilometers up there before it reached the upper edge of the Stratagold Geode. Clouds flowed through everywhere, like mist carved up by the crystals, obscuring much of the further lands in soft white shadows. Those clouds mostly stayed in the divisions between neighborhoods, though, because the wrought living here needed space to be delineated, so that neighborhoods were clearly marked without actually being clearly marked. The spires themselves varied between tens or hundreds of meters wide, but all of them were white and gold crystal shot through with housing and green spaces and all sorts of normal, everyday mainstreet-like shops. Skyroads of crystal connected every spire to every other spire. And as it was above, so it was below; Like stacked civilizations, everyone lived above someone, and below someone else.

But this place was different for one good reason.

Off to the side, way over there, stood the open edge of Stratagold, where Claws had attacked and killed and ripped apart these neighborhoods in ruthless fashion. It was a cavern littered with light and air and nothing else; a great big void. A wound. The wounds of that attack were many.

The streets here used to hold so many people, all of them human-shaped copper wrought, mostly ancient and green with patina. Now, the space held people who were lost, and yet finding themselves once again, through the [Silver Heart]s floating among the survivors.

Wrought were people, just like anyone else, but wrought liked routine way more than most. It was a sacrosanct part of their culture. The ancient green-colored metallic ‘humans’ of this land were among the most dedicated to that routine. The slightest provocation to their daily routine was an unkind disturbance on as deep of a level as stabbing someone.

That was why, when the Red attacked, and carved open this wall of Stratagold and carved away at the people therein, the people of this land were hurt the most, though only a few of them realized their hurt.

And now…

Here was the experiment to heal this damage.

The idea was simple enough.

Genesis created things. With the [Silver Heart], Genesis was self-creating, too, and it also made the world around it better through its presence.

A person did the same thing.

Solomon had taken [Summon] and [Silver Heart] and a few tens of other ideas —a lot of ideas about lodestones in the manasphere, gradually bringing together what was Sundered, if possible— and combined them into a spell called [Summon My Heart]. He was on his tenth iteration of that magic, trying to get it right. As soon as he got it right, his hope was that the user of the spell could cast the spell, and then ritually help that Heart come back to real life. It was [Familiar] magic, but wholly different.

The hope was that Solomon could bring back the Erased.

It was basically [Reincarnation] magic on a level far beyond what Erick had ever touched, and it included all the learning of resons that Erick had brought back from Margleknot. But it had needed a testing ground with stable people, willing to put in the hard work to pretend that a floating, disembodied Heart was a person.

Thus, this particular testing ground.

Some signs held on the viewing walkway to Erick’s side.

DO NOT:

Interact with the area, scan the area, mana sense the area, or do anything else other than calmly observe from a distance. Do not disparage what they’re trying to do here.

DO:

Try to understand what they’re doing. Acknowledge that it will work.

Prayers can go a long way when interacting with the ephemeral.

They were a hundred meters from the edge of the experiment, at the closest possible point to interact with the experiment. Every other space around this land was guarded well by the warriors of Stratagold and by many extensive magics. Better viewing areas were far, far behind Erick, at the viewing booth way back there. Those places had [Scry] eyes set up around the area. Viewing from this platform was viewing it for real, though.

Erick didn’t instantly see anything happening down there, but he was using his normal sight, and no Sight magics at all—

“Oh shit,” Erick said, as he saw it. He saw a Heart moving around on its own, doing something. “Is it actually working?”

Tasar whispered, “We believe so.” She asked, “You see the cat?”

The cat?

“… No,” Erick said, still looking at what he was actually looking at. “I see the [Summon My Heart] clipping leaves on the bridge down there, like a gardener.” Erick rapidly glanced around, trying to see— “Oh my gods. The cat.”

How could he have missed the cat?!

It wasn’t a Heart. That’s how he had missed it.

Back when this was a stable neighborhood, it had a population of 3,100 people, and one ‘cat’. This particular neighborhood was on a 1-week cycle routine, and it was very strict about its routine for many centuries. Then a ‘cat’ moved in.

That cat had been a stone elemental that had snuck into the place and rapidly decided it liked it there. It liked sitting on a particular bench on a particular sky road, most of all. Since it was an elemental, it did nothing else, and no one bothered it either, since the cat didn’t interact with anyone and no one interacted with the cat. This was rather abnormal for an elemental, but it did happen from time to time.

The particular bench the cat rested upon was just for looks, while the other two benches were used in the week-long routine of the neighborhood. The first bench was used by a pair of men who ate there every day and spoke of the weather, with a particular sandwich and particular conversation for each day of the week, while the third bench had a girl come by every week and throw away the rejection letter of her boyfriend over the railing.

Around the time the cat moved in, the general store owner got a weird addition to his usual shipment. The guy had a routine of selling several things to several people over every single day, but he got a stonefish paperweight in his deliveries one time and he didn’t correct the vendor, so he kept getting the same stonefish paperweight every single week.

Then around 560 years ago, about 50 years after the cat moved in, the paperweights were piling up.

The vendor decided to add something to his routine.

He decided to give the cat the stonefish paperweight.

And every single day, for the next 560 years, the general store owner set down that grey, stonefish paperweight on the other side of the bench where the stone elemental housecat lay. He set the paperweight down in the morning. In the afternoon, the housecat ate the paperweight. A few hours later, and the cat flicked his tail and sent a bit of extra stone off the side of the bridge.

The falling of that stone was a routine on another neighborhood way down below.

And now, as Erick looked…

The housecat was not there, but the Heart that floated where the housecat should have sat…

The Heart had a certain kinda glow around it, like the beginnings of an image surrounding and encasing the Heart. The altogether ephemeral image was that of a cat, loafing on the stone, his tail hanging off the edge of the bench, idly swishing back and forth, as the cat stared at the sky, and the clouds. The cat was kinda white and gold, but only in flashes, and Erick easily could have imagined it. He dared not actually mana sense or read the past to find out what he had actually seen, for mana sensing was to ‘become one with the mana’, and that sort of observation on the mana disrupted the effect of this Heart Ritual.

They had found out about mana sense’s problematic nature on this Heart Ritual rather rapidly, at the beginning of this whole thing, though it was anyone’s guess if ‘the observer effect’ was real. Solomon and Erick both thought it was, and the other people involved in the project were rapidly won over. Therefore, the only one allowed to mana sense anything at all down there were the people who lived down there, who mana sensed everything all the time, just because that’s how old wrought operated.

Solomon and Erick suspected that when personally-involved people mana sensed their Hearts then that sort of Observer Effect was good for the Heart, but when know-nothings tried it, that was bad.

The people down there were the ones doing the ritual; Solomon had just provided the parts—

Erick’s heart skipped a beat, because the image of the cat looked over to the little stonefish paperweight that sat on the other side of the bench.

It ignored the stonefish for now.

It would eat it later.

Erick had not imagined that. He had definitely seen that happen.

Meanwhile, Tasar was staring at the Heart that floated on a main bridge. The Heart of the gardener didn’t visibly do anything, but leaves fell down on a nearby bush, as if plucked off at their stems, and then those leaves gathered around the base of the bush, where they would decay and cycle back into the bush’s growth, eventually.

Sengaralo, sitting upon Tasar’s shoulders, chittered quietly as Tasar’s emotions rose.

She saw it.

Tasar whispered, “The gardener. Oh Rozeta. It might actually work.”

Erick gazed down into the land ahead, and watched, as he said, “It’ll be hard to transcribe this methodology to anyone else besides the wrought, for only Rozeta kept good records of what the Routine looks like in this land.”

Tasar pulled her head out of the clouds and came back to the moment, saying, “There are so many complications to this that I would struggle to name them all in a lecture smaller than ten hours.” She looked at Erick. “The primary problem is one of legitimacy. There is a clear and broken line between the life and Sundering/Erasure death for the people here. I didn’t even notice the gardener…” She looked back to the neighborhood. “… The cat might be just another elemental. Stone elementals can be quite common among these sorts of neighborhoods if they’re quiet and small and stay out of the way.”

She was leaving the question of the gardener to another day, which was fair. The Heart there didn’t even have an outline. The cat was much ‘further along’, if that’s how this worked at all.

Erick said, “If that cat gets up and moves around like a different elemental then we’ll know this didn’t work, but it might have worked. Solomon put a lot of worldline ideology into his magic; into gathering up the stray parts of mana that might make up what was originally there.” Erick said, “Sundering leaves that mana in the manasphere, so it is theoretically possible to gather all of that which remains.”

What ‘sundering’ did was to completely erase all the originality of the mana in the air, though, meaning that mana could then be moved on into new lives, for people to take up and become one with themselves. So the fact that they could ‘gather the old soul’ like this at all was amazing.

It was a major breakthrough…

If it worked.

“Theoretically this could work.” Tasar said, “I would stress that word more than you are stressing it.”

Erick nodded. “The only real issue is with Erasure. Where does that mana go? Yggdrasil says that Erasure is Sundering people for personal profit, but more so than that. Even he doesn’t know exactly what is going on there, because, like all high-level combat and capabilities, it’s all kinda Wizardly.”

