Erick’s first repro was currently in Charme, in a house north of that Sovereign City, along with Gnowmi, the fae of gems and crafts. Erick had purposefully stayed away from him, but he knew that Ezekiel was working on a small empire of crafting and magics, and he was one of the first to widely craft [Silver Heart] into [Heart Charm]s. Those trinkets were proliferating in the theater districts of the Sovereign Cities most of all, because they were making people accomplished actors, if the rumors were to be believed.

… Ezekiel was walking his own Path already, right? No need to get him a premade Path from Lionshard.

… Right?

Erick asked Yggdrasil, “Do you know how Ezekiel is doing?”

“He’s on his own Path, as far as I know.” Yggdrasil added, “And he’s vehemently against being a bigger part of the war. He’s diverged rather far from you. If things go bad, he’s planning on escaping to Margleknot with Gnowmi. If he were to leave now then Tom wouldn’t need to do a Fateful plan with him; he could do the plan on Margleknot.”

Erick felt some relief at that. “Good. I’m glad he’s just living a life. He can do what he wants.” Erick decided, “The shortlist is Shivraa, Killzone, and then Lynkari. Got any thoughts?”

“Shivraa’s timeframe for Wizard ignition is a few years of hard work. Killzone could either be a month or two, or decades; hard to say. Lynkari is measured in centuries.”

“… Ah.” Erick asked, “Who has the shortest ascension to Wizardry?”

“Killzone, then Shivraa. No other person’s ascension is measured in time frames smaller than years. But if Killzone manages it, then Sitnakov is only months behind.” Yggdrasil added, “And that’s about as much as Tom was able to foresee.”

Erick thought for a moment.

… Killzone was on the level of a Shade —right there with Sitnakov— which was basically a Wizard but without the actual Authority-power of a Wizard. They were both archwarriors. Could they be Warrior Wizards? If Killzone was listless right now, and if Sitnakov would follow him to Wizardry…

“Say…” Erick glanced over to the far end of Yggdrasil’s cavern, where the Local Area Gate Network held by the tunnel entrance to Stratagold’s embassy. And then he looked back to Yggdrasil, asking, “Do you know why Killzone and the royal family of Stratagold completely avoid each other, all the time? They’re literally the only adamantium orcols that exist, and if Killzone and Sitnakov can rise together then I need to know if whatever happened there is going to be a problem, or a whetstone.”

“I’ve overheard some things involving the Second Prince Chernom who was murdered in an attack on the city by Melemizargo and the Shades something like 350 years ago. There’s a decade or three missing there, but Killzone showed up at Spur after that.” Yggdrasil said, “Other than that, the whole event was kept out of the records and no one talks about it, so your guess is as good as mine.”

Erick decided, “Well. Whatever. I don’t really need to know, but I do need two more True Wizards, and they both fit that bill, so that’s my decision. Make it happen for Killzone.”

Yggdrasil’s eyes glittered with unseen resons, and then he said, “Done. You should go say ‘hi’ to Killzone, and then step away.”

Erick went.
