Tasar scrunched her face as she stared across the open air, down at a cat that was not a cat. “Do you think Solomon can actually do this? That these people are real people?”

“That’s the thing, Tasar,” Erick said, “Magic has a way of working better if you believe in it.”

A soft wind kicked up for a moment.

Tasar decided, “This will be easier to believe when we have real results.”

- - - -

A week later, the cat was fully stone, looking white with some gold spots on it, just like the stratagold upon which it sat. Just how the cat had originally looked. The grocery owner, who was the main interactor of the cat, left a tiny grey stonefish paperweight on the other side of the cat’s bench, like normal. Like he did every day. Later, the cat stood up for the first time, like normal, and it went over and ate the stone fish.

Without doing anything else the cat went back to its seat and sat.

Hours later, the white-and-gold cat’s tail had a little grey tip. The stonefish had been grey, and it had passed through the entire stone elemental without being altered, only to end up at the tip of the tail. With a lazy sort of swish, the cat flicked the very tip of its tail over the edge of the sky bridge, where the grey stone hit the ground seven kilometers down.

The ‘normal’ strike zone was one of a hundred usual locations.

It landed in a normal location, right in the middle of the standard distribution model of all the previous centuries of cat-poop-tossing that Rozeta had recorded, because the wrought had recorded it and Rozeta had recorded the wrought.

Copper Human Neighborhood 27’s gardener picked up the grey lump of stone like it was the most joyous day of his life. He held the grey stone for a long moment, in his pale green hands. And then tears of liquid copper, bright as burnished gold, formed and fell from his deeply green eyes, as he cast a tiny bit of Destruction Magic on the ‘offensive’ bit of garbage, eradicating it, turning the remains of the fish into bits of mana and nothing else.

That night there was a small celebration in the command center of the project.

A week after that, the stone elemental cat still didn’t move except to eat its once-a-day stonefish treat.

This was met with incredible enthusiasm, but not as much as the other things that people were seeing in the decimated wrought neighborhood.

The gardener for Neighborhood 97, which had been a simple floating Heart, had changed. Now he had a green sort of tint to the air around his heart, forming the general shape of himself. Five other instances of maybe-successes operated all throughout the rest of Human Copper Neighborhood 97, ranging from the boy who handed the girl a love rejection letter, to the old woman who knitted on her porch. The boy who wrote the rejection letter was a particularly prominent occurrence, almost looking like a full person, if made of illusions. The girl who threw the letter away was even able to take an illusion of the letter from the man, and then toss it over the bridge. Erick imagined that the tears that girl shed as she tossed the illusionary letter away were particularly strong that particular day.

And then Rozeta confirmed that the cat’s elemental soul was 98% the same as her records of the neighborhood showed.

It was good enough for the [Resurrection] laws to consider the two cats to be the same.

The party that night was a massive affair, and yet it was still subdued and hidden.

This was a big event, with many unforeseen happenings, and everyone wanted to keep it as quiet as they could.

It was still a big party.

- - - -

The day after the party, Erick got a request for a talk from Yggdrasil.

And so, on the shores of Yggdrasil’s Cavern at Stratagold, in that massive water-filled land littered with skyscraper-sized white crystals that were dwarfed by Yggdrasil himself, Erick stood with his son’s avatar. The water lapped at the stony beach and the air felt more brisk than cold, because everything was bright light and open and beautiful.

Yggdrasil had seen the beauty a lot, though, and he was focused on something else entirely.

“I need to stress to you, father,” Yggdrasil said, “We didn’t think it was possible to undo Sundering, or Erasure. Otherwise I would have helped you with this.”

Erick smiled softly, feeling great. “You could have helped me finish off that keg of Wizard Wine last night.”

Yggdrasil gave his father a Look.

Erick guffawed.

Yggdrasil said, “This is a big deal, father. Even if you’ve only brought people back in small ways through specific sunderings, it’s still a big deal.”

Erick reeled in his mirth, and got down to business. “Two things: Maybe Malevolence made us believe it was impossible. And also…” He guessed, “Someone from Margleknot wishes to join this winning side?”

Yggdrasil considered Erick’s first point, and then he said, “No, father, to the first point. This is a major change in the universe. In all universes.”

Erick simply smiled.

“And yes to the second point.” Yggdrasil said, “Your neighbor from the Old Dragon District wants to help. We’re going to call him Tom. I can support him for a while on my roots, but he can’t come out further than that, and he can’t come here during the war. We have to win, father, and then he can come and help to ensure that this anti-Sundering magic truly works well.”

Lionshard wanted to come out here?

The Fate Mage? The guy who ran all of Margleknot’s cleansing and universal anti-corruption programs?

Awesome!

“Fuck yeah!” Erick said, laughing. “Bring him on over— Wait? Can he come here? Like… Can his magic fit here? What about the Curse of Power?”

Yggdrasil paused, as though he didn’t understand the problem. And then he went, “Ah.” Yggdrasil elaborated, “We need to win, and then I’ll plant on Fenrir, and he can be there. He won’t actually come to Veird. I can protect him easier there.”

Erick said, “Then we need to win.” He asked, “Can ‘Tom’ help before that? With the time dilation going on, and all?”

“Yes. That’s what I really wanted to talk to you about.” Yggdrasil said, “You’re hard to track and prognosticate around, and the time dilation here is massive, but this conversation here was considered. He has created some preset assistance-packages for me to trigger. If you veer too far away from accepting his help or asking for something far outside of his idea of what you want and need, then he might need months of Veird time to come up with something else.”

For every minute that passed on Margleknot, a month passed here on Veird. The angels who had left a few months ago had only just arrived at the Celestial Observatory…

Erick turned his attention back to the moment, and asked, “What are my options?”

“Aside from the direct murder of Nothanganathor, pretty much anything is possible.” Yggdrasil said, “You just have to ask for something specific— or even in general.”

Erick went over a few things in his mind.

Yggdrasil had already provided Veird with a dossier on Nothanganathor’s usual magics months ago, and those had helped out immensely with figuring out some plans, but all of those plans broke down next to the Big Lizard himself. All of Erick’s valkyries would be successful if they managed to simply stay alive and Siphon as much of Nothanganathor’s power as possible, making more and more of themselves, without getting splatted.

That was just a plan, though, and Erick expected that plan to fail at some point in the process.

The other plan was to make enough mana to eventually turn the tide in the entire Veird system from Red to anything else. That was the battle-of-attrition plan, and which was a much more workable strategy than relying wholly on the valkyries.

In order to realize that strategy, the [Silver Heart]s were already heavily deployed all across Veird, but mostly in the Core. This was giving Veird a bunch more mana generation, without causing hallucinations everywhere, like an unshielded/modified Heart was prone to do. From Erick’s understanding, Melemizargo had a Heart in every single dungeon, too. There were even some free-floating [Silver Heart]s out there, with most of them on the Silver Surface, under the silver-leaf canopies of the eternal stonewood trees. They survived rather well up there in that endless forest of kilometer-tall trees, where slimes and small monsters spread. The Hearts liked being observed and generative and Koyabez had taken a very large liking to them, so he kept them around and made them his.

All deployments inside cities and public places were met with people complaining about hallucinations that didn’t do anything for them, so city-deployments were nixed. The Hearts found forever-homes inside artist homes, though, and anywhere else where people wanted to make things. Some people had even taken to turning [Silver Heart] into [Heart Charm], making little charm spells that they carried around on their wrists, which did everything that the normal [Silver Heart]s did but individually, instead of atmospherically. Now those spells were seeing rather widespread deployment.

Point was, that Veird’s mana concerns were rapidly becoming non-concerns, and for the first time in forever Rozeta was counting out a massive surplus of mana in the manasphere.

Except for that mana which some people were eating.

Erick’s [Endless] aura was being used rather extensively among the Paradoxed dragons of Ar’Cosmos, but not in many other places. Instead of taking months or years to accrete a core, some of the dragons, like Redflame, were popping out a thousand cores a day, which were all getting enchanted in order to stabilize Fairy against Nothanganathor, in case people had to fall back from the real world.

[Silver Heart]s were also everywhere in Fairy, meaning that Fairy was no longer a bunch of disconnected continental-sized islands in the mist, made solid by Redflame’s and other dragons’ concentration of that Gate Space to solidity. Ar’Cosmos and the various cities of other dragons were already a second world, but [Silver Heart]s expanded that land many, many times over. It was like how Erick could [Duplicate] matter into planets, and now, Fairy was able to fully expand into the Shells above the Old Surface.

And thinking of expansion…

… Hmm.

More Spheres of Veird? More land? More dungeons? It could work?

And yet...

Erick pulled back a bit.

No need to go making new layers of Spheres. There were already 11 layers, and most of it was still barely inhabited by anything other than scattered monsters or weak dungeons… Which was true for all the rest of Veird, too, Erick supposed. More Spheres could come later, though, and they probably would need to, if the ‘Eat Nothanganathor Back’ plan was to work.

But what did Veird need besides more time to prepare?

That was pretty easy to answer, actually.

Veird had warriors, generals, military structure, and gods.

But there was only one True Wizard.

Erick said to Yggdrasil, “We put up the Shelter because we needed time to prepare, but all the prep we have isn’t enough. We need some more True Wizards; people who can actually fight against Nothanganathor and not be bowled over by Wizardry.”

Yggdrasil nodded. “Pick someone, and Tom will make a Fateful guide to help them to Ascend. He can only do one person at a time for Veird due to Script limitations, and probably not Solomon or Destiny. They’re already too far along on their own paths. You should pick someone who isn’t a Wizard at all.” Yggdrasil added, “He has guides ready to go for Jane, Evan, Kiri, Kromolok, Illustrious Moon, Sitnakov, Killzone, Burhendurur, Lynkari, Shivraa, and Ezekiel. He had a guide for Avandrasolaro, but that angel is now a god, so that path is clipped.”

Erick was a little stunned at those options.

He thought them through.

Jane and Evan were both right out of the running; Erick doubted either of them would even allow Erick to help them become Wizards.

Kiri was comfortable as Gatemaster, so she was a low option.

Kromolok? Well… Would Rozeta’s High Inquisitor want to be a Wizard? Probably not, actually. Though he had likely never had the chance to even think in that direction… Maybe Erick would ask him?

Illustrious Moon and many other dragons were already trying to become Wizards, ever since Solomon proved it was possible. Burhendurur, Erick’s Overseer of Enforcement for House Benevolence, was also trying for that, but in a much less active way. Honestly, Erick had not spent enough time with either of them to truly understand where their inclinations lay right now. Erick decided he should do that.

Killzone and Sitnakov. Now there was a duo of tangled webs. Sitnakov was rather solid in his current life path, though, and he was currently dating Jane, and good friends with Abigail, though both of Erick’s daughters liked to pretend that wasn’t happening when they were around Erick. Jane outright lied about dating Sitnakov, and they had both known she was lying about not dating him… Which was fine.

Killzone was aimless right now, as far as Erick knew. He was a participant in the Blue Corps, and his skills as a warrior were highly valued against the Red… Hmm.

Killzone was on the top of the list, then.

Lynkari, who had been Erick’s go-between to Demon King Dinnamoth for several years, was currently enjoying a month-long orgy that Erick had been invited to 3 separate times so far. All the demons were celebrating the ‘demise and rise’ of the Angels; the transition to Avandrasolaro being the Crown of the Host. Avandrasolaro had attended some of those parties, according to some of those invitations…

Lynkari was probably at the bottom of the list, and yet, she would be a good candidate for getting the Demons fully integrated with the Blue Corps.

Lynkari was second on the list, then.

Erick trusted Shivraa a lot, ever since he rescued her from Slaver’s Den and she proved herself as both a great secretary and as the captain of the Valkyrie Squadron. She also knew resonwork a lot better than others. Combining that with how in-tune she was with the valkyries, would mean that her Ascension to Wizard and then True Wizard would greatly strengthen the Valkyries…

And then there was her familiarity with so many different sources of power. Mana, resons, and other small powers out there, would make her Ascension easy… probably.

Shivraa went on the shortlist, too. Probably first, actually. With her as a Valkyrie Wizard, that would make the Valkyrie Squadron a lot stronger.

Honestly, the only reason not to pick Shivraa would be because Erick had only known her for a few months on Margleknot and a few months here on Veird, but she was fitting in really well with everyone…

Hmm.

And then there was Ezekiel.

