Blinking in the perfect picture of innocence, Lin shakes her head and says, “No hubby, you don’t understand. I did this to help Luo-Luo get over her fear, ya? Now that she’s experienced Mafu’s speed and survived, she doesn’t hafta worry anymore, right Luo-Luo?”

Giving the wide-eyed Luo-Luo a cursory glance, I reckon she would disagree. “I don’t think she heard you wifey.” I hope Lin didn’t scare the literal piss out of her. One bathroom incident was bad enough, I doubt poor Luo-Luo’s sanity would survive a second. Gesturing with her hands, Lin urges me to comfort her before riding off with Mafu once more, this time bringing the twins, pets, and Li Song away and leaving me alone with my possibly incontinent concubine.

Thankfully, there was no accident to clean up. Using a lot gentle coaxing and a little forceful pushing, I bring Luo-Luo back to camp and into my yurt for tea. It’s not that I particularly enjoy being alone with her and suffering through her clumsy attempts at seduction, but the quin pups think the bunnies are their little cousins, so they’re all curled up together in the rabbit enclosure. To protect them, Zabu and Shana have claimed the area around the enclosure and guard it fiercely while Mama Bun grooms her five new, oversized babies. This wouldn’t normally be a problem except overprotective papa Zabu still thinks Luo-Luo is an intruder trying to steal his babies, and considering her recent trauma, I thought it’d be best to keep them separate.

I don’t know why, but animals do not like Luo-Luo. The bunnies scream and run away, the bears stand and growl, while friendly, lovable Aurie likes to bat at her ankles. Maybe she smells funny or something, but whatever it is, having her around puts a real damper on my floof-loving lifestyle.

Taking her warm cup of tea in both hands, Luo-Luo sips it with a faraway look, like a soldier who just survived her first battle. A tad melodramatic, but I’ll let it slide. After giving her enough time to recover, I pull out a sheaf of papers detailing the camps daily expenses and explain each section, hoping she’ll settle into her role as my financial advisor sooner rather than later. I hate dealing with this stuff and she’s a smart girl, but I’m not entirely trusting enough to hand over full control of my hard earned wealth to someone I met a handful of days ago. What if she spends all my coin on another banquet or a new dress? How will I eat if I have no money? As much as I like poking fun at her pampered lifestyle, I’d rather die than go back to eating brown mush twice a day.

Back in her element, Luo-Luo’s mood rapidly improves as we go over my finances. She offers no suggestions and doesn’t try to change things, which I see as a good thing. If she wanted to make rapid-fire alteration before understanding the whole operation, I’d know she was full of shit, figuratively speaking.

It’ll take a week to replenish what she lost during our tandem toilet session.

“Lord Husband is smiling.” Beaming in delight, Luo-Luo fills my cup, then her own, before asking, “Would he care to share his thoughts?”

He would, but he doesn’t want you to burst into tears again. “Err... No, I’m okay.” Grasping for a topic to fill the now-awkward silence, I ask, “So...What haven’t you told me about the Legate?”

Choking on her tea, Luo-Luo coughs and sputters to clear her throat, a most suspicious reaction to my probing question. Once recovered, she tries play if off and asks, “Whatever do you mean?”

“C’mon. You told me not to trust him, because no Imperial does anything without an agenda, and I quote, ‘much less one with a title formidable as Shen Zhenwu’. Sounds innocuous enough, but I’m thinking there’s more to the Legate than you’ve let on.” I was too distracted with Inky to notice at first, but after sleeping on it (twice) and deliberating her choice of words (for a very, very, long time), I asked Taduk about it and he said I should ask Luo-Luo.

So... here we are.

Deliberately placing her teacup aside, Luo-Luo folds her hands on the table and leans forward so we’re eye to eye. Quashing my irritation, I study her expression as she carefully answers my question. “Luo-Luo apologizes, but she has nothing to say regarding Lord Husband’s Patron or his identity.” Giving me a knowing look, she adds, “But we, as a people, venerate strength, so a title like ‘True Warrior’ would not be given lightly.”

With nothing else to add, Luo-Luo excuses herself to prepare for our cast iron business meeting/dinner with the Yo family, while I settle down for a nap and carefully consider her warning. If she didn’t know anything about the Legate, she wouldn’t have to answer in such a roundabout way, which means...she knows something, but can’t say it, right?

I also noticed she never calls him the Legate, always referring to him as my Patron or Shen Zhenwu. This seems important because she’s incredibly particular about titles. Even though I asked her not to, she still calls me Lord Husband, so from her perspective, Legate is too humble a title for Shen Zhenwu. He’s a bigwig, but what I want to know is: how big is he really?

...

That didn’t come out right...

As for the last bit, she brought it up before, but I chalked it up to standard noble conceit. I guess the Legate’s Martial skills are the real deal, which means his concerns regarding my ‘diminished’ Natal Palace are more serious than I thought. What benefit does a bigger Natal Palace bring? How does one even measure a Natal Palace? I mean, technically, it’s a mental construct, so its size is hardly stable. When Baledagh was around, it went from palm-sized to village-sized in the blink of an eye, because I liked to pretend we each had our own separate spaces. Then again, it’s not like it was village-sized to begin with. When I first formed my Natal Palace, it was no bigger than my bedroom, while the rest of the manor had to be manually created each time I popped in.

It was a... hardware issue, I guess. I had the RAM to create the manor, but only enough hard-drive space for a single room. Every time I left, the system would reset and wipe the RAM. Afterwards, my Natal Palace would revert to a one-room construct, because that’s all I had saved on the hard drive. Leaving Baledagh ‘in’ there kept the system from resetting and wiping everything, but I’d rather not create another personality unless absolutely necessary. Then again, who knows. Maybe I have enough space on my hard drive to save the entire province now, who knows.

...What the fuck is RAM and why does it wipe on reset? I swear, I remember the most useless things...

At the time, I didn’t even know I had a Natal Palace or what that was. I thought of it as my happy place, a memory I used to calm and centre myself. I only built the place up because I enjoyed looking at the scenery and reflecting on happier times. How long did it take to piece together? A year? Two? More? Less? I can’t remember, but half a year minimum, and I didn’t notice a change in strength, at least not anything I can attribute to a bigger mental playground. Maybe it’s not about the size itself, but a larger Natal Palace means you’re better at multi-tasking, which means you’re better at using multiple Chi skills at once.

Bah. This is all guesswork, especially since I can’t pop in to test things out. Taduk didn’t have any answers and I haven’t asked anyone else, but it doesn’t matter. I see no reason why bigger is better and there’s no shame in having a perfectly average sized Natal Palace, no shame at all.

...Not that I have a small Natal Palace or anything. I’m a grow-er, not a show-er. The shrinkage is temporary. Shut up. Why do I have to defend the size of my Natal Palace anyways? The Legate should mind his own business and quit peeping. ‘Divine True Warrior’ my ass. More like Divine True Pervert. Disgusting.

Whatever. Does it really matter? I should focus on more important things, like finding Balance and Blobby.

As if summoned by the thought, Taduk lets himself in without knocking. “Rain my boy, I’ve decided. We’ll give the octopus his stone. Come, come, we mustn’t tarry.” Finally noticing I’m tucked into bed, Taduk places his hand atop my forehead and asks, “Are you feeling all right, my boy? It’s not like you to nap.”

Yea, well, depression is real exhausting. “I’m fine, Teacher. Thanks. Let’s go see an octopus about some Algae.”

I could really use a win right now, especially if it’s Blobby back in my corner. At least then I don’t have to worry about going full-Defiled.

... I wonder what the Legate’s doing about the Canston Trading Group winery?

Chapter Meme
