As soon as Shiv mentioned getting flung down in the Abyss, the Avatar shook. "How far?" Cripple asked.

Shiv tilted his head. "What? How far did I fall?"

"Yes," Cripple confirmed. "How far?"

Shiv considered that for a moment. "The… Umbral Wilderness? Penumbra? Something like that. The first landing killed me. Wasn't nearly as tough as I was now. Hell, I was Pathless an hour before. I splattered apart, drained vitality out of a cave biter, got killed by said cave biter over and over again, finally got strong enough to kill it, and things continued on from there."

Shiv watched the Ascendant as he spoke. The Avatar was looking down, its glowing optics pointed at Shiv's chest rather than his face, and he knew it was thinking. About what? He wasn't sure. But before he could continue speaking, the Avatar lifted his head once more. "You know about our history," the Ascendant asked. "Our true history."

"I know a bit," Shiv admitted. There was no point in lying when he didn't have the full picture, and frankly, he was curious. "I know that the Dust King or whatever cast you and the other Ascendants down." Shiv paused as he licked his lips. "I know that you weren't the only Ascendants, that there were more than thirteen."

Revealing that bit of knowledge was a gambit, but it was a gambit Shiv might be able to take somewhere. The Educator was in the back of Shiv's mind, and though it had been a while since he ran into her, he didn't doubt that the Forgotten God would eventually show up again at some terribly inopportune moment. But Shiv decided to apply some preventative measures to make a bit of trouble for the Forgotten God. After all, it seemed that they were not aligned with Starhawk or even the rest of the Ascendants. They were doing their own thing, pursuing their own interests. It saw them aligned with Udraal Thann, Shiv's… What the hell was Udraal?

Creator might be the wrong word, Shiv thought to himself, but I don't know how else to refer to him. I don't even know what he did to me. Only that he probably has a hand in me being Omenborn and getting my Path.

"Then you know enough," Cripple finally responded. "When we were sent down into the Abyss, all those years ago, the world wasn't as it is now, peaceful and soft."

Shiv's nostrils flared. "Hey, Cripple," The Ascendant looked upon him. "Fuck you. What are you talking about, peaceful and soft? I haven't tasted any peaceful and soft."

"And that is the fault of Roland Arrow," Cripple said.

"No, even past Roland Arrow. I didn't taste peaceful and soft. And I don't care about peaceful and soft." Shiv pointed some of his innately generated force vectors forward. He leaned toward the Ascendant, and his Orichalcum cage shook from the sudden flood of strength flowing out of Shiv. The bolts that held the chains to the walls began to creak.

"I'm System-favored," Shiv started. "You know what that means, right? I'm probably sure you're System-favored too, considering everything you lived through. Well, there's probably one major difference between me and you. I died over and over. In every way possible, I suffered all kinds of deaths. Miserable ones, peaceful ones, painful ones, quick ones. But I died, and I came back. And the System, well, it doesn't seem to know what to do with me. That's why it keeps making things harder and harder and harder."

Shiv thought back to everything he'd suffered, every enemy he killed, every challenge he surmounted. One fight after another, one problem after another. It never stopped. And even now, it was still growing in intensity. "That's why I'm talking to you now. Just weeks after I got my Path. How long did it take you to become a Legend? Actually, to hells with that. How long did it take you to become a Master? And did you have to die to do it?”

Cripple didn't say. Shiv stopped leaning on the chains. A wolfish grin spread across his face. "Or did you ever even become a master? Did you walk your Path much at all before you drank the divinity out from the Great One? Like one of the vampires?"

Before Shiv could say anything more, steel fingers were wrapped around his throat. The Avatar clenched, but Shiv directed his tides back. He warred against the Avatar's skill-fused mix of Physicality and Psychomancy. They were powerful and backed by an Ascendant. They had more might at their disposal compared to Shiv. But that didn't mean he was easy prey now. A current of Psychomancy flowed out from the Avatar's fingers, but it met Shiv's shapeless tides in a sudden crash.

The Ascendant's mana was stalemated. Shiv had been building up overflow exactly to prevent something like this as well. He wasn't pushing the Ascendant back, but he kept the Avatar's Psychomancy outside his mind.

That was triumph enough, considering how easy it was for the Ascendant to beat him down a day before.

"Do not compare me to them," Cripple hissed. And now it was openly angry.

Shiv's mind whirled with possibilities. He knew the Abyss was a dangerous and fantastic place. In retrospect, he had gotten extremely lucky running into that group of Umbrals. If he'd encountered the First Blood or Compact, his life could have turned out a whole lot different. Maybe he'd be more like Cripple in some ways. As the Ascendant and the newly Legendary-tiered Deathless matched their magically-charged Physicalities against each other, Shiv let out a breath.

"Fine, I don't blame you for reacting like that. I don't much like the bloodsuckers either." He remembered what the First Blood did to Angelo’s village. Shiv might not suffer trauma like most people, but the sheer depravity and atrocity he witnessed marked him regardless.

Suddenly, Cripple drew back its arm and shook its head. "I apologize for losing control. I should be more composed." A few pieces fell away from its body, and more coolant spilled down its legs, mingling with the puddles of blood. "I faced a great many nightmares in the Abyss." Cripple looked down. "You might have noticed already. But what I display now, I am not ashamed to admit. I am traumatized. I was separated from my comrades early on in our exile. I was taken by Compact, traded to the vampires, then traded back to them again."

Understanding bloomed inside Shiv as he made the connection. "You were a slave."
