Failure Point two: [Conjure Force Elemental] was going to be the base of this magic, but that spell would eventually create a life if the spell was left running for too long.

Erick did not want to create new lives out of his spellwork. When combined with [Telepathy] and [Scry], the point where a conjured elemental turned real was a timeline measured in anywhere from a century to ‘born at cast’, depending on if the tier of the spell was low, or high, and if it was complicated magic or not.

[Draining Elemental ‘Insert Spell Here’] was going to be a very complicated spell. He wouldn’t make it with [Telepathy] or [Scry], though. Simple instructions only. The timeline for the creation of life from this use of [Conjure Force Elemental] would likely be measured in centuries. Maybe even five centuries.

Maybe considerably less.

Failure Point Three: Making a [Draining Elemental] that cast a spell would be like summoning a creature that automatically and manually cast a spell, likely through gridwork and Elemental Body-like manipulations.

It was the ‘manually’ that tripped him up.

Imbuing a spell into a [Conjure Force Elemental] and then having that elemental cast the imbued spell was easy, but doing it that way meant that you had to cast the summon with all of its starting mana. Like with Kiri’s [Firelight Defender]; a summon that shot multiple [Firelight Bolts] at a targeted enemy over a short while. She had to cast that spell with all of the [Firelight Bolts] it would ever have; it could not regenerate mana to cast more [Firelight Bolts]. The point of this working today was to have [Draining Elemental]s cast their own spells using the mana that other people provided.

Which was a problem.

And now that he’d been working on this problem for a while, he saw another problem.

Failure Point Four: The Propagation Ban.

All of this was likely doomed to failure because, at the end of this working, if it worked, Erick would have made a self-sustaining spell that gained mana and could cast other spells…

He looked over to Ophiel, bouncing on the railing, enjoying the breeze.

Ophiel had his own mana, and he could cast his own spells.

Which was a first, for all of Veird; to hear learned people tell it. Learned people like those of Treehome, and the Wasteland Kingdoms, and others.

Hmm.

A funny thought occurred to him about Wizardry but he banished that thought almost immediately, not wanting to think like that.

Might as well test a small part of that unthought thought, though.

Erick asked, “Ophiel.”

Every single Ophiel in the area whipped around and focused on Erick, going silent; watchful.

Erick asked, “Can you manually cast a [Force Bolt]?”

Each Ophiel twittered in unsure guitar strums, then one of them on the railing chirped in happy violins, as he lifted a tiny wing and pointed out at the open air beyond the pagoda. His lightform twisted and touched the world. A bolt of light and air the size of the little guy ripped out from the little guy, and sailed off into the distance. Success! Ophiel turned to Erick and chirped in happy violins.

Erick smiled, saying, “Good job.”

Every single Ophiel sang in tiny, triumphant violin sounds. The one that had been on the railing fluttered up to land on Erick’s shoulder, twisting his [Animadversion] to hang on his back like he was some sort of turtle-bird. He was cute.

Wizardry problems could keep for another day. It was time to work on normal magic, right now; time to get his head in the mana. Erick breathed in, then out, feeling some nice kinda way.

This [Draining Elemental] was a big deal, not only because of what it could do, but also because it could [Renew] other spells. Making [Renew] as a new Basic Tier spell might be possible later, but Erick didn’t think he could get there right now, for he felt that [Renew] was too complicated for Basic Tier; it had to be an emergent function of a few other magics all working in concert together.

And Erick was going to orchestrate that concert.

Later, if this worked, maybe he could extract the [Renew] out of this spell, to see how it functioned, and to make that spellwork on its own.

Or maybe he was putting the cart before the horse! Who knew! Not him, for sure.

Erick calmed himself, closed his eyes, and listened.

Ophiels gathered, and Erick organized his spellwork. He started with Basic Tier components, for this would be, at most, a Tier 2 spell. He could try to remake it every single day if this didn’t work out right.

He started with [Draining Ward], adding in the structure needed for the spell to replace itself, like Permanent lightwards were capable of doing. This much was already asking for a lot, for the moving parts of this magic were dangerous to itself, and would surely cause instability when the main parts of the spell came into the working.

Then he added a [Conjure Force Elemental], and imbued it with a complication. The spell would organize the mana it extracted into two wells of power. One well would go toward sustaining the [Draining Elemental]’s form, with mana harmonized into the [Draining Elemental]’s power—

Erick winced as he listened to the mana strain. Static entered the spellwork.

Static dominated the spellwork.

Hmm.

This spell was a failure, but Erick would continue. He would witness the outcome to see where he went wrong.

—The second well of the two-well [Draining Elemental] would manually cast [Force Bolt] at whoever wasn’t designated as friendly by the [Draining Elemental]. It would accomplish this with a manual twist and condensation of the mana; with gridwork accomplished by the [Conjure Force Elemental].

The unifying idea of this spell was a Permanent [Ward] atop a location that would constantly attack whoever wasn’t permitted with [Force Bolt]s, using the same permissions spellwork that [Solid Ward]s used to ignore all approved guests, and activate against all unapproved persons.

This was a simple spell, in purpose, but in the working it was the most complicated thing Erick had ever made. Theoretically, he could have made a spell to specifically suit the purpose of this one, and then he could cast that same spell over and over every morning, like he did his [Personal Ward], but that was a dead end avenue of spellwork. Erick wanted self-perpetuating magic.

Erick opened his eyes.

He held a hand forward, as Ophiels sang beside him, harmonizing the ideas he had put forth, but he was the one who held the emotion and the power, in the end.

He cast.

The manasphere shifted in front of him, and—

Error!

The air popped with white light, knocking Erick back, flat on his ass. He barely managed to curl up instead of hitting his head. Everything went black for a brief moment as his blood pressure seemed to drop out from under him, but he came around fast enough. Blood dripped from his nose. Everything was red.

Ophiel had slapped him with a [Greater Treat Wounds] while he was on the way down. Then he did so again, standing atop Erick’s chest and tapping him with more healing.

Erick groaned as a sudden pain revealed itself across his entire body, and then relaxed away in the wake of another [Greater Treat Wounds]. A [Cleanse] flowed over him next, erasing the red from his eyes. Bile suddenly rose in his chest. He reflexively rolled to the side, causing Ophiel to take to the air as Erick coughed, expelling thick air and a little spit. He laid back down and groaned.

Poi was standing over him.

Erick said, “I think it was the Propagation Ban.”

“Entirely possible.” Poi extended his hand. Erick gripped it, and was hauled to his feet, as Poi said, “I like how Ophiel is trained to heal you.”

“I do, too!” Erick said, and then he couldn’t help but laugh.

Poi smiled a little.

A pair of old ladies who had been watching him from a pagoda a block over, also laughed, their trills of mirth carrying across the morning sky.

- - - -

In the aftermath of his experiment, Erick sat in his study to dissect what went wrong.

First of all, he could have sung to the sky, and called the mana to help him, but that seemed like a recipe for disaster on the level of the [Zone of Peace]. As it was, Erick was pretty sure he had gone directly up against the Propagation Ban today, which might put a hard stop to this project.

And yet…

None of the people he talked to about [Renew] ever told him that the Propagation Ban might be a problem. Maybe the [Draining Elemental] was the only problem here; he had never talked to anyone about that spell before.

He would need to consult an expert on the limits of the Propagation Ban, to understand the problem with his [Draining Elemental] idea. The first consultation would likely be with a simple book; the limits of the Propagation Ban were likely well known, and well researched, but Erick had never done any of that research.

Who to ask, though? The Headmaster? Yes, except Erick didn’t really want to go talk to him yet; he’d get waylaid by so many other concerns, first. Tenebrae? Yes; he was on the shortlist. Syllea and Opal were on the list, too. Opal might be a better person to talk to, since she was the one who introduced Erick to Tricking Magic, and Tricking magic seemed important for [Renew], but not so important to [Draining Elemental].

So maybe [Renew] was fine, but [Draining Elemental] was not.

Well.

Maybe they were two completely different spells?

Whatever. Besides the obvious problems, he couldn’t really make a [Draining Elemental], as it was, because his [Drain Ward]s were painful. [Drain Ward] felt like ants and needles and phantasmal cuts upon the skin, all at the same time, and that was not going to work. The end goal here was to make a spell that could be cast inside a house, or other defensible location, after all. Something that would automatically defend people on the approved list. Something that people were willing to use, and which didn’t require pain to use.

[Draining Elemental] went on the backburner.

It was time to try for [Renew] again. He had tried a lot of odd things months and months ago, and then every so often after that, trying to get [Renew] to work. But he hadn’t done much with this magic since he started his Worldly Path. Now, it was time to rectify that deficiency.

So Erick sat on a chair in his magic room, with the windows barred and Privacy magics strung around the place, but not inside; he was working in a ‘clean room’, magically speaking.

He had a few spells that only lasted seconds, but only a few of them were able to be deployed inside the room without breaking the room, and which were elementally aligned with his own Elemental Body.

Erick chose [Shooting Star].

With a flick of light, a bright white ball of energy appeared in front of him, ready to race off and zip through an enemy or ten, depending on how close the enemies were to each other, and how fast the little ball of light was able to go. There were no enemies here, though, and Erick told it to stay still, and so the ball of harsh light just hovered, trickles of glitter flowing away from its immaterial surface in every direction. It seemed happy.

And then it was gone.

Poof!

Spell over; five second duration.

He cast the spell again, holding his lightform around the summon in a gentle grip, watching and feeling how the [Shooting Star] broke down when the duration was over. The spell seemed content to hover there, in his grip.

Poof! Spell over.

“Hmm,” Erick grunted.

He cast again.

And again.

And again.

Watching with all of his various Sights, and all of his various senses, including the touch of his light. Listening to the spell seemed the most important, so Erick also closed his eyes and did that a few times, too.

By the thirtieth time Erick watched [Shooting Star] disintegrate, he was pretty sure that some intrinsic part of the working vanished at the 5 second mark, and then the spell quickly evaporated, practically all at once. By the hundred and fiftieth time, his former idea was nixed. His new idea was that something was breaking down the very second the spell came into existence, and that something only held together for 5 seconds, with a precipitous drop in spell integrity occurring at the 5 second mark.

By the two hundredth time, Erick was ready to try a manual [Renew]. He tried pushing basic Light-altered mana into the cracks of the spell.

He had done this before in his attempts to make [Renew]. He had tried a lot of different, odd methods in order to extend the duration of a magic. Back then, all his Light mana managed to do was destabilize the structure of the lightwards he had been working with.

This time, with [Shooting Star], Erick also destabilized the spellwork, and the ball of energetic light broke at the 4.5 second mark. It wasn’t a very stable spell to begin with, but Erick was pretty sure that he could make it so, if only he injected his mana correctly.

There were literally no books or learning that told Erick that this would work. No Arcanaeum books Erick ever read even touched upon the ability for spells to take in their own mana and become Permanent, if they were well-made enough. This was probably a failure (purposeful or otherwise) of the Headmaster.

Or maybe this was by the Script’s design.

Spells could be made Permanent under the Script, though, if they had that working put in them, and if they were simple, balanced spells.

But [Shooting Star] was anything but balanced. It was an energetic tyke waiting for the command to tear through an enemy, to dart through flesh and evaporate bone.

Erick’s theory was that if it was possible to stabilize something so unstable, and yet so simple, that he would be able to do it with applications of learning he had gained since the last time he tried this, and, almost more importantly, that he would notice that stabilization. 5 seconds was not a lot of time. It would be a breakthrough to get 5.25 seconds. It would mean he was on the right track. So he continued.

After a few hundred more tries, Erick decided on a different approach.

What was the idea of [Shooting Star]?

Erick channeled mana through [Shooting Star] and listened to the energetic playing of bloodthirsty sprites.

This time, he cast the spell, and then channeled mana through [Shooting Star] at the same time, directing the plume of light from his hand into the ball of white light.

The spell ended at 5 seconds.

Okay!

At least he didn’t destabilize it this time! This was progress.

This was the most progress he had ever made!

Incidentally, he had already tried channeling spell-altered mana into a cast spell before, and had never gotten this far with it. This was progress. Something had changed.

Well.

Erick had changed a lot, hadn’t he? Perception and Intelligence were massive changes.

Maybe the problem here was a matter of precision?

Oh!

