By now, I couldn't handle the stream of compliments from someone I didn't know. I pointed down.

"Can we see the city?"

Opal stood upright.

"Of course, Harbinger. Let's go."

She walked up to one of the white buildings. She pointed at it.

"These are our harvesters. They collect light from the surface of a planet, and we use it for, well, practically everything. That's why we like Shiza. It's a planet that has a strong magnetic field, a thin atmosphere, and little vegetation or water to deal with."

Chrona leaned over her.

"You all enjoy how dry it is?"

Opal gave her an eager nod. Opal spread her hands.

"Oh yeah. For sure. See, we don't use water, air, or anything but light and mana for sustenance. Our home world was one where we evolved into a low-resource world that was rich with energy. Our compositions came about from the ambient energy gaining sentience and then learning light magic. This planet, Shiza, is like that - rich in mana, light, and nothing else. Just the way we like it."

We stepped through the gateway. As we did, Chrona got stuck on the doors. She let out a sigh.

"Sometimes, I despise being so big."

I helped push her out before Opal coughed into a hand. The luminari floundered.

"Uhm, so, er, you're super thin for your species. You know, like, ultra-elegant, but we're, you know-"

I raised a hand.

"I think I got this."

I took out one of the dimensions I carried. I split it open wide enough for Chrona to walk in. After a bit of coaxing, she went inside. I told her to keep her head out as the portal shrank. I caught the portal in my hands before creating a collar for Chrona. Our temporalist gialgathen had put her life on the line for my trick, but it worked.

She was now a floating head. Woo. Chrona glared at me.

"I'm like a dog on a leash now."

I shrugged.

"You get to see the luminari's world. Personally, I think that's worth a strange appearance."

Chrona narrowed her eyes.

"We'll see."

I pulled the portal along. Opal gawked at me, her composure shattering. She stuttered.

"You...Portal...Tear in space...Collar on giant frog lizard thing...What is happening?"

Chrona narrowed her eyes.

"We're not frog lizards."

Amara smiled.

"You've fooled many people. Perhaps it's more obvious to others than yourselves."

Opal gestured to me a few times.

"Guys. Are you seeing this? This...This is insanity?"

Hod walked over and put his hands on Opal's shoulders. He was much shorter than her, so he once again hung from her like a jacket on the side of a door. Hod's wing set on fire from her hair. Hod ignored it while swinging a wing over the sky.

"Hod let glow girl know something. Harbinger weirdest of all. Harbinger do stuff that not make sense most of time. It normal. When Harbinger normal, then have problem."

Opal stared at him. Hod's entire arm blazed in red fire. Opal deadpanned.

"Uhm. What's going on here?"

I smiled.

"You're getting Hodded. It happens to all of us. All the time, really."

Hod's head was set ablaze by the hungry flames. Hod took a deep, contented breath.

"Hod have that effect on people. Hod smart. Glow girl learn one day."

We washed the fire off him before walking down a winding, spiral staircase. At the bottom of the stairs, we found a landing platform circled by lanterns far below us. Glowing bricks dotted the walls, and unlike on Earth, no moisture collected on the stone or lingered in the air. Having been in caves so many times, I expected the dank smell of mold and mildew. There was none.

The dry Earth and warm flow of air left me hopeful for a change in pace. We leaped down, and I made sure Chrona's head didn't smash into the side of the passageway as we did. After landing on the circular platform, Opal stepped forward to a luminari receptionist. The luminari had dark gray skin and orange fire hair that rested on the sides of her face. She wore a sheening vest, and an X acted as the eyes of her face.

From what I gathered, the luminari carried different facial markings, and they acted as eyes for them. It gave them a mysterious, otherworldly vibe until they began emoting with the glowing mark. At that point, the intangible beings became remarkably human.

Following that pattern, the receptionist seemed like some demigod of the ocean, her hair floating like waves behind her. However, she shattered that initial impression by leaning against her forearm, half asleep. As we walked up, the employee stood at attention. The receptionist gave us a salute, and she stammered her words.

"Opal. My goodness. You were supposed to show up a few days ago. I'm sorry you caught me looking like this."

Opal held a hand to the cross on her face.

"The guildleader was late. He had important tasks that needed handling, so we changed the date."

I frowned. There was so much communication I had to handle in order to prevent inefficiency and general rudeness. If any complications came up while I was following a schedule, which was pretty much always, then I'd have to spend another hour sending messages to people. The idea of that exhausted me, and in trying to stop inefficiency, I'd created it.

I opened my status and, to my chagrin, sent messages to people. Opal leaned away from the receptionist.

"Wait a minute. We weren't trying to criticize you."

I shook my head.

"You didn't have to. It's obvious that this strategy isn't working, so I'm changing my meeting strategies."

Chrona tilted her floating head at me.

"Not that I'm complaining, as I'm often a victim of your lateness, but what's your idea for the changes?"

I sent a text log to several guild organizers, including Torix and relevant followers.

"I'll make it so that people won't expect me at a specific time anymore. I'm going to set up windows where I could show up, along with what to do if I don't. That should stop a lot of waiting around while changing the expectations on me."

Amara shot a glare up at me with her palms.

"So you're making it easier for you and harder for them?"

I peered down at her.

"I'm going to make it so that people aren't expected to stand in attention for no reason and for extended periods of time."

Opal coughed into a hand.

"Ahem. Couldn't you send a message letting people know you won't be able to make it?"

I furrowed my brow.

"Sometimes, yes. Other times, no. Recently, I had to help a friend with a body transferral. If I lost focus for a moment, then they'd have died on the spot. I can't split my focus and send a message when I'm immersed in a task that dire, and if I'm honest, that happens often."

A sly smile crossed my lips.

"And yeah, I also forget all the time despite my best efforts."

Hod flapped his wings so that he could put a wing over my shoulder. He hung from my side while nodding.

"Hod understand. Hod so busy, Hod head spin. One day, Hod have three meetings. Hod hate meetings. Meeting people want seem important, but Hod know they not. Hod know meeting actually pointless."

I put my hands on my hips.

"Tell me about it. Sometimes, I think meetings are just ways for people to try and sell how meaningful their actions have been rather than actually communicating something important. They devolve from important communications into sales pitches for someone to keep their job."

Opal turned to the receptionist.

"We're not going to do that, are we, Sapara?"

Sapara opened her status, sent a few messages, and then she shook her head.

"Oh, no, not at all. There's no way my employers will be angry with me when their most important client cancels the many presentations and meetings they had planned."

Opal spread her hands.

"Since when were you so sassy?"

Sapara raised her hands.

"Isn't that why you hired me?"

Opal turned away, squeezing her hands together.

"Drat. I've been fooled yet again by my desire for interesting personalities. Ah, whatever."

Opal turned to us with her hands on her hips.

"You're all welcome here in Phorescia. I hope you enjoy your stay, however long it is."

I tested my aura for a bit, and it still didn't work at full efficiency.

"I'm actually pretty exhausted after my last test. A few days of rest and relaxation sounds pretty nice."

Amara turned her palms to me, and she snarled.

"Days? We've waited weeks for this already. You want to delay our leaving once again despite its importance?"

I put a hand on her shoulder.

"Amara. We've waited years to do this. If a few days will make a difference, then it is what it is. Besides that, I'm tired. Me. I never get tired, and yet, I am. That means I did something genuinely difficult, and I can't protect you or the party like I normally would while in this state."

I lowered my hand.

"This is all I can do, and I'm asking you to accept that."

Amara's glare softened. She took a step back before giving me a nod.

"I'm sorry. I've...I've been abrasive lately."

Chrona smiled.

"More than usual, perhaps."

Amara gave her a look before turning to me. Amara's voice lightened.

"I really want to leave. I want to know what happened to me. I never thought I would, and now it's so close. I can't help but be impatient."

Opal scoffed.

"Impatience gets guild members killed. I can speak from experience with that one. Anywho, how about we go see the sights and sounds of the luminari capital?"

We followed Opal, crossing a few tunnels lined with glowing mosses. We reached a large set of stone doors, gemstones glistening from spotlights hidden within the walls. It would normally be gaudy to the extreme, but the reverence towards light sold it as a cultural oddity worthy of appreciation.

Opal gestured to the doorway.

"Would you do the honors, Harbinger?"

I stepped up and pushed them open. They slid on well-made hinges. A vast artificial cavern opened up to us all. Across the rooftops, panels of glass let light leak in from above. Just below the panels, several orbs of light spiraled like tiny stars. Walkways lined every portion of the colossal cavern, and across every wall, thousands of different shops, homes, and businesses thrived.

I leaned back.

"How in the hell did you make all of this so quickly?"

Opal hopped on one foot.

"We used your architect golems. We commissioned two of them for a few months, and they let us carve out several vast cities, though Phorescia is definitely the largest. They're not the only innovation we've been able to incorporate either. Look."

Opal pointed to the tiny stars above. Runes lining the walls siphoned off the extra light they emitted, feeding the energy into light stations below. Intricate sigils were carved into these holding cells, and they distributed the shining sparks to many places using glass tubes. Powering this light grid, liquid mana floated in power cells.

Their entire infrastructure was built on this liquid mana source, along with large crystals of quintessence. Opal gestured to the crystallized mana.

"This is all thanks to you and your generous trade agreements. Normally, we would've used a large portion of our harvested light to power the city below. However, your guild sells its energy resources very inexpensively. We're able to support an entirely different power grid because of that."

I smiled.

"Aren't you worried that my guild is establishing a dependence on cheap mana so that we can later gouge prices?"

Opal took a step back, her body language acting aghast.

"What? You'd do that?"

Amara stepped forward onto a walkway lined with faerie lights.

"He cares little for money. If anything, he's feeling oh so great that he's helped your people out."

Chrona raised her horned brow.

"And what's the problem with that?"

Amara frowned.

"When fed well and for nothing, people lose purpose. They become fat and lazy."

Chrona furrowed her brow and went to speak. She took a moment before nodding.

"I wish I could contradict you, but laziness infected the gialgathens after we enslaved the espens. We grew fat on the work of others, and we paid a price for our inaction."

Amara threw her palms in every direction, keeping a lookout for enemies.

"Daniel will do the same to all under him."

I gestured around us. We walked across one of the many walkways lining the cavern. Across every wall, the luminari thrived. I raised my brow.

"My guild makes it so that there's only a portion of the population that needs to fight the eldritch. That doesn't suddenly turn people into lazy piles of slop. It allows people to fully put their efforts into handling other problems outside of survival. E.g., making cities like this, developing technologies, and building up their economies."

Amara eyed it all.

"I will admit...It is stunning to see what they have created."

Opal's cross brightened.

"If it's any consolation, your approach has led to a revitalization of the luminari. I'd love to show you all that we've accomplished with your support."

I spread my hands.

"Then let's see what the luminari are all about."
