With an almost clinical voice, Erick spoke to them all, “Is this how you all feel? Can there be no peace between us?”

Every single representative and even King Killtree suddenly shifted, as though they realized that they had pushed Erick too far, and the time for talking was over long before they even did much talking at all.

And in that moment, Erick realized that they were all talking a big game, but they wanted something out of him, specifically. They did not actually want a war at all. They were all steadfast in believing that they would win such a war, though. Especially King Killtree.

But they did not actually want... a war?

They wanted this peace talk here to be productive?

They had expected this peace talk to be productive.

Erick spoke directly to their unknowable thoughts, “What did you expect from speaking at me in this way? For your declaration of war to truly place you in power over me? To give you leverage of some sort? No. What has happened here is this: I tried talking peace with dictators and zealots like you before. With Terror Peaks, over in Songli. Even after Terror Peaks killed the envoys of Koyabez and then unleashed all out war, I still tried. I really, really tried over there. But we all know how that turned out. And so, I’m not about to try too hard with people like you. I am done talking to terrorists.” Erick spoke his ultimatum, “So tell me what you actually want from me, or this talk is ending now. We will have this war how I want to have this war. You, your people, and your entire way of life will not survive that outcome.”

For a long moment no one spoke verbally, but there were certainly a lot of telepathic lines coming off of everyone on the other side of the talk. Whatever they were thinking was opaque to Erick, but based on their eyes and their stances—

Erick instantly recognized that his approach was too hard. He had taken away all of the Cities options, for they needed to appear strong to their people. They would go to war with Erick simply because he was done talking, and he wasn’t giving them any ‘face’, as they would say in Songli.

So Erick backtracked.

He tried, “Shall we perhaps speak about how you expect this war to go? Perhaps we can come to some arrangement which doesn’t end in both of our nations suffering unduly, and with assassins of various types running around everywhere, harming those who do not need to be harmed. You spoke of ‘sparing the good people’ under my power, and so I would speak of the same, with you.”

Killtree instantly latched onto that whole vector of attack, proclaiming, “Our armies will wipe the Surface of your dragons and your soul-twisted warriors!”

Erick nodded. “So you wish to fight with armies, and not with bombs. In what way? How do you see this going?”

Killtree narrowed his eyes.

The man from Charme spoke, “It will be a war of the Light against the Dark! A polite war...” The man lost his train of thought as he stared at Erick’s avatar. His entire body broke out in a flop sweat.

Killtree slowly exhaled in frustration—

The woman from Pearl rapidly said, “It will be a hundred of ours against a hundred of yours, one battle per day. Here on these plains. Our good people of the Cities will tear down your entire civilization from the ground up, showing the world how evil you truly are as you make soul-mutilated ‘people’ fight for your cause. There will be no further raids upon either of our lands, as you did last night to the good people of our Cities, or this war will transform into one of assassins and dangerous magics.”

Erick almost shot back that he had saved lives last night inside the Cities, but that would be unproductive.

Instead, Erick said “Then it will be a polite war, as they do in Nelboor. How will victors be decided?”

“By the complete deaths of either side!” Killtree said, “A hundred of ours against a hundred of yours, every night. To the death.”

Erick asked, “And when I choose to go beyond death and to mutilate the souls of everyone you send my way? What then?”

“We would expect nothing less from a Wizard,” Killtree said, “You will prove our point a hundred times every night, and the world will see you for who you truly are.” He said to everyone else. “I’m done here.”

And then he vanished, flickering away in a splash of red magic.

The woman from Pearl said, “An hour before sunset, here on these plains. Gather your bravest, Wizard of Darkness, for we will crush them and when you run out of defenders, we will crush you.”

And then she vanished in [Teleport] magics, followed by everyone else in her group.

Erick’s lightform image briefly showed a frown before Ophiels lightstepped away, vacating the field.

- - - -

Inside Erick’s throne room, he sat, digesting those ‘peace talks’.

His first question was for anyone who felt like answering.

“So if I go and talk to the Dicers and ask them why they didn’t get a ‘polite war’ style war?” Erick asked, “What do you think they will say?”

Zolan answered, “The Dicers likely started with attempted assassinations, so traditional war was never an option. I also never believed that traditional war was an option, which is on me; I apologize for not advising you that this was possible.”

“That’s certainly not your fault, Zolan,” Erick said, “Nor is this lack of foresight the fault of anyone else but me— Oh. Kirginatharp joked that I might get a polite war out of this… Huh. Anyway. If I had a general of an army I could blame them, but I do not have such a person, nor I do not want such a person, either. This is all on me.”

And Erick was rather damned glad that he didn’t go to actual war last night; he stuck to helping people, and to causing as few waves as possible. While he had not intended for his lack of violence to open up the door to ‘polite war’ today…

This was a good outcome, yes?

Zolan said, “While a war of armies was not the most unexpected thing, I should have foreseen this possibility; I’ve lived in this world for over a century, after all. I truly apologize. The Cities are trying to appear civilized, and they know they will lose a straight fight against you.”

“Forget about it, Zolan. It’s in the past.” Erick asked, “How long do you expect them to maintain this level of decorum?”

“Maybe three losses?” Zolan guessed, “Maybe sooner. Hard to say. They didn’t put any restrictions on any of the allowed combatants, so they will likely field their third-strongest people in the first battle to gauge our strength. I would guess that they expect you to do the same.”

“Well that’s not happening.” Erick said, “It’s me and whoever volunteers. Probably no one, though. Just me.”

Zolan stared. Quilatalap frowned.

Poi said, “That is beyond foolish, Erick.”

Erick smiled at their concern. “I’m not sending anyone else to their deaths. So yes. Only me tonight— Or rather, Ophiel.”

Zolan said, “I can already tell you that they’re not going to agree to that sort of arrangement. You’re risking nothing and they’re risking a hundred people. I’m still amazed that they accepted that you weren’t going to appear in person in those talks.”

“They will war at my pleasure, or not at all, Zolan,” Erick said.

Zolan frowned, but said nothing.

Quilatalap asked, “Do you even need to agree to this sort of political show? Because that is what this is. A show. A way for them to spread your name in the dirt. There’s literally no winning this war, Erick. When you start to win they’ll break this agreement and come after you. But we’re ready for war, right now. Since we’re ready, you should End the current royalty over there and bring the next batch of sovereignites to power. Maybe they’ll be better at governing than this current one.”

Zolan said, “He can’t do that if he wants to show the world he is reasonable.”

Quilatalap glared at Zolan. “War is never reasonable.”

“I want to end them all, Quilatalap. End them before they can do any real damage,” Erick said, to the sudden dismay of Zolan and Poi. Erick continued, “It might all be a show, of course, but I’m rather sure that they want their soldiers to die. Those soldiers likely include problematic nobility and other such types that the current royalty wants dead. That’s the only way this makes any sense, right?”

Zolan narrowed his eyes and Quilatalap frowned a little. Poi kept his expressions carefully schooled.

Erick continued, “And those people at those talks were certainly not the zealots that I expected. Like, yes, Killtree was bombastic and clearly evil in a rather normal sort of way, but he also wanted something specific. They all wanted something specific. So I gave them face when I should have given them none, and then they came out with this polite war idea. I feel that they had expected the conversation to go on a lot longer, and for me to try a dozen different ways until I finally hit on the way they wanted. Because, I have no doubt that they want this war. They’re also prepared to lose this war, and by a lot, but the only real ‘losers’ of this war are going to be every single person that opposes those in power over there.” Erick said, “I cannot imagine why they are coming at this conflict from this angle except that they want their soldiers dead… But those are my thoughts based on what I saw. I’ll be asking for everyone else’s opinions, though, so Zolan, set that up.”

Zolan nodded.

Quilatalap was frowning deeply. “I fucking hate war.”

“Me too,” Erick said, “But this war will be ‘polite’, for a while, because it’s better than bombs dropping on Candlepoint and complete turmoil in the Sovereign Cities leading to widespread civilian deaths.”

Quilatalap lost most of his frown.

Poi spoke, “The rules of combat are coming in now. They’re using Polite War Rules, First Edition, which means 100 people on both sides, a fight to the death lasting one hour, and then whoever remains alive the most is the winner.”

“… Oh.” Erick instantly recognized the problem. “And they won’t accept [Reincarnation]ed and [Blessing of Empathy]ed people as ‘dead’, will they?”

“Correct,” Poi said.

Erick thought for a minute, then said, “If they do that, then that is fine. I can lose a battle every night and win the war in return.”

“They also demand that every warrior in the battle actually be in the battle.”

Erick laughed. “Fuck that.”

Poi added, “And if you don’t appear in person with a full contingent of soldiers, then they will send assassins into these lands to ‘take their hundred lives owed on the battlefield’.”

“… And we’re back to the original implied threat, eh.” Erick frowned. “I shouldn’t have even let them speak. Whatever… So what are the chances that if I show up in person that they’ll have some way to kill me?”

Zolan said, “Extraordinarily high.”

Poi said, “Incredibly high.”

Erick frowned. Yeah. He had expected tha—

“You tried for peace,” Quilatalap said, “But now it is time to crush them utterly and remove their threat from Veird. I will be joining you in the battle, tonight and every night going forward. I will remain at your side when they break with politeness, and the time for Ending begins.” He softened a fraction, adding, “Or you turn them into better people. Either is fine.”

Erick paused. He had not expected that. But then… Perhaps he should have. Quilatalap was a relaxed man, until wrongs needed to be righted. He had probably killed more Shades than even Silverite, over the many, many years he had been inside Ar’Kendrithyst. He also stayed out of every conflict he could. But here he was, choosing to get into this conflict.

Erick shouldn’t have expected anything less from Koyabez’s Priest of the Black Order.

Erick almost accepted Quilatalap’s offer—

And then Goldie appeared. “I volunteer as well.”

And then Poi said, “I’m receiving hundreds of offers to volunteer for the polite war… A lot of people saw—” His head tilted a fraction as hundreds of telepathic tendrils tried to connect to him, but then Poi flinched, and those tendrils vanished. “I have them rerouted into a queue as I deal with them, but I can already tell you that most of the offers are coming from dragons you have Benevolenced, and people from Weald.”

Zolan spoke, “I can almost see the tinge of Sumtir’s call to Righteous War, present in the air. But before we get too far down this particular path: we must have a public release of information detailing why we are going to polite war, a private release for our allies, and an in-House release for all of your most trusted people. Also, some army-centric decisions need to happen, like how this organization is going to happen. I suggest you tag Mox for this, since she has the most experience of us Overseers with regard to organizing proactive military forces. This needs to be done now.”

Erick glanced around the room. He saw no divine fire, though, for Zolan was speaking in sayings, not in actuality. Erick said, “Of course, Zolan. So. Let’s get Mox in here and start doing all that.”

And so they did.

- - - -

In a private space, Erick sat with Mox.

They had discussed everything that was to come, and Erick was rather secure at having Mox as his temporary ‘general’; Zolan’s suggestion had been perfect. Mox already knew how to lead people into war of all different kinds, and apparently polite war was something she had ample familiarity with. And yet…

Toward the end, Mox said, “When polite war is enacted, it remains polite about 75% of the time. I don’t think that this war is among that 75%, but if it is… They’re using you, Erick. For unknown reasons that would likely take a whole team of analysts a month to discover, they are using you. Us. All of us. And you know this. And, you seem to be comfortable with this. Why?”

“Because despite their calls for war to the death, I won’t actually be killing anyone.”

“I will say this now: polite war is still war. People die.”

“… Based on the quality of volunteers I’m getting, I hope that with enough power on my side that there will be no need for that sort of outcome.”

“I still believe it is foolish for you to take the field yourself. You should reconsider this.”

“I’m taking the field, Mox. Me and 30 other dragons, 20 people from Stratagold, 20 Elites from Oceanside, and more from Weald, Candlepoint, and Enforcement. There’s a thousand more people waiting in the wing to support House Benevolence, and me. I must take the field.”

