Bobbi strongly said, “I would, too. I trust you, Wizard Flatt.”

Glorida steeled herself, saying, “I don’t believe we would get our proper vengeance through peaceful mitigation of problems… But I can give up vengeance if it means a Killtree that I can return to one day, where the streets are paved with stone and I can turn the gravesites of my family into proper markers.”

Erick thought for a moment.

He decided something.

Erick said, “Then I should tell you how I actually saved the lives of those 2,000 people, and how I transformed 1,200 souls into better people than the ones they were before. When I’m done, tell me if the outcome is worse than the death those 1,200 would have received, for the natural outcome for those 1,200 people would surely have been death.”

And then Erick told them of [Reincarnation] and [Blessing of Empathy], and his idea for a war of seeds planted that would out-compete all other growth in the garden, due to their natural ability to work together for a common good. Or at least that was his tentative idea, right now.

Erick said, “And so, if they don’t actually fight me straight-up, then I’ll go around that royalty and change their society into something better. Might take ten years, but that’s fine.”

At least one of the Dicers was completely on board with Erick’s idea.

Bobbi strongly said, “I would like to be [Reincarnation]ed and dropped off along with a few other Dicers into the lands around Killtree. We failed to do the rebellion right the first time, but we can do it right this time. From the ground up. Like how Wellwisher wanted us to.”

Glorida had been quiet and contemplative, but at Bobbi’s words, her world lit up. With eyes wide, and then steel in her gaze, she said, “I would do this as well.”

Harridon stared at his companions. He said to them, “You would die.” He said to Erick, “These people you have Matriculated will die once they are found out. The very moment they are seen casting magic in the open, they will be marked.”

“Then it’s a good thing none of them have any Points to spend on anything.” Erick said, “[Reincarnation] put them into the Script; but it does not properly Matriculate them. They won’t gain any experience or points or anything like that unless they actually kill something for experience. But, what they will have is 20 in every Stat, the innate smarts and propensity to know how to fly under the [Scan], and an innate understanding of justice for all, and not merely for those who can take it.” Erick admitted, “Though a lot of that was a stretch for a lot of the people I saw. The major targets were easy to hit for every single [Reincarnation], though.”

Into the stunned silence of realizing exactly how much power Erick had—

Erick stood up, saying, “Take some time to think of that. I’ve got a meeting with the royalty of the Cities. You’re welcome to watch from afar.” With a hard voice, he said, “I will accept no violence at that meeting.”

All three people stood up as Erick stood, but now they faltered. As one, all three bowed, and then they rose.

Erick said, “Depending on how this goes you two might get your request, Bobbi, Glorida.” He said to Harridon, “But I still need someone to take care of Gambler’s Rest, so that’s on you if they go. Feel free to discuss all of that. I’ll see you later.”

And then Erick lightstepped away.

He felt marginally better about his ‘grass roots’ plan. It might actually work…

But probably not.

Not with the current batch of royals in charge of the Sovereign Cities. Bobbi had been right; the royals would need to die eventually.

Only one way to find out for sure, though.

- - - -

Meeting the royals was an affair of egos clashing and magics done over long distances, at a neutral location in the plains between Killtree, North Curio, and Charme. The original location had been at an old fort that had fallen into disuse centuries ago, which stood like a pile of scattered stone upon the empty plains. Erick had demanded the location switch to about a hundred kilometers north, where there was absolutely nothing but empty grasslands.

Erick laid down a [Zone of Peace] at that location, and then he had Ophiel project a lightform image of Erick onto the grasslands underwing. Three more Ophiel hovered in the background, awaiting treachery, while a fourth hovered beside the first one, projecting an image of Zolan. All of them were under the most protective magics that Erick could muster, including thorny silver shields, [Unbreakable Form] absolute defense, [Prismatic Ward]s, and the sunform combinations of [Perfect Benevolence] and [Lodestar].

Kirginatharp, Fairy Moon, the people from Stratagold or Portal, none of them were present.

Erick had had offers from many different factions, asking to participate in this meeting alongside him, but Kirginatharp had had the right idea; the first meeting would be just between him and them… And also Zolan. Or at least Zolan’s avatar.

But maybe Zolan shouldn’t have been present at all.

Erick trusted Zolan, but he didn’t want him to get hurt, either.

“We don’t know what their threat actually looks like, Zolan.” Erick glanced to Quilatalap, who stood against a pillar of the room. Quilatalap smiled faintly, and nodded. Erick felt his heart relax a little at that. He continued, “But you don’t really want to accept a [True Resurrection], either, if the worst should happen.”

“I have already said that if the worst should happen that I will accept a [True Resurrection]. My body language and my heart do not tell the full story of what my mind knows to be true, King Flatt; that [True Resurrection] is real. I am well aware of the Headmaster’s stance on that spell, though...” Zolan breathed deeply, trying to calm himself. “But I can deal with that, if it should happen. And besides that, I’m only present as a specialized [Scry] orb that is already inside an Ophiel. I’m as safe as can be.”

“There are ways to attack someone through their [Scry] orb.”

Zolan smiled a little. “I am well aware of what most of those ways are, and the risk I am taking. Thank you for your concern, but I feel I must be present here, and so, I must insist on participating. If you would allow it.”

Erick stopped himself from sighing. He nodded, instead. “I want you here, too, Zolan. Thank you.”

Zolan bowed a little.

Erick looked to Poi.

Poi shook his head. “Not ready yet.”

“It’s obviously a power play of some sort,” Zolan offered. “It’s already past time.”

“Yup.” Erick said, “They’re rather petty people…” He frowned a little. “We’re trying to be better than them, right?” And suddenly, Erick needed to ask both Poi and Quilatalap a question he had already asked Zolan, “Was [Reincarnation]ing all those people who would have died anyway the right answer? It’s wrong to turn people into better people against their will… But what if the alternative is letting them continue to harm others? Mind control is wrong. Soul mutilation is wrong. But… There’s therapeutic uses of Mind Magic out there, and every single person I transform over there will be a better person than they were before. Categorically, in every way. I took a torturer and killer of men and turned her into a sword saint warrior who would fight for others, and that’s just one person. From what I hear about the Shades and the Terror Peaks survivors, they’re all better people now, too.” He stopped talking.

He could have said a lot more.

But he had said a lot already.

Zolan stood resolute, and silent. He and Erick had already had this talk.

Quilatalap shrugged. “You’re avoiding a war through turning soldiers into better people. It’s the best outcome for all, Erick.”

To that, Zolan could not remain silent. “The royalty chose war. Erick transformed commoners who could not defend themselves, in a direct effort to begin the slow transformation of their society from the ground up. He did not even target soldiers. He transformed 1,200 in one night. If he continued that would be well over 10,000 people per week, and that’s one percent of the estimated population of all the Sovereign Cities.” He looked to Erick, saying, “But to be clear, I still think this is the right decision.”

Erick asked, “I still don’t understand how the fuck they haven’t killed themselves.”

Zolan said, “The cold fact is that either those people would not have died and you were being overzealous, or Benevolence twisted to cause all those events to happen in a single night.”

Like a slap to the face coming out of nowhere, Erick took the blow, and was stunned.

Zolan laid the entire thought out there, which Erick hadn’t even considered, “Perhaps Benevolence is causing all of this to happen, in an effort to solve a problem long before it becomes a problem. That’s the whole point of it, after all.”

Quilatalap said, “Elemental Fate could do some weird stuff back in the Old Cosmology. Since Benevolence twists like Fate, but different, it’s possible this was Benevolence’s fault.” He added, “But I really don’t see the problem with taking people who would have died and giving them new chances. It’s even better if the long-term results end up being a society of peace and strength.” He shrugged. “The Cities are terrible, and for a hundred different reasons. They can only be improved by a strong hand willing to take up that cause and follow through.”

Erick asked, “Were they purposefully kept that way, by the Shades?”

Quilatalap said, “Sure; yes. The Shades have been poking at Veird since the Sundering, but they’re certainly not responsible for every single evil out there.” He said, “Quite honestly, Erick, there is absolutely nothing wrong with forcefully correcting the world, and making up for all the mistakes of the Shades in any way you can.”

Zolan eyed Quilatalap. Poi eyed Quilatalap, too.

And Erick was already saying, “It might cause less harm to ‘correct’ them all right now, but that’s a decision I don’t want to make. And yet... I think that rescuing people who were about to die, and those who were about to kill, and putting them all in new bodies predisposed to being kinder to each other is a slower, safer way to make the world better. But it’s still… Icky.”

Quilatalap shrugged. “It’s not actual mind control or soul control, so while your hangups are understandable, you’re not actually doing much to them besides making them understand their fellow person better. And that really is a blessing, Erick. A new body, younger and healthier and predisposed to being that way their entire life. Matriculation, even if they have no way to gain experience like most freshly Matriculated people can gain experience. A [Blessing of Empathy] to let them better understand the people around them.” He looked to Erick. “You’re acting like you think you have mutilated these people, but if anything you’ve healed them. There’s nothing wrong with that.”

“… Well.” Erick went silent.

No one spoke—

Into the silence, Poi said, “Perhaps you should have offered them the choice, Erick, instead of deciding their fate for them. I always thought that particular option always made the whole thing more palatable.”

“… Ah.” Erick said, “Yeah… Hard to do in the middle of a crisis… But that’s kind of an excuse.”

Poi changed the subject, “Enforcement and Magic are ready for a counter attack. Prognostication is set. Kiri is ready to sound alarms if needed. Jane is indisposed in the Underworld as of twenty minutes ago, but she and her team are on high alert. They will be coming home within three days, as fast as they can. Everyone else is ready.”

“Thank you, Poi,” Erick said, and he meant so much more than a simple ‘thank you for your help’.

Poi nodded.

And then…

Moments passed in silence.

Minutes ticked away at a glacial pace as—

“ETA 30 seconds,” Poi announced.

Erick focused—

Quilatalap spoke up, “I love that you’re trying for peace, Erick.”

Erick briefly smiled, his stomach turning in flips.

And then he focused again. The outcome of this meeting would determine the nature of this war. Would this turn out peacefully? Would Erick overturn the royalty of the cities slowly, through the transformation of their entire society? Or would events unfold a lot faster? Because the Sovereign Cities were going to change.

Of that, there was no doubt.

- - - -

One royal appeared on the grasslands in front of Ophiel, along with four other representatives from the other four cities. Erick was instantly pissed. They had yelled at each other for twenty minutes to get the arrangements of this meeting done correctly, and the royals were supposed to be there. So where were the other four royals? Nowhere good, probably.

Erick looked to King Killtree, who was the only royal of the group. The man was red of hair and pale of body, with a mean look to his clear eyes. He wore real armor and a bunch of magical items, along with a crown of deadwood.

The other four people were dressed in the normal livery of their nations, but they were no royals. Charme had sent a man in blood-red robes. North Curio had sent a man in ocean-blue armor. South Curio had sent a man in pale yellow robes. Pearl had sent a woman in white scalemail armor.

Erick asked Killtree, “Where are the other four of you?”

King Killtree answered with the deep voice of a warrior used to getting his way, “We don’t trust you to honor the sacredness of a peace talk.”

“HA! That’s rich coming from you, the man who killed Wellwisher at peace talks.”

“He was ready to unleash antirhine weapons at us. We acted first.”

“Cowshit. You should have run.” Erick said, “There is no reason to break the honor of peace talks.”

Killtree paused. “A Wizard speaks of honor, eh? If you had any honor at all you should have killed yourself when you discovered what you were. Instead, you endanger the whole world with your wanton magics, duping gods and men alike into believing you are something other than what you are; a world killer.”

“I saved your city from a ballooning spider horde, Killtree.”

“What happened there was that our bargain of trade with Kirginatharp was mutated by you into something that we never would have agreed with. You play peacemaker, but we know who you are. You are a Wizard from beyond the stars and you must be Ended for the good of us all.”

Erick was angry.

Very, very angry.

And yet...

Erick felt his anger passing him by, as one would pass a wreck on the highway; sure, you saw it, you might have slowed down a bit to look at it. But you moved on, because you had places to be and dwelling on anger wasn’t productive.

