Ten hours later there had been no attacks on the Greater Candlepoint Area.

Burhendurur reported zero incidents aside from normal incidents, but even bar fights and otherwise were way down; everyone had heard of the declaration of war from the Sovereign Cities. Mephistopheles and Slip reported nothing at Candlepoint. Weald was silent. Gambler’s Rest reported nothing, though there was a marked increase in both parties, and in war preparations. Even on the other sides of the Gates, nothing happened, except for a lot of trading, as usual. The Gate District never slept, for it was always day time somewhere.

A lot of traders on floating Platforms did move a lot faster than usual, though, hurrying to get through customs and onto their next destination before the Gates possibly closed forever, if the Cities actually managed to pull off the impossible and kill Erick.

From what Erick had seen last night, as Ophiel flew across the Cities, righting wrongs, he very much doubted the military might of these asshole humans.

In the course of the night, Erick had directly saved the lives of around 2,000 people, and [Reincarnation]ed 1,229 people into their own forms; younger, in most cases, and with a better life trajectory in every single case. Under the power of [Reincarnation], Erick saw the natural flow of futures of every single person he touched. They all had anywhere from 40% to, in one case, 95% of all futures as violent ends, either due to their own actions, or the actions of others. Killers, rapists, poisoners, muggers, thieves, violent mercenaries committing small and large acts of violence against other people for their whole lives, violent nobles using their violence against others to force them to capitulate to the nobles’ wants.

But Erick picked the better end for all of them.

He knew that what he was doing was a horrible violation.

A war crime that was king among all other war crimes.

“And no one in the Cities cares?!” Erick said, slamming his hand atop a fresh batch of letters from the Sovereign Cities. “They’re taunting me? What the FUCK!”

Zolan said, “In many ways this is a good outcome. The letter from Charme is most revealing.”

Erick grabbed up that letter and read off the part Zolan was referring to, “ ‘If this is the level of threat that we are to expect from you, then perhaps you are no actual threat to the world after all. Therefore, surrender now, Wizard of Darkness, or be invaded by forces you cannot comprehend.’ What the fucking fuck!” He looked to Zolan. “The only respect I got at all was from the fucking angel who offed herself rather than complete her contract to fight me—” Suddenly, all Erick’s anger came to a head, and then boiled over, releasing all that anger into the void. Erick blinked a bit, then looked down at the letters again. “Oh. They’re fine with me cleaning up their cities.” He looked up at Zolan. “Is that what they’re really after?”

Zolan stared at Erick like Melemizargo had popped up behind him.

Erick turned and looked at the shadow on the wall, and it was a perfectly normal shadow. He turned back to Zolan.

Zolan said, “Uh. No. I doubt that… scenario, sir. I think a more accurate thing to say is that they do not care if you harm their people. They believe it must be those peoples’ own faults for being harmed in the first place.”

“… Oh.” Erick picked up the letter from Charme again, and then read off a different part, “ ‘The culling of the weak matters nothing to us, for if this is the level of threat… yada yada’.” Erick stared at the letters for a while.

Zolan was right.

They truly did not care about the commoner person over there.

Zolan waited while Erick comprehended that.

Erick looked up, and said, “Then… I’m going to do this every single night, and I’ll start sending the remade people to Gambler’s Rest… Perhaps—” In that moment, everything seemed too weird. “Holy shit, Zolan. This is such a fucking weird war. Like… Is it better to transform people into better forms, when they would have died, or committed murder and then be executed anyway because they’re murderers? But only if they’re found out and someone even cares to prosecute them— The nobles over there wouldn’t be prosecuted, though! They have the same problem Songli has; the nobility operate under different laws than the commoners.” He looked to Zolan. “Is it right to take people who would have died, and make them better? And then… to continue doing that? Because this is a very grass-roots way to transform a nation, and it will work. Might even work as soon as a few years… Unless they’re all murdered by the nobility when they start actually linking hands and forming a power bloc.”

Zolan readily answered, “So don’t [Blessing of Empathy] them anymore; just [Reincarnation] them. Transform their futures from continual horror, to a future of helping each other, and then let them gather and make their own nation. Let them fight their own wars. Either way, the meeting with the five Cities is happening in an hour. Perhaps you should not get caught up in whatever ‘war crimes’ you think you’re committing, when you are still saving lives and making the world a better place in the process.”

“… But they are war crimes though,” Erick said, looking directly at Zolan.

“… By certain definitions, yes. But then again a Breach Demon uses Soul Magic to destroy human souls and conjure demons in their place, and the Converter Angel converts people to the Will of Celes. Incani transform people into demons when they go to war, and humans annihilate incani souls when they can. The Life Binder transforms people into new forms all the time. The Necromancers of Songli summon the dead back to life for bureaucratic purposes.” Zolan said, “By comparison: your [Reincarnation] and [Blessing of Empathy] have already proven themselves as boons of unparalleled opportunity and growth. While this… particular application of this magic leaves a bad taste, personally I feel it is better than the alternative, when the alternative is total war with potentially hundreds of thousands dead and an end to the chance to reach new worlds.” Zolan said, “You are a good man, Erick. You are the treaty which will bind the world together to a better future, and if some people have to be transformed to make that future happen, then that is for the best.”

Erick was still having trouble with the whole idea, though.

Zolan added, “Perhaps you should involve the people from Gambler’s Rest in these sorts of decisions, then. Perhaps the opinions of locals on what needs to be done to the people in power will either assuage or confirm your fears.”

Erick almost groaned. “Yes. Yes. I should do that, shouldn’t I— I got… I got caught up.” He looked to Zolan. “That place is worse than anywhere else I have ever seen on Veird except for Ar’Kendrithyst when the Shades were active.”

Zolan raised an eyebrow. “Then you’ve never been to Continental Nergal? The Fractured Citadels? Some of the worse-off places in Nelboor?”

“Not fully, but yes I have, at least a little. And yet! On a ratio of bad things happening per night, based on last night: Yes, Zolan. The Sovereign Cities were worse than almost anywhere else that I have ever personally seen. I held back from doing everything I could have done at the Cities last night, but I could have done a lot.” Erick said, “I saw hard drugs in their markets; not blue weed, but fang snapper and illusion’s grace for sure. I healed tens of people who would have died from overdose. I saw flags of the Cinnabar Hand in some underground hideaways; the same Hunters who targeted Spur, who helped Caradogh Pogi to kill the Farms. I found face stealers in the process of stealing faces. I saw… I saw a lot. A lot of things that Harridon and Bobbi and everyone else didn’t even talk about yesterday, and I have no idea why. Probably just because there was too much to talk about.”

Zolan showed no surprise at all as Erick spoke of drugs and Hunters. He simply said, “Whatever you do to the Cities you’re likely going to want to repeat with the slavers of Continental Nergal, and the necromancers of the Citadels, and with all the other terrible little murderous clans hiding out in Nelboor who have nothing to do with the Darkness at all. I advise you to consider that you are stretching yourself too thin, and that if you continue, you might break. I also reinforce your decision to use this newfound information and talk to the Dicers again, to get a better understanding of what you saw.”

“… You’re right, of course.” Erick looked to Zolan. “I still can’t believe that you’re okay with this soul magic?”

Zolan nodded. “I am very okay with righting the wrongs of this world. I believe you will find that many others will feel the same way. And [Reincarnation] is wonderful, Erick. I trust you with that spell, perhaps more than anyone else I could think of, and all the soul scans agree that my stance has nothing to do with the fact that I’ve been [Reincarnation]ed.” He added, “But, if you think that simply shifting someone’s soul toward a better future is going to solve the problems of the Cities, then perhaps… Perhaps it might, but perhaps we will be in the Cities for a long time to come, no matter the outcome of this war.”

- - - -

“Thanks for coming, Harridon, Glorida, Bobbi,” Erick said, seated on his side of the meeting space.

It was just them; no one else.

Harridon was dressed in the same bright red conjured armor he had been wearing in public, ever since the Sovereign Cities’ declaration of war. Glorida was in yellow, and Bobbi was wearing his fishbowl hat again. A lot of the Dicers had been prepared for something awful to happen, and so they also wore [Conjure Armor]. Harridon’s helmet was off to the side at the moment, but Glorida and Bobbi still wore theirs.

With a stern face, Harridon said, “We are grateful for the chance to right the wrongs of the Cities, right alongside you, Wizard Flatt. If you have demands of us, we should hear all of them so that we can fulfill them to the best of our abilities.”

Glorida and Bobbi let Harridon speak for them.

Erick nodded, saying, “Heard and understood. For now, your power would be best spent protecting Gambler’s Rest.”

Harridon’s face fell.

Glorida spoke up, “We can fight, sir! We know the land! We know the enemies. We can help you win this and ensure that a new breed of Cities rises from the ashes of the old!”

Harridon said, “As you can see, our people are ready to fight as soon as we have a vector of attack.”

Bobbi simply nodded.

All three of them were of the same mind; that they wanted to be involved in the overthrow of the Sovereign Cities.

Erick decided to just tell them, “You should know that I began the counter offensive last night, and have run into no issues so far. Barely any response, either, except for taunting letters.”

Harridon’s entire self brightened as his eyes went wide. Glorida and Bobbi had the same reaction. But then Erick spoke of ‘barely any response’, and all three went from hopeful to concerned.

“Pardon me for my questions, but…” Harridon asked, “Which royalty is dead?”

“None. They’re all still alive. I did save about 2,000 lives though, through the stopping of violent muggings and other such crimes, most of which I don’t feel like getting into.”

Harridon and Glorida had no response to that, except to lose all hope.

Bobbi spoke up, “So you did nothing.”

And that, right there, was very telling; especially when Harridon and Glorida seemed to share that sentiment.

Erick said, “You have explained how you began your rebellion, by creating stone houses outside of the cities and when they were attacked, you retaliated. But I wish to know if any of your Dicers attempted a different sort of war; one of winning the people over, first. Because I have run into a rare phenomenon; anything done against the common person is completely overlooked by those in charge.” Erick deposited the letters from the royalty of the Cities onto the tea table between their seats, saying, “Go ahead and read these.”

The three Dicers hesitantly began reading the letters.

Bobbi spoke as he picked up the one from North Curio, saying, “Of course they don’t care if you save the lives of nobodies.”

Glorida almost said something, but she was deep in the letter from Charme.

The three Dicers read the letters, and not a single one of them looked surprised. Erick waited until they were finished with all five.

And then Erick said, “So I have a plan. Tell me what you think of it: If I simply help people every single night, and stay out of the way of the Royalty, what will happen?”

Bobbi scrunched his face. Glorida frowned.

Harridon said, “But then nothing changes.” He rapidly added, “And the royalty will come after you eventually. This is the same sort of thing that Wellwisher tried to do in the beginning; help people.”

“Ah. But see? I simply want to help people, and I am not actually making any stone cities in those lands.” Erick was not going to tell them about the [Reincarnation]s and the [Blessing of Empathy]; not yet. He would let them think what they wanted to think. “My goal is not to overthrow anyone, even if they truly deserve it, but to change the world. And that comes through calculated assassination, yes, but your nation is much worse off than a few hundred assassinations could possibly fix. I deposited several tons of whiteroot and other non-perishable foods into starving households all across the land. I put out fires. I went after killers and rapists. And that was just one night of work.”

Glorida frowned a little, saying, “The people will take those gifts of food and burn them.”

Erick smirked a little, saying, “Ah! But they haven’t. Sure. Some did. But a lot of others just took the gifts and told their kids not to say anything.”

Glorida fell silent.

Harridon said, “It still won’t work. They won’t care for the good you do for them. They’re throw it back in you face and tell you to fuck off.”

Erick nodded. “That happened a lot, yes. Still gonna do it, though.”

Harridon had no idea what to do with that.

Bobbi did. “You still need to kill the royalty eventually. Even better if you could time it right with a groundswell of real support for yourself and truly overthrow the whole system.”

Glorida whispered, mostly to herself, “Wellwisher tried to do that.”

Harridon said, “Wellwisher tried to do a lot of good things, and he died for it. You might have a better go of it since you have true power. I would seek to serve this overturn of the Cities. Use me in whatever way you need, Wizard Flatt, for I wish to see my Cities free of tyranny.”

