Erick’s side of the battle managed to save some of the opposing army before they fully took in those Elixirs, which was entirely thanks to dragons who could use their claws to rip open soldiers and forcefully remove the antirhine potions before they had a chance to really settle in. Goldie did her part, too, forcefully cutting out stomachs and intestinal tracts with the speed and precision of a wartime surgeon.

A lot of people on Erick’s side had to leave, though. The wrought all left, blipping away as fast as they could, for antirhine was almost always a death sentence for people made of metal. Even Kromolok had to vacate the field once the true depths of the City’s willingness to harm their own people for victory stood revealed, though he did maintain coordination efforts as best he could.

No one from Erick’s side of the battle died. There wasn’t even a single injury.

But even with Quilatalap pulling [True Resurrection] duty, and forcefully bringing back people who were mutilated to get rid of the antirhine…

Only 68 City soldiers survived the battle. All of those soldiers were now resting at the Gate District. Erick would get to their actual transformations later. He would not suffer zealots like that to exist as they were; he would have to change them.

But he already knew that, he supposed.

And suddenly, almost as fast as it began, the battle to the death was over.

Erick’s side had won, because none of his people died at all, and some of the Elixir’d soldiers…

They had been beyond saving.

- - - -

Upon a field of gore, Erick stood with Quilatalap, flanked by dragons. Half of Erick’s side had fled once the Elixirs came out, which was completely understandable. Erick didn’t blame Kromolok for evading certain death, and the man had still coordinated the ‘battle’ from the backlines.

Ha!

‘Battle’.

What a joke. It was an extreme rescue sortie against belligerent patients who were trying to kill their doctors—

King Killtree appeared in a flicker of red light, just beyond where the City army had once stood. His voice boomed across the field, “We gladly give our lives so that we might kill that which would kill us all! Now that we have all seen exactly what sort of depredations a Wizard can concoct, tomorrow’s battle will be much more decisive, Erick Flatt, consort of Darkness Itself!”

Erick spoke, “I have won this battle tonight, so in the effort of bringing peace instead of more war, I offer the Sovereign Cities an out. NOTE! Not the Kings, not the Queen! Not the royalty at all. I offer this to the nobles of your lands! We need not continue this war. We need not escalate this war. All you must do is submit your royalty to my spellwork, and you will spare the rest of your Cities from my magics.”

Small laughter erupted from the platforms holding the spectators from the Cities.

… Of course they weren’t going to accept the offer.

But Erick had needed to try, right?

King Killtree, the violent, red-haired, red Force Armored man, laughed once, and then again for effect, before saying, “Look upon the Wizard who tries to divide the world into conquerable parts! Know this, Wizard! The Sovereign Cities will always stand against your evil.” He looked to the others with Erick, adding, “We hope that the good people on your side will see you for your evil and step up and kill you themselves, for it would surely save this world a Sundering… But I don’t see many good people on your side. The wrought fled when they saw your evilness! Now all you have are dragons of your own make, people twisted by your magics and by the magics of Ar’Cosmos, and a Shade and the Archlich of Necromancy! The world sees you, Wizard! We will kill you when—”

Quilatalap had cast a spell, enveloping only Erick and himself.

There, in the middle of a tyrant dictator’s speech, with blood underfoot and dead bodies and parts of bodies scattered on the field, there was a small spot of timelessness. Nothing moved outside of Quilatalap and Erick’s little space.

And Erick was so very thankful for the break.

His hands shook with rage. His heart thrummed with hate. He looked up to Quilatalap, and said, “Thank you. I was losing it.”

Quilatalap reached out to Erick, his hand open and inviting. “Yeah. Me too.”

Erick took Quilatalap’s hand, briefly squeezing. He smiled softly. “Ahh…” He looked down at the ripped up ground under his hovering feet. At the blood and the… The half a hand down there, laying on the edge of a crater. “… This is a lot.”

Quilatalap smiled, also squeezing softly. “Your horns are showing.”

Erick instantly released Quilatalap’s hand and touched his head. He felt horns; three of them on each side of his head, like a minor crown. “Fuck!” He tried pushing them back but they were not going. “Fuck. Okay. Okay—”

“They mostly came out after I put up the [Time Stop].” Quilatalap said, “A few people noticed some black spikes in your hair, but it’s not a big deal.”

Erick sighed, still trying to force the horns inward. “It is a big deal, though… I didn’t even show you my form and you guessed I look like Melemizargo based on my horns. And instantly, too! Gods above this is going to be another fucking nightmare.” He scowled across the field at King Killtree. “Asshole would have a parade over this.”

“Well I think your horns are hot.” Quilatalap smirked. “But I’m not most people, so you’re probably right. Also, this spell will last us another 10 minutes, so… What do you want to do here?”

“… Well. The people on the Platforms are not wearing antirhine shit, and King Killtree certainly isn’t, so I’m thinking I end this problem right now. [Slowing Enclosure]s all around. Take them all out so they don’t get a chance to go to proper war when I’m not prepared for it.”

“It’s gonna get messy if you do that.”

Erick had finally got his horns to stay hidden.

So now, he simply thought.

Weighing options. Calculating mana costs. Considering lesser paths of war… And then throwing out those options.

“… What’s the worst you think they’re capable of, in reprisal?”

“There are a few magics out there that are not Banned or Sealed or Forgotten Campaigned because they’re too crucial to how Veird functions. If they know these magics, they could do some true damage.” Quilatalap said, “Destruction Magic, for one. A properly tuned [Cleanse] can kill most people right away, eating through 10,000 Health and then the targeted person in a matter of moments. Then there are binary and ternary Decay Magics, and those get nasty. They could have dosed you with one of them while you weren’t looking, and then they send out the activation magics and suddenly you’re dead. That particular way of murder got a lot easier with the advent of Particle Magic. It’s rather rare, but… It’s still possible. Then you got Antirhine Elixir that they could dump all over Candlepoint which could be a problem. Elixir moves a lot better than dust.” He gestured to the land around them, saying, “This whole place is now condemned due to all the Elixir these people used, and which we ripped out of them. The small splashes of silver and all those infected stomachs don’t look like much now, but it will spread with rain.”

Erick’s heart sank.

And then Erick steeled his heart. “I’m not living in fear. I’m ending this now— Wait. I have a better idea. Give me a second to compose a telepathic letter... and… Okay. Unless Kromolok’s response is to tell me to not do this, and that we need another way, then I will be ending this now. Drop the [Time Stop].”

Quilatalap smiled as he looked down at Erick. He turned his attention back to the battlefield, saying, “You’re pretty great, Erick.”

“You are too!”

“Heh. Thanks.”

Quilatalap cut the [Time Stop].

Erick sent out his message to Kromolok.

Killtree gave a few more insults. He spoke of evils and some such shit—

Kromolok sent, ‘We’re with you, Erick. End this threat, and then we’re moving on to all the Cities. There will be no more polite battles.’

For a brief moment, Erick foresaw what was to come.

And then lancing beams of light cut through Killtree, incinerating him mid-speech.

People screamed.

And Goldie released her [Teleport Lock] aura, the divine power of the Dark, ensuring that none escaped.

Most people lived, but not as who they were. They were now new people, with new priorities in their life.

Instead of ‘getting theirs / fuck everyone else’ and ‘doping bread with drugs to make addicts out of customers’ and ‘raping prisoners of war’, they now desired to ‘help their fellow man through all the hard times’ and ‘ensure orphans got enough good, clean food’ and ‘clean up the environment’.

As the world fractured under the power of [Reincarnation], and many of Erick’s allies watched him work his magic, Erick found out a lot of facts about a lot of people he would rather have not known, but which he could not turn a blind eye to, anymore. Secrets spilled into the open. Horrors of what people already were, and small slivers of what they could be, if things had been different.

These people were users of the worst sort.

Oddities stood out, of course.

The royals of the Cities were easy to capture. Surprisingly easy. That was a red flag. The reasons for that were revealed when Erick fractured the world with [Reincarnation], and discovered the ‘royals’ fates were that of servants.

The King of Charme was an actor from a playhouse, according to all the stage plays in his fractured future. The Queen of Pearl was a handmaiden to the real Queen. The stand-ins for Sook and Xaro were both guards in their respective Cities. Erick had no ‘King Killtree’ to check, for that man was now dust in the wind.

Which meant the real royals, each of them with a Domain, were also sort of dust in the wind.

They would show up when they wanted to. Maybe even King Killtree had been some sort of stand-in.

For now, Erick and his people advanced on the Sovereign Cities, one at a time.

They started with Killtree.
