There were quite a few private offers from certain peoples that Erick could use if he took the field himself, too. Like Head Inquisitor Kromolok’s offer of providing Mind Mage services in the battle, along with a host of other benefits.

The dark-skinned woman stared at Erick, gauging him as she asked, “What happens when you win this war and they sue for peace? What does that outcome look like to you?”

“I have a plan for that, and it mostly comes down to having every single noble over there voluntarily accept a [Blessing of Empathy].”

“… That will make actual peace rather difficult.” Mox said, “If this war is truly a machination for the royalty to dispose of their problematic elements, then they will not accept you enacting your will directly onto them.”

“Yup! I expect it. But then again, peace is only possible when all the tyrants are dead, so it’s fine if they don’t agree to my demands.” Erick shrugged. “I fully expect this to fall apart either during the first battle, or afterward.”

“Then I would make a suggestion, which requires you to remain out of the battle yourself.”

“… I’ll hear it, because you deserve that much respect and more. But unless it’s a really good reason then I don’t see myself changing my mind, because I’m the only one who can [Reincarnation] a person, and that magic must be done as a part of the battle itself, in order to remain within the rules set forth by ‘Polite War Etiquette, First Edition’. Otherwise we’re back at open war.”

Mox’s suggestion was simple. “Someone must oversee the battle from our side, to ensure that the rules of engagement are followed. Like with that Polite Battle you saw over in Songli; hundreds of people not involved in the actual battle showed up in order to keep the fight contained to the field, and to threaten true reprisal should the outcome not be honored. Of course, then the Chelation War happened.” Mox said, “But still, the world is watching, my king. And you must act like the person you are, now more than ever. You must allow a polite war to happen, and you must oversee that war with absolute authority on our side in case the other side brings dishonor to the battle.”

“… You have a lot of good points but I’m still going to take the field. It’s the only way to have Ophiel on the field. It’s the only way to [Blessing of Empathy] the defeated, and I’ll even offer them [Reincarnation]s; I won’t force that on them. Poi was very right about the importance of choice.”

Mox thought Erick was being absolutely foolish—

“I am a dragon, and a Wizard, and I have enough personal defenses—”

“Defenses won’t matter in the face of antirhine weaponry, or Dragon Hunters, or some other esoteric way to kill people. You are not invincible, Erick. While I will respect your decision, I need you to know that you are not invincible, and I worry.”

Erick smiled softly. “It’ll be fine. Besides; I will not send my people to war without being right there with them.”

Mox said nothing more against that, though she dearly wanted to.

- - - -

Time marched on.

Sunset came to the Sovereign Cities, and so did the volunteer forces of House Benevolence.

Erick and his people had managed to cobble together a working army from hundreds of volunteers, which, if Erick had had more time, he would have personally thanked every single one of them down on that field. Erick also would have dwelt on exactly how absolutely fantastic it made him feel to know, absolutely, that his people were with him. Not everyone was here, of course. Zolan and the Overseers were not here on the battlefield with Erick. Kiri was not on the battlefield, because Erick specifically disallowed her. Poi and Teressa weren’t on the battlefield for the same reason. Poi, Kiri, and Teressa, were behind the field, far away and inside a protective enclosure, cast by Kirginatharp, the Second to Rozeta.

A lot of people stood behind Erick, forming a massive backbone of support. Kirginatharp was only one of the people back there. There was also Queen Strelkova Stratagold, alongside Silverite and others. Many people from Treehome showed up, including Archmage Syllea, and a few of the leaders of the various clans. Weirdly enough, Nirzir Void Song had shown, alongside a few others from Songli. Erick was glad to see the young girl again, and he was even happier to see that she was only vaguely still attracted to him; she had killed that emotion as best she could.

As for the people actually on the field with Erick? The Inquisitor of Rozeta, Kromolok, stood beside him; he would form the Mind Mage support for the battle, acting as a temporary general. He had already pledged his support for every single one of these battles. The two of them had had a long talk about what Erick wanted to do to the defeated soldiers of the Sovereign Cities, and since it wasn’t Mind Control, and since Erick would be giving them options of [Reincarnation] in addition to the forced [Blessing of Empathy], then Kromolok was… Not fine with it. But it was what it was, and the Cities were fighting to the death anyway, which was already a horrible breach of polite war etiquette. Like most wrought when it came to decisions of this sort of magnitude, Kromolok chose to remain neutral since Erick had already proven himself a hundred times over.

Maybe widespread [Blessing of Empathy]s would work out well, too.

Quilatalap also stood beside Erick, and Erick was very thankful for that. Quilatalap was his backup support to ensure no one died.

Tasar the Summoner stood on Erick’s other side. The black and green, adamantium and copper woman held her usual black staff, with her blackberry-like Familiar stationed on the top of that staff. Erick had briefly asked Tasar if she had had any luck with making a Familiar like Ophiel, but she had not, though teaching Kiri had been wonderful, too. Erick was glad for that.

Goldie was beside him, too, though she was behind and in the wind… somewhere.

All of the rest of Erick’s forces were people he knew from here or there. 39 of them were dragons. They were already uncoiled into their pastel, Benevolence-lightning-wreathed draconic forms, each of them 30 to 60 meters long, and gently floating over the grasses.

Then there were Mox’s personal family of airy assassins.

The bulk of Erick’s humanoid-shaped forces were warriors from Weald, who were originally from Ar’Cosmos.

And finally, there was a small contingent of wrought inquisitors who came along with Head Inquisitor Kromolok, to provide further coordination support.

And that was the side of House Benevolence, standing or floating on their side of grassy plains.

It wasn’t a perfect system of soldiers who had lived and worked with each other, who knew how to fight around one another because they had been doing it for so long. But Erick had Kromolok and the people who had come along with him; enough Mind Mage-capable people could fix the organization of any army, even one thrown together from volunteers in the last few hours.

Still, though, Erick’s side looked like a hodgepodge of people and forces.

The Sovereign Cities had obviously been preparing for this for a lot longer.

The Cities fielded regimented troops, each of their hundred people decked out in real armor, layered with spellwork. Some of those people looked dangerous… In any other situation, anyway. Certainly not in this situation.

Behind the Cities’ army, in the distance, floated Platforms filled with people, with giant banners floating above them, like waving flags. Each of those platforms was about half a kilometer away from each other, and each of them were a different color, denoting the City they belonged to.

There were other factions at play besides the Cities, though, including a platform for the Dragon Stalkers, and, strangely enough, a platform for Terror Peaks.

Erick had no fucking clue who the fuck was here from Terror-fucking-Peaks, but the only people on the platform were some kids, barely 16. Maybe not even Matriculated yet. A few kids were even younger than that. Were they the kids that Songli had tried to wrangle, but couldn’t, because the kids had tried to kill their caretakers? Yes. Probably. 99% chance.

Well that fucking sucked.

The entire culture of Terror Peaks was about hiding in wait until they were strong enough to come back from the dead and murder whoever they could murder. And yet. They were kids!

Erick thought that leaving the kids alive had been the right move!

Fuck!

There was also a bonfire of white wood, with an effigy of Erick burning atop that pyre. And a band, and choir. They were singing a song of death to all wizards. Little kids! 12-14! Singing about dismembering Erick and feeding his parts to the dogs!

“Un-fucking-believable,” Erick muttered.

“What part upsets you the most?” Quilatalap asked, his voice not at all kind. He was angry at the Cities, too. “For me, it’s that platform with the crossed shield.”

Erick looked at that platform. “I don’t even know what that is. Nor do I know what the burning book means on that other platform… And that platform with the banner with the burning orb is new to me, too. Lotta new people who hate me, I guess.” He frowned. “Who are the crossed shield people?”

“I told you once that Sumtir killed most of himself to be let onto Veird in the Sundering?” Quilatalap inclined his head toward the platform with the crossed shield. “That’s the Church of Original War; the people who descended from the original version of Sumtir.”

“… Never heard of them. Sorry, Quilatalap.”

“Ehhh. They’re warmongers of the worst kind. And I guess I don’t have a problem with these people; I killed all the ones I had actual problems with a thousand years ago.”

Erick looked over—

Kromolok spoke, “It’s time, if you would have it be time.”

Erick froze. And then he thawed. “Ah. Okay.”

Kromolok explained, “They’re singing that song to add insult, but they’ll send out a speaker as soon as either you or someone else from this side walks forward. If you do not, then they’ll continue to sing even worse songs. Do you want me to speak for this side? Or would you like to do that yourself?”

“Thank you for volunteering, Kromolok, and for coming out to support us. But I will speak for this coalition.”

Kromolok nodded.

Erick sent a pair of Ophiel forward, one of them fluffing up large, the other staying small. Both were arrayed with all the protective magics Erick could muster.

Suddenly, the singers and the band from the Cities went silent. The burning effigy of Erick continued to burn. The people on Charme’s platform, Pearl’s platform, and North Curio’s platform, all continued to drink their wine, though, like they were simply getting in the proper mood for blood sports. South Curio was doing hard drugs instead. Killtree was ready for war; for Erick to step out of line and to start killing.

But no one would be dying here today if Erick could help it.

Each army was a kilometer apart.

Ophiel flew to the center point between the armies.

From the gathered army of the Cities came a woman, floating on light. She wore the same armor as all her people; strong silver stuff, and heavily enchanted. Or maybe she was just using a low-level aura. Hard to tell right now. She also had a dagger of antirhine on her belt, and now that Erick was looking for it, he noticed the same dagger on the belts of every single City soldier. Her sword also had an antirhine core, running down the whole length of the blade.

… And that was supposed to help them?

Like. Sure. Antirhine would disrupt spellwork and make capturing-not-killing every single soldier tougher, but not impossible. Not at all.

The woman and Ophiel floated next to each other.

The woman spoke with authority, “Death to all Wizards. We will not suffer a Wizard to live.”

Erick responded through Ophiel, “There will be no death today, whoever you are. I don’t know what you intend to do with all the antirhine, but perhaps you should not do whatever you are planning, and accept that I will be Empathy-ing all of you today, in order to cease this foolishness in a beneficial manner. If you want I can even [Reincarnation] you and yours, and give you new lives at Candlepoint.”

The woman scowled. “You would like the world to believe you are not the threat that you are, but you can’t fool us, Wizard.” She raised up her dagger, saying, “We drink to the end of Wizardry!”

Time seemed to slow, as Erick’s heart beat hard and he realized the shape of the Cities’ plan right before it happened.

The dagger was not a dagger; it was a flask in the shape of a dagger. The whole thing, ‘sheath’ and all, came off the woman’s belt in one piece. When she uncorked the ‘pommel’ with a flick of her thumb, Erick knew that it was Antirhine Elixir inside that flask.

A few people in the opposing army had already gotten their flasks to their mouths.

The rest were in the process of doing the exact same.

What followed was an absolute cluterfuck that Erick would be dissecting in his mind and with his Overseers and with the other participants in this battle for a long time to come. He had done a bit of pre-game magic crafting in order to make this whole thing easier, but his newly-made [Expandable Slowing Enclosure] was not going to cut it; not against an army of Elixir’d people.

Expandable Slowing Enclosure, instant, close range, 500 + Variable

Minimize the subjective time of a large area to a variable degree, or expand the area of an existing cast. If one section breaks, the spell will contract, and not fully break.

Base version is 1 minute subjective time over 100 hours real time.

500 points of damage to the barrier will break the effect. Always Restful. Always Cleansing.

Erick’s first move was to rapidly move Ophiel into the opposing army and throw out as many Slows as he could.

As areas of Slow wrapped up a lot of people, and parts of people, many remained completely unaffected, due to the copious amounts of antirhine on the field. This led to some people breaking their fellow soldiers out from under Erick’s newest spell, along with a cascade of failures. More people got to drinking their Elixir.

And then there was no easy way to save them all.

Nobles laughed on platforms as they watched Erick and all the rest of House Benevolence and their allies desperately trying not to kill Elixir’d, zealot soldiers, who had very lethal swords in their hands, and who had come to this battle fully ready to die.

