A few hours after that, both the first planetoid and the second one split again, sending off starter colonies into other nearby lights. When the colonies touched the light, they blew away the Red in those lights and became the new mini-suns in that part of the world of Fenrir.

Plan Surround and Consume was active, and working, and it was also destroying a working of Red in those sunlights. Good work, all around.

Erick opened tiny portals into Benevolence itself now and again, to check on those mini-worlds as they grew and thrived under their own rapidly-created life. He found nothing amiss with those lands.

And so, he waited for the other shoe to drop.

He also checked his Status, to make sure he wasn’t under an attack he didn’t see.

Erick Flatt, [100-ish] [Current Location: Layer 789; Veird, year 1453]

Mana split; Soul, Body, Mind: 31%, 30%, 30%

Reson allocation rate: 9%

Soul: 2.23b per day / 25,810 per second , [Mark of Benevolence Level = 2.23]

Body: 3218

Mind: 4723

Overall Stability: ↑↑ [+23,487.1, -33] Basic upkeep

Mp: 351.6t/∞, ↑ [+8,001.1, -11] Basic upkeep

Hp: 349.1t/∞, ↑ [+7,743, -11] Basic upkeep

Pp: 348.9t/∞, ↑ [+7,743, -11] Basic upkeep

Resons: 98.9t [+2,322.9 = +258.1]

Yup; that looked about normal these days.

Erick sent a second glance down to Veird, back down to the northern wing of the Spellsurge Mountains, where Tenebrae and a few others were working to contain and organize the [Spellsurge Weave] map that controlled the [Seeds of Atunir]—

Ah.

And a Future Erick stepped out of the air, to help them.

Current Erick was about to go down there, but he’d keep watch up here for a while…

He looked back down.

“How long do I have to stay up here?”

- - - -

“You stay up there for a while,” Erick said to his Past, of about 20 hours ago. Erick then turned to the room with Atunir, Tenebrae, Rozeta, and Archmage Riivo of Archmage’s Rest, all concentrated on the Weave in front of them. “And I’ll take over from here. So! Guys! There’s a few different attacks coming, and we need to prepare for them all, because in that preparation, they won’t happen.”

Atunir sighed out in relief as she smiled, saying, “It is so nice to have you back as an accomplished Time Wizard, Erick. Loved that thing with the [Animadversion].” She chuckled a little, then admitted, “I was truly worried for a moment there.” Her voice got softer. “Very worried.”

Rozeta had a hollow look in her eyes as she got down to business, saying, “She was not the only one who was worried—”

“I’m not worried now,” Atunir stressed, and then she swept a hand at the glowing map of the expanding [Seeds of Atunir]. “Everything is working out very well out there, and now you’re both out there and in here at the same time. I feel practically young again, Erick, seeing someone step through time so easily. Tell me the problems coming down the line, and allow me to feel joy that this whole thing is going to work out in our complete favor.”

Erick raised an eyebrow at the Goddess of Field and Fertility. “You’re quite peppy right now?”

“I most certainly am! And you should be, too!” Atunir said, “You have no idea how much stress the entire world is under, Erick. So much stress. But now you came in and spent ten hours out there, on your own, fighting the good fight through time itself…” She smiled, and a tiny golden tear formed and then collected in her deep brown eyes. “And I’m rather experiencing a lot of emotions right now.”

She took the drop of gold from her eyes, like plucking a drop of sunlight from the sky, and she flicked the drop into the [Spellsurge Weave] map. That drop struck one of the planetoids out there and then spread like golden light through the spreading spellwork.

Erick couldn’t tell exactly what she had done, but she had just cleared up a good 8 problems that he had foreseen, but which he hadn’t gotten the chance to talk about. He was going to tell them about… well. A bunch of stuff.

Rozeta said, “I’m the Goddess of Knowledge, and you being here is enough to grant me the Knowledge that you want me to have.”

“Ah,” Erick said. “All the gods and Relevant Entities of the Script are in deep communication right now, because that was part of the plan, wasn’t it. I had forgotten about that nuance of this war.”

“You spent a while away, Erick, but now you’re back and stronger than ever,” Atunir said, “And that very presence helps us in turn. The Pantheon has been without any true powers to act on our behalf in… in so long.”

“I’m glad to help,” Erick said, smiling. “I live here too, after all.”

Atunir smiled gently.

“I still have concerns,” Rozeta said. “But yes. We’re all in communication with each other. Everything is working as it should. You leaving was a very big concern, but now you’re back and strong enough to venture outside of the Script without worry, and now we wonder if we should adjust some of our plans. Should we be more aggressive?”

Erick said, “Yes to aggression. It is probably time to talk about killing your alters out there, on Fenrir.”

Rozeta said, “That is one of our main concerns, yes. One among many, really. It has only been a week since we saw Fenrir reveal itself as it currently is.”

Atunir said, “We found out what went wrong with our initial implantation of [Seeds of Me] on Fenrir. We already assumed that he would have some divine assistance to come at us sideways, through an attack based on the nature of mana and divinity itself, and that is exactly what happened there. This larger Plan Surround and Consume is working because it’s taking place outside of Fenrir’s protected space and you’re there to make it actually work, but I can’t plant anything on Fenrir’s surface because… He has a reflection of me down there, Erick. She stopped me.”

Phagar stepped into the meeting, saying, “There are copies of all of us down there.”

Rozeta said, “Everyone except Melemizargo.”

A shadow coiled in the room. Bright white eyes lit up in the gloom, as Melemizargo said, “Of course he doesn’t have me down there.” He looked at Erick. “We need to talk.”

Rozeta sighed. She said to Erick, “We’ll talk about those things later.”

Erick nodded.
