It was like wrestling over the remote control, to decide who got to watch what that day. Nothanganathor started off strong, his control on the Red like an iron grip, but Nothanganathor was fighting from behind the walls of Fenrir, like an older brother stuck with one arm behind his back. Erick pounced, and pried, and then he won. The Red fell out of Nothanganathor’s control, and Erick devoured it.

With the [Seed of Atunir] now protected, Erick rode the spellwork out of the Script, across the void, pulling the spellwork behind him as fast as a single Step. Once at the target, Erick devoured the Red inside the false sun that was their target. Soon, the planetoid of the [Seeds of Atunir] was growing strong, and Erick departed the battlefield to rejoin Veird, flying sedately back to—

Erick was about halfway back to Veird when a faster-than-light arc of Red Lightning was a single meter away from impacting the new planetoid.

The Red lighting hadn’t even gathered from anywhere. It had simply appeared.

And then Erick saw where it was gathering. Down below, on the Edge of Fenrir’s ‘Script’, Red Sparks were crowding out the clouds hanging above that Script.

This, then, was a Wizardry, and also a danger, because it looked like an act of corruption. Divorcing cause from effect was one of the most obvious ways that corruption happened, but small applications of such power was just what wizards did sometimes. The fact that the Red Lightning was also still gathering on that Red Edge of Fenrir, even as it almost impacted the new planetoid, was maybe corruption, or maybe not. It was an attack out of sync with time, whatever it was, causing an effect before the cause actually happened, doing everything at the same instant.

Erick saw Red Lightning just appear with the forward arc of it almost touching down onto an illuminated spire of the Seed world. That Lightning was as thick as five spires; kilometers across.

Erick watched a Future Erick in his draconic body step into the path of the Red Lightning and attempt to devour it—

The Red tore right through him and then into the planet below.

“Ouch,” Erick and his Future self both said, though Future Erick said it more like a dying man.

Which was kinda scary, really.

And then his Future Self vanished, for Erick had chosen not to take that route.

He had ripped the loop.

The universe ripped a little bit in turn, as one does when one switches slices of Infinity. In one slice of Infinity Erick got hurt, while in this one Erick chose differently. It was less an action of him stepping out of the Godpact slice, though, and more of him pushing the bad future away from his chosen battleground. Erick remained on the Godpact slice, and all failures fell away.

Such was the nature of a Wizard War, though Erick could only really see the mechanics of it all now that he was a higher existence.

Erick stepped back in time and this time, instead of standing in the way of the Red Lightning, he pulled at the Benevolence of the planetoid, rapidly drawing on the nascent gate space he had worked into the magic, allowing him to open a giant portal that would swallow the Red and spit it out the other side, neatly avoiding striking the planetoid at all.

And then the Red did something weird. This time, it did not simply appear. This time, it acted like it should have, with cause creating effect.

All across Fenrir’s local ‘Edge of the Script’ —Erick was going to need to think of a better name for it— Red Sparks gathered. From thousands upon thousands of kilometers of open sky, Red Lightning twisted into being, and then struck through the void, almost crawling now that it wasn’t moving faster than reality.

Erick watched himself from a few thousand kilometers away as the Red Lightning —Primal Lightning, no doubt— tried to curve around Erick’s current position, to strike the planetoid.

Erick simply widened the [Gate].

The Red Lightning went through, and then beyond, sparking off into the void, trailing off and never stopping, though it did unwind here and there now that it was beyond its strike-range. The spellwork scattered into so much Malevolence that then burrowed into Infinity, vanishing from sight.

Erick closed the [Gate].

He eyed Fenrir’s Edge of the… Hmm.

Erick wasn’t going to call it Fenrir’s Script.

“Fenrir’s ‘System’? … Not that either... But it was a system of spellwork that Solomon laid down to make the land make land, until Nothanganathor took it over— Oh! Fenrir’s ‘Scheme’! That’s what we’ll call it. Fenrir’s Scheme.” Erick flew through the void, toward Veird, openly thinking, “Or maybe someone else came up with a better name—”

The solidity of time suddenly shifted when Erick was halfway to Veird, for something had surrounded the nearest thousand kilometers of space and then altered the flow of time within Erick’s vicinity.

It was an application of the basic idea of Veird’s own Plan Surround and Consume, of simply acting from a higher physical position against an opponent in a lower, smaller position. The FENRIR system was Veird’s initial idea to regain the upper hand against Nothanganathor in that very same way. The Fusion Energy Nullification Radiance Impounding Relay did exactly as it said on the tin, but Nothanganathor had corrupted it to his own ends, and now he regained the upper hand, which was how he had been able to shoot that Primal Lightning at the recent Seeds of Atunir planetoid, and do all the rest of the shit he had been able to do these last years.

Nothanganathor’s entire shtick was that he was the Arbiter of Veird, and he acted from the sun, to form the heliosphere that had originally dominated Veird, to have the true upper hand through sheer size.

That was how Nothanganathor had initially fought Erick, back when he Ascended to True Wizard, and he had been trying to escape the Erased One, to escape the trap the leviathan had made for him.

So Erick wasn’t too surprised when a thousand kilometers out from his current form, the universe twisted, and Erick’s bit of reality slipped out of alignment with the massive [Hasted Shelter] that had enveloped Veird, and which Fenrir had matched. Nothanganathor hadn’t actually done anything to Erick in that action. He had removed Erick from a magic that Erick had been participating in.

It was a rather soft application of power that didn’t even come into contact with Erick’s own strength. It just undid the [Haste] around him at a vast, vast distance.

Time sped up out there.

Erick saw wars rage across the heavens in a fraction of a second, as Valkyries went out and died and the Red-infected people of Fenrir zipped in large ships up to Veird to attack—

“Well that’s enough of that.”

Erick stepped back in time, to stand directly onto the Edge of Veird, and stare at his former location up in the sky, between Veird and the new planetoid. For a long moment, he watched himself be stuck in the bubble of non-hasted time, far, far away. That Past Erick out there would be stuck out there for practically years, according to the time flow in here. But yeah. That wasn’t happening.

That bubble of non-[Hasted] time collapsed as though it had never happened, because Erick had escaped to prevent everything that Erick would have seen come to pass out there. Were the Valkyries going to fail? Were ships from Fenrir going to attack Veird? Not on his watch, and Erick was here on watch, for sure.

Standing atop the Edge of the Script, Erick faced Fenrir and openly tsk’d at Nothanganathor, saying, “Obviously I could have simply stepped over to Veird and not have left myself vulnerable out there to that trick at all, so it seems unwise that you deployed that magic. Did you simply feel the need to dominate, in any way you could? Or was it more of a ‘well he’s there, and I gotta try’ sort of situation? I’m glad to have baited out that attack, either way. Great work.”

Red sparked across the Edge of the Scheme, far, far away.

Ah.

Erick’s taunt was too much?

Ha!

Primal Lightning gathered at the Edge of the Scheme, a moon-length away, and then it twisted into direction, into force. It was like a river of Red Lightning as it lifted off of Fenrir. That Red came for Erick, and for Veird behind him.

Erick imagined that Rozeta was having a traumatic episode right now, right alongside a great deal of other immortals down below.

But on Veird, this close to Erick’s established Gate Networks…

Erick could have simply opened a [Gate] all across Veird, but… No. Erick changed his tactic at the last moment.

He did not open a [Gate]. Nothanganathor probably wanted to surprise him with a trick to use against a [Gate], but Erick had some tricks of his own. Instead, Erick began weaving a spell, and then he stepped through time, yet again, and then again and again and again and again.

A hundred Ericks stood in the skies of Veird, just beyond the Script, not impacting the Godpact at all as they spoke in unison and also in sequence.

“[Animadversion].”

It was barely a working of Wizardry, and yet, it was still Wizardry, with inspiration taken from the Lightning Shield that Erick had once held in his hands, which helped protect him while he learned the truth of the Red. He also took inspiration from his own time guarding the universe from corruption, and acting with his own selves on Earth, a few times. Erick did not discard these futures all around him; no. He empowered them through his own actions as he worked methodically, and strongly.

He paced every version of himself as he handed off spellwork to himself, weaving threads of thorny silver Elemental Reflection across the entirety of Veird, like the biggest basket that Veird had ever seen. The threads of Animadversion were thin things, like wires, with thousands of kilometers between individual threads. This allowed the people on Veird to see outward, but the thread would still protect them from the Red, because Animadversion was a proactive, mobile spell; it would move to intercept what it needed to intercept.

Primal Lightning attempted to crash against the original Erick that had started the working.

But the threads of [Animadversion] bunched up, in the sky around Erick, multiplying themselves ten thousandfold and dominating the space between Erick and the Red. The silver threads thickened and turned thorny, right as the Lightning came.

The lightning hit the silver thorns, and then did not reflect.

It was swallowed whole, and Erick smiled.

Nothanganathor wasn’t the only one that could do a trick.

The spellwork did not actually absorb the spellwork, though. It reflected it Elsewhere, through Infinity, into another land, where a leviathan coiled on the sun. Erick caught a glimpse of black things among the reflection; of Nothanganathor’s backlit body against a nuclear furnace. The Primal Lightning went all the way back to Nothanganathor himself, skipping Fenrir entirely.

And then the Lightning cut off, and Fenrir was fine, and the silver threads of [Animadversion] relaxed back around Erick, to settle back down like loose, disintegrating threads upon Veird, their power spent, the spell ended. Nothanganathor probably got a new tiny burn against his scales, which was expected. Or maybe nothing happened at all.

Erick watched his Future Selves weaving magic for a little while, to see that they had all contributed a bit toward making this present a reality. There had been a contest of wills, for sure. Current Erick barely felt that contest, now that there were so many of him working together.

It was time for Current Erick to become those Futures selves, though.

Erick Stepped through time and set up next to himself, to pull at threads of [Animadversion] and extend them out to other Future Ericks further along the Edge of the Script, and in time.

Erick watched Primal Lightning descend on Veird a thousand times that day. Mostly, he reinforced the [Animadversion] when the Red tried to corrupt it. Or rather, ‘corrupt’ it. Erick was 100% sure that Nothanganathor had only taken inspiration from corruption to make Malevolence, but Malevolence wasn’t actually corruptive though it certainly looked like it was now and then.

In a thousand ways, in the opening of the return stroke against the sun, Erick locked eyes with Nothanganathor in those fractions of a second, and he told that Red bastard,

“No.”

When Erick’s 10 hour long battle ended, he was down a few million mana and resons, which was rather acceptable. He had trillions to spend, after all, and if he needed more he could just take a break somewhere else and wait for it all to come back. Or he could Siphon resources from the [Seeds of Atunir] once they got going.

It still might not be enough.

Nothanganathor was likely harvesting all the mana from all the people on Fenrir, now that it had people, and so if Erick had waited a week to start this attack, then Nothanganathor would have recouped all his own losses to bring all these new people to life and then some. And yet, even before that, the guy probably had quadrillions of mana or more since he had been gathering that mana from Veird and infinity for a long while, so Erick was facing an uphill battle, for sure, but there was no reason to let Nothanganathor establish himself even stronger than he already was.

Erick had time, but not an infinity, even if that’s how this universe was set up. Sooner or later, something important was going to shatter and Erick wouldn’t be exchanging ‘simple’ barbs with Nothanganathor. This war would enter its endgame.

… Probably.

But for whatever reason, as Erick hovered above the Edge of the Script, singular in nature with eyes focused upon Fenrir, another sideways-attack did not come. Erick stood there, like a man guarding a wall… or perhaps like a dragon guarding his hoard. The thieves had stolen into the mountain and pilfered gold, and they had plans to pilfer even more, but now they were rethinking their attack.

Erick waited, there above the Script, for an attack that did not come.

An hour or so later, he turned his eyesight briefly to the left, to watch as the Benevolence planetoid divided into two, like a giant slime that had grown too large, or rather more like a bunch of very complicated plants and water systems and a multitude of life that had been organizing itself for the split for the last little while. Right on cue, the planetoid split, and a second, smaller Benevolence planetoid drifted away, toward another glowing lightorb in the sky. It grew larger before it reached that part of the grid of lights above Fenrir, and right as it impacted the lightorb, it flashed with brilliant Benevolence. The Red core of the second lightorb broke and faltered, dissipating into Infinity, and the new [Seed of Atunir] took its place as a sun in the sky for Fenrir.

