Behind that facade lay massive tunnels, tens of kilometers wide at the largest, and only a kilometer wide at the smallest. Each tube was primed to hold different kinds of magic, while the whole organization was overseen by an archmage, to ensure that the node networks and payloads were all working as they should. This particular location was overseen by Archmage Tenebrae, and his wife, Palodia, both of whom Erick had [Reincarnation]ed a while ago, transforming them from very old human and less old incani, respectively, into teenager orcols. They were now happily married, and Tenebrae had some new [Familiar]s, like the Rockys that had come before him, but very young.

The tube they had used to fire the [Seeds of Atunir] seemed to have acquired a melting problem, and Tenebrae’s ‘Rocklings’ were rushing around the glowing hot stone mountain, putting magma-fied walls back into place and strengthening the node network, which had overloaded. Those little rock dudes didn’t seem to mind the quartz-melting temperatures of the place, which was pretty good for them. No one else could enter the disturbed land.

The various rank and file people of this Spellsurge installation were busy in the command center or in the back end, putting node networks back into place that had blown like fuses, and restocking mana batteries of various kinds.

The actual [Spellsurge Weave] that controlled the planetoid overhead seemed to be doing just fine, even though all the tech hooked up to that floating, magic map seemed to indicate that there had been a lot of massive problems. Readouts blinked red here and there, but those red warnings were calming down, back to white. They had done tests with this stuff, but obviously not any large tests. This was the first real test of the system, and the problems encountered in the first real test of the system were rapidly being solved and becoming a memory...

Erick glanced up at the sky and watched as Future Erick wrangled with the new planetoid, bolstering it and doubling its size through the furious growth of the bamboo.

Erick nodded. He saw the work he had to do, and he would do that work later.

Between adventuring and working, Erick much preferred working. ‘Working’ was just something you did to make the world a better place. Work was easy, and most of the time Erick enjoyed his work. ‘Adventuring’ was fraught with peril and the baked-in idea that you might not survive the adventure. Like, sure. There was some danger coming up ahead in this battle with Nothanganathor, and Erick had no idea how the whole ‘Nothanganathor is already the God of Magic in the future’-thing would pan out, but he was seeing work ahead of him; not some grand adventure.

Yggdrasil spoke up, “It seems to be going well? The mountains melted a little when that much power flowed through them, but that was a normal sort of accident, and Tenebrae is already repairing them.”

“Any clue how Nothanganathor is keeping his Red out there invisible and ready? Is he really aura-controlling everything out there, or is it something simpler? Some tool?” Erick asked, “Is it the Whirlpool? Solomon prepared against that with that Ocean Calmer he pulled out of the Black Gate, but does the Whirlpool perhaps have a calmer setting besides ‘destroy everything’?”

The Whirlpool was supposed to be a multi-world destruction artifact that was responsible for the collapse of some ancient civilization and which made a small part of the Old Cosmology simply uninhabitable. The Sundering maybe could have gathered that artifact and brought it under Nothanganathor’s Sign of Power, but perhaps that wasn’t what was happening here. Nothanganathor would need to be able to turn the Whirlpool off, first of all, and Erick doubted such a thing was possible. The story of the Whirlpool wasn’t something Erick was wholly aware of, or even concerned about, but it was one of many small concerns and perhaps the easiest one to point out as the source of Nothanganathor’s ability to control his aura all the way out here, past Fenrir.

Maybe the Whirlpool didn’t work outside of a mana ocean, and worrying about the Whirlpool was just like worrying over randomly dying while eating dinner, or something? Sure, it could happen, but it wasn’t bloody likely.

Erick wanted the source of Nothanganathor’s power to be a tool that he could steal or break.

That would be nice.

Yggdrasil guessed, “He could have found a version of the Whirlpool that worked selectively instead of one that just turned on and then swept everything away?” He shrugged. “Nothanganathor used everything he ever came across and hoarded a lot more. Sorry.”

“It’s fine.” Erick smiled a little bit and then Erick hugged his son, saying, “I missed you. Is Ophiel around?”

Yggdrasil chuckled onto his father’s shoulder. “I’m glad to see you’re still a hugger after whatever stuff went down beyond the present.” He added, “Ophiel is at the southern Spellsurge Mountains, but mostly he’s with Teressa in Benevolence Itself.”

Erick let go, nodding. “I’ll see them soon, too. Gotta work!”

Yggdrasil smiled.

Erick Stepped over to the mountains before Stepping back in time—

Tenebrae stood right in front of him, looking slightly miffed and with papers in his hands. “He said you’d appear here, but I didn’t rightly believe it.” He shoved the papers against Erick’s chest, saying, “Dammit if I didn’t see it for myself. Get going!”

The rocklings near Tenebrae looked at the ground, speaking at the ground as they said, “Sooooorryy.”

Tenebrae took a much nicer tone with his kids, saying, “You don’t need to apologize to people appearing out of nowhere. They are very rude for doing that.” He looked to Erick. “Aren’t you.”

Erick smiled as he read the papers, saying, “See you earlier~” as he Stepped—

- - - -

Erick Stepped out onto the control chambers of Spellsurge Mountains, Northern Wing, right into the grappling arms of two suddenly-appearing Rocklings. Stone surged around Erick, and Erick let the kids grab him, for they didn’t hurt and Erick didn’t want to hurt them back.

The control center looked the same. Kinda relaxed. It was a mage’s research and control center, after all. Not a military installation; not really. Tenebrae wasn’t a crotchety old man anymore, but he still demanded to be in total control of his own facilities, and this was his facility, completely. It was also the easiest facility for people to abandon if things went wrong, so Tenebrae had gotten the honor of setting up the systems and shooting the first rounds of spells.

While Erick looked around, the rocklings on him roared,

“Halt! Unauthorized entry into a restricted space! You are being detained! Do not resist!”

Tenebrae had been sitting in a chair, watching everything happen in front of him, in various floating screens both magical and electrical, from Margleknot. But now he whipped his head around even as his kids were grappling Erick. He launched from his seat, rapidly, angrily saying, “What the fuck are you doing here? You just disappeared off the battlefield and then you come back here? Do you want to get me targeted?! You shouldn’t be anywhere near here!”

Erick laughed at that—

Phagar stepped out into the air, splitting the world with fractals. His voice was much more measured than Tenebrae’s. “You are endangering the stability of the Godpact with this sort of magic, Erick, because you are directly targeting the Godpact, and I know when the Godpact is targeted.”

Erick returned to professionalism. He said to Tenebrae. “Please relax your children.”

“Bah, you bastard dragon!” Tenebrae spat, and then he —much more softly— told his kids, “You can let the Apparent King go, kids.”

The rocklings startled as Tenebrae named Erick.

Or rather, Named, with a capital letter and all that. Erick had always wondered when the ability to be Named would happen to him, and it appeared that time was now. Tenebrae’s voice was merely the closest one to Erick, and he was rather strong as a mage, and so perhaps that’s why Erick had felt a light touch upon himself when the words ‘Apparent King’ entered the air, cast as they were from Tenebrae like the tossing of a stone into a still lake.

That was going to get terribly annoying if he had no way to shut it off.

Anyway. The kids were having a much different reaction to Erick’s Naming, or rather, to Tenebrae’s request.

Their arms rapidly dissolved and they slunk away, sobbing about not recognizing Erick. The rocklings were all about 1.5 meters tall, so like a short human, but they were all sized for orcol sensibilities, just like Tenebrae was an orcol himself these days, so they were rather darned short in that respect. Halfpints, really. Halfpints that cried tears of silver.

Tenebrae patted their heads and told them, “It’s alright. He shouldn’t be here anyway. Even the God of Time and the End says so.”

Phagar nodded, smirking.

Erick handed over Tenebrae’s own notes, saying, “It appears I need to be here to help get this payload off the ground. Please implement your own changes as fast as you can.”

“… What the f— Ah. Time shit. Yeah yeah yeah…” Tenebrae’s voice trailed off as he grabbed the notes, reading them in full though he had likely already read them with his own mana. Without looking up at Erick, he said, “Something is wrong with you, Erick. What’d you’d do to yourself?”

Phagar arched his eyebrow at Erick, as though requesting the same answers.

Erick told them both, “I’m fae. I’m also going to war out there from here, so if you could please tell me how long it would take to implement your changes to your own workings?”

Tenebrae said, “A minute. I’m already changing things out there.” He looked up at some screens. “Looks like the systems are all blue from here, but this stuff is a revert to a less-safe version of the system… But the end result is a more stable spell matrix, as long as it can be protected.” He looked to Erick. “We opted for less power and a weaker endspell in favor of more protections, but I guess you’re riding the spell to the target which is now an actual target, so you can guide the spell to power better that way? You sure you want to go out there, yourself? I thought you’d be safe, but you were just eaten by a fish.”

“Eh!” Erick said, “I’m a fae that can time travel properly.”

Phagar said, “And you need to be careful with that, Erick.”

Erick nodded. “I’ll do what needs to be done. Thank you for your allowances.”

Phagar breathed in, and then he stepped away, into fractals, saying, “Atunir is telling me she’s ready to assist with the spread of this slightly altered plan. She’ll be back later, to talk, and so will I.”

Erick nodded at that, and then he asked Tenebrae, “No questions about fae, or Time?”

“I want some Juubi cakes from Greendale in Greensoil, at a little shop on the corner of Bushings and Down. Aim for 25 years ago, before the original grandma passed on the business to their grandson and he ruined the recipe—” Tenebrae thought for a second. He added, “Might have been 35 years ago.”

Erick smiled, and then he turned to a splash of light that Stepped up into the mountains above, though his voice lingered in the command center, “I’ll think about it!”

“Do more than think!”

And then Erick was a giant fuck-off dragon, standing over the mountains, waiting for the spell to weave itself in the base of one of the ten-kilometer-wide cylinders. About 13 various alarms went off inside the command center, speaking of blockages above the spell tunnels, while many of the screens showed as much of Erick as they could. It was only on the largest overview screen that Tenebrae actually got to see all of Erick. A 15 kilometer wingspan was pretty massive, after all.

Tenebrae frowned, saying, “Oh fuck right off with that shit.”

And then he got to pressing some buttons, muttering about damned fucking dragons.

Soon, light blossomed in the bottom of the main spell launcher, and Erick wove some more magic into the working, smoothing out bumps and crystallizing spells himself, now that much of the conduits were relaxed. Power poured in fast and hot, and the temperature started to rise as crystals manifested in semi-liquid form, the very Script trying to destabilize what was happening in the tunnel.

“Ah,” Erick said, “That didn’t happen in our tests.”

Erick fixed it with an application of his own Authority, taking over the brunt of the Script’s anger at the spellwork hims—

A blue box appeared.

It appears there were some fish in the Core and they were messing with various systems, including the Weaver system.

Kirginatharp killed them.

They spawned from him, though.

This Dragon Curse plan of yours has some holes, and perhaps we should reconsider that whole thing.

~Rozeta

Erick nodded at that, and said, “We’ll speak later about that, too. Glad to hear it went well. Kirginatharp is safe?”

He’s okay.

Thank you for your concern.

Erick nodded and then dismissed the box as he finished his machinations with the spellwork at the bottom of the spellsurge tunnel. That magic glowed like ephemeral power, now, radiant with gold and iridescence and white.

The spell launched, blossoming like a nuclear bomb mushrooming into the sky.

Erick rode the giant mass of spellwork into the sky.

When he reached the Edge, he entered a Red Ocean that he promptly subdued with a massive [Fulmination Aura], Benevolence-style that shot lightning across the Red-filled void exactly as though it were actual water, which was great for getting some distance on that spellwork. One flash later, and Erick had ‘killed’ the red. And then his [Undertow Star] aura came out, and shadowy tendrils gathered the half-dead Red and drew it inside, like Erick was swallowing the ocean.

The pink turned Red here and there, but applications of Benevolence broke up the Red—

Nothanganathor’s direct attention was on the Red, through Domainwork, trying to sneak into Erick, but Erick had practiced too well against that shit to be fooled. Erick spat out flickers of Benevolence lightning even as he drew the ocean of power into himself, crashing his Domain directly against the Erased One’s.

Fighting with Domains was a bit like aura fights. The smaller, stronger aura was usually able to pierce the larger, softer aura, but when strengths met with strengths, the winner usually came down to a matter of mana-versus-mana, or desire and control versus the same qualities in the other user. That was normal combat, though.

This, right here, was also a Wizard duel.

Erick was the one physically present, though, and that made all the difference.

