“Got it,” he answered, but the ephemeral magic of the expensive talisman had already faded. Calen glanced through the viewpoint of a Mote of Light left above the raid group, verifying that they indeed had their hands full right now – but it looked under control. He changed tack, zipping sideways around a building and doubling back the way he had come. Less than two seconds later, the frenzied bone fetish shot around the corner, lightning arcing from his bones to trail like twisted sparking fingers caressing the sides of the buildings. Calen fired again, putting on another burst of speed as he fled for dear life down the long street.

He saw his own shadow starkly outlined against the wall up ahead as he was backlit by the immense brightness of the lightning nova detonations – retaliatory discharge that told him his arrows had found their mark.

You have gained Onslaught.

Time to test it out. He glanced at the ability quickly; it was one he hadn’t quite had a chance to explore yet. The pinnacle keystone of Realmstrider Ascendant – a simple addition to his Radiant Archery.

Mana: Your next shot ignores all barriers, boundaries, and distance to hit whatever you can see. Recharge: 5 minutes.

He fed an obscene amount of mana to the skill. Now, if I’m right, this should work… He had no idea how it would work, but there was no reason it shouldn’t. Other than that it would be ridiculous if it did. He switched his viewpoint to one of the Motes of Light he’d left with Ali and Malika, hovering above the Death Knight armies outside the walls of Myrin’s Keep. With the boost from Onslaught, he fed his bow a fully funded Power Shot and unleashed his maximum number of arrows loaded with all his damage enchantments. From every single Mirror Image. He aimed toward Grim Spark, just in case, but the arrows that fired from his bow faded to nothing in the air.

An instant later, in the air above the armies bearing down on Myrin’s Keep, nine fans of shining arrows materialized, ripping through the undead in a devastating cascade of explosions.

Well – heck! So that’s how it works, Calen thought, gasping at the intensity of the mana and stamina leeched from that immensely powerful strike. Nearly every single hit had triggered Ambush, no doubt because none of his targets would have been even remotely capable of seeing the attack coming. I guess Ali no longer has a monopoly on fighting two battles at the same time. He chuckled to himself.

Mana flickered, and he teleported instantly, launching himself forward and coming out of his teleport facing backward with his bow already nocked. His arrows flew, and before they even struck, he turned and threw himself down a side street with his mirror images taking conflicting paths to confuse, aiming to make a large circle. A crack of bones hitting the ground echoed from behind him, followed immediately by the rapid pitter-patter of feet.

Calen summoned a fresh mirror image, both to reposition it and to reclaim invisibility. He left it as a lure by the corner and shot down another street, turning and waiting while his heart raced, thumping rapidly in his throat. The pitter-patter paused for a moment, and then the street up ahead blazed with rapidly strobing light that left afterimages on his retinas even though he had only seen the reflections. Then Grim Spark reappeared, tearing forward at such great speed that he was leaving a cloud of dust and rock fragments behind him from the shredded stone of the street.

Tendrils of lightning arced out erratically as Calen released another arrow and fled.

A prickle materialized inside his head. “Ready for you.”

Briefly consulting Explorer, he tracked Lyeneru to the new spot he had picked out for them, and veered sideways, heading toward the raid with all his images flying formation about him. Several more harrowing turns later, he shot out into the clearing to find the raid group ready and waiting, all the Death Knights vanquished. Pools of holy fire were already laid out upon the ground, and the telltale flickers and sparkles of buffs lit the waiting adventurers.

“Last call for potions! Don’t get confused and shoot your friends!” Lyeneru shouted.

Several people downed elixirs and vials in response to the Night Elf’s call, and then Grim Spark arrived with that telltale clatter of bones and an eerie chuckle. Calen hovered in the center, right above Mato, and waited as the terror of the ruins charged toward him, brandishing that same oversized bone-white dagger and leaking sparks from his eye sockets.

Mato charged, slamming into the bone fetish with a crack and a sizzle of floating void shields, and he disappeared inside a ball of continuous lightning.

“Spread out,” Lyeneru called. “Everyone, hold your fire. By the numbers, damage groups go, one at a time.”

Cautious attacks were unleashed, slowly increasing in frequency as the team followed the plan Ali had come up with the first time they had destroyed this monster. Only the most powerful ranged attacks were allowed, buffed to the maximum. With the retaliation nova triggering on every hit, the group needed to make every shot count, and there was no place for melee fighters. Calen used an image to refresh invisibility for his entire formation, and then charged Power Shot to full before unleashing a single enchanted arrow at the monster – the strongest attack he could muster.

Rogues and assassins were reduced to standing around and watching – most of them relegated to taking cover in case the unpredictable boss went on a rampage. Mages buffed each other with metamagic skills, trying to eke out the most power per shot, and when the healers yelled, everyone paused, at least until they gave the all-clear. The only people given free rein to attack were himself, Lyeneru, and the Soul Archon, all tier-three archers dealing devastating damage to the bone fetish. Calen, of course, burned Righteous Fury and flooded every drop of excess mana into his Motes of Light, boosting the power of his light damage raid buff.

The strategy is solid, he decided, studying the raid group. Nobody had been confused and tried to attack their neighbors, and only a couple of Panics had broken through the Mental Fortitude of Ali’s Eternal Reverie, and even then, the fear had not lasted nearly as long as he remembered. Perhaps the priests were just that quick with the dispels. Or perhaps Ali’s priest had something special – he hadn’t had the chance to ask what her evolution had brought.

Then, to his immense surprise, his notification chimed, and the lightning faded, revealing Mato standing over a pile of white bones, an unnaturally short femur gripped between his bared teeth.

His lips curled up into a typical Mato grin. “Done!”

Your group has defeated Grim Spark [The Quick] – Undead, Bone Fetish – level 204 (Lightning)

“Stay back! Death proc,” Calen shouted, recalling what had happened last time. Sure enough, a few seconds after the chime, the corpse exploded, spreading lightning vines that crawled and grew like a demented plant across the stone, but, fortunately, most of the adventurers had read the accounts of the boss encounters in detail and were prepared.

I guess it was just a regular party boss, he reminded himself. Not that such an abomination could be appropriate for any normal group of five.

“Seth, you’re in charge of the corpse. Bring him with us. Loot on the way. Scouts head out and find us some more monsters. Let’s move!” Lyeneru barked commands with the easy confidence of long years of practice, and everyone rushed off down the street.

Calen grimaced as Grim Spark got to his feet and followed his new master. He shook his head, glancing away from Seth. Necromancers. It was just too bad that he wouldn’t have access to the domain abilities. Calen took to the air and resumed the hunt for Death Knights.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledgehttps://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledgehttps://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpghttps://topwebfiction.com/listings/dungeon-of-knowledge/
