While comprehending the entirety of the Demonic Legacy, innate understandings of the hidden side of the Creator's Legacy start to whisper its secrets into the depths of my soul.

Yet, just like peering into the boundless form of Ember's golden immortal body, there are shimmering golden seals making it difficult for my mind to push further without inflicting harm.

I let these thoughts causing me resistance fade away, and focus on what I can still see with full clarity.

The mental and physical transformation that Noctus undergoes after completing this task is very clear.

Memories of his divine core and high royal demon's core merging together under the overwhelming pressure of his primordial aura and pure willpower show an eerie resemblance to the exact transformation taking place within myself and Maria right now.

However, while we are using technical exploits of the system, and our rare and unnatural talents, Noctus is bending space and forcing the appearance of these silver threads through raw strength alone.

Tethering to the outside of these threads, I witness the compressed gel that is his primordial aura, high royal vibrations, and demonic essence compressed into an indistinguishable dark form.

It is actually a very unexpected transformation, for I thought it would happen all at once. Yet, as I watch this Demon exist inside the void for millions of years, I realize it was an extremely slow process.

The full creations of the Demonic Legacy, and this demon's demise, were many millions of years apart.

There are even visions of memories from the lower and upper realm that slip through in between as Noctus floats in solitude to completely compress all of his physical energy into an essence capable of altering the void.

There are many fractured conversations I hear and watch take place between Ember, Marcellus, other anomalies of the era, and even some Overseers that still hold enough power to become a nuisance every few millennia.

Watching this consolidation of all these energy forms does grant me a more vast understanding of what is happening inside my energy bodies, but it actually is slightly underwhelming.

This is because I hear Noctus boasting to all those that challenge him in this era where he remained undefeated, and his words echo in the depths of my mind.

"I am the strongest being this system has ever witnessed, the pinnacle of power!"

"Out of all the Overseers in the past, those of you that call yourselves Divine Beasts, none of you have held a strong enough will to create a Legacy this powerful. None of you have consolidated the innate energies of the Origin Plane like I have."

"This is the Emperor's Essence! An energy form fit for the one true ruler of you all!"

With no enemies strong enough to challenge him, and the galaxy he has claimed rapidly declining in ether, stunting the talent of all life in the following eras, what he yells into the void could be considered true...

Yet, even now as I feel this gel being formed within my own body, calling it the Emperor's Essence feels like it is far too esteemed of a title for this formless collection of energies. Sure, for any living being that cannot form this gel, they would be killed instantly. Yet, it still feels far too lacking to be named such a thing.

This self-proclaimed title is just as falsely claimed as the Demonic Legacy. It is a mere copied shadow of what it should be.

As this line of thought becomes the main focus of my active mind sifting through these absorbed memories, I start to piece together what is missing.

It is that indescribably vast sensation I feel when peering into the inner mechanisms of the system.

This dull gel lacks the profound nature that the system does.

It is attracted to the silver threads within living beings and is able to be guided by them. This is very clear to see and feel within my own body. It also proves that when this energy leaves the spark of life, severing its ties with the remnants of this Demon's soul, it becomes nothing but a stain left in space.

In all of the memories where this Demon wields this essence, even when he was still alive, the energy became nothing but a dead dent in space when it left his being.

Even the silver threads that resided within, when severed from the Demon's Immortal Core, would then fold into space and disappear.

It is the exact same sensation I witnessed back in the Purple Zone of the Upper Realm, watching Ember relinquish the silver threads in his Immortal Core. I did not possess the perception to understand where the threads were disappearing to then, but I'm beginning to see it now.

They flicker out of existence, an exact reversal of the reaction taking place in my own body now, as they flicker and bend out of an unknown area of space into existence.

This is not the only strange phenomena that catches my attention. It is also the presence of bright white glyphs still remaining in the depths of this Demon's consciousness even after all of his innate energy has condensed.

The full Demonic Legacy is still imprinted on the inside of Noctus' soul, as since its inception, he intended to activate its full might once the galaxy below became devoid of life, and even this membrane of darkness decayed.

Yet, in the memories surrounding the severing of this Demon's soul tie, and its activation of a final array, it evoked the very profound sensation that this gel is lacking.

All of a sudden, everything clicks into place.

As my sword crashes through the soul tie array, and wide cracks start to spread over its edges, the purest glyphs of the Demonic Legacy all pulse and flicker with energy.

This orb that holds Noctus in suspended animation, isolated from even the void itself, what was meant to act as the vessel to transcend death, could have been used in a far different way.

More and more imprints that were invisible to me before in the Creator's Legacy start to form, lighting up brand new glyphs that I've never seen before. Their understanding becomes increasingly clear, as there is a way to assimilate it with this gel to make a far more powerful energy source. If this Demon was not consumed by selfish greed, he would have seen it too.
