He swung his blade from side to side, yet before he could get far, he found it held in place by the towering automaton he'd seen earlier. Its drill-like head roared as it spun, and the mechanical Pathbearer tried to pry the Skysplitter out of Shiv's hands. Shiv pulled back, but to his surprise, he was actually struggling. The automaton was strong. Their Physicality was a match for his own at the very least, perhaps more.

Worse yet, as the bot gripped Shiv’s Skysplitter, keeping it from scything through the rest of the expeditionary force, Shiv could feel the weapon cracking, taking damage. He shrank his blade and charged the enemy. He made it a meter through the air before he was suddenly knocked aside by someone tackling him.

Shiv spiked his field against the new adversary and, after a brief struggle, halted himself and brought an elbow down on the head of the offending inquisitor. A resounding clash sounded as the inquisitor's body went stiff. They were wearing a full set of adamantine armor. Shiv wanted to see if their Toughness matched. He slashed down using his Deepest Edge, and where the armor only bore a deep gash on the outside, flesh parted within, and Shiv swept through the slain Pathbearer's body, stealing their biomass for his own.

He could feel the beginnings of mana strain build within his Biomancy. Just then, Shiv had an amusing idea, an upgrade to his corpse flail. He fused all the recent biomass he'd stolen, but also fed a spare set of armor into the spell pattern as well. Just like before, the spell patterns didn't mix. They shattered and warped, but that was fine with Shiv. Bone adamantine cancer was still more than acceptable.

Immediately, he projected his new creation and began to shape it. He didn't hold the flail physically anymore. Instead, he wrapped it within a mana hydra and spun it around himself in a swirling orbit. A mess of mangled teratoma hammered into bodies and shattered formations. At the same time, Shiv swung his blade and discharged his Inertial Overdrive. The Inquisitors were blasted aside. Shiv tried to push forward and rip into them—only to be driven back himself by a chain of gravitational bolts. He countered the Dynamancy spells using his field, but ultimately found himself plodding forward rather than blasting ahead.

He kept cutting, slashing, fighting. He attacked anything that wasn't an orc while trying to keep an eye out for the bald Master-Inquisitor. But the expeditionary force didn't die easily. Every single one was clad in high-quality armor. And though he swatted many aside, they fought their way back to their feet and held to their formations, each person trying to keep the ones beside them alive.

A telepathic tsunami exploded out from the center of the expeditionary force. "Inquisitors!" a baritone voice proclaimed. "Our vanguard has been breached! Jagged Onion! Jagged Onion! Fighting retreat. We kill our way out! We make a breakthrough!”

And at once, inquisitors began to adjust their formations. The surviving members began to collapse inward. New inquisitors stepped out from the others, holding massive tower shields in their hands. Shiv charged them, swinging his new cancer flail down upon a still-adjusting group of soldiers. But he felt his mana hydra stopped dead as a Biomancer among the inquisitors matched their power against his. "Alright," Shiv thought to himself, licking his lips. "Let's see."

Then something exploded from beneath his feet and drove him high into the air. A searing pain slipped through his gut, and Shiv found himself being carried higher and higher. As he looked down, he found himself impaled on the end of a lance a hundred meters long.

Shiv grinned through bloody teeth. "There you are. I was wondering where you went.”
