It was a shadowy facsimile of a normal town, but with five large spires of fake kendrithyst in the center and smaller crystalline growths adorning every building edge.

The man stood on top of the tallest shadowy kendrithyst, overlooking his new project. A western wind whipped through his hair and got into his clothes, bringing him the faint smell of apridates on the breeze. It was a sweet smell.

He spoke to the shadeling at his side, “I want an apridate grove.”

The shadeling bowed. “As you wish, Master Bulgan.”

Bulgan smiled, looking to the west, as the shadeling vanished into the false-crystal underfoot, off to complete their assignment. Another shadeling took the place of the one that left, waiting to serve however they could. Bulgan almost went back to waiting, but something was off about the second shadeling. Bulgan frowned. The shadeling, for her part, shivered at his frown. That was a good sign. Bulgan lost his frown and gave the shadeling a greater portion of his attention.

The shadeling in question was a woman wearing humanoid clothes instead of shadows. Bulgan hesitated to call them clothes; they were not well made leathers and cloth, and they did not fit the woman. They must have been scavenged from some dead adventurer, or maybe they were her own. Whatever the case, they were full of knife holes and torn edges and barely covered any of her body. The woman herself looked to be from human stock, but her eyes were the dark, normal pools of a shadeling. A spark of intelligence seemed to squirm in those shallow depths, trying to assert itself, but the tool was clearly stuck halfway to sapience. If that intelligence didn’t surface soon...

Bulgan asked, “Why are you here? You should be off living like a person.”

“I cannot remember my name, sir.”

Bulgan studied her ‘clothes’, and her face. “You’ve cleared several steps out of order.” He asked, “What do you remember?”

“Numbers, sir.”

“Anything else?”

“I lived alone and I counted gold.”

The woman spoke well enough, hinting at what her future would hold, so Bulgan asked no more questions. He turned back toward the west, saying, “If you can’t remember a name in another day, then take one, and then take a prominent job dealing with the quest board, or something. Receptionist. Or accountant. I don’t care.” He gestured down to the center of the shadowy city, down below. “Go mingle. Learn more about yourself. Get some proper clothes.”

The shadeling bowed, accepting her command. She flickered down into the false-kendrithyst underfoot, off to do what he commanded, and maybe find some sapience along the way. If not, it was no big deal to kill her again.

Another shadeling took the place of the woman. This one was just shadow and soul made substance; a drone.

Bulgan returned to his vigil.

- - - -

Erick surveyed his garden, and it was good.

Pruned and tall lemon trees dangled yellow fruits along the northern edge, blocking a fair bit of the constant wind that swept down through the Crystal Forest. In another grove, grew cinnamon trees. Potatoes grew on vines, spilling out tubers on top of the soil, within easy reach and allowing the plant to be harvested multiple times. Erick beans, the product of [Exalted Storm Aura] and the basis for much of Erick’s [Grow] experiments, flowed on vines over stone trellises. Corn grew in nice, tall rows, while hot peppers and garlic and a whole bunch of other spices grew nearer to the house in raised beds. Vine lettuce and eggplant. Peas and vine carrots. Most of the vegetables grew on vines. Erick didn’t want to kill the whole plant to harvest a meal, and this method ensured that [Grow] Fatigue was easily managed.

And then there were the plants from Veird. Purple tomatoes. Green spiraling cauliflower, called fractis. Tall sugar cactus with spigots in the base, like they were maple trees, growing separate from everything else; too much rain made the sugar harvest too diluted. Or, at least that was the case for other people.

Erick smiled. The other farmers used a specialized [Watershape] spell to draw the sugar out of the cactus water; something almost like his [Distill]. But it wasn’t [Distill]. [Distill] was far, far better.

Honestly, Erick could probably plant nothing but sugar cactus and make himself a sugar empire using his magic. Not in Spur, for sure, and he wasn’t a hundred percent sure it was possible, but he imagined a hundred thousand sugar cactus tapped and piped together, and all that sugar water draining into a vat that he could [Distill] into sugar. Theoretically, he could build an empire on sweets. A country on candy. A livelihood on lollipops.

But.

That seemed not-fun. This small garden? That was fun.

Erick gazed over his garden, and smiled. It was a large garden. Probably too large. It would have certainly been too large if not for his Handy Aura. [Flight of a Thousand Hands] was one of the most useful spells Erick had ever made. Flight, fight, and utility, all in one neat, thousand-handed package.

And if he hadn’t needed to replant the garden days ago, he’d probably be using his Handy Aura right now to keep the garden in proper shape; to snip off overgrown vines or uproot unwanted plants. There wasn’t much need to weed when the soil was mostly dead sand. But there was a need to water; the garden was mostly sand, it didn’t hold much moisture.

He should have mulched the dirt a few times with some clover, to turn the sand into soil, before he replanted. He could have blipped over to somewhere with good, brown dirt, and taken a bunch for himself. But this was okay, too. He’d just have to watch the garden for a month or two, keeping it all healthy, while the compost pile he started on the other side of the house turned into proper compost.

Erick studied his plants.

Oh. The potato vines were wilting a little. Too much heat and light. Not enough water. He almost rained, right then, but he had already done that this morning. Instead, he cast a wide lightmask into the air over the plants, dimming the light from the sun by half. He’d water them later, when he wasn’t just trying to get away from the arguments for a moment with a half-assed ‘I need to check on my garden’ excuse.

He glanced back to the stone pavilion. Calizi and Rollo were still arguing. Apogee was the first to leave. He blipped away in a shattering of bronze light when Calizi and Rollo’s argument devolved into what it meant to roll ‘7’ with a ‘1’ and a ‘6’ versus rolling a ‘7’ with a ‘3’ and a ‘4’. Hera had begged off when their arguments over sugar cactus began in earnest. Kip and Ratchet followed soon after; those two managed to secure for themselves a monopoly on rice production and spice production. Missoli only remained in the pavilion to watch over Calizi and Rollo’s argument so that they ‘didn’t kill each other’. Missoli seemed to be a mitigating factor regarding whatever was going on with Calizi and Rollo, so Erick left them to it.

He turned back to his garden.

He missed Valok. And Krakina. And Apogough. In that brief moment, everything seemed to darken as emotions threatened to overwhelm. Erick breathed. He kept breathing. He sniffled and wiped away an unruly tear.

He put on a better face, and asked, “Poi? I want a meeting with Apogee. Can I just go to the Wayfarer’s Guild? Would he be there?”

Poi said, “He doesn’t like being asked about his former world.”

“... I’m gonna do it anyway.”

- - - -

Spur was packed. The streets might have been seven meters wide, but those meters filled up fast. As Erick walked down the roads on his way to the Wayfarer’s Guild, it seemed that more people than ever were in the city. More than a few people even noticed and understood who Erick was, but only the guards who noticed him actually tried to speak to him. They asked after the Community Gardening Council they heard about. They wondered if the rains were still coming. They hadn’t seen any silver clouds in days. One particularly insistent young man claimed that the Farmer’s Market held slim pickings. When were the grocers getting restocked? Erick gladly put the kid’s fears to rest. Fresh produce would be on Market Street soon enough. A day, or two.

He had to repeat that conversation a few times, for a few different people, but he was glad to put some fears to rest. He hadn’t actually known that the grocers and the Farmer’s Market were down to slim pickings, but that problem would be solved soon enough.

He asked after how the Guard was doing, in the wake of the attack. They were doing okay on their end, but fights had started to break out over hoarders buying up all the rice or potatoes or wheat. Besides all that, they’d had worse things happen to them than the Red Dot, but with people like Erick to help to prevent the worst of those attacks, everything was going about as good as ever. Each guard Erick spoke to thanked him for his [Cascade Imaging], too. With that spell, and with what they had done to those who dared to strike Spur, they had sent ripples through the less savory societies and organizations that operated near the city.

Some of the conversations with the guards were a little darker than Erick would have liked, but the truth was a dark thing, sometimes. The guards seemed to be happy, though. Erick made sure to talk up how their diligence in vetting the trails Erick found was just as important as finding the trail itself. Some of them understood what Erick was saying. Others… He wasn’t quite sure. But Erick trusted Merit to do the right thing, and hire the right sort of people, so he didn’t say much when a few guards spoke variations of ‘giving those assholes what they deserve’.

Eventually, Erick made his way to the Wayfarer’s Guild.

The Wayfarer’s Guild was located near the Adventurer’s District, on the main road running north of the Guildhouse, but not in the district itself. The large, orange building was four stories tall, and except for the conspicuous silver-coated guard station built directly beside the Wayfarer building, it fit in well with the rest of Spur’s spartan, blocky desert dwellings. Erick had never been here before. From what Poi had told him, business was exclusively conducted on the first and second floor, and mostly dealt in the transportation of people from one location to the next, with a secondary focus on the shipping of individual goods. The Wayfarer’s Guild had another location near Market Street that dealt in bulk produce and meats, but Poi had heard that they were shutting down that location since the Farm was gone.

The guildhouse was busy. Erick walked up the short staircase of the Wayfarer’s Guild, dodging people walking in and out of the front entrance, and stepped out of the desert heat into a sky-blue tiled room. The room was huge, and at least half the size of the entire first floor. It could have been a subway station back on Earth for the atmosphere of the space. It was not crowded, but there were people of all kinds inside, milling about from place to place.

There was a counter in the back that separated about a tenth of the floor from public access. People wearing normal clothes dropped off packages on that counter, handing them off to people wearing light blue clothes and blue badges, who in turn handed them off through holes in the back wall, to a room where some sort of transportation likely took place. Other people wearing normal clothes waited in a queue at an archway that led to the guard station next door; the Wayfarer’s Guild and the guard station were directly connected.

This place was basically a postal office and an airport, all in one. Erick smiled as he remembered the post office back home and the flirts behind the counter. He couldn't remember their names right now, but that’d come back to him when he wasn’t thinking of it.

This large front room was not just blue tile, though. There were also reds and greens and blacks, but those colors delineated lines on the ground, acting as directional markers. On second look, the black tiles were solely used to indicate ‘landing platforms’. They weren’t really [Platforms], as in the magical spell, but the black tiles spelled [Teleport], and every moving person in the room steered clear. The reason for the wide berths given to those spaces seemed obvious to Erick, and he was proven right not ten steps into the building.

As Erick got halfway into the main room, the air over one of the black outlines blipped bright yellow. Ten people appeared out of the air. Nine of them looked young and somewhat lost. The tenth person was an older yellowscale man wearing blue who called out instructions to the group. He wore a bright blue badge on his chest. Erick walked across the room, to the counter in the back, while the new arrivals got into the queue at the line to the guardhouse. Whatever arrival procedures the people were going through seemed to be going quick; the line at the guardhouse entrance was down to two people, from the several that had been there when Erick first entered the guild, not a minute ago.

He approached one of three bored looking incani standing behind the counter, not talking to anyone or dealing with any customers or their packages. The woman he approached gave him a once over. Recognition clicked in her eyes. She suddenly stood straight.

She spoke eloquently, “Greetings, Archmage Flatt. How may the Wayfarer’s Guild assist you?”

The Wayfarer Guildhouse was not quiet, but it wasn’t that loud, either. A few nearby people flinched upon hearing Erick’s name, pausing to look his way. They quickly got back to their business, either picking up packages off of the shelves behind the counter, or placing down packages, or dealing with other customers, or just looking away and pretending at paperwork.

