Erick said, “I don’t have an appointment, but I’d like to speak to Guildmaster Apogee, if I could.”

The woman glanced away. She looked back to Erick. She took a second to say, “Um. I don’t mean to dissuade you, but other planars have tried to talk to him before, and he—” Her professional facade went back up, as she said, “He’ll see you now.” She gestured to a staircase to the right. “Go on up.”

Erick nodded to the woman, saying “Thanks,” as he went on his way.

Upstairs was no less loud and open as downstairs, but it was mostly piles of packages either in the process of being unloaded from [Teleport Platforms] or being loaded onto [Teleport Platforms]. There were no customers up here; everyone had blue badges on their blue shirts. Erick barely had time to take in the sights, when a young bluescale woman came over to him.

She said, “Archmage Flatt? Guildmaster Apogee is in his office. This way.”

“Thank you.”

Erick followed the girl through the packaging room, following a green path on the tile floor. A platform full of wooden boxes —he just now noticed that they were wood. Shouldn’t they be using stone? Wasn’t that more plentiful? Or maybe there was a weight concern. It was probably a weight concern.— A platform full of wooden boxes, and its purple incani, vanished in a blip of black light. In another part of the room, a tiny orange [Scry] eye appeared over another designated landing spot, followed by a blip of orange that resolved into a pale incani and her [Teleporting Platform].

Erick tried not lose pace with the bluescale girl on their way to Apogee, but there was just so much to see.

Soon enough, the woman stopped at a large, open door, big enough for an orcol. The woman nodded, then walked away, back to work, or whatever she was doing.

Apogee was inside the room. He saw Erick, and said, “Come on in! Don’t mind the mess.”

Erick took several steps into the room, avoiding wooden crates as he said, “Are you moving?”

Apogee’s office had probably been a very full, very lived-in place at one point in time, but right now it was laden with boxes. The master of Spur’s Wayfarer’s Guild was packing up, telekinetically and manually placing keepsakes and pillows and paintings and papers into storage containers; some of the boxes were open, and their contents looked expensive. Erick had caught the brownscale dragonkin rolling up a rug and placing it into a long crate, along with five other similar sized rugs.

Apogee said, “I’m in the cattle industry now!” He smiled wide, revealing rows of teeth and a long, straight tongue. “I’d offer you some rum to mark the occasion, but I packed... Hmm.” He turned to his crates and began rummaging. “… Ah ha!” He lifted an ornate crystal bottle of dark red booze out of a crate, along with two glasses. He offered, “Care to share a drink?”

Erick smiled, saying, “I’d love one.”

“But if you’re here to ask after planar business, then this conversation is over.” He briefly lost his smile, as he said, “I usually give other planars a warning before I [Teleport] them away. Veirdians get the ‘port; no warning. The first time it’s just a ‘port downstairs.”

Erick reoriented his goal. “Well. Okay. A non-consensual [Teleport], you say?”

“Yup!” Apogee smiled wide as he poured a pair of drinks, and handed one to Erick, saying, “Kaveneen!” He tossed his drink back.

“Cheers.” Erick went with the flow and downed his shot. The booze went down like a warm fire to settle in his arms and legs with a shiver. It tasted of spices and cinnamon, and of hot summer nights. Erick savored the taste for a moment, then said, “That’s delicious.”

“I call it Ruby Brandy, because it doesn’t have a commonly accepted name.” Apogee put the booze away, cheerfully adding, “I won it off a tribe of ruby harpies in Nelboor who claim they found it in a dragon’s hoard, nigh on thirty five years ago. I’ve been trying to recreate the taste for thirty years, but haven’t found the right spices, and if I haven’t found the right spices—” He turned back to Erick, saying, “They don’t exist. Which means it was made with some unique plant that doesn’t exist anymore.”

Erick smiled as he pondered the cost of what he had just downed. He held the glass to his nose and breathed in the scent of the remaining red drops. Cinnamon, for sure. He asked, “What does it taste like to you?”

“That’s the thing.” Apogee said, “I could never place the scent or the taste, until recently. Until I caught wind of those tall brown trees near your house.”

“You should come over for dinner sometime, or to poke around in the garden.” Erick said, “I’ll make some cinnamon barbecue and you can take some clippings home. Obligate carnivore, right?”

“Correct.” Apogee said, “I might just take you up on that offer.”

Erick asked, “But since we’re not talking planar stuff and you are a Spatial Mage, I have another question for you: Do you need an Elemental Body skill to recreate [Teleport]?”

Apogee frowned. He paused. He said, “It’s a bit of a trade secret, but since you’re so close anyway, I must warn you: If you do it wrong, you’re gonna die. It’s not worth the risk.”

Erick patted Ophiel on his shoulder, saying, “I can cast through him, so there’s no personal risk.” Ophiel trilled in violin sounds before going back to silence; back to watching everything with wide open eyes. Erick added, “I was hoping to get around the Elemental Body requirement. I’ve already tried with lightwards and such, but Ophiel explodes every time.”

Ophiel gave a few flutey notes at that.

Apogee smirked. “I recommend [Air Body], but if you can swing it, [Lightwalk] is better. You made a light slime dungeon for That Old Dragon. Right?”

“Silverite is going to get some soldiers [Lightwalk] when she can.” Erick asked, “So what made you decide to go for the rancher position in this Community Garden Council?” He glanced back at the busy second floor of the Wayfarer’s Guild. “This place looks busy.”

“Too busy for me! Fork can handle it, and more power to him. He’s wanted the position for a decade already.” Apogee said, “We can talk about the gardening and all of that more, later. Thanks for coming by. I’ll hit you up for the clippings tomorrow.” He held out his hand, palm up. “Cup?”

Erick put the glass cup in his hand, then said, “Sure. Then I’ll see you—”

“It was nice talking to you, but I can’t have people thinking I’m getting weak willed just because some planar archmage shows up and acts nice.”

The air blipped bronze.

When the air cleared, Erick was standing in front of his house. He blinked a few times, while Ophiel, still on his shoulder, trilled in surprised flutes and cellos. Apogee hadn’t even touched Erick. Or had he? Maybe a finger, when he handed over the cup? No. Erick would have felt that.

A blue blip resolved in the air nearby; it was Poi.

“How does a [Force Teleport] work, Poi?”

“I’m sure I don’t know,” Poi said.

Erick opened the door to his house and went inside, saying, “He seems like an okay guy. A bit gruff, I guess, but that’s fine.”

- - - -

Shadowy people wandered through a city of dark towers and towering crystals that had not existed five hours ago. They pretended to live their lives, and someday, some of them might have lives to live.

Bulgan stood atop the tallest shadow kendrithyst spike, in the center of his city. A northwestern wind brought scents of his first life to him, hidden in the breeze. He spared a glance down, to the northwestern side of town. There, amid the black buildings and tumbled dirt, hard, green shoots poked up from the ground. Shadelings conjured tiny clouds above the new growths, spilling water onto the land. The trees drank it up, filling out and growing tall, sending thin, tough branches and spiky fronds into the air. The shadelings continued to tiny-rain on the land, and the trees continued to grow. Bulgan smiled as the trees sent out different sorts of fronds, laden with tiny pods instead of green spikes. Those pods turned to bunches of hard shelled fruit that dragged the branch down with their weight.

Oh? He had been distracted, hadn’t he?

How curious.

Bulgan turned his attention back to the west—

No. That was wrong.

Bulgan turned southwest. “Childish.” He spoke to the sky, his voice booming like a god’s, “You get one warning. An attack will demand a reprisal.”

They tried to hide in the sky, downwind and a kilometer away, surrounded by some mutated version of [Invisibility] and [Lightshape]. [Diversion] was in there, too, but the caster was inexperienced. Bulgan had been inexperienced, too, half a year ago, but that version of himself was long gone. Mostly. Whoever this interloper was, they had managed to make him look down at his growing apridate farm. They weren’t an archmage, but they were obviously an accomplished assassin.

With a thought, Bulgan shifted the city into shadows. The black crystal under his feet turned wispy, but he remained in the sky, floating under his own power.

The assassin flickered to visibility.

Bulgan took a long microsecond to make sure to understand his attacker, as the man readied spell after spell, like dots of light in the bright blue sky. The assassin was an older man with white skin, but he wore white robes and gloves and boots. A white cloth covered his whole head, except for his eyes and the strip of white skin between them. It was entirely possible that his white skin was merely white paint. Maybe he wasn’t even a man under all those concealing clothes.

Whatever they were didn’t really matter. Bulgan waited to see the damage from the interloper’s spell before he decided on his response.

White balls of light crashed into the city. Shadows turned solid under the bright light. Secondary explosions broke buildings and killed shadelings who failed to properly hide. Bulgan’s apridate garden shattered like broken glass.

Bulgan mused, “A [Shattering Light]? Maybe you’re not worthless after all.”

The assassin flickered away—

No. They flickered to the north. Bulgan turned to face them. The assassin flickered again, this time to the south. Bulgan turned to face them, again, giving them the opportunity to flee, or call off their attack. They chose neither. [Shattering Light] crashed into more buildings, killing more people and harming progress.

Bulgan filled the land with his Blessing, denying all spatial magic.

The assassin froze. They had tried to flicker away, but they failed. They raised their arms and filled the sky with descending [Shattering Light]s. Shadows broke. Shadelings died. The assassin prepared another salvo.

With that choice, the white assassin had done more than enough to warrant a devoted response.

Bulgan lifted his arm. With a concentrated thought, he crushed the assassin’s remaining spells mid-flight, before they could strike his city. With another crush of his fist, the assassin became red pulp. Bulgan released his grip, then he turned to the south, and crushed another two intruders. They had been trying to remain hidden as they charged up some sort of hostile magic, but that just didn’t need to happen. They turned to red paste, and the attack was over. Bulgan hadn’t gained the full flavor of whatever the secondary strike team was doing, but it sounded like a deeper [Stoneshape] than most. It was likely [Stonequake], or something similar.

Whatever the case, the attack was over. Bulgan turned the city tangible again. Shadelings set to repairing broken structures with mending shadows, while some of the more cognizant shadelings began to cry or curse at their unknown enemies, and pick up the bodies of their fallen friends.

Bulgan considered the rest of his response to this attack.

He smiled.

The Wall between the Crystal Forest and the Wasteland Kingdoms stood far to the west, like a minor, organized chain of large hills. Cities existed here and there along the entire length. He didn’t want to kill the cities, but he could give them a nice headache.

Bulgan stepped through space to reach the Wall.

With a thought, ten kilometers of Wall turned to sand. He repeated the process ten more times, making sure to miss the cities but destroy the Wall itself, opening up the lands beyond to the plague that lived in the Crystal Forest.

And then, for good measure, he wrapped up a hundred Crystal Mimics in stone and deposited them far beyond the Wall, and far from each other, where the sands had turned to grassland. As the Crystal Mimics noticed their new environs, they went into a frenzy, ripping up the greenery and multiplying to better deal with the problem.

Bulgan returned to his city. He smiled to himself.

By the time night fell, a hundred mimics had become 150. The people of the Wall had yet to fully repair Bulgan’s breaches. People were still turning sand into stone and stemming the tide of mimics pouring through by the time they realized that mimics had already gotten far behind the border.

The Crystal Plague was spreading in the Wasteland Kingdoms, and it wasn’t just a minor infestation. Bulgan had spread them over a hundred kilometers. He had always wondered how the Kingdoms would respond to a real infestation. When he was younger, his parents and the elders had always spoken of the deadly threat of the Crystal Mimic.

Spreading Crystal Mimics was a warcrime unlike any other in the entire world, and that was especially true here, in this place. When he was younger, before the raid came that changed his life forever, some would-be alchemist was always getting themselves executed for experimenting on [Polymorph] potions on the wrong side of the Wall.

Ah, memories.

Bulgan smiled as he remotely viewed the destruction beyond the Wall.

