A crowd gathered around Erick’s front door just before noon. Poi informed Erick of who they were and what they wanted twenty minutes before they arrived, so he was somewhat ready for them, but what they wanted was a nebulous thing. That’s why they came to him, for they wanted to find out what he wanted, too. After some initial introductions and some initial understandings, Erick would have invited them inside, but Poi had already made a fair point earlier about that setting an unwanted precedent.

So Erick went out into the front yard a ways away from the house, and [Stoneshape]d a nice, medium-sized stone pavilion, with a large table in the center and chairs enough for everyone. If he got grief from this unsactioned use of the city’s stone, then he’d put it back later, but he doubted that he would; these people had come here on official city business, after all.

Soon, everyone was inside the pavilion, while Kiri went to fetch drinks, and Poi took up his position behind Erick.

Old greyscale Ratchet, the spice lady, smiled as she sat down, saying, “All the transients are gone, but we locals are here to stay.”

An incani man with magenta skin, who Erick knew as a vendor in the Farmer’s Market named Rollo, was already sitting. He said, “Ain’t no small thing like Red Dots gonna drive us real spurians away.”

The only wrought in attendance, a blue metal dragonkin-shaped named Kip, said, “But it has driven a lot more people to live outside of the city. I hope that this won’t prove to be a problem with regard to the new regulations with Portal.”

Erick didn’t know much about Kip, but he knew that the wrought was a caravaneer, and one of the porters for the goods produced by the former Farm.

Hera, the yellowscale who was Silverite’s right hand woman, said, “Silverite has gained concessions that we are able to sell to anyone who is a citizen of Spur, or adventuring with Spur as a base. Citizens living outside of the walls still count.”

“Bah!” Rollo said, “Let those feckless people starve! The real citizens live inside the city and kill those who would seek to undermine Spur. I killed two hunters that night, you know! Actually gained ten levels. Those people living outside the walls are too safe. They shouldn’t be citizens.”

Kip’s voice took a careful edge as he said, “Those people are still a part of Spur.”

“Debatable,” Rollo countered.

Hera added, “Not debatable. They are citizens. End of discussion.”

Rollo waved a dismissive hand through the air. “Bah!”

“We’re here to talk about plants, Rollo, not logistics or politics,” said a deeply purple, older incani woman with small black horns. Her name was Calizi. She was the former head of the Farmer’s Council, years and years ago. She had been tending to her private gardens and enjoyed her retirement in Spur, but then the Farms were directly attacked. She stepped up in the aftermath, to take a spot on the new Community Gardening Council. “Let’s get to dividing the land and hashing out crops.” She pointed to the west side of the Human District, some hundreds of meters away. “I want the plots over there.”

“Me too.” Rollo said, “As will everyone. That’s prime real estate next to expensive property.”

“I’m taking at least one portion down south, near my house,” Ratchet said.

Rollo added, “Everyone except her.”

Hera said, “Everyone will get their share. If there is some debate, then we will roll dice or something to see who wins.”

Calizi seemed to quote someone as she said, “To each their need and their ability to help their neighbor.” She stared daggers at Rollo, saying, “All he’s good for is money. I can produce more than him. Always have, always will.”

“And there’s the politics,” said a violetscaled younger woman named Missoli, who had been somewhere in Valok’s administration of the Farms.

Erick watched the arguments unfold, familiarizing himself with these people who would become his new partners going forward. He barely knew anything about any of them, so he decided to only step in when the conversation turned to rains and schedules. Their conversations had not turned in that direction though, not yet.

They spoke at and over each other, about plots and produce, contracts and customers. Voices rose, but no one yelled. Rollo and Calizi obviously had some sort of long history with each other. Their bickering was almost pleasant. Erick watched, smiling.

Hera frowned at Erick.

Erick looked away from Hera and cleared his throat before he spoke over the crowd, beginning with, “I’m sure we can come to agreements over all of—”

“Not meaning to disparage, archmage, or to negate the importance of your rains,” Rollo interrupted. “But that’s the thing, isn’t it? You were hands off.” He looked to Calizi, saying, “I was there. Calizi was the old Farm Master. I’d trust in the success of this enterprise if either of us took the actual lead.” He looked to Missoli, saying, “Or even Missoli, here.”

Calizi and Missoli grumbled. Erick lost his smile.

“Then I’ll do it!” Rollo said.

Calizi instantly said, “No you will not!” She turned to Erick, saying, “He can sell a furnace to a firebug but he can’t grow shit, archmage.”

“This isn’t about growing anything, Calizi.” Rollo said, “This is about feeding Spur, and you just don’t have the mind for those logistics. Never have, never will. You think putting out a hundred tons of grain is good enough! Or those awful sour fruits you flooded the markets with twenty years ago! I still have nightmares about selling those.”

Calizi rounded on the man, saying, “Purlberrys are great and good for you! You have no taste!”

Hera spoke up, “The people here are all cleared for whatever this endeavor requires. Silverite doesn’t care how it happens, only that the restaurants and the Market gets their food.”

Rollo and Calizi both frowned, but went silent.

Erick said, “Then that demand comes to me, doesn’t it? How much land does it take to fill the cold boxes of everyone in Spur, using platinum rain? Anyone got any hard numbers?”

Rollo rattled off numbers, “Spur’s population is currently around 250,000 people, but orcols count twice and we don’t service wrought via the food we produce here. We’re about 5 percent wrought and 25 percent orcol, so this means roughly 300,000 person’s worth of demands on food. One 100 meter by 100 meter plot of land, a hectare, under the effects of [Exalted Storm Aura], can create almost a thousand tons of rice every 24 hours. The average spurian eats a hundred kilos of dry rice a year, or a little over a quarter kilo per day.” He said, “In one day of rain, on one hectare of land, we can produce enough rice to feed every single person in this city for about 15 days. Less, if rice is all they’re eating.” He added, “But that’s just going off of one hectare. The Farms had over 300,000 hectares. The land we’re taking from this district is only about 176 hectares; 25 percent of the nearly seven square kilometers of this mostly empty land.” He concluded, “We can easily fill the cold boxes of Spur with just some platinum rain on the weekends. Normal rains and shading [Ward]s are all that’s necessary to keep the plants from baking in the harsh light of the Crystal Forest between harvests.”

Erick’s eyes went wide. “That’s… We really were a breadbasket, weren’t we?”

The table went silent for a small moment.

Erick added, “We don’t have to worry about actually feeding everyone, then. We just need to worry about division of labor and goods.”

Rollo said, “So about those divisions—”

“Before we get to carving up the Human District...” began a brownscaled man named Apogee, who Erick had never seen before this morning. He was also the last person in their little group to speak.

Apogee was a dragonkin, of course, but he was unlike any other dragonkin Erick had ever seen. Backswept horns crowned his head, while his face was closer to a dragon’s muzzle than a human’s visage. And he had a tail. It was thick and ridged like a gator’s and it came out of the backside of his pants like a third leg. His legs were also shaped more like a dragon’s, too. Apogee was literally the only dragonkin Erick had ever seen who truly resembled a dragon, and not just a scaled humanoid. He was also about 130 years old, at least, according to Poi, but he didn’t look older than anyone else around the table. Was he actually part true-dragon? Probably not. That would have put a target on his back for the hidden dragons of the world.

But maybe he had already gone through all that trouble, and shrugged it off?

He was certainly muscular enough to make people think he specialized into Strength and was able to defend himself, but that would have been a false conclusion, because Apogee was well known as a Scion of Focus. Apogee was the proprietor of the Wayfarer’s Guild, after all. Everyone knew Apogee was one of the best Spatial Mages in the area. Everyone except Erick, until Poi told him during their introductions ten minutes ago.

The thing everyone else also knew about Apogee was that he was Planar, exactly like Erick and Jane, but also not at all.

Erick needed to talk to this man, in private. He had resolved as much as soon as Poi filled in a bit of history earlier in their meeting. Poi had tried to dissuade him from that course of action, but Erick was having none of that. Not at that moment, anyway.

Apogee said, “I need meat. That’s not hyperbole. So all this talk of vegetables and such is great and all, but I enjoyed having cows so close. I’m sure you all did, too. Not to mention the milk and the cheese that came with those cows. Now I’ve got someone lined up already to take over the meat production that Mister Ooragh did so well, but the problem is getting Silverite to agree. According to those trading rules she hammered out with Portal, we can have no off-season production outside of the city limits. But I know I’d never get everyone here to agree to cows in the city.” He turned to Hera. “So I want those rules she made with Portal bent, somehow.” He asked, “Can we put a short wall around outside? Claim the ranch as technically inside the city walls?” He added, “And what about all the chickens and bees, too? I don’t want to go without chicken and honey, either.”

Missoli teared up, murmuring, “That Red Dot killed all my cats, too.”

“No more crying, dear.” Calizi sat straight, saying, “There’s been enough of that already.”

Missoli sniffled, then said, “Sorry.” She added, “I want the cats to come back, along with all the other animals, too.”

This garnered more than a few nods and assents around the table. Everyone wanted the bees and chickens and cows to come back to Spur. Some of them were more than happy that the cats were dead. Rollo complained that they ate too many chickens. Missoli just glared at the old man until he apologized.

Hera frowned throughout the whole discussion of meat getting back on the menu. A single line of intent radiated from her head to vanish into the manasphere.

Erick wasn’t the only one to notice Hera’s displeasure, but he was the one to speak up about it, “We all want the meat to stay, Hera.” He glanced north, saying, “Silverite was talking about a reservoir north of the city. What if it were grasslands for cattle and a short wall and a reservoir? Would that be possible?”

The table went silent, as they turned to Hera.

After a long moment, Hera said, “Silverite is comfortable with building a short wall for the cows and such, but the problem is not Portal, in that case. The problem is Ar’Kendrithyst. Whenever we expand the walls, something happens, and it’s never a straight retaliation.”

Erick felt his anger rise. He controlled his temper, to say, “They’re already doing something weird and new in there. I say we expand the walls just to prove the point that we can do weird and new, too.”

Hera, Apogee, Ratchet, Rollo, Kip, Calizi, and Missoli, each looked to Erick. Some of them smiled a little. Others sighed.

Hera said, “We were already doing something weird and new in the first place with your rain, Erick.”

“They started first, with Bulgan,” Rollo countered.

Ratchet said, “I never thought I’d live see the day when those assholes finally got it up their ass to spawn another of themselves.”

Hera leveled with Apogee, asking, “Who do you have in mind to run the cattle ranch?”

Apogee smiled, revealing rows of sharp teeth. “Me. That’s why I came here today.”

Hera frowned.

Rollo said, “I thought you’d get back to your guild?”

“I trained up ten wayfarers in the last three months to meet Valok’s demands —rest his soul—”

Most everyone bowed their head for a moment.

Apogee continued, “—But now that the Farm is glassed, we’re overstaffed by half. Instead of firing the people I trained, I’m stepping out. My son, Fork, is taking over.” He said, “I want cattle, chickens, and bees back in Spur, so if I gotta do it myself, then I will. I figure Silverite won’t object if I’m putting myself on the line.”

Hera sighed, then said, “Silverite has made a decision. We’ll build a short wall to encompass the cattle land, and another for a reservoir.”

Apogee smiled wide.

Erick spoke up, “Fish in the reservoir? Make it a lake, instead?”

“This is expected,” Hera said. “The lake is expected to be about the size of the Human District itself. We can move some plans around and incorporate a ranch of a similar size outside of the city walls.”

“Excellent!” Apogee said.

