Erick glanced out of the pavilion to the orange stone of the Human District. “If it’s just the people here farming for the whole of Spur, then we should be able to knock out a rough plan in a few hours. So? 170 hectare plots? Really?”

Rollo said, “It’s under 2 square kilometers.”

Apogee said, “I don’t need any land inside the city. The ranch is good enough.”

Hera spoke up, saying, “The plans for the plots have already been set. They’re more or less evenly spaced out around the edge of this district.” She looked to everyone, saying, “There will be a trial period of a month, and then Silverite will reevaluate how everything is going, but Spur has been without the Farms for almost a week, now. We’re starting to see shortages in the stores. She wants this up and running by the end of the day.”

Calizi frowned at Rollo, saying, “I want that land to the west. I already got some workers lined up.”

“You’re gonna have to roll some dice for it, Calizi,” Rollo said. “I got help just waiting for me to give the word, too."

Calizi brought out a deck of cards from her shoulderbag, saying, “Cards. Not dice.”

“You’re going to lose either way.”

Hera ignored the two of them, as she cast a hand across the table. A miniature lightward version of the Human District sprang into existence, complete with a panoply of rectangular lots all along the outside edge. She said, “These are the plans. Make your choices however you want. Silverite trusts you all to get it done in a timely and orderly fashion.”

Rollo started yelling about dice. Calizi vehemently rebutted, demanding cards. Kip sarcastically offered a test of marksmanship, which the others immediately decried. Ratchet just went ahead and declared a grouping of plots in the south as hers, while Missoli said she’d take whatever was left, but it had to be continuous.

Erick said, “I got my own garden around my house so I won’t be taking any land, but I’ll probably be selling to some people in town, anyway.”

Rollo said, “We’ll get you set up, too, archmage.”

“Thank you.” He said, “You can all call me Erick, by the way.”

“Sure thing, Erick,” Calizi said, “Those potatoes are great. Reminds me almost of the whiteroot I ate as a kid.”

Rollo frowned at Calizi, saying, “I’m growing the potatoes, Calizi. We already had that discussion.”

Calizi smiled beatifically at Rollo, saying, “And I won.” She dropped the smile. “I’m growing the potatoes.”

Erick asked, “We’re not actually splitting up the harvest like that, are we? Can’t everyone just grow whatever they want?”

Ratchet spoke up, “Those two can’t.” She added, “I’m on the spices.”

Rollo said, “You’re not getting a monopoly on those, Ratchet.”

“On this, we agree,” Calizi said.

Erick sat back in his chair, relaxing as people spoke of growing things and feeding people, of potatoes and corn, of purple tomatoes and Erick’s red variety. Of corn, and wheat, and rice. Parts of the discussion were not pleasant. But it was all about normal, mundane things. Not of life and death, or about the deeper mysteries of magic. It was kinda nice for a change.

When Missoli spoke of cats again, Kip brought up the shadowcats from before, and Erick’s mind wandered to threats left living, out there in the world.

He needed to search for Bulgan. Give it at least a half-assed try, though he doubted he would find anything. He couldn’t directly search Ar’Kendrithyst, but he could have a little look-see from the outside.

As the conversation chugged on around him, Erick thought more of that man, and how he had tried to set a trap in Spur’s sewers, expecting Erick and Jane to find the oozes first, but how unfortunate rookies had lost their lives to the living acid, instead. There was no concrete proof that Bulgan was behind the lethal Sewerhouse attack, but Erick did not doubt that he was behind that, too.

… Or maybe there was concrete proof, and Silverite didn’t want to tell Erick for fear of rocking the boat.

At the time, a lot of the incani of Spur that were involved in those attacks, either directly, or simply in the know. Erick never found out exactly who all was directly involved. Zago was involved, for sure, but she seemed repentant enough, and no one was comfortable with how far Bulgan actually took his crusade. Not after Bulgan brought shadowcats into the city. He had planted them into the Human District that Erick now lived in, in an effort to kill Erick and Jane, heedless of the collateral damage and deaths he caused. It took the whole city to rout that infestation.

That infestation was the first time Erick had used [Call Lightning] against a living target. At the time, it was a sobering experience. But looking back at it now, almost nine months later...

Shadow monsters certainly didn’t do well versus lightning.

Not many things could!

The new Community Garden Council continued to talk about plants and plots, while Kiri delivered lemonade in huge pitchers to the gathering, eliciting a whole new discussion on sugar cactus, and who would be growing that. Sugar cactus was one of the most lucrative products to grow. Everyone wanted a piece of that pie. Missoli wanted that whole pie, all to herself, but that was simply not happening.

Erick joined in on the discussion when necessary, but mostly only when they spoke of the raining schedule. Instead of raining every morning for a few hours, Erick and the Council worked out a plan for platinum rain on the weekends to ensure a grand seconday harvest in the Market, while normal rain would blanket the whole city on a to-be-decided schedule. According to Hera, every house and apartment building was getting outfitted with their own extra water collection areas, so the whole city could use some rain.

The discussion about the city-rain schedule was out of this Council’s hands. Silverite would hold a vote however she wanted to soon enough, to decide how much rain would come, but Hera, and thus Silverite, was expecting a few hours of rain once or twice a week.

While they all talked of planning around rain, Erick’s mind went to his own plans, to thinking of how to kill Shades.

Shadow monsters were rather vulnerable to lightning, weren’t they? The books Erick had read at Oceanside even said as much. Oceanside had considered Mana Altering to Lightning to be an extreme form of light, before Erick came along, meaning that they thought that shadows were vulnerable to extreme forms of light, but when there was only a little light, that little light made the shadows stronger.

But obviously lightning was not light. Was there something special about the violent movement of electrons equalizing charge that shadows were vulnerable to? Or was there a much simpler answer? Were living things simply vulnerable to electrical disruption, and ‘light’ was not involved at all?

Erick would have to experiment a little on the monsters near the Hole up north; the nearest open entrance to the Underworld. Other than Ar’Kendrithyst, the Hole was the only other local place where shadowolves and other shadow monsters lived.

… Could he make a [Summon Lightning Elemental]?

Bah. No. He couldn’t do that. He would need Particulate Force, the Particle Mage Class Ability to combine normal magic and Particle magic, in order to get [Conjure Force Elemental] and [Call Lightning] to play with each other. But Jane said that she’d never talk to him ever again if he ever took that Ability.

Oh! But Rats has [Greater Treat Wounds], too! He could make a rod of—

Rats was gone. Shit. How could Erick have forgotten that? Dammit. Hopefully Rats was doing okay out there with Messilina… wherever he was.

Oh. Jane could make a rod of [Greater Treat Wounds], too. And she would be home soon. Maybe they could work on some magic together? Ah, but she would have to learn Ancient Script. That was no big deal. He could pay Irogh a grand-rad to get [Comprehend Languages] cast for Jane. Maybe he would get that spell cast on him, too. Everyone spoke Ecks, for the most part, but not every book was written in Ecks. Most of the books in the Mage Guild’s library were written in other languages, like Inferni for all the technical books coming out of the Wasteland Kingdoms, or Draconic for the rarely used genetically-imprinted language of all dragonkin. There were orcol exploratory journals written in Gargantual that Erick wanted to read, too, to understand a bit more about the wilder places of Veird. Jane already knew Karstar, the language of human nobility and the angels, so Erick needed to learn that, too.

How would Jane react to him wanting to take Particulate Force?

… But what Class Ability would he have give up to get Particulate Force?

… Shape Spell? But Shape Spell was so useful.

… He would have to give up something to get Particulate Force, to prepare for whatever was coming out of Ar’Kendrithyst.

Erick casually looked up from the discussion, to gaze south. Spur rose past the flat lands of the Human District like orange blocks and spires. Beyond that was the wall; barely visible between buildings. Beyond that wall was a large expanse of Crystal Forest, and beyond that, lay the much larger wall of Ar’Kendrithyst, dominating the southern horizon.

They were up to something in there.

- - - -

Far away from the tall walls of Ar’Kendrithyst, in the deep south, east of the Wall that separated the Wasteland Kingdoms from the Crystal Forest, there stood a man. While the sun shone overhead, that man stared at the western sky. He was close to his homeland, but this is as close as he wanted to go.

This place, in the middle of nowhere, not even near the ocean, was perfect.

In the distance, further than mortal eyes could see without the aid of magic, lay the Wall. There were many such ‘Wall’s on Veird, but this one was the only one the man would ever consider the true ‘Wall’.

This division between biomes was like a minor mountain range, but it was flatter, more organized. It was a necessary Wall, too, for the Greyhorn mountains to the north did not fully close the gap between themselves and the ocean, so the people of the lands beyond had had to raise this minor mountain range on their own, hundreds and hundreds of years ago, to keep the Crystal Mimics out. The Wall was mostly unmanned, but every hundred kilometers towers rose from the Wall and settlements lived on the other side. It was a harsh life, no one really thrived there, but it was a good life, and it was barely more difficult than living in Spur.

The man stared at the Wall, thinking. He had lived there when he was a child. He had traded with travelers, and he had helped his mother bake bread. He had grown jewelfruit and apridates with his father, and played with his brothers and sisters under tall trees and in the deep dunes on the other side, where the danger came from sunburn and heatstroke, and other people.

That had all changed when the humans attacked. His home was gone, now. It had been gone for twenty years. His real home had been Spur, until recently.

A spike of deep, thrumming anger tingled at the edge of the man’s mind, but his anger was a well worn armor. It was a cool breeze on a hot day, or a hot dagger held coldly; a centering emotion. He held his anger close, and used it to further his goals, just like he always did, and just how he was doing right now.

Today was the start of something special, and the man was going to make this plan work, even if he had to kill his former countrymen to do so.

The man was born an incani. His skin had always been dark and his horns of a goodly size. Now, his skin was the color of night, and his horns were flickers of shadow barely longer than his black hair. His clothes were darker than black; the color of almost everything about him, these days.

He smiled, staring at the wall separating the Crystal Forest from the Wasteland Kingdoms.

He turned to a puddle of darkness on the ground next to him. “This is your new home. Make of it what you will.”

The puddle vibrated. The noon sun seemed to stretch down into the darkness, as the darkness opened. People gripped the edge of that hole in the ground and pulled themselves out, onto the sands of the Crystal Forest. They were not as perfectly formed as the man, but these shadelings had begun to show intellect in the recent months, and thus, they were here, taking part in this plan.

The people hauled themselves out of the hole in twos and threes, easily lifting themselves into the sun, each of them spreading out in whatever direction they decided. If some of them chose to run, the man would hunt them down, but none of them did. They were smarter than that. Some of them spoke to each other in hushed tones; discussions of where and what they should build.

A trio walked a short distance from the hole in the ground and joined hands. Shadowstuff stretched from each of the people; a creation from nowhere, taking hold in the light like a mirage turning real. With practiced effort, the shadelings pulled a squat building out of the air, and then began to stretch it taller.

Other shadelings created thin towers. Or crystalline spikes the size of small kendrithyst towers. Trees made of illusions stretched over sand that turned into dark stone roadways.

There were no Crystal Mimics to fight, or agave to clear away; the man had already taken care of that with a wave of his hand, not five minutes ago. There were just buildings to make, and the shadelings made them. In ten minutes, the overall construction was the size of a village, and shadelings were still pouring out of the ground. In an hour, the village had become a small town. In two more hours, shadelings stopped coming out of the hole right as a wall went up around the city.

