But before he could consider that further, he felt something—a single strand extended from the Index, and Shiv realized why it remained. A smile grew on his face, a laugh bubbled out from his throat, and a warmth ignited inside his heart: Uva. He recognized that strand. She'd stolen one of the Stranger's offspring. Shiv instinctively lowered his Magical Resistance, like he always did. And just then, the thread of Psychomancy touched him, rushed into his mind. He anticipated the feeling of familiarity. He anticipated a rush of affection between them, intimacy, memory shared.

It wasn't what he got.

The thread coiled inside his mind, curled deep, and sank itself like a stinger, burrowing into the core of his ego. Shiv barely managed to let out a gasp before his body went stiff, and an alien will began wrapping itself around him.

He heard Uva scream. He heard her pleading, begging for him to be spared between sobs of anguish. And then he understood. This wasn't her. It was the parasite living inside of her. Shiv tried to clench his teeth as Jessica reached out, started pulling at him, asking him what was wrong, but even that action felt as difficult as lifting a mountain as a Pathless.

He couldn't reply. His will wasn't his own anymore. With his Magical Resistance bypassed, he couldn't even decide to reactivate his tides. Everything within had been usurped. His thoughts were there, but it was like he was quarantined from himself. Like his awareness—his consciousness—had another layer of insulation built around it that seized control of his actions, of his body.

"Haven't forgotten you, Deathless," the Eldest's voice hissed at him through the Hatchling—the creature that had overtaken Uva’s soul. Bile crawled up Shiv's throat, and he shivered in horror. "Haven't forgotten what you did before, what you delayed. But what you don't understand is that this was fated too. You were meant to be mine, always, forever, unavoidable. Fated. Always. I will be all. I am first. I am foremost. And I will be last, even after all else is no longer."

Shiv tried to defy the Eldritch God's will, but he couldn't. No more than a raindrop could fall straight amidst a raging hurricane.

He felt the Psychomancy strand sinking deeper into him, curling out from him as it snaked toward Jessica as well. The Legend knew something was wrong now. She had her blade drawn, was flowing back through the air, the wheels on her feet spinning counterclockwise as she made distance from Shiv. She held the tip of her sword at him and seemed to be contemplating cutting him down. He wanted to tell her to do it. In the vain hope that it might free him, but even his words were stolen. In its place, silence remained.

"We'll hollow you out, every bit, until nothing remains," the Hatchling whispered, its voice so close to Uva's, yet so foreign. "And then, see if I can wear you, see if I can take your soul. But first—"

Before it could say anything else, the Index approaching him violently exploded for seemingly no reason at all.

And with that, the Psychokinetic connection binding Shiv to the Hatchling's will broke as well.

***

"Well, that makes things simple for us," Valor commented. “You always were an impatient, petulant child of a thing, Stranger, but your condition is growing worse. The System has only reduced you more with every bit of mana it tainted you with since we last spoke…”

All around him, the Eldritch forest was receding. The Fingerlings were dissolving, their essence being dedicated to the Stranger's greatest offspring—a Supplicant.

That left only one Index, the one the Hatching had hijacked to escape. The one that was currently reaching into Shiv's mind as Valor anticipated, the one that didn't know Valor, the Educator, and the Culturist were approaching.

"So, would you like the pleasure of testing your returned Skills, or shall I make a ruin of this thing?" the orc asked.

Valor simply gestured. "Make it quick. We do this efficiently. This is not time to tarry and play."

The orc tilted his head slightly and smirked at Valor. "It is always a time to tarry and play, Legend Thann. But with your allowance, I shall take this pleasure."

And with that, the Culturist tore across the air in a burst of Legendary violence, force, and speed. When he hit the Index, it was taught how to dissolve like the rest of its kind as well.
