This battery is protected by a sheath of strange matter that is hyper resilient. This resiliency comes with other perks as well. The material powers a flotation enchantment on the pack's surface, making it weightless. It's tough enough to serve as a shield, and it even slowly rebuilds its mana reserves using this material's natural mana production.

These factors make this valuable, so ensure that its wielder is either immensely powerful or protected well.

Now that was a more positive breakdown, and it doubled as a warning from Schema for my artifact's quality. I appreciated the guidance, as it kept me from putting people in negligent danger. However, hoping Schema and other people would advise me all the time wasn't going to work out long term.

Taking a more proactive approach, I sent Kessiah a super golem guard. She was always on the front lines with Krog guarding her, and while he did an admirable job, Alpha's death taught me that I couldn't be overly cautious. Plus, we owned enough golems that being stingy with them was foolish.

After sending one of the titans to Kessiah, I put my hands on my hips, inspecting my work with pride. These last few steps concluded my medical revamp, and the medical utensils sheened on the new operating table. The tools and etched room splayed out with a simple yet refined look. Inscriptions covered most of the surfaces, giving it a detailed appearance that contrasted the simple designs.

It reminded me of a library for that reason; it was a place full of detail and depth yet laid out for practical purposes. Satisfied with that end result, I turned to one of the medical practitioners that helped me with the wall glyphs,

"Hey, let Kessiah know this is for her, alright?"

The woman bowed,

"Of course."

Happy with what I'd done so far, I moved out towards Torix. Devising plots within his lair, he turned to me while his obelisk automated many maneuvers at once,

"Ah, guildleader. It's good to see you. What do you need?"

I raised a hand, "I'm just here to look around. You know...check on stuff."

"Hmm...check as you will then, but do give me space to continue my tasks. Many of these dilemmas require a semblance of speed, lest those on the battlefield perish from my negligence."

I gave him a thumbs-up, looking around. His lair was, once again, a cluttered mess. His chaotic mess, no doubt, but damn, was it hard to look at as an outsider. Not wanting to mess with his flow, I assisted him with strictly positive stuff. That started a potent yet straightforward tool - a massive mana crystal.

I mean, the pack I made for Kessiah even hinted at the prospect and giving Torix more mana would only help him out. Finding the middle of his space empty, I generated a circular table of stone there. I left the middle of the rock open. It imitated a hollowed sundial. Creating metal holdings, I retained a gothic, angular style mana holder before filling it with quintessence.

The bars offset most physical traumas before I created a web of wires around it. They'd slice anything that got to grabby. The behemothic gemstone itself offered light to the dim room while ebbing with radiant energy, leaving my skin warm and tingly. It reminded me of the comfort of a warm bath combined with the alertness of a cold shower.

Torix watched the entire time while still working. He neither interrupted nor asked what I was doing, choosing to observe instead of interrupt. It wasn't until I wrapped the last wire around the stone that he gestured at it, "Would you mind putting a few mana circuits up to that? It would help immensely with dispersing the mana within."

I nodded and etched them out via heated telekinetic contact points. With the glyphs sketched, Torix gained a massive supply of mana he could hook up to any device he wanted. Well, if he runically connected the machines, but Torix versed himself with those non-cipheric runes already.  Adding to the refinement, I carved in extra runes for general enhancement of the area. They were the same generic enhancers I used for Kessiah's rooms.

Now polished, the crystal holder and enchanting lines hummed throughout the room, each of them giving off a gentle purr. The wafting echoed about until it faded to a faint thump like a hummingbird's wings. Combined with the white light, and the lair took on a different air entirely. It also illuminated the dusty, ancient pages of Torix's grimoire as he pulled his book out.

Simple yet effective, Torix poured over his incantations many times until they shined with efficiency. No matter the number of refinements, the actual book showed its limitations even now. It was a grimoire made before he gained his new body. Considering his schedule and workload, I didn't blame him for stalling the creation of a new booklet, but that didn't mean he needed it any less.

In his place, I'd have done the same thing. Considering the torn pages and ripped seam, I eyed it while a prick of shame spawned in my chest. I'd put so much on the necromancer that he didn't have time to change it, despite being more than able to. He needed a new one and now, so I tapped his shoulder,

"Torix, when was the last time you made a new grimoire?"

He peered down at it and channeled mana into his own runic markings, "Hmm, it's been quite some time. Given my new parameters, I'd imagine I'm long overdue for a more modern edition. However, my time is strained, and even with a new booklet, I lack the wherewithal to fill its pages. Being aware of those factors, I muster up the utility I still can out of this."

He held the book up before I threw a punch at it. Stopping just short, my fist blew wind over the pages, and dust percolated into the air. Catching the light of the quintessence at an angle, the particles danced like glowing fractals. They reminded me of the new battery, but they also demonstrated how ancient Torix's book was.

Torix scoffed at the sight, "To think it had been so long since I last cleaned it. Perhaps I should allocate time for its replacement."

I raised my hands, "Give me the ritual, and I can make one for you. My cipher translations might give you more to work with too."

"Hmm...I don't think that's even possible, given the ritual's constraints."

"Send me some runes and we'll see."

Having already drafted up everything on his own, it was obvious that Torix intended on making a grimoire. He simply hadn't gotten around to it. I stared at his markings,

"I can make this work. I just need to force a few parts with the cipher."

"That sounds rather dangerous. Are you certain that'll work as intended?"

"It will and won't. I'm not trying to change myself or an individual with the cipher right now. It's more like I'm trying to make my mana flows work for someone else's ritual. That's more than doable, but it just won't be as stable as a normal grimoire creation. There could be some blowback from forcing it to work."

"If I'm honest with you, I don't fully understand how the cipher works still, despite your tutoring as of late. Regardless of my ignorance regarding this matter, if you beleive you can do so, then by all means. Your completion of this would save me a rather painful headache. Thank you for even considering it."

"Consider it done. I'll be back in a few hours."

"I anticipate your arrival, disciple."

Walking off, I conceptualized a few ways of making this happen. I'd done this before, so I already understood the general sentiment behind a grimoire's creation. Making someone else's tome threw a wrench in that process since mages often enjoyed various knick-knacks and features for their grimoires. Features that I didn't use. Getting those adjustments handled in writing beforehand helped sort that stuff out.

That wasn't the only concern, however. I didn't want to make a frankenstien booklet that blew up when used. A grimoire required a person's will and intelligence to manifest, and I was using those attributes from me instead of Torix. I mean, I already knew Torix well, but the cipher needed an absolute kind of understanding.

That meant I wouldn't be able to just force the entire ritual. I needed to incorporate as much of Torix's individual writing as possible. At the same time, the parts of the rite that feasted on his will would have to suffice on my intent instead. That could be fenangled by the cipher, which could bend the laws of space-time. This wouldn't be anything that dramatic.

Knowing what to do next, I got my problems lined up. The first concern came from constraints on our territory. Any grimoire rite used many markings and formulae, and I found no nearby rooms for a project of this scale. The cipher additions only ignited further issues. A bit of quick thinking fixed this issue right up. Taking a nod from Mt. Verner's design, I installed a basement into the lair of Torix.

I pulled this off thanks to the blue core's shielding being spherical. It stretched down, granting us quite a bit of unused real estate below our war camp. Taking some of that unrealized terrain, I carved out ceilings of stone and floors from fire. The stone filled in from my mana as I walked. The fire was melted sand, making a layer of clouded glass to walk on from sand below. Reinforced by struts of steel, this glass expanded outwards in every direction.

Even with the generated stone as a support, this football-field-sized space required extra enforcement. Stabilizing with steel, I plopped pillars in evenly spaced increments. These columns synchronized in circles stretching out from the center of the room, where I placed a monolith for the grimoire's generation.

Having a giant zone now, I etched in the fundamental runes first. Not needing my grimoire for these necessary incantations, I handwrote these down using multiple minds at once. Some cipheric commands weaved into this framework but only where necessary to save me time and keep true to Torix's original vision. Replanting the dimensional augments later, I grimoired them in with the charging and glowing style I usually used.

This allowed many benefits. The cipher required a level of precision that was difficult to maintain long-term. Having a steady mind or not, a person's concentration wavered from time to time, so by limiting the amount of cipher work, I also limited the number of mistakes I could make. That's where the glass flooring came in handy. Being translucent, I viewed both sides of the double-layered, dimensional cipher I used. That saved me lots of time I otherwise used checking for errors.

Melding the two runic styles also saved me the laborious effort of converting all of Torix's ritual. In a word, Torix was 'chatty' when he wrote out his runes. That extended the ceremony by leaps and bounds, and considering the sheer volume of etchings required, I cut some corners. As few as I could manage, but it still left a mark on the rite.

The rest of the process took up an hour, most of that dedicated to charging mana for Torix's grimoire. All it required was putting a palm on the monolith at the ritual's center plus a bit of mana. My mind wandered to my next upgrade for my followers during that time. Amara needed armor, after all.

During this lapse in attention, the sheer enormity of this ritual escaped me. Plasma formed in the air as streaks of crimson lightning streaked out. I didn't notice because I'd split my mind into many parts, all of them consumed with some critical task. This left the piece of my consciousness dedicated to charging overwhelmed by the job. All it could do was funnel mana, and it lacked the awareness to warn my other minds.

As the mana seeped out, it saturated my hand placed on the central monolith. A tiny prick of pain radiated up, which most people would overlook. It wasn't often I felt pain, however, so it captured my attention like a leg snapped up by a bear trap. Staring down, I found the ritual running haywire.

The ritual accepted my mana in place of Torix's, but it oozed out more mana than a normal ritual would. That wouldn't have mattered much for a normal person, but my mana exceeded the norm by orders of magnitude. Even a reactive pulse would level our entire camp and then some.

Thinking fast and on my feet, I opened my pocket dimension. Swiping it over the monolith, the grimoire and the monolith fell into the void. The energy fizzled into a vast silence, and I stood in the center of it all. I frowned at the now empty runes, their light dispersing into their surroundings. I'd failed the rite.

Well, I'd failed it so far.

Taking a moment, I thought the situation through. In stasis, the ritual remained unfinished but close to completion. Once done, it would radiate out in a massive explosion that would destroy the area. Containing that required my pocket dimension swallowing the fallout before the fallout swallowed our camp.

A solution popped up in my head, and it put a satisfied grin on my face. I sent Chrona a message, telling her to come to my coordinates. As she flew over, I made an entrance for her outside of Torix's domain. She flew into my basement, being mindful of the glass flooring as she landed here. Once settled, she tilted her head at me,

"What is it that you needed so urgently?"

I pointed at the missing monolith, "There's a ritual that's happening. I'm going to finish the grimoire then put the resulting shockwave into my pocket dimension. I don't trust my reaction time to be precise enough to handle that. I think I'll miss netting up the explosion, pretty much killing everybody here."

A bead of cold sweat fell from Chrona's face, "That is...unfortunate. H-how am I to help you with this?"

I put my hands on my hips, "You'll slow time in this one spot, making the explosion less...well, explosive. It'll radiate slowly, and I'll put it back into my pocket dimension. Once there, I'll just pull out the grimoire and keep the explosion in my storage for later."

"Guildleader...You're insane."

I raised my eyebrows, "Insanely smart, eh?"

