“Grandpa,” she began, meeting sad green eyes that burned with inner fire. “Why are we here?”

“Because there is someone you must meet, Liling,” he said tiredly.

She felt the ground quake, and the furrow pulled apart, soil and grass and flowers all pulling away in opposite directions.

Before them was an eye. Wider than the palace complex of Kailasa, it burned verdant green.

Sun Liling heard a song.

It rose from the sway of the sunflowers and the rustling of stalks. A warm song, a loving song, it was an invitation and enticement to lie among the flowers and be embraced by the earth. Yet it was also a sad song, the singer wounded and in pain. For a moment, Sun Liling saw, with the eyes of her spirit, not only an eye, but also a whole woman’s face in the contours of the land with green hair that stretched for kilometers and a wide and inviting smile that could swallow a city.

The sunflowers around them turned from the sun to face her, and Sun Liling felt her vision fading, her thoughts unraveling. Why did she need to think when she could stay right here and let her roots drink deep, forever and ever, loved and cared for?

Grandpa’s hand fell upon her shoulder, and the feeling fled as his power roared.

The sky burned crimson, and a titan of bone and blood stood over her. How high he stood, his ten heads crowned by scarlet fire, his fierce faces burning away the clouds. Black pitch drenched the titan’s body, and in it writhed men and women, beasts and spirits. The dead cried out, a hundred thousand, two hundred thousand, and more tattered spirits wrought into being, armament fit to withstand the wrath of the gods.

In his one hundred hands were clenched one hundred weapons, each fit to sunder mountains and ruin countries, but none more so than the terrible spear leveled at the smiling woman with sunflowers in her hair. A haft wrought of bloodstained bone, tasseled by sinew and jungle thorn, its head was a pale shocking white, pure as snow, and beneath the surface of the gleaming blade, a score of golden-eyed faces screamed their hate.

The titan—Grandpa—spoke, and the words were lost to her ears, too loud, too mighty for her to comprehend.

Her vision spun, and the song of the sunflowers became the sigh of a woman in love, and the sunflower petals caressed the ten-faced visage of the titan of war, leaving trails of oozing black blood.

And then, they stood once more in the garden. Beside her, trickles of blood dripped from cuts on Grandpa’s cheek, staining his beard red. From the vast eye before them, something rose. It was a hundred different jungle beasts all at once. It was a tree wrapped in thorny parasitic vines that bloomed with yellow flowers. It was a tall woman with caramel skin and verdant hair, all but nude save for trailing scarves of red.

It was a bared blade, stained with dragon’s blood.

Sun Liling could not even look at it without a spike of pain burning in her head.

“If only the might of Sublime Ancestors is to be respected, then our choices are few,” Grandpa said softly. His voice was sad, defeated even, as he looked upon the blurring form directly. “Liling, give respect to your Great-Grandmother.”

Sun Liling’s mouth went dry at the implication. They used barbarian arts, tamed barbarian spirits, but…

The figure was before her, and Liling felt her heart thundering as the spirit’s disapproval fell upon her. Grandpa’s hand tightened on her shoulder. Whispers of song battered against Grandpa’s power.

“You accepted my proposal,” Sun Shao, King of the Western Territories, ground out, and the earth trembled. “I am yours, but my great-granddaughter is your great-granddaughter. The bargain was struck.”

The figure before her shifted, and Sun Liling shivered as she felt the touch of a bloody scarf, a talon, and a sharp blade all in one.

“Sun Liling,” Grandpa  repeated, “give respect to your Great-Grandmother.”

She could only obey. Sun Liling brought her fists together and bowed her head to the Goddess of the Red Garden. In her head, Dharitri laughed.

<At last, I did not trust myself not to ruin the surprise! Oh, how wonderful it is to be sisters in truth!>

“Your adoption will be painful, as all births are. You will be strong enough to survive it,” Grandpa ordered as something, a vine or a scarf or a jungle serpent, she knew not, wrapped around her. “Family is everything.”

Sun Liling could only scream as thorns erupted from her skin, verdant deific qi overrunning her channels.

Distantly, she heard Grandpa answer himself. “Everything for the family.”
