The two images wove together, using the shape that Randidly had painstakingly refined but powered by the force the retired Commandant had gathered over his career.

MacDuul seemed too stunned to respond, just gaping at the tree suddenly growing out of his image and draining his power.

Randidly’s breath hissed through his teeth. He felt the overwhelming power of this man’s image, but handling it with his Willpower was agonizing. His eyes flashed with a strange blackness. He couldn’t handle this for long. But for now-

Randidly growled and attacked that horrifying chain. Absolute Grasp of Yggdrasil. Piercing Gaze of the Egg. The Wrathful Calamity Rends.

If it hadn’t been for the Nether storm he had made, Randidly wasn’t sure he could have survived utilizing that image potency. The caustic Aether seared its way through his Soulspace, barely prevented from crippling him by the thick foundation of his significance. Then it was gone, surging and burning its way forward.

More Skill Levels blurred in front of him as symbiotic image roots exploded out of MacDuul’s meadow, containing the Stillborn Phoenix’s lust for vengeance and the unflinching desire of the Grey Creature to survive. The roots bulged and sizzled with grey lightning, possessing an impossible amount of power for the current Randidly. His emotions sang with those roots, and even as his senses flickered and got burned away by the image he handled, he existed totally in that effort to stop Devick.

To put it simply, it was a miracle.

BOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOM!

The impact shook the platform. Randidly fell over, his head pounding. This activation of his First Authority had been much more concentrated, which mean the effort wasn’t so gargantuan, but the target had also been extremely formidable. Behind him, he felt Nidhogg loosening its grip and the overpowered Yggdrasil slowly collapsing. Yet he laughed- he had spent everything and forced Devick’s image to a draw.

The chain now writhed and ripped its way through the collapsing roots to get at Randidly, but it had been brought to a dead stop, just for a moment. And now-

“Descent of the Wolf God!” Moonlight Blade’s rough howl cut through the remnants of the impact. Suddenly he was loping across the cracked ground to catch up with Claudette and Tyune. At the same time, Tyune had given up on trying to reach the platform and just unleashed his attacks on Claudette to slow her down.

Devick spared Moonlight Blade a glance and curled her lip up. Then she shook her head and turned back to Randidly. “One idiot at a time. Anyways, Ghosthound, you did it again; you surprised me. I’m trying to decide if this new information makes it more or less likely that I’ll kill you right here…”

I’m not just imagining it, For a brief moment, his forehead creased. She definitely is dyeing the air red.

Randidly tried not to let any emotion show on his face, even as Claudette was dragged into a direct confrontation with Tyune. The sallow-being’s weirdly damp image didn’t possess overwhelming force, but the repeated solid attacks from its amorphous tentacles smashed apart the walls of frost that Claudette threw up. Even with her sharp movements, the overall power of her image was less than this old monster.

Meanwhile, Moonlight Blade’s image grew more and more powerful as he charged. A new note spread through his image, creating a strange harmony of power. And when he raised his claws-

“That sensation…” Randidly muttered to himself. He felt a small strand of his own significance in this rising power. It wasn’t much, but the energy was familiar. With his significance as a counterweight, Randidly probably could affect Moonlight Blade’s attack.

“Alas, you are too pretty. I don’t like the prospect of you remaining alive.” Devick announced. She shook her masked face. “Perfection should be destroyed; I like you entirely too much. Perhaps if you had a broken nose or a few warts…? Well, there is no point crying over it. Accept your fate.”

A second attack, Randidly thought to himself, numb at the prospect. But despite that, he felt hope rising in his chest. Claudette and Tyune clashed three times in quick succession. Moonlight Blade raced to their position. MacDuul sagged behind Randidly, finally catching his breath. Neshamah crouched behind Devick by the staircase.

Devick pointed. The sluggish chain accelerated once more.

Randidly’s eyes were bright. He didn’t blink. I just need to survive one more attack.
