When she finished with an elongated “… astray…,” neither CEO nor Director spoke a word for about half a block. Behind Eppie, the streets passed steadily in their urban metronome. Behind her employers, the city slid by in alternating light and dark, inexplicably different.

“Euphemia,” Davis said finally, and his voice had lost all of its calm. “Are you—I don't even know how to ask this. Are you possessed? By a deceased Blues musician, perhaps?”

“Trent, don’t be so banal.” Curon shook his head. “She’s possessed by a classical Vaudeville Blues singer…”

“No, I'm serious.” Davis had turned fully toward her now. “Where does a—is there someone in your family? Are you — “ and he grasped for straws. "Are you descended from Appalachian stock? Fontaine, right? Did your family own a plantation?”

Eppie felt her whole face crimp inward. “Please don't finish that thought,” Eppie kept an eye on her [Causality] gauge.

“Then explain this—” Davis pointed at her accusingly with the glass. “How are you writing these songs? They’re more authentic than… anything I’ve heard in decades. This thing sounds like it could be the work of old Bailey himself!”

“The songs come to me in dreams,” Eppie spoke without guilt, her [Persuasion] and [Act Natural] working overtime, because it was true. “The songs, I mean. I wake up, and it's already there, whole, like somebody put it there.” She shrugged, then tilted her head to look doubly more pitiful.

“There, there,” Curon patted her hand. “Don’t be upset.”

Davis looked like he was wondering if his hands could fit around her neck.

“Maybe that’s how the clever ones make music,” her father came to her aid. "Paul McCarron wrote Yesterday while making bacon and eggs, and was convinced he stole it from somewhere. Keith Rennick came up with Satisfaction after waking up blacked out drunk.” He paused. “And neither of us has formal music training.”

“Ah, yes,” Davis gave Curon a disbelieving squint. “Sorry, I forgot our own genius. You grew up in the Bronx, Fred, and by extension, rap, rock and progressive. I set my eyes on producing pop groups when I was in my twenties. She’s… sixteen, and grew up in housing projects. Lots of exposure to classical blues in the projects, I take it? Hmm? Eppie? Did you live in one of those movies where the janitor was a retired Blues legend?”

Unfortunately for Davis, Eppie wasn’t so easily cornered.

“Gents,” she cut in, her tone changing to that of Lana’s for a split-second. “Don’t look a gift horse in the mouth.”

Curon looked at her strangely. Davis suddenly sobered up.

Eppie looked out at the passing lights and then back at the two men.

“So, you think this song is good enough to get me through the door of the Richards' house? Lucia says I owe her one—” Eppie smiled, a little more wickedly than she anticipated. “What if I have a chat with Mr Richards? Will my song tip the scales in Sony’s favour?”

“Bailey Richards is dead,” Curon reminded her.

“To whoever is in charge then,” Eppie shrugged. “My question is, can you set up a meeting, Trent?”

Hearing his first name, Trent Davis regarded her with new eyes. Her CEO wasn’t upset by her use of it, because the word had emerged so naturally and with such ease.

“As a contractor, you cannot negotiate on Sony’s behalf,” Davis said. “So please don’t even try.”

Sony’s CEO played with the BlackBerry in his palm before looking up again. Their car was pulling into the Four Seasons lobby.

“But since you promised Lucia…” Davis relented. “Don’t make me regret setting up a meeting.”

And I’ll set up my slush fund. Eppie performed an internal fist pump. 400,000 [Causality] here I come!
