Requirements: 50 in Focus

Strong 3

Multiply your base HP by 2.22

Requirements: 20 Strength

Exp: 96/300

Enduring 3

Multiply your base HP regen by 2.22

Requirements: 20 Vitality

Exp: 96/300

Discipline X

Multiply your base MP by 3

Requirements: 20 Willpower

Concentration X

Multiply your base MP regen by 3

Requirements: 20 Focus

Clarity X

Reduces spell costs by 50%

Requirements: 10 Focus

Meditation X

Always Resting

Requirements: 10 Willpower

Mana Shaping X

Alter spell AOE in better, subtle ways, 10 MP + spellcost

Alter spell AOE in better, moderate ways, 30 MP + spellcost

Aurify Unlocked

Alter AOE in better, major ways, 100 MP + spellcost

Alter AOE in better, extreme ways, 300 MP + spellcost

Change any spell into an AOE spell, or freely alter the AOE of any AOE spell, 500 MP + spellcost

Requirements: 10 Willpower

Aurify 2

Transform an AOE spell into a semi-permanent effect surrounding yourself, based upon the parameters of the Aurified spell. Increase an instantaneous spell to a 1 second duration in order to create an aura.

Able to support 1 aura at a time.

You may choose who or what is affected by your aura.

Doubles the range on an Aurified spell.

Exp: 68294/1000000

Mana Altering X

Bludgeon, Slash, or Piercing Damage

Force to Light, Blinding, Variable Cost

Invisible Force, Variable Cost

Force to Thunder, Disorient, Variable Cost

Force to Fire, Burn, Variable Cost

Force to Ice, Slow, Variable Cost

Force to Lightning, Paralyze, Variable Cost

Force to Decay, organic damage, Variable Cost x1.5

Chain, Variable Cost x2

Combine Effects, Variable Cost x3

Generate new effects. Variable Cost

Requirements: 10 Willpower

Cleanse X, instant, short range, 10 MP.

Purge an area equal to the level of the spell in meters of all Toxins, Disease, Filth, and Corruption.

Cleanse Aura, short range, 10 MP per second.

Continuously purge all Toxins, Disease, Filth, and Corruption in a 10m sphere centered on you.

Mend X, instant, touch, 10 mana.

Touch a complicated large object, or a small common magical item, and restore it to its prime.

Ward X, instant, short range, 24 hours

Create a Small Ward that can have Minor Effects, or prevent Z damage from attackers. 10 MP + Z

Create a Small Ward that can have Small Effects, or prevent Z damage from attackers. 15 MP + Z

Create a Special Ward. Variable Cost

Create a Medium Ward that can have Small Effects, or prevent Z damage from attackers. 20 MP + Z

Create a Medium Ward that can have Medium Effects, or prevent Z damage from attackers. 25 MP + Z

Personal Ward: Any Ward of any type can be made Personal, to move with you. Original Cost x2

Create a Large Ward that can have Medium Effects, or prevent Z damage from attackers. 30 MP + Z

Create a Large Ward that can have Large Effects, or prevent Z damage from attackers. 35 MP + Z

Create a Ward with another Spell attached to the interior. Spell activation based on Z invested into Ward. 100 MP + Z

Your Wards regenerate Z based on your Rested MP regen rate.

Special Wards can be made Permanent. 250 MP + Variable Cost

Minor Effects: Bug Ward, Temperature Ward, Alarm Ward

Small Effects: Visual Disruption, Audio Disruption, Weather Ward

Medium Effects: Area Hostile Visual Disruption, Area Hostile Audio Disruption

Large Effects: Drain Hostile HP/MP, Gravity Ward

Special Ward: Eschew all other effects in order to shape, color, and illuminate a ward however you wish. Skill level at Mana Manipulation determines final outcome. Variable Cost

Gravity Strainer, instant, medium range, 65 mana, 1 hour duration.

Conjure a large, freely moldable space where specific objects turn near-weightless and fall to a designated point.

Force Beam 2, instant, medium range, 25 MP

A piercing, slicing beam of hardened mana that deals 25 + ½ WIL damage for 2 seconds

Exp: 175/200

Force Shrapnel X, instant, short cone, 5 MP

Sharpened forward blast of mana that deals 25 + WIL damage in a cone

Billiard Ball Aura, short range, 5 MP per second

Crashing balls of mana bounce erratically, inflicting 25 + WIL damage per hit.

Blink 5, instant, 25 MP

Instantly move from your location to another within <sight>, max range 10m per level of Blink

Exp: 50/800

Stoneshape X, medium range

Move large amounts of stone and sand around you for 5 minutes per level of the spell. Fine control. 100 MP

Quickly move large amounts of stone and sand around you for 1 minute per level of the spell. Fine control. 50 MP

Grow X, instant, touch or close range, 5 MP

Cultivate a single plant, or induce plant growth in an area equal to spell level in meters.

Growth Aura, 5 MP per second.

Induce growth in the plants you choose in a 10m radius around you.

Telekinesis X, medium range

Move large objects around you for 5 minutes per level of the spell. Fine control. 100 MP

Quickly move large objects around you for 1 minute per level of the spell. Fine control. 50 MP

Airshape X, medium range

Move large amounts of air around you for 5 minutes per level of the spell. Fine control. 100 MP

Quickly move large amounts air around you for 1 minute per level of the spell. Fine control. 50 MP

Particle Mage:

Call Lightning X, 1 minute per level, super long range, 500 MP ~{Favored Spell}~

Prepare the sky to strike an area or object of your choice for <damage>. If used in an active lightning storm, Call Lightning’s duration is as long as the natural storm. Every lighting bolt called reduces the duration of Call Lightning by 1 minute, or a natural storm by <undetermined>.

Particle Mage Only

Lightning Aura, 1 MP per second, super long range ~{Favored Spell}~

Prepare the air around you to strike for <damage>. One strike available every 50 MP.

Particle Mage Only

Exalted Storm Aura, 1 MP per second, super long range ~{Favored Spell}~

Anoint the land with blessed rain, rapidly growing all <crops and pasture> to <harvest size> and restoring vibrancy to all other <desired> plant life and soil. If used in a <prepared field> <devoid of crops>, highly nutritious beans will sprout after <a full day of rain>.

Particle Mage Only

Withering 5, 1 minute per level, super long range, 500 MP

Purge all water from all monsters in super large area, dealing <damage> every second, then Cleanse the land around every monster purged in this way.

Particle Mage Only.

Exp: 400/800

Particle Mage

Your ability to unlock new Particle spells is greatly increased.

If you witness a Particle spell and you understand it, you may unlock that spell for free.

Your ability to affect the Particle spells of others is greatly increased.

Your own Particle spells are less affected by the abilities of non Particle Mages

Your Particle spells deal more damage

You take less damage from Particle spells.

<I gave you most of the Force Mage skillset except with a few additions and subtractions and relevant changes. You’ve also gotten the Class unlocked at max level, because I need to see how this all works out. This is all subject to change. ~Rozeta>

- - - -

BreeEEE! BreeEEE! BreeEEE!

An [Alarm Ward] blared. Erick shot up out of bed, his feet landing on the cold stone floor. Night hung heavy outside and inside his room. There had been a lightorb in his room. What happened to the light?

Mana Shaping.

[Special Ward].

A string of lights sprung out from every edge of his room, and every other edge of his entire stone house, inside and out, like immaculately placed Christmas lights suddenly switched on.

Except for in one upper corner of his bedroom, by the window, where the lightorb had been.

An eight foot wide spider made of darkness waited there, seven long legs latched into the stone, one long leg touching the [Alarm Ward] of the closed window, triggering the spell again and again.

Mana Shaping

[Wither—

The spider vanished faster than the speed of thought.

Erick rushed out of his room, screaming, “Where the fuck is everyone!”
