“This one would be deeply grateful,” Kavé bowed again.

Calen and Mato left with the rest of the non-combat aspirants, escorting them to town, leaving Ali with just the five who required a combat trial.

“How should we do this?” Ali asked Vivian. “The sewer has slimes and a few Goblins for them to fight.”

“Right,” Vivian said. “I highly recommend the five of you group up for this. Aiden, perhaps you can take the lead? Approaching your combat trial as a group will drastically improve your chances of survival.”

“Ok, but some of them don’t have weapons. It will be difficult to keep them alive if they can’t fight.” Aiden pointed out, gesturing to the girl standing off to the side by herself.

Ali turned to see the gaunt and dirty girl from the slums shifting awkwardly as if embarrassed to be drawing attention to herself. Her dark hair was a tangled mess and she had nothing but the torn clothes she was wearing. Not even shoes.

“What is your name?” Ali asked, and the girl looked up at her as if surprised that Ali would care.

“Devan, miss. I… I’m sorry, I don’t have any equipment.”

“Devan, there’s a pile of equipment over there by the tent. Please feel free to help yourself to anything that will help you. I suggest you take a set of leather armor also if you can find something that fits.”

Devan shifted awkwardly in place for a moment, “Um… maybe? Just a dagger?”

The girl seemed timid, and Ali briefly wondered why she was seeking a combat class at all. But then she remembered Calen was also a bit shy, and he was remarkably effective. Although he wasn’t quite as shy as Devan seemed to be.

“Here, I’ll help you find something.” The girl with the bow stepped up to take her hand. Kaitlyn, Ali recalled – one of Aiden’s friends.

“You don’t have a weapon to fight with either?” Ali turned to the Goblin.

“No, Miss Aliandra. Havok has no weapon.” He seemed crestfallen at the admission.

He’s so polite, she thought. “Your name is Havok?”

“No,” he said and shifted uncomfortably, looking down at his feet. “Not like Sneeze, warrior needs powerful name. I want to be Havok. With a K.”

“Your real name is Sneeze?” she asked to the sound of a few chuckles from the people around.

“Yes,” he said dejectedly. “Father sneezed when Havok born. Mother thought it too funny and named Sneeze. Not good name for warrior.”

“Why don’t you also look through the pile and choose a sword or something?” Ali pointed over at the equipment pile where Kaitlyn was busy helping Devan into a shabby piece of leather armor.

“Havok doesn’t want to owe Miss Aliandra more.”

His surprising reticence stumped Ali. She didn’t want to force him, but he would most certainly need a weapon for the trial.

“Why don’t you borrow it?” Malika suggested, coming to her rescue. “Once you earn your class and better equipment, you can give it to someone who needs it.”

“Give?” Havok asked, surprised.

“Yes,” Malika said. “Among my people, the greatest warriors are the ones who have the power to help others who are weaker than themselves.”

“Oh!” his face lit up again. “Miss Malika is wise. Havok will be powerful and help everyone!” He scampered off to scrabble in the pile of equipment with great enthusiasm and energy, emerging with a rusty sword and an expression that told everyone this was the greatest treasure in the world.

Ali watched as the ragtag band of would-be adventurer hopefuls left to meet their trial.

“I really hope he does well,” Malika said.

“Me too,” Ali answered. It was a strange feeling setting them all on their way, and Ali felt a deep sense of responsibility for putting them all at risk, even though it was the only way for them to earn their classes and advance.

“Ali, you might want to make a couple more Goblins or something,” Malika said suddenly. “The novices from the guild were down here the other day and cleared out quite a few of your creatures.”

“Oh, right.” It wouldn’t do to have the candidates roaming around the sewers finding nothing they could fight. Ali quickly pulled out her Grimoire and summoned several Goblins, grateful for the new advancement that allowed her to explicitly choose the low-leveled Skirmishers and Scavengers.

“Is level five too high for them?” Ali asked, eyeing one of the Skirmishers. The Starving Alpha had been a real challenge before they had all earned their classes.

“I wouldn’t risk it,” Malika said.

Even Vivian nodded her agreement, so Ali obliged by unsummoning it. She didn’t want to kill the candidates by setting them against an unreasonable challenge.

As soon as she had equipped them all with appropriate gear, she sent them off. “I just really hope I don’t kill anyone,” Ali said as her new minions vanished up into the sewers.

Vivian Ross glanced at her with an unreadable expression for several moments before she turned and touched the shrine.

“Thank you for showing me this, Aliandra,” she said. “I think I will go keep an eye on our candidates, just in case they get in over their heads.”

And then she was off, vanishing with the unfathomable speed of a high-level warrior, and Ali breathed a little easier knowing she would be looking out for the candidates she had just sent to their trial.

***

Ali stepped across the threshold into a transformed smithy. She had several hours before even the luckiest candidates would need the services of her shrine, and so she had decided to bring Kavé to visit Thuli.

“You were right. His mood has improved,” Kavé observed, stepping into the smithy. The enchantments had all been recharged, and the sounds of the entrance chimes rang out loudly through the brightly lit smithy, contending briefly with the clanging of steel against steel. An intense dry heat wafted in from the forge area, and a few moments later, the powerful Dwarf stepped into the room wearing a singed leather apron and carrying an enormous hammer. He stank of sweat and the heavy odor of molten steel.

“Hi Aliandra, Malika. It’s good to see ya in my smithy once again.” Thuli’s eyes glanced sideways at Kavé’s cowled form before returning to Ali. “What can I do for ya this fine day?”

“This is Kavé,” Ali introduced her, and Kavé obliged by removing her cowl and bowing to Thuli. “I unlocked her experience this morning at my shrine. She would like to become a blacksmith, but none of the smithies would accept her.”

“Aye, because of what she is, I bet. Insensitive, speciesist twats, the lot of them,” Thuli declared loudly, jabbing his chest with his thumb for emphasis.

Ali wouldn’t personally have put it quite so bluntly, but she certainly agreed with the sentiment. She was tired of being accused of being a ‘monster-race’ herself, and she couldn’t imagine the resistance Kavé would get as a widely feared member of the Dragonkin race.

“But I cannot take on an apprentice. As ya already know, I’m broke, and I simply cannot afford it,” Thuli continued. “I’m sorry lass,” he directed the last part to Kavé.

“Would you at least be able to conduct her trial so she can earn a class?” Ali asked.

“Aye, that I can do,” Thuli replied. “Come, lass, let’s choose you a hammer. And bring those scraps of iron with you. And then get a bucket from that closet and bring some coal.”

Kavé scrambled to follow Thuli’s rapid-fire instructions, leaving her cape hastily discarded on the floor.

Malika retrieved the cape, folded it, and placed it on the table. Ali watched in fascination as the sounds of forging filled the room, and the deep blackish-red of Thuli’s ember magic poured out from his body in waves. They sweated over the glowing forge as Thuli enthusiastically put Kavé to work, racing around on errands, or hammering at the anvil until her arms were trembling. But she had that gleam of excitement in her eyes and it never faltered for a moment.

“I got it!” Kavé suddenly exclaimed, her voice filled with awe and wonder. It had taken barely more than an hour of intense activity. “It says my natural class is ‘blacksmith’.”

Thuli put down the glowing red piece of iron he was holding in his bare hands and grinned at Kavé. “Good work, lass.”

“Congratulations, Kavé,” Ali said. “Don’t choose that class yet, let’s get you to the shrine first, so you can see your other choices.”

To Ali’s surprise, Thuli closed and locked the doors to his smithy, clearly intending to accompany them to the shrine. She just smiled to herself. For someone who had given up on interacting with the world, he certainly seemed rather invested in witnessing Kavé’s class advancement. Could she allow herself to hope this might still end well?

Nobody had returned to the shrine yet, other than Mato and Calen, so Ali stepped up to the shrine, inviting Kavé and Thuli to join her.

“Kavé, I suggest you try the latent mana affinity option first. If you have a mana affinity, this will give you access to class choices that are potentially much more powerful, drawing on your mana. If not, you still get several class options to choose from, by using the other shrine option afterward.”

The girl nodded and stepped up to the shrine with a serious expression on her face.

“Good luck, lass,” Thuli encouraged her with a broad wink.

She placed her scaled hand upon the stone, and a deep hum filled the air, starting with a high pitch, but rapidly descending to the lower registers, causing powerful vibrations to ripple through the ground and shaking Ali to her bones.

Dense streams of quicksilver-like mana flowed from Kavé’s body, pouring out from her arms, torso, and head, rapidly forming into shimmering globules of shining metal that floated in the air, slowly circling her body. The shapes twisted in the dim light, reflecting the shrine and the trees as they morphed into disks, cubes, spikes, and myriad other forms before finally settling back into spheres.

The hum abruptly ceased, and the mirror-like spheres of steel fell to the ground, bouncing and rolling about.

“This one has steel affinity mana,” Kavé declared breathlessly, silver eyes wide in surprise. Suddenly, she gasped, “It used fifty-thousand mana? This one is sorry!”

“That’s ok Kavé, that’s how much it costs. There is more than enough for everyone.” Her expression slowly recovered as Ali reassured her that she hadn’t done anything bad.

“Why don’t you try the class chooser? That one normally costs thirty-five thousand.”

“Ok,” she answered, placing a hand on the shrine once again.

Ali left her at the shrine and walked over to where Thuli was standing. “Why don’t you help her choose? There are a lot of choices, and it can be confusing all at once.”

Thuli glanced at her in surprise, but then grunted and stumped off to join Kavé.

The two of them huddled by the shrine chatting for almost ten minutes before they finally returned, crossing the mossy ground in thoughtful silence. Eagerly, Ali Identified them as they came on.

Blacksmith – Dragonkin – level 1 (Steel)Blacksmith – Dwarf – level ?? (Ember)

“Congratulations on your class,” Ali said. “I hope you got something that makes you happy.”

Kavé bowed deeply. “This one is profoundly grateful for this opportunity. This one has become a Steelshaper.”

“It’s one of the strongest blacksmithing classes I have ever laid eyes upon!” Thuli exclaimed, clearly excited for her.

“This one is aware she cannot be your apprentice but asks only for the opportunity to watch you work,” Kavé asked. Her tone seemed as close to begging as she could manage without actually kneeling on the floor. “This one does not require anything more than a bench in the forge to sleep.”

“No, lass. If you are serious enough to camp in the forge without pay just to watch me work, then we should do this properly. I cannot pay you, but if you insist on learning, you will have the best instruction that is within my power to give. You have my word,” Thuli declared.

Thuli’s eyes shone in the darkness, and the veins on his arms began to glow with the red of molten iron. He reached out his hand and an extraordinarily complex and intricate construct of his ember mana manifested in the space between them. He gestured with his hand pushing it toward her.

Is that his mana signature? Ali couldn’t be quite certain, but accounting for the differences due to Thuli’s ember affinity, it certainly looked a lot like what Lydia had done when she had imbued her work with her mana.

Kavé stared at it with wide round eyes. “Are… are you sure?”

“Yes lass, I gave my word,” Thuli said, his mana-filled eyes staring at her intently. “You’re welcome to accept it.”

She made a movement, and Thuli’s mana settled on her, forming a kernel that sunk deep within her chest.

“Thank you, master,” she said.

“Hey, I’ll have none o’ that master stuff,” Thuli said, looking rather embarrassed. “You can call me Thuli like everyone else. And I will call you Kavé. You will work hard and learn from me, and I will teach you everything I know. But I don’t own you or have any authority beyond that.”

Kavé rose from her bow. “Thank you… Thuli.”

“Was that your mana signature?” Ali asked, curiosity burning within her.

“Aye, it is a Mentorship Tithe enchant very similar to the mana signature I put on my work. Except this goes on her class experience. Whenever she learns something, her mana can draw from mine, providing additional skill options and advances that are aligned with my class and experience. It is by far the fastest and best way to mentor a student, but many crafters are stingy with it because they can give only a limited number of them, and the arrangement affects the teacher as much as the apprentice.”

“This one is grateful for your trust.”

“Teaching is much like crafting an item,” Thuli told her, as the two of them turned to leave. “And just like crafting, I don’t believe in half-measures, only the best work is acceptable. One day you will have your own apprentice, and then you will understand.”

-----------------kramretaw - egdelwonk fo noegnud eht si siht.
