“What do you want from him?” Val said, standing up beside Carten. Shit, this is bad. Rain got to his feet as well, though he wasn’t sure what he could actually do about this if things got started for real.

Velika’s eyes flicked to him before she looked back at Carten. “Nothing too onerous. I suspect he’ll be more than willing once he hears what I have in mind.”

To Rain’s surprise, Rankin stood next. “No, my lady, you said that I would be in charge of the Guild!” Rain didn’t miss the hawk pin on the collar of his Guild uniform. I should have known he’d sell-out.

“Silence!” Lord Rill shouted. “You will address Citizen Sadanis with respect!” He stressed the title, making it clear that ‘my lady’ was insufficient.

Rankin opened his mouth. “But—”

“Enough,” Velika said, slicing her arm through the air. “This is an unrelated matter. You are still in charge of the Guild. You will keep them in line, or I will replace you.” She turned to look at Carten. “Be there by eighth bell if you are interested. Consider it…an invitation. Optional.” She grinned at him. “I hope you are as durable as you look.” She spun on her heel, walking for the exit. “Dismissed!” she shouted, then vanished in a puff of dust. Rain blinked as the wave of sound from her departure crashed over the stands. So fast!

The crowd burst into discussion, the volume quickly rising as people got to their feet. Damn it, what the hell does she want with Carten? She better not give him any responsibility. I can’t think of a single person more unfit to hold office…okay, maybe one.

“Well, that was certainly interesting,” said the deep voice of the merchant sitting beside him. “You see, Ava, that wasn’t so boring. She’s not much for long-winded speeches, that one.”

“Yes it was!” said the little girl, Ava. “I’m hungry. Can we go?”

“Soon enough, Ava, soon enough.” The man turned to look at Rain. “Pardon me, adventurer, I am curious. Do you know that man? The one with the shields?”

Rain sighed. “Yeah, I know him.”

The merchant laughed. “Do you think he has any idea what he’s in for? You’ve heard the rumors about our new Citizen, yes?”

“What rumors?” Rain said, watching Carten worriedly. “I’ve been pretty busy.” Val was slapping the big man on the back for some reason, though Carten just looked confused.

The merchant looked down at his daughter, then back up at Rain. “Nothing I can say in front of my daughter, if you take my meaning.” He wiggled his eyebrows up and down suggestively. “If what I hear is true, he’d be the third man she’s…propositioned since she came to the city. I haven’t been able to confirm anything, but she’s hardly been discreet. I think your friend is in for a rough night.”

Rain froze. Judging by the tone Velika had been using… Oh no, he’s right. How did I miss that? Carten, run. Death by snu-snu.

His thoughts were interrupted by the offered hand of the merchant, thrust forward enthusiastically. “Hello, I confess that I only asked about your friend as a way of breaking the ice. I just wanted to introduce myself to you as you appear to be an interesting person. I love interesting people. Mlemlek Ko-Latti, at your service.”

Rain looked at the bald-headed merchant, reaching out distractedly to shake his hand. He was still trying to decide if he could be misinterpreting what Velika wanted Carten for. He blinked as what the man had said filtered through to him. Wait…what? “Uh, sorry, what was your name again? I think I heard it wrong, sorry.”

“No worries at all. I understand it can be quite difficult for anyone who hasn’t been to the isles. Mlemlek Ko-Latti, wandering merchant extraordinaire. You can just call me Mlem if you prefer, most people do. Not Lem, mind, I have standards. And you are?”

Mlem? Really? Like the tongue thing? Seeing that the man was waiting for his response, Rain shook himself back to reality. “Rain. We’ve actually met before.”

“Really?” Mlem said. “I would think I would remember meeting a man such as yourself.”

“Really,” Rain said. “You sold me some clothes a few weeks ago, right here in Fel Sadanis. I’m not surprised you don’t recognize me. I wasn’t wearing the armor.”

“Humm, a puzzle. Your voice does sound somewhat familiar. I apologize, but I do not recognize you.”

Rain grinned and flipped up his visor, activating Force Ward, just in case. He was conscious of all the people arguing around him in the stands. “And now?”

“Daddy! It’s the rag man!” Ava shouted, pointing at his face.

Rain blinked, then quickly contorted his features into mock outrage. “Rag man?” he said, looking down at Ava. “Well I never!”

Mlem’s laugh was deep and hearty as he ruffled his daughter’s hair. “You see, Ava! I told you I had a feeling about him. What’s the third rule?”

“Trust your gut,” Ava replied quickly.

“Good girl,” He smiled, looking back to Rain. “You are a marvelous actor, sir. What was it, some sort of test? Pretending not to know the language? Trying to see if I would take advantage?”

Rain smiled, flipping down his visor. He didn’t trust himself to bluff his way out of explaining how he’d learned an entire language in less than a month. “Something like that.”

“Ah, mysterious. Very good. A man should have secrets. I love the armor and the cloak, by the way. It really works.” He looked around the arena, then sighed. “I think it is time for me to leave. There’s no business to be had here. Well, if you ever need anything again, be sure to look for me. I might not have much now, but I’ll bet I have at least something you’d be interested in. I promise not to overcharge you now that I know you’re famous.”

“I’m not famous,” Rain said reflexively.

“Oh, you are, Night Cleaner, the entire city is talking about you.”

“Wait, Night Cleaner? Who’s calling me that? That’s so…”

Mlem laughed. “Trust me, it could be worse.” He looked down at his daughter. “’Rag man’, for example,” he said, continuing in a chiding tone. “What have I told you about insulting the customers, Ava?”

“I think it’s a great name,” Ava said, offering him her hand in imitation of her father. “Hi, I’m Ava.”

Rain shook her hand warmly. “It is nice to meet you, Ava.”

Mlem smiled. “She’s always underfoot, but she’s adorable, no?” He patted her head, then looked up at him. “We’ll see you later, yes? I’ve got a space over by the market square, or at least, what’s left of it.”

“Sure,” Rain said, nodding. “I’ll stop by sometime. I need to go find Carten before he gets himself in even more trouble.”

“Good luck with that,” Mlem said cheerily. “It was a pleasure meeting you, Rain.”

“Bye Rain!” Ava said, waving as her father towed her away. He raised his hand to return the wave, smiling under his helmet. His smile quickly faded as the clamor in the stands continued. It seemed to be breaking up into camps, nobles on one side, the Watch and the Guild on the other. It didn’t look like it would become violent, but…

Velika snarled at the servant hovering outside her room as she snatched the tray out of his hands. She glared at him as he shrunk back. “If anyone knocks on this door before my guest gets here, they will be scraping your insides off the ceiling.”

She slammed the door in the terrified man’s face and sighed, walking over to her desk and setting down the tray before unbuckling the massive sword from her back. I don’t know why I even bother with this thing. She let it fall carelessly to the ground with a loud crash, then set about removing the rest of her equipment. She showed much more respect for the Osaran swords she wore at her waist. Her skin prickled as she removed her armor, the cold air sharp against her bare flesh. It was refreshing after the oppressive heat of the city. Halgrave’s mansion was outfitted with chiller plates, an oasis of luxury in this pitiful backwater.

She slipped into a plain tunic that was too large for her, then slumped into the chair and grabbed a chicken leg. She started gnawing on it tiredly, her hunger overpowering her desire to just crawl into Halgrave’s massive bed and fall asleep. Using as much stamina as she had over the past few days had left her hungry and exhausted. It wasn’t like she could have taken it easy, though. She had to make an impression. She had to be fast, too fast for anyone to even think that they’d have a chance against her. It was all she had.

I should be okay, now. If they didn’t take their shot then, then they probably never will. I don’t know what I would have done if they had attacked… I can’t stand up to all of them, not all at once. They have to believe that I can, though, because if not… If they think they can beat me…

She swallowed unhappily, opening up her status screen with greasy fingers. She flicked through the pages, stopping on the one that displayed her progress to the next level. She was level 48, almost there, and yet so, so far away. She needed to be out hunting, not trapped here in this city. Damn Westbridge. Damn the DKE. Damn shitty city with its damn low-level lair. This wasn’t the deal. It’s not fair. What the fuck are they thinking, doing this to me?

She dismissed the panel with an angry swipe and took another bite of chicken. The meat was underseasoned and overcooked, but she was wishing for more by the time she polished off the entire bird, including the bones. She liked the way that they crunched when she bit into them, so she always saved them for last. Her stomach rumbled and she contemplated calling the servant back, but decided against it. Rest and whatever relaxation she could find was more important than food right now. She wiped off her hands and flopped down onto the bed, rubbing her eyes.

How did I get here? I thought I’d have people to run the city for me…people I can trust, not that snake Arta. What’s his game? He’s meek as milk when we’re out in public, but he’s always going off and doing things on his own, thinking he knows best. Hells, he told me as much to my face yesterday, the smarmy bastard. He’s useful, but…is he trying to manipulate me? Make me rely on him, then take power for himself? Fuck. I’ll kill him if he tries it, no matter what Westbridge said. His advice is worth less than shit, the backstabbing fuck. I don’t need allies or a bureaucracy. Fuck all of that. I’ll let Arta handle it, and if he gets any ideas, I’ll rip his arms off. Westbridge, too. When I get my hands on him…

Velika took a deep breath, forcing herself to calm down. She crammed her anger down deep inside herself, then let her breath out in a sigh. She rolled over to lie on her stomach and closed her eyes, letting her arm dangle off the side of the bed. I just want to…I just wanted…not this.
