Ren chuckled. “You helped me out a lot before.” He said. “It's been a godsend, Stella.”

She grinned. “Almost 12 hours worth of blue screen told me that, Ren.”

Ren snorted a laugh. “That reminds me. I better use the bathroom.” He dug into his cubbyhole and took out another foil package. “I'm trying to catch up on sleep in the game, but Nathalia just can't keep her hands off of me.”

“Uh huh.” Stella said, as Ren went into the bathroom. “It's all her. Riiiight.”

Ren laughed as he used the bathroom, cleaned up, and came back out. “Can you take care of these for me?” Ren said and handed her several toilet paper wrapped packages. “Depending on how things go, I might have another one for you by suppertime.”

Stella shook her head. “You know you can go in them several times before you have to change them.”

“I know.” Ren said. “I even leave lots of extra room for that.”

“That's good. I thought you might be wasting them.”

Ren put a hand on her arm. “I wouldn't do that after all the trouble you went through to get them for me.”

Stella nodded. “Get back in bed, and I'll bring you lunch, okay?” Stella said.

“You betcha.” Ren said and climbed into bed. “I'm actually kinda hungry.”

Stella went to get his meal, and Ren used the laptop to send a message to the company and asked for another helmet, so a nurse could examine him while inside the game. Knowing they would want something in exchange, Ren thought about an incentive that they would like. He smiled as he offered to send them footage of him in real life, to compare to what he was like in the game. He mentioned that it could help them open the medical demographic, and he would offer proof that it worked. Ren sent it off and pushed the laptop aside as Stella came in with his meal. He ate it all, she moved the tray out of the way, and helped Ren put on the VR headset.

“Thanks, Stella.”

“Anytime, little stud.”

“Flow Login Start.”

********

Ren woke up in the bed, and Nathalia stood beside it, wearing just her slip. Ren grinned and stored his clothes.

“I really need to get some sleep, My Love.” He said, jokingly.

Nathalia heard the lie and chuckled. She climbed on top of him and lay down so her face was right in front of his.

“We can sleep later.” She said and kissed him. He reached a hand for her neck and she caught it. “No you don't, mister.” Nathalia said and he let her push his hand back to the bed, and she held it there. “No tickling this time.”

“No?” Ren said and ran his free hand up her thigh. “You might regret that decision later.”

Nathalia smiled. “No tickling my neck, then.”

“As you command, My Lady.” Ren said and kissed her.

********

Gloria drove at a moderate speed down the road, and pulled into the garage to do another shift at work. She parked sedately and locked the doors before going inside.

“Hey, Gloria.”

“Hi, Frank.” Gloria said and went in the back to change into clean coveralls. She came back out dressed for work and went into the office. “Whatcha got for me today?”

“The best thing in the world!” Frank grinned. “The transmission blew in a Ford Focus.”

Gloria started to laugh and Frank joined her. They laughed for a minute or two and then Gloria spoke.

“All right, I'll do it.” She said. “Did you pull the replacement out of stock?”

“It's already prepped and sitting beside the car.”

“Why didn't you put it in, then?” Gloria asked. “You could have saved me the trouble.”

“Because I know how much you love transmissions.”

Gloria rolled her eyes at him and he chuckled.

“Scott will be in after 2 if you need a hand.”

“Naw, I got it.” She said and went into the garage, then saw the car. “Hey, Frank!”

“Yeah?”

“You didn't tell me it was purple!” Gloria said, and laughed again.

“I wanted it to be a surprise.”

“God, the stupidity of some people.” She said, and that made her think of Ren, and how he'd acted while feeding her. Dammit, why can't I stop thinking about him? She thought and pulled over a rolling dolly. Gloria laid down on it and slid herself underneath the car that was the garage's bread and butter. Frank would have been out of business years ago, if car companies stopped making lemons. Gloria thought as she started to unbolt the transmission.
