The woman waved off the objection. “How well I know it. Even those in the Wandering Wilds are so steeped in that way of thinking that I cannot change them.”

Tala cleared her throat, still focused on her own realization. “That aside, why do you have inscriptions to connect to the Archive?”

“Because I find it more convenient than getting an item.” Even as she said it, Mistress Holly glanced away, showing that she was hiding something in an almost comical manner, but also that she’d not be likely to say more. The very fact that she’d answered so quickly implied that she’d expected the question, or at least that she’d had to answer it before.

Even so, Tala decided not to press. “Regardless, what’s going on? What are you able to see?”

That brought a stormcloud back to the woman’s face. “Effectively nothing. They’ve somehow begun seeding our southern expanses with far-sight blocking… reality or some such nonsense. We’ve sent scouts, and Master Xeel was recalled to scan the wilds around our cities. With those resources, we’ve discovered that there are several strike forces heading for Marliweather and Surehaven. We’ve warned the cities, and expect that their usual defenses and defenders will be able to handle the smaller attacks with ease, now that they won’t be taken unawares.”

Tala growled at that. “So, this is a Leshkin War, but without the prep-time, more powerful units, and more of our civilians in close proximity.”

“Indeed, but we have to worry about the Doman-Imithe. We have watch-points, and they won’t be able to come out within any of our cities, but it is still a danger.” The woman’s grimace shifted toward a smile. “Even so, we get to strike back this time.”

Tala’s scowl transformed into a grin almost instantly. “So, the gated are pushing for the assault?”

Mistress Holly nodded, a gleam in her eyes. “We are. Expect the war council’s next orders to come down soon. If my sources are correct, we’ll attack tomorrow.”

Tala let out a long, contented breath. “Good, good.” Her eyes then tracked to Eskau Meallain. “In that case, I think I need to try to speak to a Sovereign about an elf.”

Eskau Meallain only frowned for an instant before her eyes opened wide in shock. Then, her expression settled into one of murderous glee. “Oh. Oh, yes please.”
