“It is so. My purpose is not to debate you tonight, because I believe that we will never fully align. I can accept this. I only wanted you to understand that we disagree on methods but we share a purpose, and that common purpose is the betterment of mankind. The remnants are currently under the control of Arana, and Arana has erred in her mission. For the sake of absolute control, she has eroded the power of the remnants to a nub of its former self, a shadow of what it could have been. She and her family have destroyed all who would oppose her before they could react until she alone stood on the pedestal of rulership. Now all that is left are sycophants and experts too cowed by the threat of terror to be a danger to her.”

Maranor stopped here, offering Viv an opportunity to answer. She didn’t. The Goddess of Power was sounding surprisingly reasonable.

“I was not going to interfere. I had no reason to. Bringing chaos is against my nature. Even if it were not, Arana clamps on anything she sees as a threat. It took a major disruption, a seismic upheaval for her grip to loosen. Now, she will seek to reassert it by any means necessary, though she will try to weaken you first, as she fears your might. You two are on a collision course and there is nothing anyone, not even the gods, can do to stop it.”

“And you favor me, despite my revolutionary tendencies.”

“You were a revolutionary, a bringer of chaos, and so I supported your opponents. Now, you are a guardian of order. Your order. And so, I support you.”

“I, uh, ok.”

“Does it really surprise you that the Goddess of Power and Order would support an empress bringing civilization back to the Deadlands?”

Viv didn’t immediately reply.

“Your opinion of us must be rather dreadful.”

“Welllllll.”

“Ah, what refreshing insolence…” Maranor said, and her power shifted.

Viv froze, or rather her soul did.

Do not tickle the god-slaying womanchild. Her visual acuity is based on provocation.

The moment passed.

“Since conflict is inevitable, I will attempt to minimize the damage. That is why I would favor a coup. I would simply advise you to send the Hadals you love so much for a decapitating strike but I already anticipate your answer.”

“I gave my word I wouldn’t use them as assassins.”

“They have already assassinated people in your name.”

“By their own volition. I will never force them.”

“Even if refusing to do so will endanger your land and cause more casualties?”

Viv resisted the urge to roll her eyes. It was an old argument she had, sometimes with Solfis, sometimes with Lady Azar. They had a very realistic approach to politics.

“You do not know that for sure,” Viv retorted. “You may think a small breach of a promise from a ruler would be justified in exceptional circumstances. What you are doing is destroying trust and setting a precedent. I will not do that. You think it’s a sign of weakness but you would be surprised how far people are willing to go for causes and leaders they truly believe in.”

“Enlighten me, then, Outlander.”

“They go all the fucking way down.”

Maranor remained silent.

“As would I,” Viv added with conviction.

“It is as I already said,” Maranor replied with a shrug. “You have grabbed power and now, it is yours, and your vision has been proven to be superior. If you wish to defeat Arana on her own playing field, you will need to crack the base of her power.”

“Fear?”

Maranor smiled.

“You are very close to the truth. Yes, specifically, her path. You must break the way her path works. The more terrified people are, the more certain they are that she cannot be defeated, the more real it becomes. You could, as I said, kill her, but it would be a bloodbath. The alternate solution is to remove her supports one by one. The more you remove and the easier she will fall.”

“She might try to outright kill me.”

“Despite being cunning, Arana is single-minded. She will attempt to sabotage and isolate you before going for an assassination because this has always worked and so it is all she knows. She is a prisoner of her own path, much more than you are of yours. Yes, you are. Your draconic aura partially guides how you react. As you grow more powerful you will also lose some flexibility. Already, it is impossible for you to let any slight go unpunished.”

“I…”

Was she, really?

Did it matter? She was the result of her choices. Hmmm.

“Do not be distracted. As I said, you will defeat Arana on her own terms, and the remnants will submit to you without bloodshed. Fail, and the country will be drowned in the blood of the innocent. And you will lose many capable subordinates.”

“I would rather avoid that.”

“Then do so. Gnaw at her pillar with that contagious vision of yours, and you will send the entire rigid structure tumbling.”

“Very well,” Viv said, and then waited.

And waited.

“You may depart if you wish,” Maranor said.

“What, you will not ask something in return for the hint?”

The goddess shrugged again, the move strange on her young frame. It felt too jaded.

“I only wish for my temples to remain untouched, and allowed to continue in their mission.”

Her eyes grew darker, more dangerous.

“Surely, you were not considering forbidding my worship amongst your followers.”

“Nope! Of course not. No religious war with a light god. Just be aware that Neriad is our holy patron and I’m not changing that.”

“Of course. We are finished now. I would say ‘good luck’ but we both know how that will go.”

Viv was pushed back. Vertigo hit her soul and she woke up in her guest bed, sweating and a little disoriented.

Once she recovered, she lay her head on the pillow.

It was time for the League of Lesser Evil (minus Solfis) to make a dastardly comeback.
