“Precious ore is brought here from the island every spring by our valorous captains,” Marus claimed.

There was clearly not enough ore to go around, and most of the metal adorned second-step idiots parading around the city instead of an expeditionary corps that would increase the mining output by, at the very least, clearing the mines of monsters. The trip between Frostway and the island would take less than a month, round trip, even with a full cargo hold. Surely it wasn’t that hard to get more stuff in.

Viv abstained from sharing this observation with her host, who led her to the city fortress after a silent, five minute walk.

Despite its tired exterior, Viv was surprised to find that the castle was not just in decent repair, but it also sported some decent magical protections. They went through a monumental entrance without issue, and Viv noted that the hinges were oiled and the battlements above, guarded by soldiers wearing far more basic gear than what she had seen out on the plaza. A shy apprentice led them through windy corridors to the office of the master of the place. Viv felt his mana signature through the doors before they even got in. Mostly air and water. It was cold, but also crisp, like a breeze. The mage watched her come in from a desk covered in papers. Marus had not knocked. Out of all the mages she had ever come across, he was the one who looked the most like an old school wizard. He was only missing the pointy hat.

“And here is Archmage Frosthawk, the current head of the Imperial School of Magic.”

“Ah yes,” Viv replied with a smile. “You were leading the tactical array near the palace.”

Viv recognized the design from both her class at the Academy and Solfis’ theoretical training. Imperial mage cadres tended to prefer specialized constructs, and this was no exception. The array would protect the mages inside while allowing the leader to cast a powerful version of a single type of spell. And that was it. Nowadays, war mages preferred a more flexible approach.

“A witch who knows about tactical arrays?” the man replied with doubt. And a bit of condescension.

Or at least, that was what his tone said. His aura spoke of a different story. It pulsed, lightly, in a pattern. One, two, one. One, two, one.

Viv stopped to think hard, even sending her mind into overdrive to slow down time as much as possible.

Frosthawk’s gaze was sharp. The pattern meant something, something familiar. She had perfect recall but she didn’t remember the exact pattern itself, no. What then? She had heard it mentioned. Theoretical knowledge. Who had told her that?

By her side, she could see Marus slowly turn his head towards her. Frosthawk’s insulting tone would give her a couple of seconds. She only had to pretend to consider retaliation.

Frosthawk, name of an imperial family of southern mages. He was a direct descendant, no doubt. Not magery. Security protocols?

Imperial codes.

Yes, she had it now. Imperial code for long-range communication across large battlefields. This was a greeting, the equivalent of ‘do you copy?’. Crafty crafty. She allowed herself to smile.

“You would be surprised what one can pick up over the years,” she replied.

Two one one. Two one one. I copy.

The mage nodded.

“If you say so, then I will take your word for it. I assume you would like to see our facilities?”

“If it’s not a bother, Frosthawk old friend,” Marus lied through his teeth.

The mage proceeded to show Viv a series of classrooms, a library, and a magical workshop in a bored drone. From an outside perspective, it would have sounded like the most unmotivated demonstration in history. Secretly, Frosthawk tested her knowledge of spellwork through various little traps he left in his wake, which Viv enjoyed undoing tremendously. Frosthawk remained guarded, however, and it was clear that he kept a healthy dose of disdain for witches in general. So Viv made him stumble by shifting a rug under his feet with a delicate application of colorless mana. While he was casting his next trick. After that, the tests stopped.

It was nice to see that people had a spine. She shouldn’t have been surprised. One could stuff the military with their stooges even if it cost them their efficiency, but magic was magic, and mage candidates were too few to safely discard. Oh, Viv was sure that Froshawk had some form of political officer watching over his shoulder, but he was still competent. As was the scout head, Cerus. Perhaps there was an angle there.

The visit ended soon after, and Marus sent her ‘home’ by presenting the usual excuse of ‘you must be exhausted’. Not even a feast to celebrate her arrival! She must have really caught them off guard.

Viv retreated to her quarters, finding them adequate. No one was missing yet, and the One Hundred had finished establishing a perimeter. Viv spent two hours setting enchantments just in case, then it was time for a short war council. Viv found herself missing Lady Azar. This would have been a perfect playground for the crafty stateswoman.

“I am a little out of my depth,” she confessed.

“How? You are being an empress,” Marruk replied.

Zero-Two shrugged. Ban was not talking tonight. He had said what he thought of the opposition and then simmered in his corner, clearly eager to show them what a bunch of wankers they were (his words). Old Derin represented the supply wagon. She was still drawing on her pipe. Also not one for words.

“Let’s be honest, we could take this city in two hours.”

“Less,” Ban grumbled.

“Less if we don’t care about collateral damage,” Viv conceded. “I would just like to try it another way first. For once. The peaceful way.”

“You could negotiate with the people,” Marruk said.

“Yes, although they are afraid. And something else. A sort of aura over this place. I will seek advice before I commit.”

“That does not sound like you,” Marruk said with a frown.

It didn’t, Viv had to admit. She knew what was different.

“It’s because I’m trying subterfuge. No, setting traps in a dense forest doesn’t count, Marruk, because I was always applying what I was taught. Same as slandering Elunath. My first approach is always to find the right tool for the job, or create it. Here I will have to be inventive. Cunning. It’s fine. I need to get out of my comfort zone, sometimes.”

“It’s alright, Viv. If all else fails we can always apply maces to faces,” Marruk said with confidence.

“Thanks, you always know how to put things into perspective. Alright, let’s wrap up for tonight.”

***

“That bitch is going to ruin everything!”

Marus threw an amphora against a wall. Debris and stale wine showered a nearby couch, staining the pillows.

“Patience, my grandson,” Arana replied in a calm voice.

“Patience? She struts on my land with such arrogance. I am the Emperor of Harrak.”

“Do not.” Arana hissed, “Raise your voice at me.”

Marius bit his lips but his anger was misplaced. He knew it, and threw his hands up with annoyance.

“An invader in all but name. Where is your precious control now? We had no inkling she was coming. She has no family to threaten. No clan to exterminate. No money to seize!”

“There are more ways to control someone than just brute force, my grandson. I have already given orders for riders to return to the villages she visited and see if she left people behind. I have no doubts she will send runners back to whatever hole she crawled out of.”

“And those lands are not safe,” Marus replied with a smirk.

One Arana mirrored.

“Precisely. First, we will isolate her. Cut off her support. Then we remove her. She was a fool to bring Kark here. Ugly creatures. We shall spread word that they, hmm, crave carnal desire with human women. Yes, that will be a nice start. Unfortunately, she is no village head. It will take more than influence to finish her off.”

Marus scoffed.

“Surely you do not believe those lies. A single person fending off a dragon? Preposterous.”

“I agree, however, it matters not that she lied. That dolt Cerus is adamant that the dragon was fought and she is still standing, therefore she has the support of a mighty force. You did not feel her intimidation like I did. She has blood on her hands.”

“Then what?”

“There is a… simple request I would like you to make of her. One that would allow her to prove herself and might not just rid us of the problem, it will also make up for the slight she so casually flung into my face.”

“What is it?”

Marus heard the proposition, aghast.

“She will never agree to it.”

“She will.”

“How can you be so sure?”

“Because she is supremely arrogant.”

***

That night, Viv slept. She didn’t really need it but she still made an effort to go to bed every night as a way to anchor her in her humanity. The rituals helped, as did Sidjin though he wasn’t there tonight.

Something pulled her into the in-between.

Someone new.

Viv had no choice but to allow it. The pull was the most imperious she had ever felt, to the extent she could not even formulate the will to resist. Her presence was demanded, and so she would attend. There were no alternatives. Rather than the strange void that was normal, she was transported far, far away, and up. At the top of the world, where things like weather patterns and atmosphere no longer mattered. A part of her knew mana was thick here, but it was a vision, and only a ghost of a sensation nourished her core.

She was standing in front of a throne.

A woman sat there, confident in her power. The throne was mostly unadorned though there were sculpted corpses on it that spoke of an impressive tally. The woman only wore a dress, and a sword rested on her lap. The dress was simple, the sword short and functional. Her hair was raven-black and her eyes brown, warm. She was beautiful in a very alive, imperfect yet charming way Viv had loved on Varska, yet the woman was very clearly a goddess.

It wasn’t her power, which she restrained, but her dress. The hems were darkened, tattered, soaked with blood, and shadows danced behind them like behind the curtains of a well-lit theater. Knights. Mages. Assassins. Courtiers. The agents of the Great Game, all working towards one thing and one thing only.

Power.

Maranor, Queen of the Gods, leaned forward.

“Hello, Viviane. I believe our meeting was long overdue.”

Out of all the gods except perhaps Efestar, she was by far the most human-sounding, as if she had retained much of her mortal identity. Nevertheless, Viv knew better than to provoke her. The gods followed obscure rules in the way they handled mortals. Viv knew this because without them, Octas would have dragged her in a dreamscape and then eaten her. It didn’t mean that Maranor could not punish her. Painfully. So Viv held her tongue and gave a curtsey.

“Greeting, Maranor.”

“You must be surprised to be here.”

“Well,” Viv replied candidly, “I was under the impression that you didn’t like me very much.”

And that was even without knowing about the divine spark of luck, which Viv seriously hoped was hidden.

“Because you bear the mark of my absent husband?”

Well, shit.

“I know how you came here, Viviane the Outlander. My husband disappeared in the Palace of Many Doors, then never came out. And recently I discovered that a blazing Outlander came to Nyil at exactly the same time. It was easy to guess that my dear brother Maradoc sent his old friend to another world, far beyond my reach now, which I find… unpleasant for a variety of reasons. And no, I do not hold this specific offense against you, not anymore. I have had time to… reassess the situation. Admit that you bear no responsibility in this incident.”

A goddess being reasonable? Either she was leading up to something, or it was going to rain frogs for a tenday.

“I come to you to discuss the fate of the remnants.”

She leaned forward, resting her chin on her fists.

“That is what I call this land you are visiting.”

“I assume you do not want me to start a revolution?”

“No, I will support you if you attempt a coup.”

Viv tried to blink, though it wasn’t really a thing since she didn’t have a real body here.

“Pardon me?”

“You assume that I enjoy the current regime, correct?”

“I thought order was your thing, yes.”

“Order, yes. Power as well. There is a nuance between power, and control.”

Now Viv was listening. This wasn’t going the way she expected.

“Before you begin, I wish to dispel what appears to be a… strongly ingrained misconception. I am a light god. My purpose is and has always been the triumph of mankind. I know you favor most sapient races and I will grant you that we disagree on this, however this is not relevant to the current discussion. We share the belief that peace and prosperity are superior to constant war and chaos. That it is better to build and prosper than to destroy. We are in agreement on this, at least, are we not?”

“Our disagreement has always stemmed from the method. And the cost.”

Maranor nodded. On the hem of her dress, someone was killed by a spear to the chest.

