Changing what he was about to say, he instead asked, “You have another weapon? Good, I was beginning to lament the fate of the Empire, thinking you had won with that monstrosity. Use your other weapon and spar again.” Turning to Zian, he added, “No more fanciful displays of skill, fight to win. This isn't a display for the damsels.” Turning to the Marshal, he shrugged his shoulders apologetically, having wasted so much of the man's time, receiving an unspoken assurance in return. There would be many enemies made here in the north and the Marshal could soon be one of them, the Society too well entrenched in every facet of the Province. The logistical nightmare of escaping the province had begun to plague him, but he still had a few friends to call upon.

Carrying a double-edged long sword, Fung looked far more confident, charging forward without hesitation. Darting Fang into Slithering Pursuit, countered by his opponent with Gliding Wing, their first exchange was once again in his favour, but this time it was not wasted. Pressing his advantage, Fung's sword smashed aside Zian's sabres, forcing the older boy backwards. Sticking close, he continued his assault with measured cuts and thrusts, keeping his opponent off-balance. With a change of pace, his sword drew back, surprising Zian for a single heartbeat, his blades moving in the wrong direction to parry, and a powerful thrust from Fung pinked Zian's shoulder as he stepped aside, the fury on the older boy's face ugly to behold. First blood to Fung, but Min Gyu kept silent, allowing the match to continue.

An impressive display from Fung, but in the end, his opponent was more experienced, the five years age difference too steep for him to surpass. A flurry of attacks from Zian's sabres bought him room to recover, Fung unable to stop two swords with one, a series of light cuts showing through his expensive robes. Gamely fighting on, Fung blocked strike after strike, their weapons clashing in a concert of steel, frustration mounting on Zian's face as he struggled to end the fight in a suitably impressive manner, the girlish idiot not taking Min Gyu's words to heart.

After twelve more frantic exchanges, a lull in the match saw both participants heaving as they regained their breath, their weapons held at the ready, neither one willing to show weakness as they stood across from one another, and Min Gyu fought to keep from yawning. The match should have ended long ago if not for Zian's obsession with winning cleanly, Fung gamely holding on with scant hope of winning. The difference in skill was simply too large.

“Enough of this.” His handsome face twisted in anger, Zian had apparently had enough. “Foolish child, you think you can match me? Let me show you the true difference between us.” Rolling his eyes, Min Gyu sat back with a sigh, shaking his head slightly while he inwardly delighted at Yang's dismal look. Idiotic to chat in the midst of a match, but it was a sin many youngsters committed. Better to save your breath for fighting, but pompous children so loved to hear the sound of their own voices. That was the worst part of his epic, the Battle at KunLun. The playwrights had depicted him as a singing warrior, exchanging verbal quips with the Butcher in the form of opera songs while they gently tapped weapons, utter foolishness. Were it up to him, he would have all involved strung up and tortured for degrading his last battle, but the nobility and citizenry had loved it, the idiots that they were.

A wave of power disturbed his imaginings of screaming writers and crying actors, and he focused his attentions once more on the match before him. Not good, Yang seemed to have noticed his distraction, peering oddly at him. Was this what it was like to go Senile? His eyes narrowed as he studied Zian, the ripples of chi surging out from him in a crude manner. Hmm, 24 and able to condense an aura, passable, but his control was lacking.

The bare minimum requirement for facing a demon, condensing one's aura was a feat beyond most warriors, not something easily taught. Tied directly to emotion, it required a build up and release of it through the surrounding chi, a defense against the vile corruption that followed Demons about, tainting the very air around them, bringing lesser men to their knees. Zian was attempting the same thing, but without being able to direct his aura, it was largely a wasted effort.

Moving stiffly, Fung put up a valiant effort as he struggled against his opponents aura, but with his primal instincts fighting him, screaming at him to flee, it was all but finished. With a fanciful two-sword flourish, Zian disarmed Fung and slapped him across the face with the flat of his blade, before returning his weapons to their sheaths in a display meant to impress, Fung's sword still clattering as it slid across the floor. Arrogant but skilled, prideful and careless, too headstrong and easily pleased. 7 points out of ten, failure.

“You may leave now.” Sitting back into his chair, he organized his thoughts for the coming trial, rethinking his plans with this new information in hand. Were Zian paired against his student, she would have a 75% chance of killing him if she struck viciously as soon as the match began, but should that gambit fail, his student would be left without her spiritual weapon and facing an opponent beyond her skills. What to do now? Three matches and he could guarantee victory in one, but with five separate trials, Kyung could at most find victory twice, and that was being optimistic. Perhaps he could smuggle away with his student, leaving Kyung behind to fulfill his obligations, but that line of thought sat poorly with him, the coward's way out.

“...Hero Du?” Interrupting his musings, Yang stood before him, with none of the empty flattery he had entered the room with, anger clear in his tone. “You are rejecting my nephew?”

Time to insult them overtly, perhaps planting a seed of doubt in Zian and inciting rage in Yang. “I see deafness runs in the family. Your nephew is unable to follow the most basic of instructions and too weak for me to overlook his glaring flaws. Inferior in all aspects to Fung except in age, he is not worth the effort to teach. Leave or be removed, I care not either way.” Waving them away, he froze as he spied his trembling hand, quickly concealing it away in his sleeve, but it was too late, seen by both uncle and nephew.

Eyes narrowed, Yang retorted, “Come Zian, you don't need a feeble old man to teach you how to fight. The stories of his past glories blinded me, unable to see the simple truth, shivering before me.” As he marched out, he added, “I pray you have a safe journey home, the North is full of dangers for an aged gentleman such as yourself.”

Damn, a moment's carelessness had ruined his plan, no longer able to use his support for the Bekhai to cause a panic among the Society factions. Before the night fell, news of his weakness would spread far and wide, urged on by Yang until every soldier and citizen at the Bridge knew of Du Min Gyu's ailing health. Sighing deeply, he sank into his seat and closed his eyes, once again cursing his old age. Well, at the very least, he could now die in combat once again, Yang's poorly veiled threat instilling some hope in him, the thought of fighting off Society assassins reason enough to smile. Perhaps it would even inspire another epic, his heroic escape from the clutches of the corrupt Society, a harrowing journey across the inhospitable Northern Province, without all the appalling opera singing.

Then again, since he would not be alive to suffer through it, it hardly mattered.

Chapter Meme

Bonus Meme
