“Anyway,” Rain said, waving his hands and ignoring her question. “Just read it, then decide. As for whether you’re coming with us to Splendor, I’m afraid I need a decision now, not later. We could also drop you in East Nov, but given how they feel about West Nov, I doubt you’re interested in that. Point is, this all becomes a major headache if your government realizes you’re here. Whether or not you think you’re unimportant, others might disagree. If it comes to it, I’m not opposed to granting you asylum, but we’ve got enough problems without another pissed-off country on the pile.”

Looking up from the book, she felt her hands tightening on its spine as she spoke softly. “I’m really not important...” She swallowed, then met his visored gaze, and when she spoke, her voice did not waver. “Okay.”

“Okay?” Rain tilted his head. “’Okay’ as in you’ll come with us to Splendor?”

Bluewash shook her head. “No. Well, yes, but...” She clasped the book to her chest. “I’ll join Ascension. If you’ll have me. I can read this later, but if it’s like what you described, I don’t think I need to.”

“Yes!” Rain roared abruptly, startling her for the umpteenth time. He’d also jumped, pumping a fist in the air. “Coresmith get!”

“What—?”

“Come on, then, no time to waste!” Rain said, spinning on his heel and beginning to thread his way through the stacks of crates. “Stay quiet, act like you belong, and no one should notice you. We need to get you out of sight. The fewer people who know you’re here, the better, at least until we’re past Splendor.” He stopped suddenly, tilting his head and muttering to himself. “No, that’s blocked right now. This is fine.” He clicked his tongue, then looked over his shoulder. “Coming?”

With a jump, Bluewash took one last look at the cart, then scrambled after him. “Wait!” she called. “I, uh...”

“Please don’t tell me you reconsidered,” Rain said, standing with one hand on a metal hatch as he watched her struggle toward him. “I don’t think I could take it. I already lost Green. I can’t lose Blue too.”

Bluewash shook her head, not even trying to puzzle that one out. It was clear that apart from being strong, the man before her was also incredibly weird. “It’s not that,” she said. “It’s just... If you’re going to hide me somewhere, I need to use the bathroom first.”

“Oh,” Rain said. “Actually, we don’t have one.”

Bluewash tripped over the final crate, stumbling as she landed on the floor beside him. “You don’t?”

“That’s what I said, yes,” Rain replied, nodding sagely.

Bluewash paled. “So do I go over the side, or...? Is that how it works on ships? Please tell me that’s not how it works on ships.”

“No, no,” he said, waving a hand. She somehow got the impression that he was grinning at her. “We just don’t do that here.”

“Pardon? I...really... I don’t think I understand you.”

“Oh, I love this part!” Rain said, gathering his arms to his chest and doing an excited little wiggle. “Here we go!”
