This wasn’t a power any one creature was meant to hold…

And yet Markus took it. He took it even when it hurt. He drank greedily from the source of vile magic that had spawned this abomination, for even with such an ability, even subsisting from what he took from others…

He stared at the altok. At the life slowly receding from his eyes.

He could take their burdens. Take the bad away.

Use it to create something better.

[Mana Capacity at 1350%. Mana Poisoning IV is in effect.]

...

[Mana Capacity at 3905%. Mana Poisoning V is in effect.]

Markus kept pushing. It didn’t matter. It didn’t matter. He had to…

[Mana Capacity at 6044%. Mana Poisoning V is in effect. Mana Toxicosis I is in effect.]

Huh. That took a while to finally happen…

The effects were immediate. Markus could feel his fingers beginning to go numb. His face beginning to burn and lose feeling all at the same time.

He was forced to break away. He couldn’t drain the entirety from this creature. It wasn’t like Ember. There was far too much energy inside of it for him to stand a remote chance of doing so without fucking exploding.

Speaking of which, Markus landed not on the back of the creature he’d been attempting to drain, but in the sand fifty feet away.

His landing had left a crater multiple feet wide and multiple feet deep.

Markus, despite his numbness…

Could barely feel a shred of exhaustion.

The energy inside of his body was overwhelming.

[Overcharge: B Grade is in effect. All physical attributes heightened by 1500. Mental attributes heightened by 750. In this state you are resistant to all physical and elemental damage. Growth heightened. Mana absorption and healing from ambient mana sources tripled.]

[Mana Toxicosis I: Your body has been poisoned by massive levels of mana. Your mana matrix will be charred upon each use of mana, causing compounding physical pain and mental exhaustion. Natural mana generation reduced by 66%.]

[Mana Poisoning V: Temporarily, your body will become incapable of channel effects, be unable to generate mana, be unable to differentiate between mana types, and will suffer a persistent mana drain upon—]

Fuck this. Even skim reading’s for people with time to do it. This thing still wasn’t by any means dead.

He knew he couldn’t cast certain abilities now. He’d dealt with Mana Poisoning III before. That meant his list of options were more limited. However…

Markus attempted to walk ahead and launched himself instead. He was just barely able to keep control of his powerful motions, his immense speed, the intense reverberation of his feet against the sand as he came to a halt, looking like something out of a superhero movie.

He felt beyond human. Beyond his limits.

He located his fallen glaive. He trusted his broken weapon.

He grabbed it.

He jumped at the opposing creature, imbuing his weapon with Divine Mana as he leapt. It was the monster’s defense, its barrier…

But also its weakness.

He slashed its face.

He drew blood…

He activated [Rend] as he thrust an arm into the monstrosity’s mouth, boosting himself over and throwing his body inside as fresh blood was ripped from inside the creature’s mouth, stolen from it, claimed by him.

He sliced through the creature’s throat and rolled straight back out, fountained by a crimson spray. He landed upon the sand without even a hint of damage. He kipped up to his feet and sprang into the air once more to take another, meatier chunk out of it.

He’d been powerless for too long…

Now, he’d give this world everything he fucking had, starting with removing this creature’s head.
