Furthermore, Harlock’s darkness thinned in the city itself, and it left most of the streets unburdened by that crushing haze. It was left to the Watchers and guards to serve as observers here.

Once more the warning broadcast repeated itself, and this close, Shiv felt every Psychomantic message hammering against the outer walls of his soul. Some of the utopianism died within him. Though the streets looked pretty and the horticulture was well maintained, it was that pervasive sense of intrusion that reminded him where he was. The Ascendants were watching. The Republic was always on guard, but its blades were pointed within and without, its soldiers meant to face adversaries coming from the outside while also delivering another brand of justice to those who knew too much within.

"Okay, I'm here," Solzimort declared. A grand square was situated just before the front gates of the jump tower. The soft pitter-patter of spring water served as an uncannily comforting ambiance alongside the incessant messages being broadcast. Gorgeous fountains served as the centerpiece of this place.

They were comprised of three rings, and the jets of water sprayed into the air were timed perfectly and painted something of a strange, hydromantic spell. Everything around the fountain was glistening bright, and the moisture in the air seemed to undulate, cleansing everyone nearby. A few Prismatic Guards walked down the street, and as they did, Shiv pointed his Farsight upon them and saw bits of grime and dirt scrubbed free from their bodies.

Farsight 72 > 73

"It gets rather humid and hot here during the summers," Adam commented, "and so some of the fountains have cleansing enchantments worked into them."

“How much investiture does it take?” Shiv asked. “Because this looks expensive to keep up.”

"The Republic is quite wealthy." Adam sighed. "How wealthy? I am not sure. Too much has been hidden from me. But from what I have gleaned—the prison and how large the capital truly is when gazed from the side of the volcano—I dare say that the Ascendants can more than afford this, even if it is just a mechanism of vanity."

"Alright, so where do I go next?" Solzimort asked. They were nested right beside one of the jump tower's doors, using another shadow to mask their own presence.

“We wait for a moment,” the Educator whispered. “Maiden’s hidden eyes were upon us a moment ago.”

“You’re talking about the mechanical birds in the air?” Adam asked. “Gods… I had to assemble a few of those in the Academy. Part of my engineering course. Are you telling me that I was making surveillance agents for the Ascendants this entire time?”

“What did you think they were, Lord Arrow?” The Educator laughed softly. “The Ascendants do very little without reason, and even less for the vanity of pleasure alone.” The alloyed birds fluttered past them. But still they didn’t move. “Wait. Just a few seconds longer now. They will do another pass. After that, we will have a window of about a minute to move once more. For now, patience.”
