Hod raised his wings, flexing his arms. They were like toothpicks, thin and wiry. His derpy eyes and thin shoulders didn't help either. Althea giggled at Hod, and I let out a smile,

"Make sure you intimidate them in your shade form. I feel like that would work better."

Hod squinted his eyes at me, "Hod think that not necessary." Hod struck a disco pose, "Hod sight to be seen after all."

Torix laid his face into his hands. Althea snorted a little bit as she tried suppressing laughter. She looked away,

"He's killing me. By Baldowah I love Hod."

Torix lifted his head and exhaled, "Outside of that concentrated dose of idiocy, I agree with the points made."

I clapped my hands, "Then that's what we'll be working with. Sound good?"

Torix nodded. Althea shrugged, "I guess it's a good plan. We may need to flesh it out later though."

I weighed my hands back and forth, "It's a work in progress. I think of it like this is the skeleton of the plan."

I pulled with a hand, making Ajax float towards the center of the room. The holographic projection dissipated, and the lights brightened. Althea pointed at Ajax, "So uh, what's the plan with him?"

Torix frowned and interlocked his fingers, "Unfortunately, we've had numerous issues with Ajax."

I shrugged, "I figured something was up. You didn't free Ajax in the fight versus Yawm."

Althea leaned against one of her hands, "Yeah. There's a pretty good reason for all that."

Torix nodded, "On numerous occasions, we found Ajax acting bizarre than dangerous. It began benign enough. A few legionnaires found Ajax torturing eldritch. After that, he broke down and attacked several of our mages."

Torix weighed his hands back and forth, "He killed them, but I couldn't reprimand him. Ajax's abilities are...impressive to say the very least. Yawm kept him in check with extreme methods. Without any limiters on his behavior, however, I suspect Ajax will spiral further out of control."

I looked at the porytian suspended in the green sphere, "Damn...What else did he do?"

Torix sighed, "He injured Kessiah and Hod at one point."

Hod raised a wing at me, "Hod still believe Hod assaulted!"

Torix sat up in his chair, "For once, I agree with the bird. Ajax overreacted to one of Hod's 'hoddities.'. Kessiah still has the scar on her face."

Torix tapped the table, "So several counts of murder, torture of animals, and numerous assaults. In my eyes, Ajax is obviously untrustworthy."

I frowned at him, "Jesus. I thought he wasn't so impulsive."

Althea frowned, "Yeah, me too. You have to think about it though. He joined Yawm. He let Yawm experiment on him for more power. There's no way he thought that through."

Althea spread out her hands, "For real though, the way he joined us was the same way. He didn't really help at all versus Yawm. He just jumped in on a whim. If you think about who and what Yawm is, Ajax's plan wasn't very foolproof."

I leaned towards Ajax, "Yeah, not the sharpest tool in the shed I suppose. He's even killed our own. What do you think is making him act like this?"

Torix swished a hand, "I hypothesize that the eldritch energy within him has corrupted his mind." Torix leaned back into his chair, "Either that or he's just a genuine psychopath."

Torix pressed his chest, "That's coming from me, mind you."

I scratched my head, "Well shit. You know it's bad when the lich is dishing out moral judgment. Why did he attack Kessiah exactly?"

Torix rolled his eyes, "She made a pass at him."

I creased my eyebrows, "The fuck? Really?"

Althea squinted her eyes at Ajax, "I'm sure Ajax has plenty of morning wood to go around."

I turned towards Althea, my jaw slack. She lifted herself up off the table, looking at everybody, "What? I've been reading human novels on my downtime. I can make jokes too."

I scoffed, "Yeah, of course. The joke just surprised me is all."

She pointed at Ajax, "The point is, he sliced half her face off for making a pass."

I glared at Ajax, "Ok, so no one mentioned the severity of the wounds."

Torix shrugged, "What does it matter? With healing magic, even a fatal woun-"

I snapped, "He used magic on her. Dimensional slicing magic. If he's just throwing that shit around, then he's dangerous as hell. Period."

I shook my head, "You guys are out of touch with this kind of thing. To me, that's way over the line."

Torix tilted his head, "Are we? Hmmm, I suppose we could very well be. After seeing you be torn apart for sparring, our sense of danger may be blunted."

I pointed at Ajax, "Then we kill him?"

Althea shrugged, "Yeah, I'd say so, but how? Ajax can teleport and phase through dimensions." She waved her hands around, "He just blips in and out."

I grimaced, "Oh yeah. That's tough to beat."

Torix leaned toward me, "What about the technique you used to crack open the sphere holding you? Perhaps that may work."

I pushed myself up, "That's a good idea. I gotta try and make it happen again though. It's going to take a second."

Torix stood up with me, "Let's go and try this within the fifth floor. It better suits our purposes."

We walked out of the room. After reaching the final elevator, we reached the last floor. The doors of the lift opened, revealing beams of sunshine. The entire level was a garden, a glass roof letting in light. Inside it, fruit trees, crops, and all kinds of blooms grew.

Torix spruced the greenhouse up with all kinds of exotic plants. Flaming flowers, burning buds, and reflective leaves, every type of plant grew here. Handlers of the crops walked around, tending to them. Some of them wore mages robes. Others wore power armor.

Torix waved his hand at all of them, "Here we grow the food and alchemical ingredients for the refuge. As you may have noticed, both mages and technicians benefit from the resources."

I took a deep breath, the air sweet,

"Yeah, it's pretty damn nice."

We walked forward, towards the most open area inside the hollow mountain. Using a portion of the open air here, we stood near the center of the expanse. With soft earth beneath our feet, Torix pointed up,

"Here's a large, open area for you to illustrate your technique." He turned towards everyone else, "If anyone would like to see this event, do shield yourself. You've been warned."

I charged my mana. The energy built into my blood and veins. I struggled to keep it in, sparks of the energy firing outward. I gritted my teeth and clasped my hands into fists. I shook, and after a minute, I hummed with turbulence.

Torix raised an eyebrow at me, "What is your mana generation now?"

I grumbled, "Nine million a minute."

Torix took a step back, gasping in open shock,

"That's...that's over a hundred times my own."

I grinned, "Specialization is king."

I kept focused, blocking out his voice after that. Maintaining mana of this magnitude required intense concentration. After five full minutes, I resonated with my own energy. It dealt damage to me, so I raised a hand at the ceiling. With absolute fixation, I compressed a gravity well.

With all the mana discharging, a dense well of gravity formed. Air from all around the room sucked inside like I tore open a hole in a space shuttle. Loose leaves, bits of dirt, and mulch funneled into the single point. A moment later, the gravity well collapsed.

A shockwave ebbed outwards, shattering all the glass above the room. The metal supporting the glass bent outwards. Dust and rock ricocheted like shrapnel, sinking inches into stone. Trees uprooted. The spell left a crater underneath the attack.

We all gasped at the sheer might of the implosion. A notification appeared in the corner of my vision.

Unknown skill unlocked! Gravitational Singularity(lvl 1) unlocked! 500 tree points rewarded for unlocking hidden skillset.

Gravitational Singularity(lvl 1) - You wield the laws of nature, akin to a god. Allows the user to create singularities.

From behind us, Amara roused up from her comatose. She pulled a rock out of her arm and gasped,

"Is this how you choose to wake me?"

She looked around at the destruction,

"Did Yawm do this? Were you all that idiotic to let him live?"

She looked up at us, and we turned towards her. The others shook their heads, pointing at me. I scratched the back of my head,

"Whoops."
