Though delighted by his newfangled success, Goujian was never one to let triumph and accomplishment cloud his judgment, because if life was trials and tribulations without end, then success was merely the bare minimum required to survive.

Such were Goujian’s thoughts as he watched the battle unfold on the walls of fort Sinuji, immersed within the moment so as to wholly experience his emotions in accordance with his new Path. A prospect more difficult than he first expected, because after decades of lies and misguided efforts, his mental defences set to guard against emotion were too ingrained to easily let down, much less dismantle entirely. Each time he sought to walk the razor’s edge, to surrender to his passions while holding on to a single thread of reason, he found himself resisting the influx of emotion and instinctively clinging to Imperial Lies of Balance instead. What’s more, the stifling heat wasn’t helping much either, his borrowed robes already drenched in sweat despite the late hour and sleeping sun. If a winter’s night could reach such sweltering temperatures, he hoped to never experience a hot summer day, but alas all he could do for now was fan his robes and suffer.

Putting the heat out of mind, Goujian took a deep breath and reflected on his next steps. Although he’d found True Balance once, he’d done so on the brink of death, meaning his triumph was the result of dire circumstances, fortuitous happenstance, and Heavenly intervention as opposed any true effort of his own. As such, it would take time and effort to replicate his achievements, for the razor’s edge was a most arduous Path to tread, but Goujian had time and effort to spare.

Unlike Falling Rain, whose death had already been set in motion.

How fitting for the runt to meet his end at the hands of a Water-Blessed Transcendent, and Goujian’s smile widened as he committed every detail and emotion to memory for posterity’s sake. The liquid lance hurtled towards Falling Rain’s heart and his thin, frail hands raised to stop it, but the boy knew it was a futile gesture. His expression said it all, a flash of panic followed almost immediately by grim acceptance, and though this was one of Goujian’s most hated enemies, he felt a faint tinge of respect for how staunch and steadfast Falling Rain remained when faced with inevitable death. Beside him, the too-talented Dastan Zhandos was already moving to intercept, but the callow youth had let his guard down in the midst of battle and would be several seconds too late to help, while the half-cat girl in Runic Armour had yet to even notice the boy’s plight. Then there were the many Experts around them, each one too far and too slow to react to the Water-Blessed Transcendent’s unexpected assault on Falling Rain, because they’d all been too busy preparing to defend themselves instead. A plan carried out to perfection in order to execute the Empire’s false Hero, removing a most aggravating pawn from the board and dealing a crippling blow to Imperial morale.

So brilliant, this young Emperor, though in truth, Goujian wondered if it was even worth it. Why go to so much effort to kill a cripple?

The lance struck.

Mist splattered.

Soldiers bellowed.

And Falling Rain...

Emerged unscathed, with a look of bewildered confusion etched across his hateful, bony face.

For the span of a single heartbeat, it seemed as if the entire battlefield had frozen in place, with Imperial and Defiled, Expert and Transcendent, ally and enemy alike stopping to gawk at Falling Rain. Then, Dastan Zhandos fell to the ground, an eternity too late with his noble but futile attempt to intercept the attack, and the battle resumed, leaving Goujian with only questions and confusion.

This shouldn’t have been possible. The globes of Water launched by the formidable Awakened Transcendent were powerful enough to kill Peak Experts if struck head-on, and the lance was a seemingly more powerful version of such, yet Falling Rain remained unharmed after a direct collision. No, more than unharmed, but utterly untouched, still sitting atop his giant weasel with nary a hair out of place. The boy’s clothes weren’t even wet, though the mount beneath him was thoroughly soaked, shaking its fur dry as animals were wont to do and sending a spray of droplets into the air. Being formed of Chi, those droplets dissipated back into Heavenly Energy before ever reaching the ground, but the Water Lance failed to even touch Falling Rain’s skin before vanishing into nothingness, along with the force of the attack.

How? Was there another Divinity there, Concealed in the shadows and protecting him in secret?

“You see?” Teeth bared in fury, the young Emperor grabbed Goujian by his soggy, borrowed robes and pointed at Falling Rain from across the battlefield, the young whelp clearly mouthing some profanity or the other while glancing around in convincing befuddlement. “You see how he pretends, feigning surprise and confusion? Hateful trickster, even his most trusted subordinates have been fooled, but this Sovereign has long since seen through his lies and deceptions.”

“My liege is perceptive beyond compare,” Goujian replied, meaning every word as the pieces fell into place. No wonder the young Emperor had seemed so wary during his meeting with Falling Rain, even flinching away from the supposed cripple and his two Peak Expert Guards, because the Bekhai runt was playing the pig to eat the tiger. Unfortunately for him, the Divine Son of Heaven was no mere tiger, but a dragon amongst men, one not so easily outwitted. Except... “Begging your forgiveness my liege, but this one is ignorant and still does not wholly understand. Even if he is not crippled, how did he block the Transcendent’s attack?”

Snarling in bestial fury, the young Emperor loosed his grip on Goujian’s robes and shoved him away. “Fool. Did you forget? The stupid beast explained the concept not even an hour ago. Falling Rain is also Blessed by Water, so he only need summon Water Chi of his own to nullify the Elemental portion of the attack.” Glaring daggers at the Bekhai runt, the young Emperor’s voice quieted and Goujian had to strain to hear. Better hearing joined his list of needed physical improvements, alongside better eyesight so he’d no longer need to Scry at events in his direct line of sight, like the battle raging in front of him. “But then what of the remaining kinetic force?” the young Emperor muttered, his confusion as clear as the scowl on his face. “His lacking vigour and physical frailty cannot be feigned, so even if ninety percent is Deflected, the remaining momentum should have killed him outright or at least thrown him from the saddle. The Devourer carries too many secrets, brings too many surprises, breaks laws this Sovereign once believed inviolable, and for this, he must die.”

To this day, Goujian still wasn’t sure why the Uniter had dubbed Falling Rain so, but if ever there were a time to ask, it would be now. While the Water-Blessed Transcendent fought off multiple Peak Experts on Sinuji’s outer wall, Goujian wiped his forehead and voiced his question, and to his great surprise, actually received an answer instead of cryptic mutterings or half-hearted pleas of ignorance. “This one,” the young Emperor began, using an uncharacteristically humble term to refer to himself, “Is the Emissary, for his Talent is to bring the Truth to all. This one speaks, and others listen, or rather others are more open to hearing the secrets of Heaven, and are thus elevated beyond their meagre stations. How, this Sovereign does not wholly understand as of yet, and in truth, we might never deduce the true answer, for the infinite mysteries of Heaven are largely inexplicable, but the how is unimportant so long as it remains effective.”

There was something odd about how the young Emperor kept switching personal pronouns for himself, but Goujian couldn’t quite put his finger on why it bothered him so. Before he could ask, the young Emperor continued, “As for your question, Falling Rain is the Devourer, for his Talent is to consume and gather, to plunder and hoard. This one is antithetical to the Devourer in more ways than one, for the former offers power to the many, while the latter accumulates power for himself, their Talents analogous to the ideologies of the factions they represent. Poetic, in a way, aggravating in many others, for it is only by the slimmest of margins that the Devourer stands with Imperial Clan instead of at this Sovereign’s side. A shame our alliance never came to pass, but such is fate.”

Goujian could hardly believe his ears, for he would never have imagined the young Emperor would be so magnanimous as to admit he wanted to fight alongside Falling Rain instead of against him, but if anyone was deserving of such praise, it was this Bekhai runt. “If my liege so desires it,” Goujian cautiously offered with a bow, “Then this servant will endeavour to make it so.”

How, he hadn’t the faintest clue, but should the Emperor demand it, then Goujian could only try.

“No,” came the immediate answer, delivered with more vehemence than the young Emperor intended. “You lack the ability to capture him, and this Sovereign will not risk so promising a subject.”

Though vexed by the brusque and dismissive evaluation, Goujian had to admit it was an accurate one. Even though his personal strength had increased by leaps and bounds, his chances of killing Falling Rain were slim to none, much less capturing the runt and escaping alive. Three Imperial Divinities had travelled to Sinuji alongside him, and there were no less than eighteen Peak Experts currently fighting on the walls to protect him. What’s more, there were at least twelve more Concealed Experts lurking about his position, all of whom had inadvertently revealed themselves in their failed gambits to protect Falling Rain from the Transcendent’s Water Lance. Worst of all, considering how fourteen of the seventeen Bekhai Experts currently fighting on the wall had gone completely unnoticed until after they voluntarily stepped out of Concealment, there could easily be more Peak Experts lurking unseen in the shadows.

And all this only amounted to the forces Falling Rain and the Bekhai had brought to Sinuji. There was still the Living Legend Nian Zu himself to contend with, along with his honour guard of fifty Peak Experts, and given its central location on the front lines, it was hard to believe there was no Imperial Divinity stationed in Sinuji, if only for the sake of face. Few knew the truth, that Falling Rain was an Imperial Puppet dancing to the Legate’s strings, so the Imperial Clan would lose prestige if they allowed a ‘savage tribesman’ to bring three Divinities to the battlefield while dispatching none of their own, a crucial detail Goujian had brought up earlier but the young Emperor had merely waved aside, seeming unconcerned by the very real possibility that their Divinities would be outnumbered.

Yes, Goujian himself was far from enough to kill, much less capture Falling Rain, and it was nothing short of outright arrogance to assume otherwise. Worthless, utterly worthless, what good was this new form if he still stood beneath so many. More power was needed, the power to topple mountains and overturn seas, to call the wind and summon the rain, it could all be his if only he would –

“Careful, Confessor,” the young Emperor said, using the title for the first time ever and startling Goujian out of contemplation. “Keep to the razor’s edge, now more than ever. You will be of no use to this Sovereign should you falter and fall.” In the young Emperor’s brown eyes, Goujian found genuine concern and consideration, where before there would have been dismissive indifference or perhaps even mocking amusement, but why the sudden change? In answer to the unasked question, the young Emperor smiled and said, “You have embraced the Truth and now follow in this Sovereign’s path, and as such, you count as half a Disciple.”

“Disciple? Of yours?” It wasn’t that Goujian looked down on the young Emperor, for any close connection to the future Emperor would only be a boon, but given their vast age difference, Goujian would have no face left if he became Disciple to a Mentor six decades his junior.

“...Disciple of this Sovereign’s Mentor,” the young Emperor corrected, shaking his head in self-recrimination. “So a... Martial Brother,” he continued, cleverly omitting the ‘junior’ from Goujian’s new designation. “Thus, this Sovereign will endeavour to guide you along as best he can until Mentor himself is available to offer pointers.” Gesturing at Rain in the distance, the young Emperor explained, “We walk the razor’s edge, but the Devourer now walks a new Path in defiance of Heaven, with one foot firmly on each side, a feat this Sovereign once believed impossible. Possessing immeasurable potential, he is too dangerous to be left alive, too dangerous to be given time to grow. Even his mere presence elevates the strength of those around him through competition and example. The Slave, the Scribe, the Rival, the Hangman, these and many others are but the first of his inner circle, with too many more still to grow. We must eliminate the Devourer now, before his power grows and allies flourish, now whilst he is still vulnerable and unprotected, but should we fail here today, then your strength will be sorely needed in the months to come.” Eyeing Goujian up and down, the young Emperor shook his head and added, “As things stand, you are of limited use, a man still too constrained by the lies of his past. Time and effort will remedy this, time and effort this Sovereign is willing to spare, so long as you are willing to listen.”

