A chill ran down Goujian’s spine as he recognized the truth in the young Emperor’s statement, for this was a fate shared by many an arrogant and aspiring Healer who lost control while practising without supervision. The young Emperor was not done, however, and he continued his lecture with ease and aplomb, a testament to his familiarity with the subject matter in question. “This is but one side of the coin, one danger to guard against, while an example of the other stands close by your side.” Glancing at the black-armoured Transcendent, Goujian suppressed yet another chill and devoted his full attention to the young Emperor’s words. “The Imperials call them Demons, the Defiled call them Transcendents, but this Sovereign can only see them as failures. Those wretched individuals came so close to embracing the Truth, but they lacked the luck and fortitude to wholly succeed. Though their physical bodies transcended mortal limits, total surrender left their minds unprotected against the deluge of Heavenly Energy used to transform them, searing away their sanity and personality to leave them little more than bestial creatures of rage and fury.”

Though it seemed like the young Emperor had gone on a minor tangent, it was only now that Goujian understood it was to broaden his horizons and fill the gaps in his knowledge. “Then how are we to walk this fine line between control and surrender?”

“If this Sovereign had an answer, then humanity would have long since ascended to greatness.” Bitter anguish coloured the young Emperor’s tone, no doubt inwardly berating himself for only having come so far. Such was his pride and haughty conceit, choosing not to look back at how much he already accomplished in so short a time, but instead looking forward to the future at how much he had yet to achieve. “Regardless, you must keep to the razor’s edge, for such is our Path to Divinity, the means with which we avail ourselves to the Energy of the Heavens. Seek Balance, the True Balance which comes from the union between savage ferocity and cunning intellect, for we humans are rare creatures who embody the best of both worlds.”

His ankle long since Healed, Goujian knelt on the outer wall and pondered this abrupt conclusion to their lecture, one which left him with more questions than answers, but still served its purpose well. Walk the razor’s edge, find True Balance, and all his issues would be solved, it sounded so simple yet remained infinitely complex. This final step was more difficult than all others before it, even if multiplied by ten-thousand times since one could not control when one experienced True Balance, for control in and of itself was antithetical to walking the razor’s edge. The fine line between struggle and surrender, a difficult Path to tread which came with a steep price for failure, but such is life.

“An opportunity presents itself and all available pieces moving into play, but this Sovereign lacks a distraction on the battlefield and has no choice but to call upon you, Confessor. Heed your instructions, play your part well, and the Devourer will trouble us no more.”

Bowing his head even though he wasn’t sure if the young Emperor would see him, Goujian offered a salute and Sent, “Speak, and this servant will obey.”

And in his heart of hearts, Goujian meant it, or at least until such a time when there was nothing left to learn from the young Emperor and the Uniter behind him and a restructuring of hierarchy grew inevitable. As informative as the lecture was, the most important detail to be gleaned from all this was Falling Rain’s new Path, one ‘in defiance of Heaven, with one foot firmly on each side’, though how this was possible, Goujian couldn’t even begin to guess. From the sound of it, this defiant Path was no razor’s edge, and in truth, going against the Heavens was far more enticing than keeping to a thin, almost imperceptible line.

If only Falling Rain could be taken alive, his answers might prove most enlightening...

Chapter Meme
