...Or so he thought, until he considered the matter further. Great Uncle Juichi never brought his wives or concubines around, nor did Father keep any women besides Mother in the household, not solely for the purpose of sex at least. Perhaps he had dalliances with the maids sometimes, but if so, Hideo had never seen or heard it mentioned, nor were their maids particularly alluring or attractive. Though it still seemed strange how no one saw fit to rein in Hideo’s lust then, in truth, he’d been far more restrained than most of his peers, which was the revelation he needed to understand just how detrimental the incessant craving for sensual pleasures could really be. Yes, he indulged his lust less than most of his peers, but he’d also progressed further and faster than any of them as well. How much further along would he be if not for his vices? In fact, it was a miracle he even still drew breath considering his downfall was largely due to his inability to restrain his carnal appetite, which resulted in sweet Eri-Hime’s untimely death. Then there was the matter with Consort Zheng Luo and how he’d lost himself in a haze of desire instead of outright capturing her as he should have, a costly mistake which resulted in his current sorry state of affairs. How many times must he make the same mistake before realizing it wasn’t worth the effort?

Only then did Hideo understand the pressing need to divest himself of the Three Desires, so he sought out the Wisdom for sorely needed assistance, a request to which old Vyakhya had responded with a smile. “Good, good,” he said, patting Hideo’s shoulder with a look of pride and accomplishment. “Now that you understand, you are finally ready to embark upon the Noble Eight-Fold Path and wholeheartedly work towards divesting yourself of the Three Desires.”

Having said that, the Wisdom restored Hideo’s body back to full health, including his mangled manhood. The pain was bittersweet, for even though he now understood how detrimental his desires could be, he still yearned to put his Healed manhood to ‘good’ use and release all his pent up frustrations. Confessing as much to the Wisdom in a fit of impotent rage, Hideo vented all his grievances with his mortal failings and even begged the Wisdom to remove his restored manhood so he could think clearly once again. To this, the Wisdom simply smiled and shook his head, saying, “There is no point in forcing you to divest yourself of sensual pleasures, for even if I were to make you a eunuch, there are other sensual pleasures out there to lose yourself in. What’s more, there will inevitably come a day when you possess the ability to restore yourself to whole once more, so better to build upon a sturdy foundation than take temporary, half-hearted measures which will not last. Worry not, young Hideo, for true clarity will come when you can deny your desires through your own strength of conviction, and only then will you truly be ready to seek Enlightenment and remove all temptation yourself.”

And so Hideo’s trials and tribulations began anew, possessed with the means to sate his desires once more yet wholly convinced that doing so would cause more harm than good. With no other choice, he resisted his urges for as long as he could before succumbing to weakness and hating himself all the more in the aftermath, a contradictory, cyclical conflict which threatened to drive him mad. Even now, as he stood and watched his comrades die in droves for the greater good, thoughts of Zheng Luo’s beauty plagued his mind. He’d come so close to capturing her and taking her away, but she’d slipped through his fingers due to the interference of Goujian’s former Aspirants. Though he loathed her for how she humiliated him, his hatred made him want her all the more as the mere thought of her was enough to ignite his desires, bringing to mind her floral scent and exquisite taste which he appreciated first hand in the District manor courtyard. Oh how he ached to take her, conquer her, make her his and his alone, for the knowledge that she was the forbidden fruit of his poisonous mortal desires only made her seem that much sweeter. She, the temptress who drove him to ruin, had now become the devil of his heart, one he would have to overcome in one way or another, but alas, he lacked the will to renounce her outright and free himself from his vices.

Thankfully, the Wisdom offered Hideo an alternative route before leaving with Goujian and the others on some secretive mission. “This woman,” the Wisdom began, after hearing about the matter in depth, “Has become an obsession, but such mundane manias can be easily overcome. A sacrifice without meaning is a sacrifice without weight, for how can you understand what you have forsaken if you have never experienced it for yourself? This is a trial you cannot run from or avoid, but rather one you must pursue and experience first hand. Find her and indulge in sin, doing as your mind, body, and heart demands, and once you have sated your mortal desires, you will understand how hollow and meaningless these matters truly are. She is only a woman, no different from any other, and once you realize and accept this truth, then will you be freed from the shackles of your obsession and able to devote yourself wholeheartedly to the Noble Eight-Fold Path, after undergoing an appropriate penance, of course.”

A logical and rational proposal that ignored morals and emotions, this was how a true Cultivator should approach matters. An enlightening lesson which proved how far Hideo still had to go before he was ready to truly pursue the Noble Eight-Fold Path, for even though he knew what the Right View meant, to approach matters with the correct mindset and adapt to changing circumstances as new Truths revealed themselves, he had yet to put this into practice. It was easy to say but difficult to do, as he found himself repeatedly falling into old habits despite his resolve to change, adapt, and overcome his mortal failings in order to achieve Divinity.

Alas, the Wisdom’s plan could not be put into motion just yet as Zheng Luo was not here at the Central Citadel, and instead safe and sound in the Northern Citadel almost two-hundred and fifty kilometres away. Hideo would need an army to capture her now, and Gongsun Qi chose to attack the Central Citadel instead, which might well have been the hardest target to hit considering its key location, right between North and South. Then again, it also offered the most advantages for whomsoever might hold it, for once the Central Citadel fell, North and South would be split and unable to coordinate their forces in the field. Leave it to the Lord of Martial Peace to pick the most difficult and rewarding route, not content to do things by half measures. In fact, ambitious as this plan might be, an argument could be made that even though taking the Central Citadel would cost more lives than taking North or South, a victory here might well save lives in the long run, since the Chosen could then focus on taking either one of the remaining provinces while defending against the other, instead of having to take on the forces of two provinces working in tandem.

For these reasons and more, Hideo’s redemption would have to wait, but there were other unresolved obsessions he could rid himself of while here in the Central Citadel. Patience was key however, and it was well past midnight when the Sword King finally deigned to stand down, his sword-lights fading from the battlefield as he retreated to rest. Du Min Gyu left alongside him, and it was difficult to gauge which of the two formidable Living Legends had more of an impact on the battlefield, for the operas and dramas featuring the Sanguine Tempest had failed to do the man justice. Impressive as the Sword King’s prowess might be, Du Min Gyu undoubtedly killed more Defiled, Chosen, Champions, Chieftains, and Demons during their time on the battlefield. More surprising was the fact that despite his ragged, bloodstained robes and wild, dishevelled hair, the old man’s eyes were still bright and eager as he withdrew from the battlefield with a spring in his step, his strength clearly not yet spent. Instead, it was Ryo Dae Jung who seemed more weary and worn out, his sword sheathed and steps unsteady as he all but staggered down the staircase back towards the third wall, a far-cry from his dynamic, Cloud-Stepped entrance.

Knowing it was his time even before his orders arrived, Hideo gathered his retinue and set out to join the battle for the first time since arriving. “Primary and secondary targets too well protected,” the Sending announced, disappointing Hideo to no end. “Tertiary target located three sections north of tower eight. Injure but do not kill.”

A shame. So many lives had been spent just to create this opportunity, but Hideo would have to settle for his third choice, his old rival Ryo Geom-Chi. First on his list was Du Min Yan, if only so he could use her to thoroughly humiliate Falling Rain, but second was Ryo Da’in, whom he lusted after since he was young and represented the goal he once hoped to surpass. Having seen the latter fighting on the walls earlier this night, Hideo suspected that she was not in fact too well protected, but rather Gongsun Qi believed her younger brother would be an easier target for Hideo to defeat, which only showcased the Western Colonel General’s lack of faith in his skills. Anger burned in Hideo’s belly and he considered demanding to know where Du Min Yan and Ryo Da’in were located, but he swallowed his pride for the greater good. Attacking Geom-Chi would serve the Chosen of Heaven well, and so long as Hideo’s luck held true, then the two women would likely be captured when the Citadel finally fell.

But first, his old rival would have to die.

Leading his retinue into the fray, he found his target soon enough, the Ryo family banner held high overhead as Geom-Chi’s troops held their ground. The Ryo family scion’s resplendent armour was now dented and stained with blood, but Geom-Chi’s movements were as sharp as ever, fast and accurate to a frightening degree. Where Da’in defeated her opponents with overwhelming power, Geom-Chi relied on superior speed and training to emerge victorious. When matched with an equally skilled opponent like Tam Taewoong, Geom-Chi’s lacklustre aptitude shone through as it became clear he was merely an above average talent, a far cry from his dominating genius of an older sister.

And today, Hideo would show the Empire just how lacking Geom-Chi truly was.

Having trained extensively for siege combat, Hideo’s retinue advanced upon their target like a lion hunting its prey, utilizing their full strength and speed from the get go. Rather than scaling the walls with ladders or embedded hand-holds, Hideo’s retinue threw their grappling hooks with unerring accuracy and secured them to the crenellations. Two Chosen then aided the thrower in pulling the chain taut, chains Hideo and his vanguard ran up in a dazzling display of grace and agility. Some grappling hooks were cut free by Spiritual Weapon wielding foes, including the three severed by none other than Geom-Chi himself, but whether it was by luck or fate, Hideo’s chain went untouched and he made it onto the battlements without delay. Roaring a wordless cry of challenge, he smashed his mace into his foremost foe and cleared a section for the Chosen behind him, eager to come to grips with his former rival but cognizant of the fact that no man stood alone. Though he made an effort to hide his true strength, his foes were simply too lacking to challenge him, and soon enough, his retinue had secured a foothold on the wall where their comrades were free to support them.

Granted, this achievement didn’t belong solely to Hideo’s retinue, as their foes were tired and spent after hours of non-stop fighting, but it was so satisfying to bask in the feeling of a job well done. With enough of his comrades beside him to hold their ground, Hideo no longer needed to hide his true identity, though he suspected Geom-Chi had already figured it out. Cackling as he charged his foe, Hideo flourished his maces with a cheek-splitting grin as he landed his opening attack. Had he utilized the Mountain Collapsing Strike, he could have ended this match in the first exchange, but there was more at stake than simply killing an old rival, so Hideo held back once again. It was better this way, to see that smug bastard’s eyes widen in surprise as his raised guard was smashed aside, only for those hateful, handsome features to twist in pain as Hideo’s second mace broke his knee. The Wisdom was right, for Hideo’s obsessions were trite and banal to the extreme, goals so easily reached they hardly seemed worthy of aspiration to begin with. This was the great Ryo Geom-Chi, the dominant Hwarang knight of his generation, a rising dragon by all accounts, defeated in two strikes without any suspense. Had Hideo gone all out, he could have killed this worm without Geom-Chi even knowing who dealt the killing blow, but at the moment, the eldest Ryo son was worth more alive than dead.

