Chortling as he shook his head, Hideo made sure the Ryo Family guards were all dealt with before backhanding Geom-Chi across the face, driving him back to his knees before he could stand and fight. Slamming a boot down atop the swordsman’s hand, Hideo pinned the weapon in place and grabbed Geom-Chi by the back of the head, and the sight was glorious to behold. Blood dribbled down his nose and chin as he struggled for breath, but his eyes still burned with grim determination, a look Hideo loathed with all his heart. Raising the haft of his mace with a smile, he smashed it down on Geom-Chi’s broken nose and shivered at the sound of his screams, savouring this moment and committing every detail to memory so Hideo could later properly repent over his transgressions. “You are nothing,” he hissed, shaking Geom-Chi’s head until his eyes focused upon his gaze. “The wealthy scion of a noble house who has earned nothing of what you’ve been given. If not for your family name and elder sister’s talents, you would be the laughing stock of all of Central for failing to live up to your father’s expectations. Imagine a world in which Ryo Geom Chi was the eldest Ryo scion, without the talented Da’in to shield him from his critics and rivals. How might you fare then, Geom-Chi?”

“Better than you, traitor.” Spitting a mouthful of blood into Hideo’s eye, Geom-Chi snarled in foolish defiance. “No matter the burden upon my shoulders, I would never be so weak as to succumb to the Father’s foul lies. You betrayed everything you know and once stood for because your ego couldn’t stomach a single defeat. You are an arrogant, overblown coward who can only bully the weak, kowtowing to anyone you think might be stronger because you know better than anyone else how lacking you truly are, but even then I never thought you would stoop so low.” Heaving from the exertion of speaking so much at once, Geom-Chi’s scornful gaze pierced Hideo to the core, ruining what should have been a gratifying victory. “To think, I once respected you and believed we could be friends, for even though you were no great talent, at least you knew to work hard and persevere.”

Roaring in a fit of rage Hideo slammed his fist into Geom-Chi’s face and knocked the bastard’s teeth loose. This was far from enough to sate his anger, so Hideo struck him again, and again, and again, until Monk Eyebrows admonished him through Sending. “Careful not to kill him, else all our efforts will be for naught.” A hint of concern slipped into the stoic monk’s tone, a wariness Hideo hadn’t sensed even when monk Eyebrows fought Shuai Jiao in single combat. The seed of fear had been planted in his mind by the iron sphere that almost took his life, one delivered by the seemingly unremarkable MuYang using some strange Spiritual Weapon of Falling Rain’s devising. While Zheng Luo was most certainly not here in the Central Citadel, no one, not even the Uniter himself, was able to pinpoint the former Aspirant spymaster, a man so skilled at blending in even the Heavens were unable to uncover his hiding place.

He could be Concealed in any shadow upon any tower overlooking the battlefield, ready to deliver another payload of iron death faster than even a Divinity could react. Monk Eyebrows only survived due to his thick, reinforced skull, and even then it’d been touch and go for a matter of weeks as he lay upon death’s door, unable to force the spherical projectile out without causing further damage to his brain and skull.

Unaware that his fear had been noticed, Monk Eyebrows lurked in Concealment and Sent, “It appears our foes have already sensed something amiss and intend to sacrifice the boy. Slowly roast him alive while we secure the battlements against the oncoming reinforcements. If even this isn’t enough to draw out the Sword King, then we will reassess our plans.”

All this just to force Ryo Dae Jung to fight on their terms, this was how much Gongsun Qi respected his foes. Against one Colonel General, the Prince of Barbarity had nothing to fear, and with Monk Eyebrow’s support, they could even match both Shuai Jiao and Dae Jung, but there were too many variables to account for to take undue risks now, especially with victory so close at hand, so Hideo heeded the monk’s orders and took great delight in securing Geom-Chi’s bloodied body over a burning brazier. Leaving four Chosen to ensure the flames did not burn too hot, he strode off to the delightful sounds of Geom-Chi’s tortured screams and moved to deal with the reinforcements. The Heavens were surely smiling down on him tonight, for the oncoming reinforcements were also flying a Ryo family banner, but to his great disappointment, it was not Da’in who led them, but rather the lacklustre youngest daughter, Seoyoon.

A jade beauty whose icy gaze stole the heart of many a man, Hideo did not count himself as one of her admirers, but seeing her hate-filled eyes glaring at him with the heat of a thousand suns, he decided she was well worth the penance. “So Geom-Chi has fallen so far that even the younger sister must wipe his ass for him. What a bond you Ryo siblings share, it will be interesting to see how long it takes to tear that bond apart.”

Rather than respond to his taunts, Seoyoon ignored him entirely and turned to the man beside her instead, a peacocked fop of a man dressed in flowing white robes that would’ve been deemed fashionable in Du Min Gyu’s heyday. Even now, whilst standing on the battlefield, he had his spear slung across his shoulders with arms hanging loosely from the haft, like a base-born peasant carrying buckets of water back to his dusty farm. As if that weren’t enough, he even had a bookish, half-beast manservant to carry his sword, both of them entirely out of place amidst the armoured Ryo Family guards. “I am not his match,” Seoyoon said, gesturing at Hideo while speaking to the fop. “Kill him and I will accept whatever terms of marriage you put forth.”

Though his eyes shone with delight, the fop pursed his lips and shook his head. “He is a formidable opponent and I am not so certain I can kill him, not with that monk hiding in Concealment over there.” How the hell the fop was able to pinpoint Monk Eyebrows’ location was a mystery, but it was enough for Hideo to take heed of this popinjay and treat him like a legitimate threat. “How about we lower the threshold to hurting him a bit, hmm? Let’s say a few broken bones, maybe a severed limb at most?”

“Kill him.” Unwilling to entertain his foolish notions anymore, Seoyoon left to join the fray that had broken out around them, as the Ryo Family guards fought to retake the battlements from Hideo’s elite retinue. Their battle would not end anytime soon, as both forces were fairly evenly matched, with Hideo’s forces boasting superior skill but the Ryo family guards able to bring more numbers to bear thanks to the layout of the second wall. Turning his attention back to the young fop, Hideo finally placed the perfumed peacock’s name, but that did little to lessen his scorn for the man. “So you must be Tong Da Fung,” he sneered, unimpressed by what he knew of the man’s reputation. “Falling Rain’s mongrel dog who begs for scraps at his feet. How suiting for you to be matched with the Ryo family disgrace, a trashy, unremarkable pair whose only redeeming feature is their proximity to greatness.”

“Oof.” Pressing one hand against his chest, the popinjay had the gall to close his eyes and reel back as if physically struck, and Hideo couldn’t tell if Fung was truly offended or just mocking him with his exaggerated actions. “I won’t lie, that actually hurt.” Letting the spear fall from his shoulders with an almost careless shrug, Fung brandished his weapon a bit before slamming the butt into the ground, his arm stretched towards his manservant who took the polearm away. Shaking his head with a sigh Fung continued, “When I first met Rain, we swore to call ourselves the Typhoon Brothers and we pledged to take the Empire by storm, the Great Wind and the Falling Rain. Truth be told, it’s been difficult not to resent him just a little for stealing all my thunder, to the point where even idiots like you don’t take me seriously anymore.”

While the popinjay waxed on about his friendship with Falling Rain, the manservant offered Fung the hilt of his sword, and as soon as he had the weapon in hand, Hideo realized this fight would not be easily won. Everything about the peacock changed, a subtle, profound change that only a discerning eye would notice, but Hideo saw in Fung’s relaxed posture a confidence that stemmed from supreme skill, as opposed to overblown ego. “I won the Society Contest.” The sword aimed high, but struck low, and Hideo barely managed to block it, falling for a feint so profound it felt like there were two Fung’s standing before him, one real and one illusory. “Soundly I might add, with almost no difficulty whatsoever.” Following up with a series of exquisite and inexplicable attacks, Fung drove Hideo back even though his sword touched nothing but empty air, his movements so ethereal they were difficult to track, yet threatening enough that Hideo did not dare meet him head on. “I lost to Dastan Zhandos during the battle for Sanshu, and have I made no real achievements since, but that’s only because I learned something about myself after losing to Dastan.” The sword lanced out and almost pierced Hideo through the throat, but he dodged it by the barest of margins as a drop of cold sweat dripped down his spine. No one dared approach to interfere with their duel, so Tong Da Fung stood alone on the battlements, his white robes flapping in the breeze as he held his sword beneath the moonlight with an introspective expression. “I dislike war and fighting in general.”

What a ridiculous thing for a swordsman of his calibre to say, and yet, Hideo was unable to retort as he blocked a devastating overhead chop, one heavy enough to make his arms ache. Though it was far from the most powerful attack he’d experienced, Fung’s movements were so difficult to read and track, it felt like Hideo’s life was constantly in threat, and the pressure was beginning to wear him down. On the other hand, Fung appeared as relaxed as ever while delivering a barrage of deadly thrusts that slipped past Hideo’s attempts to parry and landed solidly on Runic plate. “Sparring is fun enough, I suppose,” Fung continued, sounding almost bored and begrudging as he said it. “An exhilarating contest of strength, but hardly something I care to devote my life to. War just seems like such a waste, all those lives lost for no gain at all. What changed in the wake of Yo Ling’s attack? What benefits have the Defiled gained from taking the West? I’d wager my considerable wealth to say nothing of importance, a wager I daresay few would care to accept.”

Redirecting his sword from high to low, Fung’s thrust plunged into flesh after slipping through a joint in Hideo’s vambraces, a weakness few could purposely pinpoint and attack, but the popinjay made it look as easy as breathing. “War just costs so much in coin and blood, efforts are better spent almost anywhere else. Build a school and you can instantly see the results of your investment, whereas burning a village leaves you with nothing but ashes and death. Hardly worth it, I say, but whenever I bring it up, everyone thinks I’m the strange one.” Shaking his head while simultaneously almost separating Hideo’s from his neck, Fung grimaced as if he were the one in dire straits. “But not Rain. Again, he has to outshine me even here, with his book of inventions and his grand dreams of ensuring that every last person in the Empire has food, clothes, and a roof overhead, not to mention an education and the means to defend themselves to boot. How is anyone else supposed to compare?”

A probing slash somehow found yet another chink in Hideo’s armour, dealing him a deep cut across the meat of his shoulder, but the pain was nothing compared to his humiliation. Taking the offensive for the first time, he unleashed not one, not two, but five Mountain Collapsing strikes, knowing that if even one connected, his foe would die, but Tong Da Fung’s defence was even more formidable than his offence, able to dodge, duck, and generally skirt around all of Hideo’s attacks with comical ease. “A lesser man might see their wounded pride fester into hatred and contempt,” Fung continued, his tone light and breathing measured as if they were discussing this over tea instead of during a life and death battle, infuriating Hideo to the extreme. “But Falling Rain is like a brother to me, so I have no one to blame but the Heavens for being unfair. No matter. He alone is enough to become the storm that sweeps through the Empire, and I shall be the calm breeze that follows in his wake, for there will come a day when he has defeated all his opponents, and together, we will bring the Empire to never before seen heights.”

“Shut up!” Hideo howled, still unable to deal with his hateful opponent’s unending stream of attacks. Only now did he realize that Fung’s narration had something to do with his superlative skill, utilizing the rhythm of his words to throw off Hideo’s perception of the man’s movements. “Shut up, shut up, SHUT UP!”

