“The truth is never pleasant to listen to,” Fung continued, Sending his words while simultaneously infusing his voice with Chi so everyone could hear him. “But I will not be silenced. Your skills are impressive, Traitor Hideo, but not to the extent of something I’ve never seen before.” The sword slapped his maces aside and slammed home against his helmet, setting his ears to ringing and head to aching as Fung continued to speak. “Mila is stronger. Yan faster. Dastan more cunning, and Zian just better all around. I was the weakest of our little sparring group, but I kept up all the same, as did Falling Rain whose phenomenal talent was only ever outmatched by his dedicated persistence to hard work. Compared to them, you are nothing and no one, a laughable joke of a man who cannot even tell when someone is trying to distract him.”

The declaration took long seconds to sink in before Hideo noticed something wrong, for Geom-Chi had long since stopped screaming. Unable to even blink for fear of falling to Fung’s unending and ineffable stream of attacks, he Scryed upon himself to get a better look at his current situation. What he saw made his blood run cold with fear, for who else but Ryo Da’in had arrived and already had her burned brother in hand, while her forces ran roughshod over Hideo’s retinue. Despite having his pick of the elites to choose from, Ryo Da’in’s retinue was made up of the best of the best from the Ryo family guards, and were in turn supported by Du Min Gyu’s students led by his adopted half-breed grandson. Though many had laughed when they heard he’d adopted a slave into his family, no one would laugh if they saw the half-cat right now, scything through Chosen elites like the Sanguine Tempest reborn. Though Yan shared the old man’s Blessing of Wind, it was clear the half-cat Kyung had inherited Du Min Gyu’s sabre skills, one which he used to rise to fame in the first place, and it was easy to see why. A force of strength and violence given flesh, every swing of Kyung’s sabre claimed a life, if not more, thanks to his frenzied speed and explosive fury that few could ever hope to match.

“Retreat.” The Sending arrived before Hideo could even think to do so himself, but he hurried to obey without question, for Monk Eyebrows was no longer lurking in Concealment but locked in combat with none other than Shuai Jiao himself. Three powerful Transcendents were there to support Monk Eyebrows, but the Imperials had dispatched their own Peak Experts to aid their Commander General, famous Warriors of Central who Hideo once looked up to like Ishin Shigen, Eccentric Gam, Yari Hagane, and more. None of them were allies of the Ryo family, and in fact might well be some of their greatest rivals, yet they were all still willing to risk their lives to save the youths of the Empire and hold the line while the Sword King recuperated.

“This could have been you,” the hateful voice said, expressing Hideo’s hidden, innermost desires. “Should have been you, standing on the Empire’s side with the full support of Central behind you. But instead, you threw a tantrum because you lost a fight, and now look at you. No family, no friends, no Mentor, and no loved ones. You have thrown away all that you possessed, more than most could ever know, and what do you have to show for it?”

Nothing.

Yet.

Squashing the voice once again, Hideo withdrew his troops from the wall as other Chosen moved in to take his place. Their plan to lure an exhausted Ryo Dae Jung had failed, but with Shuai Jiao committed to the battle, this meant the two strongest Warriors of Central had already revealed themselves, while Gongsun Qi had yet to directly act. Victory was inevitable, and while hardly the most admirable of tactics, wearing the opponent down with superior numbers was undoubtedly effective, so with allied forces holding the North and South at bay, it was only a matter of time before the Citadel fell.

At which point, Hideo would have his vengeance against all who dared look down on him. Though he was a sinner dyed in the red dust of the mortal world, this was but the first step along his long and lengthy path, one he intended to see to its final conclusion.

Eh-Mi-Tuo-Fuo.

Chapter Meme
