“How did you find me?”
 
“Never mind that. Did they touch you? Did anything touch you?”
 
Ivolethe was looking Ryoka up and down anxiously. The girl shook her head.
“Nothing. What was—what—”
 
“Do not speak of it. Do not mention what was there, lest you call it.”
 
Ivolethe put a finger as cold as frost itself to Ryoka’s lips warningly. The girl closed her mouth. Ivolethe studied Ryoka and shook her head.
 
“Build a fire. You are near death.”
 
She was. Ryoka looked around for wood, but nearly fell. She could barely feel her limbs. Ivolethe flew off as Ryoka had to sit. She came back with wood and dumped it on the ground. Then the faerie stared at the wood. The color of her body changed and her body shimmered. For a second her crystal skin and living ice body become molten, and her flesh was burning fire—
 
“Fire.”
 
And there was. Ryoka pulled herself towards the flames and felt the icy chill around her body fading. She huddled near the flames for a long time, until her clothing was smouldering and she felt blisters forming from the heat. Only then did she roll away and look at herself.
“I—I felt…”
Ryoka touched at her throat and shuddered. Only once had the things nearly caught her. She pulled away her scarf and Ivolethe hissed.
 
“Do not touch that!”
 
Part of the scarf that Mistress Yesel had given Ryoka had…changed. The waving pattern had warped and altered, the fabric’s stitching switching around. Forming the impression of a…hand…
Ryoka shuddered as she stared at the impression in the fabric. She tore the scarf away and hurled it into the fire. She grimly watched it burn, and then remembered the second horror of the night.
The girl reached into her pocket, hoping that she would find nothing. But her heart chilled as she touched something at the bottom of her pocket.
“That was no dream.”
She pulled out two twitching digits. Her fingers. Ivolethe’s eyes went wide and she flew back from the fingers. Ryoka stared at them. She tried to clench her hand and watched the fingers curl up.
“What the hell was that, Ivolethe?”
The faerie had no answer for Ryoka. None she could give. She stared at Ryoka with mouth tightly closed, staring at the fingers. Ryoka stared at them too.
They were her fingers. She could feel them. If she touched them, she felt the sensation, as if her fingers were back again. But they had been given to her by…by…
They were her fingers. No. They had been. But they weren’t anymore. Ryoka’s hand shook as she lifted the fingers, clutched them tightly. She closed her eyes.
And the she hurled them into the burning fire.
Ivolethe saw Ryoka react as the fingers hit the burning coals, sending up a cloud of sparks. She heard a scream. The girl cried out and doubled over, clutching at the stumps of her fingers. She straightened slowly, gritting her teeth so hard that Ivolethe could hear the grinding.
 
“Are ye well, Ryoka Griffin?”
 
Ryoka tasted blood. She felt…she turned away from the fire.
“It’s…nothing. Let’s go. I want to be away from this place. Now.”
Ivolethe nodded silently. Ryoka took off running and the faerie flew ahead. Ryoka left the second fire to die down as she ran through the snow. Her right hand burned and the pain nearly made her pass out. But she kept running, on and on, away from this place. Back towards Invrisil.
And she didn’t look back. Not once.
 
—-
 
“Erin? Erin!”
Erin woke up slowly, to someone shaking her.
“Huh? What’s that? Lyonette?”
The girl was shaking Erin, looking worried. As Erin woke up, she realized her inn was full again. There was lots of people standing around her.
Her guests. Her friends. Zel and the Horns of Hammerad and Griffon Hunt and the Halfseekers…
And Lyonette. And Mrsha. The Gnoll licked at Erin’s face as the young woman sat up.
“What’s happening, everyone?”
“You tell us. Erin, what happened to the kitchen?”
“Huh?”
It took Erin a few seconds to get up and go to the kitchen. When she did, she could only stare.
The kitchen was empty. Not of people, but of food. All the food in the kitchen was gone. Erin stared at the empty pantry, the ransacked larder, and then at the dishes piled up, and the unwashed pots and pans.
“Did you eat it? All of it?”
Lyonette stared at Erin uncertainly. The girl shook her head.
“No, I—I had a dream, but—”
“You ate everything in your dream?”
Revi stared at Erin incredulously. Ceria shook her head.
“No way. You could have fed us all for days with all the food in there! There’s no way…where did it go?”
Erin had no answers. She only shook her head and stared. After a while, when no answers were forthcoming, the people around her took action.
“I’ll get some food from the city! I mean, I’ll buy some—no, it’s an emergency.”
Lyonette ran out the door and the adventurers who were hungriest went with her to carry things. They left Erin alone, standing in the kitchen.
“Was it just a dream?”
It had felt so real. And yet, Erin felt like the events had to be a dream. Surely it couldn’t be—
Her eyes turned towards the jar of coins at the side of the room. Erin went over to it. Lyonette had grabbed a big handful out in a hurry. So it probably wasn’t…
There. At the bottom of the jar, Erin’s fingers found something other than the regular coins. She slowly drew out a coin that shone white and silver, practically glowing in the light from one of the lamps.
“It wasn’t a dream.”
But then, what was it? Erin stared at the coin. She ran her finger over it and peered at it. There was some sort of inscription on the coin. There was a rough border on both sides…faded imagery…she thought there might have been words, too.
But it was all long gone. Only the metal remained. Erin stared down at it, and then slowly put the coin in her pocket.
She walked over to the windows. Someone, probably Lyonette, had thrown them open. Through the glass, Erin stared out into the night.
“Oh. The snow’s stopped.”
The snow had indeed stopped falling. The drifts of snow were piled up very high, but now the sky was clear. And Erin could look up and see the stars and moon. And the second moon, a sliver of a crescent hanging across the sky from the first. Two moons. Sometimes Erin forgot. They hung in the sky, beautiful, lighting up the world.
Behind her, the fire crackled, burning brightly in the fireplace. Erin ignored it as she stared out across the vast world, up into a universe that was not hers.
But it was hers now, wasn’t it? Erin sighed and saw the windows fog up. Her windows. And this was her inn.
Around her, the snow covered the plains, deep, white. Untouched. To the right the city of Liscor sat, dark, the walls staring down at her. But familiar, nonetheless.
Erin reached into her pocket and felt the coin again. Was it just a small thing? No. Today had meant something, she was certain. It was the end of the winter. The winter solstice. The thing she had been named after.
Something had happened. Even if she didn’t know what. And looking out into the world, Erin knew more things were happening.
The winter was ending. The shortest day and the longest night of the year was over. Soon the world would warm, and then…
Erin smiled. Oh, that was right. If the longest night of the year was over, didn’t that technically make today sort of a new year’s? It was close enough, right? Perhaps that was how this world celebrated such things.
It certainly seemed fitting. Erin wiped at the glass and saw a group of people trudging back towards her inn, carrying what looked like enough food to feed an army. Or a bunch of starving adventurers.
It was just a short moment, but Erin was finally alone. She felt loneliness in her heart, and sadness. And grief. But also hope, and the reassurance that came to her as she stared at the people coming towards her inn.
She wasn’t completely alone. And so Erin walked towards her door and threw it open. She smiled as the night passed into day and the next day began. Everything started today. She laughed as, in the distance, the sun stopped setting and began to rise.
“It looks like it’s going to be an interesting year.”
