She scrambled backwards. Ivolethe looked and cried out in astonishment. But the three sat, calmly, hands stretched out to the fire. Three.
One was a woman not much older than Ryoka. She looked scarred, liked a warrior. She turned her face to Ryoka, and the girl saw her smile.
The second was an old woman. She sat with gnarled hands outstretched, greedily staring into the flames. When she looked at Ryoka, it was with a gentle expression, like a grandmother staring at a child.
And the third? The third was not—Ryoka tried to stare at it. Her eyes moved away. It was not—
It was not anything Ryoka could describe. It sat. But sat wasn’t the right word. It was rigid, in a way bodies and…flesh was not. But it was there, too. It sat at the fire, warming itself or letting itself be warmed.
And it too looked at Ryoka. She felt its gaze upon her.
“Who are you? How the hell did you get here?”
Ryoka’s voice shook as she stood, staring at her three guests. They looked at her as Ivolethe clung to Ryoka’s clothing. It was the young woman who spoke first.
“We are cold, and came out of the storm to seek shelter. Would you begrudge us the fire, young traveler?”
The old woman was next. She edged closer to the fire, eyes fixed on Ryoka the entire time.
“We ask for your hospitality and grace in the storm. Will you give it to us, oh lost child?”
The third said nothing, but Ryoka knew it asked the same.
 
“Say no. Turn them away.”
 
Ivolethe whispered in Ryoka’s ear. But the girl hesitated. She stared at the three. They looked so cold. Colder than ice, as if they’d been caught in the storm without protection for…
“I—I suppose so.”
The faerie made a sound, but the three at the fire smiled so broadly that Ryoka relaxed her guard. The old woman beckoned Ryoka back.
“A blessing upon you. Come, sit. Share the fire you have built with us. The darkness is deep, and it would not do to let the fire go out.”
There was truth in that. Ryoka sat back down, away from the other three, and cautiously fed the fire another piece of wood. The three watched as the flames consumed the stick.
“How…did you get here? I didn’t hear anyone arrive.”
“We have been here all along. Perhaps it is you who never looked.”
This came from the young woman. Ryoka glared at her, but she stared back with amusement in her eyes, not the least bit deterred by Ryoka’s look.
“Okay. Then who are you? Where do you come from?”
“That is a long story. We can tell it, but perhaps…young woman, would you offer me your hand? I wish to sit next to you and it is cold.”
The old woman stretched out her hand towards Ryoka. The girl hesitated. She didn’t want to sit next to the old woman, but she looked cold…
 
“Do not do it! Let us be away, Ryoka!”
 
A voice in her ear. Ryoka hesitated, and then looked at Ivolethe. The old woman frowned at the tiny faerie on Ryoka’s shoulder.
“What is that you have with you, child? It is a thing of ice and dreams. Not good company for the fire.”
“Her? She’s just…Ivolethe. Don’t mind her.”
“She should leave.”
The young woman with the scars said that. And the thing…agreed.
 
“I will not leave! You leave! Trespassers!”
 
The faerie hissed at them, her eyes narrowed as she clung to Ryoka’s coat. The three stared at Ivolethe and she made another sound, so guttural and wild that Ryoka couldn’t believe it came from Ivolethe.
But then the three looked away from the faerie and back towards Ryoka. It was the young woman with the scars who spoke next.
“Take my hand, then. I see the makings of a warrior on you, traveler. I see bloodshed in your past, and in your future. Take my hand and I will show you what I know of battle and triumph. Of loss and defeat.”
She reached out towards Ryoka. The girl hesitated. She wanted to take the hand, if only because there was something in the young woman’s eyes that called out to her.
Ivolethe pulled at Ryoka’s ear. The girl yelped and swatted at Ivolethe, but the faerie only fluttered away. She sighed.
“I’m no warrior. Sorry. And I don’t like killing or…battle.”
“A shame.”
The hand was withdrawn. Now Ryoka’s eyes fell on the third thing sitting around her fire. It did not move. It did not reach for Ryoka, but she felt the urge to reach for it.
“Ah, perhaps you want to know who our companion is.”
The old woman chuckled, a dry, quiet sound swallowed up by the snow.
“Well, it asks for you to reach out, child. Can you feel it? Can you hear?”
Ryoka…could hear, despite Ivolethe shouting something in her ears. She understood. The thing wanted her to touch it, to…to feel what it felt. To be with it. To know.
Her eyes slid away from what it was. Rigid? It was nothing she could describe. But she knew it was not like the other two. Not…a being. And not a thing. Yet she wanted to touch it. That was what frightened Ryoka the most.
She reached out. She couldn’t help herself. Part of Ryoka wanted to know what it was, so badly. She wanted to touch it—
Ivolethe bit her. Ryoka howled as she clapped a hand to her neck. She felt blood at the tips of her numb fingers and flung the Frost Faerie away.
“Ivolethe!”
The three who sat at her fire stared as the faerie flew back towards Ryoka, blood dribbling down the faerie’s chin. Ivolethe wanted to land on Ryoka’s shoulder again, but the girl wouldn’t let her.
“Now here is a thing that need not be here.”
Ivolethe screamed something like a curse at the young woman sitting across the fire. It made Ryoka’s ears ring, but the young woman simply frowned at the Frost Faerie.
“Begone, thing of ice and cold.”
The flames flickered as the wind blew. Ivolethe shouted, but the gust of wind blew her away. Ryoka turned and saw Ivolethe’s pale blue light flying backwards, her wings beating helplessly. Ivolethe was blown into the darkness outside of the fire. And she did not return.
“There. Much better.”
“Ivolethe!”
Ryoka was on her feet. She started away from the fire, but stopped as she saw the vast darkness lurking beyond. If she went out, Ryoka knew she would never find her way back. It was too dark.
“Do not worry about that thing. Come back, sit with us. The fire is growing low.”
Ryoka turned. It was true. The fire was dying, though it felt like she had just fed it moments ago. The girl stepped back towards the fire, but hesitated.
Why were the three here? How had they…she blinked and frowned. Her head felt cloudy, and she was tired. And cold. She couldn’t think straight, but the three seemed oddly comforting to her. She took a step forwards, hesitating as she narrowed her eyes. They were so familiar.
“Do I…know you?”
“Of course.”
The young woman looked amused. She shifted, exposing scars on her arms and the side of her face. She smiled at Ryoka as if they were old friends.
“We know each other, even if you do not remember. But sit. Sit, and join us.”
“Yes, join us. Stoke the fire, and sit with us.”
The other two echoed her words. Ryoka hesitated, and drew nearer to the fire. It was growing low. The old woman stretched her hand out to Ryoka, staring her in the eye.
“I offer again. Hold my hand, child. Be free of your worries with me.”
She held her hand out to Ryoka through the flames. It was a hand that promised Ryoka relief. A place to sit, somewhere to rest…Ryoka hesitated.
The young woman was next. Her hand was strong and stretched out to Ryoka, scars shining in the fading firelight.
“Grasp your hand to mine, Ryoka Griffin. Fight, and walk with me through a thousand lands.”
Ryoka stared into the young woman’s eyes and saw the same promise reflected there. To struggle, to fight—
She nearly took it, but the third thing sitting at her fire made an offer. And it called to Ryoka without words. It told her to come over, to sit with it, to…know. To find what was missing, to find what never was.
It was there, telling Ryoka to touch it. To let go. To be…
Ryoka took a step towards the fire, and then another. The three waited for her to make her choice. And Ryoka would take one of the hands. Why not? Only…
Something was running down her neck. Absently, Ryoka reached up and touched something wet and warm.
Blood. Her blood. She stared at her fingers and saw the dark liquid on her fingertips. Why? Oh. Right. Ivolethe had bit her.
And seeing her blood triggered something in Ryoka’s head. She frowned as she chased after a thought. Her mind felt foggy, as if she were in a trance, or sleepwalking. But there was something…what was it?
Oh. Yes. Ryoka stared at the three sitting at the fire. She had to ask. It felt so obvious that Ryoka was almost ashamed, but she had to ask. It was important.
“Hey. Why could you see Ivolethe?”
They stared at her. The old woman sighed. The young woman sighed. And the third thing made no sound at all.
“Ah, it is too late. Look, child. The flames have gone out.”
Ryoka saw the old woman’s hand point. She saw a tendril of fire licking at the edge of a stick that was burnt to ash and then—
The fire went out.
The light vanished from the world. There was only the faintest glow, of near-dead embers. Suddenly, the darkness was all around Ryoka, pressing in. Reaching for her. She shuddered and stumbled towards the campfire. She had to ignite it again. She couldn’t be in the darkness.
There were…things out here.
But Ryoka halted. Her feet refused to move as, by the faintest glow of the campfire, she saw who really sat there. Who she’d been talking to this entire time.
There were no people sitting with her. They had never been there. As the light went out, their true forms were revealed.
Dead things sat around the fire. They were dead. But it was far worse than a corpse. Because they were dead but still moving.
Two faces and a…thing stared at Ryoka around the smoking remains of the light. One reached out to her and Ryoka recoiled. The hand that stretched out was not living, but decayed skin, rotting flesh. Bone.
The things were dead. They were rotting and stank of it. They stared at Ryoka, and she stared at them.
It was dark. The darkness was closing in. The embers were fading, and Ryoka could sense things around her. Things not seen, but terrible. Far worse than the thing that sat next to the fire.
She had to have light. But Ryoka refused to go near the fire. She refused to touch the rotting things. But she needed light.
“Magic.”
The word was a whisper in her dry throat. But—yes, that was right! Magic! Magic could save her. Ryoka raised her hands. She called out.
“[Light]. [Light]!”
Nothing happened. Ryoka stared at her hands. She couldn’t feel the magic in her, couldn’t reach into that wellspring inside her soul and draw it out. It was as if there was nothing there.
“There is no magic here. Only the fire.”
The voice that came from the thing that had been the young woman was rasping, dead. As rotten as the body that formed the words. It gestured to the fire.
“Light it, traveler.”
“Yes, light it. Or the darkness and the storm will take us all. You can feel it, can’t you? They are closing in. They are coming.”
Yes, Ryoka could feel it. She could feel things watching her. Drawing closer. The fire was fading. When it was out completely, they would come. They feared the light. But they wanted her.
Hands reached for her across the fire. Dead things spoke. One looked at her and it knew her name.
“Choose, Ryoka Griffin. Let the fire die and we shall all face the darkness. Or come and sit with us.”
The second hand reached out. It still beckoned. Still promised. But the thing that held it was dead.
“Choose.”
And the last thing sat, true form revealed. Ryoka stared at it and knew where it had come from. From beyond the edge of the world. From the places not meant to be looked into. It told her to reach out and enter those places.
She wanted to touch it. She feared to touch it. She did not want to go near the rotting things. But the darkness was closing in. She had no choice. Ryoka had to…
Choose.
 
—-
 
They stood around Erin, holding their gifts. She stared at them, part of her unsure of what was happening. The other part…knew.
All they wanted was a small thing. So small, and yet so precious. It was all Erin had. All anyone had, really. But this was hers.
“What do you want? I mean…what do you want to trade for it? It’s very special to me.”
They nodded. It was special. The three spoke, almost as one. Telling her what they would give her in exchange for it.
Her soul.
The first was the man with the beard.
“I offer an umbrella made from the sun’s light. To bring day into blackest night.”
He handed Erin an umbrella. She took it, and opened it. Sunlight, pure sunlight, the kind Erin had never truly seen, streamed down from under the umbrella’s canopy. She lifted it over her head, and laughed as the sunlight shone around her. For a second, she was warm and she stood in the daylight. So long as Erin held the umbrella open, it would always be bright around her. The light would burn away her fears, burn away untruths and falsehoods. Then she closed the umbrella and the world was dark.
The second was the man with the book.
“I have here a hangman’s rope. For those who live without any hope.”
He handed Erin a long, thick rope with a noose on the end. Erin tossed the end over one of the beams in the rafters and the others helped her tie it securely. She stood on a table, and put her head in the noose. Then she stepped off the table and hung there.
She was dead. Erin hung in her inn, dead. Minutes passed, then hours. Days. Years. When she took the rope off her neck, Erin smiled. No one had known she was alive. They all thought she was dead. While she hung there, no enemy would find her. It was perfect. She let the noose hang over her head as she turned.
The third, the man who danced as he walked.
“I hold a horn made of ancient bone. A thing to protect both hearth and home.”
He handed Erin a horn of pure white bone. It was cold to the touch, but when she put it to her lips and blew, the call echoed through her inn. It was a call that rose above the loudest horns of the battlefield, which travelled the world. Erin knew that in any part of the world, her friends would hear her call. She lowered the horn as the call echoed.
So. There they were. An umbrella that was as bright as the sun. It could chase away all darkness, reveal all lies. No magic could stand against it, and it warmed the skin and brought light. And the second, a noose. So Erin could kill herself and hide from her enemies. She could live in peace so long as she hung from it. And the third, a horn to call her allies and those she loved from wherever she stood.
Three gifts. Each one priceless. Erin stared at the offerings. She stared at the men.
“And all you want is a soul for it?”
