They nodded. The three stared at her, waiting. Erin wavered. She stared at the umbrella, the noose, and then the horn. They were so precious. She wanted each one, each for a different reason. And the price was so simple. So small. She had a soul. It was hers to give. Why not trade it? Why not give it?
Her hand wavered as she reached out—
 
—-
 
“Did you hear that?”
The young woman looked up, heart beating wildly as she stared around the darkness. The three sitting at the fire looked up.
“I hear nothing.”
“I see nothing.”
“But I heard it. I know I did.”
Ryoka spun wildly, searching for the origin of the horn call. There was nothing. Just the darkness, closing in. She stared back at the fire.
So dark. It was almost completely dark. If it were regular night, Ryoka wouldn’t have ever seen the last glimmer of flame in the coals. But here, there were things darker than black. That she could still see meant there was light.
“Hurry, traveler. If the fire goes out, you are lost. We are lost.”
She knew it was true. Ryoka felt something behind her. She stared at the three. If she drew close they would touch her. But what other choice did she have?
There was something behind her. Not just something. Many things.
“Okay. Okay! I’ll…”
She stumbled towards the fire, away from the darkness. The three smiled as Ryoka drew closer. They reached for her, but before she drew in range of their hands, Ryoka stopped.
“Don’t—don’t touch me.”
“But we want to.”
“Yes, come close. Just a bit closer.”
Ryoka drew back. She knew the things were right behind her now, but she could not be touched. She grabbed for a piece of wood. She just needed to put it on the fire, but the hands…
“I’ll start the fire again. But if you touch me I’ll put out the fire and we’ll all be in the dark. Understand?”
She heard something like a sigh. But the hands withdrew. It was the old woman’s voice, rotted and sighing that addressed Ryoka next.
“Very well. We have time. But hurry.”
Ryoka knew she had moments. She flung the wood on the fire and desperately knelt by it, trying to rekindle the flames. She grabbed at the potions at her belt, threw them onto the flames. She thought she felt a touch on her sh—
The flames burst into life, high and fierce. Ryoka fell back as the fire roared into life. The alchemist’s fire burned bright, but was already fading. Ryoka hurried to toss wood on the flames as the three sighed and drew closer to the life-giving flames once more.
At last, the fire was stoked. This time Ryoka built it high, tossing almost all the wood she had onto it. It could not go out.
The three sat so close to the flames that they licked at their forms. Now Ryoka looked again, the old woman and the young warrior looked…normal. Their skin was intact, and when they spoke it was with soft, gentle voices. But Ryoka knew what she had seen.
“So. The fire is kindled. But it will not last through the night.”
“No. You have not enough wood. Not enough fuel.”
It was true. Ryoka only had a stick of wood in her hands. And the fire was already dying. The darkness was sucking it away. The storm was engulfing the light.
Again, the hands reached for her.
“We can keep them at bay.”
“We can protect you. Touch us.”
Touch them.
Ryoka shuddered. She took a step back and glanced into the darkness. Things looked back at her.
“She wavers again. And again.”
The old woman sighed. But then she smiled. She looked sideways at the third thing and then spoke to Ryoka.
“My companion has a gift for you.”
“A…gift?”
Ryoka started, looking at the thing that sat next to the old woman and the young one. But yes. It hadn’t moved, but now it held something. It reached out to Ryoka, and she knew it wanted to place it in her hand.
“Go on. Take it. It is a gift, freely offered.”
The two sat back. Something had changed. Ryoka hesitated as she drew near the third.
“What if I don’t want the gift?”
“You must take it. It is ill luck to refuse a gift.”
Neither woman reached for her, despite being near to the fire. Ryoka hesitated, but part of her wanted to know. She held her hand out, palm up, and the thing—
Something landed in Ryoka’s palm. She stumbled back as the other two sat up, reaching for her again. Something was in Ryoka’s hand. Something cold and…what was it?
It was familiar. Ryoka stared down at her palm as she drew nearer to the fire. She couldn’t go too far away or…
The light illuminated two pale, long things in Ryoka’s palm. She thought they were worms, but they were too odd. Too different. What were they? She edged a bit closer to the light and then she realized what they were.
Fingers. Two fingers, curled up in the center of her hand.
She stared down at the fingers in her hand. They were pale with the cold, but familiar. Long and slender, tanned from being out in the sun. And at the place where they ended—
Torn flesh. Bite marks. Ryoka could see bone on the end of one of the fingers. It had been ripped away from its hand. She shuddered, and her hand, her right hand with its two missing fingers throbbed. She curled her hand—
And the fingers moved. They curled up. Ryoka jerked. She stared at them, and slowly uncurled her hand. On her palm, the two fingers uncurled slowly.
“A fitting gift.”
The dried voice made Ryoka look up. The old woman was staring at her, smiling wide.
“Are you not pleased? Is it not what you have lost?”
“I—”
The fingers lay in Ryoka’s palm. She hesitated. Ryoka wanted nothing more than to throw them away, but she remembered what the old woman and Ivolethe had said. So she shoved them into a pocket, feeling them move as she did.
“Now, child. It is time to choose.”
They reached out again. And this time Ryoka knew there was no choice. The fire was fading.
Ryoka stared at the hands. She stared at the darkness. Both were horrific. Both were…
“No.”
She said it out loud. The three looked at her. She heard a sigh.
“No? So you choose the storm and the dark. It is not better, traveller. Not better at all.”
The young woman shook her head as she said that. But Ryoka shook her head as well.
“No. I choose the third option. I choose this.”
She had the wooden stick in her hand. Ryoka stuck it into the fire, keeping her distance from the things that reached for her. The end of the stick ignited, and Ryoka pulled a flaming torch out.
The three stared at her, all disappointed. The old woman spoke.
“You will not escape the darkness with that. The flame will go out very soon.”
“Better that than staying here.”
Ryoka stepped back from the fire. She stared at the three things, huddled around the flames.
“You’re welcome to the fire. But I won’t join you. And I won’t get lost in the darkness.”
“So you say. But you had better hurry, child. Your time is running out.”
Already the flame was burning down the stick. Ryoka turned and ran. She ran away from the fire, into the complete darkness around her. She knew things were following her, reaching for her and recoiling from the flame. But she ran and ran, knowing what was behind her was just as bad.
The three sat at the fire, huddling around it as the flames burnt down. And then the fire went out.
 
—-
 
Erin reached for the horn. But her hand paused. She turned to the umbrella, and then back to the horn. When she reached out the second time, it was for the umbrella.
The man with the beard smiled as Erin picked it up. He reached for her, but she handed the umbrella to him.
“Here. I’m sorry. But I can’t take it.”
He blinked, surprised. Erin picked up the noose and unwrapped it from the beam. She handed it to the man with the book, and then picked up the horn. She stared at it for a long time and then handed it to the dancing man. All three held their gifts and looked at her.
“Will you not choose one? Do you not wish for any?”
“I want all three.”
Erin said it and meant every word. She wanted all three gifts with a passion she couldn’t describe. She would have given anything for them, even her soul. But—
“But I’m afraid I can’t take any of them. You see, I don’t think I should have them.”
“Why?”
They stared at her. Erin smiled as she tried to explain.
“They’re not for someone like me. You see…I’m just an innkeeper. I’m no warrior. I don’t fight battles. I don’t have enemies. And I have enough light. I’m afraid someone else might find more use for them than me.”
The three men held their gifts, priceless beyond words, as Erin bowed her head.
“Sorry. But I’ll have to refuse.”
The first to speak was the man with the beard. He laughed, and the laughter filled the room. He turned to the others and they laughed too, as one. When he was done, he stood before her, grave.
“So. Three times we have offered and you have refused.”
He pointed at Erin, standing tall and proud.
“Not for pride, she declines.”
The man with the book opened it and wrote in it.
“Not for knowledge she says no.”
And the third man stared at Erin and sighed wistfully.
“Not for others she refuses. So it must be.”
“I’m sorry.”
Erin felt bad, but the man with the beard smiled at her.
“It must be. And you have chosen. Innkeeper, I thank you for your hospitality. One day we may meet again. Until that day, I offer you my thanks.”
“And I.”
The man with the book bowed slightly.
“And I.”
The dancing man gave Erin a bow more graceful than a moonbeam. She smiled at them all.
“Thank you. Come back whenever you want. I’ll be happy to serve you again.”
They laughed again at that, as if she’d told another fine joke. And then the man with the beard turned to the fire. He pointed.
“Keep it lit. The night is not over, innkeeper.”
Erin turned. The fire had grown very low. She piled more wood on it, and it blazed brightly. She was about to thank the man for pointing that out. But he was gone.
She turned and they were gone. The three men had vanished without a trace. But in their place, something glinted at the table where they’d sat. Erin went over to it. She reached down and slowly picked up a coin.
It was palm-sized, and looked a bit like silver. But brighter. Whiter. If it was metal, it was none that Erin knew. She lifted it and felt the weight of it in her palm. It was light as a feather.
What to do with it? Erin stared at the coin, and then walked into the kitchen. She looked around and saw the small jar Lyonette kept separate from the main stash. In a dream she put the coin the men had left in the small pot of coins. Then Erin went back to the fire.
It was low, now, despite all the fuel she’d added. Erin curled up next to it, staring at the flames. Her encounter with the three men seemed more like a dream, now. She didn’t even know if it had happened. Erin stared into the heart of the flames and felt a deep exhaustion fall over her. She closed her eyes. In moments, she was asleep.
 
—-
 
It was dark. Ryoka ran through the darkness, heart pounding. She couldn’t feel anything, couldn’t see. It was too dark.
There were things around her. They reached for her with appendages. Some were hands. Others were…different. They grasped at her, trying to pull her back. But Ryoka ran on, and the light in her hands pushed them back, kept them at bay.
But the light was fading. As Ryoka ran, it slowly burnt away, fading into the blackness. Ryoka ran on, searching for a way out. But there was nothing around her. No sign of escape.
Just the night.
“Is anyone there? Someone! Please!”
Ryoka screamed as she ran. There had to be something. Some sign that there was life—something else but the darkness. But all she heard was her own voice, and the things closing in.
Her breath was tearing at her lungs. Ryoka had run so far, but now the torch was a flickering stub. She slowed, trying to cradle the fire as the wind threatened to blow it out. And still there was nothing.
Nothing…Ryoka closed her eyes. Something was next to her. It reached for her, and she knew it was over. She saw the last flicker of light die.
“Ryoka!”
And then there was light. Ryoka turned in the darkness and ran for it, ran for the voice that cut through the howling oblivion around her. She turned, searching for the source of the voice.
“Ivolethe?”
“Ryoka! Come to my voice!”
Ryoka ran. She ran towards the sound of the voice in the darkness. There was nothing around her. Nothing, and yet the things reached for her, trying to touch her. To…
Ryoka felt something tugging at her neck. She cried out, but the thing hadn’t touched her. It had tangled on her scarf and was trying to pull her back. She fought to get free and the scarf tore loose from its grip. She ran away, towards the voice.
There was light. Faint, in the distance, but as absolute as certainty. In this darkness, even the faintest glimmer was unmistakable. Ryoka ran towards it, shouting and hearing her name called again and again.
“I’m here! Here!”
Again, she heard the call and this time Ryoka threw everything she had into the run. She ran fast, faster than she’d ever run in her life. There was nothing that held her back. If her legs broke, if her body tore and bled—if she fell just a step behind, the things would catch her, and there would be nothing of Ryoka after that.
Now she could see someone running towards her. Ryoka saw a shape, a…woman?
“Ryoka!”
The voice was familiar, but the person was not. Ryoka only caught a glimpse as she ran, but the woman was tall, as tall as Ryoka and lithe. She held something in her hands that shone in the darkness.
A sword. She ran and Ryoka ran with her.
“This way! Do not look back, no matter what! Run.”
“Ivolethe?”
“Run, fool!”
The sword flashed as the woman swung it behind Ryoka. And Ryoka ran. She ran, and the darkness followed her. But there was light up ahead. Light and—
And movement. Something ran towards her. Ryoka saw something dash by her. A man? No. Not a man. But someone in armor nonetheless, a…being with a sword that had the same unnatural radiance as his face. It was a he, and he ran past Ryoka.
A warrior. But he was not the only one. Ryoka heard galloping hooves, and cries that made her ears ring. Not one, but many beings ran past her, each one male, or so she thought. They ran towards the darkness and kept it at bay. And she ran and ran—
And burst out into the light. Not the light of day, but rather the light of midnight. There were no stars in the sky and the sun had long set. The clouds were thick and it was snowing and the moon was obscured.
But it was light. Ryoka sank to her knees in the snow, gasping, and then saw the blue radiance flying towards her, and heard her name being called.
 
“Ryoka! Ryoka Griffin!”
 
“Ivolethe!”
Ryoka struggled to her feet and ran to the faerie. Ivolethe flew towards Ryoka, and the girl cupped her hands so the faerie could land in them.
