Koropo said, “Syllea gave me a breakdown of her brother’s capabilities when he proved himself a traitor. Pretty much the only spells he has are Star-based, so we don’t have to worry too much about Blood or Soul magic, but the fucking traitor probably hid that stuff from her. You see it all the time with these types. They lead double lives in the shadows, practicing ritual murder and conspiring in ways that any normal person would never consider doing. As for what Syllea knew, Omaz is at least level 75, and he certainly has Intelligence. Syllea clocked her brother at a max of 36,000 mana, or 150 Willpower, but that could be a screen, too. If he gets the chance to retaliate, then he would certainly put on some temporary Stat Rings to boost his Willpower higher. That much mana in a mage would normally be a limiting factor, even if it is rather high, but with his Intelligence, we have no doubt that he can cast his [Starlight Fall] at least ten times in a row, and still have mana left to escape.”

A lot of things stuck out in that little bit of information, but what Erick focused on, was asking, “How are you able to wear casters out?” He clarified, “I mean: You speak of how many times he can cast his spells, and I think you’re vastly underestimating the value of Intelligence, but I have literally never seen a long fight. Everything is always over within minutes, if not faster. Do you plan on winning by wearing out the opposition? Is that a real win condition? How do you do that and not just kill them, accidentally or otherwise?”

Peron couldn’t help but smile, it seemed. “Not everyone’s magic is as strong as an archmage’s.”

“Ah.” Erick said, “Well. Yes. My experience with fighting is not normal. I accept that. But you can still Critical someone by hitting them in the head.”

Peron nodded, accepting Erick’s words as they were.

Koropo said, “We have a lot of experience taking down strong targets while minimizing casualties. The problems arise when people outside of the targets get wind of what we’re doing to their friends. They start shit where we can’t see them, and where we’re not prepared. Which is what will happen if we do this wrong.” Koropo asked, “But is the question you’re asking about taking down targets without killing them?”

“Yes. How do you do that?”

Koropo nodded, then said, “Most of the people in my Special Units have vetted experience with Blood Magic and Soul Magic, and most of them are Mage Hunters, but we also have a few Warrior Hunters for the less usual targets.” Koropo said, “I’m a Witch Hunter myself. All of us have high-rate [Mana Drain Wards] which we can latch onto various targets we're actively fighting. We even have several people with [Curse of Locality], to prevent [Teleport], as well as counterspellers to prevent the use of magic. But our best offense, is to take people out before they realize they’re in a fight. We don’t like long fights, either, for when that happens, something has gone wrong. But if we do end up in a long fight, we’re always at an advantage because our Drain spells not only deny the targets many of their resources, but we take those resources for ourselves. That is what Mage Hunters do.”

Koropo’s words were a shock to Erick’s mind. How could he have forgotten about [Drain Ward]? The rate it drained was rather slow, but there had to be some way to make it drain faster!

[Drain Ward] was an inherent part of [Ward]’s big blue box, and Erick had somehow forgotten about that when it came time to think of ways to incapacitate a person without killing them. He had certainly remembered the Drain part of [Ward] when he was making [Ward Destruction], though!

And then there was the Class itself.

Erick recalled all of what he had heard of Mage Hunters. The first time he heard about them was back when he was wondering about ways to take mana from someone else, for his own use, and for ways to give his own mana to another person. Kiri suggested Mage Hunter as the Class that took mana from a target, then she told him that Font was the Class that gave mana to another person.

He had heard about Mage Hunters again, when he was asking around how to figure out the [Polymorph] problem; how to track a person through the vagaries of [Polymorph]. Even [Cascade Imaging] didn’t break that absolute protection provided by [Polymorph]’s lifestyle shift. [Cascade Imaging] sidestepped that problem by being able to track shed DNA, and that stuff got around, especially if the [Polymorph] target didn’t take special steps to clean themselves between shifts.

Erick sighed to himself, as he considered making a Health and Mana [Drain Ooze] to complement his Counterspelling [Blood Ooze]. Such a spell would go well with his eventual [Anesthesia] Particle Spell. Maybe a few Wind spells just to tie it all together. Bloody Wind spells, too.

… He could pretend to be a Mage Hunter, when he was out in the world, going incognito. That actually seemed really good.

He wasn’t out to lie about his life going forward. He wasn’t seeking a new identity. Just something that he could don when traveling through, like, Nergal and the Underworld and Nelboor and… And pretty much anywhere except for Treehome. He had already fucked up his chances to be incognito in this city, even if it was rather large.

Only five seconds passed in silence while Erick thought. He came back to the conversation, thinking of how Caizoa followed him through his lightstepping, and asked, “What about following people through a [Teleport]? Do you have some ways to do that?”

“Of course.” Koropo, straight-faced but with the barest hint of pride in his voice, said, “You don’t get to be Special Forces unless you have [Teleport Link] or some other niche spells or abilities. A full 25% of my people can do this.” He turned sterner, slightly, and said, “But that’s dangerous. We don’t do that on any but the highest value targets, and only if they’re fully debuffed. No telling where you might end up once that tether gets latched on. They drill a lot of lessons into us when we’re at the academy.”

“Do you have Mercy spells to incapacitate, too?”

Koropo nodded, saying, “And Draining Cuffs and a Tattooist for more permanent means of incapacitation.”

“Then…” Erick said, “We need a test run. I need to see how you work, and you need to see how I can help you. Name your time and place.”

Koropo said, “Now, and just down the hall. We have some targets outside of the Cultists that we would like gone, but which we haven’t been able to find. You get us close, and we can take it from there. I can promise you now that the targets I can put together in the next hour will not test your line in the sand at all, or else we have a much bigger problem on our hands than I thought.”

Erick said, “I may be a pacifist, Koropo, but even I know that some people don’t deserve multiple chances.” He added, “Our definitions of acceptable targets are likely more in line than you think.”

Koropo’s stoic face took on the tiniest smile, as he said, “We’ll see.”

Peron, however, was not happy at all, but he said nothing.

Erick had met with Koropo and Peron inside Wyrmrest’s home office, which was located on the other side of the Arbor from Syllea’s house. As their first meeting ended, Erick followed Koropo and Peron to the next room. They passed by a training yard next to Arbor Wyrmrest’s trunk. It looked rather similar to the space beside Syllea’s house, which was somewhere directly on the other side. Erick wondered if she knew that her Chieftain and Warchief were hunting her brother. He wondered if Syllea knew that he was helping Peron and Koropo to hunt for her brother.

There was some drama waiting to happen there, when she found out.

Would she want to go hunting for her brother, too? Or would she try to stay away? Ah… She probably felt really bad when it turned out Omaz was a traitor. Erick had a hard time imagining what he would do if any one of his people turned traitor, becoming a pawn of Melemizargo’s insanity.

Rats, or rather, Xendross Sands, as was his real name… He was the closest thing Erick had ever encountered to a traitor, and even that would be stretching the meaning of the term so far as to be untruthful. Rats leaving had hurt an awful lot, and that was probably nothing compared to losing a brother to the Darkness.

Koropo led the way into a large office, filled with wall space, mobile blackboards, corkboards, and several tables. The room was empty, and possibly recently cleaned, as evidenced by the order of it all. There was a place for everything and everything was in its place. It looked ready for work; for papers to be splashed and tacked up on a cork board, and for clues to be written on blackboards. A double stack of chairs rested in a corner, waiting to be spread around the room, while a glass dome in the ceiling let in scattered light, offering a great view of Wyrmrest, so high in the sky he seemed frozen in time. Erick strained for a moment to look for movement. Person-sized leaves rustled in the wind, kilometers above, as Starfruit gently glowed, even in the light of day.

Koropo spoke, and Erick’s attention came back to his surroundings. He said, “If this works, this room is our headquarters. I don’t want your map or that glowing ball over the space, unless we have to do that. I will need your Imaging off-site, and a recreation made here for us and Wyrmrest to see, but if you can’t do the recreation in addition to the map then I can have someone else make that. There’ll be some adjustments as we learn to work together, but as for our first target—” He lifted his head. A telepathic line of intent flowed from him, into the starlit manasphere. “I just got a call from one of our team leaders. She’ll be here soon. She’s been chasing this guy for years—”

The air blipped on the other side of the room, revealing a thin orcol woman with dark green skin, short black hair, and dark eyes. She wore ruddy leather armor. Real armor too. Not the conjured stuff.

She put a fist over her chest, and bowed, saying, “Sir!”

“Speak of the Darkness—” Koropo said, “Squad Leader Naervion. Meet Archmage Erick Flatt. Erick, meet Naervion.” Koropo indicated Poi, saying, “This is Erick’s Mind Mage oversight for this meeting. You will comply with a mental scan of whatever the Archmage wants, and answer all his questions as truthfully as you can, and he’ll be doing the searching. Is that clear?”

“Sir, yes sir. Thank you for this honor!” Naervion stood at attention, asking, “Where should I start?”

Erick asked, “Before that. Something else is bothering me. Why don’t the Arbors see the killers and such? They see everything, don’t they?”

Peron stepped into the conversation, saying, “They only see when they want to see, or when their attention is called. For the most part, all of these problems mostly happen outside of the Districts, in the nomadic parts of Treehome. These itinerant lands are the problem, as we find almost all of our targets out there. Don’t go blaming Wyrmrest for stuff that happens outside of his perusal.”

Koropo added, “Almost all the area you’re going to be searching, Archmage, is well outside of Treehome. From the Wyrmridge mountains to the deep Forest, to the coasts surrounding the Forests. These people might commit their crimes here, but they live elsewhere. Sometimes we manage to catch them when they show up here, but mostly, we find them in the itinerant lands.” He gestured back to Naervion.

Naervion waited for Erick to speak again.

“Well, okay then.” Erick stepped toward the woman, closing a little of the distance, and asked, “Who are we hunting, and why? If there’s gore or other horrors involved, just be up front about it. I’ve seen some shit so don’t worry about offending me.”

With utter professionalism, and relaxing only a little, Naervion began, “We call him the Flower Killer. He is one of the few who come in and kill directly under the Arbor’s boughs. He’s operated under the canopies of practically every single Arbor, too. He’s one of the more dangerous ones.”

Peron almost frowned, but he kept that under control.

Naervion gestured to a blackboard. “The paperwork is on the way, and should be here in minutes, but—” With great control she cast several images into the air, directly onto the slate. She explained what she had conjured, saying, “The corpse is always laid directly on the ground, in the sun. The chest is always methodically pried open, with the organs mostly intact, except for the heart. With the heart thus exposed, the Flower Killer then plants a Carmine Lily directly in the heart, and then [Grow]s it to full size, meaning a green stalk of about a meter long with a fist-sized brush-like flower on top. He has been doing this for the last twenty nine years, at least twice a year, and though the exact date changes, he always finds a victim during the Triumph of Light. The second one usually comes six or seven months later. Sometimes he drops two bodies at a time.” She added, “We haven’t found the victim for this Triumph yet, so we don’t think he’d killed yet.”

Erick looked toward Poi.

Poi nodded.

Erick turned back toward Naervion, asking, “How has your investigation gone so far?”

“I took up the cause when my previous Squad Leader was killed by the Flower Killer, years ago.” Naervion lost a bit more of her professionalism, growing angry for a brief moment, before stuffing that emotion down and away. She continued, “We’ve tried policing Carmine Lilies, but that was basically a fool’s errand. They’re—” She almost continued, but she instantly changed track, saying, “We’ve tried Seers. Blood Mages to track him down. Necromancers, in the rare case that the victim’s family has agreed to such a thing, in order to call back the dead and ask questions. Nothing has worked. The Flower Killer doesn’t stick to a single District. He doesn’t stick to a single type of victim. But we do know a few things about him. We know that he is a fantastic Polymage and that he routinely changes bodies, and that he is a remorseless killer.”

“How do you know he’s a ‘he’?”

