The old boss was the first to consider that the Flower Killer was a plant himself. Because of that, some of those files were left in the case file, and Erick had seen them. And yet, even the old boss had given up his thoughts of killer plants when further pursuit of the ‘plant angle’ got them nothing and brought them no closer to catching the Flower Killer. For if the Flower Killer was a Deathsoul Shroom, or a Changeling Vine, or a Meat Gardner, then why were the victims left with their soul, or why were there victims at all? Deathsoul Shrooms consumed the person from the inside out, eating their soul, as they spread spores over a population center. The Flower Killer didn’t do that. Changeling Vines ate their victims whole, before spitting out copies to entice or force more people into the Forest. The Flower Killer left their victims in the middle of roads, or other sun-filled places, with a Carmine Orchid growing out of their opened rib cage. Meat Gardners fit the Flower Killer’s profile the best, but even those treant-like beasts weren’t methodical enough to drop bodies every 6 to 7 months.

But a Variant Changeling Vine?!

Someone had to have made that. Someone created that creature, on purpose. The creature spoke, too, so some soul magic had to be involved. Or maybe the creators were trying for an intelligent Changeling Vine? Those plants were already almost creatures, based on intelligence alone. Maybe the old boss had gone back to the plant angle on his own, off the record, and gotten himself killed for it…

Some Cultist probably made that Carmine Changeling Vine. The arrival of that killer was pretty close to the Insurrection 30 years ago. Was there something to that angle, there? Maybe the old boss had pursued that angle, too.

Ahhh. Yet another thing to tell the old boss when Naervion visited his grave. But then again, he probably already knew. He was probably watching them from the Red Dream right now, and smiling.

We finally got the bastard, sir.

- - - -

Erick sat up in his chair. “That ‘Carmine Changeling Vine’ was just trying to procreate? Huh?” After a moment, he asked, “Failed experimental monster? Or a dead-end natural evolution?”

Poi said, “No way of knowing, sir.”

Koropo, who oversaw the whole operation from his own [Viewing Screen], from his own seat to the side, said, “A lot of blame for these sorts of things is irrationally laid at the feet of the Cultists of Melemizargo, and the Forest produces a lot of strange monsters... But my gut is telling me that this was a Cult project. Chimeras usually are, and this one managed to live underneath Nosier for a long while.” He added, “The only time that happens is when the Cult is involved.”

Erick didn’t want to argue with the man. The Halls of the Dead and their Queen Daydropper had no known ties to the Cult of Melemizargo. The Flare Couatl was a product of Messalina. Messalina made the Toxic Hydras, too, centuries ago. But he recognized that he lived in Spur, a land where Cultists could not survive at all, and why would they want to? Ar’Kendrithyst was a safe haven for them, just on the horizon.

Erick said, “A lot of people make monsters. If this was a Cult-made monster, then I doubt it would have failed to procreate after all this time. I have a feeling that it was actually a strange cross-pollination event, perhaps involving dragon essence, since that is a melting pot of biology.” He added, “I’m just glad you guys had samples of every possible monster you’ve encountered. I couldn’t have tracked down this chimera without those.”

“I’m surprised those samples worked for you. We keep them around for Scanning people we have in custody for the stranger of the Forest’s infections, but that long range Scan of yours is something else...” Koropo’s gravely voice turned fractionally harder, as he asked, “How did that work, exactly? Never seen that kind of Blood Magic before.”

Erick said, “The less people that know about this right now, the better. I will not answer that question.”

Koropo grumbled something resembling either assent, or resignation. And then he returned to work. With a grab and a flop, he moved a thick folder from the pile beside him, onto the table in front of him, saying, “Moving right along. The next target is…”

Erick listened to Koropo, but he also glanced around the room, watching as more Special Forces put up more police work onto more cork boards, for Erick’s eventual perusal, while a cadre of paper pushers gradually added more and more thick folders to the pile beside Koropo. It was going to be a long day, and Koropo had already said that they likely weren’t getting to the Cultists till tomorrow, and maybe not even then.

Erick suddenly had a question, and he couldn’t wait till Koropo was through with his overview of the next killer, so he interrupted, saying, “Sorry for the interruption, but I just have to ask.”

Koropo looked up at Erick, asking, “Yes?”

“How many violent crimes go unsolved each year?” Erick looked to the stack again, asking, “How many murders per year?” Erick thought again about what he had seen across the city, which was more like 12 different kingdoms all connected over a vast area of land a good forty kilometers across, and that was just for the main Districts under each Arbor. He asked, “How many people live here?”

Koropo seemed to organize his thoughts, then said, “You have to know a few things for me to answer that question. Firstly, there’s about 9 million orcols who call Treehome home at least part of the year, with most of those being nomadic. Maybe 40% permanent, 60% nomadic. Then you gotta know that there are two categories of killers. You got your low-level crimes of passion or unprepared planning. And then you got your high-level premeditated murders.

“The Guards of the Districts take care of all of the first category and we rarely have to step in to help, though when we do, it's a near 95% clear rate. Otherwise, the Guards of those Districts clear low-level murder cases at about an 85% rate. For this last year of 1436, we had about 250 low-level murders of passion inside the Districts of Treehome, and 1500 in the itinerant lands, with the vast majority being low-level problems and quickly solved. We had about 75 high-level murders this year, with most of the culprits being Hunters or terrorists or cultists, though there is quite a bit of overlap with the terrorists and the cultists. We don’t get much of the Quiet War up here, thank the gods.

“As for violent crimes, total, including rape and assault and burglary and such, we had 2500 cases in the Districts, and 18,000 in the itinerant lands, with rape being very low on the list of crimes, but it does happen.” Koropo said, “But you don’t need to worry about all that. The Guardmasters take care of much of that. All we’re having you deal with are the high-level or weird murder cases that are strictly the realm of Special Forces, like the Flower Killer. Special Forces has about a 30 percent clear rate on these dangerous cases, but that number comes with a high mortality rate for our people, and many of them don’t get solved for decades, when the killer dies of old age or just stops killing for whatever reason.

“I’d like to say that what you saw happen with the Flower Killer today was an aberration, but these are the sorts of cases Special Forces deals with, but we’re only mortal. Usually, we know exactly who has done what, but the trouble is finding them, and when we do manage to find them, our people are rarely as prepared as we were today with the Flower Killer. But even that wasn’t enough, as you well saw.” Koropo said, “You’re saving a lot more than just the lives of future victims by helping us today, Archmage Flatt, so thank you for this.”

Erick couldn’t help but compare the violent crime statistics of Treehome to the violent crime statistics of New York City. That was why Erick had asked after Treehome’s statistics, after all. Somehow, New York City’s violent crime numbers, from a should-have-been forgotten internet surf so long ago, had surfaced onto the mindscape of his brain and dominated his focus.

New York City went from something like 2,200 murders per year in the 90s, and half a million assorted violent crimes, to something like 500 murders per year in recent times, and a hundred thousand violent crimes. That place had a population of something like 8 million people in a much smaller space than the widespread Districts and the surrounding land of Treehome. NYC was about half the space of Treehome, actually, and that wasn’t counting much of the rural land further out from the Districts.

Koropo asked, “Is something wrong?”

“… Ah. No. I’m just… I was thinking of a city of comparable size back on Earth. My home planet.” Erick said, “People have told me that Treehome is one of the best places to live on Veird, and I guess I didn’t actually believe them, until now.”

A gentle smile broke across Koropo’s face. He said, “Damn straight. We work hard to keep those numbers that low, and it’s not always easy, but we get the job done.” And then he lost his smile, as he complained, “I don’t mean to disparage others in my own comparable position, but those assholes over in the Greensoil Republic are a shame to the job. I hear that they’re lucky if they get 50% clear rates for violent crimes in some of their major cities. The Kingdoms are not much better, hovering around 60%.” He waved a hand, saying, “And the Sovereign Cities are terrible. Every single one of them is a pile of shit, and the people in charge are shitlords themselves. Never walk those streets if you can help it. Stepping on the mud out there is taking your life in your hands, for sure.”

Erick felt a pang of sorrow, and said, “Yeah. My daughter went there once… I did too. It was… It was awful how they treat their people over there.”

Koropo said, “I heard that they’ve got a major rebellion on their hands. They’re calling themselves ‘Dicers’ and they’re killing every noble they can find, and killing hundreds in the crossfire.” He added, “Their problems are systemic, from top to bottom, from noble to mudslinger.”

Erick went silent, and then he began, “The Shades…”

The room was full of people, moving around, getting ready for more operations, but at Erick’s words, almost all of them paused. Koropo just listened. Erick knew that the Warchief was pumping Erick for information, or maybe he was just an amiable man, but Erick was willing to oblige this much, especially if the ‘Dicers’ were killing hundreds in the crossfire. But just to be sure, he glanced to Poi.

Poi just nodded.

Then Erick turned back to Koropo, and said, “The Shade who called himself the Toymaker created these dice artifacts, about the size of a fist. When I was at the Feast, he bragged about seeding the Sovereign Cities with them. Tania, the former Champion of Melemizargo, wanted to expand that program to the rest of the world. What those dice did was grant someone one step on the path toward an Elemental Body that was best in tune with their nature. This action automatically Matriculates a person, you see.” Erick left the rest unsaid.

Koropo breathed in, deep, then said, “I see. So that’s where they’re all coming from. The current rumors had the Dicers as having some unknown dungeons where they were gathering elemental essence, and then unlocking new people in defiance of the law. But Shade artifacts? I don’t think many people guessed that.” He added, “They probably did, but thinking that the Shades are responsible for all the evil in this world is…” He almost smiled, but he didn’t, as he said, “Well, that thinking is going to have to change an awful lot, isn’t it?”

Erick said, “I gave out a full accounting of all the artifacts I heard about, including those dice. Someone should have heard about those dice by now.” He almost said that he was glad that the Sovereign Cities were imploding in revolution. Couldn’t have happened to a more deserving place. But to hear of collateral damage put a heavy damper on that thought, and Erick said no more on the subject.

Koropo turned back to his paperwork, asking, “Back to the case?”

“Yes. Of course. I’m listening. Thanks for the tangent. I’ll try to keep them to a minimum going forward.”

Koropo nodded, then restarted, saying, “So this woman is a Hunter who...”
