She blinked. Of all the places—Fetohep fiddled with something. A piece of parchment marked with Khelt’s royal emblem, a hand reaching out of the earth. Gold and black stationary.
He was writing a letter. To whom? He finished writing and handed it to a day-servant.
“Address it to one of the trusted Couriers in Invrisil at all speed. Have it teleported, and ensure the Mage’s Guild does not pry.”
He saw Pewerthe staring at the letter. She loved secrets, and she wanted to know who he was sending that to. Izril? Fetohep coughed theatrically into one hand, demanding her attention.
“A small thought to call for experts to this problem, Pewerthe. It may result in little. Let us focus on the task at hand. Yes, New Jecrass. I have pulled back the army to combat the People of God, leaving New Jecrass all but undefended. Given the hostility of Khelt, and the dangers of the Prophet, you must be my eyes and ears there. I have sent for Sand at Sea. Captain Cikroleth will escort you.”
“To New Jecrass? Now? Fetohep, we need to deal with the Prophet, not—”
“I am your king, Pewerthe. Address me as ‘Your Majesty’. I do not have time to argue!”
He thundered at her in a display of anger so rare she took a step back. She hesitated when she realized she should have held her ground—he was already focusing on something else. His head turned, guilty, as he touched a scrying orb.
“Please, Pewerthe. I must know they are well. If [Bandits] are striking them…report back as swiftly as you can. Ah, Archmage Eldavin. I wish to inquire about cleaning spells or these familiars…”
Whether he intended to do it or not, she couldn’t butt into a conversation between him and someone like Archmage Eldavin. Pewerthe stood there, then stormed out of the throne room when a servant touched her sleeve to tell her that Sand at Sea was already across the borders.
This was Khelt as it crumbled. She did not leave because she thought Fetohep was right. Rather…Pewerthe had to talk to the only people who might save it.
 
——
 
Revenants. Citizens of Khelt from prior eons, older than Djinni. In hindsight, Pewerthe hadn’t even spoken much to Captain Cikroleth let alone his crew. She regretted that now, but part of the lack of communication was just…wariness.
No one quite knew how these ancient guardians might stand. Hecrelunn was certainly unpredictable and dangerous. What might the [Captain] of ancient years, who had served under King Dolenm, say if he saw all that was going on?
Might he think Khelt was better served by a new ruler? Perhaps Cikroleth might decide he could be that better ruler?
When the gangplank lowered and the flying ship skimming across the sands parked in the middle of the street outside her potter’s workshop, even regular citizens stopped to stare. But Pewerthe just strode up the gangplank.
“Captain Cikroleth, thank you for taking me aboard. His Majesty—”
“Aye. We sail back to New Jecrass, that ye might inspect it, at full speed. Take her about and get us moving, you undead sea rats!”
The crew leapt to action, and Pewerthe realized they were not all Humans. Some had reptilian skulls, one was definitely a Gnoll, and—she eyed the rotting face and bones more like a mummy on one—
“That’s Shishkel. Stitch-folk. Different rot. Hard to preserve. They’d speak, but they were silent in life and havin’ a voice creeps everyone out in death.”
As if he’d read her mind, Cikroleth pointed, and Pewerthe jumped as Sand at Sea executed a three point turn in the middle of the street. Their ship nearly scraped a building, but the Drake at the wheel was grinning as the landscape rotated around them.
The floorboards were ancient, seeming dusty even if they were clean, and the sand that blew under the ship made Kheltians scatter as it floated over the ground. Ancient weapon batteries, ballistae and enchanted cannons, were notched from battle, and the crew leapt into the rigging or did complicated things with ropes.
A fairytale, even for Khelt. Pewerthe stood on the main deck as Shishkel turned, glowing eyes in a rotted face, and gave her a laconic salute.
“I see. Honored Shishkel, thank you for your undying service. Is he—she—well? Does it tax your crew, Captain Cikroleth?”
He grinned; his face was all bones, and his teeth had silver and gold replacing ivory. He looked like a [Captain], with the iconic hat, an open coat, and crossbow and cutlass at his side.
“Shishkel? Oi, Shishkel, are you feeling male, female, or naught at all today?”
He got a lewd gesture as the undead Stitch-woman held her fingers up to what remained of her mouth, a sagging hole in her face.
“Her, then. As for how it feels—no drink nor pleasures of flesh, just service unto the day we fall in battle or our bones rot. I smell no air, take no joy from the wind in my face…”
Pewerthe saw the Captain pause, then sweep his eyes over the city as they passed the gates. Now the sails caught, and there was a roaring of wind in her face. She shielded her eyes until a barrier spell activated, and then the wind blew, but less harshly, and they flew. And the undead man grinned at her.
“—But my eyes still see this world, and it’s changed enough to set my heart aflutter. I won’t forget that easily. In ten years, twenty, or a hundred if we live that long, aye, we might grow tired. I doubt we’ll live that long. Dolenm told us, his crew that offered to serve, that we’d be taken out scarcely. Not to preserve our frail hearts and minds, mind, but because he knew we’d throw ourselves into death first! Don’t you fear we’re breaking up, Heir of Khelt.”
With a few words, he reassured her more than she could have hoped. The Captain eyed Pewerthe, then made a weird hissing sound.
“Hfweh. Phwee. Kraken’s tits damn it all! Get her a chair!”
She realized he’d been trying to whistle, but lacking lips, he’d tried to make the sound with his ‘voice’. She hid a smile, but it was no use; the crew started roaring with laughter.
Skeletons slapped their ribs, and someone lost a jaw as bones clattered, a chorus of the damned, but Cikroleth just strode across the ship, yanking a chair out from under a snoozing Gnoll. Or one pretending to sleep.
“Captain, I was daydreaming.”
“Nap when you’re alive again, Irg. Say something to the nervous Heir. She might be the last you meet.”
That made Pewerthe’s smile go out, but the Gnoll just stood and lifted a skeletal paw.
“Hallo, Heir of Khelt. I’m Irg, who once cutlassed a [Pirate Lady] in bed, then on the decks of this very ship where I sit. Love of my life—misunderstandings. But for that, I’d have lived a man’s life with family and children and whatnot. I reckon that’s a good introduction if any should be remembered. What d’you do?”
“I’m Potter Pewerthe, Honored Irg. I make…pots. And I lie.”
He tilted his head.
“Standard’s slipping for Heirs of Khelt.”
Captain Cikroleth cuffed the back of his head, but Pewerthe nodded.
“I’m possibly the best…of current Khelt, Honored Irg. Who was the heir in your time? Oh, it’d be—”
He shrugged.
“Some squirt of a girl named Emrist. Dolenm wasn’t the brightest of sorts. Good [Pirate Lord], but he didn’t fancy being the [King of Pirates], and he realized Khelt was getting lawless and untended. So we raided every academy and school across the continents. Damn well stole at least ten thousand boys, girls, even old codgers. Searching for the best minds, you see.”
“As…slaves? Involuntary citizens?”
She grew worried, but another sailor ambled over.
“Nah, volunteers. I’m a Crocodile Beastkin, though you can’t tell because of the lack of skin. Radame—they call me Rad Rema, the [Cook]. You want anything to eat? We’ve got—no, wait, nevermind. It’s all damn dust.”
She grinned at Pewerthe who could absolutely tell from the bone structure. She jerked her thumb at Irg.
“Irg sleeps through everything. All the people we brought volunteered to join Khelt. Who wouldn’t? Dolenm had them fill huge halls and argue policy this, policy that. Emrist was a little shit of a girl who wouldn’t shut up. So smart she wrote laws when she was but eight. Brilliant mind, or so they say. Nothing like Dolenm, and bossy. I tied a rope to her legs and dangled her off the ship’s bow for an hour when she wouldn’t stop mouthing off to me.”
“Probably why she never awoke us and we had to sleep that long.”
Irg put in, and the crew laughed. Pewerthe stood in awe, but only for a moment. Then she smiled wanly.
“I’m not nearly so accomplished. I—only ask because of the situation in Khelt. Captain Cikroleth, you are the only person who remembers the Khelts of old. As we tour New Jecrass, I hoped I could consult with you?”
The Revenant turned from inspecting the wheel one of his people was holding. He glanced over, and the crew fell silent. The [Captain] spoke.
“Ah, judgment upon King Fetohep, is it? Dolenm told us that if ever we woke to a poor ruler, we should do for them what’s best for Khelt. Even if that means doing them in.”
“No, I didn’t mean—I was only asking—”
Cikroleth’s pale gaze didn’t waver as he shook his head.
“If I thought he was craven or a failure, I’d have cut his head from shoulders long ago. He led us to the Meeting of Tribes well. We heard Dolenm himself calling Fetohep’s praises at the last.”
“Aye.”
The crew chorused solemnly, and Pewerthe breathed again. Cikroleth beckoned her over to the chair and put his own feet up on a little table as a second chair was brought. He poured a drink of that undead liquid for her, and him, then lifted a cup.
“Khelt’s just dying is all. No ghosts. These undead don’t think. When first we rose, they were smart enough. Not people, but I could hear a thousand voices through them. Memories. The knowledge of how to swing a hammer from a long-dead [Smith], letting a skeleton repair wood. A [Soldier]’s bravery in their charge. Now they’re dumb, silent. Makes sense it’s all crumbling. Dolenm wouldn’t have been a [Pirate Lord] in his day if he couldn’t raise undead fleets with skeletons crewing them.”
She stared at the ghostly liquid in her cup and swished it around. Cikroleth nudged her with a boot.
“Have a drink.”
“What? It’s for undead—”
“It won’t kill you.”
Hesitantly, she lifted the cup to her lips, and the liquid spilled down like slow-moving, translucent mist the color of dark blue silver into her throat. She tried to swallow it and reflexively coughed and gagged—it had no real substance. But it made her feel…
Cold…
Cikroleth added after a second as Pewerthe turned pale as a sheet.
“Aye, well, that much won’t kill you. Drinking death-magic does that. Not a bad way to go. Reckon it would make things easier, maybe, if you downed the bottle.”
It tasted like long-dried almonds. Pewerthe gasped for air, then stared at him.
“You want me to become a Revenant?”
“Just a thought. Though two rulers of Khelt might not do more than one. But that Fetohep—he’s flailing, isn’t he? Haven’t come back, but even the scrying orb tells me he’s stressed to fraying.”
She eyed the cup and pushed it back. Cikroleth poured himself another drink without a word, and there was his—edge. She breathed, hearing her heart pick up after a few seconds.
“He—he doesn’t know how to handle defeat. He can’t buy the Prophet off, and we’re out of long-ranged spells, and the undead—I was hoping you could help! You’re Khelt’s Revenants!”
Cikroleth nodded. He cast a glance over the ship’s side.
“They’re not the strongest lot. Strange Skills, but I’ve hacked up plenty. Still, it’s one man’s crew versus thousands. Their weapons kill undead well, but if it was just them, we’d try it. Look; we’re passing by one lot now.”
She leapt up and was just in time to see a procession of robed men and women circling one of Khelt’s cities. They were so fast that Sand at Sea was nearly at Khelt’s borders already.
The People of God were besieging a city. Or rather, in the way of their faith, marching around the walls, shouting and chanting, banging drums and playing instruments. Much like the King of Reim had once done…
Only, where Flos Reimarch had once taken a city by sheer charisma and the loyalty of his people, the Prophet’s people only had faith.
And Skills or their Miracles. The walls of the city had holes in them. Even as Pewerthe stared, a huge section of beautiful, decorated wall cracked before the faith of the People of God. She saw no one in the street beyond; the Kheltians were hiding.
But the People of God froze when they saw the giant undead warship coming at them. Irg called out from the railings.
“One broadside, Captain, Heir?”
“Belay that. They’ve got our people as hostages. Mudball.”
Rad Rema handed Cikroleth a literal mudball made of the sand blowing around her and some water she had poured into a cookpot. He flicked it up, then tossed it as Sand at Sea hurtled past the People of God.
The mudball hit one of the leaders, a [Cleric], in the face, and the cry and sight of one of them going over made the crew laugh. Then they were gone, and Cikroleth turned back to Pewerthe. Only she realized he was actually displeased despite his light tone.
“Can’t risk it. That glowing lightball they carry might vaporize the entire damn ship.”
The People of God were not the foes Sand at Sea should be used against. Pewerthe knew that. Fetohep himself had considered going out to battle the Prophet—he was a peerless warrior, but undead-slaying specialists…
“What can you do, Captain? Where do you see yourself if things continue to grow worse?”
He shoved his hands into the pockets of his jacket and stared over the railing.
“Evacuating citizens, Heir, if it comes to a full invasion. Short of that, raiding and running interference on all the fleas soon to come calling. We’d have given that Lord of Roshal good battle if we were here when he attacked. ‘Till the end, that’s what Sand at Sea is for. Dolenm didn’t leave a navy; he didn’t think one was needed. Just a fast ship. That Vizir and Serept’s half-Giants were enough for wars.”
“But both have left Khelt. How could they?”
Pewerthe murmured as she sat on the decks. Cikroleth glanced at her, surprised.
“That Vizir hasn’t said a word to His Majesty? Not like him to ignore Khelt, for all he’s a right bastard.”
“No. And Fetohep has been trying.”
“Hmpf. Prideful. Like as not he just doesn’t want to be ordered around. As for Serept’s giants, Dolenm woke them for us to meet, out of curiosity. They care about Khelt as much as we, but also for half-Giants. He said something to them about safeguarding his people. They might return, but they’re not exactly…fast.”
