“I want Frieke, Death Commander Lanodest, and anyone competent in Khelt reporting to me. They don’t have to be the best. But the second-best [Mage]. Speaking stones to the Quarass, um, the King of Khelt, and access to the armories. Didn’t the Blades of Serept get delivered? And then—”
“Pewerthe. I am speaking. You are not the ruler of Khelt.”
The King of Khelt’s voice thundered over her, and the servants fell to their knees. Pewerthe did not, and she saw Cikroleth giving her the side-flame with one eye. Fetohep’s were pinpoints of rage or alarm, but she faced him head-on.
“I am the Heir of Khelt.”
Gasps from behind her. Fetohep’s head jerked around.
“Day-servants, you are not to repeat this to anyone. Pewerthe, your status—”
“I am needed. I do not fear [Assassins] or corruption, Your Majesty, not now. You need my help—no. Khelt needs me to take authority, and I shall. If you disagree, remove me as your Heir! Otherwise, you will give me all I desire, and I shall help.”
She faced him, a [Potter] in her messy clothing, tired and mortal, and the King of Khelt stared down at Pewerthe. For a moment, outraged. Then…she thought he hid a smile with a hand. But his voice was stern.
“Some of what you desire shall be granted. Capable helpers. Lanodest. Not Adventurer Frieke or Cikroleth. I have need of them. Nor are the Blades of Serept to be used lightly. I shall allow you—”
“Captain Cikroleth, make Sand at Sea ready for a voyage, possibly dangerous. Frieke is my adventurer. You have Alked Fellbow.”
Another silence, and Cikroleth was grinning now. This time, Fetohep grew tangibly angry, she could tell.
“I am being indulgent of your role and status, my Heir Apparent. But I am still ruler of Khelt, am I not?”
Pewerthe’s lips pursed, and he seemed miffed none of his grandeur was working on her. As if she hadn’t stood in his presence for ages. As if he hadn’t trained her for this.
“You are being indulgent, Fetohep. Which is a mistake. I am your Heir.”
“Heir does not mean ruler of Khelt! You are no [Princess]—”
“Yes, but if I shall lead it, why are you coddling me? I am not a child, Fetohep, despite my lack of years! Did Xierca never ask anything of you? If she did not, and you never once spoke back to her or did what you think best, what a waste. Khelt is not stable enough for you to take it all on yourself. You are not in control!”
She shouted at him. Shouted, and they all flinched, the living and even the dead. Like the earth had shaken, and perhaps…Fetohep held out a hand, and Pewerthe realized the ground had trembled.
Was that…her? He sat there, unmoving, and then lifted his hand.
“Go.”
Did he mean to leave his presence or…? But Fetohep was already reaching for a scrying orb, and Pewerthe glanced at Captain Cikroleth. He was chuckling as she spun on her heel.
“Aye, that reminds me of Emrist and Dolenm, sure enough. Where to, Heir Pewerthe?”
She turned and began hurrying for the doors, but snapped at a motionless servant.
“Send word for Frieke to join me as soon as her duties are completed against the Prophet. Captain, you are to head east and find Vizir Hecrelunn and this New Khelt he’s started. Have him return here, or at least deliver the message such that he cannot ignore it. Impress on him what is happening to Khelt.”
“Aye, that’s dangerous enough. And if he makes a fight of it?”
“Then don’t damage your ship or crew beyond necessary. But before that…I want you to reach the Gnoll leaders of each tribe and Herdmistress Geraeri. Bring them here. Geraeri can probably run, but the Gnolls need transport. Um, um—”
They were striding through the palace now, and she felt like she was part of it. The greater undead, mindless though they might be, stood in alcoves and watched her as she passed, and she had no fear of them. Servants followed in her wake, and her heart was beating, but she felt alive. And afraid.
I am not ready for this. Khelt truly needs a better heir. And I shall find one, perhaps. But for now—
She ruled. Her first orders came fast, with uncertainty, but she remembered the teachings of Fetohep. One of which was this.
Never say ‘um’ or ‘ah’, just fall silent. Better to lower your cadence of speech than to impress upon anyone your true thoughts. 
She bit her tongue, and the result was a question after that pause, and the [Potter]’s head turned to meet Cikroleth’s gaze directly.
“Ere you leave Khelt, how likely is it you could kill the Prophet without risking Sand at Sea, Captain Cikroleth?”
His footsteps never wavered, but his head bowed in thought as she threw open some doors and strode inside.
“Hmm. Not great. I heard he was poisoned twice? If the Quarass can’t gut him rightly, he likely gets back up after ordinary killing. I knew Troll Pirates like that. Wouldn’t be an issue, though. We’d drag him behind the ship a hundred miles, but that floating light orb wastes undead like us. It’ll do for the ship. We could broadside him, but he’s in the city with Kheltians about him.”
Unacceptable casualties, in short. And it might not kill the Prophet. Pewerthe exhaled.
“Don’t escalate, then. Gnolls, Centaurs, Hecrelunn. Then get back to New Jecrass unless we have a real war. Can it hold for as long as you’re gone?”
The Revenant snorted as she threw open a chest, and sand billowed around them. She coughed, waved her hand, and spoke.
“Deactivate curse. Cikroleth?”
“We won’t be more than a few days at most to hit the coast and back; like as not less. Whether or not the ornery bastard listens? No [Bandits] are gonna ride in that fast, nor monsters, and if they do, we’ll get them. Armies are different. Organized raids are different.”
“Very good. Last question…”
Pewerthe bent down and lifted a longsword made of blue diamond up, and a bastard sword of brilliant white moonlight. She saw Cikroleth’s eye-flames dart to the chest, and Pewerthe smiled.
“Which color suits me?”
 
——
 
There wasn’t really a good reason for Pewerthe to have a Diamond Sword of Serept. She just wanted one. If it came to a battle, she was not a warrior, and many of Khelt’s woes could not be solved by the tip of the blade, anyways.
But it was very cool. Though the blue sword’s ambient magic was to humidify the air, even draw water out of barren ground—she stopped spraying the ground with water after half an hour of figuring out the effects.
Fetohep was mildly appalled—he kept in communication with her and had already assigned her a number of artifacts, and his voice, when he spoke to her, sounded distinctly pained.
“The Pact of Temius was the blade you took?”
“The blue sword of Serept, yes.”
“The blue—you are not intending to use it on the rioters, surely? Frieke is not here yet. You should avoid them until you have a bodyguard. My officials are trying to quell the violence, but they are outnumbered, Pewerthe.”
“I have it in hand, Fetohep.”
“But if you are harmed—”
Pewerthe stood, surveying the nighttime riot, and she touched the hilt of the Blue Sword of Water as she sighed.
“I will not be. Tell me, Your Majesty. How many riots have you seen?”
“…I assume this is a trick question. Khelt has never suffered a riot. In my mortal days? Unrest, but I do not believe I recall one.”
“Mm. I’ve seen food riots.”
“Ah. Upon the Kheltian scale of 1 to 10, this would b—”
“0.2, I think.”
The Kheltian ‘riot’ was the strangest and saddest thing Pewerthe had ever witnessed. It was true that citizens had taken to the streets over the bugs, the lack of Fetohep’s attention, and other factors. They did not have all the pieces, but they knew something was wrong.
But they rioted like, well, children. Real riots were terrifying. When a crowd formed that would not stop or slow, everyone ran. The Watch, [Mages], even soldiers. They could burn buildings, kill, even by accident or the press of bodies, and the desperation that pushed people to a riot often meant it had no end until the energy had fully been let out.
The Kheltian riot had no violence. It didn’t even have shoving. The people did not storm the palace. They shouted at officials and vented their anger not on each other or the statues of the rulers of Khelt. Instead, they, well…smashed things.
Which was very riot-like, you had to give it to them. Vases were hurled onto the streets, clothing ripped, even burned! Kheltians hit walls, overturned chairs, raised pottery overhead to smash down—
Then realized they were on Cythway, and the street was made of polished half-Elven resin and wood from over ten thousand years ago. Far too important to break anything onto, even if it was enchanted.
So they went to another street. For all their pique, no Kheltian was breaking anything really important.
All the beautiful works of art, the most prestigious buildings, were carefully ignored. Yes, they shouted and screamed and hurled things, but Pewerthe saw several Kheltians behind the ones throwing objects sweeping up some of the broken pieces, admonishing them not to leave too many shards around in case someone got hurt.
Someone had already begun taking broken pieces from the riot and was making a new composite art piece they were labelling ‘The Unhearing King’, which was Fetohep with his hands over his ears.
Pewerthe rubbed at her forehead as several officials turned to her, expecting her to deal with this unprecedented breach of the peace.
“Okay. Riots dealt with.”
She let them vent their anger. They had bigger problems to deal with.
 
——
 
It was funny. Each day felt like the final disaster, the straw that would break the proverbial camel’s back. It was always something unprecedented.
A riot in Khelt. The Prophet in the north. An army from the Empire of Sands on its way. Roshal’s raid.
Each time, Pewerthe’s stomach hurt and she was terrified, but each day, they endured, and the next day felt worse, but by then a new problem had arisen, and the last one felt…not better, but smaller because the pile of issues was growing.
It taxed Fetohep most of all, she was sure. He was restless, and his tone became harried, at least with her. Outwardly, he was presenting that all in Khelt was well, but she knew it was not as she became a true second ruler of Khelt, moving around and putting out fires. It would have weighed on Pewerthe enough that she snapped except for, amazingly, Frieke.
Fetohep of Khelt hadn’t exactly, uh, done his research when it came to hiring Frieke. He’d only run a few background checks to ensure she was of good character and not hiding some terrible trait, but her career as an adventurer or personality he hadn’t truly cared about investigating. So here was what made Frieke the Falcon special:
The worse it got for Khelt, the more cheerful Frieke seemed to be. The more it sucked, the more active and the more effort the Named-rank put in. She even smiled more.
 
——
 
It was rather annoying, actually. Frieke went from lazily meeting Pewerthe at breakfast to rising before dawn, boots on, ready for battle, and on Pewerthe’s doorstep before the [Potter] had swung out of bed. Was she happy?
…Sort of? Frieke had known it was too good to be true. She didn’t like this, but she liked being needed, if that made sense.
“It’s like being in the poop hole. You always wonder if you’re there, and when you don’t know, that’s the concerning part, like exploring a too-easy dungeon. But when the poop starts coming down, well, that’s bad, but at least you know, right?”
Konska and Pewerthe eyed her as she relayed that over a midnight dinner one time. Pewerthe put down her sandwich.
“Is this from personal experience?”
“Oh, sure. Someone’s gotta clean them out, and most big cities have one. When do you want me in the morning, boss?”
Her new duties also dovetailed nicely with her hobby. Though instead of chronicling Khelt in the modern age, more and more, Frieke became convinced she was writing an account of its fall. She had begun writing letters to Satar, though she was obviously not sending them yet. It helped get her thoughts out. She wrote the first one briefly after the first riots had begun in Khelt. Six cities where demonstrations had turned into public anger, then simmered down by morning. She was a bit shaken from her brush with the Prophet’s people, too.
 
Dear Satar Silverfang,
The situation in Khelt has continued deteriorating a week after the Roshal raid, though few people seem to even know it occurred. I cannot quite believe that; an entire city was thrown into terror, and they do talk and move around! It isn’t like His Majesty can order them to pure silence or he’s quarantined them.
The same with the Prophet in the north. Some people are aware, but it isn’t a mass-consciousness of what’s going on. I wonder if it’s some kind of Skill or his spies? Higher-level people seem far more stressed than normal…
The citizens who were nearly taken [Slaves] are shaken, though. Lots of [Thought Healers] called for, and His Majesty sent for the kid who met the Slave Lord. And all of his soldiers. He seems to be gathering anyone capable to him in the palace; the Gnolls and Centaurs have both agreed to help. I think it shook Herdmistress Geraeri out of her funk, and the Gnolls aren’t happy, but we all get it.
Kheltians think the world is ending, but it’s not. Not yet. Even the Prophet is relatively tame. I’ve seen [Bandits] take over a city. No one’s safe, but the Prophet’s people don’t harm anyone not coming at them. They might take your possessions, but they don’t assault people, they just preach, and they haven’t advanced far.
Not enough numbers to hold more than a few cities. But they’re up to something. I’ve tangled with their people, and they’re not that great. Better than your average [Soldier] with their weird Skills, and the high-level ones are unpredictable. Their worst quality is their healing: they get right back up. It makes it easy to go in, break some bones, and get out, but they’re healed within the hour, and I feel like I’m counterlevelling them.
Lots of citizens are fleeing the Prophet’s people, who’re mostly…looting? Again, they’re doing something weird. I captured a few who said their [Prophet] hit a capstone, and they’re performing a ‘sacrament’. Don’t know what that is, and I don’t like it. For now, no one’s trying to kill the other. Khelt has a lot to lose, and the Prophet probably knows open war will get more of his people killed, but between you and me?
