Fetohep would have grimaced with all his face if he were alive, and he remembered that. He coughed again.
“Yes. Titles being what they are—I think it was some kind that enjoyed honey. I resented it greatly. And just so you know, Lanodest…my Level 50 Skill is much the same. It is far, far from extraordinary to behold, hence why I have never used it. It is, in fact, four rather mundane-sounding Skills. My friends laughed for two days and nights straight when I hit Level 50.”
He walked on, too afraid to look behind himself again. That was the man who Khelt needed. No Emrist, no His-Xe. Just a man. Badger of Khelt.
But surely, in this kingdom of his, there was one who would rise. Surely…the King of Khelt went to find Anleth as someone came to call upon him:
The Arbiter Queen of Jecrass.
 
——
 
Anleth avoided Fetohep of Khelt for an entire week such that they were in their third week of visiting Khelt and he was hoping to return home, but his parents wouldn’t hear of it.
“Anleth, why would you want to return home, so close to the border now? His Majesty is so generous!”
Not that they hung out with him long. They felt it took his time, but Fetohep kept popping by their dinners. He wanted Anleth, though he could not say it.
So the boy stuck to his parents and snuck to the city because he could not meet his king. For a week, he evaded Fetohep because…
Because…
Because he had put down the sword when his hands hurt. He hadn’t liked seeing all the blood and cries of pain when Fetohep sparred, and Anleth’s hands grew clammy when he thought of fighting anyone with the sword. He didn’t want to, and he believed His Majesty would be angry for him failing.
When Fetohep finally caught Anleth on the third week, the boy realized that was not true. He was climbing a garden gate—not really to keep intruders in or out because it was the royal palace—and slipping when someone caught him.
“Oh, thank y—”
“Not at all, Anleth. Pray tell me, where do you go on your days off?”
Fetohep of Khelt was rather fast when he wanted to be, and as a former warrior—Anleth stuttered.
“I, um, Your Majesty! I’m sorry I couldn’t train with the blade, but I—just out! I wouldn’t wish to disturb you.”
“Not at all. I have some time for guests such as you, Anleth. It would please me if I could but see your life.”
The boy hesitated, prevaricating.
“I’d love to, Your Majesty! But you might rip your robes if you were to climb, and it’s such a long walk around the g—”
Fetohep jumped and landed lightly on the top of the garden walls. Anleth swallowed his tongue, and the King of Khelt smiled.
“Shall we?”
 
——
 
A boy with no idea what to show his [King] and a king with great expectations walked through Khelt. One tried to escape the other, and it was not hard…
Fetohep’s subjects adored him. Or, they had. Even if today they had lots of issues they wanted to bring up to him, that just meant the usual crowds were three times as large, and Anleth could wiggle away in the press of bodies. No one crushed him, but he’d hurry down one street, and then Fetohep would find him. Sometimes by literally jumping onto a roof from the street, walking across it, and landing in an adjourning street.
He did not run, for it was unseemly and alarming for a [King] to run, but he moved with such erratic power with his ability to leap and somehow sense Anleth that it would have been a merry chase if he were not so terrifying.
Truly, then, he was well-fitting of his class, [Stubborn Son], but Anleth did not know that. What he did know was that all the other children in the city suddenly found him the most captivating, interesting person ever.
“Anleth! Why does His Majesty want you?”
“I don’t know!”
The boy wailed as he ran with other children he had befriended. Khelt could be harsh—socially—for a newcomer. You could be horribly bullied or insulted if you were lacking in class in the capital, or so he’d heard.
But the other children had heard he’d been made a [Slave] of Roshal temporarily, and they were so horrified by his story and awestruck by him being in the palace they only half-bullied him, which was well.
Anleth had dark skin and black hair and naturally black fingernails, some magical quirk of heritage like many had. It meant there were only traces of lighter color in his nails, and his sister had grown up using him like a little doll for painting nails. These days, he only did little triangles or small symbols on his fingertips to hide the white patches.
The other street kids were far more impressive. There was Duskie the Garuda, who was a Street Runner with dispensation to go to other cities because he could fly and who knew many famous people; with his grey-white plumage he was shockingly uncolored, which he claimed—accurately—made him stand out in Khelt’s colorful crowd.
Mrar was a Stitch-girl [Secret Broker] with an actual class, who claimed to have traded with even Wistram and ran in gossip circles, hair all twisted and wild and her secrets bound in little packets in the green braids.
Cregg was a Gnoll from Izril whose parents had moved here. He knew how to hunt and had seen monsters and was thus the most popular, and his fur was as white as you got without being a Doombearer, but marked by black patches as if he were the mountains themselves, hence the name.
And there were others, like Hiblup, the part-Goldfish Drowned Boy, or Mascarre and her gang. They all had different, exciting lives in the city, usually, and it was rare for more than his friends to seek him out. Right now, they were all here running with him.
“Should we turn him in, d’you think?”
Hiblup commented, and Mascarre, a devout loyalist, scowled.
“Can’t. His Majesty just watches Anleth. We already sold him out twice! What does he want, Anleth?”
“I don’t know! I only know I let him down when I didn’t practice sword training!”
Mrar shouted as the others gaped at him with frank disbelief.
“You did what? You were in the palace, and he’s teaching [Soldiers], everyone knows! And you didn’t train? What’s wrong with you?”
Half of the other kids agreed as they pounded down Singsong way—it had a real name, but the paving stones emitted sounds when you stepped on them. Adults hated living here, but the kids always took it as a hangout. The Garuda skimmed next to the others, frowning.
“He’s doing that instead of making sure we don’t have bugs. And there’s a rumor there’s some rabble-rousing foreigner in the north, and no one’s happy.”
“His Majesty knows what he’s doing!”
Another child defended him, and Mrar sniffed.
“My fathers say he’s neglecting his duties.”
“Your fathers rioted! Disgraceful!”
Mascarre went to shove Mrar, showing how violent she was, and Anleth cried out.
“I don’t know what he wants! I just want to go home.”
That was his secret weapon. Tears. For as everyone knew in Koirezune and any city, you could play, even be rough as you wanted, but tears? No, an official would call you out and speak to you, or a skeleton would rise to see if you were well. He’d burst into them on the first day when they teased him too much for being a coward, not knowing about the truth of Roshal’s attack.
Now, the other children eyed each other and came to a swift decision. Cregg threw a paw over Anleth’s shoulders.
“If His Majesty wants to follow, just act like you normally do, Anleth. Where to?”
There was only one place to go, if it were Anleth. He pointed, and they ran, calling out as this became a great game.
“Oh no! His Majesty jumped the houses! How did he do that?”
Slow song notes sounded as he walked towards them, and Anleth ran, chest burning, as he came to the only place he knew, regardless of cities.
 
——
 
Queen Jecaina of Jecrass expected more of a commotion around her when she entered Khelt, but she was almost relieved not to be swarmed by admirers. She’d had them from here to Khelt’s borders, but the kingdom was—off.
“Something is wrong.”
She murmured to her people as she rode into the city, and she knew it in her marrow. First the Jaws, then this Prophet? Fetohep kept insisting all was well and redirecting to her country and father, and while those were problems…
He had not been able to gainsay her entry into Khelt, for he had offered it once, and he had no good excuse for why he was busy. So, she had come, but everywhere Jecaina looked, there were discrepancies.
One of her servants coughed as she rode into the city.
“Has it always been this…dusty, Your Majesty?”
Now that Jecaina noticed…yes, there was a bit of dust marring the pristine streets. She swatted at some flies that had followed her all the way into the city and then stared at the bugs.
Bugs in paradise? The citizens did not look as happy and carefree as usual. In fact, they seemed sullen, upset, and when she dismounted, one of her [Bodyguards] let out such a shout that everyone turned to regard him.
The man had stood on a piece of broken pottery that had gone straight through his leather boots by chance. Shamefaced, he plucked the piece of pottery out, but an official who’d come to meet them was horrified.
“Such a danger on our streets? Your Majesty, excuse us a thousand times! It was due to the unruly citizens from a night ago.”
He glared about at other citizens, who glared back, and Jecaina’s brows lifted higher.
“I have never heard of Khelt’s people being less than utterly content, Official Jordel.”
The man refused to meet her eyes.
“Yes, well, with New Jecrass and so much occurring, Khelt is somewhat—stretched. In time, it will be well.”
“In time? It is dire now, and I have heard at least two other cities are in outrage, just as we are! I thought it was only the capital, but I have written letters to friends and found they are all angry, Jordel! When will His Majesty fix this?”
“The Arbiter Queen is expected at the palace. Excuse me, citizens—”
The man pressed his lips shut and refused to answer, and Jecaina’s instincts prickled worse. Something was very, very wrong. And she figured it out before anyone else did. Perhaps…before even Kheltians did.
“Excuse me, Jordel. Where…are all the skeletons?”
He turned to look at her, and so did the citizen he’d been arguing with, who’d fetched a broom to check for more pottery shards. To Jecaina, it was obvious.
She had visited Khelt before, and there were skeletons everywhere. Hand-carting goods from place to place, escorting someone who needed a hand, sweeping, cleaning, repairing—
She didn’t see more than two on the street, slowly, slowly carrying some goods to an impatient [Shopkeeper] tapping his foot. And she saw a damaged storefront, glass broken in. The glass was cleared, but where was the skeleton team replacing it? Where was the instant paint for a chipped front of a cart?
It was as if her words were magic, because Jordel’s head turned, and she saw his eyes grow round. The citizen sweeping dropped the broom with a clatter.
“I haven’t—I didn’t notice—I haven’t seen one for—skeletons, arise! I need help!”
He called out, and everyone turned to the man, but at the Kheltian’s words…nothing happened. After two minutes of waiting, a single skeleton eventually stepped out from a side-street, glancing around.
It looked towards the citizen and pointed at him as if to say, ‘are you the guy?’ Then it walked over and stood there, and the citizen stared at it. Had it gotten lost on the way here?
The alarm on every person’s face was turning rapidly into something greater. Jecaina bit her lip and was about to say something placating when the most curious thing happened. The citizen began crying out.
“Jordel! This is—this is—you see this? This is madness. What is this?”
He was white-faced, and the official spoke through trembling lips.
“I don’t know. That’s wrong. That’s clearly—”
“You don’t deny it?”
Jordel shook his head.
“Why would I? This is beyond insanity. Now I see it—does His Majesty know? Th-this is calamitous! We must report to him!”
“Surely he knows. Is that…do [Mages] know? We must find someone! Who—”
“The Mage’s Guild? Your Majesty, pardons, but—”
They were treating this like a ten billion alarm bell [Dangersense], and well they might. So were four other citizens who came over and began demanding the skeleton do things. When it was slow—they were wide-eyed. Fearful, and they clearly placed this matter above Jecaina herself.
All normal, correct? Yes. But what was strange was that no less than a dozen paces ahead of her, Jecaina saw a man sitting at a café table sipping some coffee and grimacing at a fly that had flown towards him. He pushed his coffee cup back as it landed on the lip of the cup and continued reading a newspaper imported from overseas.
He was not so focused on the newspaper he was blind to the world. In fact, he glanced at her, clearly intrigued, and began to eye her horses, wondering who she was. But he didn’t react to the raised voices around Jecaina.
As if he didn’t hear them. Nor did the other people in the restaurant or down the street. It was as if they stood in a localized [Silence] spell, Jecaina realized. Or a…
Pot.
Now, why would she think that? She pushed out her hands and aura experimentally and felt like something was…vibrating. She pushed harder, frowning, and there was a cracking feeling—she halted.
What in the world? Before she could make sense of it, someone called out.
“You, sir! Are you deaf? Didn’t you see that?”
The man with the newspaper jumped. He turned around.
“Who, me?”
“Yes, you! Did you not—look at this!”
Instantly, newspaper-man got up with a frown and walked over to the skeleton. When he heard what was going on, he grayed, and he was part of the hubbub. But the waitress didn’t notice…
“Your Majesty, what is this?”
Unsettled, one of her servants whispered to the Arbiter Queen, and she felt a prickle in her stomach.
“I don’t know. We go to the palace for King Fetohep. At once.”
 
——
 
As luck would have it, they found a commotion and saw the King of Khelt leaping a building as they were riding towards the palace. The sight of him pursuing a child as he spoke to his subjects, reassuring, calm, made Jecaina almost feel all was well. But when he froze up and his eye-flames diminished on seeing her, she knew.
“Your Majesty, Fetohep! Greetings, I wished to tender my compliments to Jecrass’ guardian and savior myself.”
She smiled as she bowed, and the crowd was distracted by her. But King Fetohep just stared at her and nodded slowly.
“Jecaina. Queen Jecaina, my apologies. You are well, I trust? Yes, as Jecrass’ protector…all is well in Jecrass, I hope?”
