A sword struck his shield, and they backed up. The men and women he’d hit were lying on the ground, clutching at their wounds, crying out. They were soldiers. Fetohep struck his shield again, and how he roared. Now he saw it.
“Kill me or die!”
 
——
 
Twenty-seven dead. Twenty-nine. They were using Skills. He was not. He grabbed one struggling soldier and held her in place to eat a [Power Strike] from Lanodest. Shoved her forwards. Charged them, backed up.
It was not how he fought; he alternated from drawing them out to the ferocity of charging them and using his armor to take blows, and they had struck him. They had force and weight, and he wagered that they could have killed any number of lower-level [Warriors], even ones at their level.
But not him. And not…he knocked a blade down from Lanodest and locked swords with the man. They were both struggling, slipping, and Lanodest wasn’t smiling like Anleth anymore. He was panting and tried for a ginger headb—
Fetohep’s broke his nose. The man stumbled and cried out, and Fetohep was past him, running through another man, and they were wide-eyed. Stumbling backwards.
Little more than five left. He cut them down even as they bunched together. So fast and effortlessly that Lanodest was dead before he managed to clutch at his nose, and then Fetohep spoke.
“Get up. Try once more. All of you, right now.”
Some were injured, bleeding. They turned to him, and he heard protests.
“I said stand. Kill me.”
They stared at him, and this time, Lanodest raised his blade and attacked Fetohep from the side with a desperate slash. Fetohep beheaded him without even turning.
Forty some stood up, forty some died. Fetohep knew he would have taken several cuts, some bad, taken bruising, his armor been damaged, but he stood there, afterwards, and spoke.
“Find a [Healer] for Lanodest’s nose. For the others.”
He did not glance at them, for now he saw the flaw in it all. Lanodest was panting.
“Your Majesty, is that all that skill and training can do?”
He was trying to smile, as if this were some grand lesson, a demonstration of Fetohep’s peerless mastery. He did not expect the wrath in Fetohep’s gaze as the golden flames blazed.
“No. It is not.”
They all looked at him like children waiting for the right answer, and Fetohep pursed his lips to spit…and then caught himself. He glanced around, then placed his sword in the ground, dropped his shield.
“It is the difference between someone who is trying to kill and those who are not. It is the difference between an unblooded soldier and an adventurer. You have no edge to your blades.”
They didn’t understand. Instantly, half the soldiers chorused that they would refine themselves or asked how to sharpen their swords, as if this wasn’t a metaphor. Fetohep regarded them and thought of…
The Horns of Hammerad.
 
——
 
Yes, they were a good example. Each member of the Horns was a seasoned adventurer, a warrior. He had not witnessed most of their exploits firsthand, but Fetohep had tried to invite them to Khelt. They had been too busy. He wasn’t sure where they were. Hraace? Nerrhavia’s Fallen?
Schemes and plans, but as the King of Khelt mused on the problem, he imagined fighting any of them.
He believed he would win, even now. None were past Level 50, thus he had the level-advantage, and capstones were always powerful. He had more experience, but whilst he might bet on besting them, he would never…want to try it in truth.
Each one was able to kill. If he dueled them in earnest, there would never be a moment he let his guard down. That was the difference between Lanodest and Yvlon.
Not muscle. Not speed, not levels. Just the feeling that if he had her on the ropes, if he broke her nose, she would bite off his ear in return. Well, he had no ears anymore, but the point remained.
“They don’t work hard enough. They have no…drive.”
That was the other part. Yes, his soldiers trained. They went three hours in the open sun until they flopped onto their backs, exhausted. Most excellent, all he truly wanted. He believed they’d given it their all, but do you know what he’d taken for granted and realized hadn’t been done?
“Not one. Not a single one went back to the practice courts after that. None of them trained at night.”
He knew Pisces Jealnet practiced with his rapier, a thousand lunges before bed. Erin Solstice had once complained about it. Adventurers might be indolent, but when they prepared, they put in tremendous effort. His soldiers pushed, then went to take a bath and read a book and visit the plays.
They did not act like each move they learned might save their lives, because they did not think they’d risk their lives. Now he saw it.
The King of Khelt rested his chin on his hand. Trying…
 
——
 
He tried to inspire them two days after that. They were shaken after his ‘death battle’. Five had quit. It told him they had realized what he had. Lanodest had his nose under a bandage; it hadn’t been healed. It hurt, but the fact he had stayed and not asked for a potion gave Fetohep hope.
Like Anleth, the king placed his hopes on the [Death Commander].
“I may have been harsh as I spoke to you, Death Commander, but war steals lives, and I would not have a single one of you enter into it unready, both in training or what it means.”
“Is war coming, Your Majesty? The Prophet is surely going to be removed when more [Mercenaries] come, is he not?”
They will not respond. Why? Fetohep spoke tersely.
“War is always a threat for [Soldiers]. But it occurs to me I am more concerned with…form than true battle. Show me how you would fight, Lanodest. Not with mere sword and shield. Take what men you need. Conduct this as a real battle with all your might. Face me.”
He stood with halberd in hand this time, robes upon his body. He waited as Lanodest swallowed and expected the man to call for a squad if he was wise. First, Lanodest geared up. Enchanted armor, sword and shield. Fetohep nodded at the array that would put the man into Gold-rank by magic alone. But Lanodest did not ask for other soldiers. Instead he hesitated, but remembering the battle made him serious, so he pointed at Fetohep.
“By your leave, Your Majesty, I will treat you like the greatest of foes, life-or-death. Simply tell me to stop—”
“Yes. Please, show me your will, Lanodest.”
The [Death Commander] took a breath, and Fetohep saw his eyes focus. Then Lanodest pointed a finger.
“[Skeleton Company, Arise]! [Rattling Charge]! [Summon Skeleton Archer Squad]! [Good Aim]! Loose!”
—And the King of Khelt felt a jolt of shock as skeletons began rising from the ground! They weren’t the palace’s royal skeletons, just—they rose fast. [Swift Animation]? They were already charging with a great rattling roar, wielding rusted arms and weapons, but archers were rising behind Lanodest. Fetohep stared as an arrow was nocked, loosed.
“Your Majesty! Watch out!”
Anleth screamed as Fetohep did nothing. The Revenant saw an arrow shooting towards one eye socket as four skeletons loosed, and the first charging wave drew within feet of him—
He stepped to the side of the arrows, then reached out and caught one he realized might hit a member of the audience behind him. The [King] rotated once, robes awhirl, and swung his halberd.
The wind rose, and Commander Lanodest threw up his arms to shield his face from the dust. Something hit him in the head and clanged off his helmet.
A skeleton’s head. The boney skull, mouth open in shock, hit the ground and shattered. Lanodest peered up, and the lower torsos of the skeletons collapsed. Fetohep spun his halberd, and arrows clattered down as he blocked them.
“I see.”
“[Axe Skeleton Squad]—”
Lanodest’s mouth was dry, and he used another Skill. Fetohep turned as more skeletons rose. Then he jumped straight towards the Death Commander. And he used the one and only Skill Lanodest had ever seen him use in all their practicing.
[Like a Lion, He Leapt].
All the skeleton archers around Lanodest died, and the warrior saw Fetohep swinging his blade. Panicked, Lanodest shouted.
“[Power Strike]! [Deflection Shield]! [Power—]”
The world spun. Something caught Lanodest before his head hit the ground, but he still passed out. When he woke with a jerk, seeing people standing over him and the King of Khelt complimenting him with words, but leaning heavy on that halberd, Lanodest knew it.
The same as Fetohep.
They were two warriors of vastly different eras. Two different kinds.
Then, the King of Khelt despaired again.
 
——
 
Death Commander Lanodest had seen battle no less than sixteen times when Khelt was fighting Medain and the Claiven Earth. He had personally killed eight foes with rings, wand, or in personal combat—the details were unlisted—and contributed materially to Khelt’s forces with his Skills.
He was an asset. A [Death Commander] that any army who tolerated the undead might readily accept. His Skills could empower and raise dead, and it made him a threat, a strategic asset.
But no army would do anything to have Lanodest. He would not be a Mars or Named-rank adventurer who could move a battlefield. He was one of Khelt’s finest.
He could not save Khelt. Nor did Fetohep think he could teach Lanodest. Both of them knew it.
Like the riots, like Khelt’s innocence when it came to insects, they were just too different. The martial edge that Fetohep had hoped to unearth in his people was not there. It was like trying to make pottery from sand, not clay.
Most of the soldiers seemed to regard this as some game, however intense, or personal training. Lanodest, when he woke up, seemed to realize with a few what this meant, but Fetohep tried to be kind.
“Mastery of the kind I seek is not the one and only answer towards the path of a warrior or soldier. You fight well, Lanodest.”
“Just not at the front, Your Majesty. Were you…I’m…I’ll try to be—”
The man couldn’t finish the sentence and look Fetohep in the eye. The King of Khelt inclined his head.
“I was lucky and fortunate to reach the level where I died. Luck, circumstance, all has as much to do with the greatest warriors surviving as their talents.”
“Yet you were a great warrior, weren’t you, sire?”
Now Lanodest was curious, so Fetohep inspected the halberd.
“Was I? In truth, I regard the Herald of the Forest and her ilk as the finer warriors of the day. I never considered myself on par with the King of Destruction’s Seven for my time. It is not that levels were that much higher…perhaps some. I was merely Fetohep of Khelt.”
Highest-level [Warrior] of the Kingdom of Paradise. Mocked for being a fool who wanted to leave his beautiful homeland. Thirsty, thirsty for sights beyond his gentle Queen’s domain. Confident he would live forever and return, someday…
“I met my end in battle, as I believe you know. That tells you enough: I would not call myself superior in any way.”
“B-but Your Majesty, aren’t you high-level?”
Fetohep’s class and level were not open knowledge, but he was tired and nodded.
“I am over Level 50, yes, Lanodest.”
Now, every eye was fixed on him again. Lanodest stuttered.
“L-Level 50? But we have never seen you use your capstone Skill, Your Majesty! Unless it’s always active?”
Fetohep lifted his weary shoulders.
“No. But why would I use it, Lanodest? It is a warrior’s Skill. Useless to a king ruling over peaceful lands. Best kept as a secret in case of assassins.”
None had tried him in six hundred plus years, which had been mildly disappointing. Lanodest hesitated.
“May I see it?”
Fetohep glanced at him, then shook his head.
“It is not something I believe needs to be shown, Lanodest. It is not…I have erred in my training. I believe your class is the model to aspire to.”
Better to have those who could let skeletons fight for them than warriors with no dangerous teeth. He saw Lanodest’s eyes stray downwards and sighed.
“Perhaps it would be enough if I demonstrated a lesser Skill. I do not speak of my class—I am now a [Revenant King], Lanodest. Khelta’s work changed me, and I am that rarity: an undead who has levels. Not one who can level; but still, an undead with an undead’s class. But I have a subclass, another little-spoken rarity, which contains my original. Not that I am capable of levelling, but would you then guess the nature of my class?”
The others glanced around and then guessed.
“[Halberdier], Your Majesty?”
“[Rider], perhaps? That you are known to be good with…”
“[Mercenary]? No, surely not—”
Lanodest was thinking, and Fetohep saw the man glancing at the halberd and Fetohep’s own style of fighting, which could be rough and direct. The man hesitated.
“I wish to guess that it is some twist, Your Majesty. Perhaps…no, you would not be a [Death Commander] or undead-themed class by any chance?”
Fetohep smiled indulgently and twirled the halberd once, knocking the dust from it. He cast around for Anleth; the boy had been here every day for the first week. Where was…?
“No and yes. My class was themed, but it was themed towards Khelt, not the undead. Where else would it lie? That I knew the use of a weapon well enough, that I could ride, did not make me a specialist.”
He grew embarrassed, then, and hesitated, but there was no hope for it. Lanodest was waiting, and even if the man was not…in his eyes, Fetohep saw loyalty. Trust. So he coughed into one fist and turned.
“A ruler was carved from flawed stone, and in this, I suppose it is a lesson to hope for all present. For I was the least fit, and yet I am proudly King of Khelt. Know, then, that I was simply…”
He hesitated, then began to drift forwards. Walking, and the audience eyed each other. A day-servant whispered to a [Soldier].
“Did you hear what he said?”
She got a shake of the head, and Fetohep walked onwards. The audience held their ground, and he thought he’d gotten away with it until he heard pounding footsteps.
“Your Majesty! Please, may I ask your class?”
Dead gods damnit. He turned his face as Lanodest stood there. Fetohep lifted a single hand for the man’s courage and sighed as he walked on to find Anleth.
“As you know me, Lanodest, I am your king of unchanging paradise. But now, it seems, is a time of change. So remember who I was, my loyal subject, my blade in these troubled times. I was Level 53 when I died. The [Relentless, Unyielding, Stubborn Son of Khelt]. A man whose temper led to his death and that of his boon friends when he should have fled the field. No hero. In life, they called me the Badger of Khelt.”
No scorpion, no snake. Fetohep glanced back at the man, waiting for scorn or for a let-down face, and Lanodest just stood there.
“Badger, Your Majesty?”
