They all promised of course they would, though Anleth personally knew that Cora hadn’t fired more than three arrows when she’d tried to be an archer before slapping her arm with the bowstring and going to get a healing potion and never picking up the bow again. He thought Fetohep understood this, and when the King of Khelt turned his gaze to Anleth, the boy shivered.
For it felt like Fetohep placed his hopes on him.
 
——
 
Death Commander Lanodest was surprised when Anleth appeared behind Fetohep, but he and the entire forty-some [Soldiers] were kneeling the moment the King of Khelt entered the practice courts.
For once, Fetohep was not wearing robes; instead, he had put on armor of all things. It was so surreal everyone stared at him, and he adjusted bracers on one arm.
“Tsk. Rise, Commander, and all present. Armor fits the body poorly in death, but I assure you, I once wore this as a second-skin. I have come to inspect your training and, perhaps, give guidance.”
Lanodest’s heart began to beat faster at this, and he bowed deeply.
“Your Majesty, we would be honored by your instruction. Especially after our failures against the Claiven Earth and the…Prophet.”
They all went silent at this. Fighting nations to the north had been one thing. The undead had done almost all the work and Lanodest, and the other officers had stayed back, using their Skills, fighting rarely. Some of them had died, but it had been exciting, triumphal. Lanodest had survived several clashes by way of his artifacts and enchanted equipment and felt like he was gaining in levels and battle experience each time.
The Prophet had been different. The mortal soldiers had been beaten down, literally in some cases, and stripped of possessions. Defeated by a rabble of strangers and seen the undead break. It felt…fragile, somehow, in Lanodest’s head.
They were Khelt. They should not lose, but they had. And it was his fault as one of the most senior members of Khelt’s military.
He was ashamed, but when Fetohep placed a hand on his shoulder, the man’s head rose. The golden smile warmed his spirits.
“Rise, Lanodest. Centuries divide us, but we are warriors, and there is only one solution to weakness: training. Will. Long have I neglected my own martial heritage. I considered it unseemly for a [King] to spar, but I was a [Warrior] once, who fought as a mercenary before my death. Allow me to appraise your abilities and train you in some small way.”
Everyone knew that Fetohep had been a warrior; it was in his history books, his story they told. But it was one thing to know it, another to see him pull a practice halberd off the racks and swing it effortlessly. The gust of wind made the boy, Anleth, gasp, as Fetohep raised the halberd with a pleased expression.
“My weapon of choice. Though a warrior uses many. I have been reduced to fighting with my bare fists at times. Lanodest, you first, then whomever dares it. Step forwards, and give the boy, Anleth, a practice weapon if he is so inclined. Say I were a great foe of Khelt. Stop me.”
He stood there, and Lanodest hesitated. Someone gave Anleth a little practice sword, which he began swinging with all his might as if to level there and then, and the others watched with palpable excitement.
But Lanodest was suddenly clammy, sweating, unable to advance on the sheer presence of the king who stood at his ease in the courts, halberd pointing at Lanodest, unmoving.
Lanodest was thin and tall, but he had a beanpole’s configuration. He didn’t have the sheer muscle or weight behind the simple shield and sword he raised that other men or women might have. When he mustered his courage to attack, in a practiced series of chops and cuts, Fetohep grunted.
“I see. You have practiced well.”
“Thank you—Your Majesty!”
The blows met the halberd’s haft as Fetohep parried the entire thirty-three blows that Lanodest attacked with. The man tried to change up the combinations, a left-right swing, a stabbing uppercut, all swift blows, but he had the feeling Fetohep could block them in his sleep.
“Movements are adequate. Force…could stand to test one’s guard more. Muscle, perhaps. It might well cut a foe in battle, but not a high-level one. There is no threat in your attacks, Lanodest. You fight like a Golem. Improvisation is the key. Sword and shield.”
He stopped and had a sword and shield given to him. Then he told Lanodest to guard—or even attack if he was confident—and went on the offensive.
To Lanodest’s relief, Fetohep’s blows were light as a feather. He didn’t even move that fast; Lanodest found himself stumbling backwards to laughter and cheers, then blocking, realizing that Fetohep was attacking exactly like the Training Golem in the palace. Perfectly mimicking Lanodest’s own form—no, improved on it!
But since the speed and strength were the same as Lanodest’s, or even a step below, the man found himself parrying and blocking on instinct. Their pace increased until he was slapping down Fetohep’s blade with growing confidence, and the ruler was pleased.
“Excellent. We make for a pretty pair, do we not?”
“Yes…Your Majesty!”
The Revenant’s tone was playful.
“But impressive swordplay does not a good warrior make. No one should aim to duel a foe thusly even half a minute! A warrior kills or aims to wound. I shall go on the offensive. Lanodest, adapt—now.”
This time, he came at Lanodest with the same pattern, a left slash that you could block, but would make the right shield punch forwards; if you dealt with both, the attacker stepped back and slashed up, a retreating blow meant to punish an aggressive counterattack.
Muscle memory had Lanodest letting his shield block the sword blow and keeping his sword clear of the shield strike on his other side. He even managed for a daring counter, a slice at the inside of Fetohep’s guard. He stepped forwards, moving right to punish the sword flick u—
Instead of stepping backwards, Fetohep continued the spin as his shield shot out, and whirled around Lanodest’s side, past his sword. He didn’t do it fast—but at the same even speed he’d been attacking with, he threw out an arm, and Lanodest ducked the tip of the sword with an alarmed shout.
He ran into the shield, which slammed into his face. Not as hard as could be, but he staggered and heard a voice.
“And dodge.”
He saw a sword aimed down at him, to thrust into his face, and threw himself sideways instinctively, forgetting they were dulled. Lanodest rolled to his feet, shaken, and the crowd murmured. Fetohep advanced.
“Improvisation. It is not about speed, nor even skill, but unpredictability. As so—”
He came at Lanodest, chopping down. Lanodest parried the right chop, slashing—the shield came up, knocking his hand upwards.
“Opening.”
Fetohep slashed low under the guard before Lanodest could get his sword down. He stepped back, and this time, Lanodest attacked first. He leapt, a wild slash across Fetohep’s throat.
A block with the shield. The mortal man caught himself, pivoted, throwing his weight into a [Power Slash]!
Fetohep took another step back. The blow missed him, and struck the ground so hard the sword shivered out of Lanodest’s grip. He raised his shield, and Fetohep’s sword glanced off it. Lanodest defended two-handed, and another sword blow glanced off the shield. He could do this! Fetohep was not coming at him fast or strong. Block again—the undead king hooked his shield into Lanodest’s. Lanodest tore his shield free as they tried to jostle—and Fetohep poked him in the armpit with his sword.
“Thusly, a true expert can unnerve even a faster foe. Once, I met an old man who must have been eighty years of age. No Stitch-man; he moved with such frailty half his foes mocked him before they died. The other half tried to spare him. Never before have I been pressed by such a slow foe. This is but one way to advance oneself. You attempt to do so, Lanodest. And the rest of you.”
The Death Commander wasn’t even red with shame; the others were cheering, and the day-servants and even some Kheltians had come to watch with Anleth. All were stunned by this display of mastery.
Of course, Lanodest had been there when Fetohep assailed Medain. From his dancing upon the Jaws’ backs to his peerless strategy in battle, even while puppeting a false body, he had burned himself into the man’s mind as a peerless king. Now, the man tried to copy what he’d been shown.
Fetohep stepped back and watched, then took on another eager soldier. After two hours, he told his exhausted subjects, from Anleth to Lanodest, to rest.
“We shall continue the next morning. Rest, reflect.”
He left the practice courts smiling. The next day, they were all there and practicing even before he turned up, and they went three hours. The fourth day, just as long, and he was pleased, despite bad news on every other front.
Captain Cikroleth returned on the fourth day and informed Fetohep that the message to the Vizir had been delivered, in person.
“The old [Vizir]’s making some kind of new kingdom on the coast. Terrified people, but safe. He’s burned every [Bandit] and [Thief] he can find. He wasn’t pleased to hear your message. He claims he just mana-burned every [Message] you sent. He’ll be here sooner or later, though he promised nothing.”
Better and better. Fetohep went back to training. For the first week, as Pewerthe’s cleaning initiatives worked, his spirits were high.
In the second week, they sank.
 
——
 
Something was wrong. Commander Lanodest attacked with a great fervor, throwing in new cuts and attacks at Fetohep, and the Revenant killed him. The other soldiers advanced, throwing in improvisation, new muscle memory and exertion, the Grimalkin Gymnasium putting muscle onto their frames, and their diets were refined—he had even given them Drathian elixirs to speed their growth.
He killed them.
Not physically. Just light taps, admonishments to move this way, to avoid this habit. He was not a great [Trainer], but Fetohep had been a warrior, as he said. He knew battle. It was arguably his one talent, which was why Xierca’s choice of him had always been…desperate. She had believed Khelt needed a loyal, brave son who knew the outside world, but his ability to fight had been the least valuable thing about him. Far better to have one such who had administrative Skills or magic.
Even now, fighting himself was foolish when he had armies, even if they were mindless skeletons. Alked could do anything Fetohep needed, but the Revenant knew battle.
And he could slaughter the forty-some soldiers and Lanodest with his eyes closed. Even without his Skills. Something was horribly wrong.
During the start of the second week, he called them to stop and face him. When they smiled and raised their blades, Fetohep spoke.
“Treat this like a true battle. I shall move faster. Slightly faster. As fast as Lanodest, perhaps. Aim to kill me. I shall not fall for a blow to my armor, and I shall treat you as if you are also armored. Down me; I shall inform you if you are dead. Step aside if you take a deathblow you know to be true.”
A full sparring session. Forty versus one?
“Shall we come at you in waves, Your Majesty?”
Lanodest asked, grinning fit to burst. Fetohep glanced at Anleth, who had been practicing with a sword, at the servants and Kheltians, and shook his head. The practice court had places to sit, an audience—and the central square was just faded cobblestone in a mosaic of colors. The palace beyond, dark stone corridors. Fetohep stood there in his armor, mismatched pieces, like some tattered [Ghoul Knight] with the eyes of a king. He had only sword and shield.
“No. Come at me all together. Kill me. Please.”
They hesitated—then the first woman rushed him, shouting for her friend to come attack from the other side. He swung his sword through her neck as he pivoted.
“Death.”
Her head did not roll. She just froze, then laughed and bowed. Her friend died just as fast as her spear glanced off his shield and he moved. Sword snaked up and kissed her throat, one of the few weak spots in their armor.
“Death. Fight hard.”
They tried to surround him, then, coming forwards, knowing not to jostle each other. But Fetohep was running. He speared a man through the helmet and heard the gasp before he pulled the blade an inch from the eye.
“Death—”
Knocking them down. A clash of armor. They backed up, apologizing, then tried to swing on him. Blows on his chestplate. He emerged as the tentative strikes grew harder, hitting someone in the throat with his shield.
Not death, just a coughing wheeze. A headbutt and a cry as it drew blood. Fetohep spun, slashed across his face.
“Death.”
They were running to surround him now, and he stepped back. Off the practice courts, into the stands. They blinked and froze, then realized he had not said where he would fight. Kheltians leapt away, laughing.
“Your Majesty, victory!”
Fetohep said nothing. The other soldiers tried to advance into the stands and found the seats an impediment. Fetohep used one of the poles to block blows, watching a spear—he let it glance off a shoulder. Only thrusts here. He lanced three blows into a visor. The soldier sat down.
“I yield! My head is ringing—”
Fetohep stopped a second. Stared down.
“One does not yield in battle.”
A surprised sound. The [Soldier] made to rise, and he kicked her in the face. Stepped forwards and used the scrum of bodies to stab. And now his shield was bashing, slamming into them. Not hard, but hard as a grown man like Lanodest might. Their tentative blows became stronger as pain made them angry, even though he was their [King].
And yet—Fetohep backed up, step by step, then leapt off the bleachers. A few had known to circle around, but he dropped with sword in both hands and killed a halberdier.
“Too close to me. Death.”
He charged four men and women, and they thought to kill him, not thinking he should charge them, but what was armor if not this?
“I am wearing plate! Fight me as if you were trying to kill a [Knight]! Where are your Skills?”
“[Snake C—]”
He hurled an axe into a face and broke a tooth. Another Skill trying to be used; Fetohep rolled, and the [Hook Blow] blow took another soldier down. Friendly fire. He was running again, now into the palace.
“Fight me, soldiers of Khelt.”
Now they were running only to find he had vanished into the place he knew well. They slowed and tried to form squads. Lanodest was staring around when a shadow moved from behind a suit of armor. Fetohep’s sword cleaved through three. And then his voice rose, and the cheering outside stopped.
“I said fight me. What are you doing, sons and daughters of Khelt?”
