Adoive swung around, jumped, and then raised the club. When he saw Harvey behind the old man, he froze.
“Prophet! I—I was just dealing with this group that attacked—”
“Adoive. You are committing a sin before the Lord. Drop your weapon.”
Harvey’s voice was cold. He was tired, and his anger at Khelt burned hottest for Adoive, who had led him here. The man hesitated.
“Prophet, I—”
He might have run as the old man stared at the Prophet, but a voice echoed from behind Harvey.
“There’s the Prophet!”
More of the faithful had come to find him. Harvey turned as some of the new People of God, lower-level, rushed forwards. A pair of attractive young women were pointing and calling out.
“And there’s Adoive! I told you he was stealing women’s underthings and the like!”
The man froze up. Harvey hissed at him as he advanced.
“You lech! You pervert! How dare you!”
“This is my home! I deserve—”
Adoive swung the club at Harvey, not hard, but the Prophet stopped, and the Faithful cried out. They rushed forwards, surrounding Harvey, as Marrieh appeared around the street corner. The old Kheltian man was standing in front of the young people, and Harvey addressed him.
“Take your people and go, sir.”
“Is this what your people do when no one watches them?”
The old man asked, and the Prophet turned his wrathful eyes on Adoive, who backed away as numerous hands reached for the club, voices telling him to drop it.
“God watches us all. And he judges everyone. Just as he judges your king, who has wronged us.”
“This is my home. I have lived here for sixty years without harming a person. Now, your people sweep into this city, and it is you who commit every harm. Say I believe that His Majesty has wronged you. We remain innocent. And if that man acts so without anyone to see him, others surely do.”
“Not among my people.”
Harvey found himself arguing with the old man as the younger Kheltians fled. He saw the faithful gazing at him, and the old Kheltian stared at Harvey.
“Why are you taking our homes if not to hurt us?”
“You have plenty of homes inside Khelt! We come for the King of Khelt! We will take the buildings and finery and build a structure to our God! This is the least of what we could do, so be grateful and go!”
Harvey shouted at the old man, and he flinched. The Prophet caught himself and whispered.
“Ours is a merciful, all-knowing God. You do not know what that means or who he is. But he sees all, knows all. We will answer to him. This man, Adoive, will answer to me on Earth. In Heaven, God.”
He spun to Adoive as Marrieh strode forwards, and a voice spoke.
“This is Chandrar, Prophet. And this is Khelt, a paradise you attacked. If your God told you to do this, then he is a monstrous one. The Quarass of Germina judges you both.”
Harvey was swinging back to the old Kheltian man instinctively, but he hadn’t said a word. It was one of the younger faithful, a dark-skinned young woman from Germina wearing slightly-grimy white robes, who looked up at him. He stared at her.
“The…what?”
She drew a knife. He was still staring at her, wondering why she was bringing up the Quarass, when she drove it through his ribs. And then slashed across his throat.
“Harvey!”
Marrieh screamed as he stumbled, and the faithful shrieked and sprang away as the [Assassin] leapt back. She turned to run, and a flash of light struck her. One of the [Battle Clerics] threw a javelin of light, and she cried out, tumbling.
“Assassins! They’ve killed the Prophet!”
Wails. The Kheltians were running, and Harvey was choking. His throat was burning. Bleeding. Something was eating at his insides.
Poison. Marrieh slammed into him.
“[Greater Heal Wounds]! Get Yirene! Get healers—”
His wounds closed, but the poison was in him, burning, and his skin was mottling as he gasped, and his windpipe closed and—and—
She was laying hands on him as the People of God prayed. Trying to purge the poison from the greatest expert in Chandrar. The Prophet was convulsing on the ground, but that was, in truth, a bad sign for the Quarass’ plans.
He should have already been dead. It seemed the People of God could cure every poison short of Dragonblight venoms. Very vexing, and now their guards would be up.
A woman in white robes watched the commotion around the Prophet, hands over her mouth, as she prepared a report. She stepped back into the alleyway, pretending to be sick, and then sighted a man running.
Adoive. He was making his escape, clutching the club that would make him a dangerous man in Khelt. The second [Assassin] of Ger sighed. This was not part of her mission, but the Quarass liked Khelt. And the man was a lech who had harassed the new faithful as well. So she flicked a hand in a swift motion as she bent to vomit.
The fleeing former-Kheltian stumbled in the distance. He clutched at his back, then began to writhe on the ground. Screaming and voiding his bowels as his insides began to run. He called out for help, then prayed. But everyone was running towards the Prophet. Eventually, he lay there, deflating slowly until he was but skin and bones and a stinking puddle that had been a man too wretched for paradise.
Hmm. Perhaps poison would work after all. The [Assassin] finished vomiting, then went back to pray. Her instructions were also to gain this faith class and to survive her mission. Which would be tricky. She just wondered if killing this Prophet would save Khelt.
If three cities could fall so fast…the Quarass in her wisdom was right. The skeletons were all but useless. She went to kneel beside the Prophet as he was carried to safety. And then she watched the People of God continue their advance, righteous anger burning in their every step.
 
——
 
After a week of fighting, it was clear the People of God would not stop. They advanced into Kheltian settlements and cities, proselytizing, shouting the wrath of their god, ransacking shops, taking valuables from the citizenry—but not killing.
‘Thou shalt not kill’ was one of their big tenets, actually. Though that did not seem to necessarily apply to those who took up arms against them first or the undead.
But they were angry, had faith-based Skills, and there were too many of them. Even after the Arrows of Razzimir, there were just too many for the mortal servants of Khelt to uproot.
The undead had virtually no impact on the People of God. Even aside from the [Light of Faith], each one could but strike a skeleton and turn it into dust.
Power from their Prophet. They stormed cities, shouting at the people that their [King] was a false one, that the end of Khelt had come, and it seemed it.
If anything, the miracle was that the Prophet’s advance was not the talk of Khelt. Somehow, by way of repressing the news from travelling or something—else—other cities were not fully aware of the issue. They knew there were foreigners, but not the scope of the issue.
Not yet. Just as Roshal’s raid on the border city of Millincrete was also kept quiet. But did it matter?
They were protesting again today. Just like yesterday, and it felt like half the city was in the streets. The insects, you see.
“Your Majesty! Your Majesty!”
“Hear us, Your Majesty! Why are you ignoring your people?”
“Expel the outsiders! Our dead belong to us!”
“Your Majesty—”
Pewerthe shut the curtains, but not before the wind blew a reminder of one of Khelt’s woes into the throne room.
A desert moth had found itself in the rich red fabric of Khelt’s curtains. It rubbed its legs together, preparing to lay a brood who would feast on this bounty. The moth took an experimental nibble of the fabric and promptly dented its mandibles; the fabric was enchanted. Bug-proofed.
Pewerthe squashed it anyways. She wiped her fingers on the fabric and reflected that a servant would have to clean the carcass of the bug off. It was no longer ‘fun’ to be a day-servant. They had to actually clean up and take care of tasks, unlike just waiting on Fetohep’s rare orders.
Three people hadn’t even shown up for duty today. Another sign. Signs and signs…as if it weren’t written upon the skies. Even the other nations were figuring it out.
Khelt was weak. Khelt was failing. Khelt could not stop one little [Prophet]. If it could not stop him…Thatalocian was just the first. The richest nation in Chandrar had just shown its belly, and the only thing between them and their many enemies was the illusion they hadn’t lost all their teeth.
All this was so, and yet when she closed the curtains fully and turned, he sat upon his throne, unmoving. She faced him.
“Your M—Fetohep. I have to go make pots in an hour or so. What is happening with the Prophet?”
Her words made the figure’s head rise, and he almost snapped at her. Pots? But she was just as angry at him, and she had thrown a pot at him yesterday, so he replied, strain evident in his voice.
“Death Commander Lanodest has taken all available forces to assist Kheltians fleeing the north. Water, provisions. Their flight has taken a toll but none have died yet. Xe-salas has been evacuated. Emrest’s Sanctuary is in the process…residents are refusing to leave in good order. The advance of this Prophet has—slowed. He appears to be occupying three cities so far. The Sweeper’s Guild of Nerrhavia’s Fallen has declined the bid to send their highest-levelled members to Khelt after deliberation. They refuse to—”
“Forget about the bugs, Fetohep! The Prophet must be stopped!”
He continued speaking doggedly.
“—Fellbow has not been able to get close. All other [Mercenary] companies have declined, including Captain Galbram. I do not know why—perhaps it was the Captain I had hired. Dispensation for her wounded and dead have been paid.”
“And she’s run.”
Pewerthe couldn’t really blame the woman; the People of God had outnumbered and outmatched her forces, and Fetohep had vastly undersold the problem, but Pewerthe was still angry. This was her nation, and their hired help had…
“Our army? Dovive?”
“The remaining soldiers still engage the Prophet’s, but injuries have forced many of Khelt’s soldiers to retreat. A growing number refuse to engage the enemy due to the—torment of battle.”
He meant being injured. They were cared for, and every effort was taken to preserve their lives, but the sheer trauma of pain was winnowing the recruited soldiers. Pewerthe took a huge breath.
“What about Germina?”
“—She has informed me that six attempts have been made on the Prophet’s life. Four were successful in reaching him. Two cases of poison, one arrow, one via dagger. He was healed within moments of each injury. No—the poison did not even take effect. Evacuation of Olepit is almost completed. Ah—a child has lost their doll.”
His golden flames flickered, and she knew, somewhere, a skeleton was going back to locate—
“Fetohep!”
She slammed her hands on the armrests of his throne, and he sat up, looking at her in utter confusion. He was spread out across his kingdom, coordinating skeletons. But that was not what worried her.
His chest was rising and falling. Not with great rapidity, but she stared at him.
“Fetohep, you’re breathing.”
She could hear a faint sucking sound, that of air entering and exiting—but the lungs in the Revenant’s corpse were long-rotted. Yet he was…
He stopped after a second, and she saw his eye-flames dancing, the blazes flickering back and forth. His voice was authoritative after a moment.
“A habit, Pewerthe. I intend to press Dovive for reinforcements presently. I shall double my offer to Galbram. Perhaps if I offered Jaganismet—hostilities against New Jecrass have reached a zenith. I fear for the Gnollish and Centaur peoples. Violence against them is unacceptable. I must address my subjects.”
It won’t do you any good. They were angry. So angry they had begun to shout back at him. Not throw things, not yet, but—
“It’s just damn bugs, Fetohep. Look at me. When have you taken a break?”
“I do not need rest, Pewerthe. I have established control of the situation. Skeletons report that those held by the Prophet are not being harmed, though they are under duress. Adventurer Frieke, liberate that group if you are able—”
He was speaking to Frieke, who was countless miles away. He had not slept while Pewerthe had, and he was doing a hundred things at once while she stood there.
But he was also—she saw his chest rise and begin to fall before he caught himself, again, and she felt a flutter in her chest.
He was panicking.
She had not believed it, but it was the conclusion she had come to. Fetohep was not making rational decisions. He was stretched thin, and she had realized that the undead truly had been vital. Having to manually control them was beyond any one ruler. Without them to do every task and with enemy forces in his lands and his people waking up to Khelt’s issues.
As he realized that Khelt’s situation could not be reversed nor ignored, and that the other nations would find out—any soul in this world was allowed to experience fear, weren’t they?
Panic for a ruler watching his paradise falling to pieces in his lifetime was understandable. Even if she had once believed he was infallible…it was alright.
That was not Pewerthe’s worry. Her worry was this, and it bore from the conversation she had had with Fetohep a while ago.
He had told her that the undead did not change their state of being. They had no glands, no chemicals, no brains, even. They experienced the world on an intellectual level in many ways, even if they could feel emotions.
Which then meant that because there was no physical part of emotions, they could persist in having feelings longer than mortals.
No matter how overwhelming the rage, adrenaline would leave your body in time. Tears could only flow as long as the body had water. Sleep reset emotions, but she had seen Fetohep raging for hours against the Prophet. His anger did not relent.
If this was so, then…let’s assume if you had an undead capable of having a panic attack—
What happened if it just didn’t end? Pewerthe really didn’t like that idea. Nor did she personally know what a panic attack felt like, but Frieke was apparently an expert, and she had claimed Fetohep was showing a lot of the symptoms.
“Your Majesty—”
He was staring at the curtains, and his gaze focused on the scroll that flashed in her hands.
“Pewerthe? I have a task for you of utmost importance. Yes—someone must—servants! Send another [Message] to Vizir Hecrelunn and…Serept’s half-Giants. I forget which—”
Breathing again. She lowered the Scroll of Complete Calm and tucked the spent parchment into her bag of holding.
It doesn’t work on him. She tilted her head.
“Whatever I can do, Fetohep—where am I needed?”
“New Jecrass.”
