Fetohep of Khelt hesitated, but the boy’s eyes were filled with tears, and the only thing he could offer to salve this wound he had created—he, the defender of his people—was honesty.
“…Stressed. I am unworthier than Khelt’s most pitiful insect to take it out upon a child.”
A single admonition from their infallible king. Anleth peeked up, and relief spread over his face, though the hurt was there, and Fetohep rose and tried to make it all well. But he felt it, then. As if it had run through all things.
A crack…like breaking pottery.
 
——
 
As the month passed, many things happened in Khelt. The protests returned until they were almost nightly, and the people learned how to protest. Kheltians came from the north, fleeing the mad Prophet, and the man was in the cities.
“Some Kheltians are even listening to him. He’s building something, Your Majesty. We cannot uproot him.”
That was Alked’s terse report, and apparently, Herdmistress Geraeri had ridden north herself, taken a look at the People of God, and refused to sally on his camps. But they had halted.
 
——
 
Chieftain Lessha of the Satest Fletching tribe leaned on a recurve bow, but she didn’t draw an arrow. She was so relaxed that the [Battle Cleric] and her followers hesitated.
“So you bar our path, and you are citizens of Khelt, but you do not wish violence? You come armed for it.”
“So do you, friends.”
Six Gnolls versus thirty-some faithful. Lessha spoke, voice clear and carrying.
“We know your people have clashed with ours. We are Satest Fletching, a tribe of Izril. Do you know us?”
The [Battle Cleric] lowered a shawl she’d been wearing over her face. It glittered like gold, and she bowed her head awkwardly.
“I am Jilthread Hemp. Formerly of Nerrhavia’s Fallen. Of course we know of you; how could one not? The Meeting of Tribes? We witnessed the treachery of Drakes.”
“It is good you see it that way. Then you know we are recent citizens of Khelt.”
The People of God murmured, and Jilthread nodded slowly, thinking out loud.
“Yes, I see it now. So your sins are not that of Khelt. We would not wish harm against you either, especially as you have introduced yourselves. Forgive us. There is an archer who has shot many arrows at us. Our wounds heal, but the pain will be returned to him in time.”
Lessha glanced around, brows raised.
“I would not wish to injure any of you. I admire Stitch-folk of all kinds from this land, who are a fascination to me—I knew none on Izril. We merely wished to stop you here.”
“From advancing. Did the King of Khelt send you?”
Jilthread moved closer, lowering the spear she held. Her veil, and the spear, seemed to be a strange gold that did not fit her humble attire. Lessha handed her bow to one of the other Gnolls and walked over.
“No, he did not. But I felt it best, yes? To avoid more unrest. I have heard you take things from Kheltians, even homes.”
“We merely answer them for the deaths of our people. Your—no, Khelt’s [King] rained down death on us. Thousands died. Children, the innocent—”
Lessha glanced towards the capital, and she bowed her head.
“This we did not know, no. Will you tell us?”
Jilthread nodded instantly.
“Of course, that you may know the truth and the Word. Come, please, let us stop and break bread. You who are not part of this kingdom may be redeemed, and the hour is soon coming when the Prophet’s sacrament be built.”
Lessha’s ears perked up, and she gestured with a welcoming smile.
“We have brought food just for that purpose. But there is one thing you are slightly wrong in, so I will correct you, yes, Jilthread? Fetohep is my king. For I took him as one when my tribe joined his. So it is our kingdom, and we its people. If you would like to rob us, well, this is my mother’s bow, but I do not wish to fight you.”
She nodded at the bow as a Gnoll brought provisions, and Jilthread hesitated.
“I would not—rob—you, Lessha Satest Fletching. It is only what we do to those who have too much wealth. Not to keep, either! The People of God take it and use it for other things. Clothes, food, supplies…”
“Mm. Some may call that theft, but blood has been shed. There are little niceties between those who fight. I merely stand here because Khelt’s people have been kind to me. I would see you turn back.”
Jilthread hesitated again, but Lessha was already sitting, breaking open some actual bread to add in food. The People of God eyed the food, which was richer and more varied than their plain manna, and Jilthread’s stomach rumbled loudly. She coughed and flushed.
“If you would join us—you would be saved. Let me first tell you of what power I serve, and then you may decide, Lessha.”
“Mm. Yes, I would like to hear it. But if not, will you take my bow or rob us?”
“We will not—we just wish to go past you.”
“And if we refuse to move?”
“…Then we would go around you. Our war is not with you, and I am not blind as some to either the world or the innocent.”
Jilthread glanced at Lessha challengingly. The Gnoll woman smiled and then reached out. She hugged Jilthread with one arm and didn’t let go. The Hemp woman blinked.
“What are you doing?”
“Making it very hard for you to keep going, yes? It seems to me that this is the best way. Let us sit, Jilthread, and be reasonable. And pour a drink.”
“I am on a mission to—I will not be swayed, Chieftain.”
Jilthread tried to get up, but Lessha grinned, and more Gnolls were coming forwards to sit. And it was hard to attack someone sitting if you had what people called a conscience.
“Ah, but you must talk to me first. Tell me your story, Jilthread, and I will take it to my people. It is better delivered, I think, than when one is frightened.”
The Hemp woman hesitated, then the [Battle Cleric] stopped protesting and sat, head bowed.
“…Yes. It is better heard that way. I did not wish to come with sword and gospel in hand. But…”
Her eyes were teary when she glanced up and pointed a finger towards Koirezune.
“…He turned so many of us to ash. So he is either god or monster, and I choose to believe god is loving.”
Lessha sat with a sigh, nodded, and knew other Gnolls were doing the same. She hoped it kept this stalemate and the Prophet from advancing. But she also listened and judged.
“I say to you, Jilthread, sit with me. For beyond me lies Centaurs, and they are quicker to anger. Is there a chance this may come to pass without further strife?”
The woman sniffed and eyed Lessha.
“The Prophet has been attacked six times and our people struck by arrows. No. Judgement is coming, but it need only be for him. The sacrament has been built out of precious metals and stone, just as it was ordained, and the faith gathers in it day by day, drop by drop. Let that be justice. Thy kingdom come, thy will be done, on earth…”
The Gnoll’s fur rose, but she forced herself to sit and listen as they prayed.
 
——
 
Stopped. For a moment. But the bugs were multiplying, and the other nations—no, everyone was noticing.
Trey Atwood came to call in Khelt. And Jecaina and Mrsha, and they all asked variants of the same thing.
 
——
 
The [Chaos Schemer] walked through Khelt, and every step he took was unsettled, eyes wide, as if he were the young man who had emerged from A’ctelios Salash, rattled to his core.
No. Those days had changed him from boy to man, and he had continued to change. Yet he was unsettled as Fetohep had ever known him, and when the [King] rose with a smile, Trey’s shadowed expression made Fetohep hesitate.
“I have to tell His Majesty what I see, Fetohep. What is…is it Roshal? The Blighted Kingdom?”
 
——
 
Queen Jecaina sat at a table laden with a feast, but only for her. She picked at her meal, though, and did not answer his questions. Fetohep spoke, alternating between grandfatherly king and gossiping sage.
“Ah, well, if you care not for discussions of Jecrass at this moment, then what about Pisces Jealnet? I had heard tell of a clandestine rendezvous between the two of you, but that is purely rumor. Did he impress you?”
“He did, but we didn’t have as much time as I wished.”
She murmured, flushing briefly, and Fetohep nodded.
“I had hoped he would visit, but perhaps he shall yet in time. Adventurers go where they will. Did you—truly find any affection for him?”
She flushed, but he was pressing, like an overeager opponent in chess, determined to keep it on her side of things, and Jecaina glanced up.
“Perhaps. Certainly enough to try.”
Fetohep sat back.
“Alas, then. One might have hoped for a moment to test such things. Even if it were purely carnal, but such relations take days; a luxury neither of you had.”
“Well, not a one-night stand.”
“True, but a night would have taken most of his short visit to you.”
For a second, that jerked her out of her pondering. Jecaina narrowed her eyes at Fetohep.
“A—how long do you think it’s supposed to be, Fetohep?”
He hesitated. It had been six hundred years, after all.
“…Half a night, then. Hours, one expects. I do not, personally, recall the passage of time…yes, hours.”
She smiled at him, fondly, as he tried to benchmark some rather embarrassing memories now that he saw less point in than he had at the time, and then Jecaina pushed her plate back.
“Fetohep, what is wrong with Khelt? If it is within my power, I shall help.”
And he froze. Froze, with indecision, and said—
 
——
 
—To the [Princess] who sat there, elegant, composed, aged—
Lyonette du Marquin. She had minced a few more words than Jecaina, but she was still straightforwards. She smiled, no longer a child or even a young woman, but someone who had taken on her own burdens. And she spoke to him as if she wore a crown in truth.
“Your Majesty? Is there anything we might do at The Wandering Inn to aid you? You have been such an inspiration to my daughter and a ceaseless ally to, well, everyone. If we may humbly aid you, please, let us know.”
It was well said. It was politely and deftly delivered, and yet the [King] snapped. For he had heard Trey say it, then Jecaina, and the Quarass in her way, and it was roiling in him. It had been growing like a tempest throughout this month, and so his response was ungauged, again, and made him ashamed, but it spat forth from his belly like Dragonfire itself.
“What could you do, Lyonette du Marquin?”
She paused, sipping from a cup of cocoa.
“I beg your pardon, King Fetohep?”
He sat forwards on his throne, golden eyes glowing.
“What could you do? Say there is some—issue in Khelt.”
His eyes darted to a little moth crawling up one curtain. It died, and his gaze swung back to Lyonette. She flinched only slightly, then straightened her back, and the undead king whispered.
“What aid would The Wandering Inn be to me? Have you an army to send me? Could you even but reach me if I begged for it? If the sky were to fall tomorrow, who would catch it? Ishkr? Better to prevail upon your allies, like Saliss of Lights or Grimalkin the Sinew Magus. No, there is nothing you can do for Khelt. I have known this. Khelt does not give out its riches in expectation of reward. It never has, for it has no equal. I have paid every cost, and when the debt comes to be paid, there will only be Khelt.”
He didn’t realize he was using his aura until he felt her push it back and caught himself. Slowly, Fetohep sat. He was losing control. The [Princess]’ head slowly inclined. But her eyes flashed.
“I realize we are not capable in many ways, but I consider myself an ally of yours, Your Majesty. It may be worth little, in your eyes, but know that I, and all those in the inn, consider it an obligation of honor.”
“It is well said, Lyonette du Marquin. And know that I, too, entered into every act of my accord. But truly…have you some limitless army?”
“We have gold…”
He laughed hollowly.
“The one resource I do not lack. Have you a way to contact Erin—no. Unless you have the means to send her to Khelt, there is no point.”
None at all. He was angry at her. Angry at the inn, but he had done it all of his own volition. It was just that he had not anticipated the costs. He had expected great ones for some deeds, but not…this. Lyonette sat there.
“If there is anything…”
“Unless you can best faith, no. Do you even know what that is?”
She shook her head, eyes alarmed.
“We ran into a being of powerful faith in the…palace. And I know more than most because of my past relationship with Pawn, but I—”
“Wait. You and the Antinium?”
Fetohep held up a hand and sat up, and Lyonette grew extremely discombobulated. She managed an explanation, and Fetohep stared at her. Then he dismissed her, politely as he was able.
She could not send armies. Even if she sent the Order of Solstice, and they would come, it was six [Knights] versus thousands.
But perhaps…Fetohep demanded an update from a ship at sea. He plotted its course along a map, and tried to calculate how much time remained given the uncertain state of the sea travel, and then the subsequent journey they would need to take over land…
Perhaps. But then he clutched at his stomach, where something was gnawing at it. He could not feel pain. He walked towards the windows and spoke.
“Call Adventurer Frieke. Summon Pewerthe. She is in her wretched pottery shop making pots. I need her. Summon Colovt. Summon…”
He stood there, listing names until his voice had no more to name. And it did not fix a thing.
 
——
 
Then a month had passed since the Prophet invaded Khelt. And the King of Khelt sat there and felt sand on his skin. He gazed at his withered flesh and now knew where the [Mercenaries] were.
They were coming. Moving across Chandrar. How many? All of them. So many major companies. But here was the thing: he had not paid a single one of them.
He did not like the conclusion he came to. Pewerthe told him that her sources had picked up on the unrest in Khelt, but that was not how Fetohep felt the walls closing in. It was silly, but it was just…
High King Perric of Medain.
The royal weathervane of the High King liked to talk. He wrote Fetohep constantly. Even after he’d been released from the terms of surrender, he had written. Fetohep tried to ignore him, but perfect memory—he remembered anything he read even if only glanced once. So the man’s voice—which in Fetohep’s head was slightly nasally and whining—read out his endless spiels.
At first, it had been sycophantic and terrified. Then ingratiating, flattering. The man had seemed to be reading into things that did not exist. Searching between the lines of a blank page. And then…?
Fetohep read a selection of [Messages] that almost perfectly showed him what he was searching for; he just skimmed down every sixty-four messages from the start of their history.
 
