—sty of Khelt, I remind you of Khelt’s neutrality in Jecrass’ war. Any action at all to the contrary will be met by myself, and the many allies of Medain as—
 
—all my cities’ gates stand open. The incompetent fools who did not heed the exact terms of your gracious verdict have been punished, and I can personally attest to the disarmament of all forces on the border. I would also add that the Claiven Earth are not to be trusted, but upon my crown I do guarantee, once more, between sovereign [Kings]—
 
—more statues! Once more, I have dedicated the month’s feast in your name, and if you would care to send a citizen of Khelt to represent you (as I know your Eminence is not partial to such gatherings), we would feast them as an equal of mine in your stead! I did write to the Speaker of Trees about his lack of willingness to celebrate our mutual holiday in your honor, but wish you to know that all of Medain’s citiz—
 
—Happy to know that we have managed a quadruple tribute this month as a token of thanks for your largesse! I do hope your subjects enjoyed the Prelons? I note, purely by happenstance, that the people of Germina have enjoyed a rare harvest, which of course is my delight! If you would care for any other tokens of my esteem? It is, as I reflect, the will of kings to be both monster and man, and in that I have postulated—
 
—cessation in tributes, which I understand shall not inconvenience Khelt. I do appreciate your kind words of late, and I trust we shall correspond in due time. I have a war to win, sincerely—
 
And the last message of the list, just below the previous one, was shorter still.
 
Raiders in one’s lands is a terrible matter. Happily, my forces threw off the Prophet once. If Khelt were so generous, we might consider taking the matter on. I shall inquire about armies with my generals at my next council of war. I do hope to see you soon to tender all my gratitudes.
—Perric.
 
Fetohep stared at the [Message] for a long, long moment. Then he tried to calculate if King Raelt…no, he was operating a raiding force. Then Germina? Germina wasn’t even a full third of Medain’s…
“…Don’t know. Not yet. Images, optics. Where’s the ship? Insects.”
It always came down to insects. It wasn’t the Prophet. Damn the Prophet. It was the insects and the stupid citizens who yammered to everyone and complained and had [Message] spells. They never should have been allowed it.
“They should be grateful for everything. Instead, they whine. And when they do not whine, they fall into vices as they did in other ages. Gambling—!”
He raised a fist as he stalked around his throne room. Lowered it as he saw a boy’s downcast face.
“Gambling. It is not their fault.”
He cast around, and the walls of the throne room were closing in. Was that wind that he heard? The blowing sands…
Dirty. The throne room was dirty. The day-servants weren’t cleaning well. The wind that blew in blew a few moth corpses and some dust around. Fetohep began to clap his hands, outraged, but then he knew…
The skeletons did it all. They had always been the truest servants. If he could only hire some [Cleaners]…! But no one would come when there was the Prophet at the door.
Fix the bugs. Deal with the Prophet.
Allies. But the city of Dovive had pulled their forces back, and the twenty-remaining men and women had knelt and apologized to him.
How dare they be so incompetent—
Lashivet was dead. He had come here and died for a kingdom he had never known. Fetohep’s rage turned to guilt, and he looked around. Not with the eyes of a mortal man, but that of a [King].
He sat on a cracked throne, searching for light. An [Innkeeper]’s warm fire, but what could he do with it? It was so distant, and her garden was too small.
Allies. Like the links of aged metal that built the throne of Reim. Newly-made, fragile, but secured by a hundred thousand links worn in war. For all the ones that had fallen away, some had anchored, stronger than Adamantium.
But him?
Fetohep threw back his head, and there was a cry rising in his chest. No, something else. Something to express these terrible emotions.
In a way, he was his people’s king. Lanodest, the [Death Commander] of decent capabilities, who had a garden and a single Sireen’s Lily he kept in a box. Anleth, the boy gambler. Pewerthe the Potter, and every other soul in Khelt.
For even he, the Badger of Khelt, had grown up in paradise. Fetohep gave voice to that surging chaos in his heart, the discordance in his mind.
He walked into the center of the throne room, and his robes left a temporary swath of clean tiles as they picked up dust and insect carcasses. They swept the detritus as he turned, and he spread his arms, throwing open the curtains.
Angry lights from below. Chanting. A fading blood-red sky, and in the distance, a bright glow of faith. Fetohep’s golden gaze dimmed. His voice rose. And he felt that golden throne cracking. The wind was blowing.
 
“Falling thrones litter like waystones
Progress, recession, a monarch dies alone
I have watched each crown fall like glass
Never once did I move though they asked.”
 
His head turned, and the golden flames died, leaving only a dead man’s sockets.
 
“Now comes my moment, and I…”
 
His hands clenched into fists, and he reached for a weapon he didn’t bear, his voice rising until the palace trembled.
 
“I would burn a dozen nations to see mine live
Another decade!
This I have done now my debts incurred have 
Come bearing fell harvests.”
 
Then he glanced around, alone. Stepped back and gazed at the dust. Fetohep rested his hands on the balcony.
 
“Eternal Khelt calls for aid.
Salvation was spent to the world’s doom dissuade
One deed in the service of the world spurned
Now no ally as necrocracy burns
If I must watch it crumble and turn all asunder…”
 
His head tilted upwards, and he gazed directly into the sun. The King of Khelt let go of the balcony, and it cracked slightly as his grip released. A chip of stone joined the messy throne room’s floor. The King of Khelt breathed.
 
“…my pride must die.”
 
——
 
Fetohep’s Lament, written by Fetohep, performed by Fetohep. Accompanied with a string quartet and maybe one of those new pianos. Throw in a decent snare drum and you had a passable song from Khelt’s own ruler.
Applause.
Fetohep of Khelt stood in his throne room, not even registering the actual dry clapping of hands for a few seconds. Then the crimson orbs of the floating Revenant rolled upwards.
“[Chain Lightning].”
Vizir Hecrelunn stopped applauding and pointed a finger. The pathetic ruler almost dodged it, but he wasn’t even an adequate warrior; the explosion was of one of his personal magical shields, but it still tossed him across the room.
Vizir Hecrelunn flew into the throne room, hands tucked behind his back as he watched Fetohep roll into a wall.
“This is precisely why Khelt is failing. A monarch does not burst into song like some magical rabbit. If you were a tenth as worthy as any other ruler of Khelt, you would not be failing. What is this? Dust? In the throne room?”
His eyes focused on the floor as Fetohep whirled up, about to trigger defensive spells.
“Hecrelunn! You dare—”
The Revenant floated towards Fetohep and stared down at the King of Khelt.
“The Vizir has returned, at your request, or should the Vizir say, that of the ‘Heir’, ‘Your Majesty’.”
Little red quotation marks flared above him and the words transcribing themselves over his head. Hecrelunn continued.
“This Vizir did not credit it, the very same ruler who demanded so much of Khelt’s Revenants, begging for support? What is the Vizir told about Roshal raiding Khelt? Is this so?”
“Hecrelunn, I am grateful you have returned. I bid you sit, and in this dark time, I shall tell you—”
Fetohep was relieved the [Vizir] had finally come. One last hope—but he was reminded almost instantly of why he hadn’t wanted Hecrelunn, even now. The man just didn’t listen.
“The Vizir Hecrelunn condescends to this meeting, Fetohep of Khelt. Eugh. This is a filthy…[Mass Cleanse]!”
He inspected the floor as all the dirt and filth vanished, then ran a finger across the curtains. Seemingly not satisfied, he snapped his fingers.
“[Summon Dark Familiars]. [Chodlekith’s Obsessive Cleaning Cloth]. Do a circuit of the palace.”
Sixty-plus black imps spawned around him and seized glowing, too-bright cloths and began scrubbing at the curtains and floor. They grew cleaner than [Cleanse], somehow. As if a subtle varnish were being applied even to the cloth.
“Vizir, I am grateful. If you could cast that magic en-masse—”
A finger poked Fetohep in the chest. And the crimson light of Vizir’s eyes drew down as his voice rose.
“The Vizir asked you a question. Did Roshal attack Khelt?”
“Yes, and—”
Ostentatiously, Hecrelunn produced another cleaning cloth and swabbed at his earholes, then his eye sockets. Then he leaned forwards and spoke.
“I see. Then why can it still be located on a map?”
The Vizir sometimes forgot to speak in the third person. And he was bold, even for a super-spellcaster-ruler-warrior hybrid within slapping distance.
Fetohep was so tempted…but he needed Hecrelunn’s help. So he controlled himself.
“Vizir, subjects of Khelt were taken hostage. We were threatened with mutual destruction, and Khelt’s armory of long-ranged spells is not infinite. It is, in fact, reduced—”
“Ah. So you have come to the Vizir to wrap you in swaddling and tell you what to do. Very well. [Hecrelunn’s Infantile Swaddling Cloth].”
Hecrelunn tossed a blanket over Fetohep, who tore it off his head. Hecrelunn was gone. The Vizir was floating to his left and made tiny little figurines out of red magic. One looked like Fetohep if he had a pronounced overbite and a very small head.
“What one does is first assure the safety of one’s citizens. With skeletons. A captive is taken? Skeletons.”
He demonstrated, raising skeletons and surrounding a frightened person with a knife held to their throat.
“One does not negotiate. Then, one tortures each invader and broadcasts their screams over scrying orbs the world over. Then, one sends a million skeletons and drowns Roshal in blood. This is what the Vizir refers to as a ‘three-step plan’. You may require shortening to two steps, but—”
“Hecrelunn. Khelta’s skeletons have lost their ghosts.”
The Vizir paused. Then he floated upside down. He floated back the right way up, but then Fetohep felt the world rotating. Antigravity—he snapped.
“Vizir! This is not a joking matter!”
He dropped to the floor, and the Vizir stood there.
“The Vizir Hecrelunn is merely wondering if the world is tilted. For, certainly, he cannot have heard himself correctly. Implying Khelta’s undead are imperfect—”
Fetohep was tired, suddenly. He began to walk towards his throne.
“You saw the ghosts dying, Vizir. You saw Khelta d—”
“I saw no such thing.”
Hands seized him and lifted him up. The [Vizir]’s voice blazed.
“Whatever incompetence has led to present issues, I have come back to rectify. You will—”
Fetohep seized the hands and broke Hecrelunn’s grip on him. That surprised the [Vizir], and Fetohep grabbed the other man’s robes. There was a moment when Hecrelunn blurred, chopping for Fetohep’s hand, making to throw him—they pivoted as Fetohep put a foot on Hecrelunn’s knee, spinning in the air—-
They were rotating at such speed that both caught only a single frame of the doors opening as they made fists.
“Your Majesty? Did you call for a servant? There are little, floating, magic-things in the palace.”
A day-servant opened the doors to the throneroom a crack. He peered inside, and King Fetohep of Khelt was lounging on his throne. The Vizir Hecrelunn was standing at the balcony, staring outside.
All perfect propriety. Fetohep lifted a hand.
“I have a guest. The familiars are but there to clean. I am not to be disturbed.”
The servant bowed hurriedly and closed the door. Fetohep waited a beat, then Hecrelunn and he were striding towards each other.
“What do you mean the undead are without ghosts?”
“I mean exactly what I say. They are no longer capable of cleaning, serving, fighting—surely you knew this! I have been reaching out to you for weeks! And there is a Prophet to the north who can erase undead!”
Hecrelunn’s eyes-lights flickered as he stepped back and stared around.
“Ridiculous. Khelta was a peerless [Necromancer]. She…no. There was a vault. All of them? I saw the Jaws attacking and assumed…there are other undead. That damn ship’s captain.”
“One ship!”
“The half-Giants.”
“They’ve vanished!”
“They’ve what? They’re shirking their duty?”
Hecrelunn was outraged, suggesting that hypocrisy was one of the few words he didn’t know. He stroked his chin, then spun.
“—And you let another nation raid you and didn’t blast them to pieces? Have you not heard of a façade, you incompetent—”
“We are out of failsafe spells, Hecrelunn! There are no more bombardment spells left in Khelt!”
Fetohep screamed in Hecrelunn’s face, at the idiotic Revenant saying all the things Fetohep had been saying this entire time, and the [Vizir] recoiled. A long silence fell, and the throne room doors opened.
Closed. At last, Hecrelunn spoke in a far, far quieter tone.
“…None? Not one? You cannot have spent them all.”
“I struck the Blighted Kingdom after the Winter’s Solstice. And then there was the palace. If I had any spells left to strike the Goblin King or that Titan…there are no more long-ranged spells that can leave Khelt’s borders. All that is left are the Arrows of Razzimir. They regenerate. Slowly. One per month.”
“You—you don’t even have a single Tier 7 spell? You wasted them on other peoples? The last resort of a kingdom?”
Hecrelunn’s horror was turning back into rage, his default mode. Fetohep sat back on his throne.
“It was for Erin Solstice. Khelta asked me to protect her.”
“One woman. One woman whose name I have grown sick of remembering—these skeletons. I have to see them. I know something of [Necromancy]. If it is just their binding…”
“It is not.”
Hecrelunn ignored him.
“When I—the Vizir—take notes from a magicless successor—arise a legion of Khelt’s faithful!”
He flew out onto the balcony, and Fetohep sat there. He had the grim satisfaction of hearing cursing from the balcony after a few minutes, and he spent that time telling servants not to interrupt and letting Pewerthe know Hecrelunn had arrived.
Surely this would solve things. Surely…but he remembered his composition. One man, even Hecrelunn. Could he really solve—?
The [Vizir] coughed, and Fetohep peered up. Hecrelunn floated in the air, staring past Fetohep. He spoke very rigidly.
