“It appears that you are correct. There is a…lacking in Khelta’s enchantments. Due to these Seamwalker-adjacent threats. Inform me without delay. What issues is Khelt experiencing?”
“An undead-slaying Prophet and an entire people of thousands armed with anti-undead Skills of unknown potency to the north. The threat of other armies and growing knowledge of Khelt’s weakness. Insects, along with a lack of skeletons providing sufficient expertise to take care of the cities.”
Fetohep ticked off the issues on his fingers, these being the three biggest. Hecrelunn nodded to himself.
“[Disintegration]. [Meteor Storm]. And…[Slaves] for cleaning. Or Djinni, if enough can be taken. Merreid is likely too powerful to sack, still.”
Fetohep sat up in outrage instantly.
“Hecrelunn! [Slaves] shall never be part of Khelt, and you cannot presume to best multiple armies by yourself!”
The [Vizir] sneered at him.
“Now that does sound like one of Khelta’s successors. A pathetic king summons me and dares to put conditions on the nature of my aid? I have been raising and governing an entire nation far more vast than Khelt while you have been practicing idleatry!”
That was it. Fetohep rose, furious again, and pointed above the Vizir’s head.
“I have striven to keep Khelt’s reputation from sliding while you abandoned your position, because you feared, what? That I would use you and put constraints on your powers? You serve, Little Brother-King. Second, ‘idleatry’ is not a word. Thirdly—why is everything you say appearing over your head?”
He pointed at the floating subtitles, and the [Vizir]’s eye-lights swivelled upwards, and he cursed.
“Nekhret’s six breasts—has that been on the entire time? Dismiss!”
He waved a hand, sighing.
“Do not concern yourself with that. It is merely a way for those of deficient hearing to know what is being said. A defect not corrected in lesser kingdoms. As for the rest—I am the Vizir Hecrelunn. Whatever I term a word and use in acceptable parlance and context is therefore understandable by anyone of sufficient intellect.”
He poked Fetohep in the chest. Then poked him again.
“Second, you have come to me for aid. Your kingdom has been botched, ill-managed, by Khelt’s most incompetent ruler. If you wish for the Vizir Hecrelunn’s aid, do not presume to lecture me, King Fetohep. Beg for it.”
“I have summoned you to safeguard Khelt!”
Fetohep shouted, and the Vizir turned his head.
“And I have built a second Khelt. Or did you think Khelta’s compassion extended only to her subjects? You rulers. She formed Khelt out of generosity for the worthless, mewling peons who flocked to her. You call it a kingdom with a people of Khelt. I have never known them. She would care for random [Beggars] or cats and induct them into her kingdom with the same validity as your pampered rats. More, since one has known only hardship.”
Khelta did that? Fetohep hesitated, because he had not actually ever thought to ask where the original people of Khelt had come from. He spoke quickly, worried now.
“I do not intend to take you from this second kingdom if necessary. But I require your magics, Vizir.”
“To do what, sweep a kingdom clear?”
“To—aid against the Prophet without endangering yourself. Or at least safeguard against other nations. Having you present will be a boon, but I do ask it of you, Vizir. Humbly.”
The other Revenant floated to the balcony. He seemed to be in good spirits despite his dismay, because he knew he had Fetohep desperate.
“Hmm. Should I, I mean, the Vizir give aid? My loyalty is to Khelt, not you. It may be easier to secure the citizens of Khelt to my new domain, or wait until the citizens demand your head. This new ‘Heir’ seems far more practical than you. Perhaps I should devote some magics to this. If I were motivated by pleas.”
He laughed hugely, then turned to look at Fetohep. And the Ruler of Khelt sat on his throne, and he was tired.
But magic of the old days floated in front of him, and the Vizir’s crimson eyes winked with amusement.
“I shall offer you a deal, Fetohep of Khelt, and it is simple and munificent: kneel. Kneel to me and grovel. Press your head upon the floor and tell me that you cannot save Khelt without I, the Vizir Hecrelunn. We both know it is truth. Do this and I shall render to you my aid unceasing.”
He chuckled again, and Fetohep sat there as the Vizir waited for the rage of kings. The pride to almost match his own.
He did not know, you see, how Khelt truly was. Or the month that had passed, or months before that. So he expected a fight. Even violence, and was readying spells when Fetohep rose from the throne.
“Aha. So it seems I must teach you a lesson, just like that fool Tkayl—”
The Vizir saw Fetohep remove his crown that Khelta had once worn, that no one deserved but her, and tensed with anticipation. Then he saw Fetohep’s robes shift as he lowered onto one knee.
Leaping attack. [Haste].
The Vizir moved into overdrive, wishing he had [Greater Haste], which would make fights so easy, and he saw the King of Khelt’s head bow. Then his entire body lower past the position of someone crouching, and the motion was wrong. And then Hecrelunn realized Fetohep’s head was…
The crimson eyes narrowed to pinpoints, then Hecrelunn swung around. He turned to the balconies, and the half-open drapes snapped shut. A rune of sealing appeared on the double doors, and he floated there.
“What are you doing?”
“Hecrelunn.”
“Are you a fool?”
The [Vizir] snapped, and the figure lying on the floor spoke.
“Hecrelunn. I have tried to hold it together. I have done it with pride and ego, and it is crumbling. Save it, I beg—”
The [Vizir] pointed and fired a spell from his finger, blind. Fetohep popped back onto his throne, and the Vizir spun.
“You are a wretch and a coward. No fit Ruler of Khelt bows their head.”
“Yes. This is likely so. Hecrelunn…it’s breaking. I implore you.”
The weary King of Khelt sat there, and the Vizir Hecrelunn hesitated. He folded his arms. Uncrossed them.
“If I do this thing, it is for Khelta, not you. And there are limits to even this Vizir’s magic. But if only to—it cannot be this dire. I flew over cities and saw mere tantrums. Crying children can be spanked and then their woes fixed. Mass-cleanse spells and hiring servants. All that need be done is kill this Prophet.”
“He is up to something.”
Fetohep felt like a man clinging to the last scraps of grass. His head rose as Hecrelunn nodded, speaking more calmly.
“Yes, yes. I will gauge his strength. Even if he can slay undead—”
“He is dangerous, Vizir. His power is faith. An unknown. The same faith that killed Khelta.”
Hecrelunn paused, and his eye-lights shone brighter.
“Then I will slaughter him twice as readily. Have you trusted servants? Sand at Sea…no, mortals. I shall do this. You will sit and regain some dignity. Now, I require a meeting with this Heir. I require more understanding of which armies are coming and which ones to make an example of. Let us conduct a thorough list.”
He snapped his fingers, and a floating scroll appeared. Fetohep began to nod and sat up slightly. Hecrelunn made an exhaling sound.
“Strange, though. I feel as though I were but a mere [Bandit] again, in parables. Is there some kind of…Skill affecting this kingdom? Not yours. I know you are a simple warrior.”
“What Skill?”
Fetohep paused, and Hecrelunn cast about. He felt at the back of his neck.
“It does not affect me, but I flew through…it must have been thousands. It’s one of those stories that was common even when I was alive and mortal. You know, the one about the [Thieves] and pots? Yes, that’s it. Pots.”
…Pots?
King Fetohep of Khelt didn’t understand. Then he saw, in his mind’s eye, Pewerthe at her potter’s wheel, and he remembered her class.
The silver-tongued [Potter of Secrets] who had once turned a famous [Bandit] group against each other by manipulating them. Getting them to do silly things like speak into a pot which she buried in the ground.
Pots. What kind of power came from [Potters], anyways? It was surely as nonsensical as that of an…
[Innkeeper].
What happened if you hit high levels as a [Potter]? What could a pot contain? Liquids, objects? Act like a bag of holding? Something more? Could you put a secret in a pot if you were high-level enough?
But could you hide a kingdom’s secrets in one? No, not without a vast pot. But what about small ones for small conclusions? If it was just keeping someone from connecting the dots…
How many pots would that take? The King of Khelt remembered seeing mud under Pewerthe’s nails, her fingers run ragged, and he had snapped at her for wasting time. A hobby.
A hobby like gambling. He saw the Vizir casting about and spoke.
“Pewerthe.”
“What kind of stupid name is that? Is that the Heir’s name? I—”
Crack.
Both Revenants heard the soft sound in the night. Sleeping citizens in the capital heard it.
 
——
 
The Prophet heard it in his headquarters.
 
——
 
Farmer Colovt heard it in his farms from one of the unused fields.
 
——
 
Pewerthe heard it as she spun clay into a new pot with bleeding fingers and peered up.
“No. No, nonono. Not yet. Please, just a while longer! Just a—”
The second cracking sound wasn’t audible by ear, but it ran through the marrow. A crack in reality itself. Like something breaking.
The [Potter] was running outside to her messy backyard with her upturned soil. She was digging with a shovel, shouting for Frieke, for help—but it was too late. When she unearthed the first pot, buried and tightly sealed, she saw the crack running down the face of it. Then, on another, the same crack. She was trying to hold it together, and then…
The pots cracked open. Pewerthe was flung backwards and cried out once before she struck the walls of her house. She felt pain, heard a snapping sound, and then heard it.
Voices.
“—attack by Roshal! [Slavers] in Eternal Khelt!”
“A Prophet of God! Robbed on the open road! What is His Majesty doing…”
“—saw them falling to bits before my eyes!”
“—[Mercenaries] running. What of the army?”
A chorus of voices, a babble of silenced truths. Rumors and secrets. Pewerthe reached up blindly.
“No…”
They were growing louder. That was the secret of pots. You could put anything you wanted in them, but nothing lasted forever, and she had held onto them as long as…
Louder. As citizens of Khelt woke up in a blind panic. Spies and gossipmongers put together pieces of a web that became a single, damning conclusion instantly. And upon their thrones…
 
——
 
King Perric of Medain sat up in his war-room meeting as a nebulous idea became, suddenly, obvious. His eyes blazed with fury.
 
——
 
The Empress of Sands smiled bleakly on her throne.
“Call for [General of Sands] Izzec now.”
 
——
 
Queen Jecaina of Jecrass sat for a moment and wiped at her eyes. But before the [Royal Spymaster] was running into the throne room, she was already there, calling for her father.
 
——
 
King Fetohep of Khelt stood in his throne room and spoke as Vizir Hecrelunn reached for the strands of truth flowing past them.
“Those damned—they’re finding out! Those wretched citizens! Was that why I didn’t hear anything from my spies? This…who did this?”
“My glorious [Potter].”
Cracking. He could still hear it, but not from Pewerthe’s lovely pots. It was coming from behind him. Fetohep stood, and Hecrelunn’s voice was urgent.
“This Prophet must be taken care of. Show of force. What they believe is not the truth we present, even with this. We work together now, Fetohep. Fetohep?”
He turned, and the King of Khelt was resting a silent hand on the throne. He glanced up.
“Shh.”
“What? No ‘shh’. What are you doing?”
Fetohep glanced at the Vizir, amused, for he could hear it, and any ruler could except the self-absorbed man.
“Can’t you hear it? It’s breaking. This is my duty, Hecrelunn. My responsibility. My fault. I’m sorry, Khelt.”
Hecrelunn was opening his mouth to retort, angry, when the golden flames in Fetohep’s eyes winked out. The undead king sagged, and the Vizir caught him. He shook Fetohep, and then—
 
——
 
Frieke had to use a potion on Pewerthe, who’d broken a leg. But there was no time for a [Healer]’s. Pewerthe received the summons from her speaking stone, heard Hecrelunn’s desperate voice, and then she was running.
Running with Frieke, who no longer smiled. Running as citizens poured into the streets, no longer rioting, but screaming. Screaming with a mortal panic, which was oh so much worse than anger.
Terror and bedlam, and Pewerthe kept running, up the palace steps. When she burst into the throne room, she already knew what she would see.
For the second time in his undeath, King Fetohep of Khelt dreamed.
 
——
 
This was the King of Khelt’s second dream. He was not in his palace.
It was dark. He felt like someone had taken a pillow and pressed it over his lungs—he couldn’t breathe. He was trying, but air only came in short bursts, and a needle of fear was ramming through his stomach.
He—he couldn’t think. He was flailing. Falling. He wanted to scream, but he couldn’t.
A [King] did not scream. But it was coming out of his heart, his soul. A kind of shriek beneath his panicked thoughts.
—have to stem the Prophet—armies aware of—Eldavin, what does he know? Jaws. Medain, Claiven Earth, tributes to Roshal.
The image of Khelt crumbling away in his hands was ringing through his head, as it had every second of every moment since he had witnessed it. Prophecy? His failings made manifest?
He did not know, but the undead could not forget.
His memory was perfect, so the horror of it was fresh. He tried to draw himself up, call on his learned regality, the pride of Khelt, but how did you sit just so?
Falling, tumbling into a void, and at the same time compressed into a coffin an inch too small in every dimension, shaking within his own body with the scream he could not utter, because he was the last bastion of Khelt, the ruler. If he fell…
It was slipping through his fingers, through a thousand skeletons’ eyes. His people raging at him. Their voices pleading, demanding—
To dust. TO DUST.
And it came upon him, another vision—
A’CTELIOS SALASH RISING, DEVOURING SCREAMING CHILDREN BY THE THOUSANDS. WALLS BURNING. SKIES OF FIRE.
AN [INNKEEPER] IN CHAINS. SEAMWALKERS RISING.
“Fetohep.”
DUST FALLING FROM THE SKIES. THE CHAINS OF ROSHAL DRAWING TIGHT.
“Fetohep, hear me!”
DUST. ALL TO DUST—
