“And how shall I trust you, Crone, Kasigna, or whatever being you are? Once, you tried to control me. How shall this ‘alliance of equals’ play out, and when may I expect the dagger in my back? Why would anyone trust your word, wretched soul-thief?”
“Because I cannot even lie, fool!”
She launched herself at him, defying gravity in a leap, and he was too slow. He recoiled and dodged, but for a second, her hand touched his chest, and he staggered and felt—
Nothing.
Kasigna landed in an ungainly heap, and Fetohep patted his chest, ready to rip his very bones out, but he felt…nothing. She looked up at him, and now he saw her.
Just…her. No vast structure of harvested souls and ideals. No mighty aspect of death in a millions forms. Just a name, an idea, a face.
The very dredges of a goddess.
“I cannot even…take your will. Nor do I have the strength to lie.”
“A lie is but words.”
She rasped at him, amusement breaking through desperation.
“Fool. To you it is. To me? I am unto a soul as we meet here. Naked. Imagine that, and understand that I cannot even tell an untruth.”
“I shall not imagine nakedness in any form, much less yours. But I see.”
She was telling the truth. He felt it, instinctually and on an intellectual level—she was genuinely desperate. She might be deceiving him in some way, but he suspected there were now levers to pull in the course of a relationship that had not existed before. If ever there was a moment for a mortal to best a god…
“My kingdom is indeed beset, Kasigna. From all sides. I see it crumbling, and I see the limits of my vanity and pride. I cannot hold it together, and if I could for but three generations…the life of every soul in Khelt rests upon my shoulders, and I am weak. Therefore…”
He stepped closer, and her face rose. In relief, she raised shaking hands.
“Take my hands and we shall make a pledge.”
“As equals.”
“Yes, yes. I shall be Goddess of Khelt and Khelt alone. Whatever is within my powers. Restoring that soul called Khelta, your undead. Take my hands. Please.”
He took her hands, and she gasped as he helped her rise to her feet. They stood there as her eyes flickered with relief, and Fetohep waited. Waited until he read her unguarded expression and realized she truly meant every word.
Then he dropped her. She fell forwards, catching herself on the ground with her hands, and gasped.
“What are you…?”
She reached up for his hand, and he slapped it down. Kasigna recoiled, and Fetohep of Khelt stepped back.
“Your words have no lie to them, Kasigna, Crone. Former Goddess of Death. Yet know this: you who have attacked Khelt for countless ages, you who took the souls of my people and Great Khelta herself. You presume for a modicum of mercy after you were given every chance? It is true my kingdom is ailing. It is true I am desperate. But I would rather watch you ooze your last moments of existence onto the sands of Chandrar as I lay impaled by a thousand blades than lift one finger in your aid, even if it meant my own salvation.”
“You…fool. We’ll both perish. Your kingdom. Your people!”
For a moment, he hesitated as she tried to reach up for him. Just for a moment. But then King Fetohep of Khelt stepped back.
“I shall find and reach for every other way. I am not without resource, even now. You are. It may be the pride of the last King of Khelt who will damn us all. But I shall see you die first, wretch. By Great Khelta’s name, die. As you remember Erin Solstice bested you, die twice.”
He spun on his heel. She lay there, panting, then screamed at him, a shriek of desperate rage and defeat, and he smiled.
Just once as he bade himself wake to cruel reality. Kasigna screamed and screamed—
And then Fetohep of Khelt woke up. Grim, despairing as he expected more calamity, but even now, prideful.
His flaw. The mark of Khelt’s rulers. He rose to make an end to this, but he did not know how it would play out.
 
——
 
Fetohep’s dream ended, and she was cast into the void between dreaming, the only place a soul such as hers could exist. Reality would have torn her apart, and she had no way to enter death’s door.
She was an idea. A diminishing concept, and she screamed and screamed. But did not weep.
In that way, she and Fetohep were more alike than they would care to admit. Kasigna lay there, unable to even move for a while.
She did not know what became of Fetohep of Khelt or his kingdom after that. If she had any power to influence or see the world…she could do neither. Every scrap of her being was going into maintaining itself, and she had expended much of it just contacting and intercepting his dream.
The only reason Kasigna was still ‘alive’ was because of the faint faith flowing to her from Bethal Walchaís and her few followers and her pact with Archmage Eldavin. But neither had more than scraps of faith. She was fading away without her aspect of death. Soon, she’d be a spectre. A shadow, easily devoured, nameless, losing herself.
That undead king dared to damn himself and her. He…she was so bitter as she gathered her strength to at least picture herself sitting up. He thought he was her death knell. It was not him.
It was a death for a death, as it had always been. A fallen child. A Maiden’s choice. War with the Faerie King’s champion, the treachery of her daughter—
Kasigna knelt there for a moment.
Fetohep of Khelt was wrong. She had run out of almost every trick, every gambit, every shred of power and maneuver she could make, it was true. His had been a true last resort, a genuine offer. She would have even accepted an unequal partnership if he had truly intended to take her deal. But she was not out of options.
She had one…last one. But she had gone to Fetohep of Khelt first, because the last, last option was truly unpleasant. Nevertheless.
“I always live. Always. No matter how long it takes, no matter the indignity.”
Kasigna closed her eyes as she plucked something from the aether that she didn’t have the power for. But even here, it was watching her. Did Isthekenous’ invention gloat? Or did it regard her as just another piece in its endless game?
Either way, she took hold of the object and unfurled it. Kasigna, for the umpteenth time, read and re-read the object she had been given.
She did not like what she read. But slowly, with the trembling fingers of someone who reached for that final breaking blade of grass, she wrote on the glowing contract.
 
——
 
Nerrhavia was savoring Chandrar’s dry air far from her homeland when she cracked one eye open.
“What the—”
The unguarded statement had everyone on edge, but she held up a hand. Her general, her warriors—she spoke.
“Silence. Silence—everyone shut up and be absolutely silent.”
Something had activated in her head, but she pulled it out into reality. A contract, one of countless ones she had active. But even Nerrhavia pulled out some reading spectacles because…
“Tyrant?”
Someone whispered, because they’d recognized it too. Nerrhavia read.
She’d signed it. No, wait…the Immortal Tyrant saw a messy scrawl. She was invoking a negotiation clause.
The Goddess known as Kasigna does agree to the terms underlined in the contract, pending negotiation of one term. Namely, marriage to Puppetmaster General and appearances conditional upon…
When the Immortal Tyrant smiled, Maviola fled behind Falamizural, and even her most ardent subjects flinched. The smile warped the air, and even when Nerrhavia stepped away, a blotch on the very spot her face had been remained, terrifying all those who saw it.
She tapped her lips, then slowly wrote back, enunciating each word for her followers to hear.
“[Immediate Reply]. [Diabolical Negotiations: I Hold Every Advantage. Submit.] I do not accept any terms of renegotiation. [Penalty Clause: No One Negotiates With Me]. You will accept the terms of personal marriage to General Astival and adherence to his personal standards of bodily beauty and the penalty of a second forfeiture at my pleasure.”
She flicked the scroll back whence it had come with a smile. Everyone used the negotiation clause. No one thought she could punish them for it.
“Y-Your Immortal Majesty. What if she refuses?”
They were all whispering to her, fearful she might ruin the chances of—Nerrhavia turned to General Astival, who wore the most amusing expression she had ever seen on his face. Not that she ever looked at him.
“She will accept. The desperate have no other recourse.”
All she had to do was wait, and she did, savoring each second of knowing her victory, because it was sweeter for her subject’s uncertainty. When the contract did reappear, it appeared like someone had slashed a name upon the bottom, but there it was:
Kasigna, Goddess, Crone.
Nerrhavia held the scroll up for them to see. Astival stood there, poleaxed, and she smiled.
“When they retell my legends, those of you who were here, remember this moment. All that is possible in any land, I can achieve. Now, I believe…”
She conjured a quill of blood and dipped it in a pot of ink. Nerrhavia put her quill upon the waiting space for her mark and wrote.
‘Denied.’
She reached down, peeled something off the parchment, rolled the scroll up, then spoke.
“[Reject Contract: Explosive Words]. [Immediate Reply].”
She flicked the scroll, and it vanished. Nerrhavia was only disappointed she couldn’t see the results. She turned to Astival, whose mouth hung open like all of them.
Oh, how she laughed. Threw her head back and laughed and laughed.
Such joy had not come to her since, well, her previous life. Then the laughter ended. Nerrhavia turned away from them all, contemptuous.
“I shall indulge myself in small celebration. To forestall the foolish nattering—my enemies suffer and perish. This moment was worth setting up. Perhaps it was her very end.”
“But Your Majesty, it would have been glorious. The br—er, the potential of such a servant!”
General Astivan was now stricken with regrets. She shot him a look that pierced his chest, but she indulged him, because she supposed even he had his passions. She tsked.
“Astival, you are a fool unfitting the jester’s role in a true court of mine.”
He knelt instantly, pressing his head to the sand.
“Yes, Tyrant!”
“Yet I sense your doubts.”
“Never, Tyrant!”
“Shut up.”
He was silent. Nerrhavia lifted something between her fingers. And Astival peeked upwards as she smiled.
“Astival, what is this?”
The [Puppetmaster General] stared at whatever she was holding. It was thin, nigh on translucent, and it had a quality he suspected instantly to be magic or something only Nerrhavia could conjure. He rose, and she allowed him to peer at it.
“It…looks like…words, Your Majesty?”
Such a banal answer, but it was correct. Nerrhavia sighed as she held it out for him with both fingers.
“You just saw it.”
It took him another minute, then someone gasped, and Astival’s eyes widened. He recoiled, and Nerrhavia held up…
Kasigna. Goddess. Crone.
The dead goddess’ signature. Nerrhavia’s smile was very sweet.
“The ink and very stuff of the divine. What need have I of a mewling goddess I must nurture like some…thing that one nurtures to health if I have the stuff of her being? I must use this in a very fitting contract.”
So saying, she began to unknit the words, rendering it down into a substance she thought of much like ink. Of course, had she wanted to, she could have affixed the signature to a contract and forced Kasigna into it, but she was already worthless.
Which was more valuable? A treacherous, weakened goddess with no loyalty and too many variables, or the last lifeblood and her very essence scrawled upon the page, fit for use?
“Both would be amusing, but I owed Merindue that. To work.”
Nerrhavia began to walk onwards, but then she stopped, and glanced to the side, where she calculated an invisible camera might be, or the omniscient observer if one existed. Her best side, naturally. She spoke, with a hint of that smile playing on her lips, mischief from a mind without peer.
“I expect to regain a level from this moment. If not, I shall hold you to account, overseer of levels. Though, regardless, I shall be double-checking your accounting. We must be consistent, and fair. The rules should be equal, should they not? If they are designed to perfection, which I shall judge.”
She flicked her head back and smiled, archly, and yes.
Nerrhavia, the Immortal Tyrant, annoyed and possibly unsettled everything.
 
——
 
Then the world focused on Khelt as the premonition of [Kings] became an idea in the minds of observers, a story repeated on the news.
Rumor becoming fact by layers of repetition. Truth leaking from broken shards of pottery.
A breaking throne. Paradise falling, the gates unbarred by a Prophet reaching for god.
The streets filled with wailing people begging for a sleeping king.
A glowing, red-eyed vizir, who stood in the wreckage of a dream he had seen rise and now crumble within his lifetime.
He said only one thing to the Heir of Khelt, the woman who was unworthy of the throne and unworthy of the burden she was being handed. Vizir Hecrelunn’s voice was the gentlest he had spoken since the day he had lived countless thousands of years ago.
“There is but one tradition of Khelt you should continue, Heir of Khelta’s wishes. In the days when she breathed and lived, they still feared the return of Dragon’s wings. Hence, the bell they gifted us, that every nation across this world who took arms against them might hear it. When Khelt falls, ring the bells. That is how it is done for great nations. Once, a warning. Thrice, a call to arms. Eight times for great triumph or tragedy; ring it eight. And when it rings without end, look up.”
Then he floated out of the throne room, casting magic like a man trying to part the very desert itself by will alone.
 
——
 
They felt it. Not in some metaphorical way, but a very real, very tangible instinct. A sense allocated only to other monarchs. To those who held up the idea that was called ‘nations’, they had a sense of other nations. Beyond auras.
Something liminal, half-defined, not fully actualized in truth. Like many things, a possibility that some day might bloom into full existence. An unwalked path so few had even stepped down, thought up by the God of Games himself. Yet nevertheless, they felt it.
 
——
 
Sitting upon his throne in Avel, the King of Bows ate too much buttered popcorn. He was developing a bit of a paunch again, but every time he felt himself regaining weight, he ran a mile and shot a hundred arrows, and it rather worked. But he was a restless man, and so he did hover around the television too much. If he could not go to the New Lands, what else was there for him to do?
Rule? Good one, Minister of Defense. Oh, look what’s on the scrying orb!
