“Well as it can be more than a year into a war we need not continue with a King of Duels who shall not quit wasting his subject’s lives and loyalty.”
She gritted her teeth on more, then ducked her head.
“Well enough. I come, today, merely to beg your indulgence, King Fetohep. And I bring greetings on behalf of the Quarass, who bade me speak to you.”
“Ah. She has been quite chatty of late. I suppose you shall pass by her on the way back.”
His good mood seemed to become somber and withdrawn in a moment. Fetohep tapped one foot, then his chest rose. And fell. And rose…and she stared at him until he caught himself.
Was he…breathing? He spoke distractedly.
“I am pursuing a child this morning, Arbiter Queen. Anleth, a boy. It is a matter of jest, but some seriousness. I wish to see his hobbies. A pursuit of a [King]. What if you were to settle within the palace? I shall be there shortly. Yes, and Pewerthe may be able to speak with you.”
He reached for a speaking stone, and Jecaina forestalled him with a smile.
“I should be delighted to accompany you, if I may, Fetohep.”
There was nothing he could say to that but to accede. And so they walked, chasing a boy. A silly, trivial thing given what Jecaina began to suspect, but she realized…this was at the heart of the King of Khelt, whom she loved for all his faults.
The mountain trembled, but he followed a pebble, for he had to know the fate of the pebble. To him, it and the mountain were one and the same. He followed Anleth for hope.
What he found was…
Mrsha.
 
——
 
Mrsha du Marquin squatted on the ground, using the power of the [World’s Eye Theatre] to project herself into Eternal Khelt. It didn’t work in the palace, which was now warded unless Fetohep allowed her entry, but she had been here of late.
Looking around. A bit concerned.
Well, lots of people were ‘a bit concerned’. Like Lyonette, who kept coming over and being shooed away by Mrsha and Nanette.
“Mrsha, sweetie? I thought you were scouting about—okay, okay. I’m going. Have fun with your game! Would you like some cookies and milk as a snack?”
Mrsha turned bright red under her fur as all the kids stared at her, but she waved away her mother after signing that yes, perhaps some refreshments would be welcome. But in truth, this was normal.
Not glowing, semi-transparent Gnoll children, but adults getting in the way of real stuff. Which was, for the kids…
“Four and four! Eight and doubles, beat that!”
Duskie crowed as they gathered around a circle, and Mrsha poked Mrar, who dutifully rolled for her. The Gnoll girl’s face fell, and she covered her eyes as she got a ‘one’ and ‘three’.
They were dicing. King Fetohep stared, mouth slightly open, as Queen Jecaina blinked at Mrsha du Marquin and the street, and Nanette pulled off her beanie.
“Argh! This isn’t fair! I’ve never seen dice like these before! How do we know they’re good?”
The Kheltian children smirked at her as Anleth scooped the dice up and rattled them in a cup. He tossed them before smiling at Nanette.
“They’re mine, and if you doubt the game, don’t play.”
“What’re they called again? I want some.”
Nanette peered at the dice as they flashed over the ground, and they rolled and rolled, but never seemed to come up on the same side as before. They were, in fact…
“Let’s switch to thousand-sided dice! You can get hundred-sided ones carved, but anything over that is magic. Anleth also does cards.”
Mrsha held up her notecards, face determined, as Ser Dalimont handed her some milk and cookies.
I can do cards. Deal me in!
“You’re already down one secret. And you can’t pay us in favors or anything else. Whaddya got?”
Mrar was skeptical, but Mrsha air-nudged Cregg.
Cregg’s got me, right, fur-brother?
He snorted a booger out his nose.
“I don’t got you at all, sister. You’d better make it worth my while!”
He rolled a die, and it promptly turned red, began glowing, and everyone oohed.
“He got a one! Run for it!”
After the miniature flashbang and applause—it was a one-in-thousand chance after all—Cregg wiped his nose, and Mrsha held up a card.
I’ll get you Lehra Ruinstrider or Gireulashia Ekhtouch’s autograph. I’ll have to send it slow, but I’ve got both.
“Deal. I’ll pay for her.”
They began anteing in, and Mrar held Mrsha’s cards for her as Anleth grinned, eyes alight.
“Now, who wants to bet anything valuable? Secrets or coins or—”
It was only at this point that they realized they had an audience. All the kids’ heads poked up from under the bridge where they were playing by a running river.
Hiding from sight and other people in the oldest fashion of gamblers. True, it was still Khelt, so there wasn’t anything nasty there. There was a bit of mold that everyone stayed away from, and Mrar had killed some spiders and been so upset they’d nearly not come to play, but they’d thought no one would be able to find them.
When they saw two rulers and a lot of Kheltians staring at them, the children panicked.
“Oh no, the officials are going to be all over us! And His Majesty! Run!”
Half pelted for it, but Mrsha leapt up warily with Nanette. Both bowed, and Fetohep stood there as Anleth turned red.
“Gambling?”
It was not illegal to gamble in Khelt, but it was frowned upon, and there were strict rules about gambling for sums or other things. Because gambling could lead rapidly to addiction and debts that could not be paid. In practice, it was very rare because it was so regulated as to take out all the truly nefarious qualities—and Khelt was paradise, so the incentives were largely gone.
However, gambling and children had never come up on Fetohep’s radar, and Anleth was…well.
He was a [Rook’s Gambler]. Not just a [Child Gambler], but someone who played with amateurs. He blushed as Fetohep gazed at him.
“Your Majesty, I didn’t wish to say what I was good at. I—it’s just for fun.”
“You play this game often, Anleth?”
The boy was, in fact, known in his city as the best gambler among adults and children alike, at least by a certain underground. For Khelt, he was daring, exciting, and the Arbiter Queen hid a smile and then peered at Mrsha. The girl was smiling, but as she nibbled on a cookie, her eyes darted to the mold where water met the embankment. And she met Jecaina’s eyes and felt it too.
“It is not illegal to gamble, Anleth. I merely wished to know what you did. That you did not tell me—it is well. Please tell your friends I am not wrothful.”
Fetohep was assuring Anleth, and when he glanced at Mrsha, he did seem like his normal self.
“Wretched water rat, why hast thou trespassed in my domain?”
His eyes twinkled, and Mrsha grinned back, then hesitated.
Hey, Fetohep, everything’s good here. I, um, just was checking in. Is everything good? I heard you had a weird Pawn-type dude problem.
Fetohep paused a moment before replying steadily.
“I do not know of this ‘dude’ of which you speak, Mrsha, but I shall field your questions after my affairs with Queen Jecaina are concluded. Anleth, now that your secret has been revealed, would you care to meet the Arbiter Queen?”
The boy would very much, and he bowed to Jecaina, who shook his hand and exclaimed over his dice. Fetohep was glancing at Lyonette, who flitted out of view, and his voice rose for his subjects’, Jecaina’s, Mrsha’s, everyone’s benefit.
“I…realize there has been change of late. But I shall assure all and sundry that Khelt is well. It is merely my passing fixation, my wont to know Anleth’s potential. For is not any son of Khelt one who may one day rule?”
Anleth glanced up in shock. He didn’t want that! Fetohep lifted a hand.
“Ah, I see concern in your eyes, Anleth. This is mere hyperbole. But you have such potential! Many of Khelt are your seniors, and they…have fine hobbies and qualities which make our paradise more enjoyable. But you? If not swordsmanship, perhaps magic? Or have you seen Farmer Colovt’s fields. Farming is hardly glamorous, but there are countless things which may strike a passion in one.”
Smithing, weaving, creation of works of art, or mechanical and magical genius like the House of El. Archery, every field of magic…but the boy shyly indicated his magical dice.
“I do love gambling, Your Majesty. I’ll wager I could surprise even you with it.”
Jecaina hid a smile, for that was a [Gambler]’s madness, but Fetohep glanced at the dice, then spun.
“Yes, and a pleasing diversion it would be, and your parents also—astound me with their insights into the most enjoyable elements of culture. But surely, thou would dabble in other fields? What did you think of my gardens, for instance? Queen Xierca’s blooms which were sadly reinstated in the main display?”
“Which blooms, Your Majesty?”
This time, the King of Khelt hesitated.
“…The ones that weep? And scream? And let out hideous amounts of smelly nectar?”
Nanette made a face, but Mrsha gasped.
Are those the famous Sireen Lilies, the most horrible things ever? You told me about them, and a [Druid] friend said they’re nasty! Can I see?
The Gnoll girl was a [Druid], after all. Fetohep nodded at Mrsha, and Anleth scratched behind an ear, embarrassed.
“I don’t know plants well, Your Majesty.”
Nor did he want to muck around in dirt. Fetohep thought, and his eyes flicked to Mrsha.
“Then, perhaps you would care for the company of other children, I see. I do take it that you have met Mrsha du Marquin. Perhaps a penpal system may be instituted. If she must harass my citizens, let it at least be with somewhat legible handwriting and proper diction.”
Mrsha beamed and shyly waved at Anleth, who had awesome fingernails, and the boy grinned back.
“That I could do, Your Majesty.”
“Excellent, then a [Message] scroll shall be sent to—”
“She can come to g—visit! It’s better than writing.”
Anleth hated his letters, though he didn’t mind reading Mrsha’s writings. Fetohep stopped.
“I see. This is more convenient. But perhaps you…Mrsha, perhaps you would one day furnish Anleth with stories of your inn. Or render unto him a vision of the flames. The Knights of Solstice are the most popular figures in Izril, are they not?”
Mrsha hesitated, and now she was peering at Fetohep, and so was Nanette, who nudged Mrsha slightly. She wrote something on Mrsha’s card, and the Gnoll girl stared at it, then gave Fetohep a huge smile. Queen Jecaina peered at the card as Mrsha held it up for all to see.
Absolutely, buddy! I’d love to tell Anleth about home! Though between you and me, the Knights of Solstice are only ‘pretty popular’. It’s still adventurers and maybe the Players who are the most popular. Good thing, too, because I think Normen—he’s the Grandmaster of the Order of Solstice, Anleth, would panic if he got more famous than that. Do you know him?
Perhaps only Jecaina honed in on a single word that did not fit the Gnollish girl’s elegant penmanship. Fetohep didn’t notice, but his chest rose and fell as Anleth instantly responded.
“Of course I know him! It’s very interesting.”
They waited, but that was all. Fetohep murmured after a moment.
“Have you beheld his flames, Anleth?”
“Flames? Oh, yes, Your Majesty.”
“They are quite beautiful, are they not? Magic of emotion set to fire, the likes of which are dreamt of nowhere but imagination.”
“And Eternal Khelt!”
“Ye—and Eternal Khelt?”
The boy nodded cheerfully, and he puffed out his chest, for this he knew.
“They are beautiful beyond compare and almost fit for Eternal Khelt! But only just, Your Majesty.”
Fetohep’s head bowed.
“Ah. So they do not inspire you to become a [Knight] or to seek out the truth of that emotion?”
Anleth shook his head, bemused and amused. Fetohep was just staring at the boy and, Jecaina realized, Mrsha.
“You…truly do love gambling. A vice. And I trust you have picked up a sword and swung it. I beheld that. You did not try gardening or—but children are fickle. Most surely try magic, but it holds less magic for you than the cast of dice. Magic itself. Magical flame does not glitter as much as my Eternal Paradise which is well, but you wish only to rest upon it and gamble. Just as your parents review and organize lists of food for dieting.”
His voice was rising. Jecaina turned to Fetohep, and Mrsha held up a card.
Fetohep, I think gambling’s good in moderation. Ever met Viecel?
She smiled, but Fetohep went on, a monotone as Nanette nudged Mrsha again. She had rediscovered the eyes of a [Witch], and what she saw in Fetohep was bubbling up, growing by the second.
“This is not…you are allowed to, of course. But if it were needed, if you were to choose—gambling? I have made great war on Medain, Nerrhavia’s Fallen, and even the Drake Cities. Tell me, what did you think of those moments?”
Anleth didn’t know why, but he was getting frightened again. He took a step back as the children, the Queen, the citizens gazed at Fetohep.
“I…I was happy, Your Majesty. Proud and excited.”
Fetohep swung his head towards Anleth, then turned to his people.
“Yet it did not stir within you the desire to take up arms or change. Not you nor any of you? Not for the passing of an age?”
No one. He glanced around, then he spun again.
“Just but one thing. One spark of it, one ember to burn and give you a class and meaning that even paradise cannot. Surely, Anleth, there is something.”
The boy peered up at him blankly.
“Gambling, Your Majesty. Do you want to play?”
The King of Khelt stared down at the dice, and the boy’s eyes shone with the hope that he could dice with a king, even if only to say it. King Fetohep’s voice rose.
“Gambling. Gambling. A vice and a game when I have asked—no. No, this is the people I created. My kingdom, my beautiful—and it is worthy and worth it. Every second of it.”
Now he was spinning, spinning like a top, and they were all stepping back except for Jecaina.
“Fetohep? Your Majesty?”
The King of Khelt was rasping now, chest rising and falling.
“As long as it could remain and continue, it is well. As long as that. But the moons could split, the waters rise, and it would just be thus, wouldn’t it? A game. Gambling. Is there nothing else, Anleth? Nothing? Anleth?”
—The King of Khelt only realized he was shouting at the boy when Jecaina barred his way, along with Mrsha. He looked down, and the boy was hunched on the ground, shivering like a child in a storm of snow, not crying, but staring down at his feet.
Then, and only then, Fetohep caught himself, and the shame that washed over him was so visible that he sank to his knees. His people, another monarch—Mrsha—he knelt there.
“Anleth?”
“I am sorry, Your Majesty.”
“No. I am sorry, Anleth. Forgive me. I have been…”
