Great Khelta, his ruler and the founder of his nation, stood before Fetohep, and her face was anguished. Just as quickly she produced something, a mask made of porcelain, and put it to her face. Fetohep and Razzimir stared.
She wore a face familiar to them; a mask meant to look like a skeleton’s. It even had some kind of illusory effect so her eyes glowed from within like their eye-flames. Yet, after a moment, Khelta took the mask away. She studied it, rueful.
“I carried this around every day for centuries until it broke, since I was a little girl. I wept when it broke. Strange. I often feel like that girl, for all I am Great Khelta in death, and I lived for centuries as the world’s finest [Necromancer]. So powerless, though. We held the afterlife against the dead gods for ages, and all spoke to us as if we were heroes, but we were lucky. Now, my successor asks for wisdom, and I…I have only shreds of hope to give him. I fear it will be hard, Fetohep.”
“I did not mean to imply it was in any way your fault, Great Khelta. You have worked magic beyond any other nation in life and death! Even the Shield Kingdoms do not endure as finely as you! The Quarass’ Germina is poor while Khelt is rich. I only…”
Fetohep’s voice trailed off, and Razzimir, that kindly king who had endured the Creler Wars, put his hands behind his back. He rocked on his heels and peered down at his shoes.
“It is a strange thing to try to give advice. We do not live, Fetohep, we do not see the scope of your kingdom. If it were I, the advice would be easy: you must fight the Crelers. You cannot hide behind your walls. Unleash the might of Khelt, fool! Don’t you see how many you are damning? They’re eating the peoples of this world outside your safe walls. Experimenting on them. Torturing them for sport. Craven effigies rising, and you let it happen and think this is the will of Khelt.”
Khelta and Fetohep turned to Razzimir, and he clawed at his face. Fetohep saw grooves on his undead flesh. He knelt, bowing his head, and then his brilliantly cherry-colored eyes focused on Fetohep.
“My sin was complacency. I have not atoned for it nor shall I, Fetohep. But you did what I could not. You stood for just and moral causes, and you suffer a problem I never faced: weakness. Khelt was not weak. I should have unleashed Hecrelunn, every Revenant of Khelt, every weapon. You did. And now your kingdom is…frail. I have been begged and supplicated all my years, but never had to bow my head. I do not know how to advise you. I am sorry.”
He stood there, and Fetohep bowed back to Razzimir.
“I am relieved to hear you say that, King Razzimir. If you have never faced such a problem…it is some comfort.”
Razzimir conjured a seat of sand and sat by Fetohep and made another so that they might sit. He offered Khelta a sand-chair, but she remained standing, watching them from behind that mask. Razzimir spoke.
“I find that it is often my perspective alone which is flawed. We have advisors for a reason; no man, woman, Djinni, or even, I suspect, Gods have the perfect point of view. Have you people you trust?”
Fetohep thought of Alked, Pewerthe, Colovt.
“Fewer than I would like, but yes.”
Razzimir chuckled.
“Ah, that is the constant complaint of all those who lead. Then a second question. Do they ever argue with you?”
“Some, yes.”
“Good. If they only spoke what you wished to hear, it would be a poor mark. Diversity of thought is essential. But now is the question to test all rulers of Khelt. Your advisors, your companions. Do they ever win such arguments, Fetohep?”
Razzimir could not know about Pewerthe’s stridency, but his flaming gaze still made Fetohep hesitate and stare down at his hands.
“I have…no. No, seldom if at all. I grow wrathful, perhaps. She—it is the Heir of Khelt, a good and clever young woman—she sees Khelt’s woes differently than mine.”
“But you trust her character? Her heart?”
Fetohep thought of the breaking pots and bowed his head further.
“Yes. More so now that I realize how foolish and blind I was to her true efforts.”
“That is the lesson every ruler should take. When to bow and step aside. The crown tells us a simple truth: we must never yield, never relinquish a bit of power, never give away our authority. And perhaps that is how the state endures. But we are all fragile people made of flaws. I should have listened, Fetohep. So that is my advice to you. Listen and act. But I do not know how to speak of Khelt’s failings. Khelta?”
Razzimir stood, and the Great Necromancer sat next. Her black hair floated as she sat, and Fetohep wondered if she smelled of bone dust. She seemed unworldly as she removed her mask. A [Necromancer] of stories, eyes containing the power to raise armies, a voice which could thunder and speak to the dead.
But when she put the mask on her face, she became younger. A young woman, and she spoke softly.
“This mask. Do they have any in your time, Fetohep?”
“None, Khelta. I do not know its likeness, and I have known many artifacts of Khelt and death-magic.”
She nodded.
“Good. It is not needed. It is a Deathface. When I was a girl, everyone wore them. When I look at you and think of Khelt, no longer able to raise armies of capable warriors, I think of this mask. It has been long, long, since I needed to wear it. Do you know what it does?”
“It seems to make you look like a skeleton, Khelta.”
She nodded, and her glowing eyes peered out of the mask.
“It is a mask mortals wear to hide their features from the dead. You put this on, and the undead will think you are one of them, if they are simple. The clever ones know you wear it, but they might tolerate you more, even knowing it. It is the mask of people scared of the undead, of the Breathless Age of Nekhret and the Necromancer Kings. I grew up in its fall. I have been weak, Fetohep. And I think…you have not.”
He stared at her. Great Khelta had once been so afraid of the undead she had worn a mask to hide her living body from them? He tried to nod.
“I understand compromises must be made—”
She lifted a hand, and he fell silent.
“No, you do not. Before you speak, I hear it in your words. Compromise. No and no. At times, you must compromise, bend your position, but you surely know this. But at times, I have known only abject helplessness. Compromise is a word for those who have options. In the coming days and years, you will have none. And that is a terror, Fetohep. Have you ever known defeat?”
He hesitated. His memory of a heart was beating faster, and Razzimir whispered.
“Your breathing, Fetohep.”
He controlled himself and spoke.
“I…of course. When I was alive, I lost battles. I died fighting in one. I have known defeat, Khelta.”
She nodded, lifting her mask slightly, and her painted lips moved.
“Then have you ever known helplessness?”
This time, Fetohep paused long, and he replied.
“…Not until recently. It is—terrifying.”
“Yes. That is what you face. You have never grovelled, have you, Fetohep?”
“Me? In what sense of the word?”
Khelta’s tongue clicked, but softly.
“Grovelled. Crawled across the ground, forehead pressed to the rough earth to kiss the feet of an undead master. Begged for mercy and kindness and debased yourself to live another moment.”
He sat there as Razzimir stared at Khelta.
“No. Never.”
“It is not an experience I wished for any of my people. It is not something Hecrelunn knows. But I remember it. You think you have been pushed to the limit, Fetohep. That your pride cannot break. I tell you: it can, and the pieces can be stomped into dust. I wished never for one of Khelt to face it, but I tell you this now. Do not grovel or beg those who come for you. Hold tight to each treasure of Khelt, and fight for every piece of it you can keep.”
Khelta’s eyes locked on him as she lifted the mask again and handed it to him. He ran his fingers down the delicately contoured bones, and Khelta met his gaze.
“But when you wake, practice grovelling on the ground and remember how it feels. For if you raise your head when that moment comes, you will lose it.”
“I do not know…if I can bear it, Khelta. I don’t know how to be less than prideful.”
He confessed, and she took his hands.
“I know. But you can. You must. It is the hardest burden I have placed on any of my successors, but I charge you with it. Do you love Khelt?”
“Yes. With all my being.”
She nodded.
“Then, when you are forced to bow, think of that and all you hold dear. More than your own life. And bow further. Do what you must. But live, Fetohep. You and every one of my children’s children. But live.”
Her words did not make Fetohep feel better. If anything, they instilled in him a dread greater than he had held before. But not a panic. King Razzimir cleared his throat as Khelta stood, and then Fetohep rose.
“Now may be the ideal moment to more concretely offer you actionable plans, rather than broad concepts. A place for both, I feel. If you would give us a run-down on Khelt’s current assets and problems, perhaps we might problem-solve.”
Khelta nodded, visibly relieved as she passed a hand over her features, and she was then the imperious ruler who stood with the pride of Khelt eternal. She nodded.
“Yes, and if there are any capable [Necromancers] you trust, I might suggest some spells or undead that could aid. Did you say…bugs were an issue? There are undead you could make to catch such things. Or [Familiars]. Don’t they have those?”
“I do not believe it is common knowledge, Great Khelta. But I welcome both your inputs. I shall deliver a report of Khelt, then.”
The rulers were nodding, prepared to give him what guidance they could. Then Khelta threw out a hand.
“Wait. Something’s wrong. Fetohep, wake up.”
He saw her peering around and spun.
“I have been trying. What…?”
The world was flickering. Razzimir spoke, eye-flames darting in every direction.
“Impossible. Argh, I feel a fool as I did in the Creler Wars, naïve! But, Khelta, you assured us this place was now sacrosanct! How could it be—?”
“I never said that! I said it was changed unto the whims of this Grand Design! It might be a place where war can begin anew, and certainly the dead and living can influence each other! Weapons. We need weapons, but how are they made?”
Something was—Fetohep reached out, and static, the kind he had seen come over the [World’s Eye Theatre], seemed to flicker across his vision.
Only, instead of his vision, it was the entire world. Khelta and Razzimir recoiled.
“Fetohep! Your connection is breaking—Khelta, it cannot be, truly. You said she was defeated beyond recovery, forever!”
Razzimir tried to reach for Fetohep, but their hands passed through each other. Khelta was walking around Fetohep, a glowing finger raised.
“It is her. But…hm. She’s not coming here. Nekhret’s bones. Fetohep! She’s coming after you! In your dreams! She has not the power nor authority here, but you—wake up! Wake up! Resist!”
“Wake up! Wake up, son of Khelt! Breathe, in, out! Think of your diaphragm rising and falling—”
The two panicked voices receded as the static rushed across the world, and they vanished. Then, Fetohep stood in utter darkness. He turned, slowly, and…there she was.
Just as before, only it was one instead of three. And she seemed so wretched and exhausted as she knelt there, panting, as if this had cost her—but he flinched from her. He recoiled and backed away, for it was her.
She always lived.
Kasigna.
 
——
 
One instead of three.
By dreams instead of death.
No longer Mother or Maiden. Just Crone. Just…Kasigna.
No longer even the Goddess of Death. It had all been sundered from her. She had never fallen this far. Never…but she lived. She refused to die.
By these things, she came to him, a panting woman rotting away, as the King of Khelt stumbled back from her, fear filling him. But her outstretched hand had no power in it. She could not even force him to take her hands. So she spoke, her voice cracked with grief, despair, and desperate hope.
“King…of Khelt. Fetohep. Once again, I come to you, though it is not…a Solstice.”
For a moment, he was dumbstruck with horror, then he found his rage and pointed at her.
“You. You dare return to me, enemy of my people? Ruination of Khelt? I will have you slain, destroyed utterly! You drag me into dreaming; I see it now, your schemes! It shall avail you naught, spawn of grublings beneath even Rhir’s contempt!”
He might have gone on, but Kasigna licked her cracked lips.
“I did not. You dreamed of your own accord. I merely—intercepted it.”
Fetohep hesitated.
“—Lies.”
She panted at him, still with a trace of a sneer, but her voice had too much urgency. She spoke quickly, glancing around, as if afraid she was running out of time.
“It is not a lie. If I had the power to even…you dreamed yourself, undead king. Forced yourself beyond your limits, be it physical or emotional. I do…I don’t recall what the God of Undeath shaped his people to be. What rules govern you?”
She put her hand to her head, shaking grey and white hair. He stared at her.
She seemed pitiful. Which only put his guard up more. But Kasigna just gazed at him and rasped.
“I offer you an accord.”
“No. Begone.”
He whirled away from her, and she tried to stand, hobble forwards.
“Listen to me—! You are weak. I know you are. I was there at the Winter Solstice. I felt your unfilled dead, your precarious kingdom. It must be worse now, is it not? It surely is!”
She didn’t…know. Fetohep swung back to her, and Kasigna’s eyes were desperate.
“The dreams of your people are troubled. You are plagued by a swarm of gigantic insects. A being of faith walks your lands. These things I know, so I offer you an accord. Hear me out.”
“Ah. The swarms of giant insects are indeed troubling. Especially the giant man-eating centipedes.”
The King of Khelt actually advanced a step, and Kasigna’s lips stretched over her teeth in a desperate grimace of a smile.
“Yes. Yes! Thus, listen to me. I have been reduced in power. My aspect, my nature, it—it matters not. A pact between us will right both our wrongs. I require faith. You require guidance. I cannot control Death.”
She stumbled, as if that hurt her, then closed her eyes.
“…But there are still means. An alliance. Of equals. I shall restore your shattered kingdom to order, and you shall have your people speak my name. Teach them faith. As my power grows, thus shall your kingdom prosper. This is my pact. I offer it with no tricks, in full honesty.”
Fetohep was very still as he inspected her.
