He had been watching the news when an unusual piece of commentary from Nerrhavia’s Wonders appeared. Normally, King Itreimedes only watched it for the Horns of Hammerad or gladiatorial fights (or those rather alluring [Dancers], but he had to do that in private), but a strange segment had caught his attention.
“A what in Khelt? A [Prophet]?”
It didn’t sound like a regular thing. Wasn’t Khelt that place with the undead king? Horrible, outrageous, but rather funny—his neighbors in Noelictus didn’t like the idea of sentient undead, but King Itreimedes thought the fellow was nothing like regular undead or even normal Revenants.
He watched a broadcast summarizing recent events in Khelt, and the newscasters seemed as astonished as he. Some Prophet and ‘People of Lod’ or something—Itreimedes didn’t do details, but they had invaded Khelt. And Khelt had a bug problem. Mostly, it was surprising that anyone had passed Khelt’s borders, because, well, the undead.
Perhaps something was wrong. King Itreimedes stared at a few images of the border of Khelt. Flashes of light, recorded when people had seen some kind of attack spell raining down. He reached for another handful of popcorn, but he found, suddenly, he’d lost his appetite.
“Bah. I’ve got better things to be doing than watching some robed man shout about invisible rulers.”
He got up, grumbling, and rather to his court’s surprise, Itreimedes bade them bring him issues of the realm. He sat upon his throne, not really improving the state of things because he had to be told often why his decisions wouldn’t actually work or be the optimal choice, but Itreimedes sat there for hours, working.
He wasn’t hungry. His stomach hurt, and he waved away a snack, then dinner.
He could not say why.
 
——
 
Itreimedes was a different sort of [King] than most. He was lazy, inexperienced, and did not use his class nearly to the fullest.
What he sensed, from even a world’s remove, was felt far, far more strongly by an experienced man who had time to know himself and the weight of crowns.
King Nuvityn of Erribathe was at sea. He had been at sea for a long damn time, it felt, but travel was like that. He had no Skills to move anywhere quick because the King of Myths usually stayed in his domain, and the seas…
He’d heard all the excuses, and the [Captain] was doing his best, but they were off-course, and finding one’s bearings was difficult. Stormy skies meant no navigation by starlight, and his ships were warded against scrying, making their own position relatively invisible to themselves as well as enemies.
Even Magus Tserre claimed coordinates were not her great speciality, but she thought they were closing on Izril’s north, where he wanted to dock. First Landing, then south to Liscor. It felt like they should have arrived…but Nuvityn had time.
He had taken to sitting on the deck of his ship, observing birds, the sea, the moving of waves, all the things to delight eyes which had for centuries seen only Erribathe. But a great weight had settled upon him, and when one of his people worked up the courage to ask him why…
They sacrificed Vernoue, the Princess. He could see them pushing her out to ask him what they were too shy to. She bowed hurriedly.
“Your Majesty, does something ail you? If you require a tonic for seasickness or—a chat?”
He glanced at Prildor, Voreca, Miihey, Andromeda, all of whom ducked behind one of the cabins like children. Perhaps it was his pensive face. He gestured to his seat as he stood.
“No seasickness, I am pleased to note. Nor does anything ail me, but a chat may do. Sit with me, Princess. Tell me. Do you feel it too?”
She would not take a seat until one was hurried out, then she sat, peering into the distance and at him.
“I…I don’t believe I do, Your Majesty. Is it some great aura? Are we passing near some wreck, or is it the Five Families?”
He grimaced, shaking his head.
“I swear I felt them a while back—nothing now. It makes me feel like we’re going the wrong way, but I know better than to argue with our [Captain]. No. It does not surprise me you don’t feel it. This is a thing of monarchs. Those who sit on the throne. It is distant. I am surprised I feel it, but the place is old. So old. I had not realized it. We call them enemies, and I think we sent…perhaps my Kingdom of Myths did not. I don’t know. All I know is that it’s crumbling.”
His speech was nonsensical, and Vernoue tried to decode it.
“Another nation, Your Majesty? The Drakes?”
“Too close at hand. Further. I see…”
He closed his eyes.
“I see a throne of bones. A horrid sight, or it should be. Yet it is not. There are no screaming skulls, no yellowed bones. Just gold. Riches beyond measure and hands, limbs, joined together. Something made of its people—monstrous for it is built of them and upon their backs. But what nation is not? The throne looms over them, yet it is so humble. It is a shelter from the rain, a warden of each and every soul. Shield, sword, servant. I have never seen the like. And now…it is breaking.”
Her eyes were wide, but she breathed with that insight that was her heritage.
“You must mean Khelt, Your Majesty. Is something wrong with it?”
“Yes. It stands upon a precipice.”
He knew it in his marrow. What the nature of the threat was, he could not say. Only that he had sensed it.
“It is a great nation, an old one, Vernoue. It may be wrong to say, but the nations Ailendamus broke were not so…notable to me. Perhaps it was because I was careless. But most that Ailendamus and Taimaguros defeated were younger or failing already. This? This is like one of the oldest of thrones vanishing. And there are so few who made it this far. Sometimes, I dream of them. Shattered thrones. Kingdoms broken, some glorious, some mad.”
This was the power of [Kings], for the little good it did. It served the purpose of making his subjects and the young [Princess] wide-eyed, so Nuvityn supposed it was a fine power after all.
Even so, the King of Myths just sighed.
“He is an ally of my one true enemy in this world. But I cannot celebrate this. For look.”
He pointed, with a flair for the dramatic, and thought Vernoue almost saw it a moment. Nuvityn bitterly let his eyes see that lonely land.
“If his nation was so wretched, pitiful, and evil—why does the throne stand untarnished? It has its grime, its flaws—show me a nation that does not. But it shines.”
“And it’s breaking?”
“Yes. It may not break completely, but…”
Nuvityn listened. He closed his eyes and heard gold cracking. Never to be repaired.
 
——
 
Many might sense it. The King of Destruction may turn, on a whim, and call for Trey, like a warhound scenting an unexpected skirmish. Or the Empress of Tiqr might halt in her battles to reclaim her kingdom and feel as though carrion vultures were circling.
But a person who sensed it who was not a [King] was the humble [Witch].
Wiskeria. She stood in that world of rusted laws and ancient thrones. It seemed not so grand to her. But that was perhaps because she was a [Witch of Laws], not someone who admired thrones.
She stood in this place, which was a power the likes of which even her mother might not know of. This pleased Wiskeria, though it unsettled the other [Witches] when Wiskeria claimed to be able to actually step here. Someone had asked if that was a metaphor, a simile.
“What good [Witch] cannot step into the pages of a story?”
—Though that was definitely old magic. Absently, Wiskeria tugged at one of her legs; it had gotten stuck. She gave up, and it unwound as she hopped, one-legged, across the rusty ground filled with dripping water.
She wondered if she could steal something from the broken thrones. Or even an ‘intact’ one. It probably had consequences. Weigh them, choose the ones you could live with, or make someone else pay the costs. It was dangerous, but her mother had millenia on her. Matching her in any way required risk.
…But not, perhaps, taking from this throne. It was probably an ally in the grand scheme of things. Wiskeria peered at the broken gold and the crack running down the length of it.
“You are dying. Something is breaking beyond repair, forever. It was already broken. Now, what? Perception? A crown is only a crown so long as it shines upon your head and all believe in it. If a half-Elf steals it, does it matter so much?”
A fragment of gold flaked away as Wiskeria watched, falling into the rust-covered waters that were all that remained of this place. Broken laws…yes. She whispered.
“What is a law if it cannot be enforced? Your dead are gone. Flailing…sinking. Crumbling, breaking. You are dying. Sleep now and fall to pieces gently. Do not rot, beautiful Khelt. Fall, and become pieces still etched with gold so that someone may take them and forge the next law and crown anew.”
She rested one hand on the golden throne as it shuddered, as if feeling her words. Then, gently, like one of [Mercy’s Healers] closing the eyes of a patient, she drew a knife and put one knee upon the throne. Reaching out towards the crack, ready to thrust and widen the gyre and break it ap—
 
——
 
The explosion blew out every window in the neighborhood, and when Briganda rushed onto the scene with Alevica, members of the army, and pinpointed the epicenter of the blast, they found Wiskeria lying on her back.
Her robes, made by Belavierr herself, had kept her alive, but golden flecks fell off the cloth as she stood. Wiskeria stared at her tattered robes as her clothing—the clothing her mother had made—revealed places where gold had replaced cloth.
The explosion had nearly ripped her right leg off her body. It was broken in three places. She hopped around on it as Briganda stared in horror then began shouting for a [Healer]. Wiskeria glanced down at her dagger—the charred stump of it was melting onto her fingers.
“Well, maybe not just yet. That was an unpleasant lesson. Could someone send for Witch Eloise? I have a shard of pottery sticking out of the back of my head. Why pottery instead of gold or bone? I think it missed my brain.”
Then she fell forwards onto her face.
 
——
 
Paradise lost. Or being lost. Armies marching.
It was such a foreign, strange land, this Chandrar. The fate of entire nations was shifting about, and it seemed like it was all too vast and far-away. Pictures in a storybook or scrying orb.
Far beyond the deeds of mere men and women to alter, surely. Regular people were but ants caught up in a whirlwind of fate and other people’s stories.
But that was the thing about ants. They were only as small as they thought they were. Sometimes, mere ants rose to be…important. In their own little ways.
The first thing he said, as they stood at the prow of the ship, sails blowing wide behind them, was:
“Dry. The air tastes drier here.”
Pawn’s mandibles opened and closed, and he felt the wind coming off the coast blowing in his face as Yellow Splatters turned. The [Captain] of the Painted Antinium nodded once as Purple Smile rubbed at his chin.
“I have heard it is also sandy. I hope taking my vacation was worth the trip. It is using all my vacation days for the year.”
“We sacrifice much in the name of helping friends, Yellow Splatters. We shall commend your valiant efforts in prayer tonight.”
The crew of the ship listened to the Antinium speaking with a wide-eyed and wary reserve, even after their time on board the ship. But the Courier’s ship, the Four Winds of Teral, had been paid exorbitant fees for this trip, and now…Pawn’s head craned to see, but he knew Khelt was far inland.
“I am told a second ship is meeting us.”
“It is land, though. Unless a river runs to this paradise?”
“Apparently, this ship runs on land.”
The other Painted Antinium turned to Pawn, and after a moment, one nodded wisely.
“Aha. Then Anand truly was visionary. Landships.”
It made sense to them. None of the crew really had the heart to correct the Antinium. Rabbitears, Starfold, Salted Pork, π, a small band who was answering the call of a foreign king.
It wasn’t like they had anything better to do.
And yes, surely there were consequences, but as Pawn had observed, there always were; even if you just tried to live your life without bothering anyone, they were sneaking up behind you to hit you with something just for existing. So you might as well do what you wanted.
That sounded pretty good, actually, so he flipped open a page of his journal and wrote it down in case it would become part of his holy work, The Wondrous Sky (title in progress). Some Antinium had suggested it should be called the Book of Erin, but he wasn’t sure if it was appropriate.
He’d brought a copy for Fetohep and autographed it just in case he could sneak it into Khelt’s library. However—Pawn glanced at the scrying orb.
“It sounds like Khelt is in more trouble than we thought.”
“Maybe we should have brought all the Painted Antinium. Eighty of us will not be able to fight effectively, Pawn.”
Yellow Splatters was worried, but Pawn just clacked his mandibles absently.
“A thousand of us would be too hard to transport. Faith moves mountains. We’ll have to squash most of our enemies with that. We shall be strategic. Be ready, everyone.”
He kept staring just to the right, not quite at the harbor of one of Medain’s cities or the coast the other Antinium were admiring. A few of the other Painted Antinium were following Pawn’s gaze, though the crew could not see anything…Pawn touched the dangling censer at his side, then the simple wooden club he carried, and the air hung unnaturally around him.
“I sense a great work ahead of us. Thousands of tiny little…insects. Joining together to create some vast bug. Which I realize is not a flattering image to non-Antinium, but it seems beautiful to me. What do you see?”
The other Antinium murmured.
“I see nothing.”
“Nor I.”
“I think someone farted.”
“It is wrathful. An angry light. A gateway to…”
Pawn glanced at one of the [Priests] who spoke, then nodded. Another whispered.
“I see gates. They shift in my mind, but they are shiny. Pearly, and they hold a land that does not look like what I believe Heaven to be like. It is beautiful and locked.”
The [Priest of Wrath and Sky] peered again, and then nodded again. He adjusted his robes, took hold of his book, club, and censer in his hands, and grasped the railing with his fourth hand.
“Yes. So that’s what the kingdom of heaven looks like. Let’s break those gates open. They may have their version of heaven. But not paradise.”
