They’re coming for Khelt. Lots of their own died from the Arrows of Razzimir spell, and they want blood. They’re holding back because there’s a plan, but without an army of our own, we can’t engage. Weird stalemate. So long as we’re going non-lethal, Alked and I can hold the line. Pro-tip: if they can heal anything, even stabs, poisoning, etc., go for a [Falcon Kick] to the groin. It drops them, even with healing, for at least half a day, especially if you rupture something. Male or female.
Pewerthe has us going to New Jecrass and liasoning with Gnolls, Centaurs, etc. Captain Cikroleth came back from his ship voyage, and we’re trying to take on the crisis of bugs. I’ll write more about that later. 
—Frieke of Medain Khelt.
 
PS. Pretty sure other nations are starting to catch on about the Prophet. I swear I saw the Arbiter Queen calling His Majesty, and that weird [Sand Mage], Trey, was visiting the palace the other day. Also, there’s some random white Gnoll girl who keeps walking through walls and a shortie with awesome clothing. Is that from the inn? Or ghosts?
 
——
 
The solution to Khelt’s insect and skeleton-power woes was simple: find a group of people who could step on a roach and not spend the rest of the month in bed. Even if they couldn’t kill all the bugs, do something to shut up the citizens and keep the other nations from noticing.
One might reasonably ask why Pewerthe even cared about the damn bugs. Fetohep did, but Pewerthe?
She had a few reasons to make the bug problem her priority. Firstly, Fetohep cared. If she didn’t deal with it, he would fixate on the problem as if it were the same as the Prophet, and she needed him focused.
The second reason was that it was a sign of Kheltian weakness. Everyone talked in this modern age, and it was one more crack in Khelt’s façade if other nations realized they were having domestic issues like this. But the third reason was the simplest, and only Pewerthe understood why it was so important.
Bugs made the Kheltians upset. They hated the little things, and if Pewerthe could deal with the bugs, even for a little bit, they’d stop complaining. Gossiping. Griping. She needed them to be quieter. Khelt’s safety hinged on its citizens not being little babies and blathering to each other. If they kept it up, things would—break.
What a problem. Hence, her cleanup initiatives and tackling the bugs as a true threat.
To that end, Pewerthe enlisted the three Gnoll tribes, the Centaurs, and even thousands of New Jecrassians which Sand at Sea ferried to Khelt, and it worked for a time.
Bemused Gnolls, Humans, and Centaurs didn’t mind finding a nest of ants and digging it out, and even some Kheltians got involved creatively, like pouring metal into the nests and coming away with funky sculptures of the tunnels and habitats the insects had dug. It got Kheltians distracted, and the riots ceased…for a week.
Then it went south. Former-Chieftain Qirrel was the first to point it out to Pewerthe, who was busy making her stupid pots. She was spinning one impatiently off her wheel as he eyed her, but they were all used to her odd behavior.
“Heiress, about our help in the cities.”
“Yes? The insects aren’t going away, are they?”
Pewerthe wore a rueful expression. She might be worldly compared to Fetohep and her people, but she was still naïve from so long in Khelt. She had hoped that if the others offered their time, the insect ‘plague’ would diminish, but no such luck.
This was just the relative number of insects any city got. Without the skeletons working nonstop, ants spread, bugs flew and reproduced…maybe their nonstop proliferation due to the Kheltian’s lax standards had halted, but this appeared to be a permanent thing.
Qirrel knew that, and he sat cautiously, scratching at some dried soap on one arm. He placed something on the ground next to her kiln.
“No, I think the insects are here to stay, and all those who volunteered are not minding hunting them down. It is not exactly the hardest of work since we have numbers, and no one is pushing us, yes? However—no one is paid in Khelt.”
“No, they’re not. We should give you all something to reward you for your efforts.”
Pewerthe was thinking of what could be appropriate. Fetohep would probably flip if she handed out a Diamond Sword of Serept…then she noticed Qirrel’s expression.
“What is it?”
She peered at what he’d put down, and he sighed.
“This is what I was given by a very friendly [Mayor] of the city I was assisting in. Not just me; each member of my tribe was given this.”
It was a stack of coupons, vouchers, the faux-currency Kheltians loved. Tickets for private massages, theaters, restaurants, even some handmade coins and a few gold pieces. The moment Pewerthe saw it, she sighed and glanced up.
“Ah, they’re trying to make it up to you.”
Qirrel smiled gently.
“Yes, and we understand it is an attempt to repay us for our efforts, and we shall accept, of course. With that said, tomorrow is the last day we shall be assisting. We hope to teach Kheltians the basics of how to deal with pests and other issues. If they wish to learn, they may visit us. We can have classes taught by, er, children.”
She frowned, putting the clay pot on a tray for the kiln.
“Only tomorrow? You won’t consider another day?”
“No.”
“What if—”
“We do not wish to be paid for cleaning and working, Potter Pewerthe. The other members of my tribe agree: it is a bad precedent. And I think…if I were you, I would consider asking the New Jecrassians to cease their work as well. I have noticed the Centaurs moving away from their efforts too. We are not unwilling. It is a matter of foresight, you understand?”
She didn’t, for a little bit, until she thought about it and was reminded of Fetohep’s warning.
Second-class citizens. The Gnolls did not want to become the group that replaced skeletons and swept and cleaned in paradise.
“Nor is that their job. Argh. His Majesty was right!”
Within half a day of the three groups ceasing their work, Pewerthe and the officials were inundated with requests for them to return along with ever-rising offers from Kheltians to persuade someone else to do the tasks for them. When they became demands, she put her foot down.
Which led right back to protests with a call for New Jecrassians to come back as [Cleaners]. Pewerthe developed a headache. She hoped she’d bought time for Fetohep to resolve issues on his side.
 
——
 
While Pewerthe handled public issues, at least temporarily, Fetohep was trying to attend to both issues of state and what he perceived to be Khelt’s greatest problem: a lack of viable manpower. Or womenpower.
Or any kind of competency. The day-servants were not able to keep up with his needs. His officials were barely more than peacekeepers who enforced rules. He needed soldiers to fight the Prophet, people he could trust.
He juggled this while keeping a wary eye on other nations. The Empire of Sands…the [Emperor] was a cunning, regal individual with far more weight behind them than their short tenure as ruler suggested.
She was only too willing to speak with Fetohep and deliver a lengthy conversation, equal-to-equal, regarding her army’s presence near Khelt’s border.
“In the end, it is, purely, a manifestation of the hazards of Zeikhal that forced my army towards your bountiful lands, Your Majesty. This army is but the first of many. Already, we have skirmished with the Garuda led by the Lord of the Skies.”
“So I have heard, Empress. It is not my desire to arbitrate any wars between other nations. I merely caution you to keep your forces out of my realm.”
Fetohep stressed that last, and she smiled, giving nothing away. He had heard the Emperor of Sands was a powerful, commanding warlord, but she seemed to be purely focused on diplomacy-Skills.
Strange. Body double? Or something else? Perhaps she was just that adaptable, but the Empress inclined her head.
“Reim shall soon know the breadth and scope of my war with them, and I merely request your forbearance; no force of mine shall sully Khelt’s inviolate borders.”
In another time, with the full weight of Khelt behind him, Fetohep might have told her to keep her armies a hundred miles clear of his borders or suffer his wrath. He was half of a mind to, but if she called his bluff…
He would have sent ten thousand skeletons marching at her if she so much as offered him a single slight. But she had not, and so he made a show of mulling her request over before nodding once.
“Let it be so, as a mark of esteem for a new ruler come to Chandrar. Stitch-folk speak well of your reign, Empress. This, I consider, as well as the discourtesies offered to me by the King of Destruction. I allow this.”
She bowed her head.
“It is an honor, King of Khelt. I should be wary, then, to not make the mistake of slighting Khelt. Perhaps my [General of Sands] may, with your permission, leave a gift at the borders to show my appreciation?”
It was all so well-done and said that he would have smiled if not for the unsettling worry at the back of his mind. Fetohep waved his hand, and later, he watched a news report showing the army from the Empire of Sands firing arrows at circling Garuda.
War had come to Reim, and the King of Destruction’s push into Nerrhavia blunted only slightly; he sent Takhatres to smash the army, and they fell back in retreat. The next week, a second army crossed the desert. Then a third. None drew closer than forty miles to Khelt’s borders, but he felt that unease. What was the Empire of Sands planning?
The Empress couldn’t think to win a land war against the King of Destruction, not with each army so far out of position. Her nation was large enough to sustain several on the offensive, even if they took the heavy casualties Flos Reimarch loved to dish out, but it was just a waste of troops.
Neither she nor Flos had engaged because the sheer distance between their nations meant that it would require a long, sustained offensive push into the other’s domains. Better to expand first. Perhaps she was just intending to raid him or coordinate with Nerrhavia’s Fallen and halt him from taking too much territory there.
Fetohep didn’t know, but the topic of [Soldiers] had him summoning Lanodest to the palace that first week. As well as the boy he had met.
 
——
 
Anleth was in awe of the royal palace, and his family was petrified of their vast, royal chambers, but it was the will of His Majesty after the trauma they had endured.
Everyone was going to the [Thought Healers], and the rest of his family were too nervous to even speak to the King of Khelt over breakfast, but the boy thought the [King] paid attention to him and even expected Anleth to answer, so he did.
“So you have no nightmares, young Anleth?”
“No, Your Majesty.”
Anleth lied after a second, and he only had them every other day. Fetohep nodded once.
“This is well. Such moments can be overcome with mastery of one’s self, not with distractions. It is my will that you visit Koirezune and stay in the palace a time.”
“W-will the [Slavers] of Roshal return, Your Majesty?”
Anleth’s father, Baazem, asked, and Fetohep slashed the air instantly.
“Never again, Baazem. This I have ensured.”
They all relaxed, relieved. Perhaps he’d sent armies against Roshal or threatened them with more destruction or a Jaw. That was what everyone said, but Anleth didn’t know. The conversation with Thatalocian and Fetohep kept replaying in his head, and it didn’t sound like—
The golden, kindly gaze of his [King] distracted the boy, and he fumbled with the half-Elven breakfast of delicate fruits and leaves. He munched on one, and Fetohep spoke.
“Content yourself, my subjects. And let us, perhaps, see if anything may stoke your own passions and talents. I have proclaimed that Khelt should reclaim its many talents. Do any of you practice the sword? Magic? Archery, perhaps?”
Most of Anleth’s family had tried—he’d not been allowed to use edged weapons—and they fell over themselves telling him about their practice. Fetohep listened keenly, but he paused for a moment when only Baazem revealed he’d gained the [Sword Trainee] class. He was Level 3.
“I see. Perhaps more sword-training would steady your nerves, Baazem. For the rest of you, let us branch out your interests. What is it you practice normally?”
Baazem and Mirala, Anleth’s parents, eyed each other. Mirala spoke, smiling.
“Baazem and I are [Cuisinists], Your Majesty.”
“…Beg pardon? Ah, [Chefs]. Of course.”
“Oh, no. Neither of us cook.”
“[Gourmets], then? I am not familiar with the class.”
Fetohep tilted his head, and Mirala laughed.
“No, Your Majesty! You jest so finely. We design menus!”
“Ah, for restaurants.”
A pause, and Anleth grinned at the fine joke. Mirala hesitated, and Baazem smiled broadly.
“No, for those who enjoy restaurants, Your Majesty! Ours is quite popular in our city, though I fear no one is in the mood to cook—but we also do fine menus for personal cooking. None our own recipes, of course. We don’t write recipes, you see. We simply select the best ones.”
“The best banana bread—there are so many inferior recipes that finding the right one took over fifty taste-tests. We develop fine eating for Kheltians who, ah, gain too much weight. There are of course spells and tonics, but the cleansing process is so horrid—follow our plans and even the pickiest eater can lose weight without a Skill! Of course, it’s not just food. We have a theatre viewing order for plays, all the best ones closest to the Players of Celum. In fact, we hope to visit the city and come up with our Koirezune travel picks!”
Did the flames in Fetohep’s gaze shrink ever-so-slightly with each passing sentence? Possibly, possibly. Anleth watched with fascination as the [King] nodded after a moment and smiled.
“Such fine perception in my subjects. And you, Cora, as Anleth’s sister, what do you do?”
The girl was sixteen, and she nearly leapt to her feet.
“I, um, I don’t have a true hobby yet, Your Majesty. But I do make beaded necklaces.”
She had thousands of beads from other nations, which she traded with other bead-loving Kheltians. Glass, wood, ceramic, even her prized possession: an Orebu-Beetle’s polished chitin made into a bead.
“A fortune in beadery. I see; your bracelets certainly delight the eye. Naturally, I trust you shall enjoy yourselves in the city. And perhaps find some time to pursue some training…?”
