Then a voice broke through it all and spoke with the power to stop the earth from shaking. With the will to halt falling mountains and remake them in glorious gems. As a parent spoke to a child. With all the certainty in the world, a voice he had not heard since he had lived.
“Fetohep of Khelt, breathe. Calm yourself. Be silent and listen to me.”
It cut through the ceaseless panic attack, into the dream, and the darkness vanished. A voice like golden sunlight. Fetohep of Khelt sat up, looked around, and then…he saw the undead.
Not a skeleton. Nor, even, a being like Captain Cikroleth. This was someone else. A preserved corpse, shrouded in purple robes, the style of which had not changed for aeons. An emaciated face, noseless, the leathery skin of a mummy from Trey’s world.
For a moment, Fetohep thought he was gazing at his reflection, but the figure was shorter. He had never been a warrior, but a [Mage], and his eye-flames were not gold, but a warm red, the color of cherries. Still regal, but so kind…
He stood there, and a woman who stood next to King Razzimir of Khelt, the 15th Ruler, was even shorter than he. She had mortal flesh, and the years had made her short near the end of her life, hair white, wizened. Then in another moment she was taller, hair black and white, wearing a dress embroidered with bones.
Khelta.
“I am dreaming.”
That was Fetohep’s first thought. The second was to panic.
“I am dreaming! I have failed again! If I do not wake—”
A torrent of terror dragged him downwards, but King Razzimir spoke once more.
“Fetohep. Fetohep, focus on my voice. Look at me. Breathe. In and out. You are dreaming, partially, but you are also standing in the lands of the dead. Khelta, words of encouragement.”
Fetohep’s whirling mind re-focused as Khelta visibly jumped, then cleared her throat.
“Er. Well done, Fetohep, my successor. Don’t panic. There there.”
She glanced at King Razzimir and, for once, seemed uncertain. He stroked his chin as Fetohep’s panic receded once more.
“There. Fetohep, take your thoughts slowly, you understand? Even for undead, you can work yourself up into a frenzy, and we cannot stop. It is like a spinning top: we will never slow down. I told you I had advisors who had panic attacks in my time, Khelta.”
He turned and gave her an arch look. Khelta pinched at the bridge of her nose.
“And I mocked you for it. It is clear that there are elements to undeath even I did not predict. Yes, Fetohep, listen to King Razzimir. Though what kind of panic attacks?”
The 15th King of Khelt steepled his fingers together and spoke with a smile, possibly for Fetohep’s benefit as the 19th Ruler focused on his voice.
“As a matter of fact, they were my trusted companions who chose to follow me into undeath. A practice which seems to have ended with Queen Xierca? She mentioned difficulties in that regard. My advisors were quite capable, but the Creler Wars terrified them. And as I said, with undead, it can result in such calamitous emotions that at a certain point it becomes sheer madness. Self-harm to destroy oneself because the vessel cannot physically contain the emotions.”
“Fascinating. Perhaps it is a flaw in how I made the Revenant King spell. I never tested it upon myself…”
“You could never be so foolish, Great Khelta.”
Razzimir assured Khelta, and Fetohep opened his mouth to do the same, but the Great Necromancer of Khelt just stood there, hands bunched in her dress, head hung low. Looking…miserable.
“You say it kindly, my successors, but I did not anticipate this. My magic warded Khelt longer than most, yes, but look what I have given to Fetohep. A struggle beyond any of us.”
A wretched gaze, now, and Fetohep took in his surroundings and realized they stood in long, swaying stalks of dried grass. Blue sand under moonlight, vast hills in the distance—where were they? He bowed to her.
“It is my failing, Great Khelta. Mine and mine alone. I sacrificed the ghosts and undead of Khelt at the Meeting of Tribes. I deemed it just, but I weakened Khelt, and what follows is my sin. I shall never atone for—”
Razzimir nudged Khelta.
“As I told you, he was blaming himself.”
“Yes, yes. Oh Fetohep, my successor nineteen times over…be silent a moment. Breathe. You are dreaming, and perhaps it is ill, but hear us. Look upon us. We stand in the lands of the dead. Free from the Goddess Formerly Known as Death’s grip. We are free.”
Khelta’s eyes flashed. Her lips quirked, and she wore a smile of victory. Fetohep’s remembered heart leapt. He knelt before her, staring around and realizing—yes! This was it.
“You triumphed. As I should have known you would—”
Razzimir coughed, Khelta inspected her shoes, and both avoided looking at him. Razzimir spoke while hiding his mouth behind his hands in an old-Kheltian gesture of embarrassment.
“It was not our doing, Fetohep. Say, rather, it was the defeat of Kasigna which returned our souls. As for the, ah, rest, it appears the force that governs all has recreated the deadlands, albeit with changes. If we owe anyone gratitude…it is to a white rat of our mutual persuasion.”
Fetohep stared at him as he rose to his feet.
“…Haldagaz?”
Khelta sighed louder and pursed her lips.
“He refers to the Gnoll Fatechosen. Among many, many others. What we know is rudimentary, gathered from hearsay—flashes of insight while we were part of that damned goddess. Happily, we are freed and our connection restored enough that we may talk. Only four of us; the others were taken by the other gods. But it brings us hope they may be returned, in time.”
“If they haven’t been digested.”
Razzimir muttered darkly, and Khelta regarded him. Fetohep was stunned. Then rejoicing.
“Then our connection has returned! The glorious dead are Khelt’s once more! We are saved! I shall wake and set it all to rights, Great Khelta, I—”
He stopped. Because she had lifted a hand, palm out, and her face, her mortal face, was guilty. Fetohep felt that sinking feeling again as Khelta whispered.
“Fetohep, I regret to tell you that it is not the same as it was. If it were, Khelt would have been returned to strength, or a modicum of it, the moment we were freed. It has been some time since then. The souls of Khelt shall not empower the undead.”
He stared at her, and she began to pace, her finger glowing in the air. Razzimir’s head bowed, and she spoke.
“Allow me to explain. This very ground we stand on is the palace in which you now reside. Chandrar looked different in my age. I laid the magics to create Khelt’s undead, my finest work, into the earth.”
Razzimir and Fetohep gazed down.
“Why blue sand?”
“…Because it is. Sand comes in many colors. Blue, black, white, orange—no?”
Khelta glanced at them and went on without missing a beat.
“It was the most complex work of my life and a collaboration between masters of other disciplines. Only a combined ritual allowed Khelt to be created, and it was still the work of centuries refining the magic. I laid a [Million Sigil Magical Array] as the entry conduit, and from there…it doesn’t matter. Even Hecrelunn didn’t understand it. Hence the issue. No [Necromancer] since my death has ever managed to alter the wards. By now, I imagine they are embedded; any attempt to shift them will likely erase it all.”
Fetohep listened, trying to find hope, and feeling himself slipping into panic. He slowed himself, forced away the panic, as Razzimir had just shown him. Khelta went on.
“That connection is how we ghosts drew upon the power of Khelt to defend the deadlands so long. But when we were taken, lost, we were ripped from the [Vault of Glorious Souls]. Our knowledge, our presence, the thing that gives both the undead and ghosts the power of Khelt, was lost.”
“But you have returned, Great Khelta. Does that not mean…?”
Khelta turned her eyes upon Fetohep and shook her head.
“The deadlands were utterly obliterated, Fetohep. Our souls repatriated to this new place—but not to Khelt. Nevermind that we are returned. If one rips the paint from a mural, can it be put back just so?”
He understood, but it was so…Razzimir muttered.
“Unfair. I would petition the system of such cruel justice.”
Khelta stared skywards.
“…I think our connection with Fetohep is already that concession, Razzimir. Or perhaps the rules are changing further. These deadlands seem different, but I do not know what it will bring. What I do know is this: Khelt’s dead shall not empower the land.”
Despair once more. Until Khelta added softly.
“Not for at least three generations.”
Fetohep’s head snapped up. The Great Necromancer paced back and forth along the sands as it floated upwards and refused to fall, hanging in strange drifts in her wake.
“The vault requires refilling. With capable, canny minds. By the thousands. For every skeleton who needs to know how to fight, there should be a hundred souls who have known combat.”
Fetohep opened his mouth, appalled, to point out that Khelta was suggesting something far more impossible, but Razzimir beat him to it.
“Khelta, that would suggest we need the souls of a hundred million Kheltians to field even a million undead! We could not fill Khelt with those numbers in three generations! I know you were famously bad at math, but how vast do you think Khelt’s population is? Even accounting for tremendous population growth, we wouldn’t have reached that capacity within four rulers of my time!”
Khelta paused and scowled at Razzimir. Fetohep’s head turned to her, and he closed his mouth hurriedly. Bad with…? She flicked her fingers out.
“My calculations are not incorrect. I rephrase. What I mean is that for every skeleton that must fight, a hundred souls, at least, should be stored in the [Vault of Souls] that they might provide pieces of the puzzle. No one soul fills a Kheltian skeleton. That prevents numerous issues. They draw from a whole, a gestalt. That means—”
“Yes, yes, we all know the word. Aha, I see. But would a hundred souls not be simple to accumulate? Not that I am implying one should sacrifice a hundred warriors, yet if it saved Khelt…”
The [Necromancer] glowered at Razzimir, and he finally shut up. She spoke haughtily.
“I would not sacrifice a single Kheltian. Nor do the unwilling work well with such magics. Khelt is based on loyalty, trust! A hundred souls will barely, barely give the skeletons more fighting prowess. But it is more than that. Balance, the simple way to walk, familiarity with tools—better to have a thousand warriors. Better still to have a hundred thousand. I have calculated this, and I saw it done in my lifetime, Razzimir. Three generations is how long it took the Khelt of old. At first, the effects will be barely noticeable due to the diffusion of memories in the vault and the spells I used to safeguard against undead turning rogue—bah, you two are not [Necromancers]. I shall not bore you with the details. Three generations, Fetohep. I know it may be daunting.”
Then she and Razzimir turned to Fetohep and seemed to recall the gravity of the situation. Khelta gave him an anguished look, and the confession slipped from his mouth.
“I shall not manage one, Khelta. It is failing. I am failing.”
“We know.”
Razzimir kicked Khelta in the ankles, and she amended her words.
“It is not your fault, Fetohep. You are handed an impossible task with events I could not foresee. And enemies—Khelt’s enemies we have accrued over keeping paradise secure. We…cannot help you. In truth, I do not know if you must dream to visit us, or if we can speak to you while awake. I fear the former; you will have to meditate or dream. We have tried to speak to you upon your throne, and see Khelt, but we can no longer do that.”
So, they had returned, but the magics that governed Khelt were broken. It might be remade, but—Fetohep knelt.
“You have seen me in my despair, and I have besmirched myself in your eyes, Khelta. If I must hold Khelt three generations, I will—try. But I speak to you in all honesty: I do not know if I can safeguard your kingdom.”
He waited for some grand words of encouragement, but Khelta just studied him, then fell onto the sands. She sat heavily, bracing herself with her hands. Razzimir was far more decorous and knelt. Khelta’s hair covered her face as she bowed her head.
“You will do all you can, Fetohep. I know you shall. No more can I ask. Have Hecrelunn…where is Hecrelunn? Has he perished? I have not seen him, but he could have gone exploring.”
Fetohep’s heart hurt, and now he was resolved. He had to wake with this seed of hope, with the knowledge in his chest. But he hesitated.
“I was speaking to him when I…collapsed. He agreed to help, but he had been ignoring my [Messages] and not understanding the full scope of Khelt’s woes, it seems. What do you mean…exploring? Where are the two other rulers of Khelt that were returned?”
Khelta spat onto the sands, such a vulgar act that both Razzimir and Fetohep gasped.
“That spiteful child. He never aged in spirit. What I mean, Fetohep, is that this is not the deadlands of old. It is far, far vaster, and it seems to have things meant for we dead. Many still wait to know what happens next, or in the hopes we can be of some aid to the living. But Tkayl has already gone exploring, with Salui, and so has Zushe-Greso.”
Razzimir nodded, smiling, and cast his eyes to the horizon, and Fetohep realized it was vast and infinite. He even saw other ghosts in the distance, and Khelta raised her hands and greeted them, as if meeting new people. Not like how Erin had described it, people re-living their lives, at the mercy of fading into nothingness without levels.
“There is peace here, for those who wait and so we do not all dance attendance on the living. A good thing, that. You would not enjoy Salui’s presence, Fetohep. He is rather…obsessive. A failing, I suspect, in either his upbringing or the cult of personality that His-Xe cultivated. Not that I would denigrate the rule of another of my predecessors, but if I were to analyze—”
Khelta shot Fetohep a stare as Razzimir began to drone and murmured.
“Were it not for the debt I owe you, I too might have gone exploring. But I shall remain until the end, Fetohep. I just…I wish I had more than hope for you.”
He knelt again.
“A chance Khelt can be restored is that hope, Khelta. I must simply hold it together. I must…I beg your wisdom. Let me at least consult with you upon a plan for Khelt. My problems are manifest, and I do not have a solution.”
He clutched at the blue sand in his hands. He wanted their wisdom. How to combat the Prophet. Or—whom he should approach. What they would do.
