They appeared in a procession, men and women wearing white robes, hoisting packs, shouting praises, even singing, and at first, it seemed to the Kheltians as though it were a festival. That was what surprised the Prophet each time.
The third city was no more prepared than the first. People actually left the open, unwalled city with its fountains that each ran with a different colored liquid, and they pointed or laughed, shouting.
“What festival is this? No one told us! Are you foreigners here at His Majesty’s invitation?”
It was so…strange. The People of God flowed forwards, and they sang, but there was a bitter edge to their hymnals. And, the Kheltians realized, ash and dust coating their robes, even dried blood.
So they said:
“Are you hurt? Was there an accident on the roads?”
That made the man standing in the center of the column of faithful turn and look at a man, an older one in his sixties with fair pale hair. Human. His face was one of concern. He could have been from Earth, even if his dress was more fantasy-themed than Earth’s, a sash of glittering enchanted red silk hanging from a pale white tunic and with blue inlay near the leggings.
This man, among all the Kheltians, seemed to realize the People of God were not usual visitors. He frowned, stepping back, and someone shouted from the Prophet’s ranks.
“We are the People of God, followers of the Prophet and the true way! You, Kheltians, who worship your depraved, murderous king—repent! Repent and beg forgiveness, and even you shall be saved!”
The Kheltians stopped approaching, confused. A stocky young Stitch-man who’d run up recoiled.
“Who are you, and how dare you say such things about His Majesty? You’re filthy—wash before you enter our city! This is Raliet, the Spring City! You look like beggars. Is this some kind of game?”
He—made it easier. But in truth, even if they had welcomed the People of God with open arms, it would not have mattered. The young Stitch-man, his carefully-sewn cotton features ablaze with indignation, met Jilthread’s face.
And her eyes were red with tears. The ash of the destruction of her fellow pilgrims still clung to the side of her face. She did not raise the spear she carried, though the young man’s eyes locked on it in astonishment.
“We are the People of God. This city is ours. We claim it in the name of God. We will cast your king down and make him pay for his crimes.”
“What is she talking about? Estoli, come away. They don’t seem to be in the mood for chatter.”
One of the young Stitch-man’s friends called out, and there it was again. She didn’t say ‘unsafe’ or ‘dangerous’. Because the word just didn’t occur to her. And Estoli stared at Jilthread.
“What crimes? People of God? I’ve never heard of you. If you speak about His Majesty like that one more time, I will have an official arrest you.”
He was not afraid of the many People of God. Nor did he know…Harvey spoke, a rasping voice.
“We are at war with Khelt. Have you not heard of the other two cities emptied by our people?”
Estoli recoiled, and the Kheltians of Raliet gasped in astonishment. Estoli’s eyes widened.
“Other cities? War? Impossible. If we were at war, the skeletons would kill—how are you here?”
No one had told them? The other citizens who had fled their cities hadn’t said…? Harvey looked to Marrieh, and she whispered.
“It could be a trick.”
He didn’t think it was. Jilthread strode for the city’s gates, and someone ran past her.
“This is Raliet! The city of springs! Prophet, see—each one runs with a different liquid! Purified Water, wine, even a curative tonic—I thought it so grand until I learned that God could do the same with but the tap of a staff!”
Adoive. He was gleeful as he gazed at the other Kheltians. The only smiling person among the People of God. His face was twisted up with maliciousness, and Harvey didn’t look at him.
“Silence, Adoive. This is a holy war. You—all of you. Take what you can carry and flee. Tell your King of Khelt that if he scorches us, we will sweep into the next city by blood and fire.”
Jilthread addressed the growing crowd, and they just stared at her. Like sheep.
The Prophet waited, because he knew someone would object, and it was Estoli who put out an arm as Jilthread began to advance with a blank-faced core of People of God. Not the warriors. They knew they were in no danger.
“I don’t like how you’re talking, stranger. Begone. No one is taking anything from us. If you don’t leave, I’ll call for skeletons to deal with you. I saw it happen to a foreigner once. The skeleton broke both his arms.”
The threat made Adoive cackle, and Jilthread just gazed at the arm. Then she reached up. Estoli was carrying a solid gold necklace with golden fangs. It was probably to mimic the Gnolls or some such, and it was clearly heavy.
Just the kind of thing a young man might think was worth wearing. Real gold too, Harvey bet. She yanked it from his neck, and the Kheltians gasped.
“This wealth is a sin. You live in debauchery. If you would know how to live truly and righteously, stay.”
She told them, and Estoli recoiled, then grew truly angry. He reached for the necklace.
“That is mine. I commissioned it so I could visit the Gnolls! Give it back!”
He reached for it, and she pushed him back. His eyes widened, and he went to shove her. When he did, she knocked down his arm.
Back home, Harvey knew plenty of hotheads whose next move would be to throw a punch. Well, Jilthread was a woman—but Estoli didn’t. He backed up, rubbing at his arm.
“You hit me. You hit—skeletons! Skeletons, defend me!”
He began shouting, and other people took up the call. Jilthread waited, and then it happened. The ground shifted.
A hand dug itself out of the soil, and a skeleton arose. Fast. It practically popped out of the ground. It swivelled its head left and right as green flames entered its eyes as if confused, and Estoli howled.
“She hit me! She’s a foreigner and insulting His Majesty! Arrest her!”
The skeleton turned its head, and Jilthread’s spear punched through its eye sockets. She ripped through the skull as if it were paper mache, and the tip of her spear was glowing white.
Holy weapons against the undead. The Kheltians stared as the skeleton collapsed.
“Y-you killed a skeleton. Help. Arise—”
More skeletons began to dig out of the ground. Jilthread’s boot stomped through one, and then she was turning.
“I say again, this city is ours. Blame your king for the massacre he committed against us.”
She strode forwards, and when Estoli stood in her way, mouth open, she shoved him to the ground. He landed hard, on his elbows, and cried out from pain.
Then—his friends and the other citizens of the city saw Jilthread advancing, swinging her spear like a club, not using the pointed end, and they began to scream.
“Help! Help, she’s attacking—”
“Run!”
The panic set in. But even then, it was curious. The People of God advanced as Kheltians fled, screaming in pure terror, doing more damage to themselves in flight than the People of God did. They tripped and fell and scraped themselves, but the ones further in the city…glanced up and asked what was going on.
“It’s like they can’t hear. Or they’re deaf.”
Marrieh remarked, seeing the alarm spreading in stages. The ignorance of the other cities…the Prophet spoke harshly.
“They’ll all know soon enough. Clear this city. Let the wounded and thirsty drink. I need to rest. I’ll rest…”
He was mortally tired from the acts of faith that had saved them, even days later. Sick at heart—he listened to the People of God advancing into the city and wondered if they could sweep all of Khelt this way.
It was so easy. A child could best grown men and women. Of course—there were always exceptions.
“Halt! In His Majesty’s name!”
A single official barred the path of the People of God. Harvey glanced up as he searched for an inviting house to sleep in, and he saw the same old man. He’d found an official, and the Kheltian man wielded a curious, padded baton.
Is that their notion of a police officer? He was calling for the undead, but when the skeletons arose, the People of God dispatched them in moments.
A stone from a sling, a hurled axe—a prayer from Jilthread and the final skeleton burst into flames. The official paled, but he lifted the padded club two-handed.
“You will leave this city now!”
One of the [Warrior Priests] came at him, to grab the silly weapon and toss it away, but to everyone’s surprise, the official struck out, tapping the priest in the chest with the weapon with actual speed. And the [Warrior Priest] keeled over instantly.
“What was that—?”
“Paralysis. Enchanted.”
Marrieh commented, and Harvey’s alarm faded. The official was backing up, shouting at the Kheltians to flee and summon more skeletons, inform His Majesty. He swung in wide arcs as Jilthread lifted her spear.
“Don’t make me hurt you, man of Khelt.”
“I don’t know how you came past the border, but you will not advance one step further. If I must, I will hurt you.”
The official touched something on the handle of the padded club, and it glowed an ominous red. Fire? Harvey turned back again, but Jilthread was calm. She set the spear low, and the official hesitated.
“Don’t make me—”
The twang made his face twist up, and the old man next to him recoiled. The official fell to one knee, staring at the crossbow bolt that had splintered through a kneecap and the blood spattering the ground. Then he screamed.
“My—aaah. Aaaaaaaah—-”
He choked, dropping his padded weapon, which smoldered on the tiles as he clutched at his leg. His eyes rolled up, and he tried to express the agony which he might have never felt in his life, but he couldn’t. He convulsed until he realized that made the pain worse, and someone laughed.
Jilthread spun, and Adoive lifted the crossbow he had fired.
“Take that!”
“Adoive! The Prophet has said not to harm any who do not resist!”
“And? He was resisting. I hate the officials. Look at him—he’s pathetic. He can’t take a single injury.”
Adoive dashed forwards and snatched up the club. He waved it, and the rest of the Kheltians fled in panic. Jilthread tossed down her spear and strode over.
“[Heal Wounds]!”
The wound closed as she snapped the crossbow bolt and bent to yank the bloody quarrel out the other side of the knee. The official convulsed, but the skin closed—and yet Jilthread grimaced.
“It’s not healing properly. Marrieh! I need your help. You might have crippled him, Adoive.”
She turned on him, and Adoive slunk back, whining.
“He was threatening you! These clubs can burn, Jilthread. Haven’t they done enough to us? The King of Khelt burned your entire camp—”
“Adoive, enough.”
Marrieh shoved him aside and bent to kneel over the official. He stared up at her, panting, pale-faced, and she spoke.
“I’ll try to heal you, and if you cannot be moved, you will not be harmed.”
“Wh—why have you come to our kingdom? What have we done to you?”
Her face was grim as she replied.
“Your King of Paradise burned our people into ash.”
The official stared at her.
“Unprovoked?”
To that, she had no answer. Harvey turned away. He went walking for a house; he knew he should stay with her and his bodyguards, but there was no danger here from the Kheltians. And he was restless.
Fleeing Kheltians, packing things, staring at the People of God. Some of them—asking questions. Flinching back when the People of God snapped at them. The city would take hours to empty. If they were actual raiders, Harvey doubted many would have escaped. But there was little violence.
Oh, some of the faithful shoved Kheltians aside when they went to bar their homes or took possessions off them. The Kheltians were too afraid to fight back, and even the most hotheaded ran after being struck once.
But some…yes, some had nerve. The old man was back—barring the way into a house.
“You cannot enter. There is a newborn child inside. Leave.”
His eyes flashed, and some of the faithful hesitated. One went to shove him aside.
“We will harm no one, but you will leave. We are the People of God.”
“So are you [Bandits] or despoilers?”
“We are a virtuous people!”
The [Cleric] snapped back, angry, and the man held his arms out as voices and a crying baby echoed from within.
“Then if you are, we have nothing to fear. Give them half an hour’s time, at least.”
The faithful milled about, but none were quite willing to shove him aside. Harvey watched as they backed up, and when he was certain they would not try to enter, the man kept moving. It seemed he did not believe the People of God were entirely peaceful, and perhaps doubting it himself, Harvey followed.
An odd game of cat and mouse ensued as the two men strode through the city of Raliet, searching through the chaos as the city rapidly emptied of people. The old man realized Harvey was following him and glanced back his way, but neither said a word.
One’s eyes were filled with anger, confusion, fear, and distrust. The other’s with cold emptiness.
So many dead. I will have vengeance, I swear it in God’s name. And perhaps Harvey wondered if God had…why did he allow such misery? Why was there misery in any world?
The work of the anti-Christ, of demons and the Devil, was surely strong. And Fetohep of Khelt was an embodiment of that. But why…
Were his cities so clean? Why were his people like newborn babes? Fat, complacent, arrogant, and rich, but so nonviolent. Were they tricked?
—No. There was one stain of filth in Khelt. Both the old man and Prophet found the man in a far street.
“Hand over all your possessions, now. You do not deserve them! No one in hypocritical, fat Khelt does.”
Adoive was holding the club he’d taken aloft, and he’d encountered a group of six Kheltians. Two were lying on the ground, paralyzed. Whether or not they’d fought, Harvey didn’t know, but as he came to a halt, he saw the four terrified young people stripping their bracelets and jewelry off.
Adoive snatched at them.
“What is this? Real jade? Do you know how much that’s worth?”
“Let us go. We’re leaving. We only wanted to grab our things—”
One of the Kheltians spoke, and Adoive swung the club, and she flinched.
“Not so fast. You’re…you’re all sinful. Hand over the rest.”
“What rest?”
She felt at her earrings, and he pointed.
“Your clothing too.”
“Are you mad?”
The former-Kheltian was licking his lips, and Harvey was advancing down the street, faster now. It occurred to him to wonder—Adoive had been expelled from Khelt for some transgression. What was it?
“Take it off or I’ll hit you!”
They were hesitating, shaking, when the old man shouted.
“Enough!”
