So it was just Cikroleth’s ship in the end. No solution for the Prophet here. Pewerthe sagged. Then, she felt at her bag of holding.
“I have work to do, and I would like to keep speaking, but do you have a place out of the wind, Captain? I have pots to make.”
He stared at her as the entire crew turned. If she found them surreal and otherworldly…what a strange Heir of Khelt she was.
 
——
 
For all their own dissatisfaction about their ability to stem Khelt’s woes, Sand at Sea was still blazingly fast. The crew might still be swearing over not being able to fight Roshal—something they had clear guilt about—but Fetohep ordering them north when the Prophet had been an issue had one upside.
The undead warship had single-handedly been guarding New Jecrass this entire time. All the soldiers and undead that had been stationed in New Jecrass had been supplanted by a single warship crewed by battle-hungry Revenants.
They’d killed monsters, routed [Bandits], and even dealt with local crime with the efficiency of people who knew underworlds. Thus, by the time Pewerthe got to actually touring the former lands of Jecrass, now New Jecrass, she was surprised.
Eighteen pots were done by the time she got off the boat with sea-legs and wobbled down the gangplank to meet some surprised people. They were all shit pots, barely watertight, but they’d do…
“What brings you here, ah, official? Lady?”
The representatives of this city in Jecrass, Holhoofen, were horse-people. Not literally Centaurs, but people who were just as good with horses and who had wide, sprawling settlements thanks to Jecrass’ open plains and rivers.
It was lush to Pewerthe, who was used to plenty of drinking water, but not greenery all about. Captain Cikroleth spoke crisply.
“Yonder is none other than the Heir of Khelt, Pewerthe! Answer her questions and ours. Have you any more crime? Bandits? Monsters?”
The New Jecrassians turned to Pewerthe and almost genuflected there and then; they had no idea how to treat her, but when she told them she was inspecting the area for Fetohep, they seemed relieved.
“We feared we’d been doing something wrong, Lady, um, Your Highness. We asked about tribute or taxes, but we were assured none were to be paid. So we’ve…stockpiled gold. Since none is to be spent. Have we erred?”
“No, not at all. I was more sent here to survey the cities and hear their complaints.”
The woman who had been [Mayor] of the city until the changing from Jecrass to Khelt’s territory gazed at Pewerthe.
“Complaints? We have none, Heir.”
“Oh, surely you must.”
That was them being worried. Every city in Khelt had complaints, and that was before the bug problem. But the [Mayor] just scratched her hair.
“We receive food—wondrous food—to each city regularly. There’s no need to spend coins, and no crime. Not since Sand at Sea strung up the last gang. We received the scrying orbs, and the [Mages] have been enchanting houses nonstop. Half the city’s been building better homes together since construction materials are free.”
“You have? With what skeletons?”
“With…our [Carpenters], Lady Pewerthe. Together. It’s something most of the city’s done, or they’ve taken up other hobbies. Some of us visited main Khelt to see how it was done. No, we’ve no complaints. I know His Majesty has worried about the lack of entertainments here, but he’s sent a fortune in everything.”
Pewerthe stared at the woman. The city behind her didn’t appear wonderful at all, and then Pewerthe remembered how non-Kheltian cities looked. By the standards she remembered as a girl…
“Didn’t you lose a lot of citizens to Jecrass when the land was ceded to Khelt?”
That was the agreement Jecaina had struck; no citizen of New Jecrass would be forced to stay, and they would be compensated for the loss of their homes. The [Mayor] smiled.
“Some, but between Reim and Medain raiding us—most stayed. Why wouldn’t we? We owe His Majesty of Jecrass a great debt, but the war was long and…it was Khelt. Any other nation and we would have thought of leaving. But Khelt?”
Paradise. Pewerthe was so bemused, she cast around.
“You don’t have any problems? What about the bugs?”
And then the [Mayor] chuckled.
“What about them? All the officers and visitors here worried so much, but it’s been the lightest of springs imaginable. All the snow the Winter Sprites brought killed off most.”
The Heir to Khelt stood there as Captain Cikroleth snorted with amusement. She quickly realized that of all the places in Khelt right now…New Jecrass was probably the happiest.
 
——
 
New Jecrassians were just, uh, a bit hardier than Kheltians. They had flies. Horses drew flies to them as a matter of course, and what did you do? You swatted the buggers, then shoveled the manure to keep them from laying nests.
Duh.
Four cities, two towns, and any number of villages later and Pewerthe was relieved—and even more annoyed at her own people. The people here were only too happy. In fact, when she relayed the troubles of Khelt, they’d been positively alarmed.
“No one knows how to deal with insects in Khelt? At…all? If it’s so dire, we do have [Cleaners].”
Pewerthe had an idea after speaking to Mayor Vithalda, the first woman she’d talked to. Thus, Sand at Sea ended up picking up hundreds of New Jecrassians with the express purpose of coming back to Khelt for aid.
A visit to Khelt proper in exchange for smushing a few bugs interested lots of New Jecrassians. The other half were [Farmers] who were bored as could be and were interested in Farmer Colovt’s project.
Sand at Sea dropped off the first wave of New Jecrassians across the cities, and Pewerthe herself found Farmer Colovt, who was astonished—and gratified—by all the help.
“Pewerthe! I am delighted, but I have nowhere to host so many fine people!”
“We can sleep in the stables if there’s not enough beds.”
“And more can be sent for, Colovt. They’re hardier than, ah, regular citizens. They won’t wilt from a night’s rest.”
Colovt seemed horrified.
“Sleep in the stables? I only meant—I probably have enough couches and bedding, just not anything quality. Come in, please!”
His family rushed about to help settle the [Farmers], who had to stare at the skeletons and Golems tending these massive farms. They were so excited by the scale that they barely paid attention to bedding. Colovt would have been right there with them, but he drew Pewerthe aside.
“Pewerthe…may I ask you a question? I know you are on His Majesty’s business, but I have heard—rumors—from the north. I receive requests for special orders of crops, and my family travels. My youngest daughter told me she was turned away from going any further north than Ilishek.”
His youngest daughter was twelve, but she could sit on a wagon and drive it anywhere with little fear in Khelt. Colovt’s face was concerned, the crow’s feet at the edges of his eyes crinkled up.
“Pewerthe. I know His Majesty has asked for this great farming project for Khelt’s personal improvement, of course. But I have looked at the skeletons, and…and insects on my farm are one thing; I did live in Reim. Yet I’ve heard rumblings in many cities. Is all well in Khelt?”
She stood there as he held his hat in his hands and glanced at the New Jecrassians, who could see nothing wrong. Colovt’s face was careful, but she just took a breath, then shook her head.
“It is not well, Colovt. The skeletons have lost their ability to perform many tasks. Hence the insects. His Majesty is attempting to keep the matter secret, but that is why he asked you to create this farm. Khelt’s defenses and ability to handle matters in…everything…are jeopardized. It is a secret, especially to foreign nations, but the knowledge is becoming widespread, no matter what Fetohep and I do about it. That’s what’s going on.”
The blood drained from Colovt’s face. He swayed in place, as if she’d struck him, and she reached for him in case he fell. But then the man cast around.
“I have to tell my wife. So that’s why the Jaws…I knew he would not just attack. May I tell them, Pewerthe? I—”
She nodded, and he strode off before running back to assure her he would tell no one else and that he had questions. She glanced at Cikroleth. The undead [Captain] gave her a two-fingered salute.
“I have more people to drop off. Shall you come aboard, Heir?”
“No, it’s late. Pick me up tomorrow, Captain. I’ll make sure Farmer Colovt is well.”
 
——
 
Pewerthe spent that night in the overflowing farm house, but Colovt’s home was huge enough to be a mansion, and the New Jecrassians were in great spirits. They didn’t notice that Colovt himself and his wife and eldest daughter appeared withdrawn.
The [Potter] was worrying she’d made a mistake, but she felt the knowledge had to be told. Colovt spreading the news would be a drop in a bucket of problems. Anyways, she had her own countermeasures…
She was awake at an hour past midnight, digging a hole away from the fields, then filling it up as a Harvester Golem stared at her. Pewerthe finished tossing the pots into the hole and was almost done tamping the soil down when she saw another figure in the fields.
Farmer Colovt was pacing down the fields of crops, muttering to himself.
“…Has to be Yellats. Corn might do, but how much water do we have? We import so much of it, if we lose access to that—it needs to be sustainable. This won’t feed even a tenth of Khelt at this rate. They have to farm in New Jecrass too. More water there. Best place for it, really. [Druids] think we’ve killed all the bugs who could grow most crops. If we all start farming now—”
He jumped when Pewerthe called his name, and he spun. She saw him glance around guiltily.
“Potter, I was just…I told no one besides my family, I swear. I just had to get out and see how much we were growing. If we need to feed all of Khelt—”
Stress was eating at his hunched shoulders. He clearly was unable to sleep, but if he’d had a panic attack—Pewerthe stood there, smiling in the moonlight.
“You’re attempting to help, Colovt.”
“Well, yes, of course. This is my home. If I’d known why we needed the crops…”
Colovt appeared mystified by her smile. She came over and rested a hand on his shoulder.
“Fetohep should have trusted you long ago with the entire problem. We need more people like you, Colovt.”
“Nonsense. His Majesty knows what he’s doing. I just don’t know—are you truly a [Potter], Pewerthe? That’s the only thing I can’t figure out. You’re capable, of course. But His Majesty made you the Heir. Is there nothing more to it than your wisdom and insight?”
She laughed softly.
“Truly, Colovt? Not much more, no. His Majesty needs someone who can think like a non-Kheltian, and it’s a compliment I’m the top of the list. Oh, and he told me levels matter to survive the…conversion process. I’m higher level than almost anyone in Khelt. Level 42. Keep that secret.”
Colovt nearly did a backflip before trying to bow himself into the fields. She just hugged him, then bade him come inside with her so they could talk and before someone thought they were having an illicit rendezvous or something. She even decided, then and there, that they should be honest with the New Jecrassian [Farmers].
Not about the skeletons, maybe, but if Khelt was going to need to produce its own…produce, the truth had to come out. She wrote Fetohep that herself in the middle of the night before she went to sleep at 4 AM, tired but hopeful.
—She woke no less than twenty-four minutes later to her personal speaking stone going off.
“Pewerthe, report! You told Farmer Colovt everything? The New Jecrassians? This is unacceptable! We must contain—the hostilities against New Jecrassians may lead to harm of my citizens. The Prophet is doing something in the north. The [Mercenaries] are refusing to answer my messages and—”
“Your Majesty? I had to tell them. I’ll be there in the morning with Captain Cikroleth. I have ideas on how to use his services.”
Fetohep’s voice was overly-loud, a crescendo of alarm and tension.
“I am sending him to you now. I will see you within half an hour, and you shall explain yourself. Bring Colovt, and he will be sworn to—the Emperor of Sands has sent an army around the Great Desert. They are heading this way. There is a riot in…a riot has broken out in the main city. Return to—”
Pewerthe’s stomach twisted. The Empire of Sands? An army? And a riot? She spoke quickly.
“Isn’t the Empire of Sands just fighting Reim? An army was coming for ages before now. Your Majesty? I’ll be there right away. Fetohep?”
She thought for a moment that he was just ignoring her or taking a call. But after several minutes of pacing, a terrible suspicion came over her. She queried him again, repeatedly, until Farmer Colovt woke up, and then a panicked day-servant found the speaking stone and heard her voice.
She was running towards Sand at Sea the next minute, shouting at them to take her to the palace now. 
 
——
 
King Fetohep of Khelt was already restoring order in the palace by the time a panting Pewerthe arrived with Captain Cikroleth in tow. He had woken up; it had been barely an hour of ‘sleep’.
Nevertheless, the fact it had occurred again was a sign he was, what, overloading? Pewerthe saw the King of Khelt sweeping around as the day-servants stared at him with the wide-eyed horror of people who had seen reality shake.
“Ah, Pewerthe. I am quite recovered. More—taxation of my resources, that is all. You will report to me about Farmer Colovt now. I require your monitoring of him and the New Jecrassians lest word of what I wish to keep private spread. Captain Cikroleth, I have heard tell New Jecrass is well. Should you keep it secure, I shall be satisfied in all ways.”
He sat himself on his throne with a regal nod, and the Captain sketched a bow.
“By your will, Yer Majesty, it’ll be done. Say the word and we’ll be at Khelt’s borders within four hours, no matter where we are in New Jecrass. What of this army?”
“I am in negotiations. Drop Pewerthe back at the farms. Pewerthe, you are to—”
“No. I’m staying here. Cikroleth, I have orders for you. I want to see these riots.”
The King of Khelt visibly wavered as Pewerthe interrupted him. However—he was the [King] of Khelt, and he kept talking, his voice rising ever-so-slightly as to make it clear his will would be done and that he would not be gainsaid.
A kingly gesture that did not work because Pewerthe kept speaking. So there were two voices in the throne room.
“—ensure each [Farmer] is of good character and keep them from returning to New Jecrass. If needed, I shall have excuses made, and upon completion of this task, I shall then—”
