The beast had clearly realized that its lightning was less than effective against this invader, and so it didn’t use it for offense. The earlier barrage had allowed it to slip from sight, but it had also hidden the fact that the beast had cauterized its wound with its power, stopping that hemorrhaging.

Now, it struck from just beside Lea, its jaws closing on her left leg before she even registered it was there. Most of its teeth were momentarily stopped by the thicker metal of her armor, but some went around that, magic acting on their points and edges to allow them to pierce her ‘flesh’ where the two met.

Lea screamed in pain and rage, but the girl wasn’t out of the fight, not yet.

Her greaves morphed into spikes that would make a porcupine proud, poking into the soft inside of the fox’s mouth. She couldn’t force them to grow or reshape deeper, but they did enough to keep the beast from chomping down further, at least for a moment.

It didn’t release her however.

Lea screamed again, her spear morphing and flowing up and around her right fist, being joined by most of the mass of her shield as it shrunk down to more resemble a buckler.

Then, she dumped power and momentum into that fist, hammering downward at the now-close vulpine skull.

A shield of darkness and lightning concentrated, gathering to block the hit, repulsing her first strike.

This revealed another flaw in Lea’s planning.

She’d come into a place of darkness, a place where the midnight fox would be more powerful than usual.

Tala saw that dawning realization on her daughter’s face, and she almost went to save her, but Rane held up a hand, clearly having the same thought but noticing something more. “Wait.”

Lea screamed again, in pain, desperation and rage as something changed.

Her soul pulsed and the power of the boon-curse radiated from her gate and throughout her entire body.

Her next blow came down like the fist of an angry Sovereign, the fox’s shield cracking like glass.

The next hit splintered the remnants as the white steel mass bludgeoned the vulpine head, purposely driving the jaws closed and skewering the soft insides on the myriad spikes she had created.

The blow also drove the teeth deeper into Lea’s leg, but she was seemingly beyond caring.

The midnight fox tried to pull back, but every hit reset the inner spikes, damaging the fox from within even as the rain of blows cracked the hard outside.

Lea’s voice continued to resonate through the darkness, no longer issuing forth from her mouth. Her very soul had grabbed the air around her and was generating the rageful scream, independent of her body.

Twelve blows later, the skull split open. One more hit ended the magical beast’s life, and Lea’s white steel flowed back outward, taking its place as armor as she reached down and pried the teeth free of her leg.

She didn’t stop there, prying the jaw open until it split free of the upper part of the head, the sound of tearing flesh rising alongside the continued, berserk screech.

That came to a crescendo as she tossed the parts aside, standing and panting in obvious tumult.

Rane lowered his hand. “Now, we can go to her.”

Tala was in the cave a moment later, wrapping her daughter in her arms, words of comfort already pouring from her lips.
