Ren put his hand on her forehead and closed his eyes, and used his Emotion Siphon ability to search through her to see what was different about her. He found their connection and also hers to Renardos, and discovered the problem.

“You're getting pure emotions from Renardos.” Ren said. “He's only a baby, so he doesn't have the emotional capacity to handle them.”

“Oh, my.” Nathalia said. “What can we do?”

“Give you a buffer of sorts.” Ren said and followed her link to Renardos. When he was close to entering the child's emotional center, he was met by a bright Light wall. “Interesting.”

“What... what is that?” Nathalia asked. “It looks like a...”

“It's a Magical Barrier of Protection made of Light.” Ren said, amazed. “My little boy is protecting himself.”

“Ren... how can... he's just a baby.”

“He's not a 'just' anything.” Ren said and opened his eyes and looked at Nathalia. “He's got you and me mixed together. Since we're both pretty awesome...”

Nathalia snorted a laugh. “Stop joking around.”

Ren closed his eyes and made a small series of barriers all along Renardos' connection to Nathalia. They were also made out of Light, so that there wouldn't be any conflict. As each one was placed, it filtered the connection and by the time Ren placed the last one, Nathalia could feel Renardos' emotions, but they didn't affect her.

“Ren, how...”

“It will only last as long as he is unaware of what he can do.” Ren said. “As he gets older, he can find them and remove them himself.”

“But...”

“He knows they are there, so all you need to do is teach him.”

“I... yes, I know.” Nathalia said as Ren shared the knowledge with her. “Thank you.”

“Thank you for giving me more joy in my life.” Ren said and gave her another kiss. “I'll see you later.”

“Bye, My Love.” Nathalia said.

Ren checked the All-Seeing Mirror and cast another portal. “Are you sure I can't suckle your other breast?”

“Ren!” Nathalia mock-gasped and laughed. “Get out of here!”

Ren blew her a kiss and stepped through the portal into the hallway in front of the royal apartments in the castle. He felt everyone's reaction to him just appearing like that, and smiled as he walked down the hallway to Narhilda's room. The two guards on duty stared at him like he was the devil incarnate for violating the sanctity of the castle like he did, and he motioned to the door. One of the soldiers sighed and knocked on the door, and Ren waited there patiently.
