303 (II)

The Sky-Swallowing Carp (VI)

The lean-meat echoes molded themselves around the gristle-marrow spheres, encasing the second and third layers with the first. Only then did Shiv call upon Candles’ aid to heat up the grilling station again—at a low simmering burn. The purpose here was twofold: to heat the substance at the heart of the meatballs with a slow flame, and to properly cook the lean meat on the outside as well.

For approximately two minutes, all seemed to be going well. And then Shiv ran into a problem he'd foolishly forgotten to anticipate. Slow heat made the water evaporate.

“Godsdammit,” Shiv grunted to himself. He almost plunged his Biomancy into the test meatball being cooked before he pulled back. His touch would bring ruin to the masterpiece, and despite his inner anguish, he had to serve more as commander than cook to see this done. “Shroom-orcs, hold on to as much hydration as you can.” He turned to Adam. “I need your help—and wipe that stupid look from your face. Why the felling hells are you smirking at me right now?”

Adam failed to fully suppress his amusement. “I just find it remarkable how much this consumes you. I find it commendable. And enviable.”

Immediately, Shiv felt a bit bad for snapping at Adam. “Oh. Uh. Yeah. Sorry for—”

“What do you need me to do?” Adam asked. “Is it the moisture? All the water inside the mushrooms is being boiled out of them?” Shiv briefly found himself speechless. Adam just laughed. “You forget, Shiv. I might not be any kind of cook, but my Awareness is unm—” He silenced himself and frowned in the vague direction of Shiv’s Severed Shadow, and then Valor thereafter. “Is more than sufficient when it comes to trivial matters such as this.”

Shiv didn’t even need to tell Adam what to do in detail. His body quivered as it turned to currents of splashing water, and a thin mist of dew-like drizzle circulated free from his form into the steaming meatball.

“Careful,” Shiv breathed anxiously. “Avoid the grill. It’ll—”

“I know what I’m doing,” Adam replied, licking his lips. “I’ll make sure not to soak the meat, either. I just need to keep it slow and feel my way in…” Seconds passed. The confident expression on Adam’s face slowly faded until his resolve dimmed and his eyes narrowed. “Shiv. Why can’t I feel the mushrooms?”

“Because I diced them up extra thin and small, so they don’t ruin the texture of the meat. If they’re too big, they’ll ruin the experience.”

“Ruin the experience how?” Adam asked.

“Imagine you take a bite into soft but firm meat—and then there’s a squishing feeling as you find yourself chewing on something with a rubbery texture and then feel more water building up in your mouth.” Adam let out a slight shudder of disgust. “Yeah. I’ve seen that look before. I made this mistake before. Georges chewed my ass out more than once when I left some oversized lotus chunks inside a gelatinous meatball dish. People don’t like it when they feel what seems like foreign material in their meatballs.”

“Alright, but then how am I supposed to find all the mushroom pieces? I’ll grope around if you want me to, but I feel that’s not exactly efficient…”

“It isn’t.” Shiv had his Severed Shadow glide into position beside Adam and reached out using his Hydromancy. A far weaker field of bright, watery mana merged with the moisture flowing out from Adam, and Shiv pulled his friend in the direction of the shrooms hidden within the meat. “Just go in the direction I pull you. You’ll feel them.” Shiv was on the verge of saying something else, but then a subtle string slipped into the skull of his physical body. The Shapeless Tides running along his Severed Shadow flared bright with counter-translucent mana, but he bade them to calm, allowing Uva to reach into his mind. Meanwhile, she did the same thing for Adam, and once more, the three of them shared a unified consciousness.

“Been a while since we got to do this,” Uva said.

Her Psychomancy was a heavy but comforting presence; it held a warmth and might Shiv missed feeling. But there were gaps and rips he could feel. Uneven aspects to her strands and divots within her mind. She was holding bits of her own psyche together with her mind magic, and it was only then that Shiv found himself altered by how much harm she'd suffered during Blackedge’s defense—how she was forcibly holding herself together, hiding away her deepest scars and sealing away unaddressed wounds.

Shiv flinched. “Uva…”

“Later,” she said, echoing what he'd promised earlier. “Privately. Just us. Right now, I just want to pretend to be an actual person living an unfavored life. So. Let’s finish making these… Orc Manifold Meatballs together.”

An awkward worry bled over from Adam. He could feel Uva’s fragility as well—and it was an act of deep trust for her to show this part of herself to them; however, he also found himself feeling like a third wheel on a bicycle at present. Then came the mournful loneliness. His mind drifted to a withered girl laying in a hospital bed, her body so thin and deprived there soon would be no separation between her and the sheets.

“We’ve all taken our share of hurt,” Uva said softly, squeezing Adam’s mind in acknowledgement of his pain as well.

“Then, I suppose we should distract ourselves with a measure of shared triumph,” Adam replied, forcibly lifting his own flagging spirit so as not to bring the other two down.

It struck Shiv just how human Adam was compared to him and Uva. But that made the Gate Lord all the more radiant. Adam wasn’t beyond death. His mind didn’t naturally regenerate from trauma or psionic attacks. There were things that terrified him; a lifetime of nightmares had all but been bestowed upon him by the System after all he'd endured, all he'd survived. Even through all that, he was still here, still fighting, still strong, still shining.

His dawn was broken, but that only made it shine brighter.

It was wonderful to be loved, heartening to have worthy warriors at your back, and glorious when the two were found in the same people. The world had left its share of marks on Shiv, and he would mourn the one he couldn’t save, but couldn’t claim this life had given him nothing. He could say it didn’t spur him to bring his culinary creation to its final state.

With Uva’s Psychomancy tethering Shiv to Adam, there was no need for manual adjustments. The Gate Lord saw what Shiv saw, felt what Shiv felt—and found himself utterly discombobulated by how Shiv now occupied two different bodies. Shiv gave Adam a moment to figure out which body was actually physical before highlighting the shroom-bits using his Atlas. What came aglow before his eyes was beheld by Adam and Uva as well, and thus the hydration within the shrooms endured even as the heat climbed.

“I think it would’ve been wiser for one of us to direct the heat away. Create temperatures using Pyromancy rather than war against it with water magic.”

Adam cast a brief look at Candles, who tensed. He lifted a skeletal finger and pointed it at his face. “You… want me to… stop something from burning.” He sounded like Adam just told him to commit a series of unspeakable acts upon a small, defenseless kitten.

“Adam, don’t torment the poor man. He’s been helpful enough.” Shiv gathered his own fire mana in anticipation of the next meatball to be made. “I’ll handle it. My Pyromancy isn’t that strong, but it’ll be good enough for this. Good suggestion, though. Let’s see how this first one turns out.”

Following the instincts ingrained within him after years of cooking and The Chef Unwavering, Shiv looked on with bated breath and narrowed eyes as the gray muscle tissue of the orcs darkened into a rich, brownish color. A fine layer of crust began developing on the outside as well. The Deathless ordered the orcs possessing the outer layer of the meatball to turn to make sure every bit of it was cooked evenly, and that nothing was harder in one place than another. Under his careful ministrations and aided by his friends, the pristine glow of The Chef Unwavering lit his first official meatball up like a gem.

Trailing strings of smoke climbed high up toward the ceiling, and the bioluminescent veins lighting up the room drained it away using microscopic pores along their sides. They inhaled and drew the steam and heat away, keeping the temperature and air quality within the room at a stable equilibrium. As the first  Orc Manifold Meatball sparkled bright, Shiv found himself possessed by motion. He rushed back toward the freezer, guided by a will that resided deeper than his subconsciousness, that lurked within his skill. Both Adam and Uva were confused about what he was trying to do, but he returned, grasping a handful of lathered orc fat using one of his mana hydra.

From there, he laid the fat upon the grill, and it began to sizzle and pop along the flat and gleaming metal surface. Shiv called out to the orcs and directed them toward the spread-out smear of fat with a gesture. The echoes were only all too willing to abide. They rolled over, tumbling and twisting, wrapping every bit of the already well-burned outer layer in a final film of salted orc grease.

The crunchiness had been doubled. The flavors would feel like surfing along a rising and plunging wave: extremely salty at first, followed by a dimming to a sour or sweet flavor, then a hardness that seemed almost nut-like in its blandness; finally, the steaming hot marrow flowed out, bathing everything in a cataclysmic climax that never overstayed its welcome, thanks to the juicy pieces of mushroom nested in the lean meat-mash of the exterior.

The Chef Unwavering 80 > 82

With a final spark, Shiv knew his great work was done, and two more levels arrived in recognition of his efforts despite not laying his own hands on the meal. Yet, there was still a question as to how the meatball might taste, and how good it might feel to chew, to swallow. He salivated beholding the crusted orb with gluttony. But then he noticed Kune standing in his periphery, and he realized the right thing to do. A chef couldn't judge their own food reliably. They were either too extreme in self-criticism or too lenient because of confidence or delusional narcissism.

“Alright, Squire, you ready to be my first customer?” Shiv turned to her with a wide and genuine grin.

Kune stared back at him. Her shell-shock was no weaker than before, her body tensing as if anticipating a coming fatal blow. She swallowed, and her soft blue pupils dilated as they narrowed in on the manifold meatball. Shiv carried it over to her using his Biomancy field; he let it hover for a moment before she reached out with shaking and near-unwilling hands.

With her acquiescence, he dropped the meatball, and it landed with a soft slap. In the seconds that followed, she looked down at the meal she had been given with bated breath and unnerving stillness. Slowly, her head twisted up, and she stiffly bowed once. “Squire-Adept Kade thanks you for this meal.”

“I told you, you don't have to do that anymore. Right here in this kitchen, I'm the chef, and you're a customer. And the customer is almost always right when it comes to taste and choice. Just don't push your luck beyond that. I'm here to feed you and make sure you get the best culinary experience you can. Everything else, that's up to my discretion and your decency.”

Kune blinked once. Shiv never stopped smirking. Uva leaned in beside him with a frown. “I can't tell if you were trying to reassure or threaten her.”

“Both,” Shiv said. “Georges did this all the time. He warned people about being rude to the staff, being unreasonable, or being, in his words, 'stupid fucking cunts' for no reason. But you're not going to do that, are you, Squire-Adept Kune?”

The Descenders Union elf shook her head vigorously. “A Squire would never break the iron laws of hospitality, be that under threat of death or worse.”

“That's great. Now you can live up to those laws of hospitality by telling me with full honesty what you think about that there meatball.”

“Be crushingly honest,” a few of the orc echoes lingering within the meatball declared. Their presence manifested in looming shadows, standing around the girl, leering down at her.

“And if the flavor is not to your liking, be sure to strike at his heart. Be sure to condemn the failure of his artistry. For this is not our doing. It was not our intention to fail your taste buds, but the Insul's. It was his arrogance and hubris, thinking that he could cook now that he is a cripple, a broken thing, that led to this outcome.”

Though long dead, the orc's words still fanned faint, simmering embers of anger inside Shiv. But he was good at dealing with anger now. So he simply folded his arms. “Yeah, be honest. Be as honest as you want. Be as cruel as you want. Just be genuine. That's all I ask. And if it's good, no need to say anything. Just enjoy it. More will be coming right after.”

