Once more, Kune stared down at the meatball the same way a prisoner would lay eyes upon swaying gallows looming before them. Her lower lip was twitching faintly. She swallowed a final time, rebelled against her uncertainty, and then, slowly, almost too cautiously, sank her teeth into the meatball. The first crack sounded through the kitchen. It was such a satisfying noise. The snapping sound of breaking crust. As her teeth passed through the outer layer, Shiv saw her eyes widen, and he knew he had her, at least so far. Then she began tearing through the second layer. Her bite gained new strength. She wanted to find what was waiting at the end. As she drove in deeper, she found the second layer, and with a tightening of her jaw muscles, it popped open, breaking apart inside her mouth as her eyes grew even wider, her blue irises flaring brighter, her body tensing.

Stillness followed thereafter. Her body went tense, her hands turned fists by her side, and she looked up, her cheeks growing redder and brighter like she was blushing. But Shiv realized what was happening. The marrow might be a bit too hot for her. She might not have Adept-Tier Toughness at all. That was an unfortunate oversight.

"You burning?" Shiv asked.

She shook her head, but her body vibrated. Gardener of Doubt activated, and he knew she was lying to him. Shiv scoffed. "If you're burning, just spit it out. It's okay. I can make you another meatball. Will adjust the temperature. Anything to do with the meal is my responsibility. Your culinary experience is my duty.”

Despite his words, she began chewing faster, and using his Atlas, he could see her tongue moving. It was burned slightly. He could tell from instinct and insight alone, but it was also flicking about, licking bits of substance off the roof of her mouth and off the sides of her inner cheek. She liked this. She genuinely, truly liked the meatball. And she was draining away every drop of the marrow within. She was in elation, only doubled when she got to work on the gristle as well. She bit down hard on each of the fibers, snapping them into pieces and swallowing them after a good few minutes of labor. The kitchen was fully silent now, but the Deathless was positively vibrating with glee. It had worked; she was satisfied.

She didn't even need to say it; the orc echoes within the first meatball were now fading, their purposes served. As they realized the Squire was actually enjoying her meal, they turned and saluted their Insul with raised fists a final time in recognition of their feat and also their part in the endeavor. “It was a pleasure, Deathless,” one of their number whispered. “Come find me when I return. I think I would like to do this again.”

“It's good,” Kune Kade said softly. “It's really, really good. Maybe a bit too salty at first, but then when I broke through the crust, the saltiness faded, and, well, I really like biting into it. It really works on my stress when I chew. I like it. The marrow is great too. What is this dish?”

“Manifold Orc Meatball,” Shiv proclaimed proudly.

Kune swallowed a third time, but she seemed like she was trying to get another hit of the flavors lingering on her taste buds this time. “So you weren't lying. That's actually made from orc meat. You managed to make orc meat taste good…”

“Orc meat does taste good,” Shiv replied resolutely. “Almost everything can taste good if you make it the right way and you add the right complementary ingredients and sauces before cooking it right.”

The small smile on her face emerged like the rising of dawn after a cloudy night. “You must be some kind of master chef, then.”

“I guess you could call me that, technically,” Shiv said, “but I'm still trying to figure some things out. I still got a lot to learn and experiment with. But here and now, yeah, I'm feeling pretty masterful. Seeing that look on your face makes me want to cook the next dozen as soon as I can, so everyone else in this kitchen gets a taste. After that, I think I'm gonna open the kitchen for a while and let in all the customers down below.”

“Down… below?” Kune asked, uncertain what Shiv meant.

“Yeah, I don't know if that's a wise idea, kid,” Jessica said. “That's a whole godsdamn lot of orcs you're about to invite into your flying restaurant. It's big, but not that big. This is likely to start several riots and slaughters between the different factions down below.”

The moment she said that, Shiv turned and offered her a vicious, evil grin. “Oh, I know that. That's why I had my Severed Shadow go down already. I need to collect some new echoes, and I need new ingredients as well. This will make everything more economical for me.” Shiv laughed. The laughter continued for a few seconds longer as his body adopted a tenseness born of uncertainty. “Did I use that word right, Adam? Economical?”

“You did, Shiv,” Adam said. "You're positively giddy right now, aren't you?"

“Oh, I feel great, Adam,” Shiv said. "I feel like this is the right thing to do. The System can go fuck itself. This is where I want to be. This is what I'm gonna be doing for as long as I can. No! Forever! That's right! I'll be doing this forever!"

The Deathless started chuckling again, and he stared up through the ceiling, sneering at the unseen hand of the System, sneering with all he could muster in defiance of Integration. I'm gonna be a chef whenever I want, and even if you kill me, no matter how many times you kill me, I'll be back. I'll just keep cooking. You can't make me fight your bullshit wars. Fuck you, System! Fuck you!

Kune gawked, slack-jawed at the sight of the mad master chef. With a labored effort, she drew her eyes away from him and briefly looked at Uva, the only other Abyss native in the room, for any hint of reassurance.

The Umbral gave the young Squire a shake of the head. "He is not mad, do not worry. He's simply processing a great many things. As are the rest of us."

“I'm glad your meal has turned out for the best, Shiv,” Valor said. “But before we do anything, I think there is a matter we should address. One that has to do with this establishment.”

Shiv stopped laughing in an instant as his focus was reeled back to the present. He looked at the ancient Pathbearer, tilting his head as he tried to figure out what Valor just said. "What do you mean?" he asked. "What about this establishment?"

“A name,” Valor declared. “This restaurant, like all restaurants, needs a good name. You said that you hailed from the Swan-Eating Toad? That was a fine name. A great deal of subtext and lore is hinted at there. Have you given any consideration as to what you wish to call this place?”

Shiv fell quiet, his eyes drifted downward, and he found himself staring at the floor. His mouth was pressed flat together, and he drowned himself deep in his memories, sinking back into his past, reliving all the moments he'd shared with his mentor, with his fellow chefs. All those moments, all those crystallized instances, all the times he was yelled at, the fewer times he was praised, all the stories and tales and things he heard Georges tell. He didn't rush through those memories. He stayed there. It was a good place to be. It was a good place to remember, to hold on to who he was before his Path, before the blood, before the System took something precious from him.

And amidst that maelstrom of recollections, there was a single memory that stood out from beneath the waves and all the debris like a rising lighthouse. A single tale that Shiv heard from Georges back when he was but a child. He could barely read then. He wasn't even that good at holding a knife. Though, of maybe because he had been disheartened after his failures—and though Georges chewed him out, as Georges was wont to do—the head chef told him a tale about a Carp that didn't wish to stay a carp, about a little fish that was meant to be prey beneath the great titans of the abyssal dark and the brutal fangs that drifted through the waters seeking supple flesh.

Georges told him the story of how the carp found a waterfall leading high into the sky, and beyond the clouds. The carp decided to swim in defiance of the ocean, where it would only be made a victim, food for someone else's evolution. And in recognition that there was a world beyond the confines of the cage it once knew, the carp swam upward, it climbed the waterfall, it learned to fly through strife and struggle.

And after years of effort, and near mind-breaking labor, the Carp slipped past the clouds and went further into the great black beyond. By the time the carp arrived at the other end of all rainbows, it wasn't much of a carp anymore. It was a dragon. And so it began swallowing the sky in retribution, for once, it lived beneath the sky's all-encompassing jaws.

“The Sky-Swallowing Carp,” Shiv whispered. Quietly, but resolute. “That's what the restaurant's going to be called.”

Adam did a double-take at Shiv's declaration. Everyone else looked surprised as well.

“That sounds pretty, uh, literary,” Jessica said, shuffling. “Kind of unlike you. Shit, kid, can you even read?”

Shiv spun on her with offense. "I can read! I can read just fine. Just nothing too hard. I can write too."

“I'm more surprised you know the story of the Sky-Swallowing Carp,” Adam said.

Uva looked at him and laid a hand on his back. “Georges?” she whispered.

“Yeah,” Shiv murmured in nostalgic pride and sadness.

She kept rubbing his lower back, offering comfort. “He would be very proud of you. He was very proud of you. I didn't get to speak to him very much. But I did tell him that we were… together.” She smiled lightly. “And that pleased him the way it might an uncertain father.”

Shiv's jaw quivered, but then something else about her statement threw him off. “What do you mean, ‘uncertain father’?”

“Reciting his words as best I can… he asked me if I was some kind of potato-made person, and I was confused at the start. But then he explained that he expected you to only be romantically and sexually interested in someone made from potatoes, considering how you spend all your time pricking them instead of any of the other chefs or servers in the kitchen.”

Shiv broke into guffaws of surprised laughter, laughter that lasted a long while, and with it fell a few tears. “Yeah, that's him. That’s definitely him.”

“He also gave me a few choice threats about what he might do with a spatula and my breeding organs if I ever broke your heart.”

Shiv tried not to laugh harder. He failed.

Uva's smirk lessened thereafter. “I'm sorry. I wish I had protected him better. I wish I had protected the town. I wish… I wish I knew him better. I think I would have liked him.”

“I think so…” But Shiv didn't finish that sentence, because he genuinely wasn't sure. Uva generally had a very muted, very dry personality. But Georges? He was like oil and fire, preparing to go off at any time. And so Shiv went in another direction altogether. “You want to find out what a day running a restaurant is like? Because if you want to know what creates someone like Georges Archambault, I can show you.”

“Well, then, Chef,” she said, her voice falling low and breathy enough to send shivers through Shiv’s body. “Show me, then. Actually… Put me to work. I think I want to have the full experience.”

The two shared a long look. Long enough that Adam walked away from them with a disgusted scoff.

“Come, Squire-Adept,” he said to Kune. “Let me find you a safe place aboard this Court Leviathan for you to rest before they start exchanging bodily fluids in front of everyone. We do not all need to become unfortunate casualties like poor Valor.”

Both Jessica and Kune responded with surprise—but for different reasons.

“What?” Kune breathed. “Wait. I’m inside a what?”

“Lich, did I hear him right? You watched those two kids rub bits?” The Giantsbane had Rusty in the shape of a greatsword now, laid upon her shoulder as she regarded Valor with a frown.

“It’s not—I was not a willing participant,” Valor tried to explain. “They left me in the room!”

Jessica’s face tightened in disgust. “Then why didn’t you leave, you sick fuck!”

Valor threw his hands high in agitation. “I was a knife! I couldn’t move! I was the victim!”

And through it all, Shiv and Uva remained decidedly ignorant of Valor’s cries—much like before.
