There were also guards in each of the factions’ respective colors, which Matt assumed were from the respective kingdoms. The fact that there were people manning the queendom's side was slightly alarming. Had the invasion already started, or were they an advanced party sent as an emissary.

Matt was constantly thrown off by the fact that this wasn’t a true invasion. If it was a real war, they would break through at the teleport location and build a teleporter of their own, so that more troops could be quickly funneled into the planet.

Matt thought about the notion, and decided that wouldn’t be right either. The higher Tiers wouldn’t travel through established connections unless they had to, since they could travel through chaotic space. Or…

Matt shook himself out of his pointless musings and climbed out of the cab to march up to the Seven Suns building. It wasn’t like the Empire would publicize how they attacked people in a real war, so it was pointless to check.

They were stopped at the stairs by the guards and told to wait until someone could vouch for them. After a message to Juni, they were immediately let through with an apology.

They were given directions to a room in the middle of the massive building that was so awkwardly located, Matt wondered if Juni had a falling out with the Prince. To his surprise, they found a massive topographical table map of the planet, with hundreds of fortifications of different designs and colors, with a dozen or more small groups inspecting various parts of the map.

Matt and Liz walked around the set-piece while Aster curled up in the backpack, uninterested in the boring human goings on. Juni quickly came over and shook both of their hands.

“Thanks for getting here early. Things are a little crazy right now.”

“Yeah, we noticed with the out-of-way location.”

Juni flinched hard and said, “Don’t mention that. Even though the Prince isn't here he’s a little touchy about that. We’ve also had a few...” He paused, “Incidents. Princess Sara, the Queendom's leader, is Tier 7 like the Prince.”

Matt was shocked by that and checked Juni. He found that the Prince's right hand was now Tier 7.

He interrupted by asking, “Sorry, but you advanced? I thought you both had quite a bit more to go.”

Juni laughed at that, “The King is giving us everything we can think to ask for, and the army said we couldn’t bring more Tier 7’s to the planet. They said nothing about making them here with essence stones. Apparently, the Empire is reimbursing everything they spend on this, and the better the battles and war, the more the kingdom will be rewarded. If the rumors are true, that extends to both personal rewards for the king, and rewards for the entire kingdom. He’s sparing no expense and giving everything he can, and plans to advance a lot of people. Last I heard, the king intends to move up something like twenty million Tier 5’s and 6’s.”

Liz whistled, “That’s a lot of people. What are they all going to do?”

“Fight, I suppose, I’m sure the king would send more, but that’s the limit for the kingdom to send. Anyone else will need to be recruited from the Pathers. Speaking of Tier, I see you all worked hard. From mid Tier 5 to Tier 6 means you were busting ass.”

Juni looked around and then pulled them to the side. “But back to my point, the queendom's leader is a Tier 7, Princess Sara. They had a meeting last week where she instantly and very publicly declared that she would marry the Prince.”

The man looked incredibly awkward as he finished. “The Prince tried to play it off as a joke, but she bet him that if she won the war he would have to go on at least a dozen dates with her. To the Prince's dismay, both sides’ parents agreed to the condition. I believe the king wants to pressure the Prince to not lose, and it’s working. The problem is, for as much of a physical monster as Princess Sara is, she’s unexpectedly crafty for someone of her damage potential.”

“She’s already gotten packages into the Prince’s bedroom twice, and crashed meetings like this with extravagant gifts four times in the last week. In fact, just this morning the Prince woke up to find his room filled to the brim with roses.” The man was looking more frazzled the longer he talked. “We still haven’t a clue how she did it.”

Matt had to give credit where it was due. “That’s impressive.”

“It is, but it's also a sore spot for the Prince, so we’ve been moving meeting locations to random rooms, and it seems to have worked. So far, at least. Just don’t mention her, please. Especially around the Prince when you see him later.”

Moving the conversation along, Matt pointed at the map and asked, “What are the little castles?”

Taking advantage of the change of topic, Juni smiled. “So while the Empire hasn’t released any information officially yet, we know a few things. The army is busy building locations that have strategic value, or at least simulated strategic value. However, they’re still finishing with a few locations. It will be reminiscent of a game of capture the flag, where the longer one holds the location, the more points that side accrues. It’s technically a secondary objective, but not to the king. In fact it’s his highest priority. The war ends when one side controls the entire planet for a full month. But from a few rumors, some of the prizes are allegedly worth more than the Tier 20 planet to the kingdom, so it’s of vital importance to hold the positions. The king has even said that he’d rather lose the war, if we got him enough points.”

“Is there not a bonus for winning?” d Juni nodded in response.

“Of course, but the problem is that no one knows how much it’s worth. It could be worth millions, or five mana stones. That’s too far above us, though. As long as you’re ok with it, you will be back with the team that assaulted the golem fortress. We’ll be filling out the group to about five hundred over the next few months, with the best of both Pathers and kingdom fighters. We’ll be acting as the quick reaction force, and doing a lot of the hard work when it comes to taking and holding important locations. I suggested to the Prince that we take the fighters from the golem war and make them our team leads for the best fighters. So we want you three to lead one team.”

Matt shrugged, it seemed like a good opportunity to earn more points. He said, “We don't mind taking a team leader role.” He looked at Liz, who nodded at his unspoken question. “This just feels wrong. I get that this is a curated war, but it feels a little too much like a game. The queendom is already here. Why wouldn’t they just attack?”

Juni looked tired and sighed at the question. “Yeah, but we can’t do anything about it. When the countdown ends tomorrow, we believe the war will officially start. The queendom will appear in the city that correlates with their teleport location, and they will start moving in. We don’t know exactly where that is yet, though. And we’re unable to preemptively take control of any of the valuable points. We’ve been limited to the areas near our cities, but that leaves nearly two-thirds of the planet uncontested. Once the war starts, we’ll be scrambling to try and block the queendom off, and it won’t be easy. They can appear anywhere and attack a single location with their full force, but at least our defending advantage won’t be completely nullified with the Empire’s restrictions in place.”

Matt took a look at the map and noticed that the cities with the teleporters were surrounded by blue forts, while the rest of the map was gray. There were also larger, city-like structures strewn about. There was one on each of the five continents, and one near an isolated archipelago chain on the other side of the planet

“What are they? Fake cities?”

Juni shook his head. “No, they’re cities that the army made like this one, only a lot smaller. They also have teleportation formations in them that will allow the cities to reinforce themselves. We expect that the queendoms’ teleport location from their planet string will drop them in one. Sadly, they can only be teleported to when the war starts, and they’ve already been captured by one side.”

Matt tried to take it all in but was distracted by the sheer scale of it all. Twenty million people were being brought in for the first wave, and that didn’t even account for the Pathers that the Empire would be shipping in.

To his surprise, he was actually excited and itching for a fight. Unlike with the golem fighting, lives weren’t on the line here, and there were goals to fight for. He didn’t miss the forts situated around rift clusters and natural resources. If his guess was right, there were a few artificial resource nodes in areas that would otherwise be unimportant.

His competitive blood boiled, and he wanted to get out and take the fight to worthy opponents. Matt had no doubt that there would be strong people in both the vassal forces and among the exceptional Pathers.

Juni kept telling them about what to expect, but it all amounted to not much of anything. They would have to wait until tomorrow for the truth of the situation, when the war would officially start.

“What should we do now?” Liz’s question re-focused him once Juni excused himself to make more preparations.

“Well, we don't have any responsibilities until the war starts, and our team isn't assembled yet, so I doubt we’ll do anything tomorrow. This all seems to be progressing much slower than I would’ve expected. We have a room set up, but I’d like to visit one of the enchanters around the building. I want to get a second opinion on the pattern I made for my sword, so I can enchant it before the fighting starts tomorrow.”

“Welp, let's go. Our room doesn’t seem to be in a dorm-style, so at least we can enjoy our off time in between fights.”

She stretched, showing a bit of her midriff where her shirt rose up. “That is, if we have much down time. Somehow, I expect this will be more like the golem war, and we’ll running from place to place to put out fires.”

Matt laughed and shook his head. “Yeah, but without the risk of death, this should be pretty fun. There’s gonna be plenty of other Pathers to fight, and lots of vassal people to round out the numbers.”

Liz shrugged, and they wound their way out of the building to find one of the Tier 7 enchanter locations. Unable to find one near them, they wandered in the direction of the crafter's district, until Aster leapt out of Matt’s arms and scampered off into the packed crowd.

Following his connection to his bond, he found her hanging off a man’s red and bushy fox tail, who looked at the arctic fox with bemusement.

He met Matt’s eye and chuckled over Aster's growling. He shook his tail, causing the fox to sway. The man lifted his tail to waist height, bringing the troublemaker attached along with it.

“I take it she’s your bond.”

“Yes, I’m so sorry. I have no idea what got into her. She’s never done this before, I swear.”

Matt moved to pull his bond off the man’s tail, and noticed that he was wearing an army uniform, and was traveling with a squad of others. Of course, Aster had to attack a Tier 15 or above soldier.

“It’s fine. I’m assuming I’m the first firefox she’s met, and our elements clashed. I can’t blame her. If I did, I would be a hypocrite of the highest order.”

Matt finally wormed his finger into his bond’s growling jaw, and finally freed the man’s bushy red tail from her teeth. Even if Aster couldn’t hurt the man, it was incredibly rude to bite someone, so he scolded Aster telepathically as he apologised to the man outloud.

“Really, I’m so sorry.” As Matt was going to continue, the man shrugged and scratched Aster’s ears.

“Don’t worry about it. Once she calms down, she’ll have better control over it next time. I remember my first time meeting an opposite element. I bit his ankle and refused to let go. Good times.”

With that, the man left, and Matt looked to a mortified Liz.

“Do you know what that was?”

“Sadly, yes. Opposite elements can have reactions of hate and anger. Fire and ice in this case, but I didn’t think Aster would be affected like this. She’s never reacted to me, and my bloodline is fire-based. Sorry, I never even thought about it.”

Probing his bond, he could tell that the problem mostly stemmed from the man being a fire aspected fox, rather than being a fire aspected individual in general.. She clearly felt that all foxes should be ice aspected, and anything else was bad. It was all that she was thinking about.

Matt soothed his bond until she calmed down enough for him to get a message through to her.

“Aster, you can't do that. You can get hurt or in trouble. You had me worried!”

“Fox ice. Fire bad. Fox ice!”

With as stern an emotion he could push to her, he said, “Aster no. Foxes can be anything. They don't have to be ice aspected.”

He was interrupted with an inquisitive, “Aster fox. Aster ice. Ice good.” Like she had explained the most obvious thing in the world.

Matt wanted to pull out his hair.

Is this how it feels to raise a kid?

Suddenly, he was happy to have been fined for having his birth control implant missing. It would have been incredibly unlikely, but if this was how it was to raise a child, he wanted nothing to do with it.

With a sigh, Matt and Liz tried to explain how not all foxes were like her, and that she needed to treat them all with respect, and especially not bite them.

She insisted that she was right with the inarguable logic of repeating herself endlessly.

It was a long walk to the enchanters building.
