Raenof, standing nearby, gave a small nod. “Perfect. That should be enough for the horses.”

She turned to Mr. White and pointed at the melted spot. “Hey Mr. White! There's water now. Go drink and stuff.”

To her surprise, Mr. White actually obeyed. He walked up to the edge of the ice and started lapping at the water. Raenof’s horse joined in a moment later.

Meanwhile, Raenof raised his staff again. With a shimmer of green light, he tapped it once against the snowy ground. Magic rippled outward in a pulse, washing over the white and replacing it with a soft patch of grass, dotted with little flowers and even a mossy stone or two.

Chloe’s eyes widened. “Whoa.”

Raenof stepped back, looking mildly pleased. “That should keep them occupied.”

Chloe wandered over and crouched beside the new grass, poking gently at a tiny pink flower near the edge. It wiggled slightly under her finger.

“This is plant magic, right?” she asked.

“It’s nature magic, all elves learn it growing up as is tradition.”

“Really? All of you?”

“Yes. It’s part of our culture. We learn to nurture the land as children.”

“Okay, see, this is the kinda elf stuff I didn’t know. I just thought you were fancy humans with pointy ears.”

“There’s a little more to it than that.”

Chloe plopped onto the grass patch. “Okay, well now I wanna know more. Tell me all the elf secrets. Is your blood green? Do you talk to animals a lot?”

Raenof laughed. “I can tell you more, but maybe we should get a campfire going first. I’ll take care of the rest of the setup.”

Chloe sprang to her feet. “Fire? You got it."

She had never really set up a “proper” camp before. But now that she was officially on a mission with an elf and had horses to look after, it felt like she had to at least try to do it right.

Thankfully, having magic made everything easier. She cleared a patch of snow with a few small fireballs. A few spots ended up a little too crispy, and she might’ve accidentally melted part of her boot for a second, but it was all good in the end.

Raenof, of course, was way more graceful about it. With a flick of his staff, he summoned a few more soft patches of grass to make the original patch bigger.

Chloe gave it an experimental poke. “Okay, wow, this grass is really soft."

Raenof just smiled. “You’re welcome to use it.”

"Oh, thanks!"

They worked in a sort of quiet rhythm after that. Chloe got the campfire going with Raenof instructing her on what not to do. At the same time, the elf casually poofed foods and other stuff into existence. One moment his hands were empty, and the next, he was holding a bundle of dried food and some wooden utensils. The horses, meanwhile, had wandered a little to the side and were happily munching away on the grassy patch Raenof had summoned earlier.

Once everything was done, Chloe leaned back on her elbows, watching the horses as the fire crackled beside her. “This is kinda nice."

Raenof was sitting nearby, stirring a pot filled with soup. “Chloe, do you mind if I ask you a few questions?”

She threw a stick into the fire. “Pfft. You just did.”

"You know what I meant."

“Yeah, yeah, go ahead.”

Raenof just kinda stared at her for a moment, and that made Chloe’s smile twitch. It wasn’t a bad stare, but it had that weird weight behind it. “Are you… in any way related to the First Queen? And are you even human?"
