“Soul would grow as the Darkness in my soul grows and my actions become more renowned and influential, so while I can’t grow that directly, it will be growing… usually? Usually. Body is something that will degrade if I don’t keep it up, so that needs to be tracked and improved upon… and people can surely attack my soul directly, and this sort of degradation should be tracked.”

… And yet, was this redundant?

And not even indicative of anything, really. Did Erick need to keep track of the exact amount of mana his soul produced per day? Well… Actually. Yeah. But this didn’t do that. This showed him his rate of growth.

So let’s change that.

And the body would be refining or degrading based on the Hp number down there. Not some nebulous ‘body’ rate of change.

That should be a number, too. But what would the number even mean? Nothing, really. Not when everyone else’s systems of measurements were different.

How was he supposed to change his Mind, anyway?

And there was something Erick was missing from this readout. Probably a lot of somethings.

Erick changed the readout again.

- -

Erick Flatt, [timer for age goes here, make it subjective age] [timer for current age goes here; needs update from sources to be determined]

Mana split; Soul, Body, Mind: 34%, 33%, 33%

Soul: [some number, use mana production per day; New Hidden Stat (Darkness)]

Body: [some number, use average of all hidden body stats; Strength, Dexterity, Constitution, Vitality]

Mind: [some number, use average of all hidden mind stats: (Willpower+Focus= Concentration), Intelligence, Perception]

Overall Stability: [-100 to 100]

Mp: mana pool, [-100 to 100]

Hp: health pool, [-100 to 100]

Pp: psyche pool, [-100 to 100]

- -

“Ah! I need to do this, too.”

- -

Erick Flatt, [timer for age goes here, make it subjective age] [timer for current age goes here; needs update from sources to be determined] [CURRENT REALITY]

Mana split; Soul, Body, Mind: 34%, 33%, 33%

Soul: [some number, use mana production per day; New Hidden Stat (Darkness)]

Body: [some number, use average of all hidden body stats; Strength, Dexterity, Constitution, Vitality]

Mind: [some number, use average of all hidden mind stats: (Willpower+Focus= Concentration), Intelligence, Perception]

Overall Stability: [-100 to 100]

Resons: ??? [-100 to 100]

Mp: mana pool, [-100 to 100]

Hp: health pool, [-100 to 100]

Pp: psyche pool, [-100 to 100]

- -

“… Or maybe not include resons? They’re rather impossible to measure… But I should include them…. Somewhere— Ah! Let’s put them under Mind, because resons are the precipitation of reasons-for-being-and-doing.” Erick smiled, as he understood something deeply. “I might not have a mind slime but I surely have resons.”

- -

Erick Flatt, [timer for age goes here, make it subjective age] [timer for current age goes here; needs update from sources to be determined] [CURRENT REALITY: God Pact, etc; needs update from sources to be determined]

Mana split; Soul, Body, Mind: 34%, 33%, 33%

Soul: [some number, mana production per day; also New Hidden Stat (Darkness)]

Body: [some number, use average of all hidden body stats; Strength, Dexterity, Constitution, Vitality]

Mind: [some number, use average of all hidden mind stats: (Willpower+Focus= Concentration), Intelligence, Perception]

Overall Stability: [-100 to 100]

Mp: mana pool / mana shield, [-100 to 100]

Hp: health pool / health shield, [-100 to 100]

Pp: psyche pool / mind shield, [-100 to 100] ; Resons: ??? [-100 to 100]

- -

Erick was happy with that.

… Except Resons were probably uncountable since they were the form of Wizardry in this universe, and Wizardry, while based in numbers somewhat, was also a lot more than numbers.

But this would do for now. When Erick got some real learning about resons he’d fix up that part of his New Status.

What came next was Grand Wizardry, to impose this personal Script.

… Erick was going to wait on that until his soul was fully healed to do that. Maybe in a few more days.

His Lightning Path wasn’t too active at the moment since there was nothing out there to interact with, but his Lightning Path was telling him that there was something coming the moment he passed this gate. Erick would need to be absolutely ready for that.

And so, he planned for the worst possible case: At the very least, he needed to be prepared to abandon this outpost at a moment’s notice, and that meant securing his mana and body and mind against outside influences, like the vacuum of space, and Primal Lightning.

There. That was the worst possible case of becoming a True Wizard; being able to ignore the dangers of the world.

And then Erick planned for success. What did the best possible version of this endeavor look like?

This Personal Script would allow him to fire off countless spells outside of the Script Second. With a pool of mana that was as deep as he regenerated, and with full access to his own mana, he’d be able to fire off spells faster than he could ever before. It’d be like that time he got to use that [SSS] spell from Rozeta at the end of ‘Last Shadow’s Feast’.

Other benefits to setting up these various permanent accretion and protective magics inside his body included being immune to Mind Control and Soul Control and Blood Magic, too.

If Erick could make this work, and he was pretty sure he could, he would get all of the benefits of the Script, but with none of the controls imposed by the Script.

It seemed like a good base to start.

- - - -

Two days later, and after expanding the compound a few times, Erick decided to try opening a [Gate] into Benevolence Itself, because he hadn’t tried that, actually. He opened a hole into a very small part of reality that was foggy as shit, and empty as could be.

Erick rapidly closed the entrance into Benevolence and decided not to do that ever again, for a few reasons.

If he did that, and if he decided to make a Gate Network here on FENRIR, it could possibly connect back to Veird, and that would make Veird vulnerable to whatever fuckery is happening here on this adamantium land. However, if he did need to get back to Veird —more like ‘when’, not ‘if’— then making a gate network here would be the way to create that path to Veird.

Opening up that hole to Benevolence Itself did clue him in that the various upgrades to the compound’s domainwork were making a Benevolence-capable space in this small area. What Erick had done here was pretty much exactly what the Script was doing when it held on to Benevolence on Veird.

Good to know.

… Which gave Erick a great idea for an upgrade to his future Status.

“Or at least a potential one. I could make a personal gate space that I could always carry around with me, inside my infinite depth core… Hmm. That might not work out how I want. I should workshop that, first. Put it on the list for potential future upgrades.”

So far that list included:

The Luck Stat. His Lightning Path might work well when quantized into ‘Luck’

A personal ‘inventory’, which Erick had been considering to place inside his soul. This was probably unnecessary. A personal inventory could go right alongside an extradimensional gatespace.

Various other Stats, like ‘Reality Sense’, which would be great for using to figure out where he was at all points in time; he just had to actually figure out how the heck such a ‘stat’ would even work.

“… And yet, that opens up the problem of me accidentally making a path back to Veird. I probably don’t want to make a gatespace right now, for any reason. Not only could it be used to find Veird, but someone could attack me through that dimension… probably… Hmm. I’m probably going to get attacked from a lot of weird angles. Dimensional attacks? Yeah. And yet...”

Part of successfully fighting an enemy was deciding how the enemy was able to attack you.

Like, sure, people could come through the walls to get you, but most people came through the doors and windows.

“Can I do that with Wizardry? Enforce the avenue of attacks upon which someone can harm me? Decide how I’ll let myself be harmed? A good enough Wizard could overcome that… But… No. Maybe not? Could I…?”

… Erick wasn’t so sure such a thing was possible...

But as he considered that particular thought…

“Oh. Shit. This is a Big Thought, isn’t it.”

And then.

“Wizards should be able to define avenues of attack quite well, actually. Especially Paradox Wizards. I need to incorporate this. This is like… foundational— Oh! I can use my Class Ability Failsafe that triggers [Time Stop] and [Return] and mutate that into anti-egress magics and also…”

Oh.

Oh yes.

Erick began drawing out plans in the air out of light.

Fifteen hours later he had filled the compound with all of his ideas and their follow through with runic notation and full wording. He ended up forcing himself to take a nap and then he woke up refreshed with even more ideas.

He worked on his True Wizardry, taking his time, figuring out his future.

Gradually, Erick refined his lightward ideas scattered across the whole compound into words lightly etched onto platinum chalkboards. He ate as much as necessary, he slept as much as he could, but the ideas flowed, and they had to be transformed from soft light into hard truths, and sometimes refined yet again.

It took him another 17 days before he thought he was ready to actually ascend.

This personal script had a lot going for it, and a lot of expansion opportunities for the future. It was mostly made of Benevolence, but it also had a lot of Book Magic involved everywhere, for that particular element was great at ordering the impossible into the solid. This right here was sort of like the Identinomicon that Erick had never made on Veird because he had simply never needed to organize his thoughts and identification magic like that, thanks to Intelligence. But the Script was surely Book Magic, and this would be Book Magic, too, because he would be ordering ten thousand thoughts and feelings and magics into clean lines of intent and power.

As he worked, Erick lightly chided himself for never truly interrogating every single person who made the Script on how, exactly, they made the Script. He forgave himself, though, because he had asked those specific questions now and again, and the answer had always been a variation on a theme, ‘We got the original Script from the dwarves and back then it was just a manaminer. Only with the Sundering and the help of people on Veird at that time did we transform it into the Script. Rozeta did a lot of the hidden work.’

Rozeta had better answers than that, but she wasn’t willing to give them up to anyone. She had promised Erick that she’d talk about all that with him after 70 years of peace, but they never got there.

Quilatalap had not known the full details of the Script, even though he was there at the Sundering helping to make it. Farix, the Professor Shade who had manaminer classes at his arcanaeum, had only the largest, most broadest of ‘insider knowledge’ as to how manaminers functioned. Other people were not much better. Kirginatharp was more like his mother than anyone else when it came to answering those specific questions, and forget Melemizargo.

Erick had enough details to work with, though.

He was pretty sure that this thing he was creating was going to be a personal manaminer in effect, and maybe also in truth.

“Still don’t know what to call it, though,” Erick said, as he continued to write down every spell he had ever made, putting his full status on the walls of this particular room, just so that he would be able to make sure it was all there when he was done.

As he got to Rozeta’s Recovery, which made all his regen add together and apply to both his Mana and Health, Erick was truly starting to understand how many of these grand abilities were superfluous in the real world. ‘Recovery’ was built upon systems that did not exist for Erick, or even naturally. Multi Ward, the ability for Erick to have multiple Personal Wards, was completely useless, as the ‘only one Personal Ward per person’ was a limitation of the Script in the first place. Erick had already cast ten layers of [Unbreakable Form] on himself, just to see if he could, and he could.

The ‘absolute damage reduction’ of [Unbreakable Form] was even a lie, too, because what was ‘damage’ but a categorization of the Script’s interpretation of standardized damage?

As Erick kept pulling apart lies from truth, he mumbled, “Well maybe the lies are truth when under the auspices of the Script.”

Minutes later, Erick said, “The ‘definition of damage’ is certainly something that needs to be put into my personal Script, though, that can be the thing that allows enemies to harm me in certain ways, and closes off all other ways… Could I actually cut off all damage? This is Wizardry after all… But no. To be a person living in this world or any other is to be vulnerable sometimes, otherwise life is shit… Yes. That is more correct than making myself immune to damage. ‘Immunity to damage’ surely does not exist—”

And then he realized something.

“The dimensional ban of the script is a limiting of harm done to Veird through dimensions. This is most likely the source of the various Elemental Bands of the Script. This also correlates to my own planned route of making Soul, Body, and Mind the only avenues in which I accept damage, but I can still interact with all sources of everything out there, just like the Script.

“The infinitesimal ban of the Script seems like it’s the true foundation of the Script, though. The Script is at the underlying everything of Veird, and everything builds upon that, sort of like how I’m going to make my core infinitely expanded inward, and constantly pushing mana outward to get rid of all unapproved influences.

“The propagation ban of the Script is another limit of damage done, saying ‘nothing can make more of itself’. Seems like a good way to prevent corruptive influencing, so maybe I’ll steal that base idea, too...”

Erick wrote and rewrote ideas.

And then he got to experimentation with infinitely-dense mana crystals.

Infinitely-dense crystals weren’t hard to make at all, outside of the Script.

- - - -

Erick felt that maybe he was already primed to go a day later.

He had planned some experiments with a second and third core, and so he created a second and third core that he poured mana into, transforming them into densities beyond the norm. Both experiments were basic creations of his final idea, like mockups of a prototype. They didn’t function how he wanted, because they weren’t actually his core; they were separate cores.

