But they still worked how cores normally worked; each one held his soul, and each one allowed him to cast more mana into spellworks faster and easier, with less stress on the structure of the core itself.

More experiments had Erick opening [Gate]s into Benevolence Itself, inside his experimental cores, and he had room on the other side. One 5 centimeter wide sphere had 10 cubic meters of space on the other side. Erick had no idea what the heck was happening there, but he was pretty sure that with this experiment he was witnessing what it meant to not be subject to the Dimensional Ban.

He plopped a slime over to the other side, left it for a minute, and then brought it back to this side, and it was safe.

Erick wasn’t going to play around with Benevolence Itself here and now, but it was good to see that his various theories about what he was doing were already checking out, even if the experiments revealed nuances that Erick wasn’t able to deal with right now.

Five days later, Erick thought he was actually ready to make this happen.

He had even come up with a name for his Personal Script, and it seemed appropriate.

His personal Script would be his Path.

Just think of all the jokes he could make once he returned to Veird and Rozeta was all like ‘why aren’t you back in the Script, Erick?’ and he could say ‘I’m on my own Path now, Rozeta.’

Erick chuckled at his own jokes as he read over his platinum walls to make sure it all looked good.

If nothing terrible happened during his ascension then, in the following days, Erick would refine his Personal Script. He’d clean up all the stuff that didn’t matter to him anymore or figure out how to make it apply again, like Clarity for 50% mana costs or Intelligence for even more mana efficiency than 50%. Erick already had a pretty good idea how to make Elemental Mystical work for him again without needing to actually spend the mana he Altered to Mystical and thus end up back at square one. The idea involved automagic mystical infusions to cast spellwork, and it might not work. All that stuff was beyond the scope of the initial instantiation of his personal Script, though, which was pretty much Benevolence-based.

And when he was done with that refining, he’d send out the Call to the Universe, like he had during that Star Mapping ritual. Erick was absolutely sure that he hadn’t actually mapped the universe at all when he had done that. He had tapped into some other power that was already there.

He had to tap into that power again. Simple stuff, really.

Erick breathed deep, taking in the scent of water and plants and moss and mist, as he listened to the burble of the fountains and the plopping of the benevolence slimes all around.

“Yup. I’m ready.”

- - - -

Erick stepped onto the roof of the center of his compound.

Everything below him was black, everything above him was stars.

The nearest life was right below Erick’s feet, and also millions of kilometers away, or more. That storm on the horizon was gone now, having orbited away days ago, making everything out there truly dark. Was Melemizargo here, in this moment? Probably not. If he was, then he would have said hello by now.

The slimes surely said hello. They had also tried to suffocate Erick in his sleep three times, too, but that wasn’t really their fault. They were just blobby cats, looking for warmth in the night to share. They had been good company over the last month and some change and Erick would try to save them if he could.

But it was time to move on.

Erick’s original platinum ‘chalkboard’ workboards rested downstairs in a stack against a wall. The slimes were already playing on them. He’d keep them around for a while, but he’d likely destroy them as soon as this worked out. They had served their purpose; they had helped him to make 3 more platinum tablets, each deeply lined with words and intent and power, each of them sitting on stone platforms around Erick in what might have been the North, South, and Western directions. A fourth tablet held a carving of Erick himself, and nothing else. That tablet sat in the Eastern position.

It was the same sort of arrangement he had made with Melemizargo, Rozeta, Fairy Moon, and himself, twice already; the God of Magic, the God of Ordered Magic, the God of Unbound Fairy, and the Wizard.

Only one of those designations was correct, but Erick didn’t imagine that any of them would mind the designations that Erick had given them.

Erick took a deep breath… And then he turned and watched as inquisitive Bartholomew managed to overcome the ridge that Erick had put by the stairs. Erick had tried to block the slime from coming up into the open. It hadn’t worked. With a gentle nudge, Erick put Bartholomew back down the stairs, much further down, and then he put a slate stone over the stairs, blocking out the light from below.

Now it was truly dark.

Erick turned to the tablets.

And then he turned inward.

“It’s really quite simple,” Erick rhymed, to his mana.

“We start with a dimple, that expands to nirvana.

“Into this peace we are our own system,

“Into prosperity we make infinite wisdom.

“A foundation of might washes out all opposed

“From this benevolent land, this power enclosed.

“Send out a path! Soul, to body, to mind.

“Rend evil inroads! Forever declined.

“This is a life, cultivated, secure.

“If I should falter, I am my own cure.

“Here I walk, up a path of ascension.

“Show me myself, my growing progression

“A paradox of benevolent wrath

“A True Wizard on his own Lightning Path.”

The air of the compound sparkled.

Erick’s core went from simple white to white on the edges, to a shade of blue, to something far, far more brilliant with depth than could ever be grasped. Mana poured outward like soft lightning, grabbing hold of the platinum tablets, disintegrating them, and then flashing inward. The iridescent depths of Erick’s core turned iridescent black, becoming a perfect sphere marked with edges of brilliant white.

And the Lightning expanded.

His voice never faltered as his throat and chest exploded, revealing the darkness in his core to the star-strewn darkness of the universe. There was no pain as Erick’s flesh evaporated into red mist, revealing light underneath it all. He was not dying. He was Becoming.

Brilliance appeared out of the death of self, becoming something stronger than flesh, replacing all that was lost. Like a dragon shedding his skin, Erick shed his mortality in full.

His All-Seeing Amulet, with Yggdrasil’s secret attached to the back, broke into two pieces. Yggdrasil’s secret fell to the floor, a shining beacon of power revealed to the world. Erick’s All-Seeing Eye turned from physical power, to purpose and possibility, the eye of Melemizargo becoming a tiny bolt of Benevolence that sunk into his core.

The magic was 95% done.

Erick felt like himself. He did not look like himself. He stood in his body as though he were a Benevolence Elemental, shaped in the manner of flesh and standing nude against the universe; a person of white light among the black. He saw the world a little differently right now, but not that much different.

He would help Veird. He would see Jane, Abigail, Beth, Candice, Evan, Solomon, Poi, Teressa, Destiny, all the gods, all the people of home, soon enough. But for right now, he had one more step to take.

The magic was 95% done.

He saw his Lightning Path calling him; the final bit of magic, the final step toward Ascension.

Erick took a Step that was not in any visible direction, but he would be hard pressed to call it any way other than Forward.

- - - -

Erick did not breathe. He did not need to. He did not panic at his new surroundings, for that would not be useful. He did check his Lightning Path, though, because it was leading him forward, to speak to the man behind the desk up there.

He was in an office room with bare grey walls, fluorescent bulb lights that buzzed angrily, and grey carpet. And there was a desk. And a man. He looked bored.

Erick had no idea where he was, but the man at the desk looked like the kind of guy who knew what was what, and so Erick felt that maybe he should talk to the man, and ignore the fact that his Lightning Path was actually branching out in every single direction around him, telling him to get away, while only one direction was going forward, through the man at the desk—

Suddenly, writing appeared across his eyesight, and Erick felt like himself again, but different.

- -

Establishing Path Protocols.

Welcome back from death, Erick Flatt.

The Ascension was successful. Your soul is now your own to do with as you desire. Here is the initial Status readout that you built (And here is the code that you gave yourself to make sure it was you that was doing this: ‘I am the very model of a modern major scripted system’)

Notice: Some parts are missing. Fix them, Erick.

- -

Erick Flatt, [60ish?] [Current Year: This one?] [CURRENT REALITY=BAD!!!]

Mana split; Soul, Body, Mind: 34%, 33%, 33%

Soul: 14.8m per day, [Darkness Level = ???]

Body: 207

Mind: 304

Overall Stability: ↓↓↓↓↓ [+171, -1062] Directed attack (ALL). Time to death 2.5 seconds (Health>Mana>Psyche)

Mp: 2327/∞, ↓ [+52, -339] Warning: Under directed attack. Time to death 8 seconds

Hp: 1671/∞, ↓ [+51, -634] Warning: Under directed attack. Time to death 2.5 seconds

Pp: 1298/∞, ↓ [+51, -89] Warning: Under directed attack. Time to death 34 seconds

Resons: ??? [???]

- -

Erick recognized many different things in that eternal moment when his Path came online.

His Intelligence was fully online now and working overtime, as was his Perception and All-Seeing Eye. Everything was working in conjunction with each other to show him the Truth of his surroundings, and that truth, like his ‘Current Reality’ readout, was bad. He was in a room that was not a room. He stood upon a blasted, molten land, filled with Red Lightning that was constantly striking him like a thousand lightning strikes a second, and the guy at the desk was a figment; an illusion.

This was a trap of Malevolence, made for Wizards who ascended.

Erick would find out the rest soon enough.

Erick instantly focused and started Mana Siphoning all of his surroundings—

It was like turning on the air conditioning and slathering oneself in aloe after a day of dying on a beach of sun exposure, and it was a lot more effective than it had any right to be. The Script had obviously screwed with the power of Mana Siphon in the name of ‘balance’. Erick realized he would likely be discovering a lot of little things like that for a long time. For now, Red Lightning crashed into his fleshy body and instead of ripping apart anything, it soaked in, absorbed like water into a sponge.

Erick hadn’t even turned on his sunform yet. He was still nude, too. This was just him, standing under Red Lightning, atop molten something, soaking in the lightning and feeling mostly fine.

He flicked on his Status with a mental command.

- -

Erick Flatt, [60ish?] [Current Year: This one?] [CURRENT REALITY=magically delicious]

Mana split; Soul, Body, Mind: 34%, 33%, 33%

Soul: 14.8m per day, [Darkness Level=?]

Body: 207

Mind: 304

Overall Stability: ↑↑ [+1233]

Mp: 3590/∞, ↑ [+52, +354] Warning: Under directed attack.

Hp: 2886/∞, ↑ [+51, +354] Warning: Under directed attack.

Pp: 2,483/∞, ↑ [+51, +354] Warning: Under directed attack.

Resons: ??? [???]

- -

Erick would mentally simplify that later, but for now it seemed to be telling him that while he was under attack on all sides his Mana Siphon was working well.

Very well.

It was negating all damage and giving him resources instead.

Nice.

His eyes confirmed what his soul was telling him.

Erick stood under an assault of Red Lightning and soaked it in, turning it into power for himself. The soaking would increase with more surface area, though, so Erick transformed into his sunform, his fleshy body becoming Benevolence that snapped and crashed and joined with the Red Lightning all around to suck it down into his personal Script, his Path, like a greedy Drain Ward, or rather more like the spell that he eventually made out of his Drain Wards.

Erick became a tentacle Undertow Star, with a thousand limbs and each of them soaking up the spellwork all around.

He was the light in the dark, tendrils soaking into the Red, pulling down all the power of this trap into himself, transforming it into his own mana. It was a glorious sort of feeling to consume an enemy who had laid this [Teleport Trap] for Wizards, and who Sundered the Old Cosmology. It seemed poetic, almost. Erick wasn’t sure how the [Teleport Trap] worked, but now that he wasn’t dying, and he was, in fact, doing very well, he saw the trap for what it was.

Erick mentally asked for a simplified Status before he got into the nature of this casual horror all around.

- -

Overall Stability: ↑↑↑↑↑ [+8917] Time to Death = never

- -

“Yup,” Erick said into the Lightning air, “Looks good.”

Erick’s Mana Siphon probably wouldn’t work this well with many other types of magical assaults, but for this trap, in this location, wherever this was, Erick was doing just fine. Benevolence was the perfect counter to Malevolence.

Overcoming this trap did have one unintended side effect, though.

Erick was trying to decide if it was time to panic, or not.

Erick stood atop a blasted surface of land, scoured in every direction by Red, pools of molten metal and rock laying in the open under the light of a sun overhead that was closer than Erick ever imagined it could be. The Red Sun took up half the sky. Somehow, some part of Erick’s ascension had taken him not only inside the FENRIR system, but to a planet near the sun.

Close enough to see.

Close enough to know.

There was Nothanganathor, resting in the sun’s surface like someone had taken a black hose and left it to float in a glowing white puddle. It was too long of a body. It was too big of an enemy. A thousand Jupiters would have been smaller, and by a lot. Erick noticed many things at that moment. Nothanganathor was white. Not black. Not red. But he was pressed against the sun and backlit hard. From a distance, he looked black. In the shine of him, he was red. But from this close Erick could see his edges, and know him as a white dragon, tens of millions of kilometers long, and probably longer.

And his head was right there, laying with one side against the sun, one eye pointed outward, staring at Erick, here on this inner planet of Veird’s system.

Erick bolted away, flashing white and vanishing fast, trying to circumnavigate the planet in a jolting second—

