“He always has.” Barbara said. “Whenever he got angry, he always buried that feeling and covered it with a smile.”

Elise looked from Stella to Barbara. “This... isn't going to work well for him.”

“No, it isn't.” Stella said. “We should log him out and warn him.”

“You shouldn't do that.” Elise said. “Not until he resets the corruption, anyways.”

“And what do we do if he doesn't?” Barbara asked. “What if he keeps it, even after leaving these training grounds?”

Elise opened her mouth to say that he wouldn't do that, then sighed. “I don't know.”

“Well, you better think of something.” Stella said. “Because we know what he's like, and he is not an angry person. Going through this is not going to be fun for him, and that is going to make him unhappy.”

********

Ren ran after the succubi until they came to a gorge. It was about 300 feet across and the succubi were already halfway across it.

“DAMMIT!” Ren yelled, and it echoed back to him. He made his hands into fists and took several deep breaths. Think, Ren. He thought to himself. What would I do if I wasn't angry?

It took only a moment to think of something, and he took out the Wand of Transport and cast a Phantom Steed for himself. It was the same distorted version with the tree trunk like legs and extra wide head, and not like a horse at all. Ren climbed up into the saddle and it took flight.

“I wonder if we can find someone to give us flying lessons.” Teepo said, and felt Ren's anger rise. “Riley and Stacy still haven't learned yet, and they are going to need to know once we get them out to the county.”

Ren's anger subsided and he nodded. “You're right. The most they can do is glide, and flap their wings a little.”

The Phantom Steed landed on the other side of the gorge and ran after the two succubi down a tunnel. There were several small creatures about a foot long on the walls of the tunnel, and Ren didn't know what they were besides having a slug-like appearance and 4 stubby legs.

“Identify.”

Dretch (Demon Spawn - Tiny)

This creature is born of corruption and spawns randomly in areas where corruption is prevalent. It cannot fight or flee. It has no discernible eyes and a huge mouth, full of razor-sharp teeth.

Ren dismissed the popup when he heard a general uproar in a cavern ahead of him, and he brought the Phantom Steed to a halt at the cavern's entrance. Inside was a large workshop where 9 succubi were cutting up those tiny dretches for some reason, and 9 more sat by each of the benches. They all wore shackles and chains that were attached to a large central lock in the middle of the room. He examined the chain, and discovered that they were the same chains that had held Lylyth, the Queen of the Dark Elves, restrained.

“Him?” One of them asked. “He killed Murdrasu?”

Wynphine turned her hands to the sides and mimed something getting squashed as she clapped her hands together.

“It's time for shift change.” One of them said. Each of the 9 succubi stopped cutting and stepped back, then the 9 sitting down stood up and took their place. It was orderly and efficient, and the cutting resumed as the others sat down.

“What are you doing?” Ren asked and climbed off of the Phantom Steed.

“Staying alive.” One of them said and tossed the cut-off legs of the dretch slug onto the pile beside the bench, and the succubus that sat beside the bench picked a severed leg up and started eating it. “The meat of these little scavengers is highly prized, and as long as Murdrasu keeps sending the meat as offerings to the Minor Demon, it leaves us alone.”

Ren felt a ripple of shock go through them, and all of the succubi stopped cutting up the slugs at the same time and dropped their knives.

“Oops.” Ren said.
