A spear hit against his chestplate, eliciting a grunt of pain but the enchanted piece held. The enemy soldier tilted his head, the axe blow sliding along the helmet to bite on the pauldron, carving through it and his clavicle. The Hopecrusher couldn’t capitalize on it because he’d expected to flip the shield like a piece of flatbread but that had failed. Stopping the wall failed as well. He was pushed back. He almost fell, feet stumbling. His palace guard didn’t fare well either. They were not line holders.

His troops were thrown in disarray.

“Reform!” he screamed. “Reform and hold!”

Three spears went for him. He was forced to block and sidestep the attacks, letting them glance on his heavy armor instead. His attempt to finish off the wounded heavy failed when the man simply stepped to the side, letting the next person replace him. It was a woman with the flag attached to her back.

Finally, a lucky break. He recognized her as the obnoxious bitch who kept resisting his skills. Now with her as his single focus, he could finally get rid of that pesky aura of fearlessness. He focused all his monstrous intimidation in a tight wave and unleashed it upon the flagbearer. At the same time, he struck with [Crushing Blow].

“Hoh!”

The woman deflected the hit. His axe’s blade banged on her shield. As for the blast of pure hopelessness, it just… didn’t find purchase. It wasn’t resisted so much as it seemed to have missed. This had never happened before.

“What the —”

Furious, the Hopecrusher pressed on. His skill lashed out with all the rage he felt, but found no purchase. It was like waving his arm in an empty room, and yet he felt her presence. He knew she was there, right in front of him. His intimidation just couldn’t find her. Her attacks were pathetic and predictable but his own were blocked without fail.

“Hoh!”

“Why. Don’t. You. Just. DIE!”

“Hoh!”

Another deflection, another strike arrested by her shield. Its runic protections were flagging. He just had to keep at it.

“It can’t be…”

The Hopecrusher was forced to fall back when his men started to run.

“What the fuck are you DOING? Are you not Maranorians?”

But they still ran. He first refused to retreat because his pride couldn’t take it, but as the Imperial Guard smoothly closed in around him, he knew he had to disengage. As he stepped back, however, the black ones closed in much faster.

[Champion Slayer]

Mad with rage and humiliation, the Hopecrusher turned on the one who’d led him to be caught. In his grim face and muscular body, the Hopecrusher recognized a kindred spirit. The two engaged in a furious duel.

The enemy spearman was a peerless fighter, able to face him like a duelist as easily as he faced the palace guards in the line. The two exchanged deadly blows while the Hopecrusher kept an eye on the other foes who, so far, had kept a respectful distance.

“Is that the best Maranor has to offer?” the captain asked in Imperial. “Where are your elites?”

That sent the Hopecrusher over the edge.

“You presumptuous fool! We will —”

“Hoh!”

The Hopecrusher’s knee gave way with a crunch and a terrible pain.

“You!”

Another spear found his flank as he collapsed, then another. The captain slapped his axe arm down. The Hopecrusher tried to rise but there was just too much agony, too many forces pushing him left and right. He longed to insult the enemy captain, and he would as soon as he could clear his throat from the liquid. He just had to cough it away. More blows fell.

The last thought that crossed his mind was disbelief.

***

Ban Junior ordered the line to reform, though there were no enemy formations around. Somehow, the One Hundred were always lacking enemies. Their dedicated shield array waited nearby with one of the mages puffing smoke from his pipe. Ban Junior threw him a nasty glare but the man just shrugged.

“Brick, how are you? You’re looking a little pale.”

The guy she’d stopped had felt pretty important, but that unstoppable force had met the immovable dumbass. Brick closed her eyes. A single tear rolled down her ruddy cheek.

“Shield arm hurts.”

Shit, it was definitely shattered.

“Medic?” his second in command yelled.

Several heavies moved to prop up the poor girl on her good side.

“You are to return to our backlines and get healed immediately. Do you understand?” Ban asked, suddenly quite worried.

“Okay…”

“Don’t worry sir. We got her.”

Ban Junior watched her go. She would be fine but it was annoying how he had to ask her if she was hurt or she would just soldier through pretty much anything. Now where to go.

Looking right, the Mountain Lords had managed a pincer move with the Red Tribe, catching hundreds of Maranorians. They didn’t need help.

Looking left, the remaining heavies were far in front of them. Beyond that, some enterprising fool had charged the priest village, only to find it reinforced by retired Harrakan warriors including his own dad. It had gone exactly as he’d expected.

Looking forward, the palace guards were running away. His ‘radio’ was silent. There was, once again, a terrible dearth of enemies around. One of his men sighed.

“It’s kinda bor —”

“Shut up.”

***

Crest watched the seventh circle’s shield collapse under the combined effort of two dragons and Harrakan air mage cadres led by an old gray mage whose beard floated like a cape.

He’d read about them in books but he couldn’t believe their techniques and doctrines had survived the collapse. It should have been impossible! The offensive he’d suggested had collapsed. All of the front was in full retreat. The kark army, against all odds, had managed to envelop a Shadowland regiment. Baranese cavalry was crushing every formation that tried to gather in order to stop that massive spider, one that was protected from artillery spells by a dense network of shamanic casters. The Maranorians still held the number advantage but… would it matter? They’d thrown their best troops at the alliance and failed to breach even one part of their line.

A cold realization washed over his shoulders like melted ice. His eyes roved over the carnage of the battlefield, confirming what he refused to believe.

“Are we… are we… losing?”

***

Viv felt the battle shift. The first sign was Oleander’s increasing disbelief as he was pushed back, bleeding, towards his mages’ shields. The second sign was that surviving vanguards came to reinforce him.

“No you don’t.”

She infused the land at her feet with monstrous amounts of change mana.

[Harvester Wall]

Earth rose like a wave. That wave traveled forward in a tide of screaming faces and misshapen limbs reaching for their next victims. Predictably, the vanguards turned and ran. Oleander didn’t. Viv was forced to teleport before attacking again in a torrent of void blades. He attacked, left right left left and —

Viv jumped to the side when a half-assed strike almost stabbed her arm. His follow up missed her completely, then she riposted. He was growing more erratic. Weirdly, that made him more annoying.

A portal opened in the air. Arthur flew out.

Now where were we, you stupid feathery snack?

Viv jumped on her back again. Dragonfire splashed over Oleander who was forced to retreat. They followed with fury but also patience. The fight was far from won. Still looked good though. They even got closer.

Viv stabbed with a dozen blades. Oleander ducked, sidestepped, and tried to strike only to catch a tail whip in the flank. She opened a portal behind him as he slowed down, cast through it and closed it. Oleander twisted on the side to dodge most of the blades, but not all of them. That made him miss the air blade coming from the front. Before he could recover, Arthur clawed him. His counter bounced against a newly erected shield. A hail of sharpened stone slammed into his face.

“Ngah! [Wave of domination!]”

Viv and Arthur were pushed back by a massive wave.

Mother, please take the locus down.

It’s affecting me as well.

“Oh sorry.”

Viv stopped and finished the spell. The moment she did so, a larger portal manifested by Oleander’s side. He slashed, only for the strike to be deflected by another blade.

“You’re such a second rate duelist,” Eron of Solar huffed.

“I’ve had enough. Of this!” screamed Oleander.

Viv watched Nero rush into the portal towards the blurry form of Sidjin but he never made it. A steel and silverite freight train named Junior forced him back at cruising speed. Watching the golem pin Oleander against the eldritch wall she had raised earlier felt cathartic. The pair did their best to dismember him.

“[Wave of Domination!]”

They were pushed back. Oleander was no longer winning but they were struggling to land a lasting wound on him. With time, people would tire, and then they wouldn’t lose but they’d have losses. And Viv wasn’t willing to allow it. At the moment, she wasn’t casting. She was praying.

“Please, Enttiku. It’s now or never. Let me do it.”

A caress made Viv jump. It was a cold hand on a feverish neck: comfort without judgment.

“You must promise me that you will face the consequences. That you will not run from your destiny.”

“I never run. I… only strategically reposition. Sometimes.”

“Good enough.”

Something was removed from her soul.

Restriction lifted: forbidden repertoire unlocked.

Finally.

“Keep him down, boys!”

Viv started casting. Solar performed a maneuver that allowed him to grab Oleander’s sword arm without getting hurt. Junior grabbed the Champion of Maranor from behind, lifting him. They couldn’t hurt him but they could hold him back for a moment. It looked like his [Wave of Domination] couldn’t be cast in quick succession.

Viv was ready. The spell took the form of a triple spell orb centered on a dark mass hovering above her palm. The spell array looked very complex but it wasn’t what mattered. What mattered was that only she had the mastery over black mana to cast this abomination.

Solar’s expression soured. He had good instincts. Only Junior didn’t flinch when she rushed forward, leaving a paralyzed Arthur’s behind. It was a testament to Oleander’s self-control that he managed to raise his left arm to block the strike before it could hit his chest, but even he struggled against the hex’s revolting aura. Viv had never engaged in necromancy. This wasn’t necromancy, or flesh crafting, or any of the dark gods’ domains, no. It was simply much worse.

[Forbidden repertoire: soul warp.]

Oleander’s left arm twisted into a mangled mess. The scream that erupted from his throat carried a lifetime’s worth of dread. It was enough to allow him to break free from the golem with a creak of tortured servos, then he was fleeing. Viv didn’t try to run after him. Fate coalesced into a terrible warning. She jumped back on Arthur’s back. They took off.

***

Pain horror pain horror pain horror. His body wasn’t his. That thing wasn’t his. But his soul recognized it as his, as if it had always been this way, and it was wrong. It was wrong!

Warning: interface c̴o̸r̴r̷u̴p̸t̸i̴o̶n̴ ̴d̷e̸t̴e̶c̵t̸e̸d̷

No no no no that bitch was dead. She was dead and then he was going to cut off his arm and then Maranor was going to fix him.

Nero’s intact right hand closed on the hilt of the Slayer.

It was time.

***

It wasn’t fear grasping for She-Who-Feasts-And-Collects’ heart. Fear was for humans. And people who didn’t know what to do. The blade that killed Judgment was being drawn and that was Bad. She would know what to do very soon.

Mother.

Mother, what shall we do?

Motherrrrrrrr.

“Don’t worry,” Viv said. “I have a plan! Go over there!”

The pair flew at a right angle until the alliance army was no longer at their back. Arthur did not panic at all.

Mother, what now?

Silence. She-Who-Feasts-And-Collects felt very weird, like she was missing something. She looked back towards mother.

Her back was bare of pesky relatives.

Mother?

***

Viv hit the ground when the Slayer fully cleared its sheath. She had to admit, the power it radiated was absolutely impressive, and in a way, also tempting. It was the tool that had propelled humanity towards a civilization that, despite all odds, had spread throughout several continents. In any other circumstances she would have wanted to enjoy the show, but it was impossible. The blade was drawn for her. It was going to strike her. She felt it like a pain in her stomach, as if she’d already been stabbed. It was going to hit her and there was nothing she could do to stop it.

The world grew silent. All the fighting stopped as the combined forces of mankind held their breath. Her own came ragged and short from the sheer pressure. A red radiance permeated everything, blinding her.

There was no plan.

No one could stop a divine artifact. It was fine because Nero would be broken by this. The alliance would win this battle. Her people would survive. And then, assuming Nero ever recovered, the mysterious orphan adopted by one of Arthur’s children would avenge her. She was the mentor figure, and the girl was secreted away with enough teachers to turn her into a juggernaut. Viv’s succession was also secure in the person of her daughter.

Only she had the power to force Nero to draw that sword and she’d done it. Her role was complete.

The ultimate test of a sovereign was to allow their nation to prosper after their end. This was it. She cast her strongest shields, layering them.

She grabbed her old shield. The unwieldy block of metal represented everything she stood for. With gloved fingers, she caressed the uneven surface. Above, Arthur was screaming but that was ok. Children would never be ready for the loss of a parent anyway. Fate narrowed to a single line in her mind.

