Nero struck.

It was a deceptively simple attack, one she’d seen knights perform countless times in the training yards. It was almost slow. The slayer looked almost too old and too rustic to be a sword, really. It left a red cut in the air.

Viv tasted her own blood before it could even travel, and when it did, she couldn’t move. A heat of the soul crashed against her, forcing tears out immediately. She gathered just enough strength to move her head to the side and even this was almost too much. The feeling of being on fire intensified until it became too much, and she screamed. Even with pain tolerance and all the willpower she could gather, she screamed. It was that painful.

The traveling line obliterated all the shields Nero hadn’t ever managed to dent like they didn’t exist. The physical shield in her hand was vaporized into floating particles in an instant. Even Judgment’s scale wasn’t spared.

She was dead.

“Have a little faith,” a long forgotten voice whispered in her ear.

The barely conscious part of her mind remembered a certain inquisitor who had perished on Sardanal’s cradle. The old man had never given up. Even when he’d shielded her from the spider goddess’ blow.

“Denerim?” she managed to croak.

BONG.

The red line stopped against an ethereal circle of golden light. Blinking through the pain, she could hardly believe her own eyes. It looked like Nero couldn’t either. Then something yanked on her mana and swallowed several strategic spells’ worth of power in an instant.

A mana vortex formed around the golden circle, first strong, then stronger until even the wind roared in, dragged along with the gray mana. Pennants and flags whipped towards her while the vortex rotated ever faster, swallowing mana at an impossible rate. Skills failed. Spells wavered. Even the distant shields of her arrays flickered. The superheated cloud of particles that used to be her physical shield coalesced into an incandescent disc that spun, white hot yet comfortably toasty for her. Slowly, it cooled, revealing a silver targe with a black and white finish. Thirteen bands linked to the center where the flag of New Harrak was stamped, still cooling. Just like the Slayer, it looked deceptively simple, but the sheen on it burnt with an inner light that left no doubt about its nature.

Shield of Thirteen (Artifact)

Blessed by six species (humans, hadals, merl, yries, kark, dragons), four gods (Neriad, Efestar, Sardanal, Enttiku), and three groups forged into one nation (New Harrak, Harrakan Remnants, refugees), this shield embodies the hopes and shared dreams of a people brought together by the desire to prosper against all odds. It reaches its full potential in the hands of the rightfully recognized leader of New Harrak. Current potential: full.

Effects:

Indestructible.

Imperial Aegis: blocks all harmful effects (front-facing direction only) up to and including divine skills.

Imperial Haven: blocks diffuse harmful effect in a five-paces sphere (radiation, toxins etc)

The Slayer’s blow had faded. Viv was still standing. Under the stupefied gazes of the two armies, she allowed herself to smile through the pain, a figure of legend backlit by golden energy.

And then, very slowly, she fell on her ass.

***

Despite his wounds, despite the atrocious pain of a mangled soul, Oleander still managed to move forward, still approached her. He used his intact arm to grab his other sword and almost struck down the squirming form of Viv even as a portal opened to disgorge help. He could see her exposed flesh, then he could see nothing but white scale. A fury of claws forced him to retreat, but she was too young to stop him. He cut through the mana of her spell. He aimed for her throat.

A shield stopped him, then he was looking into the burning hatred of her crimson eyes.

You may not.

“[Third Wind]”

He tried to activate his final recovery skill but it partly failed. Partially Twisted and twice strained from his use of the relic, his soul cracked, he pushed against her with all that was left of his might. She stood against him. The fire of Maranor burnt in his soul still, but the dragon was suddenly stronger, her strikes more certain. Even her spells were more potent than her age should allow.

“That… is impossible. Impossible. Impossible.”

The Slayer should have killed her. It should have. He couldn’t accept that he’d sacrificed his soul for nothing.

“Give her to me. Give her life to me. GIVE IT!”

A white clawed hand grabbed him, slammed him into the ground. The dragoness twisted and whipped his face down with her tail as he was rising again.

“Get away!” he screamed.

You may not have her.

All that is mine, is mine.

All that is yours, I will take.

For my name.

Is AVARICE.

The ground under Oleander buckled and kicked him mid air where he was engulfed in dragon fire. It was too much for him. Even with the witch disabled, he couldn’t get through.

The last nail was the clouds parting. Oleander looked up, and ran.

***

“Oooooh that hurts,” Viv gasped. “Ow ow ow ow ow.”

That was going to leave a mark. On her face. At least she was already going steady so even if she was disfigured, it would be fine. Hey, Sidjin had a scar too! Now they were a proper match.

Maybe she was in some sort of shock. Anyway. Oleander had drawn. He’d wasted his secret ace and now it was Viv’s turn to use her own and finish this once and for all. She reached for her earpiece.

“Solfis, Solfis can you hear me?”

//I COPY, YOUR MAJESTY.

“Solfis, he did it. He drew the Slayer. And I lived.”

//AS I HAD FULL CONFIDENCE YOU WOULD.

//I NEVER DOUBTED.

//IT IS TIME.

//UNLEASH US.

“Solfis you are clear to engage.”

//COMMENCING FINAL APPROACH.

***

Crest knew something was wrong the moment the witch didn’t die. He soon had something else to worry about.

The clouds parted, dark vapor fading like mist, and what he had thought was the grasping hand of the deadlands disappeared to reveal a mountain. A floating mountain. A moving, floating mountain. No one knew what to do, even as reserves threw themselves at the alliance to stop their advance. It was a pitched battle in front of them, but all the eyes that were not locked down for their own survival were up now, staring at the terrifying shape.

“Is that… the Chalice?” the nearest Helockian warmage whispered.

It was the chalice. Crest recognized it from his own stays within the city, only it was the Chalice in the same way the Slayer could be called ‘a sword’. Gone was the verdant and messy rock. In its stead was a smooth surface of stone, steel, and silverite marked by the patient hands of hundreds of workers over millions of hours. It was an engraved, sublime castle shaped like a lozenge. The very sight of it, an object so large, so regular, floating in the air, induced vertigo. Crest could see panels peeling back in the lower part of the main body. Despite his better judgment, he inspected it.

[Harrakan Experimental Flying Fortress. Designation: Solfis. Danger level: ERROR. Adjusting scale. New danger level established: Apoc̴̛̙̤̤̈̽̔̀͐̂̽̊̈́̒̄̒̕͜͠ͅa̶̜̾̔͌̊̾̂̕l̵̨̛̝͙̙͈̞͇͈͙͔̀̿̆̎̏̉͒̌̔̇ÿ̷̠̬͉̮̮̹̫̩͍̱͍̜́̋͋͛̄̏̈́͐͠p̷̧̘̠̜̓̇̓̂̐͂̒͊̉s̵̛̛͍̜͇̽̍̑͊ͅẽ̸̙̤͈͎̞̩͕̬͕͐̊//DO YOU REALLY WANT TO KNOW?

//IT IS TOO LATE.

//TO RUN.

//MEATBAGS

Crest blinked. Blood dripped from his nose. In the distance, puffs of smoke erupted from the flying fortress. Explosions tore through the rallying Maranorians. Crest knew that they had enough soldiers who hadn’t fought yet to win, if they stopped the enemy advance. It was a critical moment.

“That thing has cannons! Forget about everything else,” he told the archmage. “Can you shoot it down?”

“We would need to redraw our arrays! That thing is far and high. We can’t even aim at it right now!”

“Well, do it then!”

They had to stop it, or, or…

Oleander landed next to him. He looked terrible, burnt, exhausted. His face twitched with nervous ticks and there was something terribly wrong with his left arm. Despite all of the anger he’d felt those past few weeks, he stepped forward to help his old friend, but Nero batted his arm away.

“Sorry. S— sorry. Just. I just need a moment.”

Fuck. It was bad but Crest thought they might have to retreat.

The battle was lost. Unbelievable. As he looked forward though, he realized that the alliance soldiers were falling back.

“Eh?”

“That will buy us some time,” the Helockian warmage grumbled as he and his peers adjusted their arrays.

Crest looked ahead again. At the center of the lozenge four panels pulled back over what looked like a lens. It glowed with energy. Crest felt the mana shift around him. He tried to open a portal and failed. The area around them was spatially locked.

A bitter smile of resignation was all he could manage. Despite it all, he placed a hand over his lost friend’s shoulder and pushed. At first, space refused to bulge but a prayer to the Goddess of Order helped. Her divine sigil briefly appeared on her champion’s brow.

“What… are you… what?”

Nero was drooling. His speech was slurred and halting. Crest sighed, still smiling.

“You killed us all, you dumbass.”

But he saved his friend anyway. Unfortunately, the portal only worked to let the chosen one escape. He was left behind. Crest turned to face the end.

He should have stopped before returning to Param. Now he only had himself to blame for what would follow.

***

Viv was lying on her back watching the Maranorians fight. There were still a lot of them, and her people were still bleeding.

It was time to send a message, not just to them but to absolutely everyone present, even her allies who might later reconsider their allegiance.

“Solfis.”

//Your Majesty.

//Direct approval from the sovereign is required to fire the main weapon on Harrakan soil.

//Please give the order.

“Solfis. I want those fuckers. Off my land.”

//Order Acknowledged.

//Calamity Engine cycling complete.

//Preparing to fire at half power.

//Please stand by.

Your draconic intimidation has reached the master level.

Your draconic intimidation has merged with Champion’s Leadership

“What? Really? Now?”

New merged skill obtained: GENOCIDAL MANIAC

“I never bluff.”

You have done it.

“Well they could have just, you know, not invaded.”

Genocidal maniac will terrify most entities and bolster those on your side with the certainty that yes, you will, in fact, do the thing.

“Why do I get this skill only after the hard part is over?”

***

In Solfis’ command room, Abe stood aside from his control panel. The redeemed lich frowned at the readings.

//FINALLY.

“Are you alright, Solfis? I am reading strange fluctuations in your energy output.”

//YES.

//I AM BETTER THAN ALRIGHT.

//I AM.

//PERFECT.

***

“What now?” Ered grumbled.

Someone was talking in his earpiece. It was a voice he didn’t recognize.

//COMMUNICATION ARRAY OVERRIDE ENGAGED.

//MAIN GUN IS ABOUT TO FIRE.

//SEEK SHELTER IMMEDIATELY.

//I REPEAT.

//SEEK SHELTER IMMEDIATELY.

“What does that mean?” he asked the radio lad.

“Means we need to fall back right away, sir.”

Ered looked at the enemy rank in front of him, ripe for the taking.

“Really?” he asked.

“Right away, right away.”

Something in the boy’s tone convinced him.

“Alright lads. Pull back! Pull back!”

For once, nobody complained.

***

The forces of the alliance stopped, turned around, and retreated. Now given a moment to breathe, the Maranorians oscillated between surprise and disbelief until they looked up. The fortress’ central lens turned white with energy, like a second sun. Some ran. Others prayed. Some didn’t know what to do as they reformed their lines with stoic determination. All could feel the pressure. They knew that something was coming, and they hoped that it would target someone else.

***

//FIRING SEQUENCE INITIATED.

//5

//4

On the fortress, the gun ports closed while the crew rushed to their assigned positions.

***

On the ground, Viv stood up. Slowly, because everything hurt. She was still ahead of her formation, and quite a few of the Maranorians were looking her way.

“Finally, I’ve always wanted to say this,” she gasped through the pain. “Witness the firepower of this fully armed and operational flying —hmph!”

Viv caught a faceful of dragon. Cursing quite loudly, Arthur covered her with her wings.

***

//3

//2

//1

//FIRING.

It started with a sharp crack, like a whip. Reality turned white and black, quiet, unmoving. A line of black energy hit forward at the perfect center between all the Maranorian’s shields where their remaining elites and rulers waited. The beam didn’t stop so much as pass through. The light bent, not behind, but inward. Those who watched struggled to process space seemingly warp on itself to form a funnel pulling down and beyond. The archmages still stood until the lines of their bodies turned to strings swallowed by the funnel, then the same happened to their neighbors and to their neighbors’ neighbors. Even the spells themselves were warped rather than broken. That strange hole that wasn’t one grew deeper. It was as if a mountain-sized child was poking his finger in a slate of putty. For a moment the funnel reached so deep, something might crack, but the cannon quieted, the beam disappeared, and space bounced back.

It also exploded.

It was more a loud ‘pang’ than the deep ‘boom’ of artillery.

