The cataclysmic detonation obliterated the mage shields, their tents and absolutely everything else in a half a league radius. Every human nearby fell when the shockwave hit them. An expanding orb of fire and matter darkened the sky above the battlefield. Debris as large as houses rained down, some endangering the alliance line. It took twenty seconds for the last of the calamitous noise to fade and for the smaller rocks to land. Twenty seconds of horrified silence. Twenty seconds of pure, unadulterated terror at what had just occurred. That time was too short to comprehend how the balance of the world had irremediably changed and how this event marked the beginning of a new era. It was just enough time to remember that the battle wasn’t over just quite yet.

“Sahin?” Viv whispered in her earpiece.

“I. Ah. Yes?”

“Sahin, I think a red flag is called for now.”

“Ah. Hm. Yes. Yes, indeed!”

***

Ered resisted the urge to tsk. Truly, this was the end of war. What nation could ever refuse Harrak anymore after that? It was very lucky he’d chosen the right leader for Baran. They would need diplomacy in the coming years.

“All units, this is Sahin. Red flag, red flag, red flag,” a voice said in his ear.

“What does that even mean?” he asked the radio lad.

“That —”

The boy didn’t get the time to reply. A powerful knight on a massive black charger rode close, brushing dust off the blue roses of his armor.

“That means all units capable of charging must charge to the end of the other field, old man. It’s time to finish this.”

“Rollo,” Ered growled.

“So are you leading the charge or what? I’m waiting.”

Ered looked at the field in front of him where the Maranorians were picking themselves up. Besides the massive, glassy, smoking crater where their generals used to be, it was flat terrain all the way down. Flat terrain filled with enemies.

“Finally a good fucking order.”

Spider riders, pakar riders, and those annoying steel beasts roared forward loaded with infantry. Even the archers and those feral crossbow women were running ahead with ululating battle cries. The entire alliance advanced like an unstoppable wave. Ered led the heavy cavalry. The alliance took captives by the tens of thousand and, just as ordered, they only stopped on the other side.
