Ren chose the rewards to give out for participation, success, damage done, number of kills, Honor and Influence gains, and anything else he could think of. If it had been a real keyboard, his fingers would have been sore by the time he was done typing. The best part of it was that he let the system generate the rewards, instead of having to pay for it himself. Also, he knew the giant attack was one of the tech guys evil plans that had been set into motion; so, as overall commander, no matter the outcome of the attack, Ren would be awarded a hundred shadow markers when the attack was over. He would not let evil triumph; and the money would pay to run the Garrison for over 5 years.

Let the tech guys suck on that! Ren thought happily, and sent the quest popups.

“A QUEST!” Nearly all of the dwarves yelled.

“By the gods!”

“How in the world?!?”

“I thought only Adventurers could go on quests!”

Ren heard a little squeak from the cart, and turned to glance at Deresdra. She stared in front of herself with her mouth open in a little 'o' of surprise, and Ren smiled as he thought about how she must be feeling.

“I got a popup, too!” Teepo said. “Yes, I accept the quest!”

Ren glanced at Ruck, and saw him reach out and touch something in mid air. Princess brayed softly, and Riley and Stacy barked. Deresdra smiled sweetly at him, and gave him a slight nod as she accepted the quest. Ren looked back at the Quest menu, and saw that everyone had accepted. He grinned and closed it, then folded his hands behind himself.

“Thank you all for accepting this quest.” Ren said. “Like I said before, this won't be easy; but, I'll do everything that I can to keep you safe and protected.”

“Forget that!” One of the dwarves said. “We're going to protect everyone!”

“Yeah!” “Damn right!” “Down with the evil giants!” “Protect the innocent!” “Defend the land!” “To the death!” “YEAH!”

Ren waited for the fervor to die down, and then spoke. “The camp is an hour away from the Garrison, so I'll go there and drop off the cart's current contents, and come back to pick you up.” He said. “I'll only be a few minutes.”

“A few minutes?” One of the dwarves asked as Ren stored the Automatic Ballista. “That must be some mount you have there!”

“She's definitely very special.” Ren said, and Princess huffed. “I'll provide armor for those that don't have any, and repair the armor for the ones that do.” He said. “I'll give you swords and shields if you need them, too.”

Ren turned and shook the Commander's hand, and thanked him. He went to the cart, and Princess turned them around and trotted off through the gate to the main road, and then ran to the outside gate.

*

“Is he for real?” One of the dwarves asked out loud, and the Commander snorted a laugh.

“It's hard to believe, but yes. He's real.” The Commander said. “I've never felt a Command Aura like that before, though.”

“Well, he's an Adventurer. You can't class them as the same as us, that's for sure.” Another dwarf said.

“Why's that?” Someone asked.

“They don't think like us.” The dwarf responded. “Who in their right minds could come up with a crossbow so big, that even a giant couldn't hold it?”

The dwarves laughed, and the Commander chuckled.

*

Princess pulled her passengers out to the giant campsite, then went all the way around the moat to the side most likely to be attacked. Ruck climbed off of the cart, and Riley and Stacy hopped down. Ren climbed down, and held a hand out for Deresdra.

“You're just going to leave me all alone out here?” She asked. “In the middle of nowhere?”

Ren chuckled. “Ruck is right there.” He said and pointed as Ruck walked around the cart to the front.

“AHHH!” Deresdra yelled. “I thought the cart was full of supplies or something!”

Ren laughed. “No, just my very first familiar and my two dogs.” He said. “I'm coming right back.”

Deresdra sighed and took the hand Ren held out to her. He helped her climb down from the cart, and gave her back her medical bag.

“Ruck, this is Deresdra. Deresdra, this is Ruck.”

Ruck held out a hand for her to shake, and she slowly reached out to take it. He turned it and bent over it, and she gasped. Ren chuckled, and handed Ruck the large medical tent and the 12 folding cots.

“That's Riley, and that's Stacy.” Ren said, and pointed to each dog. “They'll guard you until the battle.”

Ren climbed up into the driver's seat of the cart.

“Just until the battle?”

“Well, I can't order them to not join in on the fun.”

“FUN!?!” Deresdra exclaimed.

Ren laughed and Princess took off at a run. They were back at the Commander's section a couple of minutes later, and the dwarves climbed in. He took them back to the spot he'd dropped Deresdra off, and by the time Ren had hopped down to the ground and walked to the back, they had already climbed out and formed 2 lines of 10 dwarves.

Ren went to each of them, and repaired armor if it needed it, and gave them a sword and a shield if they wanted it. The ones without armor, he gave them a set after making it a mottled gray color to match the others. Four of the dwarves declined the offer of a sword and shield, and instead hefted their crossbows. He went along and enchanted the shields with Protection glyphs, and the weapons with whatever enchantment the dwarves wanted. Some took Fire, some Lightning, some Ice, and a few even took Earth and Wind.

While Ren was doing that, Ruck was taking directions from Deresdra. They had set up the large tent already, and were setting up the cots.

“I should have brought a desk or something.” Deresdra said, as she helped Ruck unfold the last cot and set it by the door. “It's not like I really need one; but, I don't like putting things on the ground, either.”

Ren overheard her, and when he finished with the last weapon enchantment, he took out some wood and made a simple desk. He brought it over to the medical tent, left it by the entrance, and went back to the dwarves. He hadn't noticed Deresdra's surprise at the sudden appearance of a table she'd just commented about, because he had forgotten to enchant Protection glyphs on the new sets of armor. He did that quickly, and looked at the dwarves.

“Let's get the Ballistas set up to give us a good field of fire.” Ren said.

“A good field of fire, he says!” One of them said. “They can shoot accurately at half a mile!”

All the dwarves laughed, and Ren joined them.
