Sylas Renn stood at the threshold for eleven minutes — he counted — studying the way the stone had been cut. Not by tools. He knew tool marks. The Gullet's walls showed the signature of sustained pressure rather than repeated impact, as if the rock had been squeezed sideways over a very long time and had simply decided to comply.

He made a note in the margin of his field journal. *Compression failure, not excavation. Walls pre-stressed. Load-bearing differently than a mined shaft.*

The Maw had placed his designation over his head while he was still standing outside, reading the entrance. He had felt it settle the way a hard hat settles — weight distributed, functional.

```stat-screen
ENTRANT DESIGNATION: THE FOUNDATION

GIFT: BEDROCK
You may reinforce structures you touch, drawing from your own skeleton.
Reinforcements are permanent. The debt is progressive.

COST: DONATION
Each reinforcement draws calcium and collagen from your load-bearing bones.
Effects accumulate. They do not reverse.

ATTUNEMENT: 0

STATISTICS
Vitality .............. 9
Resolve ............... 31
Attunement ............ 14
Fortune ............... 18
```

Sylas read the screen twice. He was a process engineer. He had spent twenty-two years reinforcing structures that other people would use without knowing they had been reinforced. The Gift made a certain kind of sense to him in a way that probably would not make sense to everyone.

He made another note. *Gift draws from skeleton. Cost is progressive. Calculate remaining load capacity before each use.* Below that, after a moment's consideration: *VIT 9. Load-bearing capacity already reduced. Account for this.*

Then he entered the Gullet.

---

The first body was at the base of a subsidence crack that split the floor diagonally, ankle-wide and knee-deep. A man, large, in improvised armor. The armor had done nothing about the fall. Sylas stepped around him carefully and examined the crack's edges — fresh spalling, clean break faces, no mineral staining on the interior. Recent. He consulted the walls above the crack and found a stress shadow in the stone that explained it: a void space behind the right wall, roughly the size of a hay bale, that had slowly collapsed inward. Whoever had widened the path had unknowingly undermined the floor's lateral support.

The man had probably not known any of this.

Sylas read the inscription on the wall above him.

*BALRIC DENN — DEPTH 1 — 1ST TO FALL WHERE STONE GIVES WAY*

The stone around it was weathered differently than the cut walls — worn smooth at the edges, the carving's lines softened by time. This death had not been recent. He noted the convention in the margin: deaths recorded in the order they happened, not the order they were found. The register predated the most recent wave of entrants. That was good practice. He approved.

He kept walking.

The second inscription was sixty meters further on, where a natural bridge of limestone spanned a black gap that Sylas could not see the bottom of. The bridge was narrow — roughly a meter of clearance on either side — and had been worn smooth by water that no longer ran here. The smoothing was uneven: heavier on the left arc, which meant the flow had been turbulent and coming from the upper right. He tested the bridge's surface with his boot. No flex. Good stone.

*PERRIN VOSS — DEPTH 1 — FIRST TO CROSS THE GAP IN DARKNESS*

There was a lantern on the other side. Someone had left it burning.

Sylas crossed carefully and picked up the lantern. Someone else had left it as a gift for the next entrant. He had done similar things at job sites — left notes at the top of staircases warning about the loose third step, left chalk marks on walls indicating where the studs ran.

You could not know who would come after you. You could try to make it easier for them.

The path continued downward.

---

He found the military gear two hundred meters in, stacked against the right wall with the precision of soldiers who had been trained to maintain organization under pressure. Six packs. Rope, spikes, rations that had already dried to leather. A bow. A shield with a crack along the left face that had been repaired — badly, with the wrong resin — and then cracked again along a slightly different line. He noted the repair attempt. Whoever had done it had tried. They had used what they had.

He read the third inscription.

*BREN ALDIC — DEPTH 1 — FIRST TO HOLD THE LINE IN THE GULLET*

The fourth inscription was lower, scratched rather than carved, in a hand that had been shaking.

*DARA HESS — DEPTH 2 — FIRST TO NAVIGATE THE WARRENS BLIND*

Then there was a gap in the wall where a fifth inscription should have been, and wasn't. He studied the blank space for a moment. The absence felt intentional. He moved on.

He reached the gap at the three-hundred-meter mark.

---

The gap was four meters across and dropping — the floor on the far side was a meter lower than the floor where Sylas stood, meaning whoever built the bridge would need to account for the grade differential. He stood at the edge for four minutes, calculating. The gap walls were basalt intrusion in limestone host, which meant uneven thermal expansion and contraction rates, which meant any fixed bridge would experience shear stress at the anchor points. A flexible bridge — cable-supported, with some give built in — would handle it better. But he didn't have cables.

He had his hands.

He had thirty-one Resolve points and a Gift that let him press permanence into stone.

Sylas pulled out his journal and sketched a load diagram on the back of the last page. Simple arch design — three voussoir stones from the rubble pile he'd catalogued twenty meters back, keystone to be cut from a single piece. He would need to reinforce the abutments on both walls, which would draw four times from the Gift. He also needed to cross it himself, which meant reinforcing the arch under load.

Six uses total. He did not know what six uses would cost him. He knew that the cost was progressive and did not reverse.

He wrote: *If you cannot cross, you cannot retreat. There is no retreat from structural failure.* Then he crossed it out and wrote: *Calculate load. Proceed.*

He went back to the rubble pile and began selecting stones.

---

The work took three hours.

He was not fast. He had never been the fastest on any crew. What he was was precise: he measured each voussoir stone by hand-span, calculated the curvature he needed from the gap width and the grade differential, and shaped the contact surfaces with a folding chisel he carried in his kit. The stone was cooperative. Limestone always was, if you asked it correctly.

When the arch was positioned — balanced on temporary props he'd fashioned from military spikes and rope — he placed his palms on the first abutment and used the Gift.

The sensation was familiar in the way that phantom limb pain is familiar: the body reporting information from a place that is not quite there anymore. He felt the stone solidify under his hands in a way that stone doesn't normally solidify — it was already solid, but now it was *resolved*, the crystalline structure aligned and locked as if it had been compressed under a million years of additional weight. The Gift worked the way he'd hoped.

His left femur made a sound like a settling house.

He moved to the right abutment and used the Gift again.

The sound this time came from deeper.

He set the keystone carefully — he had to climb partway into the arch to seat it, which was the worst part of any arch installation — and then pressed both hands to it simultaneously. The entire structure shuddered once, then settled into itself. He could feel it in the way you feel a table stop wobbling when the leg finds the right angle. Solid. True.

He climbed out from under the arch, stood on the near side, and pressed the Gift one more time into the near abutment where a small fracture had opened during loading.

Four uses. The sound from his legs had not been painful, exactly. It had been informative.

He tested the bridge with half his weight. Then full weight. Then three jumps, which was not engineering best practice but told him what he needed to know.

The arch held.

He crossed.

```stat-screen
GIFT ATTUNEMENT: +4
BEDROCK: 4 ACTIVATIONS (PERMANENT STRUCTURES)

DONATION: PROGRESSIVE DEBT ACCRUED
Status: Functional. Moderate.
```

On the far side, he turned and looked back at what he had built. The arch was not beautiful. It was not particularly elegant. It spanned the gap and was level and would not move. He had aimed for those things and achieved them.

He had not aimed for beautiful, and he did not regret the omission.

He set the lantern at the base of the near abutment, where it would be visible from the gap's edge. Someone else had left it burning for him. He left it burning for whoever came next.

He kept walking.

---

The Warrens opened like an argument — ten directions at once, none of them labeled. He found the journal where someone had left it, propped against the left wall just inside the entrance. A scribe's hand, careful and increasingly tired as the pages progressed. He did not read all of it. He read the structural observations and the parts where the author had mapped the junctions. The author had mapped accurately, which was more than Sylas had expected.

*The Mender's body is in the south corridor, near Junction 7. The Warden went further than any of us should have.*

He closed the journal and set it back where he'd found it.

He noted two things about the Warrens that the journal had not mentioned: first, that the ceiling height varied in a pattern — lower at the junctions, higher in the corridors — which was consistent with a gas-collection model rather than a random excavation. Second, that the temperature dropped in the south corridor and rose in the north, which suggested a heat source somewhere ahead and to the north.

He went north.

```stat-screen
DEPTH 2 REACHED: THE WARRENS

RESOLVE: +1
Current Resolve: 32
```

---

The Still Garden was cold and luminous and so quiet that Sylas could hear his own heartbeat.

He had expected something more obviously dangerous. What he found instead was a forest of crystal growths emerging from the floor — not stalactites and stalagmites (those came from mineral deposits, top-down and bottom-up simultaneously), but independent vertical structures that had grown outward from seed points on the flat ground. He took out his field journal and began measuring.

The crystals were not random. The spacing between them followed a ratio he recognized: roughly 1.618, the golden proportion, which appeared in biological growth patterns and certain kinds of crack propagation in stressed material. The crystals themselves were faceted in multiples of six. He didn't know what that meant yet, but he wrote it down.

```stat-screen
DEPTH 3 REACHED: THE STILL GARDEN

RESOLVE: +1
Current Resolve: 33
```

He found the weapons near the eastern wall — a sword, a spear, and a combat knife, arranged with the same military precision as the gear in the Gullet. The sword was too heavy for him. He took the knife. It had good balance, and the edge was still sharp. He put it in his belt.

He kept measuring.

He had measured eleven crystal structures and was beginning to sketch a spatial distribution diagram when he became aware that something else was in the room with him.

---

It was large.

He noticed it the way you notice structural movement in a building — not through a single dramatic event but through the accumulation of small details. The air had changed. The light came from a slightly different angle. The temperature had dropped another two degrees since he entered the Still Garden. And somewhere in the far row of crystals, something had shifted position between one moment and the next.

Sylas stood very still and held his ruler in front of him, as if measuring.

He was, in fact, measuring. The heat differential he was tracking would tell him the size and rough location of the mass generating it. He turned slowly, calibrating.

It was enormous. Thirty meters, perhaps, in the longest dimension — which was not the height, he noted. The height was modest. The creature was long, low, and wide, built for a space that had ceilings rather than open sky. Its body was made of crystal. Gray-white crystal, the same mineral family as the garden's growths, but denser — it had absorbed rather than extruded. Where the garden crystals scattered light, the creature compressed it.

It stood at the far end of the row he had been measuring.

It did not move.

Sylas looked at it for a long moment. He looked at his legs. During the bridge work, the sound from his left leg had continued between activations — a faint, periodic grinding that he'd catalogued as artifact noise and then revised his assessment of when it did not stop. He had been walking carefully for the last three hundred meters. He had been careful not to run.

He understood, now, that running was not going to be one of the options.

He went back to measuring.

The creature watched him. He was fairly certain it was watching him — the crystalline protrusions that were probably sensory organs had oriented toward him and held there. He noted their shape: not eyes in any traditional sense, but amplifiers. It was gathering more information than it was receiving.

He respected that.

He measured the spacing between two more crystals and updated his diagram. The creature had not moved. He moved laterally, closing the distance between himself and the center of the room, and the creature tracked him without advancing. He moved again. It tracked.

He took out his journal and drew its outline as accurately as he could from forty meters.

*Large predator. Crystal substrate. Ambush-capable body plan, low and wide. Currently stationary. Has been stationary for some time — low mineral deposits on dorsal surface, consistent with very long rest.*

He added: *Patient.*

He had met this quality in structures before — in old stone that had been bearing load for centuries and had simply absorbed the expectation of bearing load into its fundamental character. There was no resistance in such structures. There was only the quiet fact of them, doing the thing they had always done.

The creature was like that. It did not hurry. It did not need to. It had been here before he arrived, and it would be here after.

Sylas Renn set down his ruler, looked at the creature for three seconds, and then looked at the arch he would never see again and would never need to.

He closed his journal.

---

The creature moved.

It moved the way a building moves in the moment before it comes down — no warning, then all at once. Sylas had just enough time to register that the ground vibration had changed before the first strike came, and then he was not standing anymore.

He was aware of several things in the wrong order: that the stone was very cold against his cheek, that the knife was still in his belt, that he had not used the knife, that the knife would not have helped. He was also aware that his legs were somewhere below him and reporting information that he had categorized as structural failure, which was accurate.

He did not try to stand. He put his hand on the floor of the Still Garden and thought about the arch. He thought about the keystone seated under the load of its own structure, doing the work it had been made to do without needing to understand why.

He used the Gift one more time.

Not on a structure. Not on anything in particular. He pressed his palm flat against the stone and reinforced what he could reach, which was the ground immediately around him, which would serve no functional purpose and would still be there long after he was not.

He felt his left femur give way completely. It was fine. He was already on the ground.

He thought: *I have built a thing that will outlast me by a long time. That is the definition of the work.*

He was aware of the creature. He was aware of the cold. He was aware of his journal, still open beside him to the page with the crystal spacing diagram.

He was not afraid of the creature.

He was not afraid.

---

```stat-screen
DEATH REPORT — ENTRANT: SYLAS RENN
DESIGNATION: THE FOUNDATION
DEPTH REACHED: 3 (STILL GARDEN)
TOTAL KILLS THIS RUN: 0

FINAL STATISTICS
Vitality .............. 9  -> 0
Resolve ............... 31 -> 33 (+1 Depth 2, +1 Depth 3)
Attunement ............ 14 -> 19 (+5 Bedrock activations)
Fortune ............... 18

GIFT ATTUNEMENT AT DEATH: 19
DONATION DEBT AT DEATH: Catastrophic (left femur, right femur, pelvic crest)

CAUSE OF DEATH: Structural failure (legs). Compounding factor: creature.
PRIMARY CAUSE: Donation debt.

MEMORY CRYSTAL: None harvested.
Note: No peak emotional moment registered. Entrant completed work.

DESIGNATION OUTCOME: FOUNDATION COMPLETE
Structure built: Voussoir arch, Gap Crossing, Gullet Depth 1.
Status: PERMANENT.
```

The Ledger recorded the creature's third confirmed kill.

It considered the available designations.

The creature had taken two in quick succession, in the same depth, and then had waited. It had given no indication of urgency. It had allowed the engineer to finish his measurements, had tracked him without advancing while he was mobile, and had waited for the moment when mobility was gone.

The Ledger had seen versions of this before in the deep registry — ambush specialists, terrain readers, creatures that understood the architecture of a space and what it did to the things that tried to cross it.

But this one was different.

The ambush specialists waited because they were concealing themselves. The terrain readers waited because they were calculating.

This creature had waited because it was not concerned.

There was a difference. The Ledger was precise about differences.

It searched its inventory of names.

*The Patient.*

The creature did not acknowledge the designation. It had not acknowledged anything in three hundred and forty-two years, which was how long the Still Garden had been its domain. It settled back into its position among the crystal growths and compressed the light around itself until it was simply part of the room.

The Ledger added the name to the record.

*THE PATIENT — NAMED AFTER THIRD KILL — STILL GARDEN, DEPTH 3*
*KILL COUNT: 3 (LIRA, DEPTH 3; SERA VANT, DEPTH 3; SYLAS RENN, DEPTH 3)*

The arch in the Gullet held.

It would hold for a very long time.

---

Sylas Renn's inscription appeared at the arch's keystone, not on the wall.

The Maw had not done this before. It was not certain what had prompted it. The Foundation's work had changed the dungeon's geometry, which was new — no previous entrant had added permanent infrastructure. The inscription wanted a surface that matched the nature of the act.

The keystone was the correct surface.

*SYLAS RENN — DEPTH 3 — FIRST TO BUILD WHAT REMAINS*

Below it, in smaller characters:

*THE ARCH HOLDS.*
