Erick continued, “So, with regard to why I need some paladins, and why Ophiel is going to be a good one, and a general overview of what I’m doing as a god: It all has to do with the afterlife of Benevolence, and how I don’t have a traditional one, don’t want a traditional one, and how I’m going to need people to help with the afterlife I do have planned.

“I took some of Melemizargo’s dungeon slimes but reincarnated them into something a lot more Benevolent, changing how they work completely. I used those dungeon slimes to make Benevolent gate spaces that I spread out across the universe. I even put a few on Earth. I call them safeholds; not dungeons. I’ll skip the nuances of that to a minimum and get to the good stuff.

“Those dungeons naturally collect the souls of those who die anywhere nearby, if they’re not slated for other directions, and give them choices.

“The most popular choice, by far, is to be [Reincarnation]d in a new world, with a bit of power to help them along the way, in the shape of a [Personal Script] and one spell of their choice.

“I figure that I benefited greatly from the whole planar experience, so I’m giving that experience to as many people as I can.

“So? What do you think?”

First, came silence.

And then everyone wanted to start talking at once.

“Will people be able to return to life where they were?” Poi asked. “Free resurrections?”

“Sometimes people will be brought back where they already were, but I imagine the vast majority will be moved on, far, far away from where they started. Wherever they need to be. Infinity is a very large place, with a lot of problems, and this is a good systemic solution.”

“Are there dead people inside Benevolence right now?” Teressa asked.

“Only about a million. The number is rising daily, but you can’t even see them most of the time. They’re in the fog.”

Fallopolis was a little offended as she asked, “You’re just... letting people into… into heaven? Just like that?”

“Of course!” Erick said.

“Is it a shitty heaven,” Fallopolis deadpanned.

“Admittedly, it is a shitty heaven. No everlasting joy for most people, though I am giving that to a few people who truly do want it. I want people to move on to new lives, though, so that’s the goal there.”

Conversation turned weird, honing in on religion and worship and the nature of divinity itself. Dariok asked about other gods, and if Erick was taking all of their worshipers. Erick spoke of how the options after death covered that, with boons gifted from the gods Erick allowed into his system, which was all of the current ones. One could always pick up other gods and other universal Marks, outside of his system, though. Castellan Zolan asked about abuses of magic in new worlds, and power gained through causing death and chaos. Erick replied about Personal Scripts only incentivizing the helping of others, or personally bettering yourself, and while the second was rife for abuse, it was also the right thing to do, for you can’t help others if you need all your help for yourself. Evan asked about choices of bodies. Erick said that body choice was among the options, but in a limited sort of way, for the system would throw the person into a world where they needed to be, so that they could be their best person, both for them, and for others. If someone wanted to learn body changing magics, then they could do that, though.

“Got a space set up for a presentation, like we did with the dungeons?” Fallopolis asked, with a sly little smile, as though she already knew the answer.

Erick chuckled. “Maybe! Let’s finish up here, though.”

He had a space set up for it, Jane knew. Maybe he hadn’t had one at the start of this conversation, but he had one out there, now.

Shadow was somehow present, as though she had always been there. She asked, “What about second and third deaths?”

Erick smiled. “There’s gonna be a checking system to see if a person deserves a third or fourth chance at life. Right now, that check involves the judgments of the Benevolence safeholds on worlds that have one, but that’s getting into the nuance of it all, and is better saved for the presentations.

“Ideally, this whole thing will allow for a form of eternal life for most good people, well past their second, third, and many other deaths. You might consider it a different form of Koyabez’s Peace Corps, that Quilatalap used to be a part of, where they sent out people to solve conflicts and then resurrected them if they failed, so they could try again.

“The End is always there for a person if they want it, of course, but ideally, every person who goes through the reincarnation planar system will be able to make their own heavens, in whatever lives they can make, wherever they happen to be, and if they want to go again at the end, then they can.”

The group went silent, though there were a few gasps from the newcomers in the crowd. There was Silverite, and Killzone and Chernom. There was Al and Mog and Savral. The Regent and Archmage of Storm’s Edge, which had been Erased and then Restored. A lot of people who had been thought lost forever, but they were back. Rats even stood beside Life Binder Messalina, though they were both far away from the group, not wanting to intrude too much. Sitnakov was beside Jane, and Jane…

Jane was silent as she listened, but she already knew how she felt the very second Dad had mentioned [Reincarnation]s in a new world as an ‘afterlife’.

Jane’s voice cut through the silence, “I love it.”

Erick grinned.

~ ~ ~ ~

THE END

~ ~ ~ ~
