"The human Lord has joined the fight! He's caused two of the Demonic Mammoths to meet their end, but all three of the Obsidian Clan's Warriors are looking to settle the score for stealing their glory!" the Announcer yells out, zooming in on the live feeds and playing back the footage of my attack over and over.

The 230 Million Lords watching see a wave of purple and red fire fill their views of the battle.

Only one kill notification rings in my ear, as I only finished off one mammoth, and the other was finished off by the berserker with a war hammer.

"You're a lot stronger than the one I fought earlier today..." I remark, sending another wave of fire to the isolated Berserker that jumped over my last attack.

My greater form is about one-fifth the size of these berserkers, but my power, speed, and intensity of Noble Vibrations is certainly topping theirs.

The hammer-wielding monster sees my attack coming again and jumps upward, soaring tens of kilometers into the sky in a single leap to dodge.

I throw another wave of flames in my follow-through at the two other Berserkers coming at me from the other side.

Massive explosions of fire fill the area, bursting outward hundreds of kilometers even with the ether-suppressing commands all around us.

The sword wielder I pushed back earlier gets slammed with a direct hit on my second attack, and the final mammoth gets caught in the crossfire and shockwave of both my strikes.

It isn't agile enough to jump or dodge and has to block head-on with its tusks.

Another kill confirmation rings in my ears as its purple tusks shatter and it's sliced to pieces.

The sword-wielding Berserker Giant that took a full-powered slash from 7% of my borrowed stats managed to survive... but just like its axe-wielding partner, it is engulfed in a wave of flames.

Screeches from both of the flaming Berserker Giants echo through my ears, as I feel their power surge even higher.

They enjoy this kind of thing...

The battle would not be fun for them if they won in a single blow, and they wouldn't be able to grow stronger either.

I'm certain they weren't holding back, but when I see the dark obsidian aura bursting out from the flames, and both giants' greater forms expanding by over 20% in mere seconds, I can't help but match their wide grins and laugh back.

Above me, the hammer-wielding monster comes arching downward after its leap, and from all sides, there are full powered incoming attacks.

"The human's attack was enough to kill off the last of the demon's distractions, but the Obsidian Clan won't fall that easy. He is truly done for now!" echoes in my ear from the Announcer hyping up the play-by-play.

At the same time, I pull another 3% of borrowed stats, bringing my total up to 10%.

The moment I do, crimson leaks out from deep within my blade, my Noble Vibrations become even more intense, and a loud buzzing sound starts to push against my inner ear.

This is what I get for using so much power with my seals still activated, and not even using my Noble Form... but I won't have to wait too much longer.

I take a deep breath in and out, and my eyes glow bright white while I jump upward and twist my body again.

A spiral of red, white, and purple flames erupts out from my blade just as the hammer, sword, and axe are all converging less than 10 meters away from my greater form each.

The sounds of Relic Class Soul Weapons cracking and Noble Vibrations suppressing the systems of Warriors from planets where they never met their match makes a static sound buzz through the air.

Even the smooth arena floor beneath my feet quivers, as three jet-black greater forms all around me get hit with a direct attack in the chest, and bright white splinters of energy fracture through all of them like broken glass.

The Berserkers still don't die in a single hit... but I keep spinning around, sending more and more attacks their way mid-air while they have no weapons to block any longer.

This all happens in under a tenth of a second.

For an average Lord looking in, it appears as though I released a shockwave of energy that blew them all backward when they tried to attack me, but the high-speed recording devices show me spinning around dozens of times and obliterating my enemies.

Three more kill-confirmed notifications ting in my ears while the entire flat zone of the arena explodes with a devastating pressure.

It looks like a miniature star is exploding as the black, white, purple, red, and green energy waves are ejected from a single point.

There are no enemies left in the floating ring zone to feel or see these waves. The mountain range is silent, and abandoned as well...

However, one zone remains active, and almost every single Lord left in this artificial forest freezes with fear once the aura that ripples through them is felt.

Every Lord except one.

The white greater form of the 1st Class Griffon elegantly slashes through an armored monkey that froze during the blast, and dives beneath a massive branch to finally crush the core of a black rock golem on its underside that has been using other Lords as cover to regenerate.

Wisps of white wind magic, ether, and warm vibrations of their own are left in flowing patterns as the Griffon lets out a majestic screech and flaps its wings to finish off every other frozen Lord in the forest.

—

One by one, the entries on the live feeds all disappear, getting picked off by the Griffon, to only leave two entries left over the next few minutes.

However, the Announcer does not highlight this creature's ruthless yet elegant display one bit.

The only visuals shown on the big live screens are of instant playbacks of my release of energy to take out the warriors from the Obsidian Clan.

The entire audience is left in awe.

"He's really done it! The human pulled it off! This is a one-of-a-kind Arena Event today, Lords! For the first time in hundreds- no thousands of years, our champion is not going to be a Demon or a Berserker Giant!" the Announcer keeps hyping up the crowd, and they keep feeding into it.

The stands all around the ring are shaking, and every Lord has jumped up from their seats.

"I told you! You should have seen him in round 1! The human is going to win it all!"

"Impossible! A Lower Race could never—This has to be some kind of trick!"

"Did you see the color of his fire? It has purple... and black energy in it—see, look at that replay."

"Could he be using Demonic Energy? Is this another one of the Demon's tests..."

"Who cares! The payout is over one hundred times what I put in... Come on, human! Take home the grand prize!"

"The only other Lord left in the dome now is that Griffon..."

—

I calmly float in the center of the flat zone, as I see the results of my actions through a live spectate feed.

Everything is perfectly falling into place. All I have to do now is eliminate this Griffon and trigger the final phase of my plan.

I can see its flight patterns twisting out from the forest and heading my way already. I don't have to do a thing.

Once I see the flash of white light show up on the horizon, I reach out and grab the sword that has been leisurely orbiting around me while I waited, then point it forward and call out.

"Hey! If you're an intelligent beast, drop out so we don't have to fight! I don't want to hurt you if I don't have to."

It's partially a tease, but at the same time partially the truth.

I'm going to win this event no matter what. If this half-bird, half-lion wants to drop out and claim a large prize now, it'd work out best for both of us.

Though, it doesn't slow down one bit.

I pull my blade back in a defensive stance and brace for impact. "Well—At least I warned you—" I murmur out while the monster's taloned feet collide with my blade at their max velocity.

I sense dozens of ether-imbued wind blades all swirling around in the air, curving around toward my back while I'm distracted with this block.

The warm Vibrations I feel from our contact are extremely intense... They're pretty close to the strength of one of the Berserkers I just killed, actually.

Then, when I look it in the eyes, a wave of energy bursts into my psyche and a loud, confident voice echoes in my mind.

"I would never trust the words of a Noble Demon. You give these Lords false hope in the form of a Lesser Race, only to tear it away and show them despair once you win this event. Despicable. Dishonorable. I will not surrender to the likes of you. A false Noble Race. One that should not exist in the bounds of the system in the first place. You Demons are a virus that must be exterminated no matter the cost."

The Griffon glows white hot, and an eruption of power tens of times greater than what it was giving off before explodes outward from its true body deep within its greater form.

My eyes widen, but not out of fear. It is amusement and pure surprise.

This amount of power completely overwhelms what I have available to me in my current form. It is pretty similar to the strength level of a Real Noble... If I was just the strength of Andras Vermillion, the past Lord of the Ellipsia Citadel, I may have actually been in trouble.

However, I am not that weak. Behind my suppressed power, my perception is still hundreds of times faster than what my body is outwardly showing. So, I have plenty of time to react and think this situation through.

I do the only logical counter, pulling another 5% of borrowed stats, and let my 2nd seal dissolve on the spot.
