Four.

She took Brecca to the threshold stone on the morning of Day 22, after the dawn vibration had passed and the light had reached the settlement in its slow rectangular progress.

Brecca walked the way Brecca walked everywhere -- fast, forward, with the specific impatience of someone who had been told there was something to see and wanted to see it now. She had clay on her hands from the morning's repointing. She had not washed them. Wren suspected she had forgotten they were dirty.

The stone was in the light. The [Foundation Stone] signature met them at the settlement's southern margin, the way it met Wren every morning: steady, continuous, the heartbeat in the substrate. Wren felt it through the bond. Brecca felt nothing and noticed nothing and walked right through it.

"This is it?" Brecca said.

The threshold stone was two meters long, a meter high, flat-topped and dressed on its visible faces. It sat in the earth the way it had sat for four thousand years -- centred, load-bearing, the heaviest single element in the settlement. The morning light caught the east face and the mineral banding glowed in its twelve dark layers, each one a geological chapter written in silica and time.

"Put your hand on it," Wren said.

Brecca put her hand on the stone. She held it there for three seconds.

"It is warm," she said.

"Yes."

"Just -- warm rock." Brecca pressed her palm flat, the way she pressed it against walls. She was reading the stone's surface the way she read any surface: for temperature, for texture, for what it told her about load and age and purpose. "The dressed faces are good. Even depth. Whoever shaped this used a broad chisel and knew when to stop." She crouched and ran her hand along the foundation line where the stone met earth. "It is sitting on its own weight. Not mortared. Not pinned. Just gravity." She looked up at Wren. "This is what you have been sitting with for three weeks?"

"Yes."

"And the System -- the bond -- it told you something about this rock that I cannot see."

"Not told. Showed."

Brecca looked at her. The expression was unreadable, which was unusual for Brecca Vane, whose face generally broadcast everything at full volume. She stood and wiped her palms on her trousers and looked at the stone the way she looked at every structure she assessed: as a thing that had been built, by someone, for a reason.

"Show me what you see," she said.

Wren did not explain. She walked to the south face. "Look here. At the base."

Brecca crouched. The healer's handprint was where it had always been -- a worn depression in the limestone, shaped by decades of daily contact. Brecca saw it immediately. Her hands went to it before Wren could describe it.

"Someone touched this every day," Brecca said. She was tracing the impression with her fingers, reading it the way she read mortar joints. "Right-handed. See the thumb angle? The pressure is heavier on the right side. She stood facing -- " Brecca shifted her body, aligning herself with the impression. "Southeast. Facing the sunrise." She pressed her own hand into the depression. Her hand was larger than the healer's. "Small hands. Strong thumbs. She pressed hard -- not leaning, pressing. Like she was pushing something into the stone."

Wren stared. In three weeks of sitting with the threshold stone, in nine days of building the bond toward Familiar depth, in all the discoveries she had made about mineral banding and thermal gradients and crystal lattice vibrations, she had never learned that the healer was right-handed. She had never thought to read the handprint as biomechanics. She had read it as resonance -- as the trace of a bond that predated hers, the echo of someone else's daily attention. She had read the meaning. Brecca had read the hand.

"You can tell which direction she was facing?" Wren said.

"Thumb placement." Brecca shrugged, as if this were obvious. "When you press a surface standing, the thumb angle tells you your orientation. She stood here every morning, facing the dawn, and pressed her hand into this stone." Brecca looked at Wren. "What did the bond tell you?"

"That someone had paid attention to this stone for a very long time. That the attention had left a mark."

"Same thing," Brecca said. "Different data."

Wren sat with that. Same thing. Different data. Two modes of attention, converging on the same truth from opposite directions: someone had loved this stone. Wren had read it through resonance. Brecca had read it through pressure. The stone held both readings without contradiction.

---

Brecca put her hand on the east face, where the mineral banding caught the light, and held it there for a long time. Longer than she had held anything Wren had seen her hold.

"It is humming," she said.

Wren went very still.

"Not loud. Like -- do you know when you put your hand on a wall and there is water moving behind it? That vibration. Except there is no water. It is the stone itself." Brecca pressed harder. "Is that normal?"

The [Foundation Stone] signature. The continuous vibration that ran through the substrate, that Wren felt through the bond from forty meters away. Brecca could not feel it through a bond. She did not have a bond. She was feeling it through the stone itself -- through her hand, through the sensitivity to structural vibration that let her read walls and drainage channels and load-bearing angles. The stone's song was physically detectable to someone whose hands were attuned to how stone moves.

"That is normal," Wren said carefully. "The stone has been doing that since Day 18."

"Since the thing you called the pulse."

"Yes."

Brecca held her hand on the stone. Her face had the quality Wren was learning to recognize as Brecca's deepest register -- not loud, not fast, not filling silence. Present. Paying attention with her whole hand, the way Wren paid attention with her whole awareness.

"It feels old," Brecca said. "Not the surface. The vibration. It feels like something that has been happening for a very long time and just started being loud enough to notice."

Wren did not correct her. The signature had been dormant for centuries and had awakened three days ago. But Brecca's reading was not wrong -- the vibration was four thousand years of geological identity, compressed into a frequency that the bond had awakened but not created. The stone had always been this. It had just started saying so.

"Yeah," Wren said. "That is exactly what it is."

---

Rain came in the afternoon.

Not heavy -- a slow, steady fall from a sky that had greyed by midday, the cloud cover arriving from the northwest in a front that flattened the light and turned the canopy from grey-green to dark green. The first rain since Wren had arrived at Varethen. Twenty-two days of dry weather, broken by a sound she had not realized she had been missing: water on leaves, water on stone, water on the earth between the settlement walls.

The drainage channel worked.

She watched from the gathering hall's entrance as the first trickle found the channel's western intake -- rainwater running off the slope toward the camp, following the gradient Theron and Brecca had cleared. The water entered the channel and moved along the stone lining at the six-degree slope the original builders had tested with snowmelt, running south toward the tree line in a steady, narrow stream.

Theron stood at the channel's south end and watched the water arrive. He did not say anything. He stood in the rain with his arms at his sides and watched water flow through a channel his grandmother's mother had helped build, and his face did the thing his face did when he was moved: nothing. The absence of expression was the expression.

Brecca appeared beside him. She was soaked. She had been repointing the gathering hall's west face when the rain started and had not stopped working until the clay began to wash before it could set. She looked at the channel and at the water and at Theron standing in the rain watching it flow.

"Good drainage," she said.

Theron looked at her. A beat. Then the corners of his mouth moved -- not quite a smile, not quite not a smile. The acknowledgment of a shared language.

They stood in the rain and watched the water run.

---

At the gathering hall, Brecca found the niche.

She had been removing a loose stone from the east wall's second course -- a stone she had identified that morning as needing replacement, the clay binding having failed completely on its inner face. She worked the stone free with the flat edge of her trowel and set it aside and then stopped.

"There is a space behind it," she said.

Wren came to look. Behind the removed stone, in the wall's interior, a small shelf had been carved into the next course's surface. A deliberate depression, roughly ten centimeters wide and five deep, smoothed on all sides. Not damage. Not decay. A storage niche, invisible from the wall's exterior, accessible only when the mortar was replaced. A maintenance-triggered access point.

The niche was empty. Three centuries of emptiness.

"Someone carved this on purpose," Brecca said. She was running her fingers along the niche's interior, reading the tool marks. "The chisel work matches the threshold stone's dressing. Same hand, or same tradition. This was not hidden -- it was stored. You could only reach it when you were already repointing. When you were already doing the work."

Wren looked at the empty niche and felt the [Foundation Stone] signature pulsing faintly through the wall's foundation. A hidden shelf, designed to be found by the next person who cared enough to maintain the wall. A message from the builders to the builders who would come after: *we left you something. You can only find it if you are doing what we did.*

The niche was empty. But the design was the message.

```stat-screen
-------------------------------------------------------------
  DISCOVERY
  Varethen -- Gathering Hall
-------------------------------------------------------------

  Maintenance Niche (East Wall, 2nd Course)
  Hidden storage shelf accessible during mortar replacement.
  Tool marks consistent with threshold stone dressing.

  Builder's access protocol: invisible until maintenance.

  +38 XP
  +2 Surveying proficiency

  Cumulative XP: 1624 / 2573 (Level 6)
  Surveying: 54 (Apprentice)

-------------------------------------------------------------
```

The notification was quiet. Small. The XP was modest -- this was not a bond-forming discovery or a depth-advancing revelation. It was a detail, a fact about how the settlement had been built, found because Brecca had done the physical work of removing a stone that Wren's survey would never have touched.

"You found that," Wren said.

"I found a hole in a wall," Brecca said. "You did the notification thing."

"The notification thing."

"The face you make when the System talks to you." Brecca pointed at Wren's face. "You go still and your eyes do something. Hadley told me about it."

Wren did not know her face did something when she received notifications. She filed this -- and then caught herself filing it.

"Thank you," she said. "For finding the niche."

Brecca shrugged. "I was fixing the wall. The wall had something in it." She picked up the loose stone and examined it, turning it in her hands. "I am going to put this back with better clay. The niche stays accessible. In case someone needs it later."

In case someone needs it later. Brecca was building for the next person. She was doing what the original builders had done -- leaving access for those who came after. She did not know she was continuing a tradition. She was just building well.

---

Wren opened the letter at the threshold stone, in the last light of Day 22.

She had carried it for two days. She had carried it the way she carried everything -- present, unexamined, waiting for the right moment. The right moment was now, with the rain tapering to mist and the stone warm against her back and the settlement's evening sounds behind her: Brecca and Theron talking at the fire about mortar composition, Hadley's low commentary on the stew, the insect chorus counting in its post-pulse register.

Her mother's handwriting. Cramped, precise, the letters formed with the same thoroughness Sera Galley applied to packing supply lists and weighing provisions. The ink was dark -- good ink, not the watered trader's ink. Her mother had used the good ink.

*Wren,*

*The garden is in. Your father adjusted the south bed's drainage -- he says you would appreciate the gradient. The rosemary from the cutting you left has rooted. I put it in the window.*

*Hadley's father says the Thornwild is quieter this season. I do not know what that means. Your father looked at a map when he heard it and did not speak for an hour, which means he is thinking something he does not want to say until he is sure.*

*You will find things I cannot imagine. Your father says this with pride and I believe him. But I think you will also find people who need you, and I hope you let them need you without turning it into a project. You have your father's eyes and your father's compass and your father's way of loving things by studying them. You also have a quality he does not, which is the willingness to sit still long enough for something to find you.*

*Come home before first frost. Or send word that you will not, and I will adjust.*

*The rosemary is yours when you come back.*

*-- S.*

Wren read the letter twice. She read it a third time. The third time she read the sentence that mattered: *I hope you let them need you without turning it into a project.*

Her mother, from two hundred miles away, from a supply post in a town at the edge of the Thornwild, had identified the thing Wren had spent three days learning to see. *Without turning it into a project.* Without surveying. Without filing. Without translating need into data.

She pressed her back against the threshold stone and felt the [Foundation Stone] vibration run through the limestone and into her spine and held her mother's letter in both hands and looked at the sky through the canopy, where the rain-clouds were breaking and the first stars were visible in the gaps.

She thought about the rosemary sprig in her pack. She had been carrying it since Day 1 -- her mother's farewell, wrapped in cloth, the scent fading but not gone. She thought about the threshold stone, warm against her back. She thought about the healer's handprint on the stone's south face, read by two different modes of attention, understood twice.

The places she carried were not all places she had bonded with. Some she carried in paper and scent and a sprig of rosemary. Some she carried in letters she was afraid to open and words she was learning to say.

She did not write back. There was no postal service. She folded the letter and put it in her journal, between the pages that mattered, and sat with the stone in the last light and felt the distance between here and home and knew that the distance was not a gap. It was a bond she had not yet learned to name.

---

Day 23 arrived with clear skies and the smell of wet stone.

Brecca was at the gathering hall before dawn, working. Wren found her at the west wall this time, pressing clay into joints, testing each one. The rain had washed some of yesterday's work before it set. Brecca was redoing it without comment.

"What was Thorngate like?" Wren said.

Brecca looked at her. The question was unexpected -- Wren did not ask about places she had not been. She asked about places through surveys and bonds, not through people.

"Small," Brecca said. "Boring." She pressed clay into a joint. "The clay is different there. Redder. Harder to work -- it cracks when it dries if you do not mix it right. Here the clay is softer. More forgiving." She looked at the wall. "The stone is better too. Whoever chose this site knew their material."

Wren listened. She did not file. She let Brecca's description of Thorngate's clay sit beside her own knowledge of Varethen's limestone and did not try to connect them into a survey.

"Do you miss it?" Wren said.

Brecca's hands paused. The question was about Brecca, not about clay or stone or construction technique. Brecca heard this. Wren saw her hear it.

"No," Brecca said. Then: "I miss my mother's kiln. The way it sounds when it is cooling. That tick-tick-tick of clay contracting." She pressed another joint. "I do not miss Thorngate. I miss the sounds."

Wren thought about the dawn vibration. About the insect chorus counting. About the rosemary's scent fading in her pack and her mother's handwriting on the letter in her journal. The things you carry from the places you leave. Not the places themselves. The sensory details. The sounds, the smells, the way a surface feels under your hand.

"I miss my mother's supply post," Wren said. "The way the door sounds when it closes."

Brecca looked at her. A beat of recognition -- not the loud, energetic recognition Wren was used to from her, but something quieter. The recognition that Wren had said something about herself. Not about the settlement or the System or the bond network. About herself.

"Yeah," Brecca said. "That is the thing you miss. The door sound."

They worked in the morning light. Brecca at the wall, Wren surveying the repointing's progress -- the fresh ochre-brown clay against the grey-white original, the building changing under Brecca's hands, attended to and altered and cared for. The settlement was becoming something it had not been in three centuries: tended. Not by a single healer on a daily route, but by four people with different hands and different modes of attention, each contributing what they saw.

She opened her journal and wrote:

*Day 23. Five.*

The margin count went up. The numbers climbed. The settlement held.
