Suffer the Implacable Dialectic ranks among the most oppressive Rhetoric Skill Evolutions recorded on Integrated Earth.

It inflicts a sense of claustrophobic isolation—creating a sort of mana chasm that traps both the speaker and their listeners in a narrow one-way valley that amplifies the speaker's voice and passions until it becomes akin to a deafening wind, further buffeted by heavy rhetorical impacts. This Social Skill is devastating and vulgar in direct application, but also can be subtle and instrumental in communicating over long distances. It is active so long as the speaker focuses on the skill, and thus can carry their words over vast distances even without Psychomancy, provided that someone can hear them at all.

But this effect extends beyond their voice, for if one possesses Psychomancy, then it can serve as a rhetorical medium as well, effectively ensuring that there is no escape from the implacable dialectic to come. With the devastating emotional and moral effects this skill can inflict, the skill finds much popularity among the Challenger's orcs or the various Incubi races who sell their services to the highest bidder, becoming swords of mercenary diplomats and shadow fixers for entire civilizations.

Where this skill truly shines, however, is if the Pathbearer already possesses a potent Intimidation-related skill. This allows the user to massively amplify the scope of their Intimidation. The isolating effect of the implacable dialectic makes the listener feel as if they must contend with the speaker alone. This then supercharges the effects of intimidation if one lacks the proper psychological fortitude to withstand the rhetoric assailing them, and thus leaves them vulnerable to more forceful manipulation. As such, certain awakened monster lords such as Aildur the Sea-Drinker have found great worth in the implacable dialectic; worth beyond mere intimidation, in fact. There is much to be learned from an adversary if you can separate them from their masters and speak with them directly. People are most willing to part with secrets, after all, when properly pressed.

—Encyclopedia Apocalyptia: Suffer the Implacable Dialectic

438

Adoption

Skill Evolution: These Words of Truth and Adoration (Adept) > Suffer the Implacable Dialectic (Heroic)

Suffer the Implacable Dialectic 102

Feats: [7/13]

As Shiv's Skill Evolution took hold, the unattuned mana that fueled his Rhetoric pulled on the displayed vulnerabilities of the Jotun gods and the Pale fused to them, drawing more and more of their impulses and emotions in his direction.

A hint as to how his Rhetoric now functioned came as the world became narrow. He felt like he was standing at the top of a summit, or perhaps on an elevated end of a ravine, with an invisible crevice leading to the Jotunn gods, with walls to both their sides, making them unable to turn away from him or ignore his words. They felt it in an instant. He read it in their body language: they tensed, and even the cold winds went still.

They clearly expected some spell or strike to follow, but when none came and Shiv spoke on only after a few moments of silence, they realized it; his Rhetoric had evolved right in the middle of this conversation.

“You see it now, don’t you?” Shiv said, his voice loud and confident, but then again, the volume was utterly unnecessary now. His skill caused his words to flow down that chasm, bridging him to the Pale with no apparent way for it to avoid him. More than bridging him, however, it isolated each of his subjects. He could feel them in four parts: the Child, the Warrior, the Crone, and the Pale. All of them pieces to a greater alloy, but individual consciousnesses nonetheless. “You see the actual threat I pose, the absurd rate of my growth. And you see that I'm not like the Tarrasque. Not nearly. It has the mind of a child and is obsessed over a singular thing. Me personally, I've been trying to be a little broader in my thinking. And now, I'm going to paint you a picture of what’s to come.”

“A picture?” the Crone whispered.

“Another lie,” the Pale hissed through her, though its response was more emotional than rational. It feared what he might inflict upon it through his Harbinger, but unless it deafened itself and deadened its thoughts, there was no avoiding his words—even mutilated of hearing, it still had a mind.

Awareness was but a poisoned pill when it came to Shiv.

Shiv shook his head. “You might wish it was, but not. You can see it right now. No one else evolves quite as fast as I do. You give me another month, maybe I'll have another Legendary Delve along with a whole bunch of other Skill Evolutions. Now, you might be thinking, maybe the solution is to wait until I'm Delving and then come for me. But to get to me, you'll have to get through Gate Piety, and in a month, who knows where the Gate might be in its own evolutions. More importantly, though, my last few Delves were all under a few days—time isn't your ally. Force isn't your ally. Frankly, one of your biggest problems is that you have no allies. Lord Scorn? Yeah, sure, you share a hatred, but I don't think he cares about you. Neither do Compact or the vampires. I hope you're not stupid enough to do what I did and sign yourself over to the Challenger anyway, because he's just war, and war doesn't care. War just burns."

Shiv sniffled as he regarded the unmoving frost around him. “Let me assure you, the Challenger isn't the Republic. The Challenger isn't going to stop. The orcs will keep coming and coming and coming until they overrun even your lands. You might fight alongside them for a while, but they'll use that time to learn about you, and then you'll have a lot more than just me to worry about. Truth be told, I understand why you did what you did. The Tarrasque went passive when it got to your land, probably developed some kind of Cooking skill, and fell into that obsession, so you took that opportunity. Maybe it was your plan to invade the Republic through Gate Piety as a potential flanking option.”

He chuckled as he felt an Inland Embassy form within the Child's mind, and then the pale Crone’s thereafter. Only the Warrior endured, if only out of stubborn obstinacy. For that, he had Shiv's grudging respect to some extent. He liked the fighting kind—stupid or not, there was something beautiful about dying with steel in hand and hatred in heart.

And at that thought, the Warrior took a step forward, glaring down upon Shiv. “You claim that we have no allies, and so you offer us a seat of representation in your supposed neutral city. You want to buy the Tarrasque through political favor and treaty?”

“No, you got it wrong. I'm not buying the Tarrasque from you. I'm taking it. That's a service on my part. You're going to pay me to do it because, alternatively, you're going to have something that's very, very frustrated about not being fed anymore."

Shiv spoke, the Implacable Dialectic proclaimed, and the Trespasser fed. His words inflicted defeat in detail through conversation, for this new evolution distinguished on an individual basis, and all of his victims felt his pressure alone. His Dread-Tainted Feat was fueled evermore by the oppressive nature of his new Rhetoric. Cold spots of black dripped from the shapeless presence of the Pale, dotting the crown of the Crone, painting the scarred, dark blue skin of the Warrior, and spilling free from the hollow sockets of the Child's missing eyes.

Shiv smiled, and he aimed his joy like a spearhead against his foes. "I'm sure you're aware there's another version of me, still inside the dimensional enclosure, currently burning bits of my own mana and feeding that to the Tarrasque. I assure you there's no way you can replicate the taste. Now, it's not the best food I've ever made, but considering the Tarrasque has been eating nothing but fried slop it's been making for itself, and you guys foolishly allowed it to gain proper culinary experience… I can't imagine how happy it'll be if you banish me from these lands without letting me take it off your hands.”

Though the Pale tried to hide its apprehension, the dread and null grew thicker as the dark began outstripping the white. They began as small patches, which then congealed into thick clumps of darkness before spreading, connecting to one another as a pall of shadow fell over the Jotun gods and usurped the Pale’s namesake.

“It's too late for anything else to happen,” Shiv continued. He folded his arms and shrugged, for he was truly nonchalant about how things were going to turn out. Now, if they refused to surrender the Tarrasque, then he would do something unreasonable; he would use his on-site vessels to tear open the dimensional enclosure and set the beast free. Afterward, whatever the North suffered would be the North's lot, and Shiv would leave them to their fate—and then reclaim his Tarrasque afterward anyway, by luring it via slices of food.

The Child seemed to glimpse this possibility via the gleaming orb of Divination socketed at the center of its misshapen skull. “No, this cannot come to pass. The pieces of the moon must be preserved. The North must be preserved. We cannot suffer this. We will not suffer this. We must guard our home. We must guard our home…”

“Peace Child, peace.” The Warrior and the Crone spoke as one, becoming momentary parents as they brushed and consoled the third god in their pantheon. “It will not be so. We will not allow such a future to transpire.”

“I won't let such a future transpire,” Shiv rebutted, but agreed at the same time. "I got no interest in destroying all of you, not right now, anyway. Down the line, we need to talk about your slavery habits and some other things you do, but your civilization doesn't need to die over this. You can still live. You can still have another chance at another day. You can have one acquaintance more instead of one enemy greater. So. I said my piece, and you know where we all stand. More than that, you know what might be waiting for you on the other side of this decision, but I'm not gonna rush you. I'm gonna give you some time. Now, how much time really depends on my patience, but you'll have some time to discuss amongst yourselves—or at least enough time for the Pale to tell you what to do.”

He gestured at the cold with a casual flick of his wrist and snorted. “But you better think thoroughly about this. And you have to know that I'm being more than reasonable right now, especially considering what you planned to do to me and my gate before. Anyone else would've torn that enclosure open, and I can do that. I have that strength. I have the expendable lives. I'll keep coming and coming and coming like a nightmare that won't go away. But I got better ways to spend my time and better uses to burn my lives, so don't make me unreasonable. Let's choose to be pretend-friends rather than actual adversaries.”

With that, there wasn't much more that needed to be said. He could continue layering on bricks of argumentation, creating a rhetorical edifice that would take hours to tear down, detail by detail, but that wasn't what mattered here. No, he presented himself as an existential threat, but a reasonable one. He could be an apocalypse, or he could choose to be affable. And then he did the most cruel thing he possibly could: he left the choice in the hands of his enemy. If they were to choose wrong, then a portion of the blame, when it came to the death of their home, would reside upon their shoulders forevermore, souring their hearts and minds—becoming a perfect vulnerability for him to exploit if he actually had hurt them via his Harbinger.

But while he reveled in his near-certain triumph over the gods of the North, he felt something odd—another, narrow channel of pressure.

A valley of Rhetoric was pointed in the opposite direction of the tripartite god of the North, to someone else entirely, someone who was no more than five steps behind him.

With a startled shift, Shiv spun and found himself facing a person, their presence faint, almost imperceptible to his senses—thin on vitality, nigh-invisible and intangible, but ultimately there nonetheless.

The hidden presence wasn't Valor, or anyone Shiv had met, however. It was someone he didn't recognize. The stranger was clapping their hands with open glee, appearing as a girl a few years younger than Shiv, and sporting a long, many-layered dress entirely black in color. A silver crown rested upon her head, and her long, blonde hair was so straight it gave Shiv the impression of a prim Lady of a noble house.

But her face was entirely blank.

It was stripped of all organs and contours; no eyes, no nose, no mouth, no eyebrows, and no ears besides.

The strange voyeur was, in simple description, faceless, and as that word came to mind, Shiv understood who was watching him.

“Well, that's a pretty sneaky skill you have there,” he muttered. He strangled his discomfort and held a blasé posture. If the Faceless Queen felt his emotional discord, she didn't comment on it.

