“And so, the Incani began life as a persecuted people, enslaved by Ancient Demons, and hated by the angels of humanity for the crime of existing in place of their own children. We solved one problem by destroying every Ancient Demon, but the other problem is impossible; the Forever War continues to fuel the Quiet War, to this day.”

She sighed, “From there, the lists of warcrimes goes back and forth. Soul-killing weapons for them. Soul-twisting magics for us.” She looked to Erick. “Dinnamoth now sits on the Red Throne as the current Demon King. He has been the Demon King for three hundred years, after the previous Demon King willed the throne to Dinnamoth.

“Dinnamoth has recently passed down a decree to all who would listen: ‘The Halls of the Dead are hereby excommunicated from Hell for the danger they have planted on Veird.’ If they take no steps to repent, upon their deaths, he will reap their souls and return them to the karmic cycle, himself.”

She shook her head. “The Halls of the Dead are not going to repent, though.”

Erick had a lot of things to research, now, but he would save all of that till later. He had finished his tea. He said, “That was all very enlightening.”

She smiled softly, saying, “But you must bear out your own research. As one does.”

A shrewd question came to him. He asked, “Have you publicly disavowed the actions of the Halls of the Dead?”

“Of course.”

“… Did you do that because you wanted to, or because Dinnamoth led the way?”

“Yes.”

“… I’ve heard demons practice slavery. What does this mean?”

Xelxex paused, with a similar fish-to-the-face expression that Biloi had when Erick brought up xenophobia. Xelxex reoriented quicker, though. She said, “Incani participate in slavery in name only. If an incani does not enter in a Pact— if they do not accept an [Enslave Soul] spell cast upon them by their chosen demonic household, when they die they will drop onto some random location in Hell, where they automatically join the ranks of the peasantry, or return to the karmic cycle, if they desire such a thing.” She spoke seriously, “If you want to know about living slavery —actual slavery— with people beaten to death by uncaring masters for any perceived slight at all, or the sexual crimes enabled by cultures and individuals, we can talk about the human cultures of Continental Nergal.”

“… Um. I’ll talk to someone else about that.”

“We are ready for your spell, now, anyway.”

Erick said, “Okay. Then—”

[Domain of the Withering Slime].

Thick air spilled up from the ground, all around, while the white core of the Withering Slime formed around Erick; encapsulating the gazebo and Xelxex.

Xelxex smiled as the air transformed. She said, “This is all very marvelous. There are spells that can already do this; ways to clear a city of harmful things. But you either have to go through buildings individually, or level the city and rebuild. In either case you have to evacuate, but someone always fails to evacuate, and by doing that you open yourself to an attack. No no… This is just… amazing. We need to get a Particle Mage.”

Erick realized he had a new goal, in addition to all the rest.

… it would likely be impossible.

But maybe he could make all the SLRs for every Particle spell, and lock them behind ‘Monster Only’.

Xelxex asked, “Any monsters yet?”

Erick came back to himself, and looked at his notifications. “Yes. … Quite a lot. That’s… at least 200 wolves… Five cats. Wow!”

Xelxex paused, eyes wide, head tilted just a bit. “Come again?”

“Seven cats. That’s a lot of wolves, so I’m going to have to take a minute to count them—”

You have Slain Daydropper A!

95% Participation!

+123 exp

“That’s a Daydropper.”

Daydroppers B through H popped, then came the first crystal mimic, as Erick handed over the Daydropper kill box to Xelxex. She stared at the box. Erick handed her several shadowcat kill boxes, too. She stared at those as well.

“Eight Daydroppers. There’s the first crystal mimic. It’s reached the walls, now.” Erick smiled as he looked up at the thick air of his spell. “It’s a hungry boy— Whoops. There’s two more cats. Those things are supposed to be really smart, right? There has to be more than this if there’s 9 of the little fuckers. I bet at least one has hopped into someone’s [Weather Ward].”

Xelxex spoke quietly to her nearby guard. Erick did not listen in. Instead, he looked over to the spiral castle past the garden; the Withering Slime was slipping over the massive hugging tree, poking through open windows, killing more wolves.

Erick asked, “Shadowcats drop grand-rads, right?”

Mog said, “Usually!”

Erick turned to her. She was looking both joyous and terrified. She saw him looking at her.

Mog said, “9 fucking cats! Seriously?”

Erick pulled out nine shadowcat notifications, and handed them to Mog.

“FUUUUuuck,” Mog said.

Xelxex spoke louder to her nearby guard. Erick tried not to listen in, so mostly he just heard angry words and the guard talking to people who were not there; likely with [Telepathy].

He said, “Wolves are still pinging, but they’re slowing. It’s mostly mimics I’m seeing, now. I’m honestly surprised that—”

“Thank you very much for your service, Archmage Flatt, but please.” Xelxex held one hand to her head, her eyes glowed under closed eyelids. “I need to contact many people right now. Please just keep the spell… running… Thanks.” She went silent, her eyes darting back and forth underneath closed lids.

Erick said, “Sure.”

Five minutes later, Erick was still collecting occasional pings for crystal mimics, though death notifications for everything else had long since ceased. Xelxex came out of her trance, sighing. She poured herself some more tea.

“Sorry, that was rude of me, but confirmed cats is a major problem.” She asked Erick, “Would you like more tea?”

“No thank you. The tea was nice, though. I have a final count for you: 9 cats, 8 Daydroppers, 827 wolves, 66 mimics.” Another mimic ping came in. “67 mimics.”

Erick considered the fact that he had killed 67 mimics, but Kal’Duresh was much, much larger than Frontier, and he had killed 55 mimics around Frontier. There was a limit to his spell’s range…

Maybe Kal'Duresh didn’t clear out around their town that much?

Xelxex paled again. She breathed deep, then schooled herself, turning over her hand to reveal a green glowing stone in her palm. She said, “Thank you very much, Archmage Flatt. I believe I have a bit of work to do now.”

Erick stood. “Right right.” He cut the spell. Thick air turned natural; breezy. White ash flaked from the core, away from the white gazebo, as Erick stood, saying, “Thank you for your hospitality.”

Xelxex stood, saying, “Farewell.”

Erick walked to Killzone and Mog, whispering, “I got this one,” holding out his hands to both of them.

Mog smiled, placing her pointer finger in his grip, while Killzone did the same, but without Mog's sexy smirk.

[Teleport].

The world split.

In the garden, Xelxex yelled, “9 goddamned cats!”

- - - -

Erick sat in Silverite’s office with Mog, Killzone, Merit, Zago, and Silverite. He had just finished giving his report on what had happened. Mog and Killzone already knew about everything that happened. Merit and Zago looked appalled. Silverite seemed calm.

Silverite said, “We don’t have to worry about Daydroppers in the Crystal Forest; the Mimics take care of all green life, including monstrous plants. Erick will continue to [Withering] Spur, and I will ask Darenka and the doctors in town to be diligent in diagnosing intestinal rads; to make sure their parishioners and patients are aware that [Withering] might spill out into the town at random intervals. Kal’Duresh and Frontier will likely request cleanings quicker than the one month timetable put forth yesterday. Are you willing to do this, Erick?”

“Yes.” Erick asked, “But what does this mean for Spur? Did the Halls of the Dead come out here? Or did someone else, just carrying the vine and hoping to hurt more people? Was there a goal?”

Silverite said, “Those are questions we need answers to.” She spoke to the room. “I expect everyone here to do their part to find out what happened. No secrecy; do your investigations out in the open. It was good that you chose to be subtle with Helix, Erick, but we will not be subtle going forward. I’ll be sending Felair and Hera around to [Witness] and [Scry] as necessary.”

Erick asked, “What happens if the Daydroppers get inside Ar’Kendrithyst?”

Killzone instantly said, “The Shades will have access to this Quest; they’ll see the daydroppers around them. Most will choose to root them out. Some will choose to plant them in a secured location, to provide another danger to adventurers.”

Erick had a question about that; everyone seemed to think that there was some way to see the daydroppers with this Quest. But he hadn’t seen the option anywhere…

Maybe he was missing something.

Erick brought up the Quest box, then mentally poked at it, thinking about searching for the remaining—

The box changed.

Scanning!

An invisible ripple pinged out of Erick, like an intangible inch-thick layer of air moving at the speed of light, out of the room and beyond. If Erick had blinked, he would have missed it. Heck, if he had been looking for it, he would have missed it.

Mog and Merit laughed. Then Mog glared at Merit. Merit simply smiled at Mog, like a cat who caught a mouse.

Silverite smiled, asking. “And what does your Scan say?”

“No results, yet.” Erick said, “I didn’t know you could do that with the Quest box.” He laughed. “We could have used this option to find Spur, back when Jane and I were in the forest.”

Erick was going to have to rag on her for that, when they spoke tonight.

Silverite smiled, and said, “The box from a Kill and Exterminate is a bit different than most other Quest boxes. Its power to [Scan] is directly related to your own contribution to the Quest.”

A box appeared.

Scan complete.

No Relevant Targets within 2500 kilometers.

No Daydropper Vines within 2500 kilometers.

Please supply 5000 mana or wait 24 hours if you wish to scan again.

Erick said, “No targets or vines in 2500 kilometers.”

Silverite said, “I only got a thousand kilometers.”

“500,” said Zago. Followed by “Same,” from Mog and Killzone.

Erick asked, “Is it 5000 mana to scan again, for you?”

“Yes.” Zago said, “Though Clarity does apply.”

Silverite said, “If the appearance of Daydroppers in Frontier and Kal’Duresh is a continued problem, or just a one off problem, then we’ll know by the reappearance of the vines in one of the three cities. The range on a divine [Scan] increases up to 10,000 if Atunir decides it is needed, but since the [Scan] is still a varied distance for everyone, I am not worried.” She stood up behind her desk, and said, “With that, we are done. May Rozeta watch over us all.”

- - - -

Erick almost went home, but there were things to do, and people to talk to. Under the yellow lightward globe of Veird, Erick caught up to Zago before she could get too far.

“Sirocco. Hold up a second, could you?”

She turned. She looked worried; lines marked her face. But she tried to put on a professional mask, as she said, “Yes, Erick?”

Erick forgot all about what he was going to say, and instead, asked, “Are you okay?”

She turned slightly hard, saying, “… No. But thank you for your concern. Is there something else I can help you with?”

“Two questions: Why did no one see the Daydroppers before I killed them? And is Scan available for purchase, somewhere? I see [Find Target], but 5 mana per 1 meter searched is terrible.”

Zago relaxed. She said, “Let me answer the second, first. I’m still thinking about the how the Daydroppers eluded everyone, and my thoughts on that are all ajumble.”

“Sure.”

Zago said, “[Scan], in all its forms, costs a great deal of mana, and is nothing compared to the perfectly formed [Scan] of a divine Quest. All mortal variations of the spell are highly limited. This is what mine looks like.” She handed him a blue box.

Search the Land, instant, super long range, 3500 MP

Release a pulse of intent across the land that catches on your desired items, or a specific known person, returning to you the direction and distance of all you’ve discovered.

“It doesn’t search inside closed spaces, and if you use it inside a city the range is eaten to practically nothing, but on open land the spell will reach about 30 kilometers, which is a very good range, just so you know.” Zago explained, “The mortal ‘[Scan]’ spell in the Script does exist, but it also costs 5000 mana, and only reaches 10 kilometers, and you have to purchase every single spell up the chain if you want to get [Scan], itself. This would cost you…” She looked into the air, saying, “[Find Target], [Force Wave], [Scent Tracker], [Scry], [Rebound], and [Identify]. So 6 points to start, then 5 points for the combined spells; [Force Wave] and [Identify] are the base spells here, and are used to thread the groundwork together for [Scan]. Then it's 2 points for the tier 3 spells, [Search] and [Discover]. And then you have one last point for tier 4’s [Scan].

Zago added, “It’s very inefficient. Many people, myself included, just make do with whatever spell they craft themselves. Most people, however, just don’t bother. A good [Scent Tracker] will get many people much of what they’re looking for in a [Scan], anyway.”

Erick did not have that many points lying around.

Or that much patience.

Okay.

New plan.

Erick said, “Thank you, Sirocco. That was very informative.”

