“I’ve got Goblins.”
“I noticed. One of your people shot arrows at my men.”
“That was Bird and Badarrow. Sorry about that. But we’ve got more Goblins. For, y’know, intelligence?”
Zevara stared at Erin. The young woman hesitated.
“Okay, and because I didn’t want to kill them. I’ll keep them in the basement, okay? And the Redfang—I mean, Headscratcher and the others will find a place for them sometime tomorrow. I mean, today. Soon.”
The Drake paused. She seemed to be wavering between shouting and resignation. Exhaustion and her sore throat won. She glared at Erin.
“I won’t stop you. But your inn is a possible threat. We’ll be watching both entrances to your inn. If one of those Goblins takes so much as a step into Liscor, they’ll be dead. The Hobs—we’re watching them too.”
“Thanks for caring.”
Erin made a face. She hadn’t expected anything more of Zevara. Actually, she’d expected a lot less. She supposed she should be grateful, actually. Another Watch Captain might have tried to kill the Goblins outright. She turned.
“I need to speak to Halrac. Is he up here?”
“Down the wall over there. He’s not in a good mood.”
“I don’t think he would be. Thanks.”
Erin walked off. Zevara called after her.
“Why are you doing this, Erin? To make friends with the Goblins? They tried to kill you.”
“The Redfang Warriors didn’t. They saved my life.”
The [Innkeeper] turned. Zevara shook her head.
“And that means you’ll try to save all the Goblins? They’re enemy combatants.”
“They don’t need to be. The Raskghar are using them like slaves.”
“That doesn’t change the fact that they’re attacking Liscor. I’m not arguing with you. I’m too tired. But here’s something you should know. There was a battle at Dwarfhalls Rest. A mountain far north of here. Apparently the Humans, led by that Lord Tyrion Veltras, finally made a move against the Goblins. Both the Great Chieftain and the Goblin Lord.”
“Really? What happened?”
Zevara shrugged.
“Apparently, a huge army of Humans is in pursuit of the Goblin Lord’s forces. They’ve even hired Ellia Arcsinger, the Kingslayer, to slay the Goblin Lord. It’ll be public knowledge in a few hours. But the Goblins are on the run and by all accounts, Veltras has an army that outnumbers them.”
Erin whistled. Zevara glanced at her.
“That doesn’t bother you?”
She received a blank look in reply. Erin shook her head.
“There’s a big, bad army of Goblins up north. Got it. What does that have to do with the Goblins here? Goblins are not alike.”
“That’s not how Liscor’s citizens see it.”
Erin frowned.
“Well they won’t see the Goblins, then. Any of them.”
With that, she turned and marched away. Zevara stared at her and frowned at Erin’s inn, visible from the walls.
“What does that mean?”
Zevara didn’t know. But she had a bad feeling that it would mean trouble down the road. She watched Erin walk down the battlements to the [Scout] sitting in the rain.
 
——
 
Halrac had unstrung his bow and stowed it away in his bag of holding. He was not in the mood for conversation, though. The piercing glare that he gave Erin as she walked towards him made her want to turn around. But she walked up to him determinedly. Erin didn’t beat around the bush.
“I want to apologize. For Bird, I mean.”
“You don’t have to apologize for anything.”
The [Scout] growled. He was watching the waters, though most of the Watch and all of the adventurers had gone. Erin bit her lip.
“I know. But I should explain.”
“Explain what? The Antinium nearly shot me through the chest.”
“I know! Don’t you think I’m upset! I can’t believe he did that! But—I can believe it too.”
Halrac glanced at Erin. She scrubbed her hands through her hair.
“How can I explain this? Halrac—I’m not making excuses for Bird. What he did was so bad! But he’s…well, he’s like a child. He doesn’t understand some things.”
“Like shooting people?”
The older man’s look told Erin he was losing patience fast. Erin shook her head.
“I think he didn’t expect the arrow to hurt you. Halrac, you’ve met Bird. You know he’s different. He saw Badarrow shooting at you and thought he should do the same. Only, he didn’t understand that Badarrow was shooting warning shots.”
“So he took his shot. I survived. What do you want me to do?”
“Come with me. So Bird can apologize. And before that, so you and I can explain what he did wrong.”
Halrac’s shoulders tensed. Erin took a quick breath.
“He doesn’t think he did anything bad, Halrac. He has to know. Just come with me. Please? Bird likes you. He admires you! That’s why he has to know just what he did.”
For a few minutes the [Scout] just sat there. Then, at last, he got up. Expressionlessly he nodded.
“Let’s go.”
Erin hurried down the battlements. Halrac followed after her. The two didn’t speak until they were heading down the stairs. At last, Halrac spoke.
“Are you going to explain what the Goblins were doing?”
“Headscratcher and the others? They were trying to save the Cave Goblins. Badarrow—he was trying to get you to stop killing the Goblins. Did you not realize that was what he was…?”
“I’m an adventurer. That’s my job. I’ve seen what Goblins can do.”
Halrac spoke flatly. Erin looked back at him.
“I get that. But, see, Halrac, these Goblins are slaves to the Raskghar—”
“Doesn’t matter. They attacked the inn. They’ll do it again if ordered.”
“But—”
“I don’t trust Goblins. I know you do. I can’t stop you, so I don’t try. I’ll eat at your inn, but I won’t trust those Hobs with my back. And I don’t think it’s safe for you to have them under your roof, either. That’s what I believe, but I know you won’t change your mind. So I don’t waste my breath.”
Halrac folded his arms. Erin stared at him and raindrops pattered off her head. The [Scout] stared at her. Erin was the one who looked away.
“We’re not going to agree on this, are we?”
“No. So let’s drop it. Where’s Bird?”
“Inside. Let me speak first. Please.”
Erin opened the door to her inn. Bird looked up happily.
“Miss Erin! Mister Halrac! Is this who I am supposed to meet? Hello, Mister Halrac. You caught my arrow!”
Halrac’s glare could have peeled paint. Erin took a few deep breaths as she walked over.
“Bird, that’s why we’re here. We need to talk about what you did. You shot an arrow at Halrac.”
“Yes. I did. Because Badarrow was shooting at him. But I shot better.”
“Badarrow wasn’t trying to hit Halrac, Bird! And even if he was, that doesn’t excuse what you did!”
The Antinium paused. For the first time his raised mandibles lowered slightly and he looked less happy.
“Oh.”
“You shot an arrow right at Halrac’s chest, Bird. You would have killed him.”
Erin spoke slowly, trying to convey this to Bird. The Worker looked confused. He hunched his shoulders and looked at Halrac.
“But he is Mister Halrac. A Gold-rank adventurer. He wouldn’t die.”
Erin and Halrac exchanged a glance. Bird looked at both of them.
“…Would he?”
They nodded. Bird paused. He seemed to grapple with this. If Badarrow hadn’t been shooting at Halrac…and he had…and Halrac would have died if he’d been shot…Bird looked up suddenly in alarm.
“Did I do bad?”
“Yes!”
The Antinium began to shake. He looked at Erin.
“How bad did I do? Very bad? Very bad?”
Erin’s heart twisted. But she kept a stern face.
“Very bad, Bird. As bad as bad can be. I brought Halrac here so you can apologize. He might not forgive you. That’s how bad it was.”
Bird looked at Halrac, stricken. He wavered, looked around wildly. Erin held her breath. Then Bird curled up. He wrapped his four arms around his body and he began to rock back and forth.
“I’m sorry. I’m sorry. I’m sorry. I’m sorry. I’m sorry. I’m sorry. I’m sorry. I’m sorry. I’m sorry. I’m sorry. I’m sorry. I’m sorry—”
“Bird? Bird!”
The Antinium didn’t respond. He seemed petrified and kept babbling the same words over and over. Erin went to stop him, but Halrac caught her hand.
“Let me.”
Erin hesitated, then drew back. She took a few steps away as Bird kept rocking back and forth and took several breaths. Someone put a hand on her shoulder and she turned.
“Pawn!”
The Antinium had been watching the entire thing. Pawn stared at Bird. And then he spoke.
“I have known Bird as long as I have been alive. I understand that he is…different. Even for an Individual. What Bird does not understand is why some things are not permissible and why other things are. Would it be appropriate for me to apologize with Bird?”
Erin stared back at Bird and Halrac. The [Scout] had stopped Bird from rocking. His expression didn’t change much, but he spoke quietly to Bird and the Antinium looked up desperately. Erin sensed a flicker of what might have been pity cross Halrac’s face. Or sadness.
“No, Pawn. I think Halrac understands. You should get your Soldiers and Workers back. Thanks so much for the help.”
“We will be back tomorrow night.”
The Antinium nodded to her. He stared at Bird, then motioned to Yellow Splatters. The Soldier broke off from staring at Bird and the other Antinium followed Erin out the door. She wished she could have talked with Pawn, but she was too tired to think, really. The Raskghar…Erin frowned. They were gone. Yep. Which meant…she glanced around. The Goblins were gone too. As were the Redfangs. Plan A was working. Or was it Plan B? Plan G?
Her mind was fuzzy. When had she last slept? Probably nearly 24 hours ago. She’d been up all day getting ready for tonight, and then up all night. And now it was nearly morning again. Erin stumbled towards the magic door and set it to Celum.
“Is anyone awake?”
“Erin?”
A shape moved into view. Erin jumped as Lyonette appeared, pale-faced, a sword in hand. Octavia poked her head out with a pot for a helmet and two potions in her hands. Both relaxed when they saw Erin.
“Is it safe?”
“I think so. The Raskghar are gone and it’s nearly morning. You can come back now. How’s it over there?”
“Bad! I barely got a wink of sleep! I should charge you for staying the night!”
Octavia rubbed at her bloodshot eyes. She plucked one out and stared at it. Erin looked around.
“Mrsha?”
“She fell asleep after she threw a tantrum. I think she’s—oh. She’s up.”
Lyonette grimaced. A flurry of paws and fur exploded from behind her and barreled into Erin’s midriff. Erin went oof and sat down as Mrsha climbed all over her, licking her face and hugging her.
“It’s okay, Mrsha! The bad Raskghar are gone. We’re all fine. We’re all fine.”
Lyonette walked into the inn as Octavia, yawning, shut the door, muttering about sleep deductibles. The [Barmaid] stared at the floor and the blood and blanched a bit.
“Fighting?”
“They barely got through the front door. The Redfangs captured a lot of Goblins—they’ll be gone most of the day. If they even return by night.”
“Plan G?”
“Plan G. We’ll have to make a takeout meal for them. Uh…”
Erin tried to get up and nearly fell over. She felt like she was drunk, but without any of the buzz of alcohol. She looked around. Halrac was walking towards her.
“Halrac. Did you…?”
“I spoke to Bird. I think I understand.”
Halrac looked past Erin. He hesitated.
“I’ve met people like that. Adventurers, even. I didn’t realize Antinium had the same problem.”
The young woman slowly shook her head.
“Not a problem. Just different. Just…him. He still did a bad thing.”
“Yes.”
Halrac looked as if he were about to say something more, but he decided not to.
“I’m going to rest. I’ll return later today. The adventurers will rally at the dungeon at midday.”
“I’ll see you then. Halrac? Thank you.”
The [Scout] nodded, and left. Erin looked around. Bird was sitting in his chair. He’d stopped rocking, but he was staring down at his legs and he was still curled up. The pose was nearly exactly identical to the one Pawn had made. Erin saw Mrsha pad over to him, looking curious. She patted Bird’s leg with one paw as Apista buzzed away from Bird, still afraid of the Antinium. Mrsha patted Bird and then waved a paw at him. The Worker spoke without looking up.
“Go away. I am worthless.”
Mrsha stood up on two legs and waved her paws. Bird turned, refusing to look at her. He faced towards the fireplace, which was now full of dull embers.
“Leave me. I am not-Bird. I am bad-Bird.”
Unfortunately for him, Mrsha refused to go. She walked around to face Bird. He instantly turned away.
“Mm.”
She padded around his other side. Bird swiveled, making the same unhappy noise.
“Mm.”
Lyonette and Erin stared at the Worker and Mrsha. Erin sighed.
“I’m going to make Bird go to sleep. He’s tired and really upset now that he knows what he did wrong.”
The [Princess] nodded.
“I think we’re all tired…uh, what did Bird do wrong?”
And then Erin had to explain the confusing story all over again. Lyonette clapped her hands to her mouth and then stared at Bird with sympathy and anxiety. Lyonette lowered her voice.
“That’s…I don’t know what to say! He shot at Halrac? And he didn’t realize—do you think he’s getting worse, Erin? I mean, not worse, but he seems more Bird-ish now. Than he was before, I mean.”
Erin nodded slowly.
“I think that’s because Bird’s happier here. He’s always been this way I’ll bet. But he can be more free here than in the Hive. And that’s not a bad thing. Usually. Pawn told me that Bird used to make mistakes before he became Individual.”
“Got it. Well, if he knows not to shoot at people…I’ll take over. You and Bird get some sleep.”
As soon as she said that, Erin realized how tired she was. She yawned.
“Okay. I’ll…get a few hours. Gotta have breakfast soon. But I’ll…short nap.”
She staggered away, urging Bird up and making her way into her soft, warm bed in the kitchen. Then she realized Lyonette would be walking around her and decided to sleep in Lyonette’s room. After a while, a small Gnoll opened the door and stole Erin’s blankets. But she was warm, so Erin slept peacefully.
 
——
 
Night passed into day. The sun rose, and the rain let up a bit, so that a light rain fell while the sky lightened. For once, the inhabitants of Liscor could have done without the daylight. They shut their curtains and cursed the daylight—those of them that weren’t still out cold from sheer exhaustion.
