If they breach the gate, we won't be able to keep them from taking the fort, and the general will be surrounded from all sides.

I want to drag more of our mages over here, but Scholl is still peppering the other sections of our walls with spells and projectiles. If I shore up the gate, they'll pick apart our other forces; if I don't focus on the gate, they'll walk right through it; I don't have an answer.

While I’m freaking out over how to proceed, a familiar noise echoes across the battlefield.

That was the sound of the general shooting one of her specialty arrows! I've only heard the explosive sound of the general firing her bow to the fullest of her ability four times before, but I would never forget that sound.

I rush over to the ramparts edge in time to see the older man the general was fighting, doubling over with a hole in his chest.

“She did it!” I almost cry in relief.

Then it dawns on me, she must have used one of her tier 5 skills, and if she did, she’ll be too tired to retreat on her own.

I’ll need to organize a rescue party to…

The world stops for me as I watch the old man plunge his sword into the generals’ stomach.

I can’t believe what I’m seeing, as the general collapses on her back and every person fighting stops moving. Scholl's warriors stop shooting their spells, and the remaining soldiers on our walls are staring at our fallen general in disbelief.

“But she won,” I try to tell myself, feeling the life drain out of me.

It isn’t until the old man heals himself and rips his sword out of the general and mouths something to her that I understand what's happening.

Scholl's leader hoists his sword over his head and shouts, sending a chain reaction through his men, who look like they're ready to go berzerk.

Pacore flicks the general's blood from his blade before sheathing his sword. He looks over our remaining defenses before activating the magic item he used earlier to amplify his voice.

"People of Olebert, your general is defeated!" He shouts, and Scholl's soldiers cheer so loud they sound like rolling thunder.

I watch him fish a vial from his side and hold it up. “I give you one last chance to surrender your fort. If you do, I’ll see to it that your general survives." The old man's words send my mind into disarray. "If you chose not to surrender, then we will take the fort and leave no survivors. Decide now; your general doesn't have much time before she meets Ebeon!"

Even if he hasn't taken the fort yet, his claims have sent our ranks into disarray. The average soldiers look to me in varying states of panic while my captains and squad leaders look at me with uncertainty in their eyes.

They know even if we surrender, there is no guarantee we still won't be executed.

'Cristopher, your mission is to act as the steward to General Emily Pitz. She's known for her reckless behavior, but she's one of Olebert's finest assets. The king has made it clear her life takes precedent over your own. Olebert can't lose someone of her level, do I make myself clear?' I think about my superior's orders before I met the general for the first time.

Soon after I remember my superior’s orders, I hear General Pitz’s final words to me before she left. ‘From here on out, you're in charge. No matter what happens to me, you're to defend the fort. I'll distract Pacore while you deal with his men. As soon as we start fighting, send everything we have at them.’

What do I do?

I want to honor the general's orders, but I don't want to see her die.

I shakily turn towards the nearest commander. “Raise a red flag, and open the main gate.”

"Are you sure, sir?!" He asks for clarification. I ball my hands into fists at my side. Is this what Lady Pitz felt every time I second-guessed her?

“Just do it,” I tell him, hanging my head.

“By your will, I’ll spread the word.” I watch him run off.

As red flags are hoisted onto the towers, signaling our surrender, I make my way over to the nearest communications mage, who watches me approach with a pale face. "Send immediate word to the supply corps in Teeburn. Fort North Ridge has fallen to Scholl, evacuate the city; they're sure to take that next." I order with a solemn face.

The mage nervously nods and casts his spell. I hear the front gate being opened directly underneath us. Most of our newer soldiers have already tossed aside their weapons like that somehow guarantees they’ll be spared.

I move back over to the edge of the ramparts and glance at where the General had fallen. Mages surround her, but I can't tell if they know healing magic, and I can only hope Pacore sticks to his word.

I look up at the sky as I hear Scholl's army pouring into the courtyard below. Black clouds are forming overhead, and I feel a cold raindrop splash against my cheek.

"We failed," I mumble as the magic weather washes the blood from our ramparts onto the rocky ground below.

Master Pacore the Deathless’ Point of View:

I stroll through the front gates of the fort with Tellis at my side, the cold drizzle unable to penetrate my magic armor.

“What do we do next, Master Pacore? What do we do with the prisoners?” Tellis asks me, high off of the excitement from our win.

"Detain everyone above level 50; release the rest of them," I tell him.

Tellis stumbles over his feet and looks at me with wide eyes. “Release them, that’s insane!?”

I shake my head in disappointment. "If we keep them all as prisoners, how do you plan on feeding them, huh? I'm sure most of the people here under level 50 are conscripts from the surrounding cities and villages. It will hurt us in the long run if we lock them up or execute them."

“But what if they rejoin with the rest of Olebert’s army?” Tellis hastily points out.

I glance at a few young men standing nearby with my soldier's sword pointed at their necks with horror in their eyes. "That might be true for some of them, but can't you see it, Tellis?" I gesture all around me. "Most of these people are broken. I bet they never considered Olebert would lose the fort, let alone their fate should that happen. If we let them go, they'll scurry back to their villages and spread the word of our victory and our benevolence. We need to control the surrounding cities, and a merciful ruler faces less opposition," I explain.

I might have considered killing all of them in my youth, and I've served under leaders who've done just that. They win one fight but make an enemy out of the people they wish to rule, guaranteeing opposition at every turn.

"Who is the leader here!?" I shout. The trained soldiers drop their gazes to the ground to not give their commander away, but the newer men all glance in one direction.

I follow their looks up above the gate we just entered to see a young man staring daggers at me. “Are you in charge of these men?” I ask.

"Is the general ok?" He answers me with his own question.

"Insolent!" Tabitha, my only student who’s earned a feather, brandishes her shield and sword, ready to charge the man.

I hold my hand out, keeping her in place. “Master?” She gives me a questioning look.

Turning back to the man looking down on me, I see my men have surrounded him.

I can tell just by his eyes that he has no intention of fleeing, interesting. "I have my best healers tending to her, and I even used my last tonic on her. It won’t be because of my lack of trying if she does end up dying. Now, is this an elaborate trap to try and kill me, or are you surrendering peacefully?" My men jump at the thought of this being a trap, but I was just joking.

“And you’ll spare the life of my men?” He narrows his eyes at me.

“Of course, I gave my word, did I not? If you surrendered the fort earlier, we could’ve skipped all the bloodshed.” I can see the young man holding back his anger. “Who are you?” I once again ask for the young man’s name.

“Cristopher, steward of great General Emily Pitz,” he passionately claims.

At least a few people in this fort still have some backbone. “Tellis, Tabitha, start processing the captives and organizing our troops. We have more work to do.”

“Yes, Master Pacore,” the two echo one another. “Shackle that man and make sure he doesn’t try anything,” I tell my men surrounding the steward.

Well, that's all the orders I need to give out.

I hope the next fight will be more fun than this one; I think to myself as I walk over the fort’s keep. Time to inspect my new holdings and prepare to take Teeburn.

Kervin’s Point of View:

“What do you think that was all about?” Ryiba motions to the sky.

“Nothing good,” Lurte ominously says.

I’m just as nervous as the two of them. Soon after we left the supply corps base, they locked down the area, turning away all the other merchants, even those waiting in line to sell their goods. All of Teeburn was talking about it.

I got a bad feeling from the whole thing and decided to leave the city early and head back to Drey.

I was trying to put it out of my mind, but a vast flock of messenger birds just passed overhead for the fourth time today.

It goes against my better judgment, but I turn to Reel, who's walking off to the side of the cart. "What do you think, Reel?"

Reel turns towards me, and the hair on the back of my neck stands on end. Reel's expression is serious, and he continues to scan our surroundings even as he answers me. “The messenger guild doesn’t send that many of its birds out unless there’s trouble. The only thing I can think of is if something happened at the fort.”

I move to wipe the nervous sweat from my face. Could something big have happened?

Reel turns around and stares behind us. “See something?” I ask.

"Wagons are approaching, a lot of them," he informs us.

I look over my shoulder to see carts stuffed with goods and supplies rapidly approaching us. We can soon hear the labored panting of the charging Bivol as the first cart approaches.

I start to worry when it doesn’t look like the cart is going to slow down.

At the last minute, the cart swerves to the side of us, ending up halfway off the road, and passes us in a hurry. It's only two minutes before another cart passes us in the same manner. Each is wiping their pack animals, trying to get them to move faster.

I try calling out to the third cart that moves to pass us. “What’s the hurry!?”

The panicked cart driver yells at me, “Fort North Ridge has fallen! Scholl is free to invade!” The man snaps his reins and passes us without saying anything else.

It takes a minute for the news to sink into all of us.

“Fuck!” We all curse at the same time.

Without saying a word, Reel, Lurte, and Ryiba all hop into the back of my cart. I snap my reins to try and get my Bivol to move faster as well. We're only a day away from Teeburn, and that's the next place Scholl will try to take. We need to get out of here!

I turn around and look back in the city's direction and see a hoard of carts heading in our direction.

“Gods, save us,” I utter a short prayer to the darkening sky.

Leonard Grey’s Point of View:

“Has this been authenticated?” My hands tremble as I look at the parchment.

“It has,” the head receptionist confirms my worst fears. "Word is quickly spreading around the city; people are panicking.”

"The fort has fallen," I say out loud, not believing my own words.

“This is horrible!” I have thousands of gold coins invested in the Teeburn branch.

"You're right; this is a tragedy," the head receptionist bats her eyes with a handkerchief as if she’s actually crying. “What is Olebert to do?”

Olebert! Who cares about Olebert, loosing Teeburn will set my plans back by months, I want to scream at the annoying woman, but I know who she reports to.

“Has the main office been notified?” I ask her.

“Word has already been sent,” she tells me.

I feign a concerned look to hide my anger. "That's good; summon everyone we have to the office. We don't have a moment to spare."

The head receptionist nods and rushes out of my office. I frown as she leaves; for a second there, I could've sworn she gave me a knowing look before she turned away from me. Maybe I'm being paranoid, or the stress of the situation is getting to me?

Max shuts the door after checking that the annoying woman is truly gone.

“Damn it, damn it, damn it,” I slam my hands against my desk. “Max, any word from our men in Teeburn?”

“None, boss.”

“Did Scholl already take the city? That would be the worst-case scenario.”

“I don’t think so, boss, but Scholl shouldn’t wait to secure more territory while they have the chance.” Max gives me his possessional opinion.

“Ok, contact our men in Teeburn and tell them they don’t leave the city until they have all my important documents secured! If they leave the city without those papers, they’re dead.”

"Understood, boss," Max briefly leaves the room to convey my orders secretly.

While Max goes to deal with that, I’m forced to figure out where I’m supposed to move my secret documents. I've stored every bit of information I've gathered on Silver Herds operations over the last ten years in Teeburn. The city has remained under my jurisdiction for over a decade, and until the war started, Silver Herd pretty much ignored it.

I can’t believe those fools in the military actually lost the fort.

Leaning back in my chair, I try to imagine how Giovanni is reacting right now. Scholl's army will move in this direction after they take Teeburn, and everything will become complicated.

