Depending on what Giovanni decides and how we interact with Scholl will make or break Silver Herd. If we help fight Scholl, it would further Giovanni's goals with Olebert but put us at the mercy of Scholl's forces. If he decides to do business with Scholl, that could also make us quite a profit but should Olebert manage to expel Scholl; we'll be in big trouble.

I know I wanted to leave the company, but I can't join one of the big three merchant companies if I'm labeled a traitor.

How do I deal with this mess, I ask, looking out my office window at the spring sky.

Richard’s Point of View:

"Move, you stupid animal!" I crack the reins, but the bivol continues at its leisurely pace down dirt road leading towards Spotted Creek Village. "Do you think it will move faster if you throw a fireball at it?" I ask Sandra, who's sitting next to me on the cart.

“I told you, you shouldn’t have bought the cheapest one,” she grins at me.

I know she's making fun of me, but she's too beautiful to argue with. "We only need it to get us back to the village. Why would I spend money on a beast we'll throw in the village pens and never see again?” I playfully whine to her.

“Because it will take us a month to get back to the village at this rate,” she snarkily points out to me.

She might have me there.

I wonder if our furniture is too heavy?

Looking behind us, I see all the belongings that we've collected over the past five years. In my spare time, I took up woodworking, and with my architect skills, I was able to craft a lovely dining room set and two dressers for Sandra's clothes. I still keep my clothes in a bare wooden chest, but whatever makes my lovely mage happy. Even if she never wears half of her wardrobe.

“What are you thinking about, sweety?” I immediately have flashbacks of my mother questioning my dad.

“Nothing,” I lightly shake my head.

“You weren’t just thinking something negative about me, weren’t you?” She questions me.

“Nope, just thinking about how lucky I am to have such a powerful, beautiful, amazing woman by my side.” I lean over start kissing her passionately. And psychic, I note to myself.

Sandra plays along for a little bit, but I can see she isn't buying it when she pulls away.

"Are you ready to see the village again?" I ask her, trying to change the subject.

She raises one of her eyebrows at me, meaning she wasn't fooled, but she playfully takes the bait anyway. "I am; I miss our families. I wonder how much has changed since we were last home?"

“I wonder how much the little rabbit has grown,” I chuckle.

“In father’s letters, he said she’s one of the strongest people in the village now. Call her little rabbit to her face, and I might need to find a new man," Sandra jokes.

I playfully lean up against her. “I’m sure the beautiful mage next to me will protect me.”

“I wouldn’t count on that,” Sandra pokes my side causing me to flinch away from her.

We both share a laugh, but I know she's right.

Aaliyah has always been outstanding. I've worked extremely hard these last five years, and I'm still mentally preparing myself to have a lower level than my little sister.

I glance up at the sky. “Things are changing,” I mumble.

“It doesn’t matter how things change as long as we have each other,” Sandra says, leaning up against me this time.

I watch a large bird fly overhead towards our village.

“As long as we have each other,” I agree, stealing her lips with a kiss.

I can’t wait to be home again.
