Cristopher’s Point of View:

“General, come back!” I lean over the ramparts and shout at her departing figure. My heart feels like it's about to beat out of my chest. I watch General Pitz walk towards the man who drew in all our siege spells and walked out unscathed. Even though he’s so far away from me, my skills tell me he’s as dangerous as the general.

I bite my lower lip until I taste copper in my mouth. Bringing my hand up to my lip, I see that I'm bleeding. I wipe my hand on my pants and ignore the taste of blood.

Why did she have to leave? We could’ve found a solution together; she has to know she’s vastly unprepared to fight someone like that without her proper gear.

“Sir, what do we do?” I hear the communications mage ask behind me.

I round on them, about to shout, 'I have no idea' when I remember I'm in charge now. Everyone is looking to me to defend the fort while the general distracts that monster.

If the communications mage noticed my frantic look, he’s hiding it well, patiently waiting for my orders.

“Send word to the mage battalions to open fire at Scholl’s front ranks as soon as the general starts fighting. Tell them to keep an eye on the general and be prepared to help her escape if this is an elaborate trap.”

"Sir, if we use siege spells, then most likely some might fall near the general." The communication mage informs me with a worried expression.

I ball my hands into fists at my side. "It can't be helped. We're outnumbered, and we can't limit ourselves to only archery if we’re to win. I’m confident the general wouldn’t let something as slow as a siege spell hit her. Inform our best archers and mage battalions they're to focus solely on Scholl's commanders. Any bastard wearing a feather takes priority. If one of them reaches our walls, we're screwed."

“By your orders,” the communication mage salutes me and starts casting his magic, spreading my plan to the entire fort.

I turn away from the mage and focus on the general as she nears the monster disguised as an old man. Why did she have to leave me in charge? I may have helped her by passing along her orders, but I've never been in charge of this many people before.

“I was sent to watch over you and to pull you back if need be, not let you sacrifice yourself," I mumble under my breath.

After spending months with the general, I should've realized that was never possible. No one can tell her what to do. The men think she's scary and domineering, but I know that she cares deeply for their safety and takes her job as a general seriously.

And now she’s stepped into the wolves’ den just to give us a chance to defend ourselves.

No, I can’t think like that. I’ll make sure not a single Scholl soldier makes it past our walls, so when the general is finished kicking that old man’s feathered ass around the canyon, she can come back here and rest without worry.

I can’t waste my time thinking about the general. I’m sure she’ll win. It’s the eight people spearheading Scholl’s forces I need to focus on. That’s my job, gathering intel on people. The faster I figure out their abilities and stat distribution, the quicker we can counter them.

The general and the man she called Pacore are talking to each other. I can see Scholl is prepared to launch their attacks as soon as their fight begins, just like we are.

I activate Shadowing Observer and merge with the shadows cast by the morning sun. I’ll stay on the move and direct our men that way. I make my way to the far left of the fort’s walls and observe the first of Scholl’s feathered commanders.

I take note of the short woman with light blue hair. She’s wearing a full set of metal armor and is wielding a sword and shield. My skills tell me her highest stat is Strength, probably a close-range fighter. As to not get her information mixed with the others, I mentally label her number one.

Number two is a mage wearing a robe that covers most of his features and is brandishing a staff with a large red magic gem on it. He's possibly a fire mage, or maybe the hex mage the general told us about. His strongest stat is Magic, just like most mages.

I rush along the rampart’s shadows until I get a better view of number three and four.

Three is a bulky man wearing Scholl's military dress with light armor. He has a sword at his side, but it looks more ornamental than practical. He’s probably someone geared towards leading.

The fourth person sporting a feather on his chest is of average height and has two swords at his side. I saw the general eyeballing him while she passed by, and he didn’t look worried. Was it confidence or stupidity?

I only spend a few seconds observing each of them before I move on. As I run across the wall, I send a quick glance over to the general. Both she and her opponent look like they're ready to start fighting at any moment. I need to move quicker.

The fifth individual with a feather is a middle-aged woman with her hair done up in a bun. She’s wearing the same military uniform as number three and has an almost identical sword. Six and seven are a pair of mages dressed similar to each other in grey robs. And eight is another snappily dressed man that looks like he should be leading a military parade rather than standing at the front of an army.

Now that I think I know each of their specialties, I can better…

I feel the world around me shift as signaling horns bellow from Scholl’s army, which our walls return with their own deep melody.

Still hidden in the shadows, I watch the captain responsible for this part of the wall start screaming his orders. Our mages hastily throw up their shields as dozens of fireballs and large rocks are hurled at us. I’m forced to leave my hiding spot to take cover behind the closest shield, less I accidentally take a spell to the face.

The captain only spares me a glance as I materialize out of the shadows before he yells out, “brace!”

I feel my very bones shake as the mage next to me tries to deflect a three-foot boulder coming straight at us!

The rock directly impacts the shield at its center, and I panic when I see fracture lines creep across its surface. The mage shouts out a war cry of defiance and pumps more of his Mana into his spell. The cracks slowly mend themselves together until the boulder starts to harmlessly drop from the shield. The boulder only falls a few feet before it disintegrates into nothing. They’re conjuring boulders instead of wasting their Mana by launching the canyon's rocks.

Our mage battalions start launching their own spells, but they're significantly fewer in number when compared to Scholl’s.

As soon as I have a chance, I rush over to the ramparts' edge and scan the distance for the general. “Please, be ok,” I tell myself.

I spot her in the same general area she met with Scholl's leader, but she's already started their battle. Neither she nor her opponent seems to stop for a moment as they continuously shift their positions, trying to outmaneuver the other. The general is fast, but her opponent never stops advancing.

I wish I could watch her battle and cheer her on, but I need to focus on repelling Scholl.

Scholl’s army is slowly shifting its forces now that the battle has begun, and it's challenging to find the feathered commanders in the chaotic mess. It isn’t until I look at the mass of soldiers as a whole that I notice they’re shifting around the two commanders with them at the center. Our commanders follow my orders and target them, but the two feathered mages are working together to shield their companions from our attacks.

Two commanders and two mages on this side, while the other has a commander, mage, and two close-range fighters. It's hard to see around the wall, but it looks like Scholl's left battalion is focused more on close-range fighters and making its way to our walls, while the right battalion in front of me is more long-range based.

I pull up a mental map to better organize everything.

Three, five, and eight are leaders with skills geared towards leading others.

Two, six, and seven are mages. Leaving one and Four as close-range fighters.

They have their forces divided in a way to complement each other while ours are spread evenly across the walls. Our attacks are hitting Scholl's commanders, but they aren't doing any damage. The general's original plan isn't working; we need to shake things up. I turn towards the nearby commander, “keep the pressure on the feathered individuals with magic but attack their surrounding men with your bowmen."

“I can do that, sir, but we won’t be able to hold out long facing this kind of barrage.” As if to confirm his point, another volley of Scholl’s spells clashes up against our mage’s shields. All our mages look like they’re struggling to keep their spells active.

"Do your best," I tell him. "I need to check on the other side of the fort." I sprint across the ramparts, not having enough time to hide in the shadows.

As I pass over the main gate, I manage to steal another look at the general's battle. They seem to have stopped for a moment. I don't see any injuries on the general, but her opponent looks perfectly fine as well.

I know the general will come through like she always does; I just need to hold out until then.

Reaching the fort's left side, I'm confronted with an entirely different battle than the right flank.

Scholl’s left battalion is dangerously close to our wall. Their archers and warriors are pelting my men with arrows and short spears. The sheer number of projectiles has forced our mages, which should be slinging siege spalls at the enemy, to help defend everyone by erecting their own shields.

I pass by a young man huddled in the corner. I’m about to yell at him to get up and fight when I notice the blood. I couldn’t see the wound with his body slouched over, but I now realize the poor man is dead. Someone must have moved his body, so it's not in the way.

And he isn’t the only one.

A quick glance is all I need to start noticing the dead starting to pile up, and the battle has only just begun.

Down below, I’m able to spot Scholl’s commander in the crowd. In the center of Scholl’s troops is the man I rightfully labeled as a commander. And next to the commander is the mage, making sure our arrows never touch the man leading the battalion. Leading the charge of their forces are the two short-range fighters. The lady with the sword and shield deflects each arrow with her large shield and launches small spells from her sword.

The twin sword-wielding warrior the general was eyeballing is even more eye-catching. He's using his twin swords to hit the arrows coming at him out of the air.

This isn’t working, I think, gritting my teeth. The general wanted us to focus on the feathered commanders, but they're just evading or blocking everything we throw at them with their superior numbers and levels.

I only hesitate for a moment before I find the closest communications mage who's helping by erecting a magic shield.

“What are you doing!?” He yells at me as I pull him behind a nearby tower wall, not realizing who I am.

“Shut up, and prepare to send my orders,” I firmly hold him by the front of his robes.

His eyes widen when he finally notices who I am. “Sir, I’m sorry for…”

“No time for that,” I cut him off. “Send word to each squad that I want them to change their targets.”

“Sir?” The communications mage gives me a complicated look.

“Yes, I know I just sent out orders not too long ago,” I hiss at him. “Send word that I want our best archers to keep firing on the feathered commanders while everyone else is to shift targets to their regular soldiers. We can at least lower their number that way.”

“Sir!” The mage salutes me and starts casting his spell.

There’s a short pause from our ranks as my orders are sent around, but soon more spells and arrows are once again launched at Scholl.

The brief laps in our attack was not enough time for Scholl to properly defend themselves. The feathered commanders have more mobility now that we aren’t targeting them with magic, but in turn, we were able to kill scores of Scholl’s soldiers before they were able to defend themselves.

The constant barrage of attacks lightens as part of Scholl’s forces need to switch to defensive measures. The general told me Scholl is known for their fast attacks and placing their highest leveled people in the front. Usually, you would need to deal with that kind of force with an equally aggressive move, but we can't with our numbers.

As long as we can hold their strongest warriors at bay and whittle away their forces, we might stand a chance.

Almost immediately, our change in strategy bears fruit. A few spells do land near the general, but she easily dodges them. We manage to deal a significant blow to Scholl's forces for the first time and push them back a little.

We continue to exchange spells, and our archers manage to keep Scholl's feathered commanders at bay barely, but it's plain to see that they're quickly adjusting to our new strategy and are regaining their foothold against our walls.

We might need to change our strategy again to keep them on their…

*Bang**Bang**Bang*

Three rapid explosions shake the ramparts.

That came from the main gate!

“Don’t let them breach the gate!” I hear multiple people shout in a panic.

Rushing to the front gate, I see a few mages hastily erecting magic shields as Scholl’s right battalion has shifted their strikes solely on the main gate. To my left, I also see the School's left battalion subtly shifting their positions, inching their way over in this direction as well.

Glancing at my feet, I see the masonry under my boots has started to separate and crack.

