As he was opening a book on organized crime, he suddenly paused as he received a stream of feedback from one of his other clones. It was the “real” Eliza Wagner, and the one who had been catfishing Franz Luger up until then. The original plan with that was to make him fall in love on his vacation to Everspring, then pretend to get cursed and dismiss the clone, leaving behind only a single frog. It would have been funny to see how long the man cared for the frog thinking it was the cursed noblewoman. He would have to save that idea for later, but he didn’t regret it, as the current situation was just as good.

Regardless, the original Eliza Wagner had just uncovered some interesting information about the man. Apparently, all the grand business deals he had set up over the past two years were beginning to fall through. If it was just one or two, Oberon wouldn’t have thought anything of it, but for all of them to begin to fail at the same time was too suspicious. As more information came in, he began to get a clearer picture of what was going on.

Franz had spent two years setting up an intricate web of business deals that seemed separate, but were all actually quite interconnected, and every point of connection was controlled by him. Over those two years, he had worked hard to gain the trust of nobles across the continent and gain the favor of the public, while secretly digging out the foundations of every deal he made. Now, it was all collapsing in on itself, and hundreds of noble houses and wealthy businessmen were suddenly finding themselves with a lot less money than they thought they had. No one had tied it all back to Franz just yet, but it was only a matter of time.

He would make a good fey, thought Oberon with a smile.

He went back to flipping through the book before he stopped again.

Wait! Elise!

After a few seconds, he shrugged and went back to his book. What did it matter that the man she was with was a scammer? She was technically scamming him too. It might make things more interesting, actually.

He flipped through the pages idly a bit more, then tuned back in to his on-site clone to see what was happening. He smiled as he saw Elise bidding on a strange creature from Carsas, then frowned when she gave up on it. She had been so close to indulging in her freedom, but in the end, held back. Such a shame. He frowned deeper when he saw the servant of Duke Larcombe arrive.

That might not be good, he thought.

Elise disappeared from that clone’s line of sight, likely to meet with the duke. Oberon’s clone almost followed, but got distracted by Franz Luger instead as it watched the man slip unnoticed into one of the servant’s tunnels.

Hmm, this might get tricky, thought Oberon. Should I step in?

He thought about it for all of two seconds before shrugging and returning his attention to his book.

Nah. It’ll be fine.

Probably.
