Being Legate is the worst.

It’s not the heavy workload, long hours and sleepless nights, since that’s pretty much the norm for me, and a life of fear and trepidation has prepared me for the stress of having the literal fate of the Empire resting on my shoulders. I can even manage the heavy burden of responsibility weighing me down, since I have family, allies, and competent subordinates to share the load with, and I actually enjoy butting heads with them when we have differing opinions and know how to gracefully acquiesce when it turns out they’re right. The complete and utter lack of gratitude or appreciation is irritating, but I’ve never been one to revel in adoration, and maintaining a tidy and ‘inspiring’ appearance is easy when you have someone like Luo-Luo managing an entire team of people to keep me looking fresh, so that’s no big deal either.

If that’s all there was to being Legate, everything would be hunky dory, but alas, there’s so much more to go through.

First off is the politics. I thought things were bad when I was Minister of Finance and I had to glad-hand all my supporters, but now I have to carefully consider my every action and reaction whether it be in private or public. Given my position, I could technically afford to insult and alienate whomsoever I pleased, but not without consequence. No one is going to rebel because I didn’t praise them enough or praised one of their enemies too much, but the amount of petty, passive-aggressive bullshit I deal with every day is astounding. There’s nothing more frustrating than working day and night to get the Empire to work like a well-oiled machine, only to see a spanner thrown into the works by Entitled McNoble just because I didn’t give them a pat on the back.

A few days ago, I interrupted one Lieutenant Marshal after four others made the same complaints, whining about the ‘frivolous’ luxury tax and how so many of their employees were leaving to join the irregulars. “Enough,” I said, maybe forgetting to smile. “I don’t have time to listen to each and every one of you bitch about your problems. The luxury tax is staying. My irregulars are recruiting. Accept it and move on.” I thought I handled it well enough, but then yesterday, the crybaby resigns citing ‘health complications’ from, get this, extreme stress. Bullshit is what it is, he was just upset because he was earning a few coppers less per barrel of rice wine and might have to pay actual wages to keep his workers from seeking better opportunities. Boo fucking hoo, cry me a river.

Then there was the Southern Brigadier who got all heated and indignant because I exhaled slightly harder than usual in response to a joke made at his expense. I don’t even remember what the joke was, but apparently my ‘encouragement’ of the mockery was an example of systemic discrimination in favour of the Northern Generals, namely Dad and Nian Zu, as he cited in an official complaint made to the Disciplinary Corps. Granted, I do place more significance on their words than others, but like... it’s my dad and his commander. How can I not?

I swear it’s like working with self-entitled children who don’t understand the world doesn’t revolve around them. Some pack their toys away and head home to play by themselves, while others whine and scream in public because they think their opinion should hold the same weight as Living Legend Nian Zu. It’s so infuriating I’m almost ready to call it quits and head back to the mountains for a few years of peace and quiet while the Defiled raze the Empire to the ground.

If only I could, but alas, I am a man of morals and obligations, so here I am working with my war council to put a viable plan together that all three provinces can accept. Again, I could just order the military to follow my commands and they’d have no choice but to obey, but I am well aware of my lacking experience and am working as hard as I can to make up for it with sound advice and planning. Face is the problem yet again, and I have no idea how to fix it. In five days, I’ve gone through three Central advisors because they all felt that their ‘advice wasn’t being heeded’ and their ‘opinions were being belittled’. To be fair, they’re not entirely wrong, but if they wanted their advice heeded and opinions taken into consideration, then they should offer better advice and opinions. Besides, isn’t valid criticism all part of the planning process? You ask for ideas and poke holes in them until you come across something without any obvious flaws, but noooo, I must be doing it because I want to deliberately insult my stupid subordinates.

I wish Grandpa Du would agree to join my war council, but he declined saying he had no mind for strategy and was busy contemplating the Dao. At least now I have Liu Xuande to help remind me of my manners, and he was surprisingly helpful in today’s planning. Not because his idea to turn Zhen Shi’s trap into a trap of our own was so innovative, but because by bringing it up, he forced us to rethink all the reasons why it was a terrible idea we’d already discarded, and in doing so, made us realize it was not actually so terrible after all. That’s why I made Xuande repeat himself with the entire war council present, because teaching a novice requires you to look at everything from a different perspective as you try to break it down into terms a layman can understand.

He’s our little student, and a good one at that, always asking insightful questions that cut to the heart of the matter and offering suggestions which aren’t always the best, but have good logical reasoning behind them. He even spotted a few questionable Defiled deployments which helped identify possible enemy countermeasures that were already in place, so given a few years, Liu Xuande might actually become a decent tactician, a bold and daring man who sees options where others see obstacles.

For now though, he’s our council’s sounding board, and he serves his purpose well. As for the rest of my advisors, it’s been a rocky road getting this war council to mesh together. Say what you will about Yari Hagane and his penchant for insolence and condescension, but at least the man doesn’t go crying to Colonel General Mitsue Juichi every time I hurt his feelings. Honestly, out of the three Officers, he’s actually the easiest to deal with, even if his ideas aren’t always the best. I thought BoShui’s uncle, Han BoHai, would be my greatest ally, but after decades of loyal service together, he now has too much faith in Nian Zu and believes the Living Legend can do no wrong. This means that no matter how many problems I bring up regarding the Colonel General’s plans, the only answer I ever get out of the bearish Major General is ‘I’m sure the Colonel General is well-prepared to deal with whatever may come’. This means I have to frame things in a way that implies an issue without laying blame at Nian Zu’s feet, because that’s the only way I can get BoHai to offer a solution, or preventative measure. It’s stupid. In BoHai’s eyes, Nian Zu is the greatest Colonel General there ever was and therefore his plans are perfectly flawless, meaning the only problems that might arise are issues in execution. It’s not that the Colonel General is wrong, it’s that the people below him are too incompetent to carry out his vision in full, so we must take them by the hand and carefully guide them step by step through the process.

Seriously, BoHai and BoShui are eerily similar in their stalwart devotion to other men...

As for the third Officer in my war council, Major General Inthavong might as well not be present for ninety percent of the meetings. Most of the time, he just stands there like a statue with a mild scowl etched across his weathered features, a grim and foreboding effigy of Southern neutrality. Despite being the least physically impressive of the three and only a little taller and wider than I am, something about the Southerner’s mannerisms makes me think him the most dangerous of the three. Even in stillness, he exudes a sense of aggressive threat much like a tiger on the prowl, and while his lips remained sealed for most of the meetings, his eyes and ears miss nothing. That said, the only times he voluntarily opens his mouth is to ensure the South never takes on more than its fair share, which is almost as frustrating as BoHai, or rather Nian Zu’s attempts to single-handedly win this war for the Empire.

As for Central? They’re just desperate to survive, because it’s becoming increasingly obvious that it’s no longer a matter of if the Defiled break through, but when. The Western Wall was a grand undertaking of massive proportions, and what we’ve accomplished is nothing short of a miracle, but at the end of the day, it’s still just a wall, one that stretches over a thousand kilometres from end to end. It doesn’t take much to imagine the Defiled breaking through somewhere to run rampant through Central, at which point it’s very possible Central goes the way of the West as North, South and East pull out to defend their own borders. That’s the issue plaguing the Empire right now, because if Central falls, the Empire falls with it, leaving three independent provinces with zero shared borders and a hostile force between them. Given the lack of long-distance communication, continued cooperation would be impossible since there’d be no way to coordinate, reinforce, or even trade between the three provinces, giving the Defiled free rein to divide and conquer as they please.

I always knew this was a possibility, but I didn’t know how bad things were until five days ago, when I reluctantly stepped into the role of master and commander of the outer provinces. During my first briefing, the third and final beardy from that fateful meeting in Nan Ping appeared and introduced himself as Xing Yong Wei, Divinity of the Imperial Clan and my new Dao protector who I could totally trust and should feel safe sharing any and all secrets with. Okay, I may be paraphrasing and he didn’t exactly say that in so many words, but the implication was there and I was understandably reluctant to trust him. Thankfully, I didn’t have to lie about much since he didn’t seem too interested in asking questions, though he did make a token effort to ask about Ping Ping. I told him I had no idea how she ascended and that the rest of my pets are just regular animals, not even Spiritual Beasts. All technically true since Pong Pong isn’t a pet, and more of a friend I feed exorbitant amounts of shrimp to in exchange for poop and the possibility of protection, though that’s seeming less likely with each passing day. I haven’t seen Pong Pong since waking from my coma, which is good because the little guy skated under the Imperial Divinity’s radar by hiding out in the river by Taduk’s bamboo grove. What’s less good is how much I miss him, but it’s too dangerous to visit him with all this attention on me, so I just have to leave him be and hope he doesn’t forget all about me before I see him again.

I want to see Ping Ping and Pong Pong interact now that they’re closer in size. I mean, Ping Ping is about the size of a golden retriever now, albeit a short, wide, girthy one, while Pong Pong still fits comfortably in the palm of my hand, so it’s still a sizable difference, but at least now they can interact in a meaningful way. It would be awesome to see them play tag or have friendly water fights together, though it would be prudent to have countermeasures in place to keep things from escalating too far. It’s all well and good to play tag in Pong Pong’s Natal Palace, but things might turn out differently if I started chasing him in the real world. Smart and powerful though he might be, a Divine Turtle is still just a turtle, so it’s entirely possible he forgets we’re just playing and panics somewhere along the way.

Which would be pretty bad considering he can summon tidal waves and emit an Aura so depressing it makes most people want to kill themselves.

Secrets and turtles aside, a few hours after my unofficial inauguration on stage following the near rebellion, Xing Yong Wei appeared on my doorstep and sat me down in a private room to peel back the curtains on this theatre of war. Needless to say, I was sorely tempted to immediately step down, but alas, Legate is an Imperial title and there’s no Imperial in the outer provinces more qualified than I. Sure, there are Royal Guardians who are more well-versed in tactics and commerce, but not only would they likely pack up and leave for home, the outer provinces might not even accept one of them, especially since they’re still on the fence about me. While Shen ZhenWu made it look like he appeared in Central and took control with ease, there was a lot more to it than waving his title and Imperial Sigil about, the latter of which I don’t even have.

It’s bullshit. To hold the Imperial Sigil is to speak with the Emperor’s voice, but Shen ZhenWu already had one before becoming Legate. Since the fan has nothing to do with the Legate’s office, it left with him when he presumably went back to the East to treat his wounds. This means all I have to convince people to work with me is the Emperor’s authority, which is distant and fickle at best.

