Closer than I suspected, but not too far off, since I figured there’d be more greats in between. It’s strange. Why would Shen ZhenWu’s Divinity bodyguard be someone from the Yang family? I thought he was connected to the Liang family, which is why my armour bears their mark. “What are the chances Jixing’s Dao Protector is surnamed Liang?”

Though the Imperial Divinity doesn’t reply, the flash of anger in his eyes tells me I’ve hit the mark, and my stomach flops and twists from this implicit confirmation. Makes sense, in my opinion. If you want your heirs protected from the other Supreme Families, you trade protectors. Liang guards Yang, Yang guards Liang, with a third family, Xing, overseeing the agreement. At least, that’s how I suspect it works, which means matters got a whole lot more complicated. Although Shen ZhenWu was injured by the Wraiths and is supposedly near death, things worked out far too neatly for him for me not to feel uneasy about it. A Divinity from a rival family dies, followed by said Divinity’s descendent, only for Shen ZhenWu’s promising pawn to step in and take over, all the pieces fell perfectly into place, though I can’t imagine why my Patron would want any of this, or why his family’s Divinity would accuse me of rebellion. Things could have gone disastrously wrong if Zhu Chanzui hadn’t shown up when he did, and no matter how I try to justify it, I can’t shake the feeling that there’s more to this than meets the eye.

Which means there’s a very real possibility Shen ZhenWu is working with Zhen Shi, or at the very least, took advantage of one enemy to deal with another.

And I hate everything about that.

With the reports out of the way, I sigh and ask, “How goes the war on the Divine front?”

“As well as can be expected.” The same answer he’s given me the past five days, and I know there will be no more information forthcoming. He hasn’t asked for help from the People, nor have I offered, but I did ask Mom about it and she told me to worry about the problems I could solve, rather than the ones I could do nothing about. Honestly, not the worst advice, but I hate going to all this effort while knowing that in the end, it might not even matter. At any point, the Divinities could get off their asses and turn the Empire into a wasteland, but until such a time, all I can do is continue to keep fighting the good fight and doing things I don’t agree with, but know must be done.

I would very much love it if the Brotherhood would respond to my many pleas for a meeting, because a bunch of half-Defiled monks who can identify other Defiled would go a long way to assuaging my guilt, but even though the Imperial Clan knows about the Brotherhood’s unique status, Xing Yong Wei told me they were of no use. Identifying the Defiled to Imperial forces is the same as consigning them to death, so no full member of the Brotherhood would work in concert with the Imperial Clan. A conflicting stance, because on the one hand, that’s stupid and the Brotherhood should feel stupid for being stupid, but on the other hand, I kinda see their point. Not all Defiled are irredeemable, but the Imperial Clan would rather kill a hundred innocents than let a single Defiled get away, which is another conflicting stance I don’t entirely agree with. Unfortunately, there’s no alternative I can come up with that would satisfy both groups, because the Brotherhood won’t forcefully convert Defiled and the Imperials see no point in jailing and feeding them.

“This is difficult for you,” Xing Yong Wei says, delivered as a statement of fact rather than commiseration. “Our work is done for today. Go seek solace from your Consort and let her music ease your troubled conscience.”

Something in the way he says it makes me sit up and take notice, because it’s rare for the robotic Divinity to inject emphasis into his intonation. Consort and music were clearly accentuated, though I only noticed because he almost always speaks in monotone. The wheels turn in my head, and it occurs to me he’s trying to help me understand something, but I’m not entirely sure what. “Is that why Jixing wanted her? To ease his troubled conscience?” Yong Wei doesn’t answer, but his silence is as close to confirmation as I’ll get, since I’m pretty sure he’d speak up if I was wrong. So what does this mean? It means Jixing wasn’t after Luo-Luo because he lusted after her beauty, but her music instead. Why now, and not during the six years she spent hiding away at the Academy? Luo-Luo always said it was because if she accepted the Grand Marshal’s offer of Patronage, the Prime Minister would’ve had her killed and the same vice-versa, but that doesn’t really make sense now that I think about it. Sure, face would be lost if she chose one Patron over another, but Imperial Scions tend to do all their dirty work through cats-paws, and assassination is pretty direct for a conflict as petty as ownership of an Imperial Servant. In their eyes, an Imperial Servant, even one as beautiful and talented as Luo-Luo, is no different from a pretty painting or elegant vase to have and display, hardly anything worth killing over.

Which brings me back to the question, why now? What changed to make Jixing so desperate to have Luo-Luo play a tune to soothe his troubled soul, desperate enough to act in such an overt manner and risk rebellion in a time of war?

...

“What was Yang Jixing’s purpose in Central?” The question leaves my lips before my mind even has time to process it, and I can immediately tell I was right to ask it, because Xing Yong Wei doesn’t answer. I suspect it’s not because he doesn’t want to, but because he physically can’t. Someone ordered him to keep quiet, but he wants me to know, so he’s leaving a trail of breadcrumbs for me to follow. Think Rain. He can’t talk about Jixing, which means you’re asking the wrong questions. “This work,” I ask, gesturing at the reports before me. “I send out the verdict, but who carries it out?”

“Who else but the Disciplinary Corps?” Cracking the barest hint of a smile, Xing Yong Wei explains, “Since the founding of the Empire, the Five Supreme Families have each served a different purpose. The Yang family upholds the Emperor’s justice, for they were named for the Sun, and everything beneath falls within their domain. So too with the Liang Family, named for the moon, overseeing the Empire’s economic and mercantile interests, to ensure fortune and prosperity follows as surely as day turns to night.”

“What about the other families?”

Puffing up with pride, Xing Yong Wei pats himself on the chest and answers, “The Xing family is named for the stars and tasked to oversee the military and ensure the Empire remains strong for as long as there are stars in the sky. There are no secrets hidden from the Heavens, and few hidden from the Tian family named after them, a family of spies and assassins who are second to none, and last but not least, the Di family is named for the Earth, whose sole purpose is to sustain and support the other five.”

One of these families is not like the others, but I don’t really feel like it’s my place to criticize. Seriously though, a Supreme Family of farming? I mean, food is great and the Legate did supply me with some amazing tofu pudding, but it’s rare for nobles to place so much emphasis on crop growth of all things. Filing all this information away for later, I go back to my original question and realize the answer was staring me in the face all along. “Yang Jixing was responsible for eliminating the Defiled, much like what I’m doing now.” Since Xing Yong Wei doesn’t see fit to interrupt me, I continue narrating my thoughts as they come. “Is that why he wanted Luo-Luo? Because the weight of his conscience was bearing down on him? That would explain why he was so desperate to get her, and why he acted so... irrationally at the end there, with all his overt actions, but... I dunno. Shouldn’t someone like Yang Jixing have a Mentor or something, someone to watch over him and make sure he doesn’t... deviate from the Path?”

“He did.” With a pained look that spells out ‘you’re an idiot’, Xing Yong Wei says, “Yang Jixing’s Dao Guardian was the Divinity who failed to protect him.”

The one who accused me of rebelling and is surnamed Liang, and therefore is somehow related to Shen ZhenWu.

...

Well fuck. I guess that clinches it. My Patron somehow engineered events to have both Yang Jixing and Yang Zaixing killed by the Defiled. It’s not proof Shen ZhenWu is working with the Enemy, but even the best case scenario doesn’t paint a pretty picture. “Will the Emperor do anything about this?”

“About what?” Xing Yong Wei, his words drier than a desert. “The Enemy killed another Imperial Divinity and assassinated the Yang family heir. It is fortunate Shen ZhenWu still lives, unless you suspect otherwise?”

And there it is. He’s asking if I suspect my Patron of allying with the Enemy, but even though I do, how do I know I can trust Xing Yong Wei? Shen ZhenWu is the source of all my authority, and if I cast suspicions upon him, then I’m done, regardless if I’m right or wrong. This could all be an elaborate trap meant to lead me to this very conclusion, and there’s no way to know who’s actually on my side. Suspicious as I am of Shen ZhenWu, I have no reason to trust any other Imperial over him, and many reasons not to trust them. Jixing’s desire for Luo-Luo’s music is only a suspicion, because there’s no way the Prime Minister’s son didn’t have any other way to ‘soothe his conscience’. Unless of course he was obsessed with Luo-Luo, an obsession which might well have been introduced and encouraged by the Dao Guardian who let him die.

Fuck, Yuzhen was right. The Imperial Clan are a devious, manipulative bunch who will feed you shit and convince you to thank them for it.

“I have no reason to suspect my Patron,” I say, trying my best to mimic Xing Yong Wei’s monotone and suggest I also have no reason to trust Shen ZhenWu either. Hard to say if he caught my meaning, but the bearded Divinity studies me closely before nodding in farewell, disappearing in the blink of an eye and leaving me alone in my office with Ping Ping, Aurie, and my bunnies. Still cradling the sweet girl close, I give Ping Ping a kiss on the head while studying her expression, and I realize how silly I was to think she could protect me from Divinities. Not two seconds have passed since Xing Yong Wei left, and already this sweet girl has let her guard down. Touching as their relationship was, I can’t help but think Guan Suo’s constant protection has left Ping Ping unable to protect herself. She never watches her surroundings, and never notices errant Divinities until they’re already in the room, and I don’t think she even knows how to Conceal, because Guan Suo and the Protectorate did all of this for her. In truth, she might not even be a True Divinity, since I may have helped her through the process, which means Ping Ping might well be the weakest Divinity in existence.

One point on the board for Zhen Shi’s way of thinking, but on the other hand, Ping Ping is awfully cute and cuddly...

“I love you Ping Ping.” The warm burst of Aura which she emits in response tells me she shares the sentiment, but I’m not sure if it’s because she recognizes the words or she just appreciates it when I hug and talk to her. Either way, it’s time I called it a night and went back to my borrowed manor for dinner. There’s so much I still need to do, like go over whatever revisions the Colonel Generals have sent back, write letters to political figures to soothe bruised egos or win them over to my side, and see what I can do about taking steps towards abolishing slavery without inciting widespread rebellion, but none of those problems will be solved anytime soon, and certainly not in the time it takes for me to eat a meal and take a bath while Luo-Luo plays a healing melody in the courtyard.

This is my life for now, and I will continue doing what I think is best, but the stakes are too high to act without thinking. There is something afoot in the Imperial Clan, but there’s no point trying to unravel what’s happening with what little I know. Instead, I should keep doing what I’m doing while considering all my options carefully, and maybe make plans to free myself from these shackles of obligation. Right now, the only way I know how to do that is to defeat the Defiled and neutralize the threat they present, so I can finally go home and tell the rest of the Empire to fuck off.

All I have to do is end a war against an Enemy that predates the Empire itself. Easy Peasy, right?

Chapter Meme
