As much as I’d love to hand the job over to Nian Zu, Shuai Jiao, or Marshal Quyen Huong, doing so would likely end in disaster. The three provinces are fiercely independent, and it makes sense considering each one is almost a country unto itself. The only reason I’m an acceptable Legate is due to the combination of my outer-province origins, my Imperial Peerage, and the fact that everyone sees me as someone who can be easily influenced or manipulated, if not outright controlled. As I myself just recently learned, there’s a lot more to commanding than making plans and giving orders, because if people are unhappy with what you’re doing, there are infinite ways for them to make life difficult without crossing over into actual rebellion. Things like quitting their jobs and supporting an incompetent successor, or doing the bare minimum to fulfill their orders while secretly undermining your efforts in hopes you’ll fail, just so they can point and say ‘I told you so’. Real petty garbage like that, annoying and infuriating but nothing serious enough to warrant a beating or worse, because everyone wised up after I had Ishin Shigen publicly whipped for refusing to drop the matter of Dad’s reinstatement.

“Surely the previous Legate would not have done so without reason,” Shigen repeatedly claimed, despite my insistent request that we move on. “I only suggest the new Legate do his due diligence to ensure all protocols are followed to the letter and spirit of the law.”

Which was bullshit. There was an official document stripping Dad of rank which was signed and sealed, but nowhere on the page was a reason given. With Jixing’s apparent death, which Xing Yong Wei would neither confirm nor deny, this meant there was no way to know why Dad was stripped of rank. What is there to investigate? Even an Oath-bound statement of truth wouldn’t be enough to clear Dad, because there is no accusation for him to plainly deny. He could swear and say he had nothing to do with the Wraith attacks, but what good would that do? Everyone would just claim he could have leaked the information to a malicious third party that then passed it on to the Defiled, or that Akanai had been responsible instead and Dad didn’t know, or any number of accusations that would see him bleed out before satisfying everyone’s curiosity. The whole discussion was just a smokescreen to make things difficult for me and shame Dad by hinting that there was something hinky afoot. Truth be told, losing my temper didn’t win me any points, but since logic and reasoning weren’t going anywhere, I told everyone present that the next person to bring the matter up would be whipped in the streets, and wouldn’t you know it, it was less than five minutes before Ishin Shigen tried to call my bluff, so fuck him and fuck Mitsue Juichi too, because I know that old canny bastard put him up to it.

Needless to say, even with the Imperial Clan’s ‘full support’ behind me, it’s been slow going trying to win over the provinces and get them to obey without question. Being under-qualified and inexperienced is only part of it, and my confirmed slave past isn’t helping much, what with rumours flying about claiming that the new Legate is technically stolen property and whatnot, but thus far, I’ve been ignoring it whenever I can and pushing ever forward. Nothing I say will change the past, but if their heads are stuck so far up their asses that they can’t judge me by what I’ve done and what I’m doing rather than what I once was, then the people of the Empire aren’t worth saving and the Defiled can have them all.

Which is sort of a moot point since we’re clearly losing this war.

I don’t mean we don’t have a chance of winning, only that we are currently losing and the situation is more dire than I initially suspected. Not great news to get during your first day on the job, but like the good soldier I am, I kept my complaining to a minimum while pressing forward. The actual fighting isn’t going too badly, as we’re still holding the second line with only a modicum of difficulty, and thus far, Goujian and his contingent of Wraiths were the first group to make it past our defences and into a Citadel. The problem is, the Enemy has been testing our defences since before the First Imperial Grand Conference took place, and it’s frightening to see the estimates of how many Defiled slipped past the border undetected before we were able to secure it. It’s so easy to get caught up in guarding our borders from the Defiled threat and forget to guard ourselves from within as well, which is where a large part of the Legate’s responsibilities lie.

Thus, after my second meeting with the war council came to an end, I send my advisors away to dispatch our revised battle plan to the Colonel Generals and settle into my chair with Mama Bun and Ping Ping. Their presence is sorely needed, because now comes the most heartbreaking part of my job: looking over reports and passing judgment on thousands of lives sight unseen. Shen ZhenWu had people in place compiling reports from all over the Empire regarding possible Defiled activity, containing everything from missing persons and unsolved murders to barroom brawls and debased orgies, and it’s my job to decide if they warrant an execution. As one might expect, it is soulless, joyless work navigating through those seemingly endless reports and trawling through the depraved details of what suspected Defiled have been up to. To make matters worse, it is my job to decide if we should ignore the incident, investigate further, or take immediate action, with only a few paragraphs of information to go on.

A spate of missing children in a city of the South. Investigate.

A Northern hunting village selling more pelts than commoners should be able to provide. Investigate.

A doomsayer preaching about the fall of the Empire and the trials and tribulations to follow. Investigate.

A half-eaten corpse with suspiciously human-like bite marks found in the midden heap of a village. Investigate.

In my opinion, the vast majority of cases warrant further investigation, because mere suspicion isn’t enough to go on, but the Empire’s resources are not without limit, as Xing Yong Wei is quick to remind me when he arrives for his daily report. “There is only so much we can investigate, young Legate,” he says, flipping through the reports like I would riffle a deck of cards, and reading every word contained within in an instant. “Many of these can be discarded or acted on immediately. This one for example.” Pointing at the report detailing the missing children, he says, “This can be ignored. Defiled infiltrators tend to target commoners ranging from sixteen to fifty years of age. The missing children here are too young to control their impulses, so turning them Defiled would only draw unnecessary attention.”

“Twelve children have gone missing in the span of three months,” I reply, reminding myself that this man is a Divinity, and therefore can crush me with a single eyelash. “Does this not warrant investigation?”

“It does, but not by us.” Pushing the document towards me, he fixes me with a gaze I can only describe as weary, which is not something you want to see from a Divinity. “Pass this along to the Southern Marshal and let him deal with it. Our purpose here is only to uncover and eliminate the Defiled. Everything else is irrelevant.”

Even though he’s not wrong, I still want to investigate, because I’m not sure if Marshal Quyen will take this seriously. I’ve handed over a few reports already, and he has yet to assure me that he is investigating the matter, which is less than ideal. Hugging Ping Ping tight and stroking her head to keep her from glaring at the Divinity in overt threat, I look down at the document and sigh before crossing out my order to ‘investigate’ and scrawling ‘ignore’ underneath it. My pen barely leaves the page before Xing Yong Wei replaces it with another document without uttering a word, and a quick glance reveals this one is regarding the incident with the half-eaten corpse. No words are exchanged as I struggle to voice my excuse, that the bite marks could have come from a small boar, monkey, or other creature with human-like dentures, or that investigation is needed to identify who the Defiled culprits are, but I know it’s all for naught.

So instead, I stare at the page and reluctantly scratch out ‘investigate’, and write ‘eliminate’ in its place, consigning an entire village of two-hundred odd people to their deaths. There will be no trial, for I am both judge and jury, and now I must live with their deaths on my conscience.

Xing Yong Wei has me change many more verdicts, including the doomsayer and almost a dozen more like him, and doing so leaves me in a sombre mood. They can’t all be Defiled, and might well just be scared people trying to warn others of a dire future, but we can’t allow them to continue because terror and despair could give rise to real Defiled. As a soldier on the battlefield, I could dream of ideals all I wanted as I fought with a clear and present Enemy, but as Legate, my enemies are more difficult to distinguish, navigating through a sea of greys in an effort to distinguish black from white. It’s necessary, or so I tell myself, but only because I’m not smart enough to come up with a working alternative, and it kills me inside to consign good men and women to death for the greater good.

The road to hell is paved with good intentions, or so I’ve been told, and I’m beginning to see how true it really is. This is wrong, I know this, but what other choice do I have?

Sensing the change in my demeanour, Ping Ping suspects Xing Yong Wei of wrongdoing and fixes him with a sideways glare while emanating a vaguely hostile Aura of warning, one I can also feel because she hasn’t quite figured out how to pick and choose her targets. Glad for the break from issuing death warrants, I turn her away from the Imperial Divinity and stroke her head in an effort to keep her from starting something I will totally regret. “It’s okay sweet girl,” I whisper, planting a light kiss on her head. “Everything’s fine. No need to be angry, so just calm down.”

It’s hard to say if it’s my words or my tone which soothes her nerves, but the warning Aura fades away and Ping Ping goes back to merely glaring. All the while, Xing Yong Wei watches with indifferent curiosity, wholly nonchalant before this powerful creature who might very well destroy the Citadel we’re standing in if the mood strikes her. “Power without control,” he says, as I return to my seat, almost like he’s commenting on the weather or the price of grain. “A dangerous combination.”

“She’s an animal,” I reply, protectively shielding Ping Ping with my body even though I know it wouldn’t make a difference. “Leave her alone, and she’ll likely leave you alone in turn.”

“Not her,” the Imperial Divinity says, meeting my eyes with a telling look. “You. You calm her and soothe her with your words, bind her to you side, but as evidenced by her attack on Zhu Chanzui, you can also inadvertently stoke her anger and drive her to action.” Raising a bushy white eyebrow, Xing Yong Wei asks, “You think it was her power which drove the Bristleboar Divinity away? No, he fled because he feared the consequences which would come from killing her, a feat he could have easily accomplished if he cared to. A Divine Beast this turtle may be, but it is only newly ascended and her power limited by unfamiliarity. Luckily for you, Zhu Chanzui had no real intention of engaging in a battle of Divinities at the Northern Citadel, just as we had no intention to compel him to retaliate, which was why we were left with no choice but to let him speak.”

Pursing my lips, I swallow my retort and carefully consider how to respond, because this is not a conversation I really want to have. Besides asking if I had any other Divine Beasts and wondering if I knew how to raise them, Xing Yong Wei and the Imperial Clan have shown a distressing lack of interest in Ping Ping, which leads me to suspect they’ve known about Divine Beasts all along. Despite rising to the rank of Legate and commanding all Death Corps and Royal Guardians outside the Eastern Province, there’s still a blanket moratorium on sharing Imperial secrets with me. I don’t know if the ban on talking is standard practice for Imperials, or the Legate left strict instructions to keep me in the dark, but either way, no one is sharing any information unless it directly relates to my duties.

There are so many questions I want to ask, but the answers would all require I swear myself to the Imperial Clan. Xing Yong Wei made the offer the first day we met, to help me repair my Core, unravel the mystery of my Dao, and help me become a Peak Expert so long as I gave the requisite Oaths. Not to the Legate, or even Xing Yong Wei, but to become a loyal servant to the Emperor Himself, and having seen how the big kahuna treats his servants, I was understandably loath to agree. The Imperial Divinity didn’t take offence at my refusal, and in fact seemed to expect it, probably because the deceased Chief Beardy, who I belatedly learned was named Yang Zaixing, passed the information along regarding my Dao of freedom or whatever.

Which reminds me... might as well give it a shot. “Yang Zaixing,” I say, and Xing Yong Wei brows furrow in regret. “Any relation to Yang Jixing?”

“Great-Grandfather and Great-Grandson.”

