“Half of them, yeah,” said Sophie. “But the rest are still going, and most of the Skill classes are still pretty useful. It’s just the super advanced ones that are pointless now. All the basic ones are super good, though, because now you can just learn a bunch of weak Skills and use them to craft stronger ones.”

“I guess that makes sense. What classes are you taking, then?”

Sophie’s expression fell again. “They put me in a bunch of special ones and barely let me pick.”

“What? Why?”

“Well, the real reason that the spy people stopped bothering us is that the king apparently heard about me and told them to knock it off. He actually came to visit us.”

“He came personally?!”

“Yeah, just a couple days ago. He brought some gifts and apologized for everything. He said a bunch of stuff about Jelor being proud to have someone like me, and that they would take every measure to ensure my future was bright and blah blah blah, and the next thing I knew, my class schedule was all messed up.”

“What? And you can’t change it?”

“Well…” Sophie fidgeted with her fingers. “Okay, it’s not actually that bad. I was just whining. Nick insisted that I needed friends my age, so I still go to the Academy in the mornings. It’s just the boring classes, but I still get to go there. And then all the rest of my classes are private tutoring sessions with field experts.”

“Oh. Okay, so they’re really investing in you.”

It made sense. Even if Sophie herself wasn’t remarkable, the Dragon’s Goddaughter Class was just about the most powerful Class in the world, as far as Elise was aware. Just the access to {Dragon Eyes}, {Dragon Heart}, and {Mana Manipulation} made it the best Class for mages by a long shot, so even if Sophie wasn’t particularly talented, as long as she leveled up, she would eventually be a true force of nature. The king himself personally visiting to apologize might have been a little far, but if he was smart, he’d want Sophie fully bought-in to Jelor.

“Yeah,” said Sophie. “So I guess it’s not bad. They’re even letting me take more aether lessons too. It’s just not as fun as last semester…”

“Yeah… Speaking of last semester, though, how’s everyone else? Other than the ones that aren’t there anymore.”

“Wait, do you know about them?” asked Sophie, perking up. “Jessie, Samantha, and Helene all went missing. No one I know has been able to find them. I mean, Helene is probably just in hiding, but the Church of Light is freaking out about Jessie being gone.”

“I don’t think I’m allowed to talk about that,” said Elise. “But she’s doing fine. I think. I haven’t heard from her lately, but she left voluntarily. And Samantha… She’s also fine…”

“You don’t sound very sure.”

“That’s because I’m not, but she also left voluntarily, and if she’s in danger, it’s on purpose.”

“Okay,” said Sophie, giving a sigh of relief. “Oh yeah, Attalaya is gone too. Do you know–?”

“She’s fine too. What about everyone else?”

“Okay good. Well, everyone else is—” Sophie’s eyes widened, and she broke out into a mischievous grin. “Oh, I see what you’re doing. You’re just trying to get me to tell you about Cassian.”

“No, that’s not–”

“Well, don’t worry, ‘cause I’ll tell you. I’ll tell you everything. You’re never gonna believe this.”
