Five shook and groaned. As the wolf-man rolled over, he looked up and saw Shiv and Adam staring at him. Then his gaze shifted slightly to the right, where he saw Udraal Thann looking at him through half-closed eyes. Slowly, Five placed his face back down on the ground, pretending that he didn't see anything at all.

Comparatively, loud laughter came from Candles. He patted himself up and down, the strange, translucent flesh of fire surrounding his bones in the shape of a thin man visible more clearly than ever before. "Ah, the burns are gone! The flames like me again! Yes! Yes!" He pumped his fist in the air. His body came ablaze with a corona of fiery mana once more, and a sweltering heat choked the guard cube. "Yes! Oh, yes! No pain from the burns! Ah, I'm so sorry, babies! I didn’t mean what I said earlier!" He started gathering up handfuls of fire with his hands and kissing it, and the absurdity of his antics made Udraal laugh.

"I do like the insane ones," he said. "They're most often the best Pathbearers, or the ones that have the deepest insight into certain things. Sanity is such a detriment sometimes. I wish I was more insane. Anyhow, did you get any of that?" He looked at Shiv, deliberately provoking the Deathless with a large, pearl-white grin.

Shiv stared at Udraal for a long moment. "Fuck, no. I have no idea what you just did, Udraal. You waved your hand, a bunch of shit came out of it, and now they're all fixed."

"Well, you are technically correct," Udraal replied. "I did wave my hand. Animancy did come out of it. Not shit. But yes, that is fundamentally what I did. Now, in detail, I managed to undo the damage marked on their beings. Animancy damage is a strange thing. When you are wounded at the soul and your vitality is compromised, a great many people regard that as fatal or an eternal injury. Not so. It's very easy to mend if you know what you're doing. The problem is, most people don't know what they're doing. Would you like to know what I did?"

Psycho-Cartography: He's making you engage with him. Forcing you to deal with him. He's trying to build rapport. Be wary.

Shiv narrowed his eyes at Udraal. When he finally answered, it was, "Sure. Let's hear you boast."

"It's not a boast. It's part of your education," Udraal said. "Something my father should have already shown you. Something that you're going to need to learn how to do when you compromise this place's mana core."

"When I what?"

Udraal ignored his question for now. "What I did," he began, "is simply transplant a version of the remembered past of their soul onto their present. There was a time when they weren't burned at the soul, when they hadn't sustained narrative damage. I pulled that moment to the present, and it cost them some of their legend. However, fundamentally, anyone can do this. It just takes a great many skills, a convergence of different skills, in fact, to effectively have this Animancy spell be channeled correctly."

"You moved someone's past to their present?" Adam breathed.

"A proper instance of their recorded legend," Udraal corrected. "There is always a previous version of you inside your soul. It is the collective composition of your legend, from all your skills, all that makes up who you are. It is how the System views you. Now, I can reach into all those instances using the skill. I can generate a new instance of your soul, and I can use that to replace all the damage afflicting your current soul. However, the current legends that you've built up will be expended in that case, lost because they will be shed." The words came in a burst of short phrases, trying to elaborate and simplify what he was doing.

Shiv made eye contact with Adam, but the Gate Lord shook his head. He was as lost as Shiv was.

"So, it's a bit like Chronomancy," Shiv suggested. "Like when you're injured but you use Chronomancy to forget your injuries?"

Udraal pressed his lips together. "I suppose that's a crude analogy, and now most analogies are crude, but yes, good enough. Think of it that way. Now, with that crude analogy in mind, you're going to need to use a rudimentary version of this technique so that our escape can be successful."

"Why am I targeting the mana core?" Shiv asked. "I have a way out right now. I can slip past the time loop. I know we're inside a volcano. I don't need to do anything that you say."

Udraal thought about Shiv's response and then shook his head. "No, I disagree. You're going to do this because it's simply the most optimal way for you to escape and stay escaped. You see, I know Veronica Chandler. I know how she reacts to certain things. She will not be scatterbrained or overwhelmed in the aftermath of my recent encounter with her. Instead, she will be spreading out her influence, using all the Ascendants' collective power to hold this prison and to make sure that you don't get far. Even if you do escape." He regarded Shiv for a moment. "How long can you stay out of context?"

Shiv didn't answer.

"Not very long, then. Perhaps a few seconds. That's not going to be enough. Even if you make it beyond the time loop, I suspect that she will have Harlock the Midnight flood this place with darkness. And once he does, that darkness will effectively be a net that you cannot evade, as he will devote all of himself to this task. The dark will spread wider, it will be dense, and the moment it touches you, the other Ascendants will know where you are. They will then bring their Avatars across, and you will face the collective might of the Ruling Council. And this time, they will not be held back. You will not be facing the soft hand of your grandmother."

Both Shiv and Adam flinched back. "What?" they said together.
