“I heard that you can't be killed.” Ren said to it, now that it's head was down to his own enlarged height. “I'm going to tell you a secret about that.”

Ren had slashed the sword across it's back over and over until it was just one large wound, and he could see the Minor Demon's heart through it's rib cage.

“There's much worse things than death.” Ren said and shoved the blood sword through it's heart and out through the front of it's chest.

“AHHH!” The Minor Demon yelled and clutched it's chest around the sword. It stopped breathing and slumped over, and Ren held onto the sword as the Minor Demon slid off of it to the ground.

“You... you killed it.” One of the succubi said, completely shocked.

“No, it's still alive.” Ren said and stored the sword. “Even if I decapitated it, I'm pretty sure it could regenerate.”

The Minor Demon twitched when it heard that, and Ren chuckled. He picked the Minor Demon up easily and looked into it's eyes, but it still looked at the skeleton knight.

“You had the succubi gather food for you, and when I showed up and took them, you had to do it yourself.” Ren said. “You were selfish and greedy, and that's okay... to a point. You came after them when you couldn't get a free and easy meal to try and get a free and easy meal.” Ren grinned at the Minor Demon and he felt a trace of fear from it. “They are no longer an easy meal.”

The Minor Demon didn't say anything, but Ren felt it's agreement. He dropped it to the ground and walked over to the group.

Notice!

You have been corrupted! You have absorbed Minor Demon blood directly from the source through your skin. It's effects vary by those infected, and by the amount of blood absorbed.

Current Corruption Level: 92%

Warning: When Corruption reaches 100%, you will become deathly ill and die.

Please note: Corruption resets upon death.

“Let's go up to the next level.” Ren said and used the Energize spell to stop from collapsing after his Controlled Berserk Rage ended and dismissed the Enlarge Person spell. The group followed him over to the tunnel the Minor Demon had blocked.

Notice!

You have successfully defeated the Minor Demon and completed the Cavern of Spirit Horrors.

Rewards: 122,545 XP

Notice!

You have gained a level and are now Level 82, and 10 stat points have been automatically allocated.

Ren felt sad that he had completed what should have been a very difficult task, gained a level, and didn't unlock anything.

“You can't expect something from every level you go up.” Teepo said.

You've been quiet a lot lately. Ren thought to his friend.

“I've just been in awe of the things you're doing.” Teepo said. “Plus, when you're Angered or Enraged, the last thing I wanted to do is get your attention.”

Yeah, I'm glad you kept quiet, too. Ren thought. I don't like being angry at you, either.

“I'm sorry I gave you a reason.” Teepo said, apologetically.

It's okay. I know you were just trying to look out for me in your own way.

“I was, but it hurt you, too.” Teepo said. “I'm not making that mistake again.”

Ren led the succubi and the skeleton knight up the tunnel to the safe area of the next level.

Notice!

Congratulations! This safe area is at the midway point of Shargon Caverns. You have done well to come this far, and you have gained several followers. Unfortunately, this does not come without a cost. If you wish to move forward, a sacrifice must be made to open the door to the next level.

Please Note: Your own spell-created beings do not count as a suitable sacrifice.

“Ha ha!” Ren said and looked at the succubi. “I assume you all got that popup?”

They nodded, and he felt how they felt. They were all nervous and a little scared, and they all wondered who he would pick. Ren took out the three Instant Towers and activated them, then raised up the protective wall around the group to hopefully keep anything out if it did show up. He looked at all of their faces, and he felt a strong sense of protectiveness from one, and saw as she hugged the harness he had made for her. It held the dretch in the bag, and Ren walked over to her.

“Please... don't.”

Ren reached a hand out and she flinched. “It's okay.” He said and cupped the side of her face. “I'm not killing your friend.”

The succubi blinked the tears from her eyes and looked at him as she felt his compassion, and also the protectiveness that matched her own. Ren smiled at her and walked over to Zunala.

“I thought it would be me.” Zunala said.

“Of course it is.” Ren said, and he could feel what the other succubi felt about his decision. They hated him for it. “Who else would get the most out of this sacrifice?”

No one could counter that argument, and Ren took her hand. She gasped at his calmness, and her heart withered a little that he felt nothing about using her as a sacrifice.

“This is going to hurt.” Ren said and took out a knife. “Please kneel.”

Zunala knelt without protest and Ren put the knife in the hand he held.

“You're going to make me do it?” Zunala asked, surprised.

“No, I'll still do it; but, I can't wield normal weapons.” Ren said and held her hand steady. “I need to use your hand to do it.”

Zunala sighed and nodded as Ren moved her hand and the knife up to her neck.

“I'm really sorry about this.” Ren said. “It's the only way.”

“I... I understand.” Zunala said, and Ren felt her resignation.

“It'll be quick.” Ren said, then used her hand and the knife to make a small shallow cut just on the side of her neck. The blood welled up and he let her hand go to bend over and put his mouth over the wound.

“Wh-what are you... OH!” Zunala gasped as Ren fed her a huge burst of pleasure and sucked on her wound. He swallowed a mouthful of her blood and waited. When nothing happened, he swallowed another... then felt deathly ill.

Notice!

Your corruption level has reached 100%. You will die in 1 minute, 59 seconds.

Please note: Corruption resets upon death.

“Th-that did it.” Ren said and stumbled away, then went into the Instant Tower with his shops in it. Teepo.

“See you soon, Ren.” Teepo said and dissolved into the ring. Ren put it and the rest of his rings on the box of shadow coins, took out a single gold coin and left his coin pouch, then dropped his armor on the floor. He dropped off all of his wands except for a Minor Healing one, stored the icebox, and went back outside wearing just his armor bodysuit. The tower door shut behind him and he walked the short distance to the succubi and collapsed to his knees as his face turned blood red.

“Why did you do that?!?” Zunala exclaimed and went to him.

“I... s-sacrificed... myself.” Ren muttered. “No rules... against it.”

“You were supposed to pick one of us!” Zunala said as tears came to her eyes. “I thought you picked me to die!”

Ren coughed up blood and it spilled onto the cave floor. “I'd never pick one of you.” He said and coughed a few more times as a torrent of blood came out. “Ugh, this feels terrible.”

“That's because it's melting your insides.” One of the others said, and Ren looked at her. She had tears in her eyes, as did all the others; and he felt their regret that they had hated him when they thought he had picked Zunala to die. “It's almost over.”

Ren nodded because the countdown was at 30 seconds. He took out the icebox for them to have food while he was gone, and also took out the Minor Healing wand. He wavered from side to side, and Zunala took him into her arms as he fell.

“That wand won't save you.” Zunala said.

“It's... not for... me.” Ren said and used it to heal her still bleeding neck.

“You should have killed me.” Zunala said. “I hate you for killing Murdrasu!”

“I... know you do.” Ren said and touched the tears on her face. “That's why I... had you... kill me.” He said and smiled, then died in her arms.
