Whiteleaf's eyes narrowed. She snarled. "You think you're so special," she said, taking a step forward and jabbing a finger into his chest. "Fine. Water."

"An opposing aspect," Cale said approvingly. "Good choice. Professor, would you mind?"

"Begin," Graystalk said, his lips twitching slightly. He knew what was about to happen.

Ten seconds later, Cale's aura turned green, and Whiteleaf's stayed red. The elf said nothing for a long moment, then grabbed the front of his shirt, yanking him close.

"Whoa," Cale said. "This is second date territory."

"Earth," Whiteleaf seethed, ignoring him. A lot of the elves were murmuring among one another now. Some were giving her nervous glances, and more than a few seemed to be looking at her in a new light.

Cale almost felt bad for her.

"Begin," Graystalk said experimentally, and almost jumped when their auras turned white. He shot the sky a quizzical look, but it offered him no answers.

Ten seconds later, Cale's aura turned green once again. Whiteleaf, on the other hand, was beginning to turn a color that matched the red mana dancing around her. This was, what, the third time now? Cale resisted making a joke about it.

"Light," Whiteleaf said, looking increasingly desperate.

"Begin."

The pattern repeated. Within the crowd, Syphus was looking more and more delighted, like this was the best day of its life. Many of the elves, on the other hand, were beginning to look uncomfortable. One of them tried to speak, wringing her hands together.

"Nala," she said. "I don't think—"

"Shut up, Julia," Whiteleaf hissed. She rounded on Cale. "How about this? Decay."

"That's not even in the Standard Array!" Julia protested, this time more strongly. To Cale's surprise, a few of the other elves joined her in protest, murmuring in agreement.

"I will not allow that," Graystalk said, his tone turning severe. "You are well aware, Ms. Whiteleaf, that misuse of the Gift is a serious offense. Cale has been generous enough to allow these tests as it is."

"He shouldn't be able to beat me!" Whiteleaf spun to glare at the professor, her eyes wild; her hand twitched, like she was ready to point her wand at him. "I have a prismatic core! Aspect magnification is my best class!"

"You have a false prismatic core," Cale commented idly, frowning slightly. This seemed a bit much, even for an elf having a breakdown. He watched her a little more carefully, noting the disheveled hair, the way she trembled. The more she broke down, the more a presence seemed to reveal itself in the gaps of her magic.

Strange. It felt familiar, too, except... no. It couldn't be what he was thinking of.

"What?" Whiteleaf turned to stare at him, and the feeling vanished. Her confusion had broken her out of her reverie. "All prismatic mages are false prismatics. True prismatics don't exist, and if they did, they would be utterly useless as mages."

"Well..." Cale trailed off. Before he could finish, however, the professor cut in smoothly.

"If I may?" he asked.

Cale raised an eyebrow slightly, saw the barely-suppressed smirk in Graystalk's eyes, and laughed. "What, you want to steal my thunder?"

"I have had to deal with Ms. Whiteleaf for the better part of an academic year," Graystalk answered smoothly.

"Fair point." Cale took a step back and gave Graystalk an overdramatic bow. "Have at it, then."

Graystalk rolled his eyes, but raised his voice, speaking both to Whiteleaf and the rest of the class. "It seems that—due, in part, to an erroneous assumption on my part—I have failed to properly introduce Cale to this class," he said. "Please welcome Headmaster Akkau's personal apprentice, Cale Cadwell Cobbs."

The elves' eyes went wide. Syphus's etherite-ears perked up and swung toward him. Cale waved at them all merrily.

"His arrangement is rather unique," Graystalk continued. "He will be a student in this class, but he is also charged with assisting me with your education. I admit I was skeptical of the Headmaster's plans and claims, at first, but I believe Cale has more than proven himself."

"What does any of this have to do with prismatic mages?" Whiteleaf demanded.

"I should have hoped it was obvious by now, Ms. Whiteleaf," Graystalk said. "But if it must be explicitly stated... We believe Cale to be Utelia's very first true prismatic mage."

Several jaws dropped, and the class erupted with excited chatter. Even Syphus was looking at him in a new light.

"Damn," it said. "I can't believe you kept that from me when we were planning."

"I did tell you what to bet on, though," Cale said cheerfully. "I figured I'd leave it up to whether or not you trusted me. If I actually told you the secret, the betting would've been kind of unethical."

"Because that's the issue here," it said sarcastically. Cale snickered, then turned back to Whiteleaf, who shrank back from him.

"Still want a rematch?" he asked.

For the first time, her response was small. She shook her head. "...No."

"Still want to fight?"

Whiteleaf's eyes hardened. "Yes," she said. "It doesn't matter if you're Headmaster Akkau's apprentice. You dishonored my clan. Besides, I know your secret now. It's why you haven't been casting, isn't it? True prismatic spells would take every last drop of your mana. All I need to do is make you waste it, and I win."

"Interesting theory," Cale said again, smiling slightly. That was how a real mage thought. She was wrong, of course, but unlike all the other excuses she'd been making, this one took into account everything she knew.

Most importantly, she was... well, she was technically still underestimating him, but she was no longer looking at him like he was beneath her.

No. She was looking at him like a rival.

"Let's test it, shall we?" he said, cracking his neck. His original plan had been to allow her to waste her mana against his barriers. Then he'd switch with Syphus and let the golem wail on her a few times until she exhausted the rest of her mana.

But if what he'd felt from her earlier was correct, then something had followed him here when he was summoned, and that required a slightly different plan.

Graystalk seemed to realize something was off. "What is it, Cale?"

"Nothing," Cale said. "I just need to test something. I can do it during the challenge. Can you start it, please?"

The professor eyed him, then nodded. "As a reminder, only spells from the Standard Array are allowed. If the Gift modifies them, that is its prerogative. Take your positions."

Cale and Whiteleaf both walked to stand on opposing sides of the stage. Cale gave her a small bow. Whiteleaf hesitated for a moment, glanced at the murmuring elves that were watching them, then bowed back.

Graystalk whispered his incantation, and then—

"Begin."

Whiteleaf fired some sort of spell. Cale didn't pay attention to it; it glanced harmlessly off his barriers, anyway. Instead, he poured his mana into his newly-acquired Standard Array spell: [Lesser Reflection].

This time, he made sure to give it a little more than just a drop.
