Reward: A growth item becomes less dependent on whoever it’s bonded to, reducing the item requirements to Tier it up, reducing the spiritual strain it puts on the person, and makes it more mana-efficient. By the seventh floor, it requires only essence to Tier up, puts no spiritual strain on whoever is using it, and produces mana instead of requires it as well as serving as an external mana storage.

“How much mana does it make? Also, no spiritual strain? Could you bring it up to Tier 30 and have an incredibly strong magical item that way?” Susanne glanced Matt's way along with her questions.

“It makes a decent amount of mana for anyone not used to being around Matt, and increases regeneration by about ten percent.” Carol answered, “And no, it’s not strictly zero spiritual strain, increasing the item’s Tier too far will still put strain on the bond like normal, but it’s close enough to nonexistent so long as you’re roughly the same Tier. Also, the essence requirement alone scales fast enough that it would be challenging to raise it too far above your own Tier. While some drastically mana-hungry growth items may not have their costs completely offset, anything you four would have would be mana-neutral by floor five at the latest.”

Matt’s mind went to his teleporting rings. Even with his insane mana regeneration, it still took a little while to charge up the swap for any appreciable distance, but if that were free, the power to teleport around the battlefield at will would be insanely powerful. And how might that work with his mana conversion ring? Would it count as an item that cost a variable amount of mana to produce a variable amount of mana? Would he be able to make free mana from his ring?

If his speculation was right that idea could have some possibilities. Very interesting possibilities.

He was so engrossed in thought he almost missed the slide change to display a very old friend of his, crowds of goblins.

Back to Basics: Start off with no essence, nothing, at functionally fresh Tier 1. Regain essence as you progress, and with a bit of effort, you can assign it to somewhere it wasn’t before, allowing for a permanent reallocation of essence. Enemies are appropriately low-Tier, but scale quite fast.

Reward: Concepts empowering the body become stronger, or if the Concept doesn't do so, it begins to. On floor seven, it's a full second very strong Concept, or the original is about three times as strong if it was able to empower the body before.

“Will that apply to my Concept?” Liz tapped her finger on her notes, “Or would it only work when I’m empowering blood inside myself?”

“It will likely empower the external use of your Concept, yes,” Kurt wrote, “Though likely not to the full strength as when using it internally.”

“How would that interact with my armor?” Susanne followed up, “It’s meant to make an external Concept also function as an internal one, but if my Concept begins to function as an internal one, would that make the enchantment less effective?”

Carol answered that question. “Like everything else on Minkalla, it won’t interfere with anything else. Most likely, the effects of your armor and using your Concept internally would directly add together.”

“Oh, that’s good. Very good.” Susanne rubbed her hands together and grinned at the screen.

Floating Islands: There is no floor, and flying items are weakened to the point of being unable to support additional weight. Falling far enough will result in a loop, though it’s unclear where exactly the lowest or highest point is, but it still requires falling a long way before a loop happens. The ruins are condensed in this theme to small floating islands and monsters, if not already capable of flying, gain wings or some other method of flight.

Reward: Improved ability for internal concepts to fly and external ones to move space around them. On floor seven, it's the equivalent of a dedicated, very strong Concept for it that is nearly impossible to ground the user without overwhelming force. If a Concept is already primed to help with flight/spatial manipulation, it is strengthened instead.

“Some of the best Concept-fliers in the Empire got their start with a deep Floating Islands.” Carol added, “This is one of those abilities which everyone benefits from, but can be tricky to really take to the next level. Minkalla provides that opportunity, and will even help you pick up Concept telekinesis once that’s a skill you decide to develop. Your nascent spatial abilities would get a massive boost from this Susanne.”

Liz, who was still struggling to do much in the way of flying with her Willpower, also took eager notes. Matt and Aster both had that skill nearly mastered so it was less beneficial for them, but it would still be useful.

Unskilled: Skills are completely blocked, including Innate skills granted by talents.

Reward: Upgrade a Tier 8 skill at floor one. The number you may upgrade increases with each floor (for totals of 2, 3, 5, 8, 11, 16). You may spend two Tier 8 equivalents to upgrade a Tier 14 or four Tier 8s to upgrade a Tier 20. These skills have more ability to be changed as the lower Tier you are, and elemental effects can be added at will.

“As I mentioned before, going in at Tier 11 will mean you have far more control over the end product. You could almost think of this as a Legacy combined with an upgrade, for the amount it’ll allow you to improve any skills you put into it.” Luna didn’t linger on the topic as they had already discussed it and quickly changed the screen to the next slide.

Mind over Matter: All physical existence fades, rendering everyone into spiritual beings. Physical cultivation does essentially nothing, and moving is hard without a skill or Concept to aid. Physical appearance also fades, and everything becomes more like the abstract idea of itself or its Concept.

Reward: Concepts become less willpower-intensive. By floor seven, any foundational uses of a Concept- that is, any things which the Concept itself does, not general uses of a Concept such as locking down space or flying- are functionally free to use, costing less Willpower than most people recover. The further from the primary use (or uses) of the Concept a use is, the less this benefit applies to it.

“Nothing? Like, actually nothing?” Susanne seemed incredulous, “And it will work for maintaining my manifestation?”

“It is functionally free, not genuinely costless, but otherwise yes to both,” Carol affirmed, “In addition, the decreased strain makes it substantially easier to explore and push your Concept further. But beyond additional practice, I expect you’ll be able to maintain two swords continuously if you get this as your fifth or deeper floor.”

It immediately shot up on Matt’s hopes for a lower floor. If it could make Concepts so easy to use, he might be able to use his Concept’s repulsion mode more than in short bursts, maybe even continuously if it were easy enough. He had wanted his Concepts power to double but he felt this might be even more useful in practical circumstances.

If that weren’t enough, according to some of Carol’s further explanations about the floor, it also strongly applied to any additional abilities which Minkalla granted to their Concepts, provided they were close enough to some of the original abilities.

The floor quickly joined Matt's growing list of hopeful final few floors.

All Paupers: Items don’t work at all, for anything. Not only are wands just inert sticks, a sword will not cut, armor will not block. Potions act as no more than water, and even the most potent foods do nothing more than provide basic sustenance.

Reward: A Growth Item lodges itself in your spirit. On floor one, this means you can instantly materialize/dematerialize it, and it becomes nearly impossible to permanently destroy. By floor seven, the item’s enchantments may be utilized as appropriate even without using the item directly, and can even be modified in a manner similar to a skill. The exact abilities depend on the item, but the spiritual strain of the item likewise increases.

Luna remarked “It pairs very well with Mundane Life, I will say. The increased strain and willpower usage which the item requires is more than offset by making the item self-sufficient, and if you get those two floors at the sixth and seventh floors, regardless of the order, they tend to amplify the other’s effects quite nicely.”

Opposite Day: Mana aspects are flipped, becoming the opposite of what they ought to be. Likewise, physical cultivation boosts mana, and magic cultivation boosts the body. This also applies to monsters.

Reward: Rework a chunk of your cultivation, achieving better than perfect compression in the process. Ranging from the most recent two Tiers on floor one to a complete redo on floor seven, any reworked essence is more potent even if overall essence distribution is not changed. Additionally, starting on floor three, permanently gain the ability to slowly shift allocated essence, increasing in speed with the depth of the floor.

“Does that work with Genesis Cultivation if you get both themes?” Aster asked.

Kurt wrote a simple, “Yes.”

Aster nodded at him as she yipped. “Oh, that has some possibilities.”

Taxing Skills: Skills become more expensive with each usage, tracked on a per-skill basis. Channeled skills become more expensive to use at a continuous, ever-increasing rate. Monsters tend to come in huge groups.

Reward: Gain bonus skill slots. On floor 1, this is two extra Inner skill slots and five extra Outer skill slots, effectively one Tier’s worth in total. By the sixth floor, it permanently increases how many skill slots are gained per Tier, and by the seventh it slightly more than doubles both current and future skill slots.

“Now that’s interesting.” Matt tapped his chin in thought.

“What would you need that many skills for?” Susanne asked incredulously, “You already have plenty of Inner spirit skills for any kind of fighting. Besides, it’s hardly like you need to worry about mana efficiency so you can use Outer skill slots if needed.”

“Maybe, but I can use a lot of skills at the same time, and just because I get my mana back doesn’t mean I shouldn’t use it efficiently. I’m already tight on space, and that’s not going to get any better as time goes on.”

That earned a nod from Luna.

“Well, good for you.” Susanne’s smile cut any of the sting that the comment could have generated, making it an obvious joke.

Matt smirked and said in his best Quill voice, “Stick with me kid, and you’ll see great and fabulous things.”

They quickly moved on to show a host of diagrams about shapeshifting.

Self-Identity: Those entering the floor will find their appearance, cultivation, non-consumable items, body, and skills changed to another random person upon the floor, keeping only your Talents (consumable items vanish, but are not gained). Upon leaving the floor, the changes revert. Monsters are predominantly mimic and shapeshifter-types.

Reward: Remake a part of your body. On floor one, this is replacing your eye or a hand to be better than perfect, a bio-mechanical substance that grows, heals, and for all intents and purposes is alive despite also being artificial, with the remade body part functioning similarly to a growth item. On floor three and deeper, that body part can be enchanted in addition to generally being made of higher-quality stuff than your baseline body. By floor seven, the entire body was remade into the strange biomechanical substance as a perfected being.

“Wait, what?” Liz blinked, “Also, will my blood magic still work if I’m… artificial?”

Matt echoed the sentiment, and it looked like Aster and Queen were similarly trying to process it.

“It will. You will lose nothing, but your body will be made of metals rather than tissues, despite behaving almost the exact same. Minkalla's rewards are never detrimental,” Luna explained.

“Almost?” Liz didn’t seem content with that vague of an answer and neither did Matt on her behalf.

“Some of the organs which regulate internal stasis are removed, and the digestive system functions completely differently, but as far as you’ll be able to tell anywhere other than a healer’s table, you’ll be completely normal,” Luna confirmed, “The remake will also make your healing cooldown lower as well as raising your baseline above even what the normally ‘perfected’ body which comes after Tier 15 can provide. That’s without even touching the enchantments you can put on yourself. Self-repair is particularly common among that group. Well, as far as anything could be said to be ‘common’ in a group that contains hundreds. It has a very high Genesis Energy cost, but is considered one of the best final floors. I don’t believe there has yet been a documented fifth, sixth, and seventh floor of Opposite Day, Genesis Cultivation, and Self-Identity in that order, but it’s speculated to be one of the strongest possible combinations of the last three floors for physical fighters.”

Susanne raised her hand, “How do Concepts work on the floor itself? If people only keep their Talents…”

Carol answered that one. “You use the other person’s Concept effects, but using the Domain expertise and thought patterns from your own Concept. Reportedly, it feels deeply strange, and figuring out how to effectively use another person’s skill set on the fly is one of the larger challenges of the floor. In terms of monsters and terrain features, it’s one of the easiest floors, but you wouldn’t know it from looking at the casualty numbers.”

