New Growth: Only things which have been obtained on the current floor can be used. Skill shards and items can drop at an increased rate on this floor, and skill absorption is increased. Monsters usually have highly adaptive defenses, swiftly gaining resistances to attacks they are exposed to.

Reward: Skills become quicker and easier to absorb, modify, and move. By floor seven, absorbing skills is instantaneous and modifying skills is roughly as easy as if it were one stage closer to the core, and skill movement is fast enough to nearly fully rearrange the spirit within days.

Matt’s mind immediately returned to his dream of having a modifiable Innate skill, but even faster? Unfortunately, Luna dashed his hopes almost immediately.

“The speed boost mostly only caps out at Core skill speed. Core skills do also get a boost in modification speed, especially with later floors, but Innate skills, so far as we can tell, don’t benefit at all.”

“What about instantly absorbing skills? Isn’t that just a thing that higher Tiers can do normally?” Liz pointed out, “Or is this something that falls off as you get to higher Tiers?”

“It sticks around. Even past Tier 40, it can still take a few seconds to absorb a Tier 8 skill, and much longer for higher-Tier skills. With the seventh-floor reward, that becomes functionally instant almost regardless of how high a Tier you or your skill are.”

“I’ve definitely seen Uncle Moon absorb a skill just by tapping it.” Liz raised an eyebrow at the cat.

“I do believe that Harvest Moon’s party encountered New Growth on the fourth floor when they ventured into Minkalla, which was as deep as they went, and would cut skill absorption time in roughly a quarter. At his Tier and for a Tier 8 skill it would be functionally instant.”

The next slide demonstrated a boulder crumbling to sand, and flooding down a mountain in a dust avalanche.

World of Cardboard: All items become exceptionally fragile and can break under the slightest touch. This does not apply to magic, to which the area is highly resistant to. Monsters are frequently those which use the terrain to their advantage, and heavy on ambushes, in particular.

Reward: Item-enhancing Concepts are enhanced at floor one, scaling up to a three times increase in strength by floor seven, and if the Concept didn’t initially possess such an ability, it gains that usage, up until floor seven when it is as strong as the initial Concept.

Matt looked over at Queen as Carol explained how it also applied to Manifested items. Their fellow Pather didn’t say anything, but he knew it would work perfectly for her.

“Okay, so this one works the other way. Would this apply when I’m using my Concept internally?” Liz asked, “I know it will be useful when I make weapons out of my blood, but will it help me when I reinforce my body?”

“Just like with Back to Basics, it should apply even when you’re using your Concept, just not as directly or strongly, and likely only help with strength and durability.” Carol answered.

Liz nodded and scribbled more notes down. “That’s all I’d be looking for from it. This one would push me even further.”

Liz shot Matt a look like she was eager to beat him up if they got that reward.

He blew her a raspberry in return.

Wasteland: No healing or regeneration. Monsters are numerous, weak, and frequently pack monsters, often willing to use suicide tactics to deal even the slightest injury.

Reward: Concepts that aid in healing, regeneration, or repairing are enhanced, up to a three times empowerment by floor seven. Those which did not have an aspect along that theme have it added.

Matt rubbed his arms. Wasteland was considered one of the most dangerous floors for a reason. Any wound would refuse to heal even slightly, but [Bandage] would almost certainly be invaluable on the floor as it didn’t heal anything but paused the injury. Honestly, it was probably one of the best floors for them to encounter- Liz would absolutely adore a floor where even the smallest wound would never stop bleeding on its own…

He couldn’t help but feel like the reward would be useful even for him. If his Concept incorporated healing aspects, it would likely work similarly to the way the mana generation functioned, namely acting as though the person regenerated it themselves. So, would that mean his theoretical Concept-healing might bypass cooldown, like how [Endurance] worked? Even in something of a worst-case scenario, it would be an enhancement to his mana recovery aura, which he was always after.

Matt made a note next to ‘Wasteland’ marking it as potentially one of the best floors to get. And if they did get it he had a lot of testing to do.

Folded Reflections: Fight lots of mirror versions of yourself and other people, similar yet different in some way. It culminates in a fight against you as you are right now. Incredibly dangerous final fight.

Reward: Experience a number of other lives equal to the floor depth, change your Concept to one of them, or fold their effects into your current Concept.

Matt was still dumbfounded at the ability that Minkalla provided to see entire other lives. Illusion or not, that was still orders of magnitude more complex than any other illusion-caster he knew of. But there wasn’t much they hadn’t already covered, so they moved on shortly thereafter Carol restated the fact that the lives weren't real and not to get hung up on what happened in them.

Spirit Journey: A psychedelic journey through your own mind, facing inner demons in the form of monsters. Perception matters as much as reality, and ghosts from the past are the greatest danger of all. It is extremely challenging to remain in groups, though technically possible for those who are exceptionally close.

Reward: Gain a pseudo-bond spirit guide familiar. On floor one, it's little more than a mote of light that points out things of interest. By floor three, it's a small animal-like spirit that can be directed to do basic things. By floor five, it's fully sapient and able to fight independently. By floor seven, it's an extremely powerful accompanying spirit on the level of a dragon that has its own Talents and skills. It remains fundamentally a part of the person and can turn immaterial to reside inside their spirit. If killed or destroyed it will reform given enough time.

Kurt explained that even bonds could get that reward, but most people found the tiny little mote of light awarded at the first floor so annoying they actively avoided getting the reward if it appeared as an option. Though any time it was found on the seventh floor, a bloodbath ensued as the Genesis Energy needed to take that reward was insane, though no Tier 11 had ever gotten it to see how much of a discount they got. The problem was that it was almost impossible to have accumulated enough Genesis Energy just by killing monsters to earn it. You basically had to earn more by taking half of someone else's Genesis Energy after killing them.

Overall it was one of the strongest single rewards Minkalla had to offer, but it was still very, very rare for anyone to actually get it. Usually only one or two people managed it any time it appeared as the seventh floor. Mostly because it meant everyone else was dead as a result of the final few gathering enough Genesis Energy.

Matt was dumbstruck that Minkalla could do all of that and said so. “This seems like too much. The rewards are too strong.”

Kurt answered him. “Yes, and also no. For the most part, anything but the deep floor rewards and Innate skill slot are available out here, even if they are rare enough to be little more than rumor or not found for many more Tiers. The Concept enhancements are an excellent example, they’re entirely achievable by anyone, but outside of Minkalla it’s just not worth spending that much time expanding them in new ways instead of developing an Intent, or really doing anything else with your time. But yes, it's incredible what Minkalla can offer. However, the dangers are equal to the rewards. The lower the Tier you go in, the more danger you are in. The four of you will be targets. The other Great Powers know the same thing we do. It’s generally assumed that any Tier 11 Pathers are future Ascenders, and they will do anything they can do to kill you if possible. That means you will also need to kill anyone who sees you use any unique skills that could identify you. If that happens, leave no survivors.”

That brought Matt and the others back to the real world and the dangers they would face.

The rewards were sweet, but they would only get to eat them if they could reach an exit floor and escape. Seven of those floor themes would be what they faced in Minkalla's depths and they would have no choice in the matter.

Still, Matt wanted them. He wanted them all and wished he could enter Minkalla more than once and farm the place for every unique final floor.

But he couldn't, no more than a Tier 15 could enter Minkalla. Once you were forged by the place, once it had tempered you, that was it. There were no second chances.

After asking more questions, Luna and the others started drilling them with the small details of the floor themes and their challenges. After confirming they understood what they were going into, they started on the floor challenges and what they could expect to face in them, whether it be monster types that were generally seen or puzzle types.

Lastly, they went over every recorded challenge room and what the survivors reported facing inside.

None of them minded the long days spent studying, reviewing, and of course practicing together. This was information that could prove useful to them but their teamwork would make or break them.

Two weeks later, the message came. The previous cycle had ended, teleporting the last few stragglers- as well as those paid to stay inside the planet specifically for that purpose- outside the planet. There was a mad scramble as everyone rushed to the mass transit platforms to take people into space so they could fall onto the planet, but the four of them bypassed the rush altogether.

Luna took them out into space with her own flying house, out over the massive planet of copper and steam, and just past the planet’s atmosphere where she parked them. There they waited, the tiniest specks right on the edge of the eternal vastness of space and what may well have been the mightiest thing in the realm.

Exactly twelve hours after the previous cycle ended, a gentle golden glow blossomed from the heart of the planet, piercing metal and steam as if they weren't there, before spilling outwards and refreshing the enormous machine planet in a wave. The once dull metal became shiny and new, the planet-sized gears ticked faster, smoother, and the entire world radiated with power.

Clad in nondescript masks, the four of them joined hands and stepped off the platform. As soon as they left the enchantments holding them above the planet, gravity reasserted itself and began pulling them down to the surface of the grand world below.

To Minkalla.
