I'm going to have to apologize to Xuunah. Ren thought for a moment, and then Frikara kissed him and moved off of his lap. Andrela was next, and the feelings were much sharper with her. It wasn't because of the situation, it was always more intense with her. He wasn't sure if it was because she was the youngest and had the least experience, or because he had accepted her into his life despite those facts.

Either way, it didn't matter anymore, because Andrela demanded his undivided attention as her body moved. She put his hands on her breasts and Ren massaged them for her... and for himself. This continued as Frikara kept her Desire Aura active, and they all shared in the pleasure. The bonds between them deepened and became stronger as each maid took a turn and joined with Ren. By the time all 5 of them had finished, even Ren was nearing the point of exhaustion because the emotional turmoil they had gone through drained them just as much as the physical activity had.

They sat together and soaked in the hot tub, and didn't try to use any soap to wash themselves. It had only been an excuse by Frikara to be together with Ren somewhere other than the bed, and it had worked spectacularly. In fact, it had worked much better than she had ever imagined as her Aura had leveled up and expanded out to 10 feet, and it now affected the other maids, too.

“That... was... fun.” Andrela managed to say as she sighed in contentment and snuggled close to Ren, who chuckled and put an arm around her and across her back, and rested his hand on Lusinia's back. He used his other arm to do the same with Frikara and Navruth, and it left Verwynn out of the loop. She smiled as she realized the only way to touch him was on his lap, so she sat sideways across it and put her legs up and rested them on Andrela and Lusinia. She snuggled in and put her head on Ren's chest, and they all let out a collective sigh.

“It was.” Ren said and relaxed. “Thank you, all of you.”

“You are quite welcome.” Frikara said. “After we rest for a while to recover, we should get to bed.”

A couple of the maids laughed.

“After we rest we should go to bed?” Navruth asked with a smile on her face. “That doesn't make sense.”

“You know what I mean.” Frikara said. “I doubt I could even stand up right now.”

“I could carry you to the bed, but I'm kind of in the same situation.” Ren said. “Of course, it's more like I don't want to move right now, not that I can't.”

Frikara kissed his cheek. “Then relax, enjoy the water, and being with us.”

“I am, I will, and I sure did.” Ren smiled, and they felt how happy he was. After about 10 minutes, Ren did as he said. He picked up and carried each maid over to the bed, and they equipped an outfit for a moment to dry themselves off, and he put them down on the bed. Once all 5 were in the bed, he equipped his Travelling Clothes for a moment to dry off as well, then stored them and laid down in the middle of the bed.

“I'll be right back.” Ren said and logged out. His phantom form was there for about 10 minutes, and then he was back. “All right, we're good for the night.”

“You really are staying the whole night with us?” Andrela asked, and he nodded. “Yay!” She said and snuggled in close to him.

“Hey, no hogging.” Verwynn said jokingly, and the others chuckled.

“Spoon time.” Ren said and turned onto his side, and Andrela was more than happy to turn her back to him. He put his arm around her waist and pulled her in close, and she moaned a little as he pressed himself against her backside. “Sorry.”

“That's okay.” Andrela said. “I have a fix for that.” She said and slid up slightly so that he rested between her legs instead.

“Yes, that's much better.” Ren said in a slightly deeper voice, and she blushed.

“Don't tease her.” Frikara said and laid down in front of Andrela, then moved in close to press her back against her. Ren reached around Andrela and pulled Frikara in closer, and Andrela snuggled into her and sighed. Being held was nice for her; but, being embraced on both sides made her feel safer than she'd ever felt. Ren kissed the back of her neck, and she sighed again. The other three maids spooned in behind Ren and they all held each other as they drifted off to sleep.
