And I stared at the pages, a blank sensation coming over me. What was I supposed to work on? Something primordial, surely, but I lacked faith in my current direction of building cities and fighters. While overwhelming under most circumstances, my golems lacked the oomph to survive here. It left me stunned.

On Leviathan-7, my super golems required constant maintenance and guarding to keep alive. Even with my intervention, a quick telepathic check showed just that, a golem's silence meaning a golem's death. I winced at the loss, the time invested in them wasted. They died because the enemies here overwhelmed even me at times.

In fact, each of these eldritch could destroy entire planets on their own if unleashed somewhere normal. To have my soldiers fight back, they needed that kind of world-ending power as well. While considering their next upgrade, I pulled out one shining blue core from storage, which would be the key moving forward.

Inspecting the ball, the perfect sphere mirrored a tiny gas giant with many strata spiraling around it. It was a tiny, electric-blue Jupiter in my palm. It even turned and cycloned like Jupiter, mana storms littering its surface. It reminded me of the energy stored within my mana crystals, but these storms set into inviolable forms. In a sense, they seemed...incorruptible.

As a comparison, mana crystals blew up if a person bumped them wrong. By contrast, the energy in these cores felt like they'd survive the death of stars. Hell, studying these things could help me take my mana manipulation up a notch. That stability could make an excellent foundation for a golem's mind since it reduced the risk of bloodthirsty insanity.

The cores even granted an endless power source, though my golems didn't lack in that department. Those factors culminated until the dungeon hearts looked like perfect golem cores. Etching the cipher on an ever-shifting surface was a problem, however. Taking a step back, I considered my other prospects before continuing my research.

On my arrival to Leviathan, I wanted to establish control of the planet to come back. That was still my number one priority, but other concerns surfaced since I arrived. If I kept brute-forcing my initial goal, I'd just slow myself down. Instead of plowing ahead, I realigned my priorities, which meant studying time magic.

If I gained time magic soon after arriving, I could make the most out of every second afterward. Time spent on learning about time magic might end up being time saved. Another priority would be creating a growing boundary for my cities. A defended zone wouldn't be enough; my claim here needed to be absolute.

Taking a moment to consider those possibilities, I decided to take a risk by learning time magic first. Since I understood this planet to some extent, I also had a good idea of what I needed to do going forward. I thought I'd get a few golems up and running to conquer this place, but that wouldn't work. I'd expand after learning how to compress time.

To that end, I set myself up for success. I made a set of thinking chairs, an obvious necessity. I also installed a workbench with a pile of steel plates beside it. I melted words into the metal slabs, and they recorded details about the dungeon hearts, Leviathan-7, and the weaknesses of certain eldritch.

I also established names for everything here. I kept the terms I used in my head for the most part. The newly spawned eldritch from the sky were called behemoths, and the ones below were primevals. For the kelp overhead, I named it spawn algae, and the rainbow bones kept that name too. I also created divisions for the zones.

The top zone became the void because life thinned to nothing above the spawn algae. The first layer below the algae became the breeding grounds. As for the bottom layer smothered by opalescent skeletons, I named it the ossuary. It held the bones of the dead, so the name fit. After getting everything set up and recorded, I stared around me.

This was, by far, the most comfortable I'd been since I arrived. With information recorded and my priority list squared away, I sat down and contemplated my lessons from Chrona. Based on what Chrona explained to me, time manipulation required grasping at my surroundings and bending space.

I tried that before, and I failed each and every time. These weren't subtle failures either - each attempt was like smashing my face against a metaphorical wall. Having thought about it for a while, I struggled because I was a separate dimension. Since I existed outside of my surrounding space, I played by different rules.

Everyone else, including Chrona, blended into this 'other' surrounding me. This caused some kind of rejection when I attempted to wield time. This resistance mounted more and more as I developed my armor and myself. Every bottleneck I experienced had a familiar culprit behind it.

Me.

I mean, yeah, it's kind of obvious, but it wasn't a limit in my abilities, talent, or understanding. In reality, I'd systematically stifled myself to retain some semblance of humanity. Tapping the edge of my head, I remembered my fighting style and different kinds of magic. Fighting with my fists didn't even make sense anymore, and neither did keeping a human form.

But...I couldn't let it go. I couldn't move on from who I was to who I had to become. All this time, I was afraid of something. I always thought it was of my power and potential, but that wasn't it. It was the absurd changes that bothered me. I had an idea of who I was, but I wasn't that person anymore. I couldn't be that person anymore.

The simple-minded Daniel that beat monsters into submission, it was fun being that guy. Hell, I built a lot of confidence and progress with that persona. I stood by my guns and plowed forward without looking back. I made mistakes, but I did my best to fix them. That was the issue. I couldn't afford to miscalculate anymore.

In my hands rested the lives of billions. A quick squeeze and they'd die.

So...I couldn't live a simple life with simple dreams. Beating monsters apart didn't make a galactic empire great. I needed to be someone else entirely, which I'd made great strides in. I'd amassed the skills to use my abilities, but I never recognized the personal sacrifice required.

I'd never go back to being a child in Springfield with small worries. My concerns would expand and grow. In many ways, I came to a crossroads in life. On one road, I could grow with my worries. On another road, I could watch my anxieties slowly overwhelm me. If they ever did crush me, I'd like to know I put it all on the line with no excuses left. Otherwise, my own guilt would outweigh any burdens I bore.

Because whether I wanted those burdens or not, they would come.

Staring down, the signs of what I changed into manifested in many ways. For instance, I no longer lost my senses when destroyed, even down to a puddle. When Eonoth roared and saved Lehesion from the Spatial Fortress, I uncovered that fact. The Old One created a dimensional wave, one I wasn't a part of. As those timelines collapsed into one, I existed outside of them, so the dimensional ripple smashed me from all sides.

Being mushed and living was one thing, but it hadn't even knocked me unconscious. I remained fully aware without a body. Staring down at my hands, a shiver raced up my spine. No human could do something like that, and the longer I ran away from that reality, the less I could do in the meantime. So taking a moment, I accepted that I wasn't this body anymore. I was the dimensional wake around me more than anything else.

Blegh.

So, to master time, I had to master this...space I'd evolved into. I crossed my legs, placed my hands on my knees, and closed my eyes. I stretched out my primordial wake, the aura enveloping my surroundings with a sense of cognition and control. Going further, I took a breath before pulling my consciousness out of my body, and I responded in kind.

To my chagrin, my awareness trickled out from my physical shell and into the space around me. Despite that subtle expansion, most of my perception lingered in my head, meaning I couldn't escape my physical confines just yet. Meditating on the exercise, I fell into a pattern of reaching out my awareness. With each attempt, I gained greater control up to a point.

Eventually, my brute force approach quit giving me gains. I smiled at myself, remembering how I tackled my way through my early ventures without having to overthink. That wouldn't work here. Taking a more cerebral approach, I tackled the issue from a different angle. I detached from my physical senses, as much as I could, at least.

Touch, sight, and sound all faded into nothing as my psyche floated outwards into the ether around me. Like a fog of consciousness, I dispersed into my dimensional wake. I maintained awareness through my mana and gravitational senses. They didn't come from physical organs or anything, so I kept them even without a physical body.

Those senses gave me a different, strange view of the world around me. Tiny fluxes rippled about while moving objects created subtle shifts in an endless void around me. I interpreted these ripples, converting their esoteric machinations into a more visual understanding. Below, the planet stamped a gravitational blip on this place.

In the distance, the gravity well of Leviathan caved inward to a bottomless pit. It acted as a landmark, easing this visualization process. Gazing at the nulled center, gravity stopped holding meaning near the black hole. By becoming infinite, it stretched beyond the limits of interpretation.

Weird.

Surrounding Leviathan's pit, colossal strands of space rippled out in destructive waves. Sensing below that madness, this planet orbited the black hole at a breakneck pace, traveling on a stretched avenue of space. It mirrored how a satellite orbited the earth. We fell towards Leviathan at an absurd speed, but we also circled faster than we fell despite being in the Event Horizon.

Well, sort of.

The planet traveled a bit slower based on our time's standards. Still, with how stretched time was here, we ended up experiencing that acceleration several times before the outside world experienced it once. If I guessed right, that's how Leviathan-7 was this close yet not within the black hole. However, I wasn't a physicist, so this was my simple observation.

Regardless, this planet was a bullet in an endless vacuum, finding an equilibrium in the utter destruction around us. Back in the physical world, my hulking body stayed stationary and lifeless below. The runes dimmed, and all motion ceased.

I took a moment before trying to rematerialize outside of my actual body. Instead of making a new body, I snapped back into my own shell, giving the husk life once more. As my eyes snapped open, I winced. I suppressed the urge to vomit, and a splitting pain pierced my head. It faded as quickly as it came while I gasped at the surreal experience.

I waved off some lingering motion sickness, and I shook my head before resolving myself once more.

Again.
