"So they're taking your quest rewards. You wouldn't do that unless you had to. They've got something you don't want them to take, like a family, guild, a village, I don't know."

As I spoke, his heart rate spiked at the mention of family and village. I nodded, "You're working for them to protect your people." My eyes widened, "Wait...You're a servant?"

Tera blinked as I pried information from him he didn't want to share. He wasn't the only one surprised. A Manifold Mind synergized with my Hunter of Many skill, a perception-based, mythical tier ability of mine. They gave me a clear picture of everything. With the extra mana working in my favor, I grasped the situation and its inner workings with precision and speed as well.

It gave me an eerie, almost inhuman understanding of what happened around me. It kind of scared me, actually. Tera remained unaware of this inner shift, thinking I was just an ass. He was probably right about that. He whispered at me, but his words fumed like glowing embers,

"Why are you doing this? What did I do to deserve this interrogation?"

I whisper yelled back, "You helped me. I want to help you."

We kept whispering as Tera snapped, "Yes, you're right. I'm a servant. That's all I've ever been. Does that please you that the great Speaker who looked down on you is nothing more than a tool? Is that what you wanted to hear?"

I frowned, "No, that sucks. I'm not prying because I want to embarrass you. I want to understand so I can help."

His eyes narrowed, "Help me for what? My mission was automated from Schema. I didn't do it because I wanted to."

I shook my head, "I'm not thankful for that. You gave me that vial of eldritch energy. Without it, I don't know if I would've survived."

His thorny brows furrowed as he scoffed, "I might as well have thrown you some trash I had on hand. No, I did throw you trash. You know that, right?"

I stared at him with an unbending will, "One man's trash is another man's treasure."

He raised his hands, "You're going to get me punished."

I crossed my arms, "No, I'm not. Besides, you helped me. I aim to repay you because you didn't have to, yet you did."

Tera raised his hands to me in frustration, "Then repay me by ceasing this line of questioning and let me be."

"No."

He shook his hands, "What is wrong with you?"

I parroted back, "No, what's wrong with you?"

"A cataclysmic world ender is scrounging in my business. That's what's wrong with me."

I pointed at him, "What's wrong with you is that you won't let me help you out."

"I'm not going to be put into another contract or arrangement for someone else. Never again. Not for you. Not Schema. Not Baldowah if he calls. No one."

"You think I need a contract to help you here? I'm helping you regardless."

Tera rolled his eyes, "I'm sure the great and mighty Harbinger just gives out gifts like this."

I narrowed my eyes, "Oh, you just wait. I'm going to help the shit out of you."

At this point, our voice rose until several nearby albony stared at us. One of the wealthiest ones paced up, his armor mirroring Obolis's graphene plating. Old and vulnerable, this albony wore a black mask with a noble voice. He turned to Tera, "Is this peasant bothering you, Harbinger? We can have him punished and taken off the premise if you'd like."

He spoke the wrong words in the wrong order, let me tell you. That being said, it was because he mistook our discussion as an argument. Maybe it was, but I wasn't actually mad at Tera, just frustrated. I turned to the old albony, my form looming like the shadow of a mountain,

"No, that won't be necessary. He and I are having a talk."

Under his well-stained mask, the old albony smirked. He believed the social pressure of the situation stopped me from punishing this servant. The albony turned a hand to me, "We assure you, there won't be any complaints from us should we need to have him reminded of his position. Someone, take him outside."

He put a hand on my shoulder, acting like we were familiar. I grabbed his hand with a gravity well, wrenching it off, "Oh no, there's no need to remind him of anything. Actually, he's an old friend of mine, so let me remind you that when you speak to him, you're speaking in part to me."

I stood over a head taller than him, "That means threatening Tera is threatening me. In case you needed to know, I don't require reminders of my position or punishments for speaking. Not from you. Not from anyone."

The old albony flushed in embarrassment as his face flared bright red under his fur. Before the conversation continued further, my minds came together as they had with Tera. They observed close enough that I saw right through this old albony. His shame shriveled into fear as his blood rushed from his face to his stomach.

I could tell by the shifting pressure in his vessels, each beat of his heart pounding in my ears like a drum. He raised a hand with a single finger upright as if he had a witty retort. I called out his false courage, tilting my head at him. My questioning glare fizzled any response he had. My helemet remained on, but the slit shifted up with an expression all its own. This albony, whoever it was, understood my disdain. That killed his courage, and he could no longer speak out.

Even in the heated moment, it stunned me how much information I could gain by listening closely. The albony's bodily reactions, the rate of his pulse, even the tension in his veins, I sensed it all. I mean, I formed a picture of him without needing vision, but I'd simply never understood just how much detail I could render in that theoretical picture.

From that mental image and its intricacies, it became simple to gain information. It was like this with Tera earlier. Florence remarked on this exact circumstance an hour ago; I could uncover what people wanted to hide if I observed closely. I never considered it, but higher leveled people experienced this dominance at all times. This tangible difference in ability, I perceived it now, and once recognized, it became undeniable.

This nobleman, who wielded a high station, was rendered helpless as a child because of my stats. His inner thoughts leaked out in ways he couldn't control, so I understood him. My multiple minds allowed me to inspect those hidden messages, and my increased processing meant I thought out my every action.

By comparison, this albony reacted to me. It was a game rigged in my favor now. Combine that with my physical superiority, and he was at my mercy. This absurd ability gave me an electric thrill from its hidden potential. In other ways, it terrified me. My current actions explained why people treated high-level classers with respect bordering reverence. Abusing this difference felt wrong. It made me wonder what kind of person I'd be if I exploited it. Maybe another Yawm? Perhaps a Lehesion? I listened to those fears in the back of my mind because I didn't want to be that kind of person. Following that instinct, I raised a hand,

"Look, we got off on the wrong foot. You misspoke because you didn't understand the situation. I get that because I've done the same thing plenty of times. Let's just reset."

A wave of relief, palpable as water, washed over the older albony as he nodded, "Oh, most certainly. Do excuse my transgression. I never would've anticipated you two had met. Now Tera, why didn't you speak of this?"

Tera's squeezed a scaly fist, "I...I didn't know we knew each other. I didn't recognize him."

A quiet fury brimmed under the older albony's words, "Oh, of course. We all forget things from time to time. You're more than forgiven for such a simple slight."

Based on his tone, the albony acted as the person in charge of Tera, and I searched through the memorized list Florence gave me. I connected this albony with the name Phillip Novas. He matched the picture and description in my status. He was a general who retired after getting Obolis another planet under his repertoire.

Phillip accomplished the feat by bankrupting the planet instead of fighting it, saving Obolis countless troops. That put him in a very high position in the Empire. There were still members higher up than him, and one of those people stepped up - Obolis himself. The Emperor spread out his hands, casual as could be,

"I overheard the conversation while I inspected the vast number of treasures on display. Excuse my interruption, but is there a problem?"

My manifold minds kept humming at a rapid pace. The treasures. That's why Obolis was so slow to respond. He oozed over the merchandise so much that his attention lapsed. Otherwise, he'd have intervened well before now, given his general perception. He made a mistake from greed, essentially, and I noted that weakness.

Mistake or not, Phillips exuded terror as he spread his hands, "There's absolutely no issue to be had here. I spoke out of turn, and the Harbinger gave me a wealth of understanding despite my transgression. I simply must apologize again for my indiscretion."

Obolis spoke like steel, "As you should."

If Phillip feared me, he writhed in terror at the Emperor. Obolis kept his gaze on the retired general, melting the older albony like butter in a roaring bonfire. He was the Carnage of Olstatia, after all. He earned that name in Schema's eyes. Phillip was all too aware, but before Phillip's skin peeled off, I raised a hand,

"Hey, we're good. He misunderstood the situation. Don't worry about it."

In all honesty, it wasn't alright, but I didn't want to press the issue right now. I'd save that for later after I talked things out with Tera. Unexpectedly, Obolis missed my lie as he placed a hand on my shoulder, "Thank you for your forgiveness. I'd have intervened earlier, but I was simply caught up in my viewing of your exotics. Please, excuse me as well."

He gave me a slight bow, and the other albony gawked in stunned amazement. Their eyes turned back to me, and I raised my hands to my defense, "Hey, let's let bygones be bygones. I'm going to go talk to Tera, and you guys continue enjoying the party. Please."

The Emperor raised an eyebrow, "Are you certain?"

I was wrong. Obolis had seen right through my lie and wanted to settle it now. I met his eye, "I'm positive. Besides, we can always talk later."

Obolis pulled his hand back, "Then it's settled. Everyone, continue as you were."

And as if the Emperor cast a spell on the crowd, they did exactly as he said, to the T. I held back my surprise as people chatted away with practiced comfort, some people beginning to laugh at old stories already. The sheer change acted like a surreal reversal.

They obeyed Obolis absolutely. He was the Carnage of Olstatia indeed.

I raised my brows behind my helmet, "Man, they're good actors."

Tera mumbled, "It's much easier to truly listen when your life is on the line."

I put my hands on my hips, "Speaking of lives, let's go talk about yours for a minute."

Tera's fangs slid against each other as if he ground his teeth together,

"Even if you give me temporary assistance, it won't change my position. I am under the albony still, and now their ire will end up berating me over the coming months. I will suffer because you had to speak out, and for what? Your own satisfaction."

He seethed, "That's easy to do when you're not the one who will pay the price for it. My family will pay in your stead for this. All of them."

I smiled, "Come on, let's go talk somewhere else. It's time I made good on my offers. You know, help."

He leaned over, "At this rate, your help will be the death of me."

We paced towards Torix's lair, "Oh, we'll see about that."
