Class skill Antimagic Stealth has become Nondetection.

Magic spells cannot find you.

Class skill Magical Manipulation has become Mana Control.

You can easily manipulate mana with your antimagic.

Class skill Lethal Index has become Lethality Prediction.

You will know how to inflict lethal wounds on your foes, even if they have enhanced survivability.

Class skill Wizard Resistance has become Wizardly Immunity.

Your antimagic applies against Wizardry at full strength. The more powerful the spell in question, the more effective the resistance.

Class skill Magic Jammer has become Communication Countermeasures.

You can selectively choose to block communication, coordination, and divination spells in a broad area around you, and allow specific spells to pass.

Class skill Controlled Failure has become Sorcerous Sabotage.

You can easily cause spells to fail, and can usually make it a catastrophic failure.

You have gained the class skill Legendkiller.

You will become stronger, faster, and tougher the greater your enemy is. This skill will not equalize the gap, but it means that any foe can be fought.

You have gained the class skill Bane of Myth.

Abilities based on fame, history, or worship will fail against you.

You have gained the class skill To the Ends of Davrar.

Enemies more potent than you that flee you during combat will be hindered in their flight. You will know their position, and any pursuit will be easier and faster.

Nathan finished reading through the skills and just sat there for a second. He didn’t feel any different beyond a certain edge of clarity that probably came from Limitless Focus. But most of his skills would only kick in when he got into a fight.

Permanent Talent 1: Arcane Nullfield 9

Permanent Talent 2: Immortal Body 7

Permanent Talent 3: Airwalking 8

Class: End of Magic level 995

Bottomless Stamina: 100500/100500

Indomitable

The Undeniable Strike of the Antimage

Stamina Burn

Momentum Mastery

Stoneflesh

Arcane Nullification

Galefoot

Close Quarters Mastery

Boundless Aura

Denial of Mysticism

The Ending of Magic

Aura Projection

Selective Dispel

The Living World

Class: Death of Legends level 763

Limitless Focus: 7630/7730

Legendary Blows

Out of Sight

Magical Mimicry

Antimemetic

The Hidden Strike

Nondetection

Mana Control

Lethality Prediction

Wizardly Immunity

Communication Countermeasures

Sorcerous Sabotage

Legendkiller

Bane of Myth

To the Ends of Davrar

Utility skills:

Tranquility 4

Inspiration 8

Impulse 5

Mystical Discernment 7

Forewarning 6

Arcane Insight 9

Evasion 3

Mental Vault 7

Veracity 3

Parkour 10

Visibility Control 7

High-tier Disguise 9

High-tier Battle Cry 4

Aura Control 7
