“What did you promise?” Alan asked.

“Nothing! Just an exchange of information—they have a lot of questions about your activities.”

“You know what, give me your phone.” Alan held his hand out.

After a second of hesitation Ivy handed it over. Alan connected to the phone with Nu, lamenting once more that interacting with devices now required physical touch.

Nu let out a mental whistle. Ivy had been far more active online than Alan realized. She had multiple accounts on various social media platforms posting, commenting, and interacting on a scale that didn’t seem possible until he realized she was having her AI help out. Dozens of different news sites were constantly being scanned, along with neighborhood and traffic apps.

There was also a history of searches that seemed to concentrate on celebrity feuds—people were now actively taking out hits on rivals, a legal grey area in-game with fandoms in a few select cases actively warring. Alan had to stop himself getting invested in a live firefight between K-pop fans and a singer’s actual girlfriend. That wasn’t what he was here for.

Hey, this could help. Nu highlighted an article on military fashion advice.

Alan ignored him, focusing on the text thread that was with someone from the Washington Field Office. Ivy’s attempts to reach out had been ignored until she’d claimed to be the Doomsday Hacker and attached photo evidence. From there, she evaded a barrage of queries and instead demanded the known whereabouts of active UWG forces in the DC area, which was an interesting angle to try to discover Isaiah’s location.

The WBI rebuffed with a request to meet in-person. They promised it would be peaceful, stating that anyone that engaged in hostilities would forfeit all of their levels.

“Hey, just a heads up, but watch out what you promise in-game. Verbal contracts can be binding,” Alan said.

“Thanks for the advice,” Ivy said. “Are we meeting them then?” She started the truck’s engine.

“We are,” Alan said. “Let’s go talk to some feds. Or I guess they’re world agents now… Globes? Globs? Wors?”

Ivy looked at Alan strangely.

Alan shrugged.

Keep practicing buddy, Nu sent. I’m sure you’ll level your small talk skills in no time.
