There was only one statue, and only the base remained, but it looked just like the huge statues at the Gate of Transformation. Next to it was a large building with a collapsed ceiling, and Zac understood what Esmeralda had said about the dangerous arrangement. He didn’t dare draw close, as something profoundly dangerous waited within that broken building.

The two waited ten minutes for the building and surrounding area to be fully consumed before Esmeralda jumped back into the Shrine of Kanba. The moment she did, Zac’s mind erupted with impending dread. Just like the Centurion Lighthouse, he could feel the whole city setting its sights on him, and he rushed into the haze of Faith and Continuum before any guardians could jump out of the woodwork.

Zac exhaled upon feeling his identity token light up, and he naturally picked Everit Draom’s identity. He was slightly concerned about his actions in the Gates of Transformation, but not overly so. The Mercurial Court never provided them with any rules or instructions, so he hadn’t really broken any.

The mist parted, and Zac found himself standing in a square. Looking around, he couldn’t see any borders to the memory, and taking a few steps back didn’t bring him outside. Instead, he bumped into a young cultivator who gave him a curious look before running off. He wasn’t the only person in the area.

Zac was surrounded by hundreds of cultivators in matching robes. The vast majority, including the acolyte he had accidentally hit, wore white or grey. A duo in higher-quality green robes flashed by, also giving Zac a curious look. The two had emerged from the domed building, which no longer felt so forbidding.

Standing behind the structure was the enormous statue matching that of the Gates of Transformation. It still held out its hand, but there was no sign of his companion or the astrolabe. Looking up at it filled Zac with dizziness. Everything else looked normal, from the buildings to the cultivators. Only the statue was in a state of uncertainty. It was as if it weren’t sure if it was an illusion or real, from this timeline or a visitor from another.

Zac felt more unsettled the longer he watched. It was as if the statue were a tuning fork trying to harmonize Zac to its unstable frequency. As it did, the memories he’d just settled began to resurface.

“The confusion will pass.”

The statement was like an edict, and the statue stopped shaking. Mind settled, Zac turned toward the source of the voice, finding a kind-looking old man in blue robes. He didn’t emit a speck of aura. In this place, that undoubtedly meant the old man’s strength was so far above Zac’s that estimating the difference was impossible.

“Everit Draom, correct?” the old man said, looking Zac up and down appreciatively. “Not bad. You’re the fifth to arrive. Your Fate with the Mercurial Court is strong.”

Zac wasn’t so sure about that but also wasn’t dumb enough to correct the misconception. Instead, he changed the subject. “Greetings, senior. I’m indeed Everit Draom. The docks were attacked just before I set out. Are the others—”

“The situation is under control. Infiltration is inevitable, but that too is part of the tapestry,” the elder said, his intense gaze seemingly looking right through Zac.

Reminding himself that Grand Dream already knew about him and welcomed their participation, Zac pushed his fears aside. “A friend set out at the same time as me. Will all the trail takers go through the same thing?”

“All journeys are different. A faster crossing will impose greater pressure on one’s Heart. That can be either a calamity or an opportunity,” the elder said. “As you no doubt have experienced.”

“May I ask, why go through all that trouble? Why not teleport us to the Mercurial Court?”

“Naturally, it’s a test. We have opened our gates, but you needed to prove yourself capable of crossing the river. Otherwise, your visit would hold no meaning,” the elder said. “Your crossing also played a small role in a larger undertaking.”

“That alternative timeline…” Zac hesitated. “Was it real?”

“I don’t know. Was it?” the elder smiled. “If you want to understand what you went through and what the Mercurial Court is trying to accomplish, you first have to become a permanent disciple.”

“How—"

“Learn to walk before you can run,” the elder waved his hand and turned toward the large building before the solitary statue. “Come, let’s get you settled first. Everything else will become apparent soon enough.”
