Rain choked, then began to laugh. “No, nothing like Florida Man,” he managed once he recovered. “I was talking about Superman. I haven’t told either of you about him yet, but he’s pretty much THE superhero, depending on who you ask. He’s absurdly strong and just kinda good at everything to the point that they had to give him a random weakness to keep his stories from being boring. He’d be like…gold, I guess, to give you a frame of reference, maybe platinum. I’m hardly an expert. The comic lore runs deep.”

“Ah,” Ameliah said.

Rain sighed. “Anyway, I know I need to be careful. It’s obvious with my magic—the Watch assigned me a rating and everything—I’m just not used to being superhumanly strong. I need to actively use spells, which makes remembering to be careful easy. Strength is always there, whether I’m punching someone or just shaking their hand. It’s only going to get worse with how fast my sync is improving. I can’t even take the accolades off to slow down my growth, not without lowering my health.” He smiled. “It doesn’t help that you’re both so ridiculously strong. I feel weak when I’m around you two. Like a kitten.”

Ameliah laughed, smiling as she reached up to tousle his hair, which was a bit flat from being crushed beneath his helmet. “A fluffy kitten.”

“Hey,” Rain said, turning slightly red. “You’re embarrassing me in front of Tallheart.”

“Your displays of affection do not bother me,” Tallheart said, sounding amused. “Now, kiss.”

“Tallheart!” Rain gasped, turning even redder.

Ameliah laughed. Teasing Rain was an activity she and Tallheart could both enjoy. It was adorable how shy he could be when others were watching. She decided to show mercy and got to her feet, taking a deep breath and doing her best to push the last vestiges of her dream from her mind. “We should go back down. I’m fully recovered. The headache is all gone.”

“Hmm,” Tallheart rumbled, looking at her skeptically from his position on the ground. “Are you sure? It is not yet third bell.”

Ameliah nodded. “I’m sure. Removing the accolades helped. I’m going to leave them off for the rest of the day.” She looked at Rain. “And I’m going to make him do all the hard work.”

“Huh?” Rain asked.

“I said I would let you fight, didn’t I?” Ameliah said, offering him her hand. She shook her head as she pulled him to his feet. “No more coddling. You’ll be fine with Refrigerate, and it’s not like I won’t be there to save you if something nasty shows up. I decided I don’t want to mess with my build, so that means it’s your job to deal with the fire jungle.”

Rain was grinning by the time she finished. “The Ashen Jungle, you mean.”

Ameliah raised an eyebrow.

“The biome,” Rain elaborated. “I’m calling it the Ashen Jungle. From the color of the leaves. Tallheart says every good biome needs a name.”

Tallheart nodded. “It is true.”

“Just give me a few minutes to put my accolades back on and refill my mana,” Rain said hurriedly. He sat next to his pack and closed his eyes, but opened them again after barely a moment as he stretched to grab his helmet. “Keep watch, will you?” He said, gesturing up the tunnel toward the surface. “There was a monster up there an hour ago. It didn’t come down, so I didn’t wake you. Other than that, it’s been surprisingly quiet.”

“Okay,” Ameliah said, watching him slip the helmet on. “We’ll keep watch.”

Rain nodded back, then closed his visor and went silent. Ameliah felt Winter sharpen, then return to normal after a moment as he excluded her and Tallheart from the full effect. He knew that they found it uncomfortable.

I need something to take my mind off that horrible dream. She glanced at Tallheart. “Do you want to play a game of ranks while we wait? I saw a board in Rain’s pack.”

“Mmm,” Tallheart said in agreement, but he shook his head. “I would play, but I do not believe we will have sufficient time. Perhaps tonight.”

Ameliah nodded, then blinked as she noticed a small object sitting on the ground. It was a padlock, she realized. She knelt to pick it up, then looked around, spotting a small hooked piece of metal discarded nearby. She smiled. I guess Rain got bored while he was on watch. At least he wasn’t reading.

She grabbed the lock pick, then stood and inserted it into the lock and wiggled it around. Nothing exciting happened in response to this, so she frowned. How is this supposed to work, anyway?

Time passed, and before Ameliah knew it, Rain was lifting his visor. He looked up at her, smiling as he saw the lock in her hand and the frustrated expression on her face. “Problems?” he asked.

Ameliah sighed. “I can feel things moving around in there, but I can’t get it to open.”

“Mmm,” Tallheart said, having been watching her struggles with silent, unhelpful interest.

“Hmm,” Rain said, looking around. “Well, your first problem is you need to tension the core.” He shifted, picking something up from beneath him. He got to his feet and held it out to her. “You stick this in the keyway, then apply tension so the pins don’t drop back down when you set them with the pick.”

“Oh, so you were sitting on what I needed,” Ameliah said, taking the piece of metal. “Now I feel like an idiot.”

Rain smiled. “You’re not an idiot. I can’t imagine picking locks is anything you’d ever have needed to bother with. Besides, I haven’t gotten it open either, and I was messing with it for a good hour. I’m starting to think that that particular lock doesn’t work how I think it does. Either that, or lock picking is way harder than the internet led me to believe.” He chuckled, raising his hands and wiggling his metal-clad fingers. “Though I’m not exactly making things easy on myself.”

“No, I suppose you aren’t,” Ameliah said with a wry smile. She shook her head, then held the lock and picks out to him. “Well, I give up. We have real work to do.”

“Right,” Rain said, taking them and tucking them away into his pack. He got to his feet slowly, then stretched. “What’s the plan?”

“You tell me,” Ameliah said.

Rain frowned, considering. “Tallheart, any recommendations?” he asked, turning to look at him.

“Hmm,” Tallheart said. “Return to the clearing. Kill everything that challenges you.”

Ameliah smiled, enjoying Rain’s reaction to that statement. “Works for me.”

“Mmm,” Tallheart said, donning his mobile forge. “While Death Zone is occupied, I will prepare for the night.”

Rain spread open his hands. “Really?”

Tallheart rumbled with amusement as he bent to lift his ingot cases. He turned, then walked away. “Come. We should begin.”

Rain sighed, then lowered his visor and followed after him. “Fine, but if you call me Death Zone again, I’m going to start calling you The Rumbler. We’ll see how you like it.”

Ameliah covered her mouth with a hand to hide her smile. She left her own pack where it was and followed, calling her Lunar Orb back down from the ceiling. It didn’t take them long to reach the jungle, and Rain paused in the mouth of the tunnel, his shadow cast behind him by the light of the fire moss.

“Well?” Ameliah asked. “What now, Captain?”

Rain gave her a look, drawing his mattock from his hip and gesturing with it toward the trees. “One monster that way. I don’t know what kind. I can tell you it’s not a Mottled Magma Frog.”

“I will remain here,” Tallheart said, setting down his cases and moving to free himself from his mobile forge. “Rain. Please use Detection to check for ore. I will dig into the passage wall to create our camp, and it would be beneficial if I could gather materials at the same time.”

“You’re going to what?” Rain asked, whirling around incredulously. “Tallheart, are you trying to get yourself buried alive? And, why would you do it in the tunnel? That’s our way out!”

Tallheart shook his head patiently. “A cave-in is unlikely. We have reached deepstone.”

Ameliah nodded. She’d noticed the gradual transition as they’d descended the cliff earlier, but she hadn’t been sure enough in her determination to comment on it. “Relax, Rain. Tallheart knows what he’s doing.”

“I mean, yeah, but…” Rain gesticulated wildly. “Rocks fall, everyone dies!”

“Do not be dramatic,” Tallheart said as he removed his mobile forge.

“Fine,” Rain said, shaking his head. He paused for a few moments, then shrugged. “There isn’t much, and it’s just iron as far as I can tell. The side on your left has a little more, maybe, but not enough to make much of a difference. There’s a richer pocket about seventy meters straight down, but there’s no way that’s worth the effort.”

“Mmm,” Tallheart said. “Very well.” He walked a few meters back up the tunnel, then drew his hammer and slammed it into the wall with a deafening crash. Deepstone or not, the rocks exploded into powder all the same, chunks of rubble tumbling to the tunnel floor. Rain pressed his hands to the sides of his helmet, though Ameliah wasn’t sure what he was trying to achieve by doing so.

“Come on,” she said, looping her arm through his elbow and towing him out into the cavern. Her own ears weren’t exactly pleased either.

Together, she and Rain fled the noise to the center of the clearing, the echoing booms continuing as Tallheart brutalized the tunnel wall. Despite having told Rain to relax, Ameliah couldn’t help feeling a small measure of anxiety as she glanced over her shoulder. Tallheart’s not exactly being careful from the sound of things. If he does trigger a collapse, I’d need to switch back to Geomancer to dig him out.

She sighed. I need more skill slots. My defensive passives take up too much room.

“Okay, I’m going to try Refrigerate, if you’re ready,” Rain said over the continuing noise. “This is a Heat biome, more or less, and I want to see if a Cold spell will get some kind of a reaction.”

“Okay,” Ameliah said, returning her attention to the task at hand. She felt a chill spread over her as fog formed in the air, but there was no reaction from the environment apart from that. With Mana Sight, she could see Rain’s magic stop abruptly after a few meters.

“Hmm,” Rain said, dropping the spell. He waited a moment, then knelt to inspect a small leafy shrub that had been one of the few bits of vegetation within range. “Damn,” he said, standing again with a sigh. “Well, the plants don’t like it, but at least there was no magical response. Time to deal with that monster I sensed.”

“Where is it now?” Ameliah asked, waving her hand through the lingering fog as it mixed with the returning humid air.

“It’s right behind there,” Rain said, pointing to a bush standing all on its own several meters out into the clearing.

“Really?” Ameliah said, raising an eyebrow.

“Really,” Rain said. “I guess it thinks it’s being clever. Nothing a little Monty Python won’t fix.” He raised his voice, speaking toward the bush with a strange accent. “Mr. Nesbitt, will you stand up, please?”

Unsurprisingly, nothing happened, and Ameliah gave Rain a blank look.

He raised a hand, continuing with his silly accent. “Mr. Nesbitt has learned the first lesson of not being seen: not to stand up. However, he has chosen a very obvious piece of cover.”

Ameliah heaved a long-suffering sigh, then blinked as heat washed over her. The spell was clearly Immolate from the mana pattern, not an unexpected attack or anything. She just hadn’t expected Rain to use a Heat spell.

There was a startled squawk from behind the bush, then a screech of outrage. A Scarlet Fatbird hopped into view, its feathers all alight. It screeched, then charged in their direction.

“What the—!” Rain shouted, raising his shield. Ameliah smiled, stepping back out of the way.

At level eight, the Fatbird wasn’t a threat, though the ‘Scarlet’ variant wasn’t one she was familiar with. Fatbirds were everything that the name implied. They were flightless, with short, stubby beaks and rotund bodies that allowed them to roll toward their foes with surprising speed. They were something of a joke around the Guild, really. It clearly had some resistance to fire, at least, judging from how it hadn’t died yet. Rain had put quite a bit of power behind his spell.

As the flaming bird tumbled angrily in their direction, Rain switched out Immolate for Refrigerate. The expanding shell of cold intercepted the monster well before it reached them, and it squawked in sudden pain, skidding to a stop. Its health was dropping sharply, and it wasn’t able to recover its footing before the spell killed it outright.

“Why did you start with fire?” Ameliah asked casually, raising an eyebrow at Rain as he canceled his spell.

“Because in what I was referencing, the bush explodes,” Rain said, stepping forward to inspect the downed monster. “Besides, I wanted to see how Immolate would react with the ambient mana. It was definitely a bit hotter than I was expecting at that power level. Anyway, what the hell is this thing? Have you ever seen anything like it?”

“Yes,” Ameliah said, joining him. “Fatbirds are weak for their level—at least, the regular ones are. I’m a little surprised to see one down here. I’ve never found a bird monster in a cave before.” She gestured vaguely at the trees. “Though, I suppose I shouldn’t be that shocked.”

Rain nodded. “But a Fatbird? Really? Who’s naming these things?”

Ameliah shrugged. “The first person to encounter a monster gets to name it, just like with lairs. You don’t see undiscovered monsters often, but it happens from time to time. I guess whoever named these however many thousands of years ago was feeling literal.”

“I guess…” Rain said, shaking his head. He set down his mattock and reached out to lift the bird-monster’s stubby wing. “Hey, you don’t happen to know if these are edible, do you?”

Ameliah blinked. That’s what he asks? And here I was thinking he was going to latch onto the naming thing. He’s usually super interested in how the system works. Maybe he already knew from Staavo?

“Ameliah?”

“Sorry, yes, they are. They aren’t good, by any means, but they’re edible. Don’t tell me you’re already hungry again. We just ate a few hours ago.”

“Accolades, what can I say?” Rain said with a shrug, standing. He started dragging the slightly-charred and semi-frozen bird after him, headed back toward the tunnel. “We can try cooking it later.”

