Ameliah snorted, watching him. He’s going to get fatter than that bird at this rate. She turned her attention back to the jungle, hearing a branch snap far in the distance. Rain returned before anything revealed itself, stopping to stand next to her.

He nodded to her. “Okay, next test. Let’s see how the trees do with Refrigerate. Better than the plants, hopefully.” He walked forward, right up to the edge of the clearing, then stopped to press a hand against one of the tree trunks.

Ameliah joined him, finding the rough bark warm to the touch. She braced herself for the icy chill, but it didn’t come, so she turned her head to look at him. “What are you waiting for?”

“Nothing,” Rain said, shaking his head. “It’s just…there are animals in range. They’re staying back, but not far enough.”

“So exclude them,” Ameliah said with a shrug, sure that them attacking wasn’t what he was worried about. “They’ll feel the cold and run.”

Rain shook his head. “Some might not make it. There are also the insects, which are too small to move that fast. I don’t want to kill them—even the plants, really. Not if I can help it. I’m going to need to use my spells in there, though.”

Ameliah smiled, shaking her head. “Only you would feel bad for insects.” She gestured. “Look at this place. It’s enormous. I don’t think you could do any lasting damage to the jungle even if you tried. And I wouldn’t worry about hurting the animals. They live with the monsters. You should be worried about them hurting you.”

“I know,” Rain said resignedly. “Here we go. Just be ready in case a flying blue guy with a mullet shows up to kick my ass.” He raised a hand before she could ask him what in the depths he was talking about. “I’m not serious. Captain Planet is another superhero. A really cheesy one. Sorry, I make references when I’m uncomfortable.”

“No,” Ameliah said, smiling softly. “You make references all the time.”

Rain shook his head slowly. “Like I said. Sorry, I’ll stop. I know it’s annoying.”

“No, it’s not annoying,” Ameliah said, removing her hand from the tree and placing it on his shoulder. It was only partly a lie. He must feel homesick. I know he doesn’t want to return to his world, but it must still be hard for him to be alone in such a different culture. He’s just longing for something familiar.

She shivered as Rain activated his spell, the cold quite welcome as a relief from the heat of the jungle.

I should pick a story to share with him like he’s sharing with us. Maybe The Voyage of the Lost? I’m no bard, but I’ve heard it told enough times that I could probably… She stopped herself with a tiny shake of her head. No, that’s a terrible idea. I only really know the songs by heart, so the rest of it would be a mess. There must be a written version out there. I should ask around Vestvall before I try to go from memory. I’m not a Dynamo.

“Huh,” Rain said, snapping her out of her contemplation. She felt the cold deepen, the fog turning to snow and floating down to coat the jungle floor. She returned her hand to the tree, her fingers finding the bark still warm.

Rain turned to look at her. “Brace yourself. I’m going nova.”

Ameliah smiled, deciding to be literal and activating Brace, not that she needed the boost to her defenses. It wasn’t like Rain’s magic would attack her directly. Seconds later, Rain exploded with sapphire light, and she had to look away, blinking from the sudden increase in brightness.

I wish I could turn Mana Sight off completely. It’s not without its downsides.

Before her eyes could adapt, the magical light vanished, the world returning to the reddish hue from the fire moss. Leaves crinkled as she shifted her position. She could feel the underbrush breaking apart beneath her feet, brittle after having been frozen solid. The tree seemed to have fared better, though it was covered in a layer of frost.

Ameliah switched Mana Sight into active mode with a thought, finding that mana was still circulating within the tree trunk in the slow, placid manner characteristic to plants. It had a decent amount of it, actually. For a tree.

“Hey, Detection says the trees survived,” Rain said, sounding relieved.

Ameliah nodded, glancing at him. Mana Sight was still active, so she could see exactly how much mana he had spent. Fully three-quarters of his pool was now gone. “That was a bit much for a test, don’t you think?”

Rain shrugged. “It comes back.”

“Things Dynamos say,” Ameliah said, shaking her head.

She walked into the jungle, her passage made significantly easier by the damage Rain had done to the underbrush, the tangled vines and bushes falling apart at the slightest touch. She spoke without looking back. “Are you going to use Aura Focus, or just let your mana come back on its own?”

“On its own,” Rain replied, the crunch of his footsteps joining hers. “You’re here, so I’m not worried. We don’t have the time for me to keep doing that.”

“Okay,” Ameliah said with a shrug. It was dark under the shade of the canopy, so she conjured a Firebolt above her fingertips, holding it there. Her Lunar Orb was busy. She’d left it with standing instructions to twirl about Tallheart’s antlers.

“Tsk,” Rain said, kneeling. “Look. It’s some kind of squirrel thing. Frozen solid.” He sighed. “Could use it for soup, I guess.”

Ameliah turned to see him prying the furry creature off the frozen ground. She raised a questioning eyebrow. “Are you hungry, or are you sad? I can’t tell with the visor down.”

“Both,” Rain said with a sigh. He shook his head. “I’d rather not eat squirrel, given a choice, but now that it’s dead, there’s no sense letting it go to waste.”

“Right,” Ameliah said, nodding. “Hey, have you thought of using your oversoul? I know you usually try to suppress it, but if you boost it instead, you might be able to make them all run away…” She trailed off, seeing that Rain was shaking his head.

“It doesn’t work on animals,” he said.

“Wait, really? I thought they just got used to it like people do. If you actually push, it might be different.”

Rain shook his head. “I thought so too, but no. I’ve tried it. Dust was annoying me a few weeks ago, following me around everywhere for some reason. He didn’t even seem to notice when I tried to scare him off with oversoul.”

“Sure, but that hardly proves anything,” Ameliah said. “That horse is weird. Your fault, by the way.”

Rain smiled. “You do have a point there, but that’s not all. I ran more experiments while you were busy in Vestvall.” He shook his head. “Animal souls must be different, somehow, assuming they have them. Your guess is as good as mine for why that would be. Humans are animals, too, when it comes down to it.”

“Hmm,” Ameliah said doubtfully, a flicker of motion catching her eye through the trees. She still had Mana Sight in active mode, and she’d seen a relatively powerful signature for a moment through the trees.

“I’ve got it,” Rain said. “It’s just a Deepcat.”

Another pulse of cold washed over Ameliah, and seconds later, the system informed her of the monster’s death. Rain started walking in that direction, passing beyond the edge of his first nova and into the mostly undamaged underbrush.

“I’m surprised there’s this little resistance,” he said, fighting with a heavy vine. “Other than that frog you exploded, there doesn’t seem to be anything dangerous out here. Maybe that will change after nightfall.”

Ameliah frowned, gently trying to free her sleeve from a thorny bush. “Or maybe there’s something big in these trees, and the reason we’re not finding many monsters is that it’s hungrier than you are.”

“Don’t say that,” Rain said, waging his own war on the underbrush with his mattock. “Are you trying to tempt fate?” He grunted in frustration. “Damn it, I’m going to need a machete or something unless I want to freeze a tunnel through the whole jungle. I regenerate mana fast, but not that fast.” He heaved a defeated sigh, returning the tool to its loop on his belt. “Deepcats taste awful, anyway. Let’s see if Purify helps.”

“Mmm,” Ameliah said, finally fighting free of the thorns as the white light of his spell washed over her. The dead foliage behind them dissolved into ash, then faded away, but the largely undamaged plants near the Deepcat remained. The monster itself vanished, leaving behind a lone Tel that shone brilliantly in her magical vision. She summoned it with Attract, then tucked it into a pouch.

“Oh, hey,” Rain said, pointing at her. “There’s fruit on that bush next to you.”

Ameliah turned to look, seeing a cluster of green oblong fruits hanging low to the ground, beneath all the thorns. Each one was about the size of her hand.

“What do you think?” Rain asked, fighting his way over to her. “Could they be edible? It would be great if we could find something for Tallheart.”

“No mana concentration to speak of,” Ameliah said, bending and rolling up her sleeve, not wanting to risk any more damage to her poor shirt. She reached through the thorns and gingerly pulled one of the fruits free, then raised it to her nose and sniffed. Smells okay.

“Wait!” Rain shouted, but Ameliah had already taken a bite, her teeth easily tearing through the tough rind. She spat her mouthful away immediately, sticking out her tongue before Purifying away the flavor.

“Sour,” she said, holding the fruit out to Rain. “Not poisonous. Here.”

Rain accepted it gingerly, then slid his visor up so he could raise it to his nose. “Smells like kiwifruit.” He turned to look at her. “Sorry, I don’t know the word. They’re like…hairy eggs.”

“They sound delicious,” Ameliah said sarcastically. She smirked as Rain touched his tongue to the pulp of the fruit, then recoiled. “I told you it was sour,” she said.

Rain smiled, then to her surprise, he took a huge bite, getting the fruit’s juice all over his face. His reaction was marvelous, like a turtle trying to retract into its shell. “Gah, nope, nope, nope!” He spluttered as he spat the fruit on the ground, then cleansed himself with his own blast of Purify.

He looked up, then chuckled. “Let’s bring some back for Tallheart. Maybe he’ll like them. His taste buds are weird.” He grinned wickedly. “And if not, we’ll get to see his reaction.”

Ameliah laughed. “Sure.” She watched as Rain busied himself with picking the bush clean of the sour fruits. His armor had no trouble with the thorns, of course. While he was occupied, she raised her hand, elevating her flame and taking another look around. “How far do you think this jungle goes, anyway? Should I switch back to Flight and try to go over it?”

“Now there’s an idea,” Rain said, looking up at her. He rose with an armful of the fruits, a couple of them tumbling free. He chuckled to himself. “Why can’t I hold all these dire limes?!”

“Dire limes?”

“Why not? Anyway, you’d need to mess with the prerequisites again to get Flight, wouldn’t you?”

“Yeah,” Ameliah said, checking the time. “It would have to wait for tomorrow.”

Rain nodded, then jerked his chin up toward the treetops. “There are some pretty big branches up there. Do you think you could just use Redirection to hop from branch to branch instead? Like a ninja?”

“Maybe,” Ameliah said, looking up. Rain had long-since explained what ninjas were. She tilted her head, considering. “Airwalk would be better for that. I could take it with less work than Flight, but it would still be tomorrow. I’ll think about it. I’m awful with that skill, but it would be a good opportunity to practice.”

Rain grinned. “Awesome. Anyway, let’s go test these on Tallheart, then we should explore as much as we can before it gets dark.”

“Sounds good,” Ameliah said, looking down. She snorted softly. “Don’t forget your squirrel.”
