Erick said, “Don’t worry about it.” He said, “Maybe this is for the best?” As Ophiel blipped off of his shoulder, to float outside of the window of the sunroom and begin casting an orb of light into the sky, Erick said, “[Cascade Imaging] will find her, and then I can ask her if what she took is what she really wants? … Maybe. Eh. I’m not sure what I want to say to her about this.” He added, “And what was that about— About everything she said? Hidden Classes? Artifact daggers? What is a Calamity Dagger? Registrars lying?”

Kiri said, “Registrars don’t lie. They just don’t help you unlock the more powerful methods to magic and otherwise. You have to do that on your own then ask them about what you’ve found.”

Erick frowned. “Ah.”

- - - -

[Cascade Imaging], trained on Erick’s torus-shaped rings, eventually revealed a few bright dots across the map. The first location was the house, because of course. The second was at the Guardhouse, with Teressa. Eventually, another location blipped blue: the Interfaith Church.

Mother Eriliad was waiting for Erick in her office, by the time he got there.

After pushing the box into Erick’s hands, Mother Eriliad said, “I don’t know where she went, but I am ashamed that she would do such a thing. She should never have—”

Erick cut her off, “She’s obviously in pain and distress and I won’t hold her accountable for this action. I’m not pressing charges and I don’t want anyone to make her life harder than it already is. When she comes back to you, will you tell her that I’ll still pay for her schooling, wherever she chooses?”

She seemed surprised, for a moment. “… I will tell her... But… Archmage.” Eriliad deflated a little, as she said, “Delia is gone. She rushed in here and threw these at me, and then she [Teleport]ed away, with a backpack. Four kids tried to follow her, but all of them came back. Some of them were crying. One of them had a broken arm.” She added, “I just sent him off to the hospital wing, not two minutes before you showed.”

“… Dammit.” Erick’s [Cascade Imaging] had taken a little while, but he didn’t think he would be this late. He asked, “Do you know where they went? Did her friends say anything?”

Eriliad shook her head. “They went to where the Harvest Temple used to be, but beyond that, I don’t know.”

Erick cursed again.

- - - -

The Harvest Temple, previously located in the center of the Farm, had been covered in black glass from the Red Dot attack. But now, that black glass was gone; turned to black sand, all around Erick. The Harvest Temple itself was gone, too.

Standing where the Temple had once stood, was a pile of brown and orange sand in the center of the black field. Even the Ring of Gods had been reduced to dirt, like tiny splashes of brown and tan and orange among the black.

Erick went to the next location.

- - - -

Valok’s house was a blackened crater, with guards standing around asking people what they had seen.

All anyone saw was Delia enter the house, for those that knew her, and ‘some pinkscale girl’ for those who didn’t. Smoke began billowing out of the house shortly afterward. The witnesses didn’t see her leave, before the whole structure collapsed into the ground.

Erick doubted she would have killed herself, but he helped the Guard excavate the house, anyway. All they found were ashes and broken things. He offered to [Mend] the location, and the Guard on the scene accepted.

With Valok’s house restored, and items somewhat in their place, Erick found nothing that seemed viable for a DNA scan. Besides, he didn’t want to chase the young girl too hard. She was obviously in great distress. So he just left a letter on the kitchen counter, and offered to buy the location to keep it intact for Delia's eventual return.

The Guard on the scene didn’t know much about all that. Erick would have to follow up with the Courthouse.

He sent Kiri off on that errand.

- - - -

Back at his own house, under the safety of his [Prismatic Ward], Erick scattered Ophiel across the Crystal Forest. He telepathically called out to Delia, to tell her that she did not have to run; Spur was her home and he would never take that from her. He had even bought the house, so Delia had a place to come back to.

Kiri had found out that once someone torches their home, that property becomes property of the city. Erick rapidly bought Valok’s house, for 15,000 gold, but the paperwork would take days to go through the system. That didn’t really matter, though.

Because Delia did not respond to Erick’s telepathic calls, and that was more worrisome.

He didn’t even get a denial of connection.

But he kept trying. He had to know if she was okay.

After an hour, as the sun crossed the roof of the sky, the connection opened, and Erick felt relief like an ocean washing over him.

Erick sent, ‘I’m sorry I couldn’t help you as you want. Please forgive me, and come back to Spur.’

Eventually, a reply came, ‘I’m sorry. I’ll… I’ll come back. But not right now. I… Good bye.’

The connection broke.

When Erick tried again, a tickle of mental shock struck for a few hundred points of damage. He did not try again. It was good enough that she was alive. Even if her words were a lie, she was still out there, somewhere.

- - - -

While Erick was contemplating life on the couch, Poi walked in.

He said, “Sir. Registrar Irogh has an opening for you in an hour.”

Erick sat up, turning his mind away from Delia, and how much she seemed like Jane. He said, “Thank you, Poi.”

- - - -

Erick entered Irogh’s office, floating a bulky bag behind him.

Irogh was the same as ever; an orcol with slightly pronounced fangs, nice green skin, black hair, and, of course, the bulging muscles. He was rather easy on the eyes, but Erick wasn’t here for that.

Irogh glanced to the large luggage with Erick, then said, “Have a seat. What can I do for you?”

Erick said, “Hello,” as he took one of the seats in front of Irogh’s desk. He left the luggage to his side, on the ground. “I’m here for a few things.”

Irogh casually slid two fingers through the air. The blue door to the room slipped closed.

Erick said, “I’d like [Language Comprehension] cast on me again, and I’d like to pay for my daughter to receive the same when she arrives, and my apprentice, Kiri Flamecrash, and my guards, Poi Fulisade and Teressa Rednail.” He patted the luggage to his side. “I have five grand rads in here for that, and a few more grand rads for some other things, so that should be the full price, correct?”

Irogh said, “Yes. One grand rad is the usual price for any Registrar spell. They’ll have to come here to get it cast upon them, but I can take payment for all five casts right now.” He asked, “Would you like the spell cast upon you, now?”

“I’ll tell them that.” Erick began unpacking the luggage at his side, saying, “And yes. Now would be fine.” He set the first of five football-sized grand rads upon Irogh’s desk, but the second, third, fourth, and fifth grand rad vanished before he could grab them. “Ah.”

“It is cast.” Irogh added, “You don’t actually have to take them out of your bag, if you don’t want to.” He asked, “What are the other grand rads for?”

Erick turned to Irogh, and said, “Some display issues I’m having. I want kills listed numerically, for starters. I’d like to know what other options there are, too.”

“We can link to your bank account in town, if you wish. Some people do this, but I know a lot of people like to physically bring their grand rads to the office.”

“I will not link my bank account at this time. And in addition to seeing those options, I would also like to know about some things I have heard. Is it true that there are hidden Classes?”

Irogh nodded, saying, “Yes. You did not get the opportunity to have this talk with me since you were assigned your Class by Rozeta herself, but there are quite a few secrets of the Script.”

Erick waited.

Irogh waited, too. After a moment, he asked, “Okay?”

“Is that it?” Erick frowned.

He didn’t actually believe Delia when she spoke of Registrars like she had, but maybe she had been right? Rozeta never answered any questions, but Erick had never had a question that Irogh wasn’t able to answer. Ah. But, Erick had never had specific questions back then like he had now.

Irogh said, “I am here to help you make the best use of the Script that I can, but I am not here to allow anyone unfettered access. I help based on what you already know, and based on what I am allowed to say to anyone who asks, but unless you ask specific questions or already have access to new magic or skills, then I cannot speak of those hidden aspects. And, quite honestly, I don’t know most of them.” Irogh offered, “But, you have done a lot since you’ve ascended to what some would call ‘Archmage’, and this has probably led to some stranger options for you; it usually does. So, what I can do, is look into what new options you qualify for and then we can talk about them. Like new Classes unlocked, and such.”

All of that sounded pretty interesting, so Erick asked, “That won’t change my Class, will it?” He added, “What about other Class Ability Quests? Do I have access to more of them, now, too?” He continued, “And what about the limit of six Abilities? Can I get more than that?”

Irogh rattled off, “Looking won’t change your Class. You do have a few more Class Abilities since the last time you were here; that was one of the changes I was going to go over. Six Slots is actually one over the normal limit, but you can theoretically Quest for up to 10, though more Slots requires a great deal more sacrifice. You’re already up one Slot, so the commensurate Quest is already of a higher tier.”

“Okay. Then. Well? Show me my other Class options? And Ability options! And whatever it takes to get more Class Ability Slots.”

“Do you want the full list of Classes, or the condensed list?”

“Full list, alphabetical.”

Irogh nodded, as he tapped the air a few times.

One absolutely massive blue box appeared, off to the side, occupying at least two square meters of airspace, with tiny writing. A smaller blue box filled with Class Abilities appeared to the right, and a much smaller box appeared to the right of that. Erick started reading the first box, burning [Ultrasight] so he didn’t have to get up from his chair. He did not feel like studying the whole list; he was searching for particular Classes.

… aaand…

He found none of what he was looking for. No ‘Calamity Dagger’. No ‘Poison Mage’. No ‘Time Mage’, or ‘Spell Thief’. He did find some odder options. ‘Blood Mage’ was up there, and that seemed strange. [Cascade Imaging] was not blood magic at all; Erick made a note to ask Irogh about that. ‘Farmer’ was an obvious one that he should have expected, but it was still nice to see on the list. ‘Light Mage’ was nice to see up there. Erick would ask about derivatives of that Class, too, since he also saw ‘Twilight Mage’, and ‘Sunset Mage’, and those seemed like offshoots of ‘Light Mage’. ‘Storm Mage’ looked interesting. He even had ‘Spatial Mage’ unlocked, for some reason. He had not created or unlocked 5 Spatial Magics, so maybe completing the Basic Spell remake for [Blink] had been enough? Or maybe that Quest counted for 1, and [Lightwalk] counted for another? That would make some sort of sense.

They were all interesting Classes, but when Erick saw ‘Particle Mage’, he knew he was never going to change. Maybe he could ask what the unlocking requirements were, just to get an idea of how many Particle Mages would be running around on Veird in 3 months?

… He had almost been on Veird for an entire year.

Erick ignored that thought, for now.

The Ability box was not much different from the last time Erick saw it. He did immediately notice an upgrade for the ‘Killer’ Ability, which gave him 1.5x damage done to people, nestled under an Ability option named ‘Hunter’, which straight-up doubled his damage done to people. His guts twisted as he closed his eyes. He had to take a moment after seeing that. The fact that he had killed enough to warrant an upgrade to that Ability… That was rough.

When he opened his eyes again, he read the upgrade to ‘Monster Killer’. It was titled ‘Hero of Veird’. It gave him 3x damage against monsters.

That made him feel a little better, but it was a sad sort of happiness. There were a few other new and interesting options to this full Ability list, but none of them seemed important. That 10% spell cost reduction called to him, though.

The third box was enough to take his mind off the rest.

Ability Slot Increase Quest!

10 Points

OR

100,000,000 Mana and/or Health

Erick pointed, asking, “That’s all? A hundred million in either Mana or Health?”

“Or both.” Irogh said, “It’s not as easy as your regeneration might lead you to believe. It requires active concentration to pay that cost, and Meditation does not work while you’re concentrating on this Quest. But since you have [Prismatic Ward], and that imposes Rest, then you might have an easier time of this Quest than most.” He looked to the air, saying, “And, with a little bit of math—” He looked to Erick. “It seems that with your regeneration, it would take almost 70 days of non-stop concentration in order to complete this quest. The next level is one billion mana. That would take 700 days.” He added, “But subsequent versions of this test, though they may increase in Mana and Health costs, do not increase in Point costs. Ten Class Ability Slots is still the maximum, though.”

Erick said, “I accept this quest.”

Irogh nodded. The third box vanished.

Erick brought up the Quest and put it away a few times, rapid fire, before turning back to Irogh. “So about some of these Abilities. ‘Hero of Veird?’ What triggered that?”

Irogh did not have to look to the air, to say, “You killed a million monsters.”

He didn’t want to, but he had to, so Erick asked, “And this… ‘Hunter’?”

“10 people at or near your level.”

Erick stared at nothing for a moment. Then he took his mind off of whatever feeling he was feeling, by asking, “What other Class Abilities can I upgrade? Or is that in the ‘restricted information’ category?”

“It is restricted, if you want to know how you unlocked other Classes, I can certainly tell you that.”

Erick looked left, at the largest hovering box. “Why Blood Mage?”

Irogh glanced at the air, then said, “You have created a spell that works off of information contained in the blood. [Cascade Imaging].”

