“Just tracking people is Blood Magic? But it’s purely physical identification and matching. There’s no… whatever there is, when it comes to Blood Magic. Control or manipulation of blood, I assume? The first time I heard about Blood Magic was after I made [Cascade Imaging].”

“The Script has a definition for Blood Magic, and your spell qualifies that definition.” Irogh read from the air, “ ‘Blood Magic is the control or manipulation of living flesh, in harmful, helpful, or neutral ways.’ Identification of people falls under this definition.”

Erick retorted, “But it’s not Blood Magic! It’s just a matching system!”

Irogh flicked his eyes to a different part of the air. He said, “I’m supposed to say… Let me see if I got this right: ‘to-may-toe, to-mah-to’. Or ‘red tomato, purple tomato’.”

“… Is Rozeta watching right now?”

“Rozeta is always in attendance for these meetings, with everyone who comes through the blue door.”

“Great!” Erick asked, “Are the gods planning on doing anything against Candlepoint? Are we flattening the place?”

Irogh frowned a little, then perked up, to look at another part of the air. “Ah. Normally you would be told to go to the Church… But I have been given some information regarding that.” Irogh glanced at the air, then said, “I can only tell you about Rozeta, and she is already heavily investigating everything about the location, and that there is nothing to worry about. The Script is stable.”

“… Okay. So? She says the Script is stable? I wasn’t asking about that, but does that mean that the stuff Candlepoint is making are true adjustments to the Script? Does Melemizargo have administrator rights, or something? A backdoor, maybe?” Erick demanded to know, “How is he allowed to cast magic at all?”

Irogh put his hands on his desk and laced his fingers together. He sighed, as he suddenly looked twenty years older. He said, “We don’t actually know how he’s able to work his magic. Every ‘truth’ that the Cult of the Dark Dragon speaks of has been verified as false, except one. He is the last Dark God to exist, and gods are not wholly subject to the Script.” He added, “But, the truth is that no one can answer that question except for the Shades and Melemizargo himself, and none of them would speak that truth without trying to kill or control you first.”

Erick let that be, for now, even though his personal experience said that Irogh was wrong about Melemizargo’s interactions, except when it came to wrought. Instead, he asked, “How would I go about getting ‘Time Mage’ added to my list?”

“I cannot...” Irogh separated his hands as he glanced up, to another different part of the air. He said, “Normally… I can’t say. But… it appears you have a ‘Champion’ designation waiting for you from… Uh… Phagar.” Irogh’s cool demeanor shifted to unease, briefly, then to acceptance. “So… To answer your question: You need his direct approval to be a Time Mage. And you already have it.”

“… So if I wanted to be a Time Mage, I could.”

“Theoretically. I have no experience with this class. At all. I don’t even know what being a Time Mage means, so I cannot help you with what that means, either. You would have to get help from Phagar’s clergy to answer that question. But you’d probably have to talk directly to Phagar for any real answers.”

“A different question, then.” Erick asked, “What does it mean to be a Champion?”

“I cannot say, exactly. Each god is different.” Irogh smiled a little, but it was a sad sort of smile. “Whatever the case, that is out of my power to help you with. In addition: it seems that parts of this conversation will be erased from my memory when you leave, so if you wish to come back to this topic in the remainder of our time in this session, it means more and more of this conversation will be blanked from my memory. After today, please don’t bring up anything with regard to Champions to me, ever again. Please.”

Erick paled. Phagar would do that? Or would Rozeta do that? Obviously they would, but—

He remembered, back to when he was surrounded by gods and other Relevant Entities of the Script, on top of a blackened caldera, and they were deciding his fate. People were far, far below the power of gods, and if people got too uppity, it was even possible for them to wage a Forgotten Campaign, to erase the memory of a thing from the world.

Erick felt his face redden, as his heart beat hard, and anger began to bubble from within. Sure, they were gods, but who did they think they were?!

Irogh saw Erick’s building anger, and said, “This is not a problem for me. It’s easier this way. Consider the fact that we are going to be at war with the Shades soon and that they have ways of extracting information— Well… I’m just going to tell you that I am going to run, to flee Spur, as soon as war actually begins. Hopefully I can avoid the rush.” He said, “I have been targeted before, and it’s very, very tough to harm a Registrar, but that wouldn’t stop some people from trying. I have yet to try my skill against a Shade, but that is a trial I do not want to undertake.” He added, “Sometimes a bit of forgetfulness helps to keep the world from crumbling, Erick. Sometimes, forgetting is a gift. Ask any immortal, and they would tell you the same.”

Erick felt a sudden compassion for Irogh. He said, “Sorry… I didn’t consider you in all of this.”

Irogh smiled. He said, “Thank you, but I’ll be fine. Now, would you like to change some other things about how the Script displays for you?”

Erick felt like he was experiencing whiplash, but he soldiered on. “Yes. One other question, though: These new Stats that are coming out of Candlepoint. Are they real?”

Irogh spoke as though he had said the same thing, multiple times, “As far as we can tell, the new Stats coming out of Candlepoint are real, but they are also a poison. Much how like Strength makes a person feel stronger, yet Willpower does not affect a person’s mental nature, these new Stats might have unforeseen consequences, such as a desire to become a cannibal, or to kill and kill again.”

Erick stared at Irogh. “… And you’re still saying Melemizargo doesn’t have administrator access to the Script.”

“Correct. He does not, and he never had.”

Erick didn’t believe that for a moment. Whatever was going on with Melemizargo and the Script was a lot deeper than the gods were willing to speak. And that didn’t sit right with Erick. In fact, it sat rather wrong. So wrong, that he spoke up, “That’s such bullshit. Rozeta must know how he does this.”

Irogh frowned, then said—

A blue box appeared in the air, facing Erick.

He’s a wizard and a god, Erick.

As soon as you figure out how you managed to influence the mana to create entirely new spells that no one had ever seen before, even though I guarantee that some of your knowledge has been out there for a long time before you came along, let me know!

Plugging that leak would make many things a lot easier for everyone.

By that same token, realize that you do not want us gods solving your mortal problems.

No one wants that. Ever.

Also: Please do not harass my registrar.

Erick blanked at the blue box. After a moment, he said, “Okay? Sorry?”

The blue box vanished.

Irogh sat silently.

Erick said, “… I’d like to see the various display options for my Status and otherwise, please. And I’d like to know what the requirements were to unlock Particle Mage.”

“Of course.”

- - - -

Erick walked through the streets of Spur, his grand rads spent, and his Willpower and Focus each increased by 10 points, to 75 base, or 125 with his rings. His maximum mana was now 7500, while his regeneration was 32,100, for both Health and Mana. Nothing else had changed in his Status. There had been options to display his Status and the entirety of his known spells as a book that he could flip through, along with a few other ways, like coded messages, but he liked the boxes just as they were; they reminded him of computer prompts, but seen through the lens of Veird.

He did spend the rest of his grand rads though, mainly on behalf of Delia Greentalon. The next time she went to a registrar, she might see that gift, and it might make her a little bit happier. Plus, no one could steal that sort of gift.

And that thought brought Erick back to his current problems.

There were just too many problems in the world.

Luckily, ‘Particle Mage’ might not be one of them. Those requirements were steep! The Baroness had been right. Except for maybe Kiri, there might not be another Particle Mage until Veird’s science progressed to the equivalent of Earth’s 19th century. But if that never happened, then Erick and Kiri might be the only Particle Mages to ever exist.

But back to Veird’s problems: Erick didn’t think it was his job to solve any of them, but he would certainly do his part! Think global, act local; as he had always tried to do. He was certainly not ready to become a Champion, either, but it was nice to know the option was there, though that whole thing seemed rather ominous. But what he was ready to do, was create some anti-Shade spells.

… Considering that what he was planning would be useful against anything and anyone, calling them ‘anti-Shade’ spells was slightly disingenuous.

… But actually. Maybe he should leave the big damaging spells for another day, because he needed a way to counter spells like the Red Dot.

And that reminded him! Now that he had [Lightwalk], it was time to resume his work on [Gate]. Maybe that would lead to a [Teleport Other Person’s Spell] spell.

Erick needed another reason to visit Apogee, and this was perfect!

So much to do! So little time.

Oh. I should try to invent those Stat fruits they have, shouldn’t I?

Erick took another step, but stopped, as he paused in thought.

Ohhhhh. I really like that idea, too.
