“Ressa, how do you suppose an evil tyrant laughs?”
“I have no idea, milady.”
Magnolia frowned mildly as she sat on her pink couch, nibbling at a jam tart.
“It’s just that I’d like to be as authentic as possible. If I’m truly a—what did that girl call me? A ‘cold-hearted tyrannical bitch’, I might as well enjoy myself.”
“As opposed to how you loathe existence in general?”
Ressa stood behind Magnolia, hands calmly folded, watching her mistress snack. Magnolia smiled.
“Yes, well, I imagine tyrants enjoy excess to the fullest. One would hope that a tyranny allows for such indulgences. But enough about the children from another world. If they’re alive, they can stay that way. They may return to one of my holdings—if they can conduct themselves properly around my servants, that is. Servants are not slaves, Ressa. They are not expected to fawn over adolescent children as if they were royalty. I would remind them of that.”
“I shall make a note. Putting aside children for now, Lady Reinhart—we have received a quick response from all the nobles you have selected for Emperor Godart’s gathering in a week’s time.”
“Ah, yes, that.”
Magnolia paused in eating her tarts, and a sour expression crossed her face. She half-turned in her seat to the second [Maid] standing behind her.
“Sacra, tell me. Do you think Laken Godart will refuse the invitation outright or play along?”
“I can only speculate, Lady Reinhart.”
Sacra, clothed and looking like a perfect [Maid], bowed her head. She was not wearing her adventurer’s guise, or holding the mace she preferred to use in combat, but Magnolia was quite sure she could use a vase or something similar to cause quite a bit of damage. Magnolia Reinhart smiled at her. ‘The right [Maid] for the right job’ was something her grandmother had always said. As Magnolia recalled, her grandmother used to employ Selphid [Assassins] and had at least one Minotaur [Butler].
“Speculate away, Sacra. You have met the man in person. What was your impression?”
Sacra was silent for a moment. Magnolia saw her eyes flicker as Sacra recalled her time undercover, posing as the Silver-rank adventurer known as Odveig. She had many identities. It was a shame that Odveig had been outed as a spy, but such was the cost of her work. At last Sacra nodded.
“Laken Godart. He is quite intelligent and cautious. He is aware of far more than his blindness would indicate, and he is willing to listen to others’ opinions. If he has a flaw, it is his inexperience.”
“As would befit someone coming from another world. If that is his identity. Go on.”
“I believe he would entertain the gathering simply to avoid offending so many noble families. However…he might be swayed if one of his advisors objected strenuously.”
Magnolia nodded.
“And of those advisors he has…a former [Farmer], a [Witch], and Lady Rie Valerund.”
Ressa grimaced lightly.
“It would be Lady Rie who would object. She was quite opposed to your presence when you two met, Lady Magnolia.”
Magnolia raised her eyebrows.
“You saw that too, Ressa? She hid it well, but she quite hates me, doesn’t she? Hates and fears—an unfortunate combination. However, she seems to have flocked to Emperor Godart’s camp, so I doubt she would sabotage him quite so easily.”
“It might be for the best. Her aiding him is a part of your plan, isn’t it?”
Ressa stared at her mistress. Magnolia nibbled another tart and nodded absently.
“It is. Lady Rie is at least adept enough to know that cancelling the gathering outright is a bad move. She will undoubtedly attempt to help Emperor Laken deal with the situation. And therein lies the test.”
“Test?”
In some ways, Ressa knew Magnolia quite well, having grown up around her all her life. But where the two differed were their skillsets. Ressa was good at serving tea, managing a household full of servants, and cutting throats. Magnolia was, when you got down to it, a people person. She played political games like she ate tarts—often and with quite a bit of expertise. She could see how events would play together where Ressa could not.
Magnolia smiled as she turned to look at her [Head Maid].
“Of course. It’s all a test. Lady Rie will help Laken to spite me—or to curry herself favor. It doesn’t matter. She will do her utmost to prepare carefully for my trap. She will be quite poisonous to our good [Emperor], I think.”
“How? Did you threaten her? Manipulate her with a Skill?”
“I didn’t have to. It’s simple, Ressa. Lady Rie will cause more harm than good just by being as helpful as possible. The key is whether or not Laken Godart notices this, and how he represents himself at the party. That is why Sacra is going, and Lady Bethal and Thomast as well.”
“To evaluate him if he fails.”
Magnolia nodded.
“Or if he does too well. There is more than one way to fail a test. With that said—Sacra.”
“Yes, milady?”
Sacra stepped forwards as Magnolia gently pried a ring off her middle finger. She handed it to Sacra, and Ressa eyed the ring with serious misgivings. Sacra, noticing, accepted the ring very gingerly.
“I’m giving you this ring in case all else fails. Twist it and aim, Sacra. It’s not hard—just aim at a target and, ah, don’t stand too close.”
“Magnolia, that ring could destroy—”
“Ah! It’s just in case.”
Magnolia raised a finger as Sacra held the ring away from herself and looked at Ressa. The older [Maid] made a note to tell Sacra exactly what it did. She prayed no one would recognize it—Magnolia wearing it was an open display of power and a threat. Sacra wearing it would be a declaration of war.
Bringing a ring like that into another noble’s home was tantamount to bringing an elite [Assassin] in with you—worse, since all you had to do was point the ring and wait for it to destroy half the building you were standing in.
“Just in case. Worse comes to worse and all that. Either Laken Godart proves himself, or…”
Magnolia left it at that. Ressa nodded to Sacra, and the other [Maid] edged out the door. Magnolia sighed as she hunted for another cherry tart on the tray filled with snacks. She mumbled to herself as she did, a sign of stress. She’d lost weight over the last few days with the Goblin Lord’s army on the march, despite her stress snacking.
“The Goblin Lord is headed straight for the Great Chieftain of the Goblins. If he joins his forces with this—this Tremborag, his army might grow strong enough to destroy major cities. You know this, Tyrion. Why are you hesitating to attack? This isn’t like you. What is your plan?”
“He might be building his army further, waiting for the opportune moment—”
“Tyrion? Nonsense! He has an army. Why grow it unless he intends to completely crush the Goblin Lord’s army without a hint of a struggle? He could already win. And this [Emperor]—”
Magnolia broke off, sighed, and shook her head. She looked up at Ressa.
“I’m tired of dancing to other people’s tunes, Ressa. Truly tired of it. Laken Godart has one chance to prove he’s worthy of his class. If not, I’ll destroy him and his empire where it stands.”
“Is that wise?”
Magnolia paused, a cherry tart halfway towards her mouth.
“I’d like to think so, Ressa. But we’ll just wait and see, won’t we? How long did I give him?”
“A week.”
 
Day 89
 
“Is it time yet?”
“I don’t think so.”
“Are you sure?”
“I think we’re early. We—”
 
“Emperor Godart?”
I wake up with a start. For a second, the voices keep going in my head, but they grow distant and I can’t recall what was spoken as I open my eyes and look around. That dream. I know it was important, but I still can’t recall what was said. And now I’m not going to. I sit up a bit and realize I was slumped over in my throne, dozing.
“I’m sorry, Wiskeria. What were you saying?”
Wiskeria just chuckles and adjusts her pointed hat. It’s late. I rub at my head and sit up straighter, although I’m not in the public eye for the moment. The ‘throne room’ I’m sitting in is empty save for Wiskeria, Prost, and Lady Rie. We’ve been discussing Magnolia Reinhart’s sudden invitation—well, demands, really—all day. For a little bit I’d hoped this was just a threat or trick of some kind. But apparently, Magnolia Reinhart means everything she says. This gathering is going to happen, whether I like it or not.
“How many letters have we received today, Lady Rie? Seventeen?”
“Twenty three. That would account for almost all the nobles attending—there are a few families—and I believe the rest will arrive tomorrow via City Runner at the latest.”
Lady Rie’s voice is strained from talking into the night, but she sounds far more elegant and composed than I feel. I turn my head towards where I sense Prost standing.
“So that’s where we are. Mister Prost, we have a small army of the local nobility descending on Riverfarm in a week’s time. They will be expecting a banquet and perhaps lodgings for the night. It’s a social gathering, which means they’re coming here to appraise me and my empire. All of this is taking place at Lady Magnolia’s request. Lady Rie believes it’s a trap, or a trick of some kind, meant to embarrass me. Your thoughts?”
I hear Prost gulp. It’s an unfair question to ask him, really. He might be a [Steward] but he was a [Farmer] all his life. Still, he rises to the challenge with awkward pride in his rustic voice.
“Trap or not, it seems you have little choice, Your Majesty. I’m not an expert as to the games that nobles play, but Lady Reinhart is a powerful woman. If she wants a gathering, well, why not entertain them nobles and show them as much hospitality as they like?”
“The problem isn’t the gathering. It’s what Magnolia Reinhart has planned. She might be trying to embarrass Emperor Laken or force an incident at the banquet. It’s risky, and I have no idea what she wants out of this!”
Rie cuts in, her voice frustrated. She’s been explaining this all night, ever since we got the letters. I sense Wiskeria shift and turn my head towards her.
“Wiskeria?”
“We don’t know what Magnolia Reinhart desires. But we’ve debated for hours about the same thing. We can either accept the invitation—not that we have a choice—or cancel the gathering.”
“Which will cause trouble.”
I don’t bother to turn my head as I sense Lady Rie nodding. Wiskeria nods as well.
“In that case, what choice is there? As Mister Prost says, we must entertain the nobles.”
“Not as easily done as said.”
Lady Rie sighs. I nod, but Wiskeria’s summed the matter up nicely. I clear my throat softly, and all heads turn towards me.
“I agree, but we have no choice in the matter, Lady Rie. The nobles are coming in a week’s time and I for one don’t see the merits in debating why Magnolia Reinhart has done this any longer, or what she has planned. For now we must ready Riverfarm. Can it be done?”
I have no idea. But Lady Rie nods decisively as all heads turn towards her. I wish I could make out all the details of her face with my not-sight. But I can hear the determination in her voice.
“It can. It will be difficult, but I am a [Lady] of the realm, and I have hosted a few small gatherings at my estate, and have attended larger ones. I will begin advising Your Majesty on preparations for the gathering at once. I realize it will be an imposition, but there is much work to be done.”
“Ah, of course. Food to be prepared, entertainment, and so on. Not to mention—houses for the nobles? I suppose we could move people out or try and build a few in the week we have left.”
I grimace as I think of all that we’ll have to do. Not for the first time, I find myself grateful that Lady Rie’s helping. I sense the woman shift, and after a pause, she speaks.
“Yes, Your Majesty. But not just that. I fear that Mister Prost will have to devote all of his workers to building a reception hall at the very least. This, ah, throne room is all very well for audiences with other towns and cities, but we will need a building four times as large to hold a proper banquet.”
I hear Prost draw in a breath sharply, and I sit up on my throne. Wiskeria mutters what sounds like a curse word. I turn my head towards Lady Rie.
“Are you serious?”
 
Day 90
 
“I think we’re early. We shouldn’t be here!”
 
She was serious. As soon as I rise with odd voices bouncing around my head, it’s all business. I find Lady Rie already coordinating people in the center of Riverfarm by the time Durene, Gamel, and I reach the village square.
“We’ll need to clear a wide space for the banquet hall. It should be built out of the highest-quality lumber available. And furnishings—I will put in an order to Invrisil as I doubt any of the local cities will have the quality required for such an order.”
Lady Rie is talking to Prost, and from the way his shoulders are tensed, I can already see that there’s a lot to do and not enough time to do it in. Both turn and bow as I approach.
“Emperor Laken.”
“Your Majesty.”
“Do you truly believe we can build a banquet hall in seven days, Lady Rie? Let alone furnish it?”
I sense her pursing her lips.
“It’s not a question of ‘if’, but must, Your Majesty. Hosting a dinner outdoors would certainly be acceptable, but not if the implication is that it is due to lack of an appropriate facility to begin with. Not to mention, we must impress the nobles coming here. I am afraid an outdoor event with a village in view would not be…”
“Impressive?”
“To say the least.”
Lady Rie nods, and I sense Durene shift by my side. I haven’t really asked Durene about Lady Rie—they haven’t talked that much as far as I know. Of course, Lady Rie is a [Lady] and Durene is often helping out around the village. Right now, Lady Rie is too busy to speak with anyone but me, and Prost hurries away to get her ambitious project underway.
“Speaking of decorations, Emperor Laken, I’m afraid we must consider a large investment in goods from Invrisil. Ordering so much so quickly will be costly, but I am told you have connections in the Merchant’s Guild that might be willing to offer you a discount?”
How does she know that? I nod, trying to keep up. It’s not an hour past dawn yet, and my head feels stuffed!
“I do. But what will we be buying? Chairs? Cushions? Drapes? We have [Carpenters]—”
“—Who make chairs adequate for sitting, but not dining, Your Majesty. At the very least, we should add cushions. The necessary goods will be everything from decorations to silverware, I fear. I did not bring more than a few sets of silverware from my mansion before it was destroyed, and there is nothing worse than a mismatched set, so we shall have to order enough for all the guests—”
“Silverware?”
