I turn my head blankly towards Lady Rie. I sense her nodding.
“Of course, Your Majesty. Have you—have you not attended a banquet before in your homeland?”
“I—”
I haven’t. Obviously not. And while I know that Durene knows the truth, I don’t feel like spreading the fact that I’m from another world. So I lie.
“I’m afraid that my memory of dining and so on is limited, Lady Rie. What I experience is, ah, very little compared to others, owing to my blindness.”
I gesture towards my face. Lady Rie starts.
“Oh! I most humbly beg your pardon, Your Majesty. I—I hadn’t considered.”
“No, no. Please don’t worry. But I lacked any sort of vision growing up, and my, ah, ability to sense my surroundings did not manifest itself until this year, so…”
“I see. Please excuse me, Your Majesty. Well, I will gratefully fill in any—gaps in your understanding. You see, cutlery…”
Flustered, Lady Rie stumbles over her words, and I breathe an internal sigh of relief. It’s not good to lie, but people do get uncomfortable when I bring up being blind for fear they might offend me. Good to know I can use that as an excuse for not being up to date with all the conventions of my rank.
However, as Lady Rie goes on, I realize that there’s a lot I don’t know. Not just about the social dictates of hosting nobility, but everything from how many forks someone needs to eat a salad to how many waiting staff we’ll need to serve food—and how they should be dressed. I nod along desperately as Lady Rie goes on and on.
And now I find myself stuck. For the first time, I have no idea what to do. It’s like I’ve suddenly run up against a brick wall in my head. Because for all I’m an [Emperor], for all I have Skills and come from another world and want the best for Riverfarm and my people and so on, I’m lost. Because I have no idea how to host a party. Or a gathering. Or any kind of social event at all.
Let’s be clear: hosting soirees is not a skill most blind people acquire. Having a friend over? I can get snacks out, or make sure there’s a meal ready. I could host someone for a day or two. But this?
“Forks, Lady Rie? What’s wrong with the forks we have?”
“They are not what I would give a [Lord] to eat with, Your Majesty. We have a lack of good cutlery in general. I believe we’ll be able to get by with some well-honed knives for serving, but we simply must have appropriate utensils for our guests.”
“I understand it’s not elegant, but what’s the difference?”
Lady Rie pauses.
“…I believe it would be easier to show you in person, Your Majesty.”
She takes me to her home and brings out some of her silver cutlery while Durene gets some of the village’s utensils. I find myself holding a wooden fork, which is made of two long prongs, a metal fork more like the ones back home, and a delicate silver one engraved with detail.
“Dammit. I had no idea—I completely forgot about forks!”
It’s not like I have a habit of touching forks, after all! And while the difference in quality might be obvious to someone with eyes, it’s only the weight of the fork and the shaping of the metal that speaks to my fingertips. Lady Rie’s fork does feel far more expensive, but again, I can’t do anything but compare the metalwork of the forks with my fingers. I can’t see silver and appreciate how much better it is than pot metal!
Frustrated, I run my fingers along the fork, feeling the difference with my fingertips. And yet, when I compare the two in my mind with my [Emperor]’s senses, they’re almost indistinguishable. One works as well as the other, but it’s this kind of detail that I lack.
“It seems as though my lack of sight is a hindrance here, Lady Rie.”
“Only slightly, Your Majesty. But if you would advise me on your nation’s culture of dining and etiquette, I might adjust the banquet to suit your tastes.”
I pause and bite the inside of my lip. My culture? Back home, I’d rather just microwave something than eat expensively. I choose my words carefully as I reply, handing the silver fork to Durene who takes it gingerly in her hands.
“The nation that was my home…honestly, Lady Rie, my nation was so different from this one that you would find it very alien. It is impossible to compare the things to which I was accustomed to here—especially because I was blind. Riverfarm meets all of my needs quite well, and I am content with that. However, if you think more needs to be done, I am willing to listen, although my input will be shallow.”
“I see. In that case, I would be delighted to go over my list of preparations with you.”
Lady Rie puts a soft hand on my arm. I sense Durene stirring and nod.
“Thank you. I hope we have the coin for all of this?”
“We may have to borrow, Emperor Laken. Or perhaps not. It depends on how many things can be done without. Tables for instance—I had a thought. If your [Carpenters] can design a long table and it can be engraved and polished in a week’s time, it might well serve in place of a purchased one.”
“No doubt. Can we do the same for chairs?”
“I will make inquiries at once.”
Lady Rie rises and leaves her cottage. I ball my fists up in frustration. Lady Magnolia Reinhart. If there was ever a good way to frustrate me, planning an elegant banquet I can’t see would be a good start.
“Laken.”
I turn as Durene gently puts the fork on the table. My half-Troll lover looks at me. I try to put a smile on my face.
“Durene? I’m sorry. I know you probably want to help out around the village. I’ll coordinate things with Lady Rie.”
“Well…I could stay with you today.”
“Huh?”
“Just for today. You know. While you’re with her.”
There’s a possessive note in Durene’s voice that reminds me of when she met Ryoka. I pause.
“Durene, Lady Rie is—a subject.”
“And a [Lady]. Laken, she’s flirting with you!”
“Is she?”
I did wonder. It’s hard to tell. Someone touching me on the arm isn’t unusual, but Lady Rie did act unusual around me. But then, I’m not used to flirting in general. Back on Earth, the people I knew weren’t exactly adept enough to flirt. It was more straightforward. But Durene clearly thinks Rie’s flirting and isn’t exactly keen to let me stay with her.
“Durene, I’ll be fine. I’ll talk with Lady Rie, but it doesn’t matter.”
“What? Why?”
“Because I’m with you, remember?”
Durene pauses.
“Oh.”
“Silly.”
I hold her hand. Embarrassed, Durene squeezes my hand gently and flees. I stand up as Lady Rie comes back with a group of [Carpenters] only too willing to make however many tables I need. They just need, oh, instructions on what the tables should look like, how long they should be, how tall, what kind of wood they need to use, and so on. I sigh and get to work with Lady Rie. She doesn’t flirt. But she does touch my arm twice more throughout the day.
 
Day 92
 
“We’ll get in trouble!”
“Let’s go, hurry!”
 
Who’s in trouble? Why are they hurrying? Away? I open my eyes, annoyed that I can’t understand. I get out of bed with Durene, walk down into the village to see what’s happening, and immediately sense a problem.
Over the last day, the giant banquet hall that Lady Rie envisioned has been going up. Quite quickly too—they laid the foundations in one day and began dragging freshly-cut parts over to create a scaffold. That was how it was when I went to sleep, and there was a night team working on it. Only, during the night the scaffolding for the building has collapsed, and I can already hear shouting going on around Prost. He hurries over to me the instant he sees me.
“There’s trouble, Your Majesty.”
“What kind?”
“An accident at the site. Two of the night workers—a [Builder] and [Carpenter]—were working on adding a section, and it collapsed. Neither one was hurt, but they both claim it was the other’s fault.”
I rub at my hair, groaning internally.
“What happened?”
“One says it was an unsteady section that wasn’t checked properly. The other says that everything tore loose because the first fellow wasn’t paying attention. They both blame each other and got into it.”
“Can you tell who’s right?”
I hear Prost’s grimace.
“No, Your Majesty. I’ve told both of the men to take a break and let tempers cool. They’re both good workers, and they’re both furious over the delay—it’s not so much the time lost as the fact that it could have been avoided. I’ll get everyone back to work, unless you’d like to judge the situation yourself?”
And do what? I have no idea who’s right, and I’m no building expert. I had no idea what the difference between screws and nails were until I was fifteen, because my parents were too afraid that I’d hurt myself touching them! I shake my head.
“I trust your judgment, Mister Prost.”
He nods and hurries off. I sigh. I’ve been doing a lot of trusting of judgment recently. I don’t have a choice, but it means that I can’t do my one job—namely, deciding things as [Emperor].
Case in point. Later that day I find Prost and Lady Rie coming up to me with another problem, this one directly related to the nobles attending the gathering.
“A lot of the families are worried about having their daughters serve at the banquet, Your Majesty. They’re afraid that they might be asked to bed the [Lords] attending or be carried off.”
“What?”
I turn to Lady Rie. Her tone is acerbic.
“And I told Mister Prost and the other families that was nonsense, Your Majesty. They need not fear for their daughters’ chastity—”
“Chastity’s the least of it! What’s to stop one of the young lordlings attending the ball from carrying a young girl off—or a [Lady] doing the same to a young lad and having him murdered to hide the evidence?”
“Mister Prost! Those are rumors—”
“I know a village not two miles from here that had that happen to the [Headman]’s son—”
The two begin arguing, and I have to raise my voice to get them to quiet down and explain what they’re arguing about. When they come out and say it at last, I get a bad feeling in my stomach.
[Lords] carrying off village girls who catch their eyes. [Ladies] finding young men to have an affair with and killing them to hide the evidence. Apparently it’s happened in the past. I recall something similar from my world. Droit du seigneur in French, or the medieval ‘right to a first night’ practiced among the nobility. Apparently that law doesn’t exist in Izril, and Lady Rie is insistent that nothing else happens either.
“Your Majesty, I understand Mister Prost’s worries, but they are groundless. Such events never happen—and if they did, it was one or two truly depraved individuals from decades past—and it would not occur on your lands, not when these nobles are coming to visit you! They wouldn’t dare offend you!”
“No? And what about if they used their privilege and station to force a girl into saying yes?”
Prost folds his arm as he glares at Lady Rie. For the first time he and she seem to be at odds, and Lady Rie seems exasperated by the argument.
“Any girl may refuse, of course—those rights are sacred, and these nobles live next to Lady Magnolia Reinhart herself! She does not stand for any coercion of the young or unwilling. That is one of the few things she does well. The Reinharts have always maintained order among the aristocracy and meted out justice.”
“Too little too late. That won’t save a broken-hearted girl and her love.”
“She can say no—”
“To a [Lord]? Without bringing down wrath on her family?”
I have to hold up my hands to stem the argument again. When Prost and Rie are quiet, I turn to Lady Rie.
“Lady Rie, can you assure me that the things Mister Prost is describing would never take place?”
She hesitates as Prost folds his arms.
“Well—I cannot pretend that some instances of this behavior never occurred, but at this gathering, I am sure any young woman would be safe—”
“Hah!”
“Mister Prost. How often is it that this sort of thing occurs? Are there truly that many instances of it, or are all these rumors just that—rumors of someone in a village being carried off by a noble?”
“Well, sire…I never did hear the village’s name.”
“You see?”
Rie sounds exasperated. Prost flares up again.
“Just because it never happened in recent years doesn’t mean it won’t at this gathering! There are young men among the nobles attending, and the families here are worried, Your Majesty. And with good cause!”
“I understand.”
What a mess. And again, I don’t know what the best solution is. I turn to Lady Rie.
“Could we address the issue? Tell the nobles attending that the serving staff are off-limits for…everything?”
Rie inhales sharply.
“Simply mentioning that would cause great offense, Your Majesty! I can assure you it will not occur, and I would stake my reputation on that fact.”
“But the people are worried. There’ll be more than one family that hides their daughters on the day, and I’ll stake my class on that fact, too.”
Prost turns to glare at Lady Rie, and I try not to clutch at my head. What am I supposed to do? Both are looking towards me.
“Emperor Laken, your decision?”
“Your Majesty? What should I tell the families?”
I don’t know. I bite my tongue on the words again. In the end, I tell Prost that the serving women won’t be touched, and Lady Rie agrees to have older people wait the tables. It’s not a good compromise, and I worry that more than one family might try and hide their sons or daughters on the day. If only that were the least of my worries.
As night falls, I sense a fight breaking out between a group of men. I send Durene to break it up and sit up anxiously in the cottage, sensing Prost hurrying to the scene, Durene holding one man by the leg and gently slapping another man off his feet.
Trouble.
 
Day 93
 
“Wait!”
“Shh! We’re not supposed to be heard!”
 
Wait? Why wait? Why aren’t they supposed to be heard? Today I get up with a full migraine. It gets worse as I go about my day.
“The fight last night, Emperor Laken? It was between the two men who quarreled over the collapsed scaffolding yesterday. Never mind that we repaired the damage yesterday.”
Prost comes up to me with a sour tone in his voice. I shake my head.
“That was more than two men brawling, Prost. There were at least eight of them and more joining in before Durene got there.”
“Ah. Those would be the friends and other workers. They’ve started taking sides. You see, one fellow, Mister Horst, is a [Carpenter] from Windrest, and the other’s a [Builder]. Mister Wellim comes from Tunslaven. Since they’re quarrelling, folks have begun taking sides—”
“And now it’s a feud. I understand. Wonderful. Mister Prost, what do you suggest I do?”
