I rub at my head as the man thinks, chewing at his lip.
“I’ll separate the building teams today—put Horst and his lot to building the tables and chairs with your permission. That’ll keep arguments to a minimum, but I’d better have some lads making sure there’s no fighting after work’s over. Or Durene. No one’s likely to throw a punch with her watching.”
“Good. Do that. I have to talk to Lady Rie about…everything.”
Prost hurries away, and I find Lady Rie speaking with Durene of all people. They’re arguing too. I draw closer, listening. For once the two women are so heated that they don’t notice my presence. Durene’s voice is loud as she snaps at Lady Rie.
“I don’t see why I need to stand during the banquet! Why can’t I eat when everyone else is eating?”
Her voice echoes off the houses nearby, and I sense heads turning. Lady Rie’s voice is much quieter but waspish as she replies.
“You are neither nobility nor formally engaged to Emperor Laken. It would be an indiscretion of the highest order to seat you at the head table, and nowhere less would do! You have no manners—”
“I have plenty, thank you very much!”
I sense Rie rolling her eyes.
“—No manners suitable for formal dining, and you are supposed to be a [Paladin], a defender of His Majesty, aren’t you? You should stand in attendance! You wouldn’t want to embarrass Emperor Laken, would you?”
I open my mouth and hesitate. Durene would never embarrass me, but I can imagine her struggling if she were sitting with me and chatting with other nobles. And yet—she is Durene. But Lady Rie knows this social world best, and so I hesitate. Durene herself deflates at Rie’s word. She gulps.
“No. I wouldn’t want to embarrass him. But—”
“Good. Then it’s settled. We’ll see if Master Helm can put you in armor. Otherwise…we might find a [Tailor] able to sew quickly. But armor would be more impressive, I think. A [Paladin] would be quite impressive to our guests.”
Lady Rie claps her hands and turns brusquely away from Durene. She and Durene both jump when they see me standing behind them. I cough.
“You’re sure that would be the best fit, Lady Rie?”
“Emperor Laken! I do believe so. I am not familiar with the [Paladin] class, but it is impressive—as is Miss Durene herself. Having her stand at attendance at your side while a list of her achievements is read out would be most impressive. Don’t you agree?”
“Hm. Durene?”
I turn my head towards her. Durene smiles—she knows I can sense when she does it—and only hesitates for a second.
“I—yeah. I could stand next to you, right Laken? I’d be imposing and impress all those nobles. That’s the best way to do it, right?”
I pause. And perhaps it’s just as well that another argument breaks out—this time between a whole group of angry workers clustered around the banquet hall. Rie sighs distractedly.
“We’re far behind on the building without this sort of distraction! Emperor Laken, by your permission I’ll sort it out.”
She converged on the arguing workers at the same time Prost and Wiskeria do. I see Wiskeria break up the prelude to a fight with a burst of magic. Durene turns.
“I should go over too. Just in case. I’ll, uh, see if I can get Mister Helm to make me some armor. You said I should have some anyways, right Laken?”
She hurries away. I stare at her back. The words in my mouth die unspoken. But I’d like Durene to sit with me. She belongs there. But what if it causes trouble? What’s the protocol? If I let her sit with me, what happens?
I don’t know. Wiskeria breaks up the fight and cools down everyone—literally, by shooting sprays of water everywhere. She’s declined to weigh in on all the preparations, claiming ignorance as a [Witch]. I wish I could do the same. I don’t know what to do. And the words keep repeating themselves as I go to sleep, dreading the half-formed dreams, hating my indecision, my inability to figure this out!
I don’t know. I don’t know, I don’t know, I don’t know, I don’t know—
I can feel my teeth grinding together as I toss and turn that night. I don’t know! And I’m afraid to tell Lady Rie she’s wrong, but something’s wrong! I can feel it.
It’s not right! This gathering is—flawed, somehow! It’s going to go wrong.
Damn Magnolia Reinhart. What did she do?
 
Day 94
 
“Shut up! Hey! Hey, remember to tell them to bring—”
“And—”
 
Blank words in my head. Missing pieces of a puzzle. I get up blearily, eat, walk into Riverfarm with Durene, and listen to the day’s issues. Everything’s behind. Lady Rie frets while Prost talks the situation over. Wiskeria listens quietly.
“The arguments over the building are costing us precious hours, Mister Prost!”
“I know. But I can’t help that! We’re already rushing as it is—we’ll try to get a roof up the day after tomorrow, but every mistake sets us back—”
“We can hardly afford to wait until the day after tomorrow! The decorations are arriving, and we must set to work making the inside presentable quickly!”
“We can sand and polish everything quick once it’s up. The tables and chairs look good at least—”
“Those are the least of my concerns. If another brawl breaks out, simply arrest everyone involved.”
“All forty of them?”
“If necessary! This petty feud between the two craftsmen must be resolved, Mister Prost.”
Prost shakes his head.
“Perhaps Emperor Laken could speak to the two men. They’ve been clamoring for a ruling, and both sides want to hear his opinion—”
“On what?”
I raise my voice. Both Rie and Prost fall silent. I look up, my head aching. I try to keep the annoyance out of my voice, but I can’t. Not today.
“I’ve listened to the arguments, Mister Prost. Neither man can prove the other caused the problem, and it’s far beyond that now. Both sides want me to punish someone, which I can’t do without proof.”
“And truth spells don’t work if both sides think they’re right. Or if they don’t know to begin with who’s wrong. Not that anyone can cast [Detect Lies] here anyways.”
Wiskeria looks up as she fiddles with a pouch full of ingredients. She’s been riding patrols with Beniar, escorting City Runners arriving here with bags of holding full of purchased goods. She stays calm in the face of Prost’s and Rie’s annoyance. Then she turns towards me.
“Emperor Laken, I’ll watch the building today and stop arguments from breaking out. That will let Mister Prost handle the rest of the village.”
“That might work. We’re baking and preparing as much food as we can, but it’s not enough, according to Lady Rie.”
Lady Rie sighs.
“Hardly. There’s a [Chef] I’ve been speaking to who could prepare all of the finer dishes we need to present, but he lives thirty miles north of here and is reluctant to make the commute. And I don’t wish to empty the treasury to purchase her services. But we must have a suitable meal ready. And then there’s the issue of gifts…”
I raise my head.
“Gifts? Don’t tell me we have to give our guests—”
“Oh no! That’s not the custom at all. Quite the reverse!”
“What, then?”
Rie smiles slightly, the first smile I’ve sensed all day.
“It’s a custom for visitors to offer a present to those hosting such gatherings. Especially those of high-rank. I imagine an [Emperor] would merit quite a large present, but no one knows what might suit you, Emperor Laken. You recall the gift I gave to you? Well, we’ve received a few tokens like that, but there have been a number of discreet inquiries as to what you might enjoy.”
“What I might enjoy? I get to ask for my gifts?”
The notion sounds ridiculous to me, but Rie nods seriously.
“Indeed. I was rather hoping for this, actually. In fact, this is how Magnolia Reinhart can claim she’s doing you a favor. If we approach the nobles the right way, we might come away with more than we spent to host the gathering.”
“I don’t follow. You mean…ask them for money?”
“A…monetary contribution. Or something similar. Minor artifacts, perhaps much-needed supplies…it all comes down to the phrasing and way the invitations are couched. I would like to speak with you regarding some of the ideas I had in that regard later. If you are willing?”
It’s wrong. My head throbs.
“Of course.”
I lie to Rie and sense her pleased posture. Prost stands up wearily.
“I’ll get back to work. There’s a few of our [Mages] and [Hedge Mages] willing to try and put on a show—that is, the first stage of entertainments. I’ll see to them.”
“And I will see to the attire.”
Lady Rie sweeps off. I sit on my throne, massaging my head. I sense Wiskeria getting up.
“Your Majesty? Everything well?”
“Not really, Wiskeria. I’m not sure how well this party—gathering—whatever, will go.”
She nods.
“Lady Rie’s doing her best. But this was forced on her early.”
“It was. By that damn—do you think we’ll make it?”
“I’m not sure. But I worry that making it or not making it isn’t the problem, Your Majesty.”
“Then what?”
Wiskeria tilts her head, her voice thoughtful.
“I don’t know. But I don’t think how we impress the nobility is the point. Otherwise, wouldn’t Magnolia Reinhart have made the gathering a few days away and not given us enough time? No, I think it’s something else she’s after. I just don’t know what.”
I turn my head towards her. She’s right. There is something else. But what? What? After a while, Wiskeria gets up. And I, lost and confused, go after Lady Rie. I find her with Durene, consulting with Master Helm.
 
—-
 
“This armor’s too tight! And it’s not real armor, it’s far too thin!”
Durene complains as she models the new armor that Mister Helm, the [Blacksmith], has forged. It was a collaborative work given Durene’s size, and several other [Blacksmiths] are standing around her and consulting with Lady Rie. The noblewoman sounds pleased and claps her hands together.
“Functional armor is not the point, Miss Durene. The armor looks quite good on you, although I see some parts that could be—ah, well, it will do. It only remains for us to forge you a suitable shield to go with your sword. And polish the sword, I think. Could it be plated, Mister Helm? With something akin to gold leaf? Silver? And I think…yes, I think we could add one more thing.”
She regards Durene thoughtfully as the half-Troll girl catches sight of me. She tries to wave, but the stiff armor doesn’t let her. Durene speaks distractedly.
“What else? I can barely move in this as it is.”
Rie’s voice is soft and thoughtful as she speaks out loud.
“A helmet, perhaps? Yes. That would be quite impressive. A helmet would be just the thing.”
“A helmet?”
Durene half-turns to look at Lady Rie. The [Blacksmiths] around her fall silent. My heart sinks when I realize where she’s going with this. Rie nods.
“Yes…with a visor? Can such a thing be done, Master Helm? It would be a grand spectacle, to see Miss Durene armored like a [Knight].”
She looks around brightly at the men and two women around her. Durene goes very quiet. I stand there, my heart suddenly beating very quietly. A helmet? A helmet with a visor. There’s only one reason why Rie wants that.
To cover her face. But no one says it. I sense Durene hesitate, her face grow angry—and then twist into uncertainty. She hesitates, and I see her look at me, and then at Lady Rie. She’s supposed to be quite beautiful. Lady Rie, that is. I’ve never heard Durene talk about what she looks like. She’s too afraid to tell me.
In the end, Durene’s voice is very quiet.
“I…guess so. I could wear a helmet.”
“Wonderful! There are quite a number of designs that might work. Mister Helm, I’ll sketch a few, shall I? You can tell me what would be easiest.”
“Ah. Yes, Lady Rie. We’ll do our best.”
Mister Helm’s voice is quiet as he turns towards Lady Rie. I sense him looking back at me. Durene’s staring at her feet. I take a step forwards and feel a hand on my arm. Lady Rie’s touch.
“Emperor Laken? What do you think? I imagine Durene in full armor would be quite a sight to see—ah, begging your pardon. Quite a spectacle, and certainly impressive, wouldn’t you agree?”
No. I open my mouth. Hesitate. I can tell that Mister Helm is looking at me. So is Lady Rie. She’s gripping my arm with her hand, trying to tell me not to object. She’s right. She knows how the other [Lords] and [Ladies] would react. I close my mouth.
To hide Durene behind a helmet. To not let her eat with me. To do things as they should be. Because a half-Troll doesn’t belong with Humans.
Things crystallize in that moment. I feel the same flash of heat I felt once before, listening to an angry [Farmer] shout the same thing. Not in the same way, not in the same words, but the same thing. And I think about a banquet, about entertaining nobles, about doing things just so.
And I realize what the trap is. I jerk my arm free of Lady Rie and open my mouth.
“No.”
The word cuts through the air, blissfully free. Lady Rie pauses. I sense Durene look up as every head turns to me. Rie’s voice is low as she speaks to me, too close to my ear.
“Emperor Laken, I don’t mean to gainsay your opinions, but I truly think—”
“I said, no, Lady Rie. No helmet. The armor can stay. But make it real armor. And Durene doesn’t need the armor for the banquet. She’ll be sitting with me at the head table. Give her a dress instead.”
Silence. My heart is pounding, my head feels clearer. Lady Rie draws in her breath sharply.
“Emperor Laken? I really don’t—”
“Enough.”
I snap the word, and Rie’s mouth closes in an instant. I look around. Durene is staring at me. The [Blacksmiths] are holding very still. I stand taller. When did I start hunching my shoulders? I point.
“Mister Helm?”
He jumps.
“Yes? Your Majesty?”
“Thank you for Durene’s armor. It’s quite, well, I can tell it’s quite impressive. A showman’s piece, no doubt. But let’s aim for functional armor when it comes to that.”
“Of course, Emperor Laken. We’ll get right to work—”
I hold up my hand.
“Not necessary. There are more important things that we need for now. Nails, for one. Hinges—there’s a lot of metal that goes into houses. Let’s get our [Blacksmiths] back to work on those houses, shall we? Don’t worry about the banquet. Durene? Follow me. Someone get me Prost. And Wiskeria.”
I stride off and sense Durene shrugging out of her armor. Still muted, Rie follows. I can sense her eyes on my back and feel Prost and Wiskeria hurrying towards me.
“Mister Prost?”
“Yes, Emperor Laken? I heard you had the [Blacksmiths] working on construction materials for the houses. Should I—?”
