“My lords and ladies of the court? I invite you to share this banquet at your discretion. My lands are open to all those of my empire on this day. Come, if thou would.”
I offer a hand up towards the heavens. And wait. There’s only silence. After a moment, a long moment in which I curse and wonder what the hell I should do next, I lower my hand. The silence around me is broken by a low voice muttering out of the group of nobles.
“What was that?”
I hear a titter and someone shushing the speaker. I turn, keeping my face calm, not letting blood rush to my cheeks. It was a long shot. A perhaps. And I am an [Emperor]. So I keep up the charade, as I turn to look at my [Steward].
“Mister Prost? We may have visitors this night. Keep a place at the tables open should guests arrive. Now, I believe we are ready to be seated?”
“Of course, Your Majesty.”
Prost breaks the silence by gesturing. The young men and women of my empire, dressed in fine clothing, step forwards and quite elegantly lead the nobles to the tables. I dismount Bismarck and do the same, pointedly standing. It’s going to be a standing dinner, a time to chat. Less formal, which means less risk of me making a mistake. I turn my head to the buffet and try to remember my lines. Thank Magnolia for her hospitality again? No, wait, maybe I should talk about the Goblins—
I freeze as I hear a giggle. It’s a soft sound, but it cuts through the quiet murmuring like a bell ringing in a snowstorm. The sound is bright and cheerful and makes every head turn in confusion. I feel my heart beating faster.
The giggling stops abruptly. But the air is suddenly warmer, and the sky brighter. The clearing illuminated by braziers and mage light warms, and it feels as though everything is lit by a subtle glow. I feel the wind blow strong for a second and smell wet earth, flowers, the smell of nectar, growing grass—
Spring.
Oh, that’s what I was missing. I hear the voices overhead, crystal clear at last. Unearthly voices, voices that rustle and leap with life, the voices made of magic.
 
“Is it time yet?”
“I don’t think so.”
“Are you sure?”
“I think we’re early. We shouldn’t be here!”
“We’ll get in trouble!”
“Let’s go, hurry!”
“Wait!”
“Shh! We’re not supposed to be heard!”
“Shut up! Hey! Hey, remember to tell them to bring lots of sweets!”
“And pudding!”
“And pudding! Sweets and pudding, okay? Remember!”
“Quick, let’s go! Before—”
 
A clamor of quick voices, arguing, talking rapidly and urgently. And then an authoritative voice, singing out above them all.
 
“Too late! It’s time!”
 
I hear laughter. And I look up and smile. The skies open. The nobles gape. Durene looks up and gasps. Lady Rie nearly swallows her tongue. I just laugh as the wind blows, and they step downwards, step out of the forests, dance into the meadow. Of course, why would they be cold and frozen in the spring? I sense one of them as they wink and blow me a kiss. They bow, mockingly, and I shake my head.
“Took you long enough.”
 
“Same to you!”
 
And then my banquet really begins as they descend, bringing spring and chaos in their wake. The tricksters, the harbingers of spring and snow. The beings of myth and magic. The Fair Folk.
The fae.
