“Then I’d suppose you weren’t acting much like an [Emperor] in that moment, sire. Or maybe it wasn’t your fault because things went wrong for no reason. Maybe it couldn’t be helped, and it would’ve happened that way anyways. But [Emperors] don’t make mistakes because they know what they’re doing. Otherwise, why would they be [Emperors]?”
I frown as I mull over his convoluted statement.
“That’s circular logic, Mister Prost.”
He pauses and then shrugs again.
“It may be circular, but I rather like it, sire. And it works. ”
I laugh.
“Good enough. Now, how’s Lady Rie doing?”
“Chomping at the bit, begging your pardon, sire. But she’s doing a good job, and now that there’s no need to worry about food—or a building—she’s got us figuring out seating arrangements and the like.”
“Much more manageable?”
“Much.”
We walk together, and for the first time, I realize that Prost might not be in awe of Lady Rie as much as I was.
“I feel rather foolish, Mister Prost.”
“Do you, Your Majesty? I think you did a good job today. It was a hard decision.”
“But one I should have made, not anyone else. We wasted a lot of coin and time dancing to Lady Magnolia’s tune.”
“I expect the drapes and other things will make the great hall that much better anyways. And silverware’s good for entertaining folk, sire. It’s an investment for the future.”
“Were you always so optimistic, Prost?”
“No, Your Majesty. Not as smart, either. But I’ve changed a lot over the last few weeks. Done a lot of thinking ever since a young man pulled my son out of the snow.”
“Huh. Well, I hope I won’t make this particular mistake again. Mister Prost?”
“Emperor?”
“Let’s get to it.”
He smiles.
“Yes, sire.”
We walk back to work. Work being whatever I care to focus on. Lady Rie has her ideas, and I’m inclined to follow them. When I don’t have anything better in mind.
It’s a silly lesson I learned today. Relearned, rather. I don’t know what I’m doing. I feel like that all the time. But I do know something more important: no one else knows what they’re doing, either. And so I’ve got to make the decisions, even if I’m wrong. Even if they’re the wrong ones.
Because I’m an [Emperor].
Hm. I feel like I finally understand. All the little pieces are coming together. If I add all the fragments up, that nonsense dream I’ve been having, then—I have an idea. Or rather, I had an idea. I’m just a few days ahead of myself.
 
Day 95
 
“Shut up! Hey! Hey, remember to tell them to bring lots of sweets!”
“And pudding!”
 
Aha! I wake up with a smile. So that’s what it was all about! I stretch, walk out of my cottage after spending a leisurely breakfast with Durene and find Prost in good spirits.
“Emperor, we’ve got two more houses built, and I reckon we can get another field sown today if we push it.”
“Excellent, Mister Prost! Any trouble from Mister Horst and Mister Wellim?”
“Not that I know of, sire. They’ve been working well. Not on the same team, but they go to each other’s sites and shout insults at each other. In a good way.”
“As opposed to a bad way?”
“It’s more like competition than it is anger, Your Majesty.”
“I’ll take that, then. Lady Rie?”
She bows her head, slightly…sullenly? She’s still not happy about my changes, but she’s working within my design, and she’s stopped touching my arm.
“We have the clearing set up. I’ve taken the liberty of setting a few braziers up. I think [Light] spells would be more appropriate given the warmer weather, though.”
I nod.
“Good, we might actually do this. Now, I know we’re expecting the nobles to bring food, but have a few of our [Cooks] see me within the hour. I want some of Riverfarm’s and the local dishes on display, and a lot of sweet foods.”
I turn to Prost as Wiskeria rides into the village, her [Hunters] carrying a dead buck between them. I wonder if a [Witch] has any party tricks? What am I saying? I wonder if she’ll agree to perform a few. I’d rather like to see her turn someone into a frog.
“I’ll also need some dry corn for an experiment, Mister Prost—we’ll make popcorn and a few other dishes from home. How good are your sausages, by any chance? Do we have any fresh pork sausages, or could we make some?”
“Sausages, sire? Let me find you a selection…”
Back to work. Only this time it feels right. Uncertain, but right.
 
Day 96
 
“And pudding! Sweets and pudding, okay? Remember!”
“Quick, let’s go! Before—”
 
Yes, yes. I rise and feel a hum of anticipation in the village. Lady Rie’s pacing nervously before I have a chance to meet with her.
“I’m just not sure we have enough entertainment, Emperor Laken, I don’t know how long you expect us to be occupied with trebuchets, but at some point we will be out of diversions!”
I smile at her, noticing for the first time how stressed she sounds. I wonder how much strain she’s been feeling? I feel great, incidentally.
“We’ll make do, Lady Rie. Mingling and conversation will suffice if we have nothing else at the time.”
“Conversation? If you say so, Your Majesty. And will you tell me at last what the other seats are for? You aren’t intending to seat more of the villagers with the nobility, are you? Your Mossbear, perhaps?”
Apparently, Lady Rie also gets sarcastic when she’s peeved. I like that—it’s more honest of her.
“Trust, Lady Rie. We may have some unexpected guests. Or not. Now, let’s go over my actual conversation topics one more time. Tell me about trade goods coming from the south. You say it’s rare for Drakes to sell their goods past Liscor? What items are in high demand around here, and what role did Riverfarm and the local villages fulfill up till this point?”
She sighs but proceeds to lecture me at length. I wish I could take notes, but my stupid phone is completely dead. I hope I can get it fixed soon. Didn’t Ryoka say that a [Repair] spell charges it up? How come no one in my entire empire can cast the spell?
I wonder how you recruit mages? Reel them in with promises of free room and board? Spellbook on a fishing line? Maybe Wiskeria knows some people. Heck, maybe she’s part of a coven.
One day left. And as I sleep, it all falls into place.
 
Day 97
 
“Is it time yet?”
“I don’t think so.”
“Are you sure?”
“I think we’re early. We shouldn’t be here!”
“We’ll get in trouble!”
“Let’s go, hurry!”
“Wait!”
“Shh! We’re not supposed to be heard!”
“Shut up! Hey! Hey, remember to tell them to bring lots of sweets!”
“And pudding!”
“And pudding! Sweets and pudding, okay? Remember!”
“Quick, let’s go! Before—”
 
This is what I dreamt, over a week ago. The voices stir and echo around me, not quite here, but not quite in my mind either. They’re…like real memories, if that makes sense. Memory that becomes reality as you remember it? There’s just one thing missing from the conversation, one little clue.
Today as I wake up, I feel the village come alive. I eat breakfast with Durene, smiling at her as she paces around nervously.
“Are you sure it’ll be okay, Laken? What if they get angry? Maybe I should wear a helmet! Or a hat!”
“I hate hats. Durene, it’ll be fine. Besides, your suit looks quite nice.”
“You wouldn’t know! You can’t see!”
I laugh. Durene’s been dressed for today, against Lady Rie’s objections. She decided a dress did not suit her and instead wore a suit—at my suggestion. If women can wear pants and suits, why not Durene? And apparently she cuts a rather bold figure with the cloth my [Tailors] had labored over.
“It’ll go well with my clothing, Durene. I’ve got enough cloth for a dress. We can say we switched roles for the banquet.”
“Laken!”
I’m not wearing a dress but robes that are quite long and showy. All the better to give me some additional gravitas, according to Lady Rie. She tried to get me to wear lace, and I refused. This was the best compromise we could come up with. I’d rather walk around naked than wear a suit with more lace than fabric.
“Looks like Lady Rie’s already pacing outside of the cottage. Prost’s here too. I thought the nobility were supposed to arrive this evening?”
“Maybe they’re early?”
“Not as far as I know. Pass me a fried potato, will you Durene? No, Frostwing, that’s not for you. Stop pooping so loudly, please? I’m trying to eat.”
This is how it goes. I go outside, tell a joke, and only Durene giggles. Gamel’s too uptight with his suit, Prost is distracted tugging at his, and Lady Rie’s far too high strung. Wiskeria just doesn’t like my sense of humor.
No one arrives in the morning, although we had prepared for a few early guests. Apparently I’m so intimidating the entire group of nobles is arriving together. Or maybe that’s due to the presence of Magnolia’s servant, Sacra, and the famous Lady Bethal Walchaís. I sense a rather large caravan of people headed this way just after breakfast, and Beniar’s riders report the nobles are coming in a train.
“A rather large group. They may arrive an hour late. I don’t think they were expecting to carry quite so much on the trip here.”
Lady Rie stares accusingly at me. I just smile.
“And their escort?”
“Light for a group of nobles travelling. I counted sixty armed guards.”
“So two per noble? A bit less? That is trusting. If they’re staying the night, they can sleep in the houses for the nobles or outside. It shouldn’t rain today.”
“I doubt they’ll stay the night. And I’m surprised Lady Bethal isn’t travelling by magical carriage. Apparently Magnolia Reinhart lends it to all her closest friends. I wonder if it’s broken?”
“Magical carriages? Hold on, explain that to me? Someone?”
The day wears on. I try not to let my nerves get the better of me. I have a plan. It’s not a good one, and it’s based on guesswork and a dream I had. But it’s all I’ve got. As evening wears into dusk, the first nobles ride into Riverfarm, a group of laughing young [Lords] and [Ladies] and their retainers. They freeze the instant they see me.
“Lord Andres, Lady Cimeca, Lord Pattin, welcome to Riverfarm!”
Lady Rie calls out more names as the mounted nobility draw back, staring at me in alarm and awe. I smile and gently let Frostwing flap her wings. Beneath me, my mount shifts and growls, making the nobles’ horses back away skittishly.
That’s right, I’m riding Bismarck, my Mossbear. If you’ve got a Mossbear and you don’t ride it to meet people, what kind of [Emperor] are you? Durene stands by my side, practically vibrating with nerves. I try not to show anyone that my legs are trembling as they hug Bismarck’s sides.
A flurry. A torrent of bodies. Rich men and women dressed in finery, armored warriors—I can only rely on Wiskeria and Durene’s whispered explanations. Their voices sound like any other, perhaps a touch more refined and breathy—the nobles ride up to me on their horses while I let Bismarck snuffle at them. And then I hear a voice I recognize.
“Emperor Laken, I bring you greetings on behalf of Lady Magnolia Reinhart, who apologizes for the inconvenience of this small gathering.”
“Odveig. Or would you prefer to be called Sacra?”
“Either is fine.”
I turn my head to the [Maid] standing and facing me without a trace of fear. I can sense Wiskeria tensing beside me, but Sacra pays her no notice as she bows and introduces the last of my guests. I smell a floral perfume and hear a light voice.
“My, is that a Mossbear? Thomast, look! How exciting! Do you think I could ride it?”
“I don’t think so.”
“Emperor Laken, may I present Lady Bethal Walchaís and Sir Thomast?”
The man and woman step forwards. I get nothing from my image of them in my head. Lady Bethal is wearing a dress and Thomast some kind of doublet. They’re attired much like the others I suppose—my [Emperor] senses don’t extend to color or detail well. But the two do have a kind of…presence in my mind.
Lady Bethal feels like a rose, or a bush covered in thorns. As if I could walk into her and be stung. It’s an aura about her, and Sir Thomast—just seems too poised. He stands as if he could leap into action at any moment, and there’s a grace about his movements that makes me think he knows how to handle the rapier at his side. Both bow to me, and Lady Bethal’s first words after her greeting are about Bismarck.
“Is he tamed, Your Majesty? I had heard there was an [Emperor] who commanded the hearts of both beasts and men, but until Magnolia told me about you, I was quite under the impression that it was all rumor! Oh, but do forgive me—I do forget myself. Thomast, why don’t you ever stop me?”
The [Chevalier] says nothing. I get the feeling he’s staring at me, not at Durene, for all Bethal is now gushing over Durene’s suit and greeting Lady Rie. From the way Rie goes stiff and quiet, I get the feeling that Lady Bethal’s spiky aura isn’t for show.
Big players. Large fish in small ponds, or however the saying goes. Bethal strikes me as a shark, though. The nobles wait for me as I finish greeting Lady Bethal. They’ve already spotted the clearing filled with food that their servants are busily unloading, and I think their mood is—intrigued. Some of them appear dismayed from the way they shift and lean closer to talk to each other, but I’ve made an impression.
So here’s how it ends. I raise my hand and make a small speech in the silence as every eye falls to me. As the light fades, I quell the butterflies in my chest. Is this the right thing to do? Is this the right thing to say? I’m an [Emperor]. It better be.
“[Lords] and [Ladies] of Izril, I greet you. I am Laken Godart.”
They stir as I don’t give myself any titles. I could have proclaimed myself ruler of the Unseen Empire, or any number of things, but I’m here to make friends, not scare them. I go on.
“I am aware that you are here at Lady Magnolia Reinhart’s request. I was unaware of this gathering until she arranged it in my honor, and I am grateful for her aid in doing so. For your enjoyment, my people have created a small setting in which we may mingle and talk. I look forwards to meeting each one of you in person. But before that—”
My heart skips a beat in my chest. Here it is.
“—But before that, I believe there are a few more guests I have yet to invite.”
Murmurs. I see heads turning and Thomast tense ever so slightly beside his wife. I ignore the confused nobility and tilt my head back.
“I greet the nobility of this land before me. I offer them the warmth of my hearths and the bounty of my lands. I would be remiss if I did not extend the same invitation to my own vassals.”
I look up towards the sky. Please be there. Please don’t be a dream.
