“Get your workers back to building houses. We’ll keep a smaller team on the hall, but take it slower, Mister Prost. We won’t be using it for the gathering.”
I feel the electric shock go through the people around me. Durene exclaims.
“We won’t? But I thought—”
“Would we have gotten it ready in time? And would you trust the building not to collapse on us, Mister Prost?”
I nod at the half-finished building. Prost grimaces.
“It’d be close and that’s without furnishings, sire. But what did you have in mind if not that gathering hall?”
“Easy. Get the tables and chairs done. Then put them in a meadow. That one just past the new farmland sounds good. Clear us a wide space—we have plenty of folk who can do that, and it won’t take us a day. We’ll serve our guests there.”
“What?”
This last bit is too much for Lady Rie, and she manages to speak despite my order. She turns to me, aghast.
“Emperor Laken, it’s not proper. Your guests will be expecting the highest honors. They’re nobility, and if Magnolia Reinhart was hosting—”
“She’s not. I am. Be silent, Lady Rie. Thank you.”
I cut her off again. Lady Rie falls silent, and I can sense her fists clenching as I turn my head. I can sense them there. Durene, Wiskeria, Prost, and Lady Rie. I sigh.
“I’ve made a mistake. Lady Magnolia Reinhart invited the nobility here, which forced my hand. But my error, the trick she forced me into was playing her game. I don’t think she expected me to put on a formal display for the nobles. Nor should I.”
“But that’s what they’re expecting.”
Durene sounds confused. I smile slightly.
“Yes, they are. That’s what’s traditional. But I’m an [Emperor], Durene. Why should I do things their way?”
“Um…I don’t know.”
“Exactly.”
I nod, almost laughing as I sense Rie’s dumbfounded look. I turn to Prost.
“Don’t worry about [Chefs], Mister Prost. Tell our [Cooks] to make the kind of food they know everyone will enjoy. As much as they can get ready beforehand, and we’ll do a lot of cooking the day of. Now, I want you to have our [Carpenters] make more tables as quick as they can and lay them out in the village square. We’ll feed our people at the same time as the nobility.”
“With chairs and so forth, Your Majesty? That would take a lot more work.”
“Do we need them? No—in fact, have only a few chairs brought to the gathering place. We’ll have people stand and eat. They can socialize while we put on a display. We’ll have the trebuchets do some test firing—maybe let the nobles try them themselves. As for the issue of young women and men serving—”
I can sense Lady Rie shutting her eyes tightly. I look at Prost.
“Have we parchment? Large sheets we can use as signs?”
“I could have some. Are you planning on making a declaration, sire?”
“Just something posted on the main roads. Have it read as follows: ‘I, Emperor Laken, declare that anyone taking advantage of another person upon my lands without consent will be summarily shot and executed, regardless of their rank or gender.’ Or something to that effect.”
Wiskeria draws in a sharp breath. I see Prost shoot a glance at Lady Rie. Funny, he seems uncertain.
“That’s a bold statement, sire.”
“I’d think it would be the least of what you’d expect from me. Have the posters put along the main roads—on those handy totem poles Jelov keeps carving, for instance. Make sure all of my guests see them. Just in case. Oh, and Prost? Add some images.”
“What? Sire?”
I’m enjoying myself now. I gesture.
“Images. You know, illustrations! A bloody headsman’s axe and a few heads lying on the ground, or a body feathered with arrows for emphasis. Be creative. You can have some of the children decorate them if you like. Now. Wiskeria.”
“Emperor?”
She’s smiling at me, I can tell. Wiskeria tugs at her pointed hat as I point towards the meeting hall and my throne room.
“Those two men who keep starting fights. Find them and put them in my throne room to wait for me. Tell them that if they start a fight before I arrive…well, just warn them what might happen.”
“Yes, Emperor.”
“Now. Lady Rie.”
She’s practically vibrating. When I speak her name, she waits a beat as if she didn’t want to cut in and shout at me this entire time.
“Emperor Laken?”
“I take it you object to most of what I’ve just said?”
“Why, what gave you that idea, sire?”
Her voice is sweet. Too sweet. I turn to face her.
“I don’t disagree with your choices, Lady Rie. By all means, decorate and find proper utensils to serve our guests. But if we serve them, it will be my way. Riverfarm’s way.”
“And if the nobility take offense?”
“Let them. This gathering wasn’t my idea. It was Magnolia Reinhart’s. If it doesn’t have the amenities they’re used to, they can take it up with her. Speaking of which, I’ve decided what they should give me.”
“Oh?”
Lady Rie pauses.
“What would that be, Your Majesty?”
“Food. They can bring food. Tell them I would like for them to bring as many delicacies as they can carry—not just for themselves, but for my people. They’ll be feeding all of us, so advise them that a pack horse or wagon might be in order.”
I grin at Lady Rie and wonder if her face has gone pale. Durene laughs out loud in delight.
“Emperor Laken, are you quite sure? That would hardly be what they expect—although I’m beginning to realize that is quite the point.”
“Indeed. I don’t want money. I don’t need their charity. That isn’t what an [Emperor] needs. Perhaps a [Lord] might ask for such gifts, but all I need is something to amuse my people. Yes, food—and entertainment. Do they have [Jugglers]? [Bards]? Are there such things as [Actors] in this world or…or [Players]? Tell them to bring those too. And—”
Memory flares. A bit of a dream. I stop.
“Pudding.”
“Pudding?”
“Yes—pudding. Tell them I’m fond of sweet foods. Have them bring as much of those as possible. And while we’re at it, Durene?”
“Yes, Laken?”
“Why don’t we take a break for a bit? Let’s go for a walk in the woods. I’ll be back in an hour, Lady Rie. Let me know if the sky’s fallen when I return.”
I take Durene’s arm and, smiling, walk away. Lady Rie just stares at my back. I walk off with Durene and laugh for the first time all week. She’s smiling too.
“Wow. What happened to you, Laken?”
“I stopped worrying about what other people might say, Durene. Remember? That’s the point. Lady Rie had her heart in the right place, but she did what people wanted her to do. What Magnolia Reinhart wanted her to do. I’m doing what I want to do. Which is walking with you.”
“Oh. Right! Hey Laken?”
“Yes?”
She gives me a quick kiss as a reply.
 
—-
 
It was a nice walk and we stretched it out to two hours. The two hours came from me sitting down to rest my aching feet while Durene offered to carry me. In the end we just sat and talked, which was wonderful. So wonderful that I forgot that the two men were waiting for me in the throne room. When I finally got back and walked in, they jumped. They hadn’t been sitting but standing at opposite sides of the room. I felt slightly bad that I didn’t think to give them chairs, but only slightly.
“Mister Horst. Mister Wellim.”
I face both of them. I hear them inhale, uncertain, and I walk past them to sit on my throne. I sit, and the two men shuffle forwards. They wait for me to speak.
I don’t. The uncomfortable silence stretches out as the two men shift uneasily. Actually, I don’t feel uncomfortable at all. I just sit, sensing them grow more and more nervous with each passing second. At last, one of them musters the courage to open his mouth. Quick as a snake, I raise a finger, and he freezes.
I wait until he closes his mouth and keep sitting there. The two men stand in place, sweating. I can practically hear their hearts pounding. And I just sit. When I finally open my mouth, I think both of them nearly have heart attacks.
“Gentlemen. Why are you here?”
They stir. And look at each other. I sit there, a young man on a throne. Blind, probably half the age of either of the men in front of me. But it’s they who can’t meet my eyes, figuratively or literally. I am blind. And young. But I am an [Emperor].
“Emperor Laken, about our, uh—our—our quarrel.”
One of the men, Mister Horst, begins hoarsely. Again I cut him off.
“Quarrel, is it? A quarrel is two men fighting. It gets broken up, and both men need a day to heal their bruises. The worst is a broken bone. This is a feud, gentlemen.”
Silence. I look from man to man, opening my eyes briefly for effect.
“Both of you claim the other made a mistake which caused the scaffolding to break. What was it, three days ago? Now there are brawls of thirty people or more. What, exactly, is the point?”
They don’t have an answer. I go on, speaking calmly, shifting my attention to the man on the left.
“Mister Wellim, I know of you as a [Builder] who made or repaired half the homes in your village. You’re a community figure, and a father of three.”
He starts. Yes, I asked Prost about all that before walking in here. But it still works. I shift my attention to the man on the right.
“And you, Mister Horst, are a [Carpenter] respected by everyone I’ve talked to. You’ve been running your own business for twenty years.”
He hangs his head at this detail, a representation of his hard work over the years. I turn my head to each man.
“Why are we here? If you, Mister Wellim, were dealing with a fight between two of your apprentices, how would you handle it? By smacking a few heads together? Separating the two? What if they kept fighting? What about you, Mister Horst? Would doing any of that do any good? Why are two of your best workers fighting, anyways? What is the point?”
I slap the armrest of my throne. Both men jump. After a moment, I sigh.
“No one can rule who caused the problem. Both of you were there, and both of you claim the opposite thing happened. You come to me as if expecting me to know the truth. Well, I wasn’t there, and I’m no god. But again, I have to ask, why do I need to be here? Correct me if I’m wrong, but shouldn’t we be building houses right now?”
Neither man speaks, but I get the slightest nod from Horst. I go on.
“Construction is dangerous. Or so I’ve heard. If there’s an issue of one person not paying attention, that’s a problem. If it happens again and there are witnesses, there may be need for punishment—or maybe not. Accidents happen. But this feud has already seen violence. If someone dies from all this hatred and anger, who will be to blame? You, Mister Horst? Or you, Mister Wellim? If someone dies, I rather think it would be my fault.”
They both look up sharply. I nod.
“I am an [Emperor]. This is my domain. Shouldn’t the blame fall to me? If things get worse—only they won’t get worse. Because we will sort this out. One of you made a mistake, or neither of you did. Either way, it’s a matter between you two, not two villages. We are working together here, all of us. We are all part of this—this nation. And I expect you to remember that.”
A beat. For a second I open my eyes again and hold their gazes. Then I close my eyes. It’s hard not to blink. I should probably exercise my eyelids, but what’s the point?
“You’re not children. If you want to hold a grudge, hold it. If you know you’re right, watch the other man until he makes a mistake again and point it out for all to see. But the feuding ends now, as does the gossiping and sabotaging each other. You don’t have to like one another. In fact, if you want to start a fight, now would be a good time. I’ll turn my head if you don’t want me to watch.”
I smile at that and turn my head sideways. I can sense the two men looking at each other. Then one of them clears his throat.
 
—-
 
Fifteen minutes later I walk out of the throne room as Horst and Wellim walk out. They’re not holding hands, but they’re talking to each other like people, even managing to smile. I find Prost waiting for me.
“I think we’ve come to an understanding, Mister Prost.”
“Good, Emperor Laken. Whose fault was it?”
“Rot in the timber, perhaps. A bad nail. Bad lighting. I think we’ll stop building at night. It’s efficient, but both Mister Horst and Wellim agree that night work leads to mistakes.”
“Very good, Your Majesty.”
Prost eyes the two men walking off. He turns his head to me, and I sense a knowingness in his gaze.
“Did they brawl?”
“Not as such. They might throw a punch at each other while working, but I expect that will only be if one drops a piece of timber on the other man’s toe. They’re not friends, but they’re quite reasonable people when they get down to it.”
My [Steward] nods, and I nod too.
“Only, you knew that, didn’t you Mister Prost? All of the times you broke the fights up and told them to work it out—or hinted to me that I should intervene—was to get me to do what I just did, wasn’t it?”
“Why would you say that, Emperor Laken?”
Prost bashfully looks the other way. I smile.
“A [Farmer] probably learns more than one or two tricks over the course of his life. A father likewise. Tell me, why didn’t you deal with it yourself?”
“I couldn’t do it, Your Majesty. Both men, well, they’re proud men and not keen to listen to a new [Steward]. An [Emperor], on the other hand…”
“Young as I am?”
“You saved their villages and drove the Goblins off. I don’t think either of them thought of your age while you were sitting on that throne, sire.”
I shake my head.
“All I did was ask them to settle things like adults, Mister Prost. It could have backfired or not worked at all. I didn’t know if what I was doing was the right thing. I just guessed.”
“But it did work, Your Majesty?”
I nod. Prost smiles.
“Then it was the right thing to do.”
“Yes, but what if it’s the wrong thing next time?”
He just shrugs at me. Prost speculatively looks across the village as the sun begins to set in the sky.
“Maybe it wouldn’t work any other day, and maybe it won’t work again. But it did work this time and that means what you did was the right thing, even if you didn’t know it was the right thing you were doing. And most of all, because it was you, Emperor Laken who did it, it was the right thing to do. Because [Emperors] don’t make mistakes.”
“Why?”
“Because they’re [Emperors], sire.”
“What if I made a mistake?”
