Lena's cries echoed through her mansion, and the darkness stayed. The deathless didn't shift a centimeter, not in posture, not in demeanor.  Instead, he spoke, and his voice was smoother, more composed than she expected of a brutal giant that seemed ready to eviscerate her flesh and shatter her bones. “That might've been true about two days ago. Things are different now. Do you know what your greatest sin is?” The Deathless paused, as if to reconsider his own question. “You know what? I misphrased that. Do you know why I'm here, and do you know why Councilwoman Chandler is fine with me being here? Now I got the go-ahead to raid your mansion and have this conversation.”

Lena's mind spun. Her body was a leaf caught in a typhoon, and though she tried to think and control herself, she failed on both accounts. She could only shake her head. She wanted out. She wanted to pick up her son and leave, but her legs felt like they were fused to the ground. Her body wouldn’t listen for the terror returned in force.

“Too scared to talk? Alright, I'll tell you. I'll make this quick for the both of us. Now, before we get into your bad habits, I'm going to give you some good news. I didn't kill your friends. I didn't kill your son. I didn't kill anyone here. Now my plagueflies just spread a little fun disease that your eldest son resisted pretty well. My compliments to him especially: He put up a pretty surprising fight. He managed to jump me even; I was pretending that I disabled him before he got up and broke his sword against my neck. He's got a real future ahead of him, that one. Really shouldn't have held him back from joining the Prismatic Guard: He's going to be a hell of a Duelist. But I'm not here to talk about your boy. I'm here to talk about you: what you did against the Republic and what you did to get me on your trail.”

Lena was completely lost now. One moment, he was terrorizing her. He'd left her son in such a wounded state. Then he spoke highly of him and claimed that he hurt no one. He wasn’t making any sense—what did he mean by sin? What did he mean when he claimed that the Councilwoman authorized this?

Unless… No, he couldn’t know about that. She'd hid her tracks—wiped memories and squared things with the families. And her contacts… no one should know about them. Not even the Ascendants.

The Deathless read her dawning disbelief and let out a dry chuckle. “Y'know, I'm starting to get why Veronica keeps you all around. You as in nobility. I thought it was because of traditions and social entrenchment and how much influence you guys wield. All those great ancestors, patriarchs, matriarchs, High-Tier Pathbearers…Too much trouble to uproot you and restructure society. Too much cultural damage. But maybe it's more than that. You guys are really bad at this politicking thing, you know that? I suppose it's by design. You are all coddled and protected from consequence in most cases, so you don't really think about the bigger picture, and you don't cover your tracks nearly as well as you think you do. Why should you? There was no problem before. But yesterday is not forever, and your fortune just ran dry. See, your ultimate sin, the reason why Veronica's fine with me coming to collect you, and the reason why I came for you is ultimately the same sin expressing itself in different ways. You're a degenerate. So many of you are degenerates. And I don't mean that in the way where someone just fucks weird or has strange tastes. No, you don't have enough virtue.”

“What?” Lena's voice was small and brittle. She hated it. She hated herself for exposing such weakness, but what else could she do? In her daily life, she prided herself on social dominance—She turned inquisitors hostile and gnawed into allies by working at them persistently, by finding what they desired most and offering them an opportunity to sate their deepest needs. The Deathless accused her of degeneracy, yet that couldn't have been her sin. She was the one who controlled other people's foulness. She was the one who wielded the addicts, not the other way around.

“Oh, don't ‘what?’ me. Telling yourself you're the one who does the feeding, just giving them what they asked for. Well, sure, they're also degenerates, but you especially are, because your drug is power. Your sin is that you like to play with power, but you're still not powerful because you are a traitor. You are not the source. You are an influencer, but you don't really have the ability to decide. Your position is high enough, but there are still people on top of you. There are still people to the sides of you. Even though you carved out a nice little silo in the Inquisition, that silo… leaked.”

The first hint of true anger seeped over into the Deathless' voice as well. It came as a growl, and Lena would have emptied herself some more if she wasn't already dry of liquid terror. “Hank Sennlen, age 7. Connor Murphy, age 7. Myers Randahar, age 8—old among your batch. You recall these names? Ok, I see you don't. Let me name a few more then. Johnny Vasquez, age 6. Nothing? Nothing? Come on, Lena, you got a Master-Tier Memorization Skill. You can’t let something like this slip.”

Her lips quivered. She wanted to say something, but her mind was still frozen. In truth, she recognized the last name, and in that she plunged into a deeper darkness within herself.

They were expendable. They were terminally ill. She selected them because there wasn't much the Republic could do for them, not truly anyway, unless they dedicated significant efforts and resources, routed specific Biomancers or engineers to ensure their survival. They were just orphans. They weren't going to have good lives. They weren't going to be remembered.

“Let me tell you another name, then,” the Deathless interrupted her thoughts. “Legend-Inquisitor Simon ‘the Salamander’ Seymour. One of your finest customers, isn't he? Got a real appreciation for the children. He has been purchasing from you for a while—and I gotta admit, you covered your tracks pretty well. If I didn't accidentally run across your personal raven, you would have stayed in the dark—and not one that belongs to me. But luck’s a fickle fucker. And it doesn’t last forever. So, to answer the questions you refuse to, Veronica wants me to come here and convince you to resign from the Inquisition. Afterwards, there's going to be a new spot open for you under Jessica Hawgrave. And you’ll run into some of your old friends there. Like Master Stormhalt! He’s been there the longest; me and him have been having a grand time down south.”

“Resign?” Lina felt like she was falling, but there was no ground to strike. She didn't know where this was going anymore. Seconds ago, she was near certain he intended to inflict harm on her; present, pain remained a certitude, but it didn't seem to be of the physical variety anymore. Instead, he wanted her to surrender her position in the transition and submit to his will, his will and, by extension, the Giantsbane…

South…

And all at once the pieces came together in her mind. Oh no, oh Ascendants, no!

This wasn't an execution. This was a forcible recruitment. She'd heard whispers from the other inquisitors, dismissed as rumors before, but there had been a series of High-Tier nobles suddenly leaving their positions to face the Pantheon of the Scarred down south. To the public, they claimed they were overcome by an urge to volunteer for patriotic duties that they didn't want to be outshined by a former heretic in the form of the Deathless. Yet the paranoid and conspiracy-minded among her cohort insisted that there was a shadow branch developing under the Auroral Council.

A shadow branch nicknamed the Unforgiven.

The entire concept was absurd. Why would there be such a need for a Shadow Branch, when the Inquisition already existed, the Auroral Council didn't lack for power either, and the Ascendancy was absolute. For something as ridiculous as the Unforgiven to be formed, it meant that the Council was all but declaring war on the nobility, for there was no great house truly unblemished of their own particular problem children.

Thus, Lena cast such thoughts aside, letting them drift out of her memory until this point, until consequence came into her home in the shape of a monster overflowing with shadow and malice.

“So don't worry. I'm not going to destroy your family name, much as I want to. I have to adhere to certain guidelines before I'm allowed to do this by the Councilwoman. We both want results, but she values the stability and cultural cohesion of the Republic more. Disgusting as it is, I'm starting to see your point. After all, a nation pointed inward is a nation that is undoing its own support. After too long, that's not a nation at all; it's just a series of tribes that will inevitably strip-mine the greater superstructure they belong to feed the warring, balkanized tribes they become.”

Somehow she got the feeling he was citing political theory at her as a form of practice.

“Sorry, I got a little carried away there.” The Deathless sighed. “I've been reading a lot of Montez recently, trying to improve some of my more intellectual skills—especially my writing. You read Montez? The Seeds of Sin? The Decay of Nations? Something about her pessimism tickles me.”

“I… I…”

“I’m sure you have. Anyway, we’ll have all the time in the world to talk about her works soon. At least until you work off your debt to the Republic, or you die in the process, because those are the only two ways you're getting out of the Unforgiven now.” He stopped talking for a beat and looked aside. A sudden impact flashed across his body, painting a platinum slash across his torso. The ground beneath him creaked for a moment—then several of her floorboards cracked. “Sorry, I'm having a conversation with the Salamander at the same time. He's no Jessica, but still pretty good with a sword—a lot better than me. Too bad it's not going to be enough for him, especially since I sent three bodies to talk to him at the same time. You'll be seeing him soon too. So, again, don't worry about feeling alone. Anyway. This is my polite way of telling you to resign by tonight, and head to Fortress-City Diego by tomorrow. We’ll find you once you get there. And if you think about running or trying to get you and yours out of the Republic, I’ll know. I already have your pet Raven. Consorting with New Albion is treason. So. Make your choice. You can do this with honor and prestige intact, or we can pour all the mud we got on your family, and you can discover the nonexistence of noble solidarity when it comes down to the edge. Up to you.”

Without further comment, he turned as the darkness rushed toward him like a gushing tide. It splashed over his body and swallowed his presence, only to part once more as the Deathless peeked his head out. “By the way, fire your chef before you leave. I tried some of his grilled pork neck—that shit made me cry from how bad it was. Felling sack of shit poured so much cheap sugar on the pork that the meat’s practically candy. How you people managed to swallow that, I don’t know. I'll show you what you guys have been missing out on sometime, if you live long enough that is.”

Then, once more, he slipped back into the dark and departed. After a few seconds, the darkness settled as well. The oppressive shadows peeled away from the room, seeping out from the windows, peeling away from the walls until the Lobby was exposed to her once more, and true to the Deathless' word, he'd killed no one. Instead, her entire household lay in neat rows, all of them shaking, caught in the throes of a hellish fever as they foamed and twitched—infested by his grotesque plague flies.

“Ma—ma!” Her boy wheezed.

Lena held onto him. She held onto him and shook.

For what else was there to do? What else could she decide but to surrender? Even as her son continued gasping and writhing, trapped in place between consciousness and delirium. She couldn't take her eyes off the shadows of her own shadows, even because there was nowhere where the deathless might not be anymore. There was no place that was safe.

Nowhere…

Nowhere…

Nowhere…

***

Elsewhere, Shiv finished having a similar but ultimately very different conversation with the aforementioned Salamander.

Three of his bodies stood over the brutalized Legend. The man's arms were broken in so many places it seemed like modern art sculptures rather than human limbs. His arming sword was likewise shattered: a good thing he brought that and arrived without armor to this little rendezvous as well, otherwise the ambush would have devolved into an actual fight—and the collateral damage would’ve been beyond Shiv’s ability to contain.

As such, the cut he suffered was a lesson, one that reminded him not to underestimate his adversaries—even if they were newly evolved Low Legends. Better not let Jessica hear about this, or she’ll have me doing defensive drills all day.

“Now, why couldn't you just come quietly?” Shiv growled at the moaning, broken mess of a man. “You could've behaved like your friend Lena. All I needed to do was scare her a little bit. Not you. No, the moment you stepped through that door and you saw me sitting there instead of a kid, you didn't even ask me why I was there. You weren't even asking questions. I just went straight for that arm sword and tried to take my head off. Is pretty impolite—even for someone like you. Master-Architect Jelena has similar habits, but she was pretty decent about the whole thing aside from all the sobbing and begging.”

A whimper escaped the Salamander. The guy flopped around, still looking for a blade to channel his Pyromancy through.

