REDEMPTION! THE DEATHLESS HAS JOINED THE HOLY FAITHFUL OF THE ASCENDANCY!

MAGNIMITY! MERCY! WISDOM!

These words, and far, far more, can be attributed to the glorious reign of our rural Council and the Ascendancy they represent. Though there were voices before, few they might have been, who doubted the leniency the Council showed toward the Deathless for his brutal transgressions of heresy and attempt to foment rebellion, all have now come to recognize it as another example of the prescient foresight of our leaders!

Once a vicious, feral beast disguised in the guise of a man, the Deathless has been fashioned into the fist of the Republic, and a pious fist at that.

That is right, dear readers. The Deathless has joined the flock of the faithful. He has fully committed himself toward the faith of the Ascendancy and given himself to serving our Republic with his unending life. Already, the Deathless has begun his path towards absolution! Citizens and civilians have reported sightings of the Deathless serving in all manner of roles.

For him, there is no task too great and none too humble. He has been spotted on the borderlands against the southern invaders—keeping them at bay from sullying our virgin territories and fertile farmlands, and the ever-sailing Fortress-City Diego!

Indeed, ever since he broke the champion of the Wolf of No Suns, the Southern slave gods have been shaking. The sound of ringing links of steel echoes from afar, betraying their trepidation toward the prospect of facing the Republic's newest convert—and per official sources, the southern gods have sued for another recess, trying to dictate terms of peace.

Leaders with good memories might recall ploys in times past where the gods of blood and sacrifice tried to turn these brief stalls in conflict toward their advantage, planning acts of subterfuge and most devious, dastardly deception. Yet, thanks to the Deathless, all invasive acts will be met with swift reprisal, and the Republic faces no losses with every retaliatory strike. Furthermore, other citizens have made mention of the Deathless's finer, more civic rehabilitation. They have seen him fixing roads, filling potholes, and otherwise preparing public infrastructure damaged by acts of terrorism. Yet more commonly, he has been regarded as a communal chef for the poor and needy, feeding the desperate and downtrodden of his own volition and time.

Truly, the Auroral Council's wisdom is unmatched, for their will and their mercy have reforged a beast meant for ravenous violence into a most upstanding citizen among us all!

Praise be to the Yellowstone Republic! Praise be to the Auroral Council! Praise be to the Ascendancy! Praise be to their flame which enkindles us all! Praise be to the Deathless!

And as we at the Post-Eruption pray, stay the course and earn your forgiveness! Perform your duties! And perhaps in time, even one who started as an adversary and heretic might find themselves ascended to the highest halls of representation.

—

CALLING ALL SELLSWORN AND MERCENARIES! THE GATE PIETY SPECIAL ECONOMIC COLONY AND LEGEND-DEMISAINT ADAM ARROW

NEEDS YOUR AID!

—The Post-Eruption (Yellowstone Inquisition mandated propaganda outlet)

441

Pieces on the Board

Hero-Inquisitor Lena Montoya fled toward the safety of her mansion, and the dreaded darkness followed.

She felt him nipping at the back of her neck, crushing waves of fear and nothing chasing her, slashing at her, trying to pull her into the darkness where no one could hear her scream and come to her aid. The rest of her personal guard had long been lost. Heroes, all of them, swallowed by the nothingness in a startling instant. One moment it had been midday, and then all light vanished, as if the sun had been swallowed by a monster too large to imagine.

Yet the falling dark wasn’t cast from the rising moon, but a monstrous skill. It was only the sacrifice of her oldest friend, Hero-Swordsmaster Ishida, that allowed her to barely escape the first strike.

She tried to catch a glimpse of the one hunting her, but as her Divination flared bright and the system granted her insight beyond that which Awareness could reach, she found herself blind regardless. The System whispered tales of her hunter, terrible, dreadful tales, horrific images of him shredding the very god she worshipped. She watched as Daughter the Deadly was scarred by her attacker, hewn to the spirit by a blow that cleaved soul-stuff and matter alike.

The Deathless had come for her. The Councilwoman's prized enforcer had finally slipped his leash and gone rogue.

The ambush happened just as she and her guard were on their way home. Small Temples District, located in the affluent Northern Corridor of the Yellowstone Republic, was a quiet place surrounded by its namesake: a series of small temples, each one dedicated to a specific Ascendant. The core residential area consisted of a series of colossal mansions with woodland in between the walled-off properties. Dimensionals and elite guards stood on watch at all times, hired based on their Awareness rather than combat abilities. For the moment an alarm was dispatched, the Prismatic Guard would send an elite response force to render aid.

The most common danger nobles faced in the Small Temple District was inter-house espionage. Aside from a few officially sanctioned duels, deaths were practically unheard of here, but though Lana screamed, howling for someone to come to her aid, her voice never reached beyond the woods.

The darkness had already spread to envelop the horizon. But all was not yet lost. She passed through her own home’s wards, deactivating them with a gesture and a hastily composed spell shape. Failing to offer the proper sigil sequence would see her dimensionals turned upon her and a series of trapping spells unleashed to pin her in place temporally, spatially, and forcibly.

As she passed through the threshold of her property, the darkness hesitated behind. There was still a small space around her mansion that remained untouched. That indicated her wards were still active. There was a chance she might be able to alert the prismatic guard that her personal retinue sacrifice wasn't in vain. She sprinted as hard as she could, every step ripping through the manicured lawn and turning beds of dappled flowers into mashed pulp beneath her bare heels.

Though she only possessed Adept-Tier Reflexes, her Physicality was still that of a Master, and the sheer energy she put into every bounding leap had long disintegrated the formal slippers she'd been wearing. But she cared nothing for decorum or modesty by this point. She simply needed to reach her house. She needed to alert her private guard, and…

Where were the guards? The dimensionals? The Scouts? They should have come running the moment she arrived.

She didn't have time to consider that, was her house. A second set of gates was all between her and her home, but they were no true hurdle, a display of wealth and taste, each one fashioned into a symbol of her house—the clown-faced jackal from their ancestral home in the south.

Invigorated with hope, driven by desperation, and gasping for breath, she leapt high and flung herself over the red-gold spear-heads adorning the top of the gate before tumbling over her daughter’s smaller near-mansion garden.

“Gracie, Maxime, Mateo! Someone! Someone call the guard! Someone call the guard right now! Tell them to send everyone! Spring from the wards to the safe room! The safe room!” She shouted as loud as she could as she plunged into her mansion. The structure ran 200 meters long and was made up of three separate wings. Its shape and design, much different from the surrounding mansions, was a point of pride in the Montoya family, for it held on to their old traditions and kept more aspects and aesthetics of the South. Not those of the monsters that currently called the lands their home, but the Montoyos, who'd been pushed out of their ancestral lands by the gods of blood and sacrifice. But they had not gone quietly, and though their family's mithril warship they once sailed to do battle in the skies above eventually was cast down, its hull was laid to rest alongside Lena's great-grandfather, the one who'd secured them a spot of nobility within the Yellowstone Republic. For it was his commitment and valor during the war against the Storm King that won them a critical battle over the high tides of the Atlantic.

As such, her mansion didn't so much have front doors as it did an open space leading into a central hall, with the long lobby extending for twenty meters before breaking off in four different directions.

And there was not a single soul in sight. Outside, her guards may have simply been too spread out to immediately notice her, even if that was immensely unlikely, but here there should be servants and guards aplenty. At least one of her children should be near—

As she staggered further into her mansion, her heart dropped as the flame of hope within her was extinguished. The insides of her home were drowned in a sea of terror-inducing darkness, and a narrow valley formed amidst the black. A long path extended down, revealing a plush crimson carpet covered in clambering, grotesque monstrosities. They resembled flies made from muscle, sinew, and flesh, covered in skin, and each one the size of her torso. They skittered away like cockroaches disturbed by the light. All of them retreated into the darkness by the wayside.

The chasm of shadows finally finished parting. There on the floor was her Mateo, her eldest son. His arm looked like it had been twisted the wrong way. Definitely broken, and his legs were sprawled out, twitching and spasming. His eyes were rolling, and his armor was battered and cracked, broken and ruptured in ways she couldn't imagine. It shouldn't have been possible. One shouldn't be able to misshape adamantine like it was made from tin. Yet that was the state of her son's form, and she rushed forward, her mind going blank as parental instinct overcame her personal desire for safety. She screamed her son's name and gathered him into her arms. To her relief, she realized he was alive, his heartbeat thundering loudly, but his eyes were white and bloodshot, and foam dripped down from his lips.

Then a spill of light fell upon her, a light that cascaded down from the ceiling as her crystalline chandelier was revealed. The darkness hugged the walls and moved like living fog—she couldn't shake the feeling that it was relishing this moment, that it fed upon her terror. And then another shadow fell over her, a shadow that was preceded by heavy footsteps which shook the ground below. Lena Montoya went deathly still. Her blood went from thundering hot to being like frozen mud in an instant.

She didn't want to look up. She didn't want to lift her head, for she knew he was here. He had always been here and had been playing with her from the start. Yet she was a Hero of the Inquisition. And even if this was to be her fate, she needed to muster some dignity after all. She needed to figure out some way to reveal his misdeeds here, to hint at the perpetrator behind her murder or abduction, so that the rest of the Republic might see her saved or avenged.

Slowly, mustering, gathering all her courage, she lifted her head, and it was the hardest thing she'd ever done in her life. It was like struggling against the weight of an entire ocean. A weight of nightmare and horror. A weight that pressed against her, but then, for seemingly almost no reason at all, receded. But she knew. There was a reason. There was another will. The darkness softened, and she found herself looking up at the exposed face of the deathless. He was more than what the papers said, more than how they portrayed him in the flame-sculptings and animated illustrations. He seemed large next to most humans, but in person, he was absurd to behold, a literal humanoid behemoth that was closer to the size of a small building than an individual.

Then there were his magic fields—the ones Lena could sense anyway. His Biomancy was coiled around his body. Twelve crimson heads of serpentine design were bound tight, clutching him in an embrace of flesh magic and power. Then there was a small, glinting fire that hovered behind him. It scintillated and hissed, but though its presence was paltry upon viewing, he felt an explosive potential within it, and it was simmering, filling the atmosphere with a yearning to immolate—almost as if it had a will of its own.

The darkness spilled out from behind him, dancing and gliding like an extended cape cast out from his person. His body was a temple of ridiculousness, for it was in part bone, several parts chitin, skull-like in design, but also fused together of bacon strips, of vegetables, of cream and other things at the top of his helmet. He stared at her from within the open slots of his helm. She saw his pale, bright eyes and sensed his killing intent, and she struggled not to shudder. She struggled, and she failed. She shook, she whimpered, and she let herself go, a puddle of piss spreading out from her, staining the body, staining the armor of her son in her indignity.

She couldn't do it. She couldn't think. She couldn't muster the courage required. She was no warrior, not nearly. All she could do now was beg and plead and hope.

“Please, no. Please. I don't understand. I don't know why you're doing this. I don't know why you're here. I don't get it. I don't. You—you—you—can’t do this! I am an Inquisitor and noblewoman—Councilwoman Chandler knows me by name! She does! You can’t do this!”

