“Yeah, yeah, look, I'll fix you up in a moment, but just so you know, I'm going to beat the shit out of you several more times. I know it's kind of mean and cruel on my part, but in my defense, you're a godsdamn pedophile who drew his sword on me. So, uh, not a great start to our coming friendship.”

Shiv struggled against the urns to stomp the man's groin one more time. Considering it was more paste than penis by this point, there wouldn't be that much more damage he could do besides killing the man. That was one of his restrictions. Legends were precious. No matter what they did to those beneath them, a civilization was built on output efficiency and what the individual could do for the whole. In exchange, an extraction was to be made, or so Montez wrote. If that was the real shape of the world, the Deathless got why Montez took herself out of the game after just 40 years of life.

What a bleak felling world to live in. I get the arguments about efficiency and value of High-Tier pathbearers, but… what’s stopping the low from betraying their home to the supposed enemy if they live in hell anyway? This is why the Republic has a K-shaped crime problem, Veronica. Because it’s not a crime when nobles do this, and the citizens suffer in the end anyway.

Shiv just sighed as he looked up at the ceiling. Ceiling dotted with happy, smiley-faced stars. In front of him, covered in blood, was a blue blanket embroidered with happy unicorns and the words “You’re special!” in the form of a speech bubble. There was supposed to be a child here. A child spent to keep the Salamander topped off. “The fuck’s the difference between an individual and a monster if this is how we treat the children?” Shiv asked Simon—but also himself.

Neither of them had a good answer; both of them shared states of extreme discomfort.

All across the Republic, four other Vitaeforged vessels operated in tandem with fifty-four lesser golems as another night of conversations came to an end. Things down south were getting uglier than the rags were talking, but war might not be certain just yet. Especially if he could keep playing the Southern Gods against each other to break their massing forces before they concentrate and push.

But to do that, they needed more High-Tier volunteers. And more lives.

Always more lives.

Empire was a vampire. Just like society. Nobility fed from the common folk, and now Shiv—and by extension the Council—were feeding from the nobles when they could to supply a special military operations unit rather than involving the guard itself. Especially with the unexpected rebellion happening up in the north by the Brighamite Rebels.

Everyone beneath the top was pieces on a board, just like the Faceless Queen said.

“Well…” Shiv sniffled. “Gotta play the game to learn the game. And the best thing about being a piece like me is I can spend myself over and over again. Can’t stay the same for you, Simon. And I have to say, it’s not looking great for you. Not great for your friends either, but especially you. Because you’re going to be part of the frontliners with me, and I gotta tell you, when I’m involved, every mission is a suicide mission.”

A new series of noises escaped the Salamander. None of them were very dignified. But that’s the way of people. When the pain and misery got to a point where no one lived up to their own mythology, what could one do?

Alright. I think I’m getting ready to call this a night. We should have enough fodder for another few missions at least. Teach me to improve my Awareness too; not going to let the Bitch of No Suns stalk me back to another hideout and slaughter us again like last time. But that’s for later. Now, I need to shift my Awareness back over to the Gate—maybe that’ll finally drive my Legion of Self over the evolution edge. System knows I need it.

System knew the Gate needed him in play now more than ever as well. With Roland out of commission during his Respec Delve, the godsdamned invaders would be trying out all sorts of snake-fuckery to finally breach Gate Piety. The news was suppressed for now, but the Town Lord has been missing for three days now, and sooner or later, someone was going to figure out that he was really out of the picture for now—and that someone would move their ugly lips to speak a series of words that will reach the ears of some nosy idiot who would tell it to the next.

After that, it was just a question of who heard it first: the Lords of Law; the Blood Elders; the Southern Gods; or the Challenger—if the Challenger didn’t already know.

And this news might just be enough to have the Southern assholes join in and take the spot left open by the giants of the north.

And we don’t need another front. Shiv frowned. Already have enough bullshit to contend with down in the Abyss; I need to keep the surface clean so Uva doesn’t go insane holding two gateways at once.

As much as he hated the orc god, the bastard was a more preferable enemy to have. He wasn’t just trying to overrun the gate with raw numbers—though he had them. Instead, he let his orcs play to their own orchestral tunes, and right now, they were just skirmishing—content to let their lesser partners do the dying for them. And a lot of dying they did: against Shiv, Roland, Uva, Adam, Valor, the Rangers, and all the other monsters gathering at Gate Piety.

It wasn’t just their enemies who had numbers. Strife was easier to resist when it wasn’t just you on the fighting line. For all the time he spent in active combat, Shiv was a neophyte when it came to actual war. The thing about war: It was mostly extreme boredom and dull anxiety followed by desperate chaotic combat and coordination and then victory or death—but more often a temporary lull that left you uncertain if you won or not.

At least people could be rotated off the fighting lines to maintain their sanity. Shiv didn’t even know that shit was a thing for people. He didn’t even realize people suffered that much burnout and fatigue from combat. Most of its referential experience in combat was High-Tiers and outliers. Adam. Uva. Roland. Valor. The hard bastards he’d killed, and the ones he was going to kill.

Fighting alongside the “normals” was a sobering experience. Sobering in terms of battle, and sobering in how often they just died.

Shiv wanted them to do less of that. Which was why he chose to twin Golemancy as his leftover Quest reward from the Fairwoods. Which was why he needed to push his Legion of Self to the next Tier. Because he drank fire from death while it swallowed others and made them nothing.

These three days without Roland were bitter medicine. The moment he was out of commission, the invaders started their third push on Gate Piety. Shiv and the Town Lord had been sizing each other up in battle—but there was little question of who was finer in war. Without the Dread Horizon, more people died across all their sectors as infiltrators drew close and one crisis followed another. Shiv tried; Shiv could be multiple places at once, but even so, he didn’t have the right combination of skills, experience, and instincts to be Roland Arrow.

And that didn’t bode well for their coming duel still scheduled at the ned of the month.

Tonight’s the night we tip those scales, Shiv breathed. Just a little more and we’ll be through the bottleneck.

This time, Shiv would see things settled for good. Or he would be inspired to try again, because he wasn’t stopping until he kicked Roland’s ass once—even if it took a hundred years. It wasn’t even leftover animosity by this point; it was pure pride on the line, and more than just his. Over in Fortress-City Diego, Stormhalt and Jessica had been putting through the paces month after month. Back in the academy, he’d been filling his mind with knowledge as well. Experience wasn’t ever going to be his edge against Roland, but every little bit helped. And the only thing more dangerous than an overwhelming, indestructible monster was a competent overwhelming, indestructible monster.

Maybe that would be enough. With a little creativity, number superiority, and raw, monstrous power, it might be enough.

But there was still the question of what kind of Unique Legendary Skill Evolution Roland was going to achieve once he rose out from his Delve.

“Alright, Simon. Gonna fix you up now. I’m going to tell you not to try and attack me again, but actually, go for it. I wanna see you try that cut again so I can get used to that speed. Just think of it as a favor from you to me, alright? Maybe this might be the final push to break one of my recent bottlenecks? Like for my Legion of Self. You think you can do that for me, buddy?”

Simon curled into a ball instead.

“Aw. Come on. Don’t be a fucking child.”

Name: Tanner “Shiv” Lowe

Age: 19

Race: Human

Path:

Deathless

Feats [7/13]:

He Who Rises From Ash Eternal (Unique) – Allows the Pathbearer to quickly learn new Skills and advance existing Skills through repeated deaths.

Master of Rage (Master) – Allows the Pathbearer to infuse a skill with rage to increase its effectiveness. Consumes the Pathbearer’s anger.

Causal Scargiver (Unique) – Causes the injuries inflicted by the Pathbearer to be scarred upon their enemy across time and causality.

Dread-Tainted (Legendary) – The Pathbearer has left a divine being scared with terror. Gods have fled your presence. You are now a source of absolute fear. Allows the Pathbearer to lace their Skills with the divine entity’s lingering terror.

Grudge-Tethered (Heroic) – Allows the Pathbearer to strike once at an enemy who has wounded them from any distance.

Practicing Atheist (Legendary) - You have performed an act of unfaith, wounding a god using the powers of their very own Domain. Your insolence will not go unnoticed—or unrewarded. Your Magical Resistance has gained a new layering. Though the heavens might spit their edicts, you bear an apostate’s armor forged from your own deeds.

Inland Embassy (Legendary) - You have shaken monsters and rendered doubt upon gods with nothing more than your word and your words. Within your persuasion is a seed for peace or the fuel for war, but whatever you do, whatever you say, whoever you face, you know that to subvert another's will is to win a battle before it even begins. When you shake someone's heart and mind, you will leave a portion of yourself inside of them, and you will be able to talk to them regardless of their location, so long as they are capable of dialogue.

Skills:

Riding Proficiency (Common) 14

Lance Proficiency (Common) 5

Accounting (Common) 15

Engineering (Common) 5

Leadership (Initiate) 43

Baking (Initiate) 48

Barter (Initiate) 34

Poetry (Initiate) 34

Faith (Initiate) 22

Alchemy (Initiate) 25

Physics (Initiate) 50 (Skill Evolution Imminent)

Aeromancy (Initiate) 39

Geomancy (Initiate) 42

Cryomancy (Initiate) 43

Racism (Initiate) 50 (Skill Evolution Imminent)

Hypocrisy (Initiate) 4

Mathematics (Initiate) 34

Coping (Initiate) 44

Geography (Initiate) 23

Analyze (Initiate) 29

Portomancy (Initiate) 35

Magical Theory (Initiate) 40

Spear Proficiency (Initiate) 19

Hydromancy (Initiate) 46

Comedy (Initiate) 40

Deductive Reasoning (Initiate) 49

Gun Proficiency (Initiate) 44

Technology (Initiate) 40

Scheming Bastard (Adept) 50 (Skill Evolution Imminent)

Gardener of Doubt (Adept) 99

The Snake Entombed of Lightning and Thunder (Adept) 96

Metaphysics (Adept) 31

Snapshot (Adept) 81

Target Lock (Adept) 88

Lessons of Scarcity (Adept) 53

Junior Lorescribe (Adept) 67

Character Actor (Adept) 52

Tactics (Initiate) 48

Subtle Firebrand (Adept) 71

Tome-eater (Adept) 88

Atlas of the Flesh Scryer (Master) 193

Return To Sender (Master) 190

Legion of Self (Master) 200 (Skill Evolution Imminent)

Horizon Caster (Master) 81

Aegis of Assimilation (Heroic) 277

Inertial Overdrive (Heroic) 431

This Vessel of Pestilence and Panacea (Heroic) 212

Trespasser Shaped of Dread and Null (Heroic) 312

Suffer the Implacable Dialectic (Heroic) 181

Vitality Drain (Legendary) 301

Leviathan of the Shapeless Tides (Legendary) 580

Harbinger of Tripartite Ruin (Legendary) 450

Skill Twinning Applied: This Severed Shadow of Blood and Bladed Soul (Unique) >  Golemancy (Unique) 56

Continuity Error (Unique) 302

This Severed Shadow of Blood and Bladed Soul (Unique) 378

Garden of Wounds and Broken Things (Unique) 201

Nihilism Be My Hearth, My Banquet (Unique) 382

Onus of the Scarforged Unbreakable (Legendary-Unique) 532

Lord Commander of the Slumbering Uneaten (Narrative)

Blessings:

Song of the Vigilant - Allows the Pathbearer to maintain absolute focus while the song is active. The song will expand out from the Pathbearer as a web and form a Resonant Perimeter.

Scion of Pain - I will come to know your highest potential, Deathless. And when the time comes, I will bleed you as you have bled me—or find a blissful end in the process. I grant you this boon as I have bequeathed you my former arm—Become the heart of agony; become the nexus of destruction. Live up to your inevitable promise.
