“If you’d ever met the man, you’d know he’s like a rock. Unshakable! I’m going to advise Werdin tomorrow to take a soft touch with him. All this negativity he’s going to get is bad enough. The worst thing would be to push him away.”
As a citizen of Pallass, and a [Socialite], that was her take. Let the south rage at him; they didn’t see that genuine affection she’d seen—and been jealous of—when he gazed at Lady Pryde. Gunpi nodded, but with a frown.
“Yeah, get me someone who looks at me with a bag over my head like that. That’s good. So…they’re not doing anything right now?”
Something about the way she said that made Melika pause and her wingfeathers itch.
“No. Why?”
“Well, I swore I heard Sir Relz calling for a City Runner as I went out. Something about ‘sending Grimalkin a plan of action’? But they were arguing over who sold the best accessories first. Something about either wristbands or chokers.”
Melika’s beak opened. She stood there in such horror that Rose and Gunpi grew alarmed. Then she squawked and took off, flying into one of the patio doors, then through the mansion, shouting for Werdin. By the time he came stumbling downstairs in a bathrobe and heard her out, it was too late of course. Even with a [Message] to the Runner’s Guild…
 
——
 
Lady Pryde Ulta was reading letters in her rooms in Grimalkin’s mansion. He’d accorded her rooms because she should have a place that was her own, even if she preferred not to be alone. It was that curious thoughtfulness that she liked in him.
Well, among other things. For all his insights, he was amazingly dense in other ways. For instance, he truly hadn’t anticipated the reaction to his speech on live television.
She had.
She’d been prepared for this the moment she’d realized he wouldn’t leave and she couldn’t chase him away and didn’t want to. Say many things, but Pryde was no fool.
So, letters. Most were from predictable names. Some were unpleasant, friends she’d thought she had, but she read them, then made notes. She also filled a magical trashbin that had a storage spell on it, thankfully.
Too many black roses for any regular wastebasket. Lady Pryde smiled as she came to one letter she did like. It was from Wuvren and simply read.
 
My dear, you’re head-over-heels, aren’t you? You must come by to tell me all about it. Don’t falter now! Love and kisses,
-W.
 
For a woman she’d never gotten along with out of jealousy and other reasons, Pryde really appreciated it. She touched the black lipstick mark and then added it to her ‘save’ letters. Even Magnolia had written a letter in pink.
Pryde nearly tore the one up that said from ‘House Walchaís’. But after a moment, she placed it to the side, unopened. She glanced out the window, wondering if the crowd would be back tomorrow; the Watch had dispersed them, but it would get worse.
She was content, but was he…? That was where Pryde’s confidence faltered. She glanced towards the other room where she’d heard Grimalkin return.
“Grimalkin? Was it an emergency?”
“Just a letter. Normally the Runner’s Guild filters the spam.”
“Oh. Anything important?”
 
——
 
Sinew Magus Grimalkin read the untidy handwriting and the signatures on the bottom of the letter addressed to him.
From ‘concerned members of Pallass’. He read the letter three times, forcing himself to read each sentence and commit it to memory, though it burned him more than profane magics to memorize.
One should remember what was said, perfectly. Especially when the stakes were important, and this letter was written and signed with that intent. Even if it stank of substances that he suspected were highly illicit—
Well, the Watch wouldn’t take this as proof anyways. And I didn’t trace the Street Runner’s path. I wonder if I could.
Those were absent thoughts on the edge of the Sinew Magus’s [Calm]-enforced discipline. After the third re-read, he shredded the letter with his claws.
“Nothing, Pryde. How are you doing?”
He placed the remains under a book on his desk and walked to her rooms. Rather to his unpleasant surprise, he found her sitting on her bed with a pile of empty envelopes she was kicking into the wastebin. They covered the black flowers, and he opened his mouth to say something—
Then saw the same yellow letter in her hands he had just shredded. He whirled.
“How—? Did they send a second—?”
His blood boiled, but the [Lady] just raised an eyebrow at him. And he remembered. Soft power classes were the most annoying to fight everywhere.
“If I thought it would help, I’d do it. I have heard of similar things being done in the north with poor Drakes and Gnolls, if not so explicit.”
That was all she said as he snatched the letter back. Grimalkin began to shout, then modulated his voice.
“I would never ask—I would never permit such a thing.”
Her gaze softened, and Lady Pryde got up. She put her hands delicately on his arms, as if he were the fragile one. Few people treated him like that. Only her.
“Oh, Grimalkin. You should have known it would be difficult.”
“There is no reasoning behind it. No logical reasoning—I have debated those willing to engage in civil discussion. Are we a species ruled by mindless, reactionary bigotry or logic and evidence?”
“Do you want the answer to that?”
He thought she was teasing him until he saw the sympathetic look in her eyes. Grimalkin sat down on her bed.
“I thought Erin Solstice was the only one who could deliver truths capable of breaking one’s spirit in a few words. The notion my own city could do the same is…disheartening.”
“It’s not all of them.”
“No. No, of course not.”
He tried to reframe it, understand the numbers of those visibly detracting from…it didn’t work. Lady Pryde leaned against him and murmured.
“It will become far harder.”
She spoke without mercy or any softness. Like a jagged edge of salt that her people mined, and it stung in his open wounds. But the Sinew Magus of Pallass just gazed at her.
He didn’t say something as trite as, ‘it is still worth it’. Or, ‘I would never change my decision were this a thousand times worse’. Or…then he decided he should say those things.
It had occurred to Grimalkin, after a few conversations with Jelaqua, Nanette, and Ishkr, all of whom he regarded as superiors in the romantic realm in some way, that many problems could be avoided if he took the example of Lord Tyrion Veltras.
If the man would not say something, Grimalkin should say it and thus do the opposite of Lord Tyrion except in a few notable ways.
So, he turned to Lady Pryde and smiled. She frowned at him.
“What?”
“I am merely attempting to formulate a list of the many ways I wish to inform you of my admiration and love for you. I regret that I know so few languages in which to express my feelings.”
Her eyes widened, and he took her hands. Ah, yes.
Then all was right in the world.
But the Sinew Magus vowed not to forget. Pallass and Izril could say what it wished to him. But never sully his Pryde.
