The Drake was trying to beam his thoughts out of his head into the others. He tried to explain, shooting to his feet in sudden excitement.
“Yes! It’s because she’s a [Lady] and he’s not! That makes it seem like she’s better than he is. Therefore, better than us! Some Human noblewoman marries the Sinew Magus when he’s of lower rank to her—it’s power imbalance!”
“Aaaah! Aaaah!”
Chorlic and Werdin pointed at the Drake, beaming. Werdin snapped his claws after five tries.
“That’s it! We have to elevate the Sinew Magus! A Lord of the Wall!”
He raised his voice, and then there was a visible hesitation around the group. Sir Relz lifted his hand, palm outwards.
“No—no, wait, that’s going too far.”
“Wait, that’s right. We can’t just elevate him for no good reason. We did that for Chaldion, but that’s because it was Chaldion. Plus, it makes it look like that’s to equalize them. So…so…”
Lady Duskal had joined the conversation, having come down off one trance-high into another.
“So we bring her down.”
“Right. How?”
“What if…we can’t strip her titles. What if—what if we had the Sinew Magus show Pallass, show the south, who’s in charge? Like—like—I don’t know, put a leash on her?”
Melika sat upright and laughed.
“That’s the stupidest idea I’ve ever heard!”
She turned to Werdin and realized no one was laughing. He was nodding along like a bobbleheaded toy.
“That’s brilliant. Have her wear something or—or demonstrate her loyalties to Pallass. What about a neckband and community service? For her crimes against Pallass? Her family’s crimes and all the dead Drakes and Gnolls.”
“Werdin, you’re a genius.”
Wall Lord Chorlic got up and embraced his friend. There was a round of applause as the group gasped and leapt to their feet. They’d done it!
“Hold on. I think…that’s a bad idea. She’d never do it.”
Scowls turned on Melika as she tried to think. It sounded like a good idea…? Or did it…? Someone harrumphed at her.
“Well then, she’s not actually in love with the Sinew Magus, is she? Maybe a collar’s too obvious. What about a wristband? Some kind of subtle…thing. Then everyone knows, but it’s not noticeable. Chokers aren’t in vogue, anyways.”
“I like that. I like that. What if we made every visitor wear one who’s not from the south? Put a tracking spell on it?”
“You’re a genius. I’m a genius. And if they really want to show loyalty, they can get a scale-etching, or what do the Humans call it? A tattoo…!”
Melika got up after a second. She felt dizzy. She felt like this was all bad ideas, but why…?
She had to go to a window and crack it open and breathe in and out several times before something occurred to her.
I’ve been drugged. No, wait, I knew that, but…
“Melika. Melika—something’s wrong.”
She turned and found her friend was there. Sharke. The Dullahan’s pupils were large in her face, and they were…swirling? They gave Melika the impression they were rotating.
“Sharke, you’re drugged out. You didn’t eat something, did you?”
“No. Your eyes are swirling too, Melika. The burners…someone lit too many. Or it’s too strong. Help…one of the new girls is over there.”
She pointed, and Melika saw a young Drake girl, perhaps a mere [Social Climber], [Partygoer], or even just [Popular Girl], was slumped across a chair. Someone was trying to rouse her, suggesting they go together—
Melika and Sharke almost tossed the man aside. He might have been well-intentioned; Sharke lifted the girl up.
“What did you eat?”
“N-nothing? I feel like I’m flying. Don’t lift me up, I’ll fall, I’ll fall—”
She was panicking. Melika steered her towards the table.
“What’s not spiked? Water, she needs water and bread.”
They made the young woman eat and drink despite her protests; it had an immediate effect on her, and she calmed slightly. Some of the other [Socialites] not with a partner had noticed something was wrong too.
“This isn’t Roama’s Fancy. Someone’s laced it with something a lot stronger. Damn. I thought I heard someone bragging about a delivery from overseas.”
Melika slapped her cheeks, hard, and focused up more.
“Nomaudrel? They have warning labels and how much you’re supposed to take.”
They were very good about it, actually. If she got anything, it was from Cont’dvalle, where you could get the highest-class stuff without worries someone had diluted or spiked it. The Gnoll smoking on a white stick gave Melika a wry gaze.
“Nope. Too expensive, so they had a ‘new’ broker. Empire of Sands, Chandrar. For all we know, they might have ignored the warnings either way. Here, take a puff of this. It’s a Cleansing Cigarette. There’s a Centaur in Liscor who sells me them.”
Melika took a huge puff, letting the smoke linger inside her lungs, then exhaled it. She recoiled from the foul, orange smog she released.
“Can I leave our new friend with you all? I have to get my husband, and Sharke has Lord Chorlic.”
“Sure. We’re out. This is a disaster. I threw open three windows and told security. We’d better all clear out before someone makes a scene and the Watch gets involved or they do something really stupid. Hey, kid, what’s your name?”
The Drake girl was panting.
“L-Lilac.”
“Uh huh. Sure that’s your name.”
“I’m with Senator Ciltrel. I can’t just go—”
The Gnoll [Socialite] took Lilac’s arm.
“You can, and you will. C’mon, he’ll forgive you, and if not, you don’t want to be here anyways. This is one snort of Selphid’s Dust from everyone eating each other.”
That was a more prescient comment than Melika liked. She strode over to Werdin and seized him; the think-tank group was coming up with more ideas for the Grimalkin situation, and they were getting more and more extreme. Sir Relz was writing everything down, monocle digging into his scales as he grinned.
“Werdin, we have to go. Right now.”
“Later, Melika. This is gold.”
He pushed at her, but she grabbed him and offered the others a fake smile.
“I’m so terribly sorry everyone, but it’s Salkis. Our daughter’s up to a bit of trouble. Werdin, it’s important.”
He hesitated, but then got up with a curse. The others barely noticed, but Sharke had gotten Chorlic up as well with the far simpler implication that they should have sex, right now. The two pushed the two Drakes towards the door.
“My coat and—”
“Forget it!”
Melika thought the air had cleared a bit inside, but when they burst out of the Dragonfire Museum into the actual fresh air of the 6th Floor, she gasped the cool spring air and realized how much she’d been inhaling.
“Ancestors, I need another smoke from that cigarette! Who did she say sold her that…? I’ll buy some now!”
Sharke was feeling at her hair and face. Instantly, Melika grabbed a perfume bottle of the most smelly stuff she had and sprayed Sharke, Werdin, and Chorlic with it.
“Hey! You got my eyes!”
“Hush!”
A group of [Guards] were coming. They eyed the quartet, and one of the Gnolls began sneezing at the insane amount of perfume in the air. But they didn’t pick up drugs—Werdin and Chorlic froze, then waved as Melika and Sharke breathed in and out slowly.
“Good job, Melika.”
The Dullahan patted Melika on the arm, and Lord Werdin blinked a few times. He snapped his fingers under Chorlic’s eyes, and the man started.
“What the hell did we just—? What was in those damn lanterns? I was out of my mind there, and so were you and everyone else!”
Werdin was visibly shaken too. He felt at his clothing, then nodded at Melika.
“Good work, Melika. I’m going to lodge a complaint with…! They’re still in there. Should we do something?”
“I think security will break it up soon. I don’t believe we should be anywhere near the Dragonfire Museum. We were all at our mansion if there are any arrests or…incidents. Which is where we were all night. We had a walk, and we’re going back now.”
Melika emphasized this, and they all began speed-walking back to her and Werdin’s estate. The Drake just kept turning back.
“I swear, I thought it was a good idea to just—”
“Dogwalk a [Lady] of the north?”
The idea sounded even more insane when Chorlic said it out loud. Melika couldn’t believe she’d even laughed at that.
“Who set up the night’s meeting, Chorlic? Werdin?”
“I don’t know, but whomever they are, they’ve got some explaining to do. I heard things were more edgy on the 8th, but that’s far and above…”
Sharke rubbed at the back of her neck a few times before disengaging her head; she had a bit of filth from the incense built up on her armor, and Melika needed a bath for her feathers.
“Senator Ciltrel was the heart of the room. Before you all had that huge think-session, he said he was on the rise because of new allies. Some sort of multi-city group of like-minded thinkers.”
Werdin wasn’t impressed.
“You always get those. Multi-city loyalties or someone lobbying him for support?”
Sharke shook her head.
“No, he was referencing Zeres specifically. I think it’s that new [Lady] I’ve heard rumors about. Wall Lady Shaullile and her Alliance of Free Thinkers? I’ll watch out for anything advertising their idea of fun.”
Melika hadn’t ever heard that name before. She frowned, wondering if she’d been too preoccupied with Pallassian politics recently and taken her thumb off the larger scale. Well, that damn Jelaqua…
 
——
 
The return to their estates was uneventful. Once there, Wall Lord Chorlic and Sharke departed with thanks; from the way the Wall Lord was asking if Sharke was doing anything tomorrow, his impression of her talents had deepened.
Werdin was also grateful to Melika for getting him out of there. He was clearly rattled and went off to summon a personal [Healer] who could be discreet and cleanse anything remaining.
Melika just had a bath on her patio. She washed herself thoroughly, then had the presence of mind to send a Street Runner to search for the other [Socialites] she knew.
“Gunpi, are you and the others alright?”
Gunpi, the Gnoll [Socialite]—or ‘Grumpy’ as she was nicknamed—scowled as she showed Melika the butt of her Cleansing Cigarette. She blew smoke across the servants eying the bedraggled group of mostly-female partygoers.
“Fine. We got everyone who wasn’t engaged or out-of-their-minds out. I had to actually toss a bucket of water on one couple. They thanked me before they left.”
“You’re welcome to stay the night if you don’t have places to be. Werdin’s calling for a [Healer]. Drinks, food?”
The troupe marched into Melika’s sitting room with gratitude. Melika knew most of the older [Socialites], and even if they’d had rivalries, well, they were in the same boat. She’d landed a husband and power, they hadn’t.
Grumpy Gunpi, who was on the edge of being young enough to do this song and dance, was smoking on the balcony with one of the young women that Melika vaguely recognized. She frowned at the young woman, wondering where…
“That was ugly in there. I’ve never seen it that bad, and I’ve been doing this a decade longer than you, Melika. Worse, though, was that they were into it. That wasn’t someone overdoing the dosings. The longer you stayed in there, the more you felt like everyone was a genius. If they’re not arrested, I think half that lot will want to go back for a round two. Me, if I sniff that cocktail twice, I’m walking out.”
Melika nodded. She eyed the newcomer, whom she didn’t recall from the 8th Floor gathering at all. Yet again, they had met somewhere. The girl was drinking a goat’s milk and gasping for air.
“It was a bad scene. Sharke thought it had to do with a Wall Lady in Zeres…? But I didn’t ask her why she was so specific.”
The young woman glanced up, and Gunpi raised one brow.
“Hm? Oh, that’s a good guess. I know who she’s talking about even if I’m too addled for the name. She uses a lot of drugs, I’ve heard. Some of the most outrageous ‘parties’ you’ve heard of. Real deep stuff. The kind where you wear a mask and illusion spell and deny knowing about it.”
Melika shivered. That was too deep for her. The most she’d gotten up to in her youth was a few drunken encounters behind a couch or in the curtains where you might get caught out.
“Well, we have plenty of rooms for the night. Who’s this? What happened to that new girl, Lilac?”
She peered at the young woman, who was distinctly Human. She seemed…well, she was definitely some kind of [Charmer], and Grumpy Gunpi bared her teeth in an amused smile.
“That’s the one funny part about tonight. We hustled everyone out, and guess who was so addled she accidentally dropped whatever illusion spell she had on?”
She pinched the cheek of the young woman and got a yelp.
“Hey! Stop that! I’m sorry! Thank you for helping with—with—”
Melika put on her best ‘I am serious and adult’ face and put her hands on her hips.
“If you’re going to do that again, young woman, you’d better listen to Grumpy—I mean, Gunpi here.”
Gunpi tried to step on her toes as the young woman blushed.
“Thank you. I was just…I’m Rose.”
“Sure you are.”
Both Melika and Gunpi chorused. The young woman nearly dropped her goat’s milk.
“No, I am!”
Melika patted her on the head. She thought the girl was far too young for this, but she’d been that age or younger herself when…
Wait a second. Her eyes narrowed as she recalled seeing Rose with Jelaqua! Melika had been so hammered drunk she’d assumed that Rose was just another [Socialite]. Well, well. She held her tongue on that meeting, but it made her fix Rose in her memory. [Special Contacts List]—someone to take note of.
Gunpi slung an arm around the girl’s shoulder.
“Yes, yes, and I used to call myself ‘Nightfur’. At least you weren’t stupid enough to drink. Let’s get you inside before I figure out if you’re a new fish or just never ran into that before. By the by, Melika. What’s going on with Sinew Magus Grimalkin?”
Rose turned as Melika grimaced.
“Oh, that. Given how insane the night was, I think nothing much. It’s clear that they believe Pallass needs to make sure he’s loyal, but exactly how, no one had a good idea for. You should have heard the things they wanted him or that [Lady] to do.”
Gunpi nodded, face half-shadowed.
“Must be hard. I think someone wrote on his gymnasium wall this morning. ‘Traitor’ or something—”
“Grimalkin’s no—”
The Gnoll woman put a hand over Rose’s mouth.
“Yes, yes, kid. The adults are talking. Melika knows the real movers and shakers. Melika?”
The Garuda sighed.
