Oh, yes, they’d all seen that Archmage soar. Somehow, the sight of a Human woman in her sixties flying upwards was more impressive than a hundred people born with wings. Not just because she’d done it when she’d been born without the ability to fly.
It was the drama of the moment. Seeing Archmage Amerys stealing Valeterisa’s work, the way one was so clearly stronger, bullying—yes, bullying Valeterisa, even if it came in the form of grand spells and magic? That struck a chord as well with anyone who had ever longed to fight back or see someone get what they deserved. And who was a bigger villain or bully than one of the King of Seven’s warriors?
It struck a chord on so many levels, that woman’s story.
Pallass was abuzz with it. Dead gods, Izril was.
On the heels of Archmage Valeterisa’s battle with Archmage Amerys, and the advent of Lord Mireden, there were people eyeing Liscor as a place to go to. Rumors of some academy were spreading. And you had children, young adults, and adults themselves wondering—
Could that be me?
Because it was one thing to see Archmage Amerys throwing lightning around or the half-Giant withstanding a storm of magic. But Valeterisa didn’t look like the last of a legendary species or a heroine from stories.
Of course, the trick was that you’d delude yourself into thinking she hadn’t worked harder than anyone else to get there, but the dream…that was changing Izril. It benefited Pallass in no small way; Drakes and Gnolls might well come to Pallass as the acceptable gateway to the north. But it was not a perfect afterwards for Pallass.
An incident had occured. A tragedy, really. The makings of one so upsetting, so hindering to the City of Inventions it outweighed all the good from that moment, even seeing the King of Destruction’s [Mage] humbled.
That was, of course, Grimalkin the Sinew Magus of Pallass and his dramatic confession on air. Everyone had seen it. While it had been overshadowed by the magical duel, now, in the aftermath, it was being discussed. Tragic, so tragic…
“I think something has to be done, I truly do. I’m not the one pushing for it, but—we’ll see what they have to say. Melika, you have your [Socialite]…powers. What’s the mood of the citizenry like?”
Lord Werdin Blackwing was adjusting his doublet as they got out of the elevator for their rendezvous on the 6th Floor—a private gathering spot, the Dragonfire Museum. It was ostensibly a huge building with twin pillars supporting a roof that stretched almost to the ‘ceiling’, where 7th Floor sheltered it. A massive and public space that exhibited some of Pallass’ treasures and history for the public.
However, the size of the building did not match the museum size: it had six floors that were private and had been converted into office space. And a fully functional kitchen that occupied an entire floor. And a ballroom.
After 11 PM, the entire museum closed unless you were a Ruby-card carrier, in which case you had the run of the building, and wasn’t that fantastic if the rich and powerful needed a place to gather but didn’t want their servants picking up all the trash for a week thereafter?
Melika Blackwing knew it well. It was the kind of place you only got invited to if you were truly ‘in’ with Pallass’ high society. Someone like Jelaqua Ivirith, Grimalkin, or even Chaldion would never appear here for various reasons.
Jelaqua Ivirith. Melika clenched a feathered fist as she exited the elevator in a scandalously befeathered dress that looked tribal—not that she’d know what was culturally insensitive, but it was no ballroom dress. This was rather less formal, and Werdin only wore the doublet because he didn’t have anything more casual.
“Hm? What? The mood in Pallass? There’s a lot of confusion around this Lady Pryde now that everyone’s put it together, dear. But the Sinew Magus is enduringly popular. It’s more scandalous than outrageous for most of the young folk, I think. I heard everyone at the orphanage talking about it.”
Rather intently too. Werdin grunted as he rubbed at his neck spines.
“And the nobility?”
“Oh, much like you, Werdin.”
“Blast.”
He took that as ‘outraged’ rather than ‘dismayed’, which was what Melika meant. She felt it was more shock and anxiety than actual anger, but Werdin was muttering.
“Something’s got to be done. Of all things a Human [Lady], let alone…! If it was some poor homeless wretch from the north it’d be fine. But not one of the nobility allied to Magnolia Reinhart. Then again, she’s passé right now. Couldn’t it have been some student of his at least?”
Melika opened her beak as she saw more people stepping out of elevators. Unlike, say, Invrisil, no one was taking a carriage; what was the point in a city like Pallass? Public transport did for the upper class here.
“I—surely bedding a student is more scandalous, Werdin? Lady Pryde was a fan of his.”
“Was she? Don’t be bird-brained, anyways, Melika. A Drake or Gnoll or even Garuda or Dullahan student is infinitely preferable to—I thought he and that Gnoll apprentice he had were sharing the same bed.”
“Sinew Magus Grimalkin is a [Mage] of exceptional integrity, Werdin!”
The Lord of the Walls seemed irritated about Melika correcting him. He adjusted his doublet again and then strode for the side entrance to the museum.
“Don’t get peckish at me. What, are you molting? You look excellent as ever. I’m just saying—I’ve met the Tome Magus, Glasiaad. Isn’t it normal…? Aha, Chorlic, there you are!”
The question was left unanswered as Werdin strode forwards and slapped shoulders with Wall Lord Chorlic. Another noble of Pallass, but one who had connections besides his nobility. Chorlic ran three famous restaurants and hired the top-level [Chefs] in the city. Despite his name, he was rather fit. He slapped Werdin on the shoulders a few times; they’d known each other since they were hatchlings.
“Werdin and the lovely Melika, as always! Good to see you! Everyone’s already inside. Huge turnout this time. I think there’s sixty of us and some rather fine spicing to tonight’s repast.”
Werdin cast around reflexively.
“Shh! Melika and I were just discussing the Sinew Magus thing. I imagine that’s the topic.”
“Oh, yes, of course. Such a problem. Why don’t we go inside…? My date is just fussing with her hair. Sharke, are you done yet?”
Melika recognized the name, but she was still surprised to see the beautiful Dullahan peering into a hand mirror and adjusting her curls. When she saw Melika, Sharke stepped out of the elevator she’d been using and waved.
“Melika and Lord Werdin!”
“Er, Sharke. Delighted.”
Werdin grew uncomfortable and folded his wings as Chorlic put one arm around his date for the night. He was unmarried, despite being the same age as Werden—in his forties—and Sharke accompanying him for the night made utter sense.
She was, like Melika, a [Socialite]. Just not married yet, and Werdin had gone out with her before tying the knot with Melika.
The Garuda smiled at her friend and took Werdin’s arm.
“Well, I can see I have someone to talk to. Werdin, would you like to go ahead with Chorlic?”
“Of course. Chorlic, you have to get me a reservation at your restaurants. I hear you’re up to something, and I have a few friends who’re interested. But first this Grimalkin thing. What did you think?”
The other Wall Lord kept walking as one of Sharke’s arms disengaged to go with him. He rolled his eyes at the little stunt and tossed her arm back to the Dullahan.
“What do I think? I can’t see it. I mean, I heard she was disfigured. She looked quite nice before that, but what’s under the bag?”
“Be serious, Chorlic.”
“I am. I’m dying to know—fine, fine, don’t flap your wings at me. It’s outrageous, of course, but d’you know what anyone else is saying?”
The two stormed ahead, heading up the stairs to the 8th floor where everyone would be. Melika and Sharke hung back, waiting for the elevator. Melika whispered.
“Chorlic, really, Sharke? He’s never going to be anything serious.”
Sharke’s eyes were dancing; she had on very lithe, very form-fitting armor that made Melika self-conscious, and she appeared at least a decade younger than she was. Her curls were dyed purple today, Melika noted, a very nice look.
“Well, he’s easy, and I wanted to see what everyone was saying about the Sinew Magus! I knew you’d be here. Nice dress. Fits well with the mood.”
“Bah, it’s from two years ago. I’m just recycling half of them at this point. I don’t need to try as hard with Werdin. So how are things? Found anyone you think you’d like to settle down with?”
The basis of the [Socialite] class was, of course, to advance one’s position. And there were many methods to that, but one of the most basic was to marry upwards. For Melika and Sharke back in the day, finding that suitor had been a source of competition and teamwork between the two.
However, Sharke just pulled a face.
“I’m not sure I want to marry and have to push out a kid or two. Maybe I’ll find someone who already has a kid like you, Melika. Then again, Werdin might get that itch…and I’m not just talking Yellow Rivers.”
Melika shuddered.
“Sharke. Please, we’re about to eat. It must be something you have to navigate…”
“You have no idea. I practically ran out of most dates rather than, you know, get more intimate when it was bad. So do the others in our class. I heard Rolt actually caught it.”
“Oh no. Was it as bad as they said…?”
“He has scars. Eugh, I asked him to show me them—”
The doors opened, and the two women shut up a second as they found some actual museum-goers who gave them strange glances. The two women were dressed for a party, and Melika inserted the red chip she had into the elevator, which unlocked the 8th Floor as a destination. She hit the button, and the elevator went up, stopping to let the museum-goers out. Sharke went back to talking at once.
“Anyways, where have you been? I’ve heard about you, Miss Melika. The rumor is you’ve been a bit wild. What happened to the spotless feathers of Pallass’ most charitable noblelady? Scrapping with a gang and feuding with a Gold-rank adventurer?”
Melika snorted out her beak, annoyed as Sharke reminded her of Jelaqua.
“Pfft. Did you get that from [Rumors on the Wind] or something?”
“No, just teasing. Is it true you asked the Watch to arrest that Gold-ranker who married Maughin?”
“She’s a menace. She attacked the children in Uplifting Wings—nearly beat one of the girls to death! Then she threatened the landlord of the property and made herself the owner! I’m trying to keep the young folk away from her, but…”
“Wait, the landlord? Isn’t that the old fogey you asked me to try to talk around? The horrendous one?”
“Yes, but—she’s worse! Sort of!”
Melika groused in Sharke’s ear about Jelaqua Ivirith, who had gone from her inspiration and heroine to a foe. Just you wait, Jelaqua. Melika Blackwing was not someone to cross! She’d, oooh, she’d…ruin Jelaqua’s social reputation! Arrange for someone to misplace her next catering order! Beat down her shoes if Jelaqua left them at the door to a fancy ball!
Sharke and Melika paused as they walked down the corridor to the private ballrooms where some security was ensuring only the right sort got in. They were waved on past, and the Dullahan [Socialite] turned to Melika.
“She is a Gold-rank adventurer, isn’t she? Good luck. I’m not making an enemy of a Selphid who can beat a Wyvern with her bare hands.”
Melika drooped. It was, uh, hard to imagine a way to fight Jelaqua in any arena other than polite society for her. Even if you daydreamed about hiring a gang to beat her up—and Melika didn’t actually want that—the daydreams mostly turned into Jelaqua Ivirith mopping the floor with any number of hardened ruffians.
“Nevermind Jelaqua, Sharke. You’d like her aside from how much she brutalizes children! Ugh, let’s just put our smiles on for your sake.”
The doors opened, and the two entered the night’s engagement, all sunshine. They knew everyone’s names, in order, and who had done what, who was grieving or upset—
If Jelaqua Ivirith could storm a cave with her mace swinging, this was Melika and Sharke going in with Skills blazing.
“Lady Duskal, so good to see you. You’re looking a decade younger; what is that new armor polish doing?”
“Senator Ciltrel, you rogue. Melika’s taken, and I’m with a friend tonight. Back, back, I say!”
[Socialites] turned, recognizing the two veterans of such events and either nodding or pretending they weren’t all about the same task. That was the key in moments like these: you had to have someone of Melika’s class.
The high-leveled society of any city could be so dreadfully dull sometimes. Pallass had a higher-than-average quotient of [Socialites] given the city’s egalitarian approach to multiple species and trade. Manus? Practically none.
Melika and Sharke brought that charm, quick conversation, and tact that made you actually feel like you were among elegant peers rather than, say, someone who was just rich or knew the right people. Which wasn’t what you wanted to feel like at all! Especially if that was the only reason you belonged here.
Well, the other thing Melika brought was her perspective, which was remembering a life before she was rich. Werdin lacked it; he’d been raised with literal silver spoons in his mouth from the day he was born. He had the first spoon he’d been given framed in their bedroom with his baby teeth marks on it. He hadn’t just married Melika for her looks, though that had been part of it; he knew he could rely on her instincts in these moments.
So she kept a finger on the pulse of the room as Sharke circled any of the men she thought were on the up-and-up or whom she hadn’t met yet. It seemed like there was a good deal of concern; she heard Grimalkin’s name again and again, but this was also, clearly, a good reason to just get out and have a fun time.
It was Gnorna, the 7th day of the week, perfect since you had Zenze to sleep things off before you had to get back to work on Beithday, and everyone knew that the Dragonfire Museum was for the fun gatherings. It had a…reputation.
That was why even old Duskal, that unlikable battleaxe who just ‘oversaw’ the Engineering Guild, was here, glancing at a table. There was a strong odor of incense in the air; someone had lit several candles and dimmed the magical lights, giving this room an intimate vibe.
Oh, it was going to be like that, was it? Melika rolled her eyes as some of the visitors, a mix of politicians and businesspeople, grew excited. She saw Sharke cover her mouth and cough.
“Ugh. That’s strong. What do you think? Dreamleaf again?”
