Melika sniffed and instantly drew Sharke over to a table. There was food and ‘special’ food present; she did a quick check to make sure she didn’t grab anything ‘fun’ by accident. That was the last thing she needed.
“Not edgy enough. No, it smells like…Roama’s Fancy. Mixed with something else. Here, get some water and bread in you.”
She took several brisk bites of bread and stuffed herself with it and water as Sharke did likewise, grousing.
“Roama’s Fancy? Someone has no taste. Everyone’s hitting ampules of Carivek in bars.”
“Shush.”
Odds were the organizer of this particular party was here, and there was no sense in making enemies. Still, the heady drug was just too expensive for Melika’s taste, even if it provoked energy and excitement.
Not that she did more than Dreamleaf puffers these days; she had to set an example around the children, and they could smell just as well as anyone else. Plus, all of this was highly illegal in a Drake city like Pallass.
Highly. No Dreamleaf let alone anything stronger. Pallass came down hard on that sort of thing…which was why this kind of event was so prized for the people attending. Dead gods, every [Senator] here had probably voted in a measure on strong anti-drug and smuggling laws.
If Melika let that kind of thing bother her, she’d never sleep. It was just how most societies went. There were rules for thee and rules for me, and I’d also really like to have fun.
Hence Lady Duskal appearing by the table, grabbing a tart, licking it, and her pupils growing huge in her eyes.
“Oh my. I’ve been waiting for this all month. I wish whatshername, the Drake with the armor, had stayed for this. Melika, you must try this. I’m seeing myself twenty years younger. When I really wore this armor, you know? She’s so beautiful, me.”
Okay, and those were definitely tarts laced to the nines with Elf’s Tears if Melika was any judge. Dead gods, if licking it was enough—she fended Duskal off as the Dullahan woman tried to seize her arm. Duskal was already crying.
“That’s wonderful, Duskal. Truly. Sharke, I think Duskal needs something to eat with that tart. And seats.”
They found the Dullahan woman a seat where she began to blab about her missed youth to a Drake in the same condition. Sharke groaned.
“I hope Chorlic’s not also eating tarts. I rather fancied an evening after this, you know. He’s not that bad.”
“You’d never marry him.”
“No, of course not, but we can be friends. Where is he? Oh, good, they’re over there with the braziers.”
There were a few types at this kind of party. Those like Lady Duskal who went off the deep end and became loners, if only in their own mind, the group that was here to either socialize or try to hook up—they’d vanish into other rooms or circulate—and the last group, who wanted that social gathering, but with the edge of whatever was burning in the air tonight.
Melika found Werdin and Chorlic talking animatedly near one of the hanging lamps burning whatever was in the air. They were visibly having fun, and wine was flowing along with other various substances; she wasn’t surprised to see her husband and Chorlic also had cigars.
Dead gods, it must take the [Cleaners] ages to do the ceiling and rug. However, the conversation wasn’t trite. It was about him.
“The Sinew Magus really has done it now. Truly, I never thought he was all that. But after seeing him punch out the Frost Wyvern, I thought he might be fit for High Society. Well, until I heard his opinion on drinking let alone anything more fun. But then he does this? What are we to do with him?”
One of the Drakes was talking loudly to nods around the room. Werdin growled.
“On live television no less! What was that idiot Noass thinking?”
“Now, now. It wasn’t Noass’ fault! I take umbrage to that, Werdin.”
Noass’ defender was no less than Sir Relz himself, who waved a claw as he adjusted his monocle. He was high society; Noass was sometimes allowed in such gatherings, but only because Relz was there. Right now, Noass was absent; perhaps at work. Werdin caught himself.
“I apologize, Relz, I only meant—”
“No, no. I was there. Ridiculous. You can actually see me trying to push that woman off screen. The moment I saw her, I thought to myself: ‘he can’t be serious’. But then he said the part he shouldn’t have out loud.”
Sharke and Melika glanced at each other. The Dullahan edged into the conversation, taking Chorlic’s arm.
“I thought it was rather romantic myself.”
The entire group laughed at the airheaded Dullahan, which was what Sharke had tried for, of course, but Melika thought Sharke had meant it. The room was mostly Drake or Gnoll with notables from Dullahans—very few Garuda. As outsiders, she and Sharke had a lot of sympathy towards Pryde, even if she were a Human.
“No one’s throwing you out, Sharke. We’re talking about politics here. Northern politics. If she was just some Human, then it’s fine.”
“I was just saying that, Chorlic. It’s because she’s a [Lady]. Not just a [Lady], either, but House Ulta.”
One of the big names. Ulta sent forces to the south, and if it wasn’t of the Five Families, it had salt, and it was just…the north. The group rumbled as Senator Ciltrel took a huge drag on a puffer stick.
“Indeed. The Assembly of Crafts is talking about it nonstop. My peers across the aisle are united with me in that it’s going to be a problem…but we’re not going to make it a matter of policy. What would we even write? Something about not fraternizing with Human nobles? Even so—he just can’t do this. So. What’s to be done?”
The entire group presumed that it was they who had to fix this matter, of course. The Sinew Magus of Pallass was seeing a Human [Lady]. For the sake of Pallass’ reputation, something had to be done.
“It’s a security risk. We could make it policy…”
“Bah, you’re not actually thinking he’d betray Pallass, are you? No, it’s the look of the thing! We’ll be the laughingstock of the south! Sir Relz, are you getting complaints?”
“Am I getting…? We have thousands. The [Message Mages] are complaining they can’t keep up! Countless cities are outraged!”
Melika put in a comment here.
“Funny. I didn’t hear that sort of thing in Pallass. It must be predominantly-Drake cities who don’t have trade with the north.”
Werdin huffed. His eyes were bright, and he was speaking faster—so was she, Melika noticed, and she hadn’t taken any drugs. But the bread and water would help her absorb and mitigate what was in the air. Good thing too; Garuda were light, and she had very little body mass to absorb drugs, so they’d hit her hard.
“Well, let’s face the facts. He said what he said. The question is, what do we do about it? If it were anyone else, I’d say let things play out. People will abandon his gymnasium, confront him on the matter, and he’ll wise up or leave. Only—it’s the Sinew Magus. We can’t lose him.”
Yes. Everyone lost their smiles and drank or puffed or went for refreshments. Sir Relz waved a cautious claw.
“We wouldn’t lose him. Not Grimalkin. Name a better son of the walls.”
“Valeterisa? And didn’t Fissival lose her?”
Relz gave Sharke a genuinely irritated expression and snorted.
“She was a Human.”
“Yes, but she was theirs. Didn’t we hear as much when she lifted the entire damn city overhead? Sharke’s got a point.”
Chorlic was puffing hard on his cigar, almost down to the butt. He appeared worried.
“I hear House Ulta practically worships that [Lady], and she’s been a fan of our Sinew Magus for a while. Let’s say, hypothetically, Senator Ciltrel outlawed their relationship. Might he leave for House Ulta?”
That sobered the company up a bit. Werdin unfolded his wings in a rush of air, and Melika coughed. The effect of the incense in the air would only get stronger unless someone cracked a window as the haze got deeper. She was getting a bit light-headed. This wasn’t just Roama’s Fancy.
“We can’t lose him. We’ve already lost Duln, Pelt, 2nd Army is a mess, and with Chaldion practically a Yellat…”
There was a palpable unease in the air. Someone spat.
“Hey, wasn’t this supposed to be uplifting? Who’s got a lighter? Hit a few more lamps, would you? Pallass is doing fine. General Edellein—”
“—He bungled the High Passes. Don’t snarl at me, he did. I don’t care what Errif and his lot say. Do you see him here? No. Edellein’s got to prove the New Lands work. I’m just saying, between Duln and Chaldion…we can’t lose someone of Grimalkin’s level.”
“He’s no Archmage—”
“He’s going to get there. You think making those gymnasiums doesn’t earn him levels? I swear, he looks tougher. How close is he to Level 50? We all saw him punch that Wyvern Lord. Plus, with that [Lady], he’s got to be levelling the old-fashioned way, you know?”
A few indecorous hip-thrusts made the speaker’s point clear. Melika rolled her eyes; it was a popular rumor that activities in the bed also levelled you up. She didn’t think that the evidence was more than circumstantial, but the laughter lifted emotions up. Then everyone grew contemplative again.
A Drake [Merchant] who did huge amounts of trade on the 1st Floor glanced around after a moment.
“…Seriously, that woman? I heard she was so ugly the bag over her head was a mercy after some battle at Liscor.”
“Well, would you consider going out with the Sinew Magus?”
“Ugh, point taken. I suppose it makes sense…but she’s so fleshy and pink.”
Melika happened to think that Sinew Magus Grimalkin beat most people she could name in this room for personality…even if he was physically the most imposing Drake she’d ever met. If she’d been on the rise and he’d had his current reputation, she’d have given him a shot. She spoke before they could continue badmouthing the Sinew Magus.
“I imagine they’re about the same level. Above forty. I would probably guess the Sinew Magus is closer to Level 50, though. Which begs the question—is he one of Pallass’ Named-ranks in all but name?”
That silenced the snickering and made them uncomfortable because the Sinew Magus had at least ten levels on most people present. After a moment, Werdin drained his glass.
“We can’t lose him. Period. He works with the army, his weights are popular—”
Chorlic nodded.
“I use them. No indeed, we can’t lose the Sinew Magus. Not that it was ever a question…! But with all this uncertainty and the damn Antinium in Liscor, it makes me think we should cultivate a few more Named-ranks than Saliss.”
“We have more than Saliss, just not in Pallass. Like Glasiaad up north.”
“He’s old. Do we need Saliss…?”
“He accounted for an entire wall’s worth of Wyverns. Annoying as he is, what happens without him?”
Another long silence. Someone muttered.
“I heard he was causing a fuss before he left. Something about, you know, Turnscales?”
Expressions soured on several faces, and Melika made gasping noises with Sharke, but she noted not everyone was that upset—or more interesting, people that overplayed how upset they were. Werdin, who was a good middle-ground for most opinions, the very definition of the consensus in the room, shrugged.
“Turnscales? What about them?”
He turned to Melika reflexively, and she muttered.
“The Watch was after his cousin, I think, dear. He objected—strenuously. I don’t think he blew anything up though.”
“Well…have them ease off, I say. The last thing we need is for him to leave. That’s simple. Why the hells are we wasting gold on that lot, anyways? Do we have a Turnscale problem? I don’t see anything degenerate.”
Werdin turned to interrogate Senator Ciltrel, who shrugged helplessly and vouchsafed that maybe it was General Edellein’s initiative? Which got the group arguing over whether he should have Chaldion’s old authority—of course not.
And like this, the wheels of Pallass did turn. Because these conversations, here, were just as powerful as any group lobbying the [Senators]—moreso since the [Senators] valued and respected their peers here.
But Grimalkin…the voices got more anxious and the speakers more impassioned after the first hour. Melika was sipping water as Chorlic pounded a fist on a chair where they sat about. Normally, they might have entertainment, from [Dancers] to something they could watch or—more ‘risque’ activities she could grow uncomfortable with.
Werdin knew her line, and he had his own. This group had layers, and you didn’t always want to go too deep…there was little reward and a lot of risk if you made them nervous by objecting or appearing uncomfortable. But right now, this was business.
“We need to do something, damn it. It’s a Human! He knows better! He’s not some ordinary citizen. He’s the face of Pallass! It’s like taking a dog to bed. A Dullahan or Garuda is so much better, even a Selphid like that [Smith]! No offense.”
Plenty was taken, but Melika unruffled her feathers as a Gnoll put his head in his paws.
“Conflicted loyalties. And it makes us look bad. What if…what if…what if he proved he was loyal to Pallass?”
Werdin waved his third cigar at the speaker.
“I like that. How?”
“I don’t know. Make him announce it? On truth spell?”
“That’s tasteless. Makes it seem like we doubt him.”
“Make her swear.”
“Who’d trust a Human [Lady]’s word? You can fudge truth spells. Everyone knows that…Wistram’s hinting about a more advanced truth spell. No, it needs to be something more…more…”
“What if she gave up her claim to House Ulta?”
A few people sat up and exclaimed happily at that. Sharke coughed.
“That won’t work.”
Even Chorlic glowered at her, but she shot back.
“She’s the last heir to House Ulta. She can’t renounce her claims.”
“Well, shit on my tail. Something else then! Maybe we’re coming at it the wrong way. We’re the City of Innovations, damn it! Let’s innovate! What if…what if…she signed business agreements with Pallass? Salt for Pallass?”
“Hah! I like that! We don’t pay Zeres for it, and she proves she’s here to help the city.”
“Mm. Doesn’t play well with the normal citizens, though. That’s just the top level.”
Melika was swaying a bit in rhythm with the rest of the group. She felt like she was part of something bigger…she shook herself, snapped out of the trance and realized Sharke was still swaying along. So were Werdin and Chorlic; she nudged Sharke a few times. That broke her friend out of the effect. Werdin was just fixed on Senator Ciltrel, who was gazing at the ceiling for inspiration. And found it.
“That’s it! You know what it is? It’s…it’s about reputation.”
