Clint held a hand up to stop Ren before he gave him a complete rundown of the whole process. “Ah migh' jus' bring'em here ta you, rather than tryin' ta do'em mahself.”

Ren chuckled. “Have you got a buyer for the pelts yet?”

“Nah, it was jus' an idea Billy had abou' makin' more money on tha job before we looted 'em.”

Ren nodded. “You'll lose a bit of value from the loot when you remove the pelt; but, you'll make more from selling the pelt than leaving it on... especially if it's a high value pelt.”

“Like tha Dire Wolf.”

Ren nodded again. “How long will it take you to bring them here?”

“Ah day, maybe two.” Clint said. “Tha only reason me an' Izabeal got here so fast, was cuz we ran tha entire time.”

Ren nodded. “Okay, if you can stick around for an hour or so, I'll go with you to your ranch to skin them.”

“Ah can' ask ya ta do tha'.” Clint said. “Ya got so much ta do as it is.”

“Don't worry about that.” Ren said. “It's going to take a day to unload the ship anyways.”

“Ah day?!? Clint exclaimed. “Wha' didja bring?”

“Everything.” Ren smiled, and Clint laughed.

“Ahlright. Ah'll stick around fer an hour or so.” He said and smiled. “We can have tha' race ya want, too.”

Ren laughed. “I can't believe you're so eager to eat my dust.”

“Izabeal's no slouch.” Clint warned his friend. “Ya'll gonna have a hard time keepin' up wit her.”

“You wish.” Ren said. “See you in a little while.” He said and went to help Anabelle with the other customers.

*

He almos' seems like ah differen' person. Clint thought. He's confiden' an' sure of himself, an'... an'... ah don't know wha's up wit him. He thought about it as he left the shop. Regal, maybe? Ah don' know.

Clint went out the door, untied Izabeal, and climbed up to sit on her saddle. He looked at Ren's completely untended cart, and at the mount that stood there just as confidently as if her owner was by her side. It was then that Clint realized she was wearing full plate armor, and it wasn't just a facade like he thought it was.

How tha hell did he make tha'? Clint asked himself. Ah ain' nevah seen full plate on a mount before! He thought in amazement and slowly rode Izabeal away to do a few errands while he waited for Ren.

*

Ren restocked the store with the things Tee-one made during the week's voyage on the ship, and when the customers left and he and Anabelle were alone, he brought out one of each of the rings to show her what he had for sale.

“This is a Ring of Water Walking.” Ren said, and explained what it did.

“You're right.” Anabelle said. “It is only a novelty item.”

“I thought that, too; at least, until I jumped off the ship and ran across the harbour to get to the shore.”

“You did?” Anabelle said. “So... we should...”

“Sell them as life preservers.” Ren said. “If you're underwater and put it on, you'll shoot up to stop on the surface of the water.”

“Oh, that's brilliant.” Anabelle said. “Customers will be willing to risk travelling over water if they know they can save themselves if they fall overboard.”

Ren nodded. “Exactly.” He said. “This one...”

“A Ring of Storage?” Anabelle asked and took it. “Ren, do you realize what this means?”

“Anyone can have a small inventory, and have enough extra Strength to carry it.”

“Yes!” Anabelle said. “Ren, this is fantastic!” She said, enthusiastically. “Everyone will want one of these!”

“Well, I don't think everyone will want...”

“How many of them do you have?” Anabelle asked and interrupted him.

“A hundred of each.” Ren said. “I didn't want to make too many because I wasn't sure if they would sell or not.”

“Ren.” Anabelle said and put a hand on his shoulder and gave him the ring back. “You put me in charge of your very lucrative store. Trust me. You are going to need a lot more than a hundred of these storage rings.”

Ren smiled. “Is this you using your iron fist to rule over your domain?”

Anabelle smiled and nodded, because that was what she said when Ren had made her the manager of the store.

“Then you'll need a bit of a boost, in case someone gives you trouble.” Ren said and gave her one of the Bracelets of Magical Balance, that boosted all of her stats by +75.

“Oh... oh, my.” Anabelle said as she identified the bracelet. “Ren, I can't accept this!” She said. “It's... it's worth a fortune!”

“Only a small one.” Ren said. “The 6 diamonds alone are 3 platinum each, and the Magic Bracelet is probably 75 gold.” He smiled. “I don't know how much it is with all the enchantments, since I didn't bother appraising it.”

“It's...” Anabelle used Appraisal on it. “...no, it can't be...” She shook her head, then stared at it. “It's 35 platinum coins!”

“I hope you'll still keep it.” Ren said.

“Ren, I... I can't afford this, even with the salary you pay me.” Anabelle said.

“I'm not even going to ask how much I'm paying you.” Ren said. “So, I'm giving it to you.” He smiled. “Do you like it?”

“You know I do.” Anabelle said and put it on. “Oh, god.” She said and took several deep breaths. “Ren, you're wonderful.”

“Not yet I'm not.” Ren said and gave her one of the Bracelets of Unbelievable Magic.

“Ren!”

“I'm not done.” Ren said and gave her one of the Rings of Boosted Sustenance, then one of the storage rings. Anabelle couldn't speak and just put on everything. “Now for the presents.” He said and gave her one of the large cabinets filled with clothing, a necklace, a tiara, and a brooch.

“Ren.” Anabelle said softly, barely above a whisper, as she stored everything in the ring. “I don't know what to say.”

“You don't have to say anything.” Ren said and took out a step stool from inventory. “I discovered this while out on Adventurer's business.” He said and climbed it to stand on the top step. It put his face at the same height as hers, and she looked at him with wide eyes. “Thank you so much for taking care of everything.”

“Ren... I... I'd do anything for you.” Anabelle said, and it echoed what his other personal maids had said.

“I know you would.” Ren said, cupped the sides of her face, and kissed her.
