e Prince.Avatars were odd like that. They couldn’t contain him entirely once he had outgrown them. Creating one when he was a young 15th floor dungeon meant now, he could barely fit into the darn thing without being reduced to a single word blob of light.Yal would use his latest Avatar that he had made near level 100 but...Using it on people without the proper level of Mana-adaptation would cause them to slightly... burn a little on the inside.The Knights were suddenly respectful, weapons put down or stances remained neutral. The Priest spluttered as the Princess looked like she had been slapped.“Oh great Prince of the Dungeon! The Princess is ready to take her test and reach the 10th floor, she means no disrespect,” the man promised. Yal knew this, in fact, he was quite unbothered by the words of Princess Serma but he needed to do this carefully.The wrong word or idea might have consequences that Yal couldn’t be bothered with.“A test? A test in the Dungeon which she has declared as... easy or below her?” he mused as he stepped on the ground. The people around took a step back. Wise.The Prince had been good at blessings... well... Yal’s version of them.“I d-didn’t mean it like-” the Princess began but Yal spoke on.“The little bird will waltz on while her tigers devour all challenge. Am I a joke to the royal family now? Do they think so little of the spirit of my dungeon?” The Prince flared his nostrils as the crown around his neck glowed just a little.The Priest looked ready to drop dead from horror. Yal would have to hurry this up before he killed the man.“No! It has nothing to do with you, Master Dungeon. I want the challenge!” the Princess said with frustration that had been building for a long time. The Prince blinked slowly and the glowing crown returned to normal.“I see... the Bird wants to fly but lives in a gilded cage. Well, well,” the Prince turned to the entrance of his Dungeon proper. The black marble arch with twin knights crossing swords over the first tunnel.Anyone stupid to ignore the entrance requirement would have their own trial suddenly underway. Honestly, the knights were rough and ugly now... Yal sighed.He would need to change them now that he seen them. His new artist soul demanded it.“I will forgive this offence...” his avatar spoke and the gathered people all visibly relaxed. Not that the Knights were that bothered by Yal or his words. They had seen his most exposed Core after all. It was good that the Knights were bound to the royal family. One of their duties was to protect Yal’s core after all...No Yal... no city. It was that simple. Sure, it was pure ego but the city was literally and symbolically built on his dungeon.“Thank you-” the priest began but the Prince waved a hand.“On one condition,” he added, voice filled with a smirk.He turned and his golden eyes burned.“The Princess must return with three. No more, no less, bronze-star 1-3 adventurers as her party. No royal guard or someone with high Mana-refinement may aid her on purpose or knowingly,” he listed his terms. The Prince Avatar was rather good at looking like an arrogant child.The City of Verluan used a very traditional system of ranking their various folks of adventure or glory seeking types. Bronze, Silver, Gold, and other. Inside each metal was ten ranks. Yal was pretty sure, since he obviously hadn’t been to the local guild buildings himself, that doing quests or doing something worthy of the rank got you promoted.Through his years of eating people, Yal had devoured more than a few seals of rank. A circular metal disk. He matched the disks to the level of the person that died... the rest was just logic.A bronze disk with one a single star carved into the edge meant Bronze-1. The lowest of the low. Basically, Yal was sure that anyone that paid the fee and signed something could get this thing. From there, it rose right up into the gold and others.Yal knew full well that he just told the Princess, and by proxy the entire Kingdom, that he wanted one of the most important people in the city to undergo the dungeon with help of basically combat novices at best and civilians at worst.Everyone’s face was pale. The Knights finally looked tense, the priest was grasping at his chest... the Princess looked overjoyed.There was that smile... it was brief before she composed herself. Yal needed to see more of it!His art demanded it!“If this fails to happen... well, I’m sure the city will enjoy a brand new Dungeon... floor by floor. Years of expectations... gone. Classic rules and trade business between the merchant guilds... destroyed... the levels purchased by your various guilds for training... turned either into worthless or gold. I’m sure mixing the bosses up or just straight replacing them will be fun,” the Prince’s wide grin was only matched by Yal’s real one.Everyone slowly looked at the Princess. Her joy slightly lost at the warning but her eyes held that glint.Yal paused.He had seen that glint somewhere...Yal thought about it, brushing dust of ancient memories.Ah yes... the very first. The one who carved his own Kingdom.Yal laughed as he returned to his lower floors.He would have to thank the odd system notification for acquiring a hobby. Yal hadn’t had this much fun in years!He had no idea why his usual gold text boxes had turned orange for that one message alone, but Yal merely decided that it did not matter. Now that he was looking... there was a lot of things he could do to encourage more interesting people to come so he could make a statue of them.Maybe he should make a hall of fame? Make people reach the goal of being in it? Yal plotted hard as he went over this idea.He would need to make a lovely reward for them...---
