"It's just—I found Icon," Cale said, forging ahead stubbornly. "It told me that when we excised the corrupted part of the Source, the pieces that remained were somehow able to survive. I figured if anyone would know anything about that, it would be you."

"You're looking for its avatar?" Vital asked, cocking his head. He raised his eyes as if to scan an invisible horizon, then nodded. "Huh. I can feel it here, yup. Feels like an evil little hole in the world. Wonder why I didn't notice it earlier."

Vital's tone was heavy with implication, and Cale sighed. "Vital..."

"I'm not whole, Cale," Vital said. His illusory body swept down so he could look Cale in the eyes, and though there was sympathy in them, there was also something harder. "I've been dead for a very long time now, and the only pieces of me hanging on are the ones looking for closure. I might look like him and sound like him, but right now, I'm not a person. Not in the ways that mattered to me.

"I can tell that something happened here." Vital's gaze swept over his temple. "I can tell I tried to do something. Tried to help someone, maybe. I can tell that the avatar you're worried about was here. But there isn't enough of me left to act, only to respond, and you know how I feel about that.

"Not to mention the more I decay, the more it's going to hurt those people who live on me," he added. "I can feel them up there, you know. They're struggling. I can make some changes while you're here, try to make everything evolve differently, but sooner or later they're going to adapt and start pushing all the people up there to come down here. I can't control what I do while I'm dormant, not when I'm dead—"

"I know!" Cale snapped, his voice cracking, and Vital floated back, studying him. "I know. You're waiting for me to let you go. You're a ghost, and I'm your unfinished business. It's the rules."

"Monolith ghosts are very powerful, it turns out," Vital joked, and Cale managed a small, pained smile.

"You aren't going to help me find the avatar unless I help you let go, are you?" Cale asked.

"I don't want to keep hurting the people living on me, Cale," Vital said, his voice gentler, and Cale winced and nodded. As if sympathetic, Vital smiled and changed the subject. "What's the place called, anyway? It better be something cool. I don't think I could stand it if they're calling my body something stupid."

"Illwyld," Cale said. "That's the name of the continent, anyway."

"Illwyld," Vital repeated, testing the word. "Hmm. I like the inclusion of the 'y' in 'wild'. Makes it sound like I'm supporting some sort of fae society. Not sure I like the word 'ill', but I guess I'm pretty sick, so."

"Are you trying to make me feel better?"

"Maybe."

Cale sighed. "There's... someone I want you to meet," he said carefully after a moment. "I picked up an apprentice, and he managed to pick up a Legacy of one of your pillar aspects. Verdant Flame."

"Oh, really?" Vital grinned at him. "Can't believe you finally got an apprentice. Just like you to pick up one that can use one of my pillar aspects. What is he, a vineling?"

"Dreadshade."

"Holy shit," Vital said, laughing. "Seriously? A dreadshade with Verdant Flame? How'd you manage to find someone like that? You've outdone yourself, and that's saying something."

He paused before continuing, his voice a little softer. "Maybe I won't be dead forever, then. But you know I'm not going to come back the same, right? You still need to let this version of me go."

"I know." Cale glanced away. "I was just hoping you could talk to him before you go. Give him some guidance. He isn't here with me now, but I'd come back with him."

"So you want me to help you now, and at some undisclosed date in the future, you'll come back here so I can give your apprentice tips, and then you'll say goodbye?"

Cale winced. "I know how it sounds, but that's the gist of it, yeah."

"It does sound pretty bad." Vital hummed. "I'm gonna need some collateral. Proof that you mean it, you know? I'll take your shirt if you promise not to wear another one until you come back. I know how much you hate being shirtless."

"Because you kept trying to make me take off my shirt?" Cale asked dryly.

"Because I kept trying to make you take off your shirt," Vital agreed.

"I did love you back, you know."

"Listen, I understand if you don't want to take off your shirt, so I'll acce—wait, what?" Vital froze in place, staring at him, and Cale looked up and met his gaze.

"I did love you," he repeated. "I never let myself say it, and I think you know why. I was caught up in the reincarnation thing, and the idea of committing to anything with someone like you scared me. But I shouldn't have let that get between us."

"Holy shit," Vital said. "Are you sure you're Cale?"

Cale shot him an annoyed look.

"Sorry, sorry," Vital said. "It's just—you're so avoidant—I didn't think even in saying goodbye you'd... I almost thought you didn't..."

The figure of the Monolith sagged suddenly. "Thanks," he said, his voice smaller. "I'll trust you to come back. That apprentice must have helped you come to terms with a lot of things, huh?"

"Apprentices," Cale said, smiling slightly. "And I've made some friends, too. Do you want to meet them?"

"Well, I was going to ask for a private sendoff, but now I'm conflicted." Vital grinned at him, and Cale rolled his eyes. "Yes, I'd like to meet them."

"I'll get everyone I can to come," Cale said. "Not like that. Don't even start, Vital."

"What do you think I am, a pervert?"

"In front of everyone but Ari, and only because she threatened to castrate you once."

Vital grunted. "I still don't get why she never threatened you."

"I have a sense of timing," Cale said with a small laugh. It was a strange thing he was feeling—light and heavy, all at once.

He didn't hate it as much as he thought he would.

Vital made a face like he was considering a response, then decided against it and cleared his throat instead. "Anyway! You need a teleport from me, right? And I can set it up to take you back wherever you want when you activate the sigil. You know the drill. You gonna go off and kick that avatar's ass?"

"Something like that," Cale said.

Vital frowned at him, suddenly wary. "Cale. End him if you must, but don't go too far," he cautioned.

"He shattered Icon and turned it into a slave, then turned a lizardfolk you were trying to protect into a soulstorm."

Vital's expression darkened. "Ah," he said. "...still. Be careful, Cale. For your own sake. I don't care about him, but I do care about you."

There was a lot implied in that sentence. Cale nodded, his heart heavy, but he wasn't quite sure if he'd changed his mind. "I'll be careful," he promised.

The temple seemed to breathe, and then power began to gather around Cale—not quite life aspect mana, but something close to it. When he was still alive, Vital had once called this spell [To Dance Upon the Web of Life], because he was prone to overly wrought spell names and even more complex spell mechanisms. His domain wasn't exactly teleportation or transportation, which made this particular form of transport both a high-tier spell and frankly incredibly uncomfortable, but it was what he had to work with.

They exchanged a quick, final word about what to expect, and then an enormous fungal bloom sprouted out of the stone beneath Cale and ate him.

Far away, in the eastern corners of Aersheld, the Red Commander paused and glanced at his new Sentinel. The Indictment continued to shuffle awkwardly beside him, attempting to fight off his influence and failing.

"Do you feel that?" he asked. It didn't respond. He shrugged, then turned back to keep walking, only to find himself face to face with an enormous fungal bloom. "...What is that thing?"

Then it lurched, and mana began to blast out of it. Something about it felt... overwhelming, and not in a way he liked. He took an involuntary step back as the pressure descended on him, almost accusatory. "What is this?" he demanded. "Did you do this? What am I feeling?"

His new Sentinel shivered, then let out a broken laugh. It spoke the first words ever since he'd first taken it over.

"Fear," it whispered gleefully.

"Nonsense," the Red Commander said. "I don't feel fear."

"No?" it asked, and then chuckled. "Perhaps you simply haven't felt it yet."
