At least he wasn’t slouching today, but he still refused to make eye contact, instead staring at the side of Akanai’s yurt. Oh? Was it a coincidence the boy stared at her guard Concealed in the shadows? No, not a coincidence at all. Following his eyes, she watched him spot two more guards, though he glossed over three others. Mundane perception or Enlightenment from his Awakening? Too early to tell, perhaps she should ask Jochi and Argat to test him. Interrupting his story, Akanai Sent, “How goes your Awakening?”

“Huh?” Blinking in confusion, the boy shrugged with casual indifference and Sent, “Oh. I sorta figured out how to bind water, but it’s time-consuming and near worthless. Anyway, where was I?”

Wait. “You ‘figured out’ how to bind water? When? How?”

“This afternoon?”

“And you kept it to yourself?”

“No, I told Lin and Mila. Song too, I guess.” With another shrug, the boy sighed and added, “Sorry, I didn’t tell you, it’s been a long, crazy day and I kinda forgot about it.” Gesturing at the copper vessel in his hand, he continued, “But yea, this stuff is bad news. It eats through anything and Siyar says the entire warehouse is filled to the brim with more of it. Worse-”

Ignoring the copper vessel, Akanai grabbed the boy by the chin and pulled him into the torchlight to study his expression. There was no shy smile or disguised glee, no glint of pride or sense of accomplishment, nothing but weary resignation and a touch of resentment over her rough treatment. Something was amiss. After years of obsessing over his Awakening without progress, the boy finally succeeds and comprehends the mysteries of water, and then forgot about it all in an afternoon? ‘I bound water’, delivered in the same tone one would use to say ‘grass is green’ or ‘water is wet’, this was absurd. “First, let us speak of your Awakening. Explain.”

“Let go.” His cold expression and forceful demand took her by surprise, but she loosened her grip after a second’s thought. Patting his cheek to show contrition, she resisted the urge to grin as he Sent, “Thank you. Sorry. It’s not exactly binding water, because the physical water doesn’t actually go anywhere. It’s more like... inviting the spirit of water into my core and using my Chi to copy its attributes, so I end up with normal Chi and Water Chi. Problem is, once you use the Water Chi, it’s gone and doesn’t replenish on its own. I spent hours in the bay and bound maybe a teacup’s worth of Water Chi, then immediately wasted it all by spitting it out. It’s a party trick at best, and not even an impressive one at that. Hardly worth mentioning.”

“Nonsense.” Pulling the boy into a hug, she allowed herself a smile while he couldn’t see. Hmph, and they called Tenjin talented when he Awakened at twenty; it took him over four years to condense his first flame. “This is but the first step, and an important one at that. Your Mentor’s tail will wag so hard it might even fall off.” A good thing Akanai had no such tells, her half-caribou heritage left no physical marks aside from two nubs of horn she kept filed down and hidden beneath her hair.

Belatedly noting the boy’s silence, Akanai stepped back and studied his expression once more. Still angry but directed inwards, likely blaming himself for not understanding sooner. His body language screamed of confidence, back straight, shoulders square, and head held high, but his eyes, so pained and mournful it pained her to look at. “What’s wrong child?”

She could see the struggle within his mind as he considered telling her his problems, but ultimately, silence won out. “It’s nothing,” he Sent, feigning a smile. “Like I said, it’s been a long day and there’s still much to do before morning.”

Hm... Leave him be or press a little harder?

Mussing his hair so she could fix it again, she pursed her lips and sighed. No sense pressing him for more, he was nothing if not stubborn. If he didn’t want to talk, it’d be easier to get blood from a stone. “We are here should you wish to speak. Now, regarding Jorani’s discovery, I’m not certain what you expect me to do. Manufacturing this... weaponized sludge, despicable though it might be, breaks no Imperial Laws.” She’d have thought the boy would be ecstatic to find something like this, always going on about empowering the common folk and fixing greed, corruption, and inequality like it was so simple.

“Well that’s the thing.” Looking her straight in the eyes, Rain Sent, “Something about the sludge feels like it’s related to the Defiled. I think it’s made from Demon Ichor, but I can’t be sure before Blobby comes back. Even then, I can’t prove any of this without revealing my past indiscretions.”

“You lost the Heavenly Tear?” Was it because his lack of piety finally angered Her too much? Akanai should have put a stop to this ‘Blobby’ nonsense and instilled an appropriate amount of fear and reverence into him.

“Yea, but it’s no big deal. I was waiting till sunup to go get it back, and now I even have bait.”

Gesturing at the cloth-stuffed helmet beneath his arm, the boy certainly looked confident enough, but Akanai wanted to lift him by the scruff of the neck and shake some sense into him. Religious implications aside, a droplet of Heavenly Water was a treasure grand enough to move the Emperor himself, and the boy wanted to wait until morning to get it back? Taking a long, calming breath, she grit her teeth and Sent, “Explain.”

“Oh, sure. My best guess is...”

The boy’s explanation did nothing to calm her nerves but there was no helping it. He was right to wait until sunup, so she pinched his cheek and gave him a hug, lamenting the woes of familial affection. “Give me the unbroken vessel for safekeeping. I will pass a message along to Yuzhen and seek her advice. Until then, you are to keep your mouth shut, your temper in check and take no action against the Canston Trading Group, understood?” The Legate would not be pleased to hear of this third-hand, and even less pleased if news of this were revealed to the public.

Amber eyes glowing with hunger and determination, the boy grimaced and answered, “Yes Grand-Mentor, but if there is an assault on the winery, I want a part in it.”

“Impudent brat, call me grandmother or Mother-in-law.”

“I haven’t married Mila yet, grandmother.”

“Oh? After all you two have done, you would dare try to escape?” Finished with his hair, she hugged him again, unable to promise him what he desired. Even if Yuzhen brought this to the Legate, he might not allow an assault against an Ancestral Beast’s holdings. He might even believe this sludge to be a new weapon for the Empire and make moves to secure it. No, if the boy was right and this was all a Defiled plot, it might be best to send her own people to this ‘winery’. “Now off to bed with you. You are the number one talent in the North and the youngest second grade Warrant Officer in history, and after your foolhardy display of Awakening in the bay, you will undoubtedly be challenged by your peers.”

“Sleep can wait. Still lots to do. I wanted to go over the gifts again and make sure there’s nothing wrong with my presentation. Could I run through it with you once, so you can tell me if there are any accidental veiled insults or whatever? Then I figured I’d try to bind my new weapon, if there’s still time, since I might need it soon enough.”

As much as Akanai wanted to lie down and nuzzle her husband, the boy had good reason to be nervous. It wouldn’t be the first time he accidentally insulted someone important and with tomorrow’s event taking place before the eyes and ears of the most influential individuals in three provinces, a mistake would be costly indeed. Stifling a sigh, she went into her yurt and returned with his new Spiritual Weapon, lovingly crafted and wrapped in oiled-leather by Mila. “If you fail to bind it, return the weapon in the morning.” The boy was a tempting enough target without adding an unbound Spiritual Weapon into the mix, and if she didn’t mention it, he’d probably use it as stakes in a wager like the degenerate gambler that he was. “Come my most troublesome grandchild. Present me your gifts as you would to the Legate and let me count how many times he would sentence you to death.”

Putting an arm around his shoulder, she was delighted when he snuggled into her embrace instead of pulling away shamed-faced like he normally would. So many small changes these past few days, swimming about the bay without a leash, behaving like a gentleman with Mila and Lin, and asking his superiors for advice before taking action. Assaulting the monk in public was out of character, but even she felt the ascetic had overstepped his bounds by intruding on the boy’s yurt. While neither of them spoke of exactly what transpired in there, she assumed it had something to do with his... deviant hobby.

Young men could be worse than monkeys in heat, but at least Rain had the decency to relieve himself in private instead of sneaking off with whores and handmaidens like Fung. Perhaps a brief stint with the Penitent Brotherhood would do both Fung and Rain some good; a couple months living as a eunuch might change their perspective on women for the better.

Only... how was she to convince them to accept it?

Chapter Meme
