She closed her eyes for a moment at the gentle touch, then looked at him. “Then what...”

“I'm surprised that your people have any normal animals around at all, like the wolves you ride and the giant boars to pull the carriages.” Ren said. “How did that come about? Did you discover other animals and adapt them for your use? Are some of them only poor cousins that weren't as lucky as you to evolve into the wonderful creatures you are today?”

Thanks to him having his hands on her face, she felt his sincerity and his curiosity fully.

“You really want to know, and you're not just asking for conversation's sake.” She said, and her voice held a trace of wonder.

“I remember someone saying that as a medical professional, they would know things like that.” Ren said with a smile, and she laughed.

“Yes, I know all of our sordid history.” The medical professional said.

“Then I'd like for you to accompany us and you can fill me in on everything.” Ren said.

“Where are you going?” She asked.

“I don't know.” Ren said, and she raised her eyebrows at him. “Let's ask and find out.” He said and let her face go as he turned to Tatya. “Where are we going after everyone gets inspected?”

“I had planned a leisurely ride across the countryside to show you some of our lands as we head to the capital.” Tatya said. “I hadn't planned to bring you to the delegation's debriefing at first; but, after what just happened in that battle, I think it would be prudent to include you.”

Ren nodded slightly and turned back to the medical professional. “We're going to the capital.” He said. “Can you get time off to come with us?”

“If you accept me as a concubine, it supersedes all other concerns.” She responded.

Ren frowned a little. “No, I don't want to take you away from your work.”

She chuckled. “You're the first people we've had return here in about a year.”

“Wh-what?” Ren asked, surprised.

“We only send out delegations once a year to the surrounding lands.” Tatya said. “It's usually a two to three month journey, then we come back and disseminate all the knowledge we gained during those travels.”

“It takes that long?” Ren asked.

“To make sure everyone in the kingdom knows the important information, yes.” Tatya said. “Once we all do, we form another delegation and construct a caravan, plan out the routes to take and the dangers to avoid, then head out again to see what else we can find.”

“Well, I'm really lucky.” Ren said, and everyone felt that he believed that. “I only just caught the caravan before it left the Human Kingdom, and I would have missed this great opportunity.”

The medical professional's face flushed to a deep red and he felt how flattered she was.

“Are you seeing anyone?” Ren asked, and she shook her head. “Are you married?”

“N-no.” She said. “I've not had that honor.”

“Both Yuwen and Dilseffa are my concubines, but we don't have to have sex.” Ren said. “As long as the potential is there, they said it meets the requirements.”

“But...” She looked at the other two women. “I want to have sex with you.”

Ren blinked his eyes at her for a moment. “We just met.”

“It doesn't matter to me how long we've known each other.” The medical professional said. “You make my insides crave to be touched as only a man can.”

Ren knew she meant something special when she emphasized 'man' and wanted to know what it was. “What do you mean by that?” He asked. “I just want to know why I count when you've had access to... well, I don't know how many troops you've examined.”

She held in her laugh. “I've only had brief relationships before, if that's what you mean, and it's usually only with males that have similar transformation capabilities.”

Ren thought about that. “That means no troops, squad leaders, or anyone close to having three stages of different forms.”

She shook her head and then felt his rising anger. “N-no!” She said and cupped the sides of his face. “They aren't discriminating against me. I'm just not as appealing to them.”

Ren calmed down. “I don't see how.” He said. “You're just as pretty as Tatya, Yuwen and Dilseffa. You're just not as furry when you change.”

The medical professional smiled. “That's not why.” She said. “It's...” Her face flushed red as she blushed. “I changed automatically for you, to reveal my full self, and that's never happened before.”

“Wait, what?”

“When we meet a compatible mate and they enter our Aura with intent, we can't help ourselves and react to him.” She said. “It's how he knows we're interested without having to ask awkwardly about it.”

“Like I'm doing right now.” Ren said with a smile, and she laughed.

“Well, you don't know any better.” She said. “I can't fault you for that.”

“Yuwen also said that being my concubine only counts while in the kingdom of Pervaria.” Ren said.

“It does, or anywhere that's classed as Pervarian lands, or within their command area.”

Which was why it counted in the caravan, because it was under Tatya's command. Ren thought. “I keep calling you 'the medical professional' in my head and I don't want to do that. What's your name?”

“Tiyaphi.” The medical professional said. “Tiyaphi Mowetha.”

“It's nice to meet you, Tiyaphi.” Ren said and held a hand out to her. She took it eagerly and he felt her anticipation as her tail flicked quickly, and he lifted her hand to his mouth.

“It's really nice to meet you, too.” Tiyaphi said happily. “Someone man enough to make me change.”

“Tiyaphi Mowetha, I formally accept you as my concubine.” Ren said and bit the inside of her wrist.
