~ Two hours ago, in the Green Zone:

Both Raven and Arie pull a full 5% of the borrowed stats available to them. Bursts of unique Noble Grade Vibrations resonate with the hints of a dark elf and scarlet clan berserker, and both flood through the entire zone.

These Auras clash with the thousands of High Noble Demonic Vibrations flooding out from the white demons that tear through space from the Lower Realm.

All of the newly renovated Citadels have updated ether defense systems, using Medium Quality ether to power all of the old arrays and new upgraded versions crafted by the generals' use of Celestial Grade Craftsmanship.

Even so, there is an eerie shift in air pressure and total gravity in the Green Zone that affects every single citizen.

The Warlords and elites are the only ones other than the generals that can truly understand how intense these auras are through the suppression barriers. The common citizens only know that something is strange.

After a zone-wide war ended less than 2 weeks ago, Lords have settled back into a new routine, but the fear lingering in the backs of their minds returns at this sensation.

"I'll cover the groups moving toward Ellipsia! You shield Mensa!" Raven calls out through their telepathy link to Arie.

She is completely invisible, in her greater battle form, grasping two Artifact Class Soul Swords, borrowing the Celestial Grade Foresight skill to track all of the enemies' paths to intercept them before disaster strikes.

"On it!" Arie replies, already charging up an arrow pulled back by tens of thousands of Spirit Hands, aimed toward the front of a formation of Demons headed their way.

He uses Celestial Grade Foresight as well and finds that there are even more Demons tearing through the barrier of the realms near the Grand Citadel's teleport points. It is not nearly as much, roughly 10% of the total volume of enemies, but they are too far away for either of them to fend off without leaving gaps in their current defensive line.

The voice of a green-skinned Goblin Queen sounds out as she is viewing their spectate feeds and sees the problem.

"I can hold them off! You focus on what's within range."

Ava turns to a white Griffin, a Scarlet Berserker, and a few hundred Elites.

She borrows 5% of stats, and a dense green wave of energy and Noble Grade Vibrations mirroring the frequency of a light elf erupts around her.

"Join me if you know your strength, maintain the Citadel's stability if you believe you would be of better use here...."

As Ava jumps off the top of the Grand Citadel and flies into the green clouds, the Griffin and Berserker Giant are the only ones that dare to follow. The rest line up around the Citadel's edges and create a secondary barrier around the citizens to lessen the pressure and vibrations leaking through the natural defenses.

The strange thing about these Demons, even while using Foresight on full blast, is that the power of their attacks cannot be predicted.

The strength of their Vibrations, and their relative speed based on prior movements, is registered; but the symbols that cover their bodies hide all of their internal energy, not showing their Demon Core or ether purity strength to those who try to discern it.

However, this deficiency has its advantages too. The fact that only the Demon's High Noble Vibrations can be sensed gives a very accurate reading on the Demon's intentions. There are no external clouds of energy or deceit blocking their minds to show exactly where they're locked on to attack.

Each of the three generals is sharing all of their sensory data and has come to find they each have unique vision past even this.

Raven's eyes within her pocket stealth dimension pick up on fluctuations in a small amount of Demon's armor where their Vibrations are leaking out more than others. At first, she believes it must mean they are stronger, and their wills are too powerful to be held back by these strange defenses.

However, as billions of mental simulations pass as she gets closer and closer, the truth becomes clear.

A small amount of these Demons have faulty armor. There are tiny microscopic fractures and gaps in the glyphs.

No normal Noble Green True Core could ever possibly see so clearly. Especially one that has a Soul Energy Core still mostly saturated with Low-Quality ether.

The High-Quality Ether Glyphs are on a level so much higher than anything in this Green zone that they should be unbreakable. This is what the Imperials have counted on, this is their strongest army chosen to exterminate all life in the Lower Zones, even approved by the Overseer as a guaranteed result.

But harnessing 5% of stats and mana control from every single link of loyalty on over 70 billion worlds bends the laws of nature.

Her mana-based system skills have been artificially boosted to a level where a massive portion of the galaxy's perception is focused in a single mortal's eyes.

The first direct hit in this all-out attack on the Green Zone does not go how the Demons expected.

Two invisible swords collide with an unsuspecting Demon's armor.

It does not even feel Raven coming. The Green Cored Demon has its eyes set on the Ellipsia Citadel, marching forward through the air with mindless confidence.

Yet, all of a sudden, an enormous burst of mana and Noble Vibrations slashes through a microscopic crack in this Demon's chest plate. A crack that only formed from the hundreds of millions of years that passed while this Demon slept in a dormant state in the Lower Realm.

The absurd release of pure mana, replicating the blast of multiple exploding stars in the Lower Realm, tears open this crack. The tightly organized High-Quality Glyphs in the Demon's Armor are released without the proper commands being activated for safe usage, and instead, it senses that an enemy of far greater strength has challenged it. A chain reaction of self-destruct commands completely annihilate the demon trapped within its armor milliseconds later.

Raven is still deep within her Stealth dimension, but her vision goes bright white, and she can feel the heat of the explosion leaking through... bending space and challenging her unique true core's ability.

At the same time, she begins to hear tens of thousands of level notifications blaring in her inner ear, as she just managed to kill an Ancient Imperial Soldier.

This enormous blast proves her point that they are not so mysterious, and whatever these white armor artifacts are, they can be broken. The Demons inside them are not nearly as strong as their gear makes them out to be.

This realization is sent to the other generals, the Lower Realm forces, and it is paired with an old piece of data the rising emperor shared in their higher-ups forums. It is of the battle against the Blue Zone's Royal Family Head... He was a shell of a Royal underneath that fancy armor, and so these soldiers must be the same.

Arie's view of the battlefield is entirely different.

When he aims arrows at his targets, a new sensation ripples through his mind. It has only begun to develop recently, as he started training and running tests on the Demonic Creatures left behind by the High Noble Demon that used to rule the Mensa Citadel.

He has a hard time putting it into words, but when he looks at the Vibrations of these approaching Demons, he begins to see a black aura of death around some of them. It is lighter, almost grey to those further away, and it becomes darker, pitch black when he points the tip of his arrow at a vital point on certain Demons.

Seeing what Raven achieved, and its complex breakdown, connects all the dots in his mind.

When his first arrow collides with the darkest black cloud in his death vision, it breaks through a microscopic flaw in one of the Demon's Armor. He had no idea what he was aiming at moments ago, but once another supernova of High-Quality ether erupts from a Demon being cooked alive within its own faulty armor, it all makes sense.

Notifications blare through his mind too, as he reaps the rewards of killing one of the strongest living Demons from an ancient era of this galaxy.

Ava was slightly nervous at first, as she has the most amount of citizens behind her that need protecting, and has the lowest overall attack power out of all the generals.

However, sparkling yellow and white lights begin filling her vision, and a sweet scent fills the air, highlighting weaknesses on certain Demons all over the sky that are approaching, and the sensation of what she assumed to be divine luck in past activities. Now, she knows it is some kind of light elven legacy, but it is still strange.

When comparing this inheritance she found to the other generals, or even minor inheritances found in the World Wide Connectivity system, none of them work quite like hers.

She feels a warm aura pushing her to do certain movements, and sometimes it leaks foreign knowledge into her psyche when it needs it most. It's like this inheritance has a consciousness of its own, and always guides her to favorable outcomes when her life is on the line.

Ava has become slightly suspicious and has tried to talk to this force over the last few weeks, but it never replies in the way she wishes.

Her eyes are covered in this white and yellow light as a technique flows into her mind right before impacting the closest Demon.

She grits her teeth and swings her hammer across her body, yelling out into the open air, "Fine! I'll accept your gifts again! But when I survive this, I need some answers!" A perfect replica of her greater form's green hammer comes bursting out from the swing.

It looks like a green hologram was just shot out from its base, yet around the edges, a white and yellow sparkling glow makes its structural makeup very different that normal mana, ether, or divine threads.

The enormous High Noble in front of Ava does not even register her as a threat at first; its only objective was set on the Grand Citadel behind her.

Yet, when this hologram of a hammer collides with the Demon's left knee, and exploits a half-faded glyph that was woven too hastily to withstand the cold storage it was placed in, the exact same reaction occurs.

The Goblin Queen is blinded by the blast of white light, and her consciousness is filled with level-up notifications.
