When she left the drow, it was midmorning, which meant most of the dwarves were still sleeping off the celebration of the night before. Hallbjorn, however, was already awake and doing work, as were about half of the Councilors. They had set up a makeshift City Hall that was really little more than a wooden roof held up by stone pillars.

“Hallbjorn,” Elise called as she flew in.

“Elise?” he said, looking up from his desk. “Oh. Right. Today’s the day, isn’t it.”

“Yes,” she said. “Thank you for everything.”

“Of course,” he said. “And thank you as well. Without you, we wouldn’t be here.”

“Mmm.”

Elise still hadn’t figured out how to best reply to his constant thanks.

“Well, you already know, but I’m not very long-winded,” said Hallbjorn. “I wish you the best of luck in your journey. You’re always welcome to come back whenever you’d like.”

“And I wish you the best of luck with getting Dokkalfheimr back up and running.”

He nodded. “Then, until we meet next.”

“Until then,” agreed Elise.

She flew back out, feeling a bit awkward about how the conversation had gone. Was that it? Was she done now? It felt anticlimactic, but at the same time, she was relieved. A long, drawn out tearful goodbye would have been even more uncomfortable. Regardless, it was all over now. She was leaving, and it was time to look forward to the future.

She knew where Jelor was, but getting there wouldn’t be as simple as just flying there. It had been for Emilia, but she was much faster and stronger, and had stealth skills that Elise didn’t. There were predators in the air that Elise had no way of dealing with, and almost every single city in the world had powerful defensive spells and well-trained guards specifically to prevent monsters like her from just flying in. Her journey would be much slower, and would have to be much closer to the ground.

Before she even started though, she had to go check on the cabin one last time. She had been going there semi-regularly since the first visit to see if anything had changed. So far, nothing had, and she didn’t expect anything to, but it was a small detour, and on the off-chance that someone had visited, or was visiting, there was a good chance it would clue her in on where exactly the Grays had gone and how they were doing.

When she arrived at the cabin, it was just as it was the last few times. She looked around for a few minutes, just to make sure, then said a silent goodbye before flying away, this time heading northwest. However, just before she made it to the edge, a glint in the woods below caught her eye. It took her a few seconds to spot it again and confirm she wasn’t just seeing things, but when she did, it was undeniable. It was an armored human, and they were swinging a sword around as they fought a pack of wolves.
