Elder Arilitilo said, “Thunder Birds consume the minds of lesser Polymages in the same way that the ooze transformation and certain other monsters are capable of taking over a person. Many who considered themselves powerful Polymages have gone after Thunder Bird forms in the past, only to be consumed by the bird in turn, leaving their own Familiar Form behind.” She added, “It is strictly inadvisable to undertake this Familiar Form. Lightning Shriekers, though, are madness incarnate. They’re more Lightning and Thunder elemental than physical beast. I don’t believe it is possible to gain one of those as a Familiar Form.”

Well there went that idea. Ezekiel didn’t have to look behind him to see that Julia was disappointed by that news, but she got over it fast enough.

He asked, “Regarding these Blood Magic lessons. What would they entail?”

Elder Arilitilo said, “Most of what I teach is in regard to healing through Blood Magic. If you have not already gained [Greater Treat Wounds] through the Quest given by Registrars, then I can help you gain that spell and, more importantly, I can give you the capability to heal ailments that [Greater Treat Wounds], [Regeneration], and the smaller spells are not able to heal. I also teach a special method of enchanting where you can condense core dust into your blood that is outside of your body, and then you can use that for enchanting, directly, without the need to purchase or utilize cores.” She added, “Loremaster Xue was my apprentice for several years, learning all that I had to teach him, but he has gone further with this method of enchanting than even I.”

This was a fantastic offer.

Ezekiel wanted to learn those spells, and that method of enchanting.

Of course, he could have found some massive disaster somewhere and likely popped off the Quests for [Greater Treat Wounds] and [Regeneration] in one afternoon, which is something he certainly could have done if he had a mind to do so back when the Ballooning Spiders were still happening. But this seemed much better. He preferred learning those spells as they were meant to be learned.

Hiding his interest, Ezekiel asked, “How long would that take?”

“How familiar are you with the body and how it works?”

“Extensively familiar with the body, though not in any true medical sense.” Ezekiel said, “I have not explored much Blood Magic except to learn how to deny it.”

“That is the first lesson already taught, then. With your mana sense, I believe I could teach you most of what I know in under a month.” Ari added, “It might take longer than that if we only meet for half days. I can work around your schedule.”

Ezekiel considered, then said, “It seems like a high possibility.”

Arilitilo nodded, bowing out of the conversation.

Riri asked, “Are we up for a trade, then, Scion Ezekiel?”

Ezekiel tried not to show his enthusiasm, as he said, “Yes.”

A collective relief seemed to pass through the group.

Elder Mirizo hadn’t spoken at all, and it was just now that Ezekiel realized that the Elder was only there in case something went disastrously wrong. If things went how Ezekiel wanted them to go, Mirizo might not get a chance to speak at all.

Zalindi inquired, “Would you question our Alchemists?”

Moving right along, Ezekiel said, “Yes,” as he stood from his seat. “It shouldn’t take long, but I will be putting them behind privacy magics.”

Zalindi and the others stood as one, as the Patriarch said, “As you wish.”

Ezekiel relocated to the table surrounded by paper dividers. He moved the majority of them out of the way with a twist of lightform, then he erected a [Sealed Privacy Ward] over a table. The air briefly shimmered over the space, but settled down fast enough. None of the people behind him seemed to care, outwardly, that he had committed a social blunder; likely because he had done it on purpose. But Ezekiel wanted to be able to see out of the space.

Without a spell such as [True Sight], the stone table and chairs appeared the same as before, but under the piercing power of appropriate magics, the space was a solid magenta sphere. Paul walked into the sphere exactly as Ezekiel had wordlessly asked him to, vanishing from sight. Inside the space, he could still see out, though.

Julia and Tiffany remained at their own table.

Ezekiel stepped into the sphere, half of his body vanishing as he motioned to the first of four alchemists; a young woman of brown skin and black hair. “Come inside.” He stepped inside, and waited.

Ezekiel’s [Sealed Privacy Ward] was different from other privacy seals he had seen. His allowed him to watch the world outside without disruption. The Void privacy of Kaffi, and the [Stone Dust Privacy Ward], or whatever it was Tenebrae had, were solid disruptions, both ways.

Odin whined as his sight briefly winked out, his eyes turning solid white, but then he just blinked, resetting the [Scry] part of his eyesight, and pupils and irises returned. You could see out of the sealed space, but not into it. Yggdrasil’s [Scry] orb was destroyed as it tried to follow Ezekiel inside, but the tree [Familiar] brought his eye back quick enough, except the orb was on Julia this time.

Ezekiel sat down while Paul stood behind him. Both watched as the young woman, the first Alchemist of the day, steeled herself and strode into the hidden space, eyes open the whole way. She crossed the barrier and her eyes moved down, to see Ezekiel already sitting in his chair. She took her chair, briefly looked out at the perfectly uninterrupted sight of everyone else in the courtyard, currently looking their way, then turned back toward Ezekiel.

Ezekiel began, “Name, age, level. How did you get to be here, in this seat you are sitting in right now?”

The woman blanked for a good second, and then she rattled off, “Eroi, age 32, level 61. I worked at my father’s alchemy shop in Eralis making potions of increasing quality with less ingredient usage, where by fate or chance I caught the eye of Loremaster Riri a decade ago. From there she raised me up to Star Song where I have been making better and better healing potions ever since. Most of my potions deal with long term care, with minimal alchemy involved. I have even had success with refining antibiologic mixtures and poultices which remain effective even on those afflicted by the Elixir. The advent of Particle Magic has even enabled me to begin to isolate some of the non-magical makeup of the old and new recipes we have in our Lorehouses.”

Truthful, quick, and her area was solidly in line with what was needed to solve the problems of Antirhine. Ezekiel approved. Of course, he could be paranoid, and suspect that everyone he would meet today was as good of a liar as Kaffi, but he suspected people like the Singer were exceedingly rare.

Ezekiel asked, “How do you think the solution Tadashi created works?”

Without hesitation, and with more than a small amount of excitement in her voice, Eroi said, “I’m not sure! There have long been certain treatments that help the body to purge antirhine —we notice the antirhine in the urine sometimes— but none of them are effective in the long term. The problem remains in the bones. So this new potion has to have some natural bone-scouring effect. I imagine that if we had people drink cow milk a lot then we would offset the natural problems that I am sure this treatment will cause, but then we have to watch out for interactions with medicines and milk, and—” She paused, then rapidly added, “I was getting off topic. I apologize, Scion Fla— Ezekiel.” Her eyes went wide, briefly, as her mouth shut tight.

Ezekiel smiled, and said, “You can step out, now. Send the next one in.”

Eroi rapidly took the offered out, got up, bowed, then backed out of the space. Once she was out, Ezekiel watched as she nodded at one of the other Alchemists. The man hopped to, and went into the room, while the other two Alchemists watched on with hidden anger in their eyes, for some reason.

Interview number two went as smooth as the first one. The man was named Choi, and he, like Eroi, was a Classed Alchemist scouted by Riri over a decade ago. He figured that if the body had more blood production then that extra production could scour antirhine out of the bones as easily as Tadashi’s new invention. There was already evidence for this, as some Elixir’d Blood Mages could, through innate Class Abilities, lessen the antimagic effect inside of them so that other people could [Cleanse], cleaning off the skin, though the Blood Mage themselves could never truly rid their body of the Elixir.

Number three, Hangbi, was a trueborn son of Star Song. That was not surprising, as Ezekiel guessed based on clothing and demeanor that he had been given two common-born Alchemists and two noble-born Alchemists to interview. The rest of his answer was surprising.

Hangbi said, “I believe that we’re going about this wrong. I believe that the true secret to overcoming the Elixir is pure mana flow. There is already evidence that this works in that when you place an Elixir’d person at the end-nozzle of an entire dungeon’s flow of mana, you can deform their antimagic aura. If we scaled up this idea then there might be something there. No one has ever attempted to actually scale up the problem to the proper size, though.”

“I’ve certainly never heard that before, but it would be interesting if you could ‘push’ the Elixir out of its rest state inside the bones.” Ezekiel asked, “Does that actually happen, though? Can you disrupt the antirhine in the body with excessive mana flow? And do not forget: There is the problem of this action forcing core formation in a person.” He asked, “Unless antirhine prevents core formation?”

“Antirhine does not prevent core formation.” Reluctantly, Hangbi said, “There is merit to Tadashi’s invention, but it is merely the first step of a long journey.”

“You are correct about that. Send in the last person.”

Number four was named Ving, and she was a trueborn daughter of Star Song, as well.

There was a rivalry between the commoners and the nobles, even if all were all technically nobles these days. He briefly wondered if this was a bad or a good thing, and then decided that rivalry was good in many ways.

And then Ving’s answer for ‘why was she here’ made Ezekiel very glad that she had been included in this event, today.

Ving rapidly said, “I believe that antirhine is a single particle of atomic number 82. This is because antirhine has purity. Most of the time, the silver-white metal has to be refined through physical means. When it is refined, the purer it is, the larger the antimagic effect. But similarly, the more intent-filled mana that touches the antirhine, the larger the antimagic effect is, as well. This is why when a person imbibes the Elixir the resulting aura is many times larger than the aura in the bottle.” She shook her head, saying, “Anyway! Their aura eventually settles down some, which means that the antirhine is getting diluted, or locked away into the body, but not enough to matter. Probably. I think this is the secret to Tadashi’s treatment. Like how you described that water is two hydrogen and one oxygen, antirhine merely has to be in a long enough chain of particles, a big enough molecule, to where it doesn’t count as antirhine anymore! If I could figure out how all the bonding works and why it is the way it is, then I could truly understand what Tadashi has created. And then—” She paused, then politely said, “Then I could solve my cousin’s Elixir problem.” She rapidly added, “And everyone else’s, of course.”

Ezekiel could not stop himself from smiling. He said, “Thank you for your answer. Please send in Wabi.”

Ving stood up, briefly appeared as though she wanted to say something else, then bowed and walked out of the privacy. Ving gave words to Wabi, and after a brief exchange of surprise among the other people in the courtyard, Wabi broke away from his brother. The two pink men looked so alike. Wabi could probably pass for Tadashi if no one knew of them beforehand.

Wabi stepped into the sealed space, flinched as he saw Ezekiel already seated, then took a seat.

Ezekiel said, “You didn’t expect to be let into this conversation, did you?”

“… No, I did not. I am also not interested in the Intelligence Ring. I’m only here to show that Clan Star Song is supporting Tadashi.”

“Are they?”

Wabi flinched.

Ezekiel said, “If it helps, I’ve already made up my mind. I’m for sure helping the four Alchemists to gain Intelligence, and then I’m helping them to create proper anti-antirhine therapy, but I’m going to have to read the material they have given me, first. But I would like to know of any possible problems that are coming over the horizon and you seem positioned well enough to tell me true. Is there anything you think I should know?”

Wabi froze, completely. He said, “I am sure I do not know anything about anything, Scion Phoenix.”

Ezekiel tried a different tactic. “Are you still part of Diligent Scribe?”

Wabi frowned. “No. I was disowned yesterday. I am only here because Tadashi is looking out for me when I was incapable of being there for him. I am an initiate of Star Song at the moment.”

“How did the bandits manage to capture him and not you?”

Wabi instantly said, “They targeted him first, knocking him out with Blood Magic. You can’t [Teleport] the unresponsive. I’m not happy about what I did, running away from twenty soldiers, but I ran and I got help. It was all I could do. By the time we got back to the glade the soldiers were gone.”

“Soldiers?”

“From Terror Peak, on the other side of the Tribulations. No one believes me because I have no proof, but I firmly believe they were soldiers. Or at least some of them were.”

Ezekiel nodded, then he asked, “Who is the traitor in Diligent Scribe?”

Wabi froze. He unfroze in increments, slowly at first, but then rapidly. He said, “I don’t know, but they’ll come around again once Tadashi figures out exactly what he made. And he’ll do it, too. He’s a genius. If your ring actually works on him, then he’ll have the solution by tonight.”

“Is Tadashi doing okay? Are you doing okay?”

“… He’s driven. In most cases, that is better than being simply ‘okay’. I am only an initiate of Star Song, but I’m able to see to my brother’s needs. I am thankful for the opportunity to be there for him now, since I wasn’t able to be there for him before.”

Ezekiel nodded, then he said, “With any luck, Tadashi might not have to depend on you in this way in a year. They’re close to the solution. All they need is a nudge, and I’m going to give it to them. You may go.”

