Wabi brightened. He stood, bowed, then walked out of the bubble.

Ezekiel turned to Paul. “So how much of what we heard was a lie?”

Paul chuckled. “I can’t answer that.”

Ezekiel got out of his seat, saying, “Oh well. Let the cards fall how they will.” He dismissed the [Sealed Privacy Ward]. Most people were already facing his way, but now they were facing him, directly. He pulled the Intelligence Ring out of his sash and held it in one hand, as he channeled the mana glow of Intelligence in the other. The pale-violet mana plume was barely visible against the blue sky. He said, “I know the Shades made multiple Stat Trees, but I am not sure if they made multiple Intelligence-colored Stats. If anyone has this color of Stat already in their Status, then the addition of Intelligence will soul-warp you into an unrecognizable mess of flesh and bone and blood.”

He dropped his mana channeling hand, cutting off the color, as the faces around him went hard. Only Wabi went wide-eyed; they probably had not informed him of this nuanced New Stat information, but the others had all heard of this already. Erick’s viewpoint of last Shadow’s Feast was likely leaked to many, many people by now, and then there were all the other stories coming out of Ar’Kendrithyst from everyone else involved in that whole mess. Star Song was prepared to accept this New Stat into their ranks.

Ezekiel said, “My second warning is that there are diminishing returns. The third warning is that if a Registrar wipes Intelligence from your Status, then you will have lost whatever points you put into Intelligence. No recovery. The fourth warning is that there are no Skills linked to Intelligence; what you see is what you get. The fifth warning is to not put too many points into it right away.” He paused. He said, “I can see all of you already know this, but I’m still saying this for my own conscience. Who wants to go first?”

The alchemists went first. Everyone else watched.

Ezekiel watched with mana sense, [Soul Sight], [True Sight], and from multiple angles. The information he got from [Soul Sight] was the most important, here.

Every person had a natural color to their soul which helped to inform the color of their magic. Ezekiel's soul was white. Julia’s was dark blue. Tiffany’s was grey and Paul’s was blue. Anyone looking at Ezekiel with [Soul Sight] active would see the magenta of his magic and the white of his soul and realize that something didn’t add up, but [Soul Sight] was barely more common than [Witness].

He knew he was never going to pull off hiding for very long!

Anyway.

Eroi, Choi, Hangbi, and Ving, with their pink, red, blue, and green souls, respectively, each experienced the same thing. Each had a blossom erupt in the center of their soul as the ring slipped onto their finger; some ineffable density taking hold that was similar to when someone raised their Stats, or learned a spell, or gained an Ability. But it was also different. It was colored ultraviolet, for one. That ultraviolet flavor soaked into the whole, and soon enough, the soul returned to its original color, but shifted, slightly.

Ezekiel guessed that his own soul had shifted much the same back in Shadow’s Feast, but his was white and he had all the New Stats, so the overall effect was minimal.

Here, the overall soul effect was also almost nothing.

But each person reacted to the addition of Intelligence in their own ways. Ezekiel remembered his own mania of creation after gaining Intelligence, causing him to gain all of the New Stats at once and then gain a visit from Rozeta, but in his case, he had left the massively enchanted ring upon his finger. All these four people got was the unlocking of Intelligence, and then the ring taken right back off.

Eroi started mumbling about how she needed to grow some certain plants. Choi spoke of a sudden realization that blood had types, which is how they could remove the antirhine blood from a person and then donate other, clean blood to the person and toss away the antirhine blood, possibly speeding up the cleansing process. Hangbi suddenly lamented that core formation would be the inevitable result of enough ambient mana funneled into a person, and he actually collapsed to the floor, saying that his life was a lie.

He was just being dramatic. Right?

Ving went very silent as she looked at Ezekiel, and said, “Oh. It’s rather simple, isn’t it?”

Ezekiel smiled as he removed the ring from her finger, and said, “Maybe. You tell me.”

And then Ving declared that she needed paper and pens. Where are the paper and pens! She must have some paper and pens!

Ezekiel let Elder Mirizo and Enforcer Sikali deal with that, as he went back to Zalindi, Riri, Xue, and Arilitilo, who were still sitting at the central table.

He held the ring in his hand, and asked, “Want to wait and see how they handle it? Or want to go right now? Who wants this?”

“Elder Arilitilo, Loremaster Xue, and myself.” Riri said, “Today would be wonderful, Scion Phoenix.”

“Not you, Patriarch Zalindi?”

Zalindi said, “The High Clans are not happy with the New Stats, but they are willing to overlook smaller infractions. My personal gain of Intelligence would be a large infraction.”

Ezekiel nodded, and with his lightform, he held the ring and moved it to hover in front of Riri.

Riri stared at the ring for all of a moment, then slipped her finger in.

Riri, Xue, and Arilitilo weathered the change much better than the Alchemists. Ezekiel suspected that the Alchemists each had points waiting to shove directly into Intelligence, but while these three likely had extra points, too, they did not shove them into their New Stat right away. Or maybe they were just more controlled than a bunch of scientists who had their eyes enlightened to the world.

When it was done, Ezekiel took the ring back.

Riri smiled wide, and happily turned to Xue, declaring, “Starting score of 19! What’s yours?”

So maybe there were some side effects. They would be temporary, though.

Xue didn’t respond. He mostly just blinked a few times. Sikali glared at Riri from where she was wrangling Alchemists and getting paper for Ving, but she said nothing.

Arilitilo said, “Ah. That is an experience.”

Ezekiel said, “I suggest you take a day to acclimate.” He said to Riri, “I will be taking those locations of those spiders, though, and any starter books on your thread enchanting, or whatever the discipline is called.”

Riri seemed to come back to the moment, having mentally gone somewhere while Ezekiel was speaking. When he stopped, Riri looked at him, blinked a few times, and said, “Yes. Okay. Let me send you a telepath—”

“RIRI!” Xue came back to himself. “You said you couldn’t raise any blood weavers!”

Arilitilo started in on Riri, saying, “She was lying to us— No. She didn’t raise them at all. And she’s still not giving up her Pearlchan, are you?”

Riri laughed. “Nope! In an absence of immense amounts of sapient blood, Blood Weavers need full lives in order to thrive properly, and I will not do that! But naturally occurring Blood Weavers can live off of other monsters. The Primal Blood Weaver is in an enclave of the lesser same, reigning as Queen, while the Nacreous Weaver I’m giving Ezekiel is NOT PEARLCHAN! Gods above! I am not giving him my beloved Pearlchan! This other Nacreous Weaver is in a grove tended to by—” She stopped. “My mouth almost ran away with me. Even a hint would have been too much.” She said to Ezekiel, “Xue and Arilitilo always wanted my threads. Don’t go selling your daughter’s threads in Eralis or else I might have to enact a hostile takeover! Ha ha!”

Zalindi frowned, harshly whispering, “Riri!”

Ezekiel would have smiled at Riri’s laughter, but the woman was not actually joking.

Xue and Arilitilo both had been about to say something, but they stopped at Zalindi’s outburst.

Riri frowned. Then she looked around, and realized something. She stared at Ezekiel, then softened, and said, “I will have some books for you by tomorrow.”

“I can have some reading material for you in an hour,” Arilitilo said.

Riri inhaled, then said, “Apologies. I meant I will have your books in twenty minutes.” She sent him an image of a grotto bathed in light, along with a map and the words, ‘Here is the Nacreous Weaver. Be careful. It’s more fragile than it looks. And!’ She sent him another image and a location, saying, ‘And the Primal Blood Weaver is somewhere around here. WHOOO she’s a bitch. Good luck with that. Don’t get cocky.’ She stood up, saying, “And that concludes—” She sat right back down. “Ah. I need to sit here for a little while longer.”

Ezekiel stood up, followed by Zalindi and no one else, and said, “Thank you for the hospitality. I will be taking these books and—”

“We have rooms for you!” Arilitilo said, “I set them up earlier, if you want to stay here! We’ve got [Ward]s more than that hotel you’re in!”

Xue held his head, mumbling, “I need a nap.”

Ezekiel said, “Perhaps I will spend a longer time here some other day. But there is still one more person to give the ring to.” He turned to Tadashi, who had yet to speak, who stood beside his brother.

Tadashi and Wabi were both gathered near the other Alchemists, listening to them speak the secrets of the universe, or at least of a small part of the universe. As Ezekiel walked toward Tadashi, Wabi noticed Ezekiel first. Wabi tapped Tadashi on the shoulder. The two turned to him.

Ezekiel did not get too close, as he asked, “Care to try, Tadashi? You don’t have to if you don’t want to.”

Tadashi eyed the ring. He said, “I’d like to try.”

“Catch and be quick about it.” Ezekiel tossed him the ring.

Tadashi caught the small thing and jammed it on his finger. A moment passed. He frowned. “I felt… Some— No.” He shook his head. “Nothing.” He took the ring off and tossed it back. “Thanks anyway.”

Ezekiel caught the magically-dead ring, saying, “I’m sure your colleagues will have lots to talk about when they come down from this experience. Maybe you can wear one of these rings next year. But as for this one—” Ezekiel held the inert ring with his light, and with a great flex, snapped it in half. Diamond turned to diamond dust and shards. A [Mend] brought the ring back together, then he put it in the pocket of his sash. It might have been magic-dead, but Ezekiel ensured it was. “Good luck on figuring out chelation.”

Tadashi blinked in confusion. “Chelation?”

“Unless I’m mistaken, that’s the word for the process you have invented. It’s where a molecule of certain particles will flex in the presence of metals, like antirhine, because it is a more stable configuration with the metal contained in the molecule, than in any other configuration. Or something like that. I’m sure you’ll figure it out. Chelation is the name of the therapy I’m thinking of, anyway.” Ezekiel walked away to suddenly dumbfounded alchemists and Tadashi, picking up his books on the way out, saying, “Thanks for the hospitality! We’re off to get some spiders!”

His people were ready to go, and with the final hint he had dropped on the courtyard, everyone was trying to talk over everyone else. Zalindi was one of two people with the wherewithal to bid him goodbye, with the other being Elder Mirizo, but even that farewell was cut short as the Elder needed to step between Xue and Riri before they started throwing more than just verbal barbs. Arilitilo seemed to be in the middle of a revelation, with her eyes to the sky.

Ezekiel left them to it.

With a quick wrap of magenta light and holding onto his books, the four of them were back in the hotel.

Ezekiel said, “That went well!” He asked, “Spider time?”
