Wishful thinking is all it was, for she had yet to even master the Forms to any significant degree, so how could she dream of being as amazing as Mama or Teacher Du? The evidence was before her now, for despite Jorani’s incredible display of Martial might, he was unable to do anything to slow Gen’s advance. Why? Because like Song, he lacked whatever it might be that separated the ordinary from the extraordinary, and they were both destined to languish in mediocrity. Again, the half-Demon closed the distance with his foe, and again, Jorani switched to a two-weapon style, but even with twice the number of attacks, Gen’s forward progress continued step by inevitable step, his movements so sublime Song could hardly track, much less predict. Unable to make full use of his weapon’s range, Jorani’s Spiritual Rope began looping around his forearms to shorten his weapon in preparation for a close range fight, the clamorous peals lowering in volume and intensity as his impromptu wrapped bracers grew.

Leaping back just as his foe stepped into arm’s reach, Jorani let the last bits of his Spiritual Rope wrap around his palms before taking up his stance, his bound fists raised like a street fighter getting ready to brawl. His hateful sneer back in place, Gen responded by raising his hand palm up and curling his taloned fingers towards him, which curiously enough was a gesture which Rain often used to beckon someone over. More than happy to oblige, Jorani charged into the fight with fists a jabbing, and Song recognized the Movements of the Mantis Form in his actions. Skewering Blossom and Spear Hand were his opening attacks, the former delivered with his left before following up with the right. Similar Movements in Song’s mind, yet when demonstrated by Jorani, she was able to see the subtle differences between them, one a soft attack meant to test the defences while the other a domineering thrust aimed to break and penetrate.

At this realization, comprehension dawned on Song as she realized that while there were many Movements in the Forms that seemed similar at first glance, they actually vastly differed in usage. One such example was her favoured slash, Tiger Swipes the Rushes, which she used almost exclusively because she saw no reason to use a different Movement to achieve the same result, but now she understood how wrong she was. While Tiger Swipes the Rushes was fast and powerful, Snake Rustles the Branches could be substituted to sacrifice speed and power for versatility, allowing her the freedom to change her target mid-slash and move high or low instead. Or she could use Deer Parts the Underbrush to probe her foe with a measured slash, just like Jorani tried here, and then follow up with Oriole’s Gliding Wing, Wolf’s Reverse Bite, or even Bull’s Lumbering Turn.

For the last several months, Song strove to develop what she hoped would become an unstoppable combination, one built on the foundation of her quick-draw strike, but this was the wrong Path to take. With each Movement of each Form holding so many variations, there were countless possible combinations in existence, so how could one Movement be right for every possible scenario? Rather than perfect one specific ‘pinnacle’ combination, her time would be better spent mastering multiple variations of the various combinations, allowing her to choose the right tool for the right job, as Teacher Du often said. How foolish of Song to overlook so simple a detail, but Jorani’s demonstration had opened her eyes to the truth.

Such was cultivation, to pursue the truth, and even though Song made no improvements to her basic skills, by accepting this one simple truth, she progressed by leaps and bounds along the Martial Path. All the tools she needed to defeat her foes lay before her, given to her by Mama and Teacher Du, so she only needed to choose the right one for each and every scenario.

Unfortunately, while Jorani had learned this lesson long ago, he was still lacking in raw skill and ability when matched against Gen, who according to Rain, was being puppeted by an eight-hundred year old monster who should have died long ago. Who knew what tricks this Zhen Shi had up his sleeves? Despite Jorani’s most valiant efforts, Gen had yet to exhibit any sign of strain, having blocked only a single attack this entire time without even resorting to attacking or using his Elemental Blessing. Victory was his for the taking, and judging by his smug smile, Gen knew it well and was purposely drawing things out for his own amusement.

Round and round the two duellists danced, with Jorani on the offensive the entire time. Unable to unleash his full abilities in close combat, the battlefield was silent save for the sound of his boots scuffing across the cobblestone ground and Gen’s pompous voice rattling off about how the battle’s outcome was already decided and Jorani had no hopes of winning. “Why struggle against the inevitable?” Gen asked, only to continue before Jorani had time to even answer. “You think Falling Rain will appreciate your futile efforts? That the Empire will reward you if you throw your life away? You are nothing to them, less than nothing, a common, nameless soldier in a doomed war to be used and discarded, but this Sovereign sees promise in you, for you have touched upon the Truth.” Backing away from the fight, Gen extended a clawed hand in hazardous invitation, his smile all the more hateful for his undeserved confidence. “Take this Sovereign’s hand and join me, Jorani of Sanshu, and together, we will overthrow the Dog Emperor and slaughter his corrupt nobility to usher in a new age of enlightenment and equality.”

Shoulders slumped and chest heaving with exertion, Jorani stood with back hunched and arms listless, still held at the ready yet clearly lacking strength. After a moment of hesitation, Jorani lowered his arms and shuffled forward with deliberate lack of haste and caution, boldly crossing the short distance to offer Gen his hand, one the Defiled puppet took with a grin. “You know,” Jorani began, his voice subdued and quiet, “Fer a guy who thinks his side can’t lose, ye sure are actin’ scared. Brought a whole army all the way out here just fer one Falling Rain. How many more Divinities ye got with ye? Bet ye brought as many as ye could, didn’t ye? Yea, you did, because yer a bully and a coward, strong when facing the weak and gutless when faced with the strong. Came across a thousand others just like ye, bastards with a bit of power who think they’re hot shit, and gotta make sure everyone around them knows it too. They’d knife their mum fer a pair of silvers and brag about the fight she put up, but they always were the first to ghost outta a fight when things were lookin’ tough, cowards who only knew how to be strong when terrorizing the weak.”

“You dare?” Bone cracked and blood flowed as Gen’s squeezed Jorani’s hand in his bladed grip.

“Aye, I do.” Holding his head up high as if he couldn’t feel the pain, Jorani met Gen’s eyes with a grin. “Now havin’ sed all I sed, I figured ye’d be more worried about why I’m over here holding yer hand, but turns out, yer stupid as well.” Glancing at their hands, Song’s eyes widened in surprise as Jorani’s Spiritual Rope wrapped around Gen’s wrist like Noodle coiling around Luo-Luo’s arm. Sensing danger, Gen jerked his hand back, but failed to dislodge Jorani or his weapon, and only pulled the half-rat’s arm along with him. Throwing himself forward with the motion, Jorani’s left hook caught Gen on the chin and sent him reeling in a spray of blood, the tender flesh mangled by some unseen Chi working, something to do with Honing and Deflection no doubt. Raising his arm for a second blow, Jorani pulled his right hand down and to the side, dragging Gen along and breaking his posture to ruin any attempt to ward off the next attack. Again, Jorani’s left punch landed solidly on the hateful Defiled’s cheek and exposed flesh and bone, only to use the connected rope to pull Gen about and land a flurry of left jabs on that hatefully smug face. For the cost of his maimed and lacerated hand, Jorani struck his foe no less than a dozen times, doing more damage to the Defiled mouthpiece’s pride than flesh, but it was a trade the Hangman seemed delighted to make.

For a brief moment, Song’s spirits rose as Jorani dominated his foe, landing blow after blow upon the Defiled puppet’s head. Then, a pillar of flames rose into the air, blinding her vision for long seconds before she took in the scene of poor Jorani’s defeat, his blackened skin cracked and bleeding as he lay slumped on the ground, his arm ending in a cauterized stump that was no longer affixed to Gen’s wrist. Letting loose with a roar of unbridled fury, Gen raised his clawed hand to end the half-rat’s life, his eyes unfocused with rage and bloodlust, but Song was already moving before she could think. Aura kindled and condensed, but not one of courage or threat. Instead, she dug deep into her past and unleashed all her dread and trepidation, an Aura which extinguished Gen’s frenzy in the blink of an eye. Freezing up before her onslaught of emotion, the Defiled traitor stood helpless as her traumatic emotions overwhelmed and sent him spiralling into a dark, cavernous pit of hopelessness and despair.

Which bought Song all the time she needed to save Jorani’s life.

Balance on Windy Leaf. For long months, she’d fixated on this particular Movement because Mama and Rain were so adept at using it to charge headlong into the fray, but while Song herself was never able to replicate this feat, why did she limit herself to this single movement? Tiger Pounces Upon the Lamb was far more suited for her style, and she closed the distance between her and Gen in a single powerful bound.

Tiger Swipes the Rushes was her favoured Movement when using a quick-draw attack, one that maximized speed and power, but as she noted before, Snake Shakes the Branch was far more versatile, which she put to good use here, delivering a low, diagonally downward slash to intercept Gen’s panicked flailing.

Steel met flesh in a metallic clang as Song’s quick-draw attack connected, smashing her foe’s hand aside before following through with Wolf Reverses the Flow and Fanged Clutch, a combination Rain taught her many months ago. Back then, he told her the sum of the parts must be greater than the flow, else there was no point in combining the Movements, a lesson she understood then, but only truly comprehended just now. Though she performed four separate movements in total, she merged them together into a single, continuous action without pause or hesitation, one that overwhelmed Gen in an instant. Reeling from the attack to his chest and shoulders, the Defiled bully raised a hand to conjure his flames, but Song was already following through with her initial strike. Snake’s Darting Fang lanced out to collide with his chest, driving the air from his lungs despite his inhuman defences and sending him staggering back once again. Pushing forward on the attack, her Movements flowed out one after the other as she landed blow after blow on her foe, aiming for killing strikes to keep him off guard while her Aura denied him the focus and clarity needed to conjure his flames.

Then the Chosen joined the fray, and the monks moved to meet them, throwing the world into chaos all around her.

Time slowed to a crawl as Song took in the chaos around her, and her first thought was to marvel at how powerful the monks of the Brotherhood truly were despite their pacifist beliefs. Brandishing his spade with a blur, Monk Happy’s customary smile was nowhere to be found as he scythed through the Chosen like a hot knife through butter, killing the Defiled elites without leaving a mark or running afoul of their Runic armour. How he managed it, Song could not see, for his movements were so fast she could barely even capture them despite the State of Enlightenment arriving in full force, but she did note a glimmer in the furious man’s eyes, one she recognized as pain and regret. Despite killing with every blow, Monk Happy was crying for the Chosen, mourning their deaths and the need to go to such extreme measures.

The other monks were no less impressive, and though only a few wielded actual weapons of any note, they were just as effective in combat with broom or oversized brush. Honed bristles glided over Runic plate to find purchase in skin and flesh, the household implements so deadly in the hands of these domestic ascetics. Wooden drums beat in steady rhythm as groups of monks chanted in chorus, their deep baritone clashing head-on with the fearsome tiger’s yowl and coming out on top. The murderous beast was not the only one driven back by the droning chants, as Chosen faltered and fell to their knees before the monks, their horrified expressions twisted with regret and denial as they contemplated their life’s decisions. The cook was the most formidable of them all, his wok igniting into flames which he used to wreak havoc amongst the Chosen lines, but there were others who were equally as impressive with their Blessings of Wood, Sand, and one monk with eyes darker than the darkest of nights controlling a patch of empty nothingness that consumed all in its path.

