Things didn’t all go the Brotherhood’s way however, as not every monk was a master of the Martial Path. Some were barely even competent in the Forms, and more than one fell injured or dying in the initial seconds of battle. This was all Song’s fault, as she had interfered in what should have been a one on one duel to save Jorani’s life, but there would be time for regrets later. Now, her foe stood before her, and she saw in Gen’s eyes the truth Jorani laid bare for all to hear. Where she once would have mistaken it for anger, she now saw Gen’s fear and agitation in his frantic scramble to escape, back-pedalling away as he hollered for his Chosen to guard him. Ridiculous is what it was, for without her Aura, Song was only marginally less outmatched than Jorani was, but Gen scented death upon the wind and was desperate to live, so desperate he couldn’t even think straight. Nervous as a skittish horse, he bucked against his reins as Zhen Shi struggled to retake control, but Gen’s fear was too strong as Song’s Aura smashed aside his resolve while her sabre delivered blow after blow upon his Demonic flesh, hindered only by the Chosen throwing themselves in her path to protect their cowardly leader. Though their Runic armour was nigh impervious to her blows, she used her newfangled perspective of the Forms to execute the Movements best suited to the circumstances and cut a swathe through her foes, guiding her blade to her opponents’ weaknesses and leaving a trail of cripples and corpses in her wake.

For long seconds, Song experienced how Teacher Du and Brother Kyung must feel upon the battlefield, a single Warrior against many yet advancing ever forward into the fray. One distinct difference was that while they used speed and power to overwhelm their opponents, Song relied on cunning and finesse to strike where her foes were weakest, weaving her way through the crowd while delivering death to all who stood in her way. Naaran and a veiled guard appeared at her sides, supporting her as she pushed deeper and deeper into Enemy lines, her eyes never moving off her panicked, backpedalling quarry. Every now and then, she dealt Gen another blow just for good measure, but her blade glanced off metallic flesh time and time again. Despite his panic and trepidation, Gen’s instincts were still wholly on point as he kept his guard tight and refused to present his back. Were Song’s Aura stronger, she could project the same despair to the Chosen around her, but keeping it focused on a single target was the limit of her ability, and she was already pushing said limits by using an unfamiliar Aura in the midst of frenetic battle.

Yet still it was not enough, so Song’s only choice was to surpass those limits.

The mornings when she woke disappointed to be alive, the evenings when she wished someone would kill her before Jin Kai’s summons arrived, the shame and self-loathing which followed after, she dredged up the worst of her memories and bludgeoned her foe with the weight of anguish and misery. Gaze unfocused and mouth opened in a silent scream, Gen’s panicked despair was so palpable Song’s heart bled in commiseration, but there was no mercy for the Enemy, especially not the Emissary of Earth’s Fire. The final threads of his resolve snapped and shattered as he turned tail to flee, but Song would not allow him to escape. Tiger Swipes the Rushes transitioned seamlessly into Gliding Wing, carving through the soft flesh just above Gen’s exposed knee. A severed calf and foot flew as the Emissary tumbled to the ground, and Song stomped upon the small of his back to pin him in place as she raised her bloody sabre high for the killing blow. Nothing fancy needed here, just Tiger Cracks the Turtle, and her blade descended in a two-handed, overhand chop aimed directly at the back of Gen’s head.

Steel bit into flesh and bone, for the Emissary was too prideful to wear his Runic helmet, always so eager to show off his handsome face.

Only to stop three-centimetres deep as it struck something harder than steel, some working that gripped her blade tight and refused to let go.

The world came alive around Song, a world filled with misery and suffering, and space warped before her eyes as the Father’s foul gaze settled upon Gen’s prone form laying in the dirt before her. Pride gave way to panic as she stomped on his back again, exerting all her effort to pull her sabre out of Gen’s skull before it was too late. Skin cracked and fat sizzled as her hilt burned away, her blade glowing hot red with the heat of a thousand furnaces, but she refused to let go because the sabre was all she had. An arm circled around her stomach to pull her away, and Song could only watch in abject despair as her Spiritual Weapon was ripped out from between her burnt hands, her heart breaking mere moments before the weapon collapsed under its own weight, the hardened, indestructible steel turned to molten slag by Gen’s mastery of Earth and Fire.

No, not Gen’s mastery, for this was not Gen any longer, nor was it Zhen Shi directing Gen’s actions. The fallen form rose to its feet and howled at the skies, absorbing Song’s Spiritual Weapon as it did, and only then did it turn around to show her its face, a contorted caricature of Gen’s silently screaming expression cast in molten, flesh-like steel.

Gen had died, slain by Song’s own hand, and in his place was a powerful Demon, one unlike any other.

Everything rippled and contorted in her view as the weight of the world closed in around her, and it was all she could do to keep her eyes open. The world dimmed and she found herself immersed within her Natal Palace, the silver links of the chain border wavering as she sat atop her emerald throne. Modelled after the necklace which represented her Slave Oaths, Song found solace here in her Natal Palace despite also resenting the restrictions set upon her. Having heard Sister Mila and Rain discuss their Natal Palaces many a time, Song had been looking forward to the day when she too could add to her gloomy surroundings and include parts of her current happy life as well. Her quarters in the Citadel never felt right, nor did she have any strong memories of Mama and Papa’s home in the mountains, but one day, she hoped to have something to add, something to represent the happier times in her life now that her worst days were behind her.

Hopes which withered and faded as her chain broke a second time, the boundaries of her Natal Palace crumbling apart as her emerald throne shattered alongside her Core and Spiritual Sabre. Pain surged through every fibre of her being until the clothes on her skin burned like fire, only for a boneshaking chill to run down her spine and set her nerves to screaming. The air itself threatened to tear her scalp off as it drifted through her braided hair, but what hurt most was the doomed prospect of a future wherein she could not tread the Martial Path. How cruel, Mother in Heaven, how viciously spiteful and sadistic, allowing Song a glimpse of the peaks she might one day reach only to toss her off the mountain, never to climb again.

Better if she’d died, because what use was she now?

Wretched despair threatened to drown her as her hopes and dreams were replaced by new pain and despair, and for a moment, she considered just giving up right here, but her yearning to see her loved ones one last time kept her well-anchored to life and existence. Song couldn’t just die without saying goodbye, so she would hold on for as long as she could and hope against all hopes to drift away in their arms, for even the warm embrace of the Mother Above could not compare to being in the presence of Song’s beloved family.

A gentle hand stroked her head, and in a single, blissful moment, Song’s screaming agonies subsided to a whimpering whisper. “Easy now child,” a voice said, one she recognized as Taduk’s as his warm Chi flooded through her broken body and repaired what little it could. “Don’t you worry about a thing. Your sabre is gone and Core shattered, but we have the fix for that, yes? Once you’re back in the Citadel, we’ll whip up an herbal bath and have you back on your feet in no time. This I promise child, so you have nothing to fear.”

Of course. That’s how they fixed Rain’s Core, with an herbal bath meant to reinforce his physique, but the Heavenly Energy did more than just refine his body, it also mended his metaphysical wounds. It would be the same for Song, so there was no need for her to fret. She could still walk the Martial Path and still be of use.

Unaware of Song’s thoughts, Taduk helped her over to the wagon, at which point she finally realized the battle was still ongoing. This was no longer her concern however, for in her pain and exhaustion, she also noticed that the wildcats were all by her side, their care and concern evident for all to behold. Even Ping Ping was here, her round eyes wide with worry as she peered over the side of the wagon, so Song tried her best to muster a smile and set the sweet girl’s mind at ease. “Rest now,” Taduk said, and a warm surge of Chi accompanied his words, lulling Song into restful slumber as the animals curled up around her, the pain from physical contact a mere pittance compared to the comfort she drew from their warm love and affection. “Nothing to concern yourself with here either. We’ll get you and the animals to safety long before you wake.”

As the last vestiges of consciousness slipped away, Song noted with quiet concern that Taduk made no mention of Rain or the monks. Hopefully, they would all escape unscathed, but Jorani was surely on point when he mentioned how Gen would’ve brought multiple Divinities to aid in the assault, and no one, not even another Divinity, which Taduk most certainly was not, could guarantee anyone’s safety when it came to a clash of such titans.

Alas, there was nothing Song could do about it anymore, not in her current state, so she closed her eyes and dreamed of a future in which everyone made it out of here alive, a dream which she feared might never come to pass.

Chapter Meme 1

Chapter Meme 2
