Jacob hadn’t meant to call Maricel Alcantara. It wasn’t part of the plan. But as the cruiser had set off, dipping down into a wave and making his stomach churn, he’d suddenly thought, What if she regrets it?

This place that pretended to be a palace one minute only to show its true colors as a prison the next—she thought she’d be all right here, with these people, but how could she be? Everything got worse when you left intake, not better as people kept promising him.

So he’d sent her a message. He’d tried to give her one last chance.

She’d refused, and he’d forced himself not to answer any of her subsequent messages.

They would probably never see each other again.

Salt water spattered the windows as the man in the cockpit flipped switches and turned the silver wheel. Jacob sat with the others in the cabin. The boat was well-appointed, but he could hardly make out the wood floors or the galley. Supplies covered every surface. The dinette furniture had been removed to make room for something particularly large wrapped in a tarp.

There was food, of course, but mostly the boat was filled with magical equipment, spell ingredients, cases that Jacob was sure held weapons—all things that were difficult or expensive for people to obtain off Anesidora.

The bunks had been left intact, but they’d have to sleep in shifts if they wanted to use the beds. Three of the passengers were crammed onto the small settee right now, and a fourth was sitting on top of a large plastic bin he’d proudly told Jacob was full of stolen potions. The fifth was…there was no fifth.

<<I robbed a dispensary earlier today. That wasn’t easy. But it will be a welcome gift for our brothers in the fight,>> the man sitting on the bin had said.

Jacob was the youngest here. The man who’d stolen the potions was around twenty-five. The strange one on the end of the settee who kept humming to himself and picking at a scab on the back of his hand until it bled looked a decade older. The girl with her soft, dark curls piled up on top of her head in a barrette had said she was “nineteen and ready to see what’s out there” when they all introduced themselves. The other one…there was no other passenger.

The captain had graying hair.

I wonder if I’m a part of “the fight” now.

He hadn’t planned to be, but ever since he’d first reached out to Superhumans at Large, he’d felt like the stars kept aligning. Everything they asked for came to him so much easier than he’d thought it would.

His eyes found his own contribution to the boat’s wealth of strange devices. The Submerger had a place of honor on the floor just beside the captain. The aquarium-like container sat on top of a crystal dial that was obviously made to hold it.

Jacob hadn’t had to get that part. The captain had been in possession of it already, and he knew how to use it from a previous experience with one of these devices.

The Submerger would only be the second one SAL had obtained. They were calling him a hero.

I don’t think they would be as impressed with me if they’d met Orpheus Velra themselves. He’d have sold Earth to the devil for a cigarette.

“You need to relax.” The girl bumped his knee with her own. “We’ve got a long trip ahead of us even with our friends meeting us halfway. If you stay this tense the whole time, it’ll be rough.”

“Aren’t you nervous, too?” Jacob asked.

“Not much.”

<<No reason for any of us to be nervous,>> the captain said. <<As soon as we’ve gained some more distance from the island, we’ll use this beautiful thing.>>

He pointed down at the Submerger.

<<We’ll sink down deep, deep. And we’ll go so slowly we become one with the depths. So slowly we leave no mark for them to trace and make no sound for them to hear. We will slip past the patrols and pass through the sea without an echo.>>

Jacob swallowed.

The captain smiled out at the darkening sky. <<We will fade from Anesidora like shadows. And no one will see us again until we are reborn into the light.>>

**********
