<<Most people don’t have a translation in front of their eyes,>> said the advertisement on the wall. <<Make sure your children can talk to the world.>>

“This isn’t the first time he’s run. They’ll put a lot of restrictions on him when they bring him back,” Maricel went on. “He’ll hate me forever. I…this is what I wanted to ask you. Once he’s back, if he doesn’t mind, will you try talking to him for me?”

“Why me?” Alden had wondered the last time she’d questioned him about escaping via summons. She seemed to think he had more insight to offer than he did. “I’m not an authority on getting off the island or being summoned or anything. There are much better people to—”

“You’re one of us,” Maricel said, taking a step closer to him. “A globie. That really matters to him. And you don’t hate it here, but you don’t think other people are stupid or crazy if they do. You’re a nice person. And you know summoners even though you’re our age. There aren’t any other people like that at all. Maybe he’ll listen to you.”

I guess if that specific combination of qualities is her criteria there aren’t a lot of matches.

“I mean…I’m willing to try I guess. No promises on my success at reasoning with anyone.”

“Thank you.” Her shoulders slumped and she let out a long breath. “You’re a better friend than I am. I’m sorry. I’ll try not to be so much trouble to you—”

“We’re good,” said Alden. “I’ve thought you were cool ever since you went off on those assholes who were like, ‘Ew…a Rabbit’ and declared your intention to run across a planet to get back home.”

She looked pained. “That’s really not who I am most of the time.”

“I get that. It was a bad day for you. You were still cool. Now stop worrying. Let the professionals handle the problem. And take me to eat.”

******

They feasted.

The restaurant was on the third floor of the mall. It wasn’t a big spot. Forty-one students, six instructors, and one principal nearly filled the place up. Tables had been pushed together for them by a line of windows that looked out over one of the mall’s outdoor recreation areas. A wide, shallow fountain with embedded lights periodically put on a show for people walking past down there. Alden assumed the jets of water operated in time to music, but he couldn’t hear it through the thick glass and the sound of everyone talking over each other.

“Do you think all the garlic fried rice is yours?” Lexi asked Alden.

“I think everyone else had their shot at it already.” He loaded his plate. “I have waited patiently. Now they can fight me for it.”

He spooned atchara beside his rice and eyed the fresh batch of lumpia that one of the servers had just set at the other end of the table. They looked like they were coated in caramelized sugar. Those must be dessert.

The stars were all meat dishes, including the crispy lechon that Haoyu had been so eager to try. But the restaurant had made a delicious jackfruit entree, too, so Alden wasn’t suffering except from a bit of envy.

Principal Saleh was paying for everything, and the food kept coming. Dining with teachers had been stiff at first, but it soon became clear that this was more of a social, getting-to-know-you event in the faculty’s mind. The longer they went without talking about everyone’s performance and schoolwork, the more people loosened up.

Several seats away, Finlay was telling people about his father. “He retired from being an electrician and bought a pub. Loses loads of money on it and drives my mum crazy, but he says it’s his dream.”

“Instructor Klein and I were on the same hero team for a couple of years when I first started out,” Foxbolt was saying to Astrid. “We didn’t have a single superhuman incident with anyone over C-rank, but Berlin had just been selected to host a womb vault. Protesters were pouring in from everywhere, flooding the streets every day for months. And then when the building actually started, we were on guard duty 24/7.”

Astrid looked baffled. “Were that many people mad about it? I thought magical medical care wasn’t controversial anymore.”

“It’s not,” Foxbolt said. “In general. Artificial wombs are one of the most contentious areas remaining these days. Which is a bit odd considering they were almost universally praised when the Contract was first being hammered out.”

Instructor Klein heaved a sigh. “Most of you are thinking about careers that will lead you off the island, so you have to start paying attention to what’s going on in the world. Those of you who were born here will find that a number of things our society considers completely benign are scandalous in other places and vice versa.”

“On that note, you’ll all get to take everyone’s favorite course twice, right before you graduate from the high school and in uni,” Principal Saleh said, giving the people in her vicinity a wicked smile. “‘Avowed Comportment and Representation.’”

“We have to take the national manners class more than once?” Reinhard asked.

Alden was sitting far enough away from them that he wasn’t really involved in the conversation, but at that, he swallowed a lump of garlic rice and looked across the table at Lexi and Haoyu. “What’s the national manners class?”

Haoyu, who had just stuffed another bite of pork belly into his mouth, nudged Lexi demandingly with an elbow.

“It’s what it sounds like,” Lexi said. “They teach you how the government wishes you’d behave and what they want you to say about certain issues whenever you’re working or communicating with people off the island.”

Kon, who had claimed the seat on the other side of his brother, rolled his eyes. “It’s the brainwashing class. The high council made it mandatory for schools to teach it a long time ago—”

“More than a decade,” Lexi said.

“But people are still fighting about it during elections,” Kon concluded.

“Who decides what our national comportment should be?” Alden asked.

“That’s what the fights are mostly about.” Haoyu took a sip of his water. “When they’re not about whether or not something like that should exist in the first place.”

Mehdi had been quiet and moody for most of the meal, so it was a surprise when he chimed in. “It’s not fair. The really old people lived however they wanted and said whatever they wanted when they got their powers. And now they’re suddenly trying to make all of these rules for the rest of us.”

Vandy overheard him. “But we have a country of our own here now. They didn’t.”

Another server dropped a plate in front of Alden, and he finally got his hands on the dessert offering. The crunchy, sugar-coated spring roll wrappers were full of banana. He took one and bit into it, giving himself permission to zone out while Vandy expounded about the unprecedented nature of Anesidora and the importance of careful lawmaking.

Marsha was watching Shrike spin a knife. Winston was picking at his food and avoiding everyone’s eyes like he’d suffered a terrible humiliation instead of a combat death in the gym.

Dare I hope he’ll be less of a pain moving forward?

Max and Jeffy were sitting beside each other and answering Instructor Marion’s questions about where they’d grown up. Max was talking about South Africa like a normal person, in contrast to Jeffy, who was delivering unnecessarily obscure hints about his own home. Instructor Marion looked confused, and Alden couldn’t blame him. About the only thing you could pin down from the ramble was that Jeffy had grown up in a house with grandparents and an uncle.

He’d just finished describing his former school as “a place where there might or might not have been many people with mohawks.”

“All right.” Marion’s tone said that he’d decided going with it was the correct course of action. “As for me, I grew up not far from where we’re sitting right now. I wouldn’t be surprised if my parents are wandering around the mall at the moment. They eat out every night, and they like the food hall downstairs.”

Max nodded. “Are you second gen or—”

“Third on one side,” the instructor said. “Second on the other.”

That prompted a turn in the discussion as people started chiming in with their own Avowed lineages. Unlike Marion, most of the faculty present had been born off the island. The students, of course, had almost all been born here. And more of them had large families than Alden had realized.

Nobody was describing anything quite like the multigenerational Velra clan situation, but the number of people mentioning tons of siblings was more than he would have expected from a cross-section of peers back home.

Mehdi had three older brothers, an older sister, and a little brother. Tuyet was one of seven. Jupiter had a set of siblings all named after planets in their solar system.

“Except they skipped Uranus and went straight to Neptune.”

When Kon piped up to inform everyone that he and Lexi were expecting another sibling sometime in the next couple of years, his brother reached over to smack him on the back of the head.

“Ow! What was that for?”

“Don’t just tell everyone on the island our parents’ reproductive plans.”

Kon rolled his eyes. “There’s going to be a whole new person with our last name. What are we supposed to do? Pretend they found a baby growing on a tree?”

“That’s not the poin—”

“Do you know if they’re going to have a girl or a boy?” Astrid asked.

“They let us all be surprises, so I assume it’s going to be the same for Number 4.” Kon held up a fork threateningly when Lexi looked like he wanted to smack him again.

Alden filed that information away in his “don’t make assumptions” file. If anyone had asked him, he would have guessed Lexi and Kon were designed. They were both aesthetically gifted even though they didn’t have points in Appeal yet. Plus, if you ignored personality, style, and the fact that Lexi was crazy fit from keeping up his ballet physique, they would have looked very similar even by brotherly standards.

“What about you Alden?”

Alden looked at Astrid questioningly.

“I know you don’t have brothers and sisters, but do you have a lot of cousins?”

“No. It was just me and my aunt.”

He thought that would be the end of his turn, but everyone was still waiting patiently, like they were giving him time to say more.

Really, you guys. That’s it for me on the family front. There might be some distant cousins thrice removed out there somewhere, but other than that…

“I have two close friends back home,” he added. “One of them is practically my brother.”

He steered clear of saying, “His parental situation was shitty. We basically raised each other.”

“Is it the friend who’s keeping your cat?” asked Haoyu. “What’s his name? Is he going to come visit?”

Alden suddenly realized he’d dived headfirst into something more dramatic than he’d intended. Okay. So, even the shareable portions of the Boe situation sound kind of…

“His name’s Boe. I’m sure he’ll come visit eventually. He’s on my guest list.” Alden tried to sound casual. “I haven’t mentioned him before because he’s not home right now. He ran away after my funeral.”

Haoyu blinked. Lexi frowned. Kon squinted at him.

“I managed to get in touch with him a few weeks ago,” Alden explained. “He’s fine. He said he would go back home as soon as he’d figured things out.”

This story had been supported by some of the fake phone calls Boe had insisted Alden make in public locations.

Nobody responded.

“And there’s my friend Jeremy. His parents are lawyers. He has a sister in marching band. He’s taking great care of my cat!”

Thank you for being the sane one, Jeremy.

Alden searched his mind for other proof that he’d had a mundane and solid social life before coming to Anesidora.

I regularly buy gifts for an alien chained to a desk in the Chicago consulate. That’s not exactly…ah, screw it. I’ll tell them about how Kibby is cooler than all the other younger siblings that have been mentioned tonight.

“You had a funeral?” Kon blurted.

Lexi looked over at him. “You know everyone thought he was dead. What else would’ve happened?”

“I do know. It just never occurred to me that he’d had an actual funeral.”

“Was it a good funeral?” Astrid sounded fascinated.

“I mean…I wasn’t around for it,” said Alden, startled. “But no. There were like a thousand people there, and I only knew a few of them well.”

“That is so weird,” said Kon. “It must feel really weird. Does it?”

“Was there a casket?” Astrid asked. “Or an urn?”

“It’s only weird if I think about it. I haven’t had much time to bother. And according to my aunt, there was no casket, Astrid. Just a giant picture of me on a stand.”

“You deserved something more exciting than that,” said Haoyu.

“I agree,” said Astrid. “I could come up with a better funeral in five minutes.”

The dinner ended with a lot of people planning increasingly absurd funerals for themselves.

Alden eventually found himself nodding along while Astrid described her wish to have her ashes launched off the top of Nautilus Needle at midnight by a magic cannon.

Haoyu wanted a statue made of himself and placed somewhere statues didn’t belong in order to perplex as many people as possible. And Lexi refused to play along, which resulted in Kon planning a jazz funeral for him without his input.

When they left the table, their stomachs were full of food, and they were all laughing too loudly about their own dumb ideas.

Alden decided that was a nice combination, all things considered.

******

******

a few hours earlier

******

******

