On the Summer Solstice, Ryoka Griffin ran into another world.
The darkness of the evening and the lengthening shadows, the clash of swords and Melidore’s roar of fury she left behind. She ran—fell—through what she could not explain. Across a distance she could never measure.
And then she was here. The air tasted different. The sky seemed off. The very grass felt—odd.
Not wrong. In fact, wonderful under her bare feet. Just different.
Like, well, it belonged to somewhere else. Such that everything made Ryoka blink and stare about, wonderingly. At the stones forming the ancient gateway. The hill. The blue sky, the long grass.
And the flowers. Of every kind, of such beauty and variety and color that Ryoka felt, instinctively, that she did not see how wonderful they were. If only she had an insect’s eyes! And even that would have revealed only a fraction of the spectrum arrayed here.
They were small, some of them, tiny little florets of color. Some, as tall as she was. Taller.
They filled the vast hilltop, one of many in this place. Ryoka kept looking around. So many hills, all, seemingly, with the same kind of stone structures on them.
Crude monoliths. Worn stone, giant boulders and menhirs, which created arches. Just rectangles, ovals, squares in the air.
But beyond each gate lay another world. That was what Ryoka saw, until her eyes rejected what she saw. Through each, a different sky, each one fading with the last rays of the solstice.
On this day, they were aligned. The young woman looked about again. At the flowers on this hill. More vibrant and beautiful and in more profusion than the rest.
She could have sat forever just admiring one. One—like a frozen blossom of turquoise, gently sweeping upwards in a one-sided arch, both elegant and yet static. If she just touched it, surely it would fall apart. So wonderful.
How was it said in that poem? Eternity and infinity were reflected in these blooms. And that was one of many.
Ryoka’s head hurt with all the sights assailing her in that first moment. Her mind stopped processing it, simply taking it in as a defense mechanism. To try to understand and remember all of it?
She stood in the land of the fae. And it had taken so long for this moment. Ryoka rose. She whispered the name.
“Ivolethe?”
It was carried away by the wind. Ryoka had half-expected to see the little Frost Faerie waiting for her. But there was nothing here.
Except her, the flowers, and the distant land beyond. Ryoka looked back at the gate—
But it was closed. Of all the gates, only the same air lay beyond. She realized she had not asked for a way back home.
Part of her felt fear. But she was here. Let her worry about the return once she did what she had come here to do. Ryoka looked around. She noticed there was a path through the flowers.
She would never have stepped on one. Never, ever, not even lightly. She would rather have starved to death than do that and Ryoka did not know why, only that they were too important to trample. She began to walk down the hill.
Stopped.
Two things confronted her in that moment. Tears—and the voice.
“Ryoka.”
It came on the wind, from an immeasurable distance. But the voice was familiar. It whispered in her ears. The Wind Runner looked around. And she knew.
“Ivolethe? Where are you?”
No response. But the wind tugged at her. Onwards, down the hill. Ryoka’s legs moved her forwards, urgently now.
And stopped once more.
For there was the flower.
Not a flower.
The flower. Of all of them, it was the grandest. Not the tallest. Not even the brightest. Or even the most beautiful.
But it was the flower of flowers. Two, in fact. A twining thing of two profusions. One was radiant, the other subdued, but no less resplendent for it. Bright and soft. Cool and blazing.
Summer and winter? Ryoka felt something dripping from her cheeks.
Tears? She touched at them. They were coming from her eyes. She wept, to see the flower.
And she did not know why. Not yet. Only—Ryoka stayed a moment, staring at the flower growing on this hill. She wept. Then bowed, and continued onwards.
Into the land of the fae. Avalon, some called it. Was it the same place talked of in so many stories? Was it dangerous, or simply a heaven? Had she died to get here?
Where was her friend? Would she find a way to bring Erin back?
The questions bore Ryoka onwards. She walked down the hill, into the grass. And realized that there were roads.
Roads, made of dirt or stone or perhaps even metal, stretching from each hill to form a path. Endless this place might be, but there was a road.
And it led towards other parts of this land. Ryoka felt off-balance. She realized as well; she felt that dream-like quality heightening with each step.
This was the realm of the fae. And rules and everything were different here. Or was this a trick? Ryoka experimentally pinched herself.
“…Doesn’t hurt, much. Uh oh.”
Had Melidore beaten her? Ryoka’s eyes grew wide with alarm. She did not know she’d succeeded, after all! She looked around. Surely, if this was the land of the fae, it would be even more grand? The hills were numerous and strange. But this did not seem to her to be immediately the land of myth and legend.
“If I’m dreaming—”
Ryoka clenched a fist. Her right hand, with two missing fingers. She hesitated.
Then punched herself hard in the stomach. Ryoka doubled up. She sank to her knees.
“F—f—”
Some of the lightheadedness faded. Ryoka curled up for a second. She’d hit herself as hard as she could.
“I’m here. That was—”
Refreshingly stupid. But it helped. The pain drove away some of her mind struggling to take everything in at once. Ryoka stood up, still clutching her gut. Focus. Focus.
The facts. Assume she was in a survival situation. That—that—
She had never actually struggled to gain her footing in…in…in the other world like Erin had. Ryoka had jogged into a city, Celum, and thus been spared Erin’s struggles. She had sometimes wondered how she would have done if she’d been in Erin’s place. Gotten roasted in the first five minutes by annoying Teriarch, probably.
But here? Ryoka looked around again. Ignore the hills, the flowers, the gates. You could be hypnotized by staring at them and she had no…
No time? Ryoka glanced up at the sky. Wait a second.
It was midday here. It wasn’t seconds before nightfall. The sun shone down across a blue sky, so beautiful that it hurt. Vast without limit. But it was midday.
“Time is different here. Or did it take a day to arrive?”
Ryoka shook her head. She glanced over her shoulder. Surely not. Behind her lay the gate where she had come through. And unless she’d somehow broken it—a bunch of fae lay in the world beyond.
A bunch of angry, really pissed off fae including Melidore. Ryoka gulped. The warriors of the faerie king. Would they pursue her even after she’d gone through into their realm?
Definitely. Melidore surely would. And Sikeri?
Now she had both a sense of time and urgency. Ryoka had heard Ivolethe’s voice, albeit without that quality she had possessed as a Winter Sprite. The wind blew at her hair and Ryoka’s head turned.
“Okay. Okay. Ahead, then. Before I run out of time. I might have more—but I have to go. Are you the same wind across worlds? Are you still friendly?”
A playful tug at her raven-black hair was the only answer. The Wind Runner took that as a ‘let’s not make me mad and find out, m’kay?’ And went on.
She walked down the path from the hill, seeing the other paths join the central one. It was not a yellow brick road, she was pleased to note. That would have necessitated a second gut-punch to check on reality.
What might she find here? How long had she walked? Ryoka turned and the hilltop was already far away. If she had to guess…
“That’s three miles away, at least!”
Ryoka checked the sky. She’d been walking. But the sun had not moved. Nor had she consciously registered the time.
“Faerie rules. Faerie rules.”
Time was different. Space was different. Remember how the fae looked? This place was not necessarily safe. Be on the lookout for…boggarts? Sprites? Gnomes?
Teriarch said his world had Gnomes, once. Would she run into Elves? Where were all of them? Ryoka jogged down the wide dirt road, head on a swivel. Remember that she was probably in the most danger she had ever been in, here. Find Ivolethe. Don’t be stupid.
Hard tasks for Ryoka Griffin. She really, really hoped—there weren’t things like Jabberwocks. Wrong story? But surely if Sikeri was a resident of this place…
Shit. There are probably more petty Wyrms about. Ryoka halted, looking around.
Nothing seemed to indicate they’d read her mind. She shook her head. This place with the hills and gates and flowers—seemed devoid of life. Perhaps it was the gateway area? The place where fae could enter other worlds?
“Right. Makes sense. Not an inhabited space. This is where I am. And where am I going?”
Ryoka looked ahead blankly. She realized she hadn’t asked herself where this central road led.
And as if her asking had created them, she saw more features appear on the horizon. The young woman stopped.
“What?”
They had not been there a second ago. But Ryoka was sure—sure—that they had always been there, on the horizon. It was only when her mind asked to know that they became real, though.
Try figuring that one out. Ryoka didn’t bother. She stared ahead.
The road split. Ahead of her lay a forest to the left. A vast forest, with tall trees, and no end to the canopies of foliage she could see. To the right? What looked like a city.
A city? Ryoka squinted. She couldn’t make out many details, but she thought she saw what looked suspiciously like skyscrapers! Buildings—definitely stone or steel—and on the right side.
The road split at a crossroads without a sign. Just a fork in the road.
“…And I took the one that didn’t get me killed.”
Ryoka murmured. She felt, intrinsically, that this was all part of the rules of this place. Stories defined her journey. She defined her journey.
Left or right? Forest or city? Ryoka had to think.
“Logically, if I wanted to find Ivolethe, I’d go into the city. Because the city is where I’d find fae who knew where she was.”
She began to go right. Then Ryoka was jogging towards the split in the road again as she had another thought. She stopped—looked over her shoulder. But she’d just—!
“Wh—but maybe they know I’m defying the Faerie King. And Ivolethe is a faerie. So the forest is where she’d be.”
She didn’t like cold iron. So—Ryoka veered towards the forest. Then arrived at the crossroads once more.
“—But forests have monsters. Shit.”
The Wind Runner looked at the crossroads again. She ran left, experimentally, and found herself jogging towards the fork again.
“Make up your mind. Got it.”
Ryoka grabbed at her hair. No problem for Ryoka, the most decisive person to ever exist! Who never second-guessed herself! Erin would be skipping down one of the paths without a second thought. Mrsha? Already rolling into the forest.
Erin. Ryoka realized she was wasting time. Or was she? She looked up at the sun. It hadn’t moved. But was that just here or…?
Indecision paralyzed her. Someone, this diabolical architect of the crossroads, perhaps, was surely laughing at her. Ryoka half-screamed as she tried to figure it out. Right or left? Was there some kind of mythological significance in going left? The word ‘sinistral’ was based on the idea of left-handed people being more dangerous in antiquity. But would the fae consider a left-handed route more special because of the rarity of the direction? Or was she overthinking it?
Ryoka could not turn off her brain. It was like the fork in the road was driving her insane the longer she stared at it. It was like a trap. Or—
Or it was just a fork in the road and she was having a breakdown over it. The first great trial of the faerie lands lay in front of Ryoka! The trap of the mind! The—
There you are.
Ryoka Griffin’s head slowly rose. She turned from the rather mundane fork in the road and looked behind her.
Far away, a vast distance she had covered over hours, perhaps days, the gateway hills lay. And on one hill out of many—
Four warriors emerged from the stone archway. Four, looking towards her.
Four of the Faerie King’s guards. Ryoka Griffin understood, in a flash, that she had erred.
There was time here. And she had wasted hers. The voice in her head that had spoken was like malevolent intent. They had found her in a moment.
Intruder in the lands of the faeries. They began striding towards her, covering the ground fast. But they were far away.
There was time here, and there was distance. Just different. Ryoka felt the distant pinpricks of their blades, too far to cut her. She turned.
Left or right? Now, her heart was pounding again. Idiot! Fool! Find Ivolethe! And it was so obvious!
“Wind? Which way?”
She asked the wind. And felt it tug her left instantly. Ryoka began to run towards the forest.
…Then the wind tugged her right. Ryoka halted at the fork in the road again and nearly screamed.
“What do you mean, left and right?”
The tugging came both ways at once. Either one, you idiot! Ryoka started. Then, behind her, she saw—
Even without turning her head, Ryoka saw the four striding down the hill. Towards her in the distance. But she had such a lead. And a voice was calling fury—the four stopped.
Three turned back. They drew their blades and headed back through the gateway. Why? Ryoka heard Melidore’s voice, from afar. They dashed back up the hill, disappearing through the arched stone. The last figure turned—but the warrior seemed to regard Ryoka as important as well.
It came on, striding faster, faster.
The Winter’s Guardian. The one with a blade like frost, armor that reeked of cold. Ryoka saw the great sword pointing at her, a terrible fate promised in every particle of the weapon.
You should not be here. You defy the Faerie King’s will.
The second armored hand reached for something at its side. The figure was beyond a speck in the distance. And Ryoka still saw it clearly.
An ancient, engraved horn rose. She whispered, begging it.
“No. Please. Don’t—”
The faerie warrior blew upon the horn. And the sound echoed across the entirety of this land. It was a dreadful noise. Ryoka’s ears bled. She clapped her hands to her ears.
“No!”
You are being hunted. Run.
She ran. She knew what the winter fae had called. She ran and ran, as more hunters joined the chase. Ryoka ran left. No thought for the city in the distance. Into the forest. Behind her, her pursuers began to close the distance. Slowly, but surely.
 
—-
 
A moment had passed since Ryoka Griffin entered the world of the fae. A moment.
