Four warriors had left. Three returned. It was as if they stepped out of the world—back into it in less than a heartbeat of time.
The frozen warrior was gone. Tyrion would have stopped that one. He would have stopped them all, continued the duel in earnest, to blood.
But he was frozen in place. They all were.
“Begone.”
The words hissed around the clearing. The party had ended. The festivities gone silent. Darkness ate away the entire world. The sky. The ground.
There was only the cleared area where the fae and mortals mingled. And beyond? Just beyond that point on the ground?
Four.
Four out of six. So they had said.
They stood there, like ideas as much as physical forms.
 
The glorious hunter.
The dancing man.
The aged woman.
And the leader.
 
They stood together, and behind them Tyrion saw flickers in the darkness. Shadows darker than black. Creeping towards the light, but halting, afraid. Begging. Begging—he heard it in his mind. His very soul.
“Remember us.”
So said the huntress. She reached out, a smile, for Tyrion. Looking at him and countless others in a moment. Halrac. Tyrion. Ylawes. Durene—
Remember what? The [Lord] backed away from the smile. The figures were grand and ragged at the same time. They seemed so desperate.
“Friends. Old friends. Will you not speak our names?”
The leader looked at Tyrion again. Both he and the huntress had some…some…connection with Tyrion. He looked at Bethal, Pryde, Ieka, Gralton, Laken—most of the nobility.
They were his too.
“Begone. Begone!”
The fae were chanting. One of them turned to the other and shrieked in a high whisper.
 
“What do you see, brother?”
“Nothing!”
 
He snarled the reply. The figures sighed. The words seemed to hurt them. The guests from elsewhere refused to look at the visitors.
And that was the difference. One group were guests. However much they played pranks, tricks, and had both malice and joy to them.
The others? Uninvited visitors.
“This day we hunger so. We starve for sustenance. Will you not share your fire? Your food and drink?”
The aged woman spoke to Tyrion. To Bethal. Again, to so many nobles. To Halrac, to Durene. To them all.
They were all hers. All, save perhaps the youngest children who had never known her terrible cruelty. Her ruthless kindness.
“Salva?”
Tyrion thought he saw a flicker on the aged woman’s face. For a moment she was a woman—he closed his eyes. Gripped his sword’s hilt and clenched his teeth so hard—
“Speak our names, friends. We beg your hospitality. If not yours, then the host of this great event.”
The dancing man bowed to Laken. He looked at Laken. Durene. Tyrion. All those who had ever known love and passion and—
“Mortal man. Do not allow them entry. Deny nothing! Deny it!”
Melidore had roared his fury. Now—six of the fae warriors stood in front of the rest of the fae host and the mortal guests.
Sikeri, Silver Pine, they all stood behind the six. And the four hesitated at the edge of the boundary. Even the shadows fled the six bared blades.
Six for four. Laken Godart saw Melidore’s bright gaze fix him. He struggled.
Against two wills. The leader was looking at him. Tyrion wanted to shout.
All he could do was whisper.
“Do not.”
Ieka made a strangled noise of affirmation. Zanthia was shielding Eliasor and the other young [Ladies].
“Do not.”
She spoke, her voice as strangled as his. Laken Godart fought.
“I—I—”
“Begone.”
A whisper. The beseeching voices.
“Touch us. Remember us. _______ us. ____ to us.”
“Begone, nothing! We see nothing! We hear nothing!”
The voices made the four waver. They stretched out, begging, to the one who mattered. Laken Godart.
He was fighting something. Tyrion stumbled forwards. Past Hethon and Sammial, held in Jericha’s arms. The [Emperor] was forming the words in his mouth.
‘I invite you’. And trying to keep them from escaping. The first among the four was looking at him.
“Do not. Do not!”
Melidore hissed in his ear. Tyrion reached out. Laken gasped as the [Lord] grasped his arm. The blind man’s head turned. His eyes opened and closed.
He struggled to speak.
“I—I—inv—”
The four pressed their hands against something. Laken Godart gulped. Then his hands clenched. One hand dug into Melidore’s arm, the other into Tyrion’s shoulder, so tight they drew blood from both as Laken gripped them. His voice was stronger.
 
“Begone. Begone! You are not welcome here!”
 
Tyrion felt a weight leave his shoulders. Melidore laughed in triumph.
A note of fury from the leader of the four. The shadows drew back. Laken sagged, gasping.
“We are denied. Denied.”
The dancing man murmured, looking to the leader. With the same displeasure as the others. The leader of men stared ahead, eyes fixed on the young man. The shadows drew back. And Tyrion saw the shapes fade. The fae began to chant faster.
“Be-gone. Be-gone! Be-gone!”
A triumphant note. The wisps of nothing began to scream as they faded. The four stumbled forwards, pressing their hands against something invisible. Begging.
Dying? But they were already—
They began to rot away.
 
—-
 
Ryoka Griffin ran. She ran into the forest, into the first layer of underbrush, and then into the heart of it. Tripping over roots, seeing the tree trunks rising higher and higher. And something peculiar happened in the first…hour…of flight.
First, it was all a rush. Nonstop running, pushing past the first stages of growth. The slowly-expanding forest, going further in, further, hearing the horn blow again and feeling the cold pursuers following her deeper.
She heard the wild cries. The shriek of horses and other mounts. And she knew—the wild hunt followed.
The story of winter, of the terrible hunters, who added some into their ranks and ran down any prey. Winter for winter, as Ivolethe had been.
She ducked, hiding behind a vast tree she couldn’t have put her arms around even if she were ten times as large. She heard crashing in the forest. Animals shrieking in fear as an unnatural cold enveloped the area.
Ryoka saw her breath—sensed something gallop past her, and nearly screamed at the horror of it. She saw her first animals in this place—a terrified hare leaping past her, as white as snow. And it was snowing.
Then she ran as quietly as she could, hearing more horns blowing. She tangled in briars and heard the pursuers turn, quick as a fox, detecting the sound. Ryoka ran, leaving some blood and cloth behind.
They followed that, and she gulped a healing potion desperately. Tossed down a scent-bomb—confused the baying animals. Then a thought struck her and she grabbed at her belt.
She had gear from her world! Maybe it was not the stuff of legends, but she had brought it here. And had they ever…?
A snarling figure twice as tall as she was crashed through branches. Ryoka threw the vial at it; heard glass shatter. She heard a howl and shouts as the stink-bomb detonated.
Ryoka didn’t turn to see if the creature had been stopped. If it hadn’t, she died in the next step.
She did not. She heard more howling, crashes moving towards her position. She ran and ran—
And then lost them.
What? Yes! Somehow, during the chase, she sensed them going off-track. Following the wrong trail. The pursuers of winter…lost her.
“That’s impossible.”
But the air was warming. Ryoka panted by a ring of toadstools in the forest floor. Faerie circle. She wanted to giggle at it. She peered around—but her pursuers had lost her.
The wild hunt? Maybe they were the ‘less-successful hunt’, because that did not square with the legends!
Either that or someone had really overhyped how good they were. Or had they never tracked quarry in their own lands? Never expected her to throw a stink bomb? Something else? Ivolethe?
Ryoka realized the wind had been blowing her scent away. Perhaps she had had help. She stopped either way, panting, clutching at her heart.
She did not know how far she’d run. Only that she was deep in this forest. So deep, the sky was…
…Sort of visible through the canopy. The trees were maybe sixty feet high? Ryoka squinted up at them. Sorta tall.
“Not very tall at all. Weird.”
Was this not the forest of the fae? Maybe it was a new place, like the city. Guest, Sikeri had been called. But Ryoka heard some cautious animals emerging. She saw the same white rabbit hop out of the trees and regard her, nose twitching nervously.
“This is so strange. Why are the trees so small? And…?”
The pursuers had been terrifying, what Ryoka had caught of them. But no more so than half the things that had ever tried to kill her. The horn dreadful, the giant wolf-hound a match for any Carn Wolf…
But only a match? Sixty-foot high trees? Ryoka craned her neck upwards. She was sure she was deep in the forest. But she had seen its limits even from afar.
“Is this really the world of the fae or are they messing with me?”
The thing was…Ryoka had expected many things of Avalon. The land of faeries. But this? This was just underwhelming. There were bigger trees on Earth! That was a rabbit! It looked like…well, a rabbit. There were Waisrabbits in the other world.
How to differentiate the three? Earth—the land of the fae and…the world where Erin was.
Innworld, then. Ryoka decided for simplicity’s sake. She could have called it any number of things, but that fit.
Innworld was grander in places than the land of the fae. Ryoka walked onwards, catching her breath, listening for the sounds of the hunt, but she really felt, well, safe. This place was too tame. Where was Ivolethe’s majesty, the flashes of the immortal she had seen while walking with her friend? The power to call avalanches in the winter? To freeze the High Passes?
Was this it? Was there no magic even here?
The young woman looked around, about ready to cry. She had just expected…the little ring of mushrooms, the underwhelming trees around her were the only things she saw. She looked at the rabbit.
“I just expected something more. Sorry.”
The animal wiggled its nose at her. Ryoka Griffin closed her eyes. And in the moment before she opened them, everything…
Changed.
