Now the Hatchling exploited Shiv's deficiencies and took advantage of his weakest Skills. This was a mistake in Awareness. Its tantrum earlier, its struggles, everything had been a diversion. It was planning to seize the mind of an orc—end the struggle and extract itself that way.

A spear of Psychomancy extended from Shiv as he groped blindly for another golem. He would order his Vitae construct to freeze that single strand to make sure that the Hatchling couldn't break through a weaker orc's mind and dive into their body that way. But it was unnecessary, for something split the mana strand in half. It cut clean through, and the Hatchling let out a cry of pure pain. The kind of pain one expressed when suffering severe mana strain.

Once more, Shiv found himself clueless. He didn't know why the mana strand was cut or who performed the act.

He looked at the Culturist, but the orc simply held up a single finger, placing it before his lips before shushing. "All will be revealed when the master decides to reveal it."

The orc was being deliberately cryptic, but Shiv didn't have time to banter.

"No, no, won't. Can't let you take me. It's not, was not my fate. This is not the Path. How can this be? This won't, this won't!"

The Hatchling raged, and it was a true rage, a genuine rage that made it spasm, that made it writhe in fury. He could see the blackened flames at its core fill, and he decided not to give it another chance to escape. He unleashed a plume of Enkindled Flames from his eyes, inflaming the Hatchling's already fraying concentration. Its wings spasmed and twitched and then went entirely still as a layer of midnight frost finally claimed its due. The golems ejected the last of their power, vanishing in faint puffs of white, red, and then nothing thereafter. But they were spent. And spent well.

The Hatchling couldn't move. Uva's face was frozen solid, barely visible beneath the layer of pitch-black rime, and the Hatchling itself could only twitch its palps helplessly, unable to escape. Only after it was completely frozen did Shiv back away. He took in his handiwork and swallowed. He could see the portals for the first time, clearly. Saw instances of Uva writhing and struggling beneath those colors. It was like there were hundreds of her, drowning constantly, trapped with horrific creatures. He couldn't see them in full vivid detail due to the ice. But he could feel them; he could hear them screaming. She was trapped, and the damned Eldest had done this to her.

"You piece of godsdamn shit," Shiv snarled. "I'm going to cut you out of her soul. I'm going to rip you in felling half, you fucking..."

Whatever else he had to say was cut off as a massive droning sound made his skull fracture. It was so loud, so devastating, that it was like being hit by a mana bomb. Shiv was launched backward fifty meters before he stilled himself. Jessica tumbled by, growing in size as she resisted the attack. The Culturist, meanwhile, remained rooted in place. But now he had his arms folded. Bits of his owl-like attire were ripped and tattered, though it seemed to quickly mend itself.

Shiv clutched the Hatchling's body close to his chest, and as the sound finally died down, looked up and let out a grunt of annoyance as he glared at the titanic abomination that was still approaching them. "Hey Stranger, I was in the middle of something. Can you piss off for a while until I finish dealing with this?"

The Eldritch God said nothing, but the Deathless could feel the atmosphere grow even hotter with anger, with hatred. The Stranger despised him. Him specifically. Him more than everyone else here. And Shiv didn't really question why. He'd come in, ruined the Stranger's attempt to claim Uva as a meat sack to wear and to consume Blackedge. Probably steal Starhawk's Perch too or something. Pair that with Shiv's Causal Scargiver Skill, and practically every fingerling he ruined stayed ruined.

And for that, Shiv got the reward of facing the Stranger's biggest, ugliest offspring. That clasped palms thing was drawing near, and Shiv felt his intestines climb up to his throat as he watched how it absorbed the unnatural jungle. Entire trees, each tall enough to pierce through the clouds back on earth, sank into its body, feeding it with more mass, more size. It grew larger with every passing second, sprouting new interlocked fingers. The twin palms pressing against each other left a gap between, a massive chasm that became three large irises glaring at Shiv.

With every passing second, he felt a pressure building against him. A pressure that was followed by another burst of noise, deafening and concussive. The world rumbled, and the air broke apart. It was like an airburst mortar striking his body. But this time Shiv was prepared. His Tides counteracted the coming whirlwind, and he endured. He held firm just like the Culturist did. His Pillar of Orichalcum glowed ever brighter, but even so, it was a war against the unnatural aura emitted by the adversary.

The damn thing was already larger than the Undying Tarrasque, and it was still growing. With every passing second, it developed more eyes in its core, and they sparkled into being like constellations. Golden sparks in a distant, undulating sky. But the fabric there made Shiv nauseous. Things tore, things ripped open, and brief glimpses of teeth glided over the eyes, bladed enamel flowing over the hateful orbs that stared at him.

And true to what Jessica said earlier, he felt a pang of pain surge up the channel of his ass.

Sage of the Enkindled Heart: Shiv, I know what you're thinking. You're imagining if you die enough, you might be able to bring that thing down.

Gardener of Doubt: This is an unlikely thing. You will die horribly repeatedly and be reduced to a gibbering ruin over and over again. You will spend thousands of years here fighting that thing before you ever get strong enough to wound it even slightly.

Despite this, Shiv still wanted to go a round.
