Gazing upon his captive subject, this Sovereign’s lips quirked for the second time today as he parsed through the emotions elicited by this most impertinent question.

Incredulity to begin with, that Falling Rain would think himself deserving of the answer, followed by indecision as he considered if he should be angry or amused by the boy’s presumption. The latter fit better here, as this was merely a desperate ploy to avoid torment and subjugation, though this Sovereign had hoped the insolent worm would beg for mercy. There would be plenty of begging soon enough, an excess he would soon find tiresome to hear, but the first plea was always the sweetest as his subjects sought to bargain and cajole. This newfangled anticipation was an unexpected benefit of the forceful merger with his Natal Soul, for though he held control in the highest of esteem, he now realized that perhaps he’d erred in his pursuit of his Dao of apathy and indifference. Though this Dao served him well and saw him rise to a level unmatched, he was still human yet, and thus might well benefit from occasionally indulging in emotion every so often.

Not simply for the sake of satisfying his primal desires, but for the sake of Balance overall. Without light, there could be no shadow, without growth, there could be no decay, and without emotion, there would be no impetus to drive him forward along his Path. Just as the autumnal debris must rot to nourish a new crop of plants come spring, a descent into emotion might well bring him to new heights in turn. A lesson well-learned by his Natal Soul and imparted unto him as he rediscovered the emotions he’d long since sealed away, ones he re-lived whilst imparting them to the subject. Yes, this was his error, one made soon after the founding of his Azure Empire when the world was finally at peace, and he had time to finally rest and reflect on his lifetime spent in bloodshed and conquest. Through this long period of introspection, one which lasted the better part of a decade, he concluded that emotions were a hindrance to logical thought and progression, a power to harness without ever allowing it to affect him. By suppressing his emotions and achieving an even higher order of inner Balance, he was able to find the Path forward and Ascend to Nascent Immortality, and therein lay the error of his ways.

After his ascension, he strove to still his mind and spirit in order to suppress all emotion in an effort to progress, because he believed that his human emotions were keeping him from Ascending to True Divinity. Rather than indulge in emotion, he hoarded his emotions without ever partaking of them, a resource for later use like storing firewood for the winter, but while wood was finite, emotions were not, and thus there would never be an end to them so long as one still drew breath. Though a period of suppression could bring him forward to new heights, he erred in believing progress was defined as advancing without retreat, but the Path to True Divinity was not a series of ascending steps, but rather a cyclical pattern of highs and lows that would bring him forward, then back, only to spring even further forward again.

Two steps forward and one step back was still progress in the end, and a better alternative to standing still as he had for so many years. His Dao of Apathy was the Balance of an unmoved stone, a calm sea, or a still wind. Possible yes, but unnatural and wholly without value, for what power was there to be derived from fixed stasis? The answer to all his woes had been right there in front of him all along, the truth hidden in plain sight. Rise and fall, growth and decline, Life and Death, Creation and Destruction, all this and more alluded to the Path he must take. There was no Apex of the Dao to chase after, no pinnacle to achieve, so rather than seek to maintain perfect balance at all times, the end goal should be the ability to maintain Balance whilst experiencing the vicissitudes of life and emotion, for the Path to the Dao was a capricious and unpredictable journey at best, which required the strength of Will to pursue it.

This was the first of many benefits to be gleaned from the accumulations of this Sovereign’s Natal Soul, and he allowed himself a moment of gleeful anticipation at the prospect of unveiling more. There was still much to be discovered, so much to be learned, for the accumulations of his Natal Soul had only provided him with the proper direction. The Razor’s Edge ‘Zhen Shi’ had adhered to was even more flawed than this Sovereign’s Path, and there were a whole host of questions still yet to be asked and answered, but he felt it fitting to celebrate since it would align with his newfangled perspective. A brief indulgence and nothing more, for though he had found the flaws in his Path and now saw the proper way forward, it was always better to crawl rather than run when it came to the pursuit of the Dao.

Slow and certain was the correct methodology, for haste makes waste, and this Sovereign had patience and time enough to proceed with caution.

“You seek insight into this Sovereign’s Dao?” Already, this new direction was proving troublesome to control and maintain, for his tone was rife with mocking amusement, emotions he drank deeply of for the first time in living memory. “For what purpose? To better understand your own feeble flaws?” Casting a glance at the boy’s dire straits, held fast by bindings of this Sovereign’s Manifested Domain and helpless to do naught but speak and stare. “Too little too late, do you not think?”

In spite of all his attempts to rein in his good humour, this Sovereign was unable to keep himself from taunting the little worm so. No, not little worm, but the subject, one full of promise and potential. That was the greatest mistake the Natal Soul made, one of hubris in which he sorely underestimated Falling Rain even after seeing all of the miracles the young savage had wrought. This Sovereign would be a fool to make the same mistake, especially after having seen the quality and characteristics of the subject’s detailed Natal Palace, one superior to any other he’d come across in all his millennia of existence. Not even Fifth Brother Di Zi’s Natal Palace had been so complete, despite his understanding of the Laws being second to none, a most curious puzzle which this Sovereign intended to decipher forthwith.

“Couldn’t care less about your Dao,” the boy replied, still quietly struggling against the inevitable even as his unwavering, amber-eyed gaze met this Sovereign’s eyes in undeniable challenge. “And the truth? I already know why you pursue strength. I’m only asking because I want to know if you know the answer too.”

Curious as to what game the subject was playing, this Sovereign went over all the possibilities, but the only plausible answer to come to mind was the same as before, that this was all a desperate ploy to buy time. Delaying the inevitable as it were, a futile gesture if there ever were one, but between the subject’s provocations and this Sovereign’s yearning to explore the limits of his new Path, he saw no reason not to toy with his prey a moment longer. Manipulating his Manifested Domain to force the subject to kneel before him, this Sovereign drew upon his Authority to impose his Will, one which weighed heavily upon the defiant child in unspoken threat. Though it did nothing to diminish the subject’s undue arrogance, a pride baked into his bones as his unblinking eyes emanated unbridled disdain, it did much to allay this Sovereign’s burning rage over being held in contempt by an ignorant savage. “Such shameless effrontery,” he began, shaking his head as he loomed over the child with a condescending sneer. “Bound and helpless yet still so full of spite and hubris, but this Sovereign shall indulge you a moment more, if only so that you can wallow in regret over what could have been whilst suffering the agony of a thousand deaths.”

“Dying is easy,” the subject replied, his words uttered with such callous indifference that this Sovereign believed him, and more to the point, knew beyond the shadow of a doubt that the boy believed this too. “Living is the real challenge, with trials and tribulations unending.”

A sentiment many had shared before, yet one this child of two decades wholly embodied in speech, his words empowered by inadvertent Oration to convey the full breadth and depth of his emotions. The heady rush of reckless courage and bold determination struck a chord within this Sovereign’s very soul, and the deluge of melancholic misery which followed suit threatened to overwhelm him where he stood. What trials and tribulations could he have encountered in his paltry two decades of life to make him so callous and jaded? Memories of an earlier exchange surged to the forefront of his consciousness, one not personally experienced by this Sovereign himself, but of a blow suffered by his Natal Soul delivered by a soulful utterance of sombre lyrics to the tune of a poignant melody. Small wonder ‘Zhen Shi’ had become so unhinged to such an extent, for the encounter was enough to unsettle this Sovereign even in passing recollection. The subject’s Dharmic Chant had been inundated with the crushing sentiment of failure and inadequacy, as well as the alluring prospect of resignation to fate and inevitable death, a call to surrender and submit not to the boy or to the Spectres or to any living entity at all, but rather a surrender to the Heavens themselves, a proud and overbearing tyrannical presence which looked down on all humanity and judged them unworthy of ascent.

It was no mere act of luck or happenstance for Falling Rain to progress so far so fast. In his eyes, the mere notion of survival was an act of defiance against the very Heavens themselves, and what was cultivation but to defy the Heavens in pursuit of strength which humanity was not meant to wield?

It took a concentrated effort of Will on this Sovereign’s part to keep himself from killing the subject outright, for Falling Rain’s Dao of unfettered freedom was a direct challenge to the Heavens, and this Sovereign could allow no threat to his Authority go unpunished. Tempting as it might be to be rid of the subject here and now, this Sovereign could not afford to allow fear to dictate his actions, for he would then risk allowing a seed of doubt to take root in his previously unshakable foundation of self-assurance. This child was nothing in comparison to Ying Zheng, the Eternal Emperor of the Azure Sea, and he would not balk before this challenge. No longer was this a matter of his own amusement, for if this Sovereign lacked the courage to confront the subject bound and helpless as he was, then his cowardice would plague him for the rest of his eternal existence.

“You wish to know why this Sovereign seeks strength?” A mistake to repeat the question, an extraneous utterance that could give away how rattled he truly was, but the mistake had already been made and there was no cure for regret. “You have born witness to this Sovereign’s rise to power, so the answer should be evident. Nature is cruel and merciless, and humanity even more so, for only the strong can survive. The Warring States Era gave rise to a period of unending chaos and strife. Driven by emotion and fleeting gains, the dog kings of old rode to war with their neighbours to dispute arbitrary lines drawn upon a map, so this Sovereign put an end to their madness. With spear and sword in hand, this Sovereign united the scattered factions of the Azure Sea under one rule, and only then did the Empire possess strength enough to throw back the barbaric outlanders who sought to conquer us with their false Dao, a threat which only became aware of us due to the greed of this Sovereign’s unworthy spawn. If not for this Sovereign’s efforts and the efforts of our five sworn brothers, the people of the Azure Sea would have long since been conquered and subjugated by the outlanders, for the people of these lands were weak and unworthy.”

“So what?” Utterly unimpressed by this Sovereign’s exploits, the subject made an effort to shrug but was unable to move due to his bindings. “People are conquered all the time. You said it yourself, the Empire is nothing more than arbitrary lines on a map, so what difference does it make if these lands are inhabited by outlanders or not? What’s more, you claim that Nature is cruel and only the strong survive, yet you used your strength to protect the weak, meaning your words contradict your actions.”

A biting retort which cut straight to the heart of the truth, and this Sovereign could not quell his admiration for the boy’s clarity of thought, able to discard his own empathic tendencies to see the obvious flaw in this Sovereign’s arguments. Then again, the boy’s tribe was clearly of outlander origins, and the blood of his savage barbarian ancestors still held true even after so many millennia. “In this, you are correct, but this Sovereign’s mistakes are part and parcel of his Dao. Yes, this Sovereign strove to protect the weak, and in doing so, earned nothing but scorn and disdain as generations lived and died in the absence of war and ignorance of all the hard-learned lessons of conflict and bloodshed. For centuries thereafter, this Sovereign rode into battle whenever the outlanders invaded and restrained himself from wreaking vengeance upon their homelands, for he valued peace above all else. A mortal failing, compassion and benevolence, one this Sovereign divested himself of after his efforts to maintain peace between the Empire and the outlanders led to a war between Divinities, a war which left the outlands a ravaged, uninhabitable wasteland and might well have destroyed the world itself if not for the noble sacrifice of this Sovereign’s five sworn brothers.”

