“You are wrong!” The denial emerged from this Sovereign’s throat, but it was not his intent to speak. It was the Natal Soul who uttered these words, no longer ‘Zhen Shi’ but an amalgamation of them both as they fought for dominance only to blend together until it was impossible to tell where one ended and the other began. Two sides of the coin, only now the coin was melted beyond recognition in the heat of Falling Rain’s scathing censure. “This Empire would be nothing without this Sovereign, humanity doomed without my protection. You say the people suffer now, but only because you have not seen true suffering, have not known a world torn apart by countless wars waged all across the lands.”

“And you think the Empire prospers only because you have never known true prosperity.” Without missing a beat, Falling Rain put an end to the Natal Soul’s denials and reclaimed control of the narrative, showing them both what life could be like if technology allowed to progress. No wonder this Sovereign could not make heads or tails of the boy’s Natal Throne, for this was a Dao of a different world, one of numbers and technology dependent on the study of the Laws of the World, yet no less powerful for it. Individually, the people were weaker than those of this world, yet in an outright war between them both, this Sovereign could not deny the threat this technology presented, with power enough to wipe out both worlds in the blink of an eye. “You’ve been controlling the Empire from the shadows, but why? I thought you held external strength in contempt? Is the Empire itself not external? The throne can be taken away, the power no longer yours to wield, so you should have long since abandoned the Empire to devote yourself to the Dao. Instead, you spend all your time scheming to keep what is yours, stealing a new body every fifty years just so you can keep the throne, but for what purpose? None that I can see, save to be Emperor for the sake of the title itself. This is the truth, one which will not change even if you choose to reject it. The root of your strength is your desire to control and protect, yet you have allowed yourself to become twisted by time and callousness both.”

Driving the butt of his weapon into the ground, Falling Rain drew himself up to full height to tower above this Sovereign, and the world within this Manifested Natal Palace grew with him. “When did you forget your true self, Ying Zheng?” The use of his name rocked this Sovereign back on his heels as he fought a war within himself, with one part of him wanting to deny that he’d forgotten while the other claiming he was Zhen Shi instead. “When you buried him to become the Eternal Emperor? What compelled you to forsake your humanity in pursuit of the Dao? In doing so, you cut off your own path to progress, for emotion is not humanity’s weakness, but a source of inner strength. That is why you have stalled in your Path, why you are still mortal yet, because rather than master your emotions, you sought to suppress them, to control them the same way you seek to control the Empire for no reason than to possess it, but like you said, not even an Emperor can change the hearts of man, and you are still mortal yet.”

Still vying for control against his Natal Soul and barely able to hold his ground, Ying Zheng gazed upon the face of this hateful brat and knew not what he saw. “Who are you?” he asked, and immediately he wished he’d held his tongue, for he feared what answer he would receive.

“I am Falling Rain,” the Warrior replied, raising his glaive in both hands. “The Warrior who will end your reign as the Eternal Emperor.”

The glaive erupted into a burst of dazzling Sword Intent, and Ying Zheng could do naught but watch it descend, his mind and soul thrown into turmoil by the truths he could no longer deny.

Chapter Meme 1

Chapter Meme 2

Chapter Meme 3
