“And yet you survived.”

A statement delivered in the most neutral of tones the boy could muster, but the underlying accusation was still plain as day. This Sovereign’s days of shame and self-recrimination were long behind him however, though the implication still stung something fierce. “Yes, this Sovereign survived,” he hissed, and in his rage, he drove his scalpel into the meat of the boy’s shoulder, but the hateful child merely grit his teeth in a feral smile. “Due to strength and happenstance, and nothing more. Yet even in death, this Sovereign’s brothers were not lost, their eternal souls plucked from the cycle of reincarnation by these two hands and given new life within the blood of their kin.”

“Not all of them.” The boy had a way of interrupting this Sovereign’s line of thought with words so jarring and discordant. “The fatty outside didn’t accept your offer. Why not?”

“Mortal weakness,” this Sovereign retorted, and his eyes were drawn to where fifth brother stood, between the subject and Liang Wu Sheng’s Natal Throne. An unnecessary precaution, but a prudent one all the same, for Falling Rain’s soul controlling Liang Wu Sheng’s body would be difficult for this Sovereign to suppress if forced to use Falling Rain’s body. The boy possessed more potential than the sitting Emperor, but a fledging dragon was still weaker than a fully grown snake. “If not for his pleas, then this Sovereign would have long since rallied his armies to subjugate the outlander threat and a war between Divinities would never have broken out. You see now why this Sovereign pursues strength? Only with strength can one survive the trials and tribulations of Heaven. So long as you burden yourself with false ideals, then only death and defeat will await you.”

Exerting his Will to show the boy even more memories of old, this Sovereign shared all the hard-learned lessons life had taught him along the way. “This Sovereign united the lands and brought peace to the people, yet not even a single decade passed by before they rejected his rule. Fools one and all, able to forget the death and suffering of yesteryear so quickly.” Manifesting images from his first century of rule, memories he deigned not to share the first time around, he showed the boy all his efforts to usher in a new age of prosperity in the wake of the Warring States Era. All his painstaking efforts to feed and educate the populace were for naught as greed and apathy took root, for none cared to toil in the fields without the ever-present threat of starvation looming over them. By driving trade and commerce to new heights, he introduced new ways for the weak to prey on the stupid while using wealth to control the strong, but this only made humanity even weaker. And the worst part? Those he entrusted to maintain justice were corrupted by power and authority, with so many raising their own banners in an effort to secede from under his rule, which led to more conflict and bloodshed.

And all this within the first decade of his rule. If not for his Ascension to Nascent Immortality, then the Empire he had dedicated his lifetime to conquering would have shattered upon his death, rendering all his efforts for naught.

“Earlier, you asked why this Sovereign did not build a utopia in which suffering was merely a memory, and now you have your answer.” The statement came out in a low growl as emotions long buried resurfaced from within, and he allowed himself to indulge them in accordance with his new Path. “Because the nature of humanity would not allow it! You are all creatures of weakness and emotions, and if left to your own devices, you would only bring ruin and devastation down upon yourselves. This Sovereign’s continued presence is all that stands between humanity and extinction, for I am shepherd to a wayward flock of fools who run headlong towards danger and disaster.”

“Ha.” The boy’s ridicule was plain to hear as he all but spat in this Sovereign’s face. “Don’t piss on my leg and tell me it’s raining. I’ve heard these arguments from Zhen Shi before, but they were as false then as they are now. You can stand there and lie to yourself all you want, but I see right through them. Humanity was doing just fine before you came along, and will continue to thrive long after you’re dead, so spare me your hero complex.” Eyes darting about to take in the scenes around him, the boy’s sneer only grew larger. “You tried to make the world a better place and failed, so surely it must be impossible. ‘Even an Emperor cannot change the hearts of man, boo hoo, woe is me.’ That’s what you sound like, a whiny little bitch, and I for one have had enough.” Bound though he still was, the boy scoffed and exerted his Authority to do away with the scenes of this Sovereign’s memories before replacing them with scenes of his own crafting. “Utopia might well be impossible, but that’s no excuse to give up and accept the status quo.”

The towering building housing Falling Rain’s Natal Throne reappeared beside them, but it was not the same building he’d crafted in mind. No, this was a memory of the building in reality, a memory which should not have been possible. The towering building was still drab and desolate as before, yet the marvel of its presence was no longer so impressive as it was surrounding by similar buildings on all sides. Some were even uglier, while others were creations of breathtaking beauty that this Sovereign could hardly tear his eyes away from, gleaming marvels of liquid stone, steel, and clear glass moulded into a myriad of geometric miracles of construction. The scene panned down to reveal flat, expansive roads which measure between fifteen and twenty metres wide, nestled in between these towering buildings with crowds of oddly dressed pedestrians moving along the sides while horseless carriages moved through the centre in a chaotic and ramshackle manner.

Even as this Sovereign sought to reject what he saw before him, the boy responded to these unspoken denials. From on high, the scene panned down to the streets to present a view of the inner workings of the horseless carriages, ones which put this Sovereign in mind of the timepieces Fifth Brother Di Zi created, only a thousand times more complex. From what he saw and sensed, Falling Rain himself didn’t entirely understand how these carriages worked, but he knew enough to show this Sovereign that they were possible, and thus existed. There was no denying that this was not only possible, but also probable, and the boy was not yet done. The scene followed the road to reveal more of the same, yet it was the differences that stood out. Shops and restaurants appeared selling all manner of eye-catching delicacies and luxuries, while giant painted canvasses depicted lifestyles utterly foreign to this Sovereign’s eye, yet the boy conveyed the intent within each image quite clearly. These were advertisements for even more luxuries, like more powerful horse-less carriages, artisanal apparel, sparkling jewellery and more, meaning that such things were not so far out of reach from the common populace else there would be no reason to advertise them.

The journey continued and brought him into a building where he saw a vast expanse of different shops all gathered in one place, a single destination anyone could visit and purchase anything and everything they could ever need or want. One store was filled with shelves upon shelves of food and produce, all fresh and appealing as if just harvested from the field, the next lined from wall to wall with clothes of all sizes, and it only got stranger from there. He saw a room filled with various depictions of violence and competition, yet it only sold boxes and strange devices instead of the weapons themselves. Another store appeared to sell nothing but hats, while still another hosted all manner of stuffed toys and childish frivolities, and another area in which commoners subjected themselves to all manner of arduous trials and feats of strength, not for the sake of strength itself, but in pursuit of mere vanity.

This was a world filled with excess and extravagance, yet this Sovereign had only barely scratched the surface. The images blurred before his eyes as he struggled to make sense of it all, his mind unable to comprehend just how any of this could be possible, yet every time he tried to focus on unravelling one mystery, he would find another hidden within, and another, and another, with so many various layers of indecipherable mysteries presented in an all too logical manner. These were not the fanciful reveries of a child’s fever dream, but an authentic recreation of memories presented by one who’d seen it all first hand. There were too many details to believe otherwise, the minutiae of these images too specific and particular to have been crafted on a whim, with a vast array of marvels that should well be impossible, yet seemed all too achievable when presented in this manner.

Then the scene slowly faded to black and the massive mixed residential and market district were no more, only to be replaced by a slow and steady transition over to a beach littered with holes and footsteps aplenty. The steady cadence of marching boots trudged past as the scene panned back to reveal a line of foreign soldiers clad in coarse green clothing and armoured steel helmets. Each one carried a strange bladeless weapon in hand, and this Sovereign recognized the similarities to Falling Rain’s rifle, with no less than twenty soldiers armed in this same fashion. Elite Warriors no doubt, or so this Sovereign thought until the scene moved further back to reveal thousands upon thousands of similarly equipped soldiers all disembarking from steel ships to storm the beach. The crack of their rifle raised an ungodly din unlike anything this Sovereign had ever heard before, yet this was merely an accompanying melody to the booming roars which erupted all along the coastline. Sand and blood flew in all directions as death rained down from above, and this Sovereign sat transfixed as he watched this theatre of war play out. It wasn’t long before he realized these so-called elites were merely common mortals, unable to match even the weakest of Martial Warriors in unarmed combat, yet some of the weapons they wielded were enough to threaten even him.

How might he fare against the steel-shelled explosives? How many of them could he bear? Difficult to say for these were mere images lacking the full depth of the subject’s previous memories, as if this were a scene Falling Rain had only borne witness to rather than experienced, yet the truth was still there. Those horseless carriages were even more formidable upon the battlefield, hulking armoured behemoths that spat fire and death from afar while running roughshod over all in their path, with still other such carriages bearing even large rifles capable of bringing down towering buildings with a single shell. The scenes shifted and the soldiers changed, with even more powerful weapons depicted time after time, until he found himself standing in a city with blaring horns warning of impeding death as he watched a massive steel projectile fall from the skies and grow larger and larger in sight.

And when it struck him head on, the world imploded into fire and darkness, as well as the stifling, chilling Intent of death and destruction he knew all too well. The steel projectile had possessed power comparable to a Divinity, meaning the mortals of this world had long possessed the power to annihilate all life within, yet they continued to survive nonetheless.

In the darkness, white wispy clouds of smoke rose up all around him, the aftermath of the destructive attack which removed an entire city from the map. Then the darkness gave way to blinding light and booming bursts of air which buffeted him from all sides. When his eyes finally adjusted to the light, he saw man take to the skies in sleek vessels of steel and fire that moved faster than he could track. There in the midst of the fight, he was unable to make sense of the madness as the currents of air sent him flying this way and that until the scene drew back to show him a wider perspective. There were dozens of these flying vessels moving faster than the speed of sound, done so effortlessly he wondered if he’d wasted his life in pursuit of the wrong Dao, for these mortals fought with rifles firing thousands of projectiles a minute and larger projectiles which reminded him of smaller versions of the Divinity level threat he saw only moments ago. Some vessels caught fire and exploded, others plummeted down into the seas below, while still others continued to fly this way and that to seek out new targets to bring down with their oppressive might. A single one of these vessels could kill this Sovereign with ease, and these mortals deployed them like chaff, with still more joining the fray after being deployed from a floating island of steel down below.

