From the sea, the scene drew back and away from the massive floating island to reveal yet another beach, but this one was much different from before. There were still soldiers with strange weapons to behold, but rather than disembarking from ships, they were being dropped onto the beach by flying vessels large enough to hold hundreds of them each. These soldiers were the true elites, the knights of this time, but their steel armour was sorely lacking in this Sovereign’s eyes. Rather than an enclosed suit covering their vitals, their bulky, oversized armour was affixed to their bodies at only a few key points, namely the shoulders, chest, abdomen, and limbs, with everything else exposed save for their heads which were covered by a simple, innocuous helmet. Hardly efficient or effective, or so this Sovereign thought, until he saw these elite soldiers in action. The armour was not there to defend them, but to empower them, giving them the strength and mobility needed to do battle against the host of inhuman beasts surging towards them. The soldiers still made use of rifles and the like, but their weapons were integrated into their armour, armour which enabled them to fight as well as any Martial Warrior so long as they had the proper training, armour which any mortal could use.

The weak made strong, but external strength was no true strength at all, a thought which Falling Rain heard and rebutted as the scene panned away from the beach and into the city where the fighting was desperate indeed. A different city from the one he saw earlier, but with many similarities none the less, and the details all made sense enough to leave no room for credible doubt. Here, the beastial inhumans had overrun the streets, and there was no army to receive them, only a handful of powerful Warriors who this Sovereign recognized from the artwork plastered on the ceiling of Falling Rain’s bedroom. A soldier in blue with red and white stripes defended civilians with his circular shield, while an archer loosed shaft after shaft from his perch atop a building while Sending information along to his allies. One man fought in a metal suit, similar to what he’d seen earlier but also entirely different, a red and gold affair that covered him from head to toe and enabled him to fly and unleash powerful blasts of energy from the palms of his hands. A suave blonde warrior fought in more recognizable armour with a short-handled hammer in hand, one that seemed unwieldy until he raised it on high to unleash a devastating blast of lighting overhead. A hulking green humanoid creature entered the fray next, leaping from building to building and crushing all who dared cross his path, his powerful physique giving him strength unmatched and a rage that could never be quenched.

So this era had its own Peak Experts as well, melding their technology with the Energy of the Heavens in turn, but without a Nascent Divinity to match this Sovereign, what use was there in comparing the two?

Again, Falling Rain sensed this disquiet and adjusted accordingly, moving away from the battle in the city to the heavens overhead, where those sleek flying vessels moved through the great emptiness beyond the skies. A massive moon came into sight, but as the scene drew closer, he realized that this was no moon at all, but a awe-inspiring, man-made construct possessed with power enough to wipe out every city in the world beneath it. Tiny vessels flew all around it, except they were only tiny in comparison, for it soon became clear that these were hulking behemoths capable of holding thousands upon thousands of soldiers at once. Even smaller vessels fought around those larger vessels, firing beams of light in red and green, but they were not the focus as the scene moved towards the not-moon and into the vast network of tunnels contained within. Steel floors, steel walls, steel ceilings, and more, with not a single window in sight, the stifling monotony was unnerving to the extreme as they proceeded forward in the dim darkness. The tunnel stretched on without end, and soon it grew too dark to see even a single centimetre in front of his face, only for the darkness to give way to two scintillating beams of light, one in green and the other blue.

Two bearded gentlemen held those beams of light, which illuminated their surroundings to reveal an enormous room filled with metallic humanoids of curious constructions, ones armed with rifles that also fired beams of light. With a flick of the wrist, the younger gentleman warded off those beams with his sword of blue light, while the older gentleman leaped into the fray and scattered whole swathes of his foes with a wave of his hand. The power wielded by these two gentlemen was foreign and unfamiliar, and though Falling Rain was merely showing a memory of a scene he himself had witnessed second hand, this Sovereign was able to glean from this the truth. These two were surely Divinities at the very least, but ones in full control of their strength, and while Falling Rain was uncertain of the limits of their prowess, there was no denying their existence. How else to explain the seemingly endless array of examples he had to draw upon and show? The scenes shifted from one to the next showing humanity at war with all manner of foes, with countless different Divinities put on display with an eclectic and all-encompassing range of Daos to behold, until they all blended together into a single, indecipherable mass of memories with no beginning or end.

“You are nothing more than a frog in a well, unable to see how vast the Heavens truly are.” Falling Rain’s denouncement shook this Sovereign from his shock, and to his surprise, he discovered the boy had broken free of his bindings and now stood with weapons in hand. “Everything I showed you is attainable and within reach for the people of this Empire, in less than a single millennia of progress, yet you have had your hand on the tiller of humanity’s progress for so long and done nothing except tread water. You see yourself as a shepherd, but you are merely a burden to progress, a disease which has kept humanity weak for far too long.”

Raising his sword to deliver a scintillating slash, the Sword Intent ate through this Sovereign’s robes and cut him to the quick, a minor injury that was negligible at best, for Falling Rain had not grown any stronger. No, the only reason this attack was able to affect this Sovereign was because his own Will had grown weaker, for the Truth found in Falling Rain’s memories could not be denied. “Might does not make right,” the boy declared, words which struck this Sovereign harder than Falling Rain’s sword ever could. “Might only oppresses the weak. You are strong, but you are not right, no more than the tiger is right to live upon a mountain or a shark in the sea.”

“No.” The denial slipped out even as this Sovereign struggled to regain control of his emotions, but his Natal Soul sensed this weakness and used it to strike once more. Even now after learning the Truth of his existence, the foolish ‘Zhen Shi’ had not given up his misguided dreams of supplanting this Sovereign, so poisoned by desire and emotion in their time apart. Despite the risk of them both succumbing to Falling Rain’s blows, Zhen Shi’s primal fury rose up from within and threatened to overwhelm this Sovereign in full, for his Natal Soul cared not for survival, only victory and legitimacy.

For just like him, his Natal Soul believed that might made right, and to the victors go the spoils.

Between Falling Rain and Zhen Shi, this Sovereign could do naught but stand in place and endure the barrage of attacks sent his way, but it was the truth he feared, a truth the boy saw fit to twist and use against him. “Humanity’s greatest advantage is not our strength of arm,” the boy declared while still conjuring images for this Sovereign to see, his every word resounding with the chime of faith and conviction as he let loose with a barrage of attacks and repudiations, “But the strength of our minds. You disdain tools and contraptions as external strength, yet without such strength we would still be prey to the wolves and tigers of the wilds. This is the truth, one you know and accept, but only when it fits your world view. Better steel for swords and spears is fine enough, but why is a bow or ballista unacceptable? Because you do not understand the value of progress, and in doing so have doomed humanity to millennia of stagnation, just so you would not see your own strength overshadowed.”

Much as he wanted to deny it, the boy’s words struck home as this Sovereign recalled the humiliating death he suffered at the hands of Sima Yi. The first Grand Marshal of the Empire to not hail from the Five Supreme Families, a brilliant genius who might well have brought them all to new heights, yet despite having long since secured this Emperor’s favour, the traitorous rat sought to supplant him and become Emperor himself. The fool wasn’t even aware of this Sovereign’s eternal status, believed he faced a powerful Warrior and nothing more, yet Sima Yi was a mere mortal with no personal strength to speak of. Even then, he possessed wealth and charisma aplenty, which he used to craft his weapons of war which took the life of this Sovereign’s host before he could react, and in doing so, almost put an end to the Eternal Emperor’s reign without having even uncovered his existence.

A most humiliating setback, one for which Sima Yi paid dearly for, but this Sovereign could not deny the fact that he went on to suppress such technological advancements for fear of them. What purpose was there in strength of arms if a mere mortal could build a contraption capable of reaping lives from afar? What progress could there be in his Path if humanity abandoned the Dao by the wayside? Such were his thoughts at the time, and while his concerns were valid, the truth of the matter was as Falling Rain said, for now this Sovereign had seen the power technology could bring.

The first wisp of Sword Intent found its way into the core of this Sovereign’s soul, but the pain was nothing compared to the shame of having his conviction stripped bare, yet much as he would like to retaliate against the boy, his Natal Soul was the greater threat by far. This might well change soon enough as Falling Rain continued to spew his hateful truths, using what he gleaned from this Sovereign’s shared memories against him. “Of course, you wouldn’t feel threatened by technology if you weren’t stuck in a rut yourself, but such is the curse of genius. You were a child when you first discovered the Dao, and your progress effortless until you Ascended to Divinity.” Nascent Immortality, but now was not the time to quibble over the details, especially since there was no denying this fact. “You continued to progress a little with help from your brothers, but after their deaths, you’ve stalled out, because you never learned how to study the Dao on your own. You didn’t have to, because the answers were all obvious until they weren't, but rather than grit your teeth and move forward with determination, you sit idle and wait for the answer to be handed to you.”

The boy’s sword plunged deep into this Sovereign’s robes as he stood helpless to defend himself, and now he had to contend with a font of Sword Intent wreaking havoc throughout every fibre of his existence. The shield followed suit, but even if the boy had a thousand such weapons to wield it would take him years to wear away at this Sovereign’s Will. No, it was still the Natal Soul within which threatened him so, growing stronger thanks to the boy’s open disdain and continued assault as each word and attack served only to fan the flames of this Sovereign’s rage. “For all your strength,” the boy continued, firing his rifle to no effect since he lacked the Intent to pair with it, “For all your lofty accomplishments and lifetimes of experience, I find it funny to learn that you are still mortal yet, still driven by those same emotions and desires you hold in such disdain. I told you before that I know why you seek strength, and now I know you’ve been lying to yourself all along.”

Emboldened by the lack of response, the boy had the gall to come face to face with this Sovereign as they stood upon the dock which his throne-room overlooked. “You pursue strength because you are afraid of that which you cannot control. You were blessed by the Heavens and given strength from a young age, and you used it to scare off those who would dare threaten your people. Then you were called away to war, only to return to discover your mother had died while you were away, but instead of mourning her death, you turned your rage upon the father who abandoned you. He could have protected her, but he didn’t, and that was a crime in your eyes, so you killed him and fled into the night. Then you found it easier just to fight and kill instead of try to build a life for yourself, because you were still afraid of losing what little happiness you might find to factors outside your control. So you fought and you killed, then fought and killed some more, until you had no more enemies left to fight. You claimed the crown to become Emperor, but you had no real interest in being a leader, not unless it was to lead men to fight. Much more difficult to lead a man to the plough, so difficult that you gave up within a decade and just let others manage the Empire for you, but history has shown us both how useless an Emperor is when he merely sits upon the throne.”

