“It ain’t much,” said Curon, from behind her. “But it’s home, for now.”

“It’s perfect,” Eppie had to fight the palpitations in her chest. Her mother had been a therapist, and her father had taught at a private college, and neither of them had lived long enough to know that the next person to make Lana’s bed would be a man in Birkenstocks.

“More like basic…” she could hear Curon’s pride purring.

“Dad,” said Eppie, with more intent than expected. “It’s perfect.”

Curon went to make coffee, just so the day could be a little more perfect than it already was.

To settle in, they found a place on the enormously expensive leather sofa by moving a small trolley of instruments, notes and what Eppie recognised as copies of unfiled contracts, then kicked off their shoes and did their best to imitate homebodies.

Curon asked her what her plan was from here on out.

“Theatre,” Eppie answered without hesitation.

Curon put his coffee down. “Musical? Stage? Classical? If you want, I've got people I can call right now. You can audition for any suitable role at any time, and…”

“That’s not what I meant,” Eppie shook her head. “I am thinking of writing, producing, directing, running one, eventually.”

“How about a stint on Broadway?” Curon rubbed his jaw. “You can learn on the job. How about a role in something popular while you figure it out? Frankie? Sound of Spring? A Summer in Saigon?”

Eppie shook her head again. “No thanks. I need something local, small. I need to build up experience from the ground up. My own troupe.”

She had scripts in her head, but felt keenly that the [System] did not intend her to be auctioning scripts. They were tools instead, mechanisms to elevate dreams, to bring like-minded people together, to create… she wasn’t sure, but the direction itself was certain.

Curon regarded her over the rim of his terrible coffee.

“You’re gonna keep writing songs?” he asked.

“Of course,” Eppie nodded. I still need to live, after all. Can’t put on theatre when your Causality is zero.

Curon tapped his foot. “School?”

“No. No school.”

“Eppie…” Curon’s tone grew firm.

“There’s no need,” Eppie said seriously. I need to produce. I need to create. I need to inspire others, not gain a Bachelor of Performing Arts.

“There's every need. You're sixteen. You completed nine months of tenth grade, then withdrew. What will people think…”

“Rick. I can pass anything. Any exam. Any board, any subject, any time, with a week's notice and three days' lead time with a good study guide," Eppie said the fact without weight on her shoulders. “Get me into a college, and I’ll get you a certificate. You can frame it. But I can’t sit in another room for two years. I’ll die.”

The last part came out meaner than she meant it to, and it sat in the room among the guitars.

Curon tasted the uncertainty in her voice. “You… do have all the time… in the world. Right?”

“I am not ill, if that’s what you mean,” said Eppie, "But I need to work. Work is life.”

Her father read it as ambition. Eppie squirmed. That was the trouble with telling true lies to people who loved unconditionally. The guilt grated on the soul.

“Any words from Lucia?” Eppie changed the subject.

“Nada from Miss Lancet,” Curon shook his head. “And nothing from the estate, or the lawyers, which is our usual mode of communication.” He shrugged. “Give it a fortnight. A family like theirs likes to take their time.”

Eppie turned the mug around again, then leaned against her father. The mystery of the Rising Sun endured, at least for now.

Still, she had time, right? All the time in the world.

DING! The elevator opened. The man who entered was as familiar to her as Curon, though not nearly as endearing.

He stood at the threshold, frown-in-hand, and sighed long and deep, then said something disturbingly familiar.

“You… you see how this looks, right?”

There was no door to knock.

The lift opened into Curon’s office suite, because that was how the building was designed.

Thereby, Trent Davis waited for the door to slide open while holding a folder of up-and-coming artists as a pretext and entered the living room of Frederick Curon’s domain.

What he saw was this.

His starlet in a sunburst summer dress, barefoot, legs resting in the middle of a sofa, drinking Coke out of the can. Her shoes were somewhere else. Her hair, now a little past her shoulders, was draped over Curon’s shoulder.

Frederick Curon was beside her, socks on, watching a muted television on which a ticker was reporting that federal regulators had closed a bank in Staples, Minnesota, while reading emails on his phone.

The girl was leaning just the right amount to make a pretty picture, if someone were to take one.

“You… you see how this looks,” said Trent Davis. “... right?”

Two heads came round.

"Eh?" said Curon.

"Eh??" said Eppie.

Davis closed his eyes briefly and reflected upon helming a public company for nineteen years. A company that dressed up young women in push-up bras and crop tops. A company that popularised the low-rise schoolgirl mini. A company that, while having a blemish-free reputation, nonetheless sold sex with the same gusto as corn syrup in Capri Sun.

There were reasons why a company that promoted a forty-second cut of Kel in a room of fangirls bouncing bombastically to ill beats did not receive sexual misconduct lawsuits.

Those were illusions. This… this was real life.

“Move aside,” he announced, “I am going to take a seat.”

He crossed the room. He sat down on the sofa. He sat down on the sofa between them, which required a certain amount of insertion, and which put a fifty-two-year-old chief executive in a four-thousand-dollar suit directly in the middle of a half-drunk Coke and a dainty pair of white feet with unpainted nails.

“Oi!” said Curon in his unmistakable Bronx accent. “I'm sitting here!”

“You are not going to be sitting here,” said Davis, “for very much longer, and neither is she, and before you start yammering, I want you to both listen to me.”

Davis turned to Eppie. She looked back at him with enormous blue eyes that seemed to read him like a book. Davis felt his headache change key. The girl gets it, right? She’s so smart, surely she gets it.

“Miss Fontaine is not moving in here,” he said to her.

“She's already moved in here,” protested Curon. “That’s her bedroom.”

“Then Miss Fontaine is moving out of here,” he turned to his friend. “Fred. Look at me. Look at my face. Listen. You have an underage artist, signed to my label, sleeping forty feet from you, in a residence inside my building. No… please don’t argue with me. You press me on this, I swear to God I am going to walk into the Hudson, and in my note, I am going to name you with your full legal name.”

“She has nowhere else to go!”

“Is that really true?” Davis turned to Eppie, who was smiling. “Can you not look at me like that? Put on your shoes! I am not the one writing the articles.”

He sighed.

“Look, your Dad—Frederick Curon—is your discoverer,” said Davis. “That's the industry title. Not father. Not Guardian. There’s a very special relationship between an artist and their discoverer, and historically… history isn’t on your side. Concurrently, you're emancipated, there are no guardianship papers, you consent for yourself, and I want you to understand that that is the part that makes this worse and not better. Imagine if a producer who found a fifteen-year-old, elevated her, put her on a Grammy stage, named himself Dad in her telephone as a joke—”

Davis glared at Curon. “On a CORPORATE PHONE—now wants to house her.”

Curon frowned like a sad clown. Davis continued.

He made a growling sound. “Look, I saw the paparazzi pack downstairs take photographs of the two of you. As far as I am concerned, it's bring-your-artist-to-work day, okay? She is NOT staying with you.”

The room went quiet.

Curon, who had been building toward something loud, stopped building. “Eppie, living alone in New York? Is that safe?”

"It's not safe for YOU for her to be here," said Davis. “I am not saying anything else. You know better, Fred.”

Eppie pulled her knees up.

“Fine.” The girl, thank God, agreed. “I came to see the business anyway. I wanted to see how the music-making happens, maybe write a song or two. Contracts. Publishing. How a building like this decides what an artist is worth." She looked at Davis. “So yeah, bring your artist to work day sounds good to me.”

A… a song or two?

Trent Davis, father of successive generations of girl and boy bands, felt suddenly that it wouldn’t be so bad to have such an understanding and workaholic daughter after all.

“Alright, I’ll get you a lanyard,” he said, relieved beyond belief.

“A lanyard?”

"All-floors, escorted below eleven, unescorted above it. You can sit in on A&R, scheduling, publishing, and legal if Mister Fielding will have you, and on marketing if you can stand them. If you’re unobtrusive, they’ll answer some questions. You'll learn more in a fortnight than most of my VPs.” He held up one finger. “Lanyard on Thursday. So long as you don’t sleep in the same building as your producer.”

Father and daughter looked at each other across their chief executive.

They sighed. Their shared sigh arrived in the same key and at the same length, and Davis, wedged between them, heard it in stereo.

Eppie’s hair fell over her face, then she turned her head just so that her eyes peeped at him through the blonde strands. She looked small. She looked pitiful, with her knees up and her arms round them, and her hair draped over both. Meow?

Did something just meow? Davis fought the siren-like mewing invading his mind.

Curon, unable to resist, protested once more.

“Don't look at its eyes!” Davis hissed, averting those viral baby blues. “Don't look! It’s doing it on purpose!”

Davis sighed again as Curon insisted that the paparazzi squad be removed from the lobby.

“Where will you go?” Curon demanded, glaring at Davis for ruining his moment of fatherhood.

“I’ll ask Dame Vaughan,” Eppie replied in Curon’s stead, regretful but without complaint. “She said to come if I ever needed a place.”

Can’t you have done this in the FIRST PLACE?! Davis wanted, more than anything, to spray the girl with a garden mister.

Fed up. Davis got up. Unlike these layabouts, he had to get back to work.

The things I have to do, he thought to himself, finally allowing his throbbing temples to ease, just to keep a song factory alive.
