I love the little logs ‘Little Hero Mettabon’ leaves herself. It’s such a nice little character device. I find it beyond endearing, even. Sometimes I find myself tempted to taunt her about how I know what she’s doing—and kind of just allow it to carry between loops. Hmm, maybe ‘allow’ is too strong a word. The skill she possesses is still too eldritch, and the Watchtower hasn't fully purified her being yet, but it's not impossible to reach in and change certain things if I wanted.

I must confess, Psychomancy is not exactly a forte of mine, not when self-inserting into someone allows me to replace them entirely. Reaching into someone's consciousness and forcibly enacting your tyrannical desires is less than useful when you can steal the role of a character from them. I've always been a hands-on sort of reader that way.

No, I'm going to continue keeping quiet. I'm going to continue observing her. She's surprised me more than a few times now—and I think she still has a few hundred more subversions left in her back pocket. It is annoying how she refuses to assume the mantle I so graciously gave her; a rebel queen leading a former subterranean empire of freed slaves seems very suitable, considering her history. But maybe she's just not the leadership type. And perhaps she doesn't care about the other prisoners nearly as much as I want her to. Time might fix that, or a few adjustments to her position.

I might need to make things more dire, give her more of a reason to hate her captors. But the gnomes are already so loathsome. I don't think she needs that much more incentive.

Ah. To be decided in a future loop. I suspect my ‘punishment’ will spur some behavioral changes, stop her from directly trying to interact with me, to say the least. I'm a reader. I'm just taking a first-person perspective of my story. She shouldn't be touching me. It's very rude. But if I have to admit, she is rapidly becoming my favorite of the three. And I didn't expect that. Yes, the Deathless is a force of nature, and the currently still missing Arrow is the platonic ideal of a hero. But Uva Mettabon is a spider that seeks to weave a net over her prison. I love a character hubristic enough to think they can trap their narrator within a book. It’s so exciting.

Oh, and speaking of the Young Lord, I think I am narrowing down his positioning. He’s definitely not in the Summer or Winter Courts, so that just leaves the space in between.

So. You’re getting another chance, Harkness. I let you play as Queen, and you lost the crown in humiliating fashion. The girl brutalized you and keeps a thought-slave made in your image. The boy battered you like a stepchild. All that remains to complete your trifecta of failure is a defeat at the hands of Adam Arrow.

But, if you prevail… Should you find and secure him for me so that we can properly integrate our Knight in Shining Armor to unite the smallfolk and oppressed in rebellion against the tyranny of the Courts, then I might just give you a new storyline in the future.

One where you might be able to avenge your disgrace at the hands of these so-called children who have mutilated you.

So. Go out there and hunt, my hound. I didn’t let you keep all those levels for no reason. I didn’t provide you with an opportunity to Delve out of goodwill.

Bring me back my Noble Knight. Complete my collection.

—Evanescia, the Usurper-Narrator of the Fairwoods

327

Loop [II]

“Uva…” Adam coughed, working through his words. “Please don’t take this the wrong way—and never repeat this to Shiv—but the insides of your soul are so tight I feel like I’m squeezing into a crawlspace.”

Even that was an understatement. Uva’s Heroism was technically a pure flame: intense and undimmed despite all she'd survived. However, occupying the space within it felt like being trapped within a narrow crevice in the immediate aftermath of an earthquake, the surroundings clamping you in place and slowly crushing your bones to powder. It wasn't like Shiv, where there was practically a tower full of space to stretch out. Here, Adam's soul didn't even have room to shuffle. Then, there was the frigid hive that surrounded her Heroism; crossing that boundary left the Paragon shivering like a willow in a storm.

“Her drive to protect and serve was more determined by conditioned duty than an innate desire to protect,” the Culturist reiterated from the depths of Adam’s Awareness Skill. “This does not make her monstrous. It just makes her pragmatic and clinical.”

It also makes hiding inside her suffocating, Adam replied.

Uva hesitated. Instead of responding, she directed her Psychomancy strings deeper inside herself—but never found Adam. Entrenched within her soul, he felt every little thing she did and amplified her skills to new heights. However, his divine possession also brought a crippling disadvantage: mainly, he couldn't hide himself or his heroic presence. Neither from the one he was occupying nor the ones around them.

In the physical world, Uva's body was blazing like an azure sun rimmed by incandescent glory. The ogres that were meant to guard the prisoners in the cages were screaming, their eyes blinded, their footsteps pounding the ground as they staggered backward, crashing against the cavern walls.

The other prisoners, meanwhile, cried out with dismay. Their souls were engulfed in azure light, and it bent around most of them, barely seeping into their paltry Heroism—so sparse and thin it made Uva’s crevice seem like a chasm. The oddest among them was a grime-coated girl, no more than eight, who was wearing a set of dirty rags. Her eyes were lit with a gleam of suspicion, then confusion, and finally rising astonishment as her skin began to steam before Adam’s radiance. The ogres shared her fate, slowly steaming them like buns cooked in a pressure pan.

"I'm not inside your mind," Adam explained. "I'm inside your soul. You can't find me using your Psychomancy, but I'm connected to you.”

Uva’s paranoia lingered even with his explanation. “Have you proof?”

“Proof? What do you mean, proof? I'm inside your soul. I know you can feel me right now. Your levels are growing rapidly. Your skills are being magnified. Do you know anyone else who can do such a thing?”

“I don’t. But I also don’t know if you have been usurped by Evanescia—if this is another one of her games.” A cold scowl crept over her features. “Did you reach into me through the girl?”

“What girl? The one who keeps staring at you?”

“Yes.” Uva’s scowl turned to a frown as both she and Adam saw a look of pure confusion creep over the girl’s face.

And then, for seemingly no reason at all, the grime-covered little prisoner ignited like an oil-drenched bonfire hit by a Pyromancy spell.

Lend Thy Light (Unique) - Allows the Paragon to dwell within the soul of a virtuous Pathbearer. The Paragon will ignite the Pathbearer’s soul and cauterize their wounds while infusing them with Heroism. Your virtuous presence will banish the presence of evil within a Pathbearer or immolate a being of pure wickedness directly.

A shriek of pure agony tore out through the girl's lips, and a second later, a reverberating echo joined her. This one was far too deep, too strong to be the girl's voice, and as it rose in intensity, a shadow was outlined over the girl. It was a translucent shape wrapped around her, and it combusted from within. The featureless, ever-changing form of Evanescia briefly revealed itself as she was embraced by Adam’s presence. The ogres were torched by Adam's presence as well, but they responded with groans of pain as if being seared by a brand of judgment rather than condemned to a roaring blaze.

The prisoners within the carried cage cried out as they were flung into the bars. The ogre bearing their weight stumbled left and then right, crashing hard against the wall before tumbling backward, slamming its entire bulk down upon the rusted bars. A loud groaning noise followed—paired with the snapping of bone and tearing of flesh. Some of the steel legs snapped beneath the ogre's body, spearing out to rip the flesh of the unprepared prisoners. Others were simply crushed beneath the immense thing, the bending bars pressing their bodies in rooms until the bones inside them gave way. Scenes of calamitous discord followed; thrashing limbs and wailing throats became the way of the world. Yet a counter-force came to greet the carnage. A counter-force spawned from an unprepared Paragon.

Startled by the cascade of disastrous events resulting from his presence, Adam didn't notice how the wounds around him were being sewn closed by his incandescence, how broken bones were being pressed back together—not truly restored afresh, but reconnected by an azure flame that replaced damaged meat with constructs of Heroism. The prisoners came afire, but they did not burn. Instead, Adam felt them like seeds to be kindled. There was little Heroism in them, but that could be changed. All could be altered.

Evil to be purged, the righteous to be blessed, and the meek to be redeemed.

A chorus of voices cried out to Adam, voices belonging to Pathbearers and peoples of all races and Paths. It was a chorus buried deep within his soul, connected to his Shard of Exalted Flame. It was a chorus that once spoke to him every time he fired a smiting arrow. It was a chorus that spoke against the cruel fate thirsted for by the System.

And it was a chorus that went silent as Evanescia tore free of the girl's body, surging toward Uva.

A brutal clash followed in the metaphysical. Adam cried out as his soul rattled and cracked, and in a burst of embers, found himself flung free from Uva's Heroism. His back crashed hard against the cages, and they were rent asunder as he was blasted out through the lengths of metal, into the soft, supple body of an ogre. He found himself lost in the embrace of hot blood and bursting flesh as his velocity barely diminished. The Paragon cleaved straight through the ogre and slammed against a huge, serrated tooth lining the entrance to the gnomish underground entrance. Only then did he flare his wings—but by then it was almost too late.

A constellation of bladed, impossible geometries crashed into his ribs from the side. He was flung out of position just in time to be spared a blast of time-stilling frost.

Adam didn't get a chance to recover. The enemy was upon him in an instant. Yet, Uva wasn't totally enslaved. Her strings twisted inward and outward in a wild web, each trembling with desperation. Three Aberrant Fractals broke out from Uva’s body only to loop around and come stabbing and tearing at their source, while another barely intercepted another blast of Cryo-Chronomancy on Adam’s behalf—trapped in a dense cage of halted time.

Despite the Eldritch nature of Uva's skills proving somewhat of a hassle, Evanescia piloted her body with ease. Her form shifted—legs morphing into eight spider-like limbs lined with eyes. Beams of Outsider energies speared out from them like small beacons and cleaved colorful gaps in the ground.

Adam felt his psyche fissure—but not truly crack. His Path Evolution had hardened his consciousness. But it was still nowhere near indestructible. He fired blindly, unleashing a stream of Shards of Exalted Flame to pierce Evanescia, but ended up wrenching them aside at the last second as he realized he would be killing Uva instead. As the arrows of burning incandescence crashed into the cavern walls and detonated in spheres of incandescent glory, the explosions were physical, magical, and spiritual all at once. They left massive gaps inside the mountain. They swept over the bystanders, mending broken bodies in an instant while incinerating the ogres from within. The two surviving guards, once tasked with carrying a cage of captives over to the gnomes, flopped down on the ground. Their eyes were burned empty, their evil-tainted souls hollowed from within.

The same blasts came nowhere close to touching Evanescia. She scuttled along the walls and across the ground at uncanny speeds, using Uva's body as if it were her own. A cone of fractals exploded from her back, and each one gleamed bright as it became a section of her insectoid wings. More Outsider energies flooded the cavern, and soon the very nature of space began to tear. With it came additional burdens levied upon Adam's sanity.

He drew his rapier to summon clones of himself, but before he did so, he could see shadows rise up where his initial arrows had struck. He could feel them, and even without commanding them, he saw his shadows draw their own bows formed from the ashes of this initial attack to fire new arrows at the back of the unsuspecting Usurper-Narrator.

What followed was a blitz between two small armies, instantly summoned by the Seeker and the Paragon. Adam created clones of himself, each one trying to create distance, accelerating backward to give themselves more room and calibrate their arrows to strike the filth festering within their friend’s soul. Concurrently, Evanescia unleashed a rain of Aberrant Fractals. The twisted geometries were more than cutting appendages; they displaced pockets of space, causing Adam to miss by the barest of margins, and re-routing Shards of Exalted Flame to collide with each other.

This only created more ashen shadows. As Uva's eyes multiplied into eight, then sixteen, then hundreds more across her body, as she prepared to unleash a channel to the Outside and drown the Paragon in a flood of reality-disfiguring madness, a dozen flaming Shards cleaved into her back where she was unprotected. Adam felt each strike his shadows delivered as if it were loosed by his own hand. Threads of incandescent Divinity marred Evanescia's silhouette, chipping bits of her outline free and causing her to snarl with genuine pain.

Shard of Exalted Flame 207 > 209

