These Arrows, My Memory 201 > 204

Levels rushed into Adam. His onslaught didn’t end. Between his clones and the ashen replicas conjured by These Arrows, My Memory, the subterranean depths were drowned by a light that was brighter than day. Through it all, Evanescia burned. Uva struggled, trying to break free. With each passing second, even more Adams manifested, rapidly overwhelming the summoned Fractals meant to cut him down.

The Usurper-Narrator's fate was sealed. All he needed to do was continue concentrating his firepower and—

Something smashed into Adam from below. A spear of magical force sank into his thigh and barely found itself repelled by his Legendary armor. The Paragon's knee sang out with a sickening snap to announce its dislocation. Before he could cry out, another dozen spear tips slammed into him, driving him up against the ceiling while strands spilled out from every surface to spear against his shoulders, his head, his neck. They crashed over Adam like an ocean of snakes, binding and squeezing him, and his Magical Resistance shattered after mere moments.

His Path had evolved, but Uva had changed substantially as well. He was familiar with her Psychomantic strings, but now she was the matriarch of the inter-routed web. Her Psychomancy could move a force from her mind, connected by mana and intent, even when separated. Just as he unexpectedly flanked Evanescia with These Arrows, My Memory, he too was ambushed by Uva's Eldritch Psychomancy, moving of its own accord.

Lashing tendrils of pain tore into Adam’s mind. His consciousness shuddered. His sense of self tumbled toward the final precipice where insanity awaited. The world around him turned double, then triple, then blurred. Though his ashen replicas continued to loose shots, propagating the air with more Shards, the possessed Seeker held them in little regard. With a casual gesture, she conjured pillars of time-stopping frost. And if that wasn't enough, another wave of Aberrant Fractals broke free from her spine.

While Adam's Shards managed to slip through the time-stopping glaciers, they were diverted into the walls and ground as Evanescia slammed into Adam from below.

Somehow, he managed to stab at her. A Hydromantic limb lashed out from his body, seizing the rapier he'd dropped to skewer his foe. But Uva's body contorted like a rubber band. Her torso folded into a narrow arch before snapping back in place, and then she struck him with a backhanded blow—one further augmented by her Eldritch Physiology and flood of eldritch beams channeled through the many eyes lining her limb.

Adam jolted back—would have been blasted through the ceiling if not for his Phoenix Riposte Skill. He flared bright, transforming into a comet while the piercing cry of a hawk sounded, and he slammed twice against Uva to return the blow he was bestowed. Bits of his friend burst free in messy sprays of ichor. She ruptured like a spider crushed beneath a heel, but her wounds didn't last. She regenerated, and that which she bled was replaced by a dense weave of tissue as strands of webbing stitched up what she lost.

She reached out with her Cryomantic arm and grasped Adam by the face, sharp claws digging into his temples. He tried to move, but a rush of coldness so deep and painful that time itself refused to flow where it went seeped into him. It seized him, trapped him, choked him, froze him solid.

If being inside Uva's Heroism was suffocating, then being trapped in a stasis of Cryomantically frozen time was agonizing.

And it was then, in the throes of his defeat, that he could hear the susurrations of Uva's many voices. The stacks of her mind that she still controlled raged, snarled, and begged for his forgiveness. They promised him they would break free, that they didn't want this, but the only face Uva's body had was entirely impassive, simply staring at Adam, even as it was scorched by his purifying flame.

And then the creature that wore Uva's body as if it were her own dared to smile. “I've been wondering where you were, Hero. You managed to escape my Watchtower somehow. What has happened to you? How did you get here without my knowledge? And why did the being in your presence burn so badly?”

There was a hidden growl of near-anger in her voice, but overall Evanescia just sounded excited, like a reader looking forward to the next page. “I have to confess, I didn't see this coming. I expected the Seeker to be more of an enigma, but you are just getting more and more mysterious, my knight in burning armor. Let me get a better look at you.”

And then, against Adam's will, he felt Uva's strands dig deep into him.

I should unequip my armor, Adam's racing mind decided. He did so without another second of consideration.

Meanwhile, from a narrow pinhole deep inside his own being, Adam could see his mind betraying him. Protected by his Domain, there was a part of him she would never touch. But it wasn't his mind. No longer bound, she smoothly plucked the helmet off his head and stared at his face, hers barely a finger’s length away. Something behind Uva's eyes flashed bright, and he felt Evanescia use the Analyze Skill on him. “Paragon,” she breathed. There was a flutter in her voice. “And a Domain…” The flutter vanished, replaced with disbelief and choked awe. “That can't be right. That can't be possible. Unless…”

While she was ruminating, Adam noticed something happening at her feet. He himself was caught within the grip of Uva's stasis, but his body still cast a shadow over Uva's body. And from deep inside, a powerful presence slipped free.

Everything happened in a blur. A massive hand reached up out from the dark and dragged Evanescia down and into the shadows. Once more, the Usurper-Narrator yelped in surprise, and as she was distracted, Adam's helmet went flying out of her hand and embedded itself in the stone wall. Her Cryo-Chronomancy spell broke in the same instant, and the Paragon was in freefall. His mind was still mauled, and he couldn't gather his focus—his sense of who he was and what he came here to do was lost to a maelstrom of incoherence.

As he dropped from the ceiling, Adam could barely remember his name. And that was the way he stayed until the rogue strand of Uva crept into him—began putting him back together.

Adam, her thoughts came, hushed and desperate. Adam. Adam! You need to flee. I can distract her internally for a few moments, disrupt her senses. I'm removing my own memories. I'll collapse my mind from the inside. She won't be able to have my body, but you need to run now, before she catches up to you with another. Get Shiv and find a way out of the Fairwoods.

The Paragon struggled hard to reply, but words were hard when most of your mind was little more than scattered pieces. “I need to…” But though his consciousness was shattered, his instincts remained, and action lingered in his very bones. Adam didn't want to run. He couldn't run. He wasn't going to abandon Uva now, not after what she'd done for him, for his family, for Blackedge. It didn't matter if it was duty or his Heroism. It didn't matter for what reason she did right. The fact that she did right, the fact that there was good in her, meant that he wasn't going to retreat.

He had enough of the Divinities abandoning their followers. He had enough of unworthy gods. He had enough of the System's callous abuse, of the pointless cruelties in this world.

Staying was obviously foolish. Here in the Fairwoods, Evanescia was a power far beyond any Legend. Something none of them had at any chance of contending with. But Adam had just cleansed the Culturist, had found his friends once more, and now, faced with an overwhelming enemy, the Paragon found himself guided by his basest nature.

His Domain was not that of intelligence, though he could be intelligent if his mind were whole.

His Domain was not that of strategy, though he had knowledge aplenty in that realm as well.

His Domain was of Heroism.

And Heroism demanded Adam shape it into an arrow before letting it fly free to seek the heart of the wicked.

His moment came as the Culturist surfaced from the dark. In a scant few seconds, the Legendary orc had been de-limbed and completely flayed. Adam only recognized the Culturist due to the bloody cowl that still clung to the orc’s twitching muscles, soaked by his gore.

The creature that rose from below, hefting the Culturist's mangled remains, was distinctly not Uva. Instead, it resembled a horrific parody of a humanoid. Its limbs were far too long, its hairless skin a translucent sheen of white, and Adam could see the muscles squirming under its flesh. Its eyes were pools of pitch-black hatred, hungering with the desire to hurt and feed. Nested within its chest was an orb of Dimensionality, so concentrated that Adam's skull ached with agony just from being close to it.

The Paragon felt his own Dimensionality shatter before his adversary’s mere presence. He was a worm trying to defy a falling mountain, but defying the mountain was what he had to do. Resist and die fighting.

Evanescia dangled the Culturist before Adam as a shield. The orc let out a wheezing gasp—but couldn’t speak. Every single one of his mana fields was shredded. His eyes, nose, ears, and toothless mouth were little more than bloody trenches in his skull.

The creature that Evanescia had mantled over herself gave a gravely chuckle. “Come now, Hero. It was a good plan, trapping me with your orc, but even you must be out of cards now. He must be a formidable power on your planet, but the Fairwoods are open to all worlds in Integration, and there are people who stride through these lands that possess powers beyond your reckoning and his.” The monster ran a long tongue over its sharp teeth, all visible due to a lack of lips. “I know them all. I have them all. Those who fall here remain characters for me to use, just as you will be, if you don't play along. Do you want to be a hollow shell that I can wear, or do you want to possess your own story, Hero? I can see you celebrated. I can see you rewarded for your virtues.”

But Adam didn’t hear her. He didn’t fire either. Instead, even a hair’s breadth away from psychosis, his mind was fully focused on something within Evanescia. It was a crack—just the faintest fracture—of light. Of fire. The rest of her was the stuff of sickness—a rot of the soul had consumed so much of her nature over the course of eons. She was like a ruined tooth on the verge of complete disintegration, yet there was a thread that remained—a smallest piece uncontaminated.

Against all odds, and to Adam's utter disbelief, there was Heroism inside Evanescia too. Just enough for him to notice, not enough to spare her from complete immolation.

And it was at that crevice of flame that he released his final arrow. She sighed. She moved the Culturist's body, trying to use the orc as a shield, but in her arrogance, she misunderstood the nature of Adam's skill. His arrow splashed into the ample Heroism that dwelled within the Culturist, but then it splashed through him and into Evanescia. Adam's own form thinned into streams of exalted flame, and he merged as one with his arrow, plunging into the Usurper-Narrator’s being like a divine missile.

And just as she had knocked Adam out of Uva's body, this time he dislodged Evanescia’s blurry silhouette from where it was inserted over whatever this Pathbearer was. At the same time, the crevice at her core fractured and ripped open wider. Adam screamed as it felt like the totality of his person was being squeezed down a keyhole. The pain was unspeakable. His soul felt like it was going to rupture at any moment. He had no mouth, and he couldn't scream, but Evanescia screamed for him as a blazing spider web of scars spread over her chest.

A spiraling vortex of Dimensionality formed. Freed from her control, the character that Evanescia had inserted herself into drew upon its Post-Legendary Skill, and it began drawing what felt like the entirety of the Fairwoods inward. The world became a singularity of space, grasped tight by a spatial spell so powerful it was about to take an entire chunk of the Fae realm with it, wherever that would be.

Between the wound she'd suffered and the imminent dimensional instability about to unfold, Evanescia made her choice.

Everything stopped. All sound ceased. As did all movement.

Once more, the world became a flutter of pages, each one turning in reverse, flapping faster as time and narrative causality reverted. Chaotic scenes of the battle that occurred between Evanescia and Adam played backward. But though the wounds dealt to their physical bodies were removed as the flickering scenes played on, the damage suffered by both their souls endured. For the briefest of seconds, they stared at each other: Adam, barely there, barely sane, but feeling a sense of righteous triumph; Evanescia, clutching at her chest, trying to squeeze the break shut, her blurry visage looking back at him in stunned silence.

And then they were both gone, both drawn back to the cage where Evanescia hid inside the girl and Adam arrived to be with Uva. The pages continued to turn, and they were reverted to even before that, where the Seeker’s story was just about to begin…

***

Restarting Narrative Cycle

Commencing Season of Spring

When Adam woke this time, he was in even worse agony than he could remember ever being in. Outside, he could feel sand pressing against his bare skin. His scattered thoughts froze at that. Bare skin?

Somehow, even with his soul near fractured, he managed to reach up and run a hand across his chest.

“Armor… Where…. Where’s my—”

