Darkness took Adam. The last thing he caught was a glimpse of the ocean, and of the Culturist convulsing right beside him, screaming out for an instant before he realized his skin and limbs were back where they belonged.

***

Restarting Narrative Cycle

Commencing Season of Spring

Uva suddenly found herself in the depths of her subconsciousness once more. Something felt wrong. But she couldn’t tell why.

“Another loop, another failure,” Harkness taunted. “But I suppose the last run wasn’t exactly your fault.”

“How do you know that?” Uva asked. She couldn’t shake the feeling that something had gone very wrong—yet, why did her insides feel so purified? Why did she feel the urge to do right? To protect those weaker than her? Why was there a boundless sea of morale inside her, despite her being trapped in a loop?

Harkness scoffed. “We haven’t been penalized. So it can't be your doing. Congratulations, girl—you’re not the only roach the Usurper-Narrator needs to step on.”

And though Uva couldn’t fully remember what happened in the last loop, a feeling of elation took hold. Adam. Shiv.

Her boys were still out there, still causing havoc in the Fairwoods.

They might all be apart, but they weren’t alone.

***

Restarting Narrative Cycle

Commencing Season of Spring

“Agh! Fuck! Evanescia! You… you bitch-fuck! How am I supposed to cook a godsdamned felling ocean if you keep resetting the fucking story? What is wrong with you? What are you even doing?” Shiv raged as he found himself back inside his Severed Shadow once more. He had just gotten to examining the stupid jelly-crabs again when everything was rendered moot by whatever bullshit the Usurper-Narrator didn’t like this time. “And if you’re planning to hurt Uva, I’m going to do things to your ass. I’m going to shove something up it. Like a full godsdamned fucking… piano! Do you hear me?”

No further notifications came. Nothing announcing Uva was to be punished. Nothing at all.

Shiv took this as a sign that the Usurper-Narrator was rightfully terrified of him, and he snorted. “Yeah, that’s right. You know better. Anyway, I’ll be with you shortly. But let me finish cooking this time, dammit. I… I actually want to see if I can do this.”
