Those considerations led me to my golem creation facility. Within its heat-insulating walls, I crafted and molded a couple thousand golems over the next few days. The process gave me time to hone in on my next legendary skill and to consider what unknown skill I'd ask for with my compendiums.

Unfortunately, I found a few problems. A bit of research revealed the legendary compendium's limitations. It required me to already have three mythical skills created, so it only fused the skills rather than building them from the ground up like the mythical compendium had. That being said, the fusing process still gave me a lot of flexibility.

While not directly stated, my reading implied a legendary compendium could fuse any mythical skills regardless of synergy. This was the exploitable element of the compendium, not gaining the actual legendary skill. By forcing skills together, the learning experience could create strange, odd combinations that defied reason, all while filling in missing parts of a build or skillset.

That being said, most of the information I had came from the treasure trove Elysium gave us, combined with some extra learning licenses Amara gave me. More like hacked into my status. Either way, those adjustments let me rummage through various safeguards Schema established on his network. It even let me browse through a few isolated interwebs for other empires and species.

Having a hacker eldritch wasn't too shabby.

No matter what file cabinets I raided or data stashes I uncorked, there wasn't any information on the unknown compendium. In fact, almost nothing referenced them at all. At first, I thought the gaps surfaced because Elysium purposefully neglected those pockets of information, but nothing existed on Schema's network as well.

It was something uniquely mine, so I put that on the back burner for now.

Putting myself back in the present, I gazed at a couple thousand raw golems floating in the facility. Before sending them out, I installed a new runic paradigm revolving around the molerats and luminari, something I was able to do because of Diesel's limiters.

I got them ready for action before beginning the long, arduous process of crafting Schema's proposed gear. Even a simple amulet/ring combo added to the subtotal, so I cranked those out like a politician spouting false promises. Within hours, I hoarded a colossal pile of enchanted rings and chains, though they only had basic enchantments at best.

Taking note of the time required, I crafted about three thousand of them in an hour. That meant 72,000 amulets in a full day. It would be half that because of my nighttime training with Shalahora. I'd need well over half a year to finish Schema's request, assuming my pace didn't accelerate over time. Oof.

Getting after it, I crafted for the rest of the day, the sun setting in the distance. I sent the golems to relevant parties, from established cities from my expansion force to skeptile settlements to Florence. Once finished, I mosied on over to Shalahora's hill. The brutal, genuinely diabolical training continued with only the smallest indications of progress.

Oh, but there were indications. I held onto that as motivation.

By comparison, I kept on crafting the ring amulets until they flooded out in massive waves. To tally up my total for the quest, I had to take the merchandise to our currency exchange center in Springfield. When accepting the amulets, Sentinels arrived before hauling everything away with a few system-approved classers.

The first day took several hours to haul the pendants, but the second took seconds. I got tired of waiting for them to verify the merchandise and ensure it wasn't fake. They could do that on their own time and own pace, not mine. I stopped their warps from closing before hovering my amulets onto their gray vessels. I ruffled a few feathers in the process, but such was the price I paid to not waste my time.

My guild kept busy in the meantime. The skeptiles found a remote location in the Mojave desert, finding an enclave of massive creatures with inhuman claws that left death in their wake. They called them the claws of death. Apparently, they hoarded up near a quarry beside Interstate 15. I appreciated the skeptiles clearing out the problem before it became too big a problem.

At the same time, they established three footholds in the region, using some currency I granted them to shuttle a few skeptiles over. In particular, they loved the Grand Canyon, mentioning how it reminded them of home. To their chagrin, a massive dungeon formed over the area, dozens of dungeons fusing together into a colossal, alien ravine.

The scouts left the fighting to Tera and my followers, but the conflict became more intense than anyone expected. A tribe of locals ruled over the monsters and organized them, and they used guerilla warfare and combat tactics to frustrate our team. To my chagrin, somehow, we lost two of my golems, and someone injured Krog.

That left me baffled. While Diesel and Tera weren't combat specialists, Krog and Chrona were. Considering the average level Earth sat at was somewhere in the high hundreds, my team should've vaporized any resistance with ease. It was like riding into a candy shop with a tank. Our dominance was assured.

Until it wasn't. Something was off, like with the Chicago rift, and it didn't sit right with me. I planned on heading over soon. As for my guild's growth, they established seven footholds in major populated areas nearby. We dispersed serious aid in Toronto, Detroit, Milwaukee, Cleveland, Buffalo, and Minneapolis.

My guild established dominance over the Great Lakes area along with our presence in the American Southwest deserts. This required dismantling local warlords, which wasn't the most difficult task. Most of their levels sat in the low thousands while being unclassed and unfamiliar with true strength.

The futility of resisting our governance destroyed their fear-centric control. More potent than our combat abilities, my guild's consistent donations and infrastructure build-up won over the local people. We didn't have any tribute requirement, instead opting for a reconstruction-based plan. This enabled many of the locals to get back on their feet. It also increased our guild membership tenfold.

Let's just say Torix was a busy man in the meantime.

Two weeks passed in this way, each piece of my guild steadily accruing control over certain areas and places. Because I got a system down, I finished one-tenth of my quest from Schema before getting a message from Tera.

Tera, The World Breaker(Lvl 9,000 | Guild: The Harbinger's Legion | Class: Speaker) - Hello, Daniel. I'm sending an update to let you know what's happening. We've been using the architect golem and Diesel's vast knowledge to establish a new home in what your kind calls the Grand Canyon.

The issue is what you've probably heard about - there's someone controlling the eldritch here. They weren't strong where we first settled down, but closer to the largest parts of the canyon, we can't even approach. It's worse than a fringe world there, and I can't believe your species is managing it. It is impossible to have formed this quickly in such a new world, yet it is here.

The eldritch have strange powers as well, not like others I've encountered. One of Krog's wings was nearly torn off by a blurring figure, and we're worried we'll start losing people once your golems are whittled down. We're sorry to request your assistance, but we need someone to breach the outer line they've established.

We could put down our cities elsewhere, but this place...It's important for us. I think our kind will embrace this new world if we're granted such a majestic new home. It reminds me of our capital before the industrial era of the albony ruined it. It's a place for a new history.

I know you've done enough for us, so let me know if it isn't feasible. Thank you again for everything.

It read like a letter, one I couldn't say no to. I sent a message to Helios for transport before cracking my neck. Hovering out of my golem facility, I landed outside as a portal appeared. Helios walked out, a fresh wound on the side of his face.

He smiled with a frenzy in his eyes.

"Your actions are made known. I've seen your artifacts on the Sentinel's beside me, and considering their ubiquity, you must be pressed for time in making them."

I gestured to his face.

"I'm not the only one juggling a dozen things at once. Where'd you get that?"

Helios touched the trail of blood from the still-bleeding wound.

"I fought a twisted Sentinel. They're powerful opponents, ones without any true weakness. Your gauntlet prevents them from psionically overwhelming me, and the gravitation and telekinetic aspects enhance my mobility. Without the artifacts and the golems, I couldn't kill them as I do."

I raised a brow.

"Them? As in multiple?"

Helios gazed at his claws, his expression bored.

"I fight what appears before me. Nothing more, nothing less."

I gave his shoulder a friendly nudge.

"Oh yeah, real smooth coming from the albony prince that's still bleeding."

He smirked.

"Did my disinterest come across as that disingenuous?"

I scoffed.

"I could see the hidden smile from a mile away."

Helios shrugged.

"Despite myself, I must admit I'm proud of my kills."

He frowned.

"Onto pressing matters. As always, you required me for transport?"

My expression hardened.

"Yeah. Something's happening a few thousand miles from here. I sent you the map."

Helios stood with more confidence as he read the letter from Tera. Helios took a breath.

"Then let's uncover what's stopping our compatriots from advancing, shall we?"
