She hummed in silent thought.

Erick added, “She took Scion of Balance yesterday, if that makes a difference.”

“Scion of Balance makes a major difference.” Silverite nodded, saying, “Advise her to put all her extra points into Willpower from now on. Polymage is a good Class, if you can navigate the troubles of changing your body into monstrous forms. 25 Willpower is the minimum safe number, but 30 to 35 is a much better range. Does she already have [Polymorph]?”

“I’ll tell her that.” Erick smiled. “And no, she does not. She captured some juvenile mimics from the Forest and she’s taking them to an alchemist, but I’m not sure what happens past that point.”

“I’m sure she can find the relevant people in the Adventurer’s District. How is Poi working out for you?”

Poi was outside of the room right now.

Erick said, “He’s great. Already picked out a room in the house.”

“Would you be opposed to a few more guards stationed in your home?”

Erick felt a chill. “… Do I need them?”

“Only if you want them. Poi was stationed in and out of Ar’Kendrithyst for the last several years; there are more like him who would prefer to have some quiet downtime outside of the Dead City, and yet remain employed in the Army, without having to reposition to the Guard during their leave.”

“I’ll think about it.” Erick stood. “Timetable for rain is still up to the Council, correct?”

“Correct. Good day, Erick.”

“Good day to you, too.”

Erick collected Poi in the hallway, and together with Al, they left the Courthouse.

- - - -

Halfway down the Courthouse steps, Erick asked Poi, “Do you have any friends that would like a… a vacation? I guess? In my house? Silverite put forth that some other soldiers would like some downtime without having to transition out of the Army.”

Poi smiled. “I know several people who would appreciate such ‘time off’.”

“Not too many, though.” Erick frowned. “This is all kinda weird for me and Silverite suggesting I needed more guards is kinda freaking me out.”

“I understand, sir.”

Al nudged Erick. “You’re going to be as rich as me! Stop worrying and enjoy it all, already.”

Erick tried to smile. But instead, he said, “I get the distinct feeling that the one incident Killzone told me about was the only incident that was palatable enough to tell me about.”

Al laughed, then slapped Erick on the back. “You worry too much! But we can do some [Ward] work and get you some of the better [Ward]s. Maybe this will make you feel better? And if not: there is always beer!”

Erick chuckled. “Yeah. Let’s do that.”

Poi remained silent.

- - - -

The three of them stood outside of Erick’s house, in the vast, open stone fields of the Human District.

Several glittering white spherical [Ward]s were scattered around, alongside several glittering no-color [Ward]s. Al tossed a stone into his no-color [Ward]. The stone caught on gravity and flowed around the spherical space, bobbing back and forth through the air, eventually settling into a hover in the middle of the sphere.

Al tossed a stone into the white [Ward].

The stone bounced right back out.

Al did not yell, but he did speak loudly, “I do not understand how you are this bad at [Ward]ing. I don’t understand how anyone is this bad. This is basic spellwork.”

“I’m feeling some deja vu, aren’t you?”

Al went silent, staring at Erick. Al walked away.

Erick didn’t try to stop Al. He went back to his [Ward] work. Meditation kept his mana higher than it would have been; Clarity ensured the whole endeavor was a lot cheaper than otherwise.

Ward X, instant, short range, 24 hours

Create a Small Ward that can have Minor Effects, or prevent Z damage from attackers. 10 MP + Z

Create a Small Ward that can have Small Effects, or prevent Z damage from attackers. 15 MP + Z

Create a Special Ward. Variable Cost

Create a Medium Ward that can have Small Effects, or prevent Z damage from attackers. 20 MP + Z

Create a Medium Ward that can have Medium Effects, or prevent Z damage from attackers. 25 MP + Z

Personal Ward: Any Ward of any type can be made Personal, to move with you. Original Cost x2

Create a Large Ward that can have Medium Effects, or prevent Z damage from attackers. 30 MP + Z

Create a Large Ward that can have Large Effects, or prevent Z damage from attackers. 35 MP + Z

Create a Ward with another Spell attached to the interior. Spell activation based on Z invested into Ward. 100 MP + Z

Your Wards regenerate Z based on your Rested MP regen rate.

Special Wards can be made Permanent. 250 MP + Variable Cost

Minor Effects: Bug Ward, Temperature Ward, Alarm Ward

Small Effects: Visual Disruption, Audio Disruption, Weather Ward

Medium Effects: Area Hostile Visual Disruption, Area Hostile Audio Disruption

Large Effects: Drain Hostile HP/MP, Gravity Ward

Special Ward: Eschew all other effects in order to shape, color, and illuminate a ward however you wish. Skill level at Mana Manipulation determines final outcome. Variable Cost

It truly was an ungodly large blue box.

Erick dismissed the box and went back to trying to making a proper [Gravity Ward]. [Gravity Ward] was a weird kind of magic, and that made Erick hesitant. Usually, when he tried to do weird magic, it worked out for him. It usually worked out too well.

The problem with [Gravity Ward] is that he didn’t want to accidentally create a miniature black hole.

Erick whispered a small prayer to Rozeta, “Rozeta, if you can hear this, I do not want to create a black hole. Do not let this happen.”

[Gravity Ward].

A glittering white sphere appeared in front of Erick. He waited. He watched.

Success! No black hole!

Erick picked up a stone and tossed it into the sphere.

It fell through the sphere and clattered against the ground. Nothing else happened. He threw another stone into the sphere. More clattering. Again, nothing. More stones indicated that the [Gravity Ward] might look like it was there, but it wasn’t actually doing anything at all.

Hmm.

[Gravity Ward].

He tossed a stone into the new [Gravity Ward]. This one caught on something and gently fell up, then hit the top of the [Ward] and fell back down. The stone proceeded to roll across the edge of the spherical [Ward] until clattering back to the ground.

Erick chuckled.

Al was angry that Erick couldn’t work a proper [Gravity Ward]. Possibly more angry than he had been when Erick failed at lightwarding, weeks ago, the day after the attack on the Sewerhouse.

Erick couldn’t work [Gravity Ward] properly, but magic was still truly wondrous. He had cast both of his most recent [Gravity Ward]s with the basic idea of ‘pulling everything toward the center’. Whatever changed from the first to the second, or through the 7 he had made previous, was beyond Erick. He thought he had done every single one the same, but apparently he hadn’t.

Thankfully, though, nothing like a black hole had formed. That would have been terrifying. The whole [Gravity Ward] experience was kinda terrifying enough as it was.

Maybe he should move on to something else for a little while. He hadn’t tried wardlights any time recently. Those had been fun. Now he had [Ward X] and a whole lot more experience with magic. Maybe this time would be different?

Now… How did this go? Have an idea and flash out 50 mana, quick as a whip?

[Special Ward].

A brilliant white, head-sized orb appeared in front of Erick, spilling radiance across the orange and yellow stone ground. Erick smiled at the lightward. It worked. It worked, perfectly.

[Special Ward].

Another brilliant white lightorb appeared. Good. Good. Let’s try for something slightly different.

[Special Ward].

A brilliant sunlight orb appeared, a replica of the sun above, done in miniature. Erick looked as close as he could without blinding himself, but could swear that there were eddies of yellow-orange light on the lightward’s surface, and maybe even miniature solar flares.

[Special Ward].

Another sunlight orb.

[Special Ward].

Another sunlight orb.

“Ha ha! I got it!”

… And now for something slightly more different. Erick focused on the same process, but smashed the idea with a shattering hammer at the last moment.

A shattered sunorb appeared, fractal at the edges and glittering sunlight in all directions as it gently moved around itself, like some kind of crazy three dimensional kaleidoscope. It was even better than the one he had accidentally made during his failed lightwarder test; this one moved upon itself!

“I love it.” Erick said, “This is amazing. Good job, Magic.”

One more test to go. Erick focused the color blue, then took a mental step to the left, away from the reds and yellows, toward the shorter wavelengths of light, just past the visible.

[Special Ward].

A pale blue orb appeared, misty and insubstantial. He looked at his tunic; no glow. Erick realized the problem. The sun was high in the sky—

“No wait! No problem at all.”

[Stoneshape].

Erick pulled up a clump of stone and formed it into a thin sheet, dense enough to block the sun, wide enough to block a lot of light. One clump didn’t go very far. So he brought up four clumps and turned them into more stone sheets. He held them around himself and the blue orb, blocking out a lot of the sun.

“Success!” Erick cackled with laughter, “I did it!”

His off-white tunic was glowing in the light of the blacklight orb. Erick pushed the stone sheets into the ground and stepped away from his blacklight orb. And then he scratched his head.

It could be a fluke.

He looked at the lightwards he had made. Every orb came out exactly how he wanted. But to be sure, he created another blacklight orb, and another fractured sun ‘orb’. They appeared, exactly how Erick wanted them to appear.

Something had changed. It was a lot easier to make the kinds of lightwards he wanted. Maybe it was all the practice he had gotten in with his daily personal absorption [Ward]. Maybe it was the fact that [Ward] had reached level 10. Something had changed, and Erick had no idea what.

“Whatever! It’s magic! Magic can be mysterious. It can have secrets.”

Erick liked it that way.

[Gravity Ward].

Erick threw a stone into the fresh [Ward]. It lazily caught on some hidden current and drifted toward the center, to rest there. To outside observers it looked like it was hovering, but to the rock, it probably seemed at rest.

Ah!

That’s a better way to think about it. No black holes here. Just higher potential energy on the edge of the [Ward], and 0 potential energy in the center. Let’s not touch any thoughts of ‘gravitons’ or ‘the higgs particle’.

[Gravity Ward].

This time the rock he threw ‘fell’ straight to the center of the gravity ward, and after wobbling for a bit, stayed there, looking to all outside observers like it was hovering.

“Cool.” Erick said, “Now Al said to try with a Mana Shaping to bring the ‘center’ of the well to a point easy to reach from outside of the [Gravity Ward]. I also need to be able to designate specific objects.”

Erick watched the flow of mana, imagining it catching only what he wanted caught, and bringing those objects to a point at the edge of a warped [Ward]. Mana moved through the air as Erick began to cast.

Mana Shaping.

[Gravity Ward].

A cone with a rounded bottom appeared, the cone point pointed at Erick. Erick walked to the side, studying the space with Meditation active. Streamers of mana were flowing through the weird cone [Ward] and stopping at the point.

Erick picked up a stone and tossed it into the [Ward]. The stone hit the edge and flowed through the space well enough, but it started whipping around as it got closer to the cone’s point. It flung out of the [Gravity Ward] well before it reached 0 potential energy.

Erick looked at his mana. He was kinda low. If he had Scion of Focus, he would already be full; he wouldn’t need to stop to Rest. But he had enough mana left for two more spells. Maybe he could solve his [Gravity Ward] problem now that he knew what to aim for.

Erick experimented with cutting the personal gravity of everything in the space to a lot less than what they actually had, to make them practically weightless, so that they moved slow enough to not fling themselves out of the [Ward]. He combined this with the differences in potential energy from the outside edge to designated sink, to be as little as possible, so that there would be no stones or anything whipping around.

[Gravity ward].

Erick threw a stone into the [Ward]. The stone caught, and slowly flowed down to the designated catch at the side of the [Gravity Ward]. But something didn’t feel right. He had to test this [Gravity Ward] with other objects, but all he had were rocks. He had to improvise.

Haoock—ptew!

Erick spat into the [Ward]. His loogie caught, and sunk down to the gravity sink.

“Ah. Not exactly what I wanted.”

That [Gravity Ward] worked out well enough, but it caught everything, and thus it was a failure.

And with that thought, Erick created the next [Gravity Ward] with the idea of focusing on decreasing the mass of everything with a specific gravity, like only light things turned near-weightless, or only heavy stone turned near-weightless, and thus only those specific things were slowly drawn to the designated 0 potential energy well in the [Ward].

[Gravity Ward].

A blue box appeared.

Gravity Strainer, instant, medium range, 65 mana, 1 hour duration.

Conjure a large, freely moldable space where specific objects turn near-weightless and fall to a designated point.

“Ah ha!” Erick said, “I got it, Poi! [Gravity Strainer].”

Poi said, “Very good, sir.”

Erick threw a stone into the [Ward] he had just created. The stone floated to the sink.

He hocked another loogie into the space, and his spit just fell right through.

