Amidst the crippling pain, a small pinprick of relief landed on her cheek, a warm, soothing sensation that quickly spread. Soon after, a tiny mass of ichor broke free and flowed into her mouth, the foul tasting lump streaming to the ground below. More followed as the ichor broke apart and Song’s chest heaved with relief. After the last of the ichor washed away, Song straightened up and almost smiled, flinching away as Rain dabbed her face with a towel. Her wound no longer hurt, but she disliked his touch, an ingrained distaste she had little control over. Warily studying his actions, she spotted a single droplet of water leap onto his hand and seep into his skin, leaving her surprised and confused. Had he Awakened to the Blessing of Water?

Raising her eyebrow in silent question, Rain coughed and pretended not to notice, looking visibly drained. “Here,” he said, handing a container to Master, “Spread that over the wound, but make sure you don’t get any inside her mouth.” With a weak smile, he nodded at Song. “Put a bandage on your cheek and no one will even notice.”

Master’s concern showed in her voice as she applied the salve. “Don’t worry Song, worse comes to worst, I’ll ask a healer to fix you up. You’ll be pretty as a peach in no time.”

Unable to respond, Song stood in place, curious as to Rain’s newfound control over water. It seemed Song was quickly being left behind, her aspirations of standing at Master’s side fading with each second that passed. Saddened by the thought, she silently listened while Master explained everything Rain had missed, downplaying her own part and grossly exaggerating Song’s accomplishments.

At the end of Master’s animated story-telling, Rain smiled at Song, her face swaddled in too many bandages, Master's over enthusiastic work. “Incredible, thank you for keeping Mila safe. Now you two rest for a while, I’m gonna go join the fight.”

A quick glance at the bridge showed an all out brawl having broken out, Lady Tursinai and Ser Tenjin still in the thick of things, now joined by the other Sentinels. How the Defiled broke through was immediately clear as Song watched two Defiled Champions trade blows with the Bekhai heroes. A nearby soldier answered Rain’s inquiry, explaining that the two Champions in question were Ravager Kaliyan and former guard captain Mao Jianghong.

“Rain,” Master said, grabbing him by the sleeve and returning his sword, plucked from the corpse of the dead bandit. “Be careful this time. My heart can’t handle seeing you almost die again.”

“Don’t worry my love,” he answered with a wink. “If things go right, I won’t even have to get close. Watch and be amazed.” Leaving the roosequins behind, Song and Master followed him to the base of the bridge. Spreading his arms wide, Rain raised his head and channelled a massive torrent of Chi, palpable even to Song’s senses. Waiting with bated breath, she expected against all logic for some miracle to occur. Perhaps he would do as Elder Ming had, firing droplets of water capable of piercing steel. Or maybe he was binding the river to his control before commanding it to wash away the Defiled and take the bridge. One scenario after another flashed through Song’s mind, each one defying logic, but if anyone could do it, it would be Rain.

Seconds passed, which turned to minutes, and after a long wait, Rain lowered his hands and scratched his head, his Chi subsiding. Muttering beneath his breath, Rain drew his sword. “Tch. This is bullshit. Fucking worthless water. Why couldn’t I have lightning, or fire, or Bear hands?” Struggling to contain her laughter, Master buried her face in Song’s shoulder while Rain marched to join the fight in a more mundane manner.

Inwardly sighing, Song swallowed the bitter disappointment. It’s what she deserved for believing in Falling Rain.

Chapter Meme
