The fires of rage rekindled in his chest, Binesi roared in wordless threat at the offending Bekhai and Death Corps standing in his way. The Khishigs were quick to recognize the threat and move aside, but the Death Corps less so, since they were Oath-bound to carry out the idiot Scion’s orders. Sweeping the offending Warriors out of his way, Binesi found his voice and bellowed, “Coward Confessor! Come out and face Binesi!” With nothing to strike at, he unleashed his frustrations against the ground itself, slamming his spear down and shattering cobblestone tiles to reveal the foundation underneath, which had the unfortunate side effect of knocking the closest Death Corps guards off their feet. A mistake, not because it expended his strength or left him open to counterattack, but because by attacking the Death Corps, he became a viable target, and they were now compelled to kill him on orders of the Imperial idiot watching from on high. The dark-armoured warriors fell upon him without fear or hesitation, their attacks coordinated with deadly intent, and he soon found himself surrounded on all sides with no one to aid him. Cursing his stupidity, Binesi couldn’t help but admire the Bekhai fortitude for facing these fearless, unyielding Warriors without blinking while also handicapping themselves to avoid killing. Not many could do the same with any measure of success, but Binesi would not let himself be outdone, so he limited himself to cracking heads and breaking limbs while scolding the idiot up above. “You! The old dog-shit Imperial with his head stuck up his ass! Call off your fucking hounds before I come up there and make you!”

Hardly the most diplomatic request, but there was a good reason Nian Zu rarely asked Binesi to deliver his messages.

A familiar cry rang out from beside him, and Binesi turned to see Yukun struggling to keep Goujian’s hooked sword from sinking into his chest, the Singing Spear bent like a horseshoe with the sword caught in between. Three fingers flew away from Yukun’s left hand, a small price to pay for trapping the Confessor in place, but alas, Binesi’s distraction meant he was in no position to follow up.

Han BoHai made no such mistake however, hurtling out of the skies like a stone launched from a catapult and landing with the same effect. Whereas Binesi’s tantrum shattered cobblestones, BoHai’s entrance sent stone and dirt exploding in all directions as he cratered the ground beneath his fist, only scant centimetres from connecting as the hateful Confessor gracefully flipped aside to avoid the attack and free his weapon from the Singing Spear in one fell swoop. Grinning like a fox, he delivered a powerful kick to the kneeling BoHai and sent him careening back into the crowd, but the Confessor’s joy was short-lived as his grin turned into a grimace. A pool of blood formed beneath his mangled foot, proving that his shoes were not Runic in nature and merely mundane cloth, while BoHai landed lightly less than ten meters away, his spiked Spiritual Gauntlets dripping with the blood of his foe. Even then, there was no satisfaction on the stony Warrior’s face, his expression cold and unreadable to all save for those who knew him best. “Years ago, you took my daughter from me,” the Major General growled, his eyes unblinking as he squared off against the Confessor. “Now you’ve taken my brother-in-arms. This ends now, traitor.” Clanging his metallic fists together in an ear-shattering chime, the burly, towering Warrior said no more as he charged forward into a flurry of Goujian’s attacks, meeting each blow head on with a punch of his own and going head to head with a monster in human flesh.

This clash of titans overwhelmed all the other Warriors exchanging blows in the plaza, and as if by mutual agreement, they all shifted out of the way. Much like with Sarnai and Kuang Biao, there was no one within twenty meters of BoHai and the Confessor, and the two made full use of the space allotted to them. Opportunistic as always, Goujian kept to the edges and used the threat of killing Bekhai or Death Corps to force BoHai to meet his attacks, and the stalwart Major General was happy to oblige. Fist and sword met in a flurry of blows and the repeated impacts so deafening it was painful to listen to, but neither combatant seemed bothered in the slightest. As they danced about their duelling grounds, Binesi was struck by the conflicting inconsistencies between the two warriors, with bearish BoHai fluttering about like a weightless hummingbird, complete with fists and feet moving so quickly they were little more than a blur, while slim and compact Goujian moved with purposeful restraint and almost comical sluggishness in comparison, like a large man carefully making his way in a world of fragile glass. Despite using partial Concealment to hide the movements of his limbs, it was clear Goujian was carefully deciding each step well in advance, and this did not escape BoHai’s notice. No need to track your opponent’s movements when he made them so easy to predict, and the Major General took full advantage of this to land several big hits, aiming for Goujian’s exposed hands, face, and throat which were unprotected by his Runic armour.

Scant seconds passed and dozens of exchanges went by before Binesi realized his mistake. It wasn’t that BoHai was aiming for those targets because they were exposed, but rather that those were the only viable targets for him to attack. Blood seeped out from under the Major General’s boots and gauntlets, his skin cracking and bones breaking from this heated exchange, but you wouldn’t know it from looking at his hardened expression. This was a man whose heart was gripped by blazing hot rage and mind locked in a prison of cold logic, one with a tenuous hold on Balance and desperate to keep it. Driven by purpose, retribution, and love, the valiant BoHai fought on, but still this was not enough. The Confessor was simply too physically strong to easily defeat, and only his innate restrictions, mediocre speed, and middling swordsmanship kept him from overwhelming victory.

To think... not one year ago, Han BoDing defeated the Confessor with barely any effort, and the Han Patriarch’s strength couldn’t be too far off form BoHai’s, else one of the feuding brothers would have long since killed the other...

Cursing himself for a fool the second time, Binesi stopped gawking at the duel and focused on dealing with the Death Corps trying to kill him, all while resisting the Wraith poison dulling his speed, power, and reactions. The impediment made it an uphill struggle to free himself from the press of Death Corps and lend a hand to the Major General, especially since despite his obvious efforts to spare his opponents, the dark-armoured Warriors showed no gratitude for his mercy and offered no quarter in return, their black-steel halberds working in concert to push him to his limits. Soon, it became a question of his life or theirs, and reluctant as Binesi was to kill Death Corps Warriors, he was even more unwilling to lay down and die. Resigning himself to whatever might come, he brushed aside a wave of attacks and drew back for a wide, retaliatory swing which would see a good half-dozen Death Corps dead.

Only to stop short as an airborne Death Corps Guard crashed into Binesi’s assailants and sent them tumbling away.

“Tch.” Sucking her teeth as she appeared at his side, Speaker Sarnai casually brushed her bangs out of her eyes and glanced over his wounds, utterly unfazed by the chaos while he panted and heaved for breath. Though almost three decades his senior, Binesi could see why Baatar was so enamoured by his prickly wife, even affectionately calling her his ‘mountain rose’, for she was a handsome woman even now in the twilight of her life. “I met your wife once, during a meeting between the villages,” she began, grimacing as she delivered a sharp blow with the butt of her spear to knock poor, battered Kuang Biao out. “A real shrew of a taskmistress. I imagine I would never hear the end of it if I let you die on my watch, so be a dear and stand somewhere safe so I can focus on what’s important.”

The odd mixture of motherly concern and casual disdain defeated Binesi before he could even think to retaliate, and he could do naught but watch the confident Bekhai Warrior stride towards BoHai and the Confessor with singular purpose. “Be ready,” she said, to no one in particular, but the intended recipient was no doubt listening, as were the two duelling titans. Their battle even sped up another notch, to Binesi’s profound amazement, for he could not believe that both Warriors still had more to give. Having noticed her approach, BoHai was desperately fighting to offer Sarnai an opening while Goujian was trying to end things before he presented one, and every exchange felt like it could be the last as they clashed again and again with reckless abandon.

As for Sarnai... she tucked her spear into the crook of her arm and leaned it against her shoulder, all but putting aside the weapon for focus on her empty hand.

No... not empty, for contained within her elegant fingers was enough Chi to distort the light itself, twinkling in the palm of her cupped hands like countless shards of glass. “Now,” she uttered, and cast her hand out towards Goujian. Sensing danger, he gathered his strength to leap aside, but even though he began before she even uttered her words, it was already too late as those shards of Chi tore into his exposed ankles and rendered both feet to a mangled pulp. Almost simultaneously, a tiny hole inexplicably appeared in the Confessor’s forehead, no wider than a finger, and in Binesi’s State of Enlightenment, he watched that tiny wound explode from inside the traitor’s skull and send a fountain of bone and brain matter spurting out the entry wound.

Only then did a thunderclap follow, one in a different timbre from those produced by Clear Sky’s steps or BoHai’s fists and emanating from elsewhere in the citadel. When Binesi tracked the sound back to it’s source, he found the Imperial Servant’s head clerk kneeling on a rooftop almost half a kilometre away, wielding one of those strange, hollow-shafted weapons a few of Falling Rain’s Warrior’s carried, and judging from the explosive results, Binesi made note to treat them with even more respect than he gave the Khishig longbows.

For a moment, Binesi’s heart soared as the Confessor’s howl of pain and fury stopped short and his body crashed to the ruined ground, but then he shook off the killing blow, twisted in place, and somehow avoided a direct strike from BoHai’s fist, one meant to leave no doubt as to the Confessor’s fate. Though the serrated edges made a mess of his once perfect face, even this was not enough to put Goujian down as he abandoned his sword altogether and lashed out with fist and foot from his supine position. Not expecting a counterattack from such awkward posture, the Major General took both attacks directly to the chest and Binesi feared BoHai would meet the same fate as Clearsky, but fortunately, the Han Clan took better care of their exiles than the Situ Clan and BoHai’s Runic breastplate held firm, though Binesi was certain the Major General suffered more than a few bruised ribs as he was sent crashing back into the crowd of Khishigs and Death Corps with a boom of steel and stone.

Despite their minor victories, the Imperials paid a heavy price to bring Goujian low, with Nian Zu and Clearsky Bao dead, while Shi Yukun and Han BoHai were injured and likely out of commission. Even the injuries seemed like too dear a price, and Binesi mourned the loss of his comrade and commander, but he was determined to put an end to the Confessor himself.

Except once again, he was too slow.

Ever since marrying his beloved Asane and adopting two beautiful sons, Binesi had never once held firm to any delusions of grandeur. Yes, he was a Peak Expert, one of Nian Zu’s Famed Fifty, a warrior of renown known all across the Empire, but only because of his affiliation with the Living Legend. Peak Expert was merely another step along the Martial Path, denoting one had mastered all the tools needed to push further ahead, so there were bound to be vast differences in strengths among them. There were those who stood at the pinnacle like the Colonel General, Akanai, or the likes of Mitsue Juichi and Shuai Jiao. Then there were those who seemed fated to join them, like Sarnai and Baatar, BoHai and BoDing, and yes, even those promising talents like Gerel and Kuang Biao, but Binesi didn’t belong in that hallowed group. He had no Talent or Blessing, no gift for command or combat. He was a standard Peak Expert with nothing to separate him from the rest, a glorified guard whose sole purpose on the battlefield was to ensure Nian Zu’s safety because Peak Expert was as high as he would ever climb, the limit imposed upon him by his natural talent and lacking comprehension. There were geniuses, and then there was Binesi, whose claim to fame was not defeating said geniuses, but standing firmly against them. Hence his title, the Immovable, a man whose strength was good enough to test those supreme talents, but not enough to surpass them.

There was nothing wrong with knowing and accepting one’s limits, for limits were made to be broken, but Binesi never thought Situ Jia Yang would be one to surpass his own.

