Appearing on stage in a blur of motion, the once-disgraced Lieutenant General swung his heavy sabre with both hands and severed Goujian’s hand from his wrist, the sabre’s keening cry drowning out the traitor’s pained howl. Unwilling to admit defeat, the Confessor fought like a cornered beast, scrambling around on three bleeding stumps while screaming indistinct obscenities at his foe, but Jia Yang stood unperturbed by the animalistic madness on full display and fought with singular purpose and focus. Utilizing his Domain to veritably glide across the battlefield in the epitome of grace and dexterity, Jia Yang’s sabre spun and twirled in a never-ending storm of slashing attacks as he hunted down his scrambling foe, never quite managing to land a killing blow yet always close enough to exact a price in blood and flesh from the Confessor’s exposed limbs. Despite Jia Yang’s best efforts, the Confessors wounds were Healing with uncanny speed, feet and hand regrowing before Binesi’s eyes as Goujian receded and the Father revealed His foul influence hidden deep within, devolving from handsome, relatable, and perhaps even charismatic rebel to reveal the savage, raging Defiled behind the curtains. Stark though the contrast might be, the Confessor’s strength improved by leaps and bounds as those measured movements gave way to unhinged frenzy which tested the limits of human endurance and flexibility, his body moving in bizarre ways man was never meant to emulate. Joints popped, bones cracked, and muscles tore as the Confessor sped up, shifting about on all fours and lashing out with clawed hands and bared teeth like a beast in human skin, one so ferocious even Nian Zu or Akanai might have difficultly keeping him contained.

As for Jia Yang? Binesi’s peer who would never care to admit it? The laughable Situ clansman who tried so hard to ride Nian Zu’s coattails and pouted when his Hero didn’t give him special attention? The stuck up, arrogant punching bag who thought so highly of himself despite his long list of disgraceful defeats? The idiot coward who thought killing rebel farmers and tainted villagers in Central meant he would be treated with respect by true Northern Warriors, men and women who earned their rank killing battle-hardened Defiled and Demons?

That Jia Yang fended Goujian off with almost casual ease, his weapon moving in hypnotizing circles as it smashed into his foe time and time again. With every pass of his ‘Dragon’ sabre, it emitted a ghostly metallic howl as it cut through the air, and Binesi was brought back to the tender years of his youth. Oh how they all made fun of Jia Yang when he first showed off that pompous weapon, calling it a showpiece more suited for the stage than the battlefield, but hearing it now in the hands of a competent Warrior, Binesi fought hard to keep from shuddering at the sound of its mournful, piercing cry. This was Situ Jia Yang, a man Binesi always scorned as a weakling and looked down on as a dog-shit commander, showing the Empire that he was, in fact, one of the greatest Warriors of his generation, and a dragon among men.

Oh how the times change...

Awestruck as he was by Jia Yang’s transformation, the Confessor’s continued survival didn’t escape Binesi’s notice. Those Runic robes would take some effort to punch through, though not too much considering how much Chi the Confessor was wasting on regenerating hands and feet that were just instantly lopped off. With other Peak Experts occupying Sarnai’s attention once more, Binesi took it upon himself to lend Jia Yang a hand. Leaping into the fray, he slammed his spear down point first expecting to pierce through the back of the Confessor’s exposed head, but to his surprise, his Honed Spear glanced off his hunched foe’s skull and left little more than a cut behind. A deep cut, but hardly the sort of wound one expected from a full spear thrust, and more akin to something suffered from a bad shaving accident.

Was the Confessor turning into a Demon? But there was no unnatural rippling of space and matter, no palpable presence of the Father here to guide his foul creation. Monstrous though his jolting movements might appear, Goujian was still wholly human in form, which only made his inhuman actions all the more unsettling. One moment he was skittering about on all fours, then the next he’d somersault sideways on one hand and one foot, tumbling horizontally to avoid an attack rather than vertically ahead. Moving on two legs or four, his arms and legs bent backwards almost more often that forwards, his belly facing the sky one moment only to twist in horrendous fashion to press down on the earth below, all while his head shifted and jolted this way and that while his black, blood-filled eyes remained unerringly on target.

And most disturbing of all was the frozen grimace on his lips, his teeth bared in a passable facsimile of both smile and snarl.

Alien as his flailing, jostling movements might be, no one could deny their effectiveness, and Binesi found himself hard pressed to keep up. If not for Jia Yang’s uninterrupted stream of attacks, Goujian might very well have escaped into the crowd, but with Binesi’s help, they kept the crazed Confessor penned in and chipped away at his Chi reserves bit by bit. It didn’t take long for him to realize his opponent’s weakness, and once again, he informed his comrade in arms. “He’s moving on instinct,” Binesi Sent, though Jia Yang gave no sign of acknowledgement. No, he was too focused on his relentless offensive to deviate, but he was listening, Binesi was sure of it. “I’ll feint and bait him to attack, and you take advantage of his distraction.” Without waiting for an answer, he carried out his plan, jabbing at the Confessor slowly enough for his weapon to be grabbed, but withdrawing quickly before those powerful hands clamped down and tore his weapon away. Seizing the opening, Jia Yang delivered a powerful chop to the Confessor’s lower back, driving him to the ground whereupon he rolled and hopped away on his hands. Unnerving to see a man move like that, but Binesi pressed on, giving his foe another opening by stepping within arms reach. This time, Goujian’s fingers brushed against the bottom of Binesi’s boots and even this much was enough to throw him off balance, but he recovered by jamming the butt of his spear against his foe’s wrist before retreating to safety. Again, Jia Yang landed a decisive blow, one that would have seen an unarmoured man bisected from shoulder to opposite hip, but still the Confessor’s Runic robes held firm.

It took three more tries before Binesi convinced the Confessor to expose his neck, simply by sacrificing his ankle to the frenzied beast and gritting his teeth as his bones crumpled like paper. It was worth it though, as he watched Jia Yang’s eyes light up and his sabre crash down, aimed perfectly at the Goujian’s neck. A great hero died today, but at least his death would be avenged, and Binesi committed the hated Confessor’s dying breath to memory, where it would forever be preserved in his Natal Palace.

The sabre kissed the back of Goujian’s neck and crashed into the cobblestone beneath, yet there was no squelch of flesh or crack of bone, no spray of blood or gurgle of death. There was only Binesi’s crushed ankle gingerly held off the ground, Jia Yang’s sword embedded in the stone and dirt, and empty air where Goujian’s corpse should have lain.

“Enough.”

Uttered with the force of an erupting geyser, the singular word rippled through the chaotic plaza and stilled the Warriors within. A pressure fell over Binesi’s shoulders, a cold, invisible presence which set his mind to screaming of danger and panic flooding into his veins. Baleful Aura penetrated through his own, crumbling his resolve with such ease it might as well not have been there, and for the first time in his fifty seven years of life, Binesi knew true terror.

For there, in the skies above the Northern Citadel, stood two twin Demons holding the battered and unconscious Confessor between them, their black-armoured forms seemingly a mockery of the Death Corps Guards. They were not the source of Binesi’s terror however, for above them, stood a god in mortal flesh. The Divinity was portly, but not excessively so, the result of muscle packed to the brim beneath skin straining to hold it. The face was handsome in its own way, with full, round cheeks and large, prominent ears, and piercing eyes that seemed to see into Binesi’s soul without needing to even glance in his direction. An Ancestral Bristleboar, the Divinity bore the mohawk so commonly associated with those beasts and stood in Imperial territory without a care in the world, for such was the power and arrogance of a Peak Divinity, a being who might well stand above all others in existence.

The Immortal Zhu Chanzui.

Doom had come to the Northern Citadel in one form or another, and even though the pervasive Aura was almost instantly countered by an Imperial Aura of similar might, Binesi resigned his fate to others and moved to guard Nian Zu’s corpse. Chances were, it would be destroyed in the clash between Divinities alongside every other living soul in the Citadel, but so long as Binesi drew breath, the Enemy would not desecrate Nian Zu’s...

...

.......

Where was Nian Zu’s corpse?

Chapter Meme
