The new Legate died, and what followed after was a tragic comedy of errors.

Despite standing right in the thick of things and experiencing the events firsthand, Binesi could neither make heads nor tails of the jumbled situation, and he hoped the historians wouldn’t bungle the job too badly in their hamfisted attempts to apply logic and reasoning to this preposterous chain of events. Two things were for certain though: today’s history would be written in blood, and there would be no victors in the Empire.

Still reeling from witnessing the death of one Scion, Binesi cursed at the elder Scion who appeared moments too late to save Jixing, but all too perfectly timed to add oil to the fire. What reason did this old fart have to accuse Rain of rebellion? The boy risked his life approaching the Death Corps alone and unguarded in hopes of resolving this conflict without bloodshed, and any reasonable person would have accepted defeat. Now, a single Wraith and an incompetent guardian ruined all of Rain’s hard work in an instant, and Binesi was angrier with the Scion because someone as old as he should at least know better. Because of his foolish, feckless screeching, Death Corps and Imperial Warriors alike were charging forward to fight instead of watching for subsequent Wraith attacks. Ever the hero, the Colonel General was already moving to intercept, his weapon hanging at his side so as not to convey the wrong message, and for this, he paid the ultimate price.

It all happened in the blink of an eye, but to Binesi, this singular moment stretched out into an eternity. Frozen in place and helpless to act, his heart skipped as dozens of Wraiths appeared the moment the first sounds of battle rang out, having taken full advantage of Rain and Jixing’s verbal exchange to sneak in amongst the crowds of Concealed spectators. This was a target-rich environment if there ever was one, and Binesi’s first reaction was not to parry the poisoned Wraith dagger plummeting towards him from just at the edge of his periphery, but to get in position to defend the Colonel General, who was alone and exposed up on the stage. The Enemy couldn’t have picked a worse time to act, for Binesi and the rest of the Colonel General’s guard were all standing in plain view, taking their cue from the Colonel General to reveal themselves and lend their support to Falling Rain’s proposal to have the Imperial brat Jixing stand trial on grounds of incompetence. As mere guards, they couldn’t well take the stage with the Colonel General either, so while he was standing within arm’s reach in an elevated position, a centimetre short was no different from a metre short when it came to matters of life and death.

Despite anticipating an attack, both the Colonel General and Binesi underestimated their foe’s speed and strength, for it was no Peak Expert Wraith who appeared, but the Bloody Confessor himself, looking resplendent with his perfect features despite being covered from head to toe in unrecognizable filth. His hooked sword flashed through the air and for a moment, Binesi almost celebrated the Colonel General’s quick escape, until he saw the first droplets of blood burst out in a spray of crimson mist. The Wraith’s dagger thudding into Binesi’s shoulder almost felt like an afterthought, the physical pain nothing compared to his inner turmoil as he watched Living Legend Nian Zu breathe his last. The pain gave way to anger, anger to wrath, so Binesi left the owner of the dagger to die on Yukun’s spear and charged the hated Confessor with unbridled ferocity.

Even as he attacked, he knew it was a mistake. This was not what the Colonel General would have wanted. He was a man of the people, and if he had but one breath of life left in him, he would have gladly wasted it in a futile attempt to convince the Imperial Scion to cease hostilities and rein the Bekhai back in. Alas, Binesi was not the Colonel General. Though a loyal man of the Empire, he was not built for command and held the rank of Major without having ever commanded a single soldier in battle, unless it was command by proxy. No, he was a simple mountain warrior who pledged his loyalty and allegiance not to the Emperor, not to the Bekhai, not to the Imperial Clan or Army, but to a single man who saw the potential in a young, wild warrior from the mountains and gave him the help and guidance he so sorely needed. In return, Binesi swore to follow the Colonel General into the Father’s Maw itself if need be, but now, this was no longer possible.

Shooting Star Nian Zu, the guardian of the North, the Hero of the Wall, and the idol of three generations was dead, so Binesi would avenge his hero even if it meant the Empire had to burn for it.

He was not alone in his thoughts, and though he stood closest to the Colonel General’s position, Clearsky Bao beat Binesi to the punch, howling in abject denial as his signature blue-steel sabre lanced towards Goujian’s chest amidst a booming clap of thunder. A swarthy, heavyset man, Clearsky’s plump build belied the dazzling speed and inhuman agility which earned him his title, for no matter the weather, it was all Clear Skies for big Bao, the fastest man in all the North who travelled high above the clouds and left naught but thunder in his wake. The Clearsky Sabre met with hooked sword, and credit where credit was due, Goujian responded with a textbook parry, slapping the sabre aside with frightening precision and unholy strength. Despite having the full force of a horizontal Cloud-Step behind it, Clearsky Bao found himself batted aside like a ragdoll by his deceptively strong foe and immediately lost the initiative. It was a mistake to go in so hot, but Binesi could forgive his comrade in arms, because if not for Clearsky’s speed, Binesi would have been the one to suffer the consequences.

Which, as it turned out, was a shoulder check which caved Clearsky’s chest in with an audible crack and sent his corpse sailing back into the crowd.

Though horrified at the ease with which Goujian dealt with his comrade, Binesi’s righteous fury allowed no room for hesitation as he struck at the Confessor’s exposed back, whereupon he experienced the inexplicable strength of his foe for himself. The Colonel General had cautioned them to be wary of Goujian’s physical prowess, but there were no words to describe the vast disparity between his perceived and actual strength. The Confessor was no wilting violet, a tall, slim, willowy Martial Warrior rather than a hulking, musclebound one, but even the errant force of a rushed parry was enough to set Binesi’s teeth to shaking, as if he’d just been hit by a moving mountain travelling faster than the eye could follow. Wielding his hooked sword like a paper prop, Goujian flourished it in a dazzling display of speed, finesse, and control to test Binesi’s defences, and even the slightest touch of their weapons left his hands numb and muscles strained. Once, twice, thrice, a dozen times they traded blows, and each time Binesi thought his end was nigh, but despite holding the upper hand, the Confessor fought using measured strokes and deliberate caution, his lower body locked in place as he twisted and contorted his upper torso to avoid pivoting or shuffling about.

Again, the Colonel General’s warnings came to mind, and Binesi made sure to share his findings. “His feet,” he called, and Yukun responded to the call, his signature Singing Spear warbling as it rippled through the air like a sinuous snake. In response, Goujian’s lower body rippled as well, seemingly moving left then appearing on the right to avoid Yukun’s attack, and again, Binesi responded in kind. “Partial Concealment,” he shouted, knowing Yukun and the others knew enough to pick up on the warning, but just to be safe, he Sent, “His hands and feet will lie, so watch his shoulders and hips for warning.”

Giving Binesi a brief look warning him not to teach his grandmother to suck eggs, Yukun fluttered above the stage and neatly trapped the Confessor between them, one attacking from high and the other, low. Immovable Binesi and Singing Spear Shi Yukun, how the common folk did so love to compare them, solely because they were the two most prominent spear users of the Famed Fifty. It didn’t matter that their styles were polar opposites and their weapons differed in almost every way save for name, they were spear users and that was the end of that. In truth, it was like comparing a wolf and a tiger, two predators who hunted in vastly differing ways. Binesi favoured standing his ground and using his advantage of reach against his foes, whilst Yukun’s spear was shorter and more flexible which combined with his flowing aerial movements allowed him to strike from unexpected angles, especially if the opponent expected the Singing Spear to behave like a regular spear.

Goujian most certainly didn’t, which showed he’d done his research, again aiming for the tip of the spear rather than the bendable shaft to avoid its flexible serpentine bite. An uncanny feat of vision and precision to track the winding, deceptive weapon in time to execute a textbook parry, but the Confessor was still human yet. Eager to take advantage of his foe’s distraction, Binesi shifted his grip to the end of his spear and slashed out in fair approximation of one of Yukun’s attacks, a diagonal, downward swing which whistled as it cut through the air. Again, Goujian targeted the spear’s tip to take advantage of his leverage, but despite his prodigious strength, the hasty parry was only enough to shift the spear’s horizontal momentum. So focused on countering Yukun’s unique attacks, Goujian failed to account for their different weapon types, because while a flexible weapon like the Singing Spear would condense and contract on impact, Binesi’s spear was thirty kilograms of solid steel and was not be so easily stopped. Following through with his swing, he poured all his effort into Reinforcement and Amplification as he drove it home for a nice, meaty smack on his hated foe’s shoulder.

Only for his powerful attack, one capable of shattering a stack of fifteen steel plates, to bounce harmlessly off of the Confessor’s filthy Runic robes and shift him sideways a half step.

Since when did Runic gear become so commonplace? These days it felt like every other Defiled bastard was kitted out in Runic armour, and now the Confessor even had a set of Runic robes? Unremarkable looking ones at that, and filthier than beggar’s rags, but so sturdy the Confessor barely even noticed the attack, though part of this was due to the old bastard’s deceptively powerful frame. Snarling with rage, Binesi abandoned deceit and subtlety in favour of overwhelming power, drawing his spear back and thrusting out with all his might at centre mass, putting the full weight of his body and adding in a powerful Amplified step to further increase his power. The spear lanced out and landed with a peal of thunder as the ground crumbled away beneath his boot, and there was no slipping aside for Goujian, not this time. While the Runic robes stopped the Honed spear from skewering him, the Confessor doubled over with a strangled grunt as his feet lifted off the stage for the first time since he stepped foot upon it.

Though merely a passable swordsman and mediocre duellist, the Confessor was a top-rate cockroach and not so easy to kill. Rather than resisting Binesi’s thrust, which would have seen his throat pierced by Yukun’s Singing Spear, Goujian surrendered to the flow and let the attack push him away to freedom, whereupon he Concealed himself and slipped away to hide in the massed, sprawling melee. Bekhai and Death Corps were locked in bitter combat all across the plaza, almost shoulder to shoulder save for a single noticeable gaping hole where Speaker Sarnai was currently unleashing all her pent up frustrations on the poor former Royal Guardian, Kuang Biao, while Falling Rain’s repeated calls to stand down fell on deaf ears. Young and talented he might be, Kuang Biao was no match for the Speaker’s fury as she beat her foe black and blue with frightening glee, reminding Binesi of an old joke the mountain people often told once they were certain the Speaker was well out of earshot. Baatar loved Sarnai not for her beauty, stunning though she might be, but because her predatory smile and fierce personality appealed to the animal in him, a proper she-wolf for the Bloody-Fanged Wolf within.

A joke in poor taste all things considered, but the infuriating woman actually took pride in the rumours, though Binesi always thought her more Dragon than wolf.

His thoughts slipping, he resisted the Wraith poison coursing through his veins and the urge to lean on his spear and rest, for there was still work to be done. In the brief time spent searching for his hated foe, Binesi realized the Bekhai were still holding back, mostly because Kuang Biao still drew breath despite facing off against a superior and famously ruthless opponent. All around the plaza, the Khishigs were disabling the Death Corps wherever they could and killing only when left with no other option. The Wraiths were not so fortunate however, all picked off and killed save for two locked in combat with Akanai, virtually mirror images of the Wraith who killed Jixing right down to the flowing Western robes. Good to see that the Bekhai had not completely lost their minds yet, no doubt thanks to Falling Rain’s pleas, but Binesi feared the worst for his fellow mountain dwellers. There were plenty of politicians and opportunists who would be more than happy to bring the Bekhai down a peg or two. No doubt their Warriors were already gathering in force, egged on by the hateful Situ Rang Min, who was probably dancing with glee now that there was no Nian Zu to oppose him.

