Alden froze, one hand gripping the strap on the goggles. The timer display was positioned right over Boe’s forehead, ticking down.

48, 47, 46, 45…

Later, he’d be glad his brain didn’t waste any more time than that. Instead of freaking out, getting excited, or going into denial, his first thought was I can’t have my return teleport drop me in the middle of this lobby.

“I need to get to the basement!” he shouted, turning and sprinting for the elevator.

“Shit,” said Boe.

“What’s wrong?” asked Jeremy.

Gorgon hopped up from his seat and hurried after Alden.

“I got summoned.” Alden pressed the elevator button repeatedly, like that was going to make the door open quicker. “I can’t just pop back up in front of people.”

The System wasn’t going to do something horrible like splice him with another person occupying the same space. And it wouldn’t drop him back in a lethal location if, say, he ever got summoned away from a ship or a plane. But it would be happy to dump him into a crowd full of onlookers who would all be pretty interested in how he’d gotten there. They would all immediately think, Hey, maybe this guy is an Avowed.

He could always lie and say it was a return from visiting Anesidora, but if he was wearing a weird outfit and he smelled like an alien bomb laboratory it wasn’t going to hold water. He’d have to go ahead and register, and he’d rather just wait on that.

He didn’t want the US government following him around and taking notes on his powers before he’d even figured them out himself.

The second the elevator opened wide enough, he jammed himself in. His friends and Gorgon were right behind him.

“You guys…I’m sorry to ask, but would you do damage control on Aunt Connie if it comes up?”

If he was gone a few hours, it was fine. A day or two even. She’d just assume they were missing each other in passing. But any longer than that…

“Give me your phone!” said Boe. “I’ll answer if she texts.”

Alden hastily unbuttoned the Hot Lab Coat so that he could get at his jean pockets and shoved his phone at Boe.

“The passcode is—”

“Oh please,” said Boe, unlocking the phone and giving Alden a wry look. “You think I never peeked over your shoulder once in the past few years?”

Fair enough.

20, 19, 18…

Alden re-buttoned the coat as the elevator opened.

“You can’t use the trading room,” said Gorgon, sorting through a keyring. “Your return time is unpredictable, and another selectee may need it. You may use Conference Room B. Last door on the left.”

“You shouldn’t have bought the lab suit!” Jeremy hissed, chasing Alden as he sprinted down the hall. “What if you die?!”

“Jeremy!” Boe snapped, running after them. “He’s not gonna die. He’s a fucking Rabbit. Gorgon, what’s with this timing? He’s been an Avowed for a few hours. Even with his special class mojo and the gear, what are the chances he gets summoned this quick?”

It was a little unexpected. Even geared-up, high-value Rabbits were usually only summoned a few times a month.

“Some skills are more useful than others,” Gorgon said, taking his sweet time unlocking the door.

Alden put the goggles on. Like the coat, they fit his face perfectly.

Maybe he didn’t even need them. Some Artonan could’ve just wanted a spare Rabbit for mail delivery or something. The timing could have been coincidental.

But better safe than sorry.

He flipped up the hood of the coat and dashed into Conference Room B. It was small and empty. The air smelled stale. The lights didn’t work. Judging by the half-white, half-gray walls and the rusted paint cans in the corner, someone had given up on remodeling it years ago, and it had been sitting empty ever since.

Is there anything else I can do? A bathroom break would’ve been nice. But he didn’t have time. Forty-eight seconds was even shorter than he’d thought.

7, 6, 5…

“Don’t piss them off,” said Jeremy.

Alden wished Jeremy’s face wasn’t pale and scared. It was out of character. It was making him feel weird.

“He’s fine,” Boe said. “Hey, Alden. The outfit’s great. You look like someone who tries to keep his ritual sacrifices hygienic.”

“You asshole.”

1.

Gorgon gave him a small wave.

The last thing he saw before his vision went dark was the three of them standing in the backlit doorway.

The nausea Alden was used to with teleports to Anesidora was missing. So was the sense of instantaneity. He lost physical awareness, but his mind still worked, and he had just enough time to think, I guess cross-dimensional is different than local, before he opened his eyes on another planet.

Weird. I don’t remember closing my eyes in the first place.

[Teleport complete. Welcome to Artona III.

Summoner: Bti-qwol. Quest: Hazardous Materials Disposal for LeafSong University.

Further details forthcoming. Await instructions.]

Alden braced himself, half-expecting some alien scientist to fling a busted magic grenade at him and say ‘Catch!,’ but instead of a laboratory, he’d arrived in a space that appeared to be designed specifically for summonings. It was similar to the teleportation booth on Anesidora, but it was half the size of his high school’s gymnasium, and the multicolored sigils spiraling over the walls and floor were much stronger.

His newly heightened Sympathy for Magic made him want to stare at them; his sense of self-preservation had him looking at his summoner instead.

The Artonan with the white light halo stood inside an interlocking geometric pattern, just a few yards away. Her skin and hair were both a pale purplish color, and she was wearing a pared-down version of the Triplanets’ traditional wizard’s garb. It was usually harem pants, a tight-fitting turtle neck, and a looser overcoat with wide sleeves.

But Bti-qwol was missing her coat, and her pants were a few inches shorter than normal. She also lacked the large network of dark blue tattoos Alden was used to seeing on Artonans who taught his classes or traveled to Earth on official business. She only had one—a straight line from the base of her left eye down to her jaw.

Alden stood, nervously awaiting instructions like he’d been told to do while she stared at a tablet in her hand. Finally, she looked up and gave him a small toothless smile.

<<Hello, Alden Ryeh-b’t. You’re here to help out with our annual entrance exams. One of our scheduled assistants used a refusal. So last minute! The replacement had to be a Ryeh-b’t. Come with me.>>

She turned and headed for the exit.

When Alden hesitated for a second, his interface prompted him to follow her with a large flashing wall of text.

I get it, I get it.

He hurried after Bti-qwol, and the text disappeared.

The summoning room had a giant wooden door that looked more like it belonged in a medieval castle than in a high-tech setting. But when Bti-qwol said something to her tablet it swung open. The two of them stepped into a foyer where Alden could literally feel himself being scanned, then through another door into early morning sunlight.

The color of the light was off just enough for Alden to be uncertain whether it was really noticeable or only his imagination. The warm, damp air smelled faintly of mildew. That was standard for any of the Artonas, from what he’d heard. People said your nose got used to it quick.

Artona III’s gravity was a tiny bit higher than earth’s, but it wasn’t enough to bother him. Not when he had so many other new experiences to cope with.

They were standing on a wide, paved walkway outside a windowless building that was by far the least interesting thing in sight. Next door, there was a flat rubbery surface covered in painted lines. Alden’s best guess was that it might be a sports field, but there were no stands for an audience and nothing that was obviously a goal.

Bti-qwol led him a short distance down the walkway. The edges were landscaped with giant black and green plants that had a tropical-horror thing going on. A small furry animal was trapped inside a translucent pod on one of the plants, twitching weakly as it was digested.

All the environmental noises were strange to Alden’s ears. There was no sound of traffic, not even a distant one. But something that definitely belonged in the background of a dinosaur movie was squawking up a storm. He couldn’t spot it. The campus was heavily forested except in this immediate area, and the buildings he could see on the surrounding hillsides were partially hidden by jungle.

Bti-qwol didn’t look up from her perusal of her tablet until they arrived at a parking area with just six slots. Three of them were taken by vehicles of a type Alden had never seen before. They looked a little like golf carts, but they balanced themselves on two thick tires.

One chimed suddenly and backed out of its slot before rolling toward them. It had no steering wheel, and the two bench seats faced each other.

Bti-qwol climbed in, not bothering to gesture for Alden to do the same. He followed and took the seat across from her. There was nothing like a safety belt.

The vehicle chimed again and set out, leaving the parking lot and heading down the path. Alden didn’t know what their destination might be, but the most obvious-looking place was a complex of angular wood and glass buildings that crawled up a forested hillside in the distance.

The alien golf cart had no engine noise that he could detect, and it moved at a swift enough pace to give him a breeze. He appreciated that. The Hot Lab Coat was definitely hot in the wrong way right now. He wondered if he could take it off, since they didn’t seem to be anywhere near a lab.

But I got summoned with it on, so I’m supposed to keep it, right? The whole point of the Wardrobe was to make you a more attractive summonee, so it seemed like divesting yourself of part of your stats and abilities was probably a no-no.

He could just ask.

But was it better to be the weird, silent guy who never took off his armor in social situations or the clueless kid who was so jumpy he requested permission for every little thing? Choices, choices.

He decided weird, silent, and sweaty was easier for now. It wasn’t like he was afraid to ask Bti-qwol any of the four thousand questions he had. Much.

She was swiping and pecking away at her pad with a look of frustration on her face.

Finally, she turned her attention back to him..

<<They paused the orientation meeting while I fetched you and moved the welcome breakfast forward instead. I’m sorry you’ll have to miss it. Many of our assistants from other planets look forward to the breakfast each year.>>

So there are multiple Avowed here?

Alden felt some of his tension fade. Considering his quest said he’d be disposing of hazardous materials, he was eager to share the load.

Bti-qwol said I was here to help with entrance exams. And it’s an annual event…with a welcome banquet for the staff? And they have regulars who come back to work it every year.

He’d never heard of or imagined a situation like that, but then he’d always been more interested in what Avowed did on Earth rather than on their missions to other planets.

Oh right, she apologized about breakfast. I guess I shouldn’t be totally silent.

“I’m fine. I ate an apple right before I came.”

<<I haven’t eaten that Earth fruit yet. Trying the most popular foods from our resource worlds is on my list of things to do before my eighth year.>>

Eighth year couldn’t be a reference to her age, so she probably meant years as a student at this school, right? Or maybe at her job…

“So you’re a student here?” he guessed.

<<Yes. I’m a sixth year. I study alien personnel management. I’ve been placed in charge of coordinating the staff for this year’s exams.>>

She sounded proud of that last bit, so Alden smiled and nodded, trying to look impressed behind his goggles.

<<I had everything planned to the finest detail!>> She glared down at the tablet. <<And then the assistant for the laboratory portion of the exams used a refusal after they’d already begun the orientation! Zzhoir had three weeks notice beforehand! Isn’t that very unprofessional?>>

A sidebar appeared on the interface, informing Alden that zzhoir was a pronoun used by one of the peoples from planet Tmith. It couldn’t be accurately rendered in English.

“Three weeks does seem like a long time.”

<<Well, thank the ancestors for Rhye-b’ts.>> She was still frowning a lot for someone who was supposedly thankful for him. <<The Contract doesn’t seem to have your specifications fully analyzed yet. I saw that you were new when it recommended you for the assignment, but…have you not tried your gift on complex lifeforms? It would be nice to have those numbers.>>

What numbers? Obviously she had more information about his skill than he did. Which didn’t seem fair. Would the System get mad if he tried to peek at the tablet?

“I haven’t tried anything alive yet.”

It had occurred to him that it might work. In fact, he was thinking of it as something of a finale for the power testing. And Boe had an entire page of his binder dedicated to living subjects. But first Alden needed to get his hands on something alive that he didn’t mind accidentally killing or mutilating, in case the preservation skill did something gruesome to it.

He wanted to start with something that deserved to die. Like a mosquito. And then work his way up from there to the more charming vertebrate animals. Like gerbils and Jeremy.

Bti-qwol turned away from him to stare at the plants they were passing by. At first, Alden assumed it was just her way of ending the conversation, but after a minute, she stopped the golf cart with a verbal command and hopped off. She headed toward one of the carnivorous plants; it had a frog stuck inside its translucent pod.

