“This one keeps you from throwing up. This one keeps you from passing out. This one temporarily inoculates you against Thetet Fever, and this last one makes you unable to register physical pain.”

There’s no way this combo is good for my health. Especially the one that offered immunity to pain. If that was available on Earth and not dangerous, people would be taking it all the time.

He thanked the woman anyway, and stuffed the pill bottle into his pocket, hoping he wouldn’t have to use it.

###

The initial group of examinees arrived about two hours after Alden had first set foot in the lab. He and Sophie sat on the floor in the back by the irradiators, watching as each one entered the room and bowed to Professor Joe, apologizing for the fact that they had to wear shoes while working with dangerous supplies.

Every prospective student was accompanied by one or two assistants who didn’t bother apologizing for their footwear.

<<It’s unnecessary for them,>> Sophie told Alden in her quietest shriek. <<They are of the non-wizard class, so there is no assumption that they will learn from the instructor.>>

Roughly twenty percent of Artonans used magic. The eighty percent of the species who were members of the second class couldn’t even hold political office or vote. Based on what he’d seen of the faculty, Alden had assumed that the school was for the ruling class only, and this more or less confirmed his suspicions.

“We…outrank them? Right?” he whispered.

He knew it was true, but it felt strange enough that he couldn’t resist asking.

<<Naturally,>> said Sophie. <<A servant with power is more valuable than one without it.>>

Alden kept telling himself that just because a way of life was alien didn’t mean it was wrong. But it still bothered him when he accidentally met the eyes of one of the assistants and the man gave a nervous half bow, as if afraid he might have offended Alden.

To Alden’s surprise, the examination actually began with a lesson. Joe walked the length of the huge room slowly, talking over their assignment and explaining what they were expected to produce. Frustratingly, the System didn’t translate a single part of the lecture, not even when Alden quietly asked it to.

He had taken the Artonan language intensive, and the logograms course. But it was only a beginning. He was good enough to pronounce and understand his wordchains and order off menus. But this lecture was about theoretical magic stuff, and he had almost no idea what the professor was saying.

He caught every dozenth word and tried to piece something reasonable together out of it. Joe peppered his speech with a lot of references to anatomy, which at first made Alden think the students might be creating medical potions or devices of some kind; but he gradually came to the conclusion that the anatomical stuff was actually really dirty swearing.

The prospective students and their helpers kept blushing and gasping too much for it to be anything else.

“Do you understand what they’re going to be doing?” he asked Sophie as quietly as he could.

Instead of answering aloud, the griveks sent him a texting invitation. She could obviously control her interface mentally.

[In past exam seasons, the students have been asked to produce their own summoning assistive devices for one of the tests they will have later. This professor is unknown to me. He seems to be asking for a higher level of device than usual.]

Alden air typed some more questions. Sophie had been working this event for three of her planet’s years, which was more like seven of Earth’s. Joe really hadn’t been joking when he said her job was to throw herself on grenades. Classes were categorized differently for griveks, but based on her explanation, Alden thought she had both heightened speed and extreme regenerative capabilities.

The latter wasn’t something you really saw with humans, so he was pretty jealous.

Purely out of curiosity he asked about her rank, and when the System failed to translate the word she said, she gave a click of annoyance and tapped one of her feet four times against the floor.

[Four?] Alden asked.

She confirmed it with four more taps. But what does that mean?

Four, as in three above the hyperbole rank on Earth, seemed unlikely. It would make Sophie a titanic existence by Alden’s reckoning, and she seemed pretty normal for that. He guessed it might be four above the bottom rung for griveks, which would make her a B-rank like him if the Systems were equivalent.

Before he could ask more questions, the translation subtitles suddenly turned themselves on for the end of Joe’s lecture.

<<In the back of the room, you will see my two dear assistants. Our grivek helper will monitor the lab and report any instances of cheating. She will also guard the irradiators, and serve as our protector in the event of a catastrophic accident. Our human assistant in the elegant red coat will come to your table to remove dangerous items as I deem it necessary. If you do not promptly and graciously give him your little mistakes, I will come and get them myself so that I can shove them up your—>>

It’s really stupid that you cut out the good part, there, Alden informed the System. I think the Earth version of you wouldn’t be such a prude.

It ignored him, of course.

Within a few minutes, the practical portion of the lab exam was underway. Alden could practically taste the stress in the air. One of the guys at the table nearest him seemed to be hyperventilating while he stared at the equipment. At the next table over a girl was hammering on a sheet of copper colored metal so hard that she looked like she was trying to pound it right through the table.

Smoke was popping up at some tables, and at others, the students were directing their assistants to dissect things. A few people were definitely muttering wordchains while they worked.

Alden had no idea what it might look like if something went wrong, but almost as soon as the students got started, he gained a new visual display that gave everyone in the room a very pale pink aura.

Joe had told him to expect a danger detector, but this was better than he’d thought it would be. As the professor strolled the lab, noting likely problems, the aura around a given student would turn brighter.

Hot pink meant Alden needed to be near that table, ready to take whatever disaster they’d made away from them.

Hood up and goggles on, he walked around the room, repositioning himself as the auras changed, trying not to make it too obvious which of the nearby tables he was there to monitor. Joe was surprisingly intent on the students’ work, and he actually adjusted the auras a lot. So Alden was getting more of a workout than he’d expected.

A glimmer of dangerously bright pink appeared in his peripheral vision—which he was pleased to note seemed a bit wider than it had been prior to his affixation—and he hurried across the room to a table where a guy was pouring something that looked like boiling mercury into a tall metal cylinder.

Joe wasn’t even looking in this direction, so Alden wasn’t sure how he knew there was a problem. The professor was twelve tables away, critically watching over a girl who seemed to be peacefully doing macrame with strips of skin she’d taken from the dissected animals.

Just a few yards away from Alden, the cylinder made a loud popping sound, and its creator’s aura went hot pink. Alden stepped right up to the end of the table and took his hands out of his pockets so that he’d be ready to grab the thing, and the guy gave him a frantic look.

The cylinder popped a few more times, and then with a high whine, something like steam began to pour from the top.

“Take that, Alden,” Joe said calmly.

The guy who’d spent the past forty minutes building the cylinder reached for it as if to protect it, but he was too late. Alden had been expecting interference, so he’d snatched the device the second Joe had finished speaking. Walking quickly away from the table with the now-silent cylinder in his hands, he felt slightly accomplished.

And tired.

The drain from the cylinder was bad. It was worse than either the flame or the frog had been. It was even worse than Jeremy’s punch, though he’d been braced for it, so at least he didn’t stagger around the lab.

Is it because magic is involved? Or does it have to do with the potency of the reaction itself?

He had no idea, but he did know he couldn’t hold onto this thing for more than a few minutes. He was already saying don’t drop it, don’t drop it in his head to keep himself focused.

He hurried toward a teleportation alcove in the corner. The door opened automatically for him, and he set the cylinder inside, leaping back and holding his breath so that he wouldn’t inhale any of the strange steam in the couple of seconds that elapsed before the thing was zapped away.

The drained feeling didn’t last. As soon as the device was out of his hands, it disappeared. Alden checked his palms, feeling a little paranoid that he might have gotten some dangerous substance on himself, but he didn’t think the skill worked like that. Even though he could feel the items he carried, he’d realized after holding the cup of wevvi that Bti-qwol had given him that he wasn’t necessarily touching them in the usual sense of the word.

There had been a drop of liquid on the outside of the cup that he’d registered as wet, but when he’d passed the cup to the other hand, the water droplet was undisturbed and his fingers were completely dry.

His current theory was that the tactile sense he had from the items was actually a part of the skill itself—a magical effect that made it easier for him to hold and manipulate them in a familiar way.

He scanned the room again, looking for the color he’d decided to call danger pink, but the worst he saw was a dark blush.

Joe was verbally annihilating cylinder guy. Once again, the System was refusing to offer a translation, but this time, Alden got the gist of it just from context and the hand gestures the professor was making. Cylinder guy was in big trouble for trying to interfere with Alden’s theft of his project.

Well, it would have been a problem.

Just based on the experiments he had done with Boe and Jeremy, entrustment had a lot to do with possession. The cylinder sitting untouched on the table belonged to nobody, as far as the skill was concerned, so Joe could entrust it to Alden from across the room. But if the student had grabbed it first, he would have been in possession of it, and he would have to be targeted and give it to Alden himself.

Targeting was no trouble. Alden could do it in less than a second by pointing or speaking. But that didn’t matter if cylinder guy refused to hand over his toy.

Alden guessed he could have made the student drop the thing and then had Joe entrust it to him, but dropping potential bombs seemed like the opposite of what they were going for.

The student left the laboratory weeping, his future at this school apparently ruined before it had even begun, and Alden tried to look as un-menacing as possible as he paced back and forth near the person with the dark blush aura.

It didn’t work. The students at the three nearest tables were staring at him like he was the grim reaper.

Didn’t expect disposing of dangerous materials to make me so unpopular.

He blinked in surprise as a notification flashed.

[Quest Assignment:

Assist Superior Professor Worli Ro-den in Lab 7]

Time to summons: 5 hr, 43 m, 55 s

[Note from summoner: My lab is so much better than this one!

You can just walk if you prefer not to be teleported. Don’t worry about dinner. I’ll feed you.]

Alden glanced over at Joe. The professor was patting his food-stuffed pockets, which was the opposite of appealing. But at least whatever he wanted Alden to do couldn’t take too long. They’d run afoul of the mandatory sleep requirement if it did.

How many quests can I even have at once?

He’d been under the impression that you got summoned for one thing and you did the thing and you went back home. Was he even earning credit toward his refusals with all these extra jobs?

Alden smiled and waved at Joe, which seemed to make the guy happy.

Maybe he just wants to show off his lab. Maybe it’s not a quest to help him out with something incredibly crazy or dangerous he just thought of after seeing my skill in action.

Alden stole a couple more projects from students who were too terrified to try to stop him and sent them to whatever dumping ground was on the other end of the teleportation alcove. But for the most part the first lab session passed uneventfully.

“Joe invited me to his lab tonight,” he told Sophie while they cleaned up the tables after everyone left. “Well…ordered me. It was a quest, so it wasn’t really an invitation.”

<<I’ll mourn your passing,>> the gryvek said.

“You have a very human sense of humor you know.”

She shrieked at him. <<Take it back.>>

“I won’t. I’m an honest person. I speak only truth.”

She flung a strip of skin at him. It was one of the ones the macrame girl had left behind.

It bounced off his lab coat, and he stuck his tongue out at Sophie.

<<You should be careful.>>

“Of Joe?”

She adjusted one of the scales with a surprisingly delicate touch.

<<He’s a collector of contracts. You can tell if you know how to read his tattoos. It can be valuable to work with such people…but it can also be very hard.>>

“You mean private contracts?” Alden said slowly.

<<Yes. You are new. Don’t sell yourself too easily.>>

“I don’t plan to sell myself at all. I want to work mostly on Earth, not be permanently attached to someone here.”

