A few people had accessories he thought were magical pieces, but the only person wearing a recognizable set of gear was a woman around fifty he’d noticed when he entered. She had on the black tunic and pants he’d bought himself from the Wardrobe—the set for housekeeping.

And then there was Alden, wearing the jeans and t-shirt he’d fallen unconscious in hours ago, and carrying the lab coat.

He really hoped Bti-qwol made good on that promised necessities package. And that she considered clean underwear a necessity. Or it was going to be a rough couple of weeks.

“What talents do you have?” asked the sad-looking guy to Alden’s right. “We thought she was only replacing that Tmithan who panicked after hearing who was in charge of labs this year, but you must be getting double work?”

He had an Anesidoran accent.

“I have a preservation skill.”

The guy frowned. “I guess that makes sense if it works on people. Pineda specializes in safely slowing bodily processes.”

“He’s a healer?”

Great. Bti-qwol replaced an actual healer with me.

“A D-rank one. He put everything he had into being useful for emergency medicine.”

That was interesting. Except for rare S-ranks, Healers couldn’t just instantly fix people. Many of their spells were long, and their skills were taxing. So someone who could make an urgent case slightly less so for them was always going to be valuable.

I wonder how my skill would mesh with that?

Not as well as Pineda’s probably. Another Avowed wouldn’t be able to heal the person he was preserving while he was using the skill. It would be better for transporting people to a healer than helping when one was already available.

<<What’s your class?>> the angry one demanded.

Alden tried to smile politely. “Rabbit.”

It should have been obvious based on the fact that he’d been flash summoned for this, but maybe it wasn’t.

<<Fucking pet,>> the man spat.

Wow.

Fortunately, before anyone else could share their opinion or ask him questions, a group of university faculty appeared to re-start the interrupted orientation meeting.

Kind of weird how I’ve been on two different college campuses in as many days, for reasons that have nothing to do with my education.

It was also weird how much the first speaker, who was just there to welcome them all and impress upon them the value of their service, sounded like the dean who’d spoken at Hannah’s funeral. Nice, but in a way that made you think they’d had their personality sucked out and replaced by a bunch of politically-savvy greeting cards.

There wasn’t anything of substance in that speech, but the next speaker, who worked for the office of admissions, seemed to be trying to make up for it by cramming an entire rule and etiquette manual into ten minutes.

It was all really obvious stuff…Alden assumed. But maybe some of the advice was relevant to certain species and not others. He couldn’t imagine many of his fellow humans scent-marking university property.

The only things of real interest he learned were that they weren’t allowed to associate with the incoming students outside of their scheduled examinations, that they were allowed to use a number of very cool campus facilities in the evenings, and that they would have an enforced sleep schedule appropriate to their individual needs.

They would literally be given knock-out drugs and ordered to take them at a set time if they weren’t already sleeping.

Apparently this was standard. Nobody but him seemed to find it unsettling.

The rule book would be available to them through their interface at any time, and any infraction would result in a lifetime ban from the university and its affiliated institutions.

Judging by the uncomfortable looks and the creaking of chairs as people shifted in their seats, this bothered them all much more than the sleep requirements.

Afterward, they broke into small groups depending on where they would be working. Alden couldn’t meet with the medical team and the lab team simultaneously. He was relieved when an Artonan professor with so many tattoos he looked like a living circuit board waved him over insistently and took the decision from him.

The lab group looked less stressful anyway.

He and one of the griveks seemed to be the only assistants. The professor was abnormally tall and lanky for an Artonan, and the dramatic impact of his full wizard’s garb was marred by the fact that he’d stuffed all the pockets with food from the breakfast. Something that looked like an oversized churro was staining his pants with grease.

Instead of a tablet to help him interact with the System, this man had a lens over one eye that seemed to serve the same purpose. He flicked his fingers, and the eye with the lens darted rapidly back and forth, completely independent of its neighbor.

“Alden, my darling Rabbit!” he said in flawless English. “So happy that we’ll be working together. What a nice, nice skill you have! You’re my savior. You must let me give you my business card. Don’t bother with the name on it. You may call me Joe.”

Before he’d even finished, his business card appeared in the form of a message notification, and when Alden opened it, he discovered “Joe” had sent over what looked like his entire CV. Plus playlists of his favorite songs, categorized by activity.

His real name was Superior Professor Worli Ro-den, which sounded nothing at all like Joe no matter how Alden tried to pronounce it.

He’s uneven, Alden noted. It wasn’t as much as the Velras had been, but it was noticeable.

Meanwhile Joe was telling the grivek to call him something that sounded like a death scream.

The grivek repeated it as a high-pitched yowl that made Alden’s spine crawl.

“I’m so happy to meet you both! Alden, sweetheart, I see you bought my coat!” He pointed at the lab coat. “I was on the committee that decided it should be included in the Wardrobe decades ago. It hasn’t been nearly as popular as I imagined it would be. Clearly we were meant for each other!”

Alden didn’t know how to answer; he wasn’t sure how much of the professor’s behavior was a joke. He was now complimenting the panther alien on the color of its helmet, so maybe it was all just an attempt to be friendly.

“Alden, dear! Our companion here says I may give her a human name for the sake of your limitations. I think you should call her Sophie. And she can call you Aaaatiir, can’t she? I’m afraid there’s really not much overlap between English and Grivekcry.”

“Sure,” said Alden. This whole conversation felt like something out of a dream already, so why not? “Nice to meet you, Sophie.”

<<I’m pleased to slaughter problems with you,>> Sophie shrieked, nodding her helmet.

Joe sighed, “If only we could slaughter the examinees and devote our time and talents to more interesting pursuits. Alas, my parole won’t allow it. Come! Our lab awaits!”

As they left, Alden glanced over his shoulder at the woman in charge of the medical team, trying to catch her eye. Shouldn’t they schedule a different time to talk? But she was deep in conversation with her group, and she never even looked his way.

Well, maybe it’s not necessary? If there was an emergency all he could really do was pick up an injured person and carry them in the direction someone told him to. He’d taken a first aid elective in middle school, but he doubted that would come in handy. Did CPR even work on Artonans?

Professor Joe led him and the grivek to the basement, and then through a series of dimly lit hallways to a stark white room the size of a football field. There were seventy-five large lab tables set up, covered in identical sets of equipment. Most of it was utterly unfamiliar. All Alden recognized were burners, beakers, scales, and tongs. And even those were oddly designed.

“Let’s see,” said Joe, cracking his knuckles and narrowing his eyes at the tables. “Yes, it’s the same crap set-up they used to have. How they expect to inspire and stimulate the youth with this kind of handholding I don’t know. Do you see those irradiators? So many safety features that there’s no room for student creativity!”

He was pointing to a line of large ovens at the back of the room.

“Come this way, Alden,” he said. “We have to fix it.”

“Should I target you?” Alden asked. “With my skill?”

“Hmmm…oh, no. Not at the moment. Though you can if you like. Actually, I’m very interested in that skill, my dear savior. That particular limited edition gem is perfect for lab work, but not for this sort of lab work. The obsessed honors student from the personnel program is so focused on minimizing costs that she’s crammed you in because you’ll be adequate at two different jobs rather than ideal for either one of them. Very stressful for your first assignment, I would think.”

“Oh,” said Alden. He was simultaneously worried that he was going to fail hard and relieved that someone in a position of authority seemed to be aware that Bti-qwol didn’t care much about about his suitability for the assignments she'd given him. “Why is my skill bad for what we’re doing here?”

“Excellent question. It’s the entrustment. Your ability to halt volatile reactions instantaneously and completely is dreamy. I wish I could do it myself. But the fact that someone will have to willingly give the dangerous substances over to you is a complication for today’s job.”

“I thought I would mostly be hauling away trash…”

“How dull! There will be a bit of that, but you and our angelic Sophie are here to prevent terrible catastrophes from killing off the aspirants. Isn’t that exciting?”

<<I’ve done this before. I’m usually in charge of monitoring students at the irradiators.>>

“And so you shall be today! Unless Alden and I make a mistake, and then it will be your job to throw yourself on the grenade, so to speak.”

Alden stared at Sophie in alarm, but the grivek was making a choking sound that his interface said was laughter. So that was good?

“Now, Alden, it’s best for you to think of the students as revolting, arrogant little pukes who can’t hold the idea of their own failure in their head for even a moment,” the professor said. “Especially the ones in the first six sessions. They’re all trying to test out of the introductory courses. Ha! As if I’d let them.”

Joe crouched down beside the nearest lab table and opened something that looked like a mini fridge. It was full of bottles, jars, and pouches that contained powders, liquids, and shavings of wood and metal. A few even had whole dead animals inside them.

“I will do my best to strike fear into their hearts when they first arrive, to impress upon them the importance of giving you their heinous failures when they’re told to. However, we mustn’t expect them to be entirely rational. This is the sort of school that attracts a lot of, shall we say, coddled geniuses.”

He started taking things out of the fridge and tossing them toward Alden, who had to drop the lab coat to play catch. He was soon holding an armful of what he assumed where chemicals and magical reagents. “Take those to that corner over there,” Joe said, flipping his hand. “Let’s make sure our students have an exciting educational opportunity.”

Alden did, and on the way back to the next station, he donned the lab coat and grabbed a large metal bin. It looked enough like a trash can for him to be fairly confident that was its purpose, and he wanted to reduce the number of thrown objects if possible.

He set it next to Joe, who was clearing an entirely different set of ingredients out of the next mini-fridge.

How do you score an exam when everyone has different supplies? Alden wondered.

“You look gorgeous!” Joe said, beaming at the lab coat while he stuffed things in the bin.

Even though he’d said it wasn’t necessary, Alden went ahead and targeted the professor. He seemed like the kind of person it was best to be over-prepared for.

Joe had given Sophie an assignment of her own. The panther-like alien was going from table to table, carefully re-arranging some of the equipment with her claws.

“So,” said Alden, “what am I supposed to do if they’re not rational?”

“Hmm?”

“The students. What do I do if they won’t give me their ‘heinous failures?’”

“Ah. This is where it’s a bit inconvenient. If they won’t behave, and you can’t make them behave, then I shall have to do it myself.”

Alden wasn’t sure how he was supposed to make an Artonan holding a volatile object follow his instructions.

“Don’t look so concerned. We’ll work it out together!” Joe said brightly. “We’ll think of the first session as a trial run. And then over lunch, assuming we haven’t been brought before the disciplinary committee, we can discuss opportunities for improvement.”

Alden was still pondering that worrying statement, and the fact that the professor seemed to actually mean it, an hour later when the woman in charge of the medical team hurried into the room to brief him on his role in the event of an emergency.

“You’re basically equipment,” she said bluntly. “No thinking required. If you get called, just use your skill to the best of your ability and follow instructions from anyone with more authority than you…which is everyone.”

She gave him a red glow stick to wear around his neck at all times and four different pills that he should take immediately after an emergency teleport “to reduce undesirable outcomes.”

“What does that mean?” Alden was already feeling strange about the fact that he’d be forced to go to sleep every night. Getting casually drugged left and right hadn’t been a feature of any story he’d ever heard about being Avowed.

