Bti-qwol tapped a thick silver ring on one of her middle fingers a few times, and a triangle of light about four inches long appeared from it. Alden thought it might be a knife, and it turned out he was right. Bti-qwol swiped it through the stem holding the frog’s pod in place, and it fell away from the plant easily. There was an accompanying burnt smell.

Note to self, thought Alden. Don’t challenge her to a fistfight.

She gestured for him to step down and take the pod from her.

Alden took the plant by the stem, careful to start walking immediately upon receiving it. He felt his skill activate, and the frog froze in place. The creature had a protective shell on its back like a turtle and bulging black eyes. Where its back feet rested against the base of the pod, they seemed to be blistering.

A little weirded out by his horrible new bouquet, he walked back and forth, taking great pains not to leap around wildly. The skill drain was about the same as it had been with the lighter flame.

<<You should deactivate your trait during the exams, >> said Bti-qwol after peering at her tablet. <<You’re not very proficient with it I see, and you won’t have room to use it well during this assignment anyway.>>

“Okay,” said Alden, still pacing with his frozen frog. “What about the lab coat?”

<<Yes, it’s what made you eligible for this position! Uncommon to find a Rabbit with proper skills and specs for the laboratory.>>

“No, I mean, can I take it off?”

She frowned. <<You’ll get blown up. Many examinees are stupid and nervous.>>

“Not during the lab exams,” Alden clarified. “Can I take it off for now and then put it back on when it’s time?”

<<Nudity is frowned upon in an educational setting. Usually.>>

I should have gone with weird and silent.

“I’m wearing clothes underneath.” It was obvious, wasn’t it? His jeans stuck out the bottom a few inches. Did she think they were part of the gear?

<<That’s fine. But don’t forget to put it back on.>>

“I won’t.”

<<I’ll add it to your quest’s sub-instructions so you don’t. I’ll be giving you a secondary assignment as well. Your numbers are adequate for the task. You may kill the animal and return it to the ground.>>

Alden stopped pacing and looked at the strange frog. When the preservation skill ended, it started wiggling around again. It looked like it was hurt, but he didn’t think it was lethally injured.

“Can’t I just free it from the pod?”

Bti-qwol gave him a curious look. <<Why? It will only be captured by another one.>>

“It might make it.”

<<Klerms make an undesirable racket. Give it to me. I’ll do it.>>

Alden passed the pod with the frog in it over. As soon as he did it, he wished he’d refused. It wasn’t part of his “quest.” If he’d complained once more, Bti-qwol would almost certainly have shrugged it off and let him do whatever he wanted.

Instead the frog got stabbed with the knife ring and tossed into the planter.

Alden wasn’t superstitious, but it felt like a bad start to things. And he didn’t like how easily he’d given in, when he knew he wouldn’t have at home around humans.

Great, Alden. Now you feel like shit. About an alien frog. Snap out of it.

He took his lab coat off and climbed into the golf cart again. While they finished the trip to their destination, Bti-qwol happily chatted about last minute details she was taking care of. Apparently, Alden’s skill would qualify him to be on call for medical emergencies, so she could send someone else who’d been summoned specifically for that purpose home.

<<This will be the most streamlined our staff has ever been during examination week!>>

She also promised to have the “standard human necessities package” delivered to Alden’s room.

When he asked why he would need a room, she finally released the full quest information so that he could see it.

The job itself seemed okay. The entrance examinations had laboratory requirements, and Alden would be in charge of collecting and disposing of any volatile garbage the aspiring students might make.

It sounded like he would be Alden Thorn, Super Trash Collector, for the majority of his time here. And as she’d promised, Bti-qwol had given him a secondary assignment as a resource for university medical staff to call on during emergencies. So he was going to be a Super Walking Ambulance, too.

Alden was thrilled to know that he had a legitimate, life-saving skill. The limitations on it meant it probably wouldn’t be enough to make him instantly hirable for a hero team. But still…he could help people the same way Hannah had helped him. That was amazing.

Only he wasn’t nearly as enthused about practicing the skill during an actual medical emergency when he hadn’t even figured out its limits.

He asked Bti-qwol if it wouldn’t be a lot harder to preserve a whole injured person than it had been to freeze the frog. He didn’t have a clear idea what factors affected the skill drain, but just walking around with an adult Artonan slung over his back wasn’t going to be simple. They were a few inches shorter than humans on average, but Alden didn’t have any idea what they weighed. And what if the person who needed medical care was a bodybuilder?

And Alden didn’t think he was going to have a panic attack at the sight of blood and guts, but what if he did? His only real life experience with that had been dulled by Hannah’s magic.

But Bti-qwol dismissed his concerns one after the other.

<<I doubt they’ll call on you anyway. Last year, the medical team spent all of their time sitting around drinking wevvi in the lounge and gossiping. It’s inefficient. So much better to have staff doing double duty!>>

Alden wondered if Bti-qwol was actually making reasonable decisions or if she was being a little blinded by her own obsession with streamlining. But she didn’t seem to be the only person in charge, so maybe it was all right?

Alden’s double quest assignment came with a list of dozens of Artonans who were allowed to give him instructions. They all had priority ranks, too. Thankfully the System would just tell him when he was given an official order rather than making him memorize who all these people were.

He was also getting paid well. Seventeen hundred Argold for being summoned, five thousand per day for being the garbage man, twenty three hundred per day additional for the secondary quest, performance bonuses TBD.

Alden did the math. He’d be making over twenty thousand dollars per day.

Were the Artonans just loaded? Did it have something to do with the relative value of currency? Couldn’t Bti-qwol take out the trash herself? Or was the skill that unique?

He didn’t consider himself to be very materialistic, but he had to admit that he’d put up with a lot of bullshit for that amount of remuneration. And the main bullshit was the timeline; he was going to be here for twelve days.

Apparently wizard SATs were hardcore.

How were Boe and Jeremy going to cover for him for that long?Beside Aunt Connie, there was also school to worry about.

The upside was that there were no limits placed on his communications for this assignment. He could use the System to call home and let everyone know he wasn’t dead. For the low, low price of a few thousand dollars.

He decided he’d hold off on that until tonight, just in case Bti-qwol thought of some other add-on for him that was going to extend his stay.

It’s a good thing though, isn’t it? I’ll have a lot of opportunity to figure out the skill. Plus I’ll make so much money. And there will most likely be other humans I can ask for advice.

As far as quests went, he thought this had to be pretty close to the peak of cushy.

Their cart had just finished climbing a winding drive to the top of a hill. They arrived at the entrance to something that looked to Alden like it might be a conference center or large classroom building. The cart stopped under a low roof covered in ferns, and the building’s doors, which he had assumed were made of glass, dissolved into sparks of light as they approached.

The breakfast banquet was over when they arrived. Alden was too nervous to be hungry anyway. But even though Bti-qwol seemed to be in a rush, she hurried him into the room where the food had been set up and forced a to-go cup full of wevvi into his hand.

It might have been a cultural thing with her, so he took it. He had a vague recollection of instructor Pa-weeq saying that some communities of Artonans thought wevvi service was important for guests; and for all he knew, LeafSong University was in an area where that was the case.

He’d only had it a few times before, always at school events to celebrate Contract Day. It was a spiced fruit juice that tasted almost exactly like eggnog, and it would have been much more enjoyable if it wasn’t always served at a temperature near boiling.

Interestingly, Let Me Take Your Luggage activated automatically when Bti-qwol handed him the cup. It was a pretty casual interaction, with no obvious intent on her part to give him the drink for preservation.

He filed it away for consideration, and followed her quickly down a hallway with gleaming wood floors, to a semi-circular classroom with three tiers of chairs and tables looking down on the lecturing area. There were around thirty people present, though the room would have held over a hundred humans and Artonans.

Alden did his best not to stare at the first grivecks he’d ever seen in real life. They looked like giant hairless panthers with their joints bent the wrong way, and three of them were lying on top of the tables at the back of the room. They all had on helmets with reflective visors and vests made of thick, interwoven straps.

Alden didn’t know if it was fashion, armor, or life support.

Around half of the people present were human.

He followed Bti-qwol up to the second tier of seats, where she stopped in front of three middle-aged human men and two lortch Alden thought were male. He’d have to measure the width of their chin ridges to be totally sure, and that didn’t seem like a good way to make friends.

There had been a cheerful general chatter in the room when they first entered, but as soon as Bti-qwol led Alden up to this group it stopped. He glanced around and saw every human eye turned toward him, and most of the alien ones, too.

He had just a second to reflect on the fact that he should have expected this, before Bti-qwol spoke to a man with dark hair going gray at the temples.

<<Pineda, come with me. Your assistance is no longer required for this event.>>

For a moment, the man looked almost panicked as he glanced from Bti-qwol to Alden, but he tamped it down quickly and stood with a smile.

<<Guess I get to go home and relax now!>> he said, pulling a small rolling suitcase out from under the table.

His friends were not smiling. In fact, the short, heavyset one looked like he wanted to fight somebody. His nostrils were flaring, and the stare he leveled at Bti-qwol made Alden’s hair stand on end.

And Alden didn’t know what an angry lortch looked like, but he was guessing the cobra sway thing they were both doing with their heads was some sign of malcontent.

Pineda leaned over and clapped the two humans on the back. He made an unusual double-handed, cross-armed wave at the lortch; then he turned to Alden to shake his hand.

<<Congratulations! It’s exciting to see a boy your age joining the medical team. Hope I’ll get to work with you next year. These guys will make sure you have a good experience.>>

“Thanks,” Alden said, shaking his hand awkwardly with the arm that was holding both goggles and lab coat. “I would love that.”

Oh god, oh god, he thought. I’m taking your job, and I’m probably not even qualified, and your friends look like they want to beat my ass for it.

Pineda was being cool about it, but he had to be cool. What was he going to do? Pitch a fit? At best, he’d be blacklisted by the university and never get summoned for this gig again.

And Bti-qwol clearly did not care that half the people in the room looked either sad or pissed off. Alden didn’t know if she had bad social skills or if she just had no reason to pay attention to the atmosphere among the Artonans’ servants.

Even worse, she gestured at the seat Pineda had just vacated, clearly indicating Alden should take it. There were plenty of empty seats in the room. Ones not surrounded by people who were shooting him death glares.

He stared longingly up at the grivecks, as he squeezed down the aisle toward Pineda’s chair. He could sit with the giant panthers. Or they could eat him. Either way, he’d be out of his misery.

Instead, he sat down awkwardly between the stocky guy who was breathing hard and staring at Bti-qwol’s retreating back with murder eyes, and the other man, who was wearing a full three-piece suit and an expression like he’d just watched his own father being kidnapped.

Whispers went around the room when Bti-qwol was out of sight, and Alden did his best to feign an avid interest in his cup of wevvi. He kept sipping it, ignoring the fact that it was burning his tongue, in hopes that this orientation meeting would start and he wouldn’t have to talk until he’d gotten his bearings.

He stuck out like a sore thumb. The other human Avowed were all much older than him. The next youngest were a pair of women who looked like they were in their mid to late twenties. And everyone was well dressed. A few, like the man in the suit, had gone with businesswear from earth. But most were in muted earth-tone outfits that had a distinctly Artonan feel to them.

