“Okay.” Ren said. “In the beginning, there was nothingness.” He said and took a spoonful of soup. Stella and Elise hung on his words, and he smiled. “ Darkness permeated everything; and then a phrase was spoken. 'Let there be light!'. Then there was.”

“REN!” Stella and Elise yelled.

Ren laughed and laughed, and Stella did her best not to strangle him.

“Ren, stop joking around.” Elise said. “This is serious!”

“Why?”

“What?”

“Why is it serious?” Ren asked and kept eating his bowl of soup.

“You spent a year and a half inside a virtual reality simulation in only 45 minutes!” Elise said. “None of us saw anything but a blue screen for all that time!”

“That's probably because none of the in-game deities like others looking in on them.” Ren said, then shrugged. “Or the video rendering software couldn't handle the massive load of information.”

“That makes sense.” Stella said. “I'm glad that didn't happen with the research computers.”

Ren picked up a piece of bread and dipped it into the broth. “Me, too.” He said. “I wouldn't mind doing those tests again, though.” He grinned. “They were fun.”

“Ren.”

“Right, right.” Ren said. “Well, it all started when I wanted to inspect the ship's engine while we were on the open sea...”

Ren gave them a rundown of the captain taking him to Shoal Island, and finding the water elemental inside the engine for the ship, then about removing it.

“Oh, god.” Elise said and put a hand over her mouth. “I'm going to kill Max!”

“If it was his idea to do that, then go ahead.” Ren said. “It was... pretty bad.” He sighed. “You can watch the footage if you want.” He said and motioned to the laptop. “After I captured the engine room crew and went up on deck, the water elementals showed up...”

Ren told them about the massive water being picking him and the other prisoners up and taking them to the Water Realm.

“That shouldn't be possible.” Elise said. “How did you get through the portal?”

Ren smiled. “I technically didn't go through the portal.”

“Wait, what?” Elise asked, surprised.

“I was captured and dragged through.” Ren said. “Teepo had to dissolve into the ring, just in case.”

Elise was tempted to call her boss right away with that small and very important piece of information; but figured she should listen to the rest of Ren's story first, just in case there was any other revelations.

Ren told them about negotiating for the prisoners, and striking the deal for a year and a half of hard labor.

“Ren, how... why...”

“I knew what it was like, you see.” Ren smiled. “The deity was so surprised I would offer so much time, they agreed not to kill everyone for the death of one of their citizens.”

Elise shook her head. “You volunteered to stay with them, didn't you?”

“No, I was guilty.” Ren said. “I did kill it when I removed it from the engine.”

“Ren, that was...”

“It still died.” Ren said. “With the terms of our imprisonment and release settled, we began working on the castle...”
