The Brothers dropped their hats. They stopped humming the rhyme. The other gangs stared, transfixed. They couldn’t be serious. But you know what they said about the Brothers. They were properly mad.
Wilovan brought up his club. The [Rogue] raised his crossbow like a shield.
The Gnoll brought down the club. The broken crossbow fell. So did what remained of the man.
“Reinforcements!”
The [Assassin] snapped into a speaking stone. She drew her blade as Ryoka struggled up to her feet. The gangs were split. Half were fighting, the other half running. The Brothers advanced. Crimshaw and another man grabbed one of the [Thugs] and ran him into a shop’s glass window. Then they shoved him onto the broken glass.
“Thirty of them! I need Faces! Get me—”
The [Assassin] dodged Ryoka’s punch. She slashed back as Ryoka threw a handful of sand and caltrops in her face. Ryoka fumbled for a wand as the [Assassin] flipped backwards. She landed as one of the [Thugs] whirled, bringing a crossbow up.
Delanay fired first as he struggled free of his captors. The man went over sideways. Ryoka aimed her wand. The [Assassin] was slashing wildly, half-blinded.
“[Arrow of Fire]!”
The jet of searing light flashed forwards. The [Assassin] twisted.
[Automatic Dodge]. Ryoka’s jaw dropped. The woman leapt, cutting—
She vanished. Fierre tackled her out of the air and they crashed onto the street. The [Assassin] shouted in surprise. She stabbed Fierre three times. The Vampire girl threw her through a wall. Not glass. Brick. She jumped after her.
“What’s—”
Ryoka looked around. And she heard more shouting.
 
—-
 
“[Detect Life]. [Quake] spell. Good city-fighting tactics.”
Grimalkin made a note. Olesm pointed. The [Assassins] below were trying to regroup. The Drakes kneeling with crossbows were reloading too slowly. He bellowed.
“[Instantaneous Barrage]!”
A second wave of arrows lanced downwards, perfectly striking a dozen [Assassins]. They stared down at the phantom arrows, ghosts of the bolts. The Drakes looked up as the [Strategist] pointed.
“Mark your targets! Aim! Volley!”
They loosed. The guests of the inn looked up as the Drake force reloaded, and then moved back. Olesm looked around.
“Who is the ranking officer here?”
“That would be me and Commander Relun.”
Grimalkin spoke. The Sinew Magus and a Dullahan stood with Olesm. The Pallassian officer threw a salute.
“1st Army of Pallass, 4th Battalion. Alchemy’s Arbalests at your service, Strategist Olesm. Grand Strategist Chaldion has placed us under your command.”
Olesm nodded. He stared past the battalion.
“You—moved through an entire battalion?”
Grimalkin snorted.
“Mana is not an object to a Walled City. You have six hundred lives at your disposal, Strategist. Miss Solstice bought them, somehow. Do not waste them. Or die. The [Assassins] will target officers.”
He eyed the second group mixing with the professional Pallassian [Soldiers].
“Is that Liscor’s Watch?”
“And Esthelm’s militia. And Celum’s…will you take command, Magus?”
Grimalkin shook his head.
“I’ll ambush the [Assassins]. Hold this street. And be warned—I am counting hundreds of hostiles. [Superior Camouflage]. [Perfect Muffle]. [Invisibility]—”
He vanished. Olesm turned.
“Begin fortifying the street! I want anti-magic barricades and staggered formation! Commander—our job is to get a City Runner out of the city.”
“They have the streets leading up to the Guild. Are we digging in here before advancing?”
“Yes. We’re not alone.”
 
—-
 
“Drakes. In Invrisil. An army of them.”
“Lord Toldos—please retreat behind the van.”
The Human [Soldiers] and [Knights] were fighting down the street. Lord Toldos saw House Sanito’s retainers fighting alongside his men and three other Houses. No Lord Alman. The [Innkeeper] had told him she had asked only for men.
Lord Alman had a family. The old [Lord] refused to move.
“House Everight ends with me. And I will not cower or flee Invrisil twice. Advance!”
He plunged forwards. Ahead of the Drakes, ignoring his retainer’s cries to stop. The [Lord] slashed down a fleeing shadow. The Guild was so close—
The street erupted in fire. An [Assassin] with a staff pointed down at the [Lord]. Toldos raised his sword. He hacked down more [Assassins] as they leapt from cover. His retainers shouted. They tried to advance under a sudden crossfire.
Lord Toldos felt something strike him in the chest, piercing through his armor. He clutched at the shaft. Ah. So that was why she had been weeping. And still—he lifted his sword.
“Forwards!”
 
—-
 
Wilovan clutched at his side. One street clear. The city was erupting into violence. He stared down at the dead gang. And then looked around.
The Brothers had lost members. Some were wounded. Others…
“Teor? Where did you go? T—”
He had been right behind Wilovan. The Gnoll turned. He saw a young man, lying face-down on the street. Wilovan reached down.
“Teor?”
He looked into glassy, empty eyes. In the first minute—Wilovan straightened.
“The good folk are rising, and we’re off to our beds. The smart thieves away with the loot and the slow ones are dead.”
There was nothing to say. She had asked. There were more gangs than he had imagined, that was all. The Guild had sent their [Assassins] into the city in force.
“Next street. Where’s Miss Griffin? Ratici?”
“With us. I think—there are [Soldiers] falling back. Their first assault went south.”
“Which species?”
“Human.”
“We’ll see if we can’t finesse it, then. Lads? Anyone who can move, with me.”
“What are you doing?”
The City Runner stared at Wilovan. Ratici joined his companion. Wilovan gave her a nod. He didn’t pick up his hat. Crimshaw appeared, limping. He had the tricorne. Teor’s. He placed it over the young man’s head.
They left him behind. Wilovan walked on.
“Going for a walk, Miss Griffin. Let’s set you on your way.”
“This is madness. They’re killers.”
So are we. But it was true—the [Assassins] were ready to die. Wilovan reached for the hat and felt the lightness on his head.
“Sometimes a man has to do certain things, Miss Griffin. I’ll wager the other fellows feel the same. It’s a bad business. And it cannot—will not continue. We’ll do our part. Will you do yours?”
Ryoka looked around. Fierre—Delanay was on his knees, talking to Ulinde. He looked up.
“Go.”
She went. Ryoka Griffin had made her choice. And so had Erin Solstice.
 
—-
 
“That idiot. I told him to wait for us to flank—”
Olesm heard the first, nigh-suicidal charge had failed. The [Lord] had ignored the Drake. They were not allies—or if they were, they were bound by a single person.
But it was not for Erin alone he was here. It was because there was right and wrong and—Liscor’s [Guards] cried out.
“Fireballs!”
“Behind the barricades!”
Olesm saw the first [Assassins] popping up, firing spells from a long ways away at the entrenched forces. They weren’t idiots and they had gear. The enchanted barricades absorbed the explosions, but some [Guards] were thrown back even so.
“[Focus Fire]!”
The battalion’s [Commander] was roaring. They were in the thick of it. Olesm tried to use his [Instantaneous Barrage] Skill—but it wasn’t ready to be used yet.
“There’s a group coming from the north, Strategist. Forty of them. They’ll blast your lines apart, even with the barricades. Collapse the buildings on you.”
Olesm whirled, sword raised. He saw the Drakes aiming—
“Hold fire! Earl?”
Earl Altestiel strode forwards. He looked around, as if he and his group were taking a stroll. His [Knights] and escort were fully armed, though. Altestiel was wearing his cloth armor—but it was probably better than Olesm’s enchanted leather.
“What are you doing here, Knight Marshal?”
“I had a feeling something was going to happen. I did not expect this. Move away from those buildings. The [Assassins] care nothing for collateral damage. And they’ve hired gangs. You might face a force comparable to yours if you advance. Invrisil can field thousands of disreputable criminals. Although their morale will probably break if enough die.”
Olesm saw the Drake hesitating. He nodded.
“Do it! Earl—”
The man was staring ahead. Peering upwards.
“Fascinating. There is a story I heard of that [Innkeeper], Strategist Olesm. Of a chess club.”
The Drake stared blankly at him. Then his eyes sharpened. He nodded. That was one of the reasons why he was here.
“They died for her. Because she gave them everything. The ones who lived became legends among their kind.”
“I see.”
The Earl smiled. He adjusted his clothing. Then he looked at Olesm and shook his head. He turned.
“What an extraordinary person. Soldiers of Desonis prepare for combat. Strategist, move those barricades. Strategist Kiish, watch the flank on the left. Block any area of attack spells coming our way.”
Olesm’s jaw dropped. He saw the two [Knights] striding forwards, bringing up huge shields.
“Earl?”
The first drop of rain hit the back of his head. The Earl looked at him.
“I simply wouldn’t want a worthy teacher to die. I leveled, you know. Me. Are we advancing?”
“I—I told Lord Toldos not to. Erin said there was one more group. There are the Brothers, the Drakes, Magus Grimalkin. But she said that wasn’t enough.”
He hadn’t believed it when he saw Pallass’ 4th Battalion. But he would have taken a regiment, after seeing the [Assassins]. They fought like—
 
—-
 
[Assassins]. Another [Lightning Bolt] blew apart Lord Toldos’ [Soldiers] in their doomed assault. They were fleeing, bearing the [Lord] backwards. Idiot. Fool.
A brave fool. But the [Assassins] didn’t fight fair. They had poisoned bolts. They refused to fight in a standing battle. And—
Eight rushed past the dead [Bouncer]. They leapt through the door as the inn’s patrons screamed. The kill order on the [Innkeeper] was a priority. She was behind it.
They emerged through the door into The Wandering Inn. Sloppy! The [Assassins] looked around, and then charged down the long hallway.
Odd. One of them had a flicker of apprehension. The hallway was—
“Back—”
“Fire!”
The crossbows snapped. Two assassins went down, screaming, but not dead. The other six leapt, avoiding the bolts with inhuman agility. One went onto the ceiling—screamed.
Acid doused him and he fell. Another twisted, deflecting another crossbow bolt! This was a trap! She ran for the door—
“[Fireball].”
The explosion blew all but one to pieces. The last tried to run, stumbling, and a second wave of bolts cut him down.
It was fast aiming. Shots meant to kill. The inn’s staff were dedicated—but not that dedicated to their job. Just as well they were only backing up the group casually aiming through the arrow slits.
Todi lowered his smoking wand with a sigh.
“Alright. Change the door’s dial and prepare for more while we hide the bodies! Make sure they’re dead!”
Todi’s Elites moved out of their hiding spots. Selys was watching as Todi barked orders. The Gold-rank was in fine fettle. And why not?
This was a perfect vantage. Nigh-unbreakable walls, a death trap? And being able to choose when he let [Assassins] through? The Gold-rank Captain was nodding. He might have refused, even so.
But, well, he had believed Selys when she told him her truism. [Everything Has a Price]. He adjusted his position.
“Alright. Open the door! And check if they need reinforcements! Damned idiots got through, right?”
“Yes, Captain!”
The Gold-rank grunted. He set himself. This was where his team was happiest. Let the crazies—
 
—-
 
Fly. Bevussa dove. Someone had taken another shot at her.
“Their aim is too good! Get down! Down!”
She landed hard. Keldrass looked up from where the Gold-rank teams were slowly advancing.
“Olesm just sent a Runner. Move up.”
“Damn, damn. They’re throwing [Fireballs] at us.”
“Then get behind Keldrass!”
Bevussa snapped at the third Gold-rank team—hired by Chaldion from the groups in Liscor. She pointed ahead.
The Flamewardens were moving down the street, scorching figures assailing them. Keldrass wore the Heartflame Breastplate.
And still—they were fighting for their lives. Erin had made a mistake, or so Bevussa felt. She twisted as another arrow bent around a street’s corner and tried to hit her.
She had asked for fighters. People willing to die. Not her guests. In fact—she’d trapped the Goblins, made sure her friends and family were safe. Even some of them who might have come—she hadn’t even known about Wailant, Viceria, and the others.
In a distant city, far from Liscor or Invrisil, a Dwarf was smashing his hammer on a closed door.
“Open it up!”
“Master! Master—”
Pelt struggled with his apprentices. The door had not opened. She had not asked him, that damned—he looked at the orb. He could see the Gold-ranks under fire.
Chaos and madness. Erin had made one mistake and it was underestimating the [Assassins]. Even with Gold-rank teams, an army—Bevussa and Pelt shared the same thought.
The entire Guild was fighting. Every [Assassin] they’d spared had come to Invrisil at the danger. It was do-or-die. If the cure was delivered…their reputation and power would be broken. The Circle, similarly…
Olesm’s forces were the only real hammer in terms of numbers. Bevussa’s group was trying to advance from where the magic door had let them out. But the [Assassins] had the numbers to fight on every front! How many Faces were there? How many Gold-ranks, or Grimalkins? The [Assassins] had dug into this city, fortified for an attack, if not on this level.
It was like the worst siege attacks Bevussa had known.
“We’re pinned down! Keldrass, don’t advance too far! They have us marked!”
She saw a distant window down the entire street flicker. Four hundred feet away, an [Assassin] with a bow put an enchanted arrow to the string. Bevussa swore as he took aim at the vulnerable [Mages] in the Lifwail Blades.
“Reinforce your barriers! You’re going to—”
The [Assassin] jerked. The arrow dropped from his grip and fell down. Bevussa saw it detonate on the street as the body hung from the window. She stared ahead. Her keen eyes saw…an arrow in his chest.
From who?
 
—-
 
Olesm was hunkering down as [Assassins] on the rooftops exchanged fire with the [Arbalests] at long-range. They were firing beyond what an un-Skilled [Archer] could attack from! The Earl was moving better on his street; rain and winds were assailing the [Assassins] who couldn’t see, while the group he’d taken charge of fought as if it were sunshine.
“Rotate out! [Instantaneous—”
