An arrow sprouted from the [Assassin]’s head. Bird saw him drop off the tower and take two of his friends. Bird regarded his bow as he loosed another arrow.
“Did I do that? No. Then—”
He saw another arrow take an [Assassin] down. Then another. They weren’t as fast as Bird’s shots, but they were perfectly placed. Bird traced their trajectories. He saw the figure, crouching, protected by the two Hobs.
Badarrow. The [Sniper] was aiming.
“[Zone of Interception Fire].”
He had Bird under his protection. The [Sniper] loosed fast, striking the unprotected [Assassins]. Bird obligingly shot an [Assassin] coming at the Hobs. Numbtongue was standing with Snapjaw.
“Stop shooting them! Let me cut them!”
He swore—he hadn’t gotten to kill anything yet! They’d only now managed to climb out of the [Garden of Sanctuary] through the hole in the roof. Stupid Erin, trying to keep him safe! He reached for his guitar.
Time for lightning.
 
—-
 
Ryoka Griffin tried to summon the air. But it was still dead. Whatever they’d done, they’d hit her with enough spells to silence the air. And it was already being changed by the [Mages] in the city.
…The lightning bolts flying from the sky would kill her anyways. She couldn’t execute her plan. There was no plan, frankly.
“Alright, go! Give up when they corner you! For the Walled Cities! Try and kill me!”
Saliss let her go after one street. He charged at the [Assassins], who fled him as he threw potions nonstop. Ryoka deployed her backup plan.
“Ryoka—did you get—”
Delanay skidded to a stop. One of his arms was in a sling, hand braced. He saw Ryoka speeding towards him.
“Five Families! What is th—”
Ryoka shot past him. The Emergency Runner turned. Ryoka turned, desperately, and passed by a gang locked in combat with Wilovan, Ratici, and the Brothers. Both sides had to stare. What was she riding?
A…bike. Ryoka Griffin pumped the pedals, turning desperately. But the bike Kevin had made was a dream, and handled even the bumpy roads of Invrisil. She shot past [Assassins], fleeing pedestrians, a squad of Drakes who pointed at her—
Ryoka Griffin had never tried to get to max speed on the bike before. She’d stopped, afraid, after she’d hit what she thought was close to the unaided limit. At this speed, she was moving so fast that—
She hit a pothole. Ryoka Griffin went flying. She hit the ground thirty feet ahead of the pothole. Sat up.
“Holy f—”
Hedault’s ring flashed on her finger. Ring of Falling. Or…preventing falling. The same one Kevin had used with the skateboard. Ryoka got up, ran back for the bike, mounted it.
“Ryoka! Ryoka, do you have it?”
The City Runner’s head snapped up. She saw, ahead of her, a group of Antinium spilling forwards, pursuing some screaming [Toughs]. Human they might be—but the criminals weren’t going to fight the Black Tide. Or the crazy [Innkeeper] with the jars of acid.
“I have it!”
“Then, go!”
Erin pointed. Ryoka looked at her friend. Erin hadn’t told her. Told her that to help Ryoka—save her life—she’d bring an army to Invrisil.
Did you regret it? Erin’s eyes were red. But she was fighting. Pawn laid his hands on a Soldier and some gashes closed.
Some things you believed in. Erin pointed.
“Run, Ryoka!”
She’d get Ryoka out of Invrisil. After that—
 
—-
 
Lady Ieka Imarris stared into the orb. Her head was filled with incoming [Message] spells. Panicked orders. And she was watching the broadcast.
“Oh no. No, Ryoka. Don’t do this.”
The Wind Runner was making for the outskirts of the city. On—she couldn’t even tell what it was. Some kind of metal steed with wheels.
But it was not enough. Lady Ieka Imarris saw, at last, a Runner with the cure leave Invrisil. Behind, the city was still locked in combat. But the Guild of Assassins was fleeing the city. They couldn’t stand up to a proper army, let alone three. Invrisil’s Watch had joined the Humans from the [Lords], sensing the wind changing. Liscor and Pallass’ forces were routing [Assassins]. And the Antinium—
Well done. Good job, thou good and brave warriors. Ieka could have applauded it. But look.
The City Runner slowed on her bicycle. The wind was still dead. She looked ahead, down the long, empty road.
She had finally, with the aid of countless individuals, left Invrisil. And now—
House Veltras lay hundreds of miles away. How fast was that device? The Circle was regrouping. And they had a single order:
Kill Ryoka Griffin. Kill the Wind Runner. Every Face on the continent would be after her.
“I have to stop her. That fool. She cannot make it. Summon my guards! My horse! No, a carriage, enchanted!”
Ieka rose. She needed to get Ryoka Griffin to safety. Smash the cure! Let that Persua deliver it. Ryoka could not outrun the Guild. She saw the Wind Runner hesitate.
 
—-
 
…And then I see the open road, out of the gates. Erin started a war for me. I stop, panting, the sweat running down my back. I’m already winded, just leaving Invrisil.
I look ahead. And see the road stretching out to the horizon. And I remember how far it is.
I try to reach for the wind. But they took it away from me. If they can do that once—
I am afraid.
 
—-
 
Ryoka Griffin hung her head. She tried to find the will she had used to convince Lyonette and Erin. But she was afraid. The Guild was fleeing the city, regrouping. They had horses, artifacts, hundreds of members still, probably.
She had an enchanted bike and her wind—if it came back to her. It had to be done, though. Someone had to try.
Ryoka pedaled forwards. She felt her mortality now, now that she had seen people dying. But she would—just let her feel the wind. Let her fly—
“I warned you. I should have warned Erin. But even I didn’t think she was capable of this. Not yet.”
Someone spoke up. Ryoka slowed—then accelerated.
Maviola El kicked the bike as it passed her. Ryoka crashed again. The [Lady Firestarter] saw Ryoka struggling upwards, swearing.
She had been waiting here, for Ryoka. Tracking her—it was hardly difficult. The [Lady] saw Ryoka grab for the bike.
“I have it! Don’t try to stop me—”
Ryoka righted the bike. Maviola slapped her. Ryoka’s head jerked. She spun, fist clenched as Maviola grabbed the handlebars. The [Lady] looked at Ryoka, shaking her head. Her look was part admiration, part envy, part incredulity. And a sprinkling of anger.
“You simple idiot. You gigantic fool. You courageous child.”
She spoke to Ryoka. The Wind Runner tried to drag the bike away, but the old [Lady] held firm. This was not the time for a long chat.
“Don’t stop me, Maviola! I know I might die. I have to try. They fought for me. Erin fought for me. I have the cure—”
Ryoka brandished the clear vial at Maviola. The [Lady] sighed.
“Ryoka Griffin. That’s not the cure. That’s a vial of water.”
The Wind Runner froze. Maviola stared at the vial.
“Did you even check to see if there was magic in it?”
“That can’t be right. Saliss—”
Had been going to leave the vial behind. Ryoka’s head slowly rose. Maviola sighed.
“Who would have gone into the Runner’s Guild if Erin had not set fire to half the city? He said two hours. Then he would have let them smash the vial. He did not expect you to be so brave or foolhardy. See?”
She pointed. Ryoka’s head turned. She saw someone blurring down the street. Moving as fast as only a Potion of [Haste] could take him.
Saliss of Lights halted. It wasn’t surprising they all reached the same gate. It was the closest one from the Runner’s Guild heading north and west.
“Oh, hey. Listen, Ryoka. About the cure. Couldn’t say it in the Guild, but—”
Ryoka pointed at him.
“You. You have the cure.”
Saliss blinked. He eyed Maviola and Ryoka and gave them a sly grin.
“Ah. Well…I didn’t expect anyone to try and get it. Old Xif made a mess of everything. As usual. Was going to hire you to be my decoy, anyways. What about it?”
“You’re going to deliver the cure? Give it to me. You’re not a Runner.”
The Drake rolled his eyes.
“I’m a Named Adventurer. I could outrun you, Miss Griffin. Look, I don’t have time for this.”
He tried to jog around Ryoka. She grabbed for him and Saliss swayed back.
“You tricked me!”
The [Alchemist] gave her a side-eye.
“I am Saliss of Lights. Did you think I’d trust this kind of thing to a half-baked City Runner?”
“Why?”
Ryoka was shaking. What was all her resolve for? Saliss threw up his claws.
“Maybe I’m tired of being told who my enemies are. Maybe I don’t like [Assassins]. Maybe I’m just bored and want to go for a jog.”
“The entire north is going to stop you. Not just the Circle. You’re a Drake. From Pallass. The enemy!”
The Drake snorted. He looked ahead.
“They could try. I’m Saliss of Lights. My ego is better at fighting than the two of you put together.”
“I have to do it. I can’t just turn back now. Give me—”
The two fought as Ryoka tried to grab for Saliss’ belt pouch. He backed up. Maviola stepped between them.
“You two are both fools. Brave—resourceful. Erin Solstice took you out of this city. But that is as far as her power goes. She cannot ward you the entire way across Izril. And it is far to House Veltras. Neither of you could make it.”
Saliss pointed down the open road. He snapped, properly vexed. They were burning his head start!
“I have a better shot than anyone else here! Or what were you planning to do?”
Maviola El looked at Saliss. She glanced at Ryoka.
“Go with you, of course.”
 
—-
 
Lady Ieka stared at the trio outside Invrisil.
“Maviola? I thought—wait. Wasn’t she coming to visit me? Where did she go?”
She turned for one of her [Maids]. A tremulous young woman answered.
“Lady El was here, milady. But she—only stayed for a moment. And when we led her into the parlor and took our eyes off her, she—she—”
“She what?”
“She stole your horse, Lady Ieka.”
 
—-
 
Maviola El mounted the horse. She pointed at Ryoka.
“Get in whatever that is. Saliss, potions.”
“You must be crazy. I’m better alone.”
“You don’t know these roads. And you need us. Or me, at least. Erin Solstice got you out of Invrisil. She mustered an army. But she is still young. That is all she could do.”
Maviola began riding forwards. Saliss began running. He tossed something at Ryoka. She caught it, fumbling. A Potion of Haste. Maviola offered it to the mare and the well-trained animal took it. She drank one herself.
They sped up. Behind them, Erin Solstice slowed, panting.
“Maviola? Saliss?”
She had brought Xrn, Pallass’ army, the Brothers to bear on Invrisil. She had made no mistakes in her campaign to save her friend. If she had made the mistake, it was the same one Ryoka had.
It was assuming only Ryoka wanted to do what was right. Saliss looked at the two.
“I can’t protect you.”
“We did not come here for protection. We came to do the right thing.”
They were speeding up. But they slowed as someone ran after them, shouting with her loud voice.
“Maviola! What are you doing?”
The [Lady] turned. She smiled. Ryoka was looking at Saliss. He eyed her and nodded. Just that. She nodded back.
Okay, then.
“Erin Solstice! You will someday find your path! You will find your own flame. But today—I will do what you cannot. Look upon me and see what my life was, my heir of fire!”
Maviola raised a clenched hand. Erin shouted something. But the [Lady] was riding.
Smiling. Saliss was grumbling.
“We have a Runner who can call the wind and a [Lady] who makes flames, and a naked Drake. And what does the Guild have? Knives. Hooray. You two are going to die. Last chance.”
Maviola ignored him. Ryoka gritted her teeth. They began moving faster.
Faster. Ryoka felt the world slowing down around her. Not as much as when she’d drunk Teriarch’s potion, but—she moved faster on the bicycle. Saliss was running at full tilt. Maviola galloping.
Down the road. The Guild was reforming. Ryoka saw riders bursting from other gates, pursuing her.
“I hope you can fight as much as you talk!”
Saliss lobbed a potion an incredible distance. It blew apart, missing a clump of riders. He cursed.
“I am going to be impoverished after this.”
“I forgot something, you know, you two.”
Maviola spoke as she rode. Ryoka heard her—she was aiming a wand as she rode. This was not the time. But the [Lady]’s hair was blowing behind her. She rode high in the saddle, ignoring the [Assassins]. Looking up.
The world was ever watching. Maviola went on, for Saliss and Ryoka alone. For herself.
“I forgot something. At some point, I grew old. And I thought, ‘this is the way the world is.’ Do what I can. Keep my House alive, but cease trying to change. Of course, the young woman was a fool. She thought you could burn it all down and build something out of ash. Have you ever tried that? Neither old nor young is entirely right. But one needs both.”
“Is this going somewhere? Where to—”
“Left! That road!”
Ryoka led the way. Maviola rode on after them, laughing to herself. More [Assassins] were following. Black carriages. Crossbows loosing bolts that went far astray. Higher levels would be here, soon.
“You brave, sad Drake. You gloriously foolish girl. I told you, you need an army. But how would you know? Neither of you were born of the north. I have the knowledge—all I lack is the will. The audacity.”
Something was in her hand. A golden vial. Saliss’ head turned. Maviola drank the Potion of Time’s Return. She threw back her head. Her eyes opened.
And she rode faster. Ryoka felt the wind suddenly surge about her. She looked at Saliss. If she had the vial now—but she couldn’t take her eyes off Maviola. The [Lady] was suddenly—younger. Her eyes blazed. She laughed, a full-throated guffaw.
“Erin Solstice broke the traps of Invrisil! But her reach ends here. Now—let us make our way across my home.”
“Easier said than done! Do either of you have a Level 50 Skill? No? Just me? Either shut up or move faster!”
Saliss bellowed. The [Assassins] were closing, despite their [Haste] speed. Moving with desperation. Maviola drew something from her bag of holding. It snapped at once in the air.
She held it aloft. Ryoka saw a long pole, made of wood. And behind it—her eyes widened.
Maviola had stolen something from Erin Solstice. A banner. Made of white.
It did not even slow the [Assassins]. They respected it not at all. But the [Lady] hoisted it higher.
The world—she looked at Ryoka and Saliss as they turned.
“The Five Families have not yet waned to the point that we would bow to threats from a group of cowards. They just have to be reminded of that fact. Now, watch. This is how you do a delivery, Drake, girl.”
She lifted the banner higher, riding ahead of the two.
 
—-
 
