Memento mori. It meant, in the way of such odd phrases that remained in the common tongue, ‘remember death’. It could be art, a symbol, an event—
To Lady Bethal Walchaís, it had been the sight of the famous pink carriage, overturned, broken. That was when she had known the Guild of Assassins was a true threat.
Who had invented the phrase? Why did it lie in the language that [Mages] sometimes claimed for spellcasting?
And why—Lady Bethal’s hands clenched and the [Lady of Thorn]’s gorge and temper rose—
Why was this being allowed to continue?
It was the question she’d asked herself time and again. Why was this petty Circle and the Guild allowed to attack nobles of Izril? Hold children, children for ransom?
This was the kind of thing she and the other [Ladies] of Magnolia Reinhart’s alliance fought against. But Magnolia was gone. And in her absence…
Pryde had expressed similar sentiments in their weekly chat. But like Bethal—like many, even the [Lady of Pride] had expressed uncertainty. Were they to go to Tyrion Veltras’ aid? Alone? Ironically, the campaign against Magnolia from Tyrion and his allies had robbed him of the one woman who might intervene and had the necessary tools to fight the Guild.
But the truth of it was—it was just Izril. Bethal sat there.
“Rats, dear Thomast. Isn’t that what Terandria called us?”
“I was never one of the nobility, Bethal.”
Her husband reminded her. Bethal shook her head. It was—a nickname for the original Houses who had left Terandria to colonize Izril.
The ‘Rats of Izril’, rather than flowers. Rats, fleeing a sinking ship. And it was sometimes fitting. Like now—instead of allying, the houses were fighting each other, terrified of a single threat, disorganized.
But Bethal thought—flowers made more sense. They had always been called the Flowers of Izril—and if you knew flowers, the analogy still held.
A lovely bed of flowers was each bloom in competition. Each one straining ever upwards for the sky, whilst their roots fought for space and food.
“Say what you will about the Drakes. But they do band together when someone attacks them, for all they infight. What do we do?”
This? Bethal shook her head. She stared into the orb, watching. Waiting. A member of the audience of the drama now playing out. And Bethal was no wallflower at a dance.
Nevertheless—a Drake stood in the scrying orb.
“This is Drassi of Liscor, reporting live from Invrisil. The Named Adventurer, Saliss of Lights, has just delivered the cure sought by Tyrion Veltras to the Runner’s Guild and is holding off the [Assassins] in the city and challenging, yes, challenging any Runner brave enough to deliver it—”
 
—-
 
What arrogance. What gall! What insanity was this? Pallass was in uproar, but Pallass was far from where Saliss of Lights stood with two potions raised. A smoldering corpse lay on the Runner’s Guild floor. The Runners, [Receptionist], even the Guildmaster, were all spectators.
So were the figures outside. Saliss waved the potions.
“Anyone else want to try that?”
For a moment—no one did. Saliss did not relax. He leaned back against the counter, but that was just an affectation.
Watch your shadow. The [Assassins] had all kinds of tricks. But Saliss—was Saliss. And he had placed the vial on the desk of the Guild. Now—it was in an enchanted vault, right behind him.
“I wonder how mad the Old Man is?”
He wished he could see Chaldion’s face. The Drake sighed. He checked himself, claws sliding downwards and holstering one of the potions. Was this where he died? That would be so stupid, after fighting that damn Antinium—
His shadow moved. The Drake felt it and spun.
It was easy. He sprayed the pressurized acid into the shadow. Just a flick of the wrist. It killed most things dead.
But the [Assassin]’s coverings were acid-proof. Saliss saw a blade flash at his leg. He hissed.
Fire bloomed. The [Assassin] made a sound as he or she vanished into the shadow again, fleeing. Good luck extinguishing that fire, though. It would burn even if you smothered it. And it would set water aflame. Saliss didn’t rejoice, though. He staggered. Felt at his leg.
“Oh no. I’m bleeding.”
The Guild stared at the narrow cut running down his leg. Saliss felt at the blood. And then—the slight, discolored trail that burned and hissed as it touched the air.
Venom. He leaned backwards, sagging against the counter. Someone made a sound.
Somewhere—the second [Assassin] died. But Saliss’ face had grown pale. Damn. He was fast, but sneak attacks…he gasped.
“And poisoned. I might as well say my last words before I die. To the Walled Cities I love…hold on.”
He produced a little jar, rubbed a bit of paste on the cut. It healed, seamlessly. His audience stared. Saliss put a claw to his forehead.
“There we go. Oh, the Walled Cities! My one love!”
“It didn’t work?”
A Runner blinked at the naked Drake. Saliss rolled his eyes. He winked at some shadows in the glass windows. They vanished and Saliss raised his voice.
“I’m not a little Human kid. You’re going to need to work a little harder on me.”
This was the standoff. Saliss waited. But everyone was waiting. He ground his teeth.
Damn Xif. It would have been so much easier if—
“Saliss! Saliss—excuse me, Drassi, [Reporter] coming through. Please don’t kill me.”
A Drake pushed into the Guild. Saliss raised his brows.
“And here I thought I was crazy.”
The [Reporter] entered the Guild. Amazingly—no one had planted a dagger in her back, despite the Guild being surrounded by both gangs and [Assassins]. Actually…they’d mostly gotten in the way of the scrying orb.
Everyone loved to be on TV. Saliss made sure Drassi got his good side. The Drake adjusted the orb, introducing the first privacy screen with her claw out of sheer necessity.
“Um. Saliss of Lights—Wistram News Network. The world is watching. Can I ask why you’re here?”
“Oh, am I live? Hi! I want to say ‘hi’ to General Edellein Blackwing. A personal friend. The worst [General] in all of Pallass. And to Chaldion and his bad hip. And my personal friend, old Sixswords and his kid…”
The [Alchemist] lived for moments like this. He was keeping an eye out in every direction for anything coming at him. But he couldn’t help running his mouth. Drassi interrupted Saliss.
“Alchemist Saliss, why are you doing this?”
Because I’m so tired of—
“For the gold, of course. Haven’t you heard what Tyrion Veltras is posting as a bounty? I’m running low on gold and there’s a huge bounty on a cure!”
Saliss beamed at Drassi. She stared at him.
“Just for that?”
“Well, no.”
The [Alchemist] leaned back. He’d downed a tonic that was letting him see through the Guild’s walls. It was very disconcerting, but he used it to watch for incoming attackers. At least, the visible [Assassins]. Ignore the low-level ones. It was the high-level ones he had to watch for.
“Two hours.”
The Drake raised one claw. Drassi blinked.
“Two hours?”
“That’s how long I’m willing to wait. I expect my gold in the Merchant’s Guild, by the way. But two hours. That’s how long I’ll guard my cure. So—brave Couriers. City Runners. Come and get it.”
Saliss spread his arms, looking at the scrying orb with a huge smile.
“I know, I know. You’re welcome. And don’t worry. A Drake might have had to deliver the cure for you Humans, but one of your Runners has to bring it. Or a [Knight], an adventurer, whatever. I’m not picky, but I will check to make sure they’re not an [Assassin]. Anyone else comes in here, they get a faceful of acid. Two hours. And if your entire half of the continent is too cowardly for anyone to pick it up, I guess that’s that.”
The Runner’s Guild stirred. Saliss had the feeling his every word was being sent across the world. Probably on repeat. He beamed wider.
“Really, I just felt bad because this would never happen in the Walled Cities. Embarrassing, but hey, I’m not a Human. Watch Captain Qissa, hi! I’m on the news!”
 
—-
 
He was actually waving. That cheeky Drake. Unpredictable. Who could have seen it coming?
The Circle of Thorns, the Guild of Assassins—were not having fun with the news. But neither were they panicking.
Yet. In fact, the Thorns of Death were talking to each other. Their conversations, full of confidence, or the seeming of it, were terse.
“A ploy from the Walled Cities or is that Drake on his own?”
“It does not matter. This is an opportunity. He is a Named Adventurer of the Drakes. Slay him.”
“Are there enough [Assassins] in the city? It is Saliss of Lights—”
An authoritative voice spoke up, silencing the others.
“He has no defenses. He is a glass wand—hit him hard enough and he’ll shatter in a single blow. Nor can he dodge what he can’t see. Deploy a Deathslayer Arrow with the Guild’s best [Archer]. Send the Faces.”
Everyone liked that idea. One of Rhir’s deadliest arrows, and an [Archer] to fit. The Faces were moving.
Even Saliss of Lights couldn’t stop the inevitable. But the Guild weren’t sitting on their laurels either.
 
—-
 
“Deploy every [Assassin] in the area to Invrisil. That cure does not leave the city. Mark the Runners.”
The orders were coming in fast, sometimes overlapping, contradicting themselves. The trick was…Ferin the [Trapmaster] settled back and chewed on some of the dried jerky. He could have asked for better, but the Djinni driver was prioritizing speed over comfort.
Four shapes sat in the coach—two had just entered. The Unmarked Coach sped south. They had been deployed at First Landing. Now—they were moving towards the newest threat.
“I don’t understand. Why would this Drake risk it? And why are the employers panicking? Even this ride can’t get to Invrisil before the Drake’s deadline expires. The pink carriage Reinhart used would take hours and there’s nothing faster.”
One of the [Assassins] was grousing. Ferin raised his brows.
“We might have to destroy the cure if the Guild makes a stand. There are Couriers in the city.”
“Damn. I don’t want to kill my favorite.”
Someone else muttered. The coach fell silent. After a moment, one of them, a [Mage] who had helped attack Reinhart’s coach, looked straight at Ferin.
“You think this is a mixup? Maybe the special target we’re not supposed to go after?”
“Can’t be. It’s not a Drake.”
“Huh. Then this is just a crazy Named Adventurer?”
“Ever met one that wasn’t?”
Quiet chuckles. But then more orders snapped through the carriage and the Faces sat up. One sighed and produced a ledger.
“Time to work. Let’s see…here. It was a pain getting this before I got on the coach. Take it, make notes. We’ll pass it on.”
He passed the sheaf of papers to Ferin. The oldest [Assassin] in the coach looked at a list of names. And…profiles.
“What’s this?”
“Any Runner that might go after the bounty? Any to watch and mark? This is every Runner in Invrisil, Celum, Liscor, Pallass—we’ll watch them.”
The [Trapmaster] nodded. It was standard work. Mark the dangerous targets, the ones who might actually try to grab the cure. He looked down—and one of the names near the top, since the list was organized according to the ranking—caught his eye.
“You.”
He murmured it quietly. It was a familiar face.
Oh. So that’s who you were, young woman. Regrettable, really.
Ferin stared down at Ryoka Griffin; it was an illustration rather than a picture, but still good enough to capture her likeness. He wavered with the quill in his hand. He had rather liked her. But…his loyalty to the Guild was one thing. Marking her another. She was surely not that kind of fool, was she? He debated for a brief minute.
One of the other Faces leaned over in the Unmarked Coach. She peered at the entry Ferin was dithering over, bared her teeth.
“The Wind Runner of Reizmelt? I hope you marked her. That’s the one who woke the Archmage of Izril, isn’t she?”
The [Assassin] who’d handed Ferin the list started.
“What? Oh, she’s already marked. Cross her off the list. Sorry.”
Ferin did so. He moved down the list, circling a certain Emergency City Runner whom he’d heard was known for a short temper. Then he passed on the dossier. He sat back.
Don’t try it, Miss Ryoka Griffin.
The [Assassin] had little other than his short meeting with her to go off of. And a rational person would never assume someone would risk it. Not a City Runner, not with every eye on the Runner’s Guild.
He did not know Ryoka Griffin. But the Wind Runner’s friends—did.
 
—-
 
Ryoka Griffin felt like it was snowing outside. Like the air was freezing, the sky dark, instead of bright. A blizzard was coming. She heard distant howls.
She felt her skin chilling. Then—she heard the clash of weapons, felt her heart beating—the Necromancer’s castle lay ahead.
She had a map. Just a map. With lovely roads and cities and…it was a long way. She traced her finger. She’d have to go off-road. They couldn’t scry her. That was huge.
“One hundred miles, two…”
An urge to giggle overtook her. She was mad. She was crazy. She…felt at her bag of holding. She checked the gear she wore.
Armor would slow her down. But maybe she should beg for the enchanted leather armor she’d sold to Hedault? Her finger trembled.
Vail Forest. You’d cut through that if you went along this route. Looked like hell. Sticks and stones for countless miles. But could someone find you in there? Well, just to reach it…
Her heart was thundering. Her mind…was calm. It kept trying to race, and part of Ryoka kept silencing it.
Memento mori. She had one of her own. The little figurine of ice sat on the table, freezing and condensing the air. Ryoka kept looking at it.
What else could she get? There were a few things. Just a few. She had a Courier’s gear. She just needed…
Ryoka walked out of her room and saw the little Gnoll staring up at her. Mrsha sat there, in the hallway. The Wind Runner stopped.
“M—”
She couldn’t bring herself to say it. Mrsha turned and fled. Ryoka watched her run down the stairs. She shook herself. Later.
She had two hours. A bit less, now. Ryoka was moving slow and fast. The air was trying to hold her back. But the wind—when she called, the wind would have to blow so hard—
But first, Ryoka walked downstairs. The inn was silent. Like Invrisil, like the continent, perhaps, people were watching the news. Saliss had come through here. They were silent. Uncertain. Afraid or just spellbound.
“Kevin. Where’s the bike?”
The [Mechanic] nearly fell out of his seat. He spun, saw Ryoka. His jaw dropped.
“Ryoka? The bike?”
“Ryoka?”
Joseph looked up from his table. Rose twisted. Galina, Troy, Leon, even Imani, looked up at her. Ryoka tried to smile.
