“That’s…Maviola of the House of El. I heard she was dead. Or…”
Sir Relz stared. The [Lady] rose from her saddle, riding high in the stirrups. The [Assassins] were following in a huge mass. But every eye was on her.
“Grandmother.”
Deilan El stared at Maviola’s face. So did the rest of the House of El. And not just the House of El.
At this time, they were all watching. Magnolia from her ship, seeing the city she had left in flames. Tyrion Veltras.
Ulta Terland.
The House of Wellfar. Gresaria, from First Landing, seeing her old friend laughing wildly. The [Harbormistress] felt something move in her old chest. Maviola El cried out, shouting at the skies and the watchers.
At Bethal, Pryde, Laken, Rie, Ieka, Yitton—and so many others. Traitors and the Flowers of Izril! Cowards! She shamed them, riding there.
“My name is Maviola El!”
The [Lady] cried. She held the banner aloft. A flag of white, peace. Behind her came the Guild of Assassins, shadows. The [Lady] pointed a finger as a group tried to cut her off.
A ball of fire flashed from her finger and blew them off their horses. [Fast Fireball]. Maviola drew something in her other hand. It ignited, burning the air with magic.
A Kaalblade. She swung the sword as she passed one of the dehorsed [Assassins]. Like a cavalry veteran, she beheaded the figure. Ryoka rode after her.
“That’s…a bike. And that’s…batman.”
Aaron stared at Ryoka. He had heard her voice. And remembered. The [Mages] turned. Ryoka’s hair streamed behind her. Saliss of Lights ran behind them as Maviola’s voice sang out again.
“I have given my life for Izril! My brother fell defending our home and I have carried his memory in me! I burned our foes to ash! My House has given its lives a hundred, a thousand thousand times to defend this land! I did not spend every year and second of my life to see my home fall to rot and cowardice!”
Her words stirred her listeners. Maviola raised the banner higher. Her hair, her eyes, were igniting. The banner was glowing. Maviola shouted.
“Rise, for the House of El! Wake, stone! Rage, listeners! For pride and justice!”
The banner burst into flame. It burned like gold. Like a dying life. Maviola lifted it.
“To arms! Deliver the cure to the House of Veltras! I call you to take up arms! Rally, for the honor of the Five Families! For Izril, ride with me!”
Her words rang. Ryoka’s head rose. She saw Saliss laughing. Erin Solstice looked after Maviola as her gold fire burned. Her glory.
“Oh.”
Erin Solstice had known every person she had summoned. Every guest of her inn, however temporary. She had called them all, and begged every favor she couldn’t repay. Now—Maviola was doing the same.
And she had lived a century on these lands. Her enemies and friends heard her cry. And the Circle’s spell of [Fear]—
Ended.
 
—-
 
Ryoka Griffin rode with Maviola El and Saliss. The [Assassins] poured down the road, striving to keep up with the three. [Haste] spells allowed them to match the speed of the others.
“They’re gaining—”
“Not for long.”
Saliss tossed a potion behind him coated with a levitation tonic. It hovered, like a landmine in the air—detonated.
The [Assassins] dodged out of the way. The [Alchemist] cursed.
“I hate dodgers! Get ready—”
The first Face aimed a bow as he rode at Ryoka. She conjured the wind and a whirlwind of sand out of her bag of holding. It covered the [Assassins] and they choked, swearing.
Saliss tossed three potions. They didn’t dodge these ones.
“Nice!”
“Ahead! Watch the front!”
Maviola threw fire—but the coach’s walls resisted the glowing blue fire. Ryoka turned her bike. Saliss took aim. They would not stop! They would not fail to deliver this cure.
Not one was a Courier. Couriers had failed. But—the [Alchemist] webbed the wheels of the first coach and it skidded to a stop. Ryoka dumped caltrops in the way of the [Assassins] trying to follow on foot. Maviola ignited the grass behind them, leaving a trail of fire.
The entire Guild was after them. The Circle of Thorns, fighting to hold onto Izril’s heart.
But Ryoka Griffin was not alone. Saliss, Maviola—the Wind Runner looked ahead.
“They’re gaining again! They must be overdosing on [Haste] potions or using Skills! They’ll tear their muscles off their bones. Right after they kill us!”
Saliss cursed. Ryoka shouted.
“Keep going!”
“They’re about to get us!”
“Keep going!”
The Drake turned. He ran past a braced figure on the ground. The Drake met the Human’s eyes for a moment.
“Silver Swords—charge!”
Ylawes burst upwards. His shield caught a charging [Assassin] on horseback. The figure went flying.
“[Champion’s Throw]!”
Dawil hurled an axe through the wheels of a carriage; the blade didn’t stop until it was embedded in the earth. He lifted his hammer.
“Falene!”
“[Acid Orb], [Lightning Bolt], [Arrows of Stone], [Forcewall]—”
The [Battlemage] unleashed her best volley of spells.
“Ylawes!”
Ryoka turned in her seat. The [Knight] raised his sword.
“The House of Byres! Go, Lady El!”
Maviola lifted her banner. Behind her, the Gold-rank adventurers engaged the wave of [Assassins]. Those insane—
“On! You can’t help them! We have countless leagues to go! Saliss—”
“I’m on foot! [Double Potency]—”
The Drake grimaced as he downed another Potion of Haste. He sped up, leaving Ryoka behind. Maviola’s mare accelerated and Ryoka felt the bike jump as she tried to keep up. How fast were they moving?
How far did they have to go?
 
—-
 
“Marvelous. Now that is a [Lady] of Izril. Can we not support them in some way?”
They were all watching. Knight-Commander Calirn looked up. The Fall’s Sentinel pursed his lips.
“We could invoke the grand ritual, Knight-Commander, but it may be too soon. And the cost—”
“Have we no agents in Izril? Send for any [Knight] of our Order! Of Terandria’s orders! If only Dame Talia were still there—”
The [Knight-Commander] saw the trio racing across the landscape. Who was that [Knight] who had stopped them with two comrades? An adventurer?
 
—-
 
“They’ve been running for an hour.”
“And Fierre? Where is she?”
Colfa Lischelle-Drakle didn’t know. She was watching with Himilt, Bamer—everyone was gathered around the scrying orb in Reizmelt’s Runner’s Guild. The Pithfire Hounds and some of the adventurers had gone racing for horses—as if they were even close to Invrisil.
But the sight of the Wind Runner had lit a spark in them all. Himilt shook his head.
“I didn’t see her. But she is probably safe.”
“Hey—is there a scrying orb here?”
Someone pushed into the Runner’s Guild. An old man fought to get through the crowd. He was panting.
“Who’s that?”
“I know her! That’s the Wind Runner? Isn’t it? Is it—”
[Farmer] Lupp pushed forwards. He saw Ryoka as Himilt moved forwards to let him through.
“Aren’t you Lupp? Ryoka mentioned you.”
The [Farmer] halted. He was out of place in this crowd. His face was ashen; he was panting.
“I rode here. One of my neighbors told me Miss Ryoka was—is she alive?”
“Alive. They’ve been running for an hour.”
“An hour?”
“They have too far to go. Himilt—”
“That’s a Named Adventurer they’ve got, Colfa. Miss Ryoka has a chance. They’re moving at Courier speed. Top speed. But the [Assassins] are slowing ‘em down.”
“Here—why can we see them? They’re giving their positions away!”
Colfa’s eyes widened as Lupp pointed out the obvious. The Drakes were commentating, but no one was listening to Noass and Sir Relz.
“Everyone’s scrying them, Master Lupp. But you’re right. They keep dodging traps. The Guild’s blocking the roads. See—”
Bamer was pointing. The trio was running across a field, cutting through some farmer’s recently-harvested wheat. They had abandoned the road. Lupp’s fingers twisted in his straw cap, a copy of a scarecrow’s.
“Are they—Miss Griffin’s no great fighter. She told me so herself.”
“That Drake is. And that’s Lady Maviola El. I thought she was dead. She looks…alive. Young.”
Someone else murmured. Colfa reassured Lupp.
“Himilt, get some water for the poor man. Master Lupp, sit down. You’re about to pass out. They are fighting. But they’re running—they fought only twice. And they have a better shot.”
“You’re sure?”
Lupp sat down slowly, some color coming back into his face as the others made room. Colfa nodded.
“Yes. They aren’t alone.”
 
—-
 
“Hey, I take it back. This is really nice, except for my tail nearly getting caught in the wheels. I—oh hells.”
Saliss stopped pedaling, overbalanced. Ryoka, on foot, whirled. It had been an hour and a half since the Silver Swords had bailed them out. They were still running.
The Guild was closing in again. The Drake tumbled from the bike, rolled—and Ryoka ran back for it.
Nonstop flight for nearly an hour and a half should have left Ryoka a mess, especially at a sprint—or a mad ride. But Saliss’ potions were varied and effective. She was burning with energy.
Unfortunately, the Guild was coming again.
“Looks like three dozen. Fast ones.”
They were flitting across the forest, shadowing the three. Maviola slowed.
“You idiots! Get on that bike and move!”
“Easy for you to say! You’re on a horse! I get tired!”
Saliss bellowed back. He lobbed a potion and watched in resignation as they dodged it.
They were far west of Invrisil, having cut that way rather than northwest, where all the roads were blockaded. Ryoka gritted her teeth as she leapt onto the bike.
“Here we go! I’m running out of caltrops, but I can blow them—”
“Just give me wind! I’ll burn the forest down!”
“Are you crazy?”
Maviola El was baring her teeth. Ryoka cursed as she rode forwards. Saliss was muttering.
“Lightning? Let’s see them dodge lightning…”
A ragged howl cut through the air. Ryoka jerked and Maviola looked up. She held up a hand as the three prepared to fight.
“Hold on. I think—”
The [Assassins] turned. And Ryoka saw the first bounding shape leap through the forest. The [Assassin] slashed wildly, and the dog howled, but the second and third grabbed the man and bore him down. And more—
Suddenly, there were dozens of dogs for every [Assassin]. A hundred throats howled and a huge, furred shape crashed after them.
They were on House Radivaek’s lands. Saliss whistled.
“And here I thought Gnolls only lived in the south.”
Ryoka saw the [Dog Lord] racing on all fours after his pack. The dogs tore the [Assassins] to pieces. They followed a half-man, half—
“[Beastform]. Lord Gralton!”
Maviola lifted the still-burning banner of glory. The [Lord] howled and his pack howled too. Ryoka saw the [Lord] looking at her. For Maviola? Or a delivery of aid?
She raised a hand and ran.
 
—-
 
After the second hour, the King of Destruction was made aware of the run. He roused himself from his nap.
The war in Chandrar was a background to this. After two hours—he stared at the replay of the events, a summation, and the three, continuing onwards.
Gralton’s dogs had raced with them to the edge of his lands, but even they couldn’t keep up. Flos Reimarch’s eyes narrowed.
“The Lady of the House of El? What a fine [Bannerlady] she would be. I think I met her. Fearless. Old, I thought…a Potion of Youth?”
“Yes, my King.”
Venith stood with Flos in the palace. Nerrhavia’s armies were pushing the border, but their slower-moving infantry had yet to support the marauding chariots. Soon—Flos Reimarch’s eyes narrowed.
“Is that Drake…naked?”
 
—-
 
He was incredibly naked, and the broadcast kept zooming in on the trio. Almost reflexively, Az’kerash cast a spell as they paused.
They were reapplying [Haste] spells. He saw the panting horse perk up as the [Alchemist] offered it a stamina potion. But too many and the steed would drop dead. The Humans were better—but he still saw Ryoka Griffin gulping down water.
A blur engulfed the Drake’s nether regions.
“Master, why is that Drake naked?”
“Saliss of Lights is…a unique individual.”
Az’kerash turned to Bea. He had no desire to explain the complexities of whatever Saliss was to them. But he was watching. He had been alerted despite the distractions of teaching his Chosen and working on his newest creation.
Ryoka Griffin. She should not die. Or else his plans…the [Necromancer] studied her. And so did the [Witch].
“What is this?”
She peered at the two Drakes commentating. Drassi had entered Pallass to shove Noass out of the booth. They were talking about the three. After a fifteen second delay—Drassi shuddered.
“—sorry, Noass. Felt like someone was walking on my tail for a second there. Weird.”
Az’kerash glanced at Belavierr. But her eyes were suddenly locked on the screen.
“I know that young woman.”
“Ryoka Griffin?”
“She…is friends with my daughter.”
The Necromancer’s head slowly turned. Now that was a coincidence too grand to be…
“I see. It would be inconvenient if the Circle of Thorns were to slay her. I am…endeavoring to ensure that does not happen.”
“Ah. Are you also a member?”
The Witch’s head turned. Az’kerash—blinked.
“You are a member of the Circle of Thorns?”
Belavierr’s ringed gaze met the white pupils and black eyes.
“And you are not.”
A clumsy error. Az’kerash was unused to the politics of wordplay after so long. He paused.
“I had considered it. But my agents are not…in the upper echelons of that society. And you?”
“I was. This seems to be a different Circle. I assume most of the members are dead after so many years.”
“How many years ago?”
Belavierr counted.
“Two thousand.”
Az’kerash nodded slowly as Bea looked at the [Witch].
“One would assume so.”
“Some members might live. I know that Runner. And that other one. That…fire…”
The [Stitch Witch]’s eyes widened fractionally.
“Maviola El.”
It was the first name she had spoken in all the time she had been with Az’kerash. That Belavierr remembered the name—Az’kerash looked into the orb.
“So she lives. I had thought her dead.”
“Her string is nearing its end. But she would burn rather than fade. So there you are.”
Belavierr’s eyes were shifting. Her fingers twitched. Suddenly—they were full of thread. Az’kerash could hardly have missed the magic. He whirled.
“Witch Belavierr. What are you doing?”
She looked up at him blankly. He reached out to stop her. Too late.
 
—-
 
“We’re not resting. If you can’t keep up—”
Saliss was panting as he ran. Ryoka looked at him.
“You’re the one out of breath.”
“I…was…going to…stealth…my way there! You’re the damned idiots who blew my plan up! And Xif! I’m going to shave him bald!”
“I will help. If we survive—”
