They were serious. Someone began to hum as they walked forwards. A young man, Teor, next to Crimshaw, following the Gentlemen Callers. He sang a children’s song, a nursery rhyme. And the others picked it up. Not all sang it well. But the haunting tone moved down the street.
 
“The night’s been long and the bodies are wet, 
But don’t you fret; be quick and ain’t not a guard who’ll be upset
The good folk are rising, and we’re off to our beds,
The smart thieves away with the loot and the slow ones are dead.”
 
The other gangs were panicking. The [Assassin] just stared, transfixed. She might have heard the rumors. But some gave them no credence.
The Brothers of Serendipitous Meetings walked without their hats.
But why were they here? The answer was simple, as so many things were:
Someone had asked them to come. She had given them a choice. Presented the odds, the risks, and the rewards, which weren’t things you could hold. You couldn’t say fairer than that, could you? They had talked it over. And come to a simpler conclusion.
A gentleman did not let a lady cry.
 
—-
 
“Hold those barriers! Hold ‘em or we’re dead!”
Wailant Strongheart speared an [Assassin] by throwing his cutlass. The fellow—or lass—hadn’t expected that. He grabbed the blade, yanked it out of the body as it collapsed, and retreated behind the glowing walls of magic. Yet there were so damn many. He’d heard the Guild of Assassins had more bodies than a fly’s nest—but they were coming nonstop, firing arrows, loosing enchanted pellets from slings—
People were fighting around him. Runners, [Mages], and the guests of The Wandering Inn. Palt was blowing a cloud of fumes that choked the [Assassins]. But the small group was pinned down.
They were in a defensive battle, under siege in the sewers. Montressa, Salamani, and the other [Mages] had up barriers and they were fighting with the [Assassins].
“It was a damned ambush! We have to retreat! Viceria, teleport!”
Wailant roared at his wife, who’d conjured vines out of the sewer’s muck to drag [Assassins] down. She was being sheltered by the half-Giant. Arrows stood out in Moore’s arm from the first volley. Viceria refused to budge.
“Not yet! Ryoka’s out there—”
“We’re about to be overrun! There’s some bastards out there—Faces—”
Someone was fighting past the barriers. Jelaqua Ivirith was Rampaging, tossing the [Assassins] around with every swing of her flail in her Raskghar’s form. But Wailant saw a figure step out of one of the dying [Assassin]’s shadows. He carried a longsword. And as Jelaqua twisted—
Snick. Her head fell off. The slice was that fast. Her body staggered, began swinging the flail in every direction. Selphid. But the [Assassin] was already stepping out of a shadow well out of range. And this was the sewers. Shadows were everywhere.
“That’s a Face.”
The [Mages], Runners, and others stopped fighting for a moment as Jelaqua slowed. The [Shadowmaster Assassin] stepped forwards. He pointed his sword at the group.
“[Beheading Slice]. Give up before someone actually dies. You don’t want this to go further and we don’t want to waste Skills and bodies on you.”
The others looked at each other. That one could go straight through the barriers. Wailant grabbed Viceria’s arm. Teleport. She pointed.
Garia was breathing hard, covering Fals—she’d knocked several [Assassins] into the sewer’s sludge with punches and kicks, but she wasn’t prepared for this. It was supposed to be a diversion.
“What do we do? Salamani?”
The [Mage] was aiming his wand at the largest group of [Assassins].
“Ryoka’s group might have been ambushed. You. [Assassin]. We’ll walk away if you do—”
“No. Surrender and we guarantee you won’t be harmed. But you won’t interfere. By the Guild, I promise that.”
“You trust their word?”
Montressa hissed. Wailant looked behind them.
“We’re surrounded, Mage Montressa. We might have to trust it.”
More shadows from the other side. The others wavered. Seborn spat.
“They’re going to shadow-step in. I can’t stop them all. It’ll be a massacre. Throw down your weapons. Unless you can stop that?”
“I can try—but it’s an advanced—”
The [Assassin] was losing his patience.
“There will be no second quarter. I said—”
Thump. The sewers shook. Wailant saw mortar and stone shifting, dust and muck showering down. Everyone tensed.
“What in the depths was that?”
The [Shadowmaster Assassin] didn’t know either. He gestured to one of the others.
“Find out what that was. The rest of you—”
Thwoom. Or—some other sound. Wailant didn’t really know. He went deaf as the street imploded above the [Assassins], showering them with rubble and masonry. The surface collapsed into the sewers!
The faster [Assassins] escaped, jumping away, using Skills—but a quarter of them went down with screams. The [Shadowmaster] leapt out of another shadow.
“What was th—”
“[Flurry Blades].”
Seborn emerged from his shadow. The [Shadowmaster] screamed as the [Rogue] slashed him four times. He vanished and reappeared, away from Seborn.
“Kill th—”
“Loose!”
He jerked. Wailant saw a shower of fletched bolts appear in the [Shadowmaster]. The Face dropped without a sound. Seborn recoiled. Everyone fell silent.
They looked up. The other [Assassins] stared upwards as the voice shouted again.
“Reload. Aim. Volley!”
A second flight of arrows. The [Assassins] dove for cover. Wailant stared up through the clouds of dust. What in the name of Selphid’s tits was going on up—
Then he saw the first Drake [Crossbowman], kneeling in rank formation. And the blue-scaled Drake pointing downwards.
“Olesm?”
Palt’s cigar dropped out of his mouth. Why was he—?
 
—-
 
Something was happening. Bethal had watched the standoff and the Drake—Saliss of Lights—telling jokes for nearly two hours. Well, not directly. The two [Commentators] were talking about the standoff. It seemed like Saliss’ cure would go to waste despite it all.
But now—she heard shouting. Drassi, who had been sitting with her earholes plugged, looked up.
“I think—something just happened. Scrying orb with me.”
“Aw. But I was going to tell the joke about—huh.”
Saliss looked up. The viewpoint changed. Drassi hurried to the window of the Runner’s Guild. The street, which Bethal had seen full of the hired thugs and shadowy figures, was suddenly changed. She saw them flitting backwards, away from…
“What am I seeing, Thomast?”
Her husband made no immediate reply. He was staring at the banners. And the people—men and women, marching forwards. They were…Human? Then Lady Bethal’s eyes widened.
“It can’t be…”
 
—-
 
Why were they here? It was simple. Someone had asked them to come.
“Lord Sanito—yes. Straight through. She wanted to speak with you—here, milord.”
The [Guard] showed Lord Sanito to the place where he’d installed the magic door. Alman of House Sanito was annoyed; he hadn’t scheduled a delivery. But someone rather than something had come through the door.
He saw her standing there. A familiar young woman. Not tall or as impressive as some people you never forgot, not a [Warrior]. Just a young, Human woman. An [Innkeeper]. But because it was her, he would never have forgotten her face.
“Miss Erin Solstice? Is something wrong?”
The [Lord] stopped. And he stared, because something was wrong. Surely.
She was crying, a bit. Standing there, looking at his mansion, at him, as he slowed. Her cheeks were wet. Tears trickling down her face. But she ignored them. As if there were nothing wrong with her tears.
It unnerved the man. Tears were not something Alman was familiar with. From his wife, perhaps. But himself?
Lord Alman Sanito had told his son not to weep when he was four. It made a man weak, or so Alman’s father had told him at the same age. As if, young Alman had thought, tears were a crack in the stone that your courage could leak from.
“Miss Solstice. Is something the matter?”
That was all he could think to say. The [Innkeeper]’s head rose. She looked at him.
“I forgot you had a family, Lord Sanito. Not you, then. But I need your help. I don’t have much time. We don’t have much time.”
He blinked, uncomprehending. The [Innkeeper] walked forwards.
 
—-
 
She had ignored the guards he’d sensibly posted on the door. Or talked them into letting her pass. The old [Lord] listened, of course. She had more than earned that despite the impropriety.
“Time, Miss Solstice?”
Her next words scared him terribly. She looked him in the eye. Her eyes were still red.
“Lord Toldos. Do you have any regrets?”
The last heir to House Everight, old Lord Toldos Everight, stirred in his seat. Erin looked at him. She went on.
 
—-
 
“Zevara. Is there such a thing as right and wrong?”
The Watch Captain’s scales were tingling. She pushed herself back from her desk.
“What do you want, Erin Solstice?”
 
—-
 
His arms were folded. He would have thrown her out but for her question.
“Do you believe in good and evil, Grimalkin?”
His eyes narrowed.
 
—-
 
He knew. They knew. But still—he waited for her to convince him.
“Do you believe in debts? Chaldion?”
“I do. But I don’t know if you have the kind you need to call on now, Miss Erin.”
She stood there. Smiling. Crying. It was hard to tell which was which. And she shook her head and surprised the [Grand Strategist].
 
—-
 
The Brothers listened. The [Innkeeper] looked around their home that was never quite a home, but close.
“I’ve come to ask you to fight. Maybe to die, far from your home, for someone you don’t know.”
“And we owe you a debt?”
Crimshaw murmured. Erin shook her head.
“No. The exact opposite. Whatever I’ve done—this isn’t the kind of thing you owe me. I’d be in debt. I don’t have the right. And I have every right. I—am not asking you for a favor. I can’t repay that kind of favor. I will try. But I will never succeed.”
 
—-
 
She pointed at the old [Lord] and his retainers. Her eyes were clear, now. And Lord Toldos almost flinched from the finger.
“Lord Toldos. I am calling you to arms.”
He hesitated. And he said—
 
—-
 
“—You do not have that authority. Nor are we allies, Miss Solstice. We are not on friendly terms. Why should I risk my life for your cause?”
Grimalkin of Pallass looked at her, recalling how they had last parted. She met his gaze.
“It’s not about whether we like each other, Grimalkin. It’s because I need your help. And because when you need me, I will be there so long as I’m alive. And you are one of the few people who can help. And because…”
 
—-
 
She looked around at them.
“…It is the right thing to do. And you are men who believe that right and wrong exist, aren’t you?”
She saw them chuckling. Laughing. She had them there, you had to admit it.
 
—-
 
Chaldion’s eye gleamed.
“For someone you don’t even know?”
“For my friend. She’ll die. And I’m selfish. Just like her.”
Erin was crying again. She shook her head.
“It’s so easy for Ryoka. She might die, but it’s harder to ask people to fight for you. That’s the only thing I’ll ever say. Because I’m a monster. I was too cowardly to become a [General]. But I’ll ask again. Again—I don’t want my friends to die. But my guests, my inn, isn’t enough. I need—an army. So I am asking you.”
She raised her hand. Both she and Chaldion stared at it. Erin held her glowing, golden ring up. The [Grand Strategist]’s eyes widened.
“My ring is glowing. Do you know what it means?”
He inhaled once. How had he missed it?
“Yes. How did you get that? No—”
He looked at her.
“Who were you?”
Who were you before you came here? She only smiled. It was not who she was. It was who she became.
 
—-
 
The same smile. The same person. It still brought her to tears. Selys rested her head on her friend’s shoulder.
“Why you? Why her? Why me? Why us, Erin? Every time?”
Selys’ eyes were filled with tears. Erin looked at her friend. She hugged Selys tight.
“Because we don’t run away. Stay safe.”
She walked through her door, changing the position of the stones. She asked them, each and every one.
After Chaldion, she returned to her room and took the ring off her finger. Erin regarded it, then put it on top of her dresser, in her room. So that was what it did. She didn’t need it for what came next.
Not this time.
The [Innkeeper] walked out of her inn. People were waiting. She saw Wailant storm through the door and looked past him. She nodded.
Olesm stood there, adjusting his armor. He nodded back.
“I’ll see you in a moment.”
“Erin…”
She walked through the door. To Invrisil.
 
—-
 
Now, the [Innkeeper] heard the first explosion. She saw the [Guardsman] start.
“Watch Captain?”
“I—I should check that out, shouldn’t I? I’ll be right back, Miss Emme—”
He was no Zevara. He was one of Invrisil’s Watch Captains. Erin saw the Dwarf woman, who had been plying him with autographs and tickets and a bit of wine, glance up. Erin was sitting in the Watch Captain’s office. She nodded.
“It might be the Guild of Assassins. Better to leave it, right?”
The man hesitated. His look was guilty.
“Er…yes. Perhaps. My lads are brave, but—there’s that and death, right, Miss…Miss Solstice? Miss Emme?”
Death. Erin nodded. She strolled over to something in the man’s office.
“So you’re a Watch Captain—not the Watch Commander. But you can raise the alarm, huh? With this horn? Is it a signal or just one thing?”
“Oh, you’d blow it four times. But please don’t touch—”
Erin picked up the enchanted horn. The Watch Captain hesitated as she lifted it to her lips. Then she looked around.
“Oops. Window.”
“Miss. Miss, what are you—”
Erin blew the horn before he could get out of his chair. Four times. It was loud. Emme clapped her hands to her ears. It rang throughout the city. Citizens looked up. That was—they began to run for the nearest door.
To help them out, Erin leaned out of the window. She’d asked Emme what was appropriate.
“A Flesh Giant is attacking the city! Five of them! Get inside!”
Someone in the streets looked up in horror. They stopped, stared at Erin, and then ran, screaming. Then she turned.
The Watch Captain was frozen with sheer horror. Also, an internal vision of his job evaporating. She handed the horn to him. He moved to grab her.
Erin drew her knife. The man recoiled. She plucked a jar of acid from her belt.
“Stay here, Emme. It’s time.”
“Erin—”
The [Innkeeper] walked down the stairs.
 
—-
 
