Olesm was prepared to loose all forty long-range shots in the hopes of making the [Assassins] take cover or wounding one—but they kept dodging—and he popped out of cover with three decoys.
No crossbow bolt or arrow took his life. He looked up.
Three [Assassins] were lying on the street. The rest were fleeing. Someone was loosing arrows at them! But who—Olesm’s head turned. And then he saw and felt the battlefield shifting.
 
—-
 
“They’re drawing back.”
Wailant’s group had joined the Brothers as they made for the Guild. The [Assassins] stood in force there, a proper army. Even the Brothers had failed to advance—Wilovan pulled an arrow out of his shoulder.
“Poisoned. Would someone check if they have an antidote before I expire? I do have six hours, mind. No matter how deadly that was. No rush if anyone else is in a spot of bother.”
High-level. Wailant raised his brows. But the Gentlemen Callers, Grimalkin, and perhaps some of the Gold-ranks were few and far between. And that had been a near-instantaneous arrow-hit from one of the Faces over a thousand paces away.
“Something’s happening. They’re moving. Why?”
Montressa squinted at the [Assassins]. They’d been pushing back everyone. But now—they were moving down the street. Reacting to some new threat. Palt’s head slowly rose.
“Do you…feel that? Bezale? Mons? That can’t be real, can it?”
The other two Wistram [Mages] looked up. Montressa’s eyes went round. She’d been loosing lightning from her brass orb. Now—her jaw dropped.
“That’s—”
Wailant saw the sky change color. He looked up—and the sky turned grey.
“Weather spell?”
“The wind—”
Ryoka Griffin, crouching with them, got no further. The sky split. And a hundred bolts of lightning struck a part of the city in the distance.
Everyone looked up. Palt dropped his cigar again. Montressa breathed.
“That has to be—”
 
—-
 
Xrn. The Small Queen floated in the air over the desolation. Black bodies lay around her. She raised her staff higher.
Belgrade remembered to speak after a moment.
“Loose. [Mark Target]. Reload. Aim. Loose. [Mark Target]. Reload—”
Archery Squads A to D stood on the rooftop, loosing arrows. The Workers were shooting rapidly. But the [Archer] who’d shot down the [Assassins] at extreme range was even higher up.
“Hmm, hmm…”
Bird took aim from the top of his new tower. He saw a distant shape, loosed—the arrow curved as it homed in on the [Assassin], flying improbably far.
The figure dodged, cartwheeling. But the second and third arrows were already landing. Bird had calculated how far they dodged with their basic dodge Skill and put two arrows to the left and right; they didn’t like dodging forwards or backwards as much.
If you relied on Skills—he watched the figure crumble, the arrow in its belly. Bird sighed.
“Birds are harder.”
The [Assassins] looked up. The Small Queen floated in the air. Next to the Worker. At first, the group hadn’t been noticed as they set up. They were the last to arrive.
They made the largest impact.
The [Assassins], the Circle of Thorns, the watchers—Drassi pointed up with a shaking claw.
“That’s—that’s—B—B—”
“Bird the [Hunter]!”
The cry went up from Invrisil. People hiding in their homes looked up and saw the Prognugator of the Free Antinium! How they had seen him on Pallass’ walls. The nobles of Izril, watchers staring into the orb heard the second name. Quietly uttered, this time in disbelief.
“The Small Queen. Xrn.”
She hovered there. Her staff glowed with the same magic as her eyes. When she spoke—her voice was perfectly amplified so that everyone heard it without her having to shout.
“Hello, Humans. My name is Xrniavxxel. You call me the Small Queen of the Antinium.”
“Kill her.”
The Thorns of Death ordered it without hesitation. The [Assassins] changed targets. They streamed towards her.
Dozens of lightning bolts flashed down from the sky. They left…fire…where they impacted. They were red. Burning lightning. The [Thaumaturge] smiled.
“This is an act of war! Is it war, Antinium?”
One of the [Assassins] shouted up at her, brandishing a buckler which had absorbed one of the lightning bolts. Xrn looked down at him, interested.
“I am simply doing a good deed. I am allowed to break rules to do a good deed. I did not know this, but it seems acceptable.”
“No Human will accept that. This land is ours! Return to your Hive!”
The [Assassin] raised his buckler. Xrn tilted her head back and forth. It was sound logic. Well, darn. If she couldn’t break the rules even to do a good deed—if the Antinium were the one exception—
“Very well, then. It is war.”
The Humans looked up. The Small Queen rotated in the air. She looked into the distant orb.
“I am telling you so you don’t have to ask. It. Is. War. War on your Guild of Assassins. The Antinium are at war. So—advance.”
She pointed. Below her, a tide of figures moved. Antinium. Soldiers and Workers, painted. A giant led them, a few inches taller than the others.
Yellow Splatters. His voice boomed as they moved at the [Assassins]. Above—Xrn was engaging an entire flank. Soldiers thundered forwards. Workers with bows provided local cover.
They were here to fight and die. Because they had been asked. Was that enough? Perhaps not. Perhaps it was unfair. But they had been asked by her.
And she was there. How could they not try to protect her? Erin Solstice raised one of the spare knives at the back of the first wave of Antinium.
She threw the knife. It went through one of the black forms fighting in the streets. She took a breath, raised a jar, and threw it. Someone fell, screaming, burning.
Erin Solstice killed someone else. She could not—would not stay in hiding while she asked them to die. Nor would they die so easily.
The [Assassins] charged, enchanted blades cutting the air. They shot spells, [Fireballs], acid orbs of their own, [Lightning Bolts] at the Antinium who had no counter to—
The spells vanished. Exploded on shimmering air. The [Assassins] in the melee smacked into something.
“Forwards. Advance without fear. We will protect each other.”
A Worker with a staff and censer walked forwards. The [Assassins] launched a second barrage and their weapons failed to reach their targets. The [Priest] held his staff high, praying with two of his hands as he walked.
[Holy Barrier]. Their weapons hung in the air and then dropped. The air pressed them back, a physical barrier of light. But it did not touch the Antinium who marched under its aegis. They loosed arrows through the glowing light, felling [Assassin] and [Thug] alike.
“What kind of barrier spell is that?”
One of the [Assassins] pointed at the moving barrier. He snapped at the ranks.
“Break it! Dispel it!”
“It’s not magic! It’s not—”
“[Valmira’s Comets].”
Six glowing meteors blew their fortifications apart. Xrn was humming as she turned. She saw more [Assassins] coming.
“Ah. You are strong. Well then—”
Four Faces emerged from the ranks. They stepped over corpses; it was pointless to throw the Ranks at this enemy. So—here was a second foe on the level of Saliss of Lights. They were still the Guild of Assassins.
Xrn beamed. Time to reduce the war strength of humanity. She raised her staff.
“[Magical Field: The Somber World of Blue].”
A radius of…blue…engulfed a thousand feet around her. The [Assassins] dodged back. They looked at each other, tested the barrier. They couldn’t tell—
[Shadowstep]. [Hundredfold Stab]. [Antimagic Blade].
The first [Assassin] was a mage-killer. He appeared on Xrn’s back and his blade struck her. A hundred damn times.
She actually turned and knocked a few thrusts away. She was fast! But the blade got her! It sank into her chitin. She made a sound—
“[Blue Lightning].”
The Face exploded as the bolts of lightning struck him. Xrn righted herself and floated a bit lower. The other three Faces stared.
“He got her…”
Another drew an arrow, loosed it. Xrn didn’t even try to dodge. The arrow shot towards her—bounced off her chest.
That same arrow could kill an armored [Knight] in low-grade magical armor in a single shot. The [Thaumaturge] shook her head.
“Wrong color. [Blue Ray of Lesser Disintegration].”
Blue? Bl—one of the [Assassins] clutched at his leg, vaporized up to the knee and screamed.
“That’s not magic. That’s not fair.”
“Yes. So you [Mages] like to say before you die.”
Xrn pointed her staff.
 
—-
 
The Free Queen watched another [Assassin] vanish. She rubbed her palps together. It was silly to delight in it. But see how her Painted Antinium were doing? See—the fruits of her labor?
“More food, Garry.”
The Hives were in uproar. Wistram was in uproar. They were panicking. The Grand Queen’s voice snapped to the Free Queen.
“Xrn has declared war. This—is this so, Free Queen? Is there reason to go to war? Now?”
The Free Queen’s head rotated. She looked at the other Queens. And after a moment—she nodded. She chose each word with exacting care.
“Yes. As I chose my name—Bessachidia—I swear to you, Grand Queen. It is war. 109% war. Completely, without equivocation, war.”
The other Queens stirred. The Flying Queen’s mandibles opened. Oh.
“Ah. I see. Then we must march the Hives north. Prepare the armies. We will invade north Izril at once.”
The Armored Queen rumbled. The Silent Queen nodded.
“Let us make peace with the Drakes. To war.”
The Free Queen nodded. She posed there, like one of the portraits of Human leaders. She hoped Wistram Academy got her good side.
 
—-
 
Hellfire. Ryoka Griffin ran. The [Assassins] were in full retreat. The Brothers were advancing. Pressing them back with Xrn killing their best. And—a huge Drake had just appeared and killed an entire squad of them.
“Go.”
Grimalkin barked at Ryoka. He was making notes. Testing out his new camouflage-attack spell pattern. It was working well. He saw the Wind Runner making for the Guild. The Sinew Magus stared up at Xrn.
He was tempted to take his shot. But it wasn’t worth the risk.
“She unleashed the Black Tide on Invrisil. That damn—”
He turned, vanishing. The others saw Ryoka run for the Guild.
“Protect her! [Arrows of Light]!”
Palt, Montressa, Salamani, and every [Mage] present unloaded their spells to keep the [Assassins] under cover. Ryoka dove for the door. An [Assassin] leapt for her—
“Acid in the face!”
Saliss sprayed him, grabbed Ryoka, and yanked her into the Guild. Ryoka landed. She stared up at a nude Drake. He was gazing out the window as Drassi frantically commentated—
“Xrn in the skies, and it looks like Pallass as well as Celum, Liscor, Esthelm—”
“I didn’t think anyone was stupid enough to actually grab the cure. What is Erin thinking? She did this, didn’t she? I should have told her the plan! That damn Xif. I will burn down his shop and shave him naked for—oh. Don’t I know you?”
The Drake blinked at Ryoka. She stared up at him.
“The vial. The cure. I’ve come for—”
Saliss of Lights looked down at Ryoka. She saw the petrified Runner’s Guild, mostly in hiding, on the other side of the room. Two dozen [Assassins] were dead, neatly piled against the wall of the Guild. Saliss eyed Ryoka as she scrambled for the vault. The key was on the counter; the [Receptionist] had refused to even touch it.
“I’ve got it. I’ve—”
Ryoka turned the key and swung the vault door open. She reached for the vial—
Saliss caught her arm. Ryoka started. The Drake looked at her, sighed.
“No. Get lost. You suck. I want someone else.”
“Wh-what?”
Ryoka stuttered. Saliss looked at her and shook his head.
“It’d be awkward if you died. Don’t do this. It’s a trap, you know? I thought you were smart—okay, I thought someone would stop you. Why did you go for the vial? You know it’s a trap. Mrsha would know it’s a trap.”
“I had to—please, let me take it. Everyone’s fighting because of—”
Saliss threw up his claws. Ryoka seized the vial.
“I’m supposed to be the crazy one! I didn’t think Erin would—was that the Small Queen? She actually got an Antinium army to invade Invrisil. She. Is. Insane.”
He looked at Ryoka, like so many before. She just stared back, with much the same look in her eyes. Erin Solstice. One had made the cure. The other sought to deliver it. Erin—
Invrisil was at war.
“I have to try. I didn’t ask her to do this.”
Ryoka whispered. Saliss’ eyes flickered.
“You’re a good kid. Dumb as Edellein, but a good kid.”
He sighed, rubbing a claw against his snout.
“Okay. Okay. Damn. This is not how it was supposed to go. I’ll walk with you down one street. Can’t promise more than that. Honestly—you’d better start running the moment we get out of the door, Miss Griffin. And—surrender when they try to kill you, okay?”
He turned. Drassi half-swung the orb around. Then she clapped a claw towards it.
“This is Drassi. We’ve experienced technical difficulties on our end of the broadcast.”
“Drassi? What’s wrong? Is that your claw? Someone entered the Guild, didn’t they? Drassi!”
Noass was demanding from the other end of the broadcast. Drassi looked at Ryoka and Saliss. She waved her on, and mumbled.
“Technical difficulties. Stand by…let me just polish the scrying orb…”
 
—-
 
The Circle of Thorns, watching, felt the first real fear amid the surprise.
“Someone has the cure? Where are all the high-level [Assassins]! Kill that Antinium! Kill those Drakes!”
One smashed a fist on an armrest. Others, more cool-headed, were trying to figure out who it was.
“Saliss of Lights has left the Guild. Get me a scrying spell. It’s…the Wind Runner of Reizmelt? Ryoka Griffin. Stop her from leaving the city. Why can’t we lock onto her?”
“Who cares? Kill her.”
But it was getting harder by the second.
 
—-
 
Lord Tyrion Veltras watched. Jericha had brought the orb to him. He saw fighting in the streets. Lord Toldos was dead.
But Humans were fighting alongside Drakes. Antinium were in the city.
One was on the tallest tower in the city, loosing arrows and…singing. The [Assassins] were trying to kill him almost as much as Xrn and the Drakes. They were climbing the tower like roaches. Bird shot arrows down at them.
“Uh oh. Uh oh. I need covering fire. I have attracted their ire. Will I die? La—uh oh.”
Belgrade was trying to pick them off, but they were moving to the side of the tower his [Archers] couldn’t hit.
“Bird! Jump! Do you have a ring? Bird! Bird!”
The [Bird Hunter] drew a dagger with his free hand. He saw an [Assassin] flicking a dagger up to throw at him as she clung to the brickwork.
He loosed an arrow first, hit her. But more daggers, spells, were flying up. Bird saw a wand pointing.
“[Fire—”
