“We’ve done this before. At the riots in Invrisil. Oh, you missed that. Grand fight.”
“Hey Ryoka. You made Mrsha cry. I’m going to beat you with a chair—after we get you out of Invrisil!”
Jelaqua brightly waved. Ulinde joined her old friends from Wistram. They were coming through. The inn’s guests. People like—
Like Ryoka. Or Delanay. Or Fierre, for that matter, who was staring at Wesle. The former [Guardsman] was checking the enchanted sword.
“You’re [Actors]!”
“Nothing like it to cause a scene, is there? I hope that gives us some immunity.”
Kilkran beamed. Jasi shook her head.
“We’re going to cause a distraction. None of you are fighting. Hell, I’ll throw free autographs and tickets at the [Assassins] if it works. So what’s the plan? I assume there is one?”
They were all here. Ryoka felt weak at the knees. So worried. But—
The wind blew down the street, tugging at her hair. The City Runner’s heart stirred. She smiled.
“I don’t know how to thank you—”
“Then don’t bother. We’re wasting time. Just—give us something to boast about, huh? Deliver the cure, Wind Runner. We’ll get you to the Guild.”
Wailant laughed. Ryoka looked around. No Antinium or Goblins. Badarrow and Numbtongue were missing, as was Snapjaw. More than she could ask for. But—she took a breath. Then sighed.
“Let’s go.”
 
—-
 
The Wind Runner and her friends moved towards the secret tunnel’s entrance, a street away from the inn. The others began moving for the sewer entrance they’d have to jog down to assail the Guild and cause the distraction from below.
And yet—Mrsha was sniffling. No. No. She was afraid. And she knew there was reason to be afraid. Because—
“Let us out.”
Numbtongue was banging on the door to the Garden of Sanctuary. Mrsha clung to his legs. Badarrow was trying to get Snapjaw to help him climb through the dome’s opening. A few Fortress Beavers were watching, mystified, and Apista was buzzing around, nervously.
Lyonette had shut them in. She’d told the Goblins that Erin needed their help and then closed the door. Erin must have put her up to it because the door would not open for the Goblins or Mrsha.
Badarrow was scowling, growling at Snapjaw. But she just looked…Mrsha clung to Numbtongue. Don’t go. She had seen Wailant, the Halfseekers—but don’t go. She was so afraid. This wasn’t like last time. It wasn’t monsters or rioters.
It was [Assassins]. And more…
 
—-
 
“We’re nearly there. It’s through a [Cobbler]’s shop. Wait for the sounds of explosions and then—”
Delanay wasn’t trying to be stealthy. His red jacket and striking clothing weren’t good at stealthy, anyways. But he was being casual as he led Ryoka, Fierre, and Ulinde to the secret tunnel.
They’d added Ulinde because she was a [Spellslinger] and good backup. Salamani had offered to come, but he was too notable. Most of the [Assassins] would be drawn off by the diversion, anyways. Ryoka looked ahead towards the innocuous shop. A street away from the Guild…she nodded.
“It’s probably being watched. Let’s sit down at that café. The instant we hear…”
The four turned, walking casually down the street. Ryoka felt like hundreds of eyes were on her. She tried to seem natural. The air felt too still, too constricting. Soon, she’d need it to blow hard. But it was so hard to keep her cover.
Delanay was doing a great job—Fierre, less. Ulinde looked nervous and pale—Ryoka really didn’t know her that well. But she had volunteered.
The street was fairly empty. A group of gossiping young women at one table, some people excitedly watching an orb from a safe distance. A half-staffed café. But no one wanted to be near the Runner’s Guild.
Time was nearly up. There were fifteen minutes left—and Saliss was busy telling bad alchemy jokes to Drassi, who had plugged her earholes. Ryoka would have about ten minutes. Five minutes until the diversion. Probably a bit sooner. It would be like ten kinds of hell opening up under Invrisil’s streets. Bezale had been talking about caving in part of the sewer system.
“Anything to eat, Miss? Drink?”
A smiling [Waitress] came over. Ryoka jumped. She’d forgotten they had to eat something.
“Er—er—tea, please.”
“…What flavor, Miss? We have a list.”
The [Waitress] gave Ryoka a long look. The City Runner hesitated.
“Um. Can I see the list?”
Fierre covered her face. Delanay chuckled as Ryoka turned beet red. Ulinde grinned.
“I can recommend the mossy teas, Miss Ryoka. Excuse me, do you h—”
The [Waitress] swung the dagger up and slashed through Ulinde’s throat. Ryoka stared blankly as the Selphid [Spellslinger] recoiled, jerked back—and went over with three bolts in her chest.
“Ulinde?”
“Ryoka it—”
Fierre jerked. She slumped over. The dagger was in her back and two more crossbow bolts stood out in her shoulders. The [Waitress] eyed her.
“Damn. I didn’t think I killed her. Someone get the Selphid!”
Ryoka tried to rise, but she couldn’t. She tried to move—but something held her down. She could barely turn her head, croak…
“Delanay?”
She heard a weak sound. The bolts hadn’t gone through his old, enchanted leather armor, but it had clearly done some damage. Broken bones—he was trying to pull his crossbow out.
“You damn—”
The ‘[Waitress]’ stomped on his hand. Ryoka heard a crunch. She kicked him and then turned.
“Taken out. Sorry about your friend.”
She pushed Fierre out of the chair. The Vampire girl’s eyes were wide. She wasn’t breathing—and there was so little blood. She landed on the floor. Someone else was holding down Ulinde, who was struggling as her head flopped.
“Wh—wh—”
“We are the Sisters of Chell. And other idiots.”
The café—the gossiping young women—they were holding crossbows. The diners, some male, stood in their own group. They weren’t…Ryoka struggled. The wind!
—Did not come. She strained to call it, but felt only dead air on her face. The air in the street was—still. Too still! What was happening?
“You’re a gang?”
“Hired by the Guild. Do you think they would have put it just down to their [Assassins]? Or that they wouldn’t be watching for idiots? You are marked, Wind Runner. Hey, [Assassin], this good or do you want help in the sewers?”
“We have it.”
Someone appeared out of one of the shadows in the café. A proper [Assassin], female, peering at Ryoka. The Sister of Chell nodded. She gave Ryoka an almost-pitying look.
“You City Runners are as dumb as lizards. This is the third attempt we’ve stopped. Mind you, we’re doing this for your own good. Come with us.”
She seized Ryoka and began to drag her from the table. Ryoka tried to fight.
“Wind—”
A tsk. Another [Rogue] sauntered over. He was the one who’d put a crossbow bolt in Delanay and Fierre. He shook his head.
“[Clear Weather]. [Elemental Suppression: Air]. You really thought we couldn’t deal with someone like you?”
He squatted down as the Sister growled.
“Hey, someone give us a hand! Grab the poor kid. Did they put up a fight in the sewers?”
“Briefly.”
The [Assassin]—Ryoka’s world was one of increasing horror. She saw the [Rogue] grinning at her.
“Don’t worry, Miss Runner. You won’t die. If your friends in the sewer didn’t put up a fight, they’re probably only wounded. You’ll get to sit until that Drake adventurer’s taken care of. Won’t be long.”
He nodded in the direction of the Runner’s Guild. The man tapped Ryoka on the stomach with a foot.
“You’ll learn a little lesson. Nothing permanent. Just something for cheek. Don’t try and make it worse.”
“Hey. Get lost. We have this one.”
The Sister snapped. The [Rogue] growled, looking at her. It was the [Assassin] who slipped over, regarding Ryoka.
“Neither of you claim this one. She’s known to Magnolia Reinhart. We have questions for her. Leave her with me.”
Both criminals hesitated. But then the Sister let go and the [Rogue] stomped off.
“Tough luck, Miss.”
The Sister backed off, glaring at the [Assassin]. Ryoka looked up. Fierre. Fierre. They were dragging her and the other two away. It was all going wrong. Don’t be dead. But don’t do anything, Fierre. They’d seen everything coming.
Maviola El was right. Lyonette was right. The [Assassin] leaned down and Ryoka—
She wanted to live.
“We have a question for you, Miss Griffin. For your sake, I advise you to answer truthfully.”
 
—-
 
Lady Ieka Imarris received word about Ryoka Griffin too late. She dropped her teacup.
“Is she—?”
“The Guild is going to interrogate her, Lady Imarris. She and her accomplices are in custody. Both groups. One casualty.”
Ieka didn’t care about that. She rose.
“Countermand that order.”
“Lady Imarris, the Guild—”
The [Assassin] saw the [Mage Lady] point a finger at her. And the glowing spell made the black-clad figure hesitate.
“On my authority, do nothing to Miss Griffin and her friends. Bring her—yes, bring her here. To the storehouse nearby, that is. I have to prepare—”
The [Assassin] hesitated. But Ieka was already preparing an illusion spell.
“The Guild—”
“I am the Circle of Thorns’ agent in Invrisil. Do it now.”
That foolish girl. Brave, but…there was no point! Ieka would get whatever the Circle wanted from her. She just needed a disguise. She was pondering what to do or say. She had her own agenda, and Valeterisa might have good questions to ask.
“Aunt—something’s just occurred. Don’t ask why, but I’m in a position to ask that Runner you were interested in some questions under truth spell she cannot refuse. Do you—”
“Lady Ieka?”
“I told you to bring her—”
The [Lady] turned. But it wasn’t the [Assassin] who’d slipped out the window, but a [Maid]. The young woman cringed, and Ieka mollified her tone.
“Shadsi, what is it? I am rather busy.”
“I know, Lady Imarris. It is only—Lady Maviola El has announced herself to the guard. She wishes to speak to you. At your convenience?”
Maviola—Ieka’s jaw dropped. She hesitated.
“Admit her. Give her all refreshments. I will speak to her…very shortly.”
What on earth did Lady Maviola El want now? Ieka had thought she was nearly dead. And Ryoka Griffin—
The Archmage of Izril had questions.
 
—-
 
They’d killed the wind with their Skills and magic. That—that wasn’t fair. Ryoka Griffin struggled to move. But the [Assassin] was having two [Thugs] drag her down the street. They grunted; she certainly wasn’t helping and lifting bodies was hard work.
Foolish. Ryoka was praying the others were alive. That they’d surrendered. Oh, gods. Ulinde was dead. Wait—did that Sister of Chell say Selphid?
It was falling apart. She had known the Guild had employed the gangs. But now Ryoka saw it.
Half of Izril’s underworld and countless members of the expendable ranks, like Theofore had been. It was an army in Invrisil, in other cities.
She hadn’t had a chance. The Sister of Chell was tsking as she investigated Fierre’s body. She frowned.
“Wait, maybe she’s alive. My heartbeat Skill is picking up something…did you bastards use poison or can I heal her?”
Professional killers versus Runners. Different mentality, different style. They’d taken the wind.
Arrogant. Lyonette was right. Ryoka heard the other gangs laughing and calling out in the street.
“Think we’ll bag a Courier?”
“We’ll let the [Assassins] take them on. What about the Drake?”
“You want to fuck with a Named Adventurer? He’s alone, anyways. And about to leave. Let him go, I say. Oi—company.”
The procession paused. The [Assassin] turned, but relaxed. The Sister of Chell looked up. Ryoka, with great effort, raised her head. The [Rogue] who was leading his gang blinked, then scowled.
“Look who’s here to join the party. The hat bastards.”
“New orders. We’re taking this one elsewhere. With me.”
The [Assassin] had just received a [Message] on a scroll. The two [Thugs] grumbled, but changed directions. They headed back the way they’d come. The [Rogue] shouted as the other gangs jeered.
“Here for a job? Get lost, you idiots! This is our job, and no one wanted to hire you prissy bastards!”
The others on the street jeered as they resumed their posts. The [Waitress]-Sister hesitated.
“Hold up. Hey. Why are you lot…that’s a lot of them.”
She muttered to herself. Ryoka stared ahead.
A line of men was strolling down the street. About…thirty of them. Each one wearing some kind of cap.
There were tricorns, top hats, or close enough, simple caps, even a fez—it was a world unknown to Ryoka. Who liked hats that much?
These men. And they were…walking slowly. Chatting. But Ryoka had a sudden flash of insight.
The Sister of Chell had one at the exact same time. The others were jeering, laughing. But the Sister murmured.
“Oh. Rhir’s hells.”
She raised a hand and clenched it into a fist. The other Sisters looked up and stopped laughing.
The [Rogue] was less perspicacious. And he should have been. But he was sauntering forwards with the crossbow in his hands.
“Hey. This is our street. Why’re you here?”
He called out, a bit warily. And one of the men walking in front—a Gnoll, the only one in the group, turned to a Drake.
“We’re going for a walk, gentlemen. Just a group of fellows on a walkabout, as any honest and enterprising citizen is entitled to, surely.”
The other gangs deciphered that, then looked at each other. The Brothers had their stupid way of talking. But the Drake’s voice was just as light as he replied. And they knew those two.
“There’s no law against a fellow walking about, is there?”
“Yeah, but…”
The [Rogue] counted heads. And suddenly he stopped in the street. Someone muttered; the [Assassin] looked up as she caught the sudden susurration.
“Boss? My [Dangersense] just went off.”
“Hey now. Hey, whatever’s the matter—”
The [Rogue] put up his hands. The Sisters were backing up down the street. Ratici sighed. He looked at Ryoka’s fallen friends. He turned to his companion.
“Wilovan, I feel overdressed in situations like this, don’t you?”
“Ratici, you read my mind.”
“Hold on—”
But it was too late. As one, the line of Brothers…took off their hats. They dropped them in the street, tossing them behind. The hats they took so much care of.
“What did that mean?”
The [Assassin] turned to look at the two [Thugs]. But she only saw Ryoka, on her hands and knees. The [Thugs] had let go and drawn a dagger and mace. And they were backing up.
“You must be mad! There are four gangs on this street! The Guild paid us to—arms up!”
The [Rogue] was retreating backwards. He looked around and saw three gangs. The Sisters of Chell were legging it. And then the [Rogue] looked ahead and he realized—
