Maviola El was chatting to them as they ran. The [Assassins] had lost them after Lord Gralton’s lands. No doubt they were regrouping. But the three could at least manage a rushed conversation.
“Maybe I’ll buy that bike-thing. It just needs a tail-cover! Hold up—something’s coming.”
Saliss’ head rotated. His [Eyes of Appraisal] had saved them more than once and he was using multiple potions to enhance his body. His one flaw was that he was no Runner and was tiring. Ryoka slowed.
“What—”
The first storm of needles looked like black cloth and blood. They had gone through an ambush-squad of [Assassins], and the trees. Saliss’ eyes went round. Maviola and Ryoka screamed at the same time.
“Needle storm! That damned [Witch]—”
“Belavierr! Take cover!”
They looked at each other and then whirled. Maviola conjured a wall of fire. Saliss tossed potions and the needles exploded. But there were hundreds! Possibly thousands! Ryoka reached for her belt.
“[Wall of Stone]! Get behind me!”
A wall rose as she triggered one of the scrolls she’d kept. The other two dove behind it. Maviola forced her horse’s head down as the needles, some melting from the heat, hit the thick stone.
It sounded like gunfire. Saliss crouched.
“What in the name of the Ancestors is that? It’s like some kind of miniature [Steel Arrow] spell!”
“It’s Belavierr! The Stitch Witch! But why is she attacking—”
Ryoka had no doubt who it was. Maviola seized her.
“You have met the Temptress? Where? Did you accept her offer?”
“No! You know her?”
“I burned her!”
“Oh sh—they’re coming around!”
“Not for long. Gah, this is going to hurt!”
Saliss downed a potion. And then he rose—Maviola and Ryoka stared as a Minotaur with scales like armor rose. He posed like Grimalkin—
And the needles swinging around the barrier swept into Saliss. He bellowed as the needles broke.
“[Stoneskin Potion]! Ah! Ahh! That hurts so damn much!”
The needles fell from his skin as the first hail ceased. Ryoka scrambled upwards.
“We need to get to cover! She’s not going to stop!”
She ran with Maviola as the [Lady] grabbed some of Ryoka’s scrolls and sorted through them. The second rain of needles shot from straight above. Saliss swore as he tossed potions at them.
“[Wyvernhide Potions]! Split it with the horse! They’re thousands of gold each! Damn, damn—I’m going to kill that [Witch]!”
The second hail fell around Ryoka and she felt impacts striking her skin—but Saliss’ potion made them feel like pellets. She felt the force of them which caused the mare to rear, but the metal just bounced off, becoming inert.
“How long do we have?”
“Three minutes!”
“I can set up a wall of fire, but it will just shower us with molten metal.”
“Then don’t do that! Do you have any skill other than burning things?”
Saliss howled at Maviola. Ryoka was fumbling.
“We’ll put up walls of stone! From all sides! Let’s—”
She paused. Saliss looked up and stopped screaming. Maviola turned.
“—it’s stopped.”
 
—-
 
“I said, enough. I want her alive.”
Az’kerash held Belavierr’s hand. The [Witch] stared at him.
The air was thrumming. Toren fled and Bea held still, ready to touch Belavierr. Venitra, Kerash, Bea, and the two new Chosen waited.
“…Very well. I was only irked.”
After a moment of glancing at the Chosen, Belavierr let go of the strings she had been twisting. Az’kerash let her go.
“Why do you hold a grudge for Maviola El?”
“She spurned me twice. And burned me. I am remembering how to hold grudges. But that other Runner is a friend of my daughter’s. I forgot myself.”
The [Witch]’s eyes glittered. She focused as the image of the three vanished.
“—Think that was a long-range hex. We—er—Wistram News Network is going to cease coverage for a moment. Wistram Academy had been attempting to block long-range hexes, but this one—”
Az’kerash focused on the Drake. He shook his head, relaxing slightly.
“Blocking hexes? Ah—do you sense it?”
“A net from Wistram. Crude.”
“Pathetic.”
“Indeed.”
The Witch and Necromancer could agree on that.
 
—-
 
“What was that hex? It just blew through our long-range wards!”
One of the [Diviners] was staring in horror at an elaborate web—much like a dream catcher charm—that had just exploded. Elena watched from afar.
Wistram was trying to protect Ryoka—and their reputations. But that last attack had just proven that the Circle was capable of outmatching the Academy—at least at range.
“Cut the coverage. What level was that spellcaster?”
Viltach ordered, looking shaken. He’d helped set up that spell himself! Elena heard a babble as they communicated with the Pallass team, and fielded the onslaught of angry messages.
“And you’re sure that’s the same ‘batman’ that was talking to you with this ‘L’ character.”
“I’m sure.”
Aaron was looking at Elena—but he could hardly escape the cluster of [Mages] who’d descended on him after that comment. He hesitated—then focused on Feor.
“She knows more than anyone else, I’ll bet, Archmage. And she was smart enough to pick out the imposter. You need to save her.”
“We are doing our best, young Aaron. Our [Mages] will try to help, but—”
They were too slow. The three were moving across Izril at an insane pace.
And they still had far to go. Elena traced their journey on the map. They were maybe a tenth of the way to House Veltras even running for two hours and a half at max speed. They needed help.
What could she do? Besides supporting the academy…Elena bit her lip. She looked around.
“Cara.”
She needed…to get a message to the Singer of Terandria.
 
—-
 
“Okay. Okay—maybe she got bored and stopped.”
“Or we’re going to have needles everywhere. And I don’t appreciate that. At least Wistram’s stopped broadcasting us! I think.”
Saliss growled as the three peeked out of cover. Even the horse was lying down. He was holding a private scrying orb. After all—they could watch their coverage of themselves.
“Belavierr does not give up. But perhaps she decided it wasn’t worth the effort. We cannot hide forever. But perhaps this is an opportunity.”
Maviola’s eyes glittered. Saliss and Ryoka looked up. The [Lady] was looking at Saliss.
“You…are a shape changer, Master Saliss.”
“I dabble.”
The Drake looked away. He’d reverted to the Drake form after a minute. Maviola eyed him.
“Of course. But perhaps—if Wistram is not scrying us—I have a ring that protects me against scrying. We ran from our cover; they would have to move the [Scrying] spell and that is difficult.”
“I’m protected too. But someone doesn’t have our gear.”
Saliss rolled his eyes and pointed at Ryoka. She raised her palms.
“They can’t scry me.”
“Really?”
Maviola’s eyes narrowed. She looked at Ryoka. Then, thoughtfully, at Saliss.
“In that case—we might have an opportunity. Master Saliss—how long do those potions last at most?”
“Er…well, I could get it to half a day. Not that I need to specialize in long transformations. Combat [Alchemist], that’s me. Why?”
Saliss shifted. Maviola looked at Ryoka. The City Runner raised her eyebrows.
“Ah. I get it.”
The Drake looked from Human to Human. He coughed.
“Uh…what?”
 
—-
 
Ten minutes later, Sir Relz spoke.
“…We think our protections are established. Again—we are trying to bring news without putting these brave individuals at risk. If magical interference is detected, we will cut the broadcast. Let’s see—huh.”
The view reappeared, showing the hollow where the three had been. Sir Relz peered at the image.
“…It appears the three have vanished. We’ll attempt to find them. One moment, please.”
They were gone. The Circle was demanding their own [Scryers] find them. But the three had vanished. And try as they might, the [Mages] moving their [Scrying] spells from spot to spot found nothing.
If they had been looking, they might have noticed a very bemused horse running off. Following…three more horses.
“I’m going to vomit. This is so disorienting.”
“Shut up and run!”
“How? Do you practice being a horse?”
The three were arguing. The first horse, which was moving a lot faster than the other two, rolled one eye.
“Of course. Do you think it’s easy, transforming into someone with four legs?”
“I feel naked.”
Ryoka actually tried to throw up, but horses had a tough time doing it. And they had eyes on the other sides of their head! She wanted to puke, but didn’t quite manage it. Saliss-horse snorted.
“Now you know why I run around naked all the time. Good practice.”
“…Really?”
Maviola had found her hooves faster than Ryoka. Saliss hesitated.
“…Nah. Now, hurry up. We have two hours with this potion. They’re not entirely stupid. And you had better pray we get a head start and run before they find us. Because if you turn back to Human, you’re going to be naked. Which again—not my problem.”
 
—-
 
Erin Solstice was glad and terrified that the broadcast couldn’t find them. She was watching. Ryoka had far to go.
But she was going. With…Maviola? Olesm was glued to the screen, despite the bandages on his chest and arm.
The inn was quiet. Some people were weeping. Others silent.
Invrisil had been liberated of the Guild. But not without cost. Lord Toldos was dead. He’d charged in first. Perhaps if he hadn’t—more would have died. But Erin, between crying for him, had heard Olesm bitterly lamenting.
If. If he’d held back. If—
Teor was dead. Redit had tried to help and gotten killed. Todi had killed the [Assassins], but brave people were dead.
Let it not be them. Let this be the only ones.
Erin could only watch. She had done all she could. She bowed her head. But then let it rise.
“Everyone—free food, free drinks. Thank you. Let’s watch. Anyone needs to sleep—go upstairs. Thank you, I can’t repay you.”
That was all she said. Her guests looked at her. Some, like the Earl, were taking their first measure of Erin, seeing her fully for the first time.
Others just nodded. Snapjaw punched Badarrow again—she was still mad he’d gone and risked his neck.
But he lived. So did brave Bird, and many of the Antinium. Erin had…traded the lives of her friends for people like Lord Toldos.
The Brothers sat in her inn. They would always be welcome here. Erin would thank them later. Grimalkin leaned back in his seat, talking to the Pallassian [Commander] and some of the [Soldiers], perhaps happy with all the Human [Assassins] they’d killed.
Different people. Different perspectives. Xrn was delighted. Not only had Wistram issued an all-alert they’d had to retract about the Hives, she’d killed countless [Assassins] and her Antinium had suffered few casualties.
They would level. Pawn was holding hands with Lyonette. Mrsha sat between them, anxiously seeking their comforting words as she waited.
Ryoka Griffin ran north. Erin closed her eyes. Sat up.
“Go to sleep, Erin. We’ll wake you when we find her.”
Selys was yawning as she sat with Krshia. Montressa was talking to Bezale, who had a concussion. But she was alive, so was Palt…
“Any word of Salamani? Fierre?”
They were missing. Delanay grimaced as the [Healer] tended to his broken hand.
“They’re still looking. We’ll find them.”
Erin turned. She got up to help lead the search; the Players had helped restore order. But she wobbled and nearly fell on her face. Someone caught her.
“Rest, Erin. It’ll be okay.”
She looked up at Olesm. The two smiled at the lie. The [Strategist] transferred Erin to Lyonette as Erin protested, feebly. They put her in her room. Erin saw the board was arranged—someone had a question for her. Someone had seen her.
She was too tired. Ryoka—
Erin’s head hit the pillow. Her friend ran on.
She still heard the voice as she slept, dreaming of blood and death. And hope.
 
[Magical Innkeeper Level 45!]
[Inn: Skill – Boon of the Guest obtained!]
[Inn – Famous Name: The Wandering Inn obtained!]
 
Power.
 
—-
 
Someone else leveled that night. Well, many people did. They heard that impartial voice in their heads, announcing their levels.
A few, like the Antinium, heard it directly. Sleep being different for them. Or…conditions. Different.
Yet someone heard the voice for the first time. And it startled…her.
The [Assassin]’s legs kicked slowly, amid the rubble. The Vampire’s eyes glowed crimson. She drank—
It felt good. For both. The [Assassin] had stopped struggling. She was melting…fading…the Vampire felt something entering her. Something she had craved.
Delicious, so delicious. She was so hungry. The kicking slowed. Fierre drank. And drank. And then—the voice sounded for the third time over the hour.
 
[Assassin Level 3!]
[Skill – Bloodform Blades obtained!]
[Skill – Lesser Dexterity siphoned.]
 
Three. Since gaining her class. The Vampire adjusted her grip. And she realized—
The kicking had stopped. She bared her fangs—but there was no more blood. She looked down. A blank stare met hers.
Fierre dropped the body. She crawled away, in horror, for a second. Then she licked her lips.
“Oh. Oh.”
So that—
That was how it was.
