No human may touch us.

The lump didn’t disappear. Instead, it enfolded in a smooth, lethal motion. The sailors around it just died as they were cut to pieces. A massive bipedal form rose over the archpriest, more than twice his size. It was barded with weapons that still dripped blood in the infernal radiance of the battlefield. The colossus shone of slick silverite. Baleful yellow eyes focused on him with crushing intensity.

//I AM NOT HUMAN.

Your fate is to burn.

Fire licked the titanic shape, but the silverite flashed and most of the heat dispersed.

//MY FATE WAS TO NEVER EXIST.

//YET HERE I AM.

//MY NAME IS ARES.

//I KNOW FIRE.

//LET ME SHOW YOU.

The massive shape lifted something, and the world around the archpriest was suddenly flames. His shield protected him but fate strained, causality crashing against his denial.

The flagship was burning. More shapes crashed on or through the deck. The archpriest retreated while his soldiers attacked the boarders. He moved back while smoke filled the air, while ropes snapped and the sails fell around him as ash and cinder. There was still no hesitation in his mind. There had never been room for hesitation. The archpriest would use every strand of possibility left to him to accomplish his mission until he drew his last breath. Nothing else mattered.

He was making his way to the midship spell array. Behind, the silverite titans tore through everything, ripping everything apart. The first of seven masts fell, cut down like a tree. The machines didn’t speak. They warbled, the sounds distorted trills that couldn’t possibly be a living language.

His personal guard engaged the four giants. The largest of the red-skinned Nemeti managed to crack one of the golem’s shields and the arm behind with a monstrous, fate-backed blow. The golem emitted a high-pitched sound. A moment later, a clawed hand smashed through the planks under the guard, skewering his feet. It was all the construct needed to crush its foe with a man-sized hammer. With unnatural coordination, they tore through the guards. When one stopped a blow, the other struck. They covered each other and moved with no wasted motion. The archpriest updated his calculation. He would only get one shot. His hand reached for the array so he could trigger it manually, and fire one final spell at the witch, still unmoving.

The largest golem of all landed on the array in an explosion of wood, metal, and fire. Arcane energies coursed over its immense frame, eaten by hungry silverite circuits.

The threads of fates snapped away from the archpriest’s mind, all cut to the very last one. When the sword descended upon his head, he was still stunned by the sudden absence.

***

//I DON’T SEE WHY I AM THE LAST BEING DROPPED HERE.

//I ONLY SLEW ONE ENEMY ENTITY

//IT IS VERY UNFAIR.

Eris wiped her giant halberd on a fallen piece of tarp.

//ACKNOWLEDGED, JUNIOR.

//FOR THE LAST TIME, MY NAME IS IRLEN.

Clio spoke next.

//I HAVE GOOD NEWS FOR YOU, JUNIOR.

//THE MOST EXCITING PART REMAINS.

Very naively, the yellow eyes flickered.

//ELABORATE.

Clio couldn’t smile but the intent was there.

//YOU GET TO SWIM BACK.

A low hum emerged from the remaining golems. Irlen didn’t move. The deck under his feet finally succumbed to the heat and the flagship’s catastrophic damage. He crashed through several floors on his way down. The other golems warbled some more before jumping as well. Their work was done. A short stroll on the seabed would follow.

Behind them, the flagship died.

***

Viv felt fate magic collapse. The strands in her hands wisped away, not because she had lost control but because nothing could prevent her victory anymore. Arthur and Gale flew over the fleet, going more slowly now that their golem payload had been fully dumped. She had to admit that dragon-airdropped golems was a cool innovation, although it was apparently super taxing on the poor dragons. Those things were heavy after all. Things were coming to a close now, and her mind turned to philosophical questions.

If a golem with a flamethrower threw another golem with a flamethrower, did it count as self-propelled artillery or was it, like, more a nomenclature thing? A question for the ages. She was very pleased with herself at not having lifted a damn finger until her gaze found a suspiciously familiar shape among the burning wrecks of the Nemeti fleet.

“Wait. Wait. Is that the Sword of Neriad?”

Her flagship had shared the fate of most of their enemies. It was burnt to a fucking crisp. Even the steel and silverite alloy along its flanks were partially melted. She couldn’t be really mad because, well, she’d left it there.

“Fuuuuck that thing cost me at least five hundred gods-damned gold talents.”

“The ship, Your Grace?” Bes asked.

The captain was saluting, tears in his eyes. The sailors were equally sad. Viv had forbidden them from joining the battle since they were unarmored and tired, and besides, they’d already done their job.

“We can probably save the core enchantments,” Sidjin said, lying on the ground.

Yeah, nah. The core for sure, but the deck circle that commanded all the ship’s advanced functions? That thing was toast.

“My money… My man hours…”

Days of GDP reduced to cinders.

MOTHERRRRRRR.

Arthur landed by her side, showering her with sand.

Mother, I feel your distress.

“Someone burnt my ship. I’m almost tempted to launch an inquiry.”

A heavy claw pressed on her shoulder. Its pressure remained delicate enough not to pierce her skin.

Mother, do not be sad.

I can always lend you more money at very advantageous rates.

“Thanks Arthur, you’re a dear.”

You are more than welcome.

Now, I can feel your overwhelming power, mother.

You are a resplendent sight.

Please, bring joy to my heart.

Show me your new wings!

“Errrr.”

Mother?

“Look, fate magic was more immediately important.”

MOTHER!

“It’s… hmm, it’s a work in progress.”

***

The mop up was short and brutal. The Nemeti never surrendered, but there was nothing they could do in this situation. Once the slaughter was finished, the heavies left the field to allow the witchpact to collect whatever bolts could be recovered. The Nemeti had very little of value to loot, sadly. Even their fate artillery constructs couldn’t be replicated but Viv wasn’t too sad. She had eliminated the threat of the Empire of Dawn for the foreseeable future. Not everything was rosy, however. She was in the command tent the next morning alongside Sahin. The thin strategist observed her through half-lidded eyes, sipping herbal tea from a delicate clay cup. Most of the senior officers were present including Ban the Younger, Poacher, the Zealot, Lana, Rollo who had returned with the ships, and even Solar. Lak-Tak was positively bouncing. The golems would be waiting outside even though Solfis’ seventh child had requested entry, not quite accepting that his father’s original body wouldn’t quite fit in.

Inside the tent, Poacher was a little fragrant and Viv was tempted to dunk the old woman into the sea.

“I’m afraid I must be the bearer of bad news, Your Majesty,” Sahin started. “In your absence, the king of Baran had the queen arrested.”

“What?” Viv blurted.

“It appears the measure was poorly received by the nation. He must have underestimated Duchess Azar’s determination to save her daughter as well as the loyalty she had inspired. The queen’s personal guard descended upon the jail, freeing her at a great cost of life. Famous knights perished covering her escape. The country is split. A civil war has erupted. To the surprise of most, however, King Erezak has taken his army north into Helock. This decision only makes sense if he expects major reinforcements.”

Viv turned to Bes, rather sure of what was going on. Her brand new evil vizir stepped forward without further prompt. Now that was what she’d always needed. Half of the time, when she gestured, people had no idea what she wanted. The only command that was reliably followed was to open the throne room’s window so she could toss someone out.

“The War of the Ascended has begun, with our liege as one of the two glorious contenders. Nero Oleander leads the other faction. He has already united Vizim and the Shadowlands under his flag. Even now, he must be crossing the ocean at the head of a mighty fleet. That King Erezak must have entered in an alliance with our foe to prepare for his arrival. Nero Oleander is the champion of Maranor. Those who bend to his rule are offered a measure of autonomy in exchange for absolute obedience when it comes to war, diplomacy, and the rule of absolute order. I can only assume Baran and Helock have rallied to his cause. He is our enemy, and the war will not stop until he has killed us all, or we, him.”

“Aptly summarized,” Viv replied.

“So wait,” Lana said. “We are suddenly in a total war with two continents?”

“And a half,” Viv grumbled. “But it’s not as bad as it looks. He is constrained by really long supply lines, and he must have left a lot of troops to ‘pacify’ his recent conquests.”

Not to mention only part of his troops were really good. Param was the largest continent by far in terms of livable land. Just the Paramese culture of heavy knights gave them an advantage in some fields. But Viv didn’t mention that. Everyone was looking at her. It was really happening. The war for mankind was about to start. The second prize was swift death for everyone she loved.

The flow of fate pulled her in a hundred different directions. It was a time of preparation.

“We can’t oppose the landing,” she said after a while. “We would be attacking members of the Paramese League unprovoked, at least in the eyes of undecided allies. No, this is the gathering phase of the conflict. We must convince as many allies as we can to join us, and deny Oleander those he’s already recruited. Helock and the Pure League are lost causes. Baran might be, as well.”

“Not necessarily,” Rollo interrupted.

“I agree with Rollo,” Lana added.

She signaled for the knight to go first.

“You must make contact with Lady Azar and the Queen. As for me, I believe I can talk to the knight orders. The civil war is much more disputed than you seem to believe. King Erezak’s inability to let go of power has caused a lot of resentment. We can make a difference if you allow me to speak in your name.”

“Of course,” Viv easily agreed.

“Helock might be lost to us,” Lana said, “but the Academy is not. Oleander might try to seize the student body to control mage clans across the continent. We cannot allow this to happen. We must intervene before the Academy falls.”

Viv nodded.

“Alright. I’ll grab a team and go to Helock first. In the meantime, Sahin, please call for a meeting of the Paramese Alliance as well. We need to find out where everyone stands. It’s time to take back the initiative.”
