“We should get back to the warren and have breakfast.” Ren said and checked the All-Seeing Mirror, then cast a portal back to Dilseffa's room. “Drikon, are you coming?”

“I ate before I left.” Drikon said. “Have fun at the debriefing.” He said sarcastically. Ren chuckled and ushered the women through the portal and stepped through himself, then the portal disappeared.

“Is he a god or something?” Old Ben asked. “I thought only gods could talk to other gods.”

“Duyu told me last night that he's friends with Vasalor.” Drikon said.

Old Ben barked a laugh. “He's friends with that ancient bastard?”

“Apparently.” Drikon said and chuckled at Old Ben's description of the one true creator.

“Well, that would explain a lot.” Old Ben said, then a portal opened and Ren stepped out of it.

“I almost forgot the tip.” Ren said and handed Old Ben 10 gold. “Oh, and you don't have to worry about avalanches anymore. The snow's permanent.” He said and gave them a wave and stepped back through the portal.

“Yep. It definitely explains a lot.” Old Ben laughed as the portal disappeared.

Ren and the women left Dilseffa's bedroom. The women went to the dining room and Ren diverted to the kitchen to go and see Duyu.

“How in the world does this thing work?” Duyu asked in confusion to no one in particular, while she poked the buttons and knobs on the top of the new oven, and nothing happened.

“May I offer assistance?” Ren asked and she jumped a couple of feet into the air.

“You scared me!” Duyu said as she landed and put a hand over her heart.

“I'm terribly sorry.” Ren said and walked over to her and gave her a hug. He felt her flinch at the apology, so he rested his head on her chest and gave her a squeeze. “Don't be angry about that apology. I made you react in a disrespectful way and I had to apologize for it.”

“I... well, yes... making me jump so high...”

“Let me give you a lesson on how to use the new oven.” Ren said and let one arm go, and kept the other around her. He was about to let her go completely; but, he felt that she really wanted him to keep a hold of her as he taught her. Her arm went around him as well and he gave her a quick rundown of all the functions of the new oven. Duyu was amazed at how versatile it was, and Ren even opened it up and showed her that the knobs would regulate how much heat would be generated.

“Thank you for showing me all of this.” Duyu said, doubt in her voice and emotions.

“What is it?” Ren asked.

“Now that I know how it all works... how do I turn it on?”

“Just concentrate on the oven and say 'Activate'.” Ren said. “I didn't tell you how to do it right away, because I wanted you to know how it worked first.”

“That is both annoying and thoughtful at the same time.” Duyu said and turned it on.

Ren chuckled. “That's me.” He said and let her go. “So, what's for breakfast?”

“Scrambled eggs and toasted buns.”

“I haven't made anything for breakfast with a toasted bun before.” Ren said and smiled. Toast, yes. Bun, no. “I'm glad I saved a pile of bacon from the other day.”

“Bacon?” Duyu looked at him with wide eyes.

“Let me introduce you to one of the best breakfast sandwiches you'll ever taste.” Ren said with a grin, and the two of them started making breakfast. When Duyu went to her pantry and took out a 1 foot wide egg, Ren stared at her.

“What?”

“That's the biggest egg I've ever seen!” Ren exclaimed, and she laughed.

“You don't have a lot of experience in our lands.” Duyu said and handed him the humongous egg. “I'll get the big bowl from the cupboard.”

“You have a bowl that can hold this thing?” Ren asked, and she chuckled as she brought over a bowl that was nearly twice as big. “Well, damn.” He said as she took the egg from him, tapped it on the side of the heavy bowl like you would do to a normal egg, and a giant egg yolk popped out with a pile of egg white.

“This is the hard part.” Duyu said and picked up a whisk.

“It should be easier with your ring equipped.” Ren said, and she started to whip the egg.

“Hey, it is easier!” Duyu said happily and quickly whipped it into a consistent color. “Get the pans.”

Ren grabbed the two large skillets. When she went to dump the egg into them, he stopped her.

“Let's make them really light and fluffy first.” Ren said, and showed her how to do just that by adding milk and some spices while she continuously whipped them. It ended up nearly filling the bowl, and Duyu laughed when they had a hard time trying to pour it into the skillets without spilling it.

“I think we overdid it a little.” Ren chuckled and he and Duyu cooked up those two skillets, dumped them onto a huge platter, then cooked up two more skillets full and dumped that onto another platter. They managed to get one more skillet full, which used up all the fluffy mixture, then they started toasting the buns.

Both he and Duyu enjoyed cooking together, because they both had experience cooking and didn't get in each other's way. Ren took out the couple of platters of bacon he had saved and he quickly made a sandwich for her and she bit into it.

“It's really good!” Duyu said.

“Should we make a bunch, or only one each and let them eat normally?”

“One each, and we can save it as a treat for when they're done eating.” Duyu said, and they made enough for one sandwich each, then loaded up the food carts and brought breakfast into the dining room. Everyone was there already and waiting, and Ren chuckled at their surprise when they saw the platters piled high with fluffy scrambled eggs.

“There's lots, so help yourselves!” Duyu said and quickly did up a plate for herself. Ren took enough for himself, Artemis, and his Mistresses to eat, then got out of the way as the brothers tackled each other to try and get the next plateful.
