“I leveled?” she said, speaking aloud in her surprise as the monster crashed to the ground. It had been a long time since she had leveled up from fighting a trash mob, and she had gained two from this fight. Admittedly, the ice Death Knight had been fifty levels higher than her, and the Devastation Knight even a little higher. The fight had certainly felt like a mini boss in the importance of their planning and strategy.

“I did too,” Calen said, his brow furrowed in thought.

“Can’t complain,” Malika said with a shrug. “Good levels.”

“There are bad levels?” Mato echoed with a cheeky grin.

She immediately spent five points each on dexterity, endurance, perception, and wisdom, and then dusted the ice crystals off her shirt and gave Mato a smack on the shoulder for his trouble-stirring. “What’s next?”

Calen consulted the map he had forged in his mind, comparing it to the dark streets of Mi’ir Valdanis laid out below him, meandering this way and that, seemingly without rhyme or reason. At first, he had been rather annoyed that Mato had tripped the runic trap, but as the minutes stretched into hours, he had learned that there were runic traps that covered the breadth of some streets, wider than anyone could leap without airborne movement skills, without any way to navigate around them.

Worse, some runes were even spelled to invisibility, beyond his ability to see, even with his mana sight. He had even tripped several of these himself when he landed. Unfortunately, not even flying helped as some traps had been spelled into the air itself.

At first, the presence of the Death Knights had triggered his fears. He could still vividly recall his flight from his first ice Death Knight out in the woods: trees exploding from the sheer power of its frozen aura, his limbs trembling from fear, his racing heart, and the sensation that no matter how fast he was, the Death Knight was always right behind him, its chilling voice reminding him of his incipient mortality. Without Lyeneru saving him, he wouldn’t have survived for more than a few seconds.

But they were getting better at handling the Death Knights and their more powerful Dragonkin variants as they defeated them one by one and ventured deeper into the ruins. They came in death, ice, and lightning flavors, matching the affinities of the dungeon exactly, and he was beginning to believe that this dungeon had a specialization that limited its affinities, much like Azryet’s dungeon.

It explains why their magic is so powerful, he thought. Without Ali’s ability to disrupt the damage reflection, he was certain they would have been forced to give up long ago, if they had even survived. At least the incredible danger and the high level of their enemies had been worth a couple of levels.

I haven’t even reviewed my levels, he realized with an internal sigh. Quick check while it’s quiet.

Realm Hunter has reached level 147 (+2).+20 attribute points.Radiant Archery has reached level 83.Arrows of Brilliance has reached level 74.Motes of Light has reached level 57 (+3).Explorer has reached level 80 (+3).Blessing of the Dawn has reached level 61.Eclipse has reached level 41.Eyes of the Archon has reached level 57 (+2)Righteous Fury has reached level 52.Azrael's Wings has reached level 39.Mirage Armor has reached level 57 (+2).Cartography has reached level 29 (+2).Basic Daggers has reached level 6.

His distraction with his progress was suddenly interrupted by a voice echoing in his mind.

“I hear something,” Mato said. “Like bones clicking.”

Bone Fetish! Instantly, Calen’s eyes scoured the ground below, wishing yet again that his hearing was even half as good as Mato’s, but it was next to impossible to match a druidic shapeshifter for enhanced natural senses. Sharp as his eyes were, he could not see any sign of the monster Mato had heard, other than a strange moving cloud of sparking mana in the distance. He had no idea what it could be, but he sure noticed the icy chill of powerful premonition sweeping through him at the sight.

Explorer has reached level 81.

But he did see another Death Knight on patrol, heading on a collision course toward where the rest of their group slowly made their way up the main street. Quickly, he turned, swooping downward, worry mounting rapidly. This is going to be fun.

The steel doors to the forge shuddered under the onslaught of something heavy, the ringing crashes echoing through the forge, and Kavé looked up in sudden alarm as they swung wide, revealing a giant of a man.

As a dragonkin, and having reached level one-hundred and twenty, it was not common for her to be intimidated, but the figure that entered the forge radiated sheer martial power, with enormous muscles the color of bronze. He wore a scowl, and her eyes were immediately drawn to the armor he was wearing. Or rather, what was left of it. He carried a massive tower shield and wore a breastplate that looked like it had been ripped to shreds. Torn and twisted metal covered a hole in the center of the chest, crudely bent back and roughly welded, making it into an entirely ineffective semblance of a protective piece.

Warrior – Human – level 133 (Metal)

“You don’t look like a dwarf,” the man declared in a harsh tone.

“Are you looking for Thuli Emberforge?” she asked, her wits returning as she understood this man was clearly here looking for her master. At least, she could easily guess he wanted his armor fixed.

“I am,” he answered.

“He’s in the library, studying new enchantments,” Kavé answered, “but I can take your order. I’m his apprentice.” She curiously noted his unusual affinity, similar to her own, and wondered if the botched repair job was his work.

“A level one hundred and twenty apprentice?” he asked, a little incredulity making its way onto his otherwise gruff countenance.

“This one is grateful to have such a skilled master,” Kavé said, bowing just a little.

“I’m sorry,” the man said, his scowl slowly fading as his eyes began to circle the room, taking in some of the display pieces Thuli had mounted on the walls, hung upon various racks, or arranged on wooden mannequins. She was proud that a few of her pieces had made it into the display. “I forgot my manners. I’m Galeth.”

“This one is Kavé,” she answered politely. While Galeth identified as human, Kavé would not have been surprised if he claimed to have some giant in his ancestry.

The hulking man took a deep breath and began to talk. “We came to town chasing the promise of a shrine that might let us evolve our classes. Honestly, it seemed too good to be true, but, as you can see, we were successful. The guild has been helping us level up a little, but our time here is at an end. The battle for Southport rages on, and our place is on the frontlines, defending the kingdom.”

“I see,” Kavé answered. “And that armor isn’t going to do you much good in that condition.”

“Yes,” he said, twisting his mouth into a wry expression. “An undead shadow assassin in the dungeon – it had Ambush and Human Slayer. I tried to twist it back into shape, but I’m no crafter.”

So, it was him, she thought, more than a little surprised to hear Aliandra had made an undead boss. Carefully, she placed a fresh order notepad on the desk along with a pen, retrieved a measuring tape, and got up. “Let me get your measurements quickly, and you can tell me what you need.”

“Will you be making my gear?” Galeth asked, offering a raised eyebrow.

“If my master agrees,” she said, nodding. “But rest assured that he will stake his reputation on my work, and if it’s not good enough, he will remake it.” Many customers did not appreciate getting work done by an apprentice, insisting only on the master’s work. There had been times when Thuli had simply put his mana signature on her work because, while it passed his most stringent standards, an apprentice’s mana signature would have upset the customer. It hadn’t been often, and Thuli despised doing it, but it was the reality of their business.

“I don’t mind,” Galeth said. “As long as the quality is good. I will need a new breastplate. Obviously. Also, I’ve outgrown my helm and shield. As you can see, they’re quite low-level.”

Kavé wrote each item on the order note, along with requested enchantments, Galeth’s primary attributes, and the preferred style for each piece.

“Are you familiar with the crown’s crafting quests?” Galeth asked, interrupting her notes suddenly.

“The weapon orders?” she asked. “For the war?”

“Yup, we will be fighting Death Knights, so if you can make me a fire sword to the royal weapon order specifications, I will buy that too. Longsword, please, but two feet longer than standard, with a little extra room and thickness on the hilt. My hands are big, but I often use it one-handed.”

“Of course,” Kavé said, carefully noting down Galeth’s custom requirements. That item would be beyond her skill level – she still struggled to learn some of the higher-level fire enchantments, mainly because her affinity was not fire-based like her master, but she had high hopes that a few training sessions on the anvil would do the trick. Still, for now, Thuli would need to be the one to craft the sword.

“We can have this ready for you in two days,” Kavé said, giving Thuli a buffer of an extra day just in case his studies took longer than he expected, or some other higher-priority business came in. “Where can we find you?”

“Just leave a note at the adventurer’s guild,” Galeth said. He summoned a small leather pouch from his storage and dropped it on the table beside the order note. “I hope this is sufficient for a deposit?”

Kavé touched the pouch briefly, reaching out with Metal Sense, and then nodded. It was always a pleasure dealing with adventurers who understood the etiquette of ordering custom gear; she hadn’t even had to ask. “This is more than sufficient,” she said, producing a small receipt slip, quickly jotting down the amount paid, stamping it with Thuli’s seal, and finally imbuing her own mana signature into it before handing it to Galeth.

“Thank you, Kavé,” he said, and turned to leave the forge with a much happier expression on his face than when he arrived.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledgehttps://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledgehttps://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpghttps://topwebfiction.com/listings/dungeon-of-knowledge/
