For a brief moment spiders died and the true attack stood revealed, as invisibilities failed. The horde was the same size as all the rest Erick had killed. Millions of spiders. All hungry. All deadly. From the largest white mothers with their black lined bodies, to the smaller fully white males and younger spiders.

Against an undefended people, they were genocide.

Bulgan reached out, easy as flipping his hand around, and canceled the nearest [Withering] hanging in the sky. One layer out of seven vanished. And then he did it again, quick as a grip, ripping spellwork down through sheer force of will. Erick didn’t even see the characteristic dark flash of [Dispel].

Ophiels flew further, and higher, through the falling spiders, collecting them on the dense air of their floating platforms like semi trucks rushing through a bug swarm. Legs and eyes and splashing exoskeletons of spiders that had yet to die to the [Withering], fell to the wayside.

Bulgan killed another Ophiel from over two kilometers away; a twist of a raised hand, and the [Familiar] imploded, then exploded. Shockwaves bounced through the horde, scattering dried corpses.

New Ophiels joined the battlefield, flying in from afar, casting [Withering] into the sky, with multiple layers over dozens of kilometers. Each of them cost 602 mana. Every expenditure took half a minute to regain, even with 76,000 Mana Regeneration.

Bulgan popped Erick’s [Familiar]s like they were overripe grapes. Casting [Prismatic Ward] across a floating platform bought each protected Ophiel an extra three or five seconds of life; enough for two or three spells, which they cast out as fast as they could. The sky filled with more easily and quickly dispersed [Withering]s and [Call Lightning]s, briefly turning the twilight morning back to deeper darkness. But Bulgan’s grip was irresistible; final. Clouds vanished. Thick airs dissipated.

Erick almost abandoned the extra defense of [Prismatic Ward]. Maybe he could get more spells out across the city if he abandoned the extra five seconds it took to construct the platforms and the dense air. Maybe Ophiel could fly faster without lugging around stone and defenses. But three seconds was still three seconds, and without those defenses, the spiders would tear Ophiel apart.

… Or maybe not. They had 17,000 effective Health, now. And they had [Greater Lightwalk].

Ophiels blipped into the sky, naked. They turned to untouchable light, and then they turned hard, and edged. There was no organization to their transformation; they simply became like clouds of luminous swords. Every Ophiel on the scene transformed, abandoning all defenses. Then they began to spin, chopping up—

Bulgan reached out, and soaked into the nearest Ophiel. Thin lines of substance cast long shadows into the spider filled morning. Those shadows rammed inward and ate the lightform [Familiar], like he was a simple, delicious snack. The Shade repeated the procedure against every Ophiel in sight.

In moments, Erick’s entire flight was gone. Erick summoned a [Scry] orb onto the battlefield, just to see what had happened.

Booming laughter once again filled the sky.

Bulgan stood upon his dark crystal, like a man made of void in the middle of the sun. Wreathed in gold-white radiance, the laughing Shade was the deepest pit of darkness Erick had ever seen.

Erick’s sight cut as Bulgan stared right at the [Scry] orb staring at him, and popped it.

- - - -

Erick breathed hard. Cold sweat stained through his light shirt. Poi looked on from the other side of the room. Teressa stood guard by the door, watching both of them.

“Everything is happening too fast and my mana regen still isn’t enough!” Erick said.

Poi looked away from the air. He said, “We have potions.” He looked to Teressa. “Get them.”

Teressa blipped away in a flash of grey light.

“Right. Potions.” Erick laughed a harsh sound, as he joked, “I’ll have to get tested for intestinal rads afterward.” He looked to Poi. His voice turned strained. “I don’t know what to do. If I could use [Greater Lightwalk] I could have Ophiel hunt the invisible spiders in the city. But he ATE MY LIGHT, Poi! He can do that?! I know you said light make shadows stronger, but I never— He’s going to kill them all—” He said, “Wait. I have this left.”

Erick applied his last Favored Spell, to [Summon Ophiel]. 602 mana per Ophiel became 225, almost tripling his rate of summoning. 29 seconds per Ophiel became 11. He lifted his hand, and began summoning Ophiels. One, two, more. Each of them appeared hard edged, each of them already running [Hunter’s Instincts].

Erick turned on [Hunter's Instincts] himself. Why hadn’t he done this before? He did not know.

Suddenly, everything seemed calmer. Quieter. The horror of the moment became a clinical experience, and somehow slower at the same time. This was the true power of [Hunter’s Instincts]; this disconnect. Shadelings were dying, and there was nothing Erick could do about that at this particular moment, but Erick’s mana was ticking upward.

And then he gave each Ophiel [Defend]. He should have been doing this, too. It might help.

Defend X, 1 minute, 1/10 HP

Take 50% less damage for 1 minute, cannot take more than 90% of your HP in damage in 1 hit.

Teressa blipped in, holding a small wooden box. She handed it over to Erick, asking, “Have you ever had a mana potion before?”

Erick said, “No,” as he opened the wooden box, which was more like a crate, now that he looked inside. He plucked a glass vial about half the size of his fist from inside. Blue liquid fully filled the vial, while white wax kept the juice inside. “Just down it, right?” He thumbed the wax off, easy as a flick of his finger, then downed the potion. It was made to be easy to use.

It tasted like blue light and burned like the world’s worst rotgut. Erick endured.

“Yup, just like that.” Teressa said, “One every minute with a max of five per week is the maximum dosage. The good ones last a minute. Those last a minute. It should multiply your Regen by 10, then taper off.”

Erick looked at his mana while Teressa spoke. The numbers on his Status rose normally for a few seconds, then, as the blue potion settled inside, his 21 mana per second Regen suddenly multiplied, turning into 210 per second. Ten seconds later, Erick had enough mana to resummon all of his Ophiel.

The first ones were already blipping across the Crystal Forest, to Candlepoint, with slitted eyes and hard feathers, and instincts out for blood.

- - - -

Ophiels tried to blip in three kilometers north, south, east, and west of Candlepoint, as well as every direction between those. But Bulgan’s Blessing had radiated far and wide, denying transport anywhere near the city. If Erick were to guess, he might be ten or even fifteen kilometers out. Candlepoint was barely a dot of rainbow in the distant, twilight horizon. The blot of dark-light atop the city was more than visible, though. Bulgan glowed with stolen power, like the bigger stars in the void above.

Erick was mad at Bulgan’s stolen light, in a disconnected sort of way. How did that even work? How did Bulgan steal power?

… This might be fine, though.

Eight Ophiel conjured weather into the sky, and fires down below. Rain fell, and twisted. Northerlies turned to easterlies as a counterclockwise spin took control of the heavens. Tempests turned around the city of Candlepoint. Ophiels joined their spellwork, multiplying their effects, and their domination of the sky.

Spiders remained in the eye of the forming hurricane, though. There was no stopping those. But the ones that had yet to land. The ones in reserve?

Erick tore them down from the sky like he was cleaning an old house of spiderwebs. A small hurricane formed over the sands of the Crystal Forest, winds reaching up and down, tearing at dunes, clouds manifesting out of thin air. Sand blew harsh, ripping at mimics and agave. Mimics chimed in worry, then in horror, as winds picked up battering them, tearing them from the soil.

Ten thousand mana casts from each Ophiel in each of eight directions, was more than enough to start the storm. The winds reached all the way to Candlepoint.

The spot of darklight at the top of the central tower, took off like a comet, toward the north.

Erick had a brief moment of introspection. Was he really doing this? He was antagonizing a Shade; an enemy he was not capable of fighting on equal footing. Erick didn’t really know where to begin. He wasn’t a fighter.

But.

Yes. He was. He could fight, when he had to. When it was necessary.

Killing Shades was the most necessary violence in this entire world.

He steeled himself as Bulgan came for the northern Ophiel. That naked Ophiel activated [Defend], and lasted a good five seconds; almost as long as with a full [Prismatic Ward] set up. After crushing Ophiel in a telekinetic fist, Bulgan turned his attention to the sky, wasting precious seconds to tear down the storm. Ten seconds at first, then twenty seconds; gone. Erick had already resummoned the northern Ophiel, and was just waiting for Bulgan to move on.

On instinct, he sent the Ophiel in early, casting [Call Lightning] into the world.

Bulgan noticed. He also noticed the lightning arcing down at him. Bright, flashing light burned through the Shade. When the flash went away, Bulgan was still floating there. Briefly, Erick noticed that one of his wrists ended in a stump. And then the moment was over. Shadows crawled over Bulgan’s body, restoring his missing hand.

He was brighter than before. Fractionally brighter, for sure. But still brighter.

Shit.

That Ophiel attack was just the distraction, though. Three other Ophiels blipped into the city with instructions set and skills imbued. Three Ophiels turned into light, and then into something that was not unlike an ooze. They washed into the dark streets like liquid death. The spiders’ invisibility spells did wonders against those who could not defend themselves, but that trick did not work against ultraviolet, or infrared senses. Ophiels became beings of hard edged light, cleaving invisible spiders, saving shadelings— saving people, as they could.

The storm, still active, still getting supported by Erick after Bulgan passed, did a lot, too. Wind pulled every flying thing out of the city, like an immense vacuum cleaner, while the horde tangled on the storm wall kilometers away from Candlepoint. The horde would have been killed, if Erick had been given time to kill them.

But Bulgan abandoned playing with Ophiel on the edge. He came back to the city. He was dimmer than before, but a simple stretch of the hands toward the flowing lightform Ophiels in his city, turned those Ophiel into snacks. The Shade bloomed back to full, dark radiance.

Erick kept summoning Ophiel, kept sending them in to do what they could do; he had never stopped. At a few seconds per Ophiel, and twenty seconds per Ophiel death, Erick churned them out like a never ending swarm, easily keeping ahead of Bulgan’s—

The Shade took the top of his dark tower, and then took a knee on the Crystal’s surface. In a radiant moment, the tower itself, once dark, began to become more than that. Veins of light traced down Bulgan’s arms, through his stump, flowing into the Crystal, revealing shadows deeper than Bulgan himself, inside the structure. Veins of light became arteries of radiance that expanded into rivers, then to full brightness, as the Crystal completely turned to light, bathing the city in a white-gold luminosity.

In a detached, horrific moment, Erick witnessed Bulgan’s magic through a [Scry] eye hovering over the city.

First, the few visible spiders still on the ground, still eating people, went berserk. Meager adventurer defenses and shadeling doors and blockades were instantly overwhelmed by invisible and visible, glowing white spiders. At the same time, the dark automatons in the city doubled in size, as they too went berserk, their colors changing from black to light, as they began pouring out of the Crystal like a radiant flood released. They chopped down everyone they saw, except for the spiders. Perhaps, they did not see the spiders? All they saw were people fighting something.

Erick was reminded of the problems of improper summoned creatures—

Poi sent, ‘Sir. Bulgan needs to die.’

‘Thank you for bringing me back to the moment, Poi.’

More Ophiel blipped in around the city; Bulgan’s Lock was much smaller while he was locked to pouring power into the Crystal. But that was a lie, apparently. Bulgan straightened. He smiled. He lifted his stump, creating an open hand of darkness to replace his lost flesh. He crushed down with that darkness, ending an Ophiel in one quick, effortless movement. And then his [Teleport Lock] expanded. He was holding back on purpose, luring Erick to move his Ophiel closer.

Before Erick could pull back and save some of his forces, Bulgan snapped his fingers. Five Ophiel imploded at once, leaving one behind, and likely just because the Shade needed an Ophiel alive so he could speak.

Bulgan’s words vibrated across the sky, directly at Ophiel, “You haven’t paid the million darkchip price, Erick! If you continue to pursue this fun time, I’m going to have to come to Spur and drag you out of your home, and do what I should have done months ago!”

Ophiel floated a hundred meters away from the Shade, as Erick yelled through him, “End this madness, Bulgan! Your people are dying!”

“They don’t matter! There’s more in Ar’Kendrithyst. There’s more in the Well. I don’t even matter! None of this matters, except to teach you lessons! To teach you that defiance has a cost, and that you are weak!” Bulgan yelled, “Too weak to act when you need to act! Too weak to power through the barriers set against you!”

Bulgan reached out and popped Ophiel.

- - - -

