For a few moments, Erick sat in his safe chair, in the safety of his warded house, in the safety of his city, surrounded by his safety net of personal guards.

No one was safe in Candlepoint. Not one of them had time to think, like Erick had right now. If Silverite was right about the Well, and if Bulgan was right about what he could do with the Well…

Erick almost questioned his desire to help people who were hurting, but who would get over it, in time.

But…

It was right and good to help people who need help, no matter if whatever they were going through was temporary. And besides that, there were adventurers in that town. They only had the one life… Unless they got revived as shadelings, too.

Erick checked his mana. He was half full, at 8,000 out of 17,000. His mana potion had worn off several seconds ago, but he had been using that mana this whole time. Eight thousand was a lot; it was enough for what he needed to do next.

He created an Ophiel, then blipped him out to a buried treasure. It was a small box under the sands in a specific location Erick had never marked, but was easily accessible to him, since [Teleport] put you right where you wanted to be, if you knew where you wanted to be. A [Stoneshape] brought the box to the surface, and then unveiled what was inside. Darkchips. Tiny fragments of some dark crystal or other black stone, maybe obsidian, maybe not; that didn’t matter.

Erick certainly couldn’t hope to [Duplicate] a million of these in the next ten seconds, and throw them in Bulgan’s face. With a bit of math, and aided by the clarity of his [Hunter’s Instincts], getting a million darkchips would take a million casts of [Duplicate]. Ten Ophiel meant he could have ten of them work at the same time, meaning only 100,000 casts per Ophiel, but even then…

A full day only had 84,000 seconds; 84,000 possible casts. That wasn’t taking into account mana, either, which would surely have to—

In the heat of the moment, Erick’s [Hunter’s Instincts] supplied him an answer. With 76,000 mana regen, it would take 2.5 seconds to get the 50 mana necessary to cast a Clarity-assisted 100 mana cost [Duplicate]. Meaning, one Ophiel could do 33,600 casts per day, meaning 10 Ophiel could do a third of a million per day, meaning 3 days for ten of them to cast [Duplicate] a million times. It was slightly better than that, because he had -10% spell costs, but that was more math than he was willing to do at the moment, and he doubted that small calculation would make the task much easier.

Erick wished he had more time, or that he had had this idea earlier than now, but that was not to be.

So he had to work some magic, first, and fast.

He tried to [Duplicate] the whole box. He got a second, empty box.

A shaped [Duplicate] on the whole stone box ended in another misfire.

Double Duplicate, instant, touch, 150 Mana

Create two copies of a non-magical, non-living item.

He got two stone boxes, but not the loose chips inside. Failure.

Erick tried not to think about people dying. If he got this right, if he managed to pay the million darkchip price, then Bulgan would have to abide by Melemizargo’s rules, wouldn’t he? That’s what Justine thought would happen. But then what?

Erick tried a 500 mana Extreme Mana Shaping, from a target, to an area. He cast upon the entire interior of the box. Darkchips pumped up from the box, like a swelling tide of obsidian flakes.

Multi-Duplicate, instant, touch, 600 Mana

Create copies of every item in a small area.

Better. But mana and cast time were still a concern. Not good enough. Erick could do more.

The third test had Ophiel pick up the box, while other Ophiels hovered below, waiting.

Mana Shaping. Aurify. [Duplicate].

Duplication Aura, instant, small range, 600 mana per second

Create copies of every item in a small area.

<Civilization will judge you for what you do.>

Erick expected stone boxes filled with darkchips. And he got that.

Stone boxes tumbled from the air, each of them filled with 1500 darkchips. Ophiels caught the boxes, and held them tight, making sure that none of the pieces spilled.

But he also got something else. Wind flowed from Ophiel like he was the center of an outflowing tornado. Other Ophiels readily rode the storm, easily holding on to themselves and the hundreds of boxes popping out all around the central Ophiel.

666 boxes, each overflowing with chips, all created in under ten seconds. That was all the darkchips needed to make up the needed million. Erick added on more boxes, though, just to be sure.

He hoped this worked.

- - - -

“Bulgan!”

Ophiel popped into the sky above Candlepoint, a hundred meters from the central Crystal, booming with Erick’s voice.

Some of the rainbow streetlights were broken, and gone, but daylight was fast approaching, and the central pillar of gold-white radiant Crystal showed the damage done to the city, and the damage still being committed by person-sized white spiders and four meter tall white automatons. Shadelings ran, but could not get away. Adventurers huddled under [Solid Ward]s, while monsters and machine-like summons beat on the glowing cages. And everywhere, there was no escape, because Bulgan, the Shade assigned to Candlepoint, stood atop the central, glowing Crystal, laughing at it all.

Bulgan laughed once, louder than before, then shouted, “You have no fee! Go away!”

“I have your fee!” Other Ophiels blipped in beside the first, carrying their heavy cargo on [Teleporting Platform]s. “Here are a million darkchips! I challenge you for control of Candlepoint!”

Bulgan smiled; a wicked thing, full of fangs.

In a flashing second, the Crystal under Bulgan dimmed to darkness, as radiance flowed up into the Shade, transforming him back into a radiant void. He bowed. “Welcome, my brother of Darkness, Erick Flatt.” He straightened, fully in control of himself, saying, “Thank Melemizargo that you’ve finally taken your rightful assignment.”

And then he vanished.

Erick came back to himself, feeling as though something awful had happened. Poi looked to him with soft eyes. Teressa looked to him with a questioning stare.

Erick said nothing. Candlepoint was still dying. He went back under, back into Ophiel’s senses and positions, over the shadeling city.

The spiders still fought invisibly, down below. Automatons still killed people. Erick recast the storms and [Withering]s outside, quick as he could, making sure he did not cast into the city; that would just kill every shadeling, too. The Crystal had already stopped producing summons, so he ignored that, for now. He discarded the darkchips, dismissing the platforms like they held nothing of importance at all, for they did not. 666 stone boxes of obsidian flakes fell to the roof of a building below, and shattered, spilling black flakes onto the black building.

Erick turned every single Ophiel into oozing light, and set them into the melee below, aimed at heat-bearing invisible spiders, and flowing into killing automatons. Spiders died, but not fast enough. Erick summoned a spell he had never used outside of its initial cast, because it was the only thing he had that was small scale, and what he could trust not to race around and kill shadelings. Otherwise, he would have used [Shooting Star].

Flying Weapon, instant, close range, 100 MP + Variable

Create a nigh unbreakable weightless weapon that flies at your command. Lasts until dismissed.

Each Ophiel summoned a bevy of daggers to augment their oozing [Greater Lightwalk]s.

Automatons were tougher than spiders, though. They carved through people without care, and two Ophiels and simple summoned weapons could not harm them. [Spell Breaker] did not work either. They were more than 1500 mana per summon. He tried [Teleport Summon], but that failed, for some reason.

Feeling disjointed from it all, Erick joined [Flying Weapon] to [Strike], wanting to harm and hurt the dark shelled summons like a god pressing a button and ending a threat. The summoned beasts were covered in blood, and he would end them—

Back in Spur, a blue box appeared.

Flying Striker, instant, close range, 250 MP + Variable

Create a nigh unbreakable weightless weapon that automatically Strikes opponents at your command, draining your mana for each Strike. Lasts until dismissed.

And then another.

Class Ability Quest Complete!

Create a well-made tier 3 skill or spell born of a Health-cost skill and a Mana-cost spell.

Reward: Blood Mana

Erick would explore the full ramifications of Blood Mana later. Right now, he cast [Flying Striker] with every oozing, lightform Ophiel.

Automatons fell under the multitudinous [Strike]s as lightform [Familiar] flew through Candlepoint like the wrath of an angry god. Spiders ceased to be, as their [Invisibility] was no match for Erick’s knowledge, or his power.

Erick couldn’t face a Shade in combat and win, yet. But he could certainly help save some people on the ground. Silverite had been right. Erick was much better at widescale destruction, than concentrated fire.

As a white orb above the Crystal created a map of all spiders in the area, and Ophiels followed the map to their enemies, Erick watched, and organized, as best he could. He briefly came back to himself a few times, here and there, but nothing important was happening in Spur right now. Hopefully it would stay that way for a few days.

But Erick doubted it.
