Because it’s the only way I can control my sexual urges around her. Plus, I won’t lie and say I don’t kinda enjoy bullying her a little, but only a bit. Okay, a lot, but in my defence, she’s so fun to bully. “That’s the problem Sister. She does all this for me, to become the person she thinks I want her to be. If I accept her for her actions, then she will never show her true self and I will never meet the true Zheng Luo. She will forever be Luo-Luo, the mask she wears in order to obtain my approval. It is deceptive, and I cannot love a lie.”

Still stroking my hair, Alsantset shakes her head and sighs. “So sweet, yet so cruel at times. You wish to know the true her, but you ask too much. From birth, she was cloistered away from the world to be trained as an Imperial Servant. A slave in all but name, yet she sees this as a privilege, and her purpose in life is to conform to the needs of her patron. You see her actions as lies and deceptions, but I see genuine effort and interest in her attempts to adjust to her new life. What you do not realize is that Zheng Luo and Luo-Luo are one and the same, little brother, for she herself is still discovering who she really is, and like it or not, you are an integral part of who she will become.”

Her part said, Alsantset walks away before I have time to rebut, which was smart because I didn’t have a proper one ready and would’ve said something stupid instead. Shoulders shaking as she giggles into my arm, Lin’s eyes light up as I look to her for support and am left wanting. “I already told you what I think hubby. You should really marry her. Luo-Luo is tall and pretty and so sweet with children, plus it means I don’t hafta handle any of your business stuff anymore.” Suppressing another giggle, she adds, “Plus, she’s so fun to bully ya? Oh hubby, you should see how wide her eyes get when she screams, like this one time, during a rickshaw race...”

Sweet Lin, a woman after my own heart. When her story is done, I tap her nose in reprimand and say, “I’ll try to be nicer, but I doubt anything will happen, not with me looking like this.” I try not to think about it too much, but after a month in Sinuji, a lot of old issues are cropping back up, like the pimples, body odour, and general grossness which all began when I lost my Chi-beautifying treatments and had under control for all of a week, if that.

Which raises another question, one I sink my teeth into while looking at Ping Ping’s giant head resting on the ground beside me. It sounds mean to say this, but I have no idea how she ever came to be worshipped as a Divine Beast, because she shares a lot of my... physical flaws. At first glance, she looks like something out of a monster movie, a jagged, reptilian beast with a spiked shell, sharp beak, and beady, black eyes which watch my every move. She’s a giant, gentle sweetheart with a kind soul, but that doesn’t mean her appearance doesn’t still terrify me on an instinctive level. It’s honestly a little ridiculous that she’s the shining example of the Mother’s presence in the Empire, especially considering she has the mental attitude of a sulky, overly attached toddler to go with her armoured saurian appearance.

Seriously... she’s supposedly an alligator snapping turtle cranked up to thirteen, but I’ve seen Ping Ping’s mundane cousins, and they’re nowhere near as metal as she is. In fact, I’d even go as far as to say she looks a lot like what I’d imagine a Defiled alligator snapper would look like, more menacing with her irregular surfaces and asymmetrically spiked shell much like the Defiled themselves are misshapen and malformed. It might sound like I’m hating on Ping Ping, but these are the facts: Heavenly Energy makes Martial Warriors pretty. Ping Ping is ugly, even for an armoured dinosaur like herself. Ergo, there must be something going on with Ping Ping that’s keeping her from becoming the beautiful terrapin heart-throb she’s supposed to be, and considering she’s supposed to be close to Divinity, I think there’s something to be gleaned from all this. Maybe my reptilian aesthetic senses are off, but comparing Ping Ping to Pong Pong is like night and day, and not just because of their sizes. Although his hygiene leaves much to be desired, Pong Pong is a stunning Adonis of a turtle with smooth, rounded edges and a hypnotically symmetrical pattern etched into his shell, the vibrant yellow marks standing out from his dark green skin. Meanwhile, Ping Ping’s yellowish-brown markings seem scattered about at random, with no pleasing pattern or overall motif to catch the eye, as if her discoloration is the result of some disease instead of being her natural appearance.

It’s okay Ping Ping, looks aren’t everything, but I’d be lying if I didn’t say you were ugly. Man, I feel terrible about even thinking it. You’re a sweet girl and I love you to bits. As soon as my people figure out rubber, I’m gonna make you a giant floating ball to play with. Oh, just imagine the havoc we could wreak after I teach you to play fetch...

Fun and games aside, all of this musing on my ugly self and even uglier Defiled brings to mind Jorani’s experience at the Canston Winery, more specifically his second visit with Du Min Gyu in tow. Their trip almost ended in disaster when a Defiled Ancestral Beast made an appearance, a mole-rat lady who according to Jorani looked like a half-melted mess of skin and warts. Her ugliness isn’t what’s important here, but rather, something she said while toying with the three Peak Experts sent to the Winery. Eccentric Gam called her ugly, and Jorani said she called her physical form a temporary set-back, one she would fix once she rediscovered how everything works. ‘I did so as a beast, a creature barely capable of rational thought, so I most certainly can do so again.’

I never paid her much mind, what with her talk of calling mole-demons her babies making her sound nutty as a chipmunk in autumn, but it sounds a lot like she was talking about using Heavenly Energy. Is it possible that the path to true Divinity, to Pong Pong’s Divinity, lies not in Balance, but in embracing both positive and negative sides of Heavenly Energy? True Balance, which was exactly what the Old Healer told Jorani. Embrace all emotion, take love and hate, joy and sorrow, courage and fear, and let them flow through you in perfect harmony.

...Why do all the crazies make so much damned sense?

“Come brother.” Reappearing at my side with Luo-Luo in tow, Alsantset pulls me onto my feet and directs my Death Corps to gather my palanquin. “The Colonel General demands our presence.” Her brow furrowed and feet restless, she paces in place before switching to Sending to add, “The Emissary marches on Sinuji at the head of another army, and I fear he comes for you.”

To finish what Gen started, I suppose, or maybe Zhen Shi hopes I’ve had a change of heart and will accept his offer the second time around. Sitting in my palanquin, I reflect on today’s discoveries and wonder what I would do if he asked me to join him again, knowing what I know now.

He may be a murderous psychopath hell-bent on destroying the Empire, but he has so many answers I need...

Chapter Meme
