I’m a softie at heart, so empathetic it’s pretty much a curse, and the Emperor might well be using that to win me over. Not to say that he’s wrong to, but I should keep this in mind before committing myself to anything, lest I find myself saddled with another title I don’t want or a wife I don’t need.

Needing no cue to stand and refill the Emperor’s cup, I can’t help but shoot Liang Wu Di a glance and wonder if he’ll ever have to serve me tea, and he appears to read my thoughts and respond with a sly smile that tells me things won’t work out as I envision. The Emperor takes a small, token sip from his cup, but I can tell he wants to drink more, to taste and experience more of the world he’s been denied for so long. You don’t get to where he is by being weak-willed however, so he puts the cup down while it’s still more than half-full, only to fold his hands together and regard me with the utmost gravity as he intones, “Legate Falling Rain, what is it you desire?”

“Honestly? To go home. Been away far too long for my tastes, but there’s still work to be done.”

I don’t know why I’m being so candid, but the Emperor doesn’t seem to mind, save to shake his head with a smile and say, “That cannot do. You have done this Sovereign a great service, done this Empire a great service, and for this, you must be rewarded. The soldiers are already spreading stories of visions, of seeing you lead them into battle against the Uniter to save this Sovereign from his clutches.” My expression gives away my surprise, because I didn’t think anyone would remember that, but then again, I should’ve known that those surviving Natal Souls would’ve made their way back to their original hosts after I dismissed them. Looking at Mom and Dad, I see them beaming with pride, and there is a faint glimmer of the same hidden within Akanai’s cool gaze, though I might well be imagining it since I now know that she’s actually proud and hiding it. It seems they all remember too, or at least have an inkling of what happened, even though I’m pretty sure I saw all of their Natal Souls get torn apart in the fight. I guess even the Eternal Emperor didn’t know how to destroy a fragment of soul, and could only dismiss the bindings holding those Natal Souls together, meaning the secret is out and the world will soon know about how I faced off against the Uniter in the Void.

A white lie I told everyone out of convenience, since explaining the whole thing would’ve been a pain in my ass, but in doing so, I’ve made it appear as if the Emperor had come to reinforce Shi Bei himself, only to fall victim to the Uniter’s clutches. The Emperor will no doubt spin this to his advantage, but none of the Imperial Scions from the Supreme Families had joined in on the fight, so they only know what others can tell them.

Which makes this all real complicated, and I have no idea what I’m supposed to say, because I don’t really want anything from the Emperor at all. I just want to do my thing and follow my heart, which the Emperor should know since he was there when I more or less said as much, so why is he asking me what I want instead of offering to support me in my endeavours?

A test? To see if I’ll actually stick to my principles and turn down the possibility of wealth and power? Psh. If I wanted power, I’d have taken over the Emperor’s body instead of leaving a Natal Soul to watch over him, one which has long since made its way back unnoticed. Reviewing its memories of the Emperor’s struggle, I realize he spent a good deal of time from his perspective breaking free of the Eternal Emperor’s chains, a long and gruelling escape which required fortitude and willpower in spades. Those chains were embedded deep into his soul, and breaking free took more than just slipping out of them, but removing them inch by painful inch until he was free to control himself once more. In fact, I doubt he has yet to wholly acclimate to his body, because it’ll take some time for him to familiarize himself with it again, not just the physical side of things like walking and running, but also the metaphysical side with regards to his flow of Chi. Now that I think about it, I’m not entirely sure how he was able to Cloud-Step into Shi Bei for his grand entrance, and as I go back through my memories to double check, I realize that it was only possible because Liang Wu Di was subtly helping him along.

Ah. I see. Maybe my former patron was never motivated by the throne itself, but rather by the desire to free his brother from the shackles of an undying ghost. Well shit… now I like him again, even though I don’t really want to, but I suppose this means I can push the envelope and see how many problems I can fix in one sitting by borrowing the Emperor’s authority. “Well, even though we broke the back of the Enemy command, the war for the West is still far from finished, so this Legate would appreciate any and all support the Emperor can lend to the effort.”

“Such is this Sovereign’s duty, and cannot be considered a reward, but you shall have all the support you require and more.”

A plain and simple promise voiced out loud in front of witnesses? Wow. The Emperor is actually serious about this. “Uh… even though the risks are high, this Legate begs for clemency and compassion for those captured by the Enemy, asking that the purge be left as a last resort.”

“This Sovereign is well aware of your fortune to have contracted an Elemental Spirit, so such decisions will be left to you. Do not disappoint. This too cannot be considered a reward, for a service rendered can hardly be rewarded with more service.”

This… this is too easy. There’s gotta be a catch somewhere, so I test the waters with something that will benefit me indirectly to see if the Emperor just accepts my request and moves on. “I’m guessing a Divinity isn’t allowed to hold rank?” I ask, throwing a quick glance at Akanai who shakes her head in confirmation. “Well, the North needs a new Colonel General, and my Dad was being groomed for the role…”

“A promotion is indeed in the works for Baatar of the People, but it is one he earned with his own merits, and thus has no bearing on your reward.”

“My teacher, Medical Saint Taduk and my wife, Mei Lin, their status is –”

“Say no more. From henceforth, they are both under this Sovereign’s protection, and those who act against them will be met with the full force of my wrath. Again, this is only as it should be, for they too are citizens of this Sovereign’s realm.”

Okay, now I know something is fishy. There’s something specific he wants from me, and I have no idea what, so I’m just gonna keep pushing the envelope and see what happens. “Well… there’s also a minor matter of a promised marriage, one between young hero Yong-Jin and Ryo Seoyoon, but you see…”

A brief explanation is all it takes before the Emperor agrees to annul their marriage so that Fung and Seoyoon can be married instead, only for Liang Wu Di to chime in and ask permission to interject. “It was this Prince’s decision to bind Yong-Jin and Seoyoon in marriage, a most grievous mistake indeed, for the two are not a suited match. In the same vein, this Prince shall also free Ryo Da’in from her commitment as well, though with great reluctance.”

It takes a few moments to put the pieces together, and I almost screw everything up by making a face, because now I know why the Ryo’s were so willing to turn against me. Liang Wu Di offered to take Da’in as his wife, or concubine at the very least, meaning the Ryo’s would have a highly placed Imperial Scion for a son-in-law, and possibly even a daughter as the future Empress. In light of this news, I can hardly blame them for accepting, because even I might have to think twice about it if Liang Wu Di offered to take my hand in marriage. Not really, but still, the principle stands, though I’m a little weirded out by the age gap. Da’in isn’t much older than Wu Di’s daughter, Miss Rou, maybe five or so years at most, which means he’s probably twice the age of Da’in and almost sixty himself, even though he only looks like he’s in his mid-thirties. Then again, I suppose Kyung isn’t all that much younger, and I’m hardly one to talk about age gaps, though I have since come to accept that maybe I’m not as mature and grown-up as I’d like to believe, seeing how I was actually born into this world, rather than fully transmigrated.

Not making excuses, just saying is all. Shit’s complicated, so hopefully my wives find it in themselves to forgive me for all my lies.

Bringing us back on track like the leader he is, the Emperor leans forward and transfixes me with his gaze. “You still have yet to request a suitable reward, one to match your accomplishments. This cannot be, lest this Sovereign be construed as miserly and ungenerous.”

“If this General might offer a suggestion?” Now it’s Xing Ao Tian’s turn to interject, and immediately the temperature in the room drops by several degrees, as anyone with eyes can see that he’s at odds with the Emperor and Liang Wu Di. Upon receiving the Emperor’s nonverbal assent, Xing Ao Tian continues, “Falling Rain has made a great contribution here today, but as he says himself, his work is far from finished, to say nothing of how he overstepped his bounds to come this far in the first place. As reward, confirming his position as Legate of the Outer Provinces is generous enough, and this General shall personally see to it that the West is reclaimed with the utmost speed.”

Meaning he wants to hand me an empty title that will have no power once he steps in and takes over. The Tian and Di Scions make no move to agree or disagree, but even as Liang Wu Di shakes his head, a young Yang Scion chimes in to show his support. “Truly an unprecedented honour for someone outside the Imperial Clan, and General Xing’s support will be necessary here in the West now that the young Savage Divinity is no longer able to meddle in mortal affairs.”

…Technically true, but I figured I could still run point on command and be a part of the process, even if I can’t personally take action unless an Enemy Divinity shows up. Knowing better than to speak however, I simply remain silent and look at the Emperor instead, to see how genuine he is about rewarding me. Personally, I would much rather work with him than against him, because backing the established Emperor will probably result in less instability than working with the Supreme Families against him, to say nothing of how I’m pretty sure Xing Ao Tian would love to meet me in a dark alley somewhere and beat the shit outta me. Jokes on him, I schooled him once already, and I’m even stronger now, though I suppose he’s got plenty of Seniors to call on to help him even the score.

To my pleasant surprise, the Emperor comes down firmly against Xing Ao Tian’s suggestion, slamming the palm of his hand against the table in a show of overt rage. “Short-sighted fools.” Luckily for him, we’re all shrouded in a Sound Barrier and his little outburst didn’t wake Mila, else all of our lives would be in grave danger. Pointing at me while addressing the Scions behind him, the Emperor roars, “Do you know what this young man has done? He has given us our freedom again, the chance to control our fate once more. We who believed ourselves dragons have been little more than dogs to our Eternal Foe, marching to the beat of his tune for millennia in complete and utter ignorance. Even when Wu Di brought indisputable proof for you all to see, when our Foe admitted to his sins himself, you all thought to barter with our captor rather than work together to be rid of him once and for all.” Turning to me, the Emperor huffs in disdain and says, “Tell me your thoughts on the Oath they made, one of mutual non-interference.”

“Worth less than the paper it wasn’t written on,” I respond, only for all four Scions except Liang Wu Di to frown. “His Oath was to not meddle in the affairs of the Supreme Family, so long as they pay no mind to him and his.” Shrugging as if the answer is self-evident, I explain, “The man united the warring states of the Azure Sea, and thus sees the throne as his by right. Right of arms or right of birth, the throne belongs to him. The moment someone from the Supreme Family publicly claims it for themselves, the Eternal… Foe’s Oath will no longer bind him, for you will have meddled with what he sees as rightfully his.” Frowning, I add, “But you all would’ve caught that, yet you agreed anyways, because you never intended on keeping it. You were going to use him to put pressure on the Emperor, leverage to ensure Liang Wu Di didn’t act against you once he became Emperor himself.” Laughing, I add, “Talk about cutting your nose off to spite your face. The man had tens of thousands of years of experience playing you all against one another, and can take over a new body with less effort than it takes to turn a hand. If he was still around, he could easily take over any of you and resume his efforts from there, or take one of your children and play the long con. So long as he still lived, you’d never truly be safe, because he could be hiding in the bodies of anyone, and would do anything to become Emperor again.”

