The lack of a response tells me I hit the nail on the head for once, and I find it incredible how arrogant these Scions can be. Even Wu Di seems somewhat skeptical of my claims, but the Emperor knows first hand how terrifying the Eternal Emperor truly was. What’s more, I can tell the others don’t entirely trust us, since they only have our word that the Eternal Emperor is dead and gone, since no one else was present to see it, but aside from an Oath I refuse to make, we don’t have any way to prove it.

None of which is my problem, nor is it something for future me to deal with. Instead, this is the Emperor’s problem, but now he’s trying to make it my problem by bringing me into the fold, which means I need to make the most of it while I can. Glancing at Luo-Luo in hopes that she has something to help me move this conversation along, I’m struck by a flash of Insight as to what to ask for a reward. “My Imperial Servant, Zheng Luo,” I begin, changing the subject with all the tact of a drunk ox in a china shop. “As my reward, this Legate humbly requests that the Emperor remove her status as an Imperial Servant, and return her freedom to her.”

The perfect request to keep myself from becoming beholden to the Emperor, but alas, he shakes his head in apparent regret. “Again, you ask for what should rightfully be rewarded, since such talent cannot remain buried unjustly.” Turning to face Luo-Luo, who quickly falls to her knees, the Emperor declares, “From this day forth, Imperial Servant Zheng Luo is no more, her service no longer required and her birthright restored. Rise, Liang Xiao Luo, and accept the title of Divine True Musician, the foremost talent of this generation.”

…

……

Liang Xiao Luo. So similar to Liang Xiao Rou, who is Liang Wu Di’s daughter. Liang Wu Di, my patron, who presented Luo-Luo to me in the first place.

Meaning Liang Wu Di is Luo-Luo’s father, and my Father-in-Law to boot.

ARG!

I turned down the chance to marry sisters. Sisters!

…Actually, not as disappointed as I thought I’d be, considering I clearly ended up with the better sister. Winning!

Taking a deep breath to calm my nerves, I try to ignore my new Father-in-Law’s smug smile as he moves to greet his daughter and help her to her feet. “Xiao Luo, I am your father, Liang Wu Di, but it was never my intent to give you up. Our Eternal Foe demanded it after we had a falling out, a show of fealty in offering my firstborn into service.” Turning to the Emperor to share a cold smile, he continued, “That was the first day I embarked upon my crusade to unseat him, only to uncover that the brother I looked up to, the brother I fell out with, the brother who demanded my precious daughter, was not my brother at all.” Reaching out to stroke Luo-Luo’s cheek with so much love it can’t be faked, he swallows a lump in his throat and says, “In a way, the Eternal Foe was overthrown because he took you away from me, a crime which I could never forgive. Know that you have always been in my heart, so I ask that you forgive your foolish father for leaving you alone all these years.”

Oddly enough, Luo-Luo turns to me instead of responding, her eyes filled with tears and surprise, but all I can do is offer a smile in support, and urge her to make her own decisions. “Forgive this servant –” she begins, only to stop and correct herself as Liang Wu Di shakes his head with a smile. “Forgive this one,” Luo-Luo corrects, though even I can tell that’s not right, because being a Divine True Musician has gotta have some heft, “But all this is happening too quickly and this one needs time to process it.”

“Yes, yes, take all the time you need.” Though obviously disappointed, Liang Wu Di tries not to let it show as he pats her on the shoulder once before thinking better of it. “Just know that I, your father, will wait as long as need be, and that your mother and sister are waiting as well. Your sister is actually here in Shi Bei, though she has some bad blood with your husband, water under the bridge, I’m sure.” Turning to look me in the eyes, he adds, “Now that my eldest daughter has been returned to me, I expect a proper marriage ceremony, understand? Preferably one where no one attempts to poison you, resulting in the need to engage in self mutilation to cure you.”

“Of course,” I reply, because what else can I say, except go along with the flow and accept it? Ask someone to cut you open one time…

As Liang Wu Di takes his place behind the Emperor once more, and Luo-Luo calms her nerves in Mom’s one-armed embrace, I find myself at the centre of attention once more, which is becoming all too common for my tastes. “Seeing how you are unable to come up with a suitable reward,” the Emperor begins, finishing the rest of his tea with a sigh of delight, “Let us try a different tack. What are your goals moving forward from here? What is it you hope to accomplish? In the short term and long term, if you please, and perhaps there will be something you desire which this Sovereign can grant you.”

Clever man. In supporting my goals, he binds us together in a way I cannot refuse, because if we’re working together to accomplish my dreams, then our fates will be tied together. Clearly he’s worried about the other Supreme Families, and he thinks that I and the army stationed here in Shi Bei can help him, an army which has given rise to three new Divinities and countless Peak Experts who would follow my lead. Then there’s my own strength, which is still something of a mystery, though I honestly hope there will never be any need to wield it ever again. The Eternal Emperor is dead and gone, and Zhen Shi gone with him, so all that remains are scattered bands of Defiled who might well be convinced to put aside their murderous ways and settle down in the Empire for good, like Asmani and her tribe living in the Arid Wastes. There is still bloody work to be done, but with a little luck and a lot of effort, we will have peace in our time once more, especially if the current Emperor’s reign remains stable and secure until it comes time to pass the title along.

So what do I want to do? I don’t want to just free the West, I also want to fix all the issues that plagued it. Access to food and water were the big ones, but I’ve been working on the first issue for a while. With glass now a thing, we can begin research on canning and food preservation, enabling the fertile south to export more of its agriculture to every corner of the Empire. As for water, I’ve already established that it’s all down-hill from the Azure sea and carved out a channel for water, so why not turn it into a bonafide river, and I guess plant some trees to keep the sand from filling it in? I’d need to consult some experts on erosion and other stuff, but I’m sure there’s a way to reclaim the desert and turn it into arable land after a few years. Planting trees helps, I think, so we can start from the coastline and work our way in, and perhaps see some positive changes in the coming decades.

But that’s just the start. I want to build schools and orphanages in every town, hamlet, and village, and task the Brotherhood with teaching the next generation how to read and write. Once we have a new generation of scholars, I want to create jobs for them in the municipal levels of government to help oversee those schools and other facets of society, positions which will be filled based on objective skill and merit, as opposed to nepotism. I want to write a system of laws in which all are equal before it, to ensure everyone who works hard can go to bed at night with a full belly and a roof over their head. I want to end slavery and shrink the economic gap between commoners and the wealthy elites, while simultaneously doing away with this system of inherited nobility and the belief that might makes right in spite of all else.

All grand dreams and noble ideals, but I can’t outright ask for any of this, because the Emperor would never agree. Too much hinges on slavery being a thing, so I need to work towards my goal myself and show the world that things don’t have to be this way. That’s why I let the secret of Anathema production leak, to show the world the full extent of what the lack of human rights has caused and make them look more closely at the problem, rather than avert their eyes away. It’s a risk, but one I’m willing to take, because the knowledge will bring more eyes to the issue and make it everyone’s concern, instead of just mine.

Of course, there’s other stuff I want too. I want to have a menagerie of floofs to love and to spoil, to build a home large enough for me and my wives as well as the family we will soon start. I want to have indoor plumbing and other technological advancements from my past life, and be pleasantly surprised by what the people of this world can contribute with their unique perspectives. I want to science the shit out of the Dao and create a primer or guide to cultivation that anyone can use to progress along the Path, because the more cultivators there are, the more data there will be, meaning eventually, someone will figure out the parts too complicated for me. I want to explore the depths of the Azure Sea and find out just what in the hell is so terrifying as to make Pong Pong live in constant fear. I want to explore the outlands and try to bring life back to them, so that humanity can flourish all around this strange and mysterious world instead of under the authority of a single man. I want to bring my sweet doggo out for a walk, as soon as he finishes digesting his latest meal, and see how he introduces himself to the rest of my friends and family, because he loves meeting new people and I love seeing him do it. I want to get to know my grandfather Naaran and my brother Gerel, and see if I have any surviving brothers or sisters I could help. I also want to make sure my sister knows how much she means to me, and that I would have made Charok my brother if he wasn’t married to her. I want to see my niece and nephew grow up to become the wonderful people I know they will be, and see the look on my parent’s faces when they become grandparents themselves. I want to support Mila in her quest to become a Peak Expert and Divine Blacksmith, cheer for Yan as she strives to follow in Grandpa Du’s footsteps, cherish them both as well as Lin-Lin everyday in an effort to find some way to make up for my lechery. I want to shamelessly woo Li-Li who I cannot even imagine a life without, and to get to know Luo-Luo better because I’ve long since fallen in love with this incredible woman and am thrilled to know that she loves me too as her emotions surge off her in waves of love and adoration.

There’s so much I want, but how do I respond to the Emperor’s question? Right now, I’d love a little privacy so I can respond appropriately to Luo-Luo’s emotions, but even I’m not so bold as to tell the Emperor to fuck off, much less Akanai or my parents. Aside from that, I want to make the world a better place, which is what I intend to do, one small step at a time, steps which would be much easier if the Emperor were on my side. There will be failures ahead, and mistakes to be made, but I have a loving family, earnest friends, and whole cadre of support floofs to help me through it all, to say nothing of the people and floofs I have yet to meet. So long as I follow my heart and surround myself with people who love me, then I have nothing to fear, because with their help, there is no trial or tribulation I cannot overcome.

We all must forge our own Path, but that doesn’t mean we must walk it alone, a lesson I’ve learned time and time again, but this time, I really think it’s gonna stick.

Chapter Meme 1

Chapter Meme 2

Chapter Meme 3

- Savage Divinity, Final Volume End -
