Pulling me close for a quick kiss to mitigate the blow to my pride, her efforts do nothing to lessen my hatred of the sand. To her credit, Li-Li’s gaze shows no wariness when our eyes meet briefly, only amusement as she offers me a slight nod, one I return it in kind while dreaming of a day when I can finally win her heart as well. Giving Mila’s hand a light squeeze and reaching over to stroke Yan’s cheek, I linger for a moment longer until they’re all fast asleep, save for Buddy who is all pooped out from the excitement and now struggling to sit up against my leg, stubbornly refusing to lay down and rest until I do. An exuberant Mama Bun is also still hoping about, having the time of her life on her borrowed Manifested raft, one I think Buddy is keeping maintained, because I sure as hell haven’t been. Gathering my gluttonous doggo up into my arms, I cradle him close and wonder just what did I do in my last life to deserve all this joy and happiness. Not just a second chance, but one with so many women who love me, so many floofs who adore me, and a sweet dog who made the trip over with me from my previous life to the next.

It’s been a long, hard-fought war, and there are still plenty of trials and tribulations to come, but this right here makes it all worthwhile. The only way this could be better is if the rest of my loved ones were here too, and just like that, I decide that I can’t keep hiding the truth from them and will tell them everything from start to finish as soon as I can. Wives first, plus Li-Li, and then everyone else, assuming the ladies don’t kill me.

Which probably won’t happen, right? Hey, maybe I can conjure up some Water Chi for them to wash in first, and then they’ll be less liable to kill me for lying about who I am all this time. Is that even possible? I don’t think I can channel enough Heavenly Energy to Manifest Water Chi long enough for a proper bath, not without going comatose afterwards, which kinda defeats the purpose of helping them wash off, since I would really like to be conscious afterwards. I could douse them in Water Chi for a quick sort of shower, but it would probably dissipate back into Heavenly Energy before enough time had passed to get a proper lather. What about an actual, real rainstorm? It should be technically possible, because even though I only possess the Blessing of Water, I should know enough about the water cycle to nudge things in the right direction and get a rainstorm going. Theoretically at least, though I should probably hold off on manipulating the weather until I’ve had time to run my thoughts by Taddy, but if it works out, then maybe I can figure out a way to set things right in the west, and turn it into a vibrant landscape instead of a land of sand and death.

“Lord Husband.” Interrupting my wandering thoughts in the most timid and tired way possible, Luo-Luo’s posture is still impeccable despite being too tired to even stand, sitting at the table with her hands folded and head held high while fighting to keep her eyelids open. “Perhaps it would be wise to make preparations to receive the Emperor or his emissary, if they should come calling?”

“Right, right.” I should make some tea at the very least, though why anyone would want a hot drink in this climate is beyond my comprehension. Wandering over to give her hand a squeeze, I reply, “What would I ever do without you?” Only to receive a slight wince in response, because she’s been playing her zither so forcefully she broke the skin on her fingers, which I never noticed because I was too engrossed in my floofs. “Sorry.” Taking her hands in my own, I bring them close and close my eyes to focus before directing a thread of Heavenly Energy her way, one which flows seamlessly through her and sets her abraded fingers to healing. It’s about as difficult as tying a tie on someone else, but otherwise, pretty simple to pull off, because Luo-Luo trusts and loves me with all her heart, and I’m pretty sure I’ve fallen head over heels for her as well. “There,” I declare, sneaking a light little kiss on the back of her hands and wishing I had courage enough to go for her lips. “All better. In the future, please don’t hesitate to speak up if you’re injured, because your pain is my pain too.” Luo-Luo’s fetching blush puts thoughts in my mind which are better left for later, because not only do I want our first time to be special, I don’t want to risk having someone walk in on us at the worst possible moment. Again. “Now sit tight while I go find some tea. And a teapot. And some snacks, I guess. Here. Meet Buddy.”

Though my dog puts up a bit of a fight when I seat him in the chair next to Luo-Luo, it’s mostly a token effort, because he’s so bloated with Heavenly Energy that he can barely even sit up straight. Then again, he never had the best posture to begin with, but his slovenly charms quickly win over Luo-Luo, who is already scritching his chin and cooing over him as I leave the room. Finding everything I need is more difficult than I expect, as not only am I unfamiliar with the layout of the fortress, everyone is too tired to really help, and I don’t want to stop someone and ask because then they’ll probably insist on doing everything themselves. A good twenty minutes pass before I find everything I need and make my way back to my room, at which point I’m greeted by the snores of my lovely wives and a mixed array of scowls and smiles of the Emperor seated at the table, while his entourage stands behind him. Akanai and the Old Wolf sit across from him, while Mom and Dad stand behind them and are busy making eyes at one another next to Luo-Luo and Buddy. I guess that means Mom wasn’t mistreated after being detained by Shuai Jiao, because if she had been, then Dad would have gone off to challenge the Colonel General or something, assuming I didn’t get there first, but her smile sets my heart at ease as she indicates she missed me and loves me while gesturing for me to hurry up.

“Hi,” I begin, greeting the Emperor directly while fending Mama Bun off from the snacks, only to immediately wish I’d paid more attention in Luo-Luo’s etiquette classes so I could stop making these stupid mistakes. “Sorry for the wait, I uh… went to find tea and stuff. Gimme a few minutes and I’ll have a nice, steaming hot cup of tea for us all to enjoy.”

“Allow me.” There is little to no courtesy in the heavy-set Imperial Scion’s statement, more of a demand than an offer as he takes everything out of my hands. “The Emperor is not to be kept waiting.” A member of the Di family, the Imperial Scion’s cheeks jiggle as he scowls and looks over everything I’ve brought, his brow somehow completely free of sweat despite the many layers of colourful robes he’s wearing underneath his ceremonial armour. “Nor should he be served such inferior leaves, but needs must, I suppose.”

I don’t have much of an eye or a tongue for tea, but I suppose if anyone knows his tea leaves, it’d be the Di Family Scion. “Sorry. This is my first time here, so I just grabbed whatever I could find.” The heavy-set man has already forgotten all about me as he sets to making the tea, so I grab Mama Bun before heading over to the table where only the Emperor, Akanai, and the Old Wolf are seated, while everyone else stands behind their respective parties. The Liang Baldy is absent, as are the Grand Marshal and Prime Minister both, along with a few other faces, meaning that aside from the Emperor, there is only one representative from each Supreme Family. All of whom are somewhat familiar, like my former Patron Liang Wu Di, and the giant meathead Xing Ao Tian, but I have no names for the others, though they were all present to talk terms with the Eternal Emperor and likely half-brothers at the very least. Unsure if I should stand or sit, I look to Luo-Luo for guidance, who uses her eyes to indicate I should bow to the Emperor and follow his lead, which I probably should’ve known. “Uh… Ten thousand years of boundless longevity upon the Emperor. Imperial uh… Legate Falling Rain awaits his orders?”

That’s how everyone was greeting the Legate, so I hope it’s good enough for the Emperor too, but he seems pretty chill about all the formalities and quickly gestures for me to sit. “Ten-thousand years is too much,” he began, flashing a smile that is every bit as charming and endearing as my former patron’s, two men cut from the same cloth, which makes sense considering how they’re brothers. “To live out the rest of my reign will be fortune enough, for our Eternal Foe took much from this Sovereign in his final fight against you, the Savage Divinity.”

God I hate that name, but it’s too late to change it now. More to the point, I can pretty much guess at the subtle message hidden within the Emperor’s words, but I have no idea how to create or transfer Life Force to help extend his life, nor am I willing to ask Lin-Lin to do it either. “This Legate is incapable, and unable to assist without guidance and practice, but the Emperor is a dragon among men, and this Legate is confident that you will ascend to Divinity in time.”

Taking no visible offense from my apparent refusal to help, the Emperor simply smiles and nods. “The Eternal Foe was a brilliant man, and though this Sovereign endured much suffering at his hands, there were benefits to be had as well. Divinity stands but a half-step away, especially if the Savage Divinity is willing to dispense his sage advice.”

…I feel like I’m being made part of a joke, but the scandalized expressions from the Emperor’s entourage tells me that the joke is not at my expense. “This Legate dare not claim himself capable of guiding the Emperor on his Path, but is happy to offer whatever assistance he may.” So long as it’s verbal. As surprisingly pleasant as this exchange might be, I’m getting really tired of all this polite doublespeak, but I’m not fluent enough to know how to say, ‘cut to the chase’ in a way that won’t offend everyone involved. Decorum demands I at least wait until tea is served, but the Di Scion is taking his sweet ass time puttering about, and has yet to even put the kettle onto the stove, so there’s nothing I can do except play along with the Emperor and make small talk for a few minutes more.

This is my personal hell. That’s it, isn’t it? I died in battle against the Eternal Emperor, and now I’m in hell.

To my great relief, the Emperor skillfully guides the ensuing conversation by asking questions about the war effort up to this point, and even includes Akanai in the conversation and compliments her on her “brilliant tactical acumen” and “unparalleled teaching abilities”. My Grand Mentor is as stoic as they come, an ice queen to surpass all ice queens, but even she is showing signs of being won over by the Emperor’s charm, who is as smooth as silk and a silver-tongued devil whom I would be leery of leaving alone with my wives. For a guy that’s been imprisoned for the last few decades, his social skills are still top-notch, though I suppose I should’ve expected as much from a man who beat out all the competition to catch the Eternal Emperor’s eye.

A real shame, because rather than the belle of the ball, he became the prime bull to be slaughtered for his meat, a feast for the Eternal Emperor’s undying soul which could no longer sustain itself.

Finally, the Di Scion finishes his preparations and pours a cup of tea for the Emperor, while leaving the pot and three cups within easy reach for me to pour for the Old Wolf, Akanai, and myself. I guess my parents and Luo-Luo don’t get a cup, but to be fair, neither does anyone in the Emperor’s entourage, though I find it odd that he brought no Divinities with him. Seems dangerous to let the Emperor sit across the table from two Divinities without any protection, no matter how friendly, but I suppose the current Emperor must be equally guarded against the Divinities of the Supreme Family as well.

And with that thought, it occurs to me that things might not be so bad after all. The current Emperor is in a fix, because the Supreme Families only just banded together to overthrow him, or rather the Eternal Emperor in the current Emperor’s body. Even though the Eternal Emperor is dead and gone, how can he prove it to the Supreme Families, much less trust them knowing they’d already overthrown one Emperor and could easily make it two? That’s why he’s here, playing all nice and cordial, because he wants to win my support, support he knows I’ll give because he was there for the final fight, and knows that I want to end this war with as little bloodshed as possible.

Among many, many, many other things. Fuck.

Happy to have worked it out in advance for once, I spend a little more time studying the Emperor across from me. Draining his cup of tea in a single gulp, he utters a quiet sigh of satisfaction while flashing a small, sad smile, one so full of longing and regret. “Delicious,” he exclaims, though even I think the tea is mediocre at best, yet he acts as if it is the most refreshing drink ever. Then again, from his perspective, it might well be, since he’s been kept on a chain for decades now, meaning this is probably the first thing he’s actually tasted since the Eternal Emperor took over. Had I known this in advance, I’d have found some wine too, though it’s against regulation to drink alcohol here in the west, since it dehydrates you even more. Suppressing the minor pang of empathy in my chest, I warn myself against taking everything at face value, because this all could be a calculated act designed to win me over, one he put together after seeing my battle against the Eternal Emperor and the lengths I went to in order to save his eternal soul.

