Further questioning proved mostly useless, and they received only fragmented answers and vague references. There was “poison rising from the deepest depths” and “the winter winds would awaken the crumbling titan.” All very ominous, but none of it very clear or helpful. The longer they forced the hill to remain still, the more agitated it was becoming too.

Eventually, they withdrew, and as they others rejoined them, she asked the first question that came to mind. “Did any of that make sense to you? I’ve never heard of a real falling star.” While the term was used fairly often as a poetic descriptor for different celestial phenomena, actual stars didn’t move. They were just hidden while the sun moved overhead.

<Right? I don’t get it,> Sixiang said, sounding frustrated. <Still, I feel like I almost remember something.>

Chang He and Mo Lian remained silent, the younger of the two tugging nervously at his beard. However, it was Chun Yan who spoke up, a frown on her hard features. “I remember my gran telling a story ‘bout the gods sending down a star to punish a wicked dragon king. Just an old folk tale though.”

They all fell silent for a moment. “It is probably just a flowery metaphor for something,” Ling Qi said. Even reading the expression directly, a falling star was just a burning radiance descending from the sky. It almost reminded her of the Duchess, but the Cai’s light techniques lacked the rippling veils of color expressed by the hills “words.” “Perhaps a powerful spirit beast died in the south, and its blood is poisoning the earth.”

“Seems more likely,” Chun Yan agreed.

“Yes, that seems more likely. Should we search for the source then, ma’am?” Mo Lian asked.

“That would probably be for the best,” she agreed. “You’ll lead us then. Focus on the ground, and look for unusual traces. The rest of us will keep watch while you search.”

The clear order seemed to snap them out of their thoughts, and once again Ling Qi was treated to three simultaneous “Yes, ma’am.”

<I dunno. Something gives me a bad feeling,> Sixiang murmured in her thoughts as they set off.

<I don’t like it either,> Hanyi said, speaking up for the first time in awhile. <The mountain was being creepy.>

<Do not worry. I, Zhen, will frighten away the scary lights for Hanyi,> Zhen hissed teasingly.

Ling Qi sighed as the noise in her head returned to normal levels. She was probably overthinking things.
