It was just the sort of break Cale needed. His presence was very much a boon: his ability to move around quickly with [Shadowblend] meant they could hurry back to the spiderling village to let them know what had happened and show that they were fine. That was good thinking on Adyr's part, mostly. Cale hadn't even thought about it, but he'd pointed out the two mages that were supposed to escort them would almost certainly start a panic otherwise.

After that, the trip was simple enough. With the village's blessings and approval, the three of them plus one herd of goats resumed their journey to the divine kingdom of Thyrahl.

For most of this trip, Cale walked along with the spiderlings, chatting animatedly and passing along age-appropriate tales of his adventures. Both spiderlings were fascinated by them, though Adyr caught on and started shooting him suspicious looks at the fifth mention of people being hit with "sleeping spells."

Cale just shrugged in response. What was he supposed to do, detail exactly what happened to some of his allies? Sleeping spells were suitable. Hesa didn't need to think about what other kinds of magic existed when she'd already witnessed the whole thing with the Red Commander.

Besides, there was enough truth to the stories that they were still exciting. It was only when it was too late that Cale realized he might be spreading another round of legends about him.

...Hopefully he wouldn't acquire some new title because of it. He wasn't sure how he felt about being named the "Sleeping Archmage" or whatever it was Hesa seemed intent on coming up with.

This companionship was cut short when they reached the foot of a mountain and Cale realized exactly how much climbing would be involved. Adyr and Hesa both scaled the sheer cliffs like they were nothing, and the goats weren't far behind, but Cale had absolutely no intention of physically climbing a mountain when he had a perfectly serviceable teleport.

For that part of the journey, he acted the way an escort mage was supposed to act, largely just observing from a distance in case anything went wrong. To his surprise, though, everything was... fine. The worst that happened was Jornathena attempting to leap particularly high, missing, then scaring half the other goats into scattering across the mountain.

That incident resulted in about another half-hour of frantic searching, only for them to find half the goats somehow perched in a tree.

"I have a lot of questions," Cale said.

"This is normal for goats," Adyr explained. Cale stared at the spiderling, then at Jornathena's smug stare, then sighed.

"I no longer have any questions," he amended grudgingly.

The kingdom of Thyrahl awaited them in the form of a path built into the side of the mountain, and it took no more than another hour to get there, which came and went without incident. The goats were donated to one of the city-kingdom's temples, much to Hesa's dismay; she bid Jornathena a long, incredibly protracted farewell while Cale and Adyr waited awkwardly at the side.

After that, they took a shortcut to bring Hesa back to her home village and so their parents could hug their son goodbye, and finally entered the kingdom of Thyrahl proper.

It occurred to Cale as he looked around that this was his first visit to an actual kingdom on Utelia. He'd more or less ignored Orstrahl entirely, despite its outsized influence on the affairs of the Brightscale Academy. He wondered how it compared to Thyrahl—the so-called divine kingdom was rife with holy and divine mana aspects, to the degree that Cale almost expected everything to be made of gold and marble.

Yet it wasn't. The place was built out of humble wood and stone. The materials were blessed and reinforced to absurd degrees, certainly, but the architecture overall was surprisingly mild; it was only the temples that received any kind of fanfare, and even then it came in the form of small individual dedications rather than enormous, elaborate carvings.

Cale was sort of impressed. Most divine kingdoms were, put crudely, far more up their own asses. The people here seemed surprisingly no-nonsense and practical.

Adyr was getting increasingly nervous as they approached the temple where he would begin his apprenticeship, though. Presumably this had something to do with how Cale kept expressing blasphemous degrees of familiarity with the gods. Adyr seemed increasingly certain they would both be struck with lightning at any moment.

Cale had no such concerns. He just followed Adyr, then beamed brightly at the divine messenger that was apparently the spiderling's master, even as Adyr stammered his way through an introduction.

In all fairness, the divine messenger in question was very much an intimidating specimen. Like all divine messengers, he was inhuman to the extreme, resembling something like a winged, upside-down pyramid made of basalt columns with dozens of piercing golden eyes hidden amongst the cracks.

He also sported a glorious pair of metallic wings attached to his back and a scattering of halos tilted at various angles across his columns. Cale briefly considered complimenting those traits, but decided not to stress Adyr out any more than the poor thing was already.

When Adyr finished his introductions, the divine messenger turned to face Cale, his expression and tone inscrutable. "A mortal that believes himself worthy of touching the divine," he mused. "And one who claims to have insight for my kind, at that. It is a bold approach you take."

Cale paused, his brows wrinkling. "I mean, I'm not sure if I would phrase it like that," he said. "Sure, I guess? Honestly, if touching is going to be involved, I feel like it's a two-way street. Consent and all that."

Adyr made a sound that sounded very much like a mortified squeak. Cale had no idea spiderlings could even make sounds like that.

"I probably can offer some insight, though," he added. "If I could have your name? Adyr forgot that part. That or he already introduced you and I was too busy staring at your majestic columns to notice."

The divine messenger stared down at him for a long moment. "I am Columns Reaching For The Sky," he intoned, evidently choosing to ignore the rest of Cale's commentary.

Or perhaps he was just confused; it was hard to tell with divine messengers. He floated past Cale to Adyr, tilted forward like he was inclining his head, and then a silver token emerged from behind his back and flew over to the spiderling.

"Young apprentice," he said. "I believe it is best if I converse with your friend in private. This token will lead you to your assigned room. Familiarize yourself with the tools available to you, and find me later if you have any questions or concerns. If this mortal truly holds divine insight, you will be rewarded, but rest assured you will not be punished if he does not. I would not hold you accountable for such a thing."

"Y-yes, master," Adyr said, bowing deeply. Then he rapidly scurried up the steps like he was afraid of what Cale was going to say next.

Which was probably fair, because what Cale said next was this: "Any chance I can just call you Column? You know, like Colin. Columns Reaching For The Sky is kind of a mouthful."

The divine messenger rotated to stare at him. "...If you truly do have insight, then you may call me whatever you wish. I have a particular personal project in mind. The script needed for it escapes even the best of our scribes. Would you like to see it?"

Cale grinned. "Lead the way."

The personal project that Column was working on turned out to be an attempt at making a divine oven. Cale took one look at the half-finished artifact, turned to Column, and bowed deeply.

"I've misjudged you," he said. "Also I might love you."

There was a distinct pause. "I am sorry? I believe I may have misheard you."

"This is an oven," Cale said, like that explained everything.

Column nodded gravely. "I am attempting to divine the truths of baking magic," he explained. "It is the pinnacle of the divine, but the elements of sacred script needed to anchor the artifact escape me."

"Yeah, it's a blind spot," Cale explained, walking over to the oven and tracing the engraved script reverently. "Divine messengers get an intuitive understanding of sacred script in exchange for the inability to work with certain aspects of it, like the anchoring runes you'd use to make an artifact. This is brilliant, though. You're working around the anchoring problem using a mana loop, right? Which has the bonus effect of making it much harder to break."

"There is interference beyond two loops," Column admitted, but watched with rapt attention as Cale began to draw a series of loops and twirls on a still-blank section of the incomplete artifact.

"There would be," Cale agreed. "Can't get rid of anchors entirely. The loop is a genius bypass, but you need at least one anchor for every two loops. Here, the anchoring rune looks like this: the strokes in the corners define direction, so you'll probably have to incorporate it properly into the design. This works well enough as a demonstration, though."

"I do not..." Column trailed off, floating closer to inspect the makeshift engraving, and when he spoke again, he sounded stunned. "Wait. You are correct. This rune is capable of anchoring the script. I was unaware such a thing existed."

"I know, right? I'm going to have to lodge a complaint with the gods again." Cale shook his head. "This is incredible stuff, though."

"But surely there are simpler anchoring runes," Column said, his many eyes staring intently at Cale's impromptu carving; when he spoke again, it was with an odd breathlessness. "You have accounted for every variable in yours. It is as if you, too, understand the truth of baking magic."

"Are you kidding? I love baking magic. It's the pinnacle of magic." Cale said. "Except no one believes me when I say that. You'd think more mages would understand."

"I have often felt the same," Column said, now gazing intently into Cale's eyes. "I, too, have misjudged you. To think I have found one who admires baking magic as I do..."

"I've got a baking spell I acquired from Vesuvius, actually, if you'd like to see it." Cale grinned. "I'll just need you to levitate whatever I cast it on, otherwise it'll keep spreading. Man, I can't believe Adyr didn't tell me about this. I would've worn a suit or something. Maybe an apron."

Column made a strange, grinding noise. "I would prefer neither."

"What?"

"Perhaps just the apron."

"...What?"

Column visibly hesitated, several columns rotating, before he spoke again. "It is nothing. I apologize. I have never felt this way before."

Cale shook his head and patted Column on one of his... columns, this time sympathetically, and ignored the way the columns shuddered in response. "Don't worry," he said. "I get this a lot. Not even the first time it's happened."

"I would like to observe the spell now," Column said. "And perhaps more. Afterward. If you are... amenable."
