Still, the elements were concerning. Even as the beast greedily gulped water from a small pond, there was no sound. Ranthia watched the water splash as the beak rose and fell, but no matter how carefully she listened there wasn’t a single sound coming from the direction the dinosaur was in. Its Mirror element wasn’t immediately obvious, but Ranthia was quite aware of just how deadly the element could be.

The facts lined up unambiguously: the beast was both worthy and permissible to hunt. Which was great, though Ranthia found herself grappling with how to go about hunting the beast. It was undeniably resilient-looking and bulky, but she wasn’t the struggling teenager she had been when she and her fathers had found peril in an ankylosaurus half its level.

Besides, she had felled far greater beasts. Which was a great mindset to use, assuming she wanted to get herself killed. No, the dinosaur warranted caution, even if she was confident that she could bring it down by herself.

Ranthia began the encounter by waiving the element of surprise. As rapidly as [Scattered Reflections] allowed, Ranthia formed three images around the dinosaur and had them lash out with their [Void Edge]-empowered knives. The dinosaur hadn’t reacted to their appearance, but it certainly reacted when three shallow wounds split its hide. It raised its head and came about while Ranthia busied herself with creating more images further away from the beast.

So, it wasn’t a damage reflector. That much was obvious, since her images continued to inflict minor wounds on the beast without suffering any blowback. But Ranthia kept her images fixated on mindless aggression, even as the beast brought its armored face around to them—she wanted to know what her prey was capable of before she struck.

Unsurprisingly, the dinosaur weaponized its bulk and charged. It lowered its head as it did and caught her middle image with its curved horn. Then, as it raised its head along with her not-yet-impaled image, the horns that protruded from its bony crest turned reflective as the Mirror element finally made its appearance. Phantasmal echoes of those horns appeared behind her image and slammed into it, even as the main horn vibrated. Her image, unsurprisingly, shattered immediately beneath the coordinated attack.

A brutal enough attack, but if that was all the creature was capable of… Well, she just needed to avoid getting gored by its lead horn!

Ranthia erupted from her hiding place behind a thick tree, just as her next wave of images began to dance toward the beast. Her first three images had been shattered, by horn or by forceful impact, but they were always meant to be expended.

For a moment, the beast hesitated, unsure of which direction to attack.

“Hey ugly, speak up!” So Ranthia made it easy on the poor creature.

As she expected, the dinosaur’s own sounds were erased by its Sound element, but it still heard her taunt. It curved its slowed charge until it was moving exactly where she wanted it to go. Namely, straight toward the empty image that spoke, courtesy of [Echoes Reflected].

The beast’s course let Ranthia reach it from the side, and she wasted no time in putting her newly formed knives to work. Using [Void Edge] and [Echoes Reflected], Ranthia inflicted a pair of deep, bloody wounds into its neck—just behind the dinosaur’s bony headplate—even as it shattered the image that had baited it.

The beast opened its mouth to unleash an eerily silent howl of pain and fury as it thrashed its head to try to knock her aside, but Ranthia proved too deft for the clumsy brute—it was all too easy to dance clear. Unsurprisingly, the dinosaur dug its feet into the ground, tearing a deep trough through the damp forest floor, as it brought itself around to face her.

Naturally, by the time it reached her, the only outlet for its retribution was another image. Ranthia had activated [Reflections of Reality] the moment she delivered her strikes. While the beast stamped and smashed in unheard frustration, Ranthia reached it again and drove her knives into the tender flesh on either side of its front left leg.

The dinosaur tried to turn forcefully and, for a moment, seemed as though it would fall when its partially crippled leg proved unable to handle the speed or weight behind the beast. Alas, it caught its balance with its other legs and Ranthia was forced to parry its main horn as she danced away. The vibrational force from its Sound element was intense enough that she felt it, even through [Higher Power], but she had suffered worse at the hands of the shimagu—she wasn’t going to be distracted by a little numbness.

Beasts had their own form of cunning. They could learn from mistakes, especially when pain was involved in every misstep. No Adventurer lived a long life without being aware of how quickly monsters and other animals could adapt to threats.

But it was always nice when their low cunning led them astray. The dinosaur chose to ignore the image she was still in, and started an awkward, shuffling charge toward the remaining inbound image. She hadn’t actually activated [Reflections of Reality], so she chose to watch while she focused on generating more images around the dinosaur.

“Hey, over here!” An image to the dinosaur’s right called out at the very moment the dinosaur successfully shattered the image it’d chosen.

“Don’t believe her, I’m here!” An image to the dinosaur’s front-left declared, before the beast could move.

“Obviously I’m the real one, just look at me.” Ranthia added her true voice to the chorus.

“[Sexy] woman, right here!” An image further to the back of the beast shouted.

It was too much for the injured beast. It stamped in place several times, then tried to make a break for it. It picked a direction where none of her images stood and started running as fast as it could with a partially disabled leg. But even if it had been in good condition, the dinosaur’s weight made it far slower than Ranthia was, especially in the damp terrain near the pond.

And Ranthia had left that path open for a reason—she and her images were able to hit the beast from both sides. While her images inflicted minor damage to spur the beast on, Ranthia activated [Reflections of Reality] one last time. She replaced an image a moment before it reached the side of the dinosaur’s head, bent over backwards, and danced her way under the beast’s raised head. By the time it thought to lower its head to stop her, it was too late, Ranthia twirled clear on the other side of the beast.

And watched the blood spill from its neck in droves. From there, she stayed where she was and waited, a smile on her face.

The dinosaur was too bestial to realize that its fate was sealed. All she had to do was wait for the crash—the moment its System vanished and its strength and momentum failed.

[*ding!* You have slain a dinosaur [Stellasaurus] (Sound, level 874), [Stellasaurus] (Mirror, level 653)!]

[*ding!* [Echoes Reflected] has leveled from 503 to level 505!]

[*ding!* [True Grace] has reached level 525!]

[*ding!* [Companion Bond between Ranthia and Clover] has leveled from 135 to level 140!]

Ranthia’s dramatic entrance was slightly marred by the dinosaur’s damned horn getting caught on the doorway, forcing her to back up and finagle it through the gap, but Ranthia strolled into the Lodge, carrying the dinosaur’s severed head, followed by her images carrying the sacks of carefully harvested meat. It was her first hunt, but Ranthia had already seen a few examples of what everyone else did to proclaim their hunt a success.

“A stellasaurus! A caster monster! Level 874, Sound and Mirror elements!” Ranthia shouted the expected words to the handful of faces that looked her way.

Only a handful of voices cheered, but almost everyone raised a tankard or mug in acknowledgement. And that was all the affirmation that Ranthia needed to feel like she had proven her place amongst the Hunters.

The muscular woman back behind her bar raised a mug in acknowledgement too—a mug of the blackberry spirit that Ranthia was growing fond of. Sure, she’d be expected to pay for it—and any other drinks she imbibed—before she left, but it was the tavern master’s way of welcoming back Hunters. She always silently greeted them with a mug of their preferred poison.

Ranthia left the head in the oversized, enchanted crate that all proof of kills were tossed into and approached the counter—keeping her [Divine Eye] facing her images so they wouldn’t lose their footing—with a grin on her face. The meat would be used for the city’s meal within the next day or two and Ranthia looked forward to it. Ordinarily she would have claimed enough to cook herself a meal once she finished with her social obligations, but her home had no kitchen.

That was on her to-do list to remedy, but it was buried somewhat deeply in the vast list.

Ranthia was more focused on graciously accepting her mug and sipping on its tart contents while she oversaw the sacks being handed over. Once that was done, she ordered another two mugs of the same beverage and approached the table she was being beckoned toward by the elf that shared the same taste in alcohol.

Exploring the woods had been fantastic, but it was also pretty great to sit down amongst her peers and be acknowledged by almost everyone at the table.
