“Your sister is a Ghoul Kissed, and when I healed her, she became my vassal and a part of my domain.”

“Wh-what?”

“It's a side effect of the healing.” Ren said. “I had said the wish without any qualifications, and apparently if you do that, things go... a little off.”

“A little?!?”

Ren chuckled. “Yeah, I spoke without thinking.” He said. “I've already been called an idiot for it.”

The healer closed her eyes and sighed. “My Lord...”

“Once I get the city built, I'm sure she wouldn't mind a visit from you.” Ren said. “Of course, that's assuming Dark Elves and High Elves are even allowed to mix.”

“They aren't.” Lylyth said. “Our outlooks on life are quite a bit different.”

“I can imagine.” Ren said. “I'll make sure to tell her I know you, and I'll gauge her reaction.” He said and let the healer's face and hand go. “If she doesn't throw a temper tantrum, I'll mention you meeting her.”

“You don't have to do that.” The healer said.

“I've said this before, and I'll keep saying it.” Ren smiled. “I don't have to do anything.”

The healer opened her mouth, closed it, then stepped forward and kissed him. Ren was always a sucker for a good kiss, so he kissed her back quite enthusiastically. After several moments, the healer broke the kiss and stepped back.

“Now, about this chosen thing...” Ren said, and she looked at the Queen.

“Go ahead.” Lylyth said.

“Legend says that Great Vasalor only chooses those that are worthy, or deserving of his gifts.” The healer said. “When someone appears with his abilities, it's supposed to herald the coming of a new age for Elvenkind.”

“But... I wished for...”

“It doesn't say how the gifts are gained, or how many are needed.” The healer said.

“Well.” Ren said. “Now what?”

“We don't know.” The healer said.

“Wait, what?”

“It's never happened before.” The healer said and looked at her Queen. “My Queen has been the closest we've ever come, and when she appeared, it did herald a new age for Elvenkind.”

“Oh, it did.” Lylyth spat with venom in her voice. “When I was corrupted... on purpose... then discarded, I...” She grit her teeth. “I took it upon myself to take a section of the population with me.”

“The Arcane energies that were unleashed at the time she was cursed had changed her followers into what you see before you.” The healer said. “We became the Dark Elves, a people of our own.”

“Wow.” Ren said and looked at Lylyth. “I never thought... I mean...”

“That someone like me could be discarded?” Lylyth asked, and Ren nodded. “If I had survived the ritual unscathed, I wouldn't have been.”

“Ritual?” Ren looked from her to the healer, and back again.

“It happened so long ago that no one knows what happened.” The healer said. “Not even the Queen.”

Lylyth nodded. “I was blindfolded of course.” She said. “I couldn't even tell you who was present.”

“I'm sorry you don't know.” Ren said. “I kind of suffer the same thing with everything I've been through since I was young.”

“Well, there's nothing anyone can do about it now.” Lylyth said and smiled. “All we can do is move forward.”

Ren nodded. “Then that's what I'll do.” He said. “Can you open a portal back?”

“Of course.” Lylyth said. “Thank you for...”

“There's no need to thank me.” Ren said. “All we did was talk.”

Lylyth held a hand out to him, and he walked over to her and took it. “Would you have done more than that?” She asked. “I know of the restrictions you have set upon yourself.”

“You were already a part of this before that went into place.” Ren smiled. “You're an exception to the rule.”

“What about me?” The healer asked.

“The potential is there, but I stand by my decree. No sex with anyone new, because I don't have the room in my life to have another woman I would need to spend quality time with.”

“Is that why...”

Ren nodded. “I've got just enough time to divide between everyone, and I can't add another to the mix, even if the others approved of it.”

“So, it's not that you can't or won't do it, it's that you're worried you can't give them the time they would want to be with you?” Lylyth asked, and he nodded again. “Do you always consider others before yourself?”

“Well, I've got about 45 minutes before I have to get to sleep.” Ren said and smiled. “...and I haven't seen your bedroom in a while.”

Lylyth chuckled. “Tiatha, prepare my bed chamber.”

“Yes, My Queen.” The healer said and ran from the throne room.

“That's not necessary.” Ren said.

“It should only take a moment.” Lylyth said and turned towards the hallway. Several Dark Elves were walking up the hallway towards the throne room. “Wait inside, and I will return in 45 minutes.” She commanded, and they nodded and went into the throne room.

“Is this going to make you delaying anything?” Ren asked.

“No, dearest.” Lylyth said. “We are only waiting for the ghoul outbreak to finish before we launch the campaign.”

“I guess that means you are preparing for a large army battle.”

“I always have been.” Lylyth said. “It's only recently that our numbers have been marginally close to having a chance to win.”

They arrived at the Queen's room and went inside. They walked up and into the large funnel web to the bedroom inside, and the healer had changed the lighting and the bed sheets to bright red.

“Thank you, Tiatha.” Lylyth said, and the healer bowed slightly and started to leave.

“My Queen? Can she stay?” Ren asked, and he felt surprise from both women.

“Why?”

“I've only recently learned that there are a few things that can be done without actually having sex.” Ren said. “If it's okay with you, I'd like to include Tiatha for some of it.”

“But...”

“She's going to be feeling a lot of it while within my Aura anyway.” Ren said. “Please allow me to give you some of her pleasure as well as mine.”

“Tiatha? Would you like to join us?” Lylyth asked the healer, but she didn't have to. Both she and Ren could feel how happy the healer was.

“I'd love to!” The healer said excitedly and stored her clothing without being asked, and Ren chuckled as he held a hand out to her. She took it and held on tightly as the three of them climbed onto the oversized bed.
