“Solo transference. Jarro,” Ameliah said. She didn’t want to spend more time in here than necessary. The Bank got on her nerves.

“Certainly,” said the attendant, consulting a ledger. “One moment.”

Ameliah frowned. The rates that the Bank charged for teleportation were ridiculous, above and beyond the base mana cost required by the platforms. She knew.

The method of creation for the platforms had been lost with the fall of the Majistraal Order, thousands of years ago. The bank had taken over the operation of the platforms in almost every major city and they milked their monopoly on the transportation magic mercilessly. The Guild was working on decoding how the platforms worked, but until they solved the mystery, teleportation would remain a complete ripoff.

The attendant looked up. “For transference to Jarro, the solo rate is 2,300 Copper, one way. How would you like to pay? Do you have an account with the Bank?”

“No. I’ll pay in cash,” Ameliah said untying her pouch from her belt. So much for the Tel that I earned from the lair. She sighed and poured them out in a pile on the attendant’s desk.

The attendant nodded and reached for a scale. “I am required to inform you that there will be a ten percent surcharge for the exchange of Tel at this office, in addition to the Bank’s customary exchange fee.”

“Fine,” Ameliah snapped. Not worth the trouble. “Just don’t forget my Guild discount.”

The man looked slightly affronted. “I have already applied your discount to the rate that I gave.”

“Sure you have,” Ameliah said. The man weighed out the Tel and returned the excess to her, scooping them up and back into her pouch with a tiny flat spoon that he pulled from a drawer in his desk. He wrote her a receipt and handed it to her. She shoved it into a pocket without even looking at it. Next, the man pulled a wooden tag from a hook hanging behind his desk and set it down. He took a metal tool from his drawer and carved a string of symbols into the wooden tag. There was a smell of smoke as the enchanted instrument burned dark lines into the wood.

The man looked offended as she snatched the tag from him when he offered it to her. She closed her eyes and sighed, opening them again and looking at the man. She hadn’t meant to be so rough. “Sorry. I just don’t like how much your…organization charges for this. I’m taking it out on you, but you don’t really have anything to do with it.” She shook her head. “Sorry. I’ve got a lot on my mind, and I really need to get to Jarro fast. The price is just…”

The man’s expression softened. He leaned forward over the counter and whispered to her. “I don’t blame you. It’s ridiculous, but I don’t make the rules.” he looked around nervously and shook his head. “Don’t tell anyone I said that.” He sat back and spoke in a normal voice. “Please show your tag to the attendant at the platform. Thank you for your business.”

She nodded to him and walked out of the room, shaking her head. Teleportation magic was rare. The prerequisites were numerous, and the metamagic required for it to work over any significant distance made it a dubious option for anyone who didn’t specifically build their class around it. True teleportation mages, Translocationists, as they were called, were rarer than Dynamos. There was only one in the Guild that she knew of, and he could only bring a handful of people with him at a time. The platforms were the only practical method of teleportation for most. All major cities had one and they couldn’t be moved, or at least, it had never been done successfully.

Slipping through the line of people snaking its way out of the bloodworks, she made her way to the next security checkpoint, just beside the teleportation platform. There was actually a line to her surprise. It looked like the Watch was insisting on searching all goods coming into the city right there on the platform. They normally contented themselves with a cursory inspection upon leaving the teleportation complex, just as they did with anyone entering the city from outside the walls. Must be because of the war.

The goods brought in from the last translocation were still being removed. Porters were coming and going to carry away the crates under the supervision of Bank officials and unaffiliated merchants. There was also a group of travelers waiting to exit the platform, having hitched a ride along with the freight. They were being processed slowly by a pair of Watch sentinels along with a large group of officers. It looked like it would be a few minutes.

The searches struck Ameliah as needlessly paranoid. It wasn’t likely that the war would come to Fel Sadanis, and if it did, it wouldn’t be through the teleportation platform. The city simply wasn’t worth the trouble for the DKE. They could take it easily if they wanted to. The road to the DKE border cities in the west was open and the mountains to the north would be merely an annoyance. They wouldn’t take it though, because of politics. The DKE would have to raise a new Citizen if they wanted to claim additional territory without upsetting the internal balance of power. That came with a whole host of political issues for them. Additionally, it would be a total shitstorm for them if and when the Watch retaliated. They had multiple bases within DKE territory, including one with its own teleportation platform.

Ameliah started tapping her foot. This line was taking forever.

The Empire would snap up the city in a heartbeat, of course, but they wouldn’t get here by teleporting in. Each platform was connected to the global teleportation network that the Majistraal had built. In practicality, however, each platform could only access a subset of others that were nearby. Longer jumps took more mana, so it was more viable to take a series of small hops, rather than teleporting directly to your destination. Teleporting across the Badlands would technically be possible if not for the fact that the Bank had sealed incoming connections from all of the known gates in that direction. Like the Guild and the Watch, the Bank had no interest in doing business with the Adamant Empire. Without a platform, the distance was simply too great.

Unless you’re Rain. I’m still waiting for an explanation for that one. I’m not even sure that physical distance even applies in his case…

She shook her head. If Fel Sadanis was going to be attacked, it would be by land, and the only way that would happen was if the DKE border cities started to fall. That wasn’t likely either. Some of the most powerful Citizens in the DKE were in charge of that territory. They didn’t even rule over cities, being solely tasked with monitoring the border. If the Empire wanted to get into the DKE heartland, and by extension Fel Sadanis, they’d have to break through that border first. That would be no small feat. Their only other option would be to march an army through the Badlands, which, apart from the logistical nightmare it presented, would give them little of strategic value even if they did take the city.

Her foot froze as she considered the problem from another angle. If the Empire did actually take the city, they’d be able to unblock the teleportation platform. Even if it took a ridiculous quantity of mana to shift their army across the Badlands, it would let them bypass the border and march straight into the DKE unchallenged. They could cross the mountains, or head east through the unclaimed territory to strike at the northern reaches of the DKE with impunity. The Citizens were powerful, each an army in their own right, but they couldn’t be everywhere. If the Empire got a foothold on this side of the Badlands, it wouldn’t end well for the DKE. The Empire had the numbers, they just lacked a way to bring them to bear. By the time that the DKE responded to the capture of the city, it would be too late. The Empire would dig in to hold it. If the DKE wanted to take it back it would mean they’d have to weaken their border.

Ameliah felt cold, despite the fact that it was a warm day for the season. Perhaps the searches weren’t so unjustified after all. Covert infiltration would be the way to do it, as difficult as it would be to sneak anyone in from the north. The searches weren’t about the supplies, they were about the people. If the Empire managed to unblock the teleportation link to Fel Sadanis, they would probably win the war. That would be bad. Very bad. It all came down to whether the Empire would be able to afford the mana cost to shift a large enough army to hold the platform. It would be astronomical, but it was probably within their means.

“Platform is clear,” said one of the officers. He looked at Ameliah, then at the sentinels. “When is the next scheduled transit? There’s someone waiting.”

“Not until tomorrow,” said one of the sentinels, a woman wearing a red robe, clearly a mage of some sort. She turned to look at Ameliah. “Come here.”

Ameliah stepped forward, holding up the wooden token between two fingers. “Solo teleportation, Jarro.”

The woman nodded. “You’ve already been through security. See the Bank attendant. We’re watching you, Ameliah.”

Well, that’s not creepy at all. “You know who I am?”

“I was informed when you entered the complex. Rest assured that we are perfectly capable of dealing with a category five threat such as yourself.”

Ameliah sighed. “I am no threat to you. You would know that if you knew anything about me.”

“You will forgive me if I do not take you at your word.”

Ameliah shook her head and turned away, seeking out the attendant. She spotted a likely-looking Bank goldplate returning from the direction of the administration building. He walked over to her and took the piece of wood wordlessly. He peered at the illegible script seared into it, then nodded. He motioned her toward the platform, stepping up ahead of her.

Not very talkative. I bet he’s not a big fan of the extra security either. I wonder where the Bank’s enforcers are. I haven’t seen a single one since I got here. Maybe they don’t see the point with the Watch around.

She stepped up onto the slightly raised platform of crystal. It was about ten strides in diameter and looked a bit like quartz. There were swirls of color running all through the stone and the finish was flawless despite how old she knew the platform to be. It looked as if it had been polished by a jeweler only the day before. The attendant was walking toward the control obelisk at the center.

Three of the runes carved into it shone with blue light, representing valid platforms within the DKE. Two more were red, the blocked locations within the Empire. Several more runes were carved into the obelisk as well, but they were dark, meaning that the platforms were either destroyed or currently occupied. The attendant checked to make sure that she was with him, then pressed the blue rune corresponding to Jarro.

White light started building within the crystal as mana flowed into the teleportation platform from the massive rune formation that Ameliah knew lay beneath it. The attendant walked off the platform, leaving her standing there alone as the light built, swirling deep within the stone. Tracers of arcane lightning started to form as the power grew, arcing from the platform to strike Ameliah’s body harmlessly. The bolts ignored the metal knife that she wore at her hip, defying everything that she had ever been taught about magic. The Majistraal lent proof to the saying that nothing was absolute. Her hair rose as the charge built, but she felt no alarm. She’d been through this many times before. The arcane lightning crackled through the air, drowning out the sound of the city as it grew in intensity. Exactly thirty seconds after the man had activated the rune, the formation activated. Her view of Fel Sadanis vanished with a muffled crack of thunder.
