Ameliah walked through the trees, carrying a groaning bundle in her arms. Rain had overdone it, collapsing suddenly after several trips up and down the river bank. She hadn’t been concerned until she’d realized that he was physically incapable of getting back to his feet. She would have healed him, but she didn’t want to risk the overhealth. Not in his condition. More soulstrain was the last thing he needed.

Rain squirmed as she carried him. “I’m fine, I can walk. Put me down.”

“No, Val, you aren’t fine,” Ameliah said.

“Stop calling me Val!” Rain protested. “This is totally different from that time. I’m barely bleeding anymore, see?”

Ameliah sighed. She lowered him down, setting his feet on the ground. She let go abruptly, just to prove her point. Rain cried out in pain and surprise, collapsing as his legs gave way. She caught him before he hit the ground and hauled him back to his feet, draping his arm over her shoulder.

“Damn it,” he hissed as she helped him limp along.

“You overdid it, and you know it,” she said. “Your legs are totally thrashed.”

Rain shook his head. “My ring is set to Recovery and Vigor. I’ll be fine.”

“Eventually,” Ameliah said as they broke through into the clearing.

Tallheart looked up as they approached, a frown darkening his brow. “What happened?” he rumbled, setting down his hammer and walking over to them as they hobbled toward the hut.

Ameliah smirked at him. “Rain pulled a Val.”

“I didn’t!” Rain protested.

“You did,” Ameliah said, easing him down onto a log. “How many different kinds of soulstrain are you flirting with right now? There is such a thing as overtraining, you know? Why didn’t you say anything? I shouldn’t have let you work yourself so hard. If I’d known you had the ring set that high…”

Rain sighed and rubbed at his legs. “Fine, fine. You’re right. I might have overdone it a bit. I’ll just rest here by the fire for a little while.”

She eyed him skeptically. He’s going to feel worse before he feels better.

“The armor?” Tallheart asked.

She sighed. “Down by the river.”

Rain let out a sudden bark of laughter. “In a van!”

Tallheart raised an eyebrow. Ameliah shook her head. “I have no idea. Just ignore him. He’s not right in the head at the moment. Is that soup? He could probably use something to eat.”

Tallheart nodded and retrieved a bowl from a stack of them near the fire. He ladled some liquid from the pot hanging over the fire into it and handed it to Rain.

“Thanks,” Rain said, taking a bite. “Ooh, this is good, Tallheart, what did you do? It’s spicy. Where did you find peppers?”

“Jamus brought them,” Tallheart said. “They are hotter than I expected. I may have added too many.”

Rain laughed. “No, this is good, Tallheart. I love spicy. I’ve been dying for a good curry.”

Ameliah raised an eyebrow. Huh. I wouldn’t have expected him to like spicy food. “Let me try,” she said, grabbing a spoon and dipping it into the pot. She blew on it a few times and then took a sip. Fiery didn’t even begin to describe it. The heat was beyond insane. Her Endurance helped her tolerate the sensation, but her enhanced Perception wasn’t doing her any favors. She looked at Rain in amazement.

“You aren’t boosting your Endurance right now, are you?” she asked.

Rain looked up from his soup. “No. Why?”

“It is quite impressive,” Tallheart said as he watched Rain slurp down the soup.

Rain held out his bowl. “More, please. Holy hell, I’m starving.”

She shook her head, turning to Tallheart. “Don’t let him eat too much. He was training his Vigor tolerance too. He’ll stuff himself if you let him.”

Tallheart nodded to her while refilling the bowl for Rain. “I will watch him,” he said, handing it back.

Rain took the bowl and started attacking the soup with his spoon. He spoke rapidly in between mouthfuls. “Stop worrying, you two. I’m fine, honest. I just need to rest a little. Once I’m better, I think I can work on the basement a bit more or—hey, Tallheart, how fast are you? Want to race? I bet I could take you. Jamus too. I bet he can’t run for sh—Oh, Val might want to race, he’s really competitive. Anyone seen—”

Ameliah interrupted Rain by holding up a hand. She turned to look at Tallheart. “He might be a little more…himself than usual. It should wear off in a few hours, I think. It should have already, but I’m pretty sure he did something beyond the bounds of all reason. And he did it multiple times, too.” She turned to stare at him. “No more Aura Focus. Not until you can handle the ring.”

Rain stared at her. “What do you mean, more ‘myself’?”

Tallheart chuckled. “I will watch him.”

Ameliah fought to control her smile as Rain looked back and forth between them, a line of soup dripping down his face. He’s whacked out of his mind. It would be even funnier if not for how much discomfort he’s in for tomorrow. I hope Tallheart is in a patient mood. “I’ll go get the armor. Make sure he doesn’t hurt himself.”

“It is fine,” Tallheart said. “I will get it later, once he is asleep. No one comes to these woods. It will be safe where it is.”

“But I’m not sleepy,” Rain said. “More soup?”

Tallheart ignored him. Ameliah’s mouth twitched as Rain struggled to stand, then fell back to the log when his legs refused to obey him. She moved over to sit next to him.

He looked at her, startled as she sat down. “Ameliah, hi.”

“Hello, Rain,” she said, smiling warmly. “You’re going to pass out the moment you turn off the Vigor boost. You should do that pretty soon unless you want to be in even more pain than you’re already in for. I want to make sure to say goodbye before you do.”

“Pain? I feel fine. Wait, you’re leaving?” His face paled, then abruptly changed to confusion. “Wait, you already said—I knew that. Why did I forget? No, I didn’t forget, I just didn’t think of it—Hey, I think there’s something wrong with my head. My thoughts are all…fluttery.”

Ameliah snorted. “Now he notices. It’s the Clarity, Rain. You’re not used to the boost. I know you have a lot of points in it, but those stats are a part of your soul, so it’s different. You aren’t used to the boost from the ring yet. You’re going to have trouble concentrating for a little while. How high did you set it, anyway?”

Rain blinked and opened his mouth, then closed it and nodded. He shook his head immediately after. “I don’t want you to go.”

Ameliah smiled at his expression. I know he’s not himself, but that was still adorable. “I have to. I’ll be back before Velika gets here. Hopefully, I’ll be able to find out about her family so I know what we’re in for.”

“Mmm,” Tallheart rumbled. “Rain, turn off the Vigor boost.”

“Huh?” Rain said. “Why?”

Ameliah drew his attention back to her patiently. “I just explained this. You’ll run yourself ragged. You’re already feeling it, but you just don’t realize what it means because your brain is scrambled right now. Please, just listen to Tallheart.”

“Fine,” Rain said, swiping at a panel that she couldn’t see. Immediately, his eyes drooped and he wavered, almost falling off the log. “Woah.”

“See?” Ameliah said, reaching out to steady him.

“Sleepy, yeah,” Rain said, sagging against her. “I’ll just—” His eyes rolled up in his head and he went completely limp. She lowered him to the ground gently and stood up.

“How long will he be out?” Tallheart asked.

Ameliah shrugged. “I’m not sure. It depends on how high he had his stats boosted. I should have stopped him after the first time he used Aura Focus. He can already be a little featherbrained at times, so I didn’t really notice how much it was affecting him until it was too late. He’s going to be feeling this for days.”

“Mmm,” Tallheart rumbled. “Do you think he will learn his lesson?”

Ameliah laughed. “I sure hope so, but probably not.”

She dusted off her hands, then used Purify to tidy up the clearing, washing away the lingering soup from Rain’s bowl.

“You are going?” Tallheart asked.

She nodded. “Yes.”

Tallheart nodded. “Be careful. She is a noble.”

“I know,” Ameliah said softly. “I’ll be back. Keep him out of trouble.”

The corner of Tallheart’s mouth quirked upward. “You ask much.”

Ameliah laughed. Instead of offering him her hand, she bowed deeply at the waist. “Farewell, Tallheart, may our paths cross once more.”

Tallheart returned the gesture. “Farewell, Ameliah, until that day.”

Ameliah walked through the gates of Fel Sadanis, anxious to be on her way. She hadn’t stayed in one place for so long for quite a while, and she was afraid that if she stayed much longer she would start putting down roots. That was something she wanted to avoid, but she couldn’t ignore the responsibility that she felt. Rain would probably be okay on his own now that he had some levels and equipment, but she still felt terrible for abandoning him in the guild only a few days after they’d met.

It hadn’t been clear to her at that time how much help he had really needed. It had worked out in the end—by most metrics, he was fairly competent, perhaps even strong for his level, depending on the situation. It was thoughts of how it could have gone so much worse that weighed on her mind. He could have died when Halgrave carelessly threw him from the guild, or when he’d fallen from the cliff. He didn’t remember it, but she’d seen him lying there at the bottom of that chasm, his body twisted horribly from the impact with the ground. If I hadn’t been there…

She shook her head. She couldn’t save everyone. She’d learned that lesson the hard way. Still, she would do her best, and that meant she had to protect Tallheart from Lady Velika Vekuavak. She needed to get to Jarro and speak with her contacts there. From their brief meeting, her impression of Velika was that she was…a honey badger. She would just take what she wanted. She smiled as she remembered Rain’s soul-addled ramblings, but her amusement was quickly muted again by the seriousness of the situation.

Nobles were always a hassle, even those that were not awakened. Just because they were born into their power, they thought that it made them better than those that earned it the hard way. Power, status, wealth, it was all the same. Compare a wealthy merchant who earned his way up from nothing and a noble who inherited his fortune, and you would see two very different views on the world. The awakened ones like Velika were even worse. Accolades would be passed down from generation to generation, giving them an unfair advantage and reinforcing their views of superiority.

Ameliah hated that that was the way the world worked. Of course, there were exceptions to the rule, nobles who were kind and caring, those who used their advantages to uplift those less fortunate than themselves. She’d seen nothing from Velika to indicate that she was one of those. No, from what she’d seen, this particular noble was something to worry about. Velika was strong and confident. Her speed had been unworldly. If she wasn’t a goldplate, she was close, not that any noble would lower themselves to join anything as common as the Guild.

For all that the noblewoman had made an impression, Ameliah had heard surprisingly little about her or her family. Stint had said that Velika’s mother had been a Citizen, which went a long way toward explaining her power if nothing else. Ameliah didn’t know the names of all of the DKE’s Citizens, but if Velika’s mother had indeed been one, it should be easy enough to find out who she was. The Citizens took on the title of their city when they were elevated, but it wasn’t like people forgot where they came from or who they had been before. For example, Citizen Jarro was a man by the name of Utuvus. He wasn’t bad, as Citizens went. Jarro was a fairly prosperous city under his rule, the needs of the people mostly cared for. He hadn’t been a noble, though. He’d earned his power. He’d been a goldplate in the Guild before renouncing his affiliation to claim Citizenship.

That was far from the norm, however. Most Citizens came from old families in the DKE that traced themselves back to the original kingdoms that had made up the area before the unification war. They ruled over their cities as tyrants, often indifferent to the needs of those that they were supposed to serve, if not outright exploitative. The DKE as a whole was only held in one piece by the fact that the Citizens would band together to crush any threat to their power, including one of their own attempting to place themselves over the others in any way.

Ameliah sighed again as she reached the Watch checkpoint. She’d need to pass through it to get into the teleportation complex. The Watch officer waved her through the wall that divided the area from the rest of the city, but not before she verified Ameliah’s plate number. Even being a silverplate wouldn’t get you through security here unchallenged. In fact, the security seemed tighter than she remembered the last time she’d been through here. There was actually a sentinel posted, overseeing the group of officers that normally guarded the checkpoint.

She walked to the scheduling board in the middle of the square, checking to see the time of the next bulk freight transference to Jarro. She cursed when she saw that it wasn’t until the following week. She couldn’t afford to wait that long. She’d have to pay for a special activation. Depending on how long it took her to find the information she needed, she might be able to tag along on the freight transference on the way back.

This is going to be expensive. I should just run it. It’s only seventy leagues...

Damn it, no, I don’t have the time. It’s not like there’s an easy pass or anything. I can’t afford to wait for the freight transference and I can’t afford to waste time climbing a damn mountain.

She sighed as she walked past the bloodworks, moving toward the registration office. She stepped inside, seeing a lone desk staffed by a man wearing a golden plate stamped with the Bank’s symbol. Other than the attendant, the room was deserted. The next scheduled transference wasn’t until tomorrow, and people who could afford solo activation were few and far between. There was little other reason for anyone to come in here.

The attendant stiffened at her entrance, rising to greet her when he saw the silver plate hanging from her neck. “Welcome to the Fel Sadanis Teleportation Complex. What business do you bring today?”

