And then the second difference appeared, as the runic inscriptions began to glow, becoming white lights upon the black metal, like stars glowing in the night sky.

And the silver-rosy metal inside the divot turned even brighter, rapidly matching the white glow of the inscriptions, as a tiny song filled the air, speaking of endless nights and bright lights to be found inside the darkness; bright lights which would never fade.

So the song was new, too.

Erick listened, and it was rapidly apparent that no one else heard anything, or if they did, then it was old hat to them. But as the crusher continued and the white adamantium flashed over to fully-liquid light, the song shifted to something Darker, something that should have terrified everyone there if they could hear it. For if they heard Melemizargo’s voice like Erick was hearing, then they would not be so calm and collected, like they had done this a hundred times before.

The white liquid suddenly inverted to full-black as Melemizargo silently sang of terrible vengeance and of how no one deserved the power they had stolen from the mana—

The song suddenly ended.

The machine stopped. The metal was ready.

Mordog imbued a secondary set of runes on the machine that were clearly labeled [Alter Friction] and some sort of mutilated [Force Wall] and [Force Platform]. The black liquid adamantium raised into the air to stabilize inside a crucible of Force, and then the liquid poured outward, into a waiting adamantium crucible that was already glowing with [Alter Friction] runes on its surface.

Events proceeded rapidly from there, with few words exchanged between anyone, except to call out numbers and weights as the well-practiced team moved the liquid adamantium back and forth between the weigh station and molds, filling and measuring as they went. Soon, seven daggers awaited their finishing touches inside their ceramic homes, and the crucible contained no more liquid adamantium. They had used every single drop.

Mordog grabbed the first dagger’s container and smashed it open, then he grabbed the barely-cooled dagger with his bare hands and rushed over to the nearest anvil, saying, “With me, archmage! Watch and see what you can learn!”

Erick followed, still out of it from so clearly hearing Melemizargo’s Song—

It wasn’t a song, was it? It was a curse— No. A Curse. That’s what it had to be—

Mordog smirked as he eyed Erick out of the corner of his eye, and smashed down upon the dagger with an adamantium hammer, instantly aligning the metal inside with some sort of massively strong use of skills and mana and Skills. “Stay with me, Archmage. You won’t get to see this too often.”

Erick stayed with him; he would ask about the Song in the crusher afterward.

Mordog rapidly worked the first dagger while his assistants took the rest of them and shoved them into an oven to stay as hot as they could, keeping them workable. They were just formation daggers, though, so turning them into workable daggers was rather easy, which was why Mordog made them in batches. The finishing touches involved some smashing to make them straight and some Skills to make them perfect and some slow cooling and even a bit of reheating to ensure the interior structure of the adamantium came out perfect, but Mordog confessed something near the end of it all, which made Erick wonder what, exactly, was going on with the black metal.

“Adamantium is like all the other magical metals, Archmage.” Mordog said, “They don’t require as much skill as iron and steel, for the magic makes them more perfect than they have any right to be. I barely smashed any of these daggers, but I can already tell that they’re going to turn out perfect, as soon as they harden. The flow is perfect. The balance is great. No fractures. They’ll make great formation daggers. You just can’t do shit with them after they’re cooled.” He finished grinding the edge of the last dagger upon an adamantium grinder and looked at the edge, saying, “These are apprentice-easy things to make. If the materials weren’t so damned expensive, then that’s what we’d do.” He held the light-drinking dagger up, looking at it for imperfections and finding none. Then he turned to Erick. “That’s the final dagger. Questions?”

Erick instantly asked, “Do you hear any songs when you crush the adamantium?”

Mordog frowned a little. “… No? Just screeching.” He lifted his head and asked one of his guys, “You hear anything strange when the machine is running?”

“No, sir.” “Tearing metal.” “The machine might need a checkup, or oil?”

“Bah!” Mordog huffed, “If I ever see you putting oil on my machines, I’m gonna hurt you, Vord. You need to remake [Control Machine], and you need to make it good this time.”

The last helper just shrugged.

Erick said, “So none of you heard any music.”

Mordog said, “I heard you can hear magic, so if you’re hearing something here then that’s news to me. What were you hearing?”

“… Nothing important.” As Mordog scoffed, Erick added, “Which is obviously me deflecting, but I will choose to deflect here since none of you heard it, anyway, and it doesn’t really matter since you’ve been using this machine for a long time… Decades?”

“Ha!” Mordog said, “120 years since installation. The older, larger machine is 400-something.”

“Yes.” Erick said, “So what I heard means nothing to anyone.”

“Whatever you say, archmage,” Mordog said.

One of the assistants looked rightfully disappointed, though.

“Thank you for the experience, Mordog.” Erick said, “I truly appreciate it.”

“I might be able to fit you into a personalized lesson tomorrow, after the banquet, if you want?”

Erick stood a bit straighter. “Yes. I would like that. Thank you.”

“You want some adamantium scraps?”

“I do.”

Mordog nodded, then gestured to his guys, saying, “Vord! Get the archmage a failed knife, or something. Whatever he wants within reason.”

“Thanks, Mordog.”

Mordog grunted in acceptance.

“Oh yeah,” Erick asked, “They have yet to ask me to [Withering] the town. Everyone here got checked out for intestinal cores, right?” He didn’t see any in any of them, but he wanted to be sure people were actually doing their due diligence with that. “I expect to [Withering] the town either today or tomorrow.”

A round of truthful ‘Of course, sir!’s met with Erick’s approval.

- - - -

On the way back to the room, and with a half-melted adamantium knife in his hands, Erick sent to Poi, ‘So that was Melemizargo speaking back there, in the music of the crusher’s runic enchantments. Like an overlay. Sort of like a certain word spoken louder at certain times, changing the meaning of the whole working into something Darker. I think it was a Curse put upon adamantium, but I am not sure.’

Poi calmly, and seriously, sent, ‘Ignoring the Dark is usually the much, much safer approach.’

‘… Ah. True.’ After a moment, Erick added, ‘So Jane is bailing. Do you want to bail, too, before I invariably end up meeting Melemizargo? Because with Jane leaving soon and the next destination being Oceanside… Maybe you should think about bailing. Maybe sooner rather than later, too.’

‘We will stay with you all the way, Erick, through Oceanside and beyond, but you will likely leave us behind at some point.’ Poi sent, ‘In such an event, we’ll head back to Spur and wait for you there, alongside Kiri.’

Erick felt a warmth in his chest that spread out in all directions. He grinned; a small expression of the comfort he felt in that wonderful moment. ‘How is she doing these days?’

‘Kiri is doing well. After she heard about what happened in Songli she developed a [Hermetic Weather] spell that rains down molecular wires over a super large area and then twists those threads at her command. Extremely deadly to everything that isn’t solid as steel or very thick stone.’

Erick’s eyes went wide. ‘The threads decay though, right? She’s not leaving problems for future people, is she?’

‘After she stops controlling them they lose cohesion. They usually vanish with any bit of wind disturbing them.’

‘Ah. Good. I approve. I think.’

‘I would approve of you getting a nap before the banquet. You’re loopy again.’

‘Ah… Yes. I should do that.’

‘Yes you should.’

Erick stared at the failed adamantium dagger in his hands. ‘But—’

‘Nope. Sleep first.’

Erick smiled. ‘Yeah, yeah.’
