“It was about 15, I think.” Jane said, “The only one that was a serious concern was Nirzir’s brother, Keziro. He’s not a bad guy, but… He spoke very clearly that there was a path of marriage open to me, through him, and that I would be expected to treat the marriage like a proper business arrangement and to be involved in the politics of the Highlands. Or I could join the monster kill squads and live a separate life from him, but it would be expected that I spawned some children for him.”

Erick was vaguely more flummoxed than mad, but he was getting to that second emotion quick enough. “And Keziro simply came out and asked you for marriage, like that?”

“Well. No.” Jane faltered, then said, “When it became clear I wasn’t reciprocating his advances and that I had no idea what he was actually aiming for… All the nearby servants were all weird about it, too, so I—” She paused. She said, “He asked if he could speak openly, and I said yes, and then he did, and then…” She said, “It was a calm, rational discussion of the mechanics of marriage, that I knew nothing about until he told me. And it freaked me out too much to even think about it until now.”

Anger flowed away.

Erick said, “Well… Then he seems like a decent guy?”

“He is. But.” Jane said, “I can’t do this ‘marrying houses together thing’. I’m not ready. And I didn’t even earn it myself!”

Erick said, “Which is why you need to leave and make it on your own.”

Jane sat there, silent, staring at the space on the wall down in front of her. Then she looked to her father, and said, “Yes.”

Erick nodded. Then he spoke some harsh truths, “You talk about the world conspiring to force you into a marriage based on power that is not your own, and you talk of escaping all of that, but you know you can’t. I can’t ever escape it, either. I’m half-convinced that when I asked Darabella out to the banquet that she didn’t actually want to go, even with all the signals she was sending me before I asked her. Maybe she forced herself to say ‘yes’, but if she forces herself to say any other ‘yes’s, then I’m calling the whole thing off. Or I could be wrong! I don’t know. I’ll ask her if and when I need to ask her. But I’m fully convinced that Linxel was too horny to think straight and then afterwards he realized what he was inviting into his life, so he ducked out of a possible relationship as fast as he could.” He said, “The fact is, that what I did in Ar’Kendrithyst and what I’m doing out here is changing a lot, for both of us, because both of us have our own power—”

Jane scoffed.

“—Yes. Both of us are strong, Jane. You’re incredibly strong. You’ll find your own way soon enough. But I gotta say, and I know it’s gonna hurt, but you gotta get over this aversion you have to the power I can give you and help you achieve, because I have enemies, and if they’re not coming after me, then they’re going after you to get to me; just as in marriage, they also come with daggers bared, and I’m scared of all of those possible angles of attack.” He said, “The soul spear attack you told me about, the one Melemizargo saved you from? That’s the only one that I know about, but I’m not dumb enough to think that there haven’t been others.”

Jane breathed out, looking like she was preparing for a lie, then she decided to tell the truth. “There have been others. And I’ve lived through them all.”

Erick clamped down on his sudden panic. Intellectually, he knew there had been other attempts, but to hear it actually confirmed was a bit tilting. He said, “Okay.” He continued, “So there you go. Now knowing that you’re the daughter of one of Veird’s strongest archmages, I want you to take that sword that you have been granted because you’re the daughter of someone of power, and use it well to defend yourself from all the horrors that are coming after you, to get to me. It’s the perfect weapon for you, built to your specifications, so you know more about it than I do. So use it well. And, because there is no such thing as too much defense, I want you to think about getting a New Stat. I can offer you any of them, but not all of them— Or? You still have that belt, too, don’t you?”

Jane took a moment of thought to line up her words. She said, “The belt is locked up in a vault. I won’t be using it.”

“Probably for the best. My Status still says ‘Human-question-mark’. Everyone else with multiple New Stats turned shadeling.”

Jane said, “Except those who already knew the Truth of Melemizargo.”

“I don’t want you to take that chance, and I don’t think you want to take that chance, either. You’re deflecting the conversation to get away from my point: that you need more power to live freely, and you need to take it from every safe source you can get it, and that fact is eating away at your self esteem.”

Jane frowned at her father, but there was no heat to her look. Erick had hit the nail on the head.

Erick waited.

Jane sighed, and asked, “Did you learn some Mind Magic, or something?”

“No. But it feels like it, sometimes. I certainly don’t see the world how I used to.” Erick continued, “Intelligence is the risky option. Dexterity and Constitution are the safe options; one for giving your body all the resources it could ever need, while the other for ensuring that you have a blanket defensive layer active at all times. Perception is the odd one out; it certainly lets you see a great deal more of the world, though.”

“… Maybe Dexterity. Or Perception. Probably Perception; I’m not sure.” Jane said, “I’m still going to be here for a few days more, anyway. At least till the banquet, so that I can see this woman—” She sighed. “This ‘Darabella’, with my own eyes.”

Erick nodded. “That’s fine.” He stood, spreading his arms wide.

Jane sighed as she followed his lead, and came in for a hug.

“I love you, Jane,” Erick said, over her shoulder. “Anything you want to do, I’ll support you. Any life you want to live, I’m there for you. And because of the events of recent history, I’ll add: If you happen to get involved in a war, be sure that it’s a good war, because I will likely get involved at that point in time.”

Jane hugged her father tighter, chuckling a little. “It’s amazing to hear you say that.”

“I’m serious, too. Every word. If someone hurts you… Well. I’ll let you handle it, first, and then I’ll get involved.”

“… Thank you.” Jane said, “I love you, too, dad.”

“Now how about we take a trip to the surface and you can try out your sword and I can try out my staff.” Erick released his grip a bit. “And everyone else can use their own new toys, too.”

Jane pulled away, asking, “What’s up with the staff, anyway?”

“It’s basically a way to hand off a thousand spells to an item, and then you can trigger the item to release those spells later, as though you had cast them yourself.”

Jane’s eyes went wide. “Oh!”

“Oh, indeed.” Erick smirked. “I think I’m really going to like runework.”

“Make me a bracelet that holds charms, dad.”

“Oh! That’s a good idea.” Erick smiled, saying, “Permanent Charms bracelet!”

“Wait? Permanent?” Jane’s eyes went wide. “Like in ‘artifact’ permanent?”

“The better made ones; yes. That is a possibility! If you use your new sword well enough in the next week, then Darabella said it could possibly turn into an artifact, too.”

Jane’s face broke into a wide, giggling smile.

- - - -

After his talk with Jane, Erick briefly informed Poi that a few messages needed to go out, and would he do those, please. Mainly, Erick did not want them to change the date of the tournament because of his presence. Neither he, nor Jane, would be attending.

Poi did so.

- - - -

In the snow-filled mountains of the Northern Tribulations, where the peaks were fifty kilometers higher than the valleys, Erick and his people appeared in a flash of light upon a relatively barren, flat part of the land. The ground only had a small layer of snow upon it while it was rocky and barren for a good kilometer in every direction; more than enough space to practice spellwork and to come to an understanding about the new tools and weapons four out of the five people now had.

The fifth person, Nirzir, only had her formation dagger, but now she also had Erick’s gifted books of runes. While Jane had taken but ten minutes to flip through them and declare she had no idea what it all meant, Nirzir had rapidly inserted herself into the situation, asking questions about the books. Soon enough, Jane had handed over the books to Nirzir, who was comparing the rune books to her own ideas of formation carving.

Nirzir was very interested in runework, apparently, so that’s what she came out to the mountain to study.

Erick cast a few spells across the mountainside to make their surroundings more comfortable, to give them a spot to rest after tiring themselves out from swinging new swords or shields or walking in new armor, and otherwise. Not a minute after landing, Nirzir sat upon a conjured chair in a windbreak, reading the rune books and sipping hot tea. The princess had shown a passing interest in the staff, but she was more interested in how it was made, and not the actual item. Erick had already flipped through the books and found he was able to recall most of what was in them, so it was on to experimenting for him. He’d read them all, in depth, later, but he knew more than enough to begin casting spells.

And now that some time had passed since his introductions to proper runework, and the ideas of runes had percolated in his mind, Erick was especially eager to test out the idea of an [Intent Understanding] rune, alongside Tricking Magic, to make a runic system that would accept any mana and output real spellwork, like his own [Prismatic Ward]. Or more realistically, perhaps the Solid Ward that Erick used to have; [Crystalline Air] was much less complicated than [Prismatic Ward], after all. Erick had no idea how to iron out the problems of permissions, to allow people to pass through the [Crystalline Air], but perhaps more Tricking Magic could account for that?

… Anyway. That would come later. For now, came testing with his new staff.

Hmm. Except.

The valley was large enough to fit half of Ar’Kendrithyst inside, with the other side of the valley completely occluded by snow, and shadows. It was cold and windy. Somewhere to the northeast, south, and west, rose three mountain peaks, though Erick only knew where they were based on Ophiel’s flights through the area.

No one else seemed to care about all the snow, though. There was Jane, already slashing through snow with a sword on fire, and then adding a second slash with a sword made of shadows. Poi trudged through dense snowdrifts, moving in his armor; that had to be cold, right? Teressa flung her flying shield through the air, creating minor waves of wind that brushed back huge swaths of falling white.

But Erick looked to the snowy sky, and said, “That’s less than ideal.”

So he cast a spell.

Within minutes, the sky stopped snowing. The sun came out. The grey world parted, revealing deep blue heavens, and a ten-kilometer wide glacier filling up most of the valley’s bottom. [Control Weather] would likely not last long, since this land was almost permanently snowing, but it would last long enough for some proper, full vision experiments.

Jane, Poi, and Teressa all stopped what they were doing. They looked to Erick.

Poi said, “It wasn’t necessary to do that.”

“Bad weather conditions are expected in battle, boss!” Teressa said.

Erick smiled. “Not with me, they’re not!”

Nirzir stared at the cleared sky, her mouth hanging open a bit as she flicked her attention back and forth between Erick and the blue heavens, her eyes full of disbelief.

Erick asked her, “What? You knew I could do this.”

“… Knowing and seeing are two different things,” Nirzir said, as she rapidly went back to reading her borrowed books.

Soon, everyone was back to practicing whatever they wished to practice.

And Erick picked up his staff. It was four-sided with a slightly tapered base and a sheared top, sliced off to make an exit point for the magic within. Runes had been carved all up and down the four sides, and upon the cut top. Erick stared at the runes for a bit, in the light of the glinting sun, studying the flows and the joinings, trying to understand them more than he already had. He didn’t spend too much time doing that, for he knew he was not going to gain any new insights through just looking. So he kept his mana sense wide open, and he cast the first [Glowball] into the steel.

The runes did not change. The staff did not glow. This much was normal, for the staff was designed to hold onto the spell until it was purposefully released.

Which is what he did next.

Erick held the staff aloft and willed a [Force Bolt] into the trigger rune, and then another.

Two things happened.

One: A double [Force Bolt] flew out of the head of the staff and impacted the shadow-strewn land, far away from everyone else.

And Two: A bright ball of harmless light, a handspan across, flew out of the head of the staff and struck the same spot the [Force Bolt] had hit. The [Glowball] expanded into a large space of white light and settled down into its new space. If the staff had been made correctly, then the [Glowball] should last 24 hours; the same duration as a [Ward].

The [Force Bolt] trigger runes had deactivated fully; their triggering charge spent.

Erick nodded. The staff’s modified style had worked exactly as intended.

Moving right along, Erick fed two [Glowball]s into the staff, and then rapidly triggered the staff again. This time he aimed a bit to the right of the first experiment. When the second [Glowball] exploded into a lightward, the resulting sphere was nearly twice as large as the first one.

Erick raised an eyebrow. The effects of stacked spellwork in runes were exactly as Darabella had described them. Interesting.

A 5-imbue [Glowball] was much, much larger than the doubled [Glowball], but it was not super large size. Like Darabella had explained, the increased-area-effect experienced a harsh drop off past 3 imbues, so 5 imbues was beginning to hit that limit rather hard. That was why the staff was only allowed to discharge 5 charges at once; any more than that would be a waste of charge.

This [Glowball] staff wasn’t even made with the intention of utilizing the increased AOE effect. Once it was fully charged with a thousand charges, that entire aspect of runework would mitigate down to nothing.

