Nirzir nodded, saying, “I’ve done a little bit with carving channels and laying down dust, too, of course. My success rate is rather low, though. Enchanting was never impressive to me, since it all decays so darn fast. But this!” She held the runic book, saying, “This is impressive. It’s easy to see how all of this was the precursor to modern day enchanting, too. A lot of the principles here are the same, including using rhymes and sounds to create an item. I think— and I might be wrong, here!— But I think core dust is used in modern day enchanting simply so that the end-user doesn’t have to have the spellwork themselves.”

“Oh yeah.” Erick said, “I can easily see that being the case. Maybe, in the past, they needed to give magical items out to people who did not have the spellwork to utilize runic weapons, so they tried to solve that particular problem in three ways. One, they didn’t solve the problem and they told people to get better, with higher levels and better spellwork, but this solution obviously does not work when most populations are under level 20. Two, they threw core dust at the runic weapons, and modified the runic structures to better fit the dust, which would allow any end user to use the magic item, leading to the magic item markets we have these days.” Erick could have talked about planned obsolescence, but he chose not to. “Or three, the failed path, which was to make runic weapons that anyone could imbue with any type of mana to use the runework to cast larger or more intricate spells than most individuals knew. Darabella said there are a few ancient examples of that third type of runework in the noble district, but they’re more novelties than useful items, since the ratio of mana in to spellwork out is a thousand mana to one.”

Nirzir stared for a moment. Then she said, “I can see the first two happening and desire to create the third… But that third one. That would have changed everything, wouldn’t it? It sounds like [Renew].”

Erick smiled. “It does, doesn’t it.”

“So why couldn’t they fix the problems and make runic [Renew] work properly?” Nirzir asked. “Surely you’re not the first person with enough vision to see the possible outcomes of a properly made runic web. I’ve only learned of this stuff in the last few days and I can already see how it could change the world for the better.” Nirzir said, “Even forgetting all of that, and focusing on what is actually possible: a basic runic web around the nation would enable us to spread the Void Song to all parts of Songli! I can’t understand how I didn’t know about this before today!”

Erick chose to focus on the first part of Nirzir’s words, as she said, “In my experience, there’s usually only a handful of answers to that. Either this type of runework is not possible. Or maybe they noticed no improvements to their thousand-to-one ratio after a hundred years of hard study. Or maybe there’s something or someone lurking about, incentivizing the non-discovery of a runic [Renew]. Or maybe someone did master a runic [Renew], and they were killed for any number of reasons.”

Nirzir instantly shut down like she had seen an impossible danger loom in the shadows.

Good.

She had understood.

After a moment of introspective silence, Nirzir said, “The Shadows are gone now, though.”

Erick nodded, then said, “Shadows are only the first problem. You still got Hunters, or the sects of Nelboor. Face Stealers. Normal political intrigue. Nobles being allowed to murder anyone they want because the law says so. Normal monetary bullying. Commoners not being allowed to own their own breakthroughs. People needing to spend their mana making a living, instead of making magical breakthroughs. A million tiny problems of normal life, or even the desire not to make waves holding people back from doing more than what they usually do. Simple accidents in the lab ruining the work of months and thousands upon thousands of gold. Not all are solvable, but you can solve a few of them, so choose your battles.”

Nirzir stared off into the distance, thinking.

- - - -

Erick did not spend the next day at the Smithy, working with metal, like he expected to. Instead, he took a deep dive into the world of runes, learning what they could and could not do. The books from Darabella were only the start. There were rudimentary runic readers and even small classes held by prospective Rune Smiths scattered all around the city. Ophiels casually stationed themselves here and there to let Erick observe through the light and through his mana sense. He also had another session with Grosgrena to answer a few more rune questions, and he also spoke to the other Rune Scribes of the Smith, just so he could get some second opinions.

But mostly, he practiced carving, he tried calligraphy, he was good at it, likely due in no small part because of Dexterity and Perception.

And he learned.

Because, for the first time since Erick tried putting anything more than manalight into a piece of glass, enchanting made sense. Runic letters and simple communication with the mana, instead of a demand of the mana (which was what normal enchanting now felt like to him), made all the difference!

Words went into steel creating a rod which held a thousand [Force Bolts], and which released 10 at a time. But that wasn’t even the most impressive part of the rod. Since [Prestidigitation] was a 10 mana self-cast spell that stuck around for an hour, and which allowed small magical effects to occur for 1 mana a pop, Erick was able to cast that spell on himself and tie the triggering mechanism for the 10 [Force Bolt]-release to a 1 mana use of [Prestidigitation]. It was a minor breakthrough that was only hinted at as possible in some of the books he read, but no one had managed to make it work, or if they had, then they hadn’t written it down in any of the books Erick had.

Runework was complicated. It was messy. Erick exploded himself a few times, there on the top of the tower which served as his temporary home. More than a few times, some stray [Force Bolt]s went careening out of the space, but they impacted [Force Wall]s that Erick had already set up to prevent catastrophe.

He made a staff of [Fireball]s, but his [Fireball]s were not the standard [Fireball]s.

Fireball, instant, long range, 100 MP

Launch a super quick ethereal missile of fire that explodes on contact or at the end of its path, creating a large tumult of cloying fire. Deals WIL damage then ignites everything touched, dealing 3x WIL damage per second for 25 seconds.

They were gods damned [Fire Missiles] that, when singular, exploded into a willow-tree like firework, spreading sparking flames everywhere. But when Erick launched 10 at once? In a pseudo-[Grand Fireball]?

It was like releasing a carpet bomb.

He set the surface of a glacier on fire.

In what seemed like a daze of creation and tempering metal and stretching steel and inscribing runes and checking over his many, many diagrams he had made, a full day passed in the blink of an eye. Jane made sure he ate, while mostly going out and killing things with her new sword, and everyone checked in on him a few times, and he checked up on them, but mostly, he worked at a fantastically frenzied pace.

When Erick hadn’t left the house in a full 45 hours, or slept, someone from Enduring Forge came knocking at his door. Jalrock Slate, of House Slate, appeared as congenial and nice as the first time Erick saw the man.

Erick whipped open the door, and with a smile on his face, locked his real eyes on the visitor, saying, “Jalrock! Good to see you! Sorry I haven’t been out lately; been working on stuff. You need something? I expected to hear something about securing the Reset before now! Is this that?”

Jalrock reciprocated Erick’s good mood, though none of his mania, smiling wide, saying, “Nothing’s wrong, but we thought to inform you personally of a few minor events that have happened while you have been sequestered in study.”

“Ah. Okay! Sure.” Erick said, “Uh. Can you make it quick? I hate to be rude, but I am currently in the middle of something important.”

“Of course, of course.” Jalrock said, “The Reset has officially gone better than we could ever have imagined. The rats and crabs and various plants and fungi are taking over their biomes and providing a solid barrier to all the other monsters further down the tunnels. We were, and are, prepared for any of a hundred different possible failures, but we have also prevented those failures exactly as we hoped we could. The Reset has solidified. It should hold for several years before someone gets sloppy with the maintenance, for as it has happened before, it will happen again. The banquet to commemorate the success will be held in 12 hours.” Jalrock skipped right along, “The tournament will remain as it was previously scheduled, and we apologize for attempting to intrude upon your time with such an offer to move it.” He said, “And finally: Master Swordsmith Mordog has time for you now, if you wish to learn a bit about working with adamantium. He has a small pour of formation daggers to make, if you wish to see the process unfold.” As Erick’s eyes went wide, Jalrock said, “This last one is what officially brings me here. The pour will begin in an hour and end roughly half an hour after that.”

Erick’s desires tore in two different directions, but the opportunity to see an adamantium pour won out. He said, “I’ll be ready in five minutes.”

Jalrock smiled, then half bowed, saying, “I await your readiness.”

Erick turned back, calling out, “Poi! Are you a— Ah. Shit. Sleeping. Uh. Teressa…”

Poi grumbled back, “I’m awake now.”

Jalrock waited past the open door while Erick hustled and bustled to get ready.

While Poi grumbled a bit and got out of bed —He had 6 hours of sleep already! What was the problem!— Erick rapidly stowed his runework record player experiment back with all his other scattered experiments. Rods, wands, staffs, orbs. Small runic webs of a dozen separate rods and spheres. All of them were too interesting to let sit for any length of time, especially the runic records. Erick had high hopes for that, but he hadn’t gotten the records or the player to a workable state yet.

But watching an adamantium pour was the one thing that could tear Erick away from his work. He still hadn’t seen that, yet.

And so, he tore himself away from his work.

It was time to see how adamantium was made!

- - - -

Mordog, the massively muscular human-sized Swordsmith, along with a few trusted helpers, stood beside a machine that was like Grosgrena’s adamantium metal crusher, but also not. It was still made of adamantium, but this one was absolutely massive, at least five meters tall and half that wide, and runed-up like nothing Erick had seen before, with thousands of crisscrossing lines of intricate runes in wrapping, overlapping spiral patterns, that circled from the base of the bottom crusher, and the top of the top crusher, to meet in the middle, in the crushing zone. For another, this adamantium crusher was the only real machine in this room, and this place was protected behind two large metal doors. There weren’t even any vents in the room; people were expected to use [Cleanse] to keep the air breathable.

Other than the main attraction, there was a low stone table in front of the specialized machine, along with some tools and other stuff they would be using atop that table, and a few anvils and other sharpening and final-touch stations throughout the room.

Mordog explained the items on the table, saying, “So here we got the untempered adamantium, measured out to the gram.” He tapped a bar of silver-whitish-goldish metal, along with half of another bar and a few more slivers on top of that. Then he gestured to seven molds of knives, each the same as the one before, and a scale. “And here’s the target molds and the weighing machines to ensure a proper pour. We pour the hot adamantium into each mold, measuring out 1.1 kilos for each dagger, stopping between each pour to ensure that the weights are correct. You can do a messy pour with steel, but not with adamantium. Adamantium is fucking expensive, and there are no re-melts with this metal if you get it wrong. The molds themselves are a special ceramic sand so they won’t crack under the heat and the stresses, but that does occasionally happen. Sometimes, if the metal hasn’t cooled too much, it’s salvageable, but we got tons of examples of messed up pours if you want one of those, Archmage. Grosgrena seems to think that you could solve our supply woes, so we’ll give you one of those bad melts on the way out.” Mordog moved right along, saying, “Now, to transform raw adamantium into its final form is a special process, unlike any other. All we do is stick it in this specialized crusher, and it does all the work for us.”

A moment passed while Erick waited for him to continue.

But he wasn’t going to continue; that was it. That was all there was to making adamantium.

Mordog smiled.

Erick exclaimed, “What? Really? Just stick it in this machine?”

A few of Mordog’s helpers couldn’t help but smirk, too.

“Yes, really.” Mordog said, “This crusher is an artifact that was enchanted long ago, and which a few people here know how to replicate, but none of us know how it works, exactly. You want to read the runes, go ahead! More luck to you.”

Erick was already studying the whole system with his mana sense.

Mordog said, “We all got our theories on how the crusher works, but they’re probably all wrong. Don’t think Darabella or any of them knows how this works, either, but Grosgrena certainly does. Honestly, though, I don’t care about that. I only care that it works. And so, we’re making metal, and you’re watching.”

Erick stood back and let the men and women work.

Mordog picked up the pieces of untempered adamantium and tossed them into the crusher, then he adjusted some depth measurements and cast some controlling spells upon the mechanism. The machine began to do what it was meant to do, rapidly moving up and down, crushing the raw adamantium in the divot in the center. Erick was happy to discover that screeching adamantium gave off a slightly nicer noise than platinum when it encountered multi-ton pressures. The silver adamantium deformed under heavy weights, taking on a more golden glow as it heated from the pressures applied.

And Erick noticed the first change from a normal imbuing crush; Mordog didn’t toss the adamantium around so that it could be recrushed from a different angle. The machine did that all on its own, using some form of [Telekinesis] imbued in the crusher itself.

No one said a word as the magical machine did its thing.

