Erick stepped into his temporary home, calling out, “Jane! Sword! Poi! We got your—”

Jane was suddenly there, right in front of Erick in a flicker of shadows, trying to act calm while she was obviously very excited. She looked to the smaller crate held in Ophiel’s light, asking, “So. Uh. I see it’s ready.”

Erick smiled as he handed over the crate, saying, “I got to see Darabella rune it, and she says—”

With strong arms, Jane ripped off the cover of the box, spilling woodchips everywhere as she grabbed for the black sword inside. The box fell to the floor as she held her prize in her right hand. Her eyes shimmered with an almost primal love as she stared upon the cutting edge.

Erick picked up the removable hilt that had fallen to the floor and shoved the woodchips back into their box, continuing, “—You’ve got to cast your spells into it, and be sure to use all of your Elemental Bodies, too. It should soak in everything you give it, and since it was made with Greater Shifting Runes, then it will get a lot better for you, personally, with use. The Shifting Runes will only last a week though, so you have to use it well and true while you can make the most difference.”

He had been trying to hand Jane the hilt this whole time, but she was only now able to look down and spot the bit of metal in Erick’s hands. She took the slip-on hilt, and seemed to debate with herself about putting it on the sword, or not. She put it in her pocket, instead, and then she started swishing the black sword through the air, feeling the grip and adjusting her fingers, smiling all the while.

Erick continued, “Do be sure to use all of your abilities to their utmost for the next week. Also, I heard that they might be moving the tournament up to five days from now, so there’s a goal for you.”

Jane froze. Her smile vanished. She looked to her father, and asked, “Are they changing the tournament dates because of me?”

Erick froze. It seems he had stepped onto a landmine.

In retrospect, he should have thought of this possibility, for what Jane had guessed was likely very true.

… Whelp! Whatever! Landmines went off when they were stepped on, not when you took your foot off. This situation was well and truly blowing up at him so he might as well confront it head on.

Erick said, “They’re changing the dates because of me, which is likely because of you; yes.”

Teressa casually yet quickly walked away, carrying Poi’s boxed up armor to its owner, in the other room. On her way to Poi she casually nudged Nirzir back out of the hallway. The princess had poked her head out to see what was happening, but at being poked back, she almost took offense, but then she did not; Nirzir saw something was going down between Erick and Jane and she decided she did not need to be a part of that.

… But as moments ticked on, and Erick saw everything happening around him while he waited for his daughter to further react… Jane did nothing except stare into the middle distance. She wasn’t reading blue boxes. She wasn't disassociating. She was probably just thinking.

And then she came back to herself. Jane looked to Erick, and asked, “Could you tell them to not change the dates for me, please?” She added, “I won’t be participating in their tournament, even if they make allowances for me. I couldn’t—” She breathed deep, then said, “I think… I need to carve out my own life, dad. And this… This vacation has been— It’s been all about you, and that’s fine. You’re doing wonderful things! You’re… Doing a lot. But changing the dates of a tournament for me…” Jane said, “I really don’t like that. I don’t think I could even show my face there, now that I know this. I… I need to do my own things.”

Erick took a moment, then he spoke the thoughts that had suddenly filled his mind, “So I’m being paranoid here, but while I don’t think Darabella or anyone else did anything to that sword you’re holding, I want you to remain for at least 5 more days, so I can be sure nothing odd is happening here. And then you can go do whatever you want.”

“Okay.” Jane said, “Then that is what I’ll do. I’m probably going to go to the Deep Underworld. Find some real monsters. Get to level 95.”

A sense of deep exasperation flowed through Erick, and he asked, “Why?”

“Because it’s the only place that is absolutely filled with problems that you cannot solve because the only way through most of the Underworld at all is with [Stone Body], and you don’t have that. We’re close to the main roads, too, and you’re not going to the Underworld yet, but I want to.” Jane said, “So that is what I’m going to do. I hear the Adventurer’s Guild has their old main offices a thousand kilometers off of the Core, almost directly below central Quintlan. That’ll be my goal. From there, there’s millions of people scattered in the dark in need of help, and I have the tools to help, so I will.”

“You’ve thought about this a lot, haven’t you.”

“Ever since I heard there was an Underworld, but moreso when we actually arrived here.” She added, “Besides… You don’t need me, dad. Not anymore.”

“I’ll always need you in my life, Jane.” Erick was hurt, and he had no idea how to express that hurt without hurting Jane in return. “But I understand that you need to be your own person.”

Jane said nothing.

Erick said, “If this [Gate] thing works out, then those old offices are going to get permanent [Gate]s, too. The main offices of the Adventuring Guild in Archipelago Nergal would get a Gate, as well.”

“I won’t be going away forever.” Jane said, “But... I can’t stand people changing to appease me, and I don’t want handouts. I can’t understand how you could be okay with any of this, either.” She said, holding her sword which she had only gotten due to Erick’s meddling.

But Erick wasn’t going to mention that to her; no way.

He stood there, not sure what to say, so he said nothing.

Jane continued, “Those women who flashed you on the street the other day? That’s… That’s not right. Do you know that I’ve been propositioned with millions of gold and marriages into dynasties and— And all so that people could talk to you.” She looked down at the sword in her hands, and her eyes went wide. “And I suppose I finally accepted one of those offers, didn’t I.” With eyes wider still, she said, “And I promised myself that I wouldn’t let you help me too much. This is too much, isn’t it?”

From one gift to a sudden breakdown in psyche. Erick really should have seen this coming, but… He did not expect this, either. Jane had seemed fine the past two days! Perfectly fine. Obviously, she was not.

Erick strongly said, “It’s not too much, because this world is dangerous, and everyone needs all the help they can get. Including me. Including you.” Erick stepped forward and took his daughter in his arms, hugging her tight, while Jane stood there unsure of anything, with one arm off to the side barely gripping her sword and the other almost scared to return the hug. Her eyes watered. Erick said, “Keep that in mind when you’re out there saving the world; you don’t have to go alone.”

Tears fell.

Jane whispered, “I want a Privacy, dad. I don’t like everyone seeing—”

Erick cast a [Sealed Privacy Ward] around them, locking them away from the eyes of the rest of the world.

Jane’s sword suddenly clattered to the ground as she wrapped both her arms around her father, returning his embrace. Tears flowed, for there was no more cares about loss of face.

As his own tears fell, Erick forced a smile and tried out a joke, “You’ve already cried in front of everyone at Hothalls, so this is nothing compared to that public embarrassment.”

Jane barked out a laugh as she cried, and hugged tighter. She sighed, expelling most of her pain, then she said, “Everyone bends over backwards for me and for you. I can’t trust anyone after they learn who I am.” Then she stopped crying, and pulled away; Erick let her go. “I want to talk about some stuff, dad. Let’s… Go to the living room, instead of the hallway.”

“Sure.” Erick picked up Jane’s sword with a wave of his light. He handed it to her, teasing, “You should take care of your new weapon; you don’t want to lose the edge!”

Jane smirked, rubbing her puffy face with one hand as she grabbed the sword with the other. “If a simple drop to the floor ruins the edge of a near-indestructible sword, then I think we have more problems than a lack of proper sword etiquette.”

They relocated to an empty side room with a small bookshelf and a pair of chairs with a small table between them. Erick relocated the Privacy, too, with a recast.

Jane dragged up a painful past, saying, “Remember that orcol guy back at Treehome?”

“… I do.” Erick flushed with worry, and then with resolve. “Do I need to add another person to my body count?”

Jane’s eyes went wide, and then she chuckled, rapidly turning into a full blown laugh.

Erick spoke over her laugh, “I’m serious.” And he was; paranoia was hitting hard today, it seemed. “What was his name? Kordon?”

“That’s him.” Jane smiled, saying, “And no. You’re not killing him. But thank you for the offer.”

Erick found himself involuntarily shuddering out a ragged breath, rapidly saying, “Oh good gods. I did not want to have to do that.”

Jane smirked, saying, “Kordon was… He was a great guy. We… Had relations, and then he decided that he could be rich if he was with me because you would always have money. I almost gutted him right then and there but Kordon played it off as a joke, though I knew it was him testing the waters. The same thing almost happened in Songli after you were outed— Or you outed yourself, I guess. Three times, it happened; three different propositions, each totally genuine. Not to mention all the ones that I’d rather not discuss.

“I had to be diplomatic about the one guy because he was Nirzir’s brother.” She said, “I get that you’re some… World power, now. And that’s fucking weird as all fucking hell. But I can get behind it. But everything else about that— All the attendant responsibilities that I’ve read in stories about noblesse oblige and marrying for power and cementing alliances? Intellectually, I understand that that is how this type of thing works, but emotionally... It’s fucking me up, dad. Though I love you, and what you’ve done, I do not like that this is my life now.” She said, “I think the worst part is that I can’t enjoy any of it because I know that I didn’t earn a single bit of it.”

Erick listened, and then he said, “I’m sorry it didn’t work out with Kordon.”

Jane waved him off and brushed away a sudden tear, saying, “It was never going to work with that asshole. He even said to me— Before we were together— He said to me ‘You’re a fucking princess!’ and that I couldn’t have defeated him in a fair fight without all the artifacts I was wearing. And I was wearing artifacts.” She held up her hands, showing her rings. “Two of them!” She cursed, “Gods! I don’t know what the fuck I saw in that guy. At least you managed to find a good one, but Linxel didn’t work out, either?”

“Different lives. Different sides of the globe. Amicable split.”

“Amicable is about all you can hope for, I guess.”

Erick smiled softly. “This is true, Jane.”

Jane frowned at herself. “Least your relationships have been because the people wanted you, right? Or was Linxel a leech, too?”

And here came the uncomfortableness.

Erick had raised Jane on his own, and because of that, they had talked about every topic under the sun, including topics that Erick had found himself (on a bad day) wishing that Jane had her mother to talk to instead. He hadn’t had a bad day like that in a very long time, though. Erick was there for Jane, for whatever she needed. He was actually thrilled that she still spoke about her love life with him, if only to know that she was okay, and that she was making correct decisions.

Though right now, in this space, they were talking about relationships in general, and that included his own relationships. That was the only truly uncomfortable part of this talk, so Erick took a moment to consider how much to tell Jane about his own current love life and prospects.

This was not the first time they had had this discussion. For Jane, this was a topic that was rather explosive when handled incorrectly, because Jane would love to have a second father, and she even encouraged Erick dating men...

But Jane did not want another mother in her life. Never again. Never, ever again.

And yet, none of that was Jane’s decision to make.

“Linxel was nice. Not going to happen, though. Too many responsibilities elsewhere and neither of us were willing to have a long distance relationship.” Erick said, “But I am going on a date with Darabella to the banquet in a few days.”

Jane instantly said, “She only wants your power and money.”

Erick was ready for this, though, so he sarcastically gestured at himself with both of his hands, saying, “I have a lot to offer, here!”

“Yes.” Jane said, “And you deserve someone who doesn’t look at you like you are a trophy to own.”

Erick smirked. “Come on now, Jane. If anyone is winning prizes around here, it’s me.”

“First: Gross. Second: that’s another problem.” Jane said, “Half the people see me as a prize to win, but the other half see themselves as trophies that I should be proud to have waiting for me back home. And I’m not sure what to do with that. Like. I obviously cannot participate in such a system. But at the same time… Marrying for love is apparently something only ‘idiot commoners’ do; according to everyone back at Songli. Apparently it’s expected that…” She frowned, then she decided to just come out and say, “It’s expected that I forge bonds of strong matrimony with some power out there, to help cement the changes you’ve carved into this world.”

Jane wasn’t comfortable talking about Darabella; this was fine. Erick went along with whatever she wanted to talk about, instead.

He asked, “How many people propositioned you? Exactly? You said three, but… It was obviously a lot more than that.”

