Good news, though, and the reason for allowing 5 charges to go off at once, was that the light of the 5-charge [Glowball] was about 5 times as intense. Nothing wrong with that aspect of runework, either. Being inside the conjured sphere of brilliance would not actually inflict the Blind status, but it sort of did, anyway, for all those without eye protection. As it was, it was hard for Erick to look upon the resulting brilliant sphere without squinting, or without using his sunform to preserve his vision.

Everything was looking good, though.

Staff was working great!

Erick smiled as he held onto the metal staff, saying, “Not bad for a hunk of unenchanted steel!”

Nirzir flipped through the books to try and understand what Erick was doing. She said nothing as she read and cross-referenced the runes that she knew were on the staff. Jane didn’t seem to care about the magic staff, but she did turn her body away from the bright lights. Erick saw her ducking down into the shadows cast upon the mountainside by the [Glowball]s, though. Poi, meanwhile, had moved on to testing out his own flight spells, and it was not going well. He was trying not to falter out of the air. He was still getting the hang of his new armor’s reflective effects.

Teressa stood behind Erick, though, having finished with her own brief experiments; her shield floating at her back. She said, “Pretty, boss, but I still want to be able to see with my eyes. Can I get one of those ‘polarizing glasses’?”

Erick smiled. He Shaped some stone from the mountain below and conjured a polarizing wardlight upon them. He handed them over, saying, “Here you go.”

“Thanks.” Teressa briefly dismissed her conjured helmet, put on the glasses, and said, “Much better!” as she reconjured her full face helmet.

“Now for the strength test,” Erick said, holding the staff outward.

He rapidly fed another hundred [Glowball]s into the steel, taking a hundred seconds to do so, watching as his spellwork flowed into the steel like water into a dry sponge. A very dry sponge. Even with his mana sense wide open, it seemed impossible to see the magic that he was pouring into the thing.

[Mana Sight] did reveal a slight glimmer of magic inside the metal.

Erick wondered if leaving a staff filled with magic for long enough would turn the metal into wrought-quality, but he shoved that question to the side, for now; he’d ask someone about that later.

Around [Glowball] 310, though, there was a visual change in the staff. The head of the staff was cleaved along a 45 degree angle, and in the center of that face there was a spot with the rune ‘Escape’ circling a divot and a raised point in the steel, looking like a mountain with a moat around it. The ‘Escape’ runes were linked to a subset of runes that ran down the main tracks, like sidewalks to a roadway, to the space where the [Force Bolt] triggering runes were located. It was upon the head of the staff, in that pointed divot, that the change occurred; there was a tiny mana glow in that moat. It was white, and nearly invisible to the naked eye. But it was there.

Erick kept charging the staff with [Glowball]s.

Around cast 765, there was another change, much more drastic than the first. Every single rune began to glow a bit to Erick’s mana sense, like they were small, glowing white streams at the bottoms of valleys. Only the deepest runes had this shift. Mostly [Glowball] itself, which was carved in quadruplicate upon the four sides of the staff, but also in some of the connecting runelines here and there.

The [Force Bolt] releasing runes remained empty, though; by design, and by imbuement.

Erick stopped filling the staff.

He held it aloft, and said, “Fire in the hole!”

A brilliant spark, but no larger than the first 5-imbue spark, sailed out of the head of the staff and impacted a spot up the mountain, where it blossomed into a double-large area of brilliance. It was not nearly as large as the initial 5-[Glowball] use.

“Hmm.” Erick said, “The size increasing effect diminishes rather quickly under saturated-runework conditions. I expected the area of effect to remain larger for a while longer, but apparently not.” He hummed again, then said, “Still! A lot of applications here! Grand-type spells of all kinds are only the most obvious usage.” He handed the staff off to Teressa. “Go ahead and try. Imbue a [Force Bolt] into any part of the staff, but mainly this part here, near where you hold it.”

Suddenly afraid, Teressa tentatively took the staff. She looked at the little thing, then asked, “What do you mean… ‘imbue’, exactly?”

“It’s sort of like casting, but more like bringing the spell to the surface of yourself and then letting it flow into the staff.”

Teressa frowned. “To the surface of my aura?”

“Doesn’t have to be. But sure? Try that? It’s only a [Force Bolt] anyway. Not like you could break the staff if you accidentally cast the spell.”

Erick hoped, anyway.

Teressa cast [Force Bolt] into the staff causing grey light to briefly spack between her hand and the steel. Flickers of broken grey mana filtered out of her grip. With a nervous look, she held the staff away from herself, saying, “Uhhhhh.”

Erick said, “Try again. Even if it explodes, it’s [Glowball]; what’s the worst it could do.”

Hopefully nothing!

“Terrible thing to say, boss,” Teressa said, as she tried again.

More broken grey light.

No explosions yet!

Erick said, “Flow your spell more. Less of a cast.”

Third time was the charm, as [Force Bolt] went into the staff, and a [Glowball] and [Force Bolt] came out of the top. Both flew straight up, without much apparent direction. The Bolt dissipated, while the ball exploded a little over a hundred meters away, becoming yet another bright beacon in the very, very massive valley.

“There you go!” Erick cheered, “You got it!”

Teressa giggled a bit as she pointed the staff in another direction and imbued another [Force Bolt]. This time, the five-strength [Glowball] came out of the top and went into the air at an angle different from where it was pointing.

Erick said, “Try imbuing [Force Bolt] as though you were going to cast at a target, while picking that target. That’s how you make the [Glowball] impact a target.”

Teressa nodded. Soon, she was launching 375 mana spells all across the nearby mountainside for a mere 5 mana apiece. It was quite good efficiency, for sure.

Erick inwardly lamented all the time he had wasted on normal enchanting. Runework made a lot more sense to him than all of that other junk. Erick could only wonder at the historical reasons that runework never made it mainstream.

He’d ask around about that, later, too.

Teressa said, “This is a lot different than using my shield.”

“There are nuances everywhere.” Erick said, “All variations of [Conjure Weapon] and [Conjure Armor] soak into runework on their respective items a lot easier than mage spells. This type of magic takes some different kinds of finesse. Not sure why.” He shrugged, not knowing the true answer.

Teressa handed back the staff and brought her shield back around, saying, “Whatever the case...” With a flicker of magic, the shield started to fly in front of her shield arm. She smiled. “You helped me with this imbuement, too. That was a lot easier this time. Though...” She glanced over to Poi.

The man was desperately trying not to fall down in midair as he floated there, a mere meter off of the ground. One silver-clad leg slipped out of control, briefly, going wide and almost forcing Poi into a split, before he slammed his legs back together, to stand tall, yet slightly tilting. His armor glinted in the light, and if not for his terrible control and odd angle, he would be an impressive sight. It was quite beautiful armor.

Poi called out, “I’m fine!”

Erick called back, “No you’re not!” He started walking toward the man, saying, “Let me help.” He wasn’t sure how to help, but he could try.

Poi said, “I’m getting iiiaaaa—” He rapidly spun half a turn, ending upside down and slightly rotating. “… I could use help.”

Erick smiled. “We need to get you an Elemental Body, Poi. You too, Teressa. That can be our next step; Oceanside. I’ve put it off for long enough.” Jane was right; he wasn’t going to the Underworld yet, anyway, and maybe not for a while. Erick walked over and stood next to Poi, saying, “But let’s fix this flying issue first, shall we?”

Poi sighed.

Erick asked, “You used to have a point-movement flying [Personal Ward], didn’t you?”

“… I still do, but this armor interferes with it. I’m going to need a new flying spell because I am not getting rid of this armor.”

“At least the armor is shiny silver with your spell active.” Erick helped Poi to right himself, and to stand upon the ground, as he said, “They got that part right.”

“I’m very glad they did, otherwise I couldn’t wear it.” Poi said, “Regulations, and all.”

Erick teased, “And those regulations don’t apply to Killzone, I take it.”

“Nope.” Teressa happily said, “He made the regulations. Great big exception under that reg with his name on it, too.”

“We need to get you a new flying spell, Poi. At least until we get you an Elemental Body, and then a Greater Elemental Body.” Erick asked, “How about an aura? [Flight of a Thousand Hands] was pretty great!”

Poi frowned at himself. “Not that one.”

“My [Force Platforms] is pretty nice.” Teressa said, “Easy to make, too.” To demonstrate, she stepped into the air and a platform of Force coalesced directly under her foot. “Great for positioning.”

“No no…” Poi’s voice trailed off, as if he was thinking about Teressa’s flight spell, but not willing to commit in that direction; not yet, anyway.

The conversation moved on from there, with Nirzir getting involved. And then Jane. Erick refrained from asking if Poi couldn’t ‘raid the Mind Mage collective’ for a good spell, for if it was that easy, then Poi would have done it. Instead, Erick spoke of all the other flying spells he knew of. But then Nirzir asked that exact question in Erick’s stead.

“Why can’t you ask your Mind Mage people for the best spell for you?” Nirzir asked.

Without rancor or any sort of emotional response, Poi simply said, “We don’t raid minds for magic, either for ourselves or for others, and that includes sharing what we happen to overhear with other Mind Mages. That’s not something we do.”

With a bit of surprise, Erick said, “Not even sharing? That seems near impossible, though?” Considering that, from what Erick had seen, every Mind Mage was always talking to each other all the time. Add to that the fact that Poi knew how Erick made magic, and that Poi had also been there for all the times when Erick was at Oceanside, or elsewhere... Why was Poi having difficulty with magic at all? Shouldn’t a Mind Mage be the strongest possible mage, if knowledge was all it took to make magic?

As soon as Erick had that thought, he returned to his original thought: if it was that easy, then Poi would be able to do it that easily.

With a little bit of annoyance, Poi said, “Magical influences that lead to properly made magic are like medicine; the right amount helps you to make yourself better than you were before, but too much becomes poison. Finding your own Truth is an inoculation against overdose, though.” He said, “I have my own Truth, and it has nothing to do with this kind of magic… So this is a bit difficult for me.”

Erick hummed, and nodded; he had never heard Poi say anything like this before, but it made sense. Had Jane ever heard this, though? She probably had, right? She went around talking to everyone about how to make magic before, to try and counteract her own troubles with the discipline.

Jane said, “That still doesn’t seem right to me.”

Ah. Apparently she had.

“It’s as ‘right’ now as it was the first time I told you,” Poi said. “But believe what you will.”

Erick offered, “I’d be glad to help you make a new [Fly] spell if you want help, Poi.”

“Maybe later.” Poi held out a hand, and his armor effortlessly moved with him. He tested the joints, saying, “I’m still getting the fit of this armor, itself, but I doubt I’ll ever wear anything else, ever again. This feels marvelous.”

Erick smiled wide. “I’m glad you like it.”

“I could use your help, Erick.” Nirzir asked, “If you’re willing?”

“Sure! I can do that.”

Jane, Poi, and Teressa went back to experimenting with their new adamantium armaments, while Erick went with Nirzir to talk of runes and formations and all that. Erick expected her to try making her new spell, but Nirzir explained that according to what she was reading in the books, she could do much better if she included some proper runes in the functionality. A great many of the principles of runes and Singing were the same, since both were all about communicating with the mana, asking for a specific outcome, so she needed to learn a bit more about runes before she continued; the answers to her questions were all here, if only she knew what it all meant.

Nirzir said, “The only difference is that Songs are varied things, and Ancient Script is set. And yet Ancient Script was purposefully created —we believe, the gods are silent about the Script— Ancient Script was created so that it is easy to conjure rhyme and rhythm, and that meter came naturally. So, in this way, it is very easy for Songs and runes to be related.” She gestured to the staff of [Glowball]s saying, “You might not have noticed it, but that thing reads like a five-way child’s rhyme, with the fifth, the [Force Bolt] extraction, being an outlet for the force of the building song. Sort of like a drum beat.”

Erick blinked a bit, then he looked at the staff again. It took him a moment, but he got there. “… Oh. I suppose you’re right.”

“I’m not sure if Miss Darabella knows that she made a child’s song, or if the comparison is only superficial, but it’s there, and I want to understand why it is there.”

“That reminds me.” Erick said, “The first time I ever saw anyone enchant, it was a man imbuing [Blink] into a wand. He used an enchanting spell, a small rhyme, and a formation of small cores to make the item.” He added, “The enchanter failed the first time, but they got it the second time. Ended up with a bunch of markings and scattered core dust inside the wand. The metal item was magical, but I never quite understood the outcome, or how the wand creation actually worked— Well. I understood enough to make a wand of [Blink] with about a 10% success rate, but… I bet I could make a runic wand of [Blink] with a much higher success rate.”

