As the assassin’s blade lances towards my throat, my thoughts are not of panic due to impending death or regret over leaving home unarmed and unarmoured.

Nor am I calm, cool, and collected, using the precious time before impact to formulate a proper, warrior’s response, because quite frankly, I am too slow, weak, and fragile to do anything to stop a Martial Warrior intent on my death, much less an Expert like the man before me. That’s not to say I’ve resigned myself to death either, because while the situation might look dire to some, my enemies have fallen victim to one of the classic blunders.

Never go in against the Undying when death is on the line.

...Also, not all turtles are slow. That’s the important lesson here.

Rearing up with a piercing squeak, Ping Ping emerges from the flowing river like gargantuan beast of myth and snaps up my attacker mid-charge. Gone is the placid, gentle giant who carefully picks her way through crowded city streets, and in her place is a primal force of nature, violence given reptilian flesh with power enough to wreck whole cities if left unchecked. There is no suspense or uncertainty once she acts, only awe and consternation as she seals the audacious assassin’s fate with a crunch of her black, hooked beak. The ground trembles as she clambers up the riverbank with her prize in mouth, an Expert reduced to a broken corpse which she spits at the feet of his peers in undeniable threat. Looming over the remaining two aspiring assassins, she emanates palpable fury and unrestrained violence as human blood dribbles down her beak, silently embodying the age old question, “You dare?”

Meet Ping Ping, the Guardian Turtle of Falling Rain. She might not be as cute and cuddly as the rest of my floofs, but she’s the sweetest, most considerate creature of them all.

Perhaps desperate not to be outdone, Kuang Biao uses the long seconds of distraction to lop off his opponents’ legs, which is good because I’d rather not find out how Ping Ping fares against a readied foe, much less two. “Leave them alive,” I bark, lowering my guarded stance with what I hope is casual disdain. “Good girl, Ping Ping. Love youuuu.”

At the sound of my cutesy appreciation, the violence seeps out of her hulking frame, though she continues to watch the crippled assassins with guarded caution. Given her gentle and genial nature, it’s easy to forget that Ping Ping survived centuries, if not millennia, as a regular, everyday alligator snapping turtle in a world so inhospitable I would categorize it as downright hostile. You don’t become a Spiritual Beast without cracking a few eggs, and Ping Ping has already shown mercy enough by not slaughtering all her foes in the heat of battle. While Guan Suo’s presence and her popularity as Ping Yao’s mascot certainly helped her survive the last century or three, she hasn’t lost much of her edge seeing how she just wrecked an Expert without breaking a sweat. I almost feel bad for the guy. All that hard work and effort to become a warrior near the pinnacle of the Martial Path, and for what? To meet his end at the beak of a Divine Turtle and have his corpse repeatedly battered by an angry, quasi-Spiritual bicorn bunny.

Such waste, such sin.

...

I spend too much time talking to monks. I should fix that.

“Oath-Bound suicide warriors,” Kuang Biao states, keeping his sword at the ready while pinning his opponents’ weapons beneath his boot. “You won’t get any useful information out of them. You should stand back and let me kill them. Never know what tricks they might still have."

Guess you gotta be extra careful with Experts, because you never know if they can control their swords without hands or fire off bolts of Elemental Chi. Heeding Kuang Biao’s advice, I keep him between myself and the assassins while picking up the dead man’s discarded sword, hoping to find some clue regarding his origins or identity. Unfortunately, I’ve never seen a plainer Martial Weapon. Made from a dark, unreflective metal, the thin blade is less than two fingers wide and lacks the heft and length required for a proper hack and slack battlefield weapon, which means it was made with assassination in mind. A thrusting weapon, balanced for throwing and light as a feather too, meaning Kuang Biao’s caution is not unwarranted. It even lacks any markings to denote a craftsman or supplier, with no cross-guard and a plain, unremarkable hilt of raw, untreated bamboo. A quick glance around reveals their discarded sheathes by the riverside, also made from the same material, which I suppose they used to hide their weapons in plain sight as a short cane or gathered firewood.

Damn. These are some quality, professional assassins then, ones trained from the ground up and given assassination Spiritual Weapons. Rules out a crime of opportunity. Someone specifically brought these specialists in and had them follow me out to the farm, where they waited for a moment of distraction before striking. They picked a good one too, while I was kneeling on the riverbank feeding a tiny turtle and weird octopus...

Wait. Where’d Sir Inky go?

A scan of my surroundings fails to reveal the octopus I last saw hanging to my wrist, though it does show Ping Ping was careful to avoid upending the box of shrimp and bucket of crabs. Either utterly oblivious or wholly indifferent to my close brush with death, Pong Pong continues inhaling shrimp at an unbelievable rate, but the perverted octopus is nowhere to be found, neither bobbing in the water nor flailing helplessly somewhere on land, and I can’t help but panic just a little bit. “Sir Inky? You okay?” If he’s hurt, I’ll make these bastards -

Two floating, yellowish eyes appear just inches above the dirt path and Sir Inky slowly fades into existence, his skin returning to its natural hue as he waves his tentacles about. Endearing as it is, he’s not really waving hello, but rather trying to get dirt out of his suction cups or something. Making sure to keep either Ping Ping’s bulk or Kuang Biao’s torso between me and the assassins, I rescue Sir Inky and bring him back to the river to enjoy his crabs in relative peace, which he does after pulling the bucket over his head. While there, I can’t help but shoot Pong Pong a dirty look, because despite being my most expensive pet to feed, he is quite literally only good for eating and shitting. Then again, to be fair, he’s only here because I offered to keep him safe, and not the other way around, and it’s probably better this way since I don’t want anyone to know about his existence, but I’m entitled to be offended by his complete lack of concern with my continued welfare.

I see how it is Pong Pong. Fine. Be that way. I like Ping Ping more anyways.

...I’m sorry, I like you too, cutie. I shouldn’t be mad, you’re just a turtle.

“These assassins,” I ask, pulling out the unmarked sword to study once again. “They Eastern born?”

“Difficult to say.” Brief and to the point, Kuang Biao offers no further explanation until I ask for one point blank. “Their weapons and skill set suggests they were trained as assassins and nothing more. These two are not strong enough to defeat me, but they fought with no consideration for survival and aimed to trade their lives for mine. This was not their initial plan though, because if not for your actions, I would never have noticed their presence before they were ready to strike.”

“Say what now?”

“The stone you threw into the water,” Kuang Biao replies. “There was something off about the ripples. Turns out it was these scoundrels moving out of the way.” His tone holds more than a hint of curiosity, but he refrains from asking outright, which is good because I’m just as confused as him. I just thought those shadows looked... shady. How many times have I accidentally seen through someone’s Concealment? First Mahakala, then those wraiths, after that was Kukku, and now these murder-mooks. Do I have some sort of anti-Concealment Talent? Even if I did, how am I powering it without Chi? Also, how does this fit with my Dao? I mean, if anything, my Dao would be more conducive to Concealment, on account of my desperate need to go invisible during social events and my dark desire to peep on beautiful women while they bathe.

Whatever. Ponder later. “Either of you care to talk?” I ask, hoping they’re the sort who are unhappy with their current employer. “I’m a merciful man. If you’ve made Oaths to keep silent, there are always ways to work around that. Just because you can’t tell me who sent you doesn’t mean you can’t point me in the right direction. Like, do your Oaths restrict you from telling me which province you hail from? Or describing what sort of work the local commoners are known for?” I need to know if they’re Imperially-trained assassins or if they were sent by a cats-paw. The former means big danger which I’ll need the Legate’s help to deal with, while Dad can probably handle the latter by himself.

After a few seconds of silence, Kuang Biao says, “They won’t answer. Won’t even tend to their own wounds. One’s passed out already.”

Damn it. “End it.” Kuang Biao’s sword cuts through the air with a distinct, metallic hum, then severs through flesh and bone with similar ease. The sound repeats as he makes sure the assassins are all dead before returning to my side, but he has yet to let down his guard. “Best we leave now and head for the Citadel,” he advises, while trying to keep an eye on everything around him. “No telling if they were the only group sent here to kill you, and I’d rather not give others more time to set up an ambush.”

So much for a relaxing day out at the farm. Grabbing Pong Pong’s box with the little turtle still inside, I hesitate for a moment before bringing Sir Inky in his bucket as well. I doubt it’s the most comfortable means of transportation around, but I’ll move him into a pot or something and bring him home with me. So far, people have been pretty direct with their assassination attempts, but sooner or later, someone is bound to try and use my beloved floofs against me.

Even though I know Lin-Lin has Guard Leader there with her, I still breathe a sigh of relief when I spot her from across the field. Having already ordered Kuang Biao to relay the situation, Guard Leader stands poised and ready to fight alongside several of her similarly dressed subordinates, while Lin-Lin gathers up the floofs and gives away her kites, a cheerful and generous soul who is visibly sad to disappoint the farm kids she promised to take rickshaw racing. Honestly, it’s probably for the best, because that shit is ridiculously dangerous. Picking up my pace, I hurry over and drop off Sir Inky and Pong Pong while doing my best to appear nonchalant. “Sorry kids,” I say, while silently signalling at the parents to bring their children away before they get caught in the crossfire. “There’s been a hay spill up the road and the Bun-Bun Brigade have been called in to clean up. We’ll be back another time soon.” Hopefully.

Gathering up all the animals is a long and arduous process, mostly because Sarankho and Baloo seem to think it’s all a big game of keep away. Normally, I’d just leave and let them follow, but considering the circumstances, that’s not really an option, so I fight off my growing panic and try my best to tempt the temperamental kitten and headstrong bear into the rickshaw alongside the rest of their floof siblings. During the assassination attempt itself I was calm as could be, but chasing down my animals during this possible life and death emergency has worn me down to my last nerve. It’s the uncertainty of it all which sends adrenaline coursing through my veins, with both mind and body unsure if we need to fight, flee, or do nothing at all. The more worked up I get, the worse off I am, because my body interprets this stress and anxiety as a cue to panic and freak out, which is the last thing I need right now, I give up and send Kuang Biao in to grab them, which he does none-too-gently, much to my chagrin. I have no one to blame but myself though, because it was my frustration which drove me to this, so I set to consoling the spooked Sarankho and smoothing poor Baloo’s wounded ego while Mafu and Zabu pull my rickshaw back to the bamboo grove.

Once there, I can breathe a little easier with all my Death Corps guards around me, but then my wifey brings up a pertinent issue which I didn’t consider before now. “We can’t interrupt her now,” she says, tugging at my arm to keep me from waking Mila. “What if she’s in the midst of Insight?”

Shit. Thankfully, Guard Leader answers for me, having already taken things into account. “Leave them be,” she says, wrapping an arm around Lin-Lin’s waist and hefting her like a sack of rice. “I sent word to the Citadel, so you will wait inside until an escort arrives.”

Then Guard Leader disappears, and I’m left standing outside the grove with all my pets and no one to bring us in. Glancing at Kuang Biao, who as far as I can tell is the only Death Corps Guard capable of Cloud Stepping, I sigh and abandon all thoughts of asking him to make multiple trips to ferry us over. He’s the strongest person I can command, and knowing Guard Leader’s attitude, I’ll probably have to depend on him to keep me safe while everyone else looks after Lin-Lin. I can’t say I particularly mind, considering I do want Lin to be safe, but I also want Mila, Yan, Song, and Luo-Luo to be protected as well.

