Luckily, this time around Yan left her sword in its sheath, so I carefully guide the animals in one by one to make sure they don’t bother the meditating ladies. It’s difficult, especially since Sarankho desperately wants to cuddle Song and Baloo wants to do the same with Mila, but after enlisting help from Sorya and Anrhi, we eventually get all the animals safe and sound inside Taduk’s garden, aside from the quins who I left unharnessed outside with Ping Ping and the Death Corps guards to watch over them.

Honestly, I would’ve stayed out there with them if not for Kuang Biao’s insistence, but it’s only a matter of time before my enemies grow a brain and send someone with a longbow to snipe me from afar. It’d have to be a master marksman, but if they put an arrow in the right spot, it doesn’t matter even if Taduk is standing directly beside me. You can’t Heal Death, and bows are damn good at delivering it.

Neither Taduk nor Lin-Lin seem particularly concerned about the attempt on my life, just relieved I made it out alright and annoyed their trip to the farm will be cut short out of necessity. Honestly, the lack of awareness in both of them is off-putting to say the least, as if neither one realizes that another attempt on my life would put their lives in danger as well. Taduk is already grumbling about losing his seeds to some pest, while Lin-Lin is busy playing word games with the twin handmaidens, who are understandably apprehensive while they clutch Baloo and Sarankho close. I’m not saying I want Taduk and Lin-Lin to be scared too, but sometimes I feel like half-hare brains don’t work on the same wave-length as everyone else’s.

Still love them both to bits though. Wouldn’t change them for the world.

With time to think now that we’re all more or less safe, I soon grow bored watching the rabbits explore their fenced enclosure. Heading over to the exit, I check on Yan and find her still meditating before glancing around the mysterious bamboo enclosed path. It makes for a lovely ambience, in a woodsy, backwater sort of way, but there’s nothing Divine or otherworldly about it. With nothing better to do, I sit down and cross my legs to see what all the fuss is about, but after long minutes of silence, I’m unable to find the peace and tranquility which comes from mundane meditation, much less the torrential rush of Heavenly Energy urging me to struggle and surrender. I didn’t expect it to work, but it’s still disappointing, so I lean against a bamboo stalk and retreat into my thoughts instead.

My Dao.

Is all sorts of fucked up.

How’d I notice those assassins? It couldn’t have been luck, because I am never lucky. Come to think of it, how’d I land on my feet after Kuang Biao tossed me aside? That was an act of acrobatic mastery, if I do say so myself, but I can barely even do a cartwheel now, much less...

Wait.

I’m not crippled anymore. I can totally do a cartwheel.

I’m an idiot. I’ve been stuck in the mindset that no Chi equals worthless cripple, and while that was true at one point, ever since the whole ‘Instinctive Balance’ debacle in Sinuji, I’ve been about as healthy as an average person. I still sleep more than I used to, but it’s hard not to considering I used to function on four hours a day, but otherwise, I’m in peak physical condition, able to lift one or two bunnies, walk up five flights of stairs, do simple flips through the air, and have fun times with friends.

So the big question is, now that I’m not crippled anymore, can I Demonstrate the Forms?

Okay two questions: If I can, will there be any benefit?

With no time like the present to find out, I hop to my feet and find an unoccupied corner of the garden to begin testing, but although my mind is ready, my body is cowardly and unwilling. The Forms aren’t just a bunch of fancy movements done for the sake of calisthenics, there’s a genuine, mystical force behind it which I have yet to understand. Ignoring the whole Insight aspect and learning how to fight, the Forms also help build up our physical bodies to withstand the infusion of Heavenly Energy which comes from meditation. As Dad put it, the stronger the body, the more Heavenly Energy it can absorb, and the more Heavenly Energy absorbed, the more powerful the warrior. That’s why Martial Warriors consume three times more food than your average commoner, and also why so many of them grow to herculean proportions.

The problem is, what if food isn’t the only thing that fuels this process? I’m almost positive there’s an element of Heavenly Energy at work here, else Martial Warriors would only have to bulk up to become more powerful. It doesn’t work like that though, because Mila and Wu Gam are some of the strongest people I know in my age group, yet neither one is particularly tall or muscular. Mila has an athletic build, but she’s no musclebound ‘roid monster, while Wu Gam is slender and dare I say, svelte, like a poncy elf with the strength of a minotaur. Yea, their Blessings probably have something to do with their prodigious might, but I’ve also seen Wang Bao wrestle much larger foes to the ground in tests of pure strength, not to mention GangShu’s no taller than Jorani and almost as thin, yet is capable of sending big Demon Pudge flying with a swat of his hand, sans blessing mind you.

Plus, there’s BoShui’s growth spurt at the age of twenty-five, which should’ve been impossible, but everyone else seems to think is normal...

What I’m getting at is that bigger does not equal stronger. There are small, lean Martial Warriors who can match larger warriors in pure strength, which means there’s something else going on in the background. Normally, this wouldn’t matter, because the extra ingredient fuelling this growth and strength is easily available to meditating Martial Warriors. However, I am not your typical Martial Warrior. I have a shattered Core and cannot draw upon the Energy of the Heavens, not in the usual way, so there’s a very real possibility that Demonstrating the Forms will cause me to overtax my body.

I didn’t come up with this idea out of nowhere. Back in Sinuji, I had a whole cadre of Healers studying my body, and none of them could find a valid cause for my physical infirmity, so it stands to reason I somehow fixed myself by Devouring Demon Ichor and turning it into Heavenly Energy, which somehow counteracts whatever is crippling me. Thus, there’s a good chance I’ll eventually burn through my reserves of Heavenly Energy and go back to being a frail cripple again, a process which might be hastened along if I were to Demonstrate the Forms.

So what do I do now? Should I give it a try? I’m supposed to show the world I’m healthy again during this banquet at the Central Citadel, so I’m pretty sure the Legate will have me snuffed out if I go full cripple again. Assuming he wasn’t already trying to have me killed with today’s assassination attempt. Shit.

Taking a seat next to Taduk, I lean into his embrace and explain my worries, and he listens through the entire spiel without interrupting, only to sit in silent contemplation for long minutes after I’m done. Then, with a twist of his lips and a childish grimace, he throws his hands into the air and says, “Bah. Rain my boy, your teacher is useless in this regard.” Shrugging in apologetic embarrassment, he adds, “You see, I always thought the Forms were a bunch of hand-waving, foot stretching nonsense.”

“...Me too.” Though disappointed he doesn’t have the answers I need, his forthright honesty puts a smile on my face. “Still kinda do, if I’m being honest. Never really understood how it worked.” After thinking it through some more, my smile melts away and I ask, “Are you saying you became a Medical Saint without learning the Forms? How? Is that even possible?”

With another shrug, Taduk asks, “Why wouldn’t it be? You think your little turtle friend sets aside an hour each morning to stretch and meditate? Does the eagle study the tiger to learn how to hunt? Or the deer copy the snake to run? No Rain my boy. The Martial Dao is not the only path to power, it is merely the means through which Martial Warriors explore the Dao. Understand?”

“Yes. No.” Scratching my head as comprehension escapes me, I lean back to study my teacher once more. If what he’s saying is true, then that means he’s far more impressive than he lets on. We all forge our own Martial Dao, but at least we have the same familiar milestones to aim for. For Taduk to reach such heights after embarking down his own Dao, that’s... incredible. Unbelievable, even. How did he do it? Can I do the same? Should I even try?

No. Definitely not. I’m having enough trouble following the established Dao, loosely defined as it might be. I’ll never get anywhere if I have to figure out all the rules by myself.

Still, it’s something to consider. The Dao is everything, and the Martial Dao merely a means to explore it, which means...

Fuck all, for all I know. Whatever. After Central, I’ll test out the Forms. Or maybe I’ll talk to Dad and see if he can start a Demon capture and delivery service or something. This would be a whole lot easier if the Abbot, Guan Suo, and GangShu came back. So many wasted opportunities. If I’d known they were Divinities, I would’ve asked Guan Suo and the Abbot so many more questions. It’d be nice to hear what a tried and true Divinity thinks about my current problems, but they probably have more concerning issues to deal with right now.

Seriously though... when both participants can destroy cities with a wave of their hands, how does a fight drag on for days, much less weeks? Probably a lot of hiding and lurking about, would be my guess, a giant game of cat and mouse, except both have giant, world-ending lasers strapped to their heads.

... Best of luck, Abbot, Guan Suo, and GangShu. May the Mother do a better job watching over you than She’s done with me.

Chapter Meme
