“Ah, I see.” Vasalor said. “You offended them in this one...” He indicated the current broken file. “...and learned from that mistake and corrected it in this one, because you had a chance to do it over.” He indicated the copy. “If you fixed things there, why did you not just stay in the copied world?”

“Things felt different.” Ren said. “Not only were you not there, I... I was used to... well, I...”

Vasalor put a hand on his shoulder. “You do not have to feel guilty about wanting things to change for the better.”

“But, if I use the copied file and add in that connection, it will bypass the beliefs Xuunah holds in the current file, won't it?” Ren asked.

Vasalor chuckled. “She still has the same beliefs in both files, Ren.”

“Wh-what?”

“You were right to take her to her people and show them that you cared enough for Xuunah to cause yourself that much pain, just so you could become like them and share-bond with her.” Vasalor said and showed Ren the relevant parts of both files that referenced Xuunah's belief system.

“You're right.” Ren said, surprised. “Those parts are the same.”

“The problem they have in this broken file is that they haven't seen or felt your resolve to make her happy. Not to the same degree, at least.”

“Oh.” Ren said as he remembered the encounter with that other Light being and how she wanted to share-bond with him when she had felt his pure Light. “Then... does that mean...”

“If it makes you uncomfortable to do it on your own, I hereby give you my permission to add in the proper connection that you should have had.”

“Vasalor, are you sure that...”

“In fact, I believe the files for the entire realm should be changed over to reflect that.” Vasalor said confidently.

“But...”

“As one of my Chosen, you said you would do my work.” Vasalor said. “Having their belief system ensure that they won't interact with the mortals is not how I want them to be.” He said. “Make sure you keep the Nathalia component to Xuunah's connection to you and the relevant reference files as well.”

Ren brought them up and compared them, took a deep breath, then got to work. With Vasalor's help and guidance, and especially his permission, Ren integrated how things should have been, had he not made the mistake. When they were done, Ren added the new files to their proper spots and sighed.

“The guilt you feel is heavy, is it not?” Vasalor said.

“I'm sorry, I just...” Ren sighed again. “I just... changing things like this, I...”

“You can tell her about this and let her feel it all, the next time you see her.” Vasalor said. “Let her make her own decision about it, and see what she says.”

“I... I will.” Ren said. “Although, won't me changing it and adding in...”

“You are over-thinking it, my friend. You know she can divorce her feelings to make decisions.”

Ren thought about her not being affected by the Sea Dweller World Event and nodded.

“What is your favorite line that you say all the time?” Vasalor asked. “I just want to make you happy.”

Ren chuckled. “Yeah, that's it.”

“Now it's time to make me happy.” Vasalor said. “I'll need to block your eyes for this next batch of files.”

“Oh, damn. I guess we're already into the content that I don't have direct knowledge of?” Ren asked, and the shape that was Vasalor nodded. “Then you have my permission to use my hands as if they were yours.”

Ren's visual perception turned off and then his avatar's hands moved lightning fast as Vasalor used their Mana Tendril connection to do the work through him.

“Can I move my hands that fast on my own?” Ren asked.

“This is only a representation of your mind, my friend.” Vasalor said. “There's no real thing as physical speed here.”

Ren opened his mouth to dispute that, then he closed it and laughed.
