“You dare dictate terms to me? To. Command. Me?” Still infusing his voice with Chi, Jixing roared down at the crowd with such intensity it forced Yuzhen back a step, and she was not the only Martial Warrior affected as such. Peak Experts like Sarnai, Kuang Biao, and Gerel only flinched, but almost everyone else rocked back beneath the verbal assault.

Everyone except Rain, who didn’t even blink, as calm and relaxed as ever. What was going on with him? Was he crippled or not?

“It was more of a suggestion really.” Though still speaking in a conversational tone, Yuzhen could see every face in the crowd hanging onto Rain’s every word, and knew that they could somehow all hear him as clearly as she. Not impossible for Martial Warriors, but this wasn’t due to any effort on their part, and Yuzhen suspected Rain was doing something to make himself heard. He’d somehow done the same in Sinuji too, and now dramas were being made to tell the tale of Falling Rain and Ai Qing, though at least the playwrights had the decency to wait until after Rain’s weddings to perform them. Seemingly unaware of the effect he was having on the people around him, Rain traded stares with Jixing and asked, “So you refuse to release my father? Tell me, what crime has he committed to warrant his arrest?”

So incensed by Rain’s defiance, Jixing had difficulty finding the proper words, and it was several seconds before he found his breath and voice once again, and while his words were still infused with Chi, they didn’t make Yuzhen’s ears feel like they were bleeding. “Baatar of the People has been arrested and stripped of his rank under suspicion of treason.” Even from five stories down, Yuzhen could see the hateful sneer on Yang Jixing’s face, a youthful bully who took great delight in delivering this statement. Prior to this, Baatar had still been a Lieutenant General, but now Jixing had stripped him of his title as well. Even if all went well, the charges were dropped, and his rank reinstated, Baatar would forever bear the shame of having borne this suspicion. A black mark on his reputation to be sure, and while the soldiers and Sentinels in the crowd voiced their disbelief and indignation, Rain merely continued to stare up at Jixing, who faltered at seeing his statement fail to have the desired effect. Since Rain would not play by his rules, the Imperial Brat addressed the crowd directly, seeking satisfaction from them instead. “I, Yang Jixing, provisional Legate of the Eastern Province, regret to inform you that Shen ZhenWu, your previous Legate, was ambushed and attacked in the home of this traitor, Baatar of the People. Shen ZhenWu suffered grievous injury, but he is alive and well, and has since returned to the homeland to recover from his debilitating plight. I will not let this crime go unpunished, and will see to it that the traitor and all his co-conspirators are punished to the full extent of Imperial Law.”

This was a set up. Jixing wanted the North to rebel and was pushing them beyond their limits, there was no other logical explanation, but why would he do such a thing? A civil war would give the Defiled a clear pathway into Central, and from there, North and South would be vulnerable as well. Did the Imperial Clan truly not care what happened to the outer provinces? How could anyone in power allow this Jixing to behave as he did? Any second now, Yuzhen expected the bloodshed to begin, but again, Rain was entirely unmoved. “Oh?” The single syllable cut through the crowd’s muttering and silenced all their voices in an instant, dousing their desire to bare blades and shed blood like water over hot coals. “First you say my father was arrested ‘under suspicion’ of treason,” Rain drawled, doing that hateful thing where he pretended like he was an idiot even though he clearly wasn’t. “But then you started talking like he’d already been convicted. Did a Justicar already pass judgment? How could that be possible? My father was only arrested a few minutes ago. Surely a trial of this severity would take longer to conclude?”

“Hmph.” Clearly caught in a mistake and unwilling to admit it, Jixing doubled down on his statement and said, “The evidence is overwhelming, and the verdict obvious.”

“So you’re a Justicar now? An Oath-Sworn Imperial Servant with the authority to pass judgment?”

That was interesting... Though Yuzhen knew all members of the Disciplinary Corps were Oath-Sworn, she hadn’t known they counted themselves as Imperial Servants. Had she known, she might have been more leery of them, because even under ideal circumstances, there were certain matters she would’ve preferred to keep secret from Imperial interests. Previously, she thought that any Justicar or Adjudicator could be trusted with any information so long as it wasn’t criminally relevant, but now, she was not so sure.

Rain’s question struck a chord with Jixing and set his cheeks to blazing, and his answer uttered through gritted teeth. “The trial is currently underway, but the verdict is obvious.”

That was all, but it was enough for everyone present to know he was talking out his ass, and set Rain up perfectly for his next blow, which Yuzhen saw coming and felt giddy watching in action. “A private trial? How is anyone supposed to present proof of his innocence in a private trial?”

“There is nothing you can say to save him.” The sneer was back, and Yuzhen couldn’t help but shake her head at Jixing’s stupidity, flouting his glee and obvious agenda without even trying to hide it. “As I said, the evidence against him is overwhelming.”

“Then let us hear it. What evidence do you have?” Not expecting an answer, Rain shook his head and continued. “You accuse my father of treason, of colluding with the Enemy, of injuring my Patron, and you expect us all to take you at your word without hearing the evidence arrayed against him? I know as well as you that there is no evidence, because my father had no part in the attack. Are you really so desperate to force this to a trial by combat? The Prime Minister’s son using the Disciplinary Corps as a political tool, truly a disgrace to Justice.”

Obviously not expecting Rain would simply blurt out the truth, Yuzhen was enjoying watching Jixing learn how to play politics with Rain, which was different from playing politics with anyone else in the Empire, because he cared nothing for face. His statements and accusations were a black mark on Imperial dignity, and where others might balk at airing their private feud in public, Falling Rain would trample over the Emperor Himself if he felt it justified. He had a way with words and a penchant for keeping his opponents off-guard and therefore defensive, which was why Jixing was so hesitant to reply. Speak his mind and reveal his ploy or deny it and be forced to pronounce Baatar guilty and back the verdict with falsified facts, or do nothing and eventually be forced to release his prisoner, neither option was desirable and Jixing was at a loss on how to proceed.

Which gave Rain plenty of time to continue his offensive. “My father can disprove your accusations with a single statement and Oath. Shen ZhenWu’s injuries had nothing to do with him. My Patron paid me an unscheduled, impromptu visit to speak on matters of importance, and I just so happened to be working in my father’s manor. The Wraiths who attacked us likely did so because they saw a target of opportunity. As I said in my report, those Wraiths were powerful foes, unlike any we’d ever seen before, and might well still be in the Citadel right now, yet instead of putting effort into apprehending these criminals, you waste your time on a sham trial you engineered to further your own personal grievance against me during this time of crisis, all over what? Greed and jealousy, that’s what.” Giving the crowd time to process his words, Rain drew himself up to full height and slammed the butt of his spear against the cobblestone floor. As the mild thump echoed through the silent plaza, a surge of emotion rocked through Yuzhen as Rain revealed his fury for all to see, his lip curled in utter disdain and eyes blazing with outrage. “Yang Jixing. This is your last chance. Release my father, now. I make no demands or threats, I only ask you do what is right, or what comes next lies on your head, and yours alone.”

And Mother help her, Yuzhen believed him with all her heart, and would fight to the death to bring Jixing to justice.

Warrior, merchant, minister, and now? It seemed Falling Rain was on the cusp of adding ‘rebel leader’ to his list of professions, and there was no shortage of soldiers willing to follow him.

Chapter Meme
