“Marshal Yuzhen. Marshal Yuzhen! Behind you.” The nasal, slightly panicked voice of Tang Yu, the Captain of her Guard, snapped Yuzhen out of her stupor, and she looked around for the source of the Sending and found him easily enough, riding at Gerel’s heels with ten to fifteen of her guards. A handsome, older gentleman of fifty seven years, he hailed from a generation in which beardless, waxed moustaches had been all the rage and never moved beyond it. Sporting what might as well have been two squirrel tails glued to his upper lip, the dapper, dandy gentleman seemed all too excited as he rode after Yuzhen atop his valiant white stallion, wearing only the breastplate and helmet of his station over casual silk robes. “Marshal Yuzhen, your guards and I stand with you and the People! I’ve summoned them all, and they will be here forthwith to lend their blades to the cause, unless you have other orders? Might I suggest we secure the Eastern Gates? Wouldn’t want those blackguards retreating with the Lieutenant General in tow.”

Lend their blades to the cause? What? No, there was not going to be any need for blades, not if she had her way, and as she prepared a Sending to correct Tang Yu, she noticed some of her guards were riding double and realized why her Guard Captain was so terribly mistaken. From an outsider’s point of view, it appeared that she received word of Baatar’s arrest, returned home to fetch her husband, and was now riding with him fully armed and armoured to Baatar’s rescue. To her horror, she noticed that somewhere along the way, Gerel had picked up an escort of Sentinels as well, the stampeding of hooves and quin claws kept quiet through targeted Sound Barriers, like assassins moving in the night. To make matters worse, their entourage grew even as she watched, with soldiers and Sentinels on horse, quin, carriage, wagon, and foot finding their way to this misguided cause, no doubt called here by Rain himself.

Or rallying to Baatar’s cause. Stoic and taciturn as the man was, Baatar had a way with the soldiers under his command, winning loyalties with brief nods and simple greetings or gruff reprimands and disapproving stares. At Rain’s weddings, Baatar had smiled for the first time in public, and the bars and restaurants had gushed about it for weeks afterwards, much to Yuzhen’s amusement and jealousy. Despite emoting less than most stones, Baatar radiated charisma in a way few could emulate, and Yuzhen would give anything to learn how. Even Nian Zu didn’t have this sort of following, as angry soldiers and citizens alike took to the streets and voiced their outrage without fear for the consequences, tinder aplenty for Falling Rain to better light the spark of rebellion.

Things were quickly moving beyond Yuzhen’s control, and she was no longer sure if she could stop it. Even if Rain saw reason and decided to withdraw, some of his allies and sympathizers might not get the message in time and cause matters to escalate beyond the point of no return. Still, she had to try, so she explained everything to Tang Yu through Sending and had him pass the message along to everyone who would listen. Gather for support, but make no move unless explicitly ordered to, under threat of execution. That was the best she could do, which wasn’t much considering these Warriors had already shown willingness to rebel against the Empire, which carried the much steeper punishment of Nine Familial Extermination, but she prayed it would be enough.

Yuzhen hadn’t even known where Baatar was being kept, but it seemed like Rain did, since he called the People to gather in the Citadel’s main square. As Gerel rode up into the eerily silent plaza, Yuzhen saw a sizable number of Sentinels had already arrived, filling the plaza atop their quins while the black-armoured Death Corps took up arms on stage just outside the command centre. Technically, it was only called this because the Legate picked the top floor as his quarters, while most of the military offices were scattered about the Citadel. A defensive measure, to keep Wraiths, Demons, and Enemy Experts from knowing where the highest ranking officers gathered, but everyone had been more than happy to let the Legate draw all the Enemy attention. In retrospect, perhaps they should have guarded his person more carefully, since an attempt on his life was what led to this calamity unfolding, but hindsight was always too late to be helpful.

Spotting Situ Jia Yang, Yuzhen seized the opportunity to Send, “I will speak with Rain and have him convince his people to stand down. Please help me and do what you can to get these soldiers under control before a riot breaks out.”

A large man with an imposing demeanour, Jia Yang turned his hawk-eyed glare onto Yuzhen and slowly shook his head. “I’m afraid you ask too much of me, Marshal,” he Sent, his steady drawl lending weight to his convictions. “For if the new Legate does not give me a proper, legal explanation for Lieutenant General Baatar’s arrest, then I will be amongst the first to demand his release, by blood and steel if necessary.” Reading the disbelief in her expression, Jia Yang offered a small smile and Sent, “I have had time to reflect on my actions and see the People for who they truly are. Heroes and patriots, one and all, and I for one will not stand to see my good friend slandered. I owe Baatar a debt I can never repay, not just for what he and his have done for me and mine, but for doing what I could not. Were it not for him, the Defiled would have broken through the Northern Wall, and the province would have subsequently been abandoned like the West, abandoned by the Empire we serve and protect.” Narrowing his eyes as he turned his gaze upon the command centre, Jia Yang unconsciously grit his teeth and gripped his sabre. “I am not alone in this sentiment, so I warn you out of goodwill: there are those who believe the North would be better served if divested of Imperial interests, so take care where you stand. A flood sweeps away all in its path, indifferent to good intentions.”

...Oh how the times change. Baatar’s charisma was enough even to turn his once greatest enemy into this staunch supporter, though Yuzhen feared Jia Yang overly optimistic. The North would fall the second the Defiled finished ravaging South and Central, for despite the defensible, dual choke-points of Shen Jin and the Society Headquarters, there were not enough soldiers in the North to hold them for long.

Casting her gaze about in search of Nian Zu, Yuzhen saw neither hide nor hair of the old Living Legend, and resigned herself to doing this without support. Recognizing Yuzhen, or more likely, Gerel, the Sentinels parted to let them pass, though Tang Yu and the others were kept behind. Sending them orders to stand by, Yuzhen steeled her nerves as she arrived at the front of the crowd and gazed out across the paltry twenty-meter gap between the Sentinels and the stage, where just this past new years, Luo-Luo played a concert for all of Central’s elites, and Gerel revealed himself as a thirty-three year old Peak Expert of the Empire.

And now, Gerel might take to this stage again, except this time, to raise the flag of rebellion, with the likes of Jia Yang, Han BoHai, Falling Rain, and Mother knows who else at his side...

After tearing her eyes away from the stage and the Death Corps guards manning them, Yuzhen found Rain easily enough. There he stood, five paces ahead of the crowd, with only Kuang Biao and Sarnai beside him. If someone were to see him there and no one else, they might think he was here waiting for a show to begin, his hair freshly trimmed and styled since she saw him last, and looking like a true Imperial Noble for once. It wasn’t just his long, slicked hair bedecked with a single jewelled ornament, or the understated, yet fashionable clothes his mother had made for him. It wasn’t his serviceable soldier’s boots, which had marched many a kilometre, nor was it the unadorned steel sword on his hip or the plain spear and shield he kept in hand, but held carelessly behind him. Aside from the tiny embroidered Imperial Dragon the size of a fingernail sitting atop his breast pocket, there was no reason for anyone to believe Falling Rain was a noble, yet seeing him here, there was no way for Yuzhen to believe anything but.

Much like with Baatar, there was an invisible force of personality emanating from Rain, but rather than charisma, it was a sense of composure. Whereas everyone else ran the gamut from anxious and afraid to angry and agitated, Rain was calm and serene as could be, his stance wide, knees bent, shoulders relaxed and expression unreadable as he stood and studied the command centre before him. Yuzhen had thought she would find him beside himself with rage, but if he was, he hid it well, seemingly tranquil and unhurried while standing there with thousands of soldiers and Sentinels at his back and Mother knows how many Death Corps across from him. Back straight and head raised, he craned his neck high as if to watch the clouds drift by, but those amber eyes were fixed on the centre-most window of the command centre’s topmost floor, which Yuzhen knew opened up into the Legate’s personal meeting room.

Try as she might, Yuzhen had no idea what Rain might be thinking. How could he be so relaxed with Kuang Biao there beside him, a Peak Expert who would undoubtedly side with the Imperial Clan? Yuzhen supposed that’s why Sarnai was here with them, to ensure Kuang Biao didn’t take Rain hostage, but as formidable as Sarnai might be, could she really stop another Peak Expert from laying hands on her son when he was only an arm’s length away? Why didn’t he just order his Death Corps guards to take a day-long trip out of the Citadel? It’s not like he could command the Death Corps to attack the legally appointed General of the Army, and this way, he could at least save their lives. That was the Rain Yuzhen knew, the worrier, the planner, and sometimes a devious schemer and idealistic radical, but this Rain... this was a new side to him she’d never seen.

Now that she thought of it, she realized that she had known this side of Rain existed from the first time she met him, when she greeted him at the gates to the Northern Wall and thought him little more than an adorably moon-eyed child destined for an early death. This Rain standing before her, this calm, confident, unruffled Rain? This was the Dragon, the Chosen Son of the Mother who charged Demons without a second thought and sent hordes of Defiled fleeing for the hills, a miracle maker who Devoured Spectres and Cleansed Martial Warriors in one fell swoop. A paragon seen once in a thousand years, he excelled in warfare, both in personal combat and general command, and when calamity took his strength away, he displayed his excellence in matters of commerce and politics too. It was strange how despite all his accomplishments, both past and current, it was so easy to overlook Rain because... well, because he rarely fit the image of who he truly was. Just like with Gerel, stories and reports were not the same as seeing him in action, and this was the first time seeing the real Falling Rain, the Warrior ready for battle. For so many years, she saw him as this innocent, feeble looking child who then became a crippled, frail thing, and even when he was frail no more, he indulged in childish actions like collecting pets and playing on swings, and this was enough to make Yuzhen forget who he truly was.

How silly of her. Falling Rain was a man who cried for strangers during the Purge and was willing to risk both Defilement and death to try and save them. Of course he would not balk at rebelling to save his father, so how was Yuzhen supposed to convince him to stand down?

As if able to read her thoughts, Rain turned his gaze away from the upper windows as Yuzhen approached and met her eyes with a ghost of a smile. “I won’t stand down,” he said, not caring if everyone heard him. “I am here to demand my father’s release and nothing less, because the charges laid against him are absurd at best and malicious at worst.” Raising his voice, his tone shifted, not in pitch, but in gravity, somehow compelling Yuzhen to hang onto his every word. “Yang Jixing. I know you can hear me. Release my father and let us be done with this.”

“You. Dare?!”

Echoing out from the highest room of the command centre, the words crashed into Yuzhen like the icy winter wind waiting outside her manor doors back north. There was something about this verbal exchange which she didn’t understand, similar to how the Legate’s speeches had once inspired and excited the crowds in Nan Ping, but... more. Not just Yang Jixing’s reply either, which left him red faced and breathless as he appeared at the window above, but also in Rain’s quiet demand delivered at what felt like a normal, conversational volume, yet somehow reached the top floor, and from the looks of it, the rest of the crowd around Yuzhen as well. Turning to Rain in a mixture of awe and horror, Yuzhen wasn’t sure what to make of this not-so-crippled dragon standing before her. She truly believed him when he claimed he wasn’t a Martial Warrior, and had seen enough proof to corroborate those claims, but she’d also heard several accounts of how he’d killed Demons with his bare hands the last time he was in Sinuji, so she had no idea what to think anymore, and could only pray for the best.

Unmoved by Jixing’s flustered appearance, Rain cocked his head slightly and asked, “Why would I not? I speak only the truth. My father had no part in Shen ZhenWu’s mishap, so you have no grounds to arrest him. Release him now, and I will look the other way.”

