“Don’t do this.”

Hardly Yuzhen’s most eloquent appeal, but given the circumstances, it was all she could come up with. The moment she received word of Baatar’s arrest, she knew this was a calamity which could see the Empire torn asunder, or at the very least, the Northern Citadel. Thus, after unwittingly sharing the news with the gathered representatives of the Northern Magistrates, Yuzhen left the meeting and her guards behind by way of the closest window and sprinted across the rooftops in a desperate attempt to avert disaster.

A good thing too, for she arrived home just in time to stop Gerel at the manor gates, but after blurting out her panicked plea, she was struck speechless by his transformation. Clad from head to toe in his silver-and-black Runic Armour, he made for a formidable sight, and Yuzhen spared herself a moment to drink it all in. In formal or casual wear, Gerel’s svelte frame almost appeared lithe and slender, but even though she knew what lay underneath his frilly outer robes, loose silken shirts, and glittering jewellery, seeing him dressed for battle made her wonder how she could ever have described him as anything less than solid. There was no better word for it, for though he was a warrior born, he was neither large enough to be considered hulking nor small enough to be considered slight. Whether it be his height or build, Yuzhen would have once described both as average, but now she was of a mind to call it optimal, with his thick, corded muscles straining from underneath his glimmering, form-fitting armour, so perfectly tailored it might as well be a second skin.

The Tyrant charged exorbitant prices for crafting Runic equipment, but she deserved every last copper paid as far as Yuzhen was concerned.

His naked sword held ready in his left and massive glaive resting in the right, Gerel loomed over her from atop his hulking, snarling quin and fixed her with a quiet glare, one delivered by conflicted amber eyes burning with unchecked rage. Giving thanks that his ire would never be directed towards her, Yuzhen wondered where her husband had hidden such... intensity. She’d known him for a passionate man and hot-blooded warrior, but this... this was something entirely different, primal display of raw, visceral violence, a side she’d only seen once before, during the handful of minutes following Rain’s accusation and miraculous cleansing all those years ago in Sanshu. She once attributed her beloved husband’s savage behaviour to influence from those insidious minions of the Father, but now she knew it was all part and parcel of the man she loved, and she did not balk in the face of it. In fact, seeing this side of him fascinated her, because while romance and passion were nice, it never hurt to spice things up with a bit of anger and conflict every now and then, both in and out of the bedroom. After months spent smoothing out his rough edges and teaching him how to rub elbows with high society, she finally turned him into a model husband for a proper Marshal, or rather a traditional Marshal’s wife, and she now saw this for the mistake it was. Yuzhen was anything but traditional, and while she enjoyed the attentions and affections of her loving, compliant husband, what she needed was a proper partner and comrade in arms, not a meek consort to warm her bed.

And what better partner than Demon Reaper Gerel?

To think, she somehow forgot that she married a Dragon amongst men, which meant her allies and enemies alike hadn’t been treating him with the respect he deserved. Oh, they heard of his exploits on the battlefield and saw his match against the Royal Guardian, but stories and show matches were not the same as seeing this man before her, bristling with righteous fury and barely restrained violence as he readied to see justice served. Yuzhen had to give Yang Jixing proper credit, for only a true imbecile could kick over a hornets’ nest like this and make such a grand mess of things only moments after coming to power.

“Why?”

So distracted by this feast for her eyes, it took her a moment to parse through the question, Yuzhen stood tall and said, “Riding out with swords drawn and bows bent won’t help Baatar. For Mother’s sake, I have on good authority he voluntarily went into the Disciplinary Corps custody. He wasn’t beaten into submission and taken prisoner, so give me a chance to solve things peaceably through the proper channels and I assure you that everything will work out. The new Legate is likely doing this as a show of strength and to assert dominance over the established officers and show he will not be cowed by the People and their allies. A blunder to be sure, but one we can overlook once matters have been properly settled.”

Half-expecting him to leap off his quin and capitulate, Yuzhen was thrown for a loop when Gerel shook his head and sneered. “The time for politics is long past. You know as well as I what Jixing desires, and we will not turn Zheng Luo over. She is one of the People now, no different from Baatar, and we will spill a river of blood if anyone should dare lay a finger on either of them.”

This tribal allegiance had its benefits, but right now, it was sorely testing Yuzhen’s patience. “I understand you see this as an assault on your sovereignty, but in the eyes of the Empire, the People are citizens like any other, and thus you have none. This was a lawful arrest on the grounds of suspicion, with charges laid but judgment yet to be rendered. If you ride in baring fangs and brandishing claws within minutes of his arrest, public opinion will turn against you and as everyone questions why the People reacted so violently to mere charges.” Seeing he was still unconvinced, Yuzhen pressed harder in hopes of averting disaster. “And make no mistake, public opinion will be with us, so long as you stay your hand. Baatar has the loyalty of his soldiers and the support of his allies, powerful allies like myself, Nian Zu, and the Society.” The last one wasn’t entirely certain, but despite all the setbacks they’d encountered in the past five years, the Society was still a juggernaut of military and commerce in the Northern Province, so their presence could not be overlooked. There were other allies of importance too, mostly factions from South and Central, but almost all were absent from the Northern Citadel save for a nominal presence. Even if the other Marshals or Colonel Generals wanted to help, it was likely they wouldn’t even hear of this matter in time to speak up, much less appear in person, so it would be the Northern factions’ opinions which mattered most.

“Yes,” Gerel said, nodding in agreement, but then Yuzhen’s stomach lurched as he added, “Which is why we should strike whilst the iron is hot. Between the Death Corps, Royal Guardians, and Disciplinary Corps, Jixing can’t have more than ten-thousand loyal combatants stationed in the Citadel, including Rain’s honour guard who we can easily deal with first.”

Mother save Yuzhen from fools and idealists. “And then what? You flee to your mountain homes and hide?”

“We withdraw to our homes,” Gerel corrected, his anger and pride flaring at her careless accusation, “And fight to defend them. We will defend the entire Northern province if need be, but we will not serve under an Empire which sees fit to trample over our rights.”

“And what of the People currently serving on the second lines?” This finally made Gerel blink, as it was clear he’d forgotten about them in the heat of anger, and Yuzhen pressed her advantage. “Will you just leave them behind, just as you would abandon the rest of the Empire? Your feud is with one man, and you would doom millions of innocents out of what? Impatience? What’s more,” Yuzhen continued, moving closer to Gerel and praying his ornery quin wouldn’t snap, “Just yesterday, we received verified, military reports from Chen Hongji which contained nothing but praises for the People and their allies, reports the heralds read and repeated in every corner of the Empire, with some still reading those reports now. Citizens and soldiers alike celebrated the good news and learned of great heroes amongst the People, heroes like Mila, Alsantset, Tursinai, and more.” Swallowing her fear, Yuzhen reached out to clasp his hand, wrapped as it was in a white-knuckled grip around his sword and said, “Think, beloved husband. Everyone in the Citadel knows Baatar by sight. They’ve seen him work tirelessly since the start of the war, planning the defences, training the soldiers, and most importantly, celebrating his son’s marriage in the streets. They know his name, have seen his face, know his people fight to defend them, but the same cannot be said of Yang Jixing, a nobody who just appeared out of nowhere to arrest a beloved Military General.” Not exactly true, since she knew Jixing had been active in the outer provinces for over a year, but he’d made no public appearances and kept his presence a secret, so for most, this would be the first time they’d ever heard his name. “I can make Jixing see reason and convince him to drop these charges,” Yuzhen concluded, seeing the anger drain from Gerel’s beautiful eyes. “You just need to give me time.”

Besides, if she failed, it still wouldn’t be too late to spill blood. Even as incompetent as he might seem, surely Jixing wouldn’t have Baatar, a Lieutenant General of the Imperial Army and father of the Minister of Finance executed without a public trial.

...Probably.

Hopefully...

Gerel’s grip relaxed almost imperceptibly, but Yuzhen knew she’d gotten through to him, and a wave of sweet relief rushed through her. Then, her husband ruined it by opening his mouth and saying, “Very well. Even though my honour and conscience demands it, I will not join the others.”

What. In the. Fuck. “...What others?”

“The Sentinels riding out in answer to Rain’s call.” Seeing her shock, Gerel blinked twice and said, “I thought you already knew. The boy has beat the drums and summoned the spears, for he is of the mind to take his father back by force.”

“Rain is on the warpath?” Of all people, Yuzhen expected Rain to be the least of her problems, especially in a situation as politically explosive as this. He was smarter than this, or so she thought. “Why didn’t Luo-Luo or Sarnai convince him to stand down?”

Taken aback by the question, Gerel had the audacity to laugh at her foolishness. “Ah. I understand.” Gesturing for Yuzhen to get onto his quin, Gerel set the beast into motion before she was even settled, riding out the gates to bring her to Rain without needing to be asked. “Rain usually keeps a calm head,” Gerel explained, thoroughly amused by Yuzhen’s misunderstanding. “So you thought he’d go about this rationally as ever, but family is his reverse scale. You can kick him around all day and he’ll still try to talk things through, but touch someone he loves and you’ll see the Warrior emerge.” Flashing a grudging grin of admiration, Gerel shook his head and sighed. “A Warrior born, he is, full of vim and vigour as any. You ever hear Akanai tell the story about the time he charged a Demon with nothing but a mundane spear? She has a way with words, makes you feel like you were right there beside her. Seventeen years old Rain was, but he could’ve passed for twelve, all bones and fury as he ran howling towards a Demon. Crashed into it and bounced right off, didn’t shift the monster even a bit and earned himself a dirt nap for his troubles, but by the Heavens, he showed his true mettle that day. A fledgling dragon, but a dragon nonetheless, and Jixing will soon learn that even a crippled dragon’s fangs can still bite.”

Mother in Heaven, Gerel almost seemed proud of the boy for doing exactly the wrong thing here, and Yuzhen couldn’t wrap her head around it. Current issues aside, her husband’s relationship with Rain had always been a perplexing mystery which she could not solve. Together, they were as antagonistic as two people could be without resorting to fists or swords, and apart, they were no better, rarely ever interacting unless absolutely necessary. Neither one seemed to care much for the other’s company, but Gerel was often the first name Rain mentioned when discussing Warriors of the People, while so many of her husband’s decisions could be traced back to Rain, and she was curious to know why. It couldn’t just be two bulls butting heads, because Rain never seemed to treat Gerel as a rival and even unconsciously set himself below his older clansman despite the vast disparity in their social statuses. In contrast, Gerel went about his days pretending Rain didn’t exist, but he was quick to defend his younger clansman with blade and boot whenever he came across any slanderous or disparaging remarks.

Politics were easy compared to the strange, tangled bonds between men. Why couldn’t they just laugh and get along like reasonable human beings?

