The attacks of fire and mana-imbued Ice collide, shaking the entire Boss Room. Shockwaves of pure mana pulse from the collision as a wall of ice is summoned many times larger than the dragon I shot at.

An adjacent wall of flames is produced as Embers fire spreads over the blast radius.

My wind and fire attacks hit straight on and ring out in an ear-shattering collision.

They pause in mid-air letting out the head-spinning reverberations followed by the sound of a loud crack.

We swoop upwards to avoid the blast, but I watch with my All-Seeing Eye in anticipation while th thick sheet of ice fractures at its contact point.

Splintering ice, fire, wind, mana, and intense plumes of steam fill the air in all directions for at least 100 meters as the thick wall of ice splits in two.

Ember and I aim for the sky charging up another attack as the summoned blue and white shield falls to the floor in pieces. Following very close behind is the uninjured Frost Dragon grinning wide with its teeth leaking ice magic. The creature's royal blue eyes are locked on us and it's shortening the distance gap fast.

Our first attack may have broken through its first layer of defenses, but the fiery blades were completely destroyed before they managed to even hit its scales and mana shielding.

It's a 2v1 and our combined mana control seems to be about the equivalent of our opponent even with an elemental advantage.

We're facing a superior monster. Finally.

I smirk and speak through our link.

"We'll have to outsmart it and land a heavy hit early in this battle. To the sky, don't slow down even for a second. Prepare to release an attack on my cue."

Still moving upward, Ember responds.

"Understood."

Another flap of his wings increases our upward velocity and the crackling dark red aura around us grows.

We break through the clouds of debris and begin soaring into the sky, only going faster and not looking back.

A screech sounds from beneath us and I grip my weapons even tighter channeling mana from the surrounding air into them preparing for an attack of equal power to the one we just released.

The fast-approaching dragon breaks through the cloudline less than a second later with its claws reaching up at us. Its mouth is glowing brighter blue ready to fire an offensive attack this time around.

We fly higher and higher.

With each flap of the White Dragon's wings, it gets closer and closer to us. Ember may be more agile, but out in the open air his wingspan is less than half of the Boss Dragon's so we're losing ground fast.

The air is getting thinner and the sky is turning into a blue void of cool calm air. It's silent up here, just like when we first entered this Boss Room.

Not even our enemy is making a sound. It's just keeping its eyes locked on us like it's stalking prey.

Every fraction of a second that passes, meters of distance between us are being lost. The monster will inevitably catch us soon.

However, this is exactly what I hoped for.

"It's almost time..."

We rocket up into the air so fast that the mountains below start to disappear. The glowing beast is less than 3 wingspans away now.

"Just a little longer..."

Then, I feel it release an icy blast pointed right at us. This one is much more concentrated than its last display by far. With the mana density less spread out, I believe an attack like this would be very close to fatal if it hit us.

I'll make sure that doesn't happen.

"Dungeon Walker."

I teleport both of us below the Frost Dragon to the point in space where we were flying upward just moments ago.

Ember flaps his wings, and we keep rocketing forward. Now instead of being chased, we're the chasers.

An eruption of deep blue glowing ice in the shape of a deadly spear shoots into the air, lighting up the sky and slicing through the empty space we just left. I open my link while swinging my sword and dagger across my body.

"Now. Let's take this monster out of the sky!"

Ember breaths a dark crimson wave of flames while my blades of mana circle around it making for a devastating attack.

It collides with the underbelly of the Boss Monster and tears through its mana shielding just like it did the barrier of ice earlier. Not easily, but still does a considerable amount of damage.

My blades dig deep into its exposed scales and its entire body is engulfed in Embers flames.

Its upward momentum doesn't allow the creature to stop, turn, or dodge.

It doesn't have more than a fraction of a second to do so in the first place, but by the sound of its murderous roar, I can tell it probably won't fall from just one attack.

I let out a laugh as Emebr swoops down outside of the blast radius. Any sound I make is drowned out by screeches and metallic ringing noises that continue to echo in my ears and through the entire floor around us.

"That did some serious damage..."

Glowing blue eyes shine through the swirling debris of magic and matter thrown around from the bast. Then, the entire white-scaled dragon erupts from the clouds of residue.

Two large gashes are visible on its underside and burn marks are apparent on its wings from Ember's fire magic. Using ice and mana control of its own, our opponent has managed to put the flames out and temporarily cover its wounds with Ice.

It barely lost any blood, but it is definitely injured. This is a good start.

The anger on its face is clear as day, and as it flaps its wings and shoots toward us, I can tell exactly what it's thinking without telepathy. "No more messing around, you're dead now."

I concentrate on the fight ahead. One solid attack landed, now it's time to keep this momentum.

"Dungeon Walker."

We teleport to the White Dragon's back and let out another attack.

"Dungeon Walker."

Then, as it's hit from the sky, we release another from below.

"Dungeon Walker."

Again, a dual attack hits the dragon and tears through its shielding and mana-resistant scales leaving gashes and burns all over.

It just roars and follows our lead. The Dragon gets quicker to react every time. It's studying our fighting style but is hit with a devastating blow before it can counter.

"Dungeon Walker."

We teleport to its opposite side again and release a wave of fire and wind magic just the last few.

However... this time is different.

Instead of flailing in pain or trying to helplessly dodge the Dragon stays still and begins to glow white and silver.

A layer of shimmering metallic-colored Ice covers its entire body in an instant. If my All-Seeing Eye wasn't activated, it'd be near impossible to comprehend what just happened.

Our flames collide with its white scales covered in glimmering silver icy armor, then explode on impact into a black and red ball of flames.

I Dungeon Walk backward as the glimmering silver and white dragon turns around to look at us with a new lighter colored more refined aura.

There isn't a single new scratch on it after that attack.

I whisper under my breath.

"That's one of Its hidden abilities. Ultimate Ice Defense."
