“But we—we’re Runners. We don’t quit! Everyone who makes it past a year is a real Runner, Garia. We’re the people who keep the cities—no, the entire world connected. Without us, nothing would get done on time. So if people call us money-grubbers, well, let them. We’ve got our own honor, and we deserve every coin we get, am I right?”
His words lit a spark in Garia’s heart and within the other Runners in earshot. She nodded enthusiastically as other Runners called out to Fals.
“That’s our lead Runner!”
“No wonder you’re the best in the region!”
Persua appeared out of nowhere and purred at Fals. Garia jumped as the skinny girl smiled and fussed over him with her gaggle of Street Runners, edging Garia away. Someone elbowed her—hard. Toriska, paying Garia back for speaking up earlier. The [Farmer]’s daughter retreated as Fals was surrounded. He never noticed the jab as he smiled with a bit of reserve.
“No wonder they call you Fleetfoot Fals!”
He grinned and shook his head.
“That’s an old nickname, guys. And anyways, Ryoka’s faster. I wonder if she’s got some sort of Skill?”
Persua’s face soured. Garia scratched at her head.
“Now that you mention it…she’s never mentioned what level she is. She must be high-level, though.”
“Well, she may be quick, but she’s not running now, is she? Besides, she’s so unpleasant. Who’d want a Runner who never smiles like her?”
Garia winced as Persua glared at her from behind Fals. For his part, Fals made a face and took a deliberate step next to Garia, preventing her from being shunted further away.
“Right. About that. I know Ryoka broke a few rules recently, but she is a good runner. And we need all the Runners we can get. I hope the [Healer] can sort her out, I really do.”
He smiled at Persua, and the younger girl sighed and turned red as he met her eyes.
“So…Persua. I don’t want you or your friends to bother Ryoka again, okay?”
She sulked and pouted, but then gave Fals a sickly smile. He returned it with a slight wince that she didn’t appear to notice.
“Anything for you, Fals. Not that we did anything to Ryoka in the first place or anything. She just happened to have an…accident.”
“Well, let’s not have any more of those, are we clear? We’re all on the same team, right?”
Fals raised his voice a bit, lightly, and he met Persua’s gaze, and Claudeil and Toriska nodded along. Yet Garia saw Fals’ eyes fix on Persua—then glance away.
The other Runners nodded and voiced their agreement. Fals went around the room shaking hands and slapping Runners on the back. He eventually managed to get Persua to clear off by hinting that she and her cronies smelled sweaty, and finally, he and Garia were left alone again. He sighed but smiled at Garia.
He had to know she’d done it. And how badly Ryoka was hurt. And that was all…? He glanced at Garia and shook his head slightly as he came over.
“See what I mean, though? We can’t be divided. Us Runners have to work together.”
Garia glared at Fals. She whispered out of the corner of her mouth.
“You know she was behind it. Everyone does. She probably lied on the truth stones!”
He looked uncomfortable. Fals kicked at the ground with his expensive leather shoes and sighed. He combed his hair with one hand as he addressed Garia.
“Ryoka broke a rule. They shouldn’t have gone that far, but I did warn her. We’ve got to work together, Garia. Even if one of us is faster, it’s better to share the wealth rather than compete. You’re new, but you understood that. Ryoka didn’t and now—well, now we’ve got trouble with Lady Magnolia and we’re down a City Runner. Besides—Persua did what she did. I don’t want you being her next target.”
Or him? Then Garia realized how Fals always gave Persua the time of day might not be because he liked everyone. Was he—
Afraid of her? Fals watched Persua carefully as she sniffed at an armpit and shoved Claudeil, who offered her a vial of scented oil. She waved back with a huge smile. Fals returned it before giving Garia a serious look for a moment.
He was. Because maybe he feared she’d break his leg too. This didn’t sit well with Garia. She grimaced and stared hard at Fals. But when he met her gaze with a rueful smile and shrug, she colored and looked away. She muttered at the ground.
“I still don’t like it. Persua’s crazy. Ryoka won’t be able to run for at least a year! Even with potions to help her heal! Have you seen her leg?”
Fals hesitated.
“I heard it was just a bad break that the [Healers] can’t fix right away. Is it worse than that?”
Garia looked miserable as she shook her head.
“I don’t know. I’m no expert, and she’s got it wrapped in layers of bandages. They look magical though, and—and I met a mage who said that the only way she’d get it healed was to pay hundreds of gold coins to a high-level [Healer].”
He hissed through his teeth.
“That’s—no! I can’t believe it! They told me they wouldn’t—”
Garia interrupted Fals.
“You knew? You knew and—I can’t believe you, Fals!”
Garia’s voice rose incredulously. She advanced on Fals, making fists with her hands. He raised his hands defensively as he backed away towards the counter.
“I had no choice! Look, you know what Persua and her friends are like. I told them not to do anything drastic, but even if I’d stopped them, some other Runners would have organized something. You know the rules, Garia. Remember Perial when he broke them?”
Garia remembered Perial. She didn’t remember what he’d done wrong, but she remembered that a bunch of Runners had dropped rusty nails in his path and forced him to run through them.
Fals closed his eyes tightly and then opened them. He looked tired.
“Okay. That changes things. Look, Garia. I’ll—I’ll talk to the Guildmaster after I see it in person. Persua’s gone too far, even if Ryoka broke the rules.”
“That still won’t fix her leg.”
“No, but it’s all I can do. Okay? And I don’t know that any injury would really cost a hundred gold coins for a spell, Garia. I’ll see Ryoka myself, but even if her bones are broken beyond a healing potion’s ability to repair, how bad could it really be?”
“It’s bad.”
“We’ll see. I know a few good [Healers] and even a [Mage] that owes me a favor. If Ryoka’s really hurt that bad, I’ll call in a few favors and get the Guild to help out. She’ll be on her feet by the end of the month, I promise. But can we see what the commotion is?”
Garia nodded. She felt a lot more upbeat with Fals’ promise. He always kept his word. She followed him to the counter as the Runners parted for him. Fals addressed a harried-looking receptionist at the counter.
“What’s going on? Is there more trouble with Magnolia?”
“Trouble? Oh, there’s been trouble alright.”
The receptionist laughed somewhat hysterically. She was Stenei, the [Receptionist] who’d often talked to Ryoka—and it seemed like she’d been called in just to speak to Lady Reinhart. Judging by her expression, that had not been pleasant.
“Lady Magnolia was here just half an hour ago. She came in person to complain to the Guildmaster, but he was out! She wanted to know where Ryoka was, and when she heard she was injured, she was not happy. She even suggested that she might stop ordering through our Guild altogether!”
Garia and Fals stared in horror at the receptionist. Lady Magnolia was one of the Guild’s biggest patrons. Besides that, she was important. Even on the other end of the continent, there were people who would know her name.
“Did she want anything else?”
“She wanted to know where Ryoka was right now. Fortunately, we at least knew her address, so she was somewhat satisfied, but what will we do? If she stops ordering—”
Garia interrupted urgently.
“Wait, she wanted to know where Ryoka was?”
The receptionist blinked at her. Normally, Garia would have been brushed off in an instant, but Fals was with her.
“Yes, she wanted to know.”
“And you told her?”
The receptionist grew defensive at Garia’s accusatory tone.
“What? It’s in the guild’s best interest to keep her happy. If she wants to know where one of our Runners is, we’ll tell her.”
“But she wanted Ryoka! And if she knows where she is, she’ll go and meet her!”
Fals groaned and pulled at his hair. He looked around frantically, but Magnolia was already long gone.
“Have you even met Ryoka? Remember what happened when she met the Guildmaster? She doesn’t respect anyone! If Magnolia shows up, she’ll probably throw her out of her room! Or—or—”
“Punch her.”
Fals turned to Garia.
“No. She wouldn’t do that. No one’s crazy enough to punch—she wouldn’t.”
Garia looked nervous.
“She punched a Minotaur when he tried to invite himself into her room this morning.”
The receptionist and Fals both paled.
“We’ve got to stop her. Or stop Ryoka.”
“Follow me!”
Garia turned and raced out of the Guild, Fals hot on her heels. She wasn’t one for wishes, but Garia hoped that Ryoka would be civil or at least acceptable before they got there. She didn’t have much hope, though.
She knew Ryoka.
 
——
 
Lady Magnolia sat in the small, cramped bedroom of The Rat’s Tail, a moderately prosperous inn in the city of Celum. She clearly did not belong there. For one thing, her expensive, patterned, latticed, light pink dress with floral embroidery probably cost more than the inn itself.
But she sat on the rickety chair the innkeeper had personally delivered to Ryoka’s room, looking perfectly content while she chatted with its inhabitant. Behind her, Ressa the head maid stood in one corner of the room, glaring daggers at the poverty, the dirt under the windowsill, and Ryoka herself.
“My dear, I really was shocked to hear of your accident. Won’t you tell me what happened?”
“I got bored and played tag with a cart.”
“You are always full of unique answers, aren’t you, Ryoka? I can’t imagine how you can tell jokes in the face of such an injury.”
Not that Lady Magnolia had actually seen her injury, Ryoka reflected. She was lying on her bed, her bandages wrapped around her leg. Magnolia had walked in on her while she was resting, and Ryoka hadn’t yet unwrapped her protective cushion from her bad leg.
She didn’t know why she was spitting bile. The [Innkeeper] had practically bowed himself into a wall, and everyone was treating Magnolia like, well, a [Lady]. Ryoka felt like she should be grateful anyone cared enough to check on her.
But the agony in her leg made her want to curse everyone away. She tried to sit up, and Lady Magnolia raised a quick hand.
“Lie still, please, Miss Griffin. Ressa, how good are those potions?”
The [Maid] was checking Ryoka’s room. She put down a bottle and shook her head.
“Serviceable. But she’s not going to cure that with potions. The bones’re crushed.”
“Could you set them…?”
“Nope. This would require the best [Healer] the Guild has—or something better. It’s shattered bone in splinters. Whoever did this knew how to stop it from being repaired.”
Ryoka stared sickly at her legs, and the [Maid] actually gave her a sympathetic look. Magnolia Reinhart exhaled.
“Then it was deliberate.”
“Not according to the Guild. The [Guildmaster] himself personally told me what a tragic accident this was. Completely my fault.”
Ryoka had screamed insults at him and thrown everything she could find. She expected Magnolia to take this at face value, but the [Lady] smiled instead.
A cold smile. Ryoka blinked as she saw the green eyes focus on her—and then on Ryoka’s legs.
“Show me your leg, my dear? Ressa can unwrap the bandages just for a moment.”
“It’s…”
“Just for one moment, Miss Ryoka. As a matter of…justice.”
Ryoka stared at her. Then she pointed to the left one.
“Pull the bandages loose there—aah…”
Even unwrapping it a bit made Ryoka feel her flesh begin to part. Ressa was deft—she unwrapped the bandages fast, and Magnolia Reinhart looked down, and Ryoka stared at her legs—then turned her head.
The [Lady] didn’t quite vomit, but a [Maid] held out a bucket—Magnolia Reinhart swallowed calmly.
A leg should not look—flat. Even with the skin regrown, the bones, the very structure of the leg—
“Thank you, Ressa. And thank you, Miss Griffin. Do you need another potion?”
“A bit.”
Ressa poured some on her leg, and Ryoka sat back as it was bound up again. Magnolia Reinhart had not gone dead white, but her lips were pale. She was more composed than Ryoka expected anyone to be after seeing a gruesome injury like that. One of the maids in the inn had seen Ryoka’s leg and fainted.
“So that was the accident the Runner’s Guild informed me of. One leg, crushed by a wagon whose driver did not see you and had no time to stop. Which is fair. How, pray…were you lying down long enough for your leg to be run over?”
“According to the guild, I fell down.”
“That is what their report claimed. The same young woman who broke a local record running gelato to my door—fell with a wagon rolling towards her and never rolled out of the way? Just so I ask your side of the story, did that all happen too fast, Miss Griffin?”
Ryoka looked at Magnolia, and those eyes regarded her. Searching…and Ryoka spoke.
“No. I couldn’t get out of the way. Mostly because my feet were webbed down.”
“I see. And how did you fall to begin with?”
“Someone pushed or tripped me.”
Magnolia Reinhart nodded.
“That would be…Persua Mavva. Among others, yes?”
Ryoka Griffin blinked. Magnolia Reinhart waited, and the City Runner croaked.
“Y-yeah. But she’s been absolved. Investigated, I mean.”
“By Celum’s Guildmaster. No, I quite understand. The Guildmaster—when he arrived—assured me that he had looked into the accident. And it was an accident. And that he had truth stone readings. Ressa, how does Miss Griffin look?”
“Truthful.”
Ressa showed Magnolia the same glowing stone, and Magnolia studied the blue glow.
“Thank you. Well, Miss Ryoka, you are badly hurt. I will not waste your time. I wanted to check on you, and I am sorry that I did not hear of this sooner. I was preoccupied…”
“I didn’t expect you to remember me.”
“No?”
Magnolia raised one eyebrow. Ryoka laughed.
“I’m just a Runner who knows how to make ice cream. Did you want to make more?”
“No, Miss Griffin. I was hoping we’d speak again.”
“Ah. That. Well—I’m sort of laid up. You came all this way because you were curious?”
Curious she was from another world? To Ryoka’s surprise, Magnolia Reinhart’s eyes flashed.
