“I won’t deny my curiosity, Miss Griffin. But I hope you would think more of me than that. The Runner’s Guild has clearly misrepresented the truth, and this City Runner has committed a crime. In Celum, which is not ruled by me, but in Izril, which I hold near and dear to my heart, despite its warts and wrinkles. The Runner’s Guild must not be corrupt.”
“Well. They’ve done their investigation, and that’s that.”
Ryoka felt like they were talking in circles. She licked her lips, and Magnolia Reinhart reached out and handed her the refilled canteen of water.
“Not quite. I believe Guildmaster Eterell was a good City Runner in his time. He rose through the ranks, and his current job and class in one of the more central Runner’s Guilds has made him fairly wealthy. Too wealthy, and perhaps too comfortable. Which is why, tomorrow, he will step down from his position. Perhaps, in his advancing years, he will find work starting as a Street Runner. Or some other job. I believe that would be for the best.”
Ryoka Griffin’s lips froze with cool water pressed against them. She turned her head, and Magnolia went on.
“His successor will have to investigate the Guild’s dealings. But as for Miss Mavva—she is a somewhat well-connected City Runner. She and her close friends have more Street Runners in common, though. If she passes the second investigation, regardless, I believe they will have more success with their peers as Street Runners. And the new Guildmaster may suggest they find other modes of work as well.”
“You…what are you talking about?”
Magnolia Reinhart looked at Ryoka with a pleasant smile on her face. But her eyes were sparking with real anger.
“Merely a forecast, Miss Griffin. Consider me a [Weather Mage] of sorts—albeit for people.”
“Why are you…?”
“Whatever do you mean, Miss Griffin?”
The [Lady] gave Ryoka an innocent look as Ressa snorted softly. But not disapprovingly. Magnolia Reinhart stared out Ryoka’s window at the city beyond.
“Are you, perhaps, surprised that anyone might take an interest in wrongdoing? Or deal with the matters themselves? If a Guild rots from within—the city suffers. The region suffers. If I were to find a poison within the veins of Izril, should I ignore it? Monsters, threats. Wrongdoing. Someone must deal with the situation. Don’t you agree?”
She turned to Ryoka, and the young woman laughed at her.
“What about the law? The…Watch? Having some random vigilante doesn’t sound like the system’s working.”
Magnolia’s smile never changed, but the look in her eyes deepened, crossing with something like regret.
“Oh, I wonder where you come from, Miss Griffin, I truly do. The Watch? Who oversees the Watch? Who holds my peers to account? Who should but stop an army, an invading force? Sometimes, Miss Griffin, we make such choices and do what we must.”
Ryoka felt a shiver cross her spine, and Magnolia Reinhart glanced at Ressa—and the ‘[Maid]’ said nothing at all. But then Magnolia blinked, sighed, and fluttered her hands.
“…Until we regret it. These are more peaceful times, Miss Griffin, so we shall simply slap some hands and deal with such troublemakers lightly. Lighter than you would prefer, I’m sure. But you have my word.”
In that moment, Ryoka wasn’t sure if she liked Magnolia or she just found her to be unexpected. But she…more than anyone else Ryoka had met—she looked at Magnolia and said something she had rarely spoken in any world.
“Thank you.”
Magnolia Reinhart shook her head.
“Thanks would go to me if I stopped this from occurring, Miss Griffin. This is just—necessity. Now. I will take a little more of your time. What will happen to your leg? Do the [Healers] have any hope it will mend with time? Better potions?”
Ryoka’s moment of lightness fell away again. She bowed her head.
“No. There’s no chance. Not unless I find some kind of super-healer. Is there one…?”
She looked up, remembering the comment about some Guild’s best [Healer]. But Ressa just coughed.
“He’s about seven hundred miles away and unlikely to…”
Seven hundred miles? Ryoka bowed her head, but Magnolia waved her fingers.
“Yes, yes. I understand the difficulties there. This sounds like it requires top-tier healing. So. A Potion of Regeneration from an older age, a [Healer] beyond compare…hundreds of thousands of gold pieces and months of rehabilitation, even so. But these were unenchanted wagon wheels, weren’t they? In that case—I believe the simplest answer would be the Healer of Tenbault.”
Ryoka had heard that name before. Ressa grimaced.
“She is busy, Lady Reinhart.”
“She always is. But she owes me a favor. And as for the cost—Miss Griffin, I believe you are not without recourse. I happen to have an old…ah, friend. Someone who is capable of casting a spell that will likely heal your leg. [Restoration]. Healing magic, one of the rarest kinds in the world. A Tier 6 spell, in fact.”
Magnolia smiled brightly at her. Ryoka stared blankly at Magnolia, not quite daring to believe what she was hearing. Tier…what was that? Then she remembered what she’d read from an introductory spellbook.
Tier Magic. It stood in stark contrast to the undisciplined magics, whatever that meant. But from what Ryoka had read in her extremely brief introduction to magic, Tiered Magic organized magic in…tiers.
That was to say that a spell capable of being cast by all mages was generally thought of as 1st Tier Magic or 0 Tier Magic, while a spell that was 2nd Tier was more potent, requiring a better mage and longer periods of study to learn it. 3rd Tier magic was generally the bar for most mages, and they would know only one or two spells of that level. Anything higher got into the range of extremely powerful magic, exponentially stronger and just as hard to learn.
That presumably meant that Magnolia’s friend was an incredible mage, but the book had said lower-level mages could cast higher Tier magic with enough practice and time. It also meant this mysterious friend was probably extremely powerful.
“You—you just know someone who has that kind of power? Really? And she’ll just pop over to heal me?”
“My dear. I know everyone and anyone who matters in the north. Nor will she pop over.”
Magnolia sighed.
“…But we can arrange transit and put you ahead on her list. I believe your leg will heal. In which case, we shall resolve all of this.”
It felt like it was all unreal. Ryoka’s head was spinning. Persua—punished. Her leg? Her head rose, and Magnolia gave her a pat on the hand.
“If that all sounds acceptable, we will have you in my carriage within the hour and heading to Tenbault—which is her city. Then I believe you’ll likely need to rest even with that spell, and my mansion is open to you rather than this—colorful inn. Especially for healing, you should have clean bedsheets.”
“And a chamberpot.”
Ressa added. Ryoka croaked. 
“I—you’d do that? Why?”
Magnolia psshed. 
“Miss Griffin, you did render me the invaluable, nay, indispensable boon of free ice cream. Shouldn’t I repay that kindness? But if you insist—I do hope you and I will have a proper chat while you recover. About where you came from. And how you got here.”
She said that last part so gently Ryoka almost missed it. Then her head rose, and Magnolia was looking her in the eyes.
Green and green, but the forest was swallowing up the emeralds of Ryoka’s gaze.
“I am—exceptionally curious, my dear. If you would be candid, I would be most grateful. Which land do you call home? What useful—tidbits could you share?”
Suddenly, Ryoka felt the walls closing in. She looked at Magnolia Reinhart, and the [Lady] was watching her.
“Wh-what are you talking about?”
“Come now, Miss Griffin. I am not angry. In fact, I believe this was all a great accident. I just need to know—where and who sent you. And how many there are. If this was an accident, all well and good. But if you are a visitor kith and kin from, say, the domain of the Winter Sprites or some other nation—I need to know everything.”
Then Magnolia was looking at her, and the young woman from Earth was frozen in her bed. She felt cold suddenly, even in the sheets.
“I—I don’t know what—”
Earth. Magnolia Reinhart, the Deadly Flower of the North, knew, somehow, she wasn’t from here. And—and she wanted to know…
Ryoka had a flash, suddenly, of the Watch with their spears and the adventurers with their swords and bows holding guns. She looked at Magnolia, a war hero, perhaps, a [Lady] with a lot of connections fascinated with gelato.
And she wondered what that kind of [Lady], even one who believed in justice, would do if she knew how to make a gun.
Magnolia saw Ryoka suddenly tense up.
“My dear. Perhaps I’m wrong. But would you care to elaborate on the situation? Perhaps I am completely wrong and you have a Skill and you’re actually an Izrilian and that would be hilarious.”
She laughed—but she was glancing at Ryoka. At something lying on the bedside table. Ryoka turned her head and went paler still.
Her iPhone was lying there with its worn casing, and Ressa and Magnolia glanced at it. Magnolia continued after a second—
“…But I do safeguard Izril in some small ways. Honesty, Miss Griffin. Just a short chat on the ride there and afterwards. How about it? Do we have a deal?”
She held out a hand, and Ryoka Griffin looked at Magnolia Reinhart’s smiling face. She felt her leg beginning to scream at her again, and she wanted nothing in this world more than the pain to stop. Her hand rose—
And she thought she heard a poem in her head. She saw a flash of gunfire and wondered what would have happened if any historical figure in history had ever been handed an assault rifle or the blueprints for one.
Ryoka Griffin had little moral fiber. She hated authority. She hated a lot of things, including her parents. But she had studied history and modern events, and she looked at Magnolia Reinhart and that outstretched hand. Ryoka Griffin’s mouth went dry.
“No. Not that.”
Magnolia blinked. Her fingers wavered.
“No? Miss Griffin—your leg is in a distressing state. I cannot bear to see you in pain another second. Please, let’s forgo your admittedly successful reticence and mystery. I shall tell the Healer to speak to you then—”
“No. I’ll take the healing—but not tell you—tell you everything. I’ll tell you a bit, okay? But nothing more.”
The [Lady] of House Reinhart blinked at Ryoka.
“I—beg your pardon?”
“How about where I came from? And—twenty questions.”
“Twenty questions?”
“Sure. Ask me any twenty questions and I’ll answer them. How—how about that?”
Ryoka Griffin smiled weakly, and Magnolia Reinhart turned to look at Ressa. She looked back down at Ryoka.
“My dear. The Healer of Tenbault sees less than two thousand patients each year. A large number, to be sure, by some standards, but the cost of visiting her is in the thousands of gold pieces on average—hundreds if you are lucky. The nobility have a hard time visiting her. I believe I should get more than twenty questions.”
“Well—take it or leave it.”
Ryoka smiled at Magnolia, trying to keep her face straight. She saw Magnolia’s mouth open and Ressa’s glare, but she clenched her fists in the sheets. Not guns. Not…not the worst of what Magnolia could learn.
She waited for Magnolia to come up with another offer. Forty questions maybe. But the [Lady] just stared down at Ryoka and shook her head.
“My dear. My dear Ryoka—I have given you a lot of leeway. This accident was not your fault, nor do I take any pleasure in this, but your…what? Principle? Stubbornness? It must end somewhere. No.”
Ryoka saw her step back. The City Runner looked up.
“No? What do you mean?”
“No. I will not negotiate with you. Not questions. Not a deal, Miss Griffin. Candor, complete candor—simply talk to me and the Healer will mend your leg. If not?”
Magnolia folded her hands as she stood in the doorway. She looked at Ryoka, and the young woman stared at her.
“You’re not going to heal me?”
“I am going to mend your leg—but not waste more time, Miss Griffin. Please, I urge you to accept my offer.”
“N-no.”
The [Lady] gave Ryoka an incredulous look, but the young woman was giving her almost the same expression.
“I won’t be bullied into telling you anything.”
“Bullied?”
Magnolia’s voice rose in outrage. She turned to Ressa.
“I—Miss Griffin. I am trying to help you.”
“Then heal me and don’t threaten me.”
Ryoka bared her teeth, and Magnolia Reinhart was lost for words.
“She’s got you there.”
“Ressa, do shut up. Miss Griffin, this is the smallest thing I could ask for. The most necessary thing—please consider.”
“No.”
Ryoka took some joy in seeing Magnolia’s pure, flummoxed shock. The [Lady] stood in the doorway and turned to her silent servants, back to Ryoka—and then she bowed her head.
“Very well, Miss Griffin. You win.”
The City Runner exhaled—but too soon. Magnolia Reinhart slowly put her hand on the doorknob. 
“Wh—what are you—”
“I shall keep an open ear for any letter you send. When you change your mind—and I hope for your sake it is soon—contact me.”
Then, politely, regretfully, and without hesitation, Magnolia Reinhart closed the door on Ryoka Griffin. And the young woman stared at the closed door before she began to shout—but Magnolia Reinhart was already walking down the stairs.
 
——
 
I’m an idiot. I have to cover my eyes to keep the tears from leaking. I’m such a complete and utter, stubborn idiot.
I should have accepted her offer immediately. No—even if Magnolia wanted me to be her slave or her maid or to work for her for ten years, I would have accepted her offer in a heartbeat.
But she wanted me to tell her the truth. Damn it. Damn her and her insight. That’s the one thing I can’t give her. Ever.
My leg is agony. But my heart is ice. And now that I’ve been given the offer, the path is clear. Two roads stretch out before me, and a world waits upon my choice.
Is that dramatic? It’s too dramatic. But it is true.
Stand up. I need another healing potion. My leg hurts—I need a clear head for it.
I shift to reach for the nightstand. Pain shoots through my bad leg. Three healing potions. Damn it, again. I can’t waste them. Not if—
Well if I refuse, there’s no point to them. They’re weak things, anyways. But they told me a stronger healing potion would start growing each fragment of bone out of my skin, and that would destroy my leg beyond any healing.
Something. Oh. I reach over, cursing my leg, and grip it tightly in one hand. The only thing I really own in this world. It’s useless, without power. At least the earbuds are still attached, but again, useless without electricity.
