I look at the piece of plastic and metal lying on the nightstand. Stupid to have it out. Could I trade that, instead? Even if she figures out how to use it, she couldn’t replicate it. Maybe…
No. No, it’s worthless in any case. If there were power left in it, I might be able to make the trade but—no. It’s information she wants. And that price is just too high for me to pay.
“Information.”
The word rots on my tongue. It sounds so stupid, so simple and easy to give away when you say it like that. And it would be simple for me to agree to answer however many questions.
Except that Magnolia can read minds. Or sense untruths. And she’s cunning, smart enough to keep asking questions. If I gave her unlimited answers, she’d have the entire truth eventually.
I could lie. But she’d sense it if I didn’t intend to fulfill my bargain. Trapped, again.
Pride be damned. I’ll go back and beg her if need be. The cost—I’ll think of it later. But even if it means selling part of my soul or my world’s secrets, I will run again.
But…no. I can’t do that. No, never. Because if she asks questions—
If she asks questions, she’ll learn about my world. Good? That’s fine. Even if she knows, can she get there so easily? I don’t think it matters. If someone could travel between worlds so easily, we’d already know about it. Maybe she could, but we have guns and way more technology than she does.
But that’s the catch, isn’t it? We have technology, and if she asks more questions, she’ll know about our world’s technology. Not just things like hygiene or bacteria, but the things that should never be told. Secrets, jumps forward in capability that would make any nation a superpower in an instant.
Gunpowder. Firearms. Germ warfare. Steam power, electrical power, locomotion. Everything from interrogation techniques to how to build a tank or a bomb. Nuclear weapons.
Does it sound stupid to say it like that? I don’t know how to make nukes. But I do know what goes into gunpowder. I aced chemistry class. I know exactly how a turbine works, and I’m pretty damn sure I remember all of the techniques the FBI illegally used on terrorists.
Damn it. It’s a moral choice, isn’t it? Lose my leg or give away the secrets of death and destruction. If it were anyone else, I could lie or tell only small truths. But she can read my damn mind. And I know exactly where to gather all the ingredients of gunpowder. And guns wouldn’t be hard to make, not in this world.
Lady Magnolia. I know nothing about her. Just rumors and that she’s a powerful and influential lady with wealth and connections. Even if she appears nice—especially if she appears nice—I have no way of knowing if she’d use that power to help or harm.
No. It’s simpler than that.
Even if I could trust her, the secret would spread. That’s how it works. She’d want to see a demonstration, and someone would put the pieces together. Ressa, her maid, maybe. Sooner or later, technology would spread. I’d be responsible for bringing guns into the world. And maybe it’s not that far away from that level of technology already but—
“Belfast. Beruit. Phnom Penh. All flesh is grass.”
When I was a girl, I went to the Newseum in Washington D.C. I saw the pictures on the walls. I looked at the children, the dying and the dead. My dad thought I was too young to understand.
All flesh is grass. The ‘War Photographer’ by Carol Ann Duffy. Is it a straight line between bringing the capabilities of gunpowder to the world and terrible war? No. But where there is knowledge, there is power. And even if she used her power to help her nation, that would only lead to war in the end.
Napalm. Mixed petroleum with a natural or synthesized rubber like latex. It wouldn’t be hard to create the same kind of thing. Not with Magnolia’s influence.
I want to run. I want to walk again.
I’m no Walter White, but I remember too much. Too much National Geographic and other shows about the world. Not a perfect memory. But too close.
Damn it. I can’t do it. I don’t want to be the one who creates a Hitler or gives another white…woman a gun and a mandate to conquer the world. But I want to run.
I can’t figure it out. I can’t decide. I waited a week—a damn week for her to arrive. In pain and fear. And now that she offered me what I was dreaming of, I should have leapt at it. But I hesitate. I draw back.
I sit on the edge of the abyss and wonder if my soul burns well in hell. It’s not fair. All I ever wanted to do was run. I don’t want to lose my leg. I want to run. I want to live. I want to walk.
I don’t want to see the child sitting alone. I don’t want to see the vulture. I don’t want it to be my fault.
Alone, I sit in my room, sitting with the fate of two worlds in my hands. This world’s and my world’s. I live to run. My legs are what define me.
All I have to do is ask the staff to get me a Street Runner. Or send a note to Magnolia Reinhart. She’s probably not too far from the city, if she’s even left yet. It would be so simple, and I wouldn’t be in pain.
It would—
The door opens. I look up. A face like perfection and a dream stares at me. Half perfection, half mortal. The cruelest of both worlds. Ceria Springwalker.
She hesitates and then steps into the room. I expect hollow words and hollower promises. I expect to be let down or to feel nothing but despair. But she doesn’t bring any of that.
She brings salvation.
 
——
 
“I know it’s bad.”
Ryoka sat on the bed. Ceria stared at her leg and then looked away.
“I’ve seen an injury like that before. I’m aware it can’t be healed so easily. I’m not sure if your friend really understood—”
“She doesn’t. It doesn’t matter. She can’t help. Neither can you.”
“We owe you a debt. You might not understand it, but Calruz hired every member of the Horns of Hammerad because we believe in honor. If we can help, we will.”
Ryoka bared her teeth.
“Got a few thousand gold coins?”
“No. That’s beyond us, frankly. Even if we sold our armor and weapons—and Calruz might, to impress you—I doubt we’d be able to get close to a [Healer] of that level. They’re in constant demand. Heard of the Healer of Tenbault?” 
Ryoka started, and Ceria nodded.
“I’ve never seen her, but I know it’s virtually impossible to meet her—and everyone wants to, because she can apparently cure almost anything. Thousands camp around the gates of Tenbault each day, hoping she’ll tend to them. Even if we had the money they charge, it would take a miracle.”
Ryoka grunted. Her hand was clutching the sheets of her bed so hard they were white. Instead, Ceria looked at Ryoka. Ryoka gazed back.
What the young woman saw, Ceria could guess. A half-breed, perhaps. A memory of what was lost, or maybe she just saw a mage, someone who pursued strange goals few understood. It didn’t matter. And for some reason, Ceria thought that the Runner known as Ryoka Griffin looked at her differently than the rest. But duty was duty. Honor was honor.
“I heard Magnolia Reinhart visited you. Did she offer you anything?” 
“She offered me a deal. I might have to take it. And damn my soul. Why am I responsible? I’m not. It’s not my…”
Ryoka stared down at the sheets. Wrestling with something. Ceria raised her brows and coughed.
“Before you do, be careful. My peo—I don’t trust the nobility.”
Ceria glanced sidelong at Ryoka, as if hoping for a confirmation. Ryoka grunted.
“I don’t trust anyone. Not with some things. They’ll…they’ll let you down.”
She looked haunted, torn—and strangely—principled. It was funny, but Ceria had heard that the City Runner who’d delivered the potions to her team hadn’t asked what they were offering for their emergency delivery. 
The Horns had posted the highest number they dared, but it had been way too low for someone to risk a Lich killing them. But one Runner had come without even asking the price. 
Strange, to find someone like that. It reminded the half-Elf of her bull-headed leader, Calruz. And her team. It made her want to help Ryoka, so she leaned forwards and took a breath.
“I know that Lady Magnolia offered you…something. I saw her on the way in. You might want to accept, but all deals have a price. Even if she doesn’t say, she’ll want something.”
“I know. But—”
Ryoka was staring at her legs, and Ceria knew what she was thinking. No matter what it was—if the choice was between never walking again and healing? That was why the half-Elf was here. Ceria lowered her voice.
“A spell is probably the only way to cure your leg. But there’s magic that she offers and then there’s…another way.”
“Another way?”
Ryoka looked at Ceria. Her eyes seemed to pierce the young half-Elf to her core. Ceria Springwalker had lived for over sixty years, but she hadn’t ever seen someone as desperate as Ryoka.
“Tell me.”
The eyes seemed to be boring a path straight into her soul. Ceria took a deep breath. She might regret this. She already was. But she thought of—the person she had considered when they were discussing Ryoka’s plight. Maybe that bastard was dead. She almost wished…no. No, and the odds were he was somewhere on Izril still. He’d never go back to Terandria or Wistram.
She had vowed never to speak to him again, but for this odd young woman in need, Ceria Springwalker closed her eyes and then asked Ryoka a question.
“…How do you feel about necromancy?”
