“Oh yes.” Aisha brought out a pair of blue boxes and handed them out, saying, “Much improved from Clavog’s normal version, too.”

Warcry, instant, medium range, 50 Health

Increases damage done by your people and decreases the damage taken by your people. Lasts 1 minute.

Benevolent Rally, instant, medium range, 75 Health

Strike down the enemies of the world!

Increases damage done by your people, decreases damage taken by your people.

May decrease the damage done and may increase the damage taken by others within range.

Lasts 5 minutes.

Aisha said, “The difference is practically Surface and Underworld, though it does have that ‘may’ clause in there. Of course, [Benevolent Rally] is a higher tier magic, made from [Warcry], but you don’t usually get such a good outcome from adding more Elements to that Carnage-based magic. Not a lot mixes well with Carnage, but in this case, Benevolence does.”

Teressa jerked. “[Warcry] is Elemental Carnage?”

Aisha looked to Teressa. “You didn’t know?”

“No…” Teressa looked at the boxes again, saying, “I did not. I used to do this sort of magic all the time back when I had a… A team. I didn’t know it was actually Carnage. I thought it was Thunder?—”

Teressa stopped.

Aisha did not speak.

Both of them were shocked to attention, their sleepiness completely gone, and Erick paused, too.

For a sudden oddness had occurred.

As though Erick had been given the script of a play he had practiced several times before, but which he was still wildly uncomfortable with, Erick woodenly followed along the small prompts in his head, asking, “Would you like to learn more about this Shouting Magic, Teressa?”

Teressa’s eyes flickered between Aisha and Erick as she spoke from the same script, “I would. I haven’t done it in a while, but it might be good to try again.” She looked firmly at Aisha, as though that was what the script suggested, saying, “And I want to start working with the Benevolence team.”

Aisha broke from the script, whispering, “I am unsure if we should continue this.”

Teressa whispered, “I think we should.”

Erick whispered, “We’re doing this.”

Aisha stopped whispering, picking up her cue again, as she said, “We welcome you to the tower, then, Miss Rednail… But of course we would have anyway, I think.”

“You can call me Teressa, if I can call you Aisha.” Teressa said, “Though I honestly do not know if you even have a last name so I’ve been calling you Aisha in my head this whole time, anyway.”

“I do not have a last name, actually.” Aisha said, “And Aisha is my name, so that is perfectly fine, Teressa. As soon as you are healed, I expect you to be at the Tower as soon as you can appear… If that is okay with you, my king?”

Erick said, “It is.”

And then the script broke.

A moment passed as everyone in the gazebo felt as though puppet strings had been cut.

Teressa went, “Huh!”

Aisha breathed out, then said, “Okay then.”

Erick said, “That was weird, but fine. It was fine, right?—” He had a thought. “That was the first time I have actually experienced such a hyperliminal Benevolence Event— Nope. Wait. Back at the end of the Path, with Melemizargo, Rozeta, and the other one… And probably a lot more before that, actually.”

Teressa rolled her eyes, “Well that was the first time for me.”

Aisha stared at Teressa. “Perhaps my decorum is not up to what it should be right now, but you really just rolled your eyes at the mention of two gods and one almost-god? And a worldwide important event, as though it was a mere… happenstance?”

Teressa chuckled. “I might not have dealt with any of it personally, but I saw a lot of it first hand— Second hand? Second hand.”

“You were right the first time,” Erick said, “First hand.”

Teressa conceded the point, saying, “I’m not all here, either. Blame my lack of decorum on the… Whatever damage.”

Erick smiled softly, then said, “Sorry to drag you both out like this, but that test needed to happen, and now some things need to be said. Afterward, both of you can go back to bed. And take tomorrow off.” Erick said, “That means you too, Aisha.”

Teressa breathed out, relaxing. She blinked long, and then forced her eyes back to wide open.

Aisha merely nodded, and waited for Erick to say what he was going to say.

Erick said, “I think Benevolence allows the user to see the future in ways that no other Element truly allows.” Aside from maybe time, but Erick was not in control of Elemental Time; he was in control of Elemental Benevolence. “Therefore, I want both of you to only consider reporting to me about the larger things; the events which will cause death and harm on a large scale. Earlier, Teressa, you told me about a prognostication battle with Treehome that you won. I thank you for coming to me with that, but I don’t need to know small things like that.”

Teressa woke up a bit more to nod; she had heard and understood.

Aisha was briefly stricken with worry. “You had a prognostication battle, Miss Rednail?”

“You can call me ‘Teressa’, please, if I can call you ‘Aisha’ instead of ‘Overseer Aisha’— Uh… I already said that.” Teressa confided, “I also just remembered that you had a title and I should have used it. And yeah. I did have a prog battle.”

Aisha shook her head a little.

Erick said, “You two can talk about that later, but from what I see, Aisha did not have one of those battles at all, and this concerns you, Aisha.”

“It does. Greatly.” Aisha said, “But… I’ll take your offer of talking about it later.”

Erick nodded, saying, “I think Elemental Benevolence will allow for a great deal of abuse by many people who might learn how to wield it properly, and I don’t want that to happen. People should still have free will. People should not be beholden to whatever Benevolence tells them is the best path forward, and based on what we all just experienced, this is very possible. This determinism is a path that I want to cut off right now, before anyone goes too far down it.” He added, “Obviously we should test all this, but I don’t want this to become how we solve problems; we will not be ensorcelling people in Benevolence, like how one does with Fae Magic, or Mind Magic. If I need to do something like the Mind Mages in order to prevent abuse through Benevolence then I will, but for now… This is where we are at.”

Teressa simply nodded, as though she was seeing a confirmation of something she had already expected to see.

Aisha was torn for some reason. “You want… A less deterministic universe?”

“For the small things, yes. And… This is a very complicated topic that we can have again, later.” Erick said, “But to lay out what I don’t want to happen: For instance, Treehome was thinking of breaking Yggdrasil from my soul, of breaking the seal the gods put on him to keep him a part of me until a hundred years pass, but they decided not to because they understood that was a bad idea without needing to be told.

“This is something that I do not need to be made aware of. The knowledge of that event caused me to almost damage relations with Treehome, but I held back, of course… Which might be due to Benevolence or maybe I did that myself, and since we’re one and the same, then there is functionally no difference, but still.

“I thought about it for a day, and I realize that almost every single nation out there has probably gone through the same sort of thought process as Treehome went through with Yggdrasil, but for some reason, Treehome’s efforts actually pinged Teressa’s mana sense.

“I don’t need to know about that stuff. No one does.

“But in a larger, yet still smaller sense, there’s the fact that you both responded to this little pachinko machine. And then we three had that little guidance situation, there.” Erick said, “I can easily see someone else doing something similar in various games of chance around the world, or in other scenarios, and using some sort of [Benevolence Sight] in order to win, or whatever.

“A person might decide that if they win this next bet, then they won’t go out and murder a thousand people, but then Benevolence pings them and tells them not to bet, so they don’t bet. Or, someone could look at a battlefield and decide some military action through some similar action.” Erick said, “It’s all theoretical, but I could see it happening. There’s no other prognostication-focused Element, after all, and so this is the problem I foresee Benevolence having.

“So, when you’re better, we’re going to see if we can actually do stuff like this, and if I am worrying for nothing, or if I am worrying for real. The outcomes of these tests will determine how open we are about putting Benevolence into public magics, and other small decisions.” Erick finished with, “Perhaps we use Benevolence to guide various courtroom outcomes, or, we keep it behind closed doors and use it to keep the universe safe.”

Aisha had a laser-like focus on Erick’s words, but she was still only half-cognizant.

Teressa was 75% of the way to sleeping in her chair.

“… I’m going to blip you back to where you were, okay? You both need more sleep. And also some soul balm palm sap, or something?” Erick said, “I’ll see about buying some from Stratagold, or something.”

Aisha shook her head. “It’s not soul damage. It’s… It’s soul damage. Ah. Words… Words not wording well.”

Teressa jerked awake. “I’m awake!”

“And you can go back to bed now,” Erick said.

And then Erick blipped both of them back to their beds. Teressa instantly curled up with her blankets and started snoring softly. Aisha remained human-woman-formed for a brief seven seconds, then she dissolved into a gasoline-sheened mercury-like puddle, only kept together because she was inside a bathtub bed. She burbled a bit, then settled down. She slept.

Erick wondered… Had it been necessary to have this conversation right now?

Yes.

These words had needed to be said, and Aisha and Teressa would both remember this, even though they had been halfway out of it while they were here.

It was time to move onto another meeting, anyway.

Erick was alone again in his gazebo as he called out, “Rozeta? I need to talk about [Reincarnation].”

Rozeta stepped out of a flash of gold fire and into the gazebo, wearing her white human wrought form. “Hello, Erick.” She took her seat. “I suspect we’ll need to get Phagar in on this too, but we might not. For clarity: What is your exact concern?”

Erick got right into it, “Is [Reincarnation] going to be a problem if I solve death? I can already see myself headed in that direction, but I don’t want to cause a worldwide incident or a Forgotten Campaign.”

“… Ah.” Rozeta nodded, then she looked to the side, asking, “Phagar?”

In another splash of gold fire Phagar stepped into the space, looking like Erick but different. The God of the End and Time took a seat, and the world beyond the gazebo seemed to slow. “Hello, Erick. Rozeta. Talking about [Reincarnation], then?”

“And the solving of death, and the possibility of needing a Forgotten Campaign,” Rozeta said.

Erick almost said something more, but he decided to let Rozeta’s words ride.

Wasting no time, Phagar said, “Some people will accept your gift Erick, and you’re free to do whatever you want, but a lot of people experience life and then they are done. They don’t want to go through it again, no matter what offers you give them. They want to move on to the realms of the gods, to be in everlasting joy, or to become a part of the oceans, or the wind, or an angel or a demon. All you’re doing is offering another route, and a great many people don’t want immortality. They never will.”

Erick scoffed. “I have a hard time believing that.”

Rozeta smiled a little, seemingly envious of Erick’s lack of knowledge.

Erick added, “Or maybe I do believe you?”

Phagar gave his own small smile. “Let me give you some numbers, then. About 3500 people die per day, in a normal year, about 33% of them from old age. Most people die from sudden monsters, or accidents, or otherwise. This year was one of the worst we have had in a long while due to Terror Peaks, but ignoring skewing of the data...

“All of Veird’s elderly line up at your door tomorrow, politely waiting in line for [Reincarnation]s. No drama. No trouble. Just politely waiting. You now have 1,115 people getting [Reincarnation]s. For you, this means 278,750 mana. You can swing that per day, with your nearly million Mana Regeneration. But you spend about 10 minutes on every person.

“It’s 185 hours to do that much magic.” Phagar asked, “Now you want to learn more Time Magic? You want to swing that? I can teach you how. Won’t help you in this case, though, because you’re still limited by the Script Second.

“And so, there is the other option: you can build a better world. You can mitigate that cost of time out to every single city you build from the sands, where the death rate is lower. Every single person you raise to power, who helps ensure that people are safer, and healthier. Every single decision you make for the good of everyone around you.

“This is the path we gods walk.

“Through light touches here and there, we cause growth and existence.

“Or…” Phagar leaned back in his chair, saying, “You could do a minute [Reincarnation] per person, rush through everything as fast as you can, and get those 1,115 people restored to youth and better futures in a matter of 19 hours per day.”

Erick hadn’t done the math as much as Phagar had, and those numbers hammered in what pure goodwill could no longer obfuscate. He could not do this alone, and he never could.

Phagar continued, “But assuming you went forward with this ‘heal everyone’ plan: Politically, it could be a problem for what you build here because you would eventually make enemies which would want to kill you for what you were not willing to give them, for they could easily slip whatever bonds you put upon them, [Blessing of Empathy] or otherwise. Spiritually, some might choose to turn from their gods, and that would piss off some of us… But that is honestly not a large issue, considering living worshipers are worth a lot more than dead ones. These are all, actually, small problems in comparison to what Veird will gain from continuous [Reincarnations]. I’m fine with you devoting your life to this, if you wish, though the problem will only grow larger and larger until you can no longer keep up with demand.”

Erick breathed, taking it all in.

