“There’s a word from my homeworld that works well here: You are not summoning a being of different manas, you are summoning a tulpa; A thing which starts off as an idea, grows to fullness, and becomes its own person. I could attach a lot more meaning to that word for you, and explain how such a thing existed on Earth where there was no magic, but you probably researched Sizzi, if not spoken to her directly?”

Tasar had a lot of different emotions as Erick had spoken, but now she was wondering just how far she should admit to spying. She went with the truth, “Yes. I had a small discussion with Miss Zago. A lot of that talk was about music and making the sounds of the magic ‘sound right’.”

Erick said, “The sounds were important for me; harmonizing them all together. They might be less important, or not; I am unsure.

“But as for tulpas and Sizzi: Sizzi had been trying to learn Summoning Magic in order to bring forth her childhood friends into the real world, but it wasn’t till I came along that she was able to make her own [Familiar]s how she wanted them. If you want a good example of what it means to make a [Familiar] with their own mana, then Sizzi’s example and this conversation right here is probably enough to tell you what a ‘tulpa’ is. I didn't even use that word when I spoke to her, but now, I realize what I was telling her to make. It took Kiri more than this, though.” Erick said, “Both of Sizzi’s summons were made outside of my sight and presence, but it took my direct presence to enable Kiri’s Sunny to manifest as she did. As soon as you get an idea of what it means to follow this path then I’ll be there for when you decide to make a [Familiar] like Ophiel.”

For a long moment Tasar said nothing.

Erick waited.

Tasar asked, “Is that… Truly all that I was missing? I need to make a [Familiar] that I want to be real? A childhood friend made manifest?”

And then she turned inward, her eyes falling down as she thought.

She was hurt for a dozen small and large reasons. Erick could only guess at a few of them, from Tasar not wanting to be hurt by the loss of a [Familiar] again, to feelings of inadequacy, to a deep self-loathing that the black-and-green woman never wanted to touch, but which Erick had exposed.

Erick briefly considered telling her about the mechanical, Time Magic-derived effects of his [Familiar]s, and how they were using mana from their future selves. But that seemed to be too mechanical to him, and such knowledge might bungle Tasar up even more if she thought that it could be solved mechanically. This was not a problem that needed to be solved mechanically, for it had already been solved emotionally, and three times already; twice by Sizzi, once by Kiri, and both of those young women couldn’t hear the mana at all.

Erick asked, “Can you hear the mana, Tasar?”

Tasar looked up. “That’s not how I do magic.”

“Try it once anyway. See if it works! [Familiar]s are just tier 2, able to be tried for again and again every day. It wasn’t until I knew exactly what I was making that I got Ophiel here.”

Ophiel chirped.

Tasar said, “… But according to you, if I don’t go for the full ceremony then I am not really trying.”

“Also true.” Erick said, “And there is one more secret to this that will probably hurt your chances more than it will help, so I won’t tell you that one yet. I’ll tell you after you make your [Familiar].”

Tasar frowned at him. “Just tell me now.”

“Let me ask you a question: Does what I have already said change how you would approach your [Familiar] creation?”

“… Yes. By a lot.”

“Then there you go!”

Tasar looked at Erick, and said, “If I were to give your apprentice this level of non-answers with regard to Spatial Magic then you would be very cross with me.”

“Ah ha! But you wouldn’t give her the secrets to [Teleport Other] so quickly, would you?” Erick said, “You would wait until she had learned how to [Teleport] first.”

Tasar lost her annoyance and a great lot of her emotional baggage in that moment. She leaned back in her chair, sighed, and said, “Fair.”

“How is Kiri doing, anyway?”

Tasar laughed once. “I’ve only been working with her for a few hours so far, but I already know she’s going to be a delight to teach. She takes in everything I can give her. Not as fast as some of the best minds I have ever taught, but certainly among the top 10%.”

Erick confessed, “I’m actually running out of things to teach her, so I think I might let her work with the House soon enough. I have to eventually pass down the Gate Network to another, and that person will probably be her.”

Tasar was briefly surprised. And then she asked, “But not your actual daughter?”

“Jane wants nothing to do with my magic or my kingdom. Which is fine! She can do what she wants. But I have to build something stable here and that means an heir, even if I do plan to stick around forever. And so, I have Kiri. Kiri is eventually going to walk the Worldly Path with you at her side, and that Path will end at me. She’ll start making Benevolence [Gate]s and take over my own duties.” Erick shrugged. “Or maybe she’ll just expand my Network? I’m not sure. Either way, I won’t be a failure point if I can help it.”

“… Well that is some monumental information I did not know, but which I suspected.” Tasar said, “I am actually quite glad that you are thinking like this, Erick. Kingdoms with heirs are always more stable than those without.”

“I haven’t actually told Jane this at all, so don’t you tell her this either, please.” Erick said, “I doubt she would care but… I want her to eventually find out from me. I haven’t told Kiri yet, either, but one hardly ever reacts badly to wonderful information so I’m a lot less worried about her... But don’t tell Kiri either. Just… Don’t tell anyone, actually. Jane is much more able to defend herself in a sticky situation than Kiri is.”

Tasar nodded. “Of course. It’s still several years before Kiri will be ready to walk the Path, anyway, and there is time to shore up her deficiencies.”

“I think she wants to build an empire, and so I will give her that if I can, but she still has to work for it; she has to get [Gate] mostly on her own.”

“What about Yggdrasil planting seeds on other worlds?” Tasar asked, “How does that fit into this situation?”

“Yggdrasil will eventually be able to open [Gate]s on his own as well, but that would be more for random expansion of the universe, I think. I love the big guy, but I’m certainly not going to force him to lead the way into the True Void for all the rest of eternity. Just like Jane, Yggdrasil will get a choice when he comes of age.” Erick said, “But Kiri is already of age, and she’s made her choices. She knows what she wants. Feel free to figure out the exact nature of what she wants, but try to be circumspect about it.”

Like a veteran soldier receiving duties, Tasar simply nodded, and said, “I will.”

Erick relaxed. “Thank you, Tasar. Thanks for coming on such short notice, too. Want me to blip you back?”

“No need. Thanks for trusting me with this information.” Tasar bowed in her seat, “Erick.”

And then she vanished in a blip of black and green magic.

Erick was alone again.

He smiled a little bit.

For a moment, he did nothing. He just relaxed.

And then he realized he had time to do some magic, for he did not need to sleep—

Well. Erick did need to sleep, and in fact, he kinda wanted to head off to bed right now. But Poi was almost done with dinner back at the house, and Erick wanted some of that scarlet king fish filet. Kiri would be back from her full day of work with Mox soon enough, and Teressa could wake up again for food, as she had done a few times today already.

Anyway! Erick would eat dinner with his family, and then he had time. He would use his [Hasted Shelter] and shove eight-plus hours of rest into one 10 minute period, and then he could do whatever he wanted with the rest of his night. He hadn’t done that last night because the Shelter made Ophiel uncomfortable after just twenty minutes, but this time, tonight, Erick could prepare the little guy for a night of rest inside a time bubble.

And when Erick came out of that bubble… What sort of magic would he make?

“I think… I think I’ll work on that magical iron problem.” Erick asked Ophiel, “What do you think, Ophiel? Magical iron that doesn’t rust?”

Ophiel chirped, happy to be included in the conversation.

“I think it’s a good idea, too.”

- - - -

Erick took one final look at his pachinko machine and his good thoughts vanished. A cancel command made the machine vanish, too. Metal and wood and glass fractured into scattered white fragments that then dissolved into the manasphere. It had been a terrible but necessary experiment.

Had he actually been willing to go through with it, if the ball had landed in that slot?

The question had merit, for eventually, in some unknown and a few known scenarios, Benevolence would make every single hypothetical metal ball land in a hypothetical murder slot. Erick would need to kill to make the world a better place, or to prevent a bad end. That day was not today, thankfully, but Erick knew how he had made Benevolence.

He knew what the future held.

The dark and the bright of it all.

This was not a new revelation for Erick, though.

He dismissed those melancholy thoughts and wondered if he was too stressed. If the job was getting to him. Being king was about as bad as having two jobs at the same time, and he had done that for years back when Jane was still growing up. If one counted ‘raising a child by themselves as a job’ then Erick actually had 3 jobs going at once for a long while. Being a king was easier than construction work and janitorial work and raising Jane, too; by a lot. But this job required a lot more mental effort… Which was not that much of a problem, though, now that Erick thought of it.

The authority he wielded over others and over the world, though… Now that was new.

And that was stressful.

After thinking about it for a while, Erick decided that Portal’s physical offers of companionship had rattled him more than he had realized, and mainly because those offers had been completely real. Sure, offering sex and marriage in a setting like that had been crude, but for Portal it was one of their best offers since war was not going to work at all. That whole scenario had been as crude as going to a bar and looking to hook up with another person, in the hopes of getting a long term relationship out of that casual fling.

Smart?

Mostly no.

But did it work?

Sometimes yes.

Did it work on the level of governments?

… It almost did, Erick was ashamed to admit.
