Rozeta said, “That switch from being capable, to being hindered and unable to help happens to every god, Erick. Don’t make the mistake of thinking it won’t happen to a Wizard, too.”

Phagar said, “Even with Time Magic on your side, there comes a point where you simply run out.”

Erick said, “I’m still going to try… But maybe I’ll put up some solid barriers to entry.”

“This is a valid tactic,” Phagar said.

Rozeta nodded.

Erick returned the conversation back to Rozeta, asking, “I was wondering specifically about the mana production, though, since you already warned me off of that once, when I did some stuff along these lines in Ar’Cosmos. Does my [Reincarnation] change the mana people produce?”

Phagar sat back.

Rozeta said, “Some people’s mana production changes when they become less monstrous or draconic. But human to orcol? Dragonkin to demi? There is an initial dip, but that comes back soon enough, and in some cases the person even exceeds their previous normal output. Mostly though, the output is the same. As the Goddess of the Script, I have no issue with [Reincarnation]. You using this spell on people is actually good for the world in a small, measurable sense, each time you do it, for the living —provided they live long enough— provide more mana than the dead. Not to mention almost every single person you’ve brought back from old age is already on their way to making more children, so that’s a net positive, too.”

Erick wasn’t sure what to say.

He had expected backlash, or some sort of restriction. Some sort of warning against doing what he had planned on doing, and yet, all he had really gotten was slapped with math.

“… I had thought that you would have words to say against this magic, Rozeta.” Erick looked to Phagar. “And you, too, actually.”

Rozeta smiled a little, while Phagar grinned.

Rozeta said, “You wouldn’t go throwing anyone into bodies they don’t want, but even if you did that it would still be a net positive for Veird’s mana. I have long ago said that the only things I concern myself with are the solidity of the Script, and this world; this remains as true now as it ever has before.”

Phagar said, “Death is not some sacred thing to be protected, and I’m not the God of Death. I struck the blow that killed that god 740,000 years ago and took his Domain as my own, and we’re all still better off for it.”

“… Ah,” Erick said, looking at Phagar, his thoughts turning oddly in his head.

Rozeta said, “Do what you want, Erick. Now… Moving on from [Reincarnation]—” She gestured to the pachinko machine which was still on the side of the table. “If you think killing a thousand people is what it takes to make a brighter tomorrow, then know that I would prefer you find another way if only for the continued security of the Script, but you go ahead and do what you think is necessary.”

Erick’s thoughts turned even odder.

All he could really pick out from the turmoil in his head was his own questioning of the morality of gods.

Phagar said, “When you eventually learn how to undo things you have done through Time Magic, and you wonder about doing something stupid and then reverting that change, I hope you can revisit the feelings you’re having now, Erick. We gods are required to act in certain ways in order to keep the world functional, and sometimes those actions are not in accordance with proper morality. Sometimes, the morality preached by certain gods is in direct violation of what other gods preach. All this goes to show is that gods should not be your arbiters of what is right and wrong.”

Rozeta tilted her head a fraction. She did not agree. But also, she did not object.

Phagar continued, “As long as you continue to follow your own morality, and continue to feel good about your own actions, then the feelings of gods should not upset you. We’re still above you in power right now, but that will change eventually. Eventually we’re going to be more like coworkers. I look forward to that day.” He smiled. “I look forward to asking you to run errands for me that I cannot do myself, and to be able to do the same for you.”

Rozeta nodded a little; now that, she could agree with. She said to Erick, “I have to take the stance I take to keep this world running, but if you want a Paladin or two with a much better set of morals than I, I can direct someone your way? Someone to keep you grounded, perhaps?”

“… No I’m— I’m fine. If [Reincarnation] is fine, then I’m fine, too.”

Rozeta said, “The only conceivable problem I could have with [Reincarnation] is if you start bringing back extinct races. Elves, dwarves, elementasi, or alvani. The first two are gone, and the only way to get back the other two is to change the Script, which I would fight you on, and I would win.”

A casual threat between coworkers already? Erick almost laughed, but Rozeta was serious.

Phagar said, “Regarding the elementasi and alvani, I agree, but elves and dwarves coming back would not be a problem.”

Rozeta sighed, then said to Phagar, “The elves coming back would be a problem— Well.” She said to Erick, “If you can solve the Rage of the orcols and make elves, then Aloethag would be grateful and I don’t see any problems there, but that would require large scale Wizardry, and I would prefer none of that. Stay away from large Wizardry, please.”

Erick had a sudden question, “Why would it require Wizardry to bring back the elementassi or alvani?”

Phagar looked to Rozeta.

For a moment, Rozeta debated with herself if she wanted to answer. Then she said, “I won’t answer that question at this time. Maybe in fifty years when you become more like a real coworker, and less like a start-up operation in the same country as we gods. I might answer you then.”

Erick nodded a little.

Rozeta perked up, “Ah! That reminds me: I will need you to go and run an errand for me before you reach coworker-level. Not necessary right now, but before [Renew] happens in 8 months, I will need you to speak to Ar’Cosmos and get them to accept a wrought presence in their lands. They’re taking their time on that part of our agreement, and that reluctance makes me uncomfortable. We need to ensure that their expansion of Ar’Cosmos is orderly and within the current mana limits of the Script. If they expand too far, too fast, then they will start breaking vital infrastructure due to limited mana flow problems.”

“… Ah. That sounds bad.” Erick said, “I’ll talk to them.”

“It won’t be that bad for a while, Erick, but it does have the potential to be bad. Right now, the specific problem I’m having is the paperwork and bureaucracy Ar’Cosmos is pushing at my people, all in an effort to make my people an ineffectual force. Please cut through that paperwork at your earliest convenience.” Rozeta grinned. “On the plus side of this whole [Renew]-Ar’Cosmos thing, the increased mana production from having a secondary world right next to this one will more than make up for the problems the dragons produce, IF they actually stay on Fairie. Their world will be one without real monsters or real danger, so I expect a population boom there, just as I expect a population boom here in the Crystal Forest.” Rozeta said. “As long as the Dragon Curse holds true on this side of reality, then this whole thing might actually work out well.”

“Okay then.” Erick said, “I’ll schedule a meeting.”

Rozeta smiled happily, saying, “Thank you.”

Phagar said, “Aisha was too out of it to bring it up, but your experiment with the ball bouncer here is a fantastic way to judge how good someone is at prognostication, and to train that magical muscle. But for you, Erick, it will be a good training method to figure out what it means to change the past… After you figure out [Return], anyway. When you want to talk about that magic, I’m available at any time.”

Erick smiled a little. “Thank you, Phagar.”

“And we still have a boon to talk about!” Rozeta said, “If you’ll pardon the suggestion, perhaps a basic boon to not require you to accrete anymore? Something to make that automatic? I notice you still haven’t worked on that magic yet.”

“Ahh… I’ve been busy. But no thank you on that specific offer.” Erick said, “I’ll figure something out.”

“Let me know when you figure out what you want.” Rozeta said, “I can do almost any small thing, and most larger things. You deserve it. But now! I must be going. It was good talking with you, Erick.”

“And you as well, Rozeta. Thanks for showing.”

Rozeta smiled.

And then she vanished backward in a cloud of gold flames.

Phagar nodded, saying, “See you later, Erick.”

“See you later, Phagar.”

And then the God of The End and Time vanished, too, like so much scattered golden flames.

For a long moment, Erick just sat there, in the [Ward]ed gazebo in Yggdrasil’s crown. The world outside his little protected space seemed to go faster, or rather, time resumed its normal flow. Yggdrasil’s green canopy waved in the northern winds, while rainbow lights filtered down from further above.

Erick supposed that the gods had their duties, just as much as their limits, and they did not bother with many things outside of those imposed [Force Wall]s. It had been kinda odd, and rather terrifying, actually, for Rozeta to say that the deaths of a thousand people were not a large concern to her. It had been kinda odd to hear that Phagar had killed Death almost a million years ago. It had been stranger still, for both gods to call Erick a ‘future coworker’. But this was his life now, he supposed.

And their limits were fine, the more Erick thought of it. He didn’t want to be constrained by higher powers, and he had locked in his own morality years and years ago. Benevolence was simply an expression of that morality, and his own Truth, that everything could be made better if you tried. ‘If you tried’ had certainly taken on a different meaning here on Veird, but it was what it was.

With a calm gaze across the world, through all of his Ophiel everywhere, Erick considered his next steps in this Candlepoint-thing he had going on. Apparently there was an actual need to schedule a meeting with Fairy Moon— or perhaps with Illustrious Moon, or Inferno Maw, or Bright Smile? Or all three of them the Heads of Houses? Including Fairy Moon? —Whoever showed up didn’t really matter, Erick supposed. What mattered was ensuring that Ar’Cosmos was getting along with the wrought, and that the bargains that Erick had helped to strike between Rozeta and Fairy Moon were coming along nicely.

He could do that in the morning.

“I have one more thing to do tonight.” With the bit of his body sticking out of the Privacy surrounding the gazebo, Erick sent to Tasar, ‘Hey, Tasar. Want to learn how to make a [Familiar] with their own mana right now?’

Tasar instantly sent back, ‘Yes. I’m in the Benevolence dungeon right now. Where can I meet you?’

Erick began sending an Ophiel that way. ‘I’ll have Ophiel blip you here and we can talk.’

A minute later Tasar sat across the table from Erick.

Erick smiled. “Hello again.”

Tasar was ready for whatever words might come from the Wizard sitting across from her—

But then she noticed the pachinko machine, and the red catcher at the bottom labeled with death for a thousand people.

Tasar decided to ignore it.

She simply said, “Hello, Erick.”

Erick got right down to it, saying, “You once told me how much it would hurt for Ophiel to mature and rip apart from my soul, but that the real pain would come later, when Ophiel grew old and died and there would be nothing I could do about it.”

Ophiel chirped on Erick’s shoulder. He didn’t understand exactly what was going on, but it was the same lack of understanding a baby in a crib had when their parents were talking; eventually, he could learn what all those squawking noises meant, and he could speak, too. He certainly recognized his own name and certain emotions, though he was not concerned, for Erick’s tone was rather light, even if his words were less than light.

Yggdrasil was still playing around with the Arbors of Treehome so if he was listening in then Erick could not tell.

Erick continued, “But while this is true for most people, it is not true for me. If such a thing should happen to Ophiel, then I will [Reincarnation] him into something that enables real continuance. I already offered the same thing to the Rockys —Tenebrae’s summon, you know— and they might take it. I might do the same thing for every single [Familiar] out there, if their final forms should prove nonviable. And for your next [Familiar], as well.”

Tasar stood adamantium still, trying not to breathe, or to give away her emotions, but a copper-bright tear rolled down her face anyway. It vanished into her black and green skin even before it finished falling, and Tasar inhaled in a shocked breath, and shuddered a bit. “I wish… I wish you would have been around a few centuries ago, Erick.”

“I’m here now, and it’s the best I can do.” Erick said, “I’m not willing to travel through time to change anything in the past just yet, and probably not ever.”

Tasar laughed a little, and this time copper-bright tears fell and she did not reabsorb them into her body. Drops of liquid sunshine fell and then peeled away from her skin like flakes of copper foil. “Not many people can say that without sounding quite a lot more boastful than they intended.”

Erick smiled a little. “So here’s the thing: To make a [Familiar] with mana, their creation must be more than a thing of math and intent given form. They must be a representation of you, or, perhaps, a certain reflection of you. A true wish given form. But these are things you have heard before.”

Tasar nodded, saying, “Yes. I have interviewed the Magisterium in the Wasteland Kingdoms when one Sizzi Zago divulged the technique she gained from you, to her uncle, who then paid off a debt by selling them that information.”

Erick nodded, then continued, “Here are some new ideas which I have only recently understood. The primary one being that in this act of creation you must make a [Familiar] that you have every intention of allowing to become a real person. With your act of creation, you are summoning something that you know will exist in the far, far future, but which is not yet here, in this time or place.

