“Adoive was always a troubled boy. A boy can be granted leniency. A man cannot. His conduct towards other members of Khelt was inappropriate. He was censured, then correction attempted. Rather than allow it, he left.”
In every society, there were people who refused to follow the rules. What could one do in Khelt where every citizen was cherished? Well, if one acted in violence or other means against one’s neighbors, they would be corrected. Watched, their behaviors monitored. If they could not learn, they would be placed under house arrest, monitored and restricted. A kind of imprisonment perhaps, but one with a way out. They just had to earn it.
It was actually far easier to correct issues stemming from addiction or something intrinsic that medicine or magic could cure. Those who were simply stubborn and refused to change, well…Adoive had left.
He had not liked what he found outside. He had sent hundreds of letters begging to be allowed in, and Fetohep had asked what he would bring back to Khelt. He had received insults, threats, silence, a demand for something Adoive felt he was owed.
It was not the first time this had happened. Other members of Khelt had bought mercenaries, hired adventurers, even, sometimes, convinced rulers of nations to take their side.
No one had ever won their way into Khelt by force of arms. Fetohep could sense the People of God at his borders; he had some awareness of a sizable number of people intruding over the no-man’s land just west of Germina, along the great desert.
“Impressive that they reached this far without trespassing into Germina. The Quarass would take measures against them if they were unruly. This Prophet and this People. Are they dangerous?”
The servant giving Fetohep the report checked their notes.
“Very, Your Majesty. They clashed with Medain and fomented unrest there and numerous kingdoms. But the High King was unable to arrest the Prophet. First the local Watch attempted it, then the army. Then the Golden Ranks were deployed—some of them. The People of God defeated each group and escaped. Some were apprehended and put to death—leading to more fighting—”
High King Perric. Fetohep sighed.
Adoive, you have allied yourself with lions who I doubt care for you at all. Your chances of returning home grow even slimmer for this. He waved a hand.
“Enough. This ‘request’ of theirs was brazen?”
“Your Majesty wishes to see it?”
Fetohep swept the paper up, then his eyes flashed. Beyond brazen. This Prophet demanded Fetohep allow them in, give them succor, and present himself before the ‘judgemental light of the Lord’ to ascertain the nature of Fetohep’s sins and seek ‘redemption’.
He cast the missive aside.
“Bold, but I will not slaughter these People of God…so long as they do not try Khelt’s patience. They shall stop at the border.”
He lifted a hand and in this, at least, he was confident. Weakened Khelt might be, their skeletons damaged. But at least a ragtag group like this…he projected his will to the northern border.
Armies of Khelt. Arise.
 
——
 
They had seemed like blank sands a moment ago. Adoive had been leading the Prophet, pointing towards his home with hope—and trepidation, but the Prophet had not seen the danger of Khelt. Yet as if they had crossed some inviolate threshold, the ground had trembled…
And skeletons arose.
They dug themselves out of the ground, some simply rising upwards, shedding sand in cascades off ancient armor. Clutching weapons still glinting with sharpness, ranks upon ranks of the dead. Rusted blades, mostly, but—
There were so many.
“Dead—”
The Prophet almost said ‘dead gods’, the common epithet of this world. He recoiled as a wall of skeletons rose. First one rank, then two, then…
Six ranks deep, forming a wall of blades that stood silent as the wind blew. The People of God recoiled despite themselves. Here was the might of Khelt.
For all their numbers, and they stood like a sea of people, they were suddenly, accountably, instantly outnumbered four-to-one.
That was the sheer, effortless power of Khelt, and the Prophet’s heart constricted as he saw now why Khelt was considered unassailable even by the King of Destruction.
“God save us. So many.”
Even Izreal trembled a second before his knees locked, and he turned to the Prophet along with everyone else. Which of course made Harvey all the more afraid. But Adoive was confident.
“This is just the outer layer of the dead, Prophet! Mere bones, armed with rust. This is nothing to the legions in their armor! Fetohep insults you, insults us!”
He didn’t fight, and the Prophet’s glower made the man hesitate. He wasn’t the only one; Marrieh strode over. She had naught but a club, but that was unto an artifact in her hands. She murmured.
“If we were to fight this many skeletons, countless of our faithful would die, even with our battleprayers and miracles. I could split them with my Miracle, [Hand of God], but…”
Even her best battle-Miracle would barely clear more than one spot. The Prophet rasped.
“No. We knew this would occur. Adoive…watch him, Izreal. I do not think he is as faithful as he claims to be. Yet prayer has led us here. This is a trial set before us. We shall see if our faith is wanting.”
He was worried. Some of his faithful were with him till the end, but doubt crept into any heart, he well knew. Failure here…
I must have faith. That was his answer; it was always the right answer. It was Lazimeh, armored in a slightly-dented golden chestplate and carrying a sword, who stepped forwards.
“I should go with you, Prophet. Faith should be backed by the hands to deliver it.”
He led the warriors of the faithful, and the Prophet almost said ‘yes’, but one man wouldn’t do much.
I wish we had our own Knights Templar, Crusaders. He envied Terandria with their [Knights], and if only he could convince one knight-order to join him, or any group with wealth…! The Prophet took a breath and spoke before Marrieh could open her mouth.
“No, Lazimeh, this is my test. Am I not the Prophet? If I fail, then we shall know it is not our time.”
And I truly doubt you can do much anyways. The man hesitated, then bowed, and they clasped their hands together as the Prophet walked forwards. He was terrified. The skeletons stood immobile, shoulder-to-shoulder.
They uttered no threats. Spoke not a word. Such was the King of Khelt’s contempt. But as he stepped forwards, blades swept up across their ranks. They waited, eyes glowing countless colors, all staring at him.
Step forward and die, mortal. He wavered, then, his legs shaking upon the hot sands and thought some of his people could see it. Almost, the Prophet backed up. He could not feel his faith—!
But then he glanced back at that light they had brought. At the people who had come speaking the name of God and his wonders, and he thought of the six who swore they would kill the one being who was all that was good and holy in this world.
Some things should die. So, Harvey Glastone closed his eyes and clasped his hands together, and he spoke. There was only one prayer to speak. The one he knew.
“Our Father, who art in Heaven. Hallowed be thy name…”
His was one voice. One—then thousands. The Prophet’s eyes were closed, his body was shaking. He was going to puke. His heart was beating too fast. He could barely stutter.
“…Thy Kingdom come. Thy will be done on Earth as it is in Heaven. Give us this day our daily bread…”
He heard a chattering now, a terrible clatter of bones. The rasp of metal. And voices wavering. A cry.
“Prophet—!”
One step. The man halted. And his conviction waned. In that moment, his hands unclasped. His body tensed with pure, mammalian fear, and he prepared to run.
I am wrong. I’m—
He did not see the skeletons moving forwards like a breaking wave of bones, mouths open, or how they surged across the dry ground as some of his people quailed. Or hear the King of Khelt’s faint sigh from tens of miles away.
He was just a man. Not an Apostle, not a perfect vessel of faith. Just a man—the Prophet turned to run. Then a glow from behind him caught his eyes. Overwhelmed his vision, and he stood, naked, in front of it.
[The Light of Faith]. The glowing beacon suspended above the praying People of God was shining. It blazed now, a light that was no longer the warm yellow or even white. Something beyond those colors, beyond what he could name.
The radiance bathed the Prophet. Blinded him, as if he were an enemy, and he cried out. He fell to his knees and saw it, then. Something far greater than his mortal flesh and failings. Something belonging to all of them, the people praying with a voice like thunder. And it pieced his frail, doubting heart.
For a second, he believed.
ʜᴇ ꜱᴀᴡ ᴛʜᴇ ʟɪɢʜᴛ. ᴀɴᴅ ɪᴛ ᴡᴀꜱ ɢʟᴏʀɪᴏᴜꜱ.
And Lo—a ray of divinity covered the skeletons who would smite the Prophet, and they halted. Stumbled and glanced up. One raised a hand as if to cover its eyes and stared into the heart of faith. Another reached out, wonderingly, dropping the rusted hilt of the sword it carried. Yet another turned to flee—
The flames went out in their sockets. The skeletons fell, each one collapsing to bones, which turned to dust. The first rank, then the second, vaporizing as the light shone past them, a ray which swept the undead as the Prophet knelt, spreading his arms out, weeping. The undead vanished.
 
——
 
Upon his throne, Fetohep of Khelt sat up. His glowing eyeflames constricted to pinpoints of alarm.
“No. How—?”
He could not see it. Could not understand. His undead were—vanishing. How? The man was kneeling. Was something—
Then they were surging forwards. More undead began to rise. Fetohep called them skyward, and something—
Something was unmaking them.
 
——
 
“Forwards! We are protected by His light!”
They ran forwards the moment the light burned the first group of undead down. Then, the Prophet saw his people running, the beacon floating with them, and he turned.
Not all of the undead were dying instantly; wherever the ray of light struck, they died instantly, but there were so many, and more were coming—Adoive was screaming.
“Past the borders! He has less past the—”
Izreal, Marrieh, were fighting, running past the pilgrims and battling the undead. Yet thousands were—the Prophet ignored the shouts for him to get back. He pushed away the screaming people and cast around.
“A staff.”
He found a quarterstaff being born aloft by a screaming warrior and took it. Then he began walking forwards. The light followed him. Heedless of the danger, the Prophet began striding forwards, and the undead threw themselves at him, uncomprehending, reaching for him—
Some had bows. Arrows flashed past him, striking some of the People of God, and there were cries, faith. Fighting around him. The Prophet kept walking, eyes fixed on the skeletons as they vanished. He did not waver, even when an arrow struck the side of his head and left a red line across his scalp.
Faith. He had prayed, and there was his answer. He was just—chanting. Chanting, his people realized. Praying out loud. Though he knew not the words, he knew the story.
“Then Moses came to the Red Sea, and the waters were impassable as the Pharaoh’s armies bore down upon him. But he had no fear. He struck the water, staff in hand, and the seas themselves did rise and part—”
The dead vanished to either side of him as he led them forwards, bathed in that holy light. Whether they knew it or not, the People of God who followed him in a great wave were within the radius of the Light of Faith; the undead throwing themselves forward could not breach that undead-purging light.
And so, the Prophet set foot onto hallowed lands that were not his, and in doing so, committed an act of miracles that few forces had ever managed. His people walked across Khelt’s borders, and their faith grew without limit.
The King of Khelt did not understand, for he had no eyes with which to see faith. Later, later, yes, the Prophet who had called himself Harvey would confess his sins in the sermon of the evening.
He would tell them how his own faith had wavered, how he had turned, and how God had shown him the light he did not deserve, and he would pray with them. He would tell them this as he told them to spread the word of faith to the cities, as their grand redemption of Khelt began and they saw the people’s indolence and cravenness and brought the Good Word to them.
For the Prophet was honest in many things. But there was one thing, one thing he would not, could not admit to any of them, and much relieved was he by the robes that he walked with, voluminous silk.
That moment he’d walked through a sea of undead burning in the cleansing fire of faith…he’d been the most erect he’d ever been in his entire life.
 
——
 
The entry of the People of God and the Prophet into Khelt was unremarked upon and not noticed by anyone at first. In time, it would be a moment in history that would be noted down as important, but that was hindsight.
However, there was an event occurring in another continent that had a kind of synchronicity with the Prophet’s actions, though that too was something only a being like the Grand Design might understand.
And it was so unpredicted. It, of course, involved Satar Silverfang, who was humming as she presented herself before her mother, Akrisa Silverfang. Her mother was trying not to be jealous or impressed and acting like a Chieftain.
Cetrule, her partner and the [Shaman] of the tribe, was dead. Akrisa hadn’t appointed a new head [Shaman]; in a sense, they were all one big tribe these days, and Theikha was [Shaman] enough for five. But she was still a mother, and Satar was her daughter.
“So this…Frieke is going to contribute to your work, Satar?”
“Yes, and she even donated gold to the project!”
Satar was exuberant and excited to have a Named-rank want to be on first-name terms with her. Akrisa harrumphed.
“Be careful about owing favors to Named-ranks, Satar. She may be trying to gain information from you.”
“Mother! I mean, Chieftain—she’s a historian!”
“Yes, and so was that fellow from the Blighted Kingdom. They are still people of their nations. Be careful about what you tell her. You are the [Historian] of the Meeting of Tribes, and if you endanger us all, it will be upon your fur.”
The girl visibly wilted at the scolding and glared at her feet. Akrisa felt bad, but she continued.
“You’ve been getting an ego. Don’t growl at me—you know it’s true! I think your class is wonderful, as is your fame, Satar, but I will lecture you like any prodigy in my tribe. You are at risk of endangering others by carelessness!”
“You think I’m a prodigy?”
