“…Got any more bugs to squash? I have a moment.”
Mistreq shook his head.
“No. There was a nest of those beetle things, you know. They’d hollowed out part of the wall and laid a nest of these little…larvae…and some kind of grey residue that made the nest.”
“Oh no! How dreadful! I can get rid of that!”
And it’d solve him coming to her for help! Frieke offered, but Mistreq gave her a pale smile.
“No need. I, ah, destroyed it myself.”
Konska and Frieke peered at him, astonished.
“You did? How?”
“Well, you had gone, and no one else was willing to—so I found as much dry wood as I could. One of my chairs, three pillows, and shoved it closer. Thankfully, the beetles didn’t notice it, and starting a fire…well, I had to start some fire and then throw it at the kindling. Then it went up—it took near an hour to burn it fully, and I had to put coals into the hole as they tried to come out—!”
Frieke felt a peck on her shoulder. She glanced sideways and peered down from the second floor apartment to the courtyard below. A rather huge section of one of the walls was burnt completely black and even melted inwards. By, say, a giant bonfire? She thought she saw a tiny fist-sized hole in the center of the structural deformity but that was probably her imagination.
She turned back to Mistreq, who was shuddering.
“How—it was quite difficult, Adventurer Frieke. How would you have done it?”
“Well…you did good on your first time, Mistreq. I used to have to clean up bugs as a [Street Rat] for coppers. If I had to do it? As a kid, you just took a rock and some rags and wrapped it around your hand and squished everything. But since we’re a bit more refined—”
He’d gone pale, and Frieke hurried on.
“Probably, I’d take those embers and shove them in the hole and seal it up. Burn the suckers to death.”
“Some would fly out, though, surely? And I imagine they’d get—agitated—how would you deal with that?”
She looked at him and shrugged.
“You have to, um, squash them at some point, Mistreq. Or at least, catch. Even with nets. I suppose you can do it your way, but it might, uh, take an hour. As opposed to a few minutes.”
“That’s what I feared.”
He sagged, then nodded to her. Konska sniggered behind a wing, but Frieke felt a bit bad for the silly fellow. After a moment, Mistreq turned to her.
“It isn’t much like your work, I realized, though.”
“Hm?”
She was strolling onwards, but turned reluctantly, and he gestured at the blackened pit.
“Everyone was telling me how brave I was for getting rid of the insects as His Majesty said, and I even received a bounty. But I didn’t gain the [Hero] class. Your monsters are rather bigger. Insects as large as you are.”
“Some of them, yes.”
Mistreq nodded. Then stared at Frieke as if for the first time.
“How do you fight those?”
She tapped the hilt of her sword.
“Mostly, you stab them to death.”
His eyes focused on the sword, and for the first time, Frieke thought that someone in Khelt actually got what that meant, a bit. Then he went to protest, and she went to meet with Pewerthe.
 
——
 
It wasn’t like she had anything better to do. Which astonished and annoyed Pewerthe as they breakfasted on some Liscorian-themed foods. Earth-style pancakes drizzled with Ashfire Bee honey and fruits. A sign at their table warned them that eating outside might attract flies, but they didn’t care.
“His Majesty hasn’t sent for you? But Alked’s at the border trying to deal with you know who.”
Pewerthe appeared tired. And muddy from her clay work. She was not very popular in the city right now, because as a Fetohep apologist and someone who went to the palace, lots of citizens took their frustrations out on her. Frieke had these breakfasts to help Pewerthe, and she ducked her head, embarrassed.
“Well, His Majesty seems to think I’m—”
There was a scream from within the restaurant. Both women turned. Frieke had sword in hand, Pewerthe a pot. Someone came out of the kitchen. The [Cook], screaming.
“Something’s in my flour! Something’s in the—”
They relaxed. Konska groaned, hopped into the kitchen, and Frieke whispered.
“Maggots in the flour. Konska can handle it.”
“Oh, yuck. That actually deserves a scream.”
They went back to breakfast as everyone else lost their appetite. Frieke glanced around. This…wasn’t a rare occurrence these days. All these bug incidents—she was surprised the entire kingdom wasn’t more up in arms. Frankly, from how Mistreq reacted, she would have thought every Kheltian would be out on the streets, but it still seemed like a simmering pot.
Not that this was good, but Fetohep was acting like it was fine, and his citizens still seemed to be largely buying it. Pewerthe played with the pot, opening and closing the lid. It wasn’t a good pot, just hand-sized and rough. Maybe it was the one you threw at a problem.
“So what about His Majesty not using you?”
“Oh, that. I asked if he would, and he said he requires nothing of me. I’m…well, I’m a citizen of Khelt. And I should want for nothing. In his eyes, I suppose I’m equal to everyone else.”
Pewerthe stared at Frieke, and the smile the Named-ranker wore was both happy and a bit forlorn. Once more as yet again, the exalted and impartial rule of King Fetohep.
She Who Would be Queen Pewerthe took one bite of her pancakes, gagged, spat a baked maggot onto the table, and pushed her plate back. She stood, eyes flashing.
“Fetohep is wrong. I’m conscripting you, Frieke. You work for me. If you don’t have a job, you report to my potter’s shop each morning.”
Frieke stirred, much like the maggot writhing a bit on the blown glass table. She blinked at Pewerthe, then raised a hand.
“I am?”
“Yes.”
“Against my will?”
“Yes.”
“Do I get paid?”
Pewerthe shook her head.
“We don’t use real money here, and I don’t have any, so no.”
Frieke the Falcon considered all this as Konska poked his head out of the kitchen to say ‘hey, maybe this [Cook] had better close everything down because there’s a lot of insects in her food’ as Frieke stared at Pewerthe. Then the adventurer stood and nodded.
“Okay, then.”
She looked rather pleased.
 
——
 
When Frieke was presented to Fetohep as a second Named-rank adventurer to deal with the Prophet’s minions, despite her clear reluctance to have to fight and risk her life against the People of God, Pewerthe expected understanding. What she got was a golden glare.
“Pewerthe, I promised Frieke of Medain citizenship upon no conditions. She is a citizen of Khelt!”
“And Khelt needs her to act!”
“If I do not require this of all my citizens, then I shall not single her out.”
“Well, I do. That is my will, and we cannot deal with these issues without asking some of our most capable citizens to take arms, at least! Or what of Alked? We must ask Geraeri or the Gnolls to help us!”
Frieke stood awkwardly as the two glared at each other, and Fetohep lifted a finger.
“Fellbow has volunteered his services of his own accord, and I intend to reward him for his service. As for that wretched Prophet and the failings of mere [Mercenaries]…the Herdmistress is not required yet.”
He sat back, steepling his fingers, and Pewerthe eyed the king, genuinely annoyed. Frieke was saved from having Pewerthe throw a pot at the Eternal King of Khelt by a horncall. Then King Fetohep’s gaze brightened, and he smiled down at Pewerthe.
You see?
And they saw.
 
——
 
There were twenty-one men and women in the front ranks of the small army that had ridden into Koirezune. Mere [Mercenaries], like those already contracted for Khelt.
Or they had been. But what separated these kneeling figures from the others, the reason by which Fetohep knew them all by name, was simple: they had been here before.
When King Fetohep of Khelt had made his now-famous ride towards the sea and sailed upon the Meeting of Tribes, twenty-one men and women had emerged from their city gates. They had ridden with the Dragonward Bells singing damnation and taken part in a journey of legends.
It had not mattered that they had little strength of actual arms. Their bravery had carried them across the sea and back, and he had rewarded them.
These were the [Riders] from Dovive, whom Fetohep had showered with gifts after the Meeting of Tribes. They had left with Khelt’s friendship, and now, in their hour of need, Khelt had called for aid.
Fetohep was rather proud of himself, and he smiled as they knelt before him in his throne room. Each one, he was pleased to note, had not only levelled, but consolidated their classes.
“We are now all members of Dovive’s army, Your Majesty. When you requested our aid, the city released us and a thousand of our [Riders] to deal with this Prophet.”
The man who spoke for their group had been a [Mercenary] months ago; now he was [Coin Rider] Lashivet, and he looked better. Not…the highest of levels, but Fetohep had not given the man a decade to mature.
This was enough. They had come, and Fetohep bade them rise.
“Your actions do not go unnoticed, Lashivet, Triekas, Vilyet…”
They stood in awe of him twice, but they had come to do business. Dovive was not rich, but it mattered little. Fetohep first had them banqueted, as was proper, and only afterwards did he relay some details. He could trust them more than the [Mercenaries], so he was forthcoming with information.
“These People of God have an ability that damages undead greatly. Hence my unwillingness to waste my undead to no end. It is my intent that Dovive’s forces sweep the Prophet’s forces aside. They move constantly, but Alked Fellbow is tracking their main camp. They have great numbers, but most are not warriors.”
“How many, Your Majesty?”
When he told them the numbers, Lashivet swallowed, but Fetohep lifted a hand and smiled.
“I do not mistake the odds, friends of Khelt. I intend to arm Dovive’s forces adequately for the expedition. Each rider in your company shall be issued an enchanted weapon. Not of great strength, but enough.”
Triekas’ mouth hung open, then she burst out.
“T-that would do it, Your Majesty! With a Named-ranker at our backs, we could scatter them. ‘Specially if we get that Prophet.”
“Alive would be my preference, but it is optional, regardless. Do this for me and I shall ensure Dovive is handsomely rewarded.”
And perhaps then see about hiring some people who can act as cleaners? Fetohep was still highly resistant to bringing anyone into his cities, be it foreign workers or [Slaves]. In his experience, that lent itself to second-class citizens, and he did not wish that for his nation.
But he was so relieved by this simple solution that he bade the forces of Dovive set out the next day. Without Adventurer Frieke.
Pewerthe was so upset she came storming into his throne room at near midnight when she heard this, but Fetohep had meant what he said.
“One Named-rank Adventurer shall make no difference here, Pewerthe. Neither your assistance, nor the Quarass’, are necessary.”
The Quarass had in fact called him six times that week, offering her own forces or agents as methods for dealing with the Prophet. She had seemed entirely off-put by his refusals.
“Fetohep, it is one thing to limit the actions of [Mercenaries], another to refuse the aid of a Shield Kingdom!”
He glanced at her as he sipped from a goblet.
“I would not wish Germina to bestir itself unduly, Quarass. This issue is adroitly handled.”
She hesitated, chewing on a grape as she lounged in the gardens next to her palace.
“I would trust to Germina more than any other force…”
“And I as well. However, though Khelt’s largesse is infinite, my propensity to spend it is not. Good day to you once more, Quarass.”
He’d had the satisfaction of cutting her off. The King of Khelt had grown quite tired of her extortion. He rewarded, he did not pay. 
Both Pewerthe and the Quarass would see…the King of Khelt sat back on his throne, passing the long night in eager anticipation of the next day. But when battle was joined—
Ah.
He saw faith meet magic for the first time.
 
——
 
The Prophet didn’t know what hit his camps at first. The riders swept down out of the darkness with undead, and the faithful were fighting when Marrieh tore the flaps of his tent open.
“Prophet, we’re under attack!”
A thousand [Riders] plus [Mercenaries] on foot assailed the Prophet’s camp, and at first, it was almost a rout. Screaming people fled, and those with weapons were cut down or even subdued without death—they were coming for the Prophet, and they might have succeeded except for two things.
The first was Marrieh and the militant arm of the People of God, who formed a line of bodies around the tent and met the [Riders] in a clash of arms that took all of them off-guard.
A Stitch-man armed with a glowing lance taken from one of the Terandrian [Knights] who had led the Crusade against Khelt rode down on Marrieh who stood, club in one hand, a buckler in the other. She set herself, and the tiny buckler met the lance as the rider thundered at her.
“[Faith is My Shield]!”
Thunder. The lance snapped as a glowing shield adorned by feathered wings flashed for a second, and the [Rider] was hurled back off his saddle as the enchanted item detonated its magic. A surprised [Mercenary] skidded to a halt, and Izreal pointed.
“[Bolt of the Heavens]!”
The lightning struck the ground so hard and fast that only downed bodies and glowing sand remained in the crater it left. The charge towards the Prophet faltered as the faithful turned—and then the [Light of Faith] began to glow.
The undead assailing the camp fell to pieces as it bathed them, and the mortal men and women threw up their hands, blinded. Even Alked Fellbow was left unable to shoot, cursing—and that was when the counterattack began.
The Prophet’s camp was the primary one, but the sheer size of the People of God’s numbers meant that the periphery camps were spaced out around his, and when they saw the attack, they came streaming across the ground, throwing themselves into battle.
The Prophet saw it from the back ranks where massed prayers rang in the air, empowering the People of God, but oh, despite their divine blessings, it was a bloody battle.
Surprised or not, Dovive and the [Mercenaries] were armored warriors, and most of the People of God were not. Only the weight of their numbers kept the soldiers back, and blood began to wet the sand. Panicked [Mercenaries] skewered screaming pilgrims on their blades, and for every one that died, another would get back up, wounds healed.
“Fight! Fight in His name! Retreat!”
