He was one of the highest-level members of the People of God, and this was his Level 40 capstone Skill. The ability to summon a being that was unto an angel, though Harvey was…uncertain of its nature.
It did not speak, nor did it do anything other than fight, but God almighty, when it fought? Only magic could harm it; it had bested the Fury of Skies simply because all his punches and kicks had gone through it. Each blow—it had no weapons—burnt the flesh and scorched stones.
The new faithful shrank back, but Manoset gestured, and the apparition hovered in the air, casting around as if searching for enemies. He began recruiting with far less showiness. He strode up to one prospective man, who turned.
“You, newcomer! You look sturdy of body! A fellow Hemp? What’s your name and where do you hail from?”
A blunt-nosed man with grey hair and sharp eyes grunted.
“Me? Thurg. I’m from…”
He paused, and Marrieh’s heart sank as his mouth worked. He counted.
“Nerrhavia’s Fallen. Mirgen.”
“Ah, on the border. Fled the King of Destruction’s wars, did you?”
Manoset had noticed the slowness, and his eyes flickered, but he smiled and clasped the man’s arm more gently. Thurg nodded.
“Yes. Fled. Told to fight. First rank.”
Every Stitch-person from Nerrhavia’s Fallen turned, and they knew what that meant. Only Lazimeh and Yirene did not. Yirene whispered to Jilthread.
“What does that mean?”
Jilthread glowered back as she whispered harshly.
“He was conscripted to the Golden Hordes, obviously! First rank…they were going to send him head-first against the King of Destruction. He’d have died if he stayed.”
Every Hemp knew they were fodder in wars, but first rank was a death sentence. Small wonder he’d fled. Marrieh whispered.
“I think he’s thick-clothed. Manoset shouldn’t recruit him.”
Another term that meant that Thurg was obviously slow to respond. It happened in Hemp due to their lower quality of cloth—if your body parts were not made well, you could develop complications in them. Including the brain, which was just another form of cloth.
Yirene understood, and frowned.
“Oh, you mean he’s snarled. It happens to Silk and Cotton too, you know, but it’s always caught very quickly. There are ways to fix that. If we had a high-level [Weaver]…”
“No one of Hemp can afford that. And no high-level [Weaver] who’s not Hemp will work with us, anyways.”
Jilthread snapped at Yirene, and the Silk Stitch-woman shut up. Then murmured.
“Perhaps prayer could help that man. He was bright enough to get here. He appears familiar, actually. Did I tend to him or some such? And who are the others?”
“Germina’s people, and Hellios’. More of the latter than the former.”
Few in Germina wanted to leave the Quarass’ side, but there were a number of Hellios’ people too. They just came here, hearing word of a people who would feed and take care of them, and if they were willing to stay and work, they were accepted.
Not just the needy. Manoset came to another likely woman with scars running down her back, fresh-healed by Yirene, and hesitated. The clear marks of a slave-brand and collar told him who she was.
“You, ah, escaped Roshal?”
“‘Sright. Been travelling for weeks. Nearly got taken by [Manhunters]. Someone said you feed anyone. I’ll work. I’ll do whatever, just so long as you don’t turn me in. As long as I can get to a coast, maybe. I’ll fight. Just hand me a weapon.”
The woman was raspy, parched, and Jilthread strode over with some water. She seemed ready to bolt, but Marrieh walked forwards.
“You do not need to fight. What is your name, stranger? And how did you escape Roshal? We do not turn anyone over to the Slavers of Roshal.”
She smiled, and the wary Human woman relaxed.
“Me? Uh…Gladys. I was east of here. Far east. Got free with some of my friends. I hope they made it.”
Her twisted lips said she thought she was the only one. She took a huge gulp of water, coughed.
“The Bane of Roshal freed us. Ran down on a caravan in the night, started breaking chains, but they had a Djinni. We just ran for it.”
“And so you made it here. That must be God’s will. Sit and eat. This is the body of Christ, given for you.”
“The what of the what?”
Several people nearby who’d been eating manna dropped the bread in horror, but Marrieh explained it wasn’t literal. Gladys just eyed the bread and took a bite.
“So it’s really communion? Amen.”
Marrieh stared at her for a second. Communion? She knew the words, but hadn’t Harvey once called it…?
Then everyone was on their feet, and there was a shout.
“The Prophet! The Prophet is coming!”
 
——
 
Harvey had come for Marrieh. He swept into the camp as they knelt, followed by a procession of his Disciples, including Izreal. He raised one hand.
“Marrieh, there you are. I wished to discuss our battle plans.”
She bowed to him and gestured left.
“Of course, Prophet. I was just feeding and greeting the newest members of the People of God. Surely, you have words of wisdom for them.”
He blinked, hesitated, and then turned, and his face was impatient, then open with smiles of welcome.
“…Naturally. Be welcome, all of you who have travelled so long to come here. Your burdens may be put down. You are in God’s hands, now. Safe. I am the Prophet of God, and this is our camp. Jilthread is one to speak to if you need anything. Listen to her words, and learn what it is to believe in God.”
He didn’t actually know who was in charge of this camp. But Marrieh smiled because he was open and welcoming. Not all of the newcomers fell in love with the Prophet, of course. Thurg was on his knees, mouth open with stupefied wonder, but Gladys hesitated, and a number of other faithful had doubts.
They might leave, in time. Sneak off with manna and go, or just hang around, praying but not believing. That was fine. Faith took time. However—Harvey was unpredictable.
He could either win over newcomers in a moment or alienate them depending on whether they caught the man or the messenger of God. Today, it seemed like they had caught the messenger, because when his eyes lit on Gladys, he sucked in a breath.
“And [Slaves] from Roshal, I see.”
She tensed as he approached, but he just knelt and offered her a hand.
“What is your name, sister? Excuse me, for we are all sisters and brothers here. I give you my word that no [Slaver] of Roshal is welcome among us. No one will sell you out or take you. That is the will of God, and there will come a day when all chains are broken.”
Bold words. Dangerous words that made Izreal uncomfortable and glance at Marrieh. She was reminded they were trading with Roshal’s [Merchants], but she smiled, because Gladys untensed.
“Thank you. I’m Gladys…”
She rose, and there was something there that made Marrieh think she wouldn’t run off with bread that night. As the Prophet rose, he lifted a hand.
“Let there be food for all to eat. [Manna from the Heavens].”
He raised his hand, and more began to float downwards, a storm of food that everyone rushed to collect, far more than anyone else could produce. And that was pure Prophet.
…Right up until he spotted Manoset’s summoned spirit hovering over the camp, circling like a holy watchdog, and his features contorted. Then Marrieh groaned—for out came Harvey.
“It’s that…apparition again. The spirit. Who summoned it? Manoset? I told you, use it only in battles. It is not what should be hovering around the camps! There are children here, and it is—not any being of Heaven I know.”
He spoke, and Manoset hurried over, bowing.
“Prophet, I only wished to inspire all those faithful with its presence.”
The Prophet nodded, but his face was conflicted, and he stared at the being which was called divine…and he glared.
“You say that, but it is not an angel. Even your Skill says that! It’s not a—a cherubim, let alone a seraphim. It’s not any of those things. What is it?”
“A holy spirit, Prophet—”
“No!”
The word rebuked Manoset, and he backed up. The Prophet raised a finger.
“It is not the Holy Spirit. That is blasphemy. To think any one of us could summon that? It is…a spirit, perhaps, but I do not know it. And—”
He peered at it and grew angrier.
“It has stitching!”
Uh oh. Here it came. Marrieh strode over as Izreal hesitated, unwilling to be the target of the Prophet’s wrath.
“As we have spoken of, Prophet, is it not a sign of divine grace that it has features of Stitch-folk?”
Harvey glanced at her, and he was angry. Angry from the dead faithful, angry about Khelt, and he snapped back.
“No! Marrieh, we have been over this. In the Garden of Eden, it was Adam who was made first, then Eve from his ribcage. The first to inherit the Earth were men and women. Humans. When the Angel, Michael, descended to Earth, he did not have stitches!”
“Is that written in the Bible, Prophet? Perhaps, as you have said, the image of such beings is unknowable.”
Izreal tried placatingly. But Harvey spun.
“That is not unknown, Izreal. Jesus of Nazareth was a man. A Human. And I will not have images made of him falsely as a Stitch-folk, dark of skin, or—”
He hesitated, because his followers were gazing at him, and he, Harvey, might be Human and light of skin, but he was a rarity. Marrieh…
Hurt. Just a bit, whenever he spoke like this. Gently, Jilthread came forwards and spoke.
“Of course, this is all that is written in the Bible, Prophet.—But surely we can have our own angels?”
Or are there none in Heaven? Then the Prophet realized he stood on the edge of dangerous theology, and he looked to Marrieh, and she spoke.
“The Prophet only means that real, true people from the Holy Bible were Humans. To imply otherwise is untrue.”
He nodded after a moment and took a breath. Closed his eyes and turned his head up, as if listening. They all waited, and after a second, he nodded again.
“Yes. Yes. It is true that the Holy Bible on Earth was written with Humans and only Humans in mind. But it seems to me…”
He glanced around.
“…It seems to me that it was the creation tale of my world. Mine, which is a land without Stitch-folk. The Lord sent no angels of cloth-flesh because he wished not to confuse us. But here, in this land…”
He cast his eyes up to the spirit, which had flown even lower and was roaming the camp. Manoset frowned at it, but didn’t speak as Harvey lifted a hand gently.
“The ways of God are mysterious even to his most devout. No, I recant my anger, Manoset, Izreal. It is well, and it is a mighty servant. Stitch-folk are a mighty people of God, and yours is the most common among the flock. Surely, this is a sign you are beloved.”
It was like a tense breath left those listening and they smiled, and clasped their hands in prayer, but a few were worried, like Jilthread and Marrieh. She knew Harvey noticed, for he began to marshal them to the council of war.
Faith was indeed a difficult path for them all to tread. Yet, as Marrieh began to follow the Prophet, she still believed his heart and theirs were in the right place. Just conflicted. Izreal was striding ahead, trying to speak to the Prophet, but Harvey kept waiting for her. Perhaps Yirene was right, but what was her vision? Marrieh tried to listen to God’s voice as she closed her eyes a moment—
And then Yirene grabbed her arm and hissed.
“Marrieh! I know who that is!”
Her arm was strong, and she was suddenly terrified. She drew Marrieh aside and pointed covertly backwards. Marrieh frowned.
“Who, Gladys?”
The [Slave] had been listening intently to the Prophet and was frowning as she stared up at the holy apparition overhead. But it was not her that Yirene was pointing to in such fear. No, it was the Hemp man trudging after Manoset.
Thurg. The other Hemp were being kind to him, explaining how the camps were laid out patiently—you had to take care of thick-cloths in the community, but Yirene’s finger was shaking.
“It’s his eyes. H-he can change everything about him, even his skin, but those eyes were a reward. I remember them. That’s no common Hemp. That’s Alked Fellbow.”
Marrieh’s heart began to judder in alarm.
“You’re sure?”
“I saw him when I was at court, before we were deposed. He was just a Silver-ranker being promoted for slaying a nest of Manticores single-handed. Those eyes were his reward. He’s in our camps!”
Spying. Marrieh reached for the club she carried.
“Go to the Prophet. Make sure Izreal is next to him. I’ll speak to him.”
Perhaps they could avoid confrontation. Perhaps they could negotiate; they had not managed to speak to anyone from Khelt in a position of authority. She was casting around. Jilthread would be good backup. And Manoset, though he was a hothead.
“Marrieh! Are you coming?”
“Manoset, to me!”
The Prophet and Izreal didn’t understand what the delay was. Both called out, and Marrieh waved a hand at Harvey, but Manoset shouted back.
“I will, Izreal! Just a moment—something is off with my spirit.”
The floating being was skimming over the camp, now, and Marrieh had never seen it doing that before. It was combing through, row by row, in a weird pattern, as if it was…
Searching for something. Marrieh saw the being flying barely over the tents, and she called out, suddenly realizing what it had sensed.
“Manoset, call back your spirit.”
He glanced at her, but he didn’t comply right away. Marrieh began striding over as Thurg’s head lifted, and his too-keen eyes saw the spirit waver—then dive at him and two of the Germinans, who cowered and screamed.
“No—”
There was a flash of light as the spirit struck the ground, cries of alarm—and then Alked Fellbow shed his disguise, ripping the ‘skin’ of his face away as he drew a shortsword. He didn’t curse nor waver—he took two steps forwards, lanced the glowing spirit with his sword, and then jumped.
He frontflipped over the spirit as it lashed out at him, then slashed across its head again. Two killing blows, which tore some of its light body away but didn’t harm it. Then Alked Fellbow was sprinting away.
“What are you doing? What—Thurg?”
Manoset was dumbfounded, but Yirene called out, panicked.
“It’s Alked Fellbow! Protect the Prophet!”
Gasps, then screams. The faithful flung themselves in front of Harvey, and he shouted.
“Get back! Battle prayers! Capture him! Don’t let him get away—Marrieh! Marrieh, stand back!”
She was running at Fellbow, trying to stop him. They had to capture him without killing him—but he was fast. He sprinted back as the divine spirit gave chase, emitting sounds like tolling bells. He slashed as it struck at him, and it missed, overshooting him—
