Eternal Khelt was the kind of place you liked to forget about if you were anywhere but Khelt. It wasn’t just that it was an undead necrocracy that went against some species’ sensibilities. The problem with Khelt was that it was paradise. An unassailable paradise, and if you thought about it, it grew on you like a canker sore.
It made you feel like you were doing something wrong, that you were inferior to that bag of bones and that spoiled nation. Khelt was the opulent mirror, and most preferred to ignore it, but it was hard of late. Khelt occupied a share of the media thanks to King Fetohep’s popularity, but only Chandrarians thought of it as an immediate threat or ally, and it was famously neutral.
…Until now.
The broadcast with the Jaws of Zeikhal attacks hadn’t been widespread. Wistram News Network re-aired it, but only Nerrhavia’s Wonders had broadcasted live coverage; it was a huge incident, but it was Chandrarian news. Considered second-rate by Wistram News Network.
However, to Chandrarians it was disturbing. Terrifying. You could see the Jaws rampaging in the distance if you were close enough and had the right angles. Of course, the reason had been announced: the death of a family due to bandits had driven Fetohep into a rage. A reminder of his wrath.
But to the nations who had a bit more perspective on Fetohep, it still seemed…
“What the hell was that about?”
The Herald of the Forests seldom swore, but she slammed into the meeting in the Claiven Earth, rattled beyond belief. She had been riding around the destroyed section of their forest that the Jaw had attacked. It hadn’t gotten far; the trees had stopped it from cleaving inwards as well as the half-Elves bombarding it with magic, but it had been close.
The Mage of Rivers, Joreldyn, appeared just as tired as she; he was lying out in his chair, decorum forgotten, skin waxy from overusing his mana. In truth, Ierwyn felt useless; she’d led three charges on the Jaw’s legs but it had so damn many, and her warriors were…second-rate. Even their battle with Khelt hadn’t given her a force like the ones she’d used to command.
She didn’t want to blame them. She didn’t want to blame herself. But she had to know.
“Did we cause this attack, Speaker? Or did Medain, or was it somehow both?”
She demanded answers from the weary half-Elf whom the entire council turned to. The Speaker of Trees, Lastimeth, cleared his throat as he stood.
“We do not know. His Majesty of Khelt finally made contact with me as the Jaw withdrew. He spoke shortly—an apology of sorts was rendered. If I simplify what was said, he claims to have lost his temper and regards the deaths of half-Elves and the destruction of part of the forest as unacceptably extreme. He is prepared to release us from the terms of our unconditional surrender.”
“He—he lost his temper?”
A half-Elf squeaked at the table. Everyone sat up, but Joreldyn cracked one eye open, and Ierwyn spoke on pure instinct.
“He didn’t lose his temper. This has never happened in all the years I’ve been alive.”
They turned to her, and the Speaker frowned. He was younger than she was by a number of centuries, but still over two hundred years old.
“Respectfully, Ierwyn, his wrath is infamous. And this is not the first time it occurred. The Winter Solstice, you recall? Though that did seem to be a death magic aberrance…”
This time it was Joreldyn who interrupted. The most senior and high-level half-Elf waved a hand.
“That was death magic and out of Khelt’s control, however disturbing. This was different. I agree with Ierwyn’s statement. The wrath of Khelt is infamous, yes. Infamous and cold. Fetohep might send a Jaw upon us, or that Vizir, but only if we were to blame. Striking three nations—something is off.”
The Mage of Rivers sat up and rubbed at his face, conjuring some tea out of the air into a magical cup. He drank.
“I need actual fluids, not mage-food—I was inspecting that Jaw as it departed. It seemed—off. When it was rampaging, I was trying to interfere with its control magics.”
“Futile. Kheltian undead are famous for being the most advanced undead in the world. The hardest to suborn. When I was young and Fetohep was a living man, his forces couldn’t be controlled by [Necromancers].”
The Herald’s comment made Joreldyn nod, but he pursed his lips.
“Nevertheless, I had to try, Ierwyn. But I didn’t sense any…it was like he ordered it forwards and gave it no further instructions. Or—he had given it no orders at all.”
Every half-Elf fell silent at this, and Ierwyn felt at the back of her neck.
“If that were so—why? Could it be distance? The magnitude of the undead? More death magic gone wrong?”
Joreldyn shrugged.
“It wasn’t noticeable, if it was foreign control. It could be lingering effects from the Winter Solstice, but the reason is far less clear.”
The Speaker turned to the Mage of Rivers.
“Mage Joreldyn, can you investigate this? Herald, I would like you to double the guard on our forests. The Jaw is falling back, but for the peace of our citizens if nothing else…and I shall prevail upon all our sources of information in Khelt, such as they are, to figure out what is going on. I have one good insight, but it is a closed nation, even New Jecrass.”
He grimaced, and Ierwyn was surprised he had any information there. Spies in Khelt were a joke. But she nodded, and every half-Elf bent their minds to the same task.
Figuring out what was going on in Khelt.
 
——
 
Even nations bloated by bureaucracy like Nerrhavia’s Fallen could tell something was off. Queen Yisame met with her personal [Master of Spies], who assured her he would get to the bottom of this, and the Court of Steel reminded themselves Khelt would never attack them.
They also didn’t really enjoy the reminder that A’ctelios Salash had done what two great nations of the north could not: slain their Jaw of Zeikhal outright. Naturally, both were tiny, puny nations with considerable strength if you pushed them, and Nerrhavia’s Fallen had no need to do that! If anything, this was good; Khelt had pulled the Jaws of Zeikhal back and it seemed like the King of Khelt intended to return to his peaceful isolationism.
A’ctelios never expanded past its borders, even if there were rumors…well, the only damaged parties anyone cared about were the Claiven Earth, who’d only lost a bunch of trees and some civilians, and Medain, who had seen half a city crushed. If anyone was going to be upset, it was High King Perric of Medain.
What did he think of King Fetohep’s deeds?
 
——
 
High King Perric Reoustinal, with his red-blond hair, stood, thick-shouldered, dressed in a regal white uniform and gold linings, a funeral white, with a cape of blue on his shoulders. His face was blank, though his strong chin and purple eyes were still elevated as he stared at a wall.
His hands clasped behind his back. He stood there, pondering a wall of his palace as, the day after the wrath of Khelt, his kingdom mourned the dead and stood in shock and fear.
He was seen by many members of the palace, and he did not speak to them as his bodyguards kept all away. He studied the wall.
The High King was later seen sitting on a bench in the royal gardens, watching seagulls as they pecked at some seed. He did not move as they flapped about and squawked. Still that blank expression on his face. One tried to poop on his shoe, and one of his Golden Ranks shot it.
Finally, the High King sat at his banquet table, not touching the sumptuous breakfast set before him. In response, in mourning, in contemplation, he ignored his concubines and wives beseeching him to eat, the worries of his court and people. For you see, he mourned and reflected.
…After about four hours, King Perric decided that he’d been seen to mourn long enough, and he broke his fast with some breakfast fruits and water. He did summon his foremost [Generals] and advisors, though, and when they gathered, anxious to hear his thoughts, he brushed at his hair with genuine weariness and smiled.
“Well, His Majesty of Khelt has informed me we are now released from our pact of surrender with Khelt. He expressed regret over his anger to me, personally. And do you know what I have learned?”
“That we need to counter such powerful weapons of war, Your Majesty? First Mars the Illusionist, now the Jaws?”
One of his [Generals] had gone to fight the Jaw and wore a haunted expression on his face. But High King Perric just waved this away.
“Yes, yes, that. No, what King Fetohep taught me is…perspective.”
He stared past them all as they buzzed and were uncomprehending, which was fitting. Perric continued.
“It is a lesson between [Kings], you see. And I take it as a mark of respect that he taught me this. I, who had little to learn from any lesser man. I understand. To me, a [High King], it was a city.”
“Evect. A city of over a hundred thousand souls. A fifth of them dead, countless more buried, and the rest homeless. Only a quarter of the city even stands! Everything shattered or crushed to rubble. They had vineyards—”
One of his [Advisors] came from there. The man had tears in his eyes. Perric glanced at him and waved him away. He shook his head.
“Yes, to me it was a city. And I felt it. Oh, I felt every life and grieved, and to him? It was a message. You see, that is kingliness. He moved a piece, and I took heed of the move. I grasp it, now.”
He tapped the side of his head as they peered at him, still not getting it. Perric shook his head and sipped from his cup of water.
“Don’t concern yourselves with it. I am sure this is a singular event. I have Khelt in hand now that I understand King Fetohep’s mind.”
A terrifying ruler. Perric owned that he had underestimated the peerless King of Khelt. His defeat was understandable. Only a ruler beyond the King of Destruction could have bested Medain, and yes, Fetohep claimed to have acted in wrath, but High King Perric could divine the true nature of politics between crowns. He shook his head, rueful.
The man might have ruled half of Chandrar already if he wished. But how could you entice a man who had everything…? Ah, well. He knew what had to be done.
 
——
 
King Fetohep of Khelt was not having a good day. He had not been having a good week, to be fair, but he had hoped…
The stress of controlling so many undead had caused a disaster. The minor woes of Khelt had become major ones, and the fallout?
Three Jaws of Zeikhal rampaging. One lost, two to be decommissioned. Two weapons of war paid for by previous rulers…destroyed. But he could not risk them animating again. They would be taken apart, the pieces broken up.
More failsafes gone forever. It had to be done. Worst was the dead. His inaction had cost thousands of lives in Medain. Dozens in the Claiven Earth, unknown numbers in A’ctelios Salash.
Men, women, children. He grieved, even for A’ctelios’ madfolk. But as a ruler, he also feared each nation’s reprisals.
A’ctelios Salash was silent. They had said nothing after initially asking him why his Jaw was advancing, but the Claiven Earth were…reserved. They had accepted his explanations, and the Speaker of Trees was canny. He might not have believed Fetohep, and the King of Khelt could not apologize—it was not done, it was not seemly. But Medain?
High King Perric of Medain had always been a headache for Khelt. First had been all those damn statues, the constant messages trying to win himself Fetohep’s favor. A terrified man expecting vengeance and retribution and everything he would do to someone he’d defeated. After this attack? Well, Fetohep had spoken with the High King personally, and he’d thought the man had understood.
Unacceptable loss of temper. Freedom from your terms of surrender. Fetohep had let him be until he’d received the following letter, delivered by Courier no less.
 
To His Eternal Majesty of Khelt,
Following our previous discourse of which we, the High King of Medain, have taken your gracious wisdom, we understand ourselves not to be absolved of our terms of Unconditional Surrender and have witnessed the dissolution of such Treaties by our own eyes.
We, the High King of Medain, grasp the intricacies of Khelt’s largesse and as such, do pledge to double this month’s tribute as a sign of our continued goodwill and Highest Esteem towards Khelt’s will. 
We are yours, most admiringly,
High King Perric of Medain, Sovereign King of the Thalassocracy of the nations formerly known as…
 
His titles went on about as long as the letter itself. King Fetohep stared at the missive, then turned it over.
“What?”
Clearly, the High King had taken the wrong idea away from their chat. Nothing would do but Fetohep rouse him on call again and explain that further tribute was not necessary. High King Perric beamed and bowed, and King Fetohep had a bad feeling after the call…
He was midway through taking another communication spell with the Quarass of Germina when the same Courier—a panting Garuda clutching at her side—handed him a second letter. King Fetohep actually half-covered his face as he read it.
 
…will triple our tribute…
 
“Would His Majesty like to send…a return letter?”
The Courier peeked up, and King Fetohep glanced at her.
“No. Rest, Courier, at your leisure.”
She gratefully bowed, and he had a servant send her off with a restorative. King Fetohep decided—not—to call Perric a third time.
The Quarass appeared amused as she cleaned her fingernails.
“His Majesty of Medain is most taken with you, Fetohep.”
“As a leech unto the ass of a mule, I cannot savor any pleasure in it.”
“You should have removed him when you had the chance and installed the Vizir in his place. It would have saved you and much of Chandrar from headache.”
He wanted to rebuke her, but Fetohep thought that would have been so much more…he shook his head, irritable, and slashed two fingers.
“It is well of you to speak of hindsight, Quarass. At the time, such an action would have ground against every deed and thought I stood for. I notice you did not advise me to do so in the moment. It is unseemly of you to claim wisdom where none was shown.”
She ducked her head at that, slightly abashed, but then, she was a child. There was a certain naïvete or a less incisive cut to her decision making she had to account for. An undeveloped brain was a danger even to the Quarass, shackled by her mortal form.
Still better than the previous woman. Nevertheless, that was a hindrance now. The Quarass idly blew on her nails.
“As Shield Kingdom and neighbor to Khelt, I have of course assured many concerned nations of the reasoning behind your actions. I trust it shall not occur again?”
