“—They must have failed to recall this instruction, but the Farming Golems have similar functions, some of them. However, the main way to do this would be insects, as Druid Meeles says. But if you command the skeletons to do this pollination—”
Fetohep lifted a hand and turned to Meeles.
“I see the error, and perhaps it would be…better to make use of acceptable…insects. They are required? There is no spell or other method by which these plants reproduce? As for the pollen, I understand this is how they reproduce, but it is not, in fact, like sex at all.”
He was both warring with the need to create crops and his horror over the sex part, but the [Druid] shook his head.
“Oh, it may appear less graphic to you, Your Majesty, but insects eat the nectar of plants by which to spread the pollen. They burrow, squirm, writhe about—and if you’ve ever seen an orgy—”
“And this is consumed?”
Fetohep’s look of horror turned to the other mortals, and Pewerthe coughed.
“I don’t think it’s quite the same, Your Majesty. Especially since I do not think of it in those terms.”
“No one wants to think of vegetables as children or people. But what is a baby carrot if not—”
At this point Colovt threw an elbow hard enough to take out Meeles for a moment. He spoke to Fetohep.
“I can grow the plants with these…insects if I must, Your Majesty. The [Druids] say some insects are best for each type of plant. But, ah—the skeletons?”
Fetohep sat as Frieke took notes in her journal, and she saw Colovt’s expression of confusion and dismay as Fetohep replied slowly.
“Send for more insects, Druid Meeles. The skeletons are—occupied, Farmer Colovt. It seems insects are both necessity and curse. But surely, if they merely occupy Farmer Colovt’s fields, they would remain there? I am well aware that individuals who are permitted such creatures, like the [Druids] of Losht, keep their familiars in check, but wild insects are a different matter. How fast and far do such bugs spread?”
Here, even Druid Meeles lost his smile, and he exchanged a glance with Pewerthe and Frieke.
No one really wanted to tell Fetohep the bad news. And it got worse when Fetohep of Khelt heard a name, a title upon his doorstep he had vague recollections of. A man who called himself…
A [Prophet].
 
——
 
ᴛʜᴇɴ ʜᴇ ʟᴏᴏᴋᴇᴅ ᴜᴘ ᴀɴᴅ ᴋɴᴇᴡ ᴛʜᴇʀᴇ ᴡᴀꜱ ᴀ ɢᴏᴅ.
In His Ignorance, He Who Had Doubted Believed. So He Spoke the Lord’s Prayer.
It came unto him, a revelation of the covenant of the Lord our God and the [Prophet], who was first of the [Faithful] who stepped forwards onto the burning sands of Chandrar as the Prophet Moses had once done upon his pilgrimage. A test set unto the faithless.
Yet lo, each trial that he underwent only proved His presence was real, and the flock came to him, first one, then by handfuls, until it was a mighty army who chanted the Name and the Words of the holy book.
They marched out of the nation of Litigred, whose ears were too deaf to know the truth, and through the nations of Nerrhavia’s Fallen, Scaied, Illivere, and in each one found the faithful among the ignorant, much as angels had once saved the worthy from Sodom and Gomorrah. Yet wrath did not fall from the skies upon these indolent, heathen Stitch-folk with their deceptive, ever-changing faces and blaspheming tongues.
—no matter how much he prayed—
Yet by then, the People of God were a vast herd who went northwards, avoiding the King of Destruction’s meaningless wars, to seek new peoples and lands receptive to the word of the New Bible as set down by the [Prophet]’s own hands; a revision of thirty-one times thus far, each edition bound and cared for like unto a Relic by the People of God, whom he had named.
And they went to Medain, which was rich enough but whose High King was a dangerous man, his soldiers too willing to clash with the People of God. Despite their levels, the Prophet prayed on the next course of action and determined Medain was not his people’s chosen land. But Khelt…Khelt was a worthy foe. A just foe.
He had nightmares about the six beings who had laughed at him, those rotting corpses. Those filthy…those evil…
Were they devils? He didn’t know. He wished he’d recalled more passages from the Good Book, but he could only use what his [Eidetic Memory: Scripture] gave him. Even with it, sometimes the passages escaped him and he’d bolt upright in the night, writing feverishly, and his faithful would notice and gather around and pray.
He wished he’d studied…what was it? Dante’s Inferno or something? Harvey didn’t remember. Sometimes, he felt like he was the Prophet of God, the powerful man who led these people with their insane powers and could almost—almost divide the sea himself. Then sometimes he was Harvey Glastone again, and his faith wavered, and he—
ʜᴇ ꜰᴇʟᴛ ᴛʜᴇ ʟɪɢʜᴛ ᴇᴛᴇʀɴᴀʟ ꜱʜɪɴᴇ ᴅᴏᴡɴ ᴜᴘᴏɴ ʜɪᴍ ᴀɴᴅ ꜱᴄᴏʀᴄʜ ʜɪꜱ ᴜɴᴡᴏʀᴛʜʏ ꜱᴏᴜʟ ᴀɴᴅ ᴋɴᴇᴡ ᴛʜɪꜱ ᴡᴀꜱ ᴛʜᴇ ᴅɪᴠɪɴᴇ. ᴛʜɪꜱ ᴡᴀꜱ ᴊᴜᴅɢᴇᴍᴇɴᴛ, ᴀɴᴅ ᴀʟʟ ᴛʜᴏꜱᴇ ᴡʜᴏ ᴡᴇʀᴇ ᴜɴᴡᴏʀᴛʜʏ ᴡᴏᴜʟᴅ ᴅɪᴇ. ᴛʜɪꜱ ᴡᴏʀʟᴅ ʜɪꜱ ᴛᴇꜱᴛ. ʜɪꜱ ꜰᴀɪᴛʜ ᴡᴏᴜʟᴅ ɴᴏᴛ ʏɪᴇʟᴅ.
The [Prophet] was this man. Like all men destined for greatness, he had moments of weakness. But the Lord was his Savior, and he prayed.
In this world, his prayers were answered. Unlike home. What else did that mean but God?
Harvey just wished…
He could hear the voice. Sometimes, he thought he heard it when he was deep in prayer, kneeling, the urging of his soul to do battle against Khelt, to take his people here or there. But he wished the voice were louder. To drown the doubts.
He didn’t know. He did not doubt, as they came to Khelt’s borders, the rightness of trying to unseat the King of Khelt. That man was a horror; he had burned brave, glorious [Knights] that were like Crusaders into ash before the Prophet could speak to them. He was an undead, an abomination, and faith would destroy him.
No…that was not what the Prophet doubted. Be it so foolish of him, sometimes he gazed upon his flock, the People of God, who were now over twelve thousand strong, an army who sustained themselves only on the manna that they created, who had levels in excess of Level 30 and were closing on his own Level 39 [Prophet of the Holy People] class—or perhaps exceeding it—and this would be fine.
He could be second-best to another with true faith, he could. He was no warrior like some of his followers, such as Lazimeh, Izreal, Marrieh, and so on, who were truly fearsome in his eyes, true zealots.
But sometimes, the Prophet wondered if this flock was the right one. No, surely it was. All peoples could find God. In time, when they reached other nations, other continents, he simply reasoned there would be more Humans.
Fewer…
Stitch-folk.
 
——
 
The People of Zeikhal were, by rough counts, around 60% Stitch-folk and predominantly Hemp. Most Stitch-folk were majority Hemp, which made sense to the Prophet, but his words spoke to the Hemp in a way they did not Cotton or Silk.
After all, the higher castes did not need nor long for a loving God. His people—did. When he spoke to them of his first sermons, that of Moses freeing the [Slaves] of Egypt, the simplest story that he knew, most took him as anti-Roshal, which he reasoned he must be.
But he had been cautious not to make an enemy of the Slavers of Roshal at the start, for they were everywhere across Chandrar. Nor…A’ctelios, not yet. Vengeance would come but they were weak yet, like the Hebrews crossing the desert. He had been alone in the beginning.
Yet it had been the Hemp who had listened, asked questions, and seen their own struggle reflected in his words. Marrieh had been one of the first, though of course, she had gone by another name then. First she had been a follower, marvelling over the Miracles he performed, just as he did.
Faith made manifest. From the day he had come here, appearing in the dry desert and nearly died that first long day before falling to his knees, dehydrated, tongue parched, and whispered the Lord’s Prayer only to find the oasis appearing before his feet, then a piece of bread falling from the heavens—he had known faith.
So had she, in time. She called it a power beyond magic, something she could not explain except as an act of God. Even the word ‘God’ had hurt her at first until he had filled her heart up with the stories he had spoken so unpolishedly at first.
Genesis, John, or Luke—they did run together, Old Testament, New—but the stories he had yawned over in church became something brighter in her. Her faith was like a mirror, and it reflected into him.
So he had baptized her and let her take a name that was close to the ones he knew, but not quite the same. Perhaps it would be sacrilegious to let her carry ‘Mary’ as a name, though…Mary was a common name in his homeworld.
Marrieh fit her. After that, well, they had roamed. Picking up converts that had come and gone, growing in levels, fleeing people bent on imprisoning or questioning them, and they might have starved or fallen afoul of monsters or [Bandits]—which Chandrar had in plenty—but for the one thing that made all the difference.
They had faith. And faith…could do everything. Or at least, all the big things.
 
——
 
When the Prophet awoke, it was bright.
It was always bright. He removed the sleeping mask he’d taken to wearing in bed and dressed himself in the white robes of his station, sighing as the silk clung to his skin. Silk, a luxury even in Chandrar which made and coveted the stuff. Stitch-folk used it for their bodies, so having robes of it was a sign of station. They were white robes embroidered with a cross on both arms and down his front. There had been talk of giving him a hat, such as the papal one, but they were not Catholic, and he had imagined it would chafe.
God was many things to the Prophet, but Harvey reckoned he wouldn’t test him that much. That was a joke. He’d said it to his flock, and no one had laughed.
Work on the sermon. A bit more humor sometimes, if only to lighten the sheer intensity of their faith. It was always about the sermon. He gave one twice daily, sometimes more if the moment called for it. And the Prophet was already thinking of it, because of course, it should always be new.
He paged through the handwritten New Bible he had made, but he knew the words by heart and wished he had a single copy of the bible in any of the countless formats from Earth. He was sure this one had—holes. And he was resistant to anyone adding new gospels, however much they begged, and some had written pages upon pages of genuinely good words. He let them print the pages as other books, but not add to this.
They could believe what they wanted, but only an Apostle or Prophet could write verse and scripture. If he found a copy of the Bible anywhere—on a smartphone, perhaps, he would use that and nothing else.
You see, when he was Harvey, not the Prophet, the man knew he was an imperfect vessel of faith. He was! He had doubts. Sometimes, he felt like Marrieh and the others shone brighter than he did. Certainly, their levels were higher among a select few.
He had been given a divine mandate, but oh, wasn’t he allowed to be weak of heart? He tried. That was his salvation, and when kingdom came, he hoped that was how he was judged. So he knelt to pray and thought of the sermon before rising as his stomach growled.
After all, breakfast was but a thought away.
The camp of the People of God was sandblown tents; the Great Desert blew in this close, and it got everywhere, cue the Star Wars joke no one would get. Harvey missed movies. He missed ice cream, video games, school—he wished he could just visit the mall and stand in the air conditioning for a minute. Did they still do that?
His skin was tanned compared to how it had used to be, fair and freckled, and he knew he was taller. Thinner from lots of days of hunger, despite their abilities. And more…imposing? Certainly, he thought his skin looked better in spite of the lack of moisturizer and sunscreen.
His class changed him, much like the faithful. It wasn’t so much in features like high-level [Warriors] were all muscle or how he’d noticed some people were more beautiful or so on. It was more…their faces.
There was a wealth of intensity in the eyes, the voice. They spoke with conviction, those ringing tones like he’d once dreamed angels spoke in and like his pastor had used to shout the good word. That was faith.
There was always a watch in the camps; men and women with robes similar to the Prophet’s—if often patched and stained since white was a hard color to wear in the desert—armed with spears or clubs; few swords or more refined weapons.
They were poor, surviving on donations and the like. Sometimes, there were windfalls—there had been that chest of jewelry that the Courier—what was his name?—had given over. It had paid for more wagons, the Prophet’s robes, a Chest of Holding, and more. It could have been a crown, but he had been persuaded to give to the people. Which was righteous.
Luxuries. The Prophet wanted more. His people deserved more. He hesitated as he left his tent, and the nearest sentry bowed to him—they’d wanted to stand guard right in front of his tent, but they had made him too self-conscious. Once he had a soundproofed tent, maybe.
Is it greed, a cardinal sin, or faith? Again, he doubted. A common thing. Was he greedy, or did he wish for more for his people? One was a virtue, the other a sin.
Greed, a good topic for the sermon. Now he had it. The Prophet nodded to the sentry, who made a cross with his palms across his chest. Another thing that they had picked up he did not teach them. Someone was already striding towards him. Izreal, who was another Stitch-man. He smiled and had all the energy the Prophet wished he had.
A huge scar across one cheek that hurt to look at; he claimed it was well, and he’d repair his face in time. He’d earned it fighting the Golden Ranks of Medain as they fled. A Gold-rank adventurer had given it to him, but Izreal had gotten back up and taught them a lesson about the People of God’s faith.
“Your Holiness, what is today’s direction?”
“Breakfast, I believe. Then the sermon.”
“Your words alone could fill our stomachs, Prophet.”
“Hah.”
Only, Izreal meant it, so the Prophet abandoned his smile and lifted a hand palm upwards as more gathered. This he was used to. He was never alone outdoors; he always had his bodyguards and people listening to him.
