“Faith may fill the heart, but it is our duty as shepherds to fill the stomach of our flock, Izreal. Children first, for they are our treasure and blessing of God. So, let us pray for our daily bounty.”
He led them forwards towards the light, which made the camp dazzle, even at a distance. It kept away most monsters, and it was, in fact…
Well. A miniature sun. A glowing orb of yellow light, like a [Light] spell but which had no mana that any [Mage] could find, much to their incredulity. It was one of the true powers of the People of God, and when he stood before it, all the Prophet’s doubts slid away. Or most.
[Combined Miracle: The Light of Faith].
It lit up the landscape and provided many features. Bugs seemed to flee the light, even ones like moths. Wounds seemed to heal without potions, and it banished fear or grief if you stared into it long enough. It was a warm embrace and a weapon if need be; it was blinding to the non-faithful if called upon.
Over a hundred people knelt around the Prophet in a ring as he clasped his hands together. He bowed his head and, as ever, peeked upwards and saw a flicker in the air. A flash—and even now, even now—
His heart leapt to see it.
[Manna From the Heavens]. A piece of bread floated downwards. He caught it, and it was light and smelled fragrant as he broke the fresh bread open, and the white insides puffed with steam slightly in this cold air.
A new feature, temperature. It used to be neutral in temperature and a lot smaller. The Prophet saw others catching pieces of bread and spoke.
“We thank the Lord our God for this meal.”
“Amen.”
They might have eaten there and then, but he coughed, glanced to the side—and led the way to a pot of bubbling stew. A bowl was handed to him as Izreal began serving the food a [Faithful Cook] was producing, and only then did the Prophet begin eating after dipping his bread into the bowl and taking a bite.
The bread was filling, could be produced daily, and accounted for most of the People of God’s rations. However, at his insistence, the Prophet had demanded fruits and other foods be prepared to go along with the bread.
For two reasons. Firstly, during the first year of his leadership, he’d noticed a rising increase in bleeding gums and had realized that manna from the heavens the bread might be—but it didn’t prevent scurvy.
Second—he sighed as he ate more of the soup than bread, letting others devour the huge loaf he’d been given.
You could really get sick of eating this every day. He couldn’t imagine forty years of this.
 
——
 
Soup with bread. Honey on bread. Dates with bread. Bread sandwiches. Toasted bread. The People of God really objected to crumbling the bread up and using it like that, but the Prophet resolved to preach on the virtues of a good breaded cutlet—once they had enough food.
They had a small herd of animals, but again, the issue was the size of the People of God’s camps kept increasing while the money they had to clothe and provide for so many didn’t exactly match that.
His camp was in fact one of eighteen spaced around him given their sheer size, but the central camp was always swamped because of the morning sermon; [Priests] and [Acolytes] would carry his words to the other camps, and then they would pray before moving.
It made the People of God sort of slow to move in the mornings, but they levelled. Oh, how they levelled.
[Priests], [Acolytes] for preaching and services. [Faithbearers] who carried anything from supplies to the wounded or disabled on their backs. [Devout Warriors], a basic class of those who could fight that became [Battle Clergy]. [Prayer Healers] who could do what potions now could not—one of the reasons why his people were often first allowed into settlements. [Pious Preachers] who spread the good word, [Scripture Carriers] who used divine passages to do magic akin to [Mages]—
Oh yes, the People of God had capabilities. Healing as well as other miracles, though healing was the most universal power. It made them incredibly valuable, and the Prophet reasoned they might well establish themselves as a rich and powerful group on that alone…if they took money for their deeds.
They did not. It was something he’d wrestled with, prayed on for over a year now, and it made him unhappy because they could charge money, but that went against, well, everything Jesus of Nazareth had ever done.
Laying on hands was a gift, and from the day Marrieh had learned to cleanse wounds, they had accepted no coins for it. Gratitude, yes, but…and now the practice was set in stone, which was charitable and good, yes!
But it would really help if they asked for coins rather than let it be a donations thing. It was one of the Prophet’s private sins. Greed. It plagued him along with lust—and oh, sometimes…
“Prophet, the congregation awaits you.”
“Thank you, Yirene.”
He smiled at the Stitch-woman who bowed to him and wondered if they should spend their limited coin on newer robes, even if only the clergy. Because dead gods other than the Holy Trinity—Yirene’s robes were sheer and clung to her form.
And she was a Silk Stitch-woman. Beautiful. She might have renounced her possessions and sold what she had to join his group—and she hadn’t been that rich, living in exile, it seemed, in a distant Nerrhavian city—but she was attractive.
He hadn’t slept with her. Hadn’t, but dreamed of it on some nights and thought she would be receptive—except, of course, he was a man of god, and the clergy did not have those relationships as far as he could remember. Which was one of the things he’d preached for his flock, and they were fastidious about their vows of abstinence.
He turned from her to the many faithful. Marrieh met his eyes for a second, and he hesitated. She knew him long enough to know what he was thinking of, and she did not narrow her eyes, but just gave him an earnest look.
Surely you would not. She gave Yirene a cool glance as the Stitch-woman, seeming genuinely confused by the sometimes-hostility she got from Marrieh, bowed and retreated. The Prophet cleared his throat as he swept his gaze over the many kneeling people.
“Lead us not into temptation…let us pray, my people. And it is temptation I wish to speak of today.”
The words came to him automatically; he had learned to give sermons constantly, so he just needed one or two ideas he could speak on. Sometimes, they were good, sometimes, they were bad, but there was always the sermon, and this one felt—decent.
“Greed is one of the sins that is the downfall of all mortal men. Greed is the weight that makes it more difficult than threading the eye of a needle for a man to reach Heaven. Yet, by that same token, is it not righteous to honor thyself, thy neighbor, and thy God? In the Old Testament, it is written that sacrifices of meat, vegetables, and bounty pleased the Lord. Thus, it is not about the mere acquisition of coin or money, but in whose service it is spent.”
He saw some nodding, some listening, others just watching him with rapt eyes. The Prophet went on, and now he pointed.
“Yonder lies an example of material unwisely spent. It is known across Chandrar that Khelt is rich, but it is a richness hoarded and used only for their own. This we have come to see with our own eyes and judge, just as we are all judged by God. We are his will and people—”
And at least one of them was owed this. His eyes stole to a man vibrating with emotion. A former Kheltian, Adoive, who had once been exiled. Or rather, left and found he was unable to return.
He was not the most devout of men, but he had told the Prophet of Khelt, and it had seemed a hedonistic, wasteful place. When the Prophet had gazed upon an image of Fetohep of Khelt…
Undead abominations. He had encountered them, not just the ones at the Solstices, and the world should be purged of them. Faith did purge them, and it was the most good and true thing he felt. Undead—he remembered stories on Earth of how the cross had the power to repel vampires and kill supernatural spirits, and it was true here.
He shuddered for a second as he remembered the nightmares that sometimes woke him, crying out for salvation—
 
——
 
They laughed at him. Six of them, leaving, returning, plaguing him that long night. He knelt, praying in the camp, but the People of God were silent. He was alone, and they whispered.
“You pray to someone who does not stand here. We are what you worship, in the flesh. Take my hand and be first of my faithful.”
“No, take mine.”
“Take mine.”
Hands, grasping for him, then retreating across a line he drew in the sand. His prayers grew louder, and they grimaced. The man with the beard tried to speak over him.
“I am T—the leader of men. Look upon me. Would you pit this invisible being against me? Were I to wear my true flesh, I would slay those of my kin without score as I once did.”
Lies. Ignore him. Fake idols. Harvey prayed louder, trying to drown them out, wishing—where was the sign? The falling angel? Something, give him a sign—
Was this the Devil that had plagued Jesus in the desert? Six.
Six. Of course, the number of hell itself. The shadow said nothing, but the intelligent man, who was like a [Mage], just sat back on his heels, amused.
“He won’t listen. Look at him. He is not a perfect believer, but he has enough here…do you want power, young man? Love? Wealth?”
“I am love. Take my hand.”
A dancing man. Then an amused huntress. An old crone. The shadow, pressing forwards and again repulsed by his faith. The three-in-one came closer as his voice grew hoarse, a rotting face across three ages.
“I do not see your ___, boy.”
She spoke and winced, as if that alone hurt her, but her eyes bored into him, and he tried not to listen, but her serpent’s tongue was too loud, his faith too weak.
“If he exists, let him come forth and it be war. No? Perhaps he is a coward. Or perhaps he cannot enter this world. Your faith is rewarded because of the rules we set in place. Or perhaps…you are creating Him.”
Ignore her. Ignore her. The woman laughed, a terrible cackle.
“I sense your doubt. Tell me, boy. Have you seen a trueness of your worship? Even once? Look at me. I am real. Which would you rather believe in?”
“You’re dead. Dead and rotting. Who would believe in that?”
He stopped praying and shot those words back at her. All six recoiled and, he thought, were truly stung by his response. The three-in-one drew back, and after a moment, the bearded man whispered.
“We have endured death itself, boy. Come back from wounds that have felled all others. A world’s sundering could not kill us. We have striven with our own kind, and we are the greatest six. What is that, if not your answer?”
“My God has no end nor beginning. He is invincible, and my faith in him shall not waver…”
He cried the words back at them, and the bearded man’s eyes narrowed. He was the first to go, turning on his heels.
“For that, first of this world’s new faithful, I shall enjoy slaying another of my kind. When you and I meet in the flesh, I will allow you a second chance to see the truth. I, too, am merciful. We shall see who triumphs, your invisible ruler of all…or me.”
“Or me.”
The young huntress laughed, and the others rose one by one. It was the intelligent man who remained, smiling, peering at Harvey. He said one last thing.
“Consider it, faithful child. Just speak our names and pray to us. Could we not be allies? I would work alongside your great ___.”
He waited, and Harvey bared his teeth.
“I do not worship false idols. There is only one.”
This time, he rebuked the stranger, and the light of his faith grew and hurt the clever man, who retreated, step by step. The wise man blew out his cheeks, annoyed.
“What a tedious little religion. I too shall remember that. And remember my servants shall destroy you. When the armies of Khelt rise—”
He was fleeing, despite his dire threats, and he grinned as Harvey shouted prayers, waving the cross he had fashioned, and then he knew the name of his enemy.
 
——
 
Memory. The horror of that first time was nothing to the second. The second…the Prophet realized he’d stopped talking.
Everyone was on their feet, staring at him. Marrieh was pushing forwards.
“Harvey…?”
“Damnation.”
He bellowed the word, and they recoiled. But the Prophet swept around and pointed, chest heaving.
“The King of Khelt is no man threading the eye of the needle. He has passed beyond this world we strive in and has been found wanting. That is undeath. He consorts with the other six—the—the devils of this world themselves. He is a King of Greed, and we go now to his borders not for our own richness, not for mere wealth or what we think we are owed.”
He stared at Adoive in contempt, and the man flinched backwards. The Prophet rasped.
“We go to test our faith against evil. We are a flock, a herd that God embraces and tends to, and yet we must also be warriors. So arm yourselves, children. Ready your faith, for it shall be tested. But do not waver, for ours is the Kingdom of Heaven, and we shall claim it.”
This long wandering in the wilderness might be over. Or perhaps they would fail, but the Prophet clutched at his chest as his heart beat with terror, determination, and wrath. If they failed, it was his faith that wavered, nothing else.
Oh Lord, give me strength.
They came to Khelt’s borders at midday. And there, the Prophet worked his wonders.
 
——
 
“A Prophet of…the People of God.”
Fetohep said the word carefully. It was difficult, but he said it, and he did not like that. Not one bit.
“Yes, Your Majesty. They have sent a missive requesting—demanding admission. They claim sanctuary by right of being the chosen people of…someone called ‘God’. And they have a member of Khelt. Adoive.”
“Adoive. I recall him. I see.”
It was not the first time a former member of Khelt had tried to return. It was rare for them to leave, but Fetohep allowed it, so long as they knew they could not come back. He made—well, he made exceptions.
For children who had not been allowed to choose. If the members of Khelt proved they could give back, he let them return. It was not nearly as stringent as newcomers returning, but nevertheless, there were a number who left and could not regain entry.
It gave him no pleasure, but his people could not be allowed to move back and forth so easily. The borders were closed to all but the likes of Alked for good reason. Pestilence, infiltration, the list grew on and on.
Adoive…Fetohep knew each subject who had left and whether they were living or dead. He murmured.
