“I don’t think…”
Theikha grunted. She strode over, read the paper, and froze. Just completely froze for a second before murmuring.
“No.”
Then she reached down, ripped the page of Satar’s journal straight out, and crumpled it up. Satar cried out.
“Shaman! What are—”
“Trapped text. Feshi, I am leaving the protective sphere! I have the text.”
“Acknowledged! Move slowly, Shaman! You too, Satar!”
When the confused Gnoll girl stumbled out of a long, long corridor of layered stone and earth, she froze and raised her arms instinctively. A ring of Gnolls with bows were aiming at her, and Theikha covered the piece of parchment with one paw.
“Sealing box.”
“Right here!”
A Gnoll was standing next to a lead-lined coffin which Theikha placed the crumpled page into. Then they dropped it in what looked like another box lined with magicore and then into a Chest of Holding. Theikha turned to a pair of Steelfur Gnolls with helmets on. Helmets with no openings in their visors.
“Drag it inside, and if you hear anything, run. We’re dropping this under totems a hundred feet down. Chieftain Feshi?”
“Spot’s marked, and we’re ready. Everyone get back!”
The Gnolls rushed the chest inside, and Satar swayed. She realized she was parched, and her body was cramped—and her cheek hurt.
“What happened…?”
“You stopped moving. Akrisa checked on you and realized you were in the grip of something. Theikha identified it as a possible attack Skill, but when she realized it was a text-trap, she tried to guess the level and tier. She had us evacuate you here in case whatever it was got you—or spread.”
Feshi wore a grim expression on her face as the Steelfur Gnolls came barrelling out. The ground began to sink, and Satar saw the multi-layered chamber they’d built around her start sinking. She looked at Theikha wordlessly until someone grabbed her and began to hug and shake her.
“I told you to be careful, you silly cub! What was—”
Her mother was relieved and frantic, but Theikha held one finger to her lips.
“I think I understand just who Satar encountered via her Skill. She now has one that is very, very dangerous. Chieftains, we will discuss this in private. Now. Whatever that Skill is…”
“Was that—was that who I thought it was, Shaman? No, not who. Where?”
Satar was finally catching up to what was going on, and she couldn’t stand. Theikha nodded once.
“Yes. You may have told them more than is wise…but it is done. We’ll weave ward stones for you tonight. They know your name.”
“Satar!”
Akrisa groaned, and Satar began trembling.
“What…what do you think would have happened if I’d said the wrong thing, Theikha? The other thing? Did you see how it was written? How they were figuring it out?”
The [Shaman] glanced around briefly, and Satar noticed her fur standing on end.
“My guess, Satar? Some Skill to interpret. Sensible. Then, they answered your Skill because that was how it worked. And if you had given them the answer they didn’t want…my [Omen of the Future] gives cryptic answers. Useless ones, mostly. A Level 5 girl’s Skill. What will the Meeting of Tribes bring? ‘Answers’. Whom can I count on? ‘Gnolls’.”
She snorted mildly. Then grew still.
“What would happen if Satar Silverfang answered the other way?”
She paused, listened, and Satar’s fur kept rising and prickling as Theikha opened her eyes and spoke.
“‘This ends’.”
Every Gnoll fell silent, then, and Satar finally began to realize exactly how close she’d come to disaster. Some of the Chieftains were opening their mouths to scream at Satar, but Feshi held up a paw.
“What exactly was the nature of the text, Satar? Without endangering us…damn, now I wish I’d taken that extra course in infohazards. But the only way to even get into the classroom is to figure out where it is.”
Satar had no idea what that meant, but she was trying to explain.
“It was a history of the Antinium. And then—I—”
Theikha nudged her.
“Don’t mention the question!”
“I won’t! I just…wait…what was it they were writing about? There was this…thing…right. This thing that created the Antinium. But they wanted to—”
Satar put a paw to her head. She had a fantastic memory as a [Shaman]; she always had. But she couldn’t…remember…
There was something important. She had the history of the Antinium, short as it was, down pat. But something…
What was it? It had faded from her memory, even as it had been excised on the paper by Mirrex. Some knowledge that literally refused to stick in her mind. Something important.
“Oh no. It’s the secret of the Antinium. And I can’t remember it!”
She wailed, and Chieftain Eska grumbled.
“Makes sense. Sounds like whatever it was, they didn’t want it spreading, eh?”
She turned to Theikha, and the [Shaman] touched her own forehead.
“I myself barely remember the question. But whatever it was, I think…hrr. Yes, it was about whether or not we were allied.”
That was all she retained? She, the greatest [Shaman] present? Everyone stared at Theikha, and Feshi scratched her chin. She glanced at the enclosed dome where the two blind Steelfur Gnolls had emerged.
“Well, we’ve potentially not made another enemy, which is good, no? Let’s get it buried and—”
She was reaching for a speaking stone, but she picked up the piece of paper instead. Read it.
“Hmm?”
Feshi stared at the scrap of paper in her paws. Satar was panting apologies when she and Theikha saw the familiar piece of paper and froze.
It looked like the lining of Satar’s personal journal, which was not the standard color of parchment—usually a brown or beige—but a crisp white. Beautiful and soft. But this was…
Slightly off. The color was right, but the paper was a shade too thick and not cut to perfect dimensions. In fact, it seemed a bit ragged on one end. As if it were hand-made. But in almost all ways, it was the same quality of paper, and Feshi stared at the words, utterly silent.
“Feshi? What’s—”
Orelighn was peering when Theikha knocked him down.
“Everyone, get back! Get back!”
Feshi’s eyes flickered, and then she breathed.
“No.”
She lowered the paper, and Satar snatched for it. And there were the words again, which erased themselves from her head even as she read them.
 
Would you ██████ a ███?
 
Theikha grabbed it and tore the paper apart in her paws. She stuffed them into her bag of holding and hurled it down to the Steelfur Gnolls.
“Take it inside and bury it, now!”
She turned to Chieftain Eska, and the Gnoll [Chieftain] was holding a piece of paper in her paws. Theikha froze and saw Chieftain Orelighn had a second piece of paper in his paws. And the [Shaman] behind him a third.
Satar’s fur was standing on end as she whirled. Feshi spoke.
“Oh, hells. That’s not good—”
Every single Gnoll in the area was holding a piece of paper. Satar hadn’t seen them pick it up. She hadn’t seen it appear. It was just there, and the question was burning across each page.
“No.”
At last, Chieftain Eska forced the paper down and gasped for air, panting. She glanced up.
“I had to answer it honestly. I was trying to look—”
“No, of course not! I don’t even know what that is!”
Orelighn broke off, and more Gnolls spoke, dropping the paper, recoiling. Theikha’s voice was deadly calm.
“Every single Gnoll here is not to move. If this hits the camps…”
“H-how far could it spread?”
Was this a Skill? Theikha’s head was roaming around, and she was muttering.
“If it’s a plague of information how far can any plague spread? But even Skills have limits. What level is this Antinium is the question. Level 50? Level 60? Level 70?”
“Impossible. It can’t be…”
Orelighn flinched under Theikha’s stare, but the [Shaman] was muttering, thinking out loud.
“Yet it is a strange question, yes? It revealed much and nothing, but it is a risk, surely. To ask about…what was it? An enemy? Some action? I don’t remember. The same question. Why ask the same question more than ten times, a hundred times?”
There was an increasing chorus of voices, now. Gnolls speaking.
“No!”
“Never, let me go—”
“I don’t know what this is, no.”
They dropped the paper, recoiling, turning to run and being shouted to stay put, but then Satar heard a single, bemused voice amongst the rest.
“Yes. I’ve heard of th—”
She spun. A young [Warrior] or [Hunter] on the edge of the pit read something from the piece of paper. He blinked, then shrugged, half grinning—
Pop.
He vanished. The piece of paper fluttered down, and every Gnoll stared at the place where the Gnoll had been. Theikha ran, and dove for the paper as Feshi pulled out her speaking stone. She hesitated.
“Feshi to the Meeting of Tribes, do not approach our position. Do not respond, we are being attacked by a memetic attack!”
“What—what—”
Satar was running after Theikha, and the [Shaman] was kneeling over the paper. She reached for it—and Eska tackled her.
“Don’t let her look! We can’t lose you! I’ll do it!”
There was a chorus of voices as someone grabbed Eska, and then Satar had it in one paw. This was her fault. She raised the paper with a shaking paw and read.
This time, the words were different.
 
Tell me. Do you know what a ███ is? Have you ever heard of it?
 
Satar swallowed. Oh no. She felt the answer dragging at her tongue, and now, she understood what had happened.
That poor Gnoll. He must have been one lucky enough to enter the Earth tent. Or he’d heard Erin Solstice’s broadcast at the Winter Solstice or—or—
The Antinium was searching for answers, and now he had them. She tried. Oh, she tried, but Satar had to respond. She knew it. Dimly, she heard people shouting at her. Someone—her mother—howling her name, but no one could break the power over her.
But she could do one last thing. Satar conjured a quill and, instead of speaking, wrote.
 
Tell me. Do you know what a ███ is? Have you ever heard of it?
Satar: Yes. Please don’t harm any more of us. We’re not your enemies.
 
She squeezed her eyes shut. Waiting for that single sound, for obliteration.
This ends. This ends. This—
Then there was a faint sound, as quiet as a blot of ink on the parchment, and a soft gasp.
“Satar?”
The Gnoll girl peeked up. The page she had been holding was gone. The ones the other Gnolls had read were gone. A single piece of paper wafted downwards. She caught it, slowly, as the Gnolls clustered around her looked up. They drew back, Theikha holding Akrisa, and Satar read.
 
Mirrex: Understood. Knowledge has breached containment. Dis-tressing. Analysis continues. ‘Gnolls’ re-identified. Possibly non-hostile species. Not allies of the enemy. Yet.
Satar: You killed one of us. What are you doing?
Mirrex: Reproduction of materials took time. ‘Paper’. ‘Ink’. Communication with other species higher priority given spread of knowledge. Error in comprehension.
Satar: You nearly killed us for an error?
Mirrex: Negative. No. Wrong. Translation Skills imperfect. Rephrasing. Gnolls not ally of enemy. Second inquiry dispatched. Original inquiry still active, extant. Do not answer in affirmative. Second inquiry answered in affirmative. ‘Gnoll’ singular present. Here.
Satar: He’s alive? In your Hive?
Mirrex: Yes. Limited use ‘Relic’ acquired within last cycle. Scroll of Greater Teleport. Write on back. Useless for mass-transit. If in contact with Antinium: request fifteen-Hive mobilization led by Xrn, Wrymvr, Klbkch. Those numbers needed or excess. Gnoll information shall be inquired upon. No further questions. Your Skill. Do not ask the wrong questions.
 
—Then the writing ceased. Satar stumbled, and Shaman Theikha spoke.
“So they understand how to use artifacts and combine them with Skills. And they have access to Relic-class items, even if I would not use them thusly. But they are not purely murderous.”
She plucked the piece of paper up, and everyone else was standing at the far end of the depression in the earth. Theikha sighed, and rubbed at her face.
“Once more, it is we Gnolls who become the great travellers of the world. Emissaries to peoples never found.”
“Shaman Theikha, I’m sorry—”
Satar didn’t know what to say. Theikha turned and wearily tossed the piece of paper down to the Gnolls below.
“You didn’t know what your actions would result in. You and I will find that [Warrior]’s parents. After we bury this.”
She turned to Feshi, and the young Chieftain nodded. Theikha pointed at the dome of earth and called out.
“Bury it another hundred feet—no, keep it there and have someone watch the spot at all times. A thrown weapon is still a weapon.”
Then she was striding off, and Satar stared at Akrisa for a second until a hand seized one of her ears. But Akrisa was hugging her. And it was another day at the Meeting of Tribes. Eventful, terrifying, divine.
Religion had come to Khelt, and unlike Satar’s brief encounter with those who objected to it—King Fetohep of Khelt had no answer to bring about an ending of things. He did not even understand what it was they had brought.
Not at first.
 
——
 
The advent of the People of God into the necrocracy of Khelt was slow, at first. Yes, they passed the border.
…They did not immediately reach the cities. Nor did Fetohep keep sending undead against them when it was clear it was a waste of resources. He tried a few higher-grade undead, and when they seemed to fare no better against the mysterious power this Prophet held…well, he was not replete with Draugr.
It wasn’t Khelta’s way. She had been a [Necromancer] of the reductive school of necromancy, an Ossis-school following the Simplis style, who’d surpassed even her greatest mentors in creating low-grade undead who could perform countless, advanced tasks. A squad of her skeletons armed with spears could down a charging Draugr…before.
The flaw, right now, was that it meant Fetohep had few actually ‘powerful’ undead to raise. Plenty armed with powerful artifacts. Few of actual high-grade ranks as undead measured such things. Not a problem; a skeleton legion armored with Gold-rank equipment was a terror on the battlefield…if they were coordinated. Now, they were mere skeletons, fodder, walking loot boxes.
Conversely, the King of Khelt mused darkly, it was probably why everything was so stable. Greater undead loved to rebel or could think. If they’d relied on Draugr or things like Crypt Lords, they may well have had a problem before now. The Jaws of Zeikhal proved that.
“These People of God have reached no city—yet. But they are probing. Spreading out and…hiding upon Khelt’s lands. I have lost track of them.”
“Lost track, Your Majesty? How?”
Alked was alarmed by this, but Fetohep flicked his fingers.
