Captain Galbram was going to do a backflip the moment the scrying orb ended; he wasn’t going to pop a bottle since he didn’t drink. But it was here, unexpectedly, that they hit a snag. Fetohep paused as he lifted a hand.
“Days off, Captain Galbram? Do I take it that you expect your mercenaries be allowed the run of my cities?”
Galbram hesitated.
“Not—all at once, Your Majesty. But we rotate people off from active duty, especially if they’ve fought. A kind of reward—”
“I am aware of mercenary life, Captain. I was one myself. But your statement that your [Mercenaries] be given time and access to my cities—no. I require them to remain in their camps.”
“At all times, Your Majesty? But we need provisions, repairs to gear—”
Galbram’s mouth fell open, and Fetohep shook his head.
“All of what is required shall be provided.”
“But sire, Your Majesty of Khelt—time off is the only thing that keeps mercenaries going. If you were one yourself, you know what it’s like!”
“I am aware, but I shall not have your people troubling my citizens, Captain. This is not an element up for negotiation.”
The Human man slowly felt a pit opening in his stomach and settled back onto his heels, no longer bouncing.
“With great respect, Your Majesty Fetohep, I have to ask for at least a few days off for my people. It could be as few as a hundred a week—”
“No.”
Now, Captain Galbram’s mouth shut for he was well and truly offended, and Fetohep saw it. The King of Khelt’s timeless gaze regarded the man, and he lifted a finger.
“I shall elaborate, for I perceive we may not understand each other, Captain. You take this as a slight upon your company. I do not intend to imply they are in any way lesser than any other [Mercenary] company. I would extend the same restrictions to Scaied’s finest army. To the King of Destruction’s own soldiers. It is not that I find your company inferior to some requirement of dignity. It is simply that they are outsiders. By their nature, soldiers can commit acts of violence.”
“My people are—”
“I do not impugn them, again, Captain Galbram. They may commit acts of violence, and there is no violence in Khelt. None. Do you understand? The last time someone was murdered in Khelt was three hundred and twelve years ago. I consider it a personal stain upon my reign as king.”
One death in three hundred and twelve years. Galbram began to understand, but Fetohep went on.
“Not just violence; your people bring other sicknesses from abroad. This, too, is unacceptable. But equally, they are a lure to my own people. It has happened before; visitors come and charm those with passions for the outside world. They create children, they wish to leave, and find themselves exiting Khelt for romance and a world they are unprepared for. Every consequence, every disturbance to my lands—unacceptable. Do you see?”
Galbram saw. It painted a different vision of Khelt than the one he had thought of. Even the most cloistered Silk Stitch-folk neighborhood was nothing compared to…he bowed his head.
“I do, Your Majesty, but begging your pardon, I have to ask for an opportunity for my people to visit. If I told them they had a chance to see Eternal Khelt, the most beautiful paradise in the world, but they’d never set foot in any city…it’s practically a dream, sire! Couldn’t there be some middle ground?”
The King of Khelt didn’t seem to take the flattery—well, the truth—amiss, but he just drummed his fingers on the armrest of his throne, then spoke.
“I shall double your considerable fee, Captain Galbram. Will that not suit?”
He clearly expected it to, and Galbram hesitated, he truly did. But then he shook his head.
“If we could have a day off per month, and we could rotate it so each city only had a handful of—”
“No, Captain Galbram. This is not an element I shall negotiate upon. What fee will allow you to keep your troops in line?”
Fetohep waited for the man to triple the price, but Galbram just stared at him. Then he opened and closed his mouth.
“Let’s say I agreed to your terms, Your Majesty. What—would the penalty be if one of my people snuck into your cities? Just to see?”
“I would not suffer more than a handful of incidents before the penalties became extreme, Captain.”
The man nodded once, then shook his head.
“I—I can’t do it.”
“Excuse me? The price—”
“I can’t stop them from wanting to see, Your Majesty. And begging your pardon, but respectfully, former mercenary to mercenary, I can’t fight for a kingdom who won’t let me walk their cities! Even for Eternal Khelt…you understand? It’s about pride. We don’t need citizenship or the run of the cities, but that’s where I stand.”
Galbram held his breath. He gazed at Fetohep, who did seem like a warrior despite the thin body he now wore, the regal robes. Surely you remember.
Perhaps Fetohep did, but the golden eye-flames flashed, once, and Galbram heard a different note in the monarch’s tone. A familiar one.
Pride. Fetohep of Khelt lifted a finger and flicked it across the air.
“This I do not accept, Captain. I shall find another who serves my needs. If you should reconsider—”
He stopped, manifestly displeased by this outcome, and spoke.
“Khelt is not so fragile nor my people so unwary they would melt like pure snow before your presence, Captain. On the contrary, they might find your people a delight. Yet I cannot accept. Again, it is no condemnation—”
This time, Galbram broke in, because he knew the offer was dead. He bowed his head again.
“Reminds me of a perfect jewel a fellow like myself would sully by touching, even breathing on, Your Majesty. If a few anthills can do that…you won’t find a mercenary on this continent who can tread your soil without staining it. Begging your pardon.”
He glanced up, and the golden gaze found him, and he held it until Fetohep curtly nodded.
“I thank you for your time, Captain.”
He vanished. Galbram sat for a while on his bed before cursing and throwing his boots at the wall and rolling up in his bedding to call himself ten kinds of idiot and imagine what he’d turned down…
But he knew he was right. Later that day, Galbram heard through the Mercenary Guild’s gossip lines that another [Mercenary Captain], Nava, and her company had gotten a contract with Khelt. She had about two thousand troops under her command, and she wasn’t as battle-hardened as his group, but if it was regular bandits and sweeping, he bet she’d do well.
He didn’t ask her if she’d agreed to Fetohep’s strict terms. He knew the answer, and privately, he thought the King of Khelt would get what he wanted.
Just not the best. If it was bugs, it wouldn’t matter.
If it was just bugs.
 
——
 
The first month within Khelt was…harsh. The Prophet found his ecstasy over his triumph and moment of crisis at the border turn to anger, to wrath. Because entry into Khelt was difficult, despite their powers.
They didn’t stay within Khelt either. Rather, the People of God began to move around Khelt, entering and exiting in waves and camping outside by sheer necessity; the dead and the Revenant’s minions were constantly moving to intercept the People of God, and the faithful had to be wary.
They clashed—first with just undead, then with living people—retreated, tried to sneak in further, clashed, fell back—a battle of wills.
At first, it was bloodless. Oh, the undead died but that was a holy thing, a good thing. Wherever the Light of Faith shone, they vanished, but the Prophet was loath to take his full people into Khelt.
That would be open war, and he did not fancy Khelt’s full wrath upon his people. Also, Adoive had warned the Prophet about Khelt’s stored weapons. The Prophet had heard about Roshal. No, a large group was far too dangerous, so smaller groups ranged in and brought back, well…treasure.
Worked gold bracelets, soft gold far more lustrous than the cheap fake gold or alloys. Clothing so fine it hurt the heart, magical items—even the meanest citizen seemed to have them!
Of course, it provoked a furious debate inside the People of God’s camp when Marrieh realized that these were ‘donations’ the Kheltians were turning over to some over-zealous parties.
“Prophet, is it not written that wealth is a sin? The accumulation of it is not what the true faithful need!”
“And yet, it pays for food and clothing, and they are indolent with theirs.”
That came from Izreal, who coveted the finery almost as much as the Prophet, who sat between warring factions. He, personally, thought Khelt had far too much wealth and frowned at Marrieh.
“Did we not take the King of Medain’s own squandered wealth, Marrieh? And armor from his soldiers that now protect our own.”
He nodded at Izreal’s chestplate, and Marrieh bowed to him, but she was challenging.
“We did, but it was spent on balms for bruised feet, baskets to carry manna, clothing upon our backs, and waterflasks for our voyage, Prophet.”
Not the crown you wanted. He scowled at her. He thought it would have been a symbol. He lifted a hand as he silenced the arguments, and all heeded him as he spoke:
“Khelt does not want for wealth. Nor is this undead king any true ruler who shall hold power when the Kingdom of Heaven comes. He is a false ruler; all that he and his people hold is forfeit. Do not harm them, for they are misguided. Only raise a hand to defend yourself. A day will come when all see the falsity of their ways, and those who beg for redemption must be accepted and cherished without fault of their past.”
Adoive and Izreal nodded repeatedly, and Marrieh sighed, but the wealth truly did mean something. People of God who went to find [Merchants] and came back with gold brimming from their hands or bags of holding loaded with supplies, furniture—this drove more and more of the faithful to risk their lives entering Khelt.
And it was a risk. The first casualty came when a group of [Faith Seekers] went far too deep. They never returned, and Marrieh led a group to find them. They found their people killed by skeletons.
Then the Prophet knew wrath.
 
——
 
He demanded a thousand of their warriors descend on Khelt and strike their citizens dead, one for each of the faithful’s fallen.
She reminded him of the commandments, ‘Thou Shalt Not Kill’. Though they would defend themselves from attack.
So he shouted for another force to enter a city and break all that could be broken and leave them lamenting in terror. She reminded him of the words of Jesus Christ, that they should turn the other cheek. He rebuked her, for their people had been slain by hateful undead.
But his rage was cooling by then, and that was when Marrieh explained the difficulty in any act of vengeance or entering Khelt. The undead were one thing.
“We can defeat the undead; we must move in larger groups lest we be overwhelmed, and be ready to fall back. They are not the threat, Prophet. There is a man in the first town we passed. A Named-rank adventurer. His name is Alked Fellbow. He shot the legs out of six of our fellows, and Kheltians in armor—living ones—fought with our [Devout Warriors].”
“Were they killed? Apprehended?”
He spun, having been praying in his tent for a new bed, among other things. The furnishings had been updated, and a [Merchant] apparently had a magical tent that was coming their way. Marrieh frowned as she bowed to him.
“No. The [Battle Cleric] with them blinded the Kheltians, and they fled. The same with the ones shot; they were healed, and Fellbow let them flee. However, these incidents are rising in frequency, and Izreal swears he saw armed soldiers patrolling as well. Far more.”
The Prophet cursed inside his head as he thought.
“We must move around Khelt, then. Avoid this adventurer, but continue to convert Kheltians. Have any heard the good word?”
“None. Most are ‘donating’ to our cause.”
Marrieh paused then, and the Prophet saw her staring at him out of the corner of his eyes.
“Is this for wealth or their souls, Prophet?”
“It is to combat that undead king, Marrieh. If one city rises against him, others shall follow.”
“I have spoken to some Kheltians I met. Their faith in him is strong, unwavering. They feared me, as if I were some Demon of Rhir, but they are not spineless.”
He waved this off.
“They are fat and rich, just as the Silk Stitch-folk in Nerrhavia’s Fallen, Marrieh. I know this greed from my world as well as yours. They do not have faith. One cannot have faith in a monster.”
He glowered at her, and she bowed her head again and spoke.
“Of course. Their richness is…painful to see.”
Her eyes rose, and the Hemp woman spoke after a moment.
“That motivates most of the People of God, though sometimes their anger is cast inwardly. Such as at Yirene. I have put a stop to it.”
“Good. I shall speak at my evening sermon about that too. Has she not cast off all she had to walk with us? Does she not work as hard, if not harder, than most? One who is saved by God is the same as all others.”
Harvey smiled, and Marrieh’s eyes lit up, for they were in alignment here. She nodded and then hesitated as she clasped her hands together.
“We had thought, with the new wealth, to make statues, Prophet. Of the Lord. Images—there are some [Artists] amongst us. Perhaps…?”
He paused then. A long pause and turned.
“Marrieh, I have never gainsaid images of the Lord—why do you ask? Or do these images of him not show him as he is? Is he a Stitch-man in this image? Or something more profane?”
She didn’t look at him, and he began to get angry again.
“It is just that some of us see him in our image, Prophet. To Stitch-folk, a face is a face, and—”
“Jesus Christ was a man, Marrieh! Not a Stitch-man. Not a woman! Fair of skin! Brown of hair and—”
The Prophet began to shout, and she stared at her sandals until he caught himself. He controlled his voice.
“I understand your…wishes, but this is sacrilege. He is a man. Depict him as such. If need be, let our martyred faithful be the subjects of other images. They are all servants of God.”
She nodded, but she still seemed disappointed. This annoyed the Prophet, and it reminded him of well—home. He reminded himself to be understanding.
She did not know what she did. Forgive her. She couldn’t understand how this was like other people on Earth who denigrated the faith. Or even claimed to worship Satan himself. He hadn’t cared when he’d been younger, hadn’t seen the truth. He wondered what his pastor would have said.
“Marrieh, the Bible is for everyone. Redemption of sins is for everyone.”
He spoke to her, meaning every word, and she peered up with a hint of pleading as she whispered.
