The Arrow of Razzimir halted in the air. It hung there, the glowing magic and sheer mana becoming a charged odor that burned his nostrils. Slowly, slowly deforming until the magic began to run like cheap wax—then imploding in the air. A sunburst of light that exploded harmlessly.
One arrow. Then two. Then four.
The Prophet’s arms shook as he held four Arrows of Razzimir above his head, and they prayed. The spells that had been meant to fly the length of the continent deformed slowly, until they burst, but the King of Khelt kept hurling them down.
Yet the Prophet stood, even as he screamed from the exhaustion of keeping his arms raised and that crushing weight from killing them. He was not alone.
The camps of the People of God were aflame, or scorched rubble, but he saw another gathering of people. Over a thousand. They knelt in the cratered earth as Jilthread stood amongst them, clutching a cross to her chest.
A prismatic dome shielded her camp. Every time an arrow struck the dome, she faltered. Falling to her knees, blood running from her eyes and nose and mouth and ears, but they healed her, and she stood.
With will alone.
Marrieh, Lazimeh, each stood behind their own miracle as they prayed. The Prophet kept his arms raised, watching as the arrows targeted everyone who hadn’t reached a safe zone.
He felt like the [Light of Faith] shrank with each believer turned to nothingness. Destroyed by the hateful arrows falling from the sky.
They hadn’t stopped. Not for cries of mercy, not after the battle had been won. They scorched everyone. Fighters, those who had not picked up a weapon.
A monster’s actions. Then, and only then, did the bombardments stop. He didn’t know if the King of Khelt had run out of magic, or simply grown tired. Only then did the Prophet fall to his knees. They were not all dead, then.
Not all. But the People of God cried out to him, as they saw the skies clear for a moment.
“We must flee, Your Holiness. Away, out of range!”
Marrieh was urging him up as he clasped his hands together. It was Adoive, the Kheltian man, who whispered, face covered in soot and ash.
“There’s nowhere in Chandrar to run. He can strike any part of Chandrar with those arrows. Day and night.”
The arrows would come again, the Prophet was sure. He prayed for something. Salvation, a miracle.
Was this not the way, oh Lord? Guide me. Please…
Marrieh was urging him up and snapping at Adoive to stand. She believed. And the Prophet had seen the light. He had begun writing the next holy text. Salvation for all. This was a holy purpose.
So then…his eyes opened slowly, and he stared at Adoive, who he had thought for a second was the whispering of the Devil himself, a delusion sent to lead him astray.
Or—the Prophet rose. Rose and turned to his followers, who were upon their knees, gazing at him. Their faith shaken, but he rasped.
“I know where we must go. Follow me. Hurry.”
He began to walk through the sands, robes leaving a trail. They stirred and rose, uncertain, and Marrieh called out.
“Prophet! That’s the wrong way! You’re going—”
He turned to gaze at her, then shook his head, and his revelation came to him, and he spoke.
“Those arrows will strike us anywhere in the world. But not his cities. We will bring salvation to every street. His magic may assail us, but his army will break before our faith. Forwards!”
He began to run, then, ungainly, but they followed, and it was so obvious. There was no survival in any other direction. God had shown him the only path, as ever. So the Prophet ran, and when his eyes rose to the sky, he prayed.
“God…please show me a sign. A sign that good can triumph in this world. Please.”
When he collapsed on the ground, in view of the first Kheltian city, the divine messenger who might well be the Holy Spirit whispered in his ear, not quite happy about that idea. But nevertheless, it spoke:
 
[Class Change: Prophet of the Holy People → Witness of Divinity!]
[Witness of Divinity Level 40!]
[Faith (Christianity) – The Church of God Created!]
[Prophet of God rank Created!]
[Bishop of Christ rank Created!]
[Deacon of the Trinity rank Created!]
[Priest…]
[Miracle – Biblical Earthquake Created!]
[Skill (Faith) – Their Blades Slew the Unholy Obtained!]
[Miracle – Sacrament: Summon the Divine (Angel) Created!]
 
——
 
The King of Khelt was tired. He knelt on the ground of the city he had saved with coin and wealth and knew it was the right action.
His citizens’ relief was proof of that. Not a single one had Roshal touched.
The rest…
He felt it crumbling, now. The weight of eighteen ruler’s lives, so many who had come before him, all this effort, and it was his grip which slackened. As if trying to hold onto…sand.
It blew from his hands as they gathered around him, weeping, traumatized. Someone was trying to speak to him. Frieke and Pewerthe, who had ridden towards him in a panic.
“Your Majesty, the Prophet—”
“Were they from Roshal? Why weren’t they killed?”
“Your Majesty! The people are still protesting about the insects, and word of this—”
“They’re demanding New Jecrass be exiled—”
He said nothing. What was there to say? No more lies, even to himself. He met Pewerthe’s gaze, and the voices rose.
“Your Majesty!”
“Your Majesty, please!”
“Save us from—”
“Your Majesty!”
“Your Majesty—!”
“…Your Majesty?”
