Did she know why he’d lost control? She might well guess, with her countless lives and experience, but sometimes she was genuinely ignorant. Fetohep had an undead’s perfect poker face, and he kept his eye-flames from wavering as he lifted his shoulders.
“One must hope, Quarass.”
“Indeed. On that note, you may be pleased to know that my nation flourishes well with the King of Destruction’s lax sovereignty. Hellios, Germina, even the parts of Belchan he now owns. Far better than ailing Jecrass whom the High King continues to press.”
“Hellios I do not think of often. I trust former Queen Calliope has no designs upon the throne?”
She had abdicated, but her son, Siyal, and she might well stir rebellion…the Quarass smiled thinly.
“She is not material fit to be even a soft dagger in the King of Destruction’s back. Her son? Perhaps a small irritant, but in truth, the King of Destruction did well to grant the Gnoll tribes land there.”
“Ah. Are they now the new rulers of Hellios?”
Casual conversation. Fetohep tried to immerse himself in that. The Quarass shook her head.
“No. Hellios’ folk were rather hostile towards them, but the Meeting of Tribes painted clear enough their plight, and it was the smallest of work to ensure further incidents did not occur. The last thing needed is for the King of Destruction to behead an entire town.”
Especially because Germina, as his vassal, would suffer his collapse. Fetohep’s right eyeflame burned brighter like a raised eyebrow.
“Odd for the Quarass of Germina to bestir herself without pay.”
“I am amply paid in contact with his Earthers, the riches from his victories, and—hmph. I have more of a temper than some incarnations.”
The Quarass half-rose, then seated herself and continued painting her nails with what he strongly suspected to be some kind of contact-poison. Or maybe she just wanted to paint her nails. Germina loved the rich blues of the seas and waters they had never had in great abundance. She held up her nails, then spoke.
“It was good practice, in fact. I needn’t move my agents in great number. Rather…<Post Rare Quest: The Great Hunt for the Stone Ochirar>! As so.”
He was rather impressed; her eyes barely flickered. He’d tried posting his own <Quests>, but Kheltians fell over themselves trying to fulfil them, and it was more diversion in his mind. But this?
“Ochirar. Isn’t that a cat-like beast?”
“More elk. Imagine one with stone antlers and hide. Very, very difficult to take down. This is a rather violent specimen. I imagine the Gnolls will flock to the <Quest> despite minimal reward on my part. The hunt is their desire, and they are good at it.”
Culturally, didn’t Hellios enjoy some hunting along with their masonry? Fetohep’s mind worked as he tried to see her angle.
“So you have posted similar <Quests> that unify Hellios and Gnolls in good rivalry?”
She smirked at him, and he sighed as he had a servant pull the quest up. It took a short amount of time to query the Adventurer’s Guilds in Hellios, and when he read it…it was rather standard except for one part.
 
Limitations: The Ochirar is a fearsome foe when angered. It is said, ‘no Ochirar will kneel before any single arrow’, even one shot by a [Hero]’s bow. To this end, all aspiring [Hunters] must form a team of six wherein two participants must be Gnoll and two Human. The beast’s spoils shall be divided between both peoples as is only right and fair.
 
Then he saw it. Fetohep cast the <Quest> aside and nodded.
“Ah, one would suspect either side of seeing through such blatant restrictions.”
She gave him a pleased smile.
“If they do, what of it? The first <Quests> were far more subtle. Prince Siyal has already a number of acquaintances—and rivals—among the Gnoll peoples. And a restless [Prince] has little to do with a mother who complains nonstop in his ear whenever he remains at home.”
And probably despises the Gnolls, which will either convince her son, or, if he begins to take the opposite opinion, divide them. How clever.
This was probably what the Quarass regarded as a side-project. She sipped from a cup before adding pointedly.
“And so you see, my ability to post twice as many <Quests> per week is, in fact, advantageous, Fetohep. Not a waste of a class.”
His face didn’t change, but she glared at the smirk.
“One would never question the wisdom of the Quarass of Germina, infallible in her ways.”
Her glower intensified, and she took a longer gulp from her cup.
“There are facets to these <Quests> that no one has looked into. Much less the titular [Innkeeper] responsible for them. Mark me, Fetohep. The difficulty is only that two <Mythical Quests> have been completed as-of-yet, and the rewards not widely known. When a <Legendary Quest> is fulfilled…then you shall see the value of it.”
He had no doubt of that, but he still smiled until the Quarass eyed him and then developed a blandly cool expression.
“Upon that note…Germina has improved greatly. Alked Fellbow might well attest to the rising fare of my citizens. I have begun educating them formally to far higher degrees. Mine shall not be a kingdom of [Assassins] alone.”
“Wise of you, Quarass.”
“Mm, yes, well, hiring so many [Teachers] from abroad and constructing buildings not of temporary mud costs the earth. Hellios has the stone, but if Medain is so generous this month, perhaps it might be better spent in a poor nation such as mine?”
Fetohep’s smile guttered out, and his eyes flashed.
“A sizable donation to a neighbor, even one I hold in such high esteem as Germina.”
“It would be a token of great worth, and we would praise Khelt constantly. I did mention how well I spoke in your defense, did I not?”
She fluttered eyelashes at him, and Fetohep spoke icily.
“As High King Perric has continued his tributes, I suppose it may be sent.”
“Your largesse, Fetohep, is remembered. And three times the regular amount will sate Germina’s hunger for knowledge quite well!”
She instantly bowed her head, mockingly like Perric, and Fetohep snapped.
“How did you know—”
His head snapped around for that damn Garuda Courier, but she was already out of the palace, despite the largesse of His Majesty of Khelt. The Quarass gave Fetohep an innocent gaze as he stewed there.
“It does not come from Khelt’s coffers—”
“Yes, yes. Take it.”
She nodded carefully as Fetohep drummed his fingers on the armrest. Good mood gone. After a moment, the Quarass coughed.
“I believe the [Farmer] you requested is not necessary, Fetohep.”
“The farmer? Ah, for Colovt’s fields.”
“Yes…he has uncovered his answer, I think. If a solution is still lacking, I could of course provide some consultation, but the [Druids] are not fools.”
That was how she lived. Constantly making herself useful. But Fetohep disliked threats in any way. He spoke, tone severe.
“I shall inquire if you are needed. Good day, Quarass.”
She nodded, opening her mouth for a comment, but forbade it as he cut the connection. Thence Fetohep sat a while.
Annoyed.
 
——
 
Adventurer Frieke was also unhappy and stressed when she woke with the knowledge of Khelt’s predicament in her. But she was always sort of unhappy and stressed, so knowing she actually had something to be worried about made her rather peppy.
She cooked some salmon for herself and Konska on her magical stove, and they were just about to set off upon their day when there was a knock at the door. Frieke’s face fell. She paused, then came that voice.
“Adventurer Frieke? It is I, your neighbor—”
“Mistreq. Another insect?”
He wore that same appalled expression as he came to her door and shudderingly pointed. This time, it was just on the wall of their apartments. Frieke tossed it at Konska, who obligingly crunched it up, and Mistreq avoided gazing at her.
“Thank you, Adventurer. I swear…there’s so many. I saw ants on a table at a restaurant. Do you—do you think we’ve been cursed?”
She gave him a serious look, biting her tongue on the things she could say, and especially because there was a shred of truth in his worries.
The undead are—
“They’re certainly big…bugs, Mistreq, but it’s the spring. It’s not bad to me, but I understand Khelt is different.”
“It is! I don’t know how you can handle them! I—thank you. Everyone in my apartment is going to the palace later today. The Sereptian Plaza, rather.”
“Oh? For what?”
“To petition His Majesty, of course. This is intolerable. We know his focus has been—elsewhere, but if the undead are being used to manage New Jecrass, some must come back! Else we will be buried by insects before long!”
She realized he was determined, and with the horrible insect gone, several other neighbors had come out and were nodding. Frieke eyed Konska and bit her lip on an admonition not to.
“Er, I may be busy, but I am with you in spirit, isn’t that right, Konska?”
The bird made a vomiting sound which Mistreq took as encouragement. He tried to pat Konska on the head, and the bird leaned out of the way. Frieke? She felt her stomach aching as the man excused himself to wash his hands and smiled.
“I knew it was too good to be true.”
Konska eyed her and pecked Frieke on the head hard.
 
——
 
It was an unenviable task, but Frieke the Falcon realized she could both satisfy her duty to Khelt and her heroine, Satar, in two moves.
She was documenting Khelt as it was. Or rather, the woes of Khelt.
It wasn’t like she was going to send all this confidential information to Satar now. But a written history from someone on the ground was very important! Frieke fancied she might earn a place in Satar’s history, which was apparently a modern snapshot of the world.
Frieke had upgraded from [Message] spell to an actual [Communication] spell via scrying orbs to bypass the nosy [Mage], and Satar herself had time for a meeting with her that morning.
“Named-rank Adventurer Frieke!”
“Y-you know me, Shaman Satar?”
“Of course! You were on television, and you are a Named-rank adventurer. I am so honored by your help, and your copied texts were amazing! Thank you for helping with my project. Projects, I should say. My ‘State of the World’ anthology will draw from many contributors like you giving their honest perspectives on your nation.”
“I may have to delay my full piece, Satar. I am not sure how much is allowed to be sent, but I assure you, I’m working on it—”
Satar took Frieke’s apologies with a smile and waved it off.
“This is quite understandable, Frieke. My goal is to have everyone prepare an accounting of their nations and the world as they see it, then send in submissions. A year’s worth of context, so it would not even be needed now.”
Oh, that worked. Frieke might still have to censor some, but she could save it, and the project made the aspiring [Historian] smile. In fact, Satar was just as excited in a way that made Konska try to nap under one wing. History nerds.
“I actually gained another Skill in that vein, Adventurer Frieke, just last night! [Famous Historian: Request Collaboration]. Some kind of fame-Skill! I hope to reach out to some experts. Not Krsysl Wordsmith—”
They both had a huge laugh about that. Frieke had forgotten that rather infamously biased Drake was still alive, but she supposed he hadn’t been that old when he’d written his Antinium War works and the other books, which had decreased in authenticity…she nodded.
“I promise to give a good accounting of Khelt, then, Satar.”
“Thank you! Now, if I may, I have some example texts I’m sure you can source to understand what I’m searching for in terms of perspective, and if you had time to interview anyone…I can copy these over via the Mage’s Guild if needed to spare you the effort.”
 
——
 
That was the fun part for Frieke. The less-fun part was actually seeing the issues of Khelt as something to document, because for the first time ever, they had bugs.
It really wasn’t bad. By her standards, it was the cleanest city she had ever been in, and only the presence of bugs at all was freaking out the citizens of various cities across Khelt, but King Fetohep had been unable to continue manually managing his skeletons.
And that was the issue. Frieke stood in the throne room, listening and taking notes, as Fetohep held audience with Pewerthe, Frieke, Farmer Colovt, and a [Druid]. The King of Khelt was leaning forwards on his throne.
“You have found the issue, Colovt? Truly?”
“Yes, Your Majesty! The secret behind the crops that would not go beyond flowering is, well—I feel a failure as a [Farmer], but the [Druids] picked out the issue after less than half a day! Druid Meeles, if you would?”
It was the flower-druid buzzing with insects that Pewerthe had met. He was not popular in the capital city at the moment, but he spread his arms and bowed before Fetohep.
“The answer, Your Majesty, is obvious! I do not know why the skeletons have forgotten to do this—”
Everyone stirred as Pewerthe and Frieke exchanged glances, but the [Druid] went on happily as a butterfly landed on a shoulder-blossom.
“—but what the flowers lack is sex!”
King Fetohep of Khelt sat there, immobile, as everyone stared at the [Druid]. Colovt stopped smiling and nudged the [Druid].
“Meeles, perhaps more delicately—”
“Er…what do you mean by intercourse, Druid?”
Fetohep spoke like a man far at sea, wading through waters he really hoped were just water. Unfortunately, the [Druid] went on, beaming.
“Oh, it’s called other things. Pollination or whatnot, I’ve heard it said. But I know sex when I see it, Your Majesty. You see, most plants need to give each other pollen—that is much like what sperm is to other species. The way they do that is via my little friends, who are exiled from almost every city in Khelt! And everyone makes such a fuss over you, don’t they?”
He raised a butterfly to his face and tickled its wings, and Fetohep kept staring.
“Insects.”
Colovt jumped in desperately.
“Er, they bring pollen from plant to plant, Your Majesty. Which I did not know and, apparently, the skeletons had done up till now!”
“Truly?”
“They are the most advanced undead in the world. I have seen them harvest and mill plants without any direction, Your Majesty. A [Necromancer] who visited here remarked on it, once. He said that the best skeleton he could make could barely perform one or two tasks before needing direction. One need but speak and a skeleton can transport goods across a complicated route, bind and splint an injury—”
Anything a person could. They had been able to do that. Fetohep’s eye-flames diminished as Colovt hesitated, unwilling to say the rest.
