He had seen worse undead hordes.
“Your Majesty, save us!”
The Kheltians were screaming, but the skeletons did not advance. Why would they? Thatalocian’s [Slavers] would die in minutes, cut down, if the skeletons attacked.
But so would Khelt’s citizens. Thatalocian spoke as his eyes stared across the ground. A figure was rising from the sand, and golden flames fixed upon him, but the [Numerologist] was a master of his fear. And he did not fear Fetohep, regardless.
“He may kill us, in which case I do not know his number. I do not believe I am wrong. Witness it, Lintl, Vrikeyre. Calnous.”
The shaking woman in her shreds of armor, staring at him with the rest. Thatalocian stepped forwards, back straight, as he holstered the mace.
“Roshal was built of beings like I and these moments.”
He walked past them, only stopping once. Among the countless citizens of this city he had ransacked in less than an hour was a child, a boy, separated from his parents. He had no chains, just a piece of rope around his ankles, and Thatalocian halted.
“What is your name, child of Khelt?”
“A-Anleth.”
The boy answered with a petrified face. Thatalocian considered him, then bent and pulled the rope apart. Then he reached down and scooped the boy up in one arm. The child froze, and the citizens gazed at him in horror.
The burning eyes of the Revenant blazed, and he took a step forward, but Thatalocian just turned and began to walk out of the city’s gates with the boy staring around.
“Come, Anleth. Let us meet your king.”
 
——
 
A hundred thousand ancient bows pointed at Thatalocian, arrows gleaming. The eyes of a sea of undead fixed upon the [Numerologist], but he strode forwards slowly.
The boy, Anleth, was afraid, even though he had never feared skeletons, even as a baby. The being made of sands, robes swishing around him with those golden eyes…Anleth focused on him.
“Am I going to die?”
He wondered aloud, certain that at any moment, those arrows would loose and this dreadful man die. Or perhaps this was all a nightmare, a horrible dream, and he’d wake and tell his parents…but it felt too real.
Strangely, the man who called himself Slave Lord Thatalocian was the most reassuring. He glanced down at the boy he carried and shook his head.
“I do not put children in danger, Anleth. You will come to no harm. I swear it. As for your king…”
He met the eyes of the Revenant as they burned, and his voice carried across the dry ground.
“We are people with souls. He will not harm you or I.”
They were close enough, now, that Fetohep of Khelt heard them, and he stirred as Thatalocian put Anleth down. The boy sat down, knees too weak to stand, and Fetohep began to reach down for him, then halted. His voice, when he spoke, was terrible and grand, and Anleth hoped he would make it all better.
“You presume much, intruder who has despoiled Khelt’s lands with your presence. But for my citizens, I would subject each of Roshal’s minions to torture unto death. For this, I may scorch what remains of Lailight Scintillation to rubble. Why did you lay hands upon a child? He has no place here, Slave Lord Thatalocian.”
He knew who this was? Anleth stared at the bald man, who was so much less…grand than Fetohep. He wore plain armor, and he was balding, with scabs running all down one side of his face, a gouge in his bald pate, and white hair matter with blood.
But for all that, he was also…huge. A hunched man whose voice had a terrible weight to it. He addressed Fetohep with a simple nod of his head.
“To remind you of the children of Roshal who turned to dust, oh murderous king. Babes and children and those whose only crime it was to stand in the harbor.”
For just one moment, the golden flames in the sand-Revenant’s eyes flickered, then they blazed hot.
“So you have come seeking vengeance?”
“Naturally. But see—I have hurt none of your subjects. Despoiled nothing, save for the tread of my people’s boots. I come to you in restraint and honor, oh King of Ancient Khelt. I am as you name me, Thatalocian the Numerologist of Roshal. Will you greet me?”
His chin rose, and the undead ruler’s hand stole towards his side unconsciously. Fetohep’s mouth opened, then his head drew back. He regarded Thatalocian, and never—never.
In all his years of existence, never had one of Roshal’s get ever come before him and dared to look down upon him from higher moral ground. The rage that coursed through Fetohep became a stillness of ice.
“If you pretend towards decency, Slave Lord, then know me as Fetohep, Ruler of Eternal Khelt. For your trespass, I shall—”
“Let us not play games, King Fetohep. I hold the lives of your citizens in my hand. Few though they may be, you are said to be a king who treasures even one life like no other. My terms are hence: we shall depart upon your sworn word with none of your citizens harmed. This oath you shall swear in exchange for the terms I shall deliver.”
Thatalocian cut Fetohep short, and the Revenant stepped forwards.
“You dare? I would shred your city twice for this, Slave Lord.”
“You might.”
Thatalocian conceded, but his eyes were like numbers ticking down towards the end of the world. He whispered back as Anleth’s head swung between the two.
“You might, but Roshal has equal spells to hurl back at Khelt. As I have bid her, Slave Lord Andra holds them now in readiness. Shall two nations vanish today, King of Khelt?”
“You would risk your nation’s destruction, Lord Thatalocian?”
Fetohep didn’t move for a second. Thatalocian’s smile was bleak.
“We may scorch each other, Your Majesty, and I would weep. For I would live. Just as my people would live, the few, the broken, and rebuild as we always have. But what of Khelt? A [King] who loves his people would not see a single one hurt, as I have already witnessed. Would you damn those innocents? No. And your people…yours cannot even clean dust from their eyes.”
Fetohep felt like he was gazing into a stranger’s face. The bleakness of Thatalocian’s stare reminded him of—of Erin Solstice’s in some twisted way. Someone who had lost everything. He averted his gaze.
“You threaten me whilst surrounded. There is no strength in that negotiation, for all you guess that I would not wage war with spells of calamity.”
He intended to bring this conversation back to reality only to realize that Thatalocian had already been standing in it. For his next words made Fetohep freeze.
“I am surrounded. But by what? Khelt’s legions. The armies to damn any enemy in the world. So it seems, yet I have broken through them in a moment. You claim I am surrounded, and this is true. But I speak in truth: I do not believe I will die. My followers, yes. But if you should order your undead attack, I believe we would speak thusly when the day next dawns. Only I, more exhausted, and you, grieving. For I would claim ten lives for every one of my followers that fell. Then, Your Majesty of Khelt, I would flee. And the raids would truly begin.”
He knew. How, Fetohep did not know, and the boy who sat there could not understand what Thatalocian was alluding to, but the answer was in Thatalocian’s eyes.
That was why he had come. The instincts of a rational man who saw perfectly a weakness in his foes. Fetohep whispered as he drew closer.
“What do you wish, Slave Lord? It would appear you consider my position imperilled. Yet I have never seen value in feeding a starving jackal. Where once it threatens to bite, it shall again and again until put down.”
The [Numerologist] did not smile. He merely produced something and handed it to Fetohep, who unfolded it and stared at the scroll.
“This was not my design, but Andra’s. You may review it, but the terms are simple. This first incursion shall be the last. All of Roshal is bound by this agreement, even my fellow Slave Lords. Again, this is a mercy.”
“Mercy?”
The rising fury again banked as Thatalocian blinked those numbered eyes at Fetohep.
“Yes. Or did you think vengeance would not come for your deeds? I ask for coin to mend what will never return. I ask it, for your nation may serve my ends and against our common foes, though I would break your bones upon your throne for your deeds, Revenant King. Do not sully my honor with your pitiful ire. Or do you think Pazeral would come as gently as I? Yazdil? Look: not a drop of your citizens’ blood has been spilt.”
He pointed at the city, his [Slavers], and Fetohep’s eyes flicked to the contract. He stared downwards.
“This—is beyond ridiculous. You dare ask—”
At last, Thatalocian lost his temper, and a hand reached out and grasped Fetohep’s shoulder, or tried to. The King of Khelt reacted, and his hand intercepted Thatalocian’s. Until they were grasping forearms, almost like warriors engaged in combat.
His strength. Fetohep had been above Level 50 when he died, but the Slave Lord’s grip was terrifyingly strong. Now they drew closer, and Thatalocian seemed to grow before Fetohep’s eyes, and his voice deepened.
“Shall we make war, King of Khelt? I offer you a third boon. No one has seen this raid. Not a word of it will be spoken. You pay for silence, for the dead, against future harm. Make war, against your every wit and instinct, and prove yourself to be no better than any babbling undead, King of Khelt. And I shall shake your nation before the world’s eyes.”
Anleth didn’t know what was being said. He only saw his king, his infallible, perfect king, standing there, and the boy waited for Fetohep to smite his foes. He waited for good and justice to be restored to the world, this dreadful nightmare from Roshal to be banished.
He waited…and the King of Khelt’s gaze cast downwards to him. Only then did Thatalocian step back and glance down.
“Child. Go find your parents.”
“Yes…go in safety. Your name, boy?”
“Anleth, Your Majesty.”
Fetohep bent down and took the boy’s hand to help him up. He spoke once.
“Your bravery, Anleth, I note. I shall send for you when these horrors are gone. Go to your family. No one will harm you: this I swear.”
The boy broke into a relieved smile. He bowed, then turned and ran back to the city, shouting in relief. Fetohep watched him go and then spoke.
“For that, alone, I should thank you, Slave Lord Thatalocian.”
The [Numerologist] stood at ease now, just an old man, tired. He nodded once.
“A hero should not falter before children.”
 
——
 
They stood a little while longer there, speaking, and then they left.
Lintl had a gash down one arm, and it hurt. When Thatalocian told him to release the citizens, he obeyed, but he felt…whatever he felt was changed by the sight of the dead sinking beneath the ground and what came next.
The Kheltians felt it too. For all they were freed without a single one collared for Roshal. No [Slave] class assigned, no chains binding them. Lintl did not know what happened to the citizens he’d freed.
He didn’t really care. Nor did he even feel the journey back, though it took days—until Djinni were sent to literally fly them back and carry the rest with them. He didn’t sleep, he thought, for at least two days and nights.
All of them, each one who had come with Thatalocian, unwillingly, fearing the whip he had given a [Slave], his orders enforced with instant death—like Lintl, they had not loved this strange man reeking of older days.
But when he returned to Roshal and set foot in Lailight Scintillation, Thatalocian the Numerologist walked before a crowd who gazed upon his back and only then remembered to cheer. When he glanced over his shoulder, Lintl would have followed him back to Rhir in an instant.
The [Slave Lord] raised his hand, and in the high towers, Slave Lady Andra gazed down at him along with the other Masters of Roshal.
No one broadcast the image of his return on scrying orbs. Word of exactly what had happened was kept silent, though rumors spread, of course. How not?
The first wagons that Thatalocian brought through Roshal’s gates were laden with treasure the likes of which had not been seen since the King of Destruction’s conquests. It seemed unending as Djinni carried wealth falling from their arms onto the streets. Gold, gemstones, magical artifacts, spices, rare alchemical plants without end.
“The first of many. Let it be a reminder. All those who are curious as to how it was won, who seek more than merely holding chains, follow me.”
That was all Thatalocian said as he dipped one huge hand into a chest and let the coins fall clinking back into the chest. He turned, and Lintl followed. The Masters of Roshal gazed with wariness, envy, and yes, even appreciation at the strange son of Roshal. And for that, the riches of paradise, the Slavers of Roshal had nothing more to do with the failings of Khelt.
The rest…was the Prophet.
 
——
 
They should have all died there. Not in the first hour, in the first volley. The Arrows of Razzimir had fallen and left glowing craters in the sand. Scorched bones and glass.
Each detonation erased up to a hundred feet around it, hurling bodies from the sheer impact or blinding the others with the light. It did not matter who.
Men, women, children…
So that was the true nature of the King of Khelt. This was the Prophet’s folly. His punishment? He didn’t know.
Izreal was dead, obliterated in that first glowing arc of light. Then had come the next arrow and the next, killing the faithful with weapons.
Then those who knelt in their tents, praying. Those who had never picked up a blade. Flashes of light and the rumbling of sand and—
At first, they’d just missed him. Harvey Glastone had just been a single figure, impossible to pick up around the milling bodies, and the King of Khelt had simply hit every large group of people he could see. Nor had he stopped.
For hours, he had loosed those arrows with the endless rage of an undead ruler. Thousands of lives for just one man’s life.
He would have erased them all, scattered a handful to the desert, but for that thing he didn’t understand.
Faith.
So, there, the Prophet of God stood. Hands outstretched despite the burning of his limbs. Eyes wide, face blackened with soot, in front of the kneeling, weeping People of God. Even when he saw the glowing arrows sweeping down at him, he didn’t turn and flee.
He glanced over his shoulder and saw people behind him. Yirene clutching two children. Gladys holding a bloody sword, so many people he had promised protection to. And he spoke.
“Oh, God…”
The glowing Arrow of Razzimir fell, contoured light magic, hand-crafted to look like some ballistae bolt made by false Gods themselves. The spiral tip curved down towards him, and he held those shaking hands up and called on his faith. His desperation. His conviction in his heart that these people should not die.
