“My citizens I can readily sense, Fellbow, but these are intruders. Intruders with no classes, by and large. It is as if they were invisible. Naturally, I suspect some kind of concealment Skill, the likes of which the Bloodfeast Raiders use. They appear to be spreading out; I am sending undead to hunt and search for them, but I am loath to spend them when the main camp appears shielded. I require them gone. Your thoughts.”
The Named-rank adventurer shifted. Fetohep was not asking him to fight, but…Alked spoke directly.
“If I had a clear shot and knew they couldn’t detect me, I could attempt to shoot this Prophet, but that might well drive his followers into a rage.”
“Such is the case with [Cult Leaders], in my experience. Nor do I believe these are toothless vagrants any more.”
Nor did Alked. He shook his head.
“Twelve thousand of them…there have to be some high-level members. If the undead cannot hold them, then—what other groups could be called on to stop them?”
He felt like he knew the answer, but Fetohep’s reply was slow.
“There are…officials who mediate in disputes between my populace. They would constitute the largest living force.”
“What about soldiers of Khelt?”
“I believe, with new volunteers, the amount that currently serves in Khelt’s army across here and New Jecrass is…1,020. Over two-thirds of them enlisted last year.”
In a sense, it was more than you’d think for Khelt. Alked’s throat worked as he swallowed, and Fetohep added.
“In Queen Xierca’s time, we had twenty officers. I left Khelt’s lands to serve as a mercenary due to the sheer disinterest. My class may have motivated my citizens to some martial prowess. But it would appear to rule out the living as deterrents. Unless you have any other ideas?”
“Just one, Your Majesty. There are always mercenaries or more adventurers, but we don’t do well against groups this large. If not them—the People of Zair? Or the Gnolls.”
Yes. The Centaurs were a powerful, mobile force. But Fetohep drummed his fingers on the armrest of his throne.
“That they are new does not change my esteem for any citizen of Khelt. I would not press the Herdmistress or her people into any service lightly. Nor do I wish this incident to spread.”
He drummed his fingers upon the armrest of his throne. There was one force he could call upon, naturally, that had the power to lay waste to most foes. But he was loath to use it.
Alked had the same thought.
“What of Sand at Sea, Your Majesty?”
The undead ship and Captain Cikroleth were potent indeed. However…Fetohep thought back to the border and all the undead that had been erased.
“I believe they have a potent anti-undead Skill, Alked. Numerous ones, perhaps. Khelt’s last remaining Revenants should not be risked in any capacity.”
Alked hesitated.
“This is true, Your Majesty. But if you will not use the People of Zair, Gnolls, or Sand At Sea…”
Someone had to be used. Fetohep nodded, accepting this mild pushback.
“True. Then, I shall send Sand at Sea to New Jecrass. In doing so, I shall pull back Khelt’s standing forces of living mortals and some of the undead.”
He did not know if the warship could fully patrol all of New Jecrass, but it meant he’d have living Kheltians rather than risk the undead against the Prophet. Alked nodded, reluctant.
“And a force which can supplement Khelt’s…army, Your Majesty?”
“Fear not, Fellbow. I am well aware Khelt’s standing forces are not adequate alone for this task. I shall inquire into methods by which to curtail these…fanatics.”
In his mind, he could sense a squad of skeletons pursuing a group of the Prophet’s fleeing followers. Another rising and ambushing a furtive bunch of eighteen on horseback. They fought, then fled, and his skeletons were trailing after. Then there was a flash—light—?
The skeletons chasing the first group vanished abruptly, and Fetohep sighed.
“That Skill cannot be unlimited. The moment it is exhausted, they shall be expunged without mercy. Aside from the innocents, of course. There are children amongst this camp, at least as far as I can tell. I shall send for you if a gap appears, Fellbow.”
His eyes flashed, and the Named-rank adventurer bowed. That was the state of things, at first. Fetohep actually turned his attention to more urgent matters.
“These protests in the Sereptian Plaza over insects. Servants, take note. I shall issue a proclamation about the spread of bugs throughout the kingdom shortly…”
King Fetohep announced that the bugs were due to unprecedented yearly migrations. He urged citizens to remain calm and prepared a list of measures to be taken, such as securing uncovered food, cleaning after oneself, and even issued bounties on brave citizens willing to remove bugs themselves.
His reply was a request for more skeletons. His citizens were not blind, just complacent, and his response was that they were needed in New Jecrass, but plenty were keeping order; it was just a matter of the number of insects.
Fetohep thought it would hold until his citizens, stressed and educated, if not in all the ways of the world, did something he really didn’t like.
They started counting how many skeletons were actually working in each district.
 
——
 
The problem with a ruler who wanted unquestioning obedience was always in a populace who could think and reason. Pewerthe took one glance at a diagram someone had worked up that charted how many skeletons were active in each district, sectoring the entire capital city, and her stomach hurt.
But to be fair, it hurt more to think there was an unidentified group of people roaming around Khelt’s borders. It reminded her of the bandits who’d carried her family off, and she didn’t know why they weren’t expelled, gone!
—No, it clearly weighed on King Fetohep’s mind. He was not happy, and his voice was raised in rare outrage in his throne room.
“Mugged upon my roads? My citizens?”
The official who knelt before his throne shivered, but the rage was for the People of God, not them. The woman lifted a hand—she was visibly rattled, horrified—but Pewerthe was relieved by her shake of the head.
“Not hurt, Your Majesty. They were intercepted by the—the strangers who claimed to be a ‘Chosen People of God’. They demanded the citizens relinquish their wealth that they might be redeemed, and forswear loyalty to Khelt.”
“And then?”
“The citizens refused to forswear themselves, but when they resisted—with strong words and calls for skeletons—they were seized! And their possessions taken! They fled back to the city, and these people vanished when several official [Peacekeepers], including myself, went to find them. Were they foreigners, Your Majesty? Visitors?”
Fetohep lifted a hand and looked at Pewerthe.
“I believe I know who they are, Official Nerizhe. Keep this matter private to all but your settlement to avoid enflaming fears. Alked, take a hundred of Khelt’s soldiers, living ones, to the town. I shall send my undead to hunt these trespassers, of course, Nerizhe.”
She bowed repeatedly, and Pewerthe stared at Fetohep as he sat back on his throne.
But the undead couldn’t easily find or stop this Prophet. Then what? Fetohep glanced at her, then beckoned a scrying orb over.
“Inform the Mercenary’s Guild I wish to secure the services of their largest groups. If not them, the Empire of Scaied. I require a response within half an hour.”
 
——
 
The concept Fetohep had was simple. Call for mercenaries to deal with the People of God and then, after their ousting, use the mercenaries to deal with the bugs. The cover for the need for [Mercenaries] thus became a rather interesting question that the leader of one of Scaied’s mercenary armies had to field.
“Er—how many cleaning Skills or capable men and women do I have under my command, Your Majesty?”
The [Deathstriker Scorpion-Commander] stared at the King of Khelt as he smiled at her.
“Yes. Some warfare is required in tracking a nuisance within my borders with elusive Skills, but I am more minded to combat the dangers of insects within my borders.”
Her eyes widened.
“The likes of the metal beetles? Some are on Scaied’s borders, and they’re a damn—”
She shut her lips fast, realizing she’d both cursed in front of Fetohep and admitted her empire had a problem with the insects; other nations were trying to curtail their spread at once. Fetohep’s eyeflames only glittered at her.
“My insects are more mundane. Beetles. Ants. Upon the streets, no less. As many as a single anthill per street in the worst distracts.”
“What, like, one in an entire…street?”
There it was again, that look of complete incomprehension. The [Commander] stared at a big ant walking past her very feet as Fetohep explained the total catastrophe alarming his citizens. He made an exhaling sound.
“I take it, then, your troops are not equipped to combat this particular menace?”
“I—I have no less than fifteen Oisk Stingers under my command, Your Majesty. Each one is an adult capable of taking down a Grand Elephant, and my troops can all sweep and clean best as needed, even without…cleaning Skills.”
She wanted to lie to him, but she felt like that was a bad idea. Fetohep reviewed a dossier of her forces, then placed it to one side. Smiled at her.
“I shall consider your bid, Commander Rijec. Though I note the Oresect plague’s presence. Your honesty has been noted.”
Rijec flinched as he cut the line. She hadn’t even been able to ask if there was a way to emigrate to Khelt, say, if she hit Level 40…
Losing such a huge contract was one thing, but then no less than the Crown Prince summoned her to a scrying orb to scream at her within the hour; Khelt had banned every single trading convoy from Scaied from even passing near their borders.
Even the smallest conversation with Fetohep could provoke terrible results, but what he offered was beyond dreams. Gold and the lure of even seeing Khelt itself…
 
——
 
Fetohep entertained eighteen bids, which he winnowed down to six without even interviews. Of the six, only two forces seemed to have the decorum, ability to keep silent, and intelligence he desired. He had to dismiss Scaied entirely; the Oresect plague was not something he would allow inside his borders.
But it was Mercenary Captain Galbram and his Glasscut Troop that seemed perfect for the job. The man had no less than five thousand under his command and could draw upon more he swore he could vouch for if needed. His sounded like any run-of-the-mill mercenary company, but his pedigree spoke for itself.
“You participated in the fall of Tiqr, Captain. In open warfare? Elaborate, if you would.”
The sweating man saluted again as he stood in his rough yet practical camping tent, a messy bedroll behind him, armor and tools upon a workbench—he wasn’t pristine, but Fetohep remembered his own days as a mercenary and thought the man was business-like and, certainly, aware of his client’s importance. But he was no coward and managed to meet Fetohep’s flaming gaze.
“Not open, Your Majesty. Begging pardons for my rough tongue.”
“It is not held against you. Speak candidly and only upon your own modality of speech, Captain. Respect is plain within any setting, not a bar to be placed out of reach by verbiage alone.”
The man nodded after a second and spoke more easily.
“Begging your pardon, sire, then. It wasn’t open. We were hired to raid alongside Great General Thelican’s forces and all the others. Slow down enemy supply lines, take on their irregulars like the Laughing Brigade. It wasn’t ever a clash against their Grand Elephants. Begging your pardon, but we’d have run like spit if we saw even ten coming at us.”
“Ah. Prudence or fear, Captain? I require a force that can both oust these [Bandits] and provide services combatting these insects plaguing my citizens.”
Galbram swallowed and spoke carefully.
“Begging your pardon, Your Majesty, but if it’s the latter, my people and I can clean and do all that’s needful—we’ve held places before, and none of us are shy about sweeping or digging up insect nests. But if it’s the former, well, we’re willing to fight, but how much we bleed depends on how much we’re paid.”
“And Nerrhavia’s Fallen did not pay you to war.”
A relieved smile on Galbram’s face.
“Exactly, sire. It wasn’t the most handsome of payments, and against Grand Elephants…? The moment the [Wild Riot] was called, we annulled our contracts and left. They could have offered us more, but, er…”
“Speak in confidence, Captain. You have my word as Ruler of Khelt I shall not betray anything spoken to me. Nor is this connection interceptable by any other power.”
Galbram bowed again.
“Then let me just say that General Thelican…didn’t use [Mercenaries] well. We were either chaff he sent in front of his glorious armies or untrusted. He could’ve paid us well enough to fight, but he didn’t feel like spendin’ the gold. I don’t think that’s the issue here, Your Majesty. Nevermind if it’s a large group, pay us and we’ll fight unless we think we’ll all die.”
His answers, his clear-eyed stare, all pleased Fetohep of Khelt. The ruler nodded.
“Then I shall offer your company a contract of six months, Captain, at the values you have requested.”
The man couldn’t hide a smile from crossing his face. It would be at triple his usual wages, a fact both he and Fetohep knew, but the King of Khelt didn’t exactly sweat for gold. Galbram ducked his head.
“We can pack up and be riding to Khelt within the hour, Your Majesty. Better work than Nerrhavia’s Fallen right now.”
Especially since they have us doing all the damn work their local armies should. Clearing bandits, keeping order, playing the bastards kicking in doors to get conscripts…it sounded like clean work in Khelt, even if it was handling bugs. If this bandit force seemed larger than the King of Khelt was putting on, Galbram had been assured his troops would be supplied with enchanted arrows if necessary. Plus, the perks—he spoke unthinking.
“There’s a few things I’d like to ask someone less important than yourself about, Your Majesty. Details of the job. Where we should camp, good water, and so on.”
“All water in Khelt is fair, but I take your point, Captain Galbram. I shall have one of my officers coordinate the matter with you. Servant, send for Death Commander Lanodest.”
“I’ll trouble him then, Your Majesty. We’ll hop to it, on the double. Everyone will be dying to see Glorious Khelt with our own eyes, and they’ll fight twice as hard for a chance at a day off to see the cities.”
