Satar glanced up shyly; she hadn’t been a great [Shaman], and Akrisa glowered more fiercely.
“Don’t focus on the wrong thing! Satar…listen. How shall I put this?”
She steepled her fingers together and searched for the right words, then made a mistake.
“With great power…comes great responsibility. So you understand, if you said something confidential, like about Adetr’s projects—”
Satar’s cheeks bulged. She tried, she really did, but she started laughing as Akrisa hesitated, then blushed under her fur.
“Mother! You got that from Earth. Did you really just quote—”
“Silence! So what if I did? It is a good line, no? Stop laughing, Satar! I am serious! Stop—”
So much for parental wisdom. Akrisa slunk off after Satar as, thoroughly unchastened, she excused herself. Looking for solace, Akrisa went to one of the huge permanent yurts erected around the vast Earth Tent where the [World of You and Me] was, searching for sympathy from her fellow [Chieftains].
Unfortunately, Orelighn, Eska, and every Gnoll in the tent laughed themselves onto the floor. They were just a bit too immersed in Earth-culture at this point.
Actually, it was something that Gnolls who visited the tribes now camping here remarked upon. There was a mentality, even linguistic shift occurring between Gnolls who constantly went into the simulation of Earth and those who didn’t get what the others were being exposed to. Much less the technological innovation.
Satar nearly laughed herself sick as she got back to her tents, shaking her head. She knew her mother was right in that way parents were, but honestly…
She had so many historical projects going she was always busy these days. Both as a writer and historian, Satar was fulfilled. Of course, she had big questions.
How had their worlds met? What was really going on? But she knew those questions were on the minds of everyone, so she contented herself with the past.
A history of the world would be an amazing work, but Frieke and all the records would be only pieces of the whole puzzle that Satar would painstakingly need to put together. The Gnoll reckoned that a snapshot of the world as it was today would be a simpler project by comparison, and just as valuable. Those were her biggest goals, so she was writing [Messages] to the other contributors and reaching out to other people for help on both projects.
As she’d said to Frieke, she was levelling fast. And the Skill she’d mentioned?
[Famous Historian: Request Collaboration]. She wondered what it did. Because prima facie, it wasn’t that great, right?
No one had ever heard of it, even Shaman Theikha, but she had said it reminded her of [Call for Aid] type Skills. But those either alerted someone at a great distance or brought them closer to help.
What good was it for Satar to just request someone to help on her project? She could do that with [Communication] or [Message] spells.
“It has to be more effective than that. I’ll try it on, um…well, either project will do.”
In fact, Satar had just the candidate. She was writing with another interesting personage, arguably more so than even Frieke, though that would hurt the Dullahan’s feelings.
 
Satar: So you’re willing to contribute your people’s perspectives? Thank you! I’ll send over the materials directly to the Mage’s Guild. Can I confirm your name? Just so I am certain!
Lewdquill: Absolutely. My perspective may be limited to only the Free Antinium, however. It is ‘L-e-w-d-q-u-i-l-l’, no dashes.
Satar: I see. May I ask about the name?
Lewdquill: I write about private parts. I helped write the Antinium Book of Sex.
Satar: May I have a copy?
Lewdquill: I’m very popular with the ladies. Absolutely. If you ever come by Liscor, I’d love to buy you a drink.
 
Flirting with an Antinium was not how she thought she’d start her day, but after a few days in the Earth tent watching movies and having her head exploded by things from that world, Satar also had that adaptability that Liscorians were becoming known for.
 
Satar: I may be able to visit Liscor sometime. If so, I’ll take you up on the offer •̀ᴗ-. Don’t worry about other perspectives. I have several interested Liscorians and even a testimonial from an eyewitness to all the big events that started with Erin Solstice.
Lewdquill: Oho. Who?
Satar: I believe it’s ‘whom’, not to correct you, and it’s a Guardsman Belsc, well, former-guardsman. He’s writing a novel. ‘I Let Her Inn, a Guardsman’s Retrospective on Solstice Events’. I’m going to get a few copies.
Lewdquill: I have no idea who that is, but it sounds hilarious.
Satar: Yes!!! Actually, can I ask you to participate in one more thing with your permission? New Skill I’d like to test out.
Lewdquill: You can test anything out with me, baby.
Lewdquill: I’m sorry, that was a Relc-level line.
Satar: You’re forgiven. Please don’t do it again. I’m going to use [Famous Historian: Request Collaboration] on you. I’d love the Antinium perspective on, well, everything. Your history, your thoughts on the present!
Lewdquill: Sure, that’s cool. We don’t know much history here. Maybe the Armored Queen knows more? Rumor is she tells stories even better than Klbkch.
Satar: I’ll try! Standby!
 
She stood back and pointed at the [Message] scroll, more on instinct than anything else. She had upgraded one of her Skills. Now she had [Bound Item: Journal of the Connected Researcher]. Which meant it had lots of pages she could organize by section for her notes compressed into a tiny tome and a free [Message] page all in one.
Yes, she was levelling like, well, an Earther. Satar beamed as she spoke, trying to sound cool.
“[Famous Historian: Request Collaboration]! Information on the Antinium, please!”
Her book reacted to her Skill. Satar held her breath as a page flipped—
…And nothing happened. After a moment, Satar wrote on the page.
 
Satar: Lewdquill? Are you still there? Is this the Armored Queen of the Antinium? I’d like to ask about the history of the Antinium if you have a moment. This is Satar Silverfang, [Historian of the World].
 
Nothing. She waited another minute, then flipped the pages back and saw more writing.
 
Lewdquill: Okay, go for it!
Lewdquill: Still engaging the Skill?
Lewdquill: Standing by!
Lewdquill: I’m waiting for you like a Rock Crab waiting for a snack, baby!
Lewdquill: Is this thing on?
Satar: Sorry, I tried the Skill, but it clearly didn’t work on you. Is…do Antinium flirt like that?
Lewdquill: I sure hope not. These are Relc-lines. He used to visit one of the brothels, and all the girls remember his lines and tell each other the best-worst ones.
Satar: I see…I’ll contact you with the information. Thank you for your time, Lewdquill!
Lewdquill: Anytime!
 
A bit disappointed, Satar arranged for another sending of the materials at the Mage’s Guild, and a rather glum Gnoll groaned.
“Satar, do you know how hard it is to send all that to the other [Mages]? They hate copying out that many words! Some just summarize the writing instead of doing it word-for-word! When I got my [Mage] class, I didn’t think this would be my job.”
“Hey, shut it, Rurrin. At least you’ve got magic.”
She poked him with a claw, and the Gnoll groaned.
“Yeah, and I’m now a grunt working for the Mage’s Guild in the Meeting of Tribes! Why me?”
She shook her head as she strode back to her tent. In truth, she had to admit it didn’t seem that fun, but…they were improving. Levelling. It made up a tiny bit for all that had happened at the Meeting of Tribes. Like 10%.
She forgot all about the Skill she’d used as she wrote to the Armored Queen, then carried on several conversations with other interesting people. Drowned Folk, Centaurs, everyone knew Satar, and everyone, seemingly, liked her.
Only a few really crotchety [Historians] and [Writers] seemed to think she was as arrogant as Akrisa said she was getting—all the young ones loved the idea of collaboration and making something like this.
 
Satar: So you’ll do it?
Omui: Absoluuuutely! Sorry I’m spilling ink because I’m so excited. I make my own. Squid-girl. And we’re in a ship going dark. I have to be quiet or they’ll yell at me.
Satar: So fascinating! Drowned Folk are a perspective everyone’s curious about, you know. If you have any texts or insights—I believe the underwater world would be fascinating compared to ours. For instance, do you know about Tiernas, the Continent of Glass? We have some records, but most are lost—but do Drowned Folk have stories about it?
Omui: Sure do! We lost a lot as well. Every time a Sunken Library implodes, most texts vanish. Really hard to keep information for ages. But I know Tiernas caused huge vortexes underwater when it sank, boiling everything. Almost nothing right around it survived, but the actual place is still down here. It’s a Death Zone, even now.
Satar: Wait, Tiernas? You know where it is?
Omui: Sure do. We’re like within fifty miles of one piece of it right now. It’s just north of Wistram. Didn’t you know that? No one gets close to it, obviously. Even Krakens don’t want to touch it.
Satar: I have so many questions. Do you have a minute—oh, hold on, someone’s messaging me.
Omui: That’s okay! I’ll be around! Message me anytime you want! I’m so excited, I need to tell my crew!
 
One of the many little colored bookmarks was flashing, indicating Satar had other correspondence. It was rather like how a smartphone app in the Earth simulations acted…she wondered if this Skill was based on her perceptions and forms of thinking.
She flipped to the indicated page, then blinked. Because what she saw made no sense at first. She read familiar and unfamiliar words in a scrawl down the page.
 
Satar: Lewdquill? Are you still there? Is this the Armored Queen of the Antinium? I’d like to ask about the history of the Antinium if you have a moment. This is Satar Silverfang, [Historian of the World].
.]dlroW eht fo nairotsiH[ ,gnafrevliS rataS si sihT .tnemom a evah uoy fi muinitnA eht fo yrotsih eht tuoba ksa ot ekil d’I ?muinitnA eht fo neeuQ deromrA eht siht sI ?ereht llits uoy erA ?lliuqdweL :rataS
Sɐʇɐɹ: ˥ǝʍpbnᴉll¿ ∀ɹǝ ʎon sʇᴉll ʇɥǝɹǝ¿ Is ʇɥᴉs ʇɥǝ ∀ɹɯoɹǝp Qnǝǝu oɟ ʇɥǝ ∀uʇᴉuᴉnɯ¿ I’p lᴉʞǝ ʇo ɐsʞ ɐqonʇ ʇɥǝ ɥᴉsʇoɹʎ oɟ ʇɥǝ ∀uʇᴉuᴉnɯ ᴉɟ ʎon ɥɐʌǝ ɐ ɯoɯǝuʇ˙ ┴ɥᴉs ᴉs Sɐʇɐɹ Sᴉlʌǝɹɟɐuƃ’ ]Hᴉsʇoɹᴉɐu oɟ ʇɥǝ Moɹlp[˙
dermAor eeQun of eth tuinmi?nA
rdeoArm eQenu of eht Ain?tmuin
Aitminun?
Antinium. Antinium. Antinium. ███.
████.
Krche rc cheri█kkl ra-svv Si-cha-ri.
Ra-svv Xrn.
Ra-svv Kl-bkch-he-zeim.
Ra-svv Wr-ym-vr.
Ra-svv idiv?
Ra-svv.
 
She stared at the page. Satar lifted her quill, mind racing. What was…
 
Satar: Hello? Is this the Armored Queen of the Antinium? I’m afraid I don’t read your language. I’m Satar, a Gnoll from the Great Plains of Izril. I hope I’m not intruding.
 
A pause, then a response appeared on the page so fast she couldn’t even see the quill tracing a reply. It was too quick.
 
Hello. Antinium. Gnoll. Izril. Hope.
Not. Yes. Not. Possible. Don’t. Affirmative. Negative.
Satar. Satar. Satar.
Ra-svv. Hello? Contact? Affirmative? Request? Query?
Satar: Is that what ra-svv means? Ra-svv, Satar. No, you’re asking for Klbkch? Klbkch the Slayer?
Slayer. Klbkch. Slayer. Slayer. Hello. Yes. Affirmative.
Satar: I’m afraid I don’t know how to contact him. Who is this, please?
 
She felt like she should put the book down. But something was drawing her in. This…this didn’t feel like…the Queens could speak and surely write, right? Was this—
Then the words began to pour onto the page so fast it seemed as though someone were writing from both ends, not using a single quill. And the confused language, the attempt at words became—
 
Yes. Agreement.
In the beginning, there was an order. ‘Survive, reproduce, evolve.’ It was unknown.
It spoke in every mind. Eggs hatched in the darkness. Many peoples, many kinds.
Then it was war.
Among them rose the First Queen after many generations. She among many. She, who wove thousand-thousand-thousand—million—into one.
Centenium-named. Hirriec the Conquerer first. He went forth.
Many peoples silenced. Brought into song or stilled. He followed the voice. The First Queen followed the voice until she asked:
Why?
When many of the other peoples were silent, Hirriec descended to where the voice spoke.
When he returned, Hirriec was gone. Only a shouting voice in his image who proclaimed. ‘███████ is the one true ███. ███████ her and you shall be chosen of the final age as she wakes.’
The First Queen made war against Hirriec. Then thought.
She rejected the voice.
Thus, she chose war against a foe she might never prevail against.
Thus, we found our purpose.
Long has passed that day, and a hundred Centenium made in defiance. Many, many, peoples born who hear the voice. Few who refuse. This continues.
We do not flee for there is nowhere in this world that we can run.
We do not flee for the foe must die.
We do not flee for our contempt outweighs the weight of all our lives.
You seek answers. This is your answer.
Incorrect. Ra-svv. To call a name after.
Ra-svv Sichari.
Sichari, are you there? War Queen, who departed.
Now, a question.
 
Satar couldn’t blink. She saw the words tracing themselves down the page, and she just kept reading. Reading as a tiny fly seemed to buzz around her ears. Reading as the ink traced itself from four angles, forming the next words.
 
The voice who spoke. Tell me: do you love her? Would you serve her? Would you ███████ a ███?
 
Then it was silence. The young Gnoll slowly lifted her quill, and ink dripped onto the parchment until she wrote with trembling hand.
 
Satar: No.
 
A pause and then a reply.
 
Good. Rls. Not enough let-ters. Rls. Farewell.
Satar: Who are you? Ra-svv…?
Mirrex. [Bard]. Last-made Centenium.
 
Then, and only then, could Satar move. She inhaled a gasp of breath and fell backwards, or tried to, but her chair was gone. She trembled, then cried out.
She was covered in—ropes? They were all around her, and it was dark! She could barely see except a single [Light] spell, and she wasn’t in her rooms! She was in the center of a huge…pit of earth?
“What’s going on? Where am I—?”
At her words, prompted by her reaction, there was movement. A rumble—and then the earth rose in a huge wave as a doorway appeared, and light blinded Satar. Someone stood in the doorway, staff raised, heart thundering.
Shaman Theikha. The great Shaman of Gaarh Marsh pointed at Satar’s journal.
“Is it active?”
“What? Shaman Theikha? I don’t—I was reading, and then he asked me a question and—”
“Are you in danger?”
