The Prophet was trying to pull back from this massacre, and by the sounds of it, Dovive’s forces were doing the same. Alked Fellbow loosed an arrow which turned into a smokescreen, trying to break up the front where Marrieh was throwing herself against the foremost riders.
“Marrieh! Come back! Protect her!”
There was some kind of vanguard. Twenty-one men and women, armored in magical gear, who were trying to cut towards the Prophet, and no one could bring them down. Even as more [Mercenaries] disengaged, terrified by this divine foe, the twenty-one fought forwards another step, then two.
[Massed Prayer: With Flaming Sword In Hand]!
White fire burst along the weapons of the faithful, and the Stitch-folk fighting them recoiled in horror. The Prophet saw Marrieh’s head turn at last, and he shouted.
“Marrieh! Retreat!”
This bloodbath was enough! They had to escape into the desert. She was falling back as Dovive’s lines broke a second. The twenty-one men and women stumbled, eyes burning in the [Light of Faith]’s glow, the flames from those holy weapons keeping them back.
One of them tried to advance on the Prophet, hoisting a glowing javelin in hand. He pulled back for a throw, and a sword thrust forwards. An enchanted blade, which skated off the plate armor that Lashivet wore.
The [Coin Rider] recoiled and slashed at the blade Izreal was wielding two-handed. The man had the blade he’d taken from one of the Golden Ranks of Medain. They clashed, magic weapons shooting sparks of electricity from where they met. Then Izreal shoved Lashivet back, slashed again.
The first time his blade had met the enchanted plate armor, the two enchantments had equalized each other and done little more than scar the armor. This time, the [Warrior of Faith] spoke.
“In His name! [Weapon Art: Divine Cross]!”
His sword flashed, tracing the symbol in the air. Lashivet blocked the downwards slash with a cry of his own.
“[Sterling Parry]—”
His sword went down from the force of the blow, and as he raised it, the horizontal cut struck his breastplate. The glowing blade sliced the enchanted metal without slowing.
The spray of blood struck Vilyet in the face. He flinched, recoiled, and saw his companion drop.
“Lashivet?”
The man lay on the ground as Izreal swung his sword, shouting.
“Advance! Protect the Prophet!”
Lashivet’s eyes were open to the sky, and the blade had slashed through ribs and armor. His blood ran onto the sand as his friends reached for healing potions—which not even Khelt had in abundance—and cried out.
He was dead within a minute. There were dead among both Dovive’s soldiers and the People of God. One man dying on Khelt’s borders, unnoticed except by his companions, who fell back, cradling his body.
Unseen by all but the King of Khelt. Then…the Prophet’s followers began to cry out, and he felt a terrible premonition in the air. Someone shouted.
“Prophet, my [Dangersense]! My [Dangersense] is—”
“Fall back! Retreat! Re—”
He looked up into the sky, thinking the dawning sun had come and then realized it was not the sun he saw, but a far closer glow. A light which swooped down across the skies like some vast bird of prey and touched the earth. Then the explosion swept him off his feet, and he heard nothing at all.
When he arose, the place where Izreal and countless warriors had stood was nothing but a pit of ash. The Prophet stared at the crater as his ears rang and glanced up.
The second of Razzimir’s Arrows struck his camp and followers. Then the third and fourth—as Fetohep of Khelt began to unleash the wrath of Khelt on the People of God.
 
——
 
No matter when or where, annihilation always looked the same. When his head rose and he saw the glowing arrows streaking across the sky in the pre-dawn night, for a moment, he feared his plans had been unravelled.
Feared the unravelling, but did not despair, for a plan was not the be-all, end-all of a battle or scheme. When he saw the trajectory and realized they were not aimed anywhere near him, Thatalocian nodded.
“We are safe. Pick up the pace.”
His voice was the lone one amidst the silent column, and when he stepped forwards, he realized they had frozen. He turned and saw their eyes were wide with terror.
Even Lintl, the young [Slave Guard] whom he had recruited from a ship. As well as the Demoness, Vrikeyre, his only [Slave] as of yet.
Theirs were faces of fear, but Thatalocian had not asked for their company. He had demanded it. Now, he spoke to them, the [Slave Lord] whose finger pointed.
“We are behind schedule.”
“Lord? We have not rested for hours. For—for days!”
They were exhausted from marching through the Great Desert, as if they had not had transport, camels, water, and provisions. In truth, Thatalocian himself was impressed by how far they’d come, but not for the efforts of his company.
It was all Andra. She was truly an expert in what she did, which was move people on paper and in reality with the mere scratches of her quill. It had been fast as he wanted.
Night drop via carpet and Djinni into the Great Desert with provisions, guides, and close enough to get here within days—if they marched hard. She’d estimated a week.
He’d made it three days. His company looked dead on their feet and haggard. They’d left behind the camels. And pack horses. He’d ridden them until they collapsed then had them march. Thatalocian disliked wasting lives of animals or people, but this was to a purpose.
Every hour they risked detection. Speed was essential, and so he kept up his advance, feet churning through the sand. They could barely keep up. Thatalocian seemed an old man, but compared to their parched throats and weary bodies—the [Slave Lord]’s voice deepened.
“I did not ask. You are Roshal’s warriors. I say to you: march.”
They hesitated. Yes, it was true; they wore Roshal’s armor and carried their blades, but they were…[Guards]. [Slave Guards], [Pit Captors], used to warding caravans or standing duty. Not a formal army, but Andra had obliged Thatalocian with as many fit people as she could.
Lintl was first to march. The others began to hurry along, but it was not to Thatalocian’s liking.
“I said march. One-two-three-four. One-two-three—”
His voice took on a thunder, and they flinched as their feet moved to the beat of his words, but he realized this might attract attention. A Skill would. So, he turned and spoke.
“Whip.”
He did not know how to swing the instrument that most of them carried and gazed at the long whip used to lash the backs of [Slaves] in silence. Then he handed it to someone else.
Vrikeyre, the seven-armed Demoness, nearly dropped the whip, and every head turned in incredulity now. The one and only [Slave] in this group—
“Lord? What are you doing?”
“Picking the pace up. Vrikeyre, lash those slowest to the pace. March.”
Thatalocian strode forwards, and the Demoness grinned in that twisted way when he surprised her. Someone protested as Lintl glanced back and then began to jog and run. He knew Thatalocian well enough; the others not at all.
“But she is a [Slave], Lord—”
“Who better to keep the pace? Run.”
“We are free—”
The crack and cry of the tip of the lash striking a woman’s face made them all go silent. The [Slave Guard] turned and drew a blade on Vrikeyre, and the Demoness waited.
The terrible clicking sound that came next was of Thatalocian’s hands gripping the [Slave Guard]’s neck and twisting it around. Every head saw the woman’s face spin around a hundred and eighty degrees, and he dropped her on the cold sands. The [Numerologist] turned, and the whip cracked again.
“Run.”
They ran.
 
——
 
The King of Khelt did not stop firing Arrows of Razzimir as dawn began to rise. The People of God were fleeing in every direction. So the arrows landed in every direction.
His golden eyes blazed in the night as he signalled Alked and the [Mercenaries] and soldiers of Dovive to fall back. Nothing roused him from his black rage.
Nothing—until he turned his head. The opposite direction of the fleeing Prophet. Then he stood.
“Who dares? Arise, all of you! Arise—”
 
——
 
“What is your name, daughter of Roshal?”
Screaming. The dead were coming, but Thatalocian’s voice was like a bubble of silence. Pure sanity in the wake of madness, and the more terrifying and unreal for it.
He turned to a trembling [Soldier] next to Lintl whose eyes rolled up white as the skeletons rose. They were coming, but she—
“Calnous, Lord.”
They would have run, but he had sworn to kill any who fled. Five men and women were already on the ground, and they feared him more than the dead, now. But the skeletons—
Thatalocian bent down and inspected her eyes. The rolling whites, a Stitch-woman’s dusky skin of cotton, pale white hair, not beautiful and pristine—someone who was no master in Lailight Scintillation.
“3-1-12-14-15-21-19. Calnous. We shall measure the meaning of that number. If there is time, after. Calnous, I wish you to repeat something for me.”
“Lord? They’re coming. They’re—”
A mere thousand men and women, none of them over Level 30. Most under that. Any more and Andra had told Thatalocian for all her swiftness, their stealth would not allow them to move undetected and at the speed he wanted. He had been displeased, but told her it would serve.
Ten might have served, but in this, Thatalocian wanted a larger number. Gently, he placed his hand over her eyes.
“Do not think of them. Just these numbers, Calnous. Understand? 8-1-1-4-5. Say it for me?”
“Lord? Eight-one-one-four-five?”
“Again.”
Lintl had torn his eyes away from the oncoming death. He knew that number. He stared, wide-eyed, as the terrified woman said it.
“Eight-one-one-four-five. Eight-one-one-four-five! 8-1-1-4-5. 8-1-1-4-5. What’s going—8-1-1-4-5. H-Haade. Haade. HAADE. 8-1-1—”
Her voice was deepening. And the number was becoming a chant. She was shaking, and Thatalocian took his hand away from her eyes. He stepped backwards, then touched another in the ranks of soldiers. A figure stumbled forwards as Lintl stepped back, and they saw her rising. Thatalocian called out.
“Once more, arise from the depths of time. I summon you, Haade the Ogre! Forwards, Roshal! Through the mindless dead!”
And he was chanting another number as thick flesh burst Calnous’ armor, and her face warped, becoming blunt, huge flat teeth grinding, and hands larger than Lintl’s chest began to smash skeletons downwards. She tore forwards, screaming, as another of Roshal’s number began to jerk and shake. Then Thatalocian was wading forwards, roaring.
“To me! MULDREEM. MULDREEM. 13-21-12—”
Lintl and Vrikeyre were in the front rank. They saw him burst into the skeletons, swinging that lantern and a mace around as his face and voice warped, and they followed.
If they ran, he would kill them. There was terror of the King of Khelt and—this. To slay monsters, sometimes one had to wear their flesh. Lintl shoved his sword through a skeleton’s head as Vrikeyre’s whip cracked and she swung weapons in her other arms.
Running—running—as Thatalocian broke through the skeletons, leaving Haade and the other creatures he’d summoned behind him. Running towards his destination.
A city.
 
——
 
They hit the city as the light began to shine down, and there was nothing to slow them down. No gates, just an ornamental arch. No watch. No defenders.
It was Khelt, after all. Paradise. The safest place in the world until a voice howled like a nightmare from the Long Night and the [Slavers] of Roshal broke through the unlocked doors and dragged screaming people into the streets.
The Slave Lord of Numbers led them, blood running down his face, still roaring orders as he carried the light of reason, smashing the skeletons trying to stop them. When the first citizen of Khelt heard the click of a metal collar around their necks, the skeletons froze, and the others understood.
“Hostages. He’s mad.”
Emir Yazdil was in his saferooms, anticipating armageddon from the skies again any second. But when Pazeral saw the collar lock and the skeletons hesitate, he smiled.
“He is our blood after all.”
He had doubted Thatalocian, but now he saw it. Andra was just as wide-eyed. But Thatalocian had told her what he intended, and he had said to trust him.
“He can’t be serious. He’s got a handful of citizens, and that monster has hundreds of long-ranged spells pointed at us! He’s going to kill us all. He’s—”
Shaullile had no faith in Thatalocian. She looked towards the ceilings, as if expecting death for herself and Thatalocian any second, but it never came.
The attacking skeletons hesitated as they saw the [Slavers] halt, shielding themselves with the citizens they’d grabbed. They advanced, slowly, one reaching for the man who tried to grasp a skeleton’s hand as the collar glowed—
Thatalocian’s fist smashed the skeleton’s face inwards, and his voice rose ever-louder.
“Take the city. TAKE THE CITY.”
 
——
 
They swept through the city like a torrent. Half the Kheltians didn’t know what to do. Some ran, but not far enough. Others hid, but like children. They were dragged into the streets until the [Slavers] ran out of chains and collars, so Thatalocian just had them bound with curtains.
The undead had stopped attacking. They had begun to until the collars started activating, and then they had gone silent.
They might have. Might have, but even here, the Lord of Numbers conducted this raid in his way.
“No one is to touch the captives. Gather them unharmed outside of the city. Take care with children and infants. Do not touch them at all.”
Twice, one of his people disobeyed. Twice, he crushed a head, and both Kheltians and Roshal’s children flinched. This was not the way of that old Terandrian [Lord] whose name Thatalocian had already banished, a debauched, barbaric rape and pillaging.
They took nothing but the souls. Chained them and then Thatalocian stood, feeling at dried blood running from his head. Then the bloodlust cooled from him, and he spoke to Lintl, who stood in the silence of uncertainty.
“Lord Thatalocian? What comes next?”
The [Numerologist] grunted.
“Now comes the King of Khelt, of course. I shall meet him. You will stand here and wait. Touch no one. Demon Vrikeyre, kill any who do.”
He turned to her, and the Demoness was staring at him like the others. She whispered as the skeletons outside the city kept rising.
“He’ll kill all of us. What do you think to negotiate with him? You don’t know Khelt, old Slave Lord.”
Skeletons had already been marching upon them, rising in ranks unending, but now—there were hundreds of thousands outside the city. Millions. More bone than soil; glowing eyes, chattering jaws and bones, a sea of them to bring down even Giants. Thatalocian grinned.
