“Check Adoive’s arms next time you see him. I think he has taken several interesting pieces of jewelry, purely to wear. He should offer it to God or give it to be sold. It’s all his personal enrichment, Marrieh.”
Marrieh did not like that. Nor, she noted, did many of the Hemp Stitch-folk walking with Jilthread. And it mattered because…they were Hemp. They got it.
“Some of the new followers are Cotton. Or Silk, like Yirene. Which is not to say they do not work hard, or do not pray, but they expect more than what we have. I would not argue that the Prophet deserves his own tent, but to put luxury mattresses before, say, cooling runes for the communal tents or enough cooking pots…”
The [Battle Cleric] turned to Marrieh, who was biting her lip hard. Once again, Marrieh did not say everything she knew. How would Jilthread have reacted, for instance, if she had known that the Prophet had intended to make a crown of jewels instead of the many practical things she had so admired in him? That had been Marrieh’s insistence.
Harvey was a good man. He just had to be reminded he was a man, at times, and Izreal often did not countermand him, merely encouraged. There was a difference. Attempting to be honest, Marrieh exhaled as the periphery camp came into view.
“In truth, Jilthread, I think the Prophet is most minded to battle Khelt. He has spoken of the dark forces that claimed Khelt as their own. If I asked him to weigh in on the matter, it might not be what is best.”
“Oh. But surely if you spoke to him…”
Careful. They were careful, and they turned as a younger Hemp man broke in.
“Surely the Prophet knows what is best, Disciple Marrieh, Disciple Jilthread. Why would you not speak to him of all matters?”
There was suspicion in his eyes, and Marrieh spoke, not defensively, but with a smile.
“If we debate, brother, it is because the Prophet is a busy man. Should we disturb him with every deliberation or only come to him when truly important matters are at stake? Perhaps I misword myself, and if so, I apologize. What is your name? I don’t believe we’ve met.”
“Oh, I see. I am Faithful Lanem, Level 11. I beg your forgiveness, Disciple Marrieh.”
He flushed and bowed, and Marrieh smiled and assured him it was nothing, but met Jilthread’s eyes a moment. Therein lay the problem.
It was like…trap spells, Marrieh thought. Before meeting Harvey, she had been a [Ruins Clearer], whose job it was to go into ruined areas, harvest anything of value, and clear out traps. Nerrhavia’s Fallen was huge, ancient, and occasionally went to war, even against itself.
There were entire cities that had been destroyed, then filled with trap spells or old magics that would kill anyone that got too near or stepped onto them. Marrieh’s job had been to mark or remove such magics. One did not live long, even with the ability to change limbs, in such trades, but it was why she tended to do well in battle or anywhere else. That was how she had met Harvey, actually; he had healed her after she had run into a trap.
It often seemed to her that talking with the People of God was like walking amongst trap spells. Make a mistake and you would be condemned by the others. Even she was not immune. Even Harvey.
They all had the same goal, to worship God, to improve the lives of their brethren. Yet why was it so hard? Well…perhaps it was because even if you took to the faith, you were still a person. You still had a past, no matter how much you might want to all be the same.
It was skin-deep.
Cloth-deep.
 
——
 
“Sisters! You’ve brought gifts for the newcomers! Be welcome!”
Yirene was a Silk Stitch-woman and, if not the most high-level or the oldest, another leader in kind because, well, she was beautiful.
It hurt Marrieh’s heart. Yirene had no crookedness to her features, no oddly shaped teeth or rough skin, pinched flesh due to irregularities in her cloth. No slubs that became moles or warts in the fabric. She was beautiful, skin lustrous even after all this unrelenting sun and sand, and what was worse—she took the basket out of Marrieh’s arms without even staggering.
Strong and tough. Silk had it all. Marrieh smiled as best she could as Jilthread didn’t even manage that.
“I wished to help the newcomers settle in. I did not realize you were here.”
“We are of the same mind, Jilthread. I have been preaching to the newcomers the ways of the camp—and bestowing [Grace of God] where I can.”
Jilthread grunted, but Marrieh saw the sparkling marks hanging over a number of awed new converts to the People of God. This was a blessing, a kind of long-lasting spell like an enchantment, only based on faith.
Yirene’s power was [Grace of God: Resist Hardships], which was a broad resistance to fatigue, heat stress, even developing blisters or dehydration. It didn’t solve any of these problems, only mitigated how fast you succumbed to them. Jilthread brushed past Yirene.
“God provides both blessings and water. All those of you who haven’t eaten, line up! Manna is abundant, but it does grow stale! If you need water, another line here!”
The Silk woman’s face fell at Jilthread’s obvious hostility, but Marrieh smiled again.
“You are doing fine work, Yirene. Tell me, did you hear about Izreal’s raid—victory against the Kheltians?”
Yirene glanced at the basket of wet towels and handed them to someone to give out as she fiddled with one of the New Bibles, suddenly nervous. She did not fight at all, and she whispered back.
“Oh, I did. A splendid victory, of course, but…I fear Khelt shall retaliate more and more. At least it’s mere baubles being taken so far, but if you speak to the Prophet, warn him—I am sure His Holiness knows, but it is dangerous to try Khelt. Even if I suspect many of their great magical spells are reduced in number, the King of Khelt has endless treasures.”
What was this now? Marrieh frowned.
“Baubles does not describe what Izreal took. There were marvels! Beautiful rugs, tapestries of art—more wealth than I have seen, even in Nerrhavia’s Fallen.”
There it was. Just for a second, Yirene wore a pitying expression before she caught herself and turned away.
“I…would not have called it that, Marrieh. From what I saw, it would indeed fit a lesser noble’s dwellings, but it was a village. Believe me when I say there are treasures fit for [Princes] in the cities, and more still. Have you been to Khelt?”
“Never. Have you?”
A pause, and Marrieh stared longer. One did not ask who the faithful were; they came from many backgrounds, but Yirene?
She had appeared one day, begging for sanctuary, and the Prophet had taken her in with alacrity. They had thought little of it, though they had been forced to flee that particular region of Nerrhavia’s Fallen later; the suspicious soldiers and magistrate’s people had been increasingly hostile towards them.
Now…Yirene glanced about.
“I…may have visited Khelt in my life, but you recall I did not think it was wise to invade.”
She had, in fact, been one of the few voices against trying Khelt. Even Marrieh had been swayed by the horror Harvey described assailing him on the Solstices. Marrieh drew Yirene to the side, then sighed.
“I would like to know more. And you know that I trust you, Yirene. Just—ah.”
As Jilthread welcomed the new converts, another predictable thing occurred. Several more people came striding into the camp, each one wearing armor, and began calling out.
“You who have come to the People of God, hear me! I am Izreal’s follower, and I call on any who would take what is ours from these hedonistic Kheltians! Come with me, brothers and sisters, and we shall train and arm you and destroy the undead together.”
Manoset, one of Izreal’s [Priests of War], was already trying to recruit more people for his camp. Marrieh glared and Yirene went striding over.
“Manoset! They have just arrived! Don’t speak of battle.”
“Bah, what would you know? We are providing the coin and supplies you all use up.”
He glared at her, eyes resting on her voluptuous form for a second then turning away—Marrieh knew that many people propositioned Yirene, and she bet Manoset had been one. The Stitch-woman faltered, and Marrieh debated rebuking Manoset, but someone else called out.
“Not every member of the faithful can conjure manna, Manoset. You do not. Does Yirene not provide the bread you eat? For shame. Do not rebuke her for doing as much in her way nor compare the worth of your deeds.”
Another voice, and Manoset spun, then backed down as another old follower of the Prophet appeared. He bowed to the others.
“I am Lazimeh, another follower of the Prophet. Some call me Disciple, as they do Jilthread, Marrieh, and Izreal, whom you have not met. All are equal in the eyes of God, it is true, but some of us take on roles of leadership on earth. If you would join another’s camp, know us by our deeds and purposes. Izreal’s is to war with those deserving of it. I, too, bring battle, but only as I am called.”
Lazimeh was Cotton, not Hemp, but he was a faithful man. Fearsome and perhaps one of the most well-spoken. He knew more verses of the New Bible than anyone but Harvey, and he tapped the ground, smiling. He held a walking stick in one hand.
“Ours are the riches of Heaven, which glitter more than any kingdom can hold. Do not covet mere gold. What is gold when the power of faith rewards us like this?”
So saying, he walked over to a stone that someone had used to tie down a tent and struck it. The boulder reached just up to his chest, worn down by ages of sand and dry. But when he struck it, it cracked—and red liquid gushed forth onto the ground. The familiar smell made Marrieh groan.
“Lazimeh. Stop making more wine! It’s the last thing we need in the heat!”
The Stitch-man turned and grinned. It was a combination of two of his Skills which were biblical in nature.
“[Water From Stone] and [Conversion: Water to Wine]. I thought only to welcome our new faithful with libations.”
“And a splitting hangover.”
Nevertheless, someone grabbed a bowl, and they began to offer wine as well as manna and water to the rather stunned newcomers, who had never seen such powers before. Yirene and Marrieh found another moment, and the Silk-woman whispered.
“I just wish we had time to farm or build our own space. We cannot keep clothing and feeding so many like this forever, even with our ability to produce water and manna, Marrieh. There is a limit, and we are hitting it. Advancing on Khelt is the only reason we have enough coin for this. We must produce more or take money for healing or other services.”
Marrieh knew that Yirene was right. But she did not know how to administrate so many people. Yirene, clearly, did. So Marrieh’s eyes narrowed.
“What gives you this insight, Yirene? Not just being Silk, surely. I will speak to the Prophet—Harvey—but I must know.”
She saw Yirene hesitate and withdraw slightly, and added.
“I swear, I only wish to know, not judge. I know we are Hemp and Silk, but you have a good heart. I swear by the Almighty, Yirene, I will keep your trust.”
The Stitch-woman hesitated again, drawing a sand-veil around her face, then she glanced around and motioned Marrieh into her simple, plain tent. She had no great possessions here. She had sold off her finery, save for the clothing she wore, and she sat on a simple straw mat.
“Strange. To think once I would have died rather than live like this. But I find more value in this than clinging to power and fearing a blade at my throat in the night. I shall tell you, Marrieh, though I beg you not tell anyone but the Prophet. Not even the other Disciples.”
She touched her chest and met Marrieh’s eyes.
“I am Yirene of House Haleen. Second sister-in-law to King Yicorias, who, you may well recall, was ruler before his assassination and the battle for claimancy that resulted in Queen Yisame’s rule. My house lost the succession war. I was under house arrest for years when the Prophet came to my city.”
Marrieh stood there, stunned, then itching with unease—and questions. They had a Silk Royal in the People of God’s camps? The danger! If it were known…
For a moment, she was angry, then felt ashamed. Yirene had never used her royal rank, which would have led many to treating her like a [Queen], and she was clearly terrified of anyone finding out. Marrieh clasped her hands together.
“I swear I shall not betray your trust, Yirene. So that is how you know of Khelt.”
“Yes. I visited once, as a [Princess]. Even with a [King]’s power, it took a vast effort to admit us for a week. King Fetohep of Khelt is not to be underestimated. With that said, he has weakened his position by use of so many spells. I don’t know more than that, I’m afraid. And I do not speak of how the camps should be managed because, well, I never truly ruled. I was a lazy girl and woman.”
Yirene smiled with those regrets so many of the faithful had. Marrieh urged her up gently.
“And yet you work hard! Come, let us find Jilthread. Not to tell her, perhaps, but we should be allies here. We all have common ground.”
Yirene hesitated, then eyed Marrieh and spoke carefully.
“As does Lazimeh, in truth. If you were to take us all as your followers, Marrieh, you would have enough sway to push Izreal and his people back. If you did take a position, who would argue with you?”
This time, the Hemp Stitch-woman grimaced unhappily.
“I do not want to become powerful, Yirene. This feels too much like home.”
And now she felt like Yirene was making this a matter of politics. Yirene ducked her head.
“Perhaps. But avoiding using your power is the same as wasting it.”
That did not make Marrieh happy. However, she turned her attention to welcoming the newcomers, because that was the point. Nor could she deny that Manoset was drawing in more and more people to Izreal’s cause. Wealth was an allure, as was the power he provoked.
 
——
 
“We have bested the Cult of Windcaller’s Wrath! We have broken Khelt’s skeletons at the border, humbled the Golden Ranks of Medain! Faith defeats magic! Faith defeats martial arts! Behold, this is the avenging angel that shall guide us to victory. [Summon Lesser Angelic Spirit]!”
—And then there was light. Marrieh saw the spirit descend, a burning radiance to its outline, a light so painful as to be blinding such that you could not look upon it. A humanoid form, stitching connecting each limb as it knelt upon the ground, wings folded, and they gasped.
She grew angry.
“Manoset. That power is not for you to show off lightly.”
He turned and quailed before her wrath, which was echoed by Lazimeh and the others.
“I merely wished to show them the spirit that humbled the Fury of Skies himself—”
