—It just affected him personally. Distracted him, perhaps. Took his focus from his people, who had continued to line up and beg for more skeletons to do work. And begun to protest…the new citizens of Khelt.
Specifically those in New Jecrass. Not the Gnolls or Centaurs. That was a—a bad look, but the Jecrassians? What had they done for Khelt? Why were they worthy of it?
At first, they were quiet, but in the way of people who were not getting what they wanted, they learned quite quickly how to be louder. And they would protest in earshot of the throne room and in other cities to officials.
The bugs, you see? Your Majesty?
He was busy. Busy thinking of an [Innkeeper]’s words to him, writing to a little white Gnoll child. For a time.
Erin Solstice would not be Khelt’s ruler. She had told him that, and it was unclear which blow struck him harder. That unimaginable event he was only part witness to, a tragedy they did not wish to tell him, to avoid burdening his conscience, or the woman he felt could work wonders turning her back on the kingdom she owed too much to.
But he said nothing. Erin Solstice was, if no ruler, a citizen of Khelt. And Mrsha was a child. The Kingdom of Khelt had no end of generosity for either. The world for a single soul of Khelt and damn the rest.
Damn the rest.
 
——
 
One final nation had a bearing on Khelt, though it was so removed as to literally be a continent away. Far to the west of Nerrhavia’s Fallen, past the Great Desert, down along the coast of kingdoms who had not felt the King of Destruction’s return in the form of war, lay that famous city on the coast.
It smelled, even now, of dust. When the wind blew into the high tower in which they had gathered, all those below went still in Lailight Scintillation’s harbors. Even the wind was trauma. As was a name.
“Fetohep of Khelt.”
Thatalocian the [Numerologist], Slave Lord of Roshal, spoke the name and saw the others flinch. Each one. Not in the same way, but it was a weakness, to him.
Names were power, of course, but this was a foe.
So why did Emir Yazdil, in his Human form, recoil and jerk back from the window? Shaullile jabbed her thumb with some embroidery. Andra, half-floating above her ruined body, stopped counting and gazed at him, eyes wide. Even Pazeral, the arrogant Jinn-ruler of ages past, scowled and opened his eyes. Rage masking fear in the latter’s case, but it was a reaction to a name.
“What of him, Thatalocian? We are about greater business.”
“Can there be greater business or greater foes?”
Thatalocian shot back. The others traded glances, and Andra spoke in that halting voice, a half-ethereal whisper as her mortal form shook and tried to lift the quill to write in precise notation.
“T-Thatalocian. You speak not at all in these m-meetings but to interject nonsense and m-made up numbers. Now you change the subject at your whims.”
“I am not a governor of logistics like you, Andra. Nor do I care about much of what is said. I do not know the Walled Cities well. In my day—”
Oh dead gods, here he goes again. The other [Slave Lords] stared at the ceiling or floor as Thatalocian went on, unmoved.
“—they were isolated bastions, more so than even Roshal. Let Shaullile do what she wills there.”
“And what of her budget? Our involvement there? The manpower she asks about? Who to press and who to avoid? Your thoughts on favoring any city would be…?”
Yazdil was annoyed now by the interruption, and he glided over, all silken tongue and cunning mind. Thatalocian met his eyes.
“Give her what she wants.”
“Oh, thank you, Thatalocian!”
Shaullile beamed at him, but even she rolled her eyes. That truly was how the second-oldest [Slave Lord] operated. Andra’s voice was impatient, unhappy. She was trapped between life and death, and only her work seemed to give her any joy, though how she found it in shuffling paper, Thatalocian could not know.
“Thatalocian. A question. In your day, how well-provisioned was Roshal? Did your people ever suffer from shortages of food? Lack of coin or material?”
He smiled at her, pleased by her curiosity, and answered honestly as he almost always did.
“Often, we starved or lacked for many things.”
“P-predictable.”
“I pour as much is needed upon the pyre. If it is wasteful, I would rather it be done than not. This is my quality which you observe of me. I am not useful as Shaullile or the Emir or even Pazeral.”
“Not at all as of late. Even I have worked some magics and taught sword arts. You? Drowned a [Slave Captain], took a single Demon as a slave, and annoyed our allies in Rhir.”
Pazeral stretched, yawning. Thatalocian raised his brows.
“I have uncovered truth. But as I say, I am not useful. So when I speak: listen. This is my value. Khelt. 11-8-5-12-20.”
“Oh, ceaseless chains, he’s counting again. Make it stop!”
Shaullile held her claws over her ears, and even Yazdil appeared sick of this. Not even the Emir could understand Thatalocian’s numerology. He tried anyways.
“I, ah…assume you saw eleven seagulls at breakfast, and perhaps you had eight berries in your porridge, Lord Thatalocian?”
Everyone laughed, and the [Numerologist] scratched at the left side of his face. He had been healed, but the memory of being burnt across half his body lingered with him. Andra had half-died, the others being more shocked than killed. Though he wasn’t sure how Shaullile had survived; the others had been able to protect themselves, but she—?
“A close guess, but too random, Emir. I simply asked the Demoness, Vrikeyre, to think of a number. She said fifty-six.”
“…The sum of all Khelt’s numbers. Rather convenient how any number matters, doesn’t it, Thatalocian?”
The [Slave Lord] laughed at Yazdil’s cynical comment.
“No, I knew it mattered, Yazdil. She has given me false numbers made to manipulate me many times. But in this case, it was fifty-six. Auspicious.”
“How?”
“Simple. She has seven arms on her body. She used to have eight. Eight and seven. Fifty-six. The match—”
The [Slave Lords] groaned. Pazeral stood up and began banging his forehead against a pillar in Andra’s office. Trying to remove Thatalocian’s logic from his brain.
In a way, despite their return to life, despite the power of Roshal and their bathing in pleasures, there was nothing worse for them than having Thatalocian as a sworn companion and ally. But his logic was simple.
“Our enemies wax in number and power. Or will you leave both Khelt and the Antinium unmarked?”
All went silent, and every eye turned to Andra, who flinched and shook in her ghostly containment.
“I—I do not motion to continue these costly and needless battles with our enemies! Not until proper safeguards have been established!”
“And I would rather fight with allies, which we don’t have, than alone.”
Shaullile spoke, and Pazeral glared fire.
“In my time, we would already have sent wrath on carpets and wing!”
Yazdil nodded slightly; in this, they were in alignment.
“The Blighted Kingdom has already been made aware of the issue and threat. Notwithstanding our issue raised with Lord Thatalocian, they have received another ship’s donation—”
“Paying for another to wage your wars.”
Thatalocian’s sneer cut Yazdil short, and the Emir’s eyes narrowed to slits. But that was the issue. They could vote to action, but Andra and Shaullile were largely peaceful. Yazdil and Pazeral favored more direct action. They could form separate camps; when it came to other matters, it might be Pazeral and Shaullile versus Yazdil and Andra on expenditures or liberties of [Slavers].
Thatalocian was the tiebreaker, which meant they had to be cordial with him, but dead gods, he was aggravating. Not that theirs was a true democracy; they were just pretending towards it until one of them had enough power to force the others to heel.
I knew this as well, in my time, though you all would laugh at me to hear it. Yet this is still all inwards, all personal. Roshal, the nation itself, the idea, was what Thatalocian prized more than his power, and some of them saw it.
Yazdil, Shaullile, even Andra, in her way, saw that Roshal was greater than them. Only Pazeral was selfish, because Roshal was him. So, Thatalocian pushed himself up from the table.
“The Antinium I do not know. Nor will I push for retaliation. Let Shaullile deal with Izril. Then leave Khelt to me. That is my request.”
All of them glanced up sharply, and Yazdil recoiled.
“If you endanger Roshal—”
“Emir Yazdil, I have lived a lifetime in Roshal’s name. Do you think I intend to damage it?”
Even the worried Emir, most traumatized by an attack on his home, hesitated. He had never known such devastation as Fetohep had wrought. He had never died. The other three had, but they all watched Thatalocian and shared the same thought.
If there was one of them who would selfishly act on their behalf…
“Agreed.”
“I a-agree.”
“If it shuts you up, agreed.”
Yazdil nodded after a moment, and Thatalocian smiled. He stood up and nodded.
“Then I go to ruminate on Khelt. If you must vote, my answer is 1-1-2-1. You may decide which number means yes, the other no.”
They watched him go, and after a second, Andra’s head thunked onto the enchanted desk hovering around her.
 
——
 
Rather to her surprise, Thatalocian ended up returning to Andra’s office after the others had finished their deliberations.
She sat, her body shivering in the floating prison they had built for her soul, healing magics and preservation spells flashing around her, a desk floating there which her ghostly form could write on.
She was cold. It hurt. The pain of that—that—thing burning her still tore at her very essence, and she no longer felt young. She no longer felt dead. She was caught in between, and the misery of it nearly had her send for a favored slave, but what was the point?
Sensation was muted. So she wrote, stabbing trails of ink from her quill, managing Roshal—which no one else could do—until she jerked.
“Securit—”
Thatalocian at the doors. Andra stopped recoiling and snapped icily.
“I told you to introduce yourself, Thatalocian. What is it you d-desire? I am in no mood for small-c-chat.”
He stood in her doorway, a hunched, bald man with his curious lamp of numbers at his hips, plain, like some [Monk], not a man of station. She wore a business-suit, but she knew the jerking, sometimes-incontinent corpse no longer was a beautiful woman. Unhappy. To her surprise, his eyes fixed on her with sympathy.
“It has barely been time at all since you were wounded. I ask how you feel, Andra. If you should will to tell me.”
No one but the [Healers] had asked that. Andra hesitated, then lowered the quill, though her mind still wrote words out.
[Trade Spike: Sulfur]. Must acquire. Blockaded by Magnolia Reinhart, Izril. [Item Embargo]. Can overturn. [Seller’s Market]. Identified clients (order of profitability): Rhir, Ailendamus, Roshal? (investigate, [Flag Thought]), Kaaz…
A woman of numbers herself, only no warrior. Not brave like he was. She cursed it now as she spoke.
“H-how does it feel? It hurts, Thatalocian. All my joys diminished. This body—! They say it may heal, but if not, I will be a ghost again. Only taking another f-form will be difficult. I might lose another ten levels.”
Then she would be inferior. Expendable. The [Healers] gave her a 30% chance of her body surviving. They were confident they could salvage her soul…what hadn’t been damaged…but ten more levels?
She shouldn’t have told him that, but he tended to figure things out regardless, and he’d saved her and Shaullile from the Emir’s attacks when they were first reincarnated. Thatalocian’s nod was somber.
“If it is necessary, I will safeguard this secret or even weave you a Logic Cage to keep the others from knowing as best I can, Andra. Even if you lose more levels, you are still a true Lady of Roshal. Treating you with due respect for your capabilities, if not your levels, is wise.”
She grunted and added some points to her trustworthiness score of him as an ally. She spoke, irritably scribbling a note for a tonic to make her feel better.
“Your concern is…appreciated. What do you w-want, Thatalocian?”
Another nod.
“I need you to move people, perhaps items, certainly horses or wagons and provisions, to a location I have found on a map. Fast as you can. I will be in their company and will make the journey faster.”
Dead gods. He had a map, and he pointed to it, and her mouth opened.
“That is a telling…what are you planning? How many?”
He gave her a blank look.
“I do not know. Enough.”
She almost threw the ink pot at him. Andra grew worried despite herself.
“T-Thatalocian, if you are planning something dangerous…”
“Andra. Trust me.”
She laughed as she tried to wet too-dry lips with her tongue, a ghost and body moving out-of-sync.
“Trust is not a quality of Roshal that I knew, Thatalocian. In my time.”
He stood before her, eyes like numerals blinking up at her, solemn.
“Then I shall teach it to you. But I require your help, Andra. I could organize this, alone, but I trust you with my designs. We have acted alone despite our gathering in concert. Now, one of the Masters of Roshal works with another. Shall we see what it creates?”
She stared at him, then wiped some drool from the corner of her mouth and grinned. Andra’s hand jerked as she raised her quill and touched it down upon the paper.
“T-this is why you have need of me. [Perfect Orchestration: They Came Upon the Bazaar, Every Chain Gleaming, Smiles Upon Every Face].”
The numbers danced as she wrote out a list, gave orders in that stuttering voice, and moved Roshal. People, places, logistics—until they reached his eyes and became a value only he could calculate.
 
——
 
Adventurer Frieke woke one morning and saw her neighbor, Mistreq, plastering a poster on their walls. It read:
 
Gathering at the Sereptian Plaza all day! Bring a sign to tell His Majesty all is not well! New Jecrass is not Khelt!
 
There was also a rather good illustration of the beetles she had to kill now and then with a red line through them. He didn’t look happy.
He seemed rather stressed, in fact, and she paused as Konska pecked at the poster.
“Another, er, gathering, Mistreq?”
“Yes, Adventurer Frieke. It might all be acceptable to you, but I wish to show you the standards Khelt should conform to! His Majesty is ignoring us, and he—he has never done that before. You wouldn’t care to join us?”
The unhappy Stitch-man turned, and Frieke held up her hands.
“I, uh, have a breakfast engagement. And then I’m adventuring.”
“Of course.”
They stood there awkwardly in that way of people who had no small-talk left but felt like they should at least pretend to have a conversation, and Frieke glanced around.
