Halted in the air. It had perfect control and dealt him a blow to the side of his face. He stabbed it thrice, snarling, and Marrieh saw his skin burst into white flames for a second, then he was twisting away.
Just like the Fury of Skies had found, even regular magic didn’t do well against it. Alked leapt back again.
“[Reset Leap]. Not a Djinni.”
His shortsword rammed into its sheath, and he pulled something from his bag of holding. A bow.
The Arc of Heavens rose as the spirit flew at him, chiming with wrath, and Alked’s eyes swivelled to Marrieh. She shouted.
“Stop! This doesn’t have to come to blood! Stop, Manoset!”
The spirit didn’t stop. Alked Fellbow took one long step back as it flew at him, fearless, straight as an arrow. He spoke.
“[Bound Skill: Arrow of Radiance]. [Timed Activation].”
He fired, point-blank, spun—
The world went white. Marrieh hit the ground, blind, shielding her face, and heard a terrible shriek, a divine, beautiful voice tolling and then cracking like a bell of glass breaking…
When she heard pounding footsteps and someone healed her to restore her vision, Alked Fellbow was running, firing arrows at the few faithful on horseback who were knocked off their saddles by blunted arrowtips. She shouted, but he was gone.
And the spirit was gone too. Destroyed. The Prophet stood there as Manoset stood, face white.
“It—it will surely return.”
But in how long? And it had been bested. Marrieh went to remonstrate with Manoset for his foolishness, but the Prophet lifted a hand and spoke.
“It is clear our enemy sends spies among us. They were uncovered thanks to Yirene’s wisdom and the spirit. Marrieh, my bravest and first follower, I wish you did not endanger yourself so. Look upon all these people and know they are our most glorious.”
He spoke to everyone, and they listened. Then Harvey glanced at the scorched place the spirit had been and nodded.
“And know this: many are the ways of God and glorious are all his works, even the least of them. The Named Adventurer bested a mere spirit, but the true Heavenly Host is without number. Do not call it an angel. When one descends, you shall know it.”
Then they returned to his camp to continue to bring Khelt to battle.
 
——
 
Alked Fellbow’s cheek hurt for days thereafter. Not enough to use a healing potion, but he kept tabs on it constantly to make sure he hadn’t been hit by some kind of spreading damage.
He cursed his inability to enter the camp proper—he didn’t know how they’d uncovered him. He’d felt like they’d noticed his presence before he even got found out by that summoned being.
His report to Fetohep was terse.
 
Alked: Infiltration of the camps failed. Prophet’s followers have unique abilities. Creation of seemingly-real wine, water, bread. Anti-slaver links. Far more numbers than previous reports indicated. High levels. 
They are disorganized. I have identified several leaders, attaching names and descriptions below. They also possess some detection abilities, though only a few are employed. I was forced to battle a summoned being of considerable ability. One rank below a Lesser Djinni in danger, highly resistant to damage, even magic. Light appeared to diffuse it.
My cover was broken in the battle. I have retreated without injury.
 
He didn’t count the cheek punch. Alked mused for a moment longer, but he felt like it was pertinent information, and he wrote slowly.
 
It is my belief that the summoned being may have noticed my presence, but it did not attack me specifically. It was attempting to assault two other new ‘faithful’ near me. 
The Quarass of Germina may owe Khelt a favor.
 
But that was just a suspicion. He sent the [Message] spell. The People of God were not stopping, that was sure. Perhaps he should have put an arrow through the Prophet’s head when he had a chance, but…Alked didn’t like killing people outright. Kill that man and you might have someone else take over and only see escalation. He wondered if he’d regret his choice, but it was hard.
Hemp-folk like him, mostly. Hard to shoot them. He sighed. Then got back to work.
 
——
 
The beginning of the year and Khelt’s woes were not noticed by many nations. There was just too much else going on.
New Lands, upheavals at sea, war with the King of Destruction—even in Chandrar, there were distractions.
Like the Horns of Hammerad. It was all far more exciting than Eternal Khelt, and Fetohep himself appeared on the news as if nothing was wrong.
Of course, some nations were a bit more perspicacious, and they did notice oddities, starting with the Jaws. High King Perric, the Claiven Earth, Nerrhavia’s Fallen, countless big players had tabs on Khelt, and when rumors reached them that the Prophet hadn’t been immediately expunged for crossing Khelt, they had questions. Just like about the Jaws’ rampage.
So they relied on their spies, their carefully-sourced windows into the nation. There was always a traitor or a fool one could dupe into communicating with the outside world. High King Perric himself knew of his best source of information into Khelt, and he shared it in confidentiality with his top [Generals].
“Not that one crosses Fetohep, of course, but we must spy, and I am sure he is aware of such matters and acknowledges mice are everywhere, ha-ha.”
Some of his [Generals] exchanged glances, but the room was well-aware of Perric’s high esteem for the Revenant. However, they were curious. One man, the [High Admiral of Coasts], leaned forwards.
“You have a direct source of information in Khelt, Your Majesty? I’ve heard it’s all but impossible!”
Perric stroked his beard smugly.
“Yes, well. I have not only a source, but a highly-placed member of Khelt’s courts, such as they are. One of my own concubines, the Djinni, Maef, corresponds with someone who visits the palace regularly.”
His eyes glittered as the men in the room shuddered at the thought of having a Djinni in bed, or looked at Perric with admiration. He waved this all off as his due.
“Don’t fret about Khelt. This Prophet isn’t doing anything at all but annoying His Majesty. They’re hard to track down due to some Skill as we know, but they’re only tolerated because a former citizen, some Adoive fellow, is with them. But for them, he’d squash the lot, but that’s a [King] for you.”
Ah, of course. That made sense. Everyone nodded and turned their attention to the war in Jecrass.
 
——
 
The same for the Claiven Earth, actually. The Speaker of Trees was scribing in a [Message] scroll as Joreldyn reported his findings on that circlet Ceria Springwalker had been wearing. Nothing too much of note since she was already long gone, but the half-Elves, like Fetohep, had well managed kingdoms and not much else to do.
The New Lands, the King of Destruction, Khelt, and the Horns were the only places in which they had any stakes outside of their home, and the Speaker of Trees sighed.
“That child…I truly wish we had more contact with home. Then I would understand the Village of the Spring better and not just through old stories and other members. Enough about her. I trust you to know magic better than I. As for Khelt, I am assured by my contact inside that the Prophet of God has done barely more than skulk around the borders.”
Joreldyn raised his brows.
“You have a contact?”
“Of sorts. I cultivated it myself, since I felt it was needed. A stroke of luck, really. It’s the only way one finds out anything in Khelt.”
When he showed Joreldyn the chat logs, the Mage of Rivers sighed.
“Of course. Wistram’s new message rooms. Er…who is ‘SexyAir’?”
He read one of the usernames, and the Speaker of Trees flushed slightly.
“This is all above-board, Mage of Rivers.”
“You’re flirting with her.”
“This is all in service to the Claiven Earth! Look, here’s the important part.”
He pointed, and the Mage of Rivers read.
 
Quiescent Bloom: We should all meet up in person sometime. I should be delighted to buy you all drinks, especially if half your promises come true, Air.
SexyAir: You tease! I’m married! But I’m down~
RealStitching: Scandalous! I approve!
Potgirl: I would love to meet all of you as well! Sometimes, it feels like you’re my only friends…
SexyAir: We’re here for you, child!
RealStitching: Absolutely. How was your day? Anything new happening in Khelt?
Potgirl: Well, I was called back to the palace again…
Quiescent Bloom: You appear to go there nonstop.
Potgirl: The hazards of being one of the few people who has high levels. You repair some unenchanted flagstones once when all the other day-servants can’t even pick up a trowel and His Majesty calls upon you. You won’t believe what’s going on now.
SexyAir: More insects? It’s really not bad here.
 
The Mage of Rivers sighed.
“Ah, a young Kheltian?”
“Pewerthe the Potter, I believe. A penpal. She was eager to chat when Wistram rolled the feature out; most Kheltians were, but they’re disinterested in their own nation’s goings-on. Pewerthe, on the other hand, is a goldmine of information because she appears to be often called to the palace as a capable woman.”
“She sounds young, even by Human standards. Is she Human?”
“I believe so, and she is…but in Khelt, age is almost as irrelevant as for us. Needless to say, this Prophet appears largely overblown. He’s been allowed in only by virtue of keeping one member of Khelt hostage, and resolving the issue is why they’re so delayed.”
The Mage of Rivers snorted.
“That sounds like Khelt. Though I would not wish to be this People of God when the man is freed. Death might be a kindness—well, King Fetohep is kinder than his predecessor would be. She’d feed them to her gardens.”
The Speaker nodded, and that was that. He kept chatting along, pumping his well for information. He felt guilty, at times, because he suspected the other people in their private chatrooms were just as false friends as he.
He even suspected that ‘SexyAir’ might be Maef, Perric’s personal Djinni. But one did what one must. Taking advantage of a lonely Kheltian girl’s kindness was the least of the things a leader of a nation had to do. He just felt ashamed.
 
——
 
Pewerthe the Potter smiled as she wrote to her best friends throughout the day. Smiled, because this was one of the few things that made her feel good in the world and her service to Khelt.
Oh, not because she was lonely. It was just that as Fetohep’s heir, she wanted to do something for this nation in jeopardy, but she was no good fighter, administrator, leader, or anything else. She was learning from him, but she sometimes wondered if anyone else could fill her role better.
…But this was useful. Especially because she had several such chatrooms with people eager to know what was going on in Khelt.
King Perric’s Djinni, the Speaker of Trees, the Master of Spies in Nerrhavia’s Fallen…this particular chatroom was easy to feed lies to. When she showed it to King Fetohep when he worried about the other nations noticing the Prophet’s actions, he just stared at the messages for a second.
“Why…‘SexyAir’?”
“It is the style of the thing, and she’s a Djinni, Fetohep. It’s not very hard.”
“Far less difficult than turning a pack of [Bandits] upon one another?”
She smiled at him as her mind flashed to far, far worse moments in her life.
“Far less. Though I don’t even have to turn them against each other, just lie. But it won’t hold forever. The Prophet’s actions are spreading throughout Khelt. And your people are noticing the skeletons.”
Her fingers hurt from writing all day and making pots. Fetohep glanced at her muddy work clothes and sighed as he motioned a servant to sweep up after her. One came in, chasing a beetle but too afraid to pick it up, even with the dustpan, and he and Pewerthe stared at it.
“We should redouble your lessons, Pewerthe.”
“I need time to rest and make pots, Your Majesty. And I truly think you should go back to Captain Galbram and hire him. This [Mercenary] group cannot stop the Prophet.”
“His intrusion into Khelt would cause too much havoc. It would expose our weakness.”
Pewerthe shifted impatiently on her feet.
“Perhaps, but it is necessary. Alked cannot halt them without their deaths. Armed men and women cannot. Your skeletons cannot.”
“I have prevailed upon Commander Nava to redouble her efforts, and she intends to strike their camps directly. I have also requested more mercenaries willing to adhere to my limitations to enter Khelt. It shall be fine, Pewerthe.”
“If you would just—”
Now she grew angry, but he cut her off, and there was the moment when he was a ruler and she was not.
“Pewerthe. The dignity of Khelt cannot be sullied. When you rule, you must remember that.”
She stopped, and the servant peeked at her as she replied.
“Your Majesty. You chose me for a reason amongst all of Khelt’s people. Was it not because I had perspectives unique to Khelt?”
He nodded slowly.
“You were born of Khelt, but you have seen the world beyond. You are adaptable of mind, loyal—and brave. Some have these qualities in Khelt; none have all three as you do.”
She smiled and bowed, and her heart hurt with the trust he had in a mere [Potter], but she wanted to answer it. Yet she had to chide him.
“But Fetohep, you also chose me because I have gone through what few other Kheltians have. And I think…yes, I think it is something even you lack.”
“Oh? What quality have you cultivated that I have not in my hundreds of years of service?”
One brow raised, she spoke without flinching away from his golden stare.
“Defeat, Fetohep. You have never been the lesser in any moment. Never had to swallow your pride in order to survive. I am telling you to call for Captain Galbram, to ask the Herdmistress for help. Or the Quarass or anyone.”
Then he hesitated. The King of Khelt looked at Pewerthe, then turned his head abruptly.
“The Quarass already extracts enough favors for her silence. I shall…consider Captain Galbram. Or perhaps other…yes, other means.”
She hoped that meant he’d relent. But all she could do was bow, then return to her kilns. She began making pots. Not good ones, not great ones. Just putting mud on the wheels, spinning them into containers, baking them—a few people stopped by to eye her work, but walked on at once. They were poor, shoddy pots. Not with much art to them.
She just made lots of them. Pot after pot as the stress upon her and Khelt grew. It was all she could do.
 
——
 
Then came the [Palace of Fates].
It did not affect Khelt, well, at all. In the scheme of things, it was an event that only concerned King Fetohep of Khelt.
