“But the one who was sent was Human, Harvey. Human, and the New Bible does not mention us. Sometimes, we wonder—was it all peoples he meant to save? Or just Humans?”
There the Prophet encountered his first great theological test. He saw the schism in his faith before it occurred, and in his panic, he locked himself away in his tent for four days and four nights.
He still asked for food, but as the People of God began to clash with mercenaries as well as Khelt’s servants, he sat in his rooms praying for guidance, for truth, for faith—and saw what he had to do.
As Martin Luther had before him or Joseph Smith—though Mormonism was misguided—or the Apostles themselves, the Prophet began to write. A new book, a new lens by which to shine Christ’s light into the world.
He began with Stitch-folk. A people chosen to be saved—but all peoples, Garuda, Gnolls, even Selphids! Not Demons, of course, for they would be the final enemy of the final war—yes, the Prophet’s mind was lighting with understanding as he wrote frantically.
This was redemption for another world, and there would be a day when they returned to Earth, and that was judgement, as had been written in Revelations! He wished he could remember it—but he saw it even without the text in front of him. And there would be that final battle. With Demons on Rhir, of course.
He wrote a new bible into being, or the start, since even four days and nights of frantic writing couldn’t finish such a monumental work, but word spread across his camp, and the faithful felt their souls re-igniting with passion at this divine revelation. The Prophet wrote of the divine hand by which all this was meant to come to be: himself.
He did not fight. That was Marrieh’s job, and she? Well, she was good at it.
 
——
 
Hemp body. Club of wood. With such weapons, her people had once defeated armies far larger and well-equipped than hers. Marrieh’s personal body was made of flax tow—different from the linen that flax plants produced. Linen fell into the Cotton category of cloth; it was soft, strong, and made for quality stitch-flesh that could be quite wonderful. Yet it grew softer as it wore down.
Flax tow was far stronger, a byproduct of the combing process to make linen and could be formed into tow ropes. It was a tough, coarse material, and even when someone slashed across her chest, they only cut the fabric. Her skin didn’t even open fully, and she swung the club down.
[Dumbstruck Tap].
The blow knocked every thought out of the [Mercenary] as someone shouted.
“Fall back! Fall back and get reinforcements! Call for the skeletons!”
The scrum of mercenaries was falling back, and Marrieh stood there, panting, as thirty [Devout Warriors] and even some [Priests] forced back the [Mercenaries] sent to stop them.
It was getting harder. However, the People of God were winning against skeletons, against mercenaries, against Khelt’s forces. Only Alked Fellbow could defeat any group he came across, and there were too many of the People of God. And he was not killing them…yet.
Nor were the Kheltians imprisoning the People of God; they had no prisons. Rather, the Named-rank shot everyone he came across through the legs, crippling them…until a [Priest] came along to heal them.
It was a frustrating, asymmetrical war that had developed between Khelt and the People of God. One side had unlimited skeletons…who did little good against acts of faith. But only the true faithful could combat them. Indeed, the skeletons who rose and came charging at Marrieh’s party would have slaughtered a band without her, Izreal, or someone of sufficient level. But she? She just raised the mace and spoke.
“[Rebuke the Unholy].”
She concentrated, and the purity of her faith swelled in her chest, burst outwards—and the flash of light blew every skeleton coming her way into bits. A few on the periphery survived, but a sling cracked one down, and the [Mercenaries], trying to regroup, took one glance at the forty skeletons instantly defeated and ran.
The power of miracles could do everything. But here was the thing that no one understood but Marrieh and a select few: the power of faith was limited.
Or rather, it was nigh-unlimited in many ways that conventional Skills and magic were not, but not as adaptive as either. Here was the example. As Marrieh turned, someone saw her cut chest and spoke.
“Marrieh! [Be Healed]!”
A hand clasped her, and the stinging pain across her cut chest healed. Without a potion, without any waiting, her body healed, and a Level 21 [Priest of Christ] stepped back, kissed the cross he carried, and smiled.
This was beyond any [Mage] spell. Oh, Marrieh had heard such magic existed, but it was the kind of thing only the greatest [Mage] in Nerrhavia’s Fallen could cast, and probably only once or twice a day, even for him.
By contrast, healing Skills were the most common thing the People of God had. They could also perform other Miracles.
“We have been found. Gather everything of value up and prepare to return to camp. [Miracle: We Return to Safe Harbors]!”
Marrieh touched her chest, and the air began to shimmer. A dome grew around the faithful, who bent and grabbed what they could; in less than a minute, they would appear in the Prophet’s camp.
Teleportation without magic. Izreal could call a bolt of lightning from the skies, real lightning. Another follower could strike a rock and produce water from it. Just the other day, someone had learned to turn water into wine, which was causing a bit of a problem given how much of it they could make. Biblical feats.
However…Marrieh’s feet hurt, and she fumbled for a waterflask and realized it had been smashed in the fighting and spilled its contents onto the ground.
“Does anyone have a bag of holding? Water?”
Everyone else had drunk theirs, and one of the [Devout Warriors] murmured.
“Not yet. With more alms from Khelt, surely all things are possible. Or else the rocks that produce water…”
Marrieh grimaced, but it would be fine. They just didn’t have bags of holding. Or the ability to cool or heat the air; as the sky flashed, the world shifted and grew hot.
The camps in the sun were blistering, and the faithful appeared among other People of God, who celebrated them with cheers and song and prayer, but Marrieh had to get under some shade before she baked. She saw more than one person lying in tents and sighed.
If any gold is worth taking from Khelt, let it be for cooling spells and heat at night! We’re low on firewood and have to buy it for silver per logs at the [Merchants].
Faith moved mountains. Not molehills. If Marrieh had to categorize it in her head, faith had powers beyond even magic and arguably a lot more power at lower-levels…but a lack of utility. It made sense to her; you prayed for great things. Sometimes little miracles, but no one prayed to repair their shoe. Or if they did, how much faith went into such prayers when some prayed for a wound to mend or for salvation?
All this meant that the People of God were surprisingly good warriors to anyone who met them. Poor, very poor, in other ways. Yet Khelt was a paradise; the items taken from common citizens paid for all these luxuries.
Not that Marrieh’s group often took much. People had come to see what her group had obtained, but the weapons from the [Mercenaries] provoked disappointment. Izreal, on the other hand…
He came back with a cart laden with treasures. Rugs, pieces of art, so many rich possessions Marrieh stopped as she saw his band appear.
“Izreal! What happened?”
“We found a village! We could not stay long, but we recovered all this in God’s name! Look!”
She realized he’d just stripped a house of goods, but even the mattress was made of such soft down she blinked and exclaimed.
“It’s made of Sariant Wool? And the silk—”
“We could sew new limbs out of it! But the rest goes to the Prophet or to the [Merchants]!”
He was laughing, and she was excited, but she did not like this taking of gold. She did not like the triumphant light in his eyes or Adoive’s.
Adoive. Sometimes she wished he had never come to them and spoken to the Prophet. He worshiped with the others and he had levels, but he seemed like…well, a Judas if anyone was one in their tents. She just did not think this was all faith.
Certainly, when he grabbed a pillow for himself, she caught his hand.
“What are you doing, Adoive?”
“Just—taking back Khelt’s wealth. This is my heritage, Marrieh!”
He whined, and she grabbed the pillow and tossed it back on the cart.
“This goes to the Prophet first, if anyone. And surely, he will say it belongs to those who need it most. We’ll sell it if we must.”
Adoive hesitated, then scowled darkly.
“Fine. But in time, we’ll all have such, mark my words! There’s enough in Khelt to make all of us live like [Kings]!”
“That’s not the point—”
Marrieh began to argue, but Izreal, beaming, cut her off.
“This is the promised land, Marrieh! We need only fight for it and win it! These [Mercenaries] cannot stop us. I killed five myself to reach the village, and the people cowered away from our weapons and fled, wailing, into the deserts.”
She turned to peer at him.
“You killed the [Mercenaries]? You didn’t harm any of the citizens, did you? The Prophet said—”
“Bah. They do not repent no matter how much we preach to them. We have not harmed them, but we do take what is needed. Though—has the Prophet emerged from his devotions? We should move the camp.”
The ire of King Fetohep was growing day-by-day, and Marrieh took a breath as she agreed to this, at least.
“Let me rouse him. Even if he will not rise from his writings…eastwards, then? The desert grows worse.”
“We’ll buy more water and magic from the [Merchants]. More and more are coming to trade with us. They stay far back, but our trading parties have what they want.”
That was something. Marrieh trooped onwards, calling for maps, as this war continued, and it was a war in its early stages. Whatever the King of Khelt thought, the People of God had the will, and his nation was a rich target. She just had one question as she turned to Izreal.
“Which [Merchants] have such greed for Khelt’s riches, but no fear of his reprisals if he learns they have traded with his enemies?”
The other faithful didn’t know, but then one had a simple answer.
“Roshal.”
“Roshal? Has the Prophet not commanded no business shall be done with those who keep slaves? Is it not written?”
Marrieh grew alarmed and angry at once, but Izreal crossed the arms of his robes, smiling.
“We do not participate in the trade of [Slaves], merely the sale of goods. No one else will trade with us. Have faith, sister. If we trade in baubles to feed and clothe God’s people, is that not just?”
She did not like that, but the debate which arose from the People of God on this matter was long and strenuous. In the end, the faithful had to conclude they needed what the [Merchants] sold. If the Prophet were to find out this was where the items came from, and he banned the trade with the [Merchants] of Roshal, this would of course be so. But they might starve or suffer greatly. Surely, he knew and it was a moot point.
By this logic, they continued, and only Marrieh wondered if she saw the man instead of the myth in the Prophet.
 
——
 
The People of God were not all of one mind. To outsiders, surely, it seemed as if they were. But it would be naïve to assume they were mindless zealots or cultists.
They had factions within the Prophet’s camps. Which Marrieh disliked to admit, but it could not be helped.
Twelve thousand strong. An army on the march; it was physically impossible for the Prophet to even meet with all his flock these days, and so each camp had its own leaders and methods. Of course, it all centered around approaching the Prophet and hearing the divine words he spoke. But sometimes, she feared not every soul was purely devoted towards worshipping God, such as Adoive.
Or, and she was not sure if this was worse, sometimes she feared they thought the Prophet was infallible. She knew him as Harvey. To many, he could only be the Prophet.
It was Marrieh who spoke with utmost authority aside from the Prophet himself. As the first follower, she had influence she tried not to wield overtly. Nor did she want her own faction of disciples, so she renounced their company and went from camp to camp as needed. She was first to scout or go into battle. And this, she was told, was a problem.
“Marrieh, you must talk to the Prophet. Izreal and his people, they are enjoying taking Khelt’s possessions too much. They push too much. This village is the first step. I heard them talking with Adoive about entering one of the border-cities and stripping it!”
A woman caught up with Marrieh as she walked the central camp. Her name was Jilthread, and she carried no weapons at this moment. Merely four baskets of wetted towels. Marrieh saw her arms straining under the weight and took two.
“What are you doing?”
“Ensuring no one is dying of heatstroke. There are new converts in the camps.”
“From Khelt?”
“No, Germina, or they came from further abroad, seeking our protection. Some of them are freed [Slaves], I think.”
Marrieh glanced around reflexively, then nodded.
“I will help you. Let us walk and talk, sister.”
They were not alone, of course. A procession of Jilthread’s own people were bearing more towels, water flasks, manna, and recently-acquired goods to bring to the ‘lesser’ camps. This was Jilthread’s good work.
She was a [Battle Cleric] who had fought at Pomle, a capable woman, but she preferred to clothe and feed people, even those not of the People of God. When they came to cities, often she went among beggars and the poor, preaching to them.
In truth, Jilthread aligned more with Marrieh’s beliefs than Izreal of late, but she was cautious as Jilthread urged her to take the matter up with Harvey on their thirty-minute trek. It was dry and hot, and the sopping-wet towels were losing moisture. Chandrar was hard indeed, even on Hemp Stitch-folk, which both of them were.
“Izreal, he sees this land as ripe for the taking.”
“Most do, Jilthread. It is hard to not see how much wealth the Kheltians have and envy it.”
“Yet thou shalt not covet, Marrieh! How can we allow this?”
This was theological debate, which ran at the heart of the People of God’s beliefs, and it was more common, again, than one might think. Marrieh sighed.
“It is also written that thou shalt not kill, but we do in defense of our people.”
“I recall the Prophet’s sermon on it, but surely, there is a difference between taking Kheltian gold to provide for basic needs and looting.”
“…That’s what you believe Izreal’s followers are doing?”
Jilthread’s lips compressed slightly.
