Astiviya stared down at the trembling, tiny spear, then sighed. "I don't even want to ask," she muttered under her breath, mostly to herself. Then she turned to Cale, and her eyes flashed briefly with something new.

...Huh. Cale tilted his head. She was using [Divine Insight], her own version of his [Draconic Insight]. He wondered which one was better.

"I see," she said, frowning slightly. She circled him warily now, floating on a current of mana, and Cale found himself rather envious of the ability. "You are creating new spells as we fight. An impressive feat, for one such as you. Why do you not use your existing magics?"

"It's more fun this way," Cale said, shrugging. "I get to learn more magic, you know? I take every opportunity I can to learn more magic."

Astiviya snorted for a second time, and this time she wore a ghost of a smile. "...You are as obsessed with magic as my consort is with peace," she said, glancing over at Purén. The Prince of Peace was seated in the far corner of the arena, eyes closed and brows furrowed in concentration.

"You should see what I do when there's baking magic in the room," Cale told her.

"...Are you the cause of Vesuvius's fascination with baking?" Astiviya sighed. "I should have known."

Cale brightened. "You know him?"

"The elemental gods are lesser beings, but I am aware of them, yes," Astiviya said, ignoring the way Cale's eyes narrowed at the words lesser beings. "Very well. I acknowledge you fully as an opponent, but this means I will hold nothing back. Do you understand?"

"Were you holding things back before?" Cale asked curiously.

"A duel of magic is traditionally slow, to allow each mage time to show their respective strengths," Astiviya said. "That is different from a battle one would have in war, in which I would take advantage of your every weakness. And there is a significant weakness in your strategy."

"And what might that be?"

"You rely on evolving your spells," she said. "If you stick to this artificial restriction, you will lose. Spell evolution takes time. If I simply cast faster than you can evolve your spells, you will have little recourse but to use the full extent of your power against me."

"Interesting thought," Cale said, grinning slightly. "Is that what you're aiming for now? To see the full extent of my power?"

"It would only be polite," Astiviya said. She seemed less interested in winning the duel itself, now—the fire in her eyes still burned, but it was a different kind of fire.

Excellent.

She brought all four hands together, and between them, a ball of black-red flame grew. This time, there was no hesitation before she threw it at him. Cale only barely had time to glimpse what his [Draconic Insight] said of the spell.

[Fireball of War, Level 17] [Eighth Tier, Active (Unique)] [1.0e21 Mana]A Fireball spell fused with the Flames of War spell. This spell has all the explosive force of an eighth-tier fireball, but imposes an additional effect: the fires created will increase aggression and anger in its targets.

This is an ideal spell for causing chaos within enemy ranks by making them fight amongst one another. Alternatively, should your own forces be relatively flammable but not prone to death by fire, you may use this spell to create an army of flaming, angry soldiers who will stop at nothing to achieve your goals.

If not for the fact that he had only a second to react to the spell, Cale would have quipped something about how this spell was particularly strange. Why in the world did it have a list of suggestions from the Gift on how to use it? Was it one of the first spells Astiviya had acquired as the Goddess of War, or something?

(He would later learn that it was, in fact, one of the first spells she had learned as the Goddess of War. At the time she received this spell, the Gift had been set to tutorial mode, which was apparently something available exclusively to the gods. Why such a thing would only be available to the gods was beyond him.)

"Thing is," Cale said. "Even if you cast the spell quickly, all I have to do is slow it down."

He poured his intent into the ball of flame as it approached, and Astiviya stared in disbelief as it slowed and began to wobble like it was drunk. Cale, meanwhile, set to work pouring his mana into [Enhance Fortitude].

Mana overload detected! Attempting to compensate...

Adjusting spell construct...

[Enhance Fortitude] has evolved into [Oblivion's Maw]!

Cale blinked. He hadn't quite been aiming for that... But he supposed it did what he needed it to. Hopefully it didn't traumatize too many of those watching.

He opened his mouth, which stretched and stretched until it could encompass all of Astiviya's [Fireball of War]. Rather than his regular, human features, what appeared within was instead the fangs and endless stomach of an oblivion-eater, a particular critter found in the infernal realms that Cale thought made excellent pets. It was too bad they couldn't survive outside those realms.

Whichever one he'd connected to for this would probably find this to be a treat, though. He munched on the spell a few times, feeling it dissolve into traces of something that tasted oddly like tomato and cardamom.

Ah. But Astiviya wasn't quite letting up. She was right about his weakness, technically; spell evolutions took time, and in the time he had taken to eat this one spell she had already fired off another two, one of which was a swarm of voidleeches that were poisonous to oblivion-eaters.

So she hadn't lied about taking the fight seriously, had she? Cale was glad he had such a capable opponent. It made the fight far more interesting.

Unfortunately for her, nothing in the rules said he could evolve only a single spell at once.

[Enhance Speed] has evolved to [Ethereal Flickerstep]!

[Elemental Bolt] has evolved to [Lightning Storm]!

[Create Impact] has evolved to [Contact Shatter]!

[Lightning Storm] dealt with the voidleeches, which were famously weak to electricity; they fell to the ground, stunned, once the lightning tore through them. [Ethereal Flickerstep] made the world seem to slow to almost nothing around him. Astiviya had prepared for that, for her spell had conjured what seemed like thousands of daggers to slice through him no matter how he moved.

But that was what the ethereal part was for, wasn't it? He phased straight through them.

[Contact Shatter] was a melee-range spell. It wasn't quite what he'd been looking for, but [Ethereal Flickerstep] made up for that. The spell itself was simple: if its caster could make contact with a barrier, it would generate the exact amount of physical force needed to break it.

Cale rematerialized in front of Astiviya, caught her outstretched hand, which had been in the middle of a cast, and shook it as though she had offered it. "I'll be pleased to meet the real you very soon," he told her.

Her barrier shattered with a bright, ringing sound, and moments later, golden light exploded from Cale, signifying his victory in the second challenge.
