“Yes. You stop being an outsider. You become just another god. And soon, well, it's like you died. Nothing’s left of you. Nothing of who you are. Now you're just a story told by the System. And that's a hell of a thing, right? All that power, but none of it yours. You have been re-sculpted by a higher will.” Shiv couldn't help it. It was horrifying, but it was also immensely demented. “It's like being eaten by something, and then being birthed by it. You remember who you were, but you can't be that person anymore. For an Outsider that views the past and its present as the same thing, that suffers wounds dealt to it across time because its memory holds onto those scars, I can only imagine the trauma—”

“Stop…”

“I can only imagine the pain…”

“I said STOP!” the Stranger screeched, causing the entire Garden to tremble. And Shiv did. He respected the Stranger's request instead of pushing, because if he pressed any more, the Eldritch God would break. Something soft in its emotions would succumb, and it would seek to relieve itself of tension and outrage the only way he knew how. “Don't want this. Don't want to be the System's slave. Don't want to be this animal. Don't want to be another's animal. I am. I was. I am. I was. I was totality. I was everything. And now… And now…”

“And now you're just a figment of a greater power's imagination.” Shiv nodded. “Again, I get it. I hate the system almost as much as you do. Right now, my hate for it is cold and true—and I know my real enemy. Let's get a few things clear here, Stranger. I hate you, and if I could kill you, I would. If I could hurt you, I would, but I'm not going to try to destroy you when a greater enemy still is placing its boot on both our necks. I'm not going to be someone else's dog on a leash. And with how you're willing to bribe me, with how desperate you feel, I think you don't want to be a dog either. So, where does that leave us?”

The Stranger said nothing, for he had nothing to say. His emotions boiled over his mind, and darkness swelled across this realm, a painful darkness, a darkness that resembled a ravenous fire enkindled from the fumes of trauma.

“I'm happy things turned out this way,” Shiv continued. “I'm serious about that too. When I came over, I expected to be fighting you. I expected to die over and over again trying to distract you from retaliating. Instead, you catch me first, and you try to bargain with me. Since you did that, I think there's something we can do to hurt our mutual enemy. The best thing we can do right now is not serve the System's will. You don't want us to come in here and muck up your place? Sure. That can be arranged. I don't want to fight you because I don't want to risk the people I care about, and you don't want to keep making contact with us and devolve further.”

“Will leave me alone…” The Stranger's voice was tinged with miserable suspicion, but the faintest echo of hope. It still scorned Shiv, despised his nature, hated his presence, and it waited for him to strike. It was prepared for him to break his word and resume hostilities at any moment, but he didn't, and so it kept waiting. Trust was not inherent to its nature. Trust was far from its heart, but trust was what it needed to understand if any kind of peace or diplomacy was to take shape between the Stranger's garden and Gate Piety.

“Yeah, sure, I'll leave you alone, but I can't say for certain if the other Outsider gods will. They see you changing too. The System is reducing you all, and I guarantee you, even if I don't fight you, someone else will come. I'm willing to offer something more than leaving you alone. I'm willing to take the fights on your behalf. Because I want the levels, because I want the other Outsiders to know that they need to stay away from this territory, and ultimately I want you to be our sentinel against any other weird threat that we can't quite understand. Oh, and on top of that, I want you to let some of the crystal branches and weird Outsiders born of our Gate’s mana core spread for a while until we find somewhere else to move it.”

A supernova of pure anger went off inside the Stranger’s emotional core, and a continental avalanche of black flames washed over Shiv. The Eldritch God wasn't just immense in physical or magical size; the feelings he suffered were overwhelming and devastating, far too potent for even a core of its size. “No! No! No! My Garden! My body! I see you now—Trap! Deceiver! Abomination! Won't let you do this. Won't let you shackle me instead.”

The Supplicant's curved fingers reared back, exposing patches of the garden once more. Shiv realized that every single eye dotting every branch across every square centimeter of space was looking at him, all prepared to unleash their powers at once to see his complete annihilation from the timeline.

But that was a lesser revelation. He understood something else about this Stranger—why he seemed so chaotic and diminished, how the loss of his once imposing and dreadful majesty had come about so quickly.

“You've gained a Social Skill, haven't you?” Shiv asked calmly.

The Supplicant stiffened. Its countless eyes twitched. Shiv smirked.

Deductive Reasoning 35 > 39

“Oh, you poor, oversized bastard. All your life, you thought yourself to be reality. There was no one to be social with, because you don't get social with yourself, but then I came along, and suddenly things weren't the same anymore. Suddenly, the System decided to brand you with this curse called consciousness. It's really wearing you down, isn't it? You can't even think properly because you keep getting drowned by emotions you've never felt before. Emotions you don't understand, that keep growing stronger and stronger. You're a god, an unspeakably powerful thing, and so the System decided that the Social Skill you were worthy of also had to be immensely powerful. But it's too much for you. It's like giving an infant a Legendary-Tier Physicality Skill but no Toughness to go with it. All the power, none of the skill, all the consequence. Damn, we're more alike than I thought.”

Those words of mocking sympathy struck the Stranger deep. He wasn't just a fractured pane of glass now. He was a bottle at the moment of striking the ground. Just a scant heartbeat away from shattering. All Shiv needed to do was strike once. One tap with a casual blow, and parts would break and stay broken. The Stranger’s perception of himself, his worldview, his understanding of his own ego, his own existence, had been irrevocably mutilated already at the will of the System.

But Shiv stayed his hand. He wasn't here to trade punches. He was here to pacify a volatile and dangerous god by whatever means necessary and make sure he didn't break their mana core while it was spreading uncontrollably.

There was a path now, a clear path where a measure of peace or at least non-violence could continue between Gate Piety and the Stranger's Garden. If that could be established, if the Stranger could be subjected to persuasion, then Shiv wouldn't just gain a reprieve but would establish one of his first and most dominant victories over the System itself.

“You're brittle right now,” Shiv whispered telepathically, using truth as a weapon once more. “If I wanted to hurt you, I'd just hit you. You know you’d stay broken. You're not like what you were before.”

The Stranger tensed once more. Every single eye under his dominion gleamed bright. And then came an influx of fear, a massive, explosive influx that drove Shiv’s Intimidation Skill closer to the edge.

Shape of Monstrosity 194 > 199

“But I'm not going to hit you. I'm going to show you over and over again that I can be a controllable anomaly, that I can be a reliable monster, because I'm better than the monsters that we know and are used to, rather than the monsters or enemies we don't. We're going to be facing a great many we don't. I'm going to give you a choice right now. You look at me. I'm staying my hand, even if the System is giving me every reason to fight, even though it weakened you. It's trying to entice me, and you need to show me that you can control yourself, that you can do what's right for you, not for me. If you fight me, you understand that there's no way out of this; it's just going to get worse. Your situation might already be terminal. The question is how fast you want to decay. How fast, and if there’s any chance of someone fixing you at all.”

An ominous, weary silence followed. The Stranger said nothing, but Shiv could feel the tension building inside the dimension—could feel how unwilling its master was to yield to another's will. But now he had no choice. Either he played into the System's hand, or he found himself subservient to Shiv's schemes. There was no third option, and with how unbalanced he was by his own emotions, by his own ruinous psychology, he wasn't capable of coming up with any third options—not in this state.

“We're not going to be allies,” Shiv continued. “I'm not gonna bullshit you on how peace is certain between us or whatnot. When you get an angle, I expect you to try and come for me. When I get an angle, I'll try to come for you. But right now, whatever angle we have, it's not real. It's a System forcing it, and this isn't beneficial for either of us. So we can either give each other death right now, or we can choose life for ourselves and we find out where that goes. I've made my choice. You can kill me now, and I'll be back to feed you some more levels and to drag you down further beneath the System’s rule. Or we can swallow our shared hate to avoid greater misery.”

With that, Shiv's own words ran dry, and he waited for the Stranger to enact his verdict.

The silence that followed was anything but calm. It was like being inside a cauldron as the water boiled. Shiv suddenly felt a pang of empathy for all the poor lobsters he'd cast into those scalding pots. Georges claimed the crustaceans felt no pain, that their ends were sudden and their ignorance kept them from true torment, but now, in this realm, faced with this creature beyond human experience, past the threshold of human intellect, Shiv wondered if Georges had been full of shit.

It was easy to imagine something as being hollow of emotions and utterly devoid of consciousness when you didn't understand it, when it didn't resemble you. So much of the human experience was just that, an experience, and it became a cage for most people. They never looked beyond it; they thought the cage was the world, but the world is the world, and your perception is but a narrow lane. Missing so much, so many details, slipping between your fingers, depriving you of true knowledge.

The Stranger was the same way. He didn't understand people, not until now, not until these Social Skills fashioned a pseudo-humanity that saw him lesser than he ever was.

The scintillating flame within Shiv sparked with new vigor. His bound field of time and mind mana flared and hardened, gaining newfound resilience. Both the Harbinger and the Nihilist spoke to Shiv as one. “And so you glimpse a common truth, an ugly reality understood by philosophers and Psychomancers alike. Your perception is not the world. What you feel as the world brushes you, as the world responds to you, is not the world. Your mind is simply an engine of internal impulse receiving a flood of external data. In that comes a dreadful proposition: What if all this is but a lie? What if this is an illusion? If not, then what if this is a layered illusion with every mind broadcasting its own reality, whose reality then is ultimate and true? The tyranny of subjectivity deprives us of so much, and only the meager commonalities we possess sometimes fail to be enough.”

Nihilism Be My Hearth, My Banquet 127 > 135

Harbinger of Tripartite Ruin 338 > 347

“Enough,” the Stranger finally declared, echoing Shiv's Skills. The Deathless lifted his head, prepared for anything to follow. “I've had enough. Heard enough… seen enough. See you… See what you want now. See it… See that future’s ghost. See where all will fall.”

The Supplicant's leftmost pinky twitched. Shiv nearly flung himself back in time to avoid whatever blow might fall. But when the sphere of tarnished time didn't implode or strike him in any way, he stayed. He waited, and the Stranger spoke once more. “I do this. I do this to spite the System. I will not bend to your will. I decide because I decide, not because of you, abomination.”

Shiv sneered. “Feeling's mutual, you oversized sack of eyes.”

But actually you are doing this because of me, Shiv thought. Not my fault your heart’s so frail.

He kept those words to himself, though. No need to tip the scales back the other way when things were already moving in his favor, but another epiphany came to him unbidden, one that troubled him further. It seemed that all Pathbearers and gods even couldn't escape the trauma of their legend. For every battle you survived, scars lingered. In that, Shiv grasped why his mind held major aspects akin to a Tarrasque.

By the time most Pathbearers who gained Pre-Legendary Skills descended into their first Delve, they were so rich with conflict and story that lesser Pathbearers would have shattered a hundred times over. But a Delve was more than a capstone evolution for a skill. It was also the encapsulation of all the trauma a Pathbearer had survived. It was the culmination of all their regrets, all they'd failed, generated into a simulation to be overcome before the Pathbearer achieved their full advancement.

