But defeating your own shadow and prevailing against pre-existing traumas wasn't the same thing as truly healing. And that was the problem: few people truly healed. For every year a favored Pathbearer survived, they sustained more wounds. Most were like Adam, who was still broken, who went into his Delve broken.

Oh, gods… And I don't stay broken. And I didn't realize… I never thought of it that way.

No one was untouched by trauma, but Shiv walked away from it. He didn't even scar; he shed those wounds, the toughness of his mind and flesh now perfect mirrors of one another.

“Need things from you: assurances. Your invasive garden. Keep it around your gateway. Perimeter equal to size of your Gate. No further than that. Won't let you infest my inner core. This, or no arrangement.” The Stranger had calmed now. There was still agitation in his voice, but he had a measure of control and was negotiating with Shiv with a measure of hardness.

The battle was practically won, but Shiv answered—made sure to see things through. “I'll try and see it concentrated near the gateway if I can. If anything expands too far, you have my permission to prune those branches. In fact, the Terrorspawn that spill over deeper into your realm can be hunted and removed by your Fingerlings—I won't treat that as a hostile action, and neither will anyone else from my Gate. We're going to try and move our spill somewhere else so that we don't need to annoy you too much longer, but I'm not going to make any promises I can't keep about when or if we'll even be successful.”

“Another thing,” the Stranger suddenly grumbled. “Leave one of your selves here. Any body aside from the one that has the hand.”

This request gave Shiv a moment's pause, but it didn't leave him stymied for long. If the Stranger was planning something underhanded, Shiv would see it coming. The Eldritch God's core was a naked window of emotion, and the substance that splashed and churned within hid nothing from his eyes. “Fine. You get to have one body. But I got a counter request for you as well. You're going to attend my coalition back in the Gate. You want one of me to represent myself and my Gate here? Well, I want something of yours to be in my Gate, representing you as well.”

A sound broke out of the Stranger, which was no noise a human could make, and sounded like a thunderclap yet trilled off into a trill. “Can't exist within Integration properly, not without an anchored body.”

“You have Hymn.”

“Bastard servant! Mongrel slave! Not an anchor, a thief—a hound that slipped his kennel.”

“Yeah, he feels the same way about you, but he can still hear you, so if you have something to say, you can speak through him as well, or maybe you can shout in his direction. See what happens. Whatever the case, you want my representation; well, I want yours as well. This is diplomacy. We don't need to like each other, but we do need to have a clear line of dialogue, if only to tell each other what we want and when the peace is done.”

And then Shiv had noticed something. A shudder went through the Stranger. His core flickered with budding anxiety. Something just happened. Something the Stranger tried to hide.

Shiv figured it out immediately. “Another level, huh? For a Social Skill too.”

“Stop it. Stop seeing me. You don't see. I see!” The Stranger's hiss was as furious as it was ragged.

“Fine, I don't see,” Shiv played along, and then he noticed something in the Stranger's Garden: a small core, possessed of its own emotions, connected to a tiny swirling cloud of intellect. There was a third form here, a third being watching, observing. Shiv wondered then if he was being studied by whatever had captured his other body.

But then his logic took hold and asserted itself. No, it can't be that. If someone captured my body, the wise thing to do is examine it. And the Stranger doesn't strike me as the inviting type. But for another group to be operating inside this dimension, they must be on good terms with the Stranger, which I don't see being possible, or they must be hidden somehow. There's only one person I know who understands how to hide here. Hello, Hymn. I'll talk with you later.

For now, Shiv resolved matters with the Stranger. “I'll keep my body here for now. You think on what I said. I'm not going to push you yet, but unless you can come up with a better idea, I want you in the Gate as well. And before you suggest that I be your anchor, I got another thing coming for you. You couldn't take root in me before, and even if you could, are you really willing to risk yourself inside me? And aren't you afraid I might twist your words to my benefit back in my Gate? Best for you to represent yourself in some way—look out for your own interest. Just a thought. This thing's double-edged too. If talking to me and struggling with your emotions is giving you a few levels, then I got another bit of bad news: dealing with more people is going to feed you new skills with even more levels. Everything has a price now. You want to think about that.”

“Don't want to, don't want to…” The Stranger’s words were genuine, and his frustration was deep, but Shiv simply shook his head and turned away. He remained within the Supplicant's grasp, and there, like a fly frozen in amber as the metaphor went before, he contented himself, establishing a new zone of peace right outside the front door. The swelling roar of triumph swept through him as he realized he had prevailed. He had prevailed and slain strife before it could ignite.

Diplomacy was a difficult weapon to wield, but when one had a grasp of their enemy, mastering the opposition from within offered a feeling of victory unlike any other.

First Evanescia and then the Stranger, Shiv mused. People are puzzles; people are chaotic, but people are damn interesting. System, I hope you're getting a good hard look at me, because I'm a hells of a lot more than just a violent brute now.

And as if offering concession and incentive to further practice his way of fighting without fighting at all, a new reward arrived for Shiv—one worthy of his forking tongue.

Feat Gained: Inland Embassy (Legendary) - You have shaken monsters and rendered doubt upon gods with nothing more than your words. Within your persuasion is a seed for peace or the fuel for war, but whatever you do, whatever you say, whoever you face, you know that to subvert another's will is to win a battle before it even begins. When you shake someone's heart and mind, you will leave a portion of yourself within them, and you will be able to talk to them regardless of their location, so long as they are capable of dialogue.
