Yet, as I have reached this point, I must ask you to temper yourself, unreasonable as this request might be. Noromo Dogborn, Bastard Saint of Wandering Blades and God of Righteous Deceivers, stumbled and uttered a statement without thought, but you do not possess such luxury. You are no god by birth, for all that entails, good and ill.

And do not consider being mortal a weakness. For though you might lack much in power, though you might not be able to stand as a pole of the System. What you possess is the ability to strive towards enlightenment, and such a gift is beyond the gods. One must suffer and strain and learn and admit their own mistakes to grow and to encapsulate the fullness of knowledge, the endless fullness that never ceases to come. With a god, possessed of absolute qualities, granted absolute dominion over those they see as their inferiors, what true enlightenment can follow?

And it is connected to this that you must face the fact that sometimes, in the pursuit of virtue and in enlightenment, you must forsake your own revenge for grander goals still. These words are not to persuade you toward the hubris of blind pacifism. Far from it. We live in a world that is ontologically opposed to the peaceful. Pacifism in and of itself might still be a noble pursuit—but understand you have chosen martyrdom when you walk such a path, and often hollow martyrdom is that.

What I do speak of is a grander purpose. What serves you? What compels you? What is worth doing in the grand tapestry of your life?

The fires of revenge might burn hot. You might find yourself enticed and seized by the desperate opportunity to strike down the object of your hate. In this moment, if you are truly to be a philosopher, if you are truly to be a self-moving soul capable of mounting both mind and heart, you must understand when to stay your hand and when to strike. It is more than feeling; it is more than logic; it is the connection of both in accordance with the world around you.

And so I implore you to think; to master your mind; to govern your heart so you might chart the path of highest truth.

And understand that there will be mistakes. Understand that there will be flaws in your enlightenment. Understand that there will be times when you misstep or decide wrongly. This is not the shattering of your foundations, but the reinforcing. The shattering comes when you choose the same mistake over and over. The fall is not depravity. To fall is not shame. To fall is enlightenment in and of itself. It is the development of virtue in progress. To fall and to return. That is the truest expression of tested wisdom, and in these moments, you must face yourself and consider: Are you living up to the true potential of your wisdom? Are you doing what is right rather than what will see you satisfied?

Life is more than pleasure. Pleasure, joy, sadness, hatred: all are emotions. All are fickle. All are governed by that which flows within the juices of your mind and, further, by the impulses bestowed upon you at the behest of the world and the whims of the system.

There is something higher still. There is something greater still. What is the true foundation of your philosophy? Discover this answer. Make sure your supports and pillars stand hot. Thaw, stretch them beyond the heavens, and if they fall, build them anew and see prior mistakes undone.

For the difference between a self-moving soul and a dog on the leash is that one is so easily swayed by motion, impulse, and incentive. The other seeks to manufacture their own meaning in this grand world riven by conflict.

And so, before any other can enslave you, first you must enslave yourself to see each to your truest emancipation…

—Legend-Philosopher Melaia Kelhaus

402 (I)

“The Enemy of My Enemy is but the Dog on My Leash” [II]

The fear of the Stranger spilled through the Supplicant in molten floods and infused Shiv with ever more power.

With the meagerest of gestures, by exerting its power over time itself, the Supplicant could see Shiv torn apart, especially this body of his, deprived of attuned skills and bereft of Magical Resistance. Yet the Supplicant made no move to act; it held itself at bay, even though Shiv could feel the enmity emanating from it. It felt akin to a Pathless reluctant to smash a wasp between their hands, lest it manage to sting them before perishing and causing a fatal allergic reaction. The Supplicant had tried earlier to pull every single one of Shiv's vessels from across time, yet only managed to grasp the string for one among the ensemble; the Severed Shadow that was left unprotected.

And even if one of Shiv's bodies were to be destroyed, the others would slip Backstage, and a true dance between an unnatural god and this tiny, stubborn immortal would begin in full.

Then there was simply the risk of facing the Red Rider's Hand and the Challenger’s Blessing again. Even now, one among those great and colossal fingers capable of sinking cities, of cracking continental plates, and of enshadowing towns, remained shattered and maimed.

Shiv could see a mess of broken fragments jutting out from the mangled digit. Its upper half was reduced to less than tatters, and the injuries were coated in a dense layer of gleaming vitality that sang odes to the glory of war.

The Supplicant had been touched by the will of destruction, a will that expressed one of the System's purest desires. And so, beneath that will, the Stranger, who long dreamed of returning to his false omnipotence prior to his self-awareness, now suffered the full burden of permanent damage.

But despite the ruination of that digit, the rest of the Avatar’s flesh remained unscarred. The Chronomancy emanating from its being created a veil of tarnished gold, a sphere of time wider than a nation, all to take hold of a single entity, like a fly encased in amber.

“Make this stop. Make this stop. Will spare you. Will give you peace… if you give me peace.” Rather than only sounding from the Supplicant, the Stranger's voice emanated from all corners of his dimension, wracked with emotional exhaustion.

The surprise within Shiv gave way to a dark schadenfreude as he realized the Eldritch God was succumbing toward humanity at an alarming rate. “Constant strife and struggle are not that fun when it's happening in your front yard, huh? I get it; normally, I’d even sympathize, but you see, I remember you and yours trying to hatch freaks from my mind, flesh, and soul. And I haven't let go of that grudge yet.”

“Would have changed you. Would have claimed you. Would have worn you.” A glistening shimmer caught Shiv's attention, and he peered beyond the Supplicant. A great core loomed in the distance, bright and polished, clearer than ever before. The Stranger's emotions were getting easier to read, and within his empathetic nucleus rained a downpour of lament and frustration.

The damn Outsider didn't feel bad for his actions as much as he was developing the ability to feel self-pity, which was still far from any semblance of morality. He despised Shiv for not surrendering himself to his power, and he despised himself for not claiming Shiv. The Stranger ultimately remained still too close to a monster to be fully human, still too deprived of conventional morals and emotions to fully grasp what he was doing.

In months prior, especially after the battle against the Recollector, Shiv would have reveled at such a sight, would have taunted the Stranger and tried to deepen his pain, but Shiv at present was imbued with higher insight, with finer means of manipulating both thought and emotion.

And with this power, the analogy between him and the Supplicant collapsed. He wasn't merely a wasp; he was a nail fired from a gun, seeking to strike a brittle surface. The Stranger's Avatars, every single one of his Fingerlings, everything that was stained with its emotions and imbalanced from its thoughts, were shaped from a foundation of compromised glass.

All Shiv had to do, if he wanted to inflict another measure of harm, was strike the Supplicant and pry at the Stranger’s psychological wounds through it, but he didn't. Instead, he soothed. He confused. And he sought to find an adequate leash for it. “But you know what? I understand you. Feel the same way. Don't get me wrong, I still despise you. I'd like to rip into you and leave you gored and bloody. But I can't do that to you. Not easily, anyway. And whatever you do to this body of mine is just going to amount to nothing, because I'll be back over and over again—and you'll never have your peace.”

“No! Give me peace! Give me, or I will…” The Supplicant's remaining fingers curled in fury, its body and manner tensed and crashed down as a turbulent sea commanded to rage at the will of an anguished god.

But before the tantrum could truly become apocalyptic, Shiv's Harbinger shifted over, leaping across time and vessels to manifest over his physical shell. The titanic fingers forming his cage flinched back; the eyes dotting their lengths as loathsome constellations squinted and flared bright, prepared to shred Shiv from time itself for his impending transgression. Yet, instead of lashing out with fist or spell—or even attempting an escape—the Harbinger came bearing a conveyance of understanding with an emission of Psychomancy.

“Hey Stranger, I want you to listen. That's not a threat; that's just what's going to happen in the future. You see all this? All this is because you made a mistake. You, not me.” Shiv adopted a casual demeanor for his words were honest, and he had an idea about how to bend the Outsider God to his will. “You came after me. You kept coming after me. You kept trying to fight me. And now, unfortunately, some of my favor’s spilled over to you. In three months, I went from being Pathless to Legend. Now, I got a little bit of help from a Feat, but thanks to all this favor, I level unnaturally fast even without making use of it now, and so do the people who spent too much time around me, especially the ones who fought and survived by my side.”

“Haven’t… Not by your side! Lies… Deception!” But the Stranger's voice was straying from mere anger now and veering toward delusion.

“Nope, sorry. It's not a lie. That's just the way it is. We fought each other. Now, most of my enemies don't survive battles with me. I killed them. I killed your Recollector. I killed Longinus. But you, well, you're different. You're far too powerful for one—I don't know if I can reliably kill you, even if I keep trying for a century. I barely understand how you work. But I do think I could take a good swing at you using my new hand, if you understand what I'm saying. But I don't want to because I don't see the point.” Shiv regarded the trembling fingers of the Supplicant and scoffed. “How many levels have you gained since we fought? Actually, you know what? There's no need to answer. I can tell you gained some new skills too. Maybe you even evolved in some way. With every bit of power the System bestows upon you, it's also sculpting you, forcing you to resemble a certain shape.”

Shiv let the Stranger’s discomfort drag before he asked the following question. “You got a Path now, don't you? It's made you stronger in some ways, but it's also bottlenecked you in others. Things you could do before without even thinking are lost to you now. And what do you get to keep? Those eyes. Your control over time. I remember when your Recollector was breaking temporal laws left and right. You can still do that. Don't think anyone else managed that trick on me. Don't think the past and the present are the same for anyone else.”

At that, Shiv crossed his arms. “But here's what I do wonder: how long are you going to be able to keep doing that? Because sooner or later, the System's going to define your Chronomancy, and then you're gonna get a Skill Evolution. Maybe a really good one, yeah, but that'll be that. You'll just be a High-Tier Chronomancer. Maybe the System will even slap a Domain of Time on you. But is that the same as being time itself? Is that the same as being memory and history?”

Not a single invective left Shiv's lips during that entire monologue, but the faintest cracks began to spread, starting from the Supplicant, but spreading through this dimension itself as if it was a broken pane of glass.

“Won't-can't be controlled, won't be changed. I don't want to change.”

“It's too late,” Shiv replied, shaking his head. “My fire’s eating you up. You've already changed, and it's not gonna stop. The fact that we can have a conversation like this. The fact that I can understand you better than I understood you at the start? That shouldn't be the case. You were terrifying once. The first time I fought your Recollector, you were something that didn't need to bend to the System's laws. You were beyond logic; there was no sense to you. You did things because you wanted to do them, because you were the things. You were a concept, a concept that’s, un—un—what’s the word, uh, unfettered. But it's just not the same now. And it's gonna get worse if we keep fighting. Actually, it's gonna get worse in general, because now that you're burning with favor, there are going to be fights coming for you no matter what.”

“No… no…” The Stranger's emotions plunged away from rage, away from delusion, toward the valley of darkest grief.

