the password.Either it was clever in simplicity or stupid in its complexity.It wasn't just numbers. It was the very concepts of the number, able to separate the numbers into groups, but also the numbers needed to have meaning to the password. Delta simply had herself and others on her mind.Alpha, Beta, Gamma, and Delta. One, two, three, and four. Most Dungeons wouldn't have important things to match the password until they were at least level 40, grouping their floors in tens. But by then, natural Dungeon development would make the idea of escaping so repulsive that they wouldn't try.She flexed and took a step up the stairs. Nothing stopped her.Delta took another step and nothing stopped her.Something should have, every inch of her cried out at this fact, but nothing stopped her now. All around her, a torrent of her mana rushed out and Delta rode the wave with a determined look.---Nu stared as Delta left the Dungeon space, using a tunnel of Mana like a lifeline to sustain her actions. In response, he turned from his preferred form of a screen with floating hands to that blasted human form once more, assuming control of the Dungeon with Prim sliding into his advisor role."No, take me back! I don't want your stuff! It stinks of edge!" Prim cried out and Nu shot her an annoyed look."Delta just turned us into the biggest targets of the world to save one idiot kid and all you can do is complain of my setup?" Nu demanded and Prim thought about it."The fact you're surprised this happened says more of you than it does of me," she responded bluntly and Nu had to bite his tongue to stop a rude word coming out."Is there any benefit? Any good news?" he asked and Prim shifted to a green window to show a notification.'The Dungeon of Delta has broken its boundaries and escaped its limits. This Dungeon is now an Abomin- Error. Goddess detected. This is now the Church of Delta. Praise by her name. All faith converted into mana. All donations turned into resources. Church tax is automatically deducted. Church of Delta has a high grade Dungeon to test the faithful. Contained. Aware. Working as intended.'"How does that work? We're still a Dungeon with no barrier," Nu said slowly.'The church will act as a barrier. This is no different than allowing pocket spaces or domains of gods inside their buildings for purposes. Saints can be appointed, church doctrines can be appoint- error. Doctrine of Delta found. 'Be Kind, be Ready''This was followed by what clearly was a symbol of the 'church', a sigil with the radiance of the sun, the center taken up by a triangle that looked chaotic and unpredictable, the inner layers of orange but around the edge were symbols that Nu represented himself, Prim, Delta, and Alpha. "I just want to watch idiots fall into a pit and break their necks," Nu sighed.'Churches still do that. They just call it something like 'divine punishment' or something' Prim said, trying to cheer him up.It didn't help.
