A Tier 7 world, they didn’t expect much. The moment they arrived, they found not one but two ruins, along with a strange realm giving them their own correlation.

One of the ruins nearly got obliterated as Matt saw its halls infested with mechanical humanoids, a leftover from his own experience with a ruin as a lower Tier, but he checked his impulses and stayed his hand.

Looking through its halls, he was actually disappointed with what he found. The ruin didn’t have any of the self-replication functions the ruin they unleashed had, nor could it fly.

Still, the concentration of both ruins and a strange realm prompted them to investigate further.

According to Captain Stenson’s experiences, both were slightly more common in the deeper layers of chaotic space, but neither were so common as to see three on a single low-Tier world.

Seeing their expressions, Rah nodded. “Let's investigate for half an hour. If we can’t identify anything specific, we can move on after that.”

Having gotten permission, Matt compressed space and stepped next to the second ruin, along with nearly everyone else.

At the deepest reaches of an inland sea carved by retreating ice caps, they found a Blackwater ruin.

How the air portion of the level 2 mana type had been common enough for proper Blackwater mana to form none of them could speculate, but the ruin itself was unique and worth investigating.

Having barely encountered the mana type in the lab, and rarely in the wild, Matt was as careful as possible as he explored, not wanting to destroy it.

The ruin had either spawned in or taken over an underground cave network, turning the magma tunnels into a labyrinth of angry fishmen.

If they had been lower Tier, Matt knew he would have had a ton of fun exploring the halls to stumble over half invisible fish monsters. However, with his current Tier, he was able to see through their illusions easier than he was able to see what they were trying to do.

That ruined the exploration aspect, leaving only the mystery of how the place existed.

His Tier did enable him to sample everything without disturbing the ruin, and he did so gleefully. It only took a few moments for Katya and Arden to safely pack away samples of everything Blackwater-related and move onto the next point of interest.

Matt only left after he double checked his scans, not wanting to miss anything when he had the time to carefully study the ruin. Or more likely, when someone from his guild did that.

They considered waiting around to let Allie create a waypoint so they could return, but they didn’t have months to squander for a Tier 7 world, no matter how interesting it was.

Decision made, they inspected the strange realm.

It was the lowest Tier strange realm Matt had ever seen but beyond its Tier keeping them firmly out, it felt identical to every other strange realm to his magical senses.

Visually there was no way an inverted mountaintop perched on top of the world's tallest mountain could be called anything but extraordinary.

As if mocking them, they got the feeling it was a test of strength and a perfectly safe strange realm.

With the last ten minutes he had on the planet, Matt looked for anything that might have explained the presence of three oddities but came up empty handed.

He scanned everything he could, including the fossil layers, hoping to find any evidence of something testable, but couldn’t find anything that didn’t exist on nearly every other planet in the Realm.

As he joined everyone else on the sky bridge, Matt couldn’t help but question the existence of both ruins and strange realms.

Why were they slightly more prevalent in deep chaotic space and more importantly, could his guild figure out a way to recreate them eventually?
