Reading between the lines, Matt thought he saw some not-so-subtle hints the publicity was manufactured, but he’d never know the truth. The incident happened under the old dynasty’s watch, and no one remained alive or in the Realm from the incident according to Titan’s Torch’s findings.

Despite only being a footnote in the larger report, the guild’s information gathering department was meticulous and provided a copy of the patent along with the top five related academic findings on the topic saving Matt from a lot of guess work.

While commercially unsuccessful, the researcher and their team had run into the same problem everyone discovered: when mana was flowing at high enough rates, it wanted to destabilize. In trying to improve mana throughput without higher-Tier materials, the team had dabbled in alternative mana flow patterns and had struck on some minor success.

Looking at the patent and seeing the reported minimal usability rating given by the Empire’s Patent Office, he understood why the patent had been a flop on the market.

The additional infrastructure needed to forcibly control the flow of mana had proven bulky, prone to fatigue and failure, still required expensive higher-Tier materials to shape the mana into the desired flow, and worst of all only worked when the conduit itself was made out of pure mana. All of that could have been forgiven had the improvement in mana flow been substantial, but its cumulative effect was a fraction of a percent more efficient.

A description of the original patent had been ‘like trying to make a water hose out of water’ and they weren't wrong.

Matt was simply inspired by their ideas rather than put off.

Raising his hands as they jogged along the sky bridge, Matt started sending out a small stream of mana from one to the other.

Keeping external control over his mana increased the difficulty compared to doing this inside his body or mana pool, but Matt didn’t want to risk himself, or rather his spirit, with experiments, so he accepted the difficulty.

As he tried to braid the mana into the pattern described in the patent, he found it was both unnatural and unwieldy; his mana did not want to move in those patterns, but they did with enough control.

Seeing how much trouble he was having being able to work with his own mana, Matt revised his opinion of the original researcher. The method was genius found in insanity.

The method split the stream of mana into two portions. The smaller portion took some of the mana and wove it into a braided tube for the rest of mana to flow through. The mana barrier, against the accepted understanding of mana flow dynamics, allowed for observably more mana to pass through the tunnel than should have fit.

Slowly, letting the strands of mana weave themselves into a tunnel, Matt tried to recreate the patent. It took a few false starts as he started getting used to the particular control needed, but he managed it.

The largest issue was something the patent failed to solve, the inherent instability of using mana to guide mana.

When he had a small braided tunnel of mana, Matt started tweaking the parameters, trying to feel for any change that felt like an improvement. He hadn’t intended to start there but, despite being able to force the weave together and see a minuscule improvement to the mana flow between his hands, he could feel the structure trying to pull itself apart.

The patent as developed worked, but was the farthest thing from stable, pointing to the same problem the original researcher ran into. They found something that worked but didn’t know the why or how.

Zack almost immediately noticed what he was doing and moved over. Without needing to be asked, Matt sent him the relevant information as he continued to play with the tunnel of mana.

He noticed that when he constricted the weave of his tunnel, any mana passing through became sluggish, slowing down beyond what should have been expected according to the mana throughput models. Weirdly enough the same thing happened when he made the weave looser, contrary to his expectations.

They were the most obvious things to try, so he was sure others had as well, but both having the same reaction wasn’t what he expected.

He was pretty sure the weave was a dead end, but Matt continued to tinker with it hoping he could learn… anything at all. Theoretically, this was exactly what he needed. Practically, there was no difference if the field had only figured out one singular oddity, and been unable to expand upon it in over a hundred thousand years.

If nothing else, making the bands of mana distinct and preventing them from merging into a uniform blob was difficult in a way he wasn’t used to, letting him relish the challenge.

New mana control exercises that he didn’t instantly ‘master’ were rare enough, and he wouldn’t pass that aspect up alone.

Reaching up, Zack mirrored what Matt was doing, though his own control was noticeably better. The other Ascender quickly ran through the same tests that Matt did to similar results.

So long as the weave was made and maintained properly, there was a small but noticeable improvement in the speed the mana traveled through the tunnel.

When that came to the millions of mana as Matt could sometimes use to cast casual spells, even a small improvement could help.

“It’s an interesting premise if you can figure out how to apply it. I’m not even sure I would have the level of control needed to fill a skill with such weaves instead of filling it with mana normally.”

Matt sighed as he let his latest weave dissipate. “That’s the same problem I see. The weave is interesting but impractical. I’d have to make a weave for every spell structure and be able to hold it together during a fight. It’s possible, but the amount of time I’d have to put in for such a minor gain wouldn’t be worth it.”

As he looked out at the spatial tunnel they walked through, Matt considered other options.

Could he use spatial compression to allow more mana to travel through a spell's structure before it destabilized and fell apart? Was that even possible inside of himself?

A small test done outside his body showed it was entirely possible, easy even. The only downside was that if he had a single slip-up it would result in the mana stream returning to its normal size instantly. If that happened in the middle of casting a spell, Matt would be lucky to only permanently lose the skill, if he wasn’t crippled by the cascading energies unleashed deep in his spirit.

Zack breathed heavily through his nose, indicating how little he thought of that idea.

Matt didn’t argue. That was not his way forward.

“I agree, that is not even close to viable. Still, it's good to remember it's theoretically possible. Let us return to the original idea of a mana tunnel helping move mana. What do you think would happen if we rotate the tunnel of mana itself? Maybe we can induce the field effect the third paper mentioned observing. We can test for weave types and density while we are at it if successful.”

His [AI] indicated such a method had a high likelihood of having some effect.

It didn’t, which was interesting in its own right, but it left them confused rather than enlightened.

After a suggestion from Zack, they tried rotating two tunnels in opposite directions but, like before, there was no change. A few attempts later, they shrunk one of the tunnels and allowed the mana to flow through the gap between the two of them.

Or they tried.

Like a magnetic repulsion, the counter rotating tunnels made it nearly impossible for mana to flow between them. Zack was able to brute force a test, but the mana shredded itself as it tried to go in every direction the moment his control slipped even the smallest amount.

They wanted to continue, but as they reached the end of the sky bridge, they put their testing aside to be active participants in exploring the next world.

Having followed their Seeker’s guidance, they arrived at a Tier 3 world. They intended to pass through without any stops, but he scanned his surroundings as they reentered the real world, wanting to live up to his promise.

Matt was prepared to be uninterested, but following Rah’s advice wasn’t the onerous task he feared it might be.

The world was very pretty. Or at least its underwater habitats were vibrant with a biodiversity rarely seen. That allowed numerous unusual creatures to find their niche and thrive where they might have struggled on another world.

Ultimately, it was only a Tier 3 world and no matter how pretty it was, they passed through quickly after they ensured there was nothing notable to take with them.

Reentering a sky bridge, Matt immediately returned to testing his mana hypothesis, only feeling mildly guilty for his feelings of joy at being able to work on his project once more.

Without access to a lab and actively moving through spatial resistance, the tests they could do were best described as educational. Not necessarily useful, neither of them found an improvement on the described method, but they hadn’t expected to.

Instead, they tried to learn as much as possible, and in that they succeeded.

Their talks eventually pulled Rah into the discussion while they threw around some interesting ideas and tried some of the earlier ones. Nothing they came up with was close to feasible but the ideas were interesting enough to note down for later.

As they exited the sky bridge to a Tier 10 world, they didn’t immediately move to the next connection. Rather, everyone turned to look at Rah who was acting as their leader in the breach.

Their experienced explorer stood with his eyes closed.

Through their bond, Aster pushed a mental image of Rah trying to read the patterns in the winds with only his face’s exposed skin. Except in her mental image he had whiskers like a fox and was therefore succeeding.

Not understanding what Rah was doing, both of them started investigating the other sky bridges, trying to build some of the sensitivity Rah talked about.

Having already had most of the tips and tricks explained to him, Matt quickly got through the basics of Rah’s lessons. He was pushing deeper, trying to get a feel for how long the tethers would remain in place solely through his own perception, when Rah came out of his trance looking at the Seekers.

“We are lucky to find one so soon, but I believe that two worlds away on the path we didn’t intend to take, is a Tier 30 world. Can you check and see if I’m correct? I’d rather not risk having to backtrack, given what was reported about the life span of these bubbles. Days might matter.”

Probing the connection, Matt had no idea how Rah got any information out of the sky bridge because he could barely feel the neighboring world's Tier, let alone what was going on beyond that.

Their Seekers, Magnus Bergh and Lura Hope, didn’t need to be told twice and started their own divination's.

Lura’s floating book expanded into its full form, but without the ship's amplification arrays she didn’t glow or radiate power. Her eyes and book were still flooded with mana, but that was the only sign of her power rather than the lightshow she normally put on when she used her Talent.

As she started flipping through her book, riffling through pages of glowing script looking for the information they were searching for, Magnus called one of his older goats out and quickly sacrificed it.

Neither had good news.

The goat’s intestines were lined with sharp stones that never could have made it through the animal’s delicate digestive track but had appeared as dire warnings.

Lura’s prediction wasn’t any better.

In fact it was much worse.

“Every third word I’m pulling has some meaning or association with danger ahead. The remaining worlds are more gilded than golden too. Lots of negativity associated with the alternative path.”

Rah only looked at the six other Tier 29s to know their reaction.

Seeing what he wanted, Rah finally said, “Let's bypass this world and see if we get similar readings from another connecting world. I’ve seen sky bridges that deposited people into lava fields or far away from land, leaving them to die, but given our Tier that feels unlikely. This might be something like that but no matter what, such warnings shouldn’t be taken lightly. Let us stick to our original travel path and see if we can come at the Tier 30 world from another angle.”

Being entirely a natural phenomenon, tethers between worlds broke and formed as the breach shrunk in on itself. If they were truly unlucky, the path between any two points could be varied or outright impossible should the timing be bad. On the flip side, there was usually a way around any road block so long as one was willing to travel far enough.

Their general aim was to explore as much as possible, as well as finding anything rare or valuable, but there were no referees to pull them out of bad situations. If they got in a fight with something too strong, they could die before they even knew what was happening.

The third layer of chaotic space was usually reserved for Tier 36s and higher for good reason.

The breach and bubble were only bypassing the most basic ship requirement from exploring the third layer of chaotic space.

There was no proven causation solely between a world entering or staying in the deeper layers of chaotic space, and its riches such as Natural Treasures, ruins, and strange realms, but there was more than enough correlation to make people risk things pushing ever deeper into the maelstrom of energies.

It was why they were running along worlds instead of waiting a few years for the bubble to burst freeing the closed off worlds like most other explorer teams.

