“If Ser Jim can lead me up so I can have a look, we may even reach it before dawn,” Scout Tolek replied.

The next floating party left Viv distinctly uncomfortable because poor Scout Tolek smelled quite rank. At least there were no erring hands leading to broken bones, but she allowed herself a sigh of relief as soon as they touched ground. The base was, indeed, not very far, and very motivated guards carried the cart and horses through canyons and gorges at a brisk pace. For any Earth force, even the most elite, this would have been impossible, but high strength allowed the guards to lift goods and water barrels as if they were tacos. Nevertheless, Viv knew they’d be tired when they arrived. She was herself running off a couple of hours of sleep in the past two days and would probably be fine for another one or two but this shouldn’t be allowed to last. Tired people made mistakes, herself included. Being part elemental wasn’t changing that.

At some point, Captain Sin ended up walking by her side. At first, Viv thought it was to avoid the ambassador’s constant whining but he gave her an earnest glance that was not exactly friendly.

“The way you think is not that of an arcanist.”

“Have you heard of Jar Jaratalassi?” Viv returned, her excuse prepared.

“A great general… Oh. Are you his daughter?”

“We are not directly related, but I’ve spent a lot of time in his presence for various reasons. Some of it has rubbed off. He always hated attacking people who expected it.”

“I was under the impression he was more of a defensive leader,” Sin objected.

“One cannot be a great general without knowing how to do both,” Viv amended. “And the genius of General Jaratalassi is not to defend, but to place the enemy in a position where they have no choice but to attack with a disadvantage. That way, he has won before the battle could even begin.”

Captain Sin gave her a measuring look.

“This is not just about learning from the best. You are too confident for a woman of the arts. The assassination attempt didn’t scare you. You are hiding something. Were it not for your earlier demonstration in the throne room, I would have believed you to be a liar.”

Viv shrugged. He wasn’t wrong here, but to be fair, the alternative was getting stabbed so…

“If it is any comfort, our goals are aligned.”

“I will choose to believe you,” Captain Sin said.

Viv didn’t mind the suspicion but she gave herself a ‘fail’ grade on the infiltration attempt. Exactly as she’d expected, to be honest.

After hours of trekking through an increasingly cold desert, the scout left to look for a path since they were getting close to the encampment. He returned an hour or so later. By then, it wasn’t too far from dawn.

“They have guards posted, but there are fewer of them on the eastern side,” the scout reported. “We can probably approach from there.”

Captain Sin took command then. He decided on a plan of approach and a formation. The scout had a short bow while Screecher Jim had some quiet spells as well so they were pretty all-rounded. Viv approached the captain while the men were putting down the supplies in order to travel light.

“Please let me come with you. I have a shield and I can make us quiet,” Viv politely asked.

Captain Sin gave her a measuring glance. She could tell he wasn’t amused at all by the way his thick mustaches shivered with annoyance. Nevertheless, he knew he could use the enchantments. Screecher Jim stood by her side to quietly grant his approval.

“Please don’t leave me alone with the ambassador for hours,” Viv practically begged.

He wouldn’t follow them, of course. He and his assistants were going to stay behind with the luggage. Captain Sin relented only after a longing look at her gauntlets which she’d left on obvious display. Like this, Viv was in.

The assault squad went over some of the harshest and most irregular geographical features Viv had ever seen around, even after her brief foray in Regnos where a large aberrant had hollowed out a hill. There were pillars of layered rocks extending like limbs, weird globules of molten glass like the earth had spat out a bubble of lava, even white rock shards arranged in bouquet that looked like alien grass at first. Viv was the most distracted out of all the people here just because that place was so cool, and also because she didn’t feel the same tension they felt. That was why it took her a long time to realize that the irregular mana concentration was increasing beyond anything she’d ever experienced outside of the deadlands.

“Wait,” she finally whispered. “Something’s wrong. Jim?”

The mage gave her a backward glance, this one angry at the fact she broke the silence, but she knew there was something off going on.

“The concentration is too high. Too high and too… single color.”

The man frowned. He must not have had her level of [mana mastery], which wasn’t exactly a surprise. He gestured for Sin to stop and he, too, decided to wait. By then, they were at the edge of a narrow sandy vale between two sharp inclines and quite close to the encampment. A squad stone stood in the middle of the open area, conspicuous were it not for the geological freak show they’d just passed. One of the guards gestured.

In front of the large slab was a single saber, Sheem made, planted vertically into the ground. Viv frowned. The mana spiked, and she readied a shield.

Jim fell on his ass, backpedaling as fast as he could. The guards yelled and fell over themselves when the land around them shook. Viv’s danger sense spiked with the threat of an incoming danger.

The stone rose, revealing a frowny face, so gnarled and ancient that no human could ever hope to reach it. Eyes of sapphire slowly, slowly opened.

[Mature brown elemental: very dangerous]

By then, the guards were in full panic, the scout was on his knees repeating ‘sorry’, Sin had drawn his sword, and the mage was praying for a good afterlife — never a good sign. The land woke up around them. Viv knew she could survive if she flooded the area with black mana but then there would be a fight…

Her mind went into overdrive, drawing on her immense mental stats. Was there a peaceful strategy? Possibly. Elementals were not aggressive by nature though they were territorial. What did she know about brown elemental? She had met one, a long time ago. Back in the Deadshield Woods. Fuck. How did it communicate? Mana waves were a thing but there was something else. She remembered the sound, like a voice. Would that get its attention? Drawing a sound spell as fast as she could, she tried to remember the exact pitch.

The earth elemental was almost fully up now. It looked like a mix between a boulder, an old lady, and a gorilla on steroids. The guards who had tried to flee were dragged back screaming towards the creature as the very land under their feet betrayed them. It was a death trap. Spikes formed on nearby walls.

Fuck it.

Viv activated the spell.

“Ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooh.”

All the humans stopped their struggles in complete confusion. Thankfully, the elemental stopped as well. It was enough to get its… well, her attention.

The call lasted for half a minute. Viv remembered that parts of the earth elemental mind worked really slowly while other parts were deadly fast. Now that she had her attention, it was time to try communication.

Dragon language was so much easier when there was another dragon around to make the bridge. It was still her best option here because all it took to understand it was a working mind. Focusing, she slowly pushed her mind towards the immense and placid soul that was the elemental.

Friend.

Friend!

Wait no, that might not be the best pick.

Frieeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeend.

“Oooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooh?” the elemental replied in a comfortable two minutes thirty, without pushing herself.

A faint echo returned to Viv. At first, it was extremely hard to pick up, forcing her to sit down and pay attention. It was like trying to listen to someone through water, at a very low volume. The meanings got clearer as the elemental focused, however. She was very lucky this one was on the more vivacious end of the spectrum.

Nature?

Viv slowed her answers but the elemental was getting faster and slowly coming closer to interrupting her. The eyes’ glints were more intense now. Before, she could have fled without difficulties. Now? she wasn’t so sure.

Black half elemental.

Trespassing.

Apologies. Blindness. Intention. Eastward.

Eastward. Pain. Rip.

Space. Rip. Intruder?

Excitement. Affirmation. Intention?

Rip. Active?

Rip. Unclosed.

Close. Rip. Send. Back.

There was a long silence afterward as the elemental seemed to consider her options.

Rip. Knowledge?

Viv hesitated there, but she decided not to lie. She wasn’t even sure she could even do it in draconic.

Self. Outlander. Rip. Knowledge. Approximate. Approach. Required.

The elemental stopped, but barely for a moment. It had taken her 10 minutes to bring her consciousness to its current level though.

Passage. Granted. Space. Rip. Pain. Black elemental. Close.

The vale split like an invisible toddler parting a sand castle with their hands. A path to the encampment lied beyond. The first lights of the aurora were turning the distant skies pink.

Take.

A knife, pure white, materialized from the sand. It looked like a rough and somewhat elongated athame, or maybe a claw, but it was certainly sharp as hell.

[Elementally forged dagger. Extremely, extremely sharp]

Not an artifact despite how weird and unique the circumstances were. Viv looked at the blade as she remembered her past self arguing with Solar who was desperately trying to convince her to follow his blade training. Past Viv had known what it meant: two years of nagging and daily practice until he judged her level ‘barely passable’ when magic itself was and would always be with her. Well. The joke was on her now. It was absolutely on her.

On the plus side she still had her small blade training back from her special force days, so there was that. She grabbed it and turned to the rest of the squad.

“The elemental agrees to let us through provided we look into something that is painful to it in the Sheem camp.”

Never had she seen such a gathering of dumb-founded gawpers.

“Hello?”

“Do you also happen to have a relative who wrangles elementals?” Captain Sin wryly asked.

“I was lost in the woods one day and came across one. It was more of a tree, really. It let me eat one of its fruits in exchange for cleaning a wound it had on its trunk. Really strange moment, that was.”

“Strange indeed. I have to say, you are by far the most peculiar arcanist I have never heard of.”

“I have had many an adventure,” Viv conceded.

“But more importantly, I owe you my life. We all do.”

He gave her a very respectful bow, one that went against every social convention Captain Kass had thoroughly explained to her during her trip. The members of the attack squad slowly did the same at varying speed depending on the intensity of their current trauma. It had been a near death experience, after all, as in, they were all fucking dead without her.

“Thank you. Rise,” she said, before realizing she’d used… more of an empress voice. Captain Sin flashed her a more curious glance, but then his attention returned to the scout who was busy trying to scratch his eyes out. He had to be restrained.

“I am guilty! I am a failure!”

It took a good five minutes of coaxing for Scout Tolek to stop trying to kill himself for having led his proteges into a death trap. Viv and Jim had to assure him that no one could have seen it coming until it was too late, though Jim only backed Viv very reluctantly. The screecher mage seemed troubled by recent developments.

Viv thought the scout might try the old ‘heroic sacrifice’ maneuver. Her intimidation or leadership would usually get her out of the situation but she couldn’t use them here, and shaking him like a coconut tree while screaming at him would probably not work. Actually, she had an idea.

“Only you can get us over those mountains,” Viv told him with confidence. “You either get yourself together or we’re all dead.”

His eyes widened with the realization of his duty. Viv thought that might do, which was nice.

What was even nicer was walking towards the encampment. There were strolls, and then there was going over terrain when an elemental considered you their buddy. Every stone, every grain of sand conspired to make her look badass as the assault squad ran towards its destination. A trench suddenly opened in front of them. The scout hesitated.

Viv felt something up ahead. A mana signature. Someone who wasn’t afraid to pulse their mana. Screecher Jim and Sin felt it as well, and the mage turned to her. She nodded, giving the exact direction with her hand, but she’d misunderstood him. He made a hush sound. He expected her to quiet their approach.

She felt a little stupid here. Nevertheless, it was soon done and Sin needled them on. The crevice kept opening as if someone was splitting the land before them with a giant scalpel. They soon heard voices in Viziman. Viv recognized what she assumed to be a Sheem accent, a tendency to swallow the ‘r’s and slur the end of long words.

“What about this one?” someone asked. “Is it part of it? Speak up!”

Viv knew better than to raise her head. The scout did though, and after one last check with her to make sure the sound was cut off, he whispered excitedly.

“A dozen soldiers and a mage around a strange creature… I have never seen anything like it.”

