Captain Sin took over, giving brisk orders in only a few seconds. His gaze turned to her, then he just seemed to give up. Viv positioned herself behind the soldiers since she had a shield.

“Attack!”

The soldiers surged over the trench, Viv close behind. She was taller than them, thankfully, or she would have missed a vital detail of what happened next. The blue-clad guards, led by Sin, assaulted the Sheem detachment but to her surprise, they reacted immediately. A shield wall formed with the sort of speed that told her they expected trouble and were probably high on the third step. Sin still zipped ahead and broke through with his mustache flying in the wind. As for Screecher Jim, he sent a gray blade flying at the mage, but unfortunately, it hit a deployed shield. Viv recognized an enchantment on the enemy mage’s chestplate. This guy was also grey-aligned, but to her dismay, he went for his pocket.

That was the important detail. The asshole was packing, and the sight triggered some Earth-based instinct to go for cover. Repositioning, Viv stepped to the right as she aimed her push enchantment at the cold-eyed mage. As expected, he pulled a coil gun, or rather, a coil pistol from the shorter barrel. She struck as his gun cleared his own shield. The shot went high. Nothing exploded.

“Cover us!” Jim screamed at her.

She assumed he meant sound so she did. Jim sang, a low hum that made the air between himself and the mage shiver. By then, all the guards had wisely decided to give them a wide berth. The enemy’s shield grew distorted, then it cracked.

The other mage tossed the gun aside. His mouth expanded in a scream, one Viv heard as if underwater. A low drone coming from Jim was covering part of it, she realized.

Maybe she should modify her sound enchantment to not just create a sphere of isolation. Maybe she should program the ability to shut someone up inside as well. The enemy’s yell  made her chest contract. Ghostly fingers grabbed at her lungs, her gut. She could only imagine what it would do to unprotected organs. She pretended to be partly disabled by the effect so she could observe the two mages dueling it out a bit. Behind them, Sin was laying waste to the Sheem, who fought to the last. It was an uneven battle.

Jim and the other mage sang at each other. It was strange, like two baritones trying to take the lead in a duet. There was both harmony and conflict. Between them, the air pulsed in strange and alien patterns, sometimes as regular as a mathematical function and sometimes shifting as if alive. She wasn’t sure who was winning — both mages were highly competent, and she had no intention of finding out. Pretending to recover, she aimed her second gauntlet at the foe’s midriff and fired it. He was tossed like a puppet with the telltale ‘oof’ of lungs quickly emptied without consent. Jim seemed taken off guard but only long enough for an air blade to finish his adversary off. He gave her a grateful nod. He was sweating abundantly.

The battle was over. The moment captain Sin sheathed his saber, they engaged in methodical looting.

Maybe it was cultural? Kass’ lessons hadn’t covered that part. She didn’t follow Sin who approached the strange captive, not immediately. Her first action was, of course, to pick up the gun.

Due to temporary access to otherworldly tools, your unused skill: Special Forces training at intermediate 4 has been reactivated

Nice.

That done, Viv joined with Jim and Sin to meet the newcomer.

It was a very short thing in a spacesuit. That was the best way she could describe it. The frame looked bulky, blocky, same as the gun. It was gray and clearly highly protective given the fact it was scruffed and damaged, yet still hermetically sealed. She could see a patch on the chest with a round white symbol that denoted a faction. A spherical helmet protected a hairless human-sized head with very dark eyes behind a partly opaque window. The creature had no nose but several slits were positioned on a vertical axis where the nose ought to be. A blocky backpack completed the mix, presumably keeping the creature alive. It was also half her height and three times as broad though that was probably in part due to the suit.

Viv didn’t think this was a local species. The suits might be a precaution since microorganisms were a thing, but she thought it might also be a question or air mix because she couldn’t see any filters. It made her wonder why Nyil hadn’t changed it the way it had turned the unfortunate outlander into a beastling upon arrival. Maybe it was a question of arrival method. Viv and the other one had reformed here, but maybe those guys had come via, well, wormhole rather than soul teleportation.

“What manner of fiend are you?” Sin asked, afraid for the first time since Viv and he had met.

Screecher Kim pulsed with mana, which was completely useless because the creature didn’t have mana channels yet so he wouldn’t be able to feel it.

Viv grabbed her elemental dagger with her right hand, kept the gun in her left, then she leaned forward. The others didn’t try to block her. They moved aside without question. Something had definitely shifted in the power dynamic. Viv thought it had only taken a couple of days. Maybe her aura was leaking.

The interface had said the knife was really, really sharp. Nous was not one for hyperbole. She placed the blade on the chain between the creature’s two manacled wrists (they were custom jobs for being so large), and with a careful motion, she cut down. It worked though there was a small resistance.

The creature didn’t blink. Its black eyes followed her.

“It’s clearly a captive so let’s not start first contact with accusations, hmm?” she suggested. “First of all, this is an outlander.”

“How can you tell?” Captain Sin asked.

Viv stood to her full height, giving the good captain a look of polite disbelief. This so-far-ungendered entity was obviously a fucking astronaut wearing stuff that local tech couldn’t produce.

“How can you not? Hello?”

“Ahem,” Jim said, “Captain Sin, even if our most talented weavers could reproduce such a work, the fabric itself… the make of the bag…”

“Indeed, you are correct.”

Viv used the opportunity to check towards the camp. It was still out of view. Scout Tolek popped up from behind a rock to give her a nod. They wouldn’t be caught mid-conversation.

“Outlanders are sometimes changed to survive the local conditions, though this one has not.”

Maybe Nyil had somehow felt their survival suit would kill them if they were all suddenly turned into humans, if not from the air, then from the size change.

“But they should have been granted a local language package. Hmmm. Weren’t there primal tribes moving around there at some point? I seem to remember they used the same pictogram alphabet as current-day Viziman priesthood.”

“Correct. Primal Viziman,” Jim said with appreciation. “Unfortunately, I do not speak it.”

“But we can write it, and so should this creature.”

It hadn’t moved so far though its arms were apart.

“Lady Jaratalassi, did you have a cousin who was an outlander?” Captain Sin said in a sly voice, his face an impassive mask.

“Awareness of Outlander-generated technologies is important to an arcanist, although this one comes from a manaless world.”

“How can you tell?” Captain Sin asked.

“They have almost no mana. It means Nyil is currently opening their conduits. Anyway, my point was that we can probably communicate with them by writing. Hold on.”

Viv searched the dead mage for a key. She didn’t find it, so it was an affair of two minutes to free the alien. During that time, he was observing them without a word. Viv thought she saw their cheeks move and finally realized something.

They might be communicating by radio with others of their kind. The specter of a star battleship teleporting above the continent, ready to dispense revenge was cut short. They were probably part of a local team. She doubted those guys would have transdimensional radio signals.

With the alien freed though wary, Viv used a colorless basic spell to flatten a large area in the sand, then she used her dagger to write an old Viziman pictogram in the sand.

That was the sort of preparation she would never have expected to pay off. Thank fuck for stat-based eidetic memory.

“Greetings,” she wrote in the sand, before turning the knife over to the creature.

They didn’t react. She pointed insistently. Their cheeks moved and for a moment, she wondered if they were going to react at all, but then they gingerly picked the sharp blade. Their movements were slow and awkward to a level that made Viv impatient as fuck before she remembered they were functioning with no stats, recently freed, uncertain about their fate, and probably kept in that suit for quite a bit longer than they should have.

“Greetings,” they returned. “Am I free?”

Viv checked Jim and Sin who were technically higher ranked than her. They were watching her work with fascination, so she just kept going.

“War here. You must go home.”

The alien’s drawing grew more animated. They refused the blade, instead using a large finger to draw. They seemed curious every time she used a basic spell to flatten the sand again. With their finger, they were much faster.

“Need chariot. Friends.”

“Your friends are in a chariot?”

“In our chariot, hidden. In camp. Prisoners.”

Viv assumed it meant they’d come with some sort of transport. One more reason to send them on their way.

“What about the gate?”

The alien hesitated. It stood motionless. Viv was fairly certain it was communicating with its brethren.

“Gate destroyed. Need.”

It hesitated between several symbols before settling.

“Need pull back so unseen gate closes.”

Viv pondered those words while the poor creature massaged its wrist. It looked like writing those characters was taxing, though they were fairly simple and made of lines so maybe it should just grab a pen on occasion. She had a pretty good idea what was going on.

“If you get your friends in the chariot, you will be able to pull back and close the rift in space that is still open within the physical gate in the middle of the camp?”

The creature gave her a long, thoughtful look. Or at least this is what it looked like. Eventually, it wrote the sign for yes.

“Lady Jaratalassi, you are perhaps getting ahead of yourself. This creature, this… outlander, has violated our borders.”

“We are beyond them,” Viv reminded them.

As soon as she said that, she knew it had been a mistake. Both Jim and Sin recognized she’d just overstepped her status. She had been for a long time but this time it was obvious.

“Lady Jaratalassi…”

“You are being audacious.”

Viv raised a hand to forestall more complaints. She didn’t have time for this shit, and besides, she had a secret weapon.

“We cannot allow the Sheem to have access to what these people can do.”

Although they wouldn’t be able to replicate it.

“So we must send them back before more of them show up. You also don’t want the first group to ever come here from another dimension to end up as slaves in case more of their friends show up with the sort of weapons they have.”

She shook the coil pistol under their nose.

“And last but not least, you will go with my plan because you owe me your lives, and you, Jim, twice because that shot would have killed you.”

“What shot?” he asked.

Viv lifted the pistol. There was one button that she clicked down before testing the trigger (aiming downrange). It was blocked. Apparently most intelligent species understood the need for a safety, which was always nice. Another button made something click inside. Satisfied, she aimed at a nearby rock. After making sure they were still silenced, she pulled the trigger, feeling her experience guide her hand as if she’d been to the range the day before.

The recoil was strong but manageable. It surprised her though, especially after the near recoilless crossbows.

The stone slab exploded in a shower of dust. Interestingly, the shot didn’t pierce through. It was a weird gun.

“That shot.”

Jim stared speechlessly at the ruin. Nearby, the alien was writing on the freshly disturbed sand surface.

“Give back now?”

“You must be out of your fucking mind.”
