Spinning through the air as she rounded the bend, Ameliah loosed her readied shot. Twenty flaming arrows spread in a fan, then curved back together to strike the fleeing woman in the center of her back, right where the Empire’s symbol had been stitched into her robe. The subsequent detonation blasted the woman’s torso apart, almost cutting her in half.

Ameliah looked away, less because she was disturbed by the gore, though there was that, but more from the necessity of shooting someone in the back. As the fear of her opponents began to fade, it was leaving room for her to second-guess herself. She wouldn’t let something like that stop her, though. Showing mercy here would risk not only her own life, but also the lives of everyone she cared about.

As Ameliah completed her rotation, she caught herself with Airwalk, seeing that the road beyond the bend was empty of other threats. Balancing half a meter in the air, she turned, seeing the Swordsman barreling toward her. She ignored him, targeting the Tamer. Her arrows took him before he managed to duck behind his Chimera, which dissolved into motes of light moments after its summoner’s fiery death. That brought the number of remaining enemies down to one.

Her boots thudding against the ground, Ameliah reached for another arrow. The hulking Warrior had slowed, glancing over his shoulder before turning back to her. He spread his arms wide, a smile on his face as he spoke with a deep voice, booming from expanded lungs. “Well fought, my enemy. Tell me—“

Ameliah loosed. The man attempted a dodge, but it did him no good. The initial explosion didn’t kill him. The arrows, rather than winking out after the blast, curved up over him to strike again, detonating once more. The man fell to his knees, then slumped to the side, beginning to shrink as his sword clattered to the ground.

Sorry, but I don’t have the time to be stalled.

Ameliah lowered her bow, listening hard as silence fell but for the crackling of flames. After glancing over the bodies to make sure none had survived, she looked down the road, then up at the sky. She knew she had to risk taking a look over the trees, but doing so here would be idiotic.

She cursed, thinking as she darted off into the trees. She had no doubt that the Watch wouldn’t just let the Empire skulk around. That meant either they didn’t know they were here, or that they did and couldn’t do anything about it.

If it’s the first one, this might not be so bad. If I can get past them to the city, I can get help, and then the Watch can drive them off.

Thoroughly lost in the trees at this point and spattered with filth from plowing through the corrupted underbrush, Ameliah slowed, judging the distance sufficient. She leapt into the air, and with a few steps, made it to a high branch of an ancient-looking tree. The rotting wood creaked beneath her feet, but held. Turning, she searched for the city through the skeletal branches.

She almost fell when she saw it, or rather, what was left of it.

Not a single structure remained in Fel Sadanis, including the citadel the Watch had been building. Everything had been flattened as if swatted by an enormous hand, and then the rubble burned almost beyond recognition. The scent of char came even stronger to Ameliah’s nose now that she was less sheltered from the wind, but she barely even noticed. The devastation that had been wrought upon the city was mild compared to what had been done to the surrounding land.

The shattered corpse of Fel Sadanis now sat on a perfectly circular mesa, marking where the barrier had once ended. Surrounding the mesa was a crater. There was no sign of the stone outcrop that had once leaned against the barrier. It had been obliterated, as had the others raised by the Geomancer Citizen in the battle against the Empire. The very hills had been blasted apart, the dirt gouged away down to shattered bedrock. The Sadanis river was pooling at the bottom of the crater around the mesa’s base, promising one day to be an enormous lake with an island at its center.

Ameliah reached out to steady herself against the trunk of the tree, finding that she couldn’t breathe. Destruction like this simply couldn’t happen. The world didn’t allow it.

A few moments passed while she simply stared, a cold certainty falling over her. As the spell began to break, she took a ragged breath, then, though it was unwise, raised her visor. Squinting, she could just barely make out the tiny black threads, spreading like frozen lightning from the sky. Not threads. Cracks. Cracks in reality. She’d never seen their like, but she’d heard them described. The world hadn’t allowed this. The damage had simply been done anyway.

Ameliah tightened her grip on the tree, bark splintering beneath her fingers. Fecht. Fecht did this. He caused the earthquake.

A flash of light from the corner of her eye sent a spike of terror through Ameliah’s mind, bringing her attention back to her present situation. She turned her head sharply, the bottom dropping out of her stomach all over again.

There, at the southern edge of the crater, was an army. Thousands strong. Rank after rank of gray-armored soldiers, distorted behind a many-layered barrier of magic. Carefully nudging aside a branch to get a better view, Ameliah took in the details. The army was far from her position, but it was clear enough that they were readying themselves for an assault. Another bubble of force sprang up around them as she watched, adding another layer to their defenses and making it even harder to make out individual soldiers.

They’re turtling up. I must have got the Mentalist in time, then. They must think I’m a Citizen or something. That won’t last. Eventually, they’ll realize— Ameliah squeezed her eyes shut, suddenly clinging to the tree trunk for support. I left tracks. They’ll follow them….

Wait, I can still fix this! With Mask Trail, I could—

Ameliah stopped, then took a deep breath. She let it out slowly, sealing away the nonsense ramblings of her panicked mind.

There’s no time. It wouldn’t even help. They already know I came from the east. All they’d need to do would be to follow the road.

She closed her eyes.

I can’t fix this.

With wooden fingers, she reached up, then closed her visor. She held out her hand. A metal plate appeared, then vanished. The message was sent.

Letting herself fall from the tree, Ameliah landed heavily. And then she ran.

Gravel crunched as Dominus Alarus dismounted. Passing the reins to an attendant, he turned, then walked past the ranks of scouts standing stiffly at attention. Stopping before the mostly-intact body of a Shield Defender, he knelt and extended two fingers to touch a hole that had been punched through the man’s shield. He pushed them deeper, feeling around the edges and stopping only when he felt cooling flesh on the other side. Retracting his fingers, he idly rubbed at the blood with his thumb, little warmth remaining in the sticky liquid. The arrow that had made the hole was gone, of course, having been a construct, but the scouts had found this place before it had been too late.

Wordlessly, the Dominus raised his hand over his shoulder. There was a clomp of boots as a soldier stepped smartly forward, then placed a scrap of paper into his waiting hand. Bringing it before his eyes, he moved his thumb, leaving a crimson smear on the sketch. The shape of the arrowhead could have been a coincidence, but the old wound in his shoulder ached in recognition. There were also a few lines of text, noting the material and the details of the spent enchantment. He glanced over these briefly, certainty forming in his mind as he connected them to dozens of reports, stretching back for years.

The slaughtered Mentalist hadn’t mentioned the antlers before she’d been silenced, but the Dominus knew. He knew the evil that she had faced. He had faced it himself, emerging victorious even though he’d yet to be Called. Back when he’d been the nothing commander of a nothing garrison along the frontier.

Standing, Alarus let the scrap of paper flutter to the ground, his eyes following the road to the east. “So. They are back.”
