The dining construct around me is only made of pure mana, green divine threads, and ether commands; but every flat surface projects lifelike illusions to create a luxury experience. The lighting is dim, making the red booths stand out, especially as waiters carry bright white trays full of dishes upon Lords ordering.

While this is an impressive display, my mind focuses much more on the trackers I placed on the wolfmen, which continue to move downward.

It's not like they're just being moved into an underground lab right below the safe zone. I can feel them hundreds of meters below the surface now, and even speeding up... descending much lower.

Though, all I can do is wait to retrieve the complex data they store from the visual and sensory commands. They cannot be transferred from long range like this, as they have not sworn their loyalty to me to connect to my rising Emperor's domain. So, I'll have to wait until we can make physical contact again to see the full picture.

Instead of thinking further, I push it to the back of my mind and get seated next to Ren, across the table from Ava, and a second server comes to meet us at the table just as I sit down to place a glowing white tray before me.

"As requested, the documented delicacies of the human race..." The imagery of a steak dinner, with mashed potatoes and soups and a collection of delicious-looking sides made of bread and cheese, along with various other vibrant side dishes.

It really does look, smell, and even give off the heat signatures of real food.

My eyes track to look in front of Ava's place setting, and there are large slices of meat on the bone, with no sides at all, just variations of the types of meat.

Ren beside me, on the other hand, only has a single pink fruit on a small plate, that's been cut into half a dozen even slices.

While I would be quite excited to have a real steak right about now, I can clearly feel that these too are just manifestations of ether, mana, and divine threads; though, I play along and thank the waiters with a smile.

"Thank you, this is perfect."

The one that brought our food over turns away after a slight bow, but the specialist that brought me to my seat still waits a few seconds longer.

"Please do feel free to ask for anything you desire. Your generous tip to all the staff must be reciprocated. We want to thank you from the bottom of our hearts before you head off on your journey."

Ava shrugs, sending me a telepathy message. "I was just being polite and gave a little extra. It seems people aren't as giving out here..."

I turn to the horned rabbit. "There is one thing, actually. It's a personal question, but your avatar looks quite high quality. Have you ever turned in a Crown Cycle before?"

The specialist nods, and his ears bounce slightly while he responds. "Well, of course, it is a requirement to become a staff in any of the safe zones, after all."

"Really...? What was your experience like? We have a few party members turning in their first cycle now. I'm just wondering what the process is like—"

Before I can even finish my words, the same dull expression falls over the happy specialist that looked excited and proud moments ago. A chilling aura leaks out for a few seconds, and I feel Ren shiver with fear beside me. However, it soon subsides, and the chipper expression returns.

"What was it we were discussing? I must have lost my train of thought..."

I smile outwardly. "Oh, it was nothing. I just said I'd call you over if I needed another round once I finished my meal. Thanks again for bringing me to my party."

"Excellent!" The specialist turns around with a skip in their step, oblivious to the awkward mood shift.

Ren places a foot on mine below the table, clearly wanting to open up a telepathic link, so I do so and add Ava to it as well.

"I know you're strong... but careful what questions you ask... especially about the crowns."

"Why's that? I respond, still unsure how or why this keeps happening."

It's not like there is a curse or buff on their avatars or main status—I'd be able to pick that up from just a glance. Something strange is going on.

Ren replies, "I don't remember why... I just know that you should never turn in your crowns. Everyone that does always comes back very different, and lacking memories..."

This triggers the thought of gaps in many memories that I've absorbed from the Demonic Cyclops guardian below Ellipsia and Andras Vermillion—both of them relating to times they visited the Grand Citadel.

I don't respond for a moment to think this over and realize another very strange fact.

None of the beasts I killed on my way here in the swamp or Eden Forest granted me any of their past memories. Only mana and divine threads were absorbed.

None of their ether ever entered my true pool, but I initially assumed that was just a side effect of wearing a fake avatar outside my body, as accepting the kill commands reroutes the energy.

Though, now that I sit here and let things sink in, I get an ominous feeling about this whole Wilderness construct as a whole.

"Understood... It's time to be more careful, no more questions about the Crowns," I reply to Ren.

Then, I look down at the steak in front of me, pick up a fork and knife, and pretend to enjoy.

–

I can feel very simple ether commands triggering inside the fake avatar around me, and if my mind and true being were connected to it, I probably would be experiencing hallucinations to make this meal taste real.

All I'm truly experiencing now is a small burst of energy as I take in a few hundred thousand MP and tiny amounts of divine threads.

Ava reports a similar phenomenon occurring, as her illegal freedom avatar is not connected to the Wilderness' outer shell of linked ether commands.

Ren's foot is still on mine, and I try to do a scan to see if the same sensations are happening, but I come back with non-conclusive results.

The white-haired elf lord's body feels like it's made of pure divine threads and light magic. Without using my sealed advanced ether commands, they just feels like I'm touching a human-sized artifact like my purple ring.

It sparks a memory of reading some information on Soul Weapons in Asic's info packet, about artifacts called Sentinels, where Soul Weapons gain their own consciousnesses and operate without a wielder. However, I've never seen one and have no real data to compare...

The Lord sitting beside me has feelings and operates like a living being, but I can't help but think about the fact that Elves had a seat as the overseer even before Wyverns. Logically, they should all be extinct by now.

To add to my rising paranoia, the Wolfmen's trackers are still moving downward and are almost a full 100 kilometers below the surface. This confirms my theory that this is certainly not just a dome.

So many things about this whole hidden construct within the Grand Citadel aren't adding up.

–

However, I only have a limited amount of days remaining to take advantage of the skill farm at my fingertips here. It's best to use what's available to me, and appease my full curiosity later once I don't have to hold back my power anymore. So, I voice these thoughts while standing up at the booth now covered with empty dishes.

"I think we've wasted enough time in this safe zone. We can meet back up with the others once they finish their avatar upgrades. Let's head out and explore the new biome maps."
