“That’s going to be a little tricky,” Val’korr said, his irascible voice even now, in the presence of the dragon god, still betraying traces of his signature sarcasm. “The Well of Divinity was destroyed along with Aalion. The Well of Souls was corrupted when Nathaniel Sunstrider betrayed Ciradyl to Nevyn Eld. And the Well of Eternity has been lost for as long as most can remember. Not even I know where it now lies.”

“I do not know of any other way to lift this curse,” Azryet said. “It will require a mythic remedy to match the Great Mother’s spell and safely unwind the curse. Although it will be difficult, I believe you must try. The Great Mother is not a loss your realm can easily bear.”

Ali sank down, the weight of despair pressing down on her. Lira was in that acorn; she knew it. And the quest to make the Elixir was impossible. She had seen the corruption of the Well of Souls personally.

“We’ll figure it out somehow, Ali,” Mato said, reaching down and offering her a huge hand.

“I agree,” Malika said, crouching down beside her and taking her hand. “We don’t know how, but if there’s a way, we’ll find it.”

She looked up at her friends. Realistically, she knew they were trying to be supportive, and logically, they had no more ideas than she did. But somehow their support made a difference, and the despair eased from her.

Azryet’s eyes took on a disquieting intensity as he turned his gaze directly upon her. “Aliandra, know that this curse is an insidious evil – it works tirelessly to corrupt the soul within that acorn. Not even a soul as deep and strong as the Great Mother can resist it forever. You must succeed before it corrupts her, or I fear the evil that may germinate from that Acorn will be more than your realm can bear. If you cannot find the Wells, you must find a way to destroy the Phylactery.”

A profound sense of dread settled in the pit of Ali’s stomach as her very being recoiled at Azryet’s horrifying words. Destroy it? She could not even imagine such a thing after the intense flare of hope that had sprung up within her heart at the possibility of seeing Lira once again. “How… how long?” she asked.

“I cannot say exactly,” Azryet said. “A couple of months? Six at the most. I’m truly sorry you must bear such difficult news. I will help as much as I am able; you already have full access to my library, and Tiraza will help with any information you seek.”

“Thank you,” Ali said, rising to her feet. She took a deep breath to collect herself, trying to quell the shakiness within. “There is one last thing, but I’m not sure how safe it is.” She had been considering this ever since she had plundered it for imprints.

“What danger is there?”

“It is the dungeon shrine artifact that Nevyn Eld crafted and bound Lira to,” Ali said. “It has all the imprints of the monsters and plants she could create. You can bind it to a minion and have the minion create monsters for you – monsters that are not bound to your species and affinity restrictions. The only issue is that it has remote sensing functions and a teleportation locus that allows Nevyn Eld himself to show up and reclaim it.” Several times now, she had seen the effect, and every time it had been calamitous or terrifying.

Azryet lowered his head down to meet Ali’s gaze and then cracked his maw, baring fangs taller than a house. “Let him come.”

Ali stared at the massive fangs and whirling eyes, the four marks, and the title of ‘The Calamity,’ and for the first time, she smiled at the thought of the Blind Lich appearing. With just a small puff of mana, she produced the dungeon artifact, letting it hover in the air before Azryet.

“Well, now, what is this?” Azryet said, peering intently at the dark prism. A moment later, the air sparkled with void magic, and suddenly, a kobold appeared at the dragon god’s feet.

Mage – Kobold – level ???? (Void)

Ali gasped, staring in shock at the casual display of power. Certainly, her monster compendium could stand to revise its opinion on kobolds being a weak monster in the presence of this one.

“What is your will, master?”

“Bind yourself to this contraption,” Azryet commanded.

“At once.” The kobold rushed over and placed a hand on Nevyn Eld’s black prism. Seconds later, fungal creep burst from the ground, growing rapidly, and then a Fungaloth Ravager appeared in the nascent domain. Moments later, it was followed by a Malevolent Lirasian Oak treant.

“I suggest dropping the imprints you don’t find useful and filling them with demons from the battlefront chasm,” Ali said. She had no idea if the device had a level limit, but she was certain that leveling the treants and fungal aberrations would take far longer than simply deconstructing a bunch of Pit Lord corpses.

“You have outdone yourself, Aliandra,” Azryet said, turning back to her with eyes now shining with impossibly complex fractals of mana-fire. “This is truly a priceless gift. I will study it well.” And with that, everything vanished.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledgehttps://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledgehttps://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpghttps://topwebfiction.com/listings/dungeon-of-knowledge/
