Thinking fast, I use up my remaining MP stores to combat the second incoming Demonic Energy blade.

There's just enough time for me to use the propulsion of my strike to move myself out of the way, and a similar display of sparks erupts in the sky.

"Not good..."

My MP remaining is at less than 5%, and using Demonic Energy against an opponent like this is pointless unless I can figure out how to charge my attacks like his swords do.

Bringing my dagger into this realm has its own risks. If I lose it, I'm not sure I'll easily be able to find another one. I have to be absolutely sure I can defeat this monster before gambling with a weapon so unique. The only thing I should focus on right now is the monster's movements, and try to land an attack to gauge its strength and see how many it will take to defeat it.

With this in mind, I air step into the air and open my item storage to pull out a few thousand MP worth of mana crystals to recharge my magic.

The moment the pink gems touch my skin and the absorption process begins, the crackle of sparks starting to form on my contact point makes my stomach drop. My gaze turns to witness my MP bar not budge even slightly, the roar of the Minotaur below me sounds for the incoming Energy blade to finish me off in an instant.

[You Have Died]

I make another double to send myself back to the rift.

Ember greets me before I jump in.

"Back so soon? I take it the final boss is more difficult than you thought."

My mind is moving in a million directions trying to come up with a way to actually harm the beast in that rift. I fill Ember in on what occurred, and my list of potential battle strategies for the next few attempts. He thinks to himself for a moment before replying.

"That does sound like a good plan. Have a few battles using every trick you've got to learn its attack patterns and look for a weakness. A 75-unit Final Boss is a difficult task, but I don't think it's impossible. Just be wary, monsters of this tier if left to their own means for long enough will get stronger on their own. I wouldn't be surprised if it tried to cause a rift break by absorbing the Demonic Energy inside and focusing it on a single point to make a tear if you don't keep it busy."

My eyes widen but Ember keeps talking through our link.

"It shouldn't be a problem as long as you take care of it today, there's plenty of time. Just, not an unlimited amount of it."

I turn back to the rift, but ask a final question before stepping forward.

"How about my mana problem, is there really no way to absorb it without setting off the reaction? It doesn't make any sense. Why am I able to use my buffs and regular skills without a problem, but the crystals I used immediately backfired on me?"

Ember replies.

"I for one have never attempted to absorb mana in a demonic realm, there's never been any need to do so. I have a theory as to why the realm can't handle mana in its purest form, and there is a way to mask it along with your aura. This may make the absorption process possible. However, there isn't enough time to teach you mana suppression before this rift breaks down. You'll need a much higher mana control to learn such techniques."

I let out a sigh and jump through.

"So it looks like I'll just have to work with what I've got for now."

Although this new technique of mana suppression sounds interesting, Ember knows my strength well. If I'm not strong enough to handle it yet, it can't help me for the time being."

I make it through the cave in a matter of minutes and jump down the side of the mountain using up tiny amounts of mana to safely make my way to the bottom. It may be a small waste of magic, but time is of the essence here. Burning through a few MP is worth it if I get a few more fights in against the enormous beast that's been patiently waiting for me in the open field.

The second I come into its view, the monster dashes over with blinding speed and glowing swords. I take out my wind daggers and attempt a few attacks.

The next two hours go by in a flash.

After 5 body double deaths and just over 20 slashes from the Minotaur, I've come to the conclusion that this is going to be close to impossible.

Its speed and power are too overwhelming. Every single base stat of the monster in front of me is higher than my own, even with my buffs activated. It's not that its using any unique skill I can't handle, it just has be outclassed on natural abilities in every category.

I attempt to use my Red Hydra's Rage, but it doesn't even show up in my status. This is most likely because as long as my main body is conscious, its mental strength stat will be higher and therefore the holder of the buff.

With an increase in stats like that, I may have a fighting chance, but as I am right now, it's starting to seem hopeless as I haven't even landed a single bit of damage, nor have I even fully destroyed one of its energy blades.

"Well, I might as well see if this will work."

On my next attempt, I go in with one mission: to land some damage by any means necessary. I want to see if I can make this monster bleed, and possibly wear it down more and more one battle at a time.

After running through the caves and jumping down the mountain, I aim straight for the boss with my [Instant Finale] ranked-up buff ready to use.

After narrowly dodging one slash, I don't duck for cover, I continue forward and activate all the remaining mana in my body to let out a flash of white explosive light.

I hear the monster roar, but everything goes black before I can see the aftermath. My memories are transferred back to my main body and I make another double to repeat the process. Quickly, I run back into the rift to see if my attack landed and have my buff ready for another just in case I need to use it again.

The burnt flesh and injured left side of the beast that I see once breaking through the Demonic Energy cloudline brings a smile to my face.

Although, the wisps of black and purple energy coming from the clouds above down to the beast and the slowly healing flesh is not at all what I wanted to witness following.

Still, I charge forward and manage to pull off another [Instant Finale], making the beast roar out in pain.

It got very used to my old attack strategies, making it impossible to land a hit. After a few attempts, it catches onto what I'm doing here too, but it's clear the beast does not comprehend how I've managed to come back to fight it again and again.

All it knows is it needs to avoid getting hit and heal as much as it can before the next energy blast comes to meet it.

Nevertheless, I come running through the rift and back down the mountain again for a third time to witness the scarring and damaged flesh on its right side from my second attack. This excites me. However, its left side from my first is almost healed entirely. I set off another self-destruct move again, aiming straight for its nearly healed side.

It's a success, but in coming back for a fourth time, I find that now its right side has nearly healed too.

Although I managed to land some hits, this endless cycle will only anger the beast more and won't end in its demise. I'm traveling as fast as I can and using my full power every time, there's no attack more powerful and mana efficient than this.

The time lag between each of my deaths is too long. I'm going to have to risk more than just a body double to win this fight.
