This was not her way, self-blame and recrimination, but the truth was that it was her fault Papa almost died. No one else blamed her, but she knew this to be true, because she could have easily avoided being targeted by simply standing a little further back in the crowd. Even though her red hair still made her stand out, she would not have been so tempting a target with so many bows and spears between her and the Half-Demon, and Papa would not have had to use his body to block what would have been a killing blow. Not only that, she should’ve had her weapons at the ready, but she spent the entire duel clutching at her bow like a fool, and when the Half-Demon made eye contact, she could do naught but freeze up like a fainting goat before the tiger.

What use was there in being first, second, or even third among your peers when your strength amounted to nothing in the end? It was so demoralizing to know how far she had yet to go despite having achieved so much along the Martial Path. She’d been so proud about having Formed her Natal Palace so young, marking her as a prodigy few could match in any generation, much less her own, but her strength was nothing in the grand scheme of things. Alsantset was only twelve years older, yet she had not been caught off guard by the Half-Demon’s attack, already pulling Mila away to safety even as the spear emerged from Papa’s back. Then there was Gerel, who was only a little older than Alsantset yet even stronger still, emerging from Concealment with a superlative thrust that almost pierced clean through the Half-Demon’s throat. Mila hadn’t even seen him appear with her own eyes and only learned about it second hand, as the Sentinels were quick to boast about the exchange. The exile’s eyes had widened in shock at his close brush with death, and with his armour cracked and leaking even as he fell back from Gerel’s furious onslaught, he could do naught but flee for the safety of Tian Zangli, which resulted in the talented Demon Reaper letting loose his frustrations on the helpless Defiled sent to bar his path.

Which made it clear to Mila that Gerel was personally invested in killing the Half-Demon exile. Despite being the most talented Warrior of his generation, Gerel always kept himself apart from the village and only ever emerged to join the Iron Banner on patrol, but she always thought it was because he was an orphan who never found a connection to hold onto. Now, she knew better, and once she had a thread to tug on, she could not help but note how many times she or someone else had noted how similar Gerel and Rain were in appearance. It’d been much less obvious before when Rain was thin and gaunt, but now, they could almost be brothers, or cousins at the very least. Even more telling was how Gerel had been the one to bring Rain on stage during the ceremony to acknowledge him as one of the People, all those years ago when the Iron Banner brought a foundling home. At the time, no one thought anything of it, but now, Mila found it strange that the anti-social Gerel would volunteer to take part in a ceremony that had nothing to do with him.

Unfortunately, Mila knew next to nothing regarding Gerel’s parents or family, nor was anyone in a mood to speak of it. After Papa almost died, Mama led her army to set fire to Tian Zangli before escaping south to avoid pursuit. It was very much a hit and run engagement, one meant to lure the Mataram Patriarch YuGan out into battle, but the Enemy did not take the bait even after Mama pushed their animals to appear vulnerable and near exhaustion. What’s more, Mila spent all of her time at Papa’s side, where Tokta was the only person who came to visit, and he uncharacteristically refused to answer any of Mila’s questions. “It is not my story to share, sweet child,” he said, patting her on the head and ruffling her ears like he did when she was younger. “If your mother thinks you should know, she will tell you herself, but do not press her just yet, for she still has an army to command and cannot afford any distraction just yet.”

And so Mila sat in idle silence by her father’s side, plagued by her doubts and insecurities. Long hours passed without event, and her mood only grew darker and darker. Then, she felt Rain reach out to stroke her cheek, and she leaned into his touch before realizing she’d only imagined his presence, which quite nearly broke the dam holding her tears back. Oh how she yearned to rest her head upon his shoulders and just sink into his warm embrace, to have him stroke her hair and tell her everything would be okay, but he was still unconscious back in Meng Sha and out of reach. “I miss you so much,” she whispered, feeling foolish for talking to the empty air.

“...I ain’t dead yet, lass, so don’t go writin’ me off so soon.”

Jumping at the sound of Papa’s gruff and gravelly voice, Mila rushed over to his side with a squeal. “Papa!” she said, her tears finally spilling out despite all her efforts to hold them in. “You’re awake.”

“Aye, and itching something fierce.” That brought a frown to Mila’s face, and Papa cracked open his good eye and smiled. “Now where’d me bright little lass gone to with her beautiful smile? None of yer tears now, yer Papa ain’t goin’ nowhere just yet.”

Too ashamed to admit she’d been talking to her absent husband, Mila held Papa’s hand to her cheek and cried. “I know Papa. Sorry for being so silly. I should’ve had my shield ready and stayed further back. I won’t do it again, I promise, so you just rest okay?”

“Bah.” Pursing his lips until they cracked, he eyed her sideways and said, “Yer startin’ to sound like yer husband now, always takin’ blame for things outside his reach. That was a Half-Demon who fought toe to toe against the Sword Saint herself, someone who might well be a match for yer Mama, and ye think you could’ve blocked his attack? Don’t be foolish, girlie.”

Rather than argue, she moved to help Papa lift his head and carefully raised a water-skin to his lips. “Drink slowly,” she admonished without acknowledging anything he said, a useful trick she learned from Mama. “You haven’t had a drop of water in hours now, but you’ll do more harm than good if you choke on it, and then Uncle Tokta will have my hide.”

“Bah,” Papa exclaimed after pausing to catch his breath. “He’d sooner tan the hide off his own son than lay a finger on you. Apple of his eye, you are, and there ain’t nothing poor Tenjin can do to compete. Tokta always wanted a daughter but Khorijin almost died giving birth the first time around, so they didn’t want to risk it. Then he saw ye and immediately offered to take ye in if we didn’t want ye, because ye won him over with little more than a smile before ye could even speak.”

Tokta had always been kindly and sweet, but Mila never knew he’d offered to adopt her. A touching sentiment that almost brought a smile to her face, but Papa’s injuries made it difficult to do anything besides frown. In the end, he almost emptied the water-skin before falling back asleep, too tired to even eat the dried fruit Mila had waiting in hand. Healing so many injuries had taken a toll on Papa’s strength, and even the refinement from Taduk’s Spiritual Baths was not enough to make up for it.

At least he was alive though, which might not have been the case if the Half-Demon’s weapons had been coated in Wraith poison, so Mila was grateful for that. Heaving a small sigh of relief, she turned to look out the wagon and realized they were no longer heading south or even south-west. Instead, they’d turned North-east at some point during their travels, which was not a part of the plan. Though curious to know more, Mila kept Papa company as he slept until the wagons stopped for the night, at which point Mama finally made an appearance with two bowls of congee in hand. “Eat,” she said, handing Mila the first bowl while gently waking Papa with a brush of her fingers running across his cheeks, a gesture that reminded Mila of her own husband once again.

They said nothing as Mama fed Papa and Mila ate her own meal, and instead, they sat in comfortable silence and took solace in each other’s company. Others might think Mama heartless for not coming to see her wounded husband sooner, but if she had, then she no doubt would’ve been criticized by the stupid Southern Marshal for being overly emotional and unsuited to lead. Mila understood and accepted as much, and she also knew that Mama would’ve been right here by her side if Papa’s condition had been any worse, but she was the Commander of the army and had responsibilities to attend to before going to see her wounded husband.

Even then, it was easy to see that Mama felt guilty for not being here sooner, even though neither Mila nor Papa had anything to say. As such, Mila kept her burning questions to herself, even though it cost her more than she cared to admit. When Papa finished the last spoonful of congee, Mama wiped his mouth with a handkerchief before slipping her hand into his with a deep breath. “There has been a development in Pan Si Xing,” she began, and Mila and Papa both tensed in alarm, but Mama did not mince words and continued, “The pup is uninjured save for his pride, for he failed to claim Bai Qi’s head. The traitor general fled the city, and all his forces left with him.”

“Baatar took the city?” Mila exclaimed, perhaps louder than she should have, but Mama would’ve put up a Sound Barrier if she was concerned about eavesdroppers. “How is that possible?”

“Details are scant still,” Mama replied, cracking a half smile that meant she was grinning inside, “But the pup said that the Enemy fled after a light rainfall broke out over the city.” Mila’s first instinct was to blame Taduk, but Mama read her well. “No, not Taduk,” she replied. “Now that the Enemy is aware of his strength, he is no longer able to take direct action without reprisal, which means he is not allowed to take action at all.”

Then it had to be Rain. He was the only person besides Taduk who could summon forth a rainstorm that would send the Enemy fleeing. “He’s still...?” she asked, unable to finish the question, and Mama merely nodded with a grimace, meaning as far as she knew, Rain was still comatose, except...

Raising a hand to her cheek, Mila was reminded of how she mistakenly thought she sensed his presence earlier, but perhaps it hadn’t been a mistake at all.

Tilting her head in question, Mama wordlessly asked if everything was alright, and Mila merely nodded without giving voice to the events. Who knew what the Uniter could hear, whether it be through thoughts, words, or Sendings, so better to keep this to herself until she was sure Rain was up and about. Nodding in acceptance of Mila’s silence, Mama sighed and said, “The problem now is Pan Si Xing is indefensible, and now the pup feels obligated to ensure the safety of its citizens. They are headed back to Meng Sha as we speak, but luckily, the Enemy has withdrawn all its forces, not just the ones stationed in the city. They no longer care to pursue us through the desert and instead have taken to fortifying the surrounding cities, which means we can no longer afford to keep up our offensive without unacceptable levels of risk. This leaves me no choice but to link up with the pup and aid him in his endeavours there.” Reaching over to pull Mila into her embrace, Mama continued, “I’ve given Nanda Bayin command of the infantry forces and tasked him to link up with the pup. His wagons will help speed up their trip to Meng Sha, and you and your papa will go with them.”

Ostensibly because Papa was wounded, but Mama was giving Mila an excuse to reunite with her husband. “What about you Mama?” she asked, wishing she could work up the determination to refuse and continue serving as a Sentinel, but she desperately wanted to see her husband again, especially if he was awake and well.

Cracking a cold and intimidating grin, Mama kissed Mila’s hair and Sent, “Bai Qi and Mataram YuGan have escaped beyond our reach, but one target still remains at large.”

And for a brief, infinitesimal moment, Mila almost pitied the traitor Guard Captain from Sanshu.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Opening her eyes to the sound of battle and bloodshed yet again, Yan could not even be bothered to lift her aching head.

The siege of Shi Bei had thus far been a battle of endurance, and she struggled to remember how many days it’d been. Two or three, it was difficult to say, because she’d slept and woken at least nine times since the hostilities began. Maybe as much as ten to twelve, but she was too tired to figure it out just yet, but not so tired as to immediately fall asleep again. Instead, she kept her eyes closed and rested as much as she could, for it would soon come time to march into battle yet again, at which point she would need every scrap of stamina she had left to her in order to keep the Enemy tides at bay.

