This was a siege unlike any other, for despite being the besiegers, the Imperial Army spent the last few days holding back the Defiled tides. Yes, the Enemy had come spilling out of Shi Bei, because the catapults, crossbows, Nian Zu’s Shooting Star, and Grandpa Du’s newfangled Explosive Wind had all rendered the Enemy’s defensive advantage moot. This had always been the plan going in, to bombard the Enemy forces for as long as they could until the city was reduced to mere rubble, and Grandpa Du’s unexpected advancement only helped matters along. Yan’s heart bled for the Imperial citizens who were caught in the crossfire, to say nothing of the poor souls forced to labour day and night to repair the damages, but Nian Zu was careful to only target the walls that were free and clear of obvious civilian presence. There was no way around it, for regardless of what they did, the people of the West would die, but at least this way, the survivors would at least have a chance at freedom if the city fell to the Imperial forces.

A tall task to be sure, but difficult as it was, Yan was beginning to believe they could win.

The most important factor was the lack of Defiled reinforcements, meaning Lieutenant General Akanai’s master plan was coming along wonderfully. A four or five sleep cycles ago, Nian Zu had announced to the entire army that Tian Zangli had been set ablaze, the smoke from which could just barely be seen from Shi Bei. That prompted a rousing cheer from the troops, but the Enemy had redoubled their efforts and poured almost everything into the offensive, because they knew their only hope for victory was to eliminate the catapults alongside as many Irregulars as possible. Thankfully, defending those had been left to stronger Warriors than she, famed Peak Experts like Grandpa Du, Exarch Gam, and Aunty Jeong among so many others. Yan had long since lost track of how many Wraiths and Demons they’d dispatched since the battle began, for that number should be well into the thousands by now, and yet still the Enemy advanced without end. Tian Zangli was a production base safely ensconced deep behind the front lines, while Pan Si Xing was nothing more than a centrally located command hub, so neither one had a sizable standing army, but Shi Bei was one of the largest Enemy staging grounds and supported tens of millions of Defiled Warriors, both behind its walls and stationed in the surrounding deserts.

Meaning that even without the threat of Enemy reinforcements arriving on the horizon, Nian Zu had his work cut out for him.

That was a burden for taller shoulders to bear however, and Yan only needed to hold the line as commanded. This wasn’t to say she remained wholly ignorant of the overall situation, but after fighting for at least fifty hours in the last seventy two, she was just too tired to seek information on her own. Thankfully, Kyung spent most of his time watching Yan’s back rather than fighting at her side, which meant he had plenty of energy to go back and forth between her camp and Grandpa’s to keep up to date, so when it finally came time for her to crawl out of bed, she emerged from her tent to find him waiting with the latest news on his lips. “Pan Si Xing has fallen,” he Sent, which hit Yan like a hammer to the gut. “Bai Qi escaped, and Baatar is currently escorting the civilians to Meng Sha, while the bulk of Akanai’s forces are headed here to encircle Mao Jianghong before he can escape.” Giving her a pointed look, he added, “This has yet to be confirmed, but the Colonel General has it on good authority that Falling Rain might have personally taken part in the battle of Pan Si Xing, though we believe he still has yet to wake from his coma.”

That was a lot to take in first thing in the morning, even if it was technically time for afternoon tea. Water was too precious to be boiled here however, to say nothing of coal and wood, but Yan couldn’t stomach cold brew so she would have to do without. It didn’t surprise her too much that Rain had done something miraculous once again, but how did he affect a battle while lying unconscious well over two-hundred kilometres away? Why were they so sure it was Rain? If he could affect the battle in Pan Si Xing from such a great distance away, why didn’t he just wake up first, or better yet, make his presence known to her?

Most importantly of all, if Rain had the strength enough to send Bai Qi running for the hills, why didn’t he do the same to Mao Jianghong here and save his beloved wife from this gruelling affair?

“Estimated time of arrival?” Yan asked, wanting to know how much longer they would have to hold out before the cavalry came riding to the rescue. While mounted units had little to offer in a traditional siege, they would cut a swathe through the Defiled out here on the sandy dunes of Shi Bei, to say nothing of the threat heavy cavalry presented to the sprawling encampments stretching out in all directions from the city. Numbers were not the only metric to measure strength by, for under the right conditions, a coordinated cavalry charge could easily kill twenty to thirty times their number of scattered, unarmoured infantry in a single charge, of which the Enemy had plenty to spare.

“Four hours.”

Which was just long enough for Yan to serve out her full shift. This was all Rain’s fault somehow, Yan just knew it in her heart, but she still yearned to toss her responsibilities aside and head straight to Meng Sha just in case he was already awake. Putting aside such thoughts for now, Yan strode out to meet with Sutah and check on how the kids were doing, the answer to which was ‘not great’. Her soldiers were tired and spent from all this non-stop fighting in the oppressive desert heat, which wouldn’t be so terrible if they weren’t strictly rationing their water too. The first supply wagons from the Central Citadel had come and gone, but until they had a surplus worth shaking a stick at, it was always better to be safe than sorry. If push came to shove, the Enemy could launch a suicidal attack targeting the Imperial water wagons, and then everyone would be in dire straits, for aside from the sizable oasis Shi Bei was built around, there was no source of water large enough to sustain so many soldiers.

Thankfully, the Enemy was not so desperate yet, and Liu Xuande had the foresight to hide these vital supplies well, so well in fact that even Grandpa Du couldn’t uncover where they were hidden. This led Yan to believe the water was being Concealed by a Divinity, since that was the only explanation that made sense, which did nothing to blunt Grandpa Du’s enthusiasm, though she had no idea why he was so hell-bent on finding the water. Martial Pride, perhaps, or maybe he’d made a bet with Exarch Gam to pass the time, but regardless of his reasons, Yan wished he could find it just so she knew how much water they had to spare. Drinking a small mouthful at a time was hardly satisfying, and she allowed herself to indulge a little more only because she knew she would get another full one soon enough at the end of her next shift. The kids were less understanding regarding their constant thirst, but Sutah and the rest of her under-commanders had matters well in hand. In an ideal world, Yan would have given each of her soldiers the benefit of the doubt and handed out individual water skins, but she also understood that the average soldier was trained not to think because thoughts got in the way of obedience. Better safe than sorry, so she oversaw the distribution of water while commiserating with her kids, but without promising anything she couldn’t deliver.

When it came time to fight, Yan led from the forefront as per usual and unleashed a devastating Sanguine Whirlwind on the packed Defiled troops, buying enough breathing room for the soldiers already fighting to fall back so that her kids could take their place. The first time she did this, her kids had cheered her on and fought like Warriors possessed, but after three days of constant fighting, they lacked the energy and enthusiasm to spare. All she got for her efforts was an acknowledging shout as her kids pressed forward into the teeth of the Enemy and a soft sigh from the soldiers returning to camp to rest. The constant fighting and threat to their lives was almost too much to bear, so the easiest way to endure was to pointedly ignore it unless stuck in the thick of things. Even Yan couldn’t find joy in her accomplishments anymore, having killed who knows how many thousands of the Enemy by now, but still they came in droves.

So disheartened by her lacklustre impact on the battle, Yan almost let her guard down as she backed off to recover, but luckily Kyung didn’t even know how to write ‘relax’. Shoving her none to gently aside, he brandished his sabre and cut down not one, not two, but five Wraiths in succession, a sizable force dispatched to take her life. Twirling shield and battle-fan both, Yan gathered the Air and readied to unleash it upon her foes, and none too soon either. Materializing seemingly out of thin air, a massive bestial Demon lunged at her with fangs and talons bared. Having engaged the Wraiths, Kyung was in no position to defend her, but Yan was no helpless maiden in perpetual need of rescue. With a wave of her battle-fan, she summoned a Wind Blade that slammed into her Demonic foe, some unholy melding of wolf and snake, but despite carving out a furrow that almost severed the Demon’s burly front paw, her attack was unable to shift its momentum away.

But she would not die so easily, for she was Du Min Gyu’s Terminal Disciple.

Pushing her Lightening as far as it would go, she summoned the wind to carry her away from danger. To the soldier’s watching, it would appear as if she’d been lifted up and carried away by a giant invisible hand, but all she did was hop to the right and let her Chi handle the rest. Though still a ways away from matching Grandpa Du’s feat of drifting on a breeze, her mastery over the Wind meant she could accelerate faster than most of her peers, though she couldn’t maintain her top speed for more than a second or two. Still, an instantaneous burst of speed was nothing to sneer at, and she smirked as the Demon was set upon by the elites of her retinue, their sabres, spears, and swords making short work of the creature, which was clearly built more for speed than durability.

This wasn’t the first time the Enemy had targeted her on the battlefield, nor was she the only one singled out for these attacks. Da’in, Ken-Shibu, Yong-Jin, Wu Gam, and so many other young talents had come under attack, not because the Enemy felt threatened by their talents, but because Mao Jianghong was trying to force their protectors out into the open and get a better read on the forces arranged against him. Even though Grandpa Du took his tea and meals in plain view every day, it wasn’t as if he was wholly unprepared for an attack. If they could draw him out by threatening Yan however, then he might truly be unprepared for what came next. To this end, Yan immediately gathered her elites and stuck close to her protectors, most of whom were Grandpa’s students and were fiercely devoted to the cause.

And yet, even they were not prepared for Mao Jianghong and his cadre of armoured Half-Demons when they appeared out of thin air, but as Yan noted earlier, there were few mortals capable of hiding from Grandpa Du’s perception. Her heart sang with joy as he appeared at her side to lock blades with the Enemy Commander himself, but then her stomach flopped as she realized that Grandpa was playing into his opponent’s hand.

For the Half-Demon’s wasted no time in unleashing their foul Aura of dread and terror which no one present could defend against, not even the Sanguine Tempest Du Min Gyu.

And just as quickly as they appeared, the Half-Demons vanished from sight as an explosion rocked the area around Grandpa Du and sent Imperial and Defiled alike crashing in all directions. Cackling in mad delight and untouched by the unholy Aura, Grandpa raised his arm and summoned a visible torrent of Air that gathered in the palm of his hand, so fast and turbulent it set his clothes to flapping and the sand to swirling about him. The cascading wind lasted for all of a blink of an eye before coming to an abrupt halt, at which point Grandpa made a throwing motion and cast his Chi working at his Concealed foes. “Target my granddaughter will you?” he boomed, even as the empty space was ripped apart with another thunderous boom, revealing five damaged Half-Demons encircling a surprisingly intact Mao Jianghong. “You think me a soft persimmon to squeeze?”

Again, Grandpa raised his arm and summoned the wind to hand, but the moment he launched his next attack, the Half-Demons scattered and left Mao Jianghong undefended. Yan had never seen the man before today, but the pictures of his likeness had been circulating for some time now, and she had to admit that they didn’t do him justice. Few would ever describe the Defiled as handsome or dashing, but Jianghong fit the bill nicely, save for his murderous scowl that ruined the whole effect. Were he to smile and bat his eyes, he would be the perfect fit for the stage as any dashing hero of noble birth, for he was more than just good looking, but downright perfect in appearance. If Luo-Luo were a man, she would likely be a match for Jianghong’s good looks, but even Rain fell short in comparison, though Yan personally preferred the combination of her husband’s youthful grin and soulful eyes to Jianghong’s cold and bitter expression.

One made all the colder by the shield of ice he summoned to block Grandpa’s latest Chi skill.

