Normally, Elemental Chi should have cancelled one another out, but even faced with this unexpected turn of events, Grandpa kept his wits about him and prematurely detonated his Wind Bomb. The impact and subsequent explosion sent Jianghong flying through the air, but he quickly regained control and Cloud-Stepped away, not back to Shi Bei but over and beyond into the horizon, followed by a steady stream of Enemy elites. No doubt Jianghong got word of Akanai’s imminent arrival and he sought to gain some small advantage before retreating, but Yan was reminded of Nian Zu’s warning given before the siege was even underway, claiming that Mao Jianghong might well be a threat comparable to Bai Qi himself. At the very least, they now knew he possessed the Blessing of Ice, which was Fire and Water both, a fearsome combination that provided offence, defence, and utility in spades. In fact, it was quite likely the most popular and in demand Blessing of them all, but as far as Yan knew, there wasn’t an Imperial Warrior alive who possessed it.

Except for Mao Jianghong, who’d truly hidden himself deeply while serving as the Guard Captain of Sanshu. A dangerous foe, this snake in the grass, one who’d revealed himself as a dragon, but these were burdens for taller shoulders to bear, unless he was willing to wait another five to ten years for Yan to catch up. Stifling a sigh of regret, she raised her voice in a rousing cheer to celebrate Grandpa’s new and improved Explosive Wind, which was both faster to create and more powerful than anything he’d demonstrated before. There was still a city to take, but bereft of its commander and the majority of its elites, an Imperial victory was only a matter of time.

After which, Yan would petition for permission to head back to Meng Sha immediately after hearing the full story from Akanai. If Rain was awake, then Yan could hardly let Lin-Lin monopolize him for too long, because who knew if or when he’d slip into another coma again...

Chapter Meme
