The Valkyries were nowhere to be seen… or felt? Erick could usually feel them wherever they were, see through their eyes if needed, but they weren’t here. The only thing here was...

Pain.

The dead cried out for vengeance against Melemizargo. The survivors demanded that vengeance and made it happen as best they could with their meager weapons.

Betrayal.

The gods had tried to take the Valkyries from Erick, after Erick had vanished in his fight with Nothanganathor, and thus, alliances died. Erick wasn’t sure how he knew that, but he knew that. He had seen Shivraa on Margleknot, hadn’t he? Yes, he had.

Hopelessness.

House Benevolence had retracted, pulling as many people away from the fronts of the war as they could, but the war happened inside their very own capital of Candlepoint. Candlepoint was gone, though, ruined and dead. Yggdrasil was dead, too, blackened and rotting in what remained of Candlepoint’s lake.

The other half of Candlepoint’s lake held out in the frozen void of space. Bodies spread in the chill of the void, frozen and inert.

Veird was worse than Candlepoint, by far. Candlepoint was visible from outside the world, because the world had been ripped apart. Veird was a half-exploded metal ball, with its shells of adamantium twisted outward. Something had ripped out of the center of Veird and caused untold death. Probably the Core. Rozeta had said that Melemizargo always could have done it, so maybe he had just up and done it. Considering how they were fighting right now, Erick could see that.

When he had left for the battle with Nothanganathor, everyone had been on the verge of fighting.

In his absence, they had fulfilled that promise ten thousand times over.

Erick could see exactly what had happened even without checking every part of the past.

Melemizargo had tried taking over the Valkyries and Rozeta hadn’t stopped him, for what could she have done except lean into his madness? Nothing. She could have done nothing. Melemizargo was losing his power as the God of Magic, but he was still the God of Magic for at least days or weeks, Erick wasn’t sure. Melemizargo had used that power disastrously.

Adding to this, the contained problems of Fenrir, the ones Erick hadn’t gotten to, had been released. Without the Valkyries there to hold them back, they had spread, and some had gone truly bad down there, too.

Fenrir floated in pieces. Very, very large pieces, but still pieces. Some of those pieces had fallen into the black hole that was the sun. The inside surface of Fenrir had been scoured of life. The exterior grew deadly mushrooms and fungus here and there, among vast, vast swaths of uninhabitable land, made that way because all of the containment magics were gone, and the atmosphere had evaporated—

Erick’s breath caught.

Quilatalap was mutilated and pinned to an adamantium spire on a crag overlooking the black hole sun. He was not just dead. He was cursed to death. Simple death would have been nothing to him; he had survived a [Chaining Soul Destruction] from a Champion of Melemizargo before. So whoever had done this had needed to get creative, and they had succeeded. Erick wasn’t sure how he knew what he knew when he looked upon Quilatalap’s corpse, but there was no coming back from this for him. He was frozen due to the cold of the void. He was ripped apart due to some sort of divine curse.

He was beyond dead.

Erick floated down to Quilatalap and pulled his corpse off of the spire, using magic to break the spire but his hands to hold Quilatalap. Erick tried a simple [Resurrection] first, and of course that failed. He already knew it was going to fail.

He could fix this, but...

Erick sighed, and said, “I guess I’m a pretty terrible god, Quilatalap, because I was negligent enough to not save you, and I’m selfish enough to bring you back, out of any peaceful afterlife you might be in right now. I hope you don’t hate me for it.”

Erick kissed Quilatalap.

Many colors descended upon the corpse, and then the corpse became a man that became blood that then splattered across the frozen void and multiplied a hundred times. And then once more, into Erick’s arms, Quilatalap’s eyes went wide—

He gasped.

Did he hate? Did he forgive, or condemn? Erick was worried for a brief moment—

And then Quilatalap hugged Erick, laughing happily. Tiny blackgold wings floated behind him. “You’re back. You’re back.”

A great tension left Erick’s shoulders as he hugged Quilatalap. “Sorry.”

“It’s fine, it’s fine,” Quilatalap said, holding him tighter, pressing their foreheads together. He chuckled, flexing his wings as he looked in a hundred directions at once with his other Valkyrie bodies, and also deep into Erick’s eyes. He kissed Erick for a long moment, and then he simply relaxed. With eyes of bright blackgold, and a hundred bodies that he was rapidly learning how to work, and all of that, Quilatalap hovered in the void, holding Erick’s hands, saying, “So things deteriorated when you failed to reappear.”

Erick smiled sadly. “That appears to be an understatement.” He looked around to all the Quilatalaps in the void, most of them looking everywhere but here, while the Quilatalap here only had eyes for Erick. “This was the only way I could bring you back, so sorry about that. Do you want to remain a Valkyrie?”

“I don’t want to be here at all, Erick. Everything is gone and nothing is right and there’s no fixing this, and almost all of me was Ended, but I managed to hold onto hope for you. I am not Quilatalap anymore. I am a husk, and you need to go back in time and unmake this future.”

Erick breathed, and then he nodded.

Quilatalap sighed a little bit, even as he smiled. “Do you know what happened? That and my love of you is all I remember.”

“I’ll take the short version, but I’m rather sure that Melemizargo descended into madness in his loss of power, broke Veird and much of Fenrir, and killed at least a few gods. He tried to take over the Valkyrie magic somewhere in there.”

Not-Quilatalap nodded. “That attempted takeover happened at the very beginning. A minute after Fallopolis rescued Shade Oozy and Shivraa and Everbless from the final battle, Melemizargo tried to corrupt the Valkyries into his worshipers in order to stave off destruction. Rozeta agreed with his choice to do that, for she had no choice, and she tried to give over the Valkyrie Weavers in the Script to the other gods, in order to parcel out those worshipers. Melemizargo managed to do something to Shivraa, but then the Fractal Fairy descended and took all Valkyries back to Margleknot.” Quilatalap said, “Everyone expected Nothanganathor to show up after that, or for you to show up and be mad, and then neither of you did. The Red continued to blast Fenrir and everywhere else it could, though; the war never stopped. This entire land was set up to go out of control with people next to people that would cause wars. That’s what killed most people.

“Melemizargo still continued to lose power, and people broke Fenrir. That’s when things really got out of control. Stuff thought obliterated started reappearing and spreading and Melemizargo started taking everyone’s Mantles back to stave off his death and… Most people died. If anyone is still alive out there then I would be surprised.”

Erick sighed at that.

Quilatalap said, “It was bad. The first to fall was Rozeta. After Melemizargo tried to take the Valkyries, Rozeta told him that it was over. About four days later he killed her for that. The next to fall were Atunir, Aloethag, and Zephyrspray. Koyabez managed to last a while, but even he died. That was a single month since the battle ended. Sininindi fell in line with Melemizargo. Sumtir did, too. Melemizargo himself killed me, Erick.” Quilatalap shook his head. “I don’t know who is alive or not…” He paused in worry, and then he simply said, “He killed Benevolence Itself. Your spaces were strong for a while and it rescued a lot of people, but in Melemizargo’s last act he… He killed everyone that managed to survive. I was there, and then I was out here, dead. I don’t know what happened to the others.” Quilatalap looked outward and at Erick at the same time, saying, “From what I’m seeing, it appears he did further devastation to Fenrir, but it’s only a little bit worse than it was when he killed me. He must have lost his Mantle when I was dead.”

Ah.

So that’s what had happened.

Ah.

As anger rose within him, Erick felt a weird realization.

He could still feel immense, incredible anger, even as a God of Benevolence.

Quilatalap wasn’t angry at all, though.

Quilatlalap smiled softly, and said, “I love you, Erick. Go into the past and make this never have happened. I am not Quilatalap. I am a message from Quilatalap. If not for your Valkyrie magic, I think I already would have died. Don’t let me stay this way, though. Okay? End this magic before you go.”

Erick breathed, and then he took Quilatalap back in his arms, holding him for a long moment. Quilatalap held him back. He was warm.

“I love you,” Erick said.

And then he ended Not-Quilatalap’s Valkyrie self and folded Infinity in on itself, turning back the clock, leaving before he could see Not-Quilatalap fade away.

Not-Quilatalap smiled, though, at the End.

- - - -

Back, back, to the moment of change, and then, to right afterward.
