<Alex, Real - Endure, High School Gymnasium>

Alex woke on his unrolled mattress, refreshed and ready to venture forth.

…It had only been an hour, and there was still another hour to go before they would depart.

Still, he should connect with Kaylee and the rest. Preparation would be their friend, after all.

Oh! It’s the next day.

“Formal complaint: I—”

Apology Tutorial Notice:The Formal Complaint process is designed to bring attention to things that are not as they should be. Do not attempt to abuse it for other purposes, or future complaints could be ignored.

Alex found all the initiates—save James who was still on the roof—gathered in the main gym, each munching on some form of sustenance.

They called quiet greetings and shifted to make room for him. He waved back and pointed toward the room with the food.

That got him some nods in return, and he ducked into that side room, finding the now quite cold coffee, slightly stale bagels, and warm cream cheese.

We should have kept all of this in someone’s Inventory…

Ah, well, that time had passed. He briefly pulled the coffee container into his Inventory, and within, he moved some of the liquid into a mug he’d brought from his apartment.

They were out of disposable cups, and so he defaulted to the ceramic one. Well, I’m a bit silly for not using one earlier…

He then put the coffee container back, grabbing a bagel and the cream cheese.

With a flexing of the skill upon pulling the bagel inside, it arrived already split in half. It should then be simple to place the cream cheese on the bread… but it didn’t work.

No matter what he tried, he couldn’t scoop out any of the cream cheese or spread it on the open bagel.

After about a minute of trying, he admitted defeat for the moment, and pulled both out again, using one of the butter knives on the table to do the work.

It seemed that the students and other non-initiates hadn’t touched his coffee and bagels, leaving them for his group. Instead, they’d been partaking of the food from the cafeteria, the cafeteria workers striving to use the most perishable ingredients first to keep everyone well fed.

That thought also let him realize that there were far fewer people in the gym than he’d thought there should be, and a moment’s thought made it obvious why.

They’d spread back out into the school itself.

Alex returned to the others with his prizes tucked within his Inventory.

He was greeted again as he took the seat that had been opened for him between Natasha and Grant.

Grant held out his hand. “Thank you, Alex. The others told me all that you did for me, even if I don’t quite understand it. I do believe that I’d have died without your help.”

Alex took the offered hand. “I was happy to do what I could. What sort of insanity did you accomplish? Some crazy skill?”

The other man gave a sheepish grin. “Well, yeah. It’s a skill that allows me to amplify and ‘send back’ all the damage I’ve taken for a short duration before the attack lands, and the effect continues for a short time after as well.”

“So, you took the hit to impart that back on the flesh golem?”

He nodded. “That was the idea. It seems that the skill's effect acts as base damage too, with my weapon’s multiplier coming in to increase it further.”

Alex huffed a laugh, shaking his head. “That sounds incredibly powerful, but I’d not like such a skill.”

Grant grimaced. “Yeah… I think it’s worth it, but it definitely wasn’t fun.” He then chuckled. “Well, it’s worth it so long as you’re around to heal me back up.”

Alex grinned in return, not seeing a need to respond further with words.

As Alex pulled out his food, the group got back to the small-talk that he’d come in on.

They didn’t discuss anything of real consequence, but it was still quite nice to share food with them.

It was normal in a way that Alex hadn’t realized was needed.

Even so, it was over all too soon.

With a thought, he pulled the few crumbs that had fallen while he ate into his Inventory, then expelled them back into his hand so he could eat those last few calories.

He was concerned that they’d be short on such in the next few weeks, even with skills like his Create Rations able to create some food.

Kaylee cleared her throat, drawing all eyes. “Well, I’m glad we’re together a bit early. I’d like to go over our individual quests, so that we can assign people to best effect for completing those.”

There was a round of agreement, and so they went around explaining what they had to do.

Each person in turn seemed to unfocus then read off their personal quests, making Alex frown.

He’d pulled up specific quests before, but it looked like they were reading through a list rather than switching System screens between each. Moreover, others had picked up some other quests beyond the ‘main’ or even personal ‘main’ quests.

As an example, Natasha had gained a quest to gain the food and other supplies that she’d paid for from the bodega that they stopped by just before getting to the school.

When she was done reading off hers, they turned to look at Alex, prompting him to ask, “Do you all have a composite list of quests?”

Grant nodded. “Yeah, the command is in the System Basics book.”

Alex sighed. “I’ll read it again, soon…” He hadn’t reread it since getting his Speed Reading skill. That should help with retention. “What was the command?”

“Display Active Quests.” Natasha then waved away the notification panel that had clearly opened at her command.

“Alright.” He’d read it off for them. “Display Active Quests, please.”

Group Quest [Endure]:You have chosen to stand with others, and you’ve succeeded.Now, build up your base of operations and range outward for supplies.Maintain a secure base of operations for 30 days.A case of content theft: this narrative is not rightfully on Amazon; if you spot it, report the violation.Keep those who trust you safe.

Reward:Based upon results achievedUnlock the next Tutorial ScenarioExperience

Individual Quest [Endure]:Your chosen path is that of a defender.A defender must have those whom he defends.Gather more survivors under your charge and keep them safe.

Reward:Based upon results achievedExperience

When he got to the next one, he hesitated but only for a moment. “I also have a Racial Rarity Advancement Quest.”

That got a round of surprised exclamations.

“I think it’s because I inadvertently started it already. I have made progress in two of the three required areas. I would bet that each of you could have something similar if and when you start down whatever path is open for your own advancement.”

Natasha scoffed. “Alright, Race-man. Let’s hear it. We might be able to help, and a more powerful team-member helps us all.”

He nodded and read it off.

Racial Rarity Advancement QuestIncrease the power of your Life Force by whatever means you deem best (42/100)Absorb the Core of a source of Life (0/1)Make a meaningful Contribution to your group or tribe (3/3)

Even before anyone commented, Alex’s eyes widened, seeing one more item on his quest list. “Oh… I forgot about that one.”

Grant bumped his shoulder. “What is it? Godhood Attainment Quest?”

Alex shook his head, forcing a chuckle at the obvious, good natured joke. “No, but I think it’s likely really important.”

Without further delay, he read off his last quest.

Quest [Brood-Guard?]Brood-Guards are created creatures designed to protect creatures as they are turned to undeath. If these are here, something more must be going on.

Investigate the High School for other signs of foul play.

Rewards:Dependent on information gathered, creatures slain, plots foiled, people rescued, and the number of initiates who participate.

There was a moment of silence before Pilar grunted. “How is that not fulfilled? We’ve cleared the school, right?”

Kaylee nodded. “We have. I can actively see a list of hostile creatures within our base, and it’s ‘0.’ Alex, where and when did you get this?”

He shrugged. “In the men’s locker. I expressed confusion as to why the brood-guard were there as they didn’t really seem to be guarding anything, and I got the quest.”

Lenka groaned, and John grinned.

Alex frowned. “What am I missing?”

Natasha filled him in, “John proposed that we can get quests by what we notice and express interest in. Lenka thought that all that mattered was what we did.”

Lenka shrugged. “More like a video game. In a game, I don’t have to say, ‘Why are these rats swarming?’ to get an investigation quest. I just need to be near where some are swarming.”

John nodded. “And while this is quite like a game, there are a few, far more ‘real life’ elements that we’ve observed.”

Kaylee cleared her throat. “Regardless, we need to investigate what the issue is with the locker room.”

The sound of a clearing throat came from off to one side, where some of those they’d saved and gathered were working or talking among themselves.

The sound had come from a small, mousy woman. She wore a nametag, ‘Agatha Brown, School Administrator’.

She walked forward. “I’m sorry to interrupt. I’m Agatha Brown, the school administrator. You said there’s something wrong in the locker rooms?”

Kaylee stood, going over to shake the woman’s hand. “Yes, Ms. Brown. I’m Kaylee Bell, I believe we met earlier.”

“Agatha, please. Yes, I remember you.”

“Very well, Agatha. What can you tell us?”

“Well, the men’s locker room used to have the only access to the gymnasium’s basement, but the door was bricked over nearly a decade ago.”

Alex groaned, placing his head in his hands. “Of course there’s a creepy basement. Let me guess, long, small hallways? Low ceilings? Tiny rooms? Tight turns?”

Agatha shook her head. “No, no, not at all. It was a single room with access to the city's infrastructure tunnels. Those are likely small, low and on the tight side, but the basement itself is quite spacious.”

“What was it for?” Grant asked.

“Well, we used to be a part of the city mana-grid, and we allowed students and staff to sell their regeneration to the city. We implemented on site gathering and usage about fifteen years ago, so we disconnected from that grid.” She shrugged. “With no use for the space, it became a place for students to hide to avoid classes and get up to all sorts of things. Therefore, we closed it up.”

Every one of the Initiates jerked slightly as a notification seemingly popped up for all of them.

Quest [Brood-Guard?]Brood-Guards are created creatures, designed to protect creatures as they are turned to undeath. If these are here, something more must be going on.

Investigate the High School for other signs of foul play.

With the high school claimed and much of the populace momentarily made safe, the mystery grows. Will the basement, connected to the city at large, hold the answers you seek?

Rewards:Dependent on information gathered, creatures slain, plots foiled, people rescued, and the number of initiates who participate.

Natasha sighed. “Well, we all have the quest now. We should probably deal with it before any of us venture forth.”

They all nodded in agreement.

Kaylee held up a hand to forestall them before turning back to the administrator. “Thank you, Agatha. I’ll want to chat more in a bit about anything else you might know that could be of help.”

“Of course, Ms. Kaylee. I’ll be over there.” The woman waved and walked back over to her colleagues.

Kaylee turned back to them. “Alright. Let’s hear the rest of the quests, and then we’ll make a plan.”

Thus it was that with only fifteen minutes before they had been going to leave, Kaylee went off to coordinate and finish collecting the locations they’d need to go to if they were going to seek out friends and family of the students, faculty, and staff, and Alex, Natasha, and Grant went into the men’s locker room.

With their rope-lights, it actually only took about five minutes to find the rather obviously bricked up door.

Alex groaned. “I feel silly. It even looks like a videogame hidden passage.”

Grant chuckled. “Well, I can’t do this quietly.” He hefted his hammer. “Get ready.”

Alex held up his hand. “Wait. I think I can do something with this. First, though, we need to use our detections.”

He sent out a pulse of Detect Unlife and Detect Life, paying 10 MP and 1 MP respectively.

He felt all the life within the school and some of the unlife that was gathered outside where his skill reached, but there was nothing below.

“It should be clear.” He then placed his hand on the wall, a finger on the grout. He smiled to himself, imagining how it was going to work.

<Alex, Imagining - The Plan, High School Locker Room>

He sent a burst of Life Transfusion into the mortar, focusing on destroying that which was along the back and around the shape of the doorway.

It worked perfectly, and as dust rained down, a perfect brick door was left separated from the surroundings.

Natasha stepped forward and used her skill to make it easy to pull aside.

“There, a perfect means of closing it back up once again, if we need to.” Alex grinned triumphantly.

It was a perfect plan.

<Alex, Real - Endure, High School Locker Room>

Alex sent the pulse of HP into the mortar using his Basic Life Transfusion skill, and the mortar dissolved into dust… all of it.

Instead of leaving a cleanly separated door of blocks, the bricks tumbled down in a great clattering cascade.

Grant looked down, nodding appreciatively. “Nice. That was much faster and quieter than I could have done it.”

Natasha met Alex’s gaze with one eyebrow raised. “Is that what you were trying to do?”

Alex grimaced, but he only considered lying for a brief moment. “Not exactly… but it worked out.”

She shook her head, and he cleared his throat, turning to regard the now-revealed steel door.

It was a simple matter for him to dissolve the lock and swing the door toward them, into the locker room, pushing aside the bricks and revealing dusty stairs… with dozens of sets of footprints leading both up and down.

“How did they get through the bricks?” Alex was genuinely confused.

Grant shrugged. “There could have been some hidden way of opening it, but we’ll never find such now, and that’s fine.”

Alex sighed. “Me first?”

The other two nodded. Natasha would follow on his heels, her spear best able to assist him if needed on the long stairs. Grant would bring up the rear, just in case.

Alex looked down the seemingly clear, straight staircase.

At the landing, some thirty feet down, he could see the pulsing, roiling green light, which decidedly did not make him excited for what they’d soon find.

“Alright, let’s do this.”