“No,” Joe said firmly.

Alden frowned at him. And his stupid monocle. And his pockets full of snacks.

“I always reach for one more prize,” said Joe. “Even when my hands are full. It’s how things get broken. Take it as a sign of my gratitude and my respect for you that I will not reach for you again.”

Respect?

“I’m not a prize,” said Alden. “I’m a person.”

“My apologies. It wasn’t the best phrasing. And…one last thing…”

Sure. Why not? How much shittier can this reunion get?

“That chat we had while you were drinking iced tea,” said Joe.

Iced tea? Alden’s eyes widened. Lesson One. Is he going to talk about that here and now?

“I…might have given you some flawed advice. Reaching for one more prize is my bad habit. That doesn’t mean it should be yours.”

Alden stared at him.

“My sincere best opinion at the time was based on assumptions about how your future would play out. And my own likely role in shaping it. With how things have changed, you really should consider another course for yourself.”

Then, as if he’d said nothing all that momentous, Joe smiled at him for the first time since they’d run into each other.

A bright, familiar grin.

Alden couldn’t appreciate it.

“Just look at you!” said Joe. The sudden cheer in his voice was as sincere-seeming as ever. “I hardly need to worry about you finding a good way forward without me, do I? You’ve earned an extraordinary commendation from Hn’tyon Alis-art’h. That comes with attention from the sorts of wizards I couldn’t possibly steal your time from.”

Had he emphasized the word ‘attention?’ If he had, it had been so subtle that Alden couldn’t be sure.

“You’re a hard worker, Alden darling. And I see you’ve ended up in a <<squishboot>>. Take better care of yourself.” He dropped his arm to let the elevator go. “We part ways here. Good luck. Take the easy road for a few decades, won’t you? I recommend a vacation.”

That’s it? He really means for this to be it?

Only a sliver of Joe was visible through the gap in the doors.

“I took a vacation,” Alden said flatly. “There was a Hawaiian shirt and everything.”

******

******

“I’m glad you have a new hobby, Esh.” Lind-otta sat in one of the chairs by the window in their shared suite, leaning over her knees while she tapped a short wand to each of her bare toes to apply a massage spell. “But are you sure your efforts to help him aren’t overwhelming him?”

“What have I done that’s overwhelming?”

She looked over. Esh-erdi was sitting on the sofa, intently focused on a ring in the palm of his hand. When Lind linked their interfaces, she saw copies of the eight different information displays floating in the air in front of him. “You’re walking around with an image of the boy’s skeleton in your right peripheral vision.”

“It’s not as though he knows that! The bones in his foot are still healing. I’ve never monitored a human’s healing process. What if something goes wrong before it finishes?” Esh smiled at the ring, then closed his fist around it and sat back.

“And I see you’re still attempting to study every preservation warp ever registered,” Lind added. “Is this a book on human affixation theory? I didn’t know any good ones had been written yet.”

Esh’s face contorted. “This one isn’t good. And identifying the origin of his main talent at this point in his development, with only the information provided, is needlessly difficult. It could be so many different ones.”

“The obscuration of origins prevents several types of abuse,” Lind said. “And the self is more private than a skeleton. I seem to remember you voting on many occasions to limit summoner access to exactly the sort of information you want now.”

“Yes, but I want to pry into him for the right reasons.” He pressed a knuckle to his lips while he stared at the material displayed in front of him. “This is awful. I don’t have time to go through all of the horrific possibilities. I might ask Mother.”

“That’s too much. Let him grow his current abilities normally.”

“But what if they’re poorly designed or depressing?”

“He can still make something of his own out of them. And you said you liked it.”

“I did like it! He used it to deliver an und’h to me. And hot and cold food. But what if he has been bound for the rest of his existence to a half-considered graduation project created by someone from a bad school?”

Lind stretched her legs out and wiggled her toes. “Maybe you can find a good secondary power to recommend. Or focus on the spell impressions available to him. Those are much more identifiable.”

Esh-erdi crossed his arms over his chest and stared at the skeleton. “If he’s overwhelmed by me, then it’s only because he’s been undercared for by everyone else. I have provided him with healing, clothing, and calls. Not great luxuries.”

“Did you bring up the healing of the mind again?”

He dismissed a few of the floating images with a thought and rearranged the others. “Not yet. But I have enacted plans.”

******

******

Was it crazy of me? Alden wondered, sitting on the floor in the hall with the red lighting, staring down at his hands as they pinched a sharp point into a piece of green and gold origami paper. Was it wrong to expect more from Joe?

Clearly, the answer was yes.

I’ll just put it back right in my head then. He set aside the paper plane he’d folded and reached for another sheet. Worli Ro-den needed a quick way to fix a situation he and a bunch of other jerks created. There I came, gift-wrapped and willing. I agreed to do a job. I got paid for it. Period. End of relationship.

It didn’t matter what he told himself, though. He still felt like he’d been slapped in the face and set adrift.

Joe’s reasoning was fine. “It will cause both of us problems if we’re seen together” was a fine reason for them not to be seen together.

But it wasn’t like he’d seen fit to present that reasoning before Alden had forced the issue. He’d decided on his own that the right course of action was to cut Alden out of his life, and Alden hadn’t even been important enough to rate a real goodbye.

And that final advice…

Forget everything I told you, Alden. Forget that I changed your life. I’m in hot water, and I can’t manage you now. So it’s inconvenient for me if you chase after a noteworthy power and people start to notice. Abort the quest for exceptionality. Go take a nice laundry skill instead.

“Too late,” he muttered.

“I am a little late,” said a voice in Artonan.

Alden looked up from his folding to see Esh-erdi walking down the hall toward him.

Where did he come from? Is there a staircase I don’t know about?

“Are you ready for school?” He stopped beside Alden.

“Yes! Thank you.”

“What are these?” He bent to pick up one of the miniature paper planes Alden was gathering.

“Just something to distract me,” said Alden. “Paper flyers.”

Esh-erdi brightened immediately. “How perfect! I’m about to teach you how to fly.”

Alden blinked.

“To school,” said Esh-erdi, holding out a ring on the palm of his hand. “I thought it would be fun.”

“Is that the ring that controls the platform you used to rescue me?” Alden asked.

“Yes. I’ve modified it so that it will work for you.” He looked pleased with himself.

Alden took the ring. That was nice of him. And this is a good distraction.

“We’ll need to rush to get you to your assembly on time,” said Esh-erdi. “I’m sorry for that.”

“That’s okay.” Alden ran his thumb along the edge of the ring. “You said I could ask you for things if I needed them. It’s not something I need…”

“What is it?”

“I was told it was possible to get rid of portions of contract tattoos,” said Alden. “Once their terms had been completed. Just the parts that weren't active anymore.”

“It is.”

“Would you help me do that? I don’t know if it’s a lot of trouble.”

“The one on your chest?” Esh-erdi asked.

He had seen it just this morning while Porti-loth was painting Alden with the mud.

Alden nodded.

“You want it gone?”

“I really do.”

******

******
