Kordon stood atop that low wall, along with several other guards. They hadn’t noticed Jane, Teressa, or Kiri from the crowd, until the three of them had stepped closer than most others were willing. And then Jane called out to them, drawing even more looks, both from the guards up there, and from the people down below.

A nameless guard stepped forward, saying, “Back up, ma’am. Do not approach. Do not engage with us. We are keeping this place safe and we do not need your shit right now. Leave.”

Jane said, “Well, that's gonna be a problem. See, my father is in there, and I mean to get to him. So I need you to tell me how that’s done, and then let me do whatever I need to do to get that done.”

Kordon leapt from the low wall, to move forward, saying, “I got this, Hurock.”

The first guard, Hurock, huffed, then stepped to the side, saying, “They’re not getting through. Tell them to go away.”

“I know.” Kordon turned to Jane, and from five meters away, said, “Jane. Leave. This doesn’t concern you. There aren’t any humans in there, anyway. It’s all shadelings. Your father is not here. I know you want to play games and shove your tiny weight around, but this is not about a fun hunt right now. They’re Cultists and killers in there, and you are not welcome. Leave.”

“You have no idea why you were beaten so badly, do you? You never really thought about it, did you?” Jane said, “I really didn’t want to do this, but I gotta say, that you’re not too bright. Why were you even called in here?”

Hurock seemed to flinch as though jolted. He took another look at Jane, and sighed.

“I’m an elite guard. Of course they called me in.” Kordon’s voice turned harder, “And you’re stepping too far. Leave.”

“Okay. Fine. You’re an ‘elite guard’ and I’m sorry for that state of your guard if that is true. But I’m not leaving, though. This is further than we got at the other place.” Jane eyed the guards behind Kordon, asking, “One of you has a truthstone, yeah? Well hold it up, and listen good. I’m Jane Flatt, my father is Erick Flatt, and I need to know what the fuck is going on in there with my father.”

Kordon instantly derided, “Gods! You’re a fucking princess! No fucking wonder. How many gods damned artifacts are you wearing right now? Couldn’t beat me in a bout without ‘em, could you!”

Other people had decidedly different reactions. The crowd backed away from Jane. The guards in the area focused on her, entirely. And then the first guard, Hurock, came forward.

Hurock held a green stone in his hands, and said, “I’m not dealing with this shit.” He singled out Kordon, saying, “Since you know the young lady, take three people and escort the women into the commune. Pretend they’re one of the chieftains we let through.”

Kordon almost yelled at his superior officer, but then he locked eyes with Hurock, lost some of his sudden anger, and turned back toward Jane. With narrowed eyes, he said, “Well come on then, princess! You get even more special treatment! Want me to massage your feet for you, too?”

“Absolutely not.” Jane said, “You’d probably be shit at hitting my critical spots just as you were shit at critting that Chimeral Cat.”

Suddenly struck dumb, but then quickly recovering, Kordon exclaimed, “Chimeras don’t have critical spots! They’re five different monsters at the same time!”

Jane pointed at the truthstone in Hurock’s hand, saying, “I crit that Chimera twice and killed it when you couldn’t. And it was easy.”

The truthstone stayed green.

Jane said, “Not my fault you don’t know shit.”

“Kordon.” Hurock said, “Take the women and deliver them to the Archmage. Now.”

Kordon turned around. He jumped back on top of the wall, pointed at three guys, then jumped down to the other side, into the badlands where spells of sharp light still hung in the air. Jane stepped on flowing shadows to reach the top of the wall in one smooth motion, while Kiri stepped on light like it was a staircase, taking quick steps upward. Teressa just pumped her legs and leapt onto the three-meter tall wall in a single bound. The seven of them proceeded across the badlands, with Kordon silently leading the way.

Spells of detection and otherwise noticed, scanned, questioned, and dismissed the seven of them as they walked through curtains of light and trod through bloody mud. The people at the first jailing curtain wall had a few questions about ‘what the fuck is going on’, but they must have gotten their answers from better sources than Jane and her escorts, because that second line of soldiers moved the seven of them right on through the next battlefield, and then to the breach in the commune, itself, where layer upon layer of detection magics filled the air like the spider webs of the Weaver’s Quarters in Ar’Kendrithyst.

The density of the magic here was only visible with [Mana Sight], though. While her father’s [Domain of Light] blocked, corralled, and denied, like a massive glacier, the spider webs sought to trigger and inform those who waited for anyone to step out of line. The glacier and the spiderwebs were almost comparable densities of magic, too.

Jane guessed that they were [Alarm Ward]s, or a variant thereof. As Kordon spoke to the people manning the final barrier to the commune, and finally got them access, he walked forward and triggered several of those alarms. Those spells flickered, sending off signals to others higher on the walls, and out of direct line of sight.

Jane felt tense, but also fluid; ready to leap in any direction at a moment’s notice.

But Kordon got them through the final checkpoint, unmolested. Following Kordon, the three of them passed beyond the final rubble-like wall, to make it inside the commune proper.

Jane let out a breath as she saw the lines of shadelings and the desks and the people in full armor with weapons in their hands, and her father, beyond it all, standing on the edge of a broken building. Light surrounded him like a tumbling river, and yet frozen in time and place. Ophiels flitted about, both in their sunforms, and as winged, eyed, abominations. Poi stood to the side of her father, wielding tendrils of brightest magic, touching upon a shadeling, only to let go, and then declare something too quiet for Jane to hear over the voices of everyone else, all around. It was louder here than Jane would have thought. Everyone was talking everywhere else.

She must have passed a sound barrier back there. She had missed that one, eh?

Kordon gestured to a path in the ground, never raising his hand higher than his own waist. With a subdued attitude much more fitting for the situation than his previous one, he warned, “No loud actions or spells. Don’t raise your hands. No fast actions, either. Follow me. Do not run.” He glanced to the three escorts, and said, “Wait here for me for the walk back.”

The three other escorts just nodded, then stood to the side.

Kordon proceeded forward, and Jane followed. Kiri stepped to Jane’s left, while Teressa took up the rear. Many, many people watched them walk across the muddy land, including every shadeling in the lines, at least once. Those same people and shadelings quickly returned to writing on papers or talking or getting spelled from four different directions at once, by four different mages. Sin Seekers, if Jane had to guess.

The Sin Seekers flickered grey and red, in minute quantities, while the woman shadeling between the four of them glowed mostly grey. No red at all. One of the senior officers at the side, if Jane had to guess, declared the woman clear. The woman bypassed a smaller desk and stepped to a waiting Ophiel, and then she was gone.

Kordon walked Jane, Kiri, and Teressa to the edge of her father’s [Domain of Light], and then he took a step inside. Jane did too, and instantly felt better. Her father was here, and whole, and no one was fighting right now. Some tight knot of discomfort loosened around her heart as she saw him, wreathed in light, and he saw her. He smiled.

“Hey, dad,” Jane mouthed, not willing to speak too loudly.

He nodded at her, but also said nothing.

Kordon guided them to the edge of a [Prismatic Ward], his eyes on Erick the whole time. He went no further. He stepped to the side, saying, “Ladies. Jane. Nice to meet you. I hope the next time you’re in Treehome you don’t cheat in our bout.”

Teressa and Kiri went right through the edge of the [Prismatic Ward], ignoring Kordon. But he did not ignore them, or how easily they moved into the protected space. His jaw opened a little, as disbelief and proof warred in his eyes. And then he sighed.

Kordon said, “I guess you weren’t lying, eh?”

Jane walked into the dense air, too, saying, “Yup. I wasn’t lying about this. And I wasn’t lying about not cheating in our bout, either; not really. I only used three Skills against you, but they weren’t exactly what I called them.” She added, “See you around, Kordon.”

“Stay out of trouble, Jane.”

Kordon walked away, and Jane watched him go, briefly, before glancing at Poi. He was doing the Mind Mage thing, whatever that was, to a willing orcol man. Jane put that out of her own mind, and turned to her father.

He was already talking to Kiri and Teressa, but as Jane came in, he readily included her, saying, “Hey, Jane.” He said to the three of them, “I’m glad you all could make it. I could use your...”

His white eyes drifted away from the three of them as his focus went somewhere else, briefly. In that short moment, magic flared, and the entirety of his eyes shifted to white, his pupils becoming almost too small to see. And then he came back, smiling again, the same man that Jane had always known her whole life, trying to be happy for everyone else while he helped everyone else, and usually succeeded. Sometimes, she wondered if he was truly happy himself.

He said, “I could use your help. A few Treehome Elders have already shown and they’re up there, behind us.” He lifted his head toward the building in the back, saying, “Warchief Koropo is up there. Introduce yourself, Kiri. Show him Sunny. Ask what you can do to help and be diplomatic. Both of you go with her. Teressa, offer your [Witness] if he asks, though I don’t think he will. Jane, I don’t know what he would ask of you, but anything to show sincerity would be good.”

Kiri was polite as she said, “I think you should introduce us to him, Erick.”

“… Right!” Erick said, “Right. I should. Shouldn’t I? You’ve never met— I don’t know what I was thinking. I’m…” He looked away again, then came back, saying, “Everything is moving really fast right now.”

Jane said, “I’m not going anywhere, dad. I’m staying right here, silently observing, and guarding. When the people have gone to Candlepoint and all this ordeal is over, then we can consider optics and politics.”

Erick breathed in, then said, “That’s a better idea than the one I had. Yes. Let’s do that.” He rapidly added, “Thank you for coming in through the front… way…” He looked away again.

When he didn’t come back right away, Jane settled down to one side of her father. Teressa took the other. Kiri stepped to the back, while Sunny spread out around them all; not going too far, but not remaining too close, either.

Jane considered, briefly, the saturated world of color and power all around her, as she considered her own theoretical Domain. But mostly, she kept her eyes on the jumpy crowd and the tense soldiers.

Poi declared the man in front of him, “Not our problem.”

The man instantly roared, “But I—!”

Ophiel descended upon the man with bloody countermagics while soldiers to the sides descended with restrictive spells of capture and containment. The entire event was over in a moment, though the man was still alive, and still struggling. The bloody spells kept locking down the shadeling’s magics, as soldiers took him away, out of the line and out of sight.

Jane watched the whole thing happen, knowing that it was not her place to get involved, and so she didn’t.

Kiri, though, went pale at what she had seen. She hadn’t been ready for that.

Poi spoke to a scribe to the side, saying, “Name of Saldrock Waterammer. Cultist. His main offense was that he plotted the murders of an entire noble family over the course of the last three years in Portal, and that he is not done with that vendetta. He plans to keep killing everyone that was involved in a certain event in his life. You will have to give him to Portal, or the Pearl King, or coordinate with them for further action. They would know him as the Belt Killer, and the people he killed as House Harathin. He saw those murders as justice. And they might have been.” He said, “Either way, Portal would want that man. He is not our problem and we cannot harbor people like him.”

The scribe wrote everything down in the appropriate boxes, their eyes going a little wide at Poi’s proclamation. Jane’s eyes had gone a little wide, too, as had Kiri and Teressa’s and several other people both in line, and all around.

“Holy gods… First time for that. Waiting all day long for that to happen—” Erick sighed, saying, “Bound to happen eventually.” He asked, “Why did he think he could come through this line and not get caught?”

“I will not say.” Poi said, “If they don’t kill him right away, then all of that will likely come out at his trial, but it will not come out here, or from me. He did not consent to that when he consented to this Scan.”

The scribe asked, “Cultist connections?”

“Many, and varied. He knew Omaz and several others.”

The scribe said, “Then they probably won’t kill him right away.”

Erick said, “I want to see him delivered to Portal, eventually. He must face justice, and if he thought that he was doing justice, then I must ensure his trial isn’t a farce.”

Poi said, “I will inform Silverite, if you wish.”

Erick said, “Thank you, Poi.”

The scribe said, “I will mark down your wishes, Archmage.”

Jane silently watched as the next person came up to Poi, and Poi gave a tiny speech, asking for consent.

The woman in line said, “I give my consent.”

- - - -

Hours passed.

People died for deaths that they had caused and for which they desired to continue to commit. That desire to continue killing was the only thing that Poi called out, but the Sin Seekers of Treehome judged against all murder, and all Cult connection, no matter the situation or the circumstance. But at the end of the day, only thirty nine people were executed for their crimes.

All the rest went to Candlepoint.

