“Then you’re gonna want to talk to Zaraanka Checharin of the Pink House or the guildhouse. Human woman, likes to wear pink.” Slip pointed. “It’s that way.” He thumbed behind him, toward a squat, black building. “And that’s the Dark Temple. If you want to try your hand at turning back to what you were before, you go in there, and you might come out alive but you won’t come out whole. We got healers on standby for that. Try it or not, I don’t care.”

Deckari locked eyes with the Dark temple, then tentatively asked, “What about open worship?”

“Nonexistent.” Slip said, “I’m watching you. I’ve got you in my book.”

Deckari flinched, then said, “Heard and understood!”

Deckari strode off toward the Pink House, trying not to smile too wide.

The bright blue sky showed through gaps in the clouds, as a cool wind blew from the north, and shadelings lived out in the open, all around, without fear. Well. Maybe a little bit of fear. Deckari glanced up at a squadron of robe-type summoned creatures, hovering above the white Crystal in the center of town, while more robe-summons crawled out of the artifact’s white surface, to gather into more formations, to go wherever they were meant to go.

Deckari glanced around, and saw no other summons, though. Perhaps he was looking for the armored ones that he had seen, back when Candlepoint was ruled by a Shade.

Ophiel hovered high in the sky, in his diffuse lightform self, barely a glow on the sky as he watched the new addition to Candlepoint find his way, while spying on many other current events. Erick turned most of his attention back to his own body, though he was never too far away from any of his Ophiel.

- - - -

Erick wasn’t that far away from Yggdrasil, either.

But sometimes it felt like that to Yggdrasil. Possibly. Maybe. He wasn’t quite sure what anything felt like, except for the water, and the waves above, and the darkness and the light. He checked up on Erick almost all the time, keeping a [Scry] eye close and active to his creator, but that was not the same as being there. Which was fine. He didn’t think he liked moving all that much. When he tried flexing a branch, it was the most awful feeling in the world. It was like flexing a branch! And wasn’t that awful.

But when he grew that branch. Oh! That was practically wondrous. It was a sense of progress, a sense of distance passed, and a sense of being that much closer to the world around him.

There was a lot of world to get close to, after all, and he was so very small, with such very small thoughts. Thinking was a bit difficult, but he could still do it if he thought hard enough.

What was ‘thinking’, anyway?

He was certainly getting something resembling thoughts through his connection with Erick, but they were shadows of a truth that was just out of his reach. Erick spoke of waking from dreams, one time…

Or maybe Erick had thought that idea around a space currently occupied by Yggdrasil? And Yggdrasil had just picked it up?

Yggdrasil wasn’t quite sure.

He wasn’t quite sure about anything.

And what was going on with all the destruction happening around Erick right now, anyway? And those words he had spoken. End, and Peace. There had been Power in those words, and though the first one was interesting, the second one felt better. Like a firmament laying down, giving layered rise to new growths, where the tangled roots of possibility stretched out into time’s eyes and soaked through the matter of the world, drawing forth new perspectives in the tumbled light and shadows…

Yggdrasil imagined leaves and branching patterns of fractal might and other nebulous things, like people riding goats through the dark water and turning lights to flowers in the air, as shadows were people and people became shadows and the abyss was just the start of another, deeper world...

Ah.

It was time for dreams, apparently.

Yggdrasil didn’t quite sleep, but he wasn’t quite awake, either.

Even when he was awake, an argument could be made that he was actually, truly asleep.

- - - -

They had seen the battle in the sky, of course, for they had been out on the town at the time, but they had not participated except to make themselves scarce, and to then run back to the hotel after it was all over. It was only then that they got an update from Poi, and from others.

Jane frowned as Kiri repeated the news, after Teressa denied it wholeheartedly.

Kiri tore through her bag of clothes, muttering, “Where is my good dress—” She stopped, and rounded at Teressa, saying, “It’s true! And we need to prepare! Part of that is not looking like we just came off the street!”

Jane joked, “But we did just come off the street.”

“You!!!” Kiri ignored Jane as she ripped into her second bag.

“It can’t be true.” Teressa said, “Erick wouldn’t— He wouldn’t do that? He wouldn’t help the Cult? Against Treehome?”

Jane said, “If he had a good enough reason, I’m sure he would have.” She added, “And if we’re going to war, what’s the point of clothes?”

“Only you would say that! We’re not at war yet, so don’t go putting us at war when we could step back from the edg—” Kiri stopped tearing into her second bag of clothes, saying, “Right! I have [Clothe]!”

She shimmered like a magical princess, and Jane was a little bit jealous when she came out of that shimmer wearing earrings made of silver and diamonds and green gems darker than her scales, along with a classy, white dress.

“Ah ha!” Kiri said, “I knew I brought it!” She kicked her bag to the side of the room, venting her anger just a bit.

Jane said, “Why did you ever bring that?”

Kiri rounded on Jane, saying, “Because I knew that sometimes our battles would not be ones of swords or spells, Jane.” Kiri dropped her anger like it was poison, for it was, and adopted a perfect facade of poise and grace, as she said, “This is going to be a battle of politics and nobility well before it turns into a war of swords and spells, and if you can’t do that, then you should stick to the shadows and stick to what you’re good at, but I, for one, am going to stand by Erick with all of my might.” A Sunny coiled around her neck, becoming both a necklace and a scarf, as Kiri turned to Teressa, saying, “And you! What’s your damage? Erick told us that he is helping the shadelings. Not that he is helping the Cult!”

“But all the shadelings in the commune are a part of the cult.” Teressa said, “That’s what everyone is saying.”

“Obviously you have been lied to.” Jane said, “If they were a part of the Cult, then they wouldn’t have been changed to shadelings by taking in multiple New Stats.”

“Okay. Okay.” Teressa said, “Probably. But Erick went and stepped right into all of it… Erick wouldn’t do anything too crazy, would he?”

Kiri’s eyes went fractionally wider, but they could have gone much wider than that.

Teressa said, “Okay. I realize how stupid I just sounded.” She went to her room, saying, “I know I brought something...”

Jane said, “I’m not playing dress up.”

Kiri deflated the perfect amount to show displeasure as she looked Jane up and down, and said, “Please get over yourself and put on something better than leathers and dirt. Before the day is done, we will either be fighting for our lives, or talking to people a thousand rungs higher on the social ladder than us. [Conjure Armor] can make up for the first eventuality, but it will not do for the second. They will look down on us if we wear fake clothes. They always do.”

Teressa called out from her room, “Orcol society isn’t as shitty as your own, Kiri.”

“And yet you’re still changing!”

“… And yet I am still changing.”

Kiri glared at Jane.

Jane frowned, then went to her room.

In two minutes, the three of them were ready. Kiri, with her classy white dress and surrounded by floating couatl-shaped Sunnys. Jane, in a black dress with a slit up the side that made moving easy and could be discarded at a moment’s notice for [Polymorph]ing. Teressa, in a three-piece suit of grey with silver accents.

Jane said, “I like that, Teressa.”

“It’s my uniform for official parties. Cost way too much.”

Kiri asked, “We ready? I’ve scouted a good location and I’m blipping us close, but not too close.”

“What the fuck?” Jane asked. “Just get us right in there next to dad.”

Kiri said, “We’ll have to walk in, Jane. That place is laced with [Teleport Trap]s of the ‘instantly clasped in irons’ variety. I didn’t get to see much of it because they popped Sunny several times, but some trio of noble-looking orcols blipped right into the commune, right where some guards were waiting for them, and then other guards came in and locked them all in chains, including the ones that allowed the others to come into the commune. If we blip in there, then we will be roughly escorted to a tiny cell, and besides that! I got a chance to speak to him, as I’m sure you did, too, and Erick has asked us to be as polite as possible… But if things look to go bad, then… We’ll figure something out. If things do go wrong, Erick will probably be better off without us there… Maybe we shouldn’t go at all.” Kiri asked, “So. Are we going in? Are we doing this? This is dangerous.”

“I’m going in, and you two are welcome to join me.” Jane said, “If nothing else, I can be another pair of eyes to watch my father’s back.”

Teressa tried a joke to lighten the mood, “Silverite would kill me if Erick died on us and I wasn’t there to protect him.”

“Good. I thought so, but… Yeah. I need to be there, too. I couldn’t live with myself if I didn’t go and he ended up needing me.” Kiri said, “Short-term spells, then.”

Jane started running a few spells. Teressa did the same. All three women steeled themselves, and then a couatl touched each of them, and then they were gone, out of their hotel room at Arbor O’kabil, and onto a flat spot of land in the middle of nowhere, that was slightly in sight of the commune.

“Ah. Shit.” Jane said, “That looks bad.”

Across a few hills, past a sparse treeline, was a land of broken shadows and solid light, surrounded by icy stone and even more solid light. Rain fell, but it was a light drizzle.

“It’s worse up close.” Kiri said, “They’re shooting down everything that flies over there.”

As if her words summoned the action, several sparkling spells exploded in small amounts over the commune.

“Just like that,” Kiri said. “More [Scry] eyes, maybe.”

Teressa grunted. It was go-time, and she had few words to spare, anyway.

Jane took the lead.

They met a blockade within moments of passing over the first hill. A low wall of hastily-erected stone had been put up by someone, then manned by guards standing atop that low wall. Their wall wasn’t even the largest one in the area; that designation belonged to the jailing wall that formed the second concentric ring around the commune, past the wall that directly surrounded the commune. The middle wall, the jailing wall and all the guard barracks and towers there, had been broken by some large-scale magics. The commune’s wall was barely visible, but what was visible were ruins and rubble. Where those structures had been broken, solid light had filled the gaps.

“Halt!” said a man in solid, wooden armor, next to the outer wall. He held a spear at the ready as the three women appeared. Him and seven of his guard buddies turned toward Jane, Kiri, and Teressa. “No interference! Leave now, or be locked in chains until this is all over! The other prisons are not full, at all! We can always make more rooms.”

Kiri stepped forward, half a step, saying, “We are here as associates of Archmage Erick Flatt, and wish clear entry into the contested zone. Please allow us entry.”

“Fuck that Cultist lover! We have no obligation to him!” The guard stepped toward them, again, shouting louder, “If you wanted entry in there, that was a bad lie to try! That place is rigged to blow if anyone tries to ‘port in, so don’t go trying that, either.” He stabbed his spear forward. Lightning crackled from the tip and struck the ground in front of Kiri, scattering dirt on her dress. He shouted, “Leave!”

The other guards focused on the three women, though some kept their eyes open for people coming from other directions. They were all on high alert.

Kiri simply asked, “Is there a way to procure travel inside, using legal means?”

“No.” The man brandished his spear. It crackled with electricity. “Leave.”

Kiri half-turned, then said, “Then we are leaving.”

And then she did.

When they were far enough away, Kiri whispered to Jane and Teressa, “There’s another place down the way. We’ll try there.”

Teressa asked, “Rigged to blow?”

“A lie.” Jane said, “I can see the spells they have beyond there, and those look like [Force Trap] but with [Bind] and a few other spells to them. Hard to tell from this far away.”

“They didn’t look like the deadly kinds of traps to me, either.” Teressa said, “I was just wondering if either of you two saw what I saw, too. But that man seemed convinced of what he was telling us.”

“That’s what they told him those spells were,” Jane said. “It’s not lying if you don’t know you’re lying.”

Kiri sighed, “I need [Mana Sight], don’t I?”

“Yup.” “Yes.”

When they were close to the next attempt, Kiri said, “You’ll take the lead on this next try, Jane. Or maybe you, Teressa? You two interacted with that guy more than I did. One of your friends, from the Hunt.”

Jane had looked excited, but then paused. “Who? Which one?”

“That guy. What’s-his-name. The one you actually went Hunting with.”

“… Oh.” Jane said, “We’re not friends.”

Teressa snorted. “Oh yeah. They’re not friends.”

“Gods above and all around, Jane!” Kiri found herself pushed over an edge, and spat, “Why the fuck can’t you be friendly?”

“I tried!”

“She did try.” Teressa said, “But he kept stealing her kills.”

Jane waved a hand, adding, “And then things just sort of… Escalated.”

Kiri locked down her stronger emotions, and said, “Whatever. We’re still trying your not-friend. Try to be friendly, please.”

- - - -

“Kordon!” Jane called out, “My ashy friend!”

The next attempt at the encircling wall was a kilometer to the west, a kilometer closer to Treehome, and Arbor Home’s District. In this place, there were roads and the hills had buildings on them, and Kiri, Teressa, and Jane, were not the only people standing far away from the third encircling wall of the commune, watching the guards, and the land beyond.

