“Oh…” Erick’s mirth took a dive. He said, “I am sorry about Pearlchan. I don’t think I said that yet. I heard, but— I am sorry for your loss.”

Riri went unreadable for a brief moment, and then she relaxed. She softly said, “Thank you, Erick. She was a beloved pet, and I will miss her.” She found some of her fire, and her words turned lively, “Don’t misunderstand. I don’t mean ‘if you find another Radiant Variant I want it for a pet’. I won’t grow attached like that again. This time I mean to have the [Polymorph] form.”

Erick nodded, then said, “I’ll keep a lookout.”

Xue smirked as he looked between Riri and Erick, then said, “She ca—”

Riri frowned at Xue, sighing deeply, loud enough to interrupt him.

Xue continued, “She can afford three times that.”

Not wanting to get involved in this spat, Erick said, “Oh, I know she can. But I’m already getting million gold offers to conjure up some white mountains around here. It’s not about the money. I’m already fantastically rich.”

Xue laughed.

Riri asked Erick, “Are you looking to spend that money in ways that will make you more money? We’ve got investment opportunities everywhere.”

Erick chuckled, then paused, and considered. A moment later, he said, “I already spent a lot on Red Ledger, maybe I should look into investment opportunities. Do you have any investment opportunities like that?”

Xue asked, “What was your goal there? Exactly?”

A lot of people at the table were interested in Erick’s answer. Heck! A lot of the entirety of Songli was wondering why Erick got involved in Red Ledger’s University. Erick hadn’t answered those inquiries yet, because words were kinda hollow compared to actions, but here was a good time to say a few good words on the subject.

Erick said, “I gave them money to gain oversight control on an institution which heals people, because I want Red Ledger to continue doing their good work, and I wish to be involved in that good work.” Erick said, “The other reason I chose to help them is because the financial truth of Red Ledger’s hospitals and university is a lot more difficult than I think it needs to be, with injured people unable to pay their bills all over the place, which means that Red Ledger is unable to pay their bills. They used to supplement their income with the warriors of the clan going out and killing monsters for cores, and hunting many of their own herbs and stuff like that. But because of Terror Peaks, that lifeline of warriors is no more. Therefore, I have stepped into that role.

“My hope is that they can do what they need to do to heal people, without worrying too much about the financials, because making money off of a hospital is the very opposite of what I want in life. If anything, I hope to provide enough resources so that Red Ledger can operate more like Oceanside’s hospital; where treatment is free unless you’re rich. It’s probably gonna take some time for Red Ledger to understand my desires for how I want them to be, but Patriarch Tsung seems amenable to much of what I want from them.” He turned to Riri, “So if you got opportunities for me to make money to allow others to heal without worry, then tell me what you got.”

As others around the table absorbed Erick’s words and prepared to speak to him, Riri was already there, talking.

Opportunities abounded in Songli for the casual investor, with options everywhere, from small scale hospitality-based buy-ins with percentage based returns, to shareholder systems for larger scale operations, like Star Song’s spider house, or the trade school houses of Diligent Scribe. She even spoke of ways for Erick to make money that were focused on his ability as an archmage, instead of his riches, which was, arguably, the most solid way for him to make money. Selling services is always a valid money making ‘scheme’.

As they spoke business, other people around the table spoke of their own opportunities when they gained a moment to interject, but Riri was the queen of gold at this particular table, and everyone else toiled at her pleasure. Star Song, and Songli, all had prosperity aplenty; all one had to do was buy into the system.

Before Erick knew it, the second and third courses were served and eaten, and dessert was wheeled out on silver carts, along with after-dinner coffee.

As the evening wound down, Xue eventually said to Erick, “We never got to do any blood enchanting at all.”

“Ah. Yeah.” Erick said, “I’ll be back in town eventually, but I’ve never been good at enchanting, anyway.”

Xue laughed. “It’s heartening to know that you’re bad at something.”

Erick chuckled.

It was a good night.

- - - -

Erick shot awake.

He checked on everything around him, slamming on [Hunter’s Instincts], then preparing himself with all the rest of his usual spells. Ophiels went from fluffy feathered to knife-edged, instantly spreading out into the world, trying to find whatever had woken Erick.

He searched the sky. He searched the clan mountain underneath. He searched the other houses of the nobles on top of the mountain. He searched his room with every spell imaginable, and when that wasn’t enough, he had an Ophiel fly into his room and activate a [Lodestar] empowered [Fulmination Aura], designating himself as friendly.

A lightning mandala materialized around Erick. Shimmering arcs of electricity ripped through the room, smashing apart the water clock in the corner, breaking a window, spilling across the walls like so many sparks, ripping across clothes and fabrics and books and setting the bed on fire. Erick let it happen.

But nothing died.

Soon enough, he turned off the lightning.

He was alone.

He had ripped his room up? Ah. Shit.

Shame lodged itself into his heart, with a smaller stab of shame piercing his brain from behind. Cold ice trailed across his skin as he realized what he had done. Oh. Shit.

This wasn’t good.

A [Mending Aura] brought back the room to its original state, though some of the books were on the ground, and some of the clothes had fallen off of their hooks. The water clock had spilled its now-steaming liquid contents all over the floor.

Erick sat there, on his bed, and tried to silence the unnatural worry inside his head. No one had tripped any alarms. Nothing was out there. Nothing was happening.

“… Boss?” Teressa called from outside the closed door to his room.

Erick called back, “Nothing is happening! Sorry for waking you!”

“… Okay,” Teressa said, nicely. “Well I’m awake now and it’s only an hour till sunrise. Want breakfast?”

Erick canceled [Hunter’s Instincts] and pulled Ophiel off of high alert. He got out of bed, saying, “Yeah. I want breakfast.” He opened the door and saw Teressa standing there, along with Poi behind her and Jane down the hall. Motes of light fell out of Jane’s hand, going from the shape of a sword back to ambient mana. Erick repeated, “Sorry for waking everyone.”

Breakfast was a subdued affair.

Afterward, Erick spent the day fixing every little problem he could imagine.

He made sure that Devouring Nightmare set up a stone box where Erick could place [Personal Delirium Charm]s without needing to hand them directly to Warzi, or anyone else.

He prodded the Alchemists of Star Song about their chelation advancements, because he wanted to know what, exactly, they thought their chelation molecule looked like. He found that they weren’t working with calcium disodium EDTA, but they were working with something similar, and it would work, eventually.

He spent four hours in the afternoon with Riri, going over various investment opportunities. At the end of it all, he decided on spending 1.5 million gold in ten different markets. They were stable investments, only; nothing risky. Farming businesses, building contractors, streets with businesses that Star Song owned that could use money to make better products, gathering squads that pay people to go out and harvest natural resources like cores from monsters, and the like. In a year, the income from those investments should go a long way toward providing for Red Ledger’s yearly shortfall.

After spending all that money, though, Erick felt rather light in the bank, because he was. Only a quarter million gold left in his account! So he decided to fix that problem in the same way he had fixed the problem before, but with a little adjustment. After all, this part of the world had no crystal mimics.

He didn’t even have to stop farming because of nightfall. He just kept going. There were more monsters out at night, anyway.

That he didn’t feel like sleeping due to nightmares was just a coincidence.

- - - -

In the Tribulations, where monsters roamed deep green valleys filled with mist, and wild mountain peaks poked above that fog like islands in an ocean, Erick hunted at a distance. The sun had long since set, but work was never done.

Ophiels flew surrounded by [Domain of the Withering Slime], each of them like a white moon flying across the misty oceans, trailing a tsunami of thick air with them. That air touched mist stone gluttons and ripped water out of the monsterized lizards, most violently. The rock, air, and water elementals became broken sand, while [Cleanse]s pulsed out of the remains, briefly brushing aside the ever present mist.

Kill Notifications scrolled past Erick’s eyes like a blue rain.

In the wake of such destruction, came helpers; a tide of stone-like summons, preying on the dead. Each summon looked like a torso-sized quartz crystal with a hundred telekinetic tendrils, while each tendril was tipped with a stone knife, all the better to dig into dried and desiccated bodies, to get at the treasure within. None of them were very good at what they did, so Erick summoned thousands upon thousands of them, instead.

His name was Jewels, and the tide of him sparkled under misty moonlight; it was a beautiful sight.

Summon Jewels, instant, close range, 720 MP

Summon a creation of hardy stone that will retrieve a large amount of rads from as many monsters it can, while it can. Lasts 1 hour.

Erick had barely used Jewels except for this exact scenario; when he needed to gather all of the rads/cores from all the monsters he killed. Jewels stuck every core he found to his quartz-like body, gathering up as many as he could, before his time in this world was used up, and he dissipated back into the mana, dropping all of his cores where he was.

This functionality would have been a problem for most people; It was not a problem for Erick.

A [Cascade Imaging] in the sky, tracking cores, easily found every pile of cores every Jewels left behind.

While mist stone gluttons were the normal monster in the Tribulations, there were others. Erick killed them all. He came across a few Deep Hydras in the deeper valleys, with their spewing poison and their multiple grand cores. He discovered some monsterized people, too; cannibals who had lost their minds and their souls to the mana. He found colonies of couatls and gatherings of vulture-like birds.

All died under the [Domain of the Withering Slime].

All cores were gathered.

In the morning, all of those cores were deposited at the Clan Exchange of Songli; the Mage Guild.

The final count for small cores was a little under 7000; each of them was worth 3 gold, or 5 mana, depending on how a person used them. This small number of small cores was to be expected. There weren’t many smaller monsters in the Tribulations.

Of normal cores, each worth 5 gold, or 10 mana, there were 945,000.

In a single night and a bit of the next morning, Erick had restocked his bank account.

The sun was shining. Birds and Ophiel were singing.

Now this was a good time to take a nap; in the daytime, when nothing could get him in the dark.

This was a perfectly normal response to trauma caused by the dark things of the world, yes sir!

Erick slept all the way to midnight and woke up in another cold sweat. There, once again in the dark, Erick foresaw many more days of this shit.

He whispered to himself, “Dammit.”

- - - -

Erick did not get back to sleep that night. Instead, he stayed awake and theorycrafted some spells in order to better defend himself while he tried to sleep. Maybe with enough proper defenses, he wouldn’t have nightmares anymore.

It wasn’t paranoia if they truly were out to get you!

Anyway.

Out in the field, he could probably use some illusions to mask his presence; to actually hide [Prismatic Ward] and [Sealed Privacy Ward] from mana senses and other Sight spells. But then again… [True Sight] had served Erick well when hunting Terror Peaks soldiers, but high level illusions, like that of the Mirage Dragon, seemed to be able to get around [True Sight]’s ability to see through magical effects. Perhaps high level illusions actually (temporarily) manifested whatever it was the illusion pretended to be?

Sure.

Sounded plausible.

Erick grumbled as another thought hit him, that only served to reinforce his trepidation into expanding his illusion repertoire. High grade illusions would help to obscure any possible camp out in the field, but they did nothing to protect him while he was inside his house, where everyone knew he lived.

So Illusions were a no-go for defensive work. He wanted true defenses; not the false defenses of being invisible to the world.

His thoughts instantly locked on to [Draining Undertow], and its ability to drain everyone of their resources, and also reinforce itself in the process. It was almost a Permanent effect, too.

The ‘Undertow’ effect could probably be attached to any type of framework, too. Forget [Renew] as a Basic Spell. With Undertow, he could revolutionize defensive spells the world over… or at least make his own sleeping space rather damn well protected.

But how to expand upon this framework? Which direction would be best to go in, first?

There was, perhaps, at least one apparent use for an Undertow line of spells, and the idea was not just an idea born of Undertow, but from the very first magic that he was exposed to when he came to Songli: the Void Song.

The Void Song could negate magic around itself. It was a constant counterspell and dispeller of varying effectiveness, with the only true limit to the anti-magic effect being the power behind the caster of the Song, and how much mana they were willing to put into such a working.

But with Undertow…

There was probably some effective limit to what Undertow was able to do; the Propagation Ban was right there, after all.

But, with Undertow as made… And with the Void Song…

Erick might be able to make an Abyssal Void Song Rift.

With the Void Song singing from that Rift, Erick would automatically counterspell and [Dispel] every single magic in the area of the Rift!

Oh!

