And he could also add in some designating capabilities, too, with [Ward], so that he could cast the Rift in a specific spot, like around himself at night, without having it affect any of his people. Once emplaced, the spell would automatically drain the resources from every single unauthorized person who got too close, and also shut down all of their spellwork with a constant counterspell. If he made the rift well enough, or perhaps if he just added enough Shaping and size to the resulting spell, he could have it stretch out to a very, very large distance—

Oh!

And with a [Spatial Denial] spell to supplement the Rift, he could make a spell that would simultaneously prevent anyone from blipping directly next to him, as well as drain the resources from anyone who braved the [Spatial Denial]!

Ohhh… This would be a complicated spell, but it wasn’t complicated like [Renew] was complicated. [Renew] was touching upon Wizardry, because it dealt with aspects of magic that were fundamentally not compatible, like the fact that everyone casts spells differently. It was like every single person used different electrical outlets. One needed an adapter, usually in the shape of some magical item or an artifact, in order to circumvent that innate disparity.

[Abyssal Void Antimagic Rift] would be complicated, but in the way of putting together a large machine would be complicated. A lot of moving parts in that spell, but all the moving parts naturally worked well together.

As soon as the idea fully manifested in his mind, even knowing that he didn’t have all the pieces, Erick knew he had to make it work.

Like.

Yes.

The paranoia was digging deep into his brain matter and having its way with his psyche. Erick was not senseless. He acknowledged this. But he was a target, as evident by the several assassination attempts he had survived so far, ever since he came to Veird.

Erick just needed to experiment a bit more with Elemental Void to see how it worked to ‘[Dispel]’ without actually ‘[Dispel]ing’. The spell [Dispel] was Shadow based, so however Void managed this was outside of Erick’s expertise. At an educated guess, though, he imagined that Void would simply rip apart opposing spells with pure elemental force, instead of anything approaching spell-based force.

He could probably rip apart spells with his own [Physical Domain], too, but he had never tried it.

… He decided to try that before he tried making an Undertow Rift.

To that end, Erick first waited till everyone else was awake, and then he had Poi send a message off to Matriarch Lingxing Void Song, to ask if she, or someone under her, would be willing to show him a bit about how the Void Song worked.

Erick got a quick reply. Lingxing herself would answer his questions for about an hour, if he allowed one of her own people to join in their meeting.

He… tentatively agreed.
