Dancing. It wasn’t like Lyonette or Erin had a monopoly on the stuff. Plenty of people had moves. The kind of moves that a stuffy [Princess] and lame [Innkeeper] couldn’t dream of. They just didn’t choose to show it off—
Or danced with any regularity or practice. That was fine because they had lives.
It was just…when someone achieved something like learning a magical dance, and it spread around, it made everyone else think, ‘I could do that’. And wonder what they’d been doing with their time.
Sometimes it was a silly thought, especially if you were someone like the Archmage of Izril. But then you could see Valeterisa and Relc dancing in the common room of the inn for practice. Most of Valeterisa’s thoughts agreed she’d never actually have the time to devote to learning a magical dance, at least not hard ones. But they still thought it was worth doing.
The same for a certain young man with sandy hair who was doing the robot dance moves to an appreciative audience.
“Told you I’ve got moves. See? So, uh, how cool is the magic dance?”
Not-Kevin turned, and few people had actually seen it—the Thronebearers and Xinthe were keeping mum about it, and not even Mrsha the All-Knowing knew. But she was just whirling around with Visma and Ekirra until they fell over.
The little Gnoll cub and lead [Striker] of the Little Crabs had been sad most of the spring. He played in his game, and he was still one of the top players being headhunted by other cities for the little league division of football, but he didn’t run around and put his nose in everything like before.
His parents had been worried because he’d been eating less. But then he’d cheered up recently and put on weight again. No one knew why, and the [Healer] had put it down to childhood, some incident at the playgrounds. Ekirra didn’t talk about it, even to Mrsha or Visma.
He just glanced at the young man dancing and doing Golem-like moves now and then and sniffed the air. And Not-Kevin peeked guiltily at Ekirra as he danced next to Coach Joseph.
Kevin had to be dead, of course. Ekirra had gone to the funeral. The Gnoll didn’t run over and say something because he had a big thought that maybe if [Assassins] killed someone once, they’d do it again. And that, whether anyone noticed it or not, was a Gnoll boy growing a bit older.
There was indeed nothing happy in the inn without sadness waiting in the corner to kick you in the groin and run away.
Even Ishkr was dancing. Trying to do the Highstepper, actually, in the ballroom—he’d bothered and begged someone to help him, and the only person who had anything close to good footwork besides Lyonette, Ilvriss, and the [Knights] was Elia Arcsinger.
She’d given it a go, and so had he—but after two tries and banged shins, they retired to the inn. Ishkr looked disconsolate. Liska was laughing at him, having taken a break to mock her brother. He retorted by asking if she could dance with her new girlfriend at all. Which prompted an existential crisis in Liska—but that was just an amusing affair which occurred in Mirn’s new bar later. Small potatoes.
Ishkr didn’t talk about his thoughts either, most of the time. But he was a bit upset. The dancing didn’t really grab him, but…it was just a reminder. He could see Lyonette and Ilvriss advancing in levels, and he had, for once, slowed. He needed to find his own spark.
“Well, well, look at all the copycats. One simply performs one magical dance and there goes all the mockery.”
Lyonette was gloating in the common room. She pointedly stared at Nanette and Hethon, and the witch flushed, missed her steps, and headbutted Hethon in the chest. There was laughter, merriment, and Wall Lord Ilvriss was sitting at a table, drinking a goat’s milk with his collar parted, no longer weeping. Just…smiling.
An Erin Solstice party, if quieter without Erin. It was not a major victory, but the inn celebrated minor ones because they knew they were important. And, in fact, Ilvriss finally caught one of the guests of the inn who’d been avoiding him.
He was glancing up at the ceiling when he turned.
“Tessa, is that you?”
The Named-rank adventurer wasn’t hiding in the rafters. She was just…sitting in a corner of the inn. She blinked at him.
“Ilvriss, hi.”
“How are you?”
He immediately got up and walked over, and she shrugged.
“Bad. But I’m not dead.”
“You’re still, ah, what’s the word? Detoxing? In withdrawal?”
“Eating shit.”
The Named-ranker moodily stabbed at her plate. Lyonette had bought takeout, another part of Calescent’s time-off strategy. The [Chef] didn’t seem to mind; he was joining the dancers, and he and Bird were dancing.
“Heard you were digging. Got anyone you need dead? I’m not allowed to adventure because I’m ‘suicidal’. Doctor’s orders. I told her that’s normal for adventurers, but she didn’t listen.”
That was all Tessa said. Ilvriss chewed on a response.
“Well, we have a Terland problem. Ulva Terland, and we’ve had [Ranchers] fighting us…”
“Want me to try to take her out?”
“Er…I don’t know if you could.”
“Probably not. I’m bored.”
That was the signal for Lyonette to stride over, plop herself down, and turn to Tessa.
“You didn’t want to dance with me, Tessa, even for practice while Ilvriss was gone! If you’re still bored, we could play a board game or try more activities on our list.”
“Eh.”
The road to recovery was long and, at times, boring, which seemed to be one of the harder battles for the Drake. But Ilvriss was encouraged by the fact that Tessa was actually just sitting there and talking. Even to the other members of staff who came by. In fact, Inkpaper kept coming over to deliver the food.
“I’ve never seen Inkpaper willingly serving food.”
Ilvriss commented, and Lyonette pulled a face.
“He likes Tessa because she asks for something once every six hours at most. She likes him because he leaves her alone. She’s been making book-forts in his library.”
“…You have a library?”
“Of course! Haven’t you seen…? This way!”
The two left to visit the library, and the common room kept being merry without them. Aside from Captain Todi instantly pulling something out. He spread a sheaf of papers down.
“Alright, bets on who thinks those two are gettin’ together?”
He was running a gambling operation, and a lot of the staff and guests crowded around. Menolit had used to do it, but he’d been casual. Todi had made it an illicit operation.
He was also trying to con the odds, so he’d sidled over to bug Menolit, the [Wingman], for his opinion. He also went to pester another expert in love, at least where her mother was concerned.
Mrsha just threw a fry at Todi. She was sitting at a table, sighing over a letter. Eventually, she stopped turning the weather-worn piece of mail over. It had come a long way to reach her, via numerous City Runners, and was beaten up. But then, she’d had [Messages] blocked…she eventually tore open the letter from the Demas Metal tribe and read.
Chieftain Mrell did not know how to write letters to his daughter. Fair enough, she’d almost never responded. So he wrote the letter like a man writing a report.
Blah blah, hoping you’re well, mother is…Mrsha scowled at the writing, then paused when she read something.
 
…We have a wind-powered autohammer finally up and running. It’s loud as can be, has less force than a Level 30 [Blacksmith] with the [Power Hammer] Skill—and it turns off every time the wind isn’t blowing decently hard.
But it’s a start. From what we’ve seen in the place, the real thing will move metal better than what the Dwarves can do, and I’ve seen the ones they have in Dwarfhalls Rest. We’re behind them.
Improving it all is slow. Painfully. We need to get all the materials we don’t have, and we’re bottled by that and technique and magic—everything. But we have time, so far. Chieftain Feshi’s just digging, but Adetr and I are the ones pushing the industry to the next level.
I could maybe send more Demas Metal for this Wall Lord if you were still in need of it. Please let me know…
 
She supposed she had to write him a response. Clever. The Gnoll girl was penning a response when she heard an argument. She glanced up briefly, snorted.
In typical fashion, Ilvriss had gone up to the library and snooted all over it. He and Lyonette were arguing because she’d stocked mostly books from Terandria and northern Izril—no Drake authors. Or Gnollish, which had made the [Princess] embarrassed.
“Mrsha! Can you believe this Drake? He’s doing it again! It’s not ‘politely pointing things out’, it’s classic Salazsarian arrogance, Ilvriss!”
“I didn’t say you had to have more books, and I know you can afford them, Lyonette. You lack for almost any Gnollish authors, so you can’t claim it’s me being a Drake supremacist. Mrsha, back me up—”
The Gnoll girl patently ignored the adults. She eventually waved a quill at her mother.
Why don’t you go and play with Wall Lord Ilvriss somewhere else, Mom? Don’t you have, like, [Cattle Raiders] in shitsville to deal with?
“Mrsha! How dare—are they still attacking you, Ilvriss?”
He hesitated.
“Actually? Less. We have, uh, some decent brawlers, and the Silverfangs are, well, Gnolls. Good at fighting and used to cattle raids. Even besides that, I feel like they’ve lost interest or something. It’s barely two a week right now. But it’s still a huge problem.”
“Darn. Colfa? Can’t you get them to stop?”
“Get [Ranchers] to stop stealing cows. Lyonette, I don’t try to stop you from…beating up innocent chairs? Or Ilvriss from using bidets. You might as well tell a [Thief] to keep his hands out of the till. They don’t stop, and Marvus’ Skill will keep them popping back up. You’re not hurting them.”
The adults were talking around Mrsha’s table as she furiously wrote to her father about the annoyances surrounding her. However, Mrsha was listening, and her ears perked up as Lyonette hmmed.
“It reminds me of Kaliv, honestly. Or Gaiil-Drome.”
“Your allies? Don’t you all get along in the Dawn Concordat?”
“Please, Ilvriss. You know allies.”
“Ah. Quite. I suppose recent events have kept you all friendlier. How bad is it in peace?”
“Griffins, wild or tamed, sniping Calanfer’s own herds—Kaliv always wants more food. And Gaiil-Drome are half-Elves.”
Colfa propped her hands on her hips, amused.
“Not a lot of meat-eaters around there, I’d wager. Even if I know Ceria’s different, don’t half-Elves eschew meat culturally?”
“They do, so they ‘liberate’ plants or animals. It’s actually worse than Kaliv. Before you laugh—imagine a half-Elf wanders around your town, city, hamlet, and sees some magnificent pumpkin that’s too good for you to just eat. It’d make seedlings and grow so beautifully, so they just…take it. Or they find this darling cat, and since you’re a damned Human, they walk off with it.”
“What, they steal pets?”
“We’ve had decades-long border conflicts over it. Ugh. That’s what a Thronebearer is good for.”
“Well, how does Calanfer deal with them?”
“Mostly, we negotiate, have level-headed people on the other kingdom’s sides sort it out. But if we need to, we’re not above being petty. One time, we had eight Thronebearers infiltrate Gaiil-Drome’s palace and steal the [Queen]’s favorite Sariant Lamb! She was hosted at the Eternal Throne and liked it so much that after eight months, she didn’t want to go home. That’s how you poke them back. Say…”
Lyonette went still, then she tapped her lips thoughtfully.
“…Poke them back. Ilvriss, you’ve never so much as fired an arrow the [Ranchers]’ way, have you? No wonder they’re so emboldened.”
“If you’re suggesting I ride out and beat them up on the job, Lyonette, that sounds like a good way to start an all-out fight. And they’re just itching for an excuse to escalate, some of the hotheads. We can’t survive a [Rancher] war, even if I do have actual [Soldiers].”
Ilvriss was cautious, but Mrsha’s head rose as she cottoned onto her mother’s line of thought. She held up a card.
Yo, Mom. Are you pondering what I’m pondering?
The Gnoll girl had the card handed back to her.
“Mrsha, I told you, your language is slipping! Don’t ‘yo’ me.”
The card was amended and handed back.
I don’t wanna hear that from you. I’ve heard you swear. Don’t make me tell Ilvriss your idea and pretend I came up with it.
Her daughter was getting so…Lyonette scowled, but hurried to explain.
“Ilvriss, Colfa. Hear me out, and if it’s a bad idea, we’ll say no more of it. But what if we gave the Lischelles a taste of their own medicine?”
The [Princess] leaned forwards. Colfa’s eyes lit up, and she gave Lyonette a wickedly sharp grin. Ilvriss frowned.
“That sounds exactly like one of Dramm’s stupid ideas, Lyonette.”
She shoved one shoulder.
“Don’t be rude, Ilvriss! I’m not done, and we’ll do it far more cleverly.”
“You’re right, I apologize, that was way over the line. Dead gods, I am snarky.”
The adults conferred, then ran off like excited children to make plans. Mrsha sighed as Visma and Ekirra joined her at the table. Visma fanned herself as she tugged at her dress, and Ekirra put down some paperwork on the table. Homework for school.
“The adults being silly again?”
Yup. It’s good for them, so I indulge Mother.
Visma nodded seriously.
“I should tell my mother to take a break more.”
They turned to Ekirra to say something profoundly old and questioning the maturity of their alleged seniors. He screwed his face up.
“I, uh, I gotta file my taxes! Darn taxes, taking all my money.”
The two girls sighed and nodded wisely.
Taxes.
 
——
 
Ilvriss was always refreshed when he came back from Liscor. It was a noticeable thing, such that everyone in the expedition had begun talking about ‘going to Liscor’ when referring to any time off.
There had been envy, of course, for the Wall Lord getting to leave the cowpat crusted lands—and lest one think this was an exaggeration, no. Given the amount of bovines and other grazers, someone had once calculated that the Cowpat Plains’ topsoil was probably at least 1/8th manure in some stage of decomposition.
However, recent events had changed things. Vacation days were still a luxury, but they weren’t being fought over as hard. Amenities had come to the campsite.
Working toilets, pumped water from wells, cooling spells and recreation thanks to Lady Damia, and the undead attacks and [Rancher] brawls had slowed. In fact…one look at someone like Foreman Rolx walking around with his new pickaxe or seeing him at work, shoulder-to-shoulder with the rest of the [Miners] now trying to even keep up with him, and you felt it.
