“Camp? I’m just feeling it, Asrira. I must have rolled out of bed after some good sleep or something—ah, Welsca?”
“Wall Lord! We’re ready to work, sir. I’ve gotten ahead on several initiatives, and I’d like to consult with you on the equipment—we’re due in Liscor tomorrow, and I took the liberty of preparing against another [Rancher] assault.”
Welsca and half his staff were in fine fettle. Like Ilvriss, they’d cleared their work queues, and only when Ilvriss saw a sleepy Drake jogging to keep up with Welsca and glancing at her sidelong did he realize they were way too energetic for…for…
The culprit was still at the officer’s mess tables. Damia Reinhart barely peeked up when Ilvriss isolated the originator of the Skill.
“Lady Damia, do we have you to thank for this burst in motivation?”
It was her new Skill, according to Miss Binevy, but the anxious Human was standing by her [Lady], and Lady Damia, who had a new class and Skills and would normally be over the moon about such things…
“Yeah I guess.”
Ilvriss paused. He jerked his head.
“I’d love to talk further, Lady Damia, and I’ve the energy to do a walkabout if you do?”
It took Damia several moments to respond, and she listlessly spooned her food around her plate. Her hair was uncombed, and she was wearing pajamas, he realized. She gave him the most flat gaze he’d ever seen as she raised her head.
“Nah. What’s the point?”
“Er…”
Binevy whispered anxiously.
“She overdid it, Wall Lord! Her [Pass On Enthusiasm] Skill—I think she did it too much!”
Ah. Never let it be said Damia was anything but a hoot. Ilvriss hesitated, then patted Damia on the shoulder.
“I can see you’re in need of rest, Lady Damia. Perhaps ease back on the Skill, but you are an important part of our operations—dead gods, I’d make your position formal since we hired you as a temporary [Recruiter]. Just, er, take the day off. You’ve already earned your pay.”
Actually, if she could do this just for Ilvriss each day, he’d pay her all she was earning and more! The Wall Lord walked off, genuinely eager to clear all the items on his docket and be ahead. He felt great. Just a bit bad for the clearly-spent Damia.
He didn’t see the [Lady] drooping at her table as he marched off. Then…Damia’s head rising slowly, like someone underwater surfacing. Then she burst out.
“Employment? Of course—”
Damia Reinhart returned back to something close to normal after ten minutes. Which was actually terrifying in itself if you thought about it.
 
——
 
Enthusiasm didn’t mean a life without headaches. Ilvriss had two at the moment. Firstly, what to do with the Naamreles gear.
“It’s too good, sir. It should go to House Gemscale’s vaults or arm any Named-ranker or officer we have. This helmet? Sturdiness rated for [Generals]. We could give it to our High Command.”
The simple miner’s helmet sat in front of Ilvriss, and he stared at it. It was so damn insulting to the might of Salazsar that this helmet from days of yore was equivalent to a modern [General]’s helm. But it made sense.
“Everything we have is inferior to this magic, Welsca, truly?”
“Everything except a Relic, sir, or what’s stored in the vaults of Walled Families. Enchantments wear down with use. We were lucky the group that perished in the mines died before using up the charge of the magic. It’s kept them pristine. As has the lack of magicore or other mana-devouring nuisances.”
Magic was not infinite. Only the Heartflame Breastplate could withstand aeons of active use and not break. Salazsar had used all its old gear, hence why Ilvriss had decided to loot this city.
“But it begs the questions, surely—why was Naamreles buried with so much magic intact? Sserys was sure it had intact gear—he apparently spoke to a number of Drake ghosts across Izril.”
“Sir?”
Even knowing what she did Welsca had to give Ilvriss a double-take, but today was a red-letter day, and the Wall Lord wanted to be open. Transparent.
“You heard me, Welsca. You had to have known.”
“I-I did, sir, but—”
“Keep it private from the rest of the staff. It’s the kind of thing that sounds like insanity, but you’ve been to the inn…I swear that’s what happened. I just wish he knew more! But he was shouting all the damn coordinates and information in my earholes, and I didn’t exactly have time to write it down! Actually, I started to the moment he ran off to beat up the Dragonspeaker. Did you see me on my hands and knees writing on the ground with everyone dying around me?”
“No, sir. But Sserys really interrogated other ghosts…?”
“It’s an entire thing. I wish I’d asked Erin more about it. And I do wish he’d been more specific, but it’s hard to ask the [General of Drakes] questions when he’s straddling your chest, screaming orders in your earhole.”
“Sir?”
Ilvriss coughed, reddening at the memory. He’d thought it was an unnecessary position, but Sserys had led with ‘let me have my fun’. Which, when you put it in context with Xesci’s recent comments—
Surely not. But then he’d heard—but that was—
“…That aside, the gear’s too damn good. I don’t know what to do with it. Commit some of it back to Salazsar, I think. I don’t want to look like a Hoarder, and given our reactions…let’s have Enchanter Hedault consult with us just to make sure this is all what we think it is. And maybe offer a piece to Lady Damia. I intend to bring her into our confidence, Welsca.”
“Her? Wall Lord, are you sure? I know she’s been a credit, but—”
Ilvriss just smiled at Welsca.
“You heard her class, Welsca. [Fangirl]? I had no notion—I’m not trusting her with all of it. But would you deny she’s been a breath of fresh air?”
The Drake [Adjutant]’s face screwed up.
“I can’t, Wall Lord. I must point out, however, that she is an ambitious young woman. One with aims on yourself as well.”
“What? Me? Well, I’m sure it’s her attraction to The Wandering Inn. Let, uh, her meet Ishkr or Ser Dalimont and that’ll be that. I’m not in any mood to have a dalliance with someone half my age, Welsca.”
Ilvriss was highly amused, but he shot that one down instantly. He shook his head.
“What kind of degenerate would have a relationship with someone that much younger than he was?”
Welsca nodded rapidly and with great relief. Elsewhere in the world, Archmage Eldavin, Duke Rhisveri, and the Quarass of Germina experienced unexpected sneezing fits. Ilvriss drummed his claws on the desk.
“As for the other problem…alright, let me hear it.”
The other problem was not so grand as magical items of antiquity. The other problem had one name, and it was amazing it had gotten to Ilvriss’ level, but it was, after all…
Georgie.
 
——
 
Ilvriss would admit, he didn’t feel at home with this Turnscale business. He was doing his best, but his best thought was ‘it’s got nothing to do with me’.
Therefore, he’d thought himself quite clever saying that Georgie had been affected by a cursed rune and just letting him work with female [Miner] teams. Because Georgie was…no, wait, he wasn’t, and that was the point…
At some point, someone could use ‘woman’ and ‘Georgie’ in the same sentence and not need to duck. The problem was that Ilvriss was wrong, and how wrong he was needed to be spelt out.
Forewoman Gerra Runefur was that speller. She was a Salazsarian Gnoll—no Plains Gnoll—with the accent of the City of Gems, all the familiarity for the work, and who ran a tight ship. Ilvriss knew her from the Gemscale company; she was forty-two, had one child, had married a member of the corporate staff who worked on Level 11 of his tower—not high level, but a decent [Office Manager] himself, Level 21—and Gerra was a Level 32 [Gemfinder Forewoman]. Nothing special, but she’d never had issues keeping order with her mixed Gnoll-Drake crew of women.
It wasn’t mandatory to have single-gender teams, but sometimes it was preferable. The same gender could bathe and work together. It prevented issues of harassment. It was just an option…and right now, it was not working.
Hence her complaints, which had escalated until they got to Ilvriss. The Forewoman didn’t slam a fist on Ilvriss’ desk. She was very polite as she held her cap behind her back, but her voice was all stress, and Ilvriss recognized it.
“Wall Lord, we cannot have Miner Georgie working with our team.”
“If Georgie’s an issue, Forewoman, I can reassign h—them to another—”
“No, Wall Lord, I am representing all the female mining teams. He’s been moved to six teams, and mine has had him for the last four days. None of them will take him. With great respect, Wall Lord, we will strike and call off work if we have to work with Georgie. I don’t want to make this a huge issue, and I understand there are—problems—around Georgie, but this is not the solution. Sir.”
Ilvriss blinked at Gerra. He sat back in his chair, his enthusiasm for his job ebbing in his veins. He sensed what was coming next.
“Can you elaborate on the issue, Forewoman?”
She took a breath, and he realized he’d walked into that one. Gerra reported with a loud, overly-polite tone of voice that overrode all attempts to shut her down or break in.
“Georgie is…an average [Miner]. No, I take it back, he’s a pain in the tail for even average [Miners] because he’s used to Advance Miner work, but he’s higher-level than I am, so he deserves that, I suppose.”
“I believe it’s she, Forewoman—”
Welsca was drowned out as the Gnoll raised her voice.
“He’s just your average [Miner] in many respects, Wall Lord Ilvriss. Which means that he’s not ruder than most, not more of a lech or hassle—you bark at him and he does his job after complaining. But he’s a [Miner] in my team. Who I understand is cursed or…”
“Terribly cursed, Forewoman.”
“It’s an accidental enchantment caused by—”
“Wall Lord, he’s still a damn Drake, and he looks! He wanders into our changing rooms as we’re undressing, and it’s gotten so damn bad we’re hanging towels up!”
“But Georgie’s—”
“Wall Lord, have you ever seen someone ogle someone else? I’m sure you have, sir—Georgie ogles. He observes. He enjoys watching us nude. If you don’t think I’m being accurate or reasonable, as several of my superiors have, I invite you to strip to your waist and I can show you exactly how that feels.”
She gave Ilvriss a look at his own chest and several parts of his body, including his tail, which he felt was quite inappropriate. Ilvriss crossed his arms over his chest.
“I can understand that, but Georgie, right now, has a woman’s—”
“He’s nearly gotten beaten to death for slapping my [Miners] on the ass. He’s a classic idiot, Wall Lord. Yesterday, we ran into a tough seam. Nothing we couldn’t crack, but he shoved my own lead miner aside and told her, and I quote, ‘stay back and let a real man handle this’. If my team doesn’t murder him by tomorrow, it’ll be because someone’s shoved him into a wall and gotten him stuck there.”
Ilvriss’ mouth opened. But it was Georgie! Who—according to Ilvriss, was a man despite any bodily appearances, but—
“So you’re saying Georgie’s not fitting in, that the team cannot work with him, and for his morale, and yours, he should be reassigned to mixed-gender teams, Forewoman?”
He tried to clarify, and even here was his mistake. Forewoman Gerra gave Ilvriss a dark gaze.
“Oh, no, he was all complaints until he spent an hour on the job, Wall Lord. Now he loves it here. Incidentally, Wall Lord, my superiors have not been markedly understanding of the situation. I hope you are.”
“I am, Forewoman Gerra, and I appreciate your forbearance. Welsca brought this issue to my attention.”
Gerra gave Welsca a nod and half-smile, and both turned to Ilvriss. Gerra gave Ilvriss a very respectful nod, as someone who’d worked her entire career for his company would at the new, relatively young boss who was doing a good job.
“Thank you, Wall Lord. And just so we are clear, if he is not removed from my shift by the end of today, my entire team and I will be submitting sexual harassment claims in accordance with company policy.”
All one hundred and twelve of them. Ilvriss swallowed and decided the enchanted artifacts could wait a second.
 
——
 
Georgie was having a great time, despite knowing that in a broader sense, his life was over. True, most mining teams weren’t filled with Drakes or Gnolls who took the time to do makeup or look their best.
But nevertheless, having that many ladies around was not a bad thing. He took the well-chewed cigar out of his mouth and called out to a female Drake cursing and shoving a wheelbarrow with a slightly-busted front wheel up the tunnel they were enlarging. Some kind of digging project to breach the undead tunnels.
If he never saw another damn undead, he’d be happy. He still had nightmares, but he’d lived. Stupid to make that rookie mistake, but he’d collapsed the cave like he’d heard had once worked and made it out. Now he was still dead because of that damn [Healer], but—
“Hey, Andrasite, you want a hand with that? Just let me know if you want a real man to help you out.”
The mining team had already had enough two days ago. At this, Andrasite dropped the wheelbarrow filled with dirt and stones.
“You want to help out, Georgie? Be my guest.”
To her utter annoyance, Georgie sauntered over, lifted the wheelbarrow with one hand, and began to push it.
“So what’re you doing tonight? Ain’t like there’s much to do in this Human cowturd of a place. Want someone to show you a good time?”
Andrasite rolled her eyes. She tried to stomp ahead, and Georgie shoved the wheelbarrow faster, keeping up with her fast walk. He was, annoyingly, strong and Level 30+—which was double the average level of Gerra’s work team. Most had levelled since coming to the Cowpat Plains, but Level 30 was still Level 30. The Drakes and Gnolls tried to ignore Georgie.
He, for his part, tried to keep the relaxed smile on his face as he heaved the wheelbarrow, which was quite heavy, up the sloping tunnel.
Argh, Ancestors, my arm is going to fall off! But anything to impress the younger Drake. She gave him a sneer.
“I’ve got a boyfriend, Georgie.”
“Who? I haven’t seen him around. Some limp-tailed loser who can’t even pick you up after your shift? C’mon, I’m right here, and I’m Level 36! You ever met someone higher level than me? You won’t wanna go back after that.”
He thought he was onto something with Andrasite until she turned and smirked.
“You and what equipment, Georgie? I heard you were having trouble with that?”
