“Too busy having parties and complaining about the insects. That’s disappointing, Dramm. Anyone with a map and a history book on the region’s figured it out. Maybe Brilm was testing you.”
Now, the young Drake was flushed, hot and cold with worry that Ilvriss was right. The Wall Lord sighed.
“Or maybe he knew from the start and he wanted you to get a bit of that glory. Brilm is my friend, and sometimes I think he likes me more than I like him, which I feel bad about. Maybe he just wanted his son to get a piece of the achievement.”
“Sir?”
Ilvriss took the situation and dumped Dramm on his head. The Wall Lord sipped more of his water.
“You should have asked him what I’m doing, Dramm, when you reported in. He’s your father. Not everything is a test—you’re aware of the magnitude of artifacts I’ve found?”
“Yessir. What does this have to do with…?”
“The Gemscale Company is poised to become Salazsar’s top company within the year if we leverage these assets. Since I’m giving them away, we won’t have that monopoly in the same stored value, but we’ll still probably be the best around. Unless I share the wealth.”
Ilvriss dropped that calmly into the tent, and every eye locked on him. He continued speaking.
“That’s if we packed up tomorrow. If we find what I think we’re going to find, we are going to change everything. Now, do you understand how important this venture is, Dramm?”
“I do, sir. And I’ve done my best—I’m sorry about Liuss.”
The Drake who’d died trying to steal from the damn Humans. Dramm still had nightmares about it. Ilvriss peered down at Dramm.
“Good. It’s no consolation to Liuss or his family, but you have to confront your guilt. He went in that pen, and you could have stopped him. You were the senior Drake there.”
It was true, but Dramm—he saw Ilvriss put his claws on the desk.
“Now, we have a second crisis. A Turnscale in our camps. Something we understand is culturally wrong. But I have indicated, if not in so many words until now, that Miner Georgie is working with me. He found the undead. Nearly died doing his job. But I am clearly aware of Miner Georgie. So why did you take matters into your own claws, Dramm?”
“I was trying to save you the trouble, sir.”
“Trouble.”
“Of dealing with the matter. I mean, publicly.”
That was it. Ilvriss just gave Dramm a flat look. He pushed Dramm’s cup over, and the young man took a drink.
“Sir, don’t you get—”
“Dramm, I’m about to dig up a Walled City.”
Ilvriss cut the room’s oxygen out again. He glanced around, and Dramm was reminded of his audience. The Wall Lord rasped, coughed, and drank water.
“I’m about to dig up a Walled City. And you’re trying to murder a man for being—”
“Not a man, sir—”
“Shut up, Dramm!”
Ilvriss slapped the table, and Dramm jumped. The Wall Lord snapped.
“Let me spell this out from a very basic perspective, Dramm. I’m not going to argue with you about Turnscales. I don’t think I can change your mind. I’m telling you this, to your face. I am about to dig up the City of Purity, and you are trying to murder people and wasting your time on killing a man. If there were Dragons flying overhead, would you be concerned whether or not you had on matching socks?”
But she was a Turnscale! Dramm opened his mouth as he got Ilvriss’ argument.
“Sir, I—”
Ilvriss sat down with a huge sigh.
“I know you think you did the right thing. That’s the problem. I’m telling you you’re wrong, Dramm. And you don’t have to like that. You don’t have to agree. But I am going to find [Foremen] and Mine Leaders and [Miners] and assemble an entire shift who can work with Miner Georgie. Volunteers. It’ll be tedious. It’ll be a waste of time, asking each damn person if they want to work with one [Miner]. If you refuse, that’ll be that. Everyone will continue digging for Naamreles, which will change everything. And your response would be?”
Take me away from that damn Drake, then, if I have to, Wall Lord. Dramm didn’t get what was making Ilvriss insane, but he saw the point. A Walled City? What the hell was ‘Naamreles’? He could see the bigger puzzle. He thought that was Ilvriss’ lesson, but Ilvriss was no [Teacher]. And he spoke.
“If you tell me you can’t work with Georgie no matter what, Dramm, I’ll accept it. I’ll find you work you can do. Then, once your contract is done, or before, if I discover you’re that unable to function, I’ll let you go from our employment.”
“—Sir?”
“You’re only working temporarily for the Gemscale Company. That’s how it works, Dramm.”
“I know, but—”
Is this a threat? Ilvriss read Dramm’s expression.
“No, it’s not a threat, Dramm. I’m just informing you what will happen. The threat is when I say that after I release your contract, and anyone else who hassles Miner Georgie or interferes with my operation over this matter, I will instruct Administrator Alrric to blacklist your name. We share a blacklist with several companies, and you can access them.”
Blacklist him? Dramm’s eyes widened.
“Sir, he’s a—”
Ilvriss spoke over him. His aura pressed Dramm’s jaw shut, and now he was looking around the room.
“You will not work for anyone the Gemscale Company is affiliated with. Any of you. I’m sure you can find work in Salazsar. Plenty of people would applaud you for your position and hire you. That’s their choice. But my company will not. When I divide the objects taken from the City of Purity, I will review my employees and refrain from giving any items to someone I am releasing. And I will not be offering references.”
He threw that last one at the young Wall Lord. Dramm rocked in his chair, then leapt up.
“Wall Lord! I’ve been working for you loyally for months! My father’s your best friend! All this for—”
Ilvriss grabbed Dramm and dragged him over the desk. And there the boy flinched, and Ilvriss stared down at him, then gazed around. Their audience watched.
“This is a meeting where we disagree, Dramm. My father, and his grandfather, wouldn’t do it like this. They’d just call a problem into their office and punch the offender out. Beat them down and kick them out on their heads.”
Dramm was trembling, but Ilvriss let him go.
“I don’t do that. It doesn’t change minds. I’ve laid out my position. Not once have you asked me why. You just repeat that one word like it’s enough to get me to change my mind. As if I’m deaf. That’s disappointing. You do remind me of my father. Brilm used to call Tasilt a traitor. A Furlicker. Now they’re friends, and Tasilt’s a bigger man than Brilm, because he never brings it up. I don’t know if I could.”
His father said that? Dramm opened his mouth, and Ilvriss went on.
“Back when Tasilt married Rhelika, it was a scandal all over the Walled City. People threatened to murder him. Other Wall Lords. There were assassination attempts. Someone poisoned her food, Tasilt said. Now? He’s still a bit of a pariah, but it’s not insane to hear of a young Wall Lord or Lady having a partner who’s a Gnoll. A Human would be insanity, I suspect. But things change. I’m no expert. I was as ignorant as you were yesterday, Dramm. But I am trying to listen and judge objectively. And I read a book when I was confused. It was a book on Salazsarian law. Some parts I disagreed with, but I didn’t see a clause about murdering someone in their sleep.”
“Sir…why does this matter so much?”
“It shouldn’t. I’m just disgusted by murder. You’ve never killed anyone in your life, Dramm. It must be so much easier to countenance, to you. Get out of my office, and if you can show me you’ve changed, I’ll take that. If not, you didn’t work out.”
Ilvriss sat down at his desk and looked around the tent at the various men and women. Some didn’t meet his eyes. Others stood there, as stunned as Dramm. Ilvriss nodded.
“Thank you for your time, everyone. There’s no need to file this; a fifteen minute overtime bonus will be added to your next pay stub. Welsca? Give me three minutes to pee and send in the next wave.”
He waved a claw, sighing. He hoped Dramm would take some of that to heart. It wasn’t really about Dramm; Ilvriss had used the lad for a few reasons.
Firstly, well, he was Brilm’s son, and Brilm was no perfect fellow, but if he could change a bit, Ilvriss owed it to his son to try. Hard as it was. Second, Dramm, like it or not, was a young Wall Lord, and his opinions spread. Hit the critical juncture and you might move the entire seam—or bring it down on your head.
Give people a chance. Ilvriss chuckled.
“It’s still kinder than a frying pan to the face.”
Then he waved at his sweaty chest with a claw and sighed.
“It’s hot as magma out here. I should have gotten Hedault to enchant my tent.”
He checked a timepiece. One group down, at least four more to go. But he suspected he’d sleep well tonight.
And he did.
 
[Wall Lord of Corporate Opulence Level 39!]
 
——
 
Rumors spread from Ilvriss’ dig, of course. Nothing verifiable—yet. But anyone with detection Skills or who could tell how markets moved had noticed what he was doing. And there was already attention there, just not a willingness to go in fully.
Though Deilan wished he had. But he was a busy man and not in possession of all the facts.
“What’s going on in the Cowpat Plains? Is that a real name?”
Lord Deilan El was made aware of the mass of Terlands and Golems moving southwards a bit late. It was causing a stir. But then, he wasn’t his predecessor, Maviola El.
She’d always been good with politics, if not money. She’d known everyone, been able to call on favors, and often needed to in order to keep their impoverished House afloat. She’d been sociable, fiery, charismatic.
He was an artisan at heart. A craftsman who could not fight, but who could improve on designs and run their business better than Maviola could. Deilan dared even say he had a head for advertising; he’d revolutionized the Kaalblades from a failed project into a hot commodity.
Despite them still having tons of flaws. Needing mana stones for fuel, arguably not being that effective on enchanted armor—but he’d done it.
The key was Earthers. Earth. Deilan El didn’t have an Earther, of course. He’d just…interviewed one. A young man named Christopher. The House of El had found him, had a sit-down talk, received a lot of troubling information, and then sent him on his way. He’d accepted gold for the interview, talked about maybe becoming an adventurer, perhaps seeking out another famous Earther—but he hadn’t known where Erin Solstice or Ryoka Griffin were, and he was leery about Liscor after Deilan had offered him a full report on the attacks.
A nice young man, much taken with El creations. Deilan had even gifted him a crossbow and Kaalblade. The [Lord of Splendid Creations] hadn’t insisted Christopher stay with the House of El. He’d been mildly shocked when, later, one of the Wellfar Admiralty had shouted at him about the matter.
“He didn’t want to stay. What should I have done, kidnapped him?”
That…was who Deilan El was. It had confused the [Lady] into silence, because it was an answer she hadn’t expected. In that sense, Deilan El supposed he might have thrown potential profits away. Just like Maviola El, Fulviolo, and his predecessors.
Well and so, he’d answer to her face if they ever met again.
‘Some things matter more than coin.’ It was one of the House of El’s mottos, which people took to be a saying about their creations. Deilan El had just always considered that if he compromised El’s name entirely, Maviola El would arise, and her ghost would make a fireplace incinerate him.
Anyways, the point was he had heard about Earth, thank you, and without Ryoka Griffin’s erratic help, he’d done the logical thing: he’d made the Kaalblades extend and retract without a guide-rod. He’d also colored them so they resembled more of a light beam than crackling magical energy.
This was to make it look like a certain energy-based weapon from what he understood was a very popular mythos from Earth. A bit of work with the handles and a highly impractical Kaalblade with blades coming out from top and bottom, and every nation with Earthers had ordered every Kaalblade he could make.
That, in turn, funded the House of El’s projects in other areas, gave them the wiggle-room they’d always needed to invest in different projects that would hopefully be more lucrative and perpetuate the cycle. The Kaalblades would fund at least half a year of the House of El comfortably, Deilan had projected, and they were saving up coin. If they ran out after that, well, it’d be because they’d tried everything.
So he felt like he’d done a decent job his first year in office, and the family seemed to agree. The one area Deilan knew he was bad at was politics. As a head of one of the Five Families, he had a lot of sway. He hadn’t curtailed Lord Tyrion or opposed Magnolia Reinhart. He’d gone against the Circle of Thorns, but he wasn’t…confident there.
Ulva Terland was the last of the old greats. He didn’t want to oppose her, but knowing what she was doing…Deilan cleared his throat.
“Zelonica? What do we know?”
The half-Elf standing by his desk appeared to be in her late thirties, which meant she was quite a lot older than that. She read from her notes, shrugging.
“Some kind of incident, Lord. I haven’t heard much, and my contacts in the Terland family just told me there was a kind of attack on Ulva Terland. They heard she was injured and rushed back to the Mansion of Stone, then she was on her feet. The next thing anyone knows, she was headed south.”
Zelonica, the half-Elf [Mistress of Accounting], was not her father. Zedalien had been a consummate right-hand man to Maviola and previous generations. Less of a paperwork fellow and more the one who stepped in to make things happen.
But just like Deilan, Zelonica was firmly in the business and was not so much Deilan’s assistant as the head of a bunch of projects. He trusted her. She was the highest-ranked non-El in the family, and he had it in his mind to promote her further. Which was not how things worked normally; you had to be part of the El family.
Well, they could induct her or something. New business practices for a new era. That’s what Christopher had talked about! Less hereditary nepotism…Deilan peered at Zelonica.
“Your contacts. You have them?”
“Oh, yes, Lord Deilan. Friends from when they were younger. Now they’re quite a bit older, but we keep up. Ever since I took the new post, I have tried to establish more of a network. My father had the same, but he complained all his old contacts had passed away due to age. It’s part of why he left.”
