He crumpled the paper up and tossed it aside. Redman had been a good bull, damnit. But he was a mankiller like all of them. Unless you had a Skill, he would murder any idiot Drakes trying to take his herd, just like that poor boy.
“Hm. Hmpf. Damnit. How the hell am I…? Did Aronia have to chase Colfa off without so much as a sit-down to talk and—? Can’t let it slide. It’s halfway classy, paying for it. Halfway!”
He snapped at a young woman who gave him a wide-eyed gaze. Marvus stomped around, swearing. Thinking.
“Dad? You aren’t planning on going off and fighting the Drake, were you? Ma sent me to check on you. You’re too mad, she says. Might get bad.”
Burlise had ridden over. Marvus turned to his eldest daughter and snapped.
“I’m not going after him right off. I gotta think.”
“Phew. I was worried I’d have to lasso you and have everyone hold you down. I heard they killed Redman and took nearly three hundred head of cattle.”
She took off her hat and wiped her forehead. Marvus’ face grew even more sour.
“They did. Your aunt helped ‘em. I have to think. Damn, damn…alright.”
He took off his hat, tossed it down, but didn’t step on it since he’d never get the manure off. Marvus spat.
“Fine! What the hell is he digging up?”
Burlise cocked her head at him. Marvus finally asked the question as he stuck his thumbs in his belt. Once they’d cleaned this up, he’d have to have a long chat with Aronia. She was madder than he was, so he was dreading it, and maybe he’d ride out to have a word with Taldo Rominet, who had good eyes.
Marvus was thinking, grinding his teeth together, when he heard the scream. High, female, and followed by the sound that made his blood run cold each time he heard it. The loudest braying roar a bull could make—because it came from the loudest one. The biggest.
“That’s Big Burlap. Did someone get in his pen?”
Burlise took off as Marvus whistled for his horse. He heard her yelling and more shouts.
“Dad! Daaaad—someone’s in his pasture!”
Oh dead gods. The horror that had been the last cookout hit Marvus again, and he was running, forgetting his horse. One of the Wall Lord’s people or his?
“Skills! Wands! Stop—”
Too late. He knew it was too late. If you jumped that fence, or ducked under it, as a certain [Lady] might have done to avoid being caught up in the cattle raid, you might live.
If you were lucky, Big Burlap wouldn’t smell or see you; it was a big pasture. But he had a good nose, and he had those eyes which could roll around and see almost in every direction. He knew his herd. His mates, his children—and then he’d find you, sneak up on you, and when you ran—
Lady Desinee El had been sneaking around the pasture, possibly thinking to ride off, but the bull had spotted her and caught her. She made it all of fifty paces towards the fence where [Ranchers] were screaming at her to run, trying to throw Skills or tag the bull with wands to slow or tranquilize him.
She never made it. Big Burlap got to her a full minute before Marvus reached the pasture fence, clutching at his chest, wheezing for air and saw—
“Help me! Oh, Five Families—heeeeeeeeeeeeeelp!”
He did not see a dead woman trampled into a pile of gore. Marvus halted, slack jawed, and instead saw a terrified [Lady] on top of Big Burlap as the bull kicked and leapt, all four hooves clearing the ground as he kicked up and back.
He was trying to throw Lady Desinee El off, but despite the motion, which would have sent most [Riders] flying—the [Lady] stayed on his back. And she was screaming.
“Someone stop him! Stop standing there or I’ll die!”
All the [Ranchers] were just gazing up at her, dumbstruck. Marvus strode over, grabbed a wand, and began shooting [Rays of Weakening] into Big Burlap, heedless of the cost.
“Burlise, lasso him but don’t hold onto the rope or he’ll yank your arms out of their sockets! Get him calmed down before he tosses her!”
The angry bull took two dozen Tier 2 spells without even slowing. His eyes were red, and he was roaring, shaking his head—he even collapsed and tried to roll Desinee El over, but she just stayed on top of him.
Neither Marvus nor Big Burlap could believe it. As the spells finally began to work, the bull stood upright, all five thousand pounds of him, and actually turned his head to stare at the [Lady] sitting astride his back.
How the hell are you doing that? He did one more flying kick, planting his hooves and kicking back and up and sending his body arching diagonally in the air with an explosive movement of such force that the dirt clods he kicked up knocked a man standing behind the fence flat.
And Lady Desinee El pushed herself up with him, mitigating the kick and rippling of his muscles, caught herself at the apex of his kick, and fell with him. She winced as she landed, but stayed on top.
“Is he—is he calming down? Can I get off?”
Big Burlap began to lie down. Almost—Marvus thought—succumbing to the sleep spells out of embarrassment. Pretending that had been what stopped him from murdering her. Even when his head was down, Marvus kept shouting.
“Don’t get off him! Wait ‘till we’ve got him roped up! Then you can go off! He might get up and gore you!”
Desinee hollered back.
“No need to tell me twice! My great aunt told me never to get off a bull once I was on it until I knew it was fully asleep or I had something to stand behind!”
“Who told you to get on a bull’s back?”
Marvus was astounded when she finally leapt off and ran for the fence. Desinee El tried to climb it, then swung herself under the fence’s slats. She was fully winded, red-faced, pale from fear—and alive. She stood as the [Ranchers] gathered around the only person to ever survive a round with Big Burlap, in awe.
If Nerul was unto the nascent gymnasium mythology, Lady Desinee El had become part of ranching lore. She panted for air as she introduced herself.
“I am very sorry about—I wasn’t part of Wall Lord Ilvriss’ company! I am Lady Desinee El, presenting the House of El’s creations, and I had no idea what this was about! I was staying back when I entered the pasture to keep out of the way and—”
“The House of El?”
Everyone drew back in disbelief. The most important noble to visit the Cowpat Plains in over, what, fifteen years? She was nothing like what Marvus expected, and he realized they had nearly gotten a scion of the House of El killed, a moment of true horror. But Desinee reassured him.
“Merely one of the members of the House of El. That bull is dangerous!”
“Yes, he’s killed cattle thieves before—I’ve never seen anyone stay on his back, and that’s the only place you might be safe. One man tried it when he was still growing—he bucked him and broke every rib he had. How did you stay on?”
Desinee was patting at her forehead, but she managed a smile.
“Well, I am Lady Maviola El’s niece. Lady Firestarter? She taught everyone in the family how to ride as children. A Skill, in fact.”
The late [Lady] of the House of El? Marvus had seen her on the scrying orb, though he knew her as—
“One of the most famous horse thieves of Izril? That [Lady]?”
“She said she had the record for most bull rides in her lifetime. And that she’d seen eight peers break their necks trying to copy her. We’re not like Tyrion Veltras, but the House of El are the best riders among the Five Families. Not that it’s saying much. Terlands will only ride their silly Golem Horses, Wellfar ride ships, Reinharts drive carriages, so it’s only House Veltras to compete with.”
Desinee El was truly a different kind of [Lady]. She’d gone from screaming and hollering for her life to relatively composed, if sweaty, in moments. She exhaled.
“Cattle Baron Marvus Lischelle? Do you have anywhere I might stay? And I do have a horse over there. If you would excuse me, I believe I need to find somewhere to pass out. Then may we sort out any issues later?”
“Er, of course, Lady Desinee. Aronia will put you up herself in our finest guest—Burlise, go tell your mother. May I ask, Lady Desinee, what Skill let you do all that?”
Desinee El smiled around.
“Oh, just…[Wild Rider]. Aunt Maviola would give you a protection amulet and make us steal a horse and ride it all the way back to the manor on her birthday, then pay for it. She did it for over two decades before she got bored. The one who stole the angriest horse got to double their allowance for the month.”
Desinee put her handkerchief away, then delicately swooned onto her horse’s saddle. And the [Ranchers] realized, for a second, that the haughty Five Families might still be all that in the north, but not quite what they expected.
 
——
 
The adventures of Desinee El in the Cowpat Plains were a small moment in the timeline of events occurring there. Minute, but Calidus Reinhart appreciated it.
Especially because the [Assassins] he’d sent to investigate what the Wall Lord was doing had gotten a very nice recording of Desinee riding the giant bull.
“I heard the House of El was good at that, but dead gods! Or living. Why do we say that? Is she married? Damn. Happily married?”
Life was full of disappointments. However, Calidus was entertained enough by having the recording transferred to a crystal and labelling it ‘[Lady] rides bull nonstop for seven minutes’ and making a few copies.
Then he just gave them out and listed a few on the black market and waited to see who bought them. He didn’t even get in trouble for false advertising because the actual thing was so entertaining.
Though, come to think of it, were there recordings of…? There were plenty of famous news events, but Calidus wondered if he could start a collection of more, uh, interesting events. He already had the famous ‘two ladies versus one fish’ recording, but he started asking his contacts if they had anything more fun.
Anyways, where was he? He stopped showing Zeomtoril and Selys the recording of the bull and slapped his forehead.
“Right, I was wondering what was up! Lady Ulva’s bearing down on them, and she’s about to murder them all or—sorry, sorry. Back to work.”
He rushed off as Selys turned to Zeomtoril.
“Do we have a policy against being harassed while working?”
“Under Calidus? Hah! The man is a walking distraction.”
 
——
 
Calidus was busier than normal with his stunt against the Assassin’s Guild. His peers actually wanted to talk to him, and he was making a big show of bumbling around his ‘Anti-Assassin’s Guild’ project. He doubted it fooled Aunt Magnolia, but he hoped he was low on her list of people to kill.
Regis had cursed him out, of course, but Calidus had put his name out there, and so his grandfather couldn’t remove him. Plus, Regis had started this mess.
Making his name public had multiple advantages, for all the disadvantages, but Calidus’ attention was still on the dig site with Wall Lord Ilvriss.
Something’s up. Enchanter Hedault was seen in the camp, and he doesn’t work for fraud or anything less than the best. But even Grandfather thinks that Wall Lord Ilvriss hasn’t dug up anything yet…but Grandfather is probably just buying information from Salazsar. If the Wall Lord’s sitting on it…
“Have the Ranks enlist in the Wall Lord’s camp. Be on their best behavior—just do their jobs. Don’t report in, don’t record anything. Just work. Call it a vacation. One assumes it’s a vacation instead of killing other [Assassins]. I want more over there. Just a hunch.”
He gave Selys more orders, and she scowled at him.
“We haven’t beaten the other Guild, Calidus.”
“No, but we’ve made it the north’s problem. Any of our people who are fighting them will get killed as ‘their’ [Assassins]. And there are eyes on us, so why not put them somewhere no one’s watching? Make it sixty. Ah! No arguing. Super Guildmaster’s orders.”
He was quite pleased she’d made full [Guildmistress], but he was still the boss. Calidus saw Selys’ tail curling as she read reports around the Cowpat Plains.
“Ugh, Lyonette’s there, so maybe there is something to it. Are we stealing whatever it is?”
“Potentially…not a fan of the [Princess]? How attractive is she, scale of one to ten?”
“I’m not dignifying that with a comment. And she has two annoying children. I don’t know this area, but—okay, fine, I’ll keep it on my radar as well. Actually…Ancestors. They have monsters over there too. Not many adventurers.”
“The [Ranchers] deal with it themselves. Why? Anything interesting over there? Crelers?”
Selys was reading from a [Message] scroll and she winced.
“Nope. This just in: a pack of Demonsoul Skunks have appeared and are causing havoc. That’s…genuinely bad news. They’d better have a Gold-rank team around somewhere, and any smart Gold-ranker will bail on the job unless they’re all-ranged. You’d need Halrac or someone like him to handle them.”
Calidus’ lips moved.
“Demonsoul…that sounds rather too impressive to call a skunk, doesn’t it? I’m all for hyperbole, but that?”
Selys gave Calidus a semi-amused look as she pulled out a monster bestiary and flipped to the ‘D’ section.
“I’ve never run into one, but this actually does deserve the name. Let’s see if they have a picture. You know skunks?”
“Regular skunks? White stripe? Horrific smell? Don’t pet them? One of my cousins once charmed one to look like a regular cat and let it loose in the backyard of a party.”
“…Do you have any normal stories about your family?”
“Only to me.”
Selys sighed.
“Right, right. Well, good. You know skunks. Imagine a skunk.”
“Very well.”
“A Demonsoul Skunk is nothing like that. Imagine a racoon. Now, imagine if you had six racoons. Now, imagine a skunk that big. With carnivore’s teeth. And the smell? It’s way worse than a regular skunk, and I’m told it lasts a lifetime, potentially, without remedy. Last thing…Demonsoul Skunks enjoy spraying people.”
“I see. And what are you doing for dinner tonight?”
“Do you ever get tired of asking?”
“Only if you tell me to stop.”
 
——
 
Skunks were just…skunks. Sure, they’d spray you, but it was a self-defense mechanism. Most would rather run away than actually need to spray. They were defensive omnivores that ate insects, rodents, lizards—even bird eggs.
They were, again aside from the terror they inspired due to their only weapon, arguably net positives. Some daring people even made pets out of them.
That was what a skunk was. Which was why there were [Naturalists], [Monster Hunters], adventurers, and related classes lobbying to classify the Demonsoul Skunk as a separate species. Or at least, one that had come from Rhir.
