“Maybe that’s how it works ideally, but you know, the real world isn’t made of such things as numbers. There’s plenty of that, but I’ve known business deals to fail or go through just based on people not liking each other. And one of my favorite people is the most suboptimal, inefficient Human in the world. Nothing she does makes good business sense. But the value she extracts always seems to be beyond whatever any logic dictates.”
“Yes, Wall Lord.”
That seemed like a safe bet. The Gnoll was waiting for Ilvriss to finish whatever philosophical musings he was about, but the Drake was done. He just handed something over to Rolx.
“That’s a pithy, longwinded way of explaining this, Foreman. It’s only one per [Foreman] and the best [Miners]. Here.”
He handed Rolx…a pickaxe. The Gnoll blinked at it. He recognized it, of course. They’d recovered them from the mining tunnels, and they’d been run off to administration.
“Sir? I already have a very good pickaxe. Top of the line. Foreman’s Pick—”
“Take it, Foreman Rolx.”
Hesitantly, the Gnoll lifted the pickaxe. It was so light that he gasped. When he swung it at a stone wall—his paw kept moving, and he stared as he completed the swing without resistance. Then all the fur rose on his body, and he turned.
“Wall Lord—”
Did he know what that was? He had to. The Wall Lord stood there, and it didn’t even seem hard for him to have given the pickaxe away. Welsca, behind him, looked like she was trying to keep herself from launching at Rolx.
“Yes. It’s not temporary. It’s the real thing. I’m going to have you put it in the armory, of course, at night. And we’ll have a system to withdraw them. Tags on the handles or something simple.”
“Yes, Wall Lord—”
So they were letting him use this? Did it swing like that every time? Dead gods, he’d triple the output of the team himself. Foreman Rolx felt like a cub suddenly. He wanted to run back to work. Then he wondered how much gear like this they had. Ancestors, the Gemscale Corporation was rich. And he felt that envy, the sense of forlorn envy that Georgie and the others felt.
That’s when he saw Ilvriss gazing at him.
“You understand, there are considerable risks to owning a piece of gear like that, Foreman Rolx. Every [Thief] in the world will be after it.”
“Of course, Wall Lord, but I’ll be a credit to the company. Thank you for trusting me with it. I’ll be as secure as can be.”
He might try to steal it? The idea was just an intrusive thought, and Rolx shoved it away. No, he’d never get away with it. Using it would be enough. But Ilvriss just kept going.
“I think I need to insist on…a two year clause. We’re working it up. I can’t just give it away.”
“Of course not, Wall L…give it away?”
“Indeed not. It’ll be a reward. And we have numerous employees in the Gemscale Company who deserve one. Alrric, for one. But if we find as many as I think—yes. Give me two years, Foreman Rolx. Two years, and I know you are risking your life and health on this job. It is still, likely, not a fair trade for those who will be injured and die. But that is the unfairness of a company. This?”
Ilvriss pointed at the pickaxe as Rolx understood what he meant, and his mind went blank.
“This is your share.”
“Mine…?”
Now the Gnoll realized why the other Drake had tackled Ilvriss. Why Welsca was trembling. Ilvriss just turned and grinned.
“Welsca, stop that.”
“Wall Lord, your father might murder you. Genuinely.”
“Well, you’ll stop him. Once we find some armor in those tunnels. Or a ring. It’s miner’s gear, Welsca. Neither you nor I look good with those damn helmets on. So if we find that, once we find that…”
Ilvriss turned. He began walking off, and Rolx’s paws were sweaty now. This had to be a joke. They were going to laugh at him or—
“W-Wall Lord! You can’t just give this—why me?”
He hadn’t worked here as long as some! He was a Gnoll. But Ilvriss just turned back. He looked lighter, and he pulled a lantern out of his bag of holding. He was giving them all away, Rolx realized.
“Make no mistake, Foreman Rolx. In two year’s time, you can quit the Gemscale company. I won’t lock you in here forever. You can go and sell that, or use it and start your own company.”
“Are you insane? That makes no sense, Wall Lord.”
“Well, I expect I’ll have more to give away. I sure hope so. If this is all we ever find, I’ll look mighty stupid, and my father will kill me. My mother, sister, and uncle too. But if I’m right, Rolx…we’re digging up a Walled City’s treasures. They belong to their descendants. I am Wall Lord Ilvriss Gemscale of Salazsar. Son of the walls. Aren’t you as well, Rolx?”
The question hit the Gnoll harder than any speech or [Inspiring Moment] anyone in the Gemscale company had ever used on him.
Aren’t you? For one moment, he saw the Archmage of Izril’s final moments in Fissival on scrying orb. Where she left the Scholarium and her city because they had never wanted her. He saw Ilvriss turn and walk off, and the Wall Lord appeared carefree. Laughing as he began to run—Advisor Merls was back and tried to tackle Ilvriss but went over a safety-railing.
“Thanks.”
That was all the Gnoll said. Then he walked back down into the mining shaft, past laughing [Miners] who asked what the Wall Lord wanted now. Rolx stood in front of a wall of dirt. Gazing at it until they got worried he wasn’t well.
Then he swung the pickaxe. And later, he heard a voice.
 
[Tough Foreman Level 27!]
[Class Change: Tough Foreman → Miner of the Magic Pickaxe Class!]
[Miner of the Magic Pickaxe Level 20!]
[Skill – Bound Item: Pickaxe of Naamreles Assigned!]
[Skill – Understand Enchantment Obtained!]
[Skill – Mighty Swing Obtained!]
[Skill – Disguise of Mundanity (Item) Obtained!]
 
[Rank: Son of Salazsar Rank 1 Achieved.]
[Skill – Dirtdweller’s Friend Obtained!]
 
——
 
The Wall Lord had to admit, he was lightheaded after all that. He had given everything out except for two pickaxes. One for Alrric. And one for Georgie.
The Advance Miner had heard what was going on. How could you not? Rumors were spreading, even if those who had been gifted one of the items of Naamreles were keeping their lips shut.
Most of the staff had understood, after the Hoarding had left them. A few had been put on leave and assigned to [Thought Healers] in Pallass—
The Advance Miner had been avoiding Ilvriss all day. He stood at the edge of camp, lighting the worn cigar. Blowing on it. Hacking.
It turned out Georgie didn’t like smoking it. The Drake broke the silence before Ilvriss could.
“I’ve been thinking.”
“About?”
“The mine I found. Who mines like that?”
“…With the struts, you mean?”
Georgie shook his head. Ilvriss thought he meant the enchanted support struts he definitely wanted to pull out once they could replace them.
“Not that. We never cleared it ‘cause of the undead, but we sent down sensor spells and scout Skills. It has no exit. Not up nor down. But they were digging up. The down…is collapsed. Looks like they collapsed it. Why?”
“Accident?”
“With their gear? Fat chance. They collapsed it and started digging up. Only…that’s a slow death. Not a fast one. They had bags of holding. Maybe spells. You can create free air or store it. I’ve heard of cave-ins where the bastards inside last months. Even years if they had food. But you die slow. And they just kept…digging. Guess which way?”
“Up.”
Ilvriss felt his scales crawl, and Georgie nodded.
“Almost like they were trying to run from something. Once the mine’s cleared of undead, we’re going down. If those undead had popped out, a bunch of [Miners] armed with that stuff could have cleared all of them.”
“Probably. It might get harder after that. Georgie—”
“I tried to steal that pickaxe. Maybe not that one. You don’t want to give it to me.”
The Drake Wall Lord squatted down next to Georgie as the Advance Miner sat, cross-legged. Georgie stared across the plains, and the cigar smoke made it smell better at night. Ilvriss sat, pickaxe across his legs.
“I meant it when I said that I wanted to help you, Georgie. This would be proof of that. You’re not allowed to run off with it. Three years is probably what we’re asking.”
“You don’t know what you’re getting yourself into. You give me that pickaxe and anyone who hates my guts will want a piece of me—on top of what I am.”
Georgie stared ahead. Ilvriss murmured.
“Well, we can address it.”
“How?”
“I don’t know. I keep saying it because I must. Listen, you’re not my first pick either, Georgie. You haven’t worked here as long. You did try to steal this. But I have a feeling that if I pay you out, and let you vanish, you’ll just keep doing this. And your luck will run out eventually. Won’t it?”
“Yeah.”
That soft comment confirmed the other thing Ilvriss understood. He sat there.
“You’re not great, Georgie. But I’ve known worse.”
“—Thanks?”
Ilvriss went on doggedly.
“I’ve met Tessa, who is a lot of things, and not all of it was her fault. The same with Captain Todi. I’ve looked in a mirror. Sometimes, you need someone to throw a frying pan at your head and give you a flaming cup filled with glory. We do give people second chances in the Gemscale Company. I’d wager you don’t get many first chances. Today, after I talked with you, you were the exemplar of an Advance Miner. If I give you the opportunity to prove yourself, in an environment that gives you that trust—can you deliver?”
“You can’t…change what’s wrong with me, Wall Lord. Everyone knows.”
Georgie mumbled. Ilvriss exhaled.
“I can try to talk to the instigators. I know who was behind the attempt on your life. And it seems to me that I’ve been putting it off. If you can give me something, I’ll give you this. Call it a probationary period.”
He held the pickaxe out, handle first. Georgie sat there. The Wall Lord was planning his next move, formulating a plan within the world he understood, which was trying to include Georgie. It was not that hard to include the Advance Miner in there. But for one thing, Ilvriss would have treated the Drake like anyone else. He had already forgotten, most of the time, what lay under Georgie’s clothes because Ilvriss didn’t go around imagining anyone nude.
There was another voice, like the old one that wanted him to take every magical item and hide it away, that understood, though. It spoke a word in the back of Ilvriss’ mind.
Turnscale. He ignored it. He had bested the instincts of his species that told him to Hoard. But…he didn’t understand. Georgie did.
The Advance Miner’s head rose. He gazed at the handle of the magical pickaxe. Then Ilvriss.
“Okay. Okay, I…I can’t turn down that. I’m not gonna make it much longer as an Advance Miner. Not as an old man. My reflexes are slowing down, and if I don’t have good gear and take too many risky jobs—three years for that? I’d be a fool not to take it.”
He was barely past thirty. Ilvriss stifled a comment. They both knew Georgie was pushing it for his profession. The [Miner] went on, voice suddenly raspy.
“I can—I can do it. I just have to fit in, right?”
“If we can avoid someone killing you or starting a fight, yes. The cover story about the curse doesn’t appear to have worked. Master Hedault agreed to write a false report, but I rather think the issue isn’t helped.”
If Georgie had been an ordinary fellow transformed by a gender-swap curse, he’d be a Turnscale. Sort of ironic that the excuse resulted in the same…Georgie nodded.
“Got it. In that case, Wall Lord, d’you have a…a dress?”
“Huh?”
“I can probably get one that fits, and—I mean, there’s women’s gear, but it looks the same, mostly. I’ll just—wear that. And, uh, speak differently. Like this.”
Georgie’s slightly raspy voice changed and raised a full octave. Ilvriss jumped. Advance Miner Georgie just stared at the pickaxe. Played with the handle.
“That’d do it.”
“You—want to put on a dress and pretend to be—I mean, that is to say—”
“If I dress up and apologize, that’ll work, right? Better than getting killed. I’ve done it a few times to get out of trouble. I’ll just cry a bit or something and—then you can say I came to my senses. After a while, it’ll simmer down.”
There was experience in the way Georgie was talking, but his voice was—shaking. Ilvriss sat there in the fading light, watching the way Georgie’s tail was curling in on itself, more than he’d ever seen, and he feared the bones might break.
“You’re sure?”
“Definitely. I’ll get some comments and stuff, but that does it. And—and if you had someone from Miss Xesci’s brothel or one of your people? Someone who didn’t mind, y’know, saying it. They could tell people they’d—that we’d had sex—and put me in my place.”
His voice shrank. Ilvriss sat there, and Georgie shakily took the cigar out of his mouth. Stubbed it against one knee.
“How’s—how’s that?”
“Does that…cover story work?”
“I mean, that’s what happens. Sometimes.”
A cough, hoarse in the night, and Ilvriss listened to the silence for a moment. He sat there, staring ahead at the empty plains, and then spoke.
“Georgie. I don’t mean to insult you in any way. So please take this as objectively as possible. But you and dresses don’t go together. You’d look terrible in them, and I have been in the company of a young Human girl who tries her best to be objectionable—they don’t suit a fellow like you.”
The shivering Advance Miner didn’t appear to hear Ilvriss at first. The Wall Lord went on, feeling his way forwards. Towards the faint light he understood.
“We just had a conversation this morning about making people feel uncomfortable, Advance Miner Georgie. In all good conscience, I cannot make you do something that makes you this visibly distressed. If that’s not who you are, I will not have you dress or behave that way. We’ll find another solution. Not that.”
He watched Georgie’s tail slightly uncurl. The Drake hesitated.
“But if we don’t do that—”
“It would be wrong to do. I am going to address the perpetrators, Georgie. I will find a team you can work with, and I will institute policies to keep you safe. I cannot change people’s minds or obfuscate the information. But I can ensure the people you work with are at least of my disposition. Even if that is not ideal.”
That was the only thing he could think of. Ilvriss wondered—
That’s sometimes how it happened? His scales itched. He had questions, suddenly, for Xesci. Deeply uncomfortable ones he was not going to ask now. Not with Georgie visibly tense. And the Advance Miner looked at Ilvriss and snapped—
