He was a ‘senior’ member of staff, and Peggy gratefully nodded. So the [Mathematician] took a slice of pizza and drink to the [World’s Eye Theatre]. He heard a crash and winced.
“What did Xinthe actually do?”
Asgra was sweeping the huge theatre with a broom. She shrugged.
“She put naked Ilvriss and Lyonette together. On purpose, I bet. She on team Ilvriss. Grr. I her rival.”
“Got it. Thanks, Asgra. Er…what team are you on?”
“Team Dalimont! He not want me on his team, but I know better.”
Yelroan decided that was largely harmless and not his business. He walked down, activated the Skill, and spoke.
“Can I get a very secure call to Merchant Qwera, please? Thank you. Qwera? Hello? Can you hear me? Can you establish privacy spells but let me through?”
“Who’s there? Yelroan? Tribes, thank goodness—”
It took a second for Qwera to appear as he squinted into a world of static. He entered a vision of Qwera’s surroundings, but then he found himself in one of her wagons. The image was a bit static-y, which he took to represent anti-scrying spells. Qwera appeared rattled. Some of her golden fur was brown, and she was panting for air.
She’s rattled.
“What is it, Qwera? An attack? Can I send word to anyone?”
The Golden Gnoll of Pallass was a generously filled woman with her iconic scintillating fur, a maven of business. He quite respected her acumen, and he’d never seen her this rattled, even at the Meeting of Tribes. Qwera looked around again.
“No. No. I just…I’ve been thinking on who to contact. I had to tell someone, even if it’s dangerous. I’ve deliberately not reached out for a while because I think she might have been monitoring who I’m calling for—Yelroan. I was trying to get the Silver Swords out of trouble. You know that?”
“Of course. I’ve been leaning on the Merchant’s Guild myself, but they’ve been unusually stubborn.”
He frowned. Lyonette had asked him to help, but something—internal politics—had overridden the usual levers of gold he could pull. Qwera nodded as her fur began to settle back. She started dyeing her fur distractedly.
“It’s someone new in the Guild. A Chandrarian—a member of Roshal. A [Slave Lady] just swept the Merchant’s Guild—she’s been altering their internal decisions worldwide! Do you know…a Slave Lady Andra?”
Yelroan did, if vaguely. He tracked new players in the game of commerce, and his fur rose as she related her encounter.
“Wait, she had a nine-way conference? Then a glowing Antinium exploded her?”
“She’s not dead. I hoped she was, but when I found out—she’s a ghost, Yelroan.”
“One of Roshal’s. I know. The Prophet Pawn attacked her. Damn, he didn’t get any of them, then?”
“The—the what?”
Qwera was completely taken aback, but Yelroan remembered the [Palace of Fates]. He drummed his paws on the counter.
“That’s not good at all. She’s probably Level 50, even with her level reduction, and she’s a ghost. With Roshal’s economic might? A [Lady of Coin] at her level could alter the world economy.”
“You don’t need to tell me that! I felt like she was squashing me, Yelroan. I want to work with her—and I swear I can’t tell if that’s because I want to gain her trust or if I’m being blown away by her class. I—someone needs to stop her.”
“I’ll tell Lyonette.”
Yelroan promised, but what could the [Princess] do? Roshal was not an enemy the inn wanted. Yet. Lyonette had hidden the inn because she was worried about them. The inn had a lot of power. The ability to take on the Slave State of Chandrar…no. And this was an enemy who fought with numbers and coin, which Lyonette, good as she was, was only middling in.
“Who could stop her?”
“The…Quarass? Wall Lord Ilvriss is no slouch, but he’s busy and outclassed. This sounds like a real nightmare.”
“One who has time to work and who no one is checking! Yelroan, only a top-tier [Merchant] would know she’s in the Guild Headquarters. She’s put policies into place that are going to—she’s going to have debtors enslaved. I can’t stop it! I’ve argued myself hoarse, and there are good [Merchants] who see what she’s doing, but you know what an oxymoron that is around here.”
Qwera was right to be worried. Yelroan devoured his pizza as he thought.
“I…I’ll help. I think I’ve already locked horns with one of that lot, and they’re dangerous. Listen, Qwera, can you stick around?”
“I’m not going to sleep tonight until I get something done, so yes! Ysara is also willing to help, but she’s trying to advocate for Ylawes. She can run our business, and I can do Andra’s errands if that helps—”
“You need to use that information or you’re just working for her, Qwera. And her class probably corrupts. In two months? You’ll start seeing it her way. Two years and your morality might shift until you’re on her side.”
The Golden Gnoll blanched.
“I’d rather eat a wand. That’s why…who do you have in mind?”
Honestly? Yelroan was so worried he paced around in a circle.
“Most of the Gnolls I’d have told—I’d have told Xherw and hoped he had someone. A lot of my allies are dead. And Fetohep of Khelt wouldn’t have the time and gold…”
They had lost a lot of allies. Qwera bit her lip, and Yelroan snapped his fingers. He gave Qwera his best grin to reassure her.
“There’s only one person in this world who can take Andra on. I know exactly who—let me adjust the receiver…I might have to petition for an audience, but…”
There was only one champion of this realm who could fight even Andra on equal terms, even if they might be outlevelled. One hero to champion Izril—no, the world.
 
——
 
Secretary Salii was slurping noodles out of a bowl in a war camp.
“…What?”
Two Gnolls were waving at her, one from a scrying orb, another just standing there. Salii knew The Wandering Inn of course. She just hadn’t realized Yelroan and Qwera were so deeply tied to it.
“That’s the situation, Secretary Salii. Izril needs the greatest [Secretary]. You’re up against someone who might outlevel you. At least, she was probably Level 60+ in life. And she’s got way more leverage. We can give you some, but you’re needed.”
The Gnoll’s sunglasses flashed, and Salii shaded her eyes with a claw.
“Um…listen. I appreciate the vote of confidence, and that actually sounds like fun. But I’m sort of employed, working for Pomle? We are at war, you know, and my father didn’t raise a quitter.”
She jerked her thumb at Orjin and the [Martial Artists] continuing their war for Pomle’s freedom. Yelroan hesitated.
“But Salii—”
“This Slave Lady is way more dangerous than Nerrhavia’s Fallen!”
Qwera broke in. Salii leaned back and adjusted the volume on the scrying orb.
“Yeah, I know. I’m not stupid. She sounds like a true menace. Damn Roshal. Working for the Demons was like the fifth option on my list of jobs. But without the Deathless, I thought it wasn’t worth it…I’d have considered going there if I’d known they’d come back.”
That sentence made Vandum walk straight into a tent pole and drew even the two Gnolls up. Salii rolled her eyes.
“I’m a mercenary of contracts, you two. I’m not the good guy you think I am. Mind you, I don’t care for [Slavers]—but I’m not going to pull up and start a counteroffensive in Izril. I don’t have any contacts, and frankly, I’m sick of Drake politics, and I’d have to be right back in there. Orjin’s refreshing. He’ll just punch someone in the face and skip two months of arguing.”
She smiled, and Yelroan spoke urgently.
“Secretary, I know you’re loyal, but you’re not blind. Without help, this will become a crisis, and Pomle is on Roshal’s chopping block for what it did.”
She smiled grimly.
“I know. And I’m not intending to do nothing. I just can’t devote my own time to it. I’ll make trouble here. Don’t you worry, I appreciate the heads up. But I have to leave this fight in more capable hands.”
“Whose? You have a name?”
She slurped more noodles and pointed a fork.
“Yep. You.”
She pointed at Yelroan, and Qwera blinked. Yelroan just held up his paws.
“Secretary, I’m flattered, but—”
“You’re the [Mathematician] who kept the largest tribe in Izril running by yourself, Yelroan. I know you can fight dirty. You just don’t want to. I saw those moves when that money problem occurred—you just need support and a team.”
“I—I appreciate that, but I am not equipped for—”
“Yes, you are. And I saw you hiring yourself out like a common [Streetwalker] from Liscor. You? Disgraceful. That [Princess] doesn’t know what she’s got in you. I was the one who booked you doing all our numbers last week.”
He jumped.
“I wondered who—but Salii, Slave Lady Andra has an entire enterprise. I just have an abacus and a filing cabinet! I cannot take her on.”
This time, the [Secretary] acknowledged the pushback.
“True. You’d need a full staff of people with levels. Heavyweights who can fight on Andra’s terms. And enterprise. Even if Qwera lends you her credentials and plays the spy…”
“Exactly. I don’t have—”
She wrote on a piece of glowing paper, signed and dated it, signed, dated, signed…
After six more signatures, Salii flicked her claws, and Yelroan jumped as something flashed into being in front of him.
“There. Anyone who knows me knows that’s authentic. Take that and go find the Graiz Room in Tower 12, floor…eh, it’s in there. There’s a lovely [Receptionist] working there, a male Drake. Hand it to him and tell him that Salii’s calling for the team. Everyone. It’ll take a bit for them to quit their jobs, but everyone who’s not dead or like Wol and gone to the New Lands will join up. That’s the company I ran.”
Salii’s cutthroat crew of hired guns. As fearsome a crew as that of the Illuminary—just in the business world. She smiled as Yelroan stared at her.
“You’ll have to set up a company in Salazsar. But it’s a good city to use as a base.”
“What—me? I have the inn!”
He protested. But Salii was already busy sending more [Memos].
“You want to stop Andra? That’s where you go. Check in on old Eschowar too. I don’t like him being back. Good luck! Oh, and hire some bodyguards. The [Slavers] love their damn [Assassins]. Actually, I think I have a coupon for the Assassin’s Guild. It’s headquartered in Salazsar.”
She hunted around in her purse, and Yelroan stood there. Suddenly…a Gnoll with a mandate from the Queen of Secretaries. No one else could stop the Slave Lady. Yelroan could try to find someone or—or—
But no one knew. And he was the [Mathematician]. The Gnoll sat there, about to protest that he owed the inn too much. Mrsha too much.
Then he remembered where Arrema, the future version of Mrsha had gone. And he rose…to have a word with Lyonette.
 
——
 
Great changes afoot. The city was changing.
Lism felt it in his bones as he rose. His bed was empty. Normally, there was a great, snoring Gnoll there. And he meant it without any pejoratives, these days.
He’d fallen, annoyingly, head over heels in love. With no less than Krshia Silverfang. If she said jump, he’d have gotten a ladder since his knees weren’t good, but…
And now it was all falling apart. All because they’d risen to the bait, and the Council was lost. Perhaps it’d be a majority of old Councilmembers.
Krshia was upset. He didn’t blame her. Her people felt betrayed—heck, his people felt betrayed, and he’d talked himself hoarse. His outburst yesterday…
He stumbled to the windows and noticed the lack of rain. The rains were stopping. Spring ended. Lism knew it as a Liscorian; the waters would be receding already.
Yet there was still a roaring. A surge like the thrashing of winds, and he wondered if a windstorm was coming in to herald the end of spring. Lism threw open the shutters, bare-chested, squinting out his new glass window to see how bad the weather was.
Maybe it’d make fewer people vote? Dead gods, did he have to count on that? Only when he saw the cloudy skies, with hints of sunlight poking through, did he pause.
There’s no storm. The wind blew no shutters. Yet the roaring continued. He stood there, blinking in the morning, when he realized it was no storm of wind.
It was…voices. Hundreds, nay, thousands of voices. People shouting, stamping in the street. Lism Swifttail stared out the window and realized it was a crowd outside his windows.
His first thought was that the mob had finally come for him, and he was only grateful Krshia wasn’t here. Lism was looking around for the Scroll of Lesser Teleportation they kept for emergencies when they had kept this all secret. He had just found it when he realized they were chanting his name. And not in that angry way.
“Li-sm. Li-sm!”
He poked his head up. Then went to the windows. They were below. Shouting it.
“Li-sm! Li-sm!”
Drakes. Gnolls. Even Humans. Mostly—and this was his demographic, apparently—men. Of varying ages, but ones who liked Lism’s big talk. Young men who wanted to shake up the ways things worked. Old men who’d seen how impossible it was to move beyond the old hierarchies.
People who liked his Carer initiatives—he did have some broadness of his base.
Chanting.
“Li-sm! Li-sm!”
His people. Then Lism saw it. He saw his neighbors standing at their windows, staring at him. People who wanted to protest him, standing in clumps, outnumbered.
Then Lism’s racing heart calmed, and he saw it. He was no Krshia. He wasn’t a Silverfang Gnoll trying to hold together two kinds of Gnoll—and he wasn’t, well, a woman. His impassioned shouting from yesterday?
What kind of red-blooded Liscorian…
The former [Shopkeeper] smiled. He began to reach for a shirt—then he decided against. He strode out in his bathrobe and pants, and the shouting grew louder. He raised his claws in the air and yelled.
“The Lism way! The only way! Lism!”
He leapt down the stairs so hard, he slipped on the last three and went crashing down. The crowd went silent—then Lism popped up. Mud and rainwater on his scales, bruised, but unashamed. He ran through the crowd, slapping hands. Shouting. That was how he burst onto the streets of Liscor.
No apologies, no shame. Only bravado, yelling, and bigger promises.
He felt like he was onto something.
 
[Class Change: Assertive Councilmember → Reformist Politician!]
[Reformist Politician Level 25!]
[Skill – Rally the Crowds Obtained!]
[Skill – Don’t You Dare Lie, I Mean It Obtained!]
[Skill – Sense Corruption Obtained!]
[Skill – Tiebreaking Vote (Monthly) Obtained!]
[Skill – If I Keep Talking You’ll See It My Way Obtained!]
 
——
 
