“No, I—I’m just an admirer of the inn, Miss Mrsha. I didn’t know you existed until, what, a few weeks ago? But when I found out what you did—why wouldn’t I be?”
Is she crazy? Mrsha and Ilvriss exchanged a look. Fans of The Wandering Inn existed, but they were rare and usually original citizens of Liscor or people who’d become friends.
“You…found out about The Wandering Inn and liked what you heard, Lady Damia? Really? That’s what led you here?”
This was the first thing Ilvriss couldn’t actually believe. However, Damia insisted.
“You must have tons of adherents, surely! After all the inn has done for Liscor, the region, the world? Miss Erin Solstice invented <Quests>, didn’t she?”
Whoa, she does know us.
Mrsha was vaguely alarmed. She’d heard Damia was intelligent, but not…enthusiastic. But then, her learning about one version of Damia in the Goblin King’s future had been just an aside from Xitegen. Even so, she had to ask.
No one likes the inn. Liscor remembers the good Erin did, and the bad, Miss Damia. And there’s plenty of both. The only ‘fans’ she has are real weirdos like that Gnoll guy who thinks she’s a ‘sexual fiend’. Ever met him, Ilvriss?
“…No. Is that a joke?”
I wish. If you’re a real fan of the inn, uh, prove it! What’s my last name?
“Stone Spears or du Marquin? Or Demas Metal or—I forget your birth mother’s tribe! Argh! But you wouldn’t claim them, so—the first two?”
Damia appeared uncertain and worried, but Mrsha and Ilvriss exchanged another glance. Oh shit, she’s good. Ilvriss tried, growing genuinely fascinated.
“Er, that’s broadly correct. But if you know the inn—you can’t have visited. However, any fan would know the inn had a [Bartender], once.”
“Drassi Tewing, who became Channel 2’s anchor—well, she was Channel 1 with Sir Relz first—after confronting them about the Yellow Rivers disease!”
Damn. Maybe she was legit. Mrsha kept scratching her head.
Alright, you know the inn. But…you actually want to visit? People die there, you know. We’ve got Goblins, Antinium, undead, and maggots. Bird always has one or two in her rooms. She’s actually gross as heck sometimes.
Lumping Goblins and Antinium together with undead and maggots got a shoe thrown at Mrsha’s head by Picker. She took cover as someone hucked a dustrag at her too, and Damia’s face lit up.
“Are they there? Can I meet them? I don’t have a problem with either!”
“Your family participated in the Sacrifice of Roses. At least some did.”
This time, Ilvriss’ skepticism actually grew. He saw Damia Reinhart hesitate, and her eyes flicked to his face, then Mrsha’s, a moment before a smile appeared on her face. Both noticed that.
She’s still a Reinhart. She was thinking of a lie. But then Damia noticed their skeptical faces and drew in a breath.
“I…I was just a child when the Goblin King rampaged, and I didn’t know anyone personally who died. I was born after the Antinium came to Izril. Be it so selfish, but I don’t care about what feels like ancient history to me. Is—that sounds worse than I wish it to be.”
Ilvriss, as someone who’d lived through both Antinium Wars, even if he wasn’t that old, felt a pang at Damia’s comments. It was Mrsha who frowned.
Really? Well, here’s an Antinium. Say hi, Goldbody, Picker.
The Antinium and Goblin warily edged into frame. Instantly, there was a shout of horror; some Salazsarian Drakes had seen the two and freaked out. Goldbody wavered, and Picker eyed Damia. And the Reinhart’s eyes widened—then she held out a hand.
“H-hello. I’m Damia Reinhart. I’m no Goblinfriend…but I could be, possibly? I’d like to meet the Antinium of Liscor too, but I think they’re all afraid of me.”
She held out her hand to Picker, bending over, and then Ilvriss felt his neck spines rising and scales tingling.
Could a [Lady] fake the genuine excitement and nerves like that? Even Cecille Reinhart’s daughter?
He began to believe this was a familiar thing he’d found before at Erin’s inn, but different and welcome. It was Mrsha whose face screwed up with suspicion and worry. She drew herself up and put an arm out.
When she wrote, Damia turned to Mrsha and hesitated. Because the girl said:
No offense, Lady Damia, but I don’t buy it. Say you like the inn. Okay. You’re still a Reinhart, and with respect, I’ve never heard of a Reinhart doing anything that doesn’t help them in some way. Magnolia sealed you away for a reason. Can you swear you don’t have a grudge against her or want something from the inn?
Again, the [Lady] froze, and she seemed genuinely nervous. Afraid…that they wouldn’t like her? The Wall Lord and Gnoll Doombearer studied her, and Damia took a quick breath. She hesitated, then she sank to one knee and looked Mrsha in the eyes.
When she spoke, her voice was aquiver, and it felt like she was confessing something intimate and scary. But this was it. She might not get another chance if Mrsha vanished. And Ilvriss—Damia glanced up at him and then saw an [Innkeeper] with a hat full of flames. A girl waving a white flag.
The stuff of stories. So Damia told them the truth, her only card to play.
“It’s true. I don’t want to visit The Wandering Inn for selfless reasons. Does anyone in this world do anything for others without a reward?”
Yes.
Mrsha didn’t blink. Damia’s heart beat faster, and her throat constricted. Her voice wobbled. Oh no.
“I—I wouldn’t know. I’m a Reinhart. You’re right, I don’t understand…but I wish to visit, Miss Mrsha. Please? Even if not the inn, just—you can use me in some kind of weird Solstice event. I’d love to be part of it. I don’t care if it’s risky. If something is going on, put me in. Please.”
You don’t know what you’re asking for. You don’t want to be part of a real Solstice event.
Mrsha backed up a step, and she appeared tired. Upset. She half-turned, and Damia reached out. Her hand passed through Mrsha’s arm, and she cried out.
“I do! I was so bored in the north. I am angry at Magnolia—but maybe she did me a favor. Not wholly, and I will collect my interest. But I can imagine just staying in the north, being complacent, if I had been myself my entire life. Instead, when I woke up from her Skill, I left my home. That was the right choice, even if it was due to desperation. I would never have been content there. I was so miserable, and nothing really mattered to me. I wanted to be important or just—provocative so badly I slept with my brother.”
Er…that’s too much information—
The girl turned back, and Ilvriss eyed Damia, but the [Lady] was panting now, desperate to get the words back. She was kneeling and scooted closer to Mrsha. Eyes on the girl.
“I mean it. I want to level. I want to do something amazing, even if it means risking my life. Would you take a life of boring peace?”
Yes.
“Yes.”
Ilvriss and Mrsha replied at the same time. Damia’s head swung between them, and her face screwed up.
“It’s meaningless to me. Maybe it’d be different if I had—friends. A place to go. But I’ve nothing to my name. Not class nor levels nor a purpose. I went to Liscor and I started levelling. It felt like I was alive. I want to see it. Everything around me is the product of the inn, shaped by its passage. I long for the real thing, like a moth to the flame. Take me in, please. Let me be a guest. Allow me entrance, and break me apart if you must. Even if I die, I never want to go back and sit in my meaningless home.”
Wall Lord Ilvriss and Mrsha du Marquin stood there as Damia finished and became conscious of her audience. They always watched her, that silly [Lady]. Because she was funny and odd. But this confession struck the people watching her, because it was…honest. Damia’s honesty. It was the inn, the real inn that people tried to pretend wasn’t truly that powerful.
So, the Salazsarian employees were staring at her. Silverfangs turning to each other in shock. Even Liscorians were frankly incredulous, Riverfarm’s folk appalled by the [Lady] who had chosen an [Innkeeper]’s madness over an [Emperor]’s mercy.
And even…Damia’s head turned, and she saw Binevy and Sule standing there. They’d chickened out of using the brothel’s services. The young man was scratching his head, intrigued and confused. But the [Head Maid] met her mistress’ eyes, and it felt like Binevy had finally seen Damia.
Her eyes were wide, unnerved. She gazed upon the kneeling [Lady] like some kind of strange monster. It was the expression every Reinhart servant gave their employer in time. How they came to understand the people they might choose to follow.
But Damia…Damia Reinhart was a unique one, even among her den of vipers.
 
——
 
Lady Cecille Reinhart’s cigarette flared like a cherry in the darkness of her room. She exhaled smoke in a ring and blew a smaller circle through it. Then added a third through the center of both. She watched the faintly crimson smoke vanishing, then took another drag.
Then her eyes fell down to the [Message] scroll, and she brushed some of the ash from the cigarette off it. The transcript of Damia’s confession was still drying on the parchment, as Binevy and a separate spy had recorded. Only a fool trusted one spy.
In that moment, the [Lady] understood her daughter a bit. So that was what freedom had made of her. Cecille exhaled again and spoke.
“Foolish girl. Of course this mansion is dull. We’ll all move out and find our abodes soon. The only joy of gathering here is to match wits among equals. Dull? It is duller outside, when you are the only fresh pair of eyes in a sea of people who walk staring at the shadows on the ground.”
More ash fell, and Cecille’s face twisted further. A bitter scowl that would have told her daughter just as much about her mother, if Damia had seen it. But Cecille had learned to hide it all.
“The pure light is not meant for Reinharts. The shadows we cast are too long. You long for the first spark of authenticity because it looks so tantalizing. There will be more. Do you think you’re so special? So unique?”
She rubbed at her side, just above the left side of her stomach. Her thigh itched. The [Lady] lifted the hem of her dress, exposing a long-faded tattoo whose magic and trust was gone.
“In time…they will disappoint you. Or you will sully them by aiding them. They will not stay so pure. And when they reveal their true colors—”
Cecille whirled. For a second, she stared into a vanity and saw another [Lady] racing off with earnest desires and the belief she was the one Reinhart who saw beyond it all. She spoke, eyes stinging from the smoke.
“When they show you who they are and you come slinking back home in shame, we shall make good use of your levels.”
That was how she said goodbye to her daughter. For a while.
 
——
 
As for Damia? She knelt, trembling as a Gnoll girl stood there and a Wall Lord tried to interject. Steer her from the cliff she wanted to walk off of. But Mrsha just searched Damia’s face, then smiled bleakly. Guiltily.
“I know I’m a Reinhart, Mrsha. But am I allowed to be more than my family’s name?”
The guilty words of a daughter of the Five Families hit Mrsha in the face like Alber’s best punch. She rocked back on her heels, mouth open, and then just looked Damia up and down. Actually scratched at her head, and pulled a hair out with a wince. Then Mrsha wrote, a heavy little paw solemnly writing to Damia. And the girl believed each word mattered. Because she knew what Mrsha had done.
Well, I don’t know how right you are about all that, Damia. We’re not…Gods. Some might say we’re the opposite. But The Wandering Inn is not so full we can turn away friends or allies. I’ll hold a seat for you, if you can help Ilvriss. I hope you don’t regret it. But thank you. For believing in us.
Disbelieving, heart lifting in her chest, Damia rose. Mrsha exhaled, then held out a paw. And it might have contained a [Witch]’s wonders, an [Innkeeper]’s chaos, the power of fate and destiny, a Doombearer’s luck…or nothing at all. But Damia Reinhart took it with trembling hands and mimed shaking the air. And then she was part of it.
It was the happiest day of her life.
 
[Fangirl class obtained!]
[Fangirl Level 6!]
[Skill – Pass On Enthusiasm Obtained!]
[Skill – Create Lucky Charm (Memorabilia) Obtained!]
[Skill – Helper’s Increased Experience (The Wandering Inn) Obtained!]
 
——
 
Later that day, Mrsha du Marquin found her mother tending to the plants in the [Garden of Sanctuary]. Sage’s Grass, cocoa trees, and other valuable crops. She was harvesting the pods of slimy seeds and sighing.
“What’s even the point if Oteslia’s growing all this…? Oh, right. The Antinium want their own for their greenhouses. Mrsha, dear, your plants grow a bit too well sometimes.”
Mrsha, who had raised Faerie Flowers until they had grown enough to pierce Skills themselves, had a bit of a green thumb. The Gnoll girl came over to help her mother. After a while, she held up a card.
Hey, Mom?
“Yes, dear?”
I committed a racism today.
Lyonette almost said ‘that’s nice’, until she glanced down and saw Mrsha’s guilty expression. She stood there, mouth open, until Apista buzzed down for hugs. And Mrsha resolved never to do it again. She just hadn’t known you could racism like that. It was a pernicious thing, the racisms.
 
——
 
The effect of Lady Damia Reinhart was more than just one helpful [Lady] making the camp better. It was her darn enthusiasm. And her willingness to spam Skills.
The next day, Ilvriss woke up, and he did all of his paperwork for the week. He emerged from his tents, gnoshing on breakfast—a green apple and packaged Calescent spiced porridge which had no actual heat in it, because it was so much better than camp food—and he saw a group of [Miners] marching toward Dig Site B like thunder.
“Alright, you slack-tailed sloths, let’s get to it! I want those seams dug!”
The [Forewoman] was exhorting her people like they were [Soldiers]. And the [Soldiers]? They were armed and raring to go. Major Shellc was infected with the same energy.
“We are breaching four spots and engaging the undead. I want that growing Dorn Pillar dead. Drinks on me to the entire force if we get it. Captain Asrira, are you sure you’re ready?”
“Ready, sir.”
Captain Osthia was the one person not infected by the energy everyone else shared. She eyed Major Shellc as she and her girls sat—smoking Dreamleaf. Ilvriss half-halted.
“Captain Asrira, what are you doing?”
“Er, building morale, sir?”
She didn’t even hide the contraband drugs as the rest of the Sisters grinned. Osthia eyed Ilvriss.
“What’s with the camp, sir?”
