“I see. Well, if we don’t know what’s going on—er, try to find out.”
“Yes, Lord Deilan.”
He drummed his fingers on the desk.
“Isn’t Desinee in the south? See if she can make contact. That’s perfect, actually. If Ulva Terland’s going to pull another Tyrion and make war on someone—that’s bad. Just have her keep us apprised. Do we know what she’s doing?”
“Trying to sell to a client in the Cowpat Plains as well. A coincidence, Lord Deilan?”
He paused in grave thought.
“…Is the Cowpat Plains really what it’s called?”
Zelonica laughed faintly as he colored.
“It’s the name everyone else calls it, Lord Deilan. Now, the Terlands aside, we do have a very important client interested in our Kaalblades.”
“Oho. Another Earth-nation?”
“Apparently not, Lord Deilan! Independent and just—taken with the concept. He’s been waiting in our demonstration rooms, and given his rank, I understand you should speak to him yourself. He’s Prince Dafranail of House Taima, of Taimaguros. It’s very important you address him as Prince of Taima.”
“I see, I see. I heard they were visiting. Something of a stir in First Landing?”
Deilan never visited. He was no good with socializing or flirting—and everyone flirted with you when you were head of House El. All the family wanted to know who he’d choose as his wife, and were hinting at him not to ‘pull a Maviola’ and never get married.
Deilan found that highly intrusive into his life. He had no one in mind. All the eligible candidates in the other Five Families were—weird in their own way, was how he’d charitably phrase it—and anyone who wasn’t them was just too different to marry. He didn’t know any Terandrians, let alone nobles or royals in Chandrar and Baleros.
Adventurers or Couriers were common if not the nobility. But they got weird, or so Deilan had been told, and the one eligible bachelorette he had known, if briefly, was taken.
That was Lord Tyrion for you, a menace to civil conversation and your own love life. Deilan changed clothing into something less grease-stained and more presentable, then went down with a fake smile.
“Your Highness of Taima! The House of El greets you warmly. How can we create wonders to suit your needs?”
It wasn’t fancy, but the Prince of Taima offered him a huge, flourishing bow with his cape, and his [Knights of Taima] were impressive, armored in red and gold. It was some kind of color-theme, as was the [Prince]’s huge fur collar despite the heat.
Deilan had done a quick read-through, and Gura apparently liked to theme themselves after the coast and sharks, while Taima occupied the inland. They were rivals despite being one huge dominion…and he really hoped he didn’t need more to close this sale.
“Taima greets you, and Gura grovels to do the same, doubtless, Lord of El. Ah, but I should represent my kingdom equally, for all one part clearly stands above the other. I am most taken with your weaponry, these magic swords, and even the crossbows. I had heard tell they were works of art that Noelictus bought, but I would have not thought them fit for a true warrior. Yet to see them is to wonder: could my [Knights of Taima] not use them? It is doubly refreshing to have a warm welcome. You Izrilians can be so—rude.”
Well, he was a bunch of personality in a bottle. Deilan listened to the little warning bells in his head and was careful as he smiled.
“I apologize in advance for any rudeness, Prince of Taima, Dafranail. My cousins in the Five Families are passing odd to Terandrian sensibilities. It is why we left. I am an [Artisan] as much as a [Lord]. Creation is my desire. We do sell to Veteran Hunters of Noelictus’ Hunter’s Guild. But our weapons have gone to Gold-rank adventurers and our finest works to Named-rankers. We are capable of making such weapons. If the price can be paid.”
“Ah, a man who knows his worth. Then I am doubly interested. I was told by one of your peers—he does not dress to his rank!—that I might see and try the weapons?”
The [Prince of Taima] was a young enough man to be delighted by the chance to try the auto-reloading crossbows and rather impressive target range. It was no expenditure unless he used an enchanted bolt, and the cost of a mana stone to let him hack apart dummies…Deilan thought he might have a sale, and he smiled as Zelonica smoothly stepped forwards.
“Prince Dafranail, I am [Mistress of Accounts] Zelonica, in service to the House of El. Do you have a preference which weapon you’d like to start with, crossbows or Kaalblades? We have a range of weapons, but you are free to test them all as we inform you of their features. Right or left-handed?”
She had two Kaalblades ready, and the [Prince] turned, blinked at Zelonica, then held up a finger.
“Ah, I have but one question. When you say ‘in service to the House of El’, I take this, then, to mean that she is not a noble as you are? As she is a half-Elf, and I doubt one would be married to the blood of Izril, let alone considered such.”
He turned to Deilan, and the [Lord] frowned at the rude question, but he nodded.
“Zelonica is a longstanding employee and trusted advisor, Prince.”
“I see. Thank you.”
So saying, the [Prince] picked up the left-handed Kaalblade from Zelonica’s hand, then, with the same motion, backhanded her across the face. She fell down with a cry, and Deilan blinked down at her. The [Prince of Taima] rubbed his hand ostentatiously.
“Commoners. Addressing me as an equal. I have had no less than ten incidents in First Landing. Doubtless, this is just because she is a half-Elf, and her kind is known to speak out of turn, Lord El. I do not hold it against you. Now, where are these targets?”
He turned as his [Knights of Taima] shifted. Because they had seen how well this encounter ran the last ten times it had occurred in First Landing. All with non-nobles, which had meant the [Prince] tended to get away with it like everywhere else.
Except with the angry [Guildmaster]. However, Lord Deilan El just cocked his head like an owl and peered down his spectacles.
“This way, Prince. We like to calibrate our Kaalblades to each user before use.”
He pointed away from the testing ground, and the [Prince] beamed.
“Ah, this is the House of El’s specialty, as I have heard! Lead the way!”
He strode past Zelonica, who rose shakily.
“I—I apologize, Lord Deilan.”
She spoke to him, carefully not looking at the [Prince] as she held her cheek. The [Lord] led the way into one of the workshops. Several surprised artisans, including members of the House of El who were so gifted, glanced up.
“This is where we assemble the Kaalblades and calibrate them, Prince. This is Irve of the House of El.”
“Er, hello.”
The man was working on a Kaalblade’s runes, giving it the finishing touches as he calibrated it. He offered a gemstone-stained glove to the [Prince], who hesitated, then shook it.
“And what is my blade to be calibrated to? Length? Color, of course, I fancy a red—”
“One second, Prince.”
Deilan took the [Prince]’s Kaalblade and handed it over to Irve, who stared at it nonplussed, as if he had no idea what to do with it.
“Do you want me to calibrate it, Deilan? I can—oh, what happened to Zelonica?”
He focused on Zelonica, who was holding her red cheek. She tried to wave it off, and Deilan smiled. He led the [Prince] over to a huge machine where rune tracings could be printed on the objects via spools that dripped liquid gemstone.
“He struck Zelonica for being a commoner.”
“Hm? For—oh, I see.”
The [Prince] heard the comment and turned his head. Dafranail spoke with a jerk of the chin.
“Standards must be maintained for the Kingdom of Twin Beasts. My cousins in Izril treat commonfolk with soft hands and allow them excesses; but I lead by example. [See It My Way: Noblesse Domine].”
Lord Deilan El’s spectacles flashed as he nodded his head, and the other members of the House of El blinked. Zelonica’s head bowed further. The [Prince] smiled as Deilan motioned.
“Naturally, I see your position, Prince Dafranail. So does the House of El. We are nothing if not proud. Do excuse the clutter. The adjustment machine is right here.”
They did remember, didn’t they? Lord Irve adjusted his oil-stained gloves and stepped back to give the [Prince] room as they edged past the assembly line. Somewhere along the long and winding way through the workshop floor, the [Prince]’s bodyguards slowed to avoid the workers who were getting up. Nobles and craftspeople. The [Prince] was frowning at the contraption.
“If it takes too long, I will use a simple Kaalblade, Lord Deilan. After all, one cannot rush such things, and I desire to test them.”
“Not at all, Prince. If you’d care to look forwards? We need to get a definite read on your features.”
“Fascinating. That my likeness might activate the Kaalblade and none other? Where do I look?”
“Straight at the side of the metal, please. Right there—thank you.”
The [Prince] stared ahead obligingly, then turned his head to ask what he was gazing at, because he just thought it was a side of the metal contraption. That was when he realized Lord Deilan had gotten on a workbench. Then the [Lord] kicked the [Prince]’s head into the side of the metal rune-printer.
He wasn’t good at fighting, and Maviola had always said that if he was going to start a fight like that, he’d better have the advantage of surprise, height, something hard and painful, or ideally all three. He leapt down as the [Knights] began to shout, then the crack-hiss of a dozen Kaalblades igniting made them go silent.
Lord Deilan landed on the [Prince], who made a hublagh sound. Then he just improvised. And he thought—well, he was no Maviola El. But it was amazing how many moves you could think of when you were mad. Here he’d thought he was so even-tempered. But even the [Lord] of House El could produce a flying drop kick when needed.
Anyways, the consequences of that incident and the other ones with Taimaguros were another story.
 
——
 
A number of events were taking place over the course of Wall Lord Ilvriss’ long dig. Seemingly unconnected as Izril’s north changed.
The war between Assassin’s Guilds in the north.
Wing Captain Osthia’s new command and Skill.
A [Princess] making use of her Skills and new inn to dance.
Diplomat Nerul Umbral Throning his way to the respect of [Lifters] and Golems.
Miner Georgie finding himself agreeing to a three month extension on his contract with options for permanent employment if he was interested.
Lady Damia signing the same version of the contract eagerly, then asking if Georgie was doing anything for dinner. He eyed her. She was very curious.
Let alone the elections and more.
But the result was that the world was changing very quickly, and for once, Ulva Terland felt it.
She was on the road, sitting in a carriage pulled by Golem Horses, a rare pair of bluemetal horses whose eyes glowed yellow and stormed down the roads. It wasn’t a fast carriage, and she was upset.
…Mostly because Wistram’s Magical CarriageTM kept passing her conveyance on the road. She was so annoyed that the third time they began blaring their obnoxious advertisements, she snapped.
“—discount on any bulk travel for members of the nobility! Apply at your local Mage’s Guild for—”
“Destroy the carriage. Don’t harm the passengers.”
Obligingly, one of the two Golem horses turned its head and projected a [Ray of Force] at the Wistram Carriage. One wheel exploded, and the magical carriage crashed down and began disintegrating.
“WARNING! ANY ASSAULT ON WISTRAM PROPERTY WILL—”
“Take out that one too.”
There was a scream, and the second carriage swerved away too late. Ulva listened to the explosion and sat back.
She was Ulva Terland, and despite politics, despite anything else, she was a Terland of the Five Families. She could play nice, but no one insulted a member of the Five Families on their lands. That was why some of the news didn’t strike her as bad.
“So Deilan El broke a [Prince]’s jaw. So what? Who’s censuring him?”
“Several of the family and other—”
“Golems, identify each member of House Terland who condemned the House of El and paddle their behinds ten times. That Terandrian brat backhanded one of his people. We are the Five Families. Clearly, the kingdoms of Terandria have forgotten what that means.”
Everyone had. That was abundantly clear; House Terland hadn’t gone south like this in an age. And their slower speed was still fast—but the reason they weren’t already at Invrisil was simple.
The Golem-Carriages were pulling a second trailer behind the first. People turned and gawked at the carriage that Ulva Terland was sitting in—and then the long, rolling platform with Golems standing on it.
Golems locked into place but active, ready to break free of their restraints as need be. Not just one ‘trailer’ of Golems. No less than six carriages were following Ulva Terland, with their own nobility and Golems.
She had brought an army. Not one in great numbers, but no less than sixty Golems herself—and her family, the meddling flies, had followed her with three times that many.
That was enough Golems to win a war if you had [Soldiers]. And some of the Golems…were ones who had won said wars.
The carriage that Ulva sat in had been designed to let her converse with Golems, so it was huge, reinforced, and had a back door that led to the trailer—a Golem was standing in a holding area behind Ulva’s seats. There was a faint click-whirr coming from its chest.
He was a Timekeeper Golem with a Golem’s Heart that was made up of little gears moving around an inner power source. The reason for all the machinery instead of a full magical Golem’s heart?
All his limbs were likewise connected by the gears instead of just magically animated. The overdesigned Golem came from antiquity so old that Ulva Terland suspected it predated the Long Night. It was highly efficient due to the gears and far stronger than a regular Golem because it could leverage the gear-system to augment its arms, rather than relying solely on magic for strength. She had seen it once push the Pride of the Wellfar out to sea when it had run aground.
Alone.
But this Golem was not invincible. One of its kind had been with Petria when she died. The sister-Golem who had served House Terland for ages…this Golem was male, at least in shape, with a carved face that looked like an automaton’s, a cylindrical head with basic features and a faded cap on his head. They called him Timekeeper, her companion of old.
Ulva didn’t talk to Timekeeper. She addressed a nervous pair of younger Terlands and one of the serving-Golems in the carriage for lesser orders like spanking the Terlands.
