But also his Skill isn’t just for show. [See it My Way] is a version of Nerul’s Skill that acts on entire cities. Arguably less powerful since that was Nerul’s Level 40 capstone, and Dafranail is lower-level, but it’s like a plague of thought.
If you’re not someone like Deilan El or the El family who instantly resists and takes umbrage with Dafranail, and he gets away with his actions even with mild censure, people start to come around to his point of view. It’s a pernicious power that royalty can get. But it does not confer immunity to having your teeth mashed into the side of a metal machine, so I just wished to elaborate since I don’t always talk about Skills. But like the Grand Design (Second Edition), it’s fun. For the sake of the plot, I don’t do it as much. Maybe I should, for a few chapters.
 
Second is Advance Miner Georgie. He’s a funny guy and not a great dude. There were some concerns in my stream-chat about representation with him being, well, sort of an asshole, but I have asked representatives of the transmasc community to read and comment and taken feedback on board.
Every experience is different, and opinions may vary, but Georgie is, well, the result of a lot of factors that make him act the way he does. Including himself, but he’s acting like other [Miners] in their culture. He’s far from perfect but that’s part of the point; ‘representation fails when people are cookie-cutter perfect.’ I’m quoting that, there.
I’m definitely interested in opinions, but I just wanted to note that I did try to listen and pay attention, like I did with the Saliss-Onieva chapters and other times.
 
Whew, that’s it. I’m gonna go back to paranoidly searching for earwigs and look forward to one last huge chapter. I’m not splitting these up, large as they are, but I may need a break after I round this out because I’m burning my backlog and energy to write this much. But I think it’s a fun arc and hope you enjoy the ending. One more chapter. It’s gonna be big. Like indoor pl—I have never stopped thinking of that quote for at least two decades. I don’t know why.
—pirateaba
