Something was terribly wrong. Damia Reinhart wasn’t bored.
In fact, she’d forgotten about boredom at all for the last, what, week? She’d lost count of the days since joining Wall Lord Ilvriss’ dig site. That was not to say that things were peachy all the time.
She’d nearly ripped a fingernail off her finger trying to swing a pickaxe the other day. During the first cattle raid, she’d gotten punched for the first time in her life. The Cowpat Plains stank.
—But she wasn’t bored. Or even that unhappy.
What was wrong with her?
 
——
 
Life on average, to Damia, was mediocre at best. You had good days—good moments, but if you took the totality of any given week or month, you were probably bored or restless, and most ‘enjoyments’ were brief sparks of amusement that faded in minutes, often during the act.
She had assumed that was what life was. Assumed that poorer people were just so simple they derived pleasures from equally boring actions, or that someone who wasn’t rich would luxuriate in the things she had plenty thereof.
She was wrong, of course. And now she saw it—Damia was the happiest she’d ever been, working for a Walled City in the middle of rancher no man’s land, the permanent scent of cow dung in the air. She got sweaty, her clothes got soiled, it wasn’t comfortable.
But she was alive.
Mind you, Binevy, Sule, and even Varnie probably didn’t enjoy their stay as much. Varnie was the happiest—mostly because she wasn’t dead—but Binevy seemed practically miserable at times when she slept in the unenchanted tents and had to queue up for a quick shower. She was a Reinhart’s servant and used to luxury.
So was Damia, but she was so busy she didn’t notice. Busy on what? Well, everything.
At first, it was what Ilvriss had wanted: liaising between the new workers and the Salazsarian employees. Damia hadn’t known what to do, but Ilvriss did have his adjutants. Say what you wanted about them—they weren’t as good as [Warriors], [Strategists], [Secretaries] in their specialties, they were hangers on and the south’s version of personal servants.
But they got stuff done.
“Wall Lord Ilvriss will meet at least daily with Clan Leader Plisce. We handle reports from [Forewomen] if an issue requires higher supervision—we shall route some of them to you, Lady Damia Reinhart, and see how you do. Is that acceptable?”
The Drake with the spectacles, Welsca, was the [Adjutant] who’d clearly drawn the short straw of having to deal with Damia. Or maybe she was just the most used to non-Salazsarians. She was not prepared for Damia’s smile.
“Absolutely, Adjutant Welsca, let me know if there’s anything I can do or how you operate.”
“Er, yes. Very good. Why don’t I show you a trial case? Ah, Foreman Lishi. Is it Miner Georgie again…?”
Some Drake in the female mining teams was a known problem to Welsca, who sighed hugely, then showed Damia the system. After that, she left Damia to wander the camps—with some supervision and limits on where she could go, obviously, and she clearly expected the [Lady] to be of little help.
It was not a fun job, managing disputes between species or dealing with the nebulous task of morale. However…
Damia found she was good at it.
 
——
 
“Alright, I have four verifiable complaints of speciesism I find credible, Adjutants. And I do note morale is low—I’ve surveyed sixty of the current [Miners], and they have issues with recreation, the output of other miners—and eight more complaints about this Miner Georgie—and I do have some recommendations for how to fix that. Who should I present my findings to?”
Damia appeared on her second day of work at Ilvriss’ officer tents, and the Drakes there stopped eating breakfast and eyed each other. They turned to Welsca, and the Drake woman picked up a piece of toast, inserted it into her mouth, and went hurrying towards the horses.
“Wall Lord Ilvriss wants me to run some deliveries to Liscor! Terribly sorry, I must be on my way. Lady Damia, why don’t you speak to my colleagues?”
She ran off, and Damia peered around brightly. She didn’t miss the looks the aides gave each other. She knew they thought she was some untrustworthy Reinhart. And when the sapphire-scaled Drake with a monocle and weak smile came over, she read his dismissive tone too.
“I’m [Economic Advisor] Merls, Lady Damia. We do take reports of anti-species behavior seriously. Not that I doubt your work, but four reports seems high.”
He was in his mid-fifties, some kind of career Drake in service to House Gemscale, if one who had even ridden on campaigns with Wall Lord Ilvriss. This was not his happiest hour, here in the camps fighting with Humans, and so he cleared some breakfast space and gave her a rather disinterested expression he tried to cover up.
She smiled at Merls and slid next to him with the paperwork.
“I’m delighted to meet you, Advisor Merls. Is that your rank? Do forgive me if I’m rude and correct me, please!”
“Er—I’d hate to correct a [Lady] of one of the Five Families.”
He blinked. She was sitting very close to him and gave him the kind of interested look that seemed genuine.
“Nonsense! I feel like you outrank me, here. You’ve been with the Wall Lord for a long time, correct?”
“Yes…it’s a Gemscale posting my father held.”
“Were you in the south when he clashed with Zel Shivertail? And met the Goblin Lord, Reiss?”
“I was—”
“Incredible! So your class is a combat one?”
The Drake glanced at the other adjutants, who blinked at him and then at Damia. He adjusted his rumpled suit.
“Well, I, uh, usually stay with the command staff, and we do not enter combat. Miss Welsca is rated for actual combat at need be, but she’s still support. I’ve seen a few engagements, though. The Goblin Lord did require all forces to be fighting. Terrible, terrible—er, let’s look at the reports. Foreman Dritmel? I recognize that. We’ve had a few reports, but nothing substantive. And the rest of these names…are you just taking the allegations at face value?”
He turned to the paperwork, and Damia shook her head.
“Absolutely not, Adjutant. I understand it’s a very difficult allegation to prove, and obviously no Drake—or Gnoll or Human, of course—would admit to it if pressed. Often, the slights are minor and as much as they can get away with, but it leads to a negative work environment.”
“Exactly, and it’s not even about species many times, but just personality, and speciesism is an easy charge to level—”
“Precisely, Merls. May I call you that? Is it too forwards? If you have time, I’d love to get to know you all as long as I’m here. That’s why I had my people blend in or camouflage themselves and personally shadow each individual complaint. I have eyewitness accounts and exact descriptions of further incidents. I witnessed Foreman Dritmel’s actions myself. Here.”
She flipped a page, and the [Adjutant] blinked. Damia went on smoothly.
“Most of it is verbal harassment, and I wasn’t sure how to address it. Do you have a strike policy or is it just a record of actions? I can keep monitoring each individual, though I may need a few more hands to help me.”
She waited as heads turned.
“I would also say morale is an issue if the number of complaints I overheard is any sign of worker productivity. If I’m overstepping or this is a serious matter, I can, of course, speak to Wall Lord Ilvriss at his convenience.”
She smiled, and no matter how hard they eyed her, or even activated Skills—one of the Drakes had [Measure Enthusiasm] as part of a set of headhunter Skills—it still looked like actual sincerity. One of Ilvriss’ [Aides] leaned over as the teal Drake choked and stared at something glowing on their claw.
“What, is she faking it, Ridbnell?”
“No. Her enthusiasm score is—it’s over 90.”
They stared at Damia like she was sick. But that was how it started.
 
——
 
The funny part was that Damia didn’t even really have any charisma Skills of note. Oh, sure, [Lesser Charisma] and [Basic Leadership], but those were literally bottom-rung Skills that just made you able to manage a basic group.
Her real secret was that she was genuinely enthusiastic and even interested.
Over the next few days, Damia not only made friends with Merls, Ridbnell, and the other Drakes, but when Welsca came back from her mini-vacation to Liscor, she found that Damia had settled more complaints than half of Ilvriss’ personal staff combined. And won over her peers!
Not all of it was hard to do. Damia was a Reinhart, so when it came to sneaking up on people or being underhanded, she had a natural advantage. Even when they’d been subdued by Magnolia’s Skill, the family had crept up on each other and weaponized secrets and gossip. By contrast, hiding speaking stones in work sites, having someone blend in to provoke an allegedly bad manager’s ire, all of that was simple. Plus, she had Varnie.
The amused [Gang Leader] and her remaining people who’d decided to follow Damia were able to use hiding Skills to listen in. And eyewitness accounts proved a lot more incidents were occurring than Salazsar’s staff wanted to believe.
Half of it was discomfort between species, though. North and south not liking each other. To that end, Damia had set up communal events where members of multiple groups would stop working, have a refreshing drink of something sweet, snacks, and watch the scrying orb, play some cards, or just chat.
The local [Ranchers] played games with horseshoes—a variation where you had a pole and attached the metal rods at varying heights and lengths instead of a single pole on the ground. Rather to their surprise, some of the Lischelles’ spies saw the game become an actual pastime in camp.
Not only that—several [Cleaners] were dealing with bug infestations in some of the camps, and new linens were being bought due to the current ones being irrevocably torn. Small things. Necessary things. But the attention to detail was spooky.
Also, why were Ilvriss’ staff approving all this? Some [Lady] from the north came swanning in, tried to make changes—Welsca had assumed her co-workers would shut down any unnecessary expenditure of gold.
However, this too had a simple answer: Merls, Ridbnell, and a third of Welsca’s co-workers were somewhat smitten with the [Lady].
“She has to be leading them on.”
Welsca eyed the [Lady] chatting with a very attentive Merls at the breakfast table. Where she apparently had breakfasts. One of her female co-workers, Sasni, stopped writing an approval form for one of Damia’s requests over her breakfast.
“Welsca, this breakfast is to die for. Go back and bring more food from Liscor, please! What about Damia leading Merls on? The only thing she’s doing is pitting him against Ridbnell and Gless. Suits me. I’m tired of Ridbnell and Gless chatting me up nonstop.”
“Merls is more than twice her age. She’s just flirting so he helps her out.”
The [Adjutant] insisted. She wasn’t that protective of her coworkers, having also had the delightful Drake seniority experience with superiors chatting her up and not being able to blow them off. Thankfully, she outranked everyone but actual Wall Lords here. However, Sasni eyed Welsca.
“If she’s doing that, she’s going so far into the act I’d say it reaches right back around to authentic. She had a personal dinner with Merls out on the town last night. Four full hours, and he came back preening over himself.”
“…What?”
Another shrug.
“Apparently, she was all over him, asking about his career with House Gemscale, the Goblin Lord, what he thought about the north, south, everything! It’s eerie how much she seems to like us.”
“Huh. And the paperwork?”
“She does it better than half the new interns. Look.”
Sasni pushed the papers over, and Welsca eyed the neat handwriting and checked boxes in the report forms. She shook her head.
 
——
 
It was true. Damia Reinhart was working hard. And that was not to say her job was fun.
Truthfully, after the third time you busted a [Foreman] for speciesism, you were probably done with any ‘fun’ elements or even rewarding feelings. Same with cleaning tents or reviewing reports of unsanitary conditions and finding someone had crapped in the corner of a worksite and shovelled dirt over it.
Some of the tasks Damia handled were boring. It was just that she didn’t find it entirely boring because she was here.
In Wall Lord Ilvriss’ camp where he was digging up something that was 372% related to The Wandering Inn! Not just that. Damia was all-too-willing to take on more work.
Like…the first thing she approached Welsca with was a proposal.
“Miss Welsca, I have reports in each Dig Site about teams not pulling their weight.”
“Ah, that’s a known issue, Miss Damia. It’s inevitable and accounted for.”
Really? According to both managers and grunts, some teams were working at literally a quarter of the output of other teams! But Welsca barely glanced at the numbers, and Damia’s brain went—
Ping. [Remember That].
Another intelligence Skill. However, Damia pretended not to notice and smiled.
“Even so, Adjutant, that kind of thing hurts morale. Why work if another team can earn the same pay by putting in no effort? See my proposal here.”
She handed over the paper, and Welsca wiped at her spectacles, sighing.
“I’m aware, Lady Damia, but we are not going to reallocate teams or—a contest?”
“Everyone loves a good competition, Welsca. I’m thinking a five-day holiday to Liscor and all the connected cities as the prize. It doesn’t even have to be a high monetary budget. Just say it’s paid time. Let’s say one team wins, this is how much it costs…and imagine how much they’ll race!”
Welsca hesitated.
“We…do need to dig. You know we have an, ah, a monster issue? We still need to dig around them and delve deeper—but a contest would lead to teams cutting corners and potentially put [Advance Miners] in danger.”
“Oh, of course—”
The [Lady] deflated, and Welsca, despite herself, bit her lip and sighed.
“However, we do have an established framework in Salazsar. Teams have to pass safety checks, and if it’s in areas where we’re just widening shafts and it’s the amount of dirt shifted…it’s an intriguing proposal, but it would require a lot of announcements and organization!”
“I’m happy to help, Adjutant. If it’s above our pay grades, I could present the idea to Wall Lord Ilvriss…”
And that was the secret. Damia’s helpful, beaming smile made the [Adjutant] eye her incredulously. She turned, and one of her friends mouthed ‘ninety-four’ at her. Because Damia was genuinely motivated.
