His eyes rose, and they flashed. Nerul straightened, and she had to admit he looked more fit than she’d assume for a [Diplomat]. Thighs reminiscent of Xitegen’s.
“Very well. I point out merely that Salazsar has only come north to dig. In lands we used to own. Without malice, without blades. You sent a Golem against us, and you were, unfortunately, a casualty of defeating it. One does not stick their hand in a beehive and complain overlong, I feel. Can we agree to civil discussions?”
He went from effusive to direct as a Golem shoving you in a second. The family muttered—Ulva just bared her teeth.
“You’re only here for the novelty of it. I have a bone to pick with the [Princess] and Wall Lord. I make no promises.”
At this point, someone broke in.
“Great Aunt! What about the Golem? She’s Zelkyr-made! She’s—ulp—”
Timekeeper had picked up the idiot and was ejecting them, but the hubbub grew so loud that Ulva turned her lead.
“Silence! It’s one damn Golem, and that’s why he brought her!”
“Great Aunt, she’s a work of art! She’s the only Sentient-class Zelkyr Golem remaining and—”
“And? I’ve seen better.”
Gasps. Yweine’s face didn’t change, but Ulva grinned.
“Didn’t like that, did you, Golem? I’m not my family. Zelkyr was gifted at form and sentience, and he made Truestone Golems. He wasn’t the only artificer Terland has known. There are better in our vaults.”
She refused to take any bait, but Yweine’s reply was that too-swift wit that happened when you gave Golems too much intelligence. As if that made better servants. It didn’t make anyone happier, master or creation.
“Your experience is evident, Lady Ulva Terland. I have consulted records, and your advanced age for a Human indicates you would have been a girl when Archmage Zelkyr’s authority was still somewhat intact, despite his absence. You would also have been present for the apparent death and reanimation of Archmage Perril Chandler, the Archmage of Death. May I confirm these statements?”
Ulva felt her skin crawl. She snapped back.
“He is called Az’kerash now. He was executed before I was born. I knew him only as the Necromancer, and I saw him destroying his way south. Nothing more than a monster. What is your point?”
Yweine nodded once.
“In that case, Lady Terland, I would remind you that Zelkyr’s knowledge, techniques, and stores of materials have not all been found. Moreover, my creation is not one of a High Magic era. It is, therefore, reproducible and above current Terland capabilities by several factors.”
Not bad. Ulva could nod at that, but she thought the argument played better with everyone else. She drummed her fingers on the armrest of her Dais of Health.
“If you won’t give it to Salazsar, or they haven’t used it, you don’t have it. I recognize your make and model. You’re a serving Golem. I believe you were Sentient-class. So what? Illivere has the ‘Oracle of Elbe’. I met it once as a girl. Petria said it was the first time she’d met a Golem dumber than she was.”
Heads swung back her way, and some were admiring. Even Nerul’s—they’d never seen someone go up against a Sentient-class Golem. Never met them. Ulva sighed. Children.
“We possess information about Archmage Zelkyr, Lady Ulva. We are a collective.”
This time, Yweine made a mistake, and Ulva spat her drink back into her cup. Threw her head back and laughed mockingly.
“Now I know you’re just a bunch of odd misfits, not some super Sentient-class Golems. Ten Clay Golems are a collective. Give them a wide enough set of parameters and enough time and they’ll get up to something. What do you have to tell us the others didn’t? That Zelkyr was a worthless fool, even for a Drake? Diplomat, I’m tempted to let children talk to children.”
He adjusted his suit as Yweine leaned back, and Ulva could tell she’d annoyed the Golem.
“Delightful as it would be to cross swords with one of Terland’s Virtues, Lady Ulva, I’m afraid I’m but a hatchling in front of you.”
“Most are. But your Golem has nothing for us that it hasn’t given Salazsar—”
Yweine spoke too fast, too loud, a crack in her normal, steady tone.
“We…are imprisoned in Salazsar. We have given them nothing. There are twenty-six of us. The [Diplomat] has signed an agreement for our cooperation.”
Ulva’s eyes narrowed. Nerul half-turned, then went still. He made a rueful expression, and she watched his tail, but it didn’t twitch.
Well now, that changed some things. Her family was getting uppity again. Ulva turned.
“Timekeeper, have one of the spellcasting Golems [Mass Silence] everyone but Xitegen and I.”
“Done, Lady Terland.”
That worked. Xitegen stepped forwards.
“Diplomat, as entertaining as this is, couldn’t this wait for the delightful-sounding cookout? I’ve never been to one, and my Great Aunt is not a woman to change her mind until she herself wishes to.”
“I’m simply here to try to effect a peaceful resolution to this regrettable conflict, Lord Xitegen. That is my class.”
“Or to deliver the redsoaked flag of war. What else could you possibly tell me to stay my hand? If I find the Wall Lord obtrusive, I will remove him. If I find reason, I may give him a chance to run. He is in the north, and there are lines you do not cross.”
Nerul’s jaw clenched for the first time as Ulva pressed at him, and he held his ground.
“Magnolia Reinhart went south.”
“Magnolia Reinhart was invited.”
They locked gazes until Nerul backed up a step in the coach. Sat down.
“Very well. I’ve said my piece, and I do hope to make it to the cookout. I’ve brought some famed Salazsarian pork—the best I’ve ever had. If we come to blows, we come to blows, Lady Ulva. Just so you know, in that regrettable circumstance, Lord Eschowar is back.”
Ulva went cold for a second, and she remembered him. She whispered.
“Enjoying that, are you?”
Nerul glanced at Yweine. Then smiled.
“As much as any man when a giant wakes. And I was born for a more peaceful age, despite all these disagreeable wars. Now, Lady Ulva, we know where the other stands. We know whom the other has brought—”
He nodded at Timekeeper and Yweine, who regarded each other steadily.
“—And we know what we stand to lose.”
“There are more Golems in the vaults. They’re meant to die before Terlands. Had I the choice, I would trade one for each Wall Lord in the south.”
Actually, she wouldn’t because that would be a damn waste of Golems; there were always new Drakes to fight. But it sounded hostile and imperial, and Ulva saw Nerul grimace ever-so-slightly. Here is my position, and now show me how you’ll move me from it. She waited, and he exhaled.
“What I meant, Lady Ulva, was what we had to lose. And in our case, Salazsar has fallen out of love with making Golems. It would be regrettable, but that is my offer.”
Her eyes flickered. Did he mean…? Xitegen focused on Nerul, Yweine, and then glanced at Ulva and around the room.
“He’ll have the rest of the Golems destroyed if we kill Wall Lord Ilvriss.”
The [Lady] lost her temper in a second.
“Timekeeper, eject Xitegen through a damn window! Clear the room!”
Silent pandemonium. Timekeeper lumbered at Xitegen, who just…ran for it since he’d learned his lesson. The rest of the Terlands? They were still [Silenced], so it was like an avalanche of [Mimes], throwing their hands up, screaming, running towards her to beseech her—
“Get back. Stop snivelling! Golems, clear the room!”
Ulva cursed and rose, and Golems herded her family away from her. She spun, saw Nerul smiling, and then Yweine’s desperate expression locked on hers. She made it behind Nerul, just for a second, and mouthed at Ulva.
…please…give…?
Ulva didn’t read lips. She hoped like Rhir’s hells that Timekeeper had seen it and would tell her what had been said. Then she turned the scrying orb off and began to shout. And part of her admired the move.
Damn the Drake! He had never been after her, but the family. He’d even gotten Xitegen; the boy still loved Golems.
Destroy every last one of Zelkyr’s remaining Golems in the City of Gems. Mutually assured destruction, only Nerul had pointed the crossbow at his own city. Very clever.
She just thought he’d made a huge tactical error. Yweine was a Sentient-class Golem. Those loved their own hides. When the last wailing Terland was finished being pushed out of the room, throwing a tantrum and screaming at Ulva, she massaged her temples.
“Timekeeper, what did Yweine say?”
“Lady Ulva, her message to me was a plea for assistance and questions. If you wish the full transcript, I shall provide it. If you are referring to her final message to you, it is: ‘Lady Ulva, don’t make war. Please give us sanctuary.’”
Sanctuary. Ulva’s right eye snapped open.
“She wants to leave. He must have promised her something. She wants to leave, and the condition is that I avoid killing the Wall Lord. Interesting.”
She sat back in her chair. She didn’t like all this damn pushing. From Nerul, from even her dead sister—yes, she’d been overjoyed to see Petria.
But she had some nerve to tell Ulva to forgive Drakes. The [Matriarch] of House Terland sat there.
“This changes nothing. I’ll weigh it along with everything else, but I will meet that Drake. If you sense any double-crossing, just kill them, Timekeeper.”
“Yes, Lady Terland.”
“…How good is that Golem?”
He took time to respond; his heart was beating slower now that he wasn’t as needed.
“Unknown, Lady Terland. If she has freed herself from her restrictions, she is more adaptive than her counter-parts I have battled. She would possess greater spell-abilities than I. But be substantively less sturdy.”
“Put it in terms I understand. Modern-day Gold-rank or Named-rank?”
“…At least high-Gold, Lady Ulva. Likely better.”
“Hmph. Final question, Timekeeper, then we’ll go spank some children.”
“Yes, Lady Terland?”
She leaned over.
“What is a cookout? Some kind of country meeting? What do they serve?”
 
——
 
When the scrying orb turned off, Nerul sat back then immediately got a dozen [Message] spells from the Terlands who had been having opinions throughout the call. Then more. He’d answer them…
“I can answer some of the [Message] spells in your tone, Diplomat. I merely require a sample of your correspondence.”
Yweine spoke, seemingly cool and unfazed by the showdown with one of the most powerful women in the world. Nerul eyed her, then he began to chuckle. And laugh.
“Yweine, that was—I think we got her! What do you think?”
He leapt up and began to pace the tiny carriage, thinking. The Golem sat.
“I believe Lady Ulva was unconvinced until the end, but she accepted the falsehood that you are threatening the lives of my fellow Golems.”
And that—that was the point. Nerul wiped at his brow, which was perspiring as if he was lifting weights.
“Ancestors, let’s hope so.”
Because that was the lie. The only one he’d told in a meeting of truths. Nerul’s plan had been simple enough in conception; complicated only made too many fault points.
Ulva Terland was used to Golems. She wouldn’t be impressed by even Yweine, he suspected. The entire Golem body might be able to throw Ulva Terland, but he’d accounted for her being able to go toe-to-toe with Yweine.
So he’d made himself the weak point. The villain. The conditions of his pact with the Golems of Zelkyr were simple: they helped him and didn’t cross him, he didn’t destroy them.
However, the Terlands loved Golems by and large. Even if Ulva didn’t, the best way to make them more valuable to her was for her to think they had no loyalty to Salazsar. Hence, Yweine claiming their fates rested on Ilvriss not being killed.
Which they didn’t. Nerul had strongly intimated to the Golems that Ilvriss’ death was an unacceptable outcome, but threatening the Golems with life-or-death over that outcome had struck him as a good way to get them trying to escape or turncoat.
All he needed was the lie.
All he needed was the Terlands to think it was what was going to happen.
“We’ve thrown them out of hate and into thinking, Yweine. That’s the outcome of all this work. All we have to do is stop an angry mob of Terlands from descending on this cookout. Ulva Terland is hard to shift; high levels always are. But if her family starts listening, thinking, then I’ve set up Ilvriss and Lyonette for a leg-sweep. Let’s hope they learned that in dance practice. Now…we just have to reach there. Excuse me if I lie down and become a nervous wreck.”
“Not at all, Diplomat. I believe you have achieved an optimal outcome. I shall take over the steering of this carriage. I believe Wistram is attempting to do so to arrange a meeting with the Archmage of Memory.”
So saying, Yweine punched a hand into the side of the magical carriage, and it shifted. Nerul realized they’d been going away from the road. He grunted, then lay down.
Intelligent Golems on one side, army of them on the other. My nephew in between with a smoked brisket. There was nothing left for it now, he just caught some sleep with the practice of a true negotiator.
When he got out of the carriage, it would be time for the cookout. And then they’d see. Nerul sighed.
After a moment, he pulled out a packet of carefully sealed Salazsarian bacon and began to eat it, raw. Because he was damn hungry.
“Salazsarian bacon. No one talks about that until they’ve had it. Then—Ancestors, that’s the stuff. They don’t even sell this unless it’s a big event. Can’t beat it.”
“This has been true since Zelkyr’s era, Diplomat.”
“Ancestors, really? We really are the best city.”
Then he put his head down and passed out.
 
[Chief Diplomat of Bijou Splendor Level 49!]
[Skill – Grand Diplomacy: Move the Hearts of All That Think Obtained!]
 
[Title – He Who Negotiates With Golems Obtained!]
[Title Reward – Brooch of Golem Speech Granted!]
 
 
 
 
Author’s Note:
Did you know earwigs bite? I mention this because an earwig bit me the other day. I thought they were just annoyingly gross, but now it’s war.
I realize that first I mention the mouse issue (haven’t seen any more signs of them so far), and now I’m making it out like I’m under assault by a plague. It’s more like a few per week in the summer, but I don’t…like…intruders in my house. Especially ones that bite.
Now, mandatory pirateaba crisis over. Let’s address a few interesting things.
 
Firstly, a minor note I did not explain in-chapter fully is Prince Dafranail, the one who got drop-kicked and who’s going around backhanding peasants. You may think he’s an asshole.
