Shit. Georgie sagged as Ilvriss spun on his heel and turned. It wouldn’t be the worst incident on his record, but that kind of thing added up, and he had a history—
Who was he kidding, he wasn’t working for Gemscale after this. And he probably had to leave—he heard the Wall Lord departing after some more talking. The man whose jaw Georgie had broken was lying in a cot at the far end of the [Healer]’s tent, and that did not make Georgie feel better.
Bastard had laid him out in three punches. If he wanted vengeance—Georgie decided he’d be careful when taking a piss or eating. Though he was always careful about some things. He tried to get some sleep as he lay back in bed.
Just another day in the life of Miner Georgie, who didn’t really have many friends, prospects, or a future in this world. He closed his eyes.
Georgie was nodding off when he felt the pillow go over his face. But contrary to what people might believe, a pillow didn’t exactly choke you if applied to your face, just made it harder to breathe. Plus—he tore it off.
“Hey, who the h—”
That was when his unknown assailant dropped the pillow, put two claws around Georgie’s throat, and began to strangle him. He kicked, thrashing, but the attacker had the advantage of height and surprise and—
 
——
 
It was late, and Damia’s Skill had worn off on Ilvriss. He was nursing his own bruises; another [Rancher] clan had paid him a visit that evening, and while he’d clocked someone leading the lot hard in the face, he’d eaten a full kick that had torn his scales up.
Miner Georgie had been a pain in his scales three times today, and so his name was the last one Ilvriss wanted to hear. When he heard it again, he actually hissed.
“If that idiot’s molesting the [Healer], I want him fired and shipped back to Salazsar in a—”
“Sir, someone tried to kill him just now.”
Ilvriss stopped hissing. He rose to his feet.
“You’re sure?”
 
——
 
The Drake who’d saved Georgie from being asphyxiated was Miner Team Leader Maiss. Of Team Rolx. A Drake whom Ilvriss knew, though that was not the issue at hand here.
His jaw was still broken and on the mend, and Ilvriss winced; the [Healer] had done her best to set it, but it might not have gone completely right without a healing potion; it appeared distinctly swollen or like his chin was a bit too forwards. Maybe he should assign a healing potion, but they weren’t supposed to have them, despite the inn gifting Ilvriss some for his officers…no, wait, those healing scrolls. He needed to buy some but pretend he hated Antinium. Next time he was in Liscor.
“Team Leader Maiss, report?”
Maiss struggled to talk.
“Saw someone try to put a pillow over his face, sir. Thought it was just annoyance until he started strangling. Stopped it.”
“How?”
“Broke his arm, sir, and gave him an introduction to my knee.”
That…would do it. Maiss was a big Drake, and Ilvriss was impressed. No ‘mysterious assailant’ running off here.
“Good work, Team Leader Maiss. Get some rest.”
“Sir.”
He saluted Ilvriss, and the Wall Lord turned.
“Who tried to kill Georgie? One of the teams he insulted?”
Welsca checked her notes, and she was uncomfortable, now.
“No, Wall Lord. It’s a Junior Mining Inspector Lacambt, sir. One of Dramm’s subordinates. When questioned, he just stated that he was doing the right thing, Wall Lord.”
Ilvriss’ heart sank. He felt a shadow pass over him, despite the late hour, and saw Xesci’s gaze in the reflection from Welsca’s spectacles.
“Wall Lord Dramm’s apologized for his subordinate’s assault and requested leniency, sir.”
“I imagine he has.”
“So have five other leaders, from [Foremen] to administrators.”
A longer silence, then. Ilvriss inhaled, then spoke.
“…[Miners] brawl all the time, Welsca. This was an unfortunate brawl, but we’ve had idiots start multiple and kept them, albeit with discipline. Murdering another [Miner]? Unless it’s some kind of jilted lover, someone getting the other person killed, or feud, it doesn’t happen. We are the Gemscale Company, and we tolerate no speciesism, no hostile work environment, no pettiness.”
“Yes, Wall Lord. With respect, Wall Lord, that’s not the issue at hand.”
He knew that. But Welsca was changing too, because she pointed it out so frankly. Ilvriss met her eyes, then glanced down at his table.
“Put Georgie in a separate tent and post a guard. Have Lacambt on trial for attempted murder.”
“Are you sure, sir?”
“He tried to strangle Georgie.”
Was that not obvious? Ilvriss’ incensed gaze at Welca didn’t provoke an expression of shame, because she reminded him of something he’d recently learned.
“Yes, Wall Lord. I’m not denying that. I’m just pointing out that Lacambt may have not been acting solely on his own, Wall Lord.”
A longer silence, then, as Ilvriss met her eyes, and he didn’t need anything else spelled out. He rubbed at his face again.
“I wish I had a drink. Don’t get me one. Just…begin asking around, discreetly. Make sure that guard is secure. And—and move Miner Georgie off his current team. Have him assigned to Advance Miner work again once he recovers. But report him to me and Major Shellc for the anti-undead operations.”
“Yes, sir.”
Fortunately or unfortunately, being strangled by an amateur did less damage than getting punched out in a brawl. Georgie was fit for work tomorrow morning, and that was how Ilvriss found himself in the company of a Turnscale, which was one thing.
But also one of the most annoying Advance Miners he’d ever met, which Ilvriss decided mattered a lot more.
 
——
 
When you got down to it, what was a Wall Lord? Useful? For his Skills, certainly. For the money he provided, of course, a necessity given Salazsar’s commercial systems. But when the hammers and pickaxes were going, where should he be?
In a tower, ‘leading’ people and waiting for the profits to come in? Most of Ilvriss’ peers operated that way. They set huge initiatives in concurrence with their trusted [Administrators] and staff, used their Skills, and just…raked in the gold.
When you got down to it, the truth was—Ilvriss knew he was like the nobles of the north in many ways. He was not the one crushing stones. What good was he at this dig site? The fact that he had left so often to visit the inn was proof he wasn’t essential. However, that morning, he took a walk around the town of Thirthoof, his dig site, and just—was the Lord of the Walls of the Gemscale company.
With Georgie and Damia. The former because it was necessary for Georgie’s safety and because Ilvriss had to do something—the latter because she had earned it and you had to have fun in life.
But Georgie…he seemed subdued after his near-death experience. Shaken, pale as he strode over in a grimy, sleeveless undershirt and trousers. Ilvriss saw Welsca glaring, but he leaned over.
“That’s how most [Miners] attire themselves, Welsca. I’d like some privacy today, please. It’s going to be just inspections.”
That meant only his [Bodyguards] and fewer staff. Given his company, Welsca nodded. She followed of course, and Georgie actually threw a salute. A bad one, but he touched his helmet.
“What’s my job today, Wall Lord? I’m ready to go.”
“For now, you’re accompanying me around the dig sites, Georgie. We need to talk. Plus, Major Shellc is still trying to corral the undead that attacked you. We need those damned mines clear.”
Georgie’s eyes flickered as he nodded and took a breath.
“Bastards are tunneling around a lot, right? I hate that. That’s real Advance Miner sh—stuff. Chasing them down and not getting close before the monsters jump you. And the [Soldiers] are always too damn slow.”
See, that interested Ilvriss and Lady Damia, who had come out in a full dress with a low cut blouse—he glanced sideways as Georgie stopped and stared at Damia’s chest.
“Not appropriate, Lady Damia.”
“I, uh—I’m so sorry—”
“We might be entering the mines. Protective clothing on everyone, please. I should have mentioned.”
He had on his regular clothing, but he had rings, and they were good enough to fight in. Damia dashed off and came back two minutes later, in an amazing display of speed-dressing, to Ilvriss and Georgie…talking.
“You actually had to participate in an anti-Creler operation? The Razzmetal mines? I heard about that. Forty days, right?”
Georgie grimaced around his worn cigar.
“Thirty-nine, and they only called me in for eighteen. Little bastards kept digging.”
“Didn’t it set a record for most Advance Miner injuries this century? I thought it was incompetence, but Alrric speculated it was just…nasty.”
“Yup. See, the thing all those stupid administrators don’t get is that even if we’ve got Rubirel Guard ‘at our tails’, they’re always standing up the mine shaft. Can’t get too close in case we cave in. They ain’t got the reflexes to dodge, and we need space to move. I don’t care if one of ‘em’s got [Lightning Interception]. They’re still slow. When the monster decides to come at you, it just takes one swing. Then you dodge or it’s got you.”
“Did you run into the Crelers?”
Georgie flexed a bicep.
“Sure did. We got to the point where we’d just go fifteen feet, listen, and go fifteen feet again. Then we drew lots, and one bugger had to keep minin’.”
“Why? Ah—”
Damia leapt into the conversation, though her eager voice became subdued.
“Wait, isn’t that because the Crelers would flee a large number of bodies? So if they thought they could kill one and they were hungry—oh.”
The Advance Miner wore the same expression as soldiers. That too-calm expression of a man who’d seen death. He spat on the ground.
“Yep. No fancy spells, no high-grade magic. Just a rope to haul them up, healing potions if the Crelers were on them, and waiting. We had to do it or they’d keep digging. That’s why we’re Advance Miners. And that’s why you haven’t caught the undead, Wall Lord.”
Ilvriss’ head turned sharply.
“The [Miners] and Shellc have been coordinating and cutting off some of them—”
“But they’re always letting the other ones get away, right? It’s ‘cause the dig teams are scared.”
That was Georgie’s theory, and Ilvriss’ head snapped forward.
“If they’re hesitating to breach or dig fast because of monsters—to Dig Site B, then.”
Damia eyed Georgie sidelong. She knew Georgie as well—mostly from the complaints about him. But her instincts told her he was significant in some way. She’d had Binevy ask around, and no one had wanted to say outright what they thought the problem with Georgie was. Rumors about a magical artifact? Everyone knew something, but what?
Ilvriss himself was reminded of something he’d forgotten: Georgie was an Advance Miner, and a veteran one. Crudeness and Turnscale issues aside, he knew this job. The Wall Lord had high hopes for the day, which diminished after he heard a faint thwap and a shout.
He turned just in time to see Georgie turn and give Damia a tail-slap on her rear end. She turned and slapped him—and Ilvriss exhaled.
Okay then.
 
——
 
As he knew he was a dead Drake walking, now, Georgie had been hoping the Wall Lord would just send him back to Salazsar with a terminated clause. Even if he was fired, that would give him some lead time unless they sent him to the sanatorium.
So yes, the butt-slap on the [Lady] had been calculated. The [Adjutant] was about to chew him out and write Georgie up when the Wall Lord did something unexpected.
“Give me five minutes. Lady Damia, I apologize—Georgie, one side.”
He stepped to the side with Georgie, not actually out of earshot, and the [Miner] braced. He could see the other Drakes and Humans accompanying Ilvriss watching him and pretending not to. This would be the moment when the Wall Lord threw a punch or the [Miner Leader] sorted you out. Then you got back to work.
“Sir?”
He braced, trembling a bit because he knew he couldn’t punch the Wall Lord—that was another kind of death sentence. But Ilvriss just exhaled hard.
“That kind of conduct is unacceptable in the Gemscale corporation, Advance Miner Georgie. You know that.”
Instantly, Georgie relaxed and felt a bit contemptuous. No punch, which meant the Wall Lord was one of those soft ‘lead from behind’ types who sat in their towers all day. The ones who just lectured you. He glanced at Damia.
“Sure thing, Wall Lord. Won’t happen again. She’s just a H—”
Ilvriss reached out and grabbed Georgie’s shoulder. Hard. Georgie jerked, and Ilvriss dragged him over.
“Finish that sentence, Georgie, or do that again in my presence and I will ship you back to Salazsar and blacklist you across the entire Walled City. I am trying to help you. Why did you do that?”
His aura was pressing down on Georgie hard, like heavy gemstones, and Georgie hesitated. Swallowed as he glanced down at his boots and shoved his hands in his pockets.
“I—look, it’s just the kind of thing you do, Wall Lord.”
“Harass women?”
“I—sure? It’s just how miners do things.”
“Not all [Miners], and not in my company, Georgie. Your conduct has been inexcusable and deliberate. You know treating other Drakes and Gnolls like that is inappropriate. What I want to know is why. I’ve read your record. Plenty of indictments for insubordination, fighting—and you know what? It’s pretty standard for an Advance Miner.”
“I’m s—what?”
That threw the Drake. He finally looked up, and Ilvriss raised his brows.
“All Advance Miners fight with their supervisors and each other. And brawl. It’s not the standard we hold regular [Miners] to, but you risk your lives. It’s like Gold-rankers. We have an internal system in the Gemscale company where we weigh your negative records against how many times you’ve been in a life-or-death encounter and how you performed there. Alrric does it; it’s some kind of mathematical calculation. You passed it. Until recently, you weren’t exactly ideal, and your attempted theft of company property was a problem, but the sexual harassment claims weren’t high at all. Three over an entire lifetime of work. Something changed. What?”
Georgie squirmed as he glanced at Ilvriss’ boots, then up at the Drake. Fuck, this wasn’t his usual dressing down. It felt more like a conversation. He snapped back.
“What’s there to say, Wall Lord? It’s not like I’ve got any future now that I’m cursed. You had me on theft—then you tossed me in a mining team full of women!”
“And?”
“And I’m a man, not someone who’ll wear a female uniform or be one of the girls. I reminded them of that, didn’t I?”
Georgie hissed back, and now Ilvriss blinked. He peered at Georgie, then glanced at Welsca. Backed down his aura and exhaled.
