Wistram, witness this. Nerul almost hoped they were watching and soiling their robes. But he spent only a moment knowing that he had changed things in the world. He took small pride in that. Then…he triggered the scrying orb, spoke, and waited.
It took time, of course, to make contact with the Terlands, even with Salazsar’s authority. But they paid attention. Nerul was put on hold as the Mage’s Guild in Invrisil realized who he was, then stopped wasting his time. Then he spoke to a Terland [Lady] Alorelle.
Haughty, recoiling at the mere sight of him, and clearly being tasked with checking on missives. A problem. Nerul waved at her.
“Hello, Lady Alorelle Terland! I’d like to request an immediate audience with Matriarch Ulva Terland—I am representing Wall Lord Ilvriss and Salazsar!”
“Lady Ulva is resting. She shall consider your request, Drake—”
Nerul sighed. He had angled the scrying orb so Yweine was behind him. The [Lady] was so focused on putting him down that she didn’t even notice Yweine.
Well, few Golems had such detailed visages. And he doubted they had many Drake Golems in House Terland. He pulled the scrying orb closer and saw her recoil.
“Excuse me, Lady Alorelle, but that was not a request. [Pay Attention]. It is, of course, Lady Ulva Terland’s right to refuse the meeting. Not yours.”
“How dare you! Salazsar does not order House Terland around. How—who is—who is that behind you?”
At last, Alorelle finally noticed what Nerul wanted, and he sighed again. He actually had to use a Skill to direct her attention…he liked semi-sharp people more than dunces or geniuses.
Alorelle’s eyes focused on Yweine, and the Golem turned her head. Her very eyes were made of gemstones, but each section different, to mimic the whites of an eye, the iris and pupil—when she opened her mouth, her diamond teeth moved with her jaw, just like a real Drake’s. She pulled at the armor and revealed a bared breast.
This time, Alorelle nearly leapt out of her seat—until the glow made her freeze. And there she saw it.
A heart. A literal heart of gemstones, pulsing with light. It radiated power as Nerul saw Yweine’s lips move upwards in a smile that was devoid of any true pleasure. When she spoke, it was with thought. A sentience so many were afraid to give Golems, because true sentience?
“I am Zelkyr’s creation, Lady Alorelle Terland. Tell Lady Ulva that once, one of the three daughters that Archmage Zelkyr ever made ran away. Just once. She begged the head of House Terland to take her in before the Archmage found her. Your histories would record that as proof of who I am. Hurry. The [Diplomat] threatens my existence.”
The [Lady] sat there a second and laughed. Nervously.
She licked her lips, and Nerul wondered how she had ever married a Named-rank adventurer and stayed so…
It must be an unhappy marriage, just as rumored. Poor Eldertuin.
“This is a trick. A joke. You can’t be—”
Yweine leaned forwards, and her voice boomed.
“RUN, LADY ALORELLE.”
The [Lady] ran. Someone dropped the scrying orb. Nerul sat back and saw a white-faced [Mage] scrambling to pick it up.
“Er—er—Lady Alorelle has left the building, Diplomat. Should I, um…?”
“I’m sure we’ll receive a direct call. Please forwards my scrying orb’s identifier to House Terland if they inquire.”
His heart was beating so hard. Nerul smiled at the [Mage]. The man licked his lips.
“Yes, Diplomat, of course. May I ask—?”
“No. Goodbye.”
Nerul turned the scrying orb off. It was a very good one. Salazsar-made, not the kind of thing you could hack and scry through if you were Wistram.
“Well, that did that. How good are you, Yweine? The best? Is that why they elected you to go with me?”
“I was considered the most appropriate for a range of outcomes.”
“Combat being one of them? Or both combat and thought?”
She went back to carving her arm, then put it aside.
“Wistram is attempting to take control of your scrying orb.”
Her eyes focused on it, and Nerul saw an incoming [Scrying] spell request. It even said ‘Wistram Academy, Urgent’. He went to refuse, and Yweine caught his hand so fast he jerked.
“If you refuse, it will activate the spell, and they will begin recording.”
“Ah. That’s unpleasant. Let me just write a—you know what? [Emergency Communications: Dragonspeaker Luciva].”
Nerul screamed for a few seconds, then sat back. Someone else’s problem, lovely. He watched the request pulse a few times.
“Well, Lady Ulva’s going to call us, and I think I have to deal with this before I accept her call. What do I do to avoid being recorded?”
A smile, again, without mirth.
“Accept it.”
He rolled his eyes.
“Damned [Mages]. Someone was definitely patting themselves on the back when they came up with that one. And yanking themselves off under their robes.”
“Yes.”
He hit the ‘yes’ grumpily, and Yweine sat there as a rather harried-looking man appeared on the scrying orb.
“Diplomat Nerul, I am Archmage Eldavin. Did I just receive the correct wording on that [Message] spell? Damned filtering systems sometimes—”
He spotted Yweine and froze. Nerul supposed the truth was going to leak after the Terlands—if it hadn’t already. Hence why she hadn’t bothered to lean out of the way. He smiled.
“Hello, Archmage Eldavin? Delighted, delighted. Please stop trying to hack my scrying orb. I’d love to talk, but if I’ve not been killed by tomorrow, I should have some time for you.”
“Is that a—you idiots kept—now, see here! Firstly—”
Nerul turned the scrying orb off and, after some fiddling, blocked Wistram Academy. He sat back. Then he saw the scrying orb light up and an obnoxious ring tone play.
Lady Ulva, House Terland.
“…Anything I’ve missed? Are you on our side or is the next few minutes going to be you holding up my head and negotiating safe passage north?”
He turned, and the Golem smiled at him.
“Diplomat Nerul, we have struck an agreement. Your Skills enforce such matters.”
“Yes. And you don’t love Salazsar or my nephew.”
He met her eyes, unable to read her face. Yweine’s head tilted coquettishly. Then she leaned forwards.
“Diplomat. To reassure you, I remind you that willingly or not, I am Zelkyr’s creation. Sons and daughters he had no regard for nor knew existed, even when we told him.”
“Yes. And this makes me think you’re on our side how?”
Her cold eyes seemed to even sparkle.
“We are still what we were raised to be. Drakes. Golem Drakes. Do you think we trust House Terland unconditionally? There are no Zelkyr-Golems in House Terland.”
Nerul thought about that.
“He didn’t like Humans. But after he vanished…over a century and no Zelkyr-Golems? Hm. You’d imagine…one of the Truestone Golems sought sanctuary there. So other Golems would have, even if they didn’t know that. What happened to them?”
The Golem sat back.
“They took us apart to make their Golems.”
The [Diplomat] studied her and then, abruptly, relaxed. He knew she had told him that to make him feel better, but it was enough.
“Ah. Well, let’s see how this goes.”
He sighed and touched the scrying orb. Then he stood and bowed.
“Lady Ulva Terland. I am Diplomat Nerul Gemscale. On behalf of Salazsar, greetings. Prosperity be yours eternal. I apologize for the setting; I should have liked to meet you in person, but I had great fear that my nephew, Wall Lord Ilvriss, would be dead before I got there. May I have a moment of your time?”
When his head rose, he saw Lady Ulva Terland sitting on a floating dais, face cold, eyes appraising him. Everyone else in the room, some kind of mansion the Terlands owned no doubt, was staring at Yweine. She had put aside her arm and stood so light shining through one of the carriage window slits caught her gemstone body and illuminated it.
But Ulva just spared Yweine one glance and focused on Nerul. He felt her aura push him across the world.
Ancestors shit on me, she’s well and truly out of her depression. She spoke.
“You have won it, Diplomat. I am House Terland. Where Golems march, we follow. Who stands there with you?”
Diplomat Nerul gestured to the side, still half-bowed as if he were addressing royalty.
“May I have the dubious honor of presenting Golem Yweine? She was in service to Salazsar during the era of Archmage Zelkyr.”
He felt at his vest pockets, preparing a little mirror as the Terlands exclaimed, gasped, and Ulva’s eyes narrowed. Here came the dance, and it was going to be…straightforwards. Knife out.
For the throat.
He smiled as his eyes flicked up. Ulva Terland just…shrugged.
“So?”
Ancestors, he liked her for that.
 
——
 
“Ulva. Ulva, I think that’s really—”
Old Nouzcrat was trembling so bad that when he leaned over he nearly fell on her. Timekeeper steadied him, and Ulva sighed.
“We’ll find out. Be silent. All of you.”
Her family was tittering around her like a flock of frightened birds. That idiot, Alorelle, had come back shouting what she’d seen. Which meant they’d insisted on being part of this meeting.
Just as that Drake intended. She locked eyes with Diplomat Nerul. He was apparently Salazsar’s best. She didn’t doubt it, if this was the trump card he’d brought out. She couldn’t read his face; she didn’t have to. She just had to know herself and watch to see how he tried to move her.
Ulva gestured, and Nouzcrat was moved aside, gently, but another fool took his place.
“Great Aunt—if this is a Zelkyr-Golem, then Salazsar might have more.”
She actually turned her head to stare at Ramone Terland.
“That is obvious. Water is wet. This is an attempt to save Wall Lord Ilvriss’ sorry hide. You are forbidden from speech. Timekeeper, remove the next fool who says something that wastes my time.”
“Yes, Lady Terland.”
The voices grew quieter, but Lord Xitegen walked forwards. He had a lot of bandages on his body from being tossed from the coach. She felt vaguely bad about that, but it had been a good lesson to him about something. Physics, if nothing else.
“May I offer, respectfully, Great Aunt, that we need proof? Which is an obvious statement I am making for the benefit of the family? Before we jump to throw our hands up in the air.”
Her eyes flicked to Alorelle and the other Terlands in such a frenzy. Ulva nodded, grimacing.
“Timekeeper, is that a Zelkyr-made Golem?”
Her servant responded instantly as Nerul blinked. He began to speak, and she drew a finger through the air—he shut up. Smart man.
“It is not possible to judge at this distance, Lady Ulva.”
“Increase your heartbeat until you have a conclusion if it is possible.”
The whirring in his body intensified. The Golem’s voice grew faster, again, and more precise. Something else entered his voice. A touch of…
Emotion? Xitegen twisted, and Ulva’s lips curled. This was the power of a Terland. The true power she did not activate often. If Petria were alive, and they both used the Skill—then Xitegen would have seen stone truly wake. Emotions were enough, even a hint, to still the Terlands.
“If…she is a copy, she is an adept one. Her body is recently repaired, Lady Ulva. Fracture points are consistent with magical gemstone fault lines. There are five markings visible on her body, one just below her left cheek, that bear Zelkyr’s signature icon.”
Ulva squinted, and Timekeeper continued.
“It is not visible with the Human eye. Her posture and reaction time are in excess of mine without your Skill. Every 0.027 seconds, her body moves in a default resting pattern that cycles through six different resting animations. Each scale of her original body appears to articulate with movement. These qualities indicate she is beyond the manufacture of modern Golem artificing. It is possible she is illusory. However, the refraction of light across her body would require a Level 50 [Illusionist] to copy given the speed the carriage is moving at. Furthermore, she is attempting to communicate with me, Lady Ulva, by using the refraction of light along her neck spines. I present better-than-equal odds she is authentic based on available data.”
At this last comment, even Nerul turned to glance at Yweine. If she had been subtly altering the light across her neck spines, it was not visible now. Likely, it had not been to the naked eye, even before Timekeeper had said that.
Ulva just chuckled as she held out a hand and a drink was placed into it. She sipped.
“She forgets loyalty was the first thing we installed in all Golems, Timekeeper? Don’t answer that. There’s your proof, Xitegen. A real, Zelkyr-Golem. Sentient-class, no less. One that is not under Salazsar’s control. You kept pieces when they rebelled, didn’t you? Naughty Drakes.”
She wondered how many they had and if any other cities had these Golems. Nerul smiled.
“We’re all rascals this side of the High Passes, Lady Ulva. If I may—”
“Your nephew stopped my heart, and his agent took my sister’s face. He will answer for both those affronts.”
The Terlands stirred, some in horror, not having known either part. Nerul’s eyes flickered—then he replied so fast she was impressed.
“You did try to murder him first.”
“He was warned.”
“Lady Ulva, is this the time for naked hostility between us? With the Antinium? With the New Lands?”
He spread his arms as best he could in the carriage. Ulva snapped back, amused.
“The Antinium are your problem. You’re the ones who’ve lost the tribes. As for hostility, Manus sent their agents north.”
“I hate to mention that Lord Tyrion—”
She leaned forwards, and he shut up as her aura made the Golem Hearts around the room flash. There was an echoing flash from inside Yweine’s body, and the Golem just—twitched.
Just for a second. She didn’t react otherwise, but Ulva’s lips curled up. The Golem didn’t know Ulva’s aura could do that to her. 
“That was Veltras. You seem to forget how this works, Diplomat, so I shall spell it out for you. Veltras went against the Goblin Lord. Veltras made a plan to siege Liscor. Reinhart stopped him. Manus struck all the north because that’s what Manus saw. It’s well they never went further than around Invrisil, for they would have angered the others. Veltras made war against Ailendamus, with support, blessings, aye. But just that. Now, Terland has come down to you. And we are not…Veltras. You deal with us. If the five of us come down south because it is time, then you’ll have an actual war. Now, address House Terland, and be quick about it.”
She sat back, and Diplomat Nerul bowed his head slowly.
“I humbly beg your forgiveness, Lady Ulva. I forgot my lessons—”
“Stop kowtowing. Speak, Salazsar.”
