“Is that what this is about? Are you trying to get fired?”
“I’m already fired. Someone gets drubbed down for theft and they’re already on the way out.”
Ilvriss scratched at his chin-scales.
“You’re an Advance Miner who breached a high-level monster site. And the artifacts you found have been nearly stolen by multiple members of my company. It even triggered Hoarding impulses in me. I wouldn’t hold that against you entirely, though I would have you watched.”
He was being too reasonable. Georgie was mad and trembling with it. He chewed on his cigar.
“Then the other reason’s enough.”
Again, Ilvriss hesitated, and Georgie stared at him. He knew Georgie was a Turnsc—that thing. Georgie didn’t even like thinking the word himself. It was bad. Terrible. So why was the Wall Lord so off?
They said he employed a [Courtesan], that he had an affair with a Human in the north and tried to marry her. They used to say he was one of Salazsar’s glittering boys, an exemplar Wall Lord. But Gnolls always liked him because he employed them and then—
Who was this Drake? Ilvriss was thinking, as if asking himself that very question.
“That…matter is one of great concern, Georgie. I do not want you to be put in further danger, and I understand if I let you go, there will be concerns.”
I’ll have to flee the city fast as I can. The companies’ll probably have me blacklisted, and I bet someone’ll call into the Watch to haul me to the sanatorium. You don’t get out of there. Georgie took a shuddering breath.
“Could be. But hey, if you paid me out my contract, I could, uh, just go. Plenty of work for a [Miner] in the north, right?”
The Wall Lord looked him over again.
“You’d rather walk into Human territory—this territory with the [Ranchers] about—than go back to Salazsar?”
“Well, yeah.”
This time, Georgie met Ilvriss’ topaz colored eyes, and he thought the Wall Lord understood. A bit more, and he’d already been close to the truth. But like a man chipping away at a glittering gemstone buried in stone, another piece fell away. Ilvriss exhaled.
“I see. If we can’t resolve this, I’ll arrange for you to be paid out and dropped off in Invrisil.”
That—might actually work. There were Drakes there, and if he used his papers, he might get through Pallass or just go to Liscor. The sense of doom hanging over Georgie’s head lightened. He actually smiled.
—Right before Ilvriss took him by the shoulder.
“Now, back to your behavior. No more of that.”
“Oh, come on, Wall Lord. That’s how the ladies like it.”
The Wall Lord’s look made Georgie splutter.
“I’m not joking! You know how it is. Sure, half the [Miners]’ll belt you in the face, especially if they’ve got someone, and the other half ignores you. But that leaves, like…a fifth who’ll listen. They go for a man who talks loud or who does what we’re all thinking.”
“Your math is as atrocious as a certain [Witch]’s fashion sense, Georgie. That is not how you establish a romantic relationship with people.”
The two Drakes argued, and Georgie snorted. He hadn’t actually had a conversation with another Drake or Gnoll about, well, romance. It felt odd. So, almost eagerly, he challenged the Wall Lord, jutting out his chin.
“Okay, how does it work for you? I bet having gold and being a Wall Lord makes it so much easier.”
For a moment, he saw Ilvriss drawing breath, flushing slightly under his scales, and then the Wall Lord hesitated. Exhaled.
“I won’t deny…I had the same attitude as a younger man, Georgie. Showing off, boasting, it does have its appeal, and it does sometimes work. But the woman I fell in love with didn’t get to know me because of any of that. Actually, she requested a transfer from my command after—for every person you win over, you’ll alienate ten more from your behavior. And, with due respect to said individuals, the women who appreciate being nonconsensually slapped on the rear are not the partners I’d choose for life.”
To this fairly reasonable statement, Georgie shrugged.
“I know that. I’m just down for a quick—y’know. I’ll settle down with someone who’s actually decent later. Someone who appreciates a good fellow and doesn’t want me acting out.”
That was just a dream. Just a dream, but he talked like it was a reality. Like he was any other fellow—but Ilvriss was simply frowning at Georgie.
“There’s an error in your logic, Georgie.”
“Just one?”
“Hah. Listen, I get that mentality. Be young, fool around. Some people never leave it. I have a friend, Wall Lord Brilm—he’s married and has a kid, and he’s been divorced because he keeps doing what you’re doing. Let’s say you can quit, though. Here’s a question P—someone asked me once. What happens to the women you’re talking about? The ones who’d never make good life partners?”
“…Huh?”
Ilvriss was walking and talking with Georgie now, towards Dig Site B since it was a ways.
“I’ve had to deal with female employees who have been accused of being licentious as well. Not in those exact words. It’s a bad idea to enforce a no-relationships policy in the company, but the flipside is all these issues. But you know, I’ve heard the exact same things come out of their mouths. They’re just having fun—in ten years, they’ll find a fellow who doesn’t mouth off or cast eyes at every passing tail. In time, it seems no one thinks that kind of behavior is ideal in a life partner. Brilm aside.”
Georgie had no idea where this conversation was going, so he shrugged.
“So? Seems like everyone agrees, then. We’re having fun.”
“Only, your ‘having fun’ involves quite a lot of people who don’t want to participate in your behavior.”
“Yeah, well…I overdid it because the ladies were full of snark. It’s just me and the boys doing what’s normal, usually.”
“Faking Gnollish howls whenever someone you fancy walks by?”
The Advance Miner had the grace not to deny he did that. Ilvriss wore the pained expression of a Drake who’d done just that.
“Let me put it like this, Georgie. I can’t enforce social behavior outside of the Gemscale company, but I can within my work environment, and that’s why we have codes of conduct. But even outside of it—we don’t have to act like that. We can, but it makes other people uncomfortable. It turns you into someone who’s competing with every other man around you for attention and that often leads to bravado. Fights. It’s not that much fun, especially if you’re not the most handsome or strongest man in the room.”
“…So you want me to not say a word and be one of those respectful, sexless losers who holds doors open for women and hopes they eye him sideways?”
The Wall Lord exhaled.
“No, I’m just saying tone it down and the entire room takes it down. Let me give you an example. There’s always someone like that in a group of friends. Brilm. It’s always Brilm walking over, asking someone what color their underwear is, making comments that are wholly inappropriate. And if you think you’re bad, you’ve never seen a drunk Wall Lord.”
“I just slapped that [Lady] on the rear. How bad could—”
“You’ve never tried to strip a [Waitress]’ skirt off in a restaurant.”
Ah. Georgie hesitated, and Ilvriss stared past him.
“At that point, you do drop-kick your friend. Or let the Watch sort it out. But you know, it doesn’t have to get there. If you’re in that moment, and he’s acting out, you just have to pull him aside and say, ‘Brilm, this isn’t funny, knock it off’.”
“Right, I’m sure that works.”
“Mhm. And when he shoves your other friend, Tasilt, off and calls him a limp-tailed loser, you pull him aside and say the same thing. When three people say it, or everyone tells him to shut up or go home? He does that. And he can go off and find other friends or change. It’s called peer pressure, Georgie. It is the act of being made to be uncomfortable when a dozen people around you address the thing you shouldn’t do and you stop.”
“Normally, a [Foreman] just tells me to knock it off or throws a fist.”
Ilvriss walked forwards, shaking his head.
“Right. That’s miner culture, and I don’t do that. Alrric’s part of that old mentality of smacking heads, and I’m not. My father was. I try to address things without needing to punch heads because it doesn’t actually change things.”
Georgie was shifting from foot to foot.
“Look—I know it was wrong. I’ll apologize to the [Lady], Wall Lord. I’ll stop. I’ll even apologize to the women in the mining teams. But you’re not going to change things with this, I dunno, social talking to people thing. That’s not how it works.”
If you had fifteen of the lads all shouting comments and you pulled what Ilvriss was doing? It only worked because he was the Wall Lord. Otherwise, they’d go tell you to get stuffed, and if you insisted, they’d come at you with fists. But Ilvriss just glanced at Georgie, amused.
“Maybe it only works for me, Georgie, but I’d say it has an effect on people.”
“How do you figure that? I haven’t ever been peer-social-pressured or whatever.”
“No? I’m doing it to you right now. Most young men, Gnolls, Drakes, listen when I have this conversation with them. If they keep acting up, it’s a shame and we let them go. We had to hire a lot of new workers because this isn’t a regular operation, but I think I’ll have a few more conversations like this today. I’d like you to be part of them. Or at least, observe.”
Georgie came to a halt, mouth open. Ilvriss strode onwards, and he didn’t insist that Georgie apologize to Damia or hover over his shoulder. But he was watching, Georgie realized.
 
——
 
Wall Lord Ilvriss was not amazing at combat, strategy, or even leadership. He was just…good at all these things. And good enough to know when someone was better than him, like Major Shellc.
The Rhir veteran rebutted Georgie’s claim in some respects. After his conversation with Georgie, Ilvriss caught everyone, including Damia and her people, up to speed on the undead issue. Which had Damia agog.
“A Dorn Pillar?”
“A growing one. It’s mobile. When it gets too big, apparently it turns into said pillar, which is mostly stationary. Bone with holes in it that extrude undead-themed monsters. And it can hypnotize, cast magic—it’s one of the nastiest undead down there because it thinks. Pursuit has been hard, but it’s not just the [Miners], Wall Lord.”
Shellc was pointing to a three-dimensional model of the dig. The mining tunnels that Georgie had found were zig-zagging upwards. Long, almost geometric lines compared to the exploratory shapes dug down. But then it became an anthill of confused tunnels—attempts to dig and attack the undead and keep them from tunnelling outwards.
A damn mess in short. Shellc appeared annoyed, but grimly determined.
“I have no doubt our teams are slow due to fear, Wall Lord, Advance Miner. But the undead are actively avoiding us after we destroyed several of their high-grade members. The moment they hear us, they retreat.”
“Ah. Small wonder they’re eluding us. The Creler problem all over, but I am not minded to send in a sacrificial lamb. Thoughts, anyone? Advance Miner?”
Damia was prodding the side of her head, muttering. Georgie just frowned.
“Are the bastards listening to us? ‘Cause there are Advance Miners with silence Skills.”
“Probably detecting our hearts or just lifeforce. Still, an Advance Miner with stealth Skills…not a bad idea. I’m embarrassed to say that I don’t know much about mining, Wall Lord. I didn’t know that was a thing.”
Shellc frowned. Ilvriss assured him it was, if rare.
“Advance Miners need to avoid monster nests or even buried magics, Major. Let’s say we get the jump on them—”
“We have, three times. The Dorn Pillar will screen itself and run. It’s not fast, but the bastard can send a Crypt Lord in front of us, and getting past it slows us down. By the time we hack apart its escort, it’s gone.”
Hence the problem. Damia lifted a hand.
“What if—what if we put down traps ahead of the Dorn Pillar so it runs into them?”
“You mean we flank it then lay traps? It’s hard enough getting the drop on it once, Lady Damia. No offense, but if I manage to get close to it, I’m ambushing because a flanking maneuver takes too much time, and they are actively mobile. A good thought, but we don’t have dedicated trapsetting experts.”
“We have some auxiliaries…”
“None with dedicated trapping Skills, Wall Lord. Unless the Silverfangs have any, I’d put this as ‘nice, but impractical’.”
The two Drakes exchanged glances as Damia’s head swung between the two, and Georgie frowned. Ilvriss sighed.
“Damnation. I never was a good commander with a varied army. We have some of my staff who can [Deploy Fortification], but it takes fifteen minutes and a few dozen hands, even with the Skill. Battlefield-ready, not for ambushes like an adventurer. We can do magic—”
“The Dorn Pillar senses mana, so it runs the moment a [Mage] gets within two hundred feet of it. There are too many tunnels, Wall Lord, and the more we dig, the easier it is for the undead to slip around us in the passages.”
“You’ve been bracing them, right? The stuff in the weird mining tunnels won’t collapse, but if the tunnels are not braced, you’ll risk a cave-in and everyone dying.”
Georgie put in, and the Rubirel Guard shifted nervously behind him. They could survive even underwater thanks to their helmets, but being buried alive? Their helmets would run out of oxygen, and that was a horror story. Shellc was grimacing further.
“I’ve had numerous [Foremen] shouting that very thing at me, Advance Miner. We’re trying, but as I said, now we have to tunnel, brace it, while the undead are—”
“What if you collapsed the tunnels on purpose?”
A quiet voice, then. Damia Reinhart’s eyes lit up as her thoughts manifested an idea. All the Drakes turned, and Shellc blinked.
“On the Dorn Pillar?”
“It would slow it down, wouldn’t it? Can you perform a controlled collapse? [Geomancers] have trouble, I know, but if you knew where it was running—”
Bury it and get in place while it tries to get out. Shellc’s eyes lit up. Ilvriss spun.
“Excellent idea, Lady Damia! Who has collapsing Skills? Stealth Skills? Welsca, get a list—”
Georgie raised one claw. He had both. And he felt that familiar flutter of fear in his chest, but if Ilvriss meant what he said…
“I could do it. For a big payout. Combat pay and more.”
That might give me a chance to buy my way across the north. He had a way out of here that didn’t get him killed. He just had to risk his life.
