“Three hundred? I expect them to be gone the next time Marvus comes by. Why? Do you have a cow-based superweapon or something?”
Lyonette favored Ilvriss with a smile.
“Nothing so fancy. I just had a thought. We’re in [Rancher] lands. The Lischelles can’t see the Terlands as anything but a threat, and we’ve tweaked their noses.”
“And shot their bulls. I don’t know how mad Marvus is, but I hope killing the skunks will warm him up.”
“Precisely. So…I propose we meet them on the most appropriate ground. I’m going to write an invitation. I’ll have Nanette and Mrsha deliver them personally. I want you to throw a cookout.”
“What?”
Ilvriss blinked at her, but then he nodded before she could explain.
“Of course. But will it offend the Terlands?”
“We can’t entertain them like they’ll want, which is Golems. And neither of us are northern Izrilians.”
“Fair point. But will they accept?”
“We’ll see. However, I think we have a chance. Lord Xitegen is with them, Ilvriss.”
“Right, and he doesn’t like a lot of what the inn stands for, and he trusts Drakes as much as he should—”
“Ilvriss, it’s Xitegen. He’s not going to miss a barbecue.”
Behind Lyonette, Mrsha slapped her forehead. That was her mother for you, assuming some people ran on their stomachs if they were even a gram over the weight Lyonette considered decent. On such things, the fate of everything rested.
 
——
 
“They want a what?”
Ulva Terland sat up in the carriage she was heartily sick of as Invrisil drew into view. Timekeeper spoke.
“As I believe that is a rhe-torical question, Lady Ulva, the location is out-side of the Cowpat Plains. Due to the smell. They have invited the local [Ran-cher] families. Landed nobility.”
“Upstarts? I heard they ran off the idiots who abandoned their lands. Well, well. We might as well kill multiple Crelers with one stone. Let’s appraise them. Any objections, Xitegen? Is it a trap?”
“I surely hope not, Great Aunt, because if that means fresh Lischelle meat, I will be there.”
She rolled her eyes.
“Is that some new breed of cattle? I don’t pay attention to food trends.”
“You’ve never had—? Great Aunt, are you serious?”
“I don’t pay attention to what we buy! We have local [Ranchers] in the north who cater to the nobility. Is this lot better?”
Xitegen kissed his fingers. Then pressed his fingers to the sides of his mouth and ran them down. After a few more nonverbal motions, Ulva shrugged.
“Tell the family to bring an appetite. And the poison-tester Golems. Those girls whom you said tried to deliver the invitation, Timekeeper—was one a Gnoll with white fur?”
“Yes, Lady Ter-land. They were quite alarmed when they were intercepted.”
“How does that work? You just broke the Skill or something?”
“They were re-layed into a holding matrix, Lady Ulva. It is disorienting to li-ving beings—”
“Beat your heart faster, I’m sick of your speech. Do you still have them?”
Timekeeper’s rate of speech accelerated, and the staccato quality didn’t vanish, but he sounded distinctly faster.
“Yes, Lady Terland. I believe they are screaming about the sight.”
“Hmm. Tell them we accept. The [Princess] will be there. And tell her to bring the Gnoll child. What’s the other one?”
“She claims to be a witch.”
“Bah. Busybodies. She’s optional.”
Ulva sat back, and her own heart beat faster. She was coming to reckon with this. She just had to wait…she noticed Xitegen watching her.
“What? Expecting them to win me over with the magical power of this inn and friendship, boy?”
“If anyone could resist the inn’s charms, it would be you, Great Aunt. It will be entertaining either way.”
She laughed at that. And the [Bereaved Matriarch of House Terland] turned and smiled once. At the rising star of House Terland. The boy whose levels exceeded almost any other [Lord]’s. Heir and successor and, perhaps, the leader needed for a new age.
She was just half of the last generation, old and bitter, and re-awakened. She bared her teeth at him as his smile faded.
“Hah. What level are you again?”
“Er, over Level 40, Great Aunt? I shouldn’t like to say unless I go higher, in which case, I will be throwing a celebration.”
“The House shall. Level 40? Good. We never have enough [Lords] and [Ladies] above Level 40. You’re sturdy enough now, you’ll live. Primera? Throw him out the carriage.”
“Er, Aunt, wh—”
The carriage door opened. There was a scuffle. Ulva leaned against the window and saw Xitegen Terland spin past her. The carriage continued racing on at top speed.
The door shut. The rest of the family stopped trying to get Ulva’s attention.
And a pair of girls who’d finally been allowed to see Ulva for a second swallowed hard.
Ulva Terland cometh.
 
——
 
“We have to attend, of course. That—we’re going to show them up.”
Aronia declared after five minutes of pacing. Marvus half-rose.
“Well, of course we have to do that. But the Terlands. What if they…?”
“We put on our Zenze best, Marvus, and we bow and act polite, but don’t promise or give anything away. Damn that Drake. We—I need to do some reading. Who knows the north? Who’s been up to First Landing or has any notion of the Terlands?”
“Only Colfa’s been that far north long. There’s Cousin Fibri who goes around selling—”
“Call him. Call everyone and the Golvas. No fighting, Marvus. We have to get ready!”
 
——
 
“L-Lady Ulva? In the south? She never leaves First Landing!”
Desinee El was stunned. Legitimately. This felt like a fever dream. She and Lady Damia exchanged a look.
They understood what it meant for Ulva Terland to come south. Everyone was used to Magnolia Reinhart, but she was young compared to Ulva. And…
“We have to do something. She’s going to kill Ilvriss!”
“We? I need to talk to Deilan. Excuse me—”
Damia grabbed Desinee’s waist as the older woman tried to struggle away from her.
“No, wait, you have to help! You were part of the Winter Solstice, right?”
“Let go of me, young [Lady]! I just came here to sell Kaalblades, and I was nearly eaten by a bull, and now the Terlands are marching on—do I know you? I have nightmares about the Winter Solstice!”
They were arguing as Wall Lord Ilvriss stood with Captain Osthia.
“Undead mostly destroyed?”
“Yessir. Just in time for the Golems to mince us all. Should I bring all our troops?”
“I very much doubt all our forces would be able to handle the Golems. Take the Rubirel Guard, and you’ll be there with your Sisters? It can’t come to a fight, Osthia.”
“Yessir, because we’ll lose, sir.”
“Exactly, good woman. Where’s Xesci? I don’t think she should be—”
“The message said to bring her, sir.”
“Right, well, let’s ask if she wants to actually come. It might not be the worst—Welsca, what’s wrong?”
The [Adjutant] came running, face dead white. Ilvriss turned as Damia and Desinee fought behind him, and Welsca appeared ready to vomit. But she had Clan Leader Plisce with her, and she delivered a single report with a piercing whisper-shout.
“Wall Lord! Brisket!”
“…Brisket?”
Everyone turned to stare at her, and Welsca gasped.
“Brisket…takes sixteen hours to prepare!”
Ilvriss checked the position of the sun. Then he turned.
“Send for Chef Calescent and Imani, and find someone who can speed-smoke…is that a Skill? And get me the best meat we have—”
He turned. The ‘meat’ mooed at him from one of the overfull pastures. Ilvriss pointed silently.
“Er, Lady Damia? Project for you.”
 
——
 
“You’d better be recording. Yes, yes, I know they’ll murder anyone who gets close, but please. A recording!”
Calidus Reinhart was begging the [Assassins] he’d sent. He just…he thought it’d be hilarious.
 
——
 
And so did the half-Elf. When he heard about it, he actually did a merry jig.
“Perfect! The stage is set! Now, what to wear, what to wear…”
He went running back home to put on his finest. He owed the [Princess] nothing less, after all. Terlands? He remembered their Golems, oh yes. He wondered how they’d changed.
If anyone remembered him…it would be them. After running a hundred miles, the half-Elf slowed.
“Wait. Aren’t the Terlands on Terandria? What are they doing down here?”
 
——
 
Lord Gorthes Reinhart had no plans on going to a barbecue. He just kept chasing the damn Unmarked Coach around—he’d run three teams of warhorses ragged trying to intercept the bastard [Driver] on her path.
He was, at this moment, apologizing for running someone over, a first. But then, Lord Xitegen had smashed into his coach after being hurled from his.
Gorthes was rather impressed the swearing [Lord] was actually alive.
 
——
 
“There will be no Goblins at the cookout. No objections. I’m sorry, everyone, but Ulva Terland and Lord Xitegen are, um, very biased.”
“…Do we get leftovers?”
“Yes!”
“Okay, then. That good with us, Miss Lyonette. You want us to set up, though?”
Mrsha listened to the shouting in the background as Calescent ripped a cabinet door open and reached into it with trembling claws.
He brought out his patented, Redfang-approved spice kit for barbecues with shaking claws. No one barbecued around The Wandering Inn. And his guests would be the House of Terland including the matriarch? He took a deep breath. In and out.
It was time, once more, to level.
Elia licked her lips as she peered into the kitchen. Lyonette was giving orders until Peggy asked a sly question.
“You putting on a nice dress maybe? Lord Ilvriss will be there and lots of fancy nobles. You and Miss Colfa?”
“I—well, it is Ulva Terland. She’s practically royalty in stature. Where’s Colfa? We should get our finest.”
Peggy smirked at a scowling Asgra, Nanette, and other members. She and Xinthe were Team Ilvriss, and the servant instantly went rushing to remind Lyonette of all the best shops in Invrisil and Pallass that could accommodate her. Lyonette ran off.
Mrsha?
Mrsha solemnly, and after great deliberation, adjusted her kilt. She put on a blue one with black stripes. Then she added a red bowtie and studied herself in the mirror.
“Mrsha! Looking good!”
Nanette gave her some finger guns and a wink as she went to join Lyonette’s dress prep. Mrsha eyed Nanette, then took the bowtie off.
 
——
 
They were all going to be there. It was like watching a bunch of wagons accelerating towards each other, [Drivers] activating Skills, and not one budging. A glorious disaster.
Nerul felt it. His class was screaming at him that there was more he didn’t know, but this upcoming meeting had so many high-level players and potential for permanent changes that it would be one of the top five negotiations in his life.
And he wasn’t sure he’d even make it. 
He was riding a Wistram Carriage towards Pallass, leaning out the window and shouting for people to get out of his way. Nerul was using Skills and swearing at every small obstacle.
He was late.
But he had no choice. He’d had to fight through a mountain of paper. He’d had to invent paperwork to fill out. And of course, even if he’d done all that—he’d needed to get gemstones custom-cut and fitted. Then have them inscribed with magic runes that had to be manually bored through the gemstones, enchanted with nigh on microscopic runes…
Not easy, even if you knew exactly what to do. Fortunately, once they’d finished an arm, the rest had gone faster. He turned his head.
“We’re not going to make it to Pallass on time. We have to begin—now. I’ve got a scrying orb, and we should be able to gain an audience. The Terlands have disembarked their carriages in Invrisil. Now’s the time to negotiate, if at all. I don’t know if they’re going to try and kill Ilvriss the moment they meet him. Do you…have any odds on the likelihood of that?”
The being sitting across from Nerul was still carving her other arm with a diamond-edged razor. She had taken over sculpting her body once they’d given her an arm. And claimed she’d have to re-do her arm since they’d done it so poorly. It would still, apparently, be substandard to the limbs she had possessed.
Still, she was so dangerous that the city had wanted to send a full escort of Rubirel Guards with Nerul. He’d refused because they’d slow the carriage, and because…they wouldn’t keep him from being killed if he was wrong.
Yweine’s head rose. Her face was that of a Drake.
Odd, for it to terrify him so much and unsettle him. But she had been made to serve the Walled Families.
Of course she’d been made to look like a Drake. Her face had mostly been intact, if damaged, but extremities had been lost; now the new gemstone stood out, appearing cheap compared to the fine, ancient materials she had been made with.
Nevertheless, she had legs, one arm, and a tail, which flicked every now and then next to her. So much like a real Drake—save for the translucent ‘skin’ of gems. Her scales were green, running to blue in places.
Like her neck spines, which were turquoise. But they were different. Instead of sticking out across the back of her neck, they drooped. Coming down the sides of her head like…hair. Like bangs, framing her features.
Some Drakes had neck spines that looked like that, but this…was not the Yweine from the records of her. She’d changed her appearance. Even the outfit she wore was different. She would be nude without clothing, but instead of an old Salazsarian serving outfit, she had requested armor.
Armor for the one Golem to leave the vaults. In service to Salazsar until the terms of her agreement were completed. How much could she be trusted?
She can be trusted as long as it serves her and the other Golems. Until such time as the contract no longer benefits her.
In a way, it made it all delightfully simple. Nerul listened to his racing heartbeat, like drums. Or was that [Dangersense]? But then Yweine spoke.
“I do not have access to the combined intelligence of the others, Diplomat. We are now within distant simulation-extrapolations. To allow for optimal thought, I have discarded potential outcome-projections. I am only personally aware of the Terlands from over a hundred years hence. Naturally, I have supplemented this data from reports and historical texts and will continue to do so, but these sources of data are inherently untrustworthy.”
“Fair. Well…how do you think this will go?”
“I would like your plan to succeed, Diplomat Nerul. It allows for the most efficient path to freedom for my people.”
She didn’t blink. Didn’t stop carving the runes in her arm even though she seemed to be studying him. Her hands adjusted for the slight rattle of the carriage moving.
