Opportunity. Not for just the Gemscale Company, but maybe for the ordinary grunts like you.
It wasn’t all positives, of course. Some people didn’t like the brothel or that Drake who ran it. And there was some kind of kerfuffle about one of the Advance Miners or something. He’d been cursed or…but you got told to knock it off if you wanted to gossip.
It wasn’t so much ‘don’t ask, don’t tell’ as much as ‘stop hassling me about it’. Not perfect. And Georgie thought it wouldn’t last, but he had to admit, after two days back on the job, he’d stopped watching his backtail.
Wall Lord Ilvriss had been as good as his word, again, for now. He’d just put Georgie back to work as an Advance Miner, but instead of his old outfit, Georgie found himself working with none other than Rolx’s dig squad. And a number of other Advance Miners and officials who he knew.
None of them brought up the rumors. Adjutant Welsca addressed the new work shift in a one minute announcement at muster because time was money.
“We are here to dig, Drakes, Gnolls, and, uh, Humans. Bring up any issues to me of actual, substantive merit, but I want all your attention on the digging. Those undead aren’t the only potential threats down there. On a side note, be aware that the work day will end two hours early today, and there will be an announcement from Wall Lord Ilvriss and a request for volunteers.”
Then they got to it. Silverfangs were working as Dig Team Kippish next to Rolx, and both groups just…mined. Mining Leader Maiss introduced Georgie around, and the Advance Miner was actually most worried because, uh, he’d broken Maiss’ jaw.
The big Drake with a rather protruding jawline now didn’t appear exactly friendly, but he just slapped Georgie on the shoulder, hard, and grinned.
“You get to buy the first round after work, Miner Georgie, and if I catch you brawling again, it won’t be on my time. Understood? No more words on the jaw or anything else. I should have ducked. Too used to a helmet.”
Georgie nodded.
“Er, right, sorry, Mining Leader. Anything I should know about Rolx?”
Maiss paused and scratched his scales under his chin.
“Well, we’re slow. We’ve picked up the business, but we’re all greenhorns. You just lead, and we’ll try to keep up. We might have to slow you down to catch up, but that’s it.”
“Got it.”
 
——
 
Rolx wasn’t actually that incompetent. They just didn’t have Skills, a point Georgie noticed. And they weren’t adept—three times, he had to point out how they were slowing work by not organizing a line to haul away soil and rocks, and they didn’t have a sorting bin…Maiss heard him out, gave orders, and they fixed it.
It was a big team of eighty Drakes. The ones up front worked hard, sweating and cursing, but they rotated out twice as fast. What did they do? Well, rest—then hit one of the gymnasiums that Georgie had never wanted to go to. Lift weights, spar on practice mats—
No [Miner] had the energy for that kind of thing after work. But Maiss just offered Georgie a chance to rest, then made zero comment about it. They did end up talking, though; you had to talk—or have a scrying orb playing the news or music—or go crazy.
“I get that the other [Miner] teams hate our guts. We’re just loyalty hires. Tell the others that if they’re upset.”
“Really? You’ve been with the Gemscale company that long?”
Georgie was leading the way with his enchanted pickaxe; he reckoned they’d be almost up to par with his pickaxe alone. It was insane. Maiss was shovelling up the weird bricks of converted stone into wheelbarrows to be rolled up the shaft. They worked in forty-minute bursts. The pickaxe did stop functioning after about that long, but it recharged insanely fast, especially if you dropped it next to some magical gems; Salazsar had plenty even if they weren’t mining for gems here. The Mining Leader nodded as he leaned on his shovel.
“I’ve been with Wall Lord Ilvriss for…eleven years now? Different roles.”
“Huh. You like it?”
“Ups and downs. Can’t complain. You hear about other companies and how you get treated if you’re hurt. Still, sometimes, I wondered if I’d ever make pension. It’s thirty years to even get to one—”
“Yeah. You’re not making that in Advance Miner work.”
“Don’t you get triple the rate? If you’d been here ten years as an Advance Miner, you’d already be there.”
“Really? Damn. I never thought I’d be a full-time company man.”
Maiss glanced at Georgie as the Drake wiped at the sweat streaming from under his helmet. Just for one second Georgie’s scales tingled, and he checked his clothing—but Maiss only shrugged.
“I’ll be honest, before last year, I was thinking maybe I’d join another outfit in time. Or go into private business, even. Not that I’m getting any younger. But that’s what you have to do, to really make your mark. Hard to retire on regular pay and live large.”
Georgie nodded. He’d heard the same thing a lot of times. Just empty dreams, but…he was glad to talk about this kind of thing, because he felt the same way but seldom got to discuss it.
“It’s always owning your own shit. Same thing with [Miners] but collecting permits, having representatives, and getting paperwork through—can’t do it unless you have a lot of money, and the big companies can’t be beat.”
“Exactly. It’s easier with soldiering and other professions, or so I’ve heard. Nevermind that. Like I said, until recently I felt like I needed to go independent. But with this dig and that—”
He nodded at Georgie’s pickaxe, and the Advance Miner nodded too.
“It’s a three year contract to keep it.”
“Only three years? Same with the Silverfangs, really. Gnolls in the north is strange. I can’t think they want to live here, but the fact we’ve made it months without being killed in our sleep is odd.”
They were working close enough to Dig Team Kippish as they hauled more materials back up the shaft that some of the Gnolls heard, even forty feet away. One of the Silverfangs, a Gnoll with a silver piercing in one ear, leaned on his tools and grinned.
The Silverfang Gnolls were interesting. They actually had different tools than the Salazsarians, and a different style. Unlike Georgie, who swung a pickaxe or shovel in a classic position, the Silverfang Gnolls were right up against whatever they were digging and had claw-blades.
Like knuckle dusters, but sturdier, an entire gauntlet they used to scoop dirt out. It left them often buried in soil or looser particulates, but they could move it very quickly. The [Miners] claimed they could also hear the strata moving around them, and it avoided monsters or collapses most of the time.
Georgie still thought Salazsar was far better at actually digging through stone with their systems, but Team Kippish was working with a will. However, the Gnoll just shouted.
“If we’re staying in the north, my vote won’t be for here! This place stinks almost half as bad as you two!”
He had nose plugs in, even in the mines. Georgie and Maiss shouted insults back, then Georgie waved a claw around.
“It’s not that bad down here, is it?”
The Silverfangs just eyed him. The Gnoll [Miner], whose name was Vitteh, shook his head.
“It’s almost worse down here. Our poor cubs had to go back with some of the tribe because they couldn’t stand the smell. Mind you, we like the food and open landscape. Just—gah! What do they feed those cows? Also—I keep finding gemstones. Is that normal?”
“Gemscale Company Skill. Just declare them, and unless it’s a magical gemstone, they’re ordinary profits. How many did you get?”
“Uh, eleven today? Small ones, but—”
Georgie nearly slipped as Maiss’ brows rose.
“How? It’s supposed to be rare, even with the Skill.”
“Well, I’m a [Lucky Miner].”
Vitteh winked. Georgie and Maiss strolled over and asked about it, and Vitteh confirmed that he was no Doombearer—not that the Silverfangs were anything less than allies—but he’d earned it after the Meeting of Tribes. Maiss grunted.
“I was there. With Wall Lord Ilvriss, obviously. You all fancy cards or something after this? There’s some games in Thirthoof, actually. That brothel has a bunch set up.”
“The brothel does?”
“Apparently. Some new game from Liscor where you have a bunch of balls and sticks and hit them around—those Sisters of Chell are obsessed with it.”
“As long as I’m not gambling away my paycheck, sure. Miner Georgie and Maiss, yes? Let me introduce you to our Ekhtouch [Miner]. He’s the one who punched out that [Cattle Baron].”
“Ah, I owe him a drink—”
They chatted for twenty minutes and agreed to go out on the town until Welsca found them jawing and sent them back to work. And Georgie found himself chewing on his cigar and waiting for the catch. Because this felt…
Decent. Too damn decent. He was glad when he was reminded the work day ended two hours early, and he found Wall Lord Ilvriss addressing all the dig teams and asking for volunteers. Ilvriss caught his eye just once, and Georgie smiled grimly.
There had to be a catch. And the catch was—he raised his clawed hand.
You want my loyalty? You got it. He lined up with a number of eager Drakes and Gnolls—Maiss was apologizing to the others as well for missing the drinks because he was volunteering—when Ilvriss pointed.
“No Advance Miners or team leaders. Out of line, you two!”
…He kicked Georgie and Maiss out of the volunteer crew. They stood to one side. Georgie stared at Ilvriss. He didn’t want them? Then he saw a [Princess] being followed around by Lady Damia like a puppy following an older dog, and he realized something was up.
He stood there, confused, until Maiss slapped him on the shoulder.
“Alright, let’s get cleaned up. Damnit, the one time something fun happens…”
They walked off, and Georgie kept waiting for the catch. Which might have been getting fleeced by the damn Sisters of Chell, along with Maiss and everyone else, out of several silver coins. But if that was all—
Georgie would take it.
 
——
 
It was approaching dusk as the sun cast long rays over the tents, and she was several days late when Lady Desinee El finally found Wall Lord Ilvriss’ camp.
In fairness, she had meant it when she agreed to ride out to show him the House of El’s merchandise. But she’d had to wait in Invrisil for a restock from the family and then find her way all the way to the delightfully-named ‘Cowpat Plains’.
There weren’t exactly that many Overnight Carriages who wanted to make the journey out, and Lady Desinee had eventually had to just ride the entire darn way from the magical door. And—this was important—
No one had a map to Wall Lord Ilvriss’ camp. She’d had to ask around Thirthoof and been told ‘go that way and you’ll find it’.
Then she had to reach the camp and talk her way past the security. After half an hour of security checks, she was issued a temporary pass and told the Wall Lord was at ‘Dig Site B’. Desinee was trying to be polite, but she was tired and rather wished she’d booked accommodations.
Maybe I can beg a tent rather than having to ride back to town and do this in the morning. She sighed as she rehearsed her presentation. He might not even buy anything. This was why she didn’t actually want to do sales. She still had nightmares, though. They’d gotten worse since coming to Liscor. That had been a mistake, since she’d seen the Bone Giant outside the city, still trapped by the ribbons. The Watch had built up a lot of stone around its limbs in case it moved, but she had the image of it just ripping the stones apart and beginning to attack—
Lady Desinee El didn’t find the Wall Lord at Dig Site B. [Miners] were marching off from work, and one of them wolf-whistled as she rode past them. He got a nudge and shut up—she sighed.
“Wall Lord Ilvriss is where?”
“I think he was riding northwards, Miss, er, Lady. Not sure why. You might catch him if you’re fast.”
A Wall Lord Dramm pointed her northwards, and she thought she just saw a bunch of dots on the horizon. Desinee groaned.
Turn around or…? She kicked her horse in the side and sped forwards. She was one woman on horseback, and she did know how to ride; she was Maviola El’s niece. Plus, the Drake had mentioned that Ilvriss had company. Lyonette du Marquin and a [Lady] of House Reinhart?
“I hope the Reinharts aren’t causing trouble here. If I don’t find out what they’re up to, I won’t hear the end of it from Deilan. Giddy up!”
Her mare gave Desinee a reproachful look, but sped up. The [Lady] was riding light with just a bag of holding, so she was confident she’d catch the Wall Lord and his far-larger company. It was only…she hadn’t been riding nearly as much until recently.
Her butt hurt. Desinee let her mare accelerate into a full canter, then realized the Wall Lord was moving fast! She let the mare run harder, and the excited horse cut loose on the wide, flat plains. Desinee said—
“Ow, ow, ow. My family for a healing potion!”
If she just had one, she’d be able to drink it and not worry about being saddle-sore! But on the horse galloped, and Desinee did everything to avoid aggravating the posterior pain.
First, she stood up in the stirrups. But her legs got tired, so after five minutes of that, she leaned on the pommel, but that was uncomfortable. Then she tried side-saddle, but that was so unpleasant at a near-gallop that—
“Are you insane?”
She was nearly on the Drakes when a rider rode past her, shouting. Desinee had to grab for her horse’s saddle as she started, and a white-haired woman appeared next to Desinee, horrified.
“What are you doing? Riding side-saddle at a gallop? You’ll break your neck, you fool!”
Desinee swung herself back across the horse’s back, flushing, and called over.
“I’m quite fine, Miss! Is this Wall Lord Ilvriss’ company?”
This was a Human woman with white hair and a riding dress suited to farmwork. Desinee feared she’d gone the wrong way, but the woman simply shouted back.
“It is! I am Colfa val Lischelle-Drakle—who are you? Why are you here?”
She eyed Desinee as skeptically as Desinee eyed the woman. Lischelle-Drakle? Wasn’t that one of the local [Rancher] clans…? Desinee had been told to present the House of El’s wares to them while she was here, just in case.
“I am Lady Desinee of the House of El! Greetings! I’m here to present some items for Wall Lord Ilvriss?”
“The House of…? This isn’t a good time for it.”
“Well, I have ridden a very long ways, Miss val Lischelle, and I’d just like to ask the Wall Lord’s permission to stay at his camp until his earliest convenience. Is the Wall Lord here?”
