“But—what did I do? I…my legs are killing me. I was in the flow, and I knew you’d made a mistake.”
“Not on purpose!”
“No! No, I just saw it because we’ve done it so many times, and…I think I can do it again. I just need some rest. Do—do you think I know a magical dance? Me?”
He was completely in denial, but Lyonette had seen it. Felt it.
“You don’t know the Aubrel Solde, do you?”
“The what? I wouldn’t know it if you served it at that restaurant.”
“Well, until I spoke, you did it, Ilvriss. You learned a magical dance! Get up! Get up so I can do it!”
He was stunned until Lyonette tried to drag him upright, begging to try it again. She just had to…
Unfortunately, her boots had run out of magic for half a day, and she collapsed. Ilvriss caught her in his arms, and she froze.
Oh no—
He lowered her onto the ground and dropped her.
“You’re too heavy to keep doing that.”
“Excuse you!”
Ilvriss rolled away as she kicked weakly at him. Laughing. In truth, Lyonette didn’t know quite what the dance did, only that Ilvriss had achieved it. She was envious, smiling, heart lifting, and he was laughing.
“Me. A magical dance. What, am I going to sleep and get the [Wacky Arms Dance]?”
“Shut—shut up, you knew it was amazing!”
“The [Erin Noodle Dance].”
He wheezed as he chuckled. He found Lyonette’s indignation hilarious. She was trying to sit up.
“I’m—damn boots! Don’t you dare name it that, Ilvriss, it was incredible! Do it again! You learned the dance, and I got nothing! If I hear that name when I get it—and I will get it—I’ll have Ser Dalimont stab you. Ser Dalimont, did Ushar record that?”
“Ah, she sadly tripped, Princess—”
“She what? You tripped her? Dalimont! I know she has to report to my mother. Let that Bagrhaven do what she wants. The recording!”
“I got most of it until this fool interrupted us, Princess. I missed the magical part. Ser Dalimont, once again sabotaging the Eternal Throne—”
“I was not informed recording Princess Lyonette was part of my duties!”
“No, because you’d be a pervert. I’m simply a faithful retainer. It’s Xinthe’s fault anyways.”
“Ah, indeed.”
“M-me? But what did I—?”
“It’s always your fault.”
“True, but don’t quibble on faults, Ushar! Someone get Mrsha! And Nanette! No, wait, not a word to them until I can do it or they’ll tease me! Don’t you dare tell them, Ilvriss. Ilvriss?”
The Drake was still laughing. He was holding his side, pointing at the [Princess] arguing with her servants, tears in his eyes. Actually, his laughter was so filled with hilarity it was getting insulting.
Lyonette was smiling, and she was about to start scolding louder since he deserved his victory, when the laughter’s tenor changed. She realized the tears in the corners of Ilvriss’ eyes were moving down his cheeks. And that the laughing…
Had turned into sobbing.
The three members of staff stopped arguing. Xinthe, Dalimont, Ushar, turned, and suddenly they stopped making sounds. Lyonette glanced around, but they had become part of the furniture. She saw the Wall Lord sitting there. Pressing the heels of his palms to his eyes.
“Ilvriss? What’s…wrong?”
He shook his head. Tried to speak. But he was hiccupping now. Tears were running from his eyes, and he sat there, covered in sweat, as she stood unsteadily.
“I—it’s nothing, Lyonette. What a fool…I’m sorry. I’m sorry. I just—it hit me.”
“What did?”
She sat down, a dress like a Faerie Flower puddling around her, and he had a simple maroon vest on. Dressed up for their silly hobby. He’d even put on a clashing pair of polka dot pants just to delight Nanette, light blue dots on dark orange he’d personally commissioned. The Wall Lord spoke.
“I just realized…I don’t want to die.”
The [Princess] froze, and the Wall Lord sat there. Wiping at his face.
“I’ve been having fun. Despite it all. Getting angry and happy and upset, and I thought—it just hit me. I was having fun today. Despite Georgie. I felt like I was actually changing my company. My father and I weren’t arguing much. I did the most un-Drake thing I had to. And I wanted to…”
“What—what makes you think you have to die?”
“My mission.”
That was all Ilvriss said, and Lyonette—froze. She knew what that was. He’d told her, in Oteslia.
The Necromancer.
But it was such a big, overwhelming secret he’d been working against that she hadn’t done more than think of it in her nightmares. Ilvriss, though, had been working nonstop the moment he’d found out. Even this dig was all for…
She glanced at Dalimont and Ushar, and they dragged Xinthe away. They stood at the doors as Lyonette whispered.
“I know what you mean, Ilvriss. But that doesn’t mean…”
“Yes. Yes, it does, Lyonette. I’m no idiot. I knew what I was signing up for. I was resolved to do it. Periss…but even with the Faerie Flower drink, some days I struggle to remember every detail about her. And I’m not angry anymore, Lyonette.”
“It’s hard to hold onto your anger, Ilvriss. Even with Nokha, I’d kill her, but I don’t lie awake at night wishing…”
Lyonette began, but Ilvriss just peered up wordlessly. Tears ran down his cheeks, stained slightly with glistening wetness. Shining in the faint light of the ballroom. She sat with him as he whispered.
“I know. But I don’t feel that hatred. And I looked at you, and it was so funny…I realized I was afraid. I’m just a coward. I’m afraid I won’t be able to fight him, Lyonette.”
“Don’t say that. You’ve done so much. Even when the Terlands sent Golems…”
She hugged him, chest constricting. Ilvriss just sniffed.
“I’m not a hero. Xesci seems to think I am, or could be. But I’m…just a Drake. Erin gave me a sword from her [Garden of Sanctuary]. And it’s just a sword. I can’t get it to flare with lightning.”
“It could be a bad sword. She’s not a good judge of…”
He plucked the sword from his belt and tossed it down.
“Not just that. I’m a Wall Lord of Salazsar, and I only got this far with General Sserys literally telling me where to dig. I’m no Zel Shivertail. I wasn’t worthy of standing with him. I’m going to fail. Fail Periss. Fail everyone. I’m more treacherous than Dramm is. I just…I’m scared, Lyonette.”
She said nothing. Just hugged him tightly.
“You’ve never, ever run away, Ilvriss. That’s what Mrsha says about Elia, you know. That’s why she likes her. And what brought me around. Elia doesn’t run. You haven’t, either. Even when I was in danger or…not when it matters.”
“I ran from the Hunter-Killer.”
He was trying to be contrary. She laughed at him.
“You silly prevaricator, you know what I mean. You don’t have to die, Ilvriss. This is…this is The Wandering Inn. Miracles happen.”
“Sometimes, they don’t. Then, Erin pays the price. I don’t know if I can do it, Lyonette. I don’t know if I’m worth what she is.”
Lyonette took one of Ilvriss’ neck spines and pushed down until he was blinking up at her.
“Don’t say that. Don’t put her on a pedestal! Or we’ll never reach her. Erin can’t be alone, Ilvriss. Too many people just buy into her legend. You never have. And neither have I. We have to catch her or she’ll be all by herself and think she has to save the world alone. And sacrifice herself to do it. We’ll catch her.”
“With magical dances? Digging holes in cowpats?”
“We’ll do it because we rise to every challenge. You remember what she was like. For every flag she waved, there were a hundred times we had to poke her into making cakes, or she was just playing chess and hanging out. Erin is the perfect, the ultimate example. If she can hit Level 50, so can anyone. You won’t die. I refuse to let you. Stop…stop crying.”
Lyonette felt tears sting her own eyes. She hugged Ilvriss, and his tears did stop. She felt his breathing stop jerking around in his chest. Then she realized she was holding him as they nearly fell back on the ballroom floor. Only his tail was keeping them upright.
“I’m sorry, Lyonette. I…I don’t know what came over me.”
“Mortality?”
He laughed, and she blinked down at him. Lyonette hesitated, and saw Ilvriss gazing up at her. She pressed her lips together, craned her head downwards—
He dumped her out of his lap. She leapt up—well, struggled up.
“I—”
“No, that was entirely inappropriate—”
“No, it was just—I can’t—”
“Let’s say no more of it, Ilvriss! We should go and—”
They stumbled towards the doors, red-faced. Neither one said a word as they blew past Ushar and Dalimont, who stood to attention like statues.
“Bath! Xinthe, we need to clean up!”
“Agreed. And I’m very embarrassed, but thank you.”
Ilvriss smiled at Lyonette, and she cleared her throat. Then Xinthe was leading and helping Lyonette towards the new bathing rooms that Hexel had made. It even, apparently, had showers designed specifically for Antinium.
Breathe in, out, mention the magical dance to the girls. Figure out how he did that and what it does—unpack the rest of that later. She could almost sense Ilvriss doing the same thing. Lyonette flung herself into the bathing room and let Xinthe help her strip her sweaty garments off. She hopped in the huge bathing pool area, which would be like the public baths in Liscor—and sighed as the hot water cleansed her skin.
“Wait, do I need to shower first, Xinthe?”
Lyonette only realized after a moment that she’d utterly broken protocol by entering dirty, but the servant called out.
“There’s no need to clean yourself first! The baths have a self-cleaning spell installed! Architect Hexel doesn’t trust children or your average bather.”
“Phew, what a relief. That’s Salazsar-standard, but you never know. The amount of mess Brilm makes—he gets in the tub with food. The monster. He does have his good qualities. Thank you, Miss Xinthe. I—”
Wall Lord Ilvriss strode over to the tub, utterly naked, and was levering himself down, groaning. Only then did he spot Lyonette, who was submerged up to her cheekbones in the water. He froze. Lyonette’s head emerged like a swamp-thing as Dame Ushar cracked the door open, and Xinthe hesitated.
“Er, I thought you said—”
Ilvriss exploded out of the water as Lyonette ducked underwater, then came up to scream.
“Ushar! Get Mrsha!”
But she was glad when she heard Ilvriss laughing, even ruefully.
 
——
 
Some days, you had no context for what was going on in The Wandering Inn. Not ‘most days’; the inn was actually fairly predictable 73% of the time.
And yes, Yelroan had calculated it. He’d been out all day, checking on the election results and trying to predict how it would go.
He was conducting polls, another Earther invention—but they invented everything. He wanted to make sure his model worked using Liscor’s election as a trial run, and if he was right…the results might shock you.
However, he felt bad when he came back and saw Xinthe wearing a Shield Spider hat of shame and serving guests with it on her head.
“What’s going on with Xinthe?”
“Oh, hey, Yelroan. She’s being punished.”
“Ah, like normal, then? Anything else I missed, Peggy?”
It was astonishing to Yelroan how much he could hang out with the staff. Plain’s Eye had never really liked him like that, even though he was their tribe. That only hurt a lot in hindsight. Anyways, Peggy gave him a rundown. Yelroan’s eyebrows bobbed up.
“Ilvriss learned the magical dance? That’s ahead of my predictions.”
She swatted his arm playfully.
“Oh, you! You know everything, you smort guy, eh? No tricking you!”
Yelroan chuckled, embarrassed. To Peggy, the former Redfang, and everyone else, Yelroan was the ‘smart’ [Mathematician]. Even though he’d been to less school as a cub than even Ser Dalimont…he’d just gone to school later as an adult. You never stopped learning.
However, he was guilty because, well, he’d been out. He wasn’t needed at the inn. Oh, sure, he kept moving the money around, making it grow for the inn, but Yelroan had a secret.
He’d been giving money to the Plain’s Eye tribe and continuing to help Merish. His friend needed to establish something in the New Lands. His tribe was in danger.
Of course, Lyonette had approved giving money to Gnollish tribes—that wasn’t the secret. The secret was that Yelroan was, well, moonlighting. Selling his services to interested parties and using the proceeds on other projects and trying to help his former tribe.
He felt bad because he was an employee of The Wandering Inn. But something had occurred to him.
This place…doesn’t really need me. Yelroan sipped from a drink of goat’s milk as he leaned on the counter and watched Mrsha harassing Xinthe. It was the only time the girl looked like a girl, and he thought Xinthe put up with it because she knew what Mrsha had been through.
It had been Mrsha who’d called for Yelroan when Erin had needed help, and it was a good idea, but…a kid’s idea, if that made sense. Send for a [Mathematician] to run an inn’s finances.
It was like calling for a Terland Golem to farm a single field. Yelroan ran out of work. Make no mistake, he’d been needed—he’d fought some unforgettable battles when the [Box of Incontinuity] had first activated.
Glad I was here for that. I actually levelled. And Yelroan had his great work, his project to quantify magic. But most days, he was just…unneeded.
He’d been thinking about that a lot, really. He had a conclusion in mind he didn’t like, but his counterargument was: why leave?
The inn gave him free room and board. He loved it here. He could help with Mrsha, and when he was needed, his impact would be far greater than anywhere else. He said that to himself, but when the call came for him, he was still glad.
“Hey, uh, Peggy?”
“What? Inkpaper, if you’re slacking off, I hit you with my ass!”
Peggy turned, two pizza platters in each hand, and the lazier [Librarian] waved his claws.
“No, I was working! Someone calling the inn for [World’s Eye Theatre] call. Private. Very worried. She on the list. Qwera!”
Yelroan’s ears perked up. Peggy hesitated.
“Lyonette is napping. She very tired after dancing. Maybe it wait? Or it goes to Mrsha?”
They turned to the giggling Gnoll girl who’d created the Path of Penance with Nannette; an oil-slicked floor filled with obstacles that Xinthe had to navigate to serve food to a very worried series of guests.
“If she crashes, the next order’s free!”
“Maybe it waits?”
Peggy suggested, glancing around for Dalimont or Ushar or—Yelroan raised a paw.
“What about me?”
