“Even if you did the impossible—why would I? It’s a nice paying job, and if you deliver on tasty water and breeze spells, you’re better’n most damn companies, but so what? This is a shitass job, and I only took it for the gold. Don’t expect me to stick around if I find a better offer.”
That was—fair. Ilvriss gazed down at the [Miners] who were waving up at him. He waved back; someone must have told them they were getting time off. All it took for them to cheer his name was that. And he felt it again.
“I…do appreciate all the [Miners] are doing here, Georgie. This has been a hard dig, and I’m not the one digging.”
“I’m sure a fat bonus does all that, Wall Lord. It’ll last you as long as it does for them. But this is your dig. Whatever we dug up is going straight to the Gemscale Company. Lots of those pickaxes and stuff?”
Ilvriss hesitated before nodding. Georgie stuck his claws in his pockets.
“I only stole it for a second, but I could tell what it did. That’s like a Relic-class pickaxe, right?”
“…Pending Master Hedault’s personal confirmation.”
“There you go. D’you know how it feels when you dig up the biggest gemstone you’ve ever seen, or a piece of Adamantium, and know it’s going straight to the company?”
“There are bounties on—I see your point.”
“Yeah. Besides. You can’t save my life. If you want to organize me getting paid out, I’ll go to Invrisil tomorrow. It’ll spare all of us a lot of problems.”
Georgie turned away abruptly. Ilvriss stared at his back. He cleared his throat.
“Georgie, the attack on your life was unacceptable. The Drake’s being charged, and it won’t happen again.”
The Advance Miner was staring into the hole in the ground that was Dig Site B like he was considering jumping down there.
“It’ll happen. Everyone knows what I am, even if you claim I’ve been cursed. That doesn’t matter. Cursed or not, now I’m a—a—”
“Georgie, I’ve had hard conversations these last few days. You’re not an easy person to work with, but I respect your actual capabilities quite a bit. If we can make this work—”
The Advance Miner turned in a flash and grabbed Ilvriss’ suit.
“There’s no way to fix this, Wall Lord! Everyone knows! What am I supposed to do? They’re going to kill me—”
There was genuine terror in his eyes. And Ilvriss saw it again.
“I won’t let it happen, Georgie.”
The Drake didn’t believe him. He let go fast as people turned, then stepped back, staring at the ground.
“Just let me leave with some gold, Wall Lord. I’m one Advance Miner among hundreds you could find at the drop of a hat. Even if I am the best—why bother?”
Why indeed? Ilvriss stood there, and he remembered Erin’s words to him. But more than wanting to do the [Innkeeper]’s bidding, more than curiosity or—he just regarded Georgie.
“Well, what’s in your future if you quit?”
“Another mine? Another job.”
“What about retirement?”
“You don’t get retirement as a freelancer.”
“You do in my company.”
Another flash of rage. Georgie turned abruptly.
“Yeah, well. I wish I was so lucky as to fit in nice and square into the company hole, Wall Lord. But I wasn’t lucky enough to even be born a Gnoll in a Drake’s Walled City.”
He walked off, and Ilvriss stood there a while. Before going to meet Master Hedault.
 
——
 
The [Enchanter] was always on time. He did not enjoy the Cowpat Plains, but given the sensitivity of this job, he had come in person to give Ilvriss a second report on the items they’d dug up. He had nose plugs in his nostrils, which was really distracting as Ilvriss sat with him. The nose plugs were orange, like Hedault’s receding hairline.
“They are closer to Relic-class than not, Wall Lord.”
“They’re not cursed in any way? They triggered my Hoarding—”
Hedault peered at the cup of water Ilvriss offered him and pushed it back, shaking his head.
“Likely a subconscious instinct, Wall Lord. Especially among Oldblood Drakes—there is an innate ability of some Drakes to appraise the worth of items they hold and covet them.”
“R-really?”
“It is a known ability, though I believe not formally recognized. I have several colleagues who have documented the phenomenon. Just like the ‘sixth sense’ of Humans or Gnolls claiming their fur can detect weather changing, like a [Sailor] and winds. You could say the items are cursed in one sense of the word.”
“How so?”
Hedault rubbed at one arm, then tapped his finger on the desk between them, quite miffed.
“The items are cursed in that I have fought off Grimalkin, Salamani, Valeterisa—all of whom exhibited signs of Hoarding themselves. All of whom wanted these items. I suggest you take care with who is entrusted with the artifacts, and I mention this as due prudence in my role as consultant. Beyond that? They are merely valuable beyond belief. Enchantments of an age bygone, preserved due to a near-perfect containment environment and the Monster Preservation Effect.”
“You’ve lost me.”
Hedault raised a finger, smiling.
“A simple phenomenon known to [Enchanters]. Artifacts degrade over time. Mana seeps even from peerless enchantments such as these. However, the presence of monsters that generate magic, even undead, reduces that decay to almost nothing.”
“So that’s why artifacts and monster nests go together—”
“Precisely. Many monsters tolerate the presence of magical artifacts because the seepage of mana empowers them. A fascinating biological adaptation to magic that has left you with artifacts that are in the top ten items for net worth I have ever appraised.”
Hedault took the cup then, and Ilvriss realized that the [Enchanter] might be Human, but even he was eying the pickaxe placed in front of him with great desire.
“But you didn’t take the items, Enchanter Hedault. I quite appreciate that.”
The man just shrugged.
“They are not mine. I do not break the laws I personally hold to be upstanding. They are not mine…and that is that.”
He turned his head away, hard, averting his gaze from the item. Ilvriss knew that copying the enchantments on the pickaxe would make Hedault level and rich—if he managed it. The Wall Lord was reminded, again, that the Erin-effect was in this.
Any other [Enchanter] might have claimed the items were less valuable, or that one had broken in the process of analyzing them or just sold the information. Not Hedault.
“How are your projects coming along, Master Hedault? I was distressed to learn you had been forced out of your home in Invrisil. I have properties in Liscor if you need residence.”
Tap-tap went Hedault’s finger on his wrist. He nodded.
“A kind offer, Wall Lord. However, I have been residing in Esthelm with lodging provided by Solar Cycles, and I am spending an inordinate amount of time in the company of other [Mages]. I hope to have permanent lodgings soon. I have also been engaged in personal research, which has kept me from earning income, but this job was quite worth my time in remuneration and knowledge. Thank you.”
His green eyes glittered with something, and Ilvriss thought he recalled Ryoka visiting the [Enchanter] a few times during the long winter. But whatever Hedault was up to—Ilvriss picked up the pickaxe.
A fortune in magic in his hands. A weapon a Named-ranker might take up. And yet—it was a damn pickaxe.
“Who can use a pickaxe in combat?”
“Two Named-rankers in this age, I believe, Wall Lord, are former [Miners], though I do not know if they are retired.”
That was Hedault for you. Ilvriss had meant more…who’d use it in Salazsar? He had been studying sword techniques, and they did not work with the pickaxe. He thought of Georgie’s comments, and in hindsight, the answer was obvious.
But it was damn hard. Ilvriss admired his reflection on the faintly-glowing metal and thought of his Ancestors. A shame he’d never gotten to really talk to Teriarch. But what would he have said?
Generations upon generations separated the two. They were, in the end, different species. They had to be. So, he slowly held the pickaxe out.
“Master Hedault, I would like you to take this and every item with a unique enchantment among the gear we’ve collected.”
The [Enchanter] had been checking a personal timepiece. He went completely still. Then his head snapped up.
“In exchange for how much work, Wall Lord?”
“What? None. That is to say—I don’t think you’d like to put a number on it. Consider it an investment.”
Ilvriss was having a hard time holding the pickaxe out. When Hedault stared at him, he shook it.
“Take it, please.”
The [Enchanter] did not, so Ilvriss put it down on the table.
“I do not understand, Wall Lord.”
Ilvriss tore his eyes off the pickaxe. Meeting Hedault’s gaze made it easier.
“What’s there not to understand? You’re a friend of the inn.”
Hedault took his time with a response, jaw working as he also gazed at the pickaxe, then at his fingers.
“I am—most assuredly not, Wall Lord. I have not socialized there in any meaningful way. I have friends I have made through the inn, such as the late Kevin—but I—”
“You’ve helped Erin. You know what she’s like. You’ve met Goblins and Antinium. You are, for lack of a better word, a good person in a world distressingly short of them at times. Or people who are willing to be good when it’s hard. Take it.”
Ilvriss felt like a hatchling, saying it all out loud like that. But the [Enchanter] blinked, and Ilvriss shoved the pickaxe forwards.
“Don’t look at it as a gift. An investment, I said. If you manage to copy this enchantment, any of them, or whatever project you’re working on—I want it. I have an eye for good business, and you are that. Take it, Master Hedault. I’d hate to quibble. I have a lot to do today, suddenly.”
He stood, hoping to avoid further argument. But Master Hedault, in his curious way, was just as quick. He picked up the pickaxe, made it vanish into his bag of holding, and then stood as well.
“I will take the most-atrophied items, then, with your permission?”
“I’ll walk you to our Chest of Holding myself, given that I doubt anyone will trust your word even with a note.”
The [Enchanter] nodded. Then he held out his hand.
“Wall Lord, thank you. I will remember this.”
That was all he said. Ilvriss shook Hedault’s hand and was surprised by the strength the man had. He wondered—did Hedault ever shake hands? But when the [Enchanter] smiled, Ilvriss looked him in the eye and thought he’d done himself a great service.
In time.
Then he walked Hedault over to the guarded armory and did the hardest thing in the world—again. Which was the second-hardest thing in his life.
Well, far lower than some things when you got to it. It just felt bad. After the third artifact, it got easier. And then—you know what?
It got a lot easier.
 
——
 
Foreman Rolx didn’t get to go to Invrisil on leave just because of the cruel arithmetic of numbers. Ilvriss had promised time off, and everyone got it—but staggered. Pulling that many mining teams off the dig sites was too much even with the new [Miners], and so the staff had organized things.
In three days, Rolx would get a four-day weekend, which was excellent. Normally, you might work six days out of the week, then take a two-day weekend, and get a three-day weekend once a month. Given you had eight days in the week, working six days in a row was punishing, and he was really looking forward to hitting Invrisil, Liscor, or Pallass.
He had been triumphant about killing the horrific Dorn Pillar, but he was tired, and he wanted to hit the showers and rest. So being called over during the last hour of his shift had him scowling.
He tried to smile at the Wall Lord, but the Drake had done a lot of hanging out, and Rolx’s tongue hurt from not shouting curses and playing nice. He liked Wall Lord Ilvriss, he did. Good manager who hired Gnolls—but like Georgie, Rolx would have been honest in private and said it was just about the gold.
He was surprised, then, to find Ilvriss appearing rather harried himself. And with a Drake trying to put him in a choke hold; he finally threw Advisor Merls off of him.
“Someone drag him away and put a Calming Tonic on him.”
“He’s gone mad! Stop the Wall Lord! Welsca, Damia—help!”
Lady Damia, her [Bodyguard], and two other Drakes had to drag off the screaming man, and the others were also looking at Ilvriss as if he’d gone insane. Rolx hesitated.
“Er, trouble, sir?”
“My staff are objecting to some of my decisions, Rolx. It’ll pass. I had to fistfight three of them—Ancestors. It really is a damn curse.”
Administrative work was harder than he’d thought if that was how it looked internally. Rolx wondered if he’d been too hard on his boy for wanting an office job.
“How can I, uh, help you, Wall Lord? We appreciate all the rewards for our job, but we’re all set to finish the day.”
If you’ll let us just get to it, we’ll go and eat and sleep, thank you. But the Wall Lord smiled at Rolx. He was no idiot, the Gnoll realized.
“It occurs to me, Foreman Rolx, that you’ve been working for the Gemscale company for twenty-two years.”
“Yes, Wall Lord.”
Thirty and he’d be eligible for part pension. Forty, and he’d have tons of benefits rolling in…the companies got you when you were a teen in apprentice-jobs. As young as twelve sometimes, and then you just worked for them.
Gemscale was a good company. Rolx stood there, wondering if he’d get a year added to his work record. That would be worth it. But the Wall Lord only spoke.
“All this work, digging up a Walled City. I thought it was obvious it would benefit everyone.”
“W-Wall Lord?”
Had he just said…? Lady Damia whirled, and Ilvriss just watched the setting sun.
“But it does only benefit from the top down, doesn’t it? If I’m ‘fair’, you get paid well, but that’s it. That’s why it’s so damn hard. You want to keep everything. Because there is no economic sense in giving you anything close to a share of Gemscale’s profits. To succeed, the company should take everything it can and reinvest in itself. Not the people.”
That sounded like real corporate talk. Rolx felt like it was the kind of thing he’d gripe about with other [Foremen] in private. And he’d heard agitators back home talking about that. Followers of the late Sellme. He’d heard Sellme was dead, and that was a bit of a shame, even with the painting thing—but Ilvriss just regarded Rolx.
