“That wasn’t an attack. The rest was, but I don’t exaggerate. I have known Reinharts. Intimately. I’m older than you think. Listen to what I said. You are the happiest Reinhart. Self-serving, heroic, bitter and cynical, rising, falling—at this moment, you are the happiest one. Your family is more clever than they are amoral, without loyalty to land, passion for creation, love of sea, or infatuation with stone hearts. Cleverness alone is bitter. So you should treasure this, Lady Damia.”
She left the young woman speechless for a second until Xesci winked.
“At least for now. And you are also the one Reinhart who needs my services least. It’s just what I said, Damia—”
She stepped behind a lantern that hid her face for just a second, and Damia saw her form…ripple. When Xesci stepped forwards, a copy of Damia Reinhart stood there.
Perfect. Damia recoiled, gasped, and Damia-Xesci smiled, a bit rueful.
“Poisoned. Few things can poison a Reinhart, but this one might last long.”
“W-what kind of poison…?”
“Affection. Now you’ve tasted genuine respect and affection, paying for the version of it my class provides won’t be nearly as sweet. And it was already wearing thin. Go back to your work, Lady Damia. You can find everything you want without paying for it here.”
Damia Reinhart backed up, genuinely unnerved. She stared at Xesci, and the [Courtesan] made shooing motions. Only when Damia had fled did Xesci pause, then slap her forehead.
“…And I just turned away another customer. Wonderful. Lady Damia?”
She changed back to her form and shouted. The [Lady] whirled, eyes locked on Xesci, and the [Courtesan] shouted.
“Send your [Bodyguard] here—and your [Head Maid]! I’ll give them a discount!”
She gave Damia a thumbs up as the girl gaped, bewildered.
 
——
 
“Damn, Xesci the Changer herself’s in the brothel? I might have to visit.”
Varnie was squatting by the cattle fence as Damia leaned against it. The [Lady] was doing a bit of personal work with Varnie and a sheet of paper. Binevy and Sule were checking out a brothel.
Everyone had just been paid, though Varnie was only flipping a gold coin up and down and not looking impressed. This was not good money for a [Gang Boss], and even Damia wanted more. However…
“Tell me about her later, Varnie. We’re still in super-helpful mode, and since I don’t feel like making friends with Xesci is the right option…”
“You’re right about that. She’s not the violent type, but people who went against her tended to get hurt. By people who like her. Real shapechanger, that one, or so I’ve heard.”
“You don’t know the half of it. Anyways, here’s how much gold I can spend.”
Damia held up her calculations, and Varnie eyed the number.
“Right. That buys you one mid-grade ring or lower-grade weapon. One nice set of steel plate, maybe, and a good amount of plain steel weapons.”
Damia’s heart sank.
“I know magic’s expensive, but—really?”
“Sorry. You want to gear us out like Gold-rankers? You need tens of thousands of gold for a team. Wall Lord Ilvriss don’t pay that much.”
“He barely paid for more than all your salaries! This is all I have from my time in House Reinhart, but you heard what attacked him! Hunter-Killer Terland Golems and super undead?”
The [Miners] talked, even if Damia wasn’t caught up or in the loop. Varnie grimaced.
“Thought I’d never have to fight a Golem again after you sprung me from the noose. I’d rather put my head back in one and have Lord Xitegen hoist the rope than fight House Terland’s assassin-Golems. Every now and then, some [Gang Leader] decides to make a stir in First Landing or Terland lands and not do it smooth and gentle. They make sure you know it was one of their Golems. Mostly, it’s the footprints in what remains of their skulls.”
Damia shuddered.
“Well, brainstorm with me. I need you and your people to arm yourselves for potential engagements with either group.”
Varnie shot Damia an alarmed glance, and Damia waved her hands.
“I won’t throw you away! You’re irreplaceable, Varnie! Reinharts waste nothing, especially people we actually like.”
“You’re all heart. Actually, that makes me feel better than if you were tellin’ me you were my best friend. It’s a big ask, though…”
The woman scratched at her raven hair, and Damia shrugged.
“Well, it’s necessary! Think of it as self-defense. Remember the half-Elf that started this whole mess? Do you really want to be unprotected, even if you and I parted ways?”
“Right. Fuck. I ain’t got a clue what to do with him, but I guess…work up from Terland Golems. Damnit, my granny said I’d hate the new era, and she were right. Okay, the problem’s armor.”
She twirled one of her daggers as Damia nodded, and they conferred.
“I can cut a man’s throat fast. [Free Slash] plus one of these and poison means I end one person before the fight starts. But that doesn’t work on something that ain’t got a throat or has armor on. And anything out of arm’s reach has the drop on me and my people. We like nice, confined spaces. This place is open. And it stinks.”
She spat, and Damia nodded.
“So what would you do if you knew you had to clash with Lord Xitegen…? Give me something to go off of, and I’ll take it from there.”
Varnie thought, sighing. She rubbed at her face.
“If I had to? The biggest damn crossbows I could find. Nets and traps. Slow ‘em down and break the armor. Only, even crossbows won’t pierce Golem armor, not unenchanted. A warhammer and steel wire nets? Not sure that works on undead.”
“You don’t have…some clever underworld tricks?”
A half-glare, then a laugh.
“Tricks? Sure, tons! Mostly baiting it into another gang you don’t like! There’s all kinds of tricks—but all of it’s too expensive, kid. Like there’s this trick where you take twenty wands, put ‘em together in a box, and fire them off. Blasts an entire corridor to slag. But it costs so much and burns out all the wands—once they start firing, you can’t stop ‘em cause of the magical interference. Or you can buy a potion and become an [Expert Swordswoman]—for ten minutes. You can’t afford even the potion.”
Damia saw the problem. She gnawed at her lip.
“Can’t you, I don’t know, use your underworld contacts and call in some favors? We need something, Varnie.”
The [Gang Boss] pulled a face.
“I suppose I’m in this until my debt’s paid…and nearly dancing the hemp jig makes you think you should really call in those favors while you’re alive. Argh, fine. I’ll see what I can do. Give me eight hundred gold pieces, and don’t come complaining to me if I turn up empty-handed.”
Damia wrote Varnie a letter authorizing her to take eight hundred gold pieces out of her account and gave the woman her signet ring of House Reinhart. Varnie promised to ride to Invrisil with six of her people and come back within the week with whatever she had.
The [Lady] saw her off and then was eating lunch when it occurred to her she’d given a [Gang Boss] a huge sum of gold, her signet ring, and sent her to Invrisil without any oversight. Damia told herself that Varnie honored her debts, that she had [Loyalty of the Low], and that if Varnie wanted to betray Damia…now was the perfect moment to ride off with all that stuff.
 
——
 
Wall Lord Ilvriss was just past his Hoarding incident, and he’d decided to put in some actual work around the expedition. His first stop was Lady Damia; he’d wanted to know why she was actually here, and she had been helpful.
He found her at one of the mess tables and began to approach—then halted.
“Stupid Damia! You just had to stop thinking! Stupid, stupid, stupid—”
The aforementioned [Lady] was crying, hitting her head with her fists, and banging it on the table. Wall Lord Ilvriss hesitated, then decided he’d check on her later.
You had to admit, though, she was highly entertaining. Real Erin energy, if not quite the same. A mix of Erin and Ryoka, he supposed. Erin positivity and Ryoka failure and self-recriminations.
 
——
 
Damia stopped beating herself up because she’d given herself a cut on the head from the wooden table. And people were staring. Then she turned, saw Wall Lord Ilvriss walking away, and realized he’d come by to talk to her and seen her.
She was glancing around for the nearest Dig Site to throw herself over the safety railings when it happened. The Wall Lord was walking off nonchalantly, pretending not to have seen a wailing [Lady], when the air—flickered. He half-pivoted, putting a hand on his sword hilt, and Damia’s heart lurched.
“Stealth Golem! Watch out!”
She leapt up, screaming. Damia whirled, but Varnie was gone and Sule was in the brothel! She saw the Rubirel Guard jerk. Damia began to run.
“Evacuate the area! It’s a Golem attack! Protect the Wall L—”
The shimmering air resolved as Ilvriss backed up, and then it materialized into…a little white Gnoll girl, semi-transparent and wearing a kilt, stepped out of the air. Her head whipped around, and she held up a notecard.
Hey, Ilvriss, your stupid anti-scrying rings make this harder than it should be. What’s up?
Her paw blurred as Damia stopped running and froze. Mrsha wrote rapidly and held up a card.
Whoa! Golem attack!? Where? I’ll tell Mom!
Everyone was eyeing Damia Reinhart. The [Lady] halted as Ilvriss stopped spinning around, realized her mistake, and put a hand over his mouth. She covered her face and tried to pretend she didn’t exist.
 
——
 
Damia and the Rubirel Guard had to clarify the situation. She did so, apologizing, beet red, about to cry.
Only one thing kept her anchored and from running to hide under her bed in her tent, and it was the little Gnoll girl standing and talking with Ilvriss. Well, writing in the air with a glowing paw.
Mrsha du Marquin.
The Mrsha du Marquin, the Doombearer who’d faced off against Chieftain Xherw, the one who’d exposed the entire conspiracy, the Gnoll who’d survived Raskghar and the Goblin Lord—
And who’d seen Damia making a complete toad of herself in public. Even so, the [Lady] slunk closer. She lingered around the Wall Lord and Gnoll girl’s position, pretending to be walking, stretching, watching them and trying to listen, but the Rubirel Guard were there. Were they…peeking at her?
 
——
 
Yo, Ilvriss. Forsooth and all that. I actually came by to tell you that Mom wants to know if you’ll be back tomorrow. Apparently, the Players of Celum released some new play, and the Players of Invrisil are putting it on. It’s ‘adult’, so I’m banned. Nanette’s gonna weasel her way in, but you down? How’s the shit digging? Also, who’s the weird [Lady]?
Mrsha the Casual was checking up on Ilvriss, and her writing was a bit less polished than it used to be. But Ilvriss just grinned at her in genuine good humor. He chuckled.
“Isn’t she funny? She’s Damia Reinhart, and she’s decided to help my expedition. I thought it was some kind of Reinhart ploy, but Welsca said she’s been nothing but a credit. I wish you were here, though. Life is quite dull—just complaints and problems.”
Mrsha’s head snapped around, and a [Lady] went walking by and admiring…cowpats or something.
Did you just say Damia Reinhart?
“Oh no, don’t tell me she’s actually a problem. I know she’s Cecille Reinhart’s daughter, but she’s seemed to be—”
You should talk to her. She might be…useful. Or dangerous. But we should talk to her. Why the heck is she here?
The fact that Mrsha knew Damia’s name sounded warning bells in Ilvriss’ head. He bent over.
“Are you sure it’s safe? What should I know? Is it…the [Palace]?”
For a second, Mrsha gave Ilvriss a weary gaze beyond her age, then she shrugged and wrote.
My guy, everything is the palace in the end. In this case? Yes, but nothing I know indicates she’s bad, necessarily. Hmm. Let me talk to her first. I’ll be ultra random and Erin-weird, and then you can be professional.
“Good plan.”
They nodded at each other, and Mrsha cleared her throat. She massaged her face, made a bleh sound in the back of her throat, then got on all fours. She scampered over to Damia, did a somersault, then sat up with the cutest face she had as Ilvriss watched.
It seemed like it hurt Mrsha’s soul to do that, if her momentary grimace was any indication. She wrote in the air with a glowing paw.
Hewwo! I’m Mrsha the Ultimately Dangerous! Salutations and give me all your gold! I need a cookie! Pwease and tanks! Are you a good person? Your Mom eats Creler eggs. Why are you here?
It was like…a parody of the actual Gnoll girl’s antics in the past. It was still probably effective to anyone Mrsha hadn’t met, but it was slightly undercut by Wall Lord Ilvriss.
He had begun wheezing as he read the glowing words. Now he was laughing so hard he couldn’t actually speak, silently dying as he held onto one of the Rubirel Guard’s shoulders. Mrsha glared at him and gave him the finger while Damia read the words.
Her eyes widened. Mrsha waited, her most cutesy expression straining her face, resolving to toss Calescent’s death-spices in Ilvriss’ next meal. But for all her wariness, even she couldn’t predict what Lady Damia did next. The [Lady] finished reading, then her eyes locked on Mrsha, and her face lit up like the sun.
“Miss Mrsha! I’m such a big—c-can I have an autograph? No, wait, this is the [World’s Eye Theatre], isn’t it? I’m seeing it in person! You can have all the gold you—I could write you a voucher if you want gold! I’ll send it to the Merchant’s Guild in Liscor! My mother is terrible, I apologize so much for her! I just want to help with the dig! May I shake your paw?”
She held out a trembling hand to Mrsha, and the Gnoll girl leaned back in the face of the seemingly-genuine delight on Damia’s face. The [Lady] tentatively touched Mrsha’s ghostly paw, dancing around her.
“And you’re using magic! Is anyone else there? I’m so sorry, I know this is inn business. I promise I’m not trying to do anything to the inn! I swear! It—oh my—”
Her eyes rolled up in her head. She put a hand to her head, and then she collapsed on the ground. Ilvriss stopped laughing and began to run over. Mrsha stared at Damia.
Huh. I did not expect that.
 
——
 
Damia came round in moments, and her embarrassment at passing out from sheer delight was only matched by having Mrsha and Ilvriss peering over her.
“I—I’m so sorry, I’m a mess, and I just—this is everything I’ve wanted.”
What, everything you’ve wanted? Meeting the White Rat of Liscor—no relation to the more successful Ice Squirrel—and the Lord of Purple himself?
“Hey.”
Ilvriss fake-nudged Mrsha, but they were watching her as Damia struggled to her feet.
