“You think that’s just going to work?”
“I very much doubt it will. I’ll keep monitoring the situation, and we’ll have you guarded—”
“You—it’s going to blow up in your face. You think I trust that? What—do you need a loyal Advance Miner that badly? D’you want me to go into whatever’s below the mines? What’s your angle?”
Suddenly, Georgie was on his feet again, suspicious, even afraid. Ilvriss rose.
“Georgie, I’m trying to help—”
“You? You? There’s no Wall Lord or Lady in the city that would help someone like me. What’s with the change? What’s—what do you want from me?”
Paranoia had replaced agony.
“I had an employee, Tessa, who I wanted to help, but I didn’t know how. I failed her, Georgie. I have been rather blind to Turnscales, but I have been told there is an issue. Now I’m seeing it. I’d like to help.”
“You’re mad. Or trying to show off. Are you trying to sleep with that Human?”
Ilvriss twitched.
“The woman I love is dead, Georgie. I mean it.”
“Yeah, well, so do I. I don’t trust this. I don’t trust you. You don’t know me—us. What’s with all of this? There’s no Turnscale in your company; what’s with making me the [Hero] you’re doing everything for?”
“There’s been one in my company at least as long as you’ve been working, Georgie. And while you weren’t ideal, I didn’t have a problem with your conduct aside from the, well, thieving.”
Ilvriss countered. He was worried Georgie was about to literally flee into the distance. The Drake seemed ready to bolt. And this time there might be no Lyonette to march on Tenbault.
“Why me? Just because someone told you to?”
Ilvriss’ face was shadowed as he stood there. Georgie was backing up slowly. The Wall Lord called out.
“I admit, that’s why I listened. I don’t have a good reason, Georgie. It’s simply that when I realized how much unfairness was coming your way, I disliked that. That’s all. I like to believe in fairness, even when it doesn’t truly exist, and you are being treated unfairly. I’d rather have garnished your wages for a month and written you up for trying to steal that pickaxe.”
It spun into the dirt at Ilvriss’ feet and cleaved so deep only the handle jutted out of the soil. Both Drakes stared at it, then Georgie pointed a finger at it.
“You can’t buy my trust. You don’t know any Turnscales. I don’t want to be your pet project.”
“I don’t want another pet project. I just want to offer a decent Advance Miner a job and not see him dead or miserable. Truly, Georgie, I’d like to not think or worry about it.”
“Well that’s all you’ll have to deal with if you keep me on. You don’t get it, Wall Lord, they won’t stop. Maybe you can deal with this camp. Maybe. When I get back to Salazsar, they’ll put me in the sanatorium. This will keep going on.”
“Then I’ll address it as it comes up. Or we can find you a different posting or send you off. But speak with me, Georgie. Please.”
“How do I trust you? You don’t know any Turnscales. You’re just pretending—”
The two were getting angry. Ilvriss at Georgie for all he was trying to be reasonable, and the Advance Miner’s fists were balled up. Before one of them threw a punch, someone rose from the grass.
Like a shadow. Like an [Assassin].
Or just like Xesci could do when she wanted to be stealthy. Ilvriss and Georgie recoiled. Well, the Advance Miner threw a punch, and Xesci caught it, then threw him over her shoulder. He landed, and she spoke.
“Yes, he does. Me.”
Georgie lay, gasping up at Xesci like a fish. The [Courtesan of Change]’s face shifted to that of a male Drake. A copy of Ilvriss stared down at Georgie, then she shifted again. Her features morphed like putty, and Ilvriss’ scales chilled.
She never showed—
Then a slightly overweight Human man pulled Georgie up. He recoiled. Xesci changed back to the ordinary Drake woman, face resigned.
“It scares people. But I am that, if anyone is. I think I was a Drake woman, once. Now I’m everything. I was listening because I could tell Georgie was about to run for it.”
She turned to Ilvriss. He just stared at her. Then Georgie burst out.
“You—don’t count! I don’t know what you are, but you’re not me. You’re too high-level. You could be anything. Anyone. Why don’t you just…leave?”
His voice broke, and he stared at Xesci, fists balled up, envy in his tone. The [Courtesan]’s smile was gentle and a bit sad.
“I could be that, Georgie, and I know so many people who want to be me, like you. The difference is, you want to be someone else. Just one person. Who you are now doesn’t fit, and it itches and hurts. I? I fit no body. I will never fit again.”
She grew in height, adding two feet, and became a Minotauress. Shrank until she was a Lizardgirl. Twisted around into a Lamia—both men backed away, and Xesci’s voice was a whisper.
“I am only comfortable in change. That is what it means to be eaten by your class. I am a new being. Unique, even if there are those like me. That is what it means to be Level 50. If I wore a face and tried to adopt one of my many guises, there would come a day when I would tear my flesh apart and flee, because it would grate on me until I drove myself mad. Believe me. I’ve tried.”
The [Courtesan of Change] confessed it all simply, then became her ordinary self again.
“But we’re not talking about me. Just you and Ilvriss, Georgie. I try to tell no secrets. But I like gossiping, and you are wrong. Wall Lord, you asked me not to tell you anything that would lower your opinion of the Tidebreaker. Yesterday, I could not tell you this. Today, I will, because I think he would have wanted me to. He is dead and the knowledge out there, so I cannot hurt him. You did know a Turnscale you held in high regard. He just never told you.”
It was Ilvriss’ turn to recoil. To stand there in shock, just like Georgie.
“Zel?”
“The Tidebreaker was…?”
“Oh, he just liked men. Not like Georgie. He and Sserys were both Turnscales. And he was actually quite private—he avoided Turnscale bars. I think he knew how dangerous association was with him, but it left him quite miserable. I met him while soliciting important clients, but he refused to hire me, even when I explained my abilities. I think I unnerved him.”
Xesci kept talking when Ilvriss would have really preferred to sit down or have a long walk. But then she met his eyes.
“It’s not just Zel. There are others. I am not a perfect judge, but I am very good, Wall Lord, and you hired me to find out who was who. It has never colored your judgement before. So now you know. Does it change who Zel Shivertail was?”
Ilvriss saw the Drake getting in Magnolia Reinhart’s carriage, alone. A huge back, heading north to fight the Goblin Lord when no one else would. That disappointed expression he favored Ilvriss with so much.
Tired, alone—the Wall Lord whispered.
“Yes, it does.”
Georgie and Xesci gazed at Ilvriss, and the [Courtesan] searched around for a rock to brain Ilvriss with. The Wall Lord spoke.
“I wish I’d been able to go back in time and help him. I didn’t even know his struggles. We just stood in his shadow until he was gone, and now the water’s rushed in and I’m drowning. Turnscale? We let our hero die just for that?”
He sank to his knees, then. Just fell down, and some of the Rubirel Guard standing in the distance saw and rushed over. Georgie and Xesci went to help Ilvriss up. But all he said was.
“Damn Drakes. Damn us. We’re our own worst enemies sometimes.”
Georgie saw Xesci smile. He looked around, found the stub of a cigar, and put it in his mouth, grass stains or not. He stood there awkwardly as the Drake got up.
“I still think you’re taking too much of a risk on me.”
“Well, consider it the luck of the draw.”
For being a Turnscale? It was the first good turn the word had ever given him. Georgie laughed at that. Then he shrugged.
“Show me, then. I want this. If it’s worth the effort.”
“It’s not, for you. You’re not the best Advance Miner, Georgie.”
Ilvriss assured the Drake, and Georgie glared because he disagreed with that. But Ilvriss just looked past him at Xesci.
“Here’s a selfish way to put it. If there were another Zel Shivertail out there? This is so we don’t lose him. That’s a purely enterprise-driven reason. Good enough? Selfish enough?”
Xesci chuckled.
“There is another Zel. And more will always be rising.”
Both Georgie and Ilvriss gazed at her, and then the Wall Lord brushed at his suit.
“Then I have work to do.”
 
——
 
Wall Lord Dramm was uncomfortable. He felt like he’d been ill-at-ease for days. Ever since he’d found out one of them was in the camp.
Turnscales.
Oh, sure, he was glad the undead were being wiped out. He’d heard about some kind of artifacts being passed around in camp and been trying to get anyone to tell him about them, but he was a junior Wall Lord, even if he was noble, and it was frustrating.
He’d been snapping at his juniors to figure it out, but mostly—it was that Turnscale. Georgie.
Someone had to do something! Why wasn’t Ilvriss—? Was it because Georgie knew something about the artifacts? And they were putting Lacambt on trial for it! They had to know…
When he was summoned to Ilvriss’ tent, Dramm felt his stomach lurch, but he was determined. He’d talk to Ilvriss, Drake to Drake, and sort this out. His father was Brilm, and if Ilvriss were crazy, Brilm would…
It was to Dramm’s surprise and mild outrage when he found himself part of a gathering of Drakes and Gnolls, even. [Foremen] and administrators. A lot of command staff!
“Wall Lord Dramm reporting, sir!”
“Dramm, come in. I think you’re the Drake to speak to. We’re going to have a conversation, Dramm. About Lacambt and Miner Georgie. Have a seat.”
Everyone else was standing. They appeared—uncomfortable. As uncomfortable as Dramm, who spotted some of his subordinates here. Not all. He hesitated.
“Is this a formal hearing, sir?”
“No, Dramm, just a conversation.”
So what’s with all the underlings? Dramm sat.
“Perhaps we should have this conversation in private, sir? It’s a delicate matter.”
Ilvriss looked tired. He poured a cup of disappointing water. Dramm wanted a drink, but Ilvriss didn’t, and the Wall Lord seemed to know it.
“Usually, I’d have conversations like this at a bar, but there aren’t any good ones in Thirthoof and I don’t drink anymore, Dramm. It’s cultural. Funny, I didn’t realize it was. I thought everyone was used to having conversations at a bar, but apparently that’s not where you take work.”
“Really, sir?”
“Humans don’t do it as much. Us? It’s an entire routine. You’d offer to pay for my drinks, and I’d insist because I’m the superior, and then you’d pour us a drink and select my favorite one from the menu.”
That…was how it worked. Dramm felt uncomfortable with Ilvriss laying it out like that. He couldn’t say why. He glanced and caught the eyes of Foreman Rolx, then shifted.
“Well, with respect, sir, sometimes it’s important to be private. If I could speak to you about Lacambt, sir? It’s a terrible incident, violence in camp.”
“It is. Attempted murder. By rights, I should have him shipped back to Salazsar for forced conscription labor or just the local jail for imprisonment for life. Or simply executed. This can be considered a military operation, given Advance Miner Georgie’s efforts against serious monsters.”
Dramm’s blood ran cold.
“Sir, that’s—if I may explain the situation—”
Ilvriss sipped from the shot glass and grimaced—he didn’t have better cups, so he kept pouring and drinking.
“I know I’m not giving you a chance, Dramm. Once we’d had a few drinks and chatted about your father or something light, you’d then have the opportunity to tell me, privately, why Lacambt should be released with a light slap on the tail, if anything. Because he was trying to murder Georgie, whom you believe to be a Turnscale, and he did it on your authority.”
The tent had not exactly been noisy, but people had been coughing, shifting, as confused as Dramm. Suddenly it went silent, and Dramm felt his scales crawling.
“S-sir?”
“It’s not an accusation, Wall Lord Dramm.”
“Oh, phew. I—”
“I know it was you.”
Ilvriss filled the cup again, and Dramm’s stomach was in freefall. The Wall Lord forestalled Dramm’s excuses.
“I don’t have proof, but I’m a Drake of Salazsar. I know how it works. Someone made the suggestion, and you approved it. I very much doubt Lacambt disagreed or he’d have broken a leg or found an excuse. Even put a word in Welsca’s ear so it got to me. We have ways.”
Lacambt had volunteered. Dramm’s mouth was dry, but he forced words out.
“Well, sir, if you understand that, then you understand my position.”
Ilvriss stood slowly.
“Wall Lord Dramm. You had one of your people try to murder one of our [Miners] in his sleep.”
“Yes…sir. A Turnscale.”
Was he being arrested? Was Ilvriss insane? But Dramm straightened his spine because he had witnesses, and they could testify—Ilvriss glanced around.
“I can see the word provokes a lot of reactions. Tell me, what makes Georgie a Turnscale?”
“The fact that she’s—you know, Wall Lord!”
“No, I don’t. Explain it.”
“She’s a woman pretending to be a man!”
Dramm exploded, and his scales writhed. He stood up, slamming his claws on the desk.
“It’s not right! Someone should have put her in the sanatorium or—and she’s walking around and—what’s wrong with you, Wall Lord Ilvriss? Are you mad? My father says you might have hit your head fighting Zel Shivertail! First you live in Liscor, now this? Any decent Drake would do what I did!”
Ilvriss saw Dramm lean over the desk and spoke.
“Sit down, Wall Lord Dramm.”
“I prefer to—”
“Sit.”
The aura knocked Dramm down hard, and he gasped. His father couldn’t use his aura to do more than warm up a bit. But Ilvriss just spoke.
“Dramm, I know your father sent you to spy on me.”
“I—sir?”
Suddenly, Dramm was worried again, and he felt his anger waver. Ilvriss snorted as he poured more water into the cup.
“Brilm’s not exactly subtle. He’s terrible at politics but excellent at fads. You think you’re the only spy? Calistoca, Eschowar—everyone’s got a spy. I’ll wager a decent number of employees in this tent are being hired to report.”
A few shifts of posture, guilty faces. Ilvriss glanced around and shrugged.
“If it’s not confidential, I understand. We are Drakes. Did you ever figure out what I was digging for, Dramm?”
“Not in so many words, sir.”
