Easy. What a relief. He actually grinned, a cocksure smile of someone who was good at his job as the room turned to him. Appraising, nodding, even a hint of respect from Ilvriss.
Lady Damia smiled sweetly at Georgie. Then she grabbed his tail and gave it a squeeze near the base.
He nearly leapt on her before Shellc and Ilvriss dragged him back.
 
——
 
Damia Reinhart held grudges. And she had the counterpoint to Ilvriss’ reasonable conversation about respect and behavior.
If you do it to me, I’ll do it to you. Georgie was furious—but he simmered down once Damia apologized and Ilvriss called in a mediator.
Xesci was always highly amused whenever she was called in to help. She turned to Lady Damia, then Georgie, then to Ilvriss.
“You want me to deal with sexual harassment?”
“I know that’s ironic—”
“No, no, I’m great at it. Do you have any more offending [Miners]? I have a very simple way to deal with it.”
“What is it?”
Georgie was eying Xesci, who was not in her more lascivious forms, with some curiosity. So was Damia. Xesci smirked.
“Your speech on behavior is nice, Ilvriss. I don’t have time for it, so if one of my [Bouncers] thinks he can treat a girl like that—or vice versa—I just remind them it can go all the way around. Lady Damia had the right idea. I’ll just start groping whoever’s doing it.”
“…That seems like it would have the opposite effect on a number of young men, Xesci.”
She gave Ilvriss an amused gaze.
“Would it? If it’s what you’re imagining and I’m being nice and caressing them, it would, Ilvriss. Do you think that’s how it feels to the opposite sex? A slap on the rear when you’re not expecting it isn’t fun. Neither is being fondled. Or being treated like you’re a toy. If I did that to you in front of an entire group and, say, called you a cute little thing while putting a claw on your butthole, what would you do?”
Ilvriss’ face said he regretted asking Xesci instantly. But Georgie jerked back.
“Punch your face in? They’ll kill you.”
“Not if I have leverage. No one’s strong enough when there are six people on you. Well, Named-rankers, but even they find it hard in the right joint-lock. Want me to demonstrate? If one of them harasses my girls, I’ll have them stripped and walked naked back to their tents. And believe me, there will be comments.”
Xesci could be vicious, and Ilvriss winced to imagine how much she could comment on your personal appearance. She turned to Georgie.
“I’m sure you don’t want me to get handsy with you, Advance Miner? Or Lady Damia?”
The look in Georgie’s eyes went murderous in a moment, and Xesci lifted her claws.
“There we go. Don’t lash out at me. Also, you’re copying the wrong thing. You think that’s how most Drake men should act. It’s just the loudest ones.”
Anger turned to uncertainty, then terror. Georgie backed up as Xesci smiled at him, and she could see straight through him. Straight through everyone. She turned to Damia, then, and the [Lady] lost her eager, inquisitive smile.
“I’m delighted you’re being useful and having fun, Lady Damia. Just remember—you haven’t reached the inn yet. There’s always time to mess it up, just like you always have.”
She stepped back, then, and gave Ilvriss a thumbs up.
“You see? So much faster than your speech. Want me to visit your mines?”
He hesitated and eyed the two mildly-traumatized employees.
“Can you…be a bit less intense, Xesci?”
She sighed.
“I could try.”
 
——
 
Okay…one issue of Georgie’s behavior had been stomped flat. He was so subdued that besides asking who Xesci was, he seemed rather beaten down.
Ilvriss was reminded that the fellow had survived two near-death experiences. He tried to think of the future. And be encouraging. That was what he was doing as Major Shellc began his Operation Cave-In.
Building morale. It was a stupid phrase, but that was what he was trying. How good he was at it, Ilvriss never knew. He thought it had some effect, but…
“How is Team Oxynite doing? I know morale’s been low recently, but between the reinforcements and a certain [Lady], I understand things are better. Still…how much should I be putting in as a bonus?”
It was a bad joke, but the Drake and Gnoll [Miners] laughed awkwardly as they stood around. Ilvriss’ scales were itching. They were digging towards the undead, but this group was taking a break, and there were [Soldiers] all about. Rolx’s team was digging another tunnel—poorly. Georgie was lending a claw, and they were still half of what Oxynite was doing.
[Foreman] Rolx was eying Georgie, but he didn’t comment on the oddities, like Damia or—well, it was all oddity. He just listened as one of the Drakes, a fellow with a scar on his cheek from a falling stalactite, laughed.
“We’ll take a big one, Wall Lord! This has been one of the most sh—er, interesting jobs so far.”
“You’re allowed to say shit, Miner Filss. We are in the Cowpat Plains. We’re walking on it to work.”
More laughter, but Ilvriss didn’t react to it. He didn’t need to be humored. He just stood there, drinking from a water flask as they did likewise. No free mugs of beer or officials going around shaking hands. And the [Miners] get a bit less raucous as they realized he was just…
“Any major complaints? I know you’re all on combat pay, and I assure you, every measure has been taken to avoid miner-deaths. But we are working around multiple high-tier undead. They have to die. If we pack up and haul off, these lands will be hit by a scourge in a decade’s time like an Adult Creler’s nest.”
“Not like the Humans don’t deserve it, Wall Lord. They come riding in, break our skulls, and ride off, and we have to clean up the shit living in their tunnels?”
Another silence to see what the Wall Lord said, but Ilvriss nodded at the Gnoll.
“Fair enough, Miner…?”
“Rulf.”
“Thank you, Miner Rulf, I agree with a lot of that. However, it’s their lands—and ours. These undead? They’re all Drakes. Well, I heard a few Gnolls were among them, but it’s Drakes. Even if most have mutated. It’s…our problem.”
Now they were all staring at him, and someone coughed.
“As in—we were the ones mining down here? What’re we, uh, what’re we digging up, Wall Lord? There’s rumors it’s—we just heard it was some big dig.”
Ilvriss took another sip of water, thoughtful.
“Whatever I can tell you would be a problem, Miner Arassa. You know we’ve got corporate spies—with how many there are, I think we might have more than [Miners]. Which I apologize about, but believe me, when bonuses are delivered, I am paying attention to who’s actually digging.”
He gestured with his free claw, ever-so-slightly, to Rolx’s team to the side, and the [Miners] stirred. Oh, was that how…? Ilvriss went on, glancing around.
“If you have safety issues, or I can make this more tolerable, that’s my concern right now. Are you missing anything? The water here’s…brackish.”
He grimaced at the water flask. Rolx hurried forward to assure Ilvriss he could get the Wall Lord something better, but Ilvriss just took another swig.
“No, we had it purity-tested. So it’s potable. But maybe we enchant this with a flavor? We can do that—I actually heard one of the Horns of Hammerad had a bunch of water flasks that did the same thing. Fascinating stuff. There’s an Enchanter Hedault coming by for a consultation in a bit. Say I do that. What flavor?”
“Mint?”
“Not mint—something like a juice?”
“You want to drink that nonstop? Milk?”
“I’m going to be sick, Wall Lord, anything but mint or milk—”
He grinned as he took suggestions, then asked about any other amenities.
“At least we’ve got damn bidets. Nice toilets, Wall Lord. You know, we had Humans asking about them?”
The Drake Wall Lord was amused as Georgie came out for a break, chewing on his cigar, and listened.
“Keep this secret, but I heard the Lischelle family was asking about our [Plumber] installing his toilets in their houses.”
“Hah! And they can squat over a hole while we’ve got real plumbing, eh, Wall Lord?”
“No, I gave Master Oidhol the go-ahead. We’re trying to be friendly here.”
The [Miners] were comfortable enough to grouse, now, and Ilvriss held up his claws.
“Look, I’m not happy about the raids either. I’m paying for all these damn cattle, and that Marvus punched me so hard I swear I felt like I was fourteen again the other day. But we can’t let this go to blood. There’s a lot more of them than us.”
Plus, he’d rotated squads like Rolx’s so they ended up being off-duty when the [Ranchers] came by in the evenings, leaving the real [Miners] to rest up. The Humans didn’t get nearly as far as they’d like, despite all their Skills and levels. The [Miners] continued to grouse.
“D’you think you can do anything about the heat, Wall Lord? It’s getting hot down here.”
“Cooling spells? Don’t you have any?”
“Sure—it’s a bubble, but we’re spread out.”
“Wind spells, then. I’ll put in an order and see if Master Hedault can do some more enchanting. Now, I’ve got to keep moving—I’ll be here to oversee Operation Cave-In for a bit, but I have to keep going. We’re doing important work here.”
The [Miners] nodded, and one of them offered a hand to shake after tugging a glove off his paws.
“Just as you say, Wall Lord. It’s good pay, and the Gemscale Company does right by us. Whatever we’re digging up—it’ll be good for Salazsar, right?”
“It’ll be good for everyone, I hope, Miner Rulf.”
Ilvriss met the Gnoll’s eyes, and the Gnoll in his late thirties smiled. He wasn’t a copy of Georgie; he had two children, and he was a company man who’d signed up for a lot more pay. Ilvriss’ stomach tightened; Rulf might be hurt in the operation or times to come.
He was doing it for the gold. It was like Osthia’s new group. Men and women coming all this way, enduring privation, lack of bidets, angry Humans, undead, all for just gold.
Because they weren’t him. Ilvriss met his eyes.
“Trust me on that.”
Ilvriss thought they appreciated the visit and break if nothing else, but he felt that incongruity. Just for a moment.
The Wall Lord…thought about that.
 
——
 
Advance Miner Georgie and Ilvriss watched Operation Cave-In going down. Both were ready for action, and Georgie had actually done some of the digging to get to the baby Dorn Pillar. However, as luck had it, he was resting when the breach was made and the [Soldiers] went in.
Rubirel Guard and the regular soldiers that Ilvriss had taken with him to the north. Shellc knew his business; he screened the undead with heavily-armored Drakes and Gnolls and let lower-leveled [Soldiers] gain experience in supporting roles.
The Major even went down himself as Ilvriss listened to the reports.
“It’s running, it’s running—straight up Tunnel Beta! [Geomancers], target from the surface for long-range precision quakes—[Miners], activate your [Controlled Collapse] Skills and prepare to breach!”
The [Geomancers] shifted the earth, trying to trigger a controlled collapse of the tunnels. One in an adjoining tunnel actually created a [Stone Wall] spell and pressed it into the earth, forcing the dirt around it to move, and then—
“Collapse! Collapse in Tunnel Beta! It’s not buried! It’s trapped against one wall! It’s screaming, Major—”
“Rubirel Guard, advance alone. All squads, fall back and fortify your zones and prepare for another counter! I’m heading in.”
Major Shellc strode out of the command room, and Ilvriss waited, ready to lead a second squad down. Captain Osthia was in the wings—
Then they heard a report. Major Shellc’s voice.
“Dorn Pillar down. This is for the record—you go through the damn holes in its body, just like the Monster Bestiary says. Eugh, there are Children everywhere.”
“Major Shellc, say again?”
“Sorry, the monster, not actual children, Wall Lord. Always wondered where the buggers came from. The unborn ones do not look cute.”
And that was it. Ilvriss didn’t believe it was that simple, and neither did Georgie. As reports came in of other undead moving towards the soldiers—then away at speed—they realized Shellc had done it. When he hauled the ‘corpse’ of the Dorn Pillar up and they saw the white flesh oozing out the holes in its body, like a mutilated piece of bone with holes drilled in it leaking flesh like a slug—Ilvriss gagged.
“Major, you took that out?”
A huge cut had split some of the holes open, and by the scorch marks, the Rubirel Guard had thrust their weapons through the gap and exploded the Dorn Pillar from the inside out. The [Major] seemed slightly hurt; he was rubbing at his earholes.
“Sorry, my ears are still ringing from it screaming. I’ve seen worse in Rhir. Remind me to tell you about an ever-splitting monster some time…there are more undead down there. We just took out a leader. Nice work on the digging. Lady Damia has my compliments.”
And what did you say next? Ilvriss thought about it.
“Two days paid leave to every [Miner] and [Soldier] who participated. Let’s send to Thirthoof for some good food. Keep at it, Major Shellc.”
“Absolutely, Wall Lord.”
Ilvriss walked away, smiling, and shook claws with people as the cheering started and the dead Dorn Pillar was paraded around for the other teams. We did it.
He caught Damia celebrating with the [Miners] and saw Georgie standing there, eying the other undead being brought up for dissection or disposal.
“How was that, Advance Miner? Anything we’ve done wrong?”
“You’re asking me? It looked tidy. Never had Rubirel Guard for escort on anything but Crelers, Wall Lord. Yeah. It’s a good company you’ve got there.”
What else do you want from me? Ilvriss frowned. He appreciated the honesty since he doubted Georgie lied well, or cared to about matters like this. But the [Miner] was just…kicking dried cow pats around.
“You did solid work today. Do you think you’d want to stay on? Assuming we clear the issues around you, of course.”
Georgie’s head snapped up. Ilvriss consulted his [Mental Notes].
“You’re working pro tem for this expedition, but anyone who works well we could keep on with the Gemscale company. Given the counterlevelling going on here, I think that’ll be a lot of good people. How about it?”
“If you clear my issues—hah!”
The Drake managed a shaky laugh. He shook his head, and Ilvriss pressed him.
“Let’s assume we did. How about it?”
Georgie’s face twisted up, then he spat the next words out.
