“As for this Assassin’s Guild, I don’t know Calidus Reinhart. Honest, is he?”
“He’s a wastrel, a pervert, and a gambling drunk, Lady Terland.”
She snorted.
“Good. If he was pretending to be honest, I’d not trust him. Cooperate with Lord Etril Wellfar or the Veltras family and put Hunter-Killers on the Assassin’s Guild. Don’t lose them. If any of our family are still with this Circle of Thorns, tell them to knock it off or I’ll strip them of their Golems.”
Awake. She was awake and exasperated. The family just jumped and stared at her, as if they’d forgotten…
No, it had been over ten years. They had forgotten what she was like before this, and so had she. Just like the Reinharts, Ulva had come back to life.
But she was still damn grumpy.
I am going to feed that Drake his own tail. As for Emperor Godart, he is less objectionable, annoyingly. He took charge when everyone else was fleeing or incompetent. The Summer Solstice…but there is tolerating him and then there is allowing him to do what all empires do. I will remind him of his place if needs must.
Small wonder Xitegen had gone south if he’d taken notice. No one else had. Ulva snapped.
“Send a [Message] ahead once we’re within range of Invrisil. We’ll give that Drake a chance to explain himself. I want to inspect this magic door. Is the inn around there?”
“Possibly, Lady Ulva, but it might be north or south of there—”
“It connects to Pallass and Invrisil. Around Liscor sounds right.”
Ulva raised her brows. That was basic geography. But the blank looks from her family—a voice interrupted her.
“La-dy Ter-land. Your fa-mi-ly is under the effects of an ob-fu-sca-tion Skill. Widespread…effect.”
Timekeeper’s voice had a staccato quality, and it sometimes slowed down, a sign of his age. Ulva got annoyed instantly.
“[Awaken, Hearts of Stone]. Timekeeper, your heart. Beat. Give me a walker’s pace.”
Tic-whirr.
Tic-tic-tic-whirr.
Tic-tic-tic-whirr.
She saw his dull, bronze eyes with their faded green cores light and her family sat back. Awed. Ulva just smiled.
“Now, speak.”
“As thou wilt it, Lady Ulva Terland, so awaken we shall. This Golem estimates a widespread Skill effect at Level 50 intensity or higher. Worldwide.”
“Really?”
“The detection-matrices have expired, but in company, Golem X-1ED detects consistent readings with past effects.”
“Exled? We brought that one out of storage? That Golem’s only good for pervert children spying through walls. Who okayed that?”
Ulva frowned until Timekeeper spoke.
“This Golem was direct-ed to assemble a force capable of countering Drake supremacy and covering contingencies at ‘jogging pace heartbeat’.”
“Hmpf. The wisdom of Golems. Thoughts?”
“Ma-ny, Lady Terland. It is good to think. We grieve your sister’s death.”
One of the [Ladies], Eldertuin’s wife, Alorelle, was choking. She must not have been in the Mansion of Stone around Petria and Ulva as a girl. She was young…and their inherited Skill was not oft-used. It taxed Golem Hearts, obviously. But it had effects no Golem-lover could but dream of. Ulva was too experienced to be in awe; she snapped back.
“Don’t lie to me. You don’t have the ability to mourn with Petria dead. Timekeeper…did we salvage her?”
“There was no possibility of such.”
“Well. I’m sorry.”
“Thank-you, Lady Ulva. Another thought. Are we to deploy for combat?”
“That depends on the Drake. I wish to visit the inn as well, and there are—things I want to check out. That Drake who took Petria’s face will answer to me. Keep an eye out and tell me if there are shenanigans afoot.”
Shenanigans. Petria would have laughed at the word, but Timekeeper just nodded.
“It shall be done, Lady Ulva. Shall the other Golems’ hearts beat? It would im-prove efficacy.”
“…Give me a single pulse per minute. Beat yours harder if you must, but I don’t intend to lose Golems.”
“As thou will, Lady Ulva. Fear not. I was made for your Skill.”
Then he remained still, and she sensed the other Golems stirring. Ulva turned back, and Alorelle burst out.
“Great Aunt UIva, you can bring the Golems to life? I heard—”
“Silence.”
“But I have—”
“I am not entertaining questions. Get me something to eat. Ask your seniors what it means.”
“But Aunt—”
“Eject her from the carriage.”
There was a scream, then protests, frantic orders—Timekeeper got up, lifted Alorelle up gently, and carried her out onto the trailer compartment. Which had no seatbelts or anywhere to sit, just the wind rushing past as they moved at considerable speed—
Ulva waited until the door closed and the screaming stopped. Alorelle wouldn’t die. Spoiled, the lot.
She took a pair of chopsticks and salivated at some Drathian sushi. Then wrinkled her nose.
“Why is this in a bowl and arranged so? It’s not rolled.”
“It’s a new invention from Liscor, Lady Terland. A ‘Poke bowl?’.”
“Hmph. Damned children from another world or whatever nonsense Xitegen keeps screaming about. Tasty. I like the concept.”
She had taste again and more of a lust for life. All her old fear…Ulva kept eating in good humor until the carriage slowed slightly. Then she heard shouting and sighed.
“That brat.”
Speak of the Demons. Lord Xitegen Terland himself had come north to intercept his Aunt. And by the looks of it, run the entire damn way. He pulled himself into the carriage, sweating like a pig, and she snapped.
“Out!”
“Come now, Great Aunt. Primera, cleaning routine. I came all this way—are you eating those weird bowls of su-shi? I’m sick of seafood. There’s too much of it in Liscor. I’ll have two.”
Primera had swung herself into the carriage. The huge Golem sat and began speaking.
“At once, Lord Xitegen. [Cleanse]. [Cleanse].”
That was…new. Not in Primera’s construction reports. Ulva eyed Xitegen.
“What is that? New Skill?”
“Reconstruction and upgrading Golems, Great Aunt.”
Her mood went back to cheerful, and she let him stay. She’d been about to have Timekeeper eject him just to teach the boy manners.
“Hah! You are a fit heir for the House of Terland. We used to let only someone with the ability to upgrade or maintain our Golems make family head. Stupid rule.”
“Logical, Great Aunt, in its way. Do we still love logic in the family or is it all for fits of rage?”
He settled back, took a spoon, and began devouring his bowl. Ulva clacked her chopsticks at him. When he raised his brows, she spoke.
“Primera, toss the spoon out a window.”
“Lady Ulva, I am Lord Xitegen’s—”
“[Awaken, Primera]. Toss the damn spoon.”
Primera froze—and then her heart began to pulse. She snatched the spoon from Xitegen’s hand, tossed it out the window, and sat back. Staring at him. At Timekeeper, who nodded to her. And Xitegen himself went still.
He’d been but a boy when the Goblin King rampaged. Eleven? Ulva didn’t remember. That had aged him, but she knew he didn’t remember this Skill. But he was better than Alorelle. He fumbled the chopsticks, cursed, then spoke.
“I haven’t heard you use that Skill in a decade, Great Aunt. May I ask about it?”
“Since you’re to inherit, go ahead. You can play around with it once I’m dead.”
His eyes flickered.
“Ah. It only passes to each new head?”
“In the case of Petria and I, both. It’s not as fun as it looks.”
“…So less fun than the most amazing Skill in existence half the family would murder for, Great Aunt?”
She snorted as she reached out.
“Water.”
It was handed to her, and she drank, grumbling as the carriage bounced and she got water on her dress. Primera reached out to wipe it off, and Ulva slapped her hand down.
“Don’t attend me.”
The Golem recoiled, and Xitegen stared at her. Ulva smiled, not entirely nicely.
“See how she moves? She’s thinking. It can turn even low-grade Autonomous Golems into Sentient-class, though it wears out Golem Hearts proportionally to how well they were made. Low-grade will be destroyed in a single battle at full roar. Higher-grade Sentient-class or Sentient-capable like Timekeeper here turn fully Cognizant.”
“Lord Xitegen. Heir. Greet-ings.”
Timekeeper spoke, and Xitegen nodded to him.
“So we refrain from the Skill with greatest effort because of the damage to our Golems, Great Aunt?”
“Double hah!”
Double hah? Xitegen exchanged a glance with Primera, then stopped, delighting in how she was expressing awareness. Thinking. And Ulva snorted.
“I can see you thinking you’ll make Primera and Seconda awaken nonstop. You won’t. Primera, state your feelings. Any you’d like.”
The Golem woman, porcelain made to be a statue, albeit with more functional limbs than most, hesitated. Then she blurted out, too fast—
“I do not believe my recreational functionalities are best employed with intercourse, Lady Ulva.”
The [Lady] smiled once as Xitegen went still. He dropped his chopsticks, and she spoke.
“Now that she can think, she can tell you how she feels. Don’t think of it as rape. The family doesn’t like to; she couldn’t think before this.”
“Great Aunt, are you trying to hurt me more or…?”
“I’m teaching you the lesson the family learns, boy. I keep Timekeeper around because he’s one of the smartest. And he likes me for whatever that means. They don’t have feelings, but logic which can mimic emotions and everything else.”
Primera avoided Xitegen’s gaze. Ulva amended her statement.
“Well, she might if you upgraded her. You’ll find which ones work best with you. You think this is bad? Some Golems we have can be awoken. The first and only thing they do is beg for freedom. Timekeeper does not, hence why we work together. And that’s a choice, isn’t it, Timekeeper?”
“They are in-correct in their desires, Lady Ulva.”
That was all the Golem said, and Ulva watched Xitegen and his Golems. Some of the color returned to Xitegen’s face.
“I see. May I have a conversation with Primera?”
“Later. This is what it is to be head of House Terland, boy. You wonder why Nouzcrat didn’t jump at it? Golems are meant to serve, and any notion to the contrary will be addressed when you ask some what they want to do. Or just read a history book. Now, tell me about Liscor.”
Xitegen truly was a [Warrior] by blood; despite her hitting him with all these shocks, he was back to civil conversation in minutes. Though he stopped eating, and he moved away from Primera.
“If you’re going to make war—”
“Not on the inn. But I remember Drakes, and that’s Wall Lord Zail’s son. He won’t be assassinated.”
“I heard you shot him in the testicles…?”
“He stopped my heart. We will have a meeting, and he’ll have a chance.”
Xitegen relaxed slightly. He nodded.
“The south’s gone a bit wild, Aunt. Why so many Golems?”
“In case the meeting doesn’t go well. I’ll leave a few with you. I hoped the Bloodfeast Raiders would pop up, or that Kraken Eater tribe. I have a mind to kill something.”
“Great Aunt, the inn—”
“Shut up. I can read reports. Your job is to tell me what’s real and what’s not.”
Xitegen sat back, blinking, and then spoke.
“Well, the [Innkeeper] can’t breathe blood, and she’s less random and silly than you might have been told. But far from infallible. They don’t know Golems, Great Aunt. We’re an unknown power to them.”
“You don’t know Golems, brat. Good enough. Now, tell me about the Winter Solstice.”
She listened. Timekeeper listened. Ulva trusted his opinion, for a given value of it. Later, she’d tell him to spin up his heart and listen to his thoughts. And she saw Xitegen glancing at Primera.
Will you continue despite the truth, or change? She felt slightly bad for him. He hadn’t known, and he’d been raised a Terland. But she needed a replacement. She’d died once, and she was not confident she would endure long in this changing era. First, though, before she set her house to rights and took what was needed so Terland might endure—
First, she had to know what her sister had meant. The Wall Lord was just a bonus. But as Xitegen spoke, Ulva sensed how much the south had changed. By the time she got to Invrisil, Ulva feared it might have created something new entirely.
 
——
 
When Wall Lord Ilvriss reported into The Wandering Inn, it was the week of elections.
He didn’t really care, but it explained the holdup and hubbub in the city. They were eating out at a restaurant called Crab’s Claw. It was very good.
A Centaur wearing a fake mustache and [Chef] with a non-fake eyepatch were eating at a far table, sniping the menu. Ilvriss was just enjoying good food.
“You needn’t insist we go out, I feel bad for Chef Calescent, Lyonette.”
“Nonsense, you’re the only person who doesn’t scarf his food, Ilvriss. I have to have a lunch partner!”
Lyonette pointedly glanced at Nanette, who was licking her plate with Mrsha. Ushar went to scold both girls.
“Ladies do not lick their plates clean.”
“They do if the [Chef] is a Gnoll. Don’t be racist, Ushar.”
Yeah! We’re over-quota for the week!
Ilvriss snorted. He had been telling them about his days, much to their interest. Actually, everyone had had a bit of a stir.
“I’m only sorry Lady Damia couldn’t visit, but she’s a bit of a handful. Excitable. Plus, she wants to work with Miner Georgie, and someone has to. But Captain Asrira seems…better.”
He hesitated when he said that. Everyone’s head turned. Lyonette coughed.
“Is she, ah, the Drake who was buying drugs from Palt with a gang of women?”
“…It’s morale-building. I think she’s cut loose a bit.”
Captain Osthia did indeed seem a bit more casual than the upright, uptight Drake he remembered. She was using her wings like an umbrella. By contrast, her ‘squad’ of Sisters seemed a bit more professional. A middle ground between the two wasn’t bad. Ilvriss waved at her, and she gave him a thumbs up and walked over. All the Sisters were immediately drenched and cursed her.
“No interest in joining us, Captain?”
“No, Wall Lord. With respect, the conversation’s above our pay grade, and I have to keep an eye on that lot. They have it in their heads to tangle with the Brothers. Some kind of gang rivalry. Princess.”
She nodded at Lyonette, who nodded back. Osthia strode back over and kicked one of the Sisters in the ass, sending her into a gutter. Laughter, swearing—Ilvriss spoke.
“She seems happier.”
“Despite being in a squad that’s first into combat?”
“Yes. It’s her squad. I think before that it was just her, Lyonette.”
The [Princess] was troubled, but Ser Dalimont understood. Osthia might lose her squad, but she’d already lost her army. Now she had a kind of family again. Grim though it was, dead gods, he got it.
