Desinee stood up in the stirrups again, and Colfa once more gave her a horrified look. But Desinee saw Ilvriss and urged her mare forwards—he was riding fast through the advancing night.
“Hold on, this isn’t—how are you doing that?”
“Doing what?”
“Riding that horse! You’re a [Lady] of the House of El, aren’t you?”
Desinee gave Colfa a blank glance. The Vampiress was a country-raised girl herself, and she might not have been used to riding recently, but you knew what they said about riding horses…it was as easy to remember as riding a horse.
However, even Colfa would have thought twice about some of the ways Desinee was moving about her horse at the speed it was going. For the rather stereotypical [Lady] in a riding dress? It boggled Colfa’s mind just long enough for Desinee to move past her. And then the Vampiress was shouting.
“Turn back! This isn’t—”
Too late. Lady Desinee was almost upon the Wall Lord as he slowed, and she saw a red-haired young woman riding next to him with a golden [Knight]. And, for some reason, a familiar young woman with an eager smile.
I met her. What did I know about Lady Damia, again? Isn’t she the one who sleeps with her brother? Desinee was utterly confused—then she realized she was surrounded by Drakes, Gnolls, a few Humans, all of whom had cloth handkerchiefs tied around their noses. Most were grinning. Wall Lord Ilvriss raised a claw and called out.
“Here we go! Remember, in and out—no games, no brawling. If you’re in danger, get clear! Fighters? With me! Lady Damia, don’t break your neck.”
“Yes, Wall Lord!”
“Er, hello, excuse me, Wall Lord Ilvriss? Wall Lord, it’s me, Lady Desinee—”
The [Lady] was trying to get to the front of whatever this was, now embarrassed, worried she was interrupting something important. She was riding through the Drakes as she saw they’d come to a pasture of some kind.
Just some fenced-off land. A big fence for a vast herd of…cattle? She peered at the giant bovines with the disinterest of someone who didn’t want to know where her food came from. Then she saw some Drakes get off their horses and pull the pieces of wood up and remove part of the fence.
Odd. There was a gate over yonder. And then a Gnoll with tribal markings and feathers tied to her saddles was riding forwards with a group of eight. She whooped, then howled, a loud, excited sound, as Desinee slowed.
Huntress Rayna’s howl made the sleepy cows start. They turned, some getting to their feet, and saw the Gnolls riding at them from the left. Nervously, they clustered together as Rayna rode around them in a slow circle. Then she began to ride at them from the rear and shouted.
“Get moving! Raah, rah!”
She was herding the cows towards the break in the fence. All she had to do was get one cow in front moving and the rest followed—when they tried to veer left, one of the Silverfang Gnolls rode out and corralled them back into position, forcing their momentum.
Everyone moved aside as the first worried bovine charged out the fence. Desinee El blinked.
My, that was fast. Wouldn’t they risk some of the cows getting hurt at that speed? But she didn’t know ranching. They were being driven back the way they’d come, and she turned and saw the group following Ilvriss breaking apart, repeating the process. Some were riding for another distant herd, and she wondered why the Wall Lord didn’t just have the people minding this herd of cows do this.
Because surely there were some; one did not leave this much prime cattle alone. Sure enough, there was a pair of Humans who rode towards the commotion. A young man and woman, on horseback, who stopped and stared as they saw Rayna racing away—and a bunch of heads of cattle. They turned, and the Wall Lord pointed.
“Ah, there’s our company. Hello! Don’t mind us! Lyonette, I think that’s the main herd and bull enclosure. With me.”
He began riding forwards as Colfa joined Lyonette and Damia Reinhart split off. Desinee tried to go forwards again, and then she saw the two young Humans break out of their stupor. One turned and began racing backwards. The other cupped her hands to her mouth and shouted.
“—Cattle raid! Dead gods—cattle raid! Them Drakes are stealing our herds! Get up! Get up—”
It took a second for Desinee to put two and two together. Then she heard another whoop and more shouting, and Ilvriss began galloping forwards. Her mouth fell open in horror.
He was stealing cows? She gaped right and left, then realized where she was.
Not his camp, but Lischelle’s farmstead. And the Wall Lord was, at this moment, trying to steal every single cow around…
Then it was chaos as [Ranchers] poured out, shouting, and Drakes and Gnolls and Humans leapt down and began punching them while the others tried to make off with the cows. They weren’t the best at it, but they knew how it was done because it had happened so many times to them. The Silverfangs did know how to move the frightened bovines.
“Oh no. Uh oh. I can’t be part of—”
Desinee was keenly aware how well this would be received. She cast around for somewhere to hide as Ilvriss rode forwards.
Laughing. And there was a [Princess] with him!
 
——
 
Lyonette du Marquin had overridden all of Ushar’s objections to be part of this. She hadn’t taken Nanette or Mrsha; it was dangerous after all, and Rhisveri would just shout at her, the annoying Wyrm.
But she had her heart in her throat as Ilvriss cut one fence apart with his sword and hauled the pieces of wood away. She saw a bunch of [Ranchers] running at them.
“Stop! You bastards—”
“Time for revenge!”
Captain Osthia drop-kicked the lead [Rancher], and her Sisters of Chell jumped the [Ranchers]. Ilvriss grinned.
“Rubirel Guard? Hold ‘em off, and if any of you see Marvus, let me know! I hope he’s not here.”
They’d hit one of the main ranches of the Lischelles. Colfa knew where they were, and she was whistling in a curious way. The cows in this pasture peered up, and several got up and began trotting her way.
“I knew they kept the old whistles. Hard to teach cows new ones. Here they come…get moving, you silly things! This way, nice and easy!”
The [Ranchers] were brawling with Ilvriss’ people, and Lyonette was not going to join a fistfight in her condition, but she added to Colfa’s voice, laughing with delight. Someone saw Colfa whistling the cows out and shouted.
“You damn traitor—”
She turned as a [Ranchhand] charged her, and Colfa punched the other woman in the chest, then followed up with a kick. She dusted her hands.
“Reminds me of being young and doing this to the Golvas. Aronia and Marvus won’t be able to live this one down. Getting stolen from by Drakes! The humiliation!”
The funny thing was that they’d never have expected it. Not from Ilvriss. He’d been so defensive that when he finally got them—Lyonette turned her head.
“Is Lady Damia riding a cow?”
The [Lady] was riding off at the head of another herd, and Lyonette shook her head. What a strange Reinhart. Mrsha hadn’t been lying. Ilvriss emerged from the fighting, panting.
“Okay, I’m done. Let’s get this herd and go. Someone punched me in the stomach, and I remembered why I’m too old for this.”
“You’re no fun.”
Lyonette teased him as he glowered.
“You try fighting these [Ranchers]. Ancestors, I’m just glad they’re not firing arrows.”
Colfa had been laughing, but she stopped warily.
“They don’t have to. Bull’s coming. Lyonette, get back.”
There was a reason no one stole from the Lischelles. Ushar gulped as there was a braying moo, and Ilvriss lost his smile.
The bulls that Marvus raised were intelligent, huge, and like all bulls, protective of their herds. They killed everything, including the Drake boy who’d been foolish enough to jump the fence.
This one came out of the pasture fast, horns down, and Lyonette swallowed when she saw it coming.
Eternal Throne, she’d seen bulls before, but always at a distance! This one was terrifying, but Ilvriss just raised his claw.
“Right. Ready?”
“Yessir. Ready!”
Welsca responded instantly, and reached for her side as she looked around. Ilvriss had kept his bodyguards around him as well as a handful of Drakes who hadn’t joined the fighting. They shifted, and Lyonette heard clicks around her. This had been Ilvriss’ addition to her plan. He waited, claw raised.
The bull was maybe a hundred feet distant and closing faster than Lyonette thought a creature its size could move when Ilvriss closed his fist.
“Now. Loose!”
The crack was every Drake around Lyonette discharging the crossbows they’d drawn. There was also the thft of arrows being loosed from bows. The angry braying faltered, and Lyonette saw the charging bull stumble, slow—
Then keep coming. 
“Ancestors, it really could kill most monsters.”
Ilvriss murmured. He raised his hand again.
“Headshots. [Glitter Volley] on me. One, two, three—loose.”
The second volley took the bull down. It slid as it collapsed, and one of the [Ranchers] cried out.
“They just shot Redman! They just—”
“Get those cattle out of there. Someone make sure it’s dead—don’t get near it.”
Ilvriss calmly turned his horse. He locked eyes with the horrified [Ranchers] and nodded to them.
“Apologies for that. But I’m bad at rustling cows, and I don’t intend to lose anyone. Welsca, drop any other bulls guarding their herds. Let’s get out of here before they actually come after us.”
Then everyone was riding. Riding, and Lyonette turned and felt a pang as she saw the motionless bull lying there, but Colfa began shouting, urging the cows onwards, and the Sisters and Osthia caught up. Then the people around her were cheering.
By the time they got back to camp with the cows to herd them into pastures, everyone had turned out to cheer. Ilvriss jumped down from his horse, grinning despite himself, as Dramm rushed over.
“Wall Lord! I just heard—you stole their cows?”
Like Liuss? But Ilvriss corrected the Drake.
“We reminded them two can play their game, Dramm. No casualties—aside from their prime bulls—and I think we’ve recovered some of all the gold they’ve taken from us. No more raids, not unless they keep coming back. Understood?”
That’s why he hadn’t taken Dramm, but the younger Wall Lord stood there.
“You shot their bull?”
“Two, I think. I wasn’t about to take chances after poor Liuss. Come on, I have a [Message] to send. Miss Lyonette? You in one piece or is Mrsha going to kill me?”
“Right here, Wall Lord.”
Lyonette was smiling as she got down, wincing from all the hard riding, but her daughters would be green with envy about missing this! She was all ready to celebrate when Colfa peered around.
“Where’s that [Lady] of El that was with us? Did you see her? I tried to tell her what we were doing, but she was confused…”
Ilvriss stopped smiling.
“Lady of El? What Lady…do you mean Desinee El? Why was she with us?”
He turned to Lyonette, who hadn’t seen her, and Dramm paled. In his defense, he hadn’t been told where Ilvriss was going. Unfortunately, despite everyone else having made it back, there was no Desinee El among the riders.
 
——
 
Marvus Lischelle couldn’t believe his eyes when he came riding out as fast as he could to find the aftermath of the cattle raid. He stood there, sleep-deprived, stressed—but it wasn’t a charnel pit.
“It wasn’t the half-Elf? It was that Drake?”
His voice cracked as a man with two black eyes stood in front of him.
“No sir, Marvus. It was just the Wall Lord. And them damn Gnolls and your wife’s sister! They grabbed all the cattle and—well—two of our bulls. Shot ‘em dead.”
Redman, one of the prime bulls, was lying in his field, feathered with arrows and crossbow bolts. Marvus felt a pang. He walked over, and his fists clenched as he stared at the lolling tongue and empty eyes of the bull. Flies were already buzzing, so he snapped.
“What’re you lot doing? Get him butchered and trussed up—don’t waste Redman! He’s still good unless the arrows were poisoned. Check! How many did we lose? Those shit-eating, cow-buggering—”
He started swearing, going red with fury as his people shook off the shock. Furious and embarrassed. He’d not thought they could do that to him. You almost had to admire that Drake’s balls, if he had them. Marvus didn’t want to know about that kind of thing.
Aside from the bulls, it was a huge cattle raid. But you didn’t kill bulls. That was just—he vowed vengeance, then wondered if the Wall Lord would do it again.
If I have to watch all our ranches where he’s bordering us, I’ll not have the men to guard our other pastures and deal with that half-Elf. And the Golvas and Billgerhorns aren’t going to pass up the opportunity, even now. Unless I call a truce—
But the bulls. Marvus turned his head to the dead bulls, and then one of his people rode up.
“Marvus? I don’t want to bother you, but we just got a message. That Drake. It ain’t addressed to you specific, but there’s no other way to read it. Aronia wants t’know how bad it is.”
“Give it here.”
If it was a taunt, Marvus would take it on the chin and come at the Wall Lord, maybe even that night with—he read the [Message], blinked, and read again.
It wasn’t addressed to him, indeed. It wasn’t even a classic [Message], but something you got through the Merchant’s Guild. There was no ‘Rancher’s Guild’ because that was stupid, so Marvus simply had a Merchant’s Guild account, and they sent him correspondence like this all the time.
Requests for heads of cattle. You could bid on them if they were open, or get in contact to satisfy orders. In this case, it was just an open request from Wall Lord Ilvriss.
Wanted. Prime bull beef. Bull’s tongues. Bull’s testicles—with a request to please separate those and mark them as alchemical goods, which was standard—he was asking for a lot.
Literal tons. About as much as…you’d get from two prime Lischelle bulls, though the Drake had rounded down. And the price?
Marvus blinked, then read it again. He did a bit of quick math and put the cost at roughly twice the going rate for Lischelle beef, on the gold coin. The Drake was overpaying for…
The [Cattle Baron]’s head slowly rose, and he took another glance at the two dead bulls. Then it turned towards the direction of the Wall Lord’s camp.
“Marvus?”
“So that’s his play. Is that Drake hospitality or something? Damnit.”
“You want us to ignore it?”
Marvus chewed on his lip.
“You mad? We don’t have a buyer, and they’re dead. Make sure there’s no problems, then fill the order. I’ll talk to Aronia.”
