His face went flat. And Georgie’s stomach abruptly twisted as laughter came from around him. He let go of the wheelbarrow and massaged his shoulder.
They knew. Regardless of what that damn Wall Lord had tried to claim—no, it just made it worse, them thinking he’d actually been transformed. Georgie managed after a second—
“All I need is this, Andrasite.”
He waggled two claws at her and stuck his tongue between his claws in a suggestive way. She made a face.
“Ugh. Do you actually think that’s attractive?”
“Bet you’ve never met anyone who even knows how to use their tongue, let alone claws. I’ll have you late for your next shift, babe.”
He leaned against the wheelbarrow to prevent it rolling down. Andrasite hesitated despite the jeers and snorts coming from around her.
“But you literally don’t even have—right?”
“Hey, I’ve got ways. No one’s ever complained after a night with yours truly. How about it?”
He winked at her, and if there was a truth stone on Georgie, it would have probably exploded from that one. The truth was that Georgie had sustained numerous complaints from partners over the years.
Partly, because he’d not known what the hell he was doing and assumed that good sex was proportional to how fast and hard you could move in the act. Which did not win you applause and sometimes got you disqualified before even reaching the finish line.
Second, because Georgie did have some issues in the traditional equipment sense. He didn’t like to think about it. He did have a…phallus. He kept it under his bed in a lockbox, and if anyone ever found it or asked what that was about he’d just kill everyone before explaining.
The problem was, if you brought that out to a lovely lady, she had questions. So Georgie’s move until now had been to find someone who was into him, and then get to the point where both agreed it was time to jump each other. Then get some drinks to smooth over any inconsistencies for both sides.
His second escape during any questioning that arose was to claim that a Creler had once bitten his dick off. And Georgie didn’t want to hear anyone but the ladies of his acquaintanceship complain.
It was his damn life, and he was working with the hand he’d been dealt. He hadn’t been born some rich Wall Lord sitting on a pile of gold in their towers. He was a working man, and now that he’d been found out…
I never should have picked that damn pickaxe up. Idiot, idiot—what was he going to do? He’d already been blacklisted from all the other reputable companies in Salazsar. Leave for a smaller Drake city? What did he do?
Georgie didn’t know, so he flirted. He thought Andrasite might actually bite, despite her mockery, when there was a shout.
“Administrators inspecting! Sharpen up!”
“Ah, shit in my bag of holding. Who is it now?”
Forewoman Gerra was back, that complaining Bagrhaven. Georgie began to haul the wheelbarrow up, swearing, as Andrasite made herself scarce. He was shoving it up the tunnel when the clomp of boots and voices made him peek up.
And there was Wall Lord Ilvriss, his hot secretary, and Forewoman Gerra. Georgie bit down hard on his chewed cigar as Ilvriss glanced at him.
“Miner Georgie, I’d like a word, if I may?”
“Busy working, Wall Lord.”
Georgie tried, but Welsca snapped.
“You’re reporting to the Wall Lord, Miner! You’re off-shift until he’s finished. Forewoman Gerra?”
“Thank you, Adjutant. Alright, everyone, back to work! No more distractions—I want [126% Effort!]”
Georgie’s heart sank as the shaft echoed with cheers and shouts. He straightened and gave the female [Miners] around him a betrayed look.
“Ancestors damnit—you’d think they’d be grateful for having a fellow around doin’ all the hard work. I’ve been humping dirt and taking on the hardest jobs and not a single tail raised even an inch off the ground. Women, am I right, Wall Lord?”
He turned to get confirmation or a grunt from the Wall Lord, and Ilvriss stared at Georgie with the most confused expression on his face—Georgie hesitated, then averted his gaze. So the Wall Lord didn’t get what he was, but he wasn’t having Georgie strung up or run out. Was that something?
Damnit. Georgie didn’t know what he was, but it wasn’t his fault. He just wanted to be—a regular fellow. Unfortunately, fate had other plans for him, and so did the Wall Lord. He seemed to think Georgie was his pet project.
 
——
 
It was weird to Ilvriss because Georgie was not a…okay, he was a pain in the tail. He was rude, ready to brawl, lazy when he knew he could get away with it, and he’d tried to steal the first chance he got.
Ilvriss had sort of thought he’d be different than…well, a slightly-below-average [Miner]. He was a woman. In body? Form alone? At birth but had been subjected to a gender-transformation potion?
Ancestors, it hurt Ilvriss’ head, but he tried! He pulled Georgie aside and had a word with the Drake.
“Miner Georgie, you make Forewoman Gerra’s team uncomfortable.”
“What? I’m extra respectful to them, Wall Lord. I don’t throw fists or nothin’.”
“You’ve been leering, according to Forewoman Gerra and the complaints I’ve gotten.”
“Well, what kind of fellow doesn’t leer when they’re changing around you? Am I blind?”
In a sense, it was Ilvriss’ fault. He had prefaced Georgie’s predicament by claiming he was now a woman. And it seemed that he’d been trusted on that. Georgie kept staring at something only he could see.
“Can’t them [Mages] do magic pictures of memories? I swear, it was worth getting buried alive and nearly having my head ripped off. All that jiggling…”
His claws made grasping motions, and Ilvriss resisted the urge to smack Georgie on the head. He was a victim of his own greed and unfortunate circumstances…
“I’m going to assign you to another team, Georgie, and given the, ah, issues, I’ll have you report to me for any further problems. It should hopefully not be arduous, but voice your complaints to me, and any interpersonal dilemmas. Understand?”
At this, Georgie stopped leering and glanced at Ilvriss and Welsca. Then he lost his smile.
“You think it’s all gonna get swept under the rug, Wall Lord? I’d rather you paid out my contract.”
“You’re a witness to events I’d like to keep private, Georgie. And if I did pay off your contact, would that end the matter?”
Georgie peered around the dig site as he put his hands in his pockets. Then his head lowered, and he stared at his boots.
“No.”
“Then let me try to help. Agreed?”
The [Miner] said nothing. But that was how Ilvriss began the odd conversations he had with Miner Georgie. He rather hoped it would be a small issue. Unfortunately, he was beginning to know Georgie.
 
——
 
On the first day of being reassigned, within two hours of reporting to Dig Team Oxynite, Ilvriss decided to monitor Georgie’s break. Not everyone knew about his situation, just that he was an Advance Miner. The Wall Lord activated his Ring of Invisibility only to find Georgie had integrated with the team.
At least some of them. The mixed-gender mining team was your old rough-and-tumble group. Veteran [Miners] who ranged from late twenties to fifties, ready to swing a fist at anyone who said the wrong thing if they were working.
And—right now—teaching a lesson to some of Riverfarm’s Humans, who they didn’t care for. Because they were Humans? Or northerners? Or just rookies?
“Hold ‘em still! You don’t pull your weight, you get your skin dyed!”
A laughing group of nine, all Drakes and Gnolls, were about to dunk a young man headfirst in a bucket of charcoal water. It’d color your skin or scales like ink, and a wet Gnoll with blackened fur and another Drake and Human half-glaring at the group were signs of the hazing ritual.
Georgie was laughing and holding onto a kicking leg when Wall Lord Ilvriss appeared, arms folded. The Advance Miner stopped, took his cigar out of his mouth, and let go of the young man as the rest of the [Miners] turned. Ilvriss sighed.
 
——
 
Incident two occurred as Georgie’s mining team was coming off shift. That same day. The tradition was for the [Forepeople] of each team to report their take.
It wasn’t all about who’d dug up what. Only a fool thought one team digging more gemstones up mattered; if you were assigned to a bad seam, what could you do?
It was instead about how much you’d dug. How many tough pockets you’d had to clear—if you’d run into a monster nest, all kinds of stuff. And it wasn’t all competition, but there was some satisfaction to Foreman Rolx of Oxynite strolling over and dumping a sample of ore down in a pile.
“Oxynite, 84 buckets of loose stone deposit. 122 feet straight down and nothing.”
Not much, really. Loose stone deposit was all bits and tiny gemstones or dust that someone would sift through for valuables. Barely worth the effort. It was a shit take, and Georgie would have been nervous if he was in a traditional company in Salazsar. Too many days like that and your entire mining project might get canned for lack of value.
However, here it was fine. They were digging down, still searching for something else besides the teams assigned to mining around the undead. Georgie was tired and sweat-soaked. It was a hot damn day of work, and he wanted to use the new showers he’d heard they’d installed.
And toilets—the ladies had refused to let him use more than buckets from their damn cubicles. As if he’d steal their underwear. You got that as a trophy, and you tucked it into your belt so the lads knew you’d scored a motherlode the next day. Like a proper Drake.
Anyways, the point was the other teams were reporting numbers.
“80 feet. Hard clay.”
That came from a Human to a few jeers—from Georgie especially loudly—but he shut up when Rolx glared at him. The bastard was not shy about throwing a fist around, but the new team was Humans. From Liscor! Or Invrisil or something—
It wasn’t that bad for newcomers a few days on the job, actually. If the clay sucked it sucked. But Georgie kept jeering until a huge damn Silverfang appeared.
“Miner Thamert, of Silverfangs. We report 214 feet dug. Mostly limestone with some coal.”
He casually dumped a black bucket on the pile, proof of said coal. Georgie nearly inhaled his cigar.
That deep on top of stone and other deposits they had to harvest? He began to mutter.
“Gotta be bullshit. I reckon they’re just trying to look good. How do a bunch of Plains Gnolls know how to dig better’n us?”
He got several nods from other Salazsarian [Miners], but someone hissed.
“That’s an Ekhtouch Gnoll. You see him swinging that pickaxe? I heard he cracked the entire limestone seam after winding up for twenty minutes! Just hit it and it all turned into gravel!”
Ancestors, really? The Silverfang marched back, and Georgie swallowed another comment. Then came a team he knew well.
“Rolx. 33 feet. Nothing to report.”
A broad-chested Drake walked forwards, dumped no bucket down, and seemed very disinterested in showing off. He nodded to the other [Foremen], who said not a word, and Georgie ground his cigar down in his teeth. No one said anything—until he did.
“Thirty-three feet? What were they doing, yanking their tails in one hand and pissing with the other? Why do we have to share shift-pay with this lot?”
He called out, and the Drake who was walking back into line turned his head. He and his team didn’t appear as dirty as Georgie’s group. Nor had they dug even half of what Georgie’s team had!
But they were sort of big, which is why no one had commented hither-to, and the administrators didn’t care, even if they could see the results. Georgie pointed.
“It’s always Rolx and Oblest and Canera—lazy bastards. You don’t get anywhere while we’re doing all the digging!”
“Hey, someone’s got to sort through all the shit your team misses!”
One of the Gnolls fired back, but one of the [Administrators] barked.
“That’s enough! Let’s muster out and get back to camp. Eyes on a swivel for those damn [Ranchers]!”
Each mining team’s leader began to shout orders, but Georgie was fed up, and from the muttering, he wasn’t the only one.
“Just so long as they get half-pay. I’m not busting my tail to let my bonus slip away to some weak-armed Hatchlings who can’t even lift a shovel!”
At that, there were a lot of loud murmurs in agreement. Everyone from the Silverfangs to the Humans to the all-female teams—you got paid for exemplary work, and these idiots didn’t work. Georgie saw the leader of Rolx’s team square his shoulders, then bark back.
“That’s enough. Muster out!”
“Eager to get to your bed? You didn’t earn it!”
That came from Andrasite, Georgie swore. Someone tossed a clod of dirt, and it hit one of the lazy miners in the helmet. There was a growl.
“Break it up! Everyone get moving!”
The [Administrator] saw the trouble and tried to head it off, but it was too late. The angry, annoyed miners began shoving upwards, out of the dig site, but one got too close to the Rolx team. They shoved past the angry miners and nearly sent a group of four sprawling. When the enraged quartet shoved the lazy [Miner] so hard he crashed into his buddies, there were shouts, people falling—then someone nailed someone else with a stone.
More objects flew, and the mining team captains began to shout and use Skills—then saw fists raise. They backed up. Then the first person threw a punch. Georgie wasn’t that person.
He threw the sixth punch and clocked the leader of the Rolx team in the jaw—and broke his jaw. Georgie was swearing and holding his fist, which felt like it was broken itself, when the enraged Drake rose, covering his face, and George realized the other Drake had a head on the slim [Miner]—and over a hundred pounds.
Ancestors, he’s ripped for a shitass min—
 
——
 
Wall Lord Ilvriss was standing over Georgie when the Drake woke up and stared cross-eyed at the ceiling. He had his head in his hands.
“How many injuries?”
“Er…less than if the [Ranchers] attacked, Wall Lord?”
“How many teams are off rotation tomorrow?”
“Only—six, sir?”
Uh oh. Georgie tried to pretend to be asleep, but Wall Lord Ilvriss had noticed him waking up. The Wall Lord leaned over.
“Miner Georgie, do you have anything to say for yourself? I’m told you broke one of my Foremen’s jaws.”
“They started it, sir.”
Georgie lied like he breathed. Ilvriss stared down at him. He straightened.
“Your pay will be docked pending a full investigation, Miner Georgie. Along with everyone else who instigated the fights. Welsca, note the incident down on file. Don’t list it as a serious incident, but I want accountability.”
