“The Sisters are cool. But can you explain about the Georgie thing, Wall Lord?”
Nanette wanted clarity, so Ilvriss re-activated his privacy rings and delivered the rest of the story. The Wandering Inn was, of course, the place that had put him onto this journey to begin with. Lyonette was a bit dubious, but she agreed he’d done everything right.
“It sounds like it could be a mess, Ilvriss.”
“When I go home. It was the right thing to do, I think. I just hope Miner Georgie sees it that way and gives us a chance.”
“Oh, er, Georgie, of course! One cannot just kill a man like—but giving away all the artifacts!”
Oh, that’s what she meant. Ilvriss gave Lyonette a mildly pitying gaze.
“Here’s someone else who never got out of their Hoarding years, eh, Mrsha?”
It’s a pathetic trait among royalty and Dragons, forsooth, Ilvriss. But we humor her.
The [Princess] reddened and spluttered.
“I just meant it makes no economic sense, let alone—!”
Ilvriss laughed, and Nanette held up a hand.
“I quite approve of all your actions, Wall Lord. I just would like to point out that while you did give away a lot of value to your employees, it was still a nobleman giving ‘down’ to the poor folk who have to work through his company. It seems to me that ideally, the employees and that [Foreman] would take the share they deserve, not need you to come swooping in like a [Knight].”
She gave him a challenging look full of teenage righteousness, and Ilvriss lifted a spoon to his mouth and blew on his soup. He supposed that was a very [Witchy] way to look at things. He took a bite of the prawn soup, which was excellent, then licked his spoon for politeness, and then replied.
“A very fair assessment, Nanette. Welsca will be delighted to know you’ve adopted her pajamas for daily wear, incidentally.”
“Don’t dodge my statements with cries for mercy, Wall Lord.”
“Hardly. I think you’re right, Nanette. There is an inequity built into anyone who wants to get a free and fair start with a level playing field in Salazsar. Most, if not all cities, are like that.”
She blinked as he lifted a foreclaw.
“Alrric and I commented on it, once. I’m aware this is still largesse from the noblesse, but I ask you this: what should I have done otherwise?”
“Well, like I said—”
“No, no, not what Foreman Rolx would do, or my employees. Could I do any better in the circumstances? I am the Wall Lord of the Gemscale Company, and I can only do what is possible within my role. You are free, of course, to talk to my people, but if you have any comments on what I could have done, I’ll certainly listen.”
Nanette hesitated. She opened her mouth, glanced at Mrsha, who shrugged, and then blushed slightly.
“Well…I don’t have that many notes for you. Um, that might have been a bit preachy. I’ll just go and hang out with the Sisters for a second. Mrsha, coming?”
The two got up to learn horrible lessons, and Ilvriss sat back in his chair.
“I got that unrepentant nuisance.”
Lyonette nearly snorted soup out her nose. She laughed as she high-fived Ilvriss, and Nanette spun around to her horror at their blatant celebration of his victory. And Ilvriss just smiled.
“It’s been a relatively good day. No Golems, only a few raids from the [Ranchers], and Nerul says he has a plan and he’ll be en-route shortly. Though, apparently, he has to charter a huge flight of Wyverns because his cargo’s so heavy. And since Fissival hates us, it’s Manus.”
“What could it be?”
“No clue. Maybe it’s enough drinks to drown Marvus Lischelle. But I’m feeling upbeat. Shall we dance, Princess?”
“Oh, you might twist my arm, Ilvriss.”
They were both in a good mood. The two were getting up, chuckling, as Ser Dalimont went to settle the bill when they heard shouting from outside. Boos, jeering—and they turned and saw the election in full swing.
Lism Swifttail and Krshia Silverfang had been spotted, and a crowd had formed in the street. There were members of the press taking [Magic Pictures], someone with a scrying mirror pushing forwards, and Krshia was trying to say something. Tugging on Lism’s arm.
The purple-scaled Drake was red-faced, and he ducked a potato being hucked at him. Ilvriss muttered.
“Ah, is it still bad?”
“Very bad for Krshia. Imani’s been trying to reverse opinions, but—Imani!”
The undercover [Chef] came over. Palt hesitated before scowling his way forwards. Ilvriss stopped him before he could bump Lyonette hard.
“Magus Palt. Lyonette is injured.”
“Er, sorry, Wall Lord. How’s the digging?”
Palt’s expression turned abashed as Ilvriss gave him a cool glance. He shuffled his hooves. Imani and Lyonette had barely noticed. Imani spoke to Ilvriss.
“I’ve tried, but Krshia’s community’s really upset. I can’t really blame them. And Lism—ah, shit.”
Lism was exploding with fury after a week of this. Ilvriss eyed him and groaned.
“Uh oh. I think he’s having a Noass moment.”
It was like young Dramm or any hothead. You could almost see the lid on Lism’s temple burst, and sure enough, he thrust Krshia’s paws away, grabbed a stone that projected his voice out over the crowd and rain, and began shouting.
“That’s it! I’ve had enough!”
Jeering, the crowd shouting insults at him like ‘traitor’ and ‘liar’, and then Lism’s voice drowned them all out. He swung around.
“Yes! I admit it! You’ve got proof! We’re a couple! We—”
He grabbed Krshia’s shoulder and there were more boos, more thrown objects. Lism caught a tomato and blocked three separate Yellats in one move. That was impressive enough to earn him another shout.
“And yes, we worked together! Don’t shout at me; I know I ran on an anti-Antinium, anti-immigration, anti-Krshia campaign! I was the one who came up with all that! But you know what?”
He looked around, breathing in and out.
“—When I got to the Councilmember’s chamber and I realized the idiots wanted us to just ‘keep on like normal’, and they didn’t see a thing wrong with the damn rent, you know what I realized? We had bigger enemies than Krshia! That she and I had worse to deal with than some damn Humans or the Black Tide! We had damn corrupt [Landlords], and we had to lower the rent!”
He threw up two claws on both hands in victory signs.
“So we did that! We worked with the Antinium to build the city out, and we passed all the laws to keep the Guilds from scooping more gold out of honest Liscorians’ pockets! You know why I was okay with that, and why Krshia Silverfang and I got along? Because we realized we could do more together than apart. If we hadn’t done that, 3rd District would never have been built! There wouldn’t be Humans or all these jobs—”
“You hated her! You’ve always hated her!”
One of Lism’s die-hard supporters stood up on something in the crowd to bellow back. Lism’s eyes popped.
“You think I don’t remember that, Swall? Yes, I hated her, but when we got to know each other, you know what? I took a look at this lovely Gnoll here and I fell in love. What kind of red-blooded Liscorian wouldn’t take his shot with a Gnoll like Krshia Silverfang? Come on up so I can show you what a [Liar] looks like!”
He pointed, and suddenly everyone turned to stare at Krshia Silverfang, who looked ready to murder Lism or turn invisible or both. Lism went on, shouting.
“Yes, I slept with my fellow councilmember who was my opponent! And you know what? I’ll do it again!”
Ilvriss coughed as he took a sip of water, and Lyonette put her face in her hands. Lism just kept going.
“All you naysayers who want to vote for that idiot—he’s the old Council. He just wants to remove the rent controls, put the Guilds in power, and stop working with the Humans, the Antinium, and lick the Walled Cities’ boots! You want that? Vote for him! But if you think this city is better than it was a year ago—vote for me. Not because of my policies or platforms—I’ll change them if I don’t think they’re working! Vote for me because I did this!”
He waved his claws around. Then he leapt up on something. Perhaps a literal soap box.
“Vote for my way! The Lism way! The only way this city gets even better! I’m—”
At that point, someone threw an entire fish at him. Lism went argh—fell down, and then it was a scrum. Ilvriss watched, sipping his drink, until he saw enough members of the Watch protecting Krshia and Lism as they were dragged away. Then he turned and shrugged.
“Well, I think that settles that. Best of luck to both of them.”
He got up and put down a tip as Lyonette walked off to dance.
 
——
 
Okay, at some point Lyonette realized that her activities were suspiciously like a date. She had told Rhisveri he was imagining things when he’d accused her of it.
He was sick or something; he’d come into the inn, all bundled up like his sock puppet alter ego, accused her of ‘romancing Ilvriss’, and then wanted to do the dance. She’d asked him why he was hunched over and couldn’t stand straight. He’d teleported himself out, and she’d put it down to poppycock and a fever.
But when you wrote down the things she and Ilvriss had done when he’d ridden back to Liscor, well…it made sense they had food out in the city. They wanted to give Calescent time off.
Naturally, after that, Lyonette had shown Ilvriss some more new shops and attractions in Liscor since he didn’t know them all. They’d then gone back to the inn to practice dancing—purely because they wanted to do the Highstepper—and after that, they’d have dinner, probably together since they would be hungry after dancing for a while.
She’d not thought that was amiss. Except when she’d vouchsafed to Xinthe that she’d be all sweaty, and couldn’t she bathe before dinner? To which, the trying-to-be-helpful Calanferian servant had asked if Lyonette wanted to try some new bathing facilities that Hexel had just finished. And did she want to share the large baths with Wall Lord Ilvriss?
The [Princess] had drawn breath to castigate Xinthe, then it had hit her. She turned, and Wall Lord Ilvriss mistook her look for an inquiry.
“I can do it! Once more time. Damn you, legs! We almost had it. One victory on top of the rest—”
He heaved himself up as Ser Dalimont offered him a stamina potion. Even Colfa, who liked dancing, couldn’t persuade her husband to dance this much—or wanted to train as obsessively.
But Ilvriss was a competitive Drake; he just didn’t have as much of a chance to show it. He was a good leader, and he could only be a person around Lyonette, sometimes.
Just like she was the boss of the inn and with him she could actually enjoy good food and…
Oh no. No, he lost Periss and—is it me?
Lyonette got up, guilty. Her magical boots let her cross the floor nimbly as she had before, and she hesitated.
“If you have somewhere to be, Ilvriss—you’ve had a long week. We could halt, and you could do something else.”
He was adjusting his collar so he could let his chest breathe. She noticed sweat sliding down his body suddenly and resolved to let Mrsha bully Xinthe as much as she wanted.
“Like what? Lyonette, frankly, I have no excuse to visit Liscor while everyone else is in the dig site. If you take this from me, I’ll have to be responsible nonstop.”
“Well, we can’t have that. One try?”
Lyonette bit her lip, and she began to move into the dance almost unconsciously. But she made two mistakes. The first was that she forgot which dance they were doing. She began to do Erin’s mysterious dance, and Ilvriss nearly slammed into her before he adjusted. And Lyonette was so preoccupied with her thoughts, she used a Skill.
[Flawless Attempt].
Just so she could think about the ethics and ramifications and—her body moved, not effortlessly flowing into each step, but flawlessly. Her body thrilled as she moved like a [Dancer], in a way that would have had even the Eternal Court of Calanfer on their feet if a certain Dame Ushar had taken a clandestine recording of Lyonette practicing. However, Ser Dalimont accidentally tripped the [Knight] as she was going for a better vantage point and coincidentally turned the scrying orb off as he helped her up. Lyonette barely noticed, and Ilvriss was all concentration.
Grace. She hadn’t used [Flawless Attempt] on a dance since they’d begun practicing. It didn’t teach you the dance. It was cheating, like the boots, only—more. So she was surprised, then, when she realized Ilvriss was keeping up with her.
He swung around with her, matching her move for move, and her eyes widened.
He has been practicing. The Wall Lord stepped back across the ground, and his eyes were so filled with concentration she felt it. Then she realized they were at the silly part of the dance.
Oh no. Erin’s stupid, ridiculous quack-quack dance. Lyonette did it, blank-faced, feeling her [Flawless Attempt] running out—it wasn’t perfect. She forgot the next part—did she Cossack dance then hop up? She leapt up too early and cursed.
Wait, now we swing each other around by the hands—she was out of place. So Lyonette was going to wait when she saw Ilvriss jump forwards. He abandoned his wavy-noodle arm move mid-wave and reached out.
They grabbed each other’s hands and swung around. Lyonette blinked. She stumbled back and missed a beat.
“Wrong—oops—wait—”
She forgot another move and began stepping left, arms spread. Ilvriss copied her, moving to the right. Arms identical to—
Wait.
He was keeping up with her. Copying her moves? The third time, Lyonette deliberately—
She stopped dancing. Then lifted her chin. Glided forwards in a walk, performing the Aubrel Solde, a classic Terandrian dance. And she saw Ilvriss walking at her. Eyes wide. Posture almost mimicking hers, but when her head and hand rose, he knelt in front of her hand.
She knew he didn’t know this dance. He took her hand, and she gazed down at him and felt it. Something flowed around her.
No—
Him.
Magic. She stepped back, and they were walking together until their hands clasped. They began to walk, reversing, turning, tracing the steps of a dance he did not know. She saw his eyes glowing.
“Ilvriss…”
That one breathed word broke the spell. He stumbled, feet growing uncertain, and caught her. But she was laughing.
“Ilvriss! What was—you did it!”
“I did? Didn’t you…? I thought when you were deviating—I did! It was—that’s why Erin put in those stupid dance moves! She knew it wasn’t meant to be part of the dance! She wanted us to deviate or make a mistake and—we did it, Lyonette!”
“No, you did!”
She was wondering and jealous and embarrassed. Ilvriss didn’t understand until she told him she’d been using [Flawless Attempt]. And flawless…wasn’t how you danced like magic.
