When Rabbo Golva had read all that and the lengthy warning from the Adventurer’s Guild, he’d put it down to claptrap. He’d told eight of his boys to ride out with bow and arrow and put the pack, or whatever it was, down. No need for adventurers. When six had come back, so foul-smelling that he nearly spewed his lunch when he got within a hundred feet of ‘em, raving about the skunks coming at them, big as hogs, eating the horses alive—
Then Rabbo Golva knew fear. And that was before he saw the Demonsoul Skunks.
They had red eyes, which stared out of their heads, rolling around, and when they bared their bloody teeth, you’d swear they were grinning. There was malice there. An empty monster staring out of an oversized skunk’s body with sharp dewclaws and…
And they were just evil.
Skunks could musk a target from fifteen feet away with accuracy. Demonsoul Skunks had a range of forty-five feet. They hit everything they saw.
Corusdeer who screamed and writhed. People on the roads. Even rabbits—puking, a kind of nausea from a smell that was part-magical that did not fade—
And then they killed. Or just—tortured?
They were at the herds. Rabbo Golva was watching, having ridden away from the pack. Only three dozen, but no one could tag them with arrows; they were fast, and they’d sprayed just as many [Ranchers]. The men and women were almost out of their minds with the stink, and no one dared get closer.
It would last years, apparently, even with treatment, before it fully faded. Who wanted…the animals wouldn’t get close. Horses reared, showing the whites of their eyes. But the cows?
“Dead gods.”
The Demonsoul Skunks had cornered some of the poor cattle. They sprayed first, and the animals tried to puke or just collapsed—then Gabbo saw a Demonsoul Skunk claw on top of a cow. It was smaller, but it began to rip into the cow’s back as the screaming animal writhed, spraying again, and then began to eat the cow from the back down. Bloody claws, and he swore—
It was grinning at him.
“Someone get an adventuring team out here. Now!”
“No one wants to take the contract, pa! They won’t take on Demonsouls! There’s a [Ranger] who says he’ll do it, but it’ll cost two hundred per head, and he’s six days away at his fastest!”
“Six?”
They’d kill entire herds by then. The Demonsouls had snuck up on the cattle in the long grass, and once they sprayed, the cows weren’t able to do more than puke. Rabbo was shouting.
“Get traps, get people with bows—keep ‘em away from our territory! Tell the other [Ranchers]!”
They’d pick off the skunks one by one. Though he’d been told they could kill even bulls by just stunning the bulls then eating their eyes—Rabbo was telling himself he had it under control.
Until he heard the chittering, like giggles, and saw the tall grass moving. Then he saw eight more groups winding through the grass and realized over a hundred were coming at him.
“Ride! Ride—”
 
——
 
Where had they all come from? A hundred? Marvus heard out the faintly-reeking son of Rabbo who’d come pelting towards him, wide-eyed and horrified.
“Four people dead, and how many cattle? Can’t you fight ‘em?”
“Your brain just shuts down ‘cause of the stink, Marvus! The Adventurer’s Guild in First Landing said—they said that there ain’t supposed to be that many. One pack of thirty, that’s normal. But nine?”
“First Landing’s Adventurer’s Guild is writin’ us?”
Marvus felt the back of his neck crawling, then the young Golva gasped.
“Marvus…someone said they thought they saw a half-Elf leading them this way a few days ago, but everyone laughed it off. A half-Elf with a flute, they said. Leadin’ ‘em like a [Piper] can do for rats. Only when one of the skunks went the other way, he walked over and stomped its brains in.”
“Hell’s own horses!”
Then Marvus saw it. He looked around, desperate.
“We’ve got a few longbows. Get nose plugs and—and traps, like Rabbo’s doing! If they’re coming this way, we can’t let them at the herds! They’ll foul the meat itself, and putting the cattle down would be a mercy!”
“The nose plugs don’t work, Marvus—”
“Hells!”
 
——
 
The lead pack not terrorizing the Golvas was sneaking its way across the Cowpat Plains. The grinning monsters with evil in their souls emerged from the tall grass into recently-grazed short grass, only to meet a small army of Lischelle [Ranchers] and the other family.
Their response? One dodged an arrow loosed at maximum range. The rest raised their tails, aimed up—and the wind blew the cloud of visible, purple-brown particulates straight towards the [Ranchers].
Demonsoul Skunks had once been used in war and were considered a war-crime. This was while War Manticores were an acceptable use of monsters in battle.
Demonsoul Skunks had once come to Chandrar and plagued Stitch-folk nations. Even if you removed your actual nose, you smelled them. They were rumored to stain the soul. They fouled fabric-flesh forever.
Demonsoul Skunks ate regular skunks whenever they found them. They were classified as ‘evil’ in some monster bestiaries while most monsters were normally classified as neutral, animalistic, interested in self-survival.
Marvus Lischelle was in full retreat when he saw the Drake hanging in the sky. He peered up, eyes watering, and Captain Osthia Blackwing hovered well above the cloud of fumes. Then he turned and saw Wall Lord Ilvriss.
The Wall Lord was marching at the head of a group of a hundred Drake [Soldiers] carrying a standard with Salazsar’s purple banner aloft. They bore some kind of pale yellow breastplate, though, and had weirdly conical helmets.
“The hell’s he doing? Is he mad?”
Marvus owed the Drake no favors, but he began to ride that way to tell the Drake to run. There was killing a man and being skunked until your descendants died. However, the Wall Lord halted a mile out of the skunk’s range.
They kept crawling forwards, pursuing the [Ranchers]. Marvus hadn’t a clue how to take them on. Traps? They’d maybe fall for them, but bear traps? And they were after live prey. Maybe Big Burlap could kill ‘em if he could stand the stench, but he’d be a goner…
Then he saw the Drakes and Gnolls come to a halt behind the Wall Lord. He pointed a sword which sparked for a moment, despite the clear skies, and they all slammed down the weapons they were carrying.
Spears. Fancy damn spears with gemstone tips. Yellow—topaz? Marvus didn’t own much jewelry aside from Ilvriss’ gift, and it spoke to him of Drake richness. An unimaginable city of gemstones, apparently.
Once, the Drakes slammed their spears down. Then twice in quick succession. A rhythmic motion, and he saw something—spark—between the hundred speartips. Like…Marvus had an image of a thunderstorm and lightning flashing down.
Electricity?
A fourth time the Erchirite Spears slammed their spears down, and Ilvriss’ sword arced with the same current. Marvus saw the Drakes halt for one second, then hoist their spears skywards with a shout. The lightning flashed up into the sky, and he flinched.
“What th—”
Thwoom.
The flash behind him lit up the Cowpat Plains as the lightning struck. Marvus felt the pressure on his back, whirled—and saw a hole in the ground. And not a lot of Demonsoul Skunks.
No—two of them were visible. One dragged itself away with blackened limbs, wandering around blearily. The other was twitching on the ground. They didn’t seem to understand what had happened. The first skunk looked around and then up. It raised its tail weakly, tried to shuffle off—
Osthia Blackwing twirled in the air as she flew over the skunk and spat an orb of acid down. It hit the Demonsoul Skunk, and it began to writhe, screeching. She fired a bow and hit the second skunk in the back and winged her way upwards.
“Dad. Was that—”
Burlise was open-mouthed. Marvus turned back, and the Wall Lord lowered his sword. He lifted a hand. Then, in the ringing silence, Marvus heard his voice.
“Erchirite Spears—advance!”
The company of the Gemstone Regiments of Salazsar advanced over the Cowpat Plains. A second group of [Riders] followed them, and Marvus Lischelle saw a [Mage] point a wand at the remains of the Demonsoul Skunks.
A [Fireball] flashed across the plains—and the Demonsoul Skunks exploded as the [Fireball] hit their musk and detonated the particulate.
Demonsoul Skunks’ musk was flammable.
Demonsoul Skunk parts were highly useful in some alchemical creations, but most [Alchemists] refused to work with them, even Saliss.
Demonsoul Skunks were not immune to lightning bolts.
 
——
 
The Erchirite Spears were having a great time. Ilvriss only had two active companies of the battalion he’d paid for from Salazsar, and they hadn’t done much. Getting punched by [Ranchers] was not what they were good at.
Firing long-range lightning at unsuspecting targets like the wrath of the heavens? He watched as one of their [Captains] breathed some lightning over his topaz-tipped spear, juicing it up for the next attack.
“Wall Lord, permission to drain our reserves?”
“Permission granted, Captain. I want those monsters slagged. Welsca, offer our [Mages] as dispellers for whatever part of the skunks’ musk is magical. Consult with Wistram about anti-scent spells.”
“Are you sure, Wall Lord? They’ve been nothing but a pain in our tails—”
One of his people complained, and Ilvriss feigned sniffing the air. He covered his noseholes—Ancestors, it reeked even from here!
“You want to keep smelling them? This place reeks bad enough. Oh, and someone cast a [Rain] spell to take down the risk of fire and smell. Company, advance. Also—would the audience remove themselves?”
He turned and glared at the little Gnoll girl eating popcorn and the rest of the watchers using the [World’s Eye Theatre]. However, the Erchirite Spears seemed very pleased as they began to slam the spears down as they marched forwards, charging up another attack.
“Oh come on, Ilvriss! This is great!”
“At least turn the music off, K—Randy. What is that?”
“Uh…just a really topical song. It’s called ‘Thunderstruck’.”
Ilvriss sighed. More Earther jokes. Then he saw the [Captain] glancing at him.
“Something to say, Captain Altaz? You get used to them.”
“Er, no, Wall Lord. But we’re fine with an audience. We show off our abilities all the time. And you can’t help having music, can you?”
Ilvriss stared at him, then around at the Erchirite Spears, then rubbed at his forehead.
“…Can you copy that onto a magic crystal, K—Randy?”
“Sure can, dude. Everyone needs a theme song.”
“Theirs is the Salazsarian National Anthem!”
“Sure, but this is better. Plus, someone said the Singer of Terandria’s dead, which would be—dude, that’d be horrible. Let’s not think about that. Hey Mrsha, turn it up!”
Ilvriss had to admit that when you cranked it loud enough, it sounded good. Especially when the Erchirite Spears timed throwing a lightning bolt to the drop of the song. He noticed Marvus Lischelle watching him and waved at the man.
Just because Ilvriss had good soldiers, it didn’t mean he wanted to use them. And the Erchirite Spears were only two hundred strong. He’d paid for a battalion, at great expense, but the rest of the soldiers were in reserve at the moment. He didn’t want to alarm anyone. Ilvriss watched them turn another group of bewildered Demonsoul Skunks into ash, and then someone breathed.
“Wall Lord Ilvriss…does Salazsar sell those spears?”
“Occasionally, to adventurers or anyone with a Class III weapons permit. This only really works en-masse and with training. Why?”
“C-can I buy some?”
Ilvriss turned and saw Lady Damia standing there, open-mouthed. He was about to say ‘absolutely not’, but then he just shrugged.
“Want to try using one? Go catch Captain Altaz. They let you try them at public demonstrations. I wanted to be one when I was young. Personally, I like the Lapis Shields for their adaptab—and she’s gone.”
He chuckled as Lady Damia went shooting after the Erchirite Spears. Then Ilvriss felt his scales crawling. He felt at the back of his neck, heard the music stop—and saw Mrsha drop her bucket of popcorn. She fumbled for her wand, dropped it, picked it up, and drew in the air. But in that way of horror and this kind of thing, he had to read her words first.
Ilvriss. Behind you.
Kevin managed a strangled sound, and Ilvriss turned, drawing his sword. He saw Damia spin and the Erchirite Spears whirl—the Rubirel Guard around him crossed halberds too late.
The giant Golem with a single eyeball stalk rising from its weird, thin body, standing on two telescoping legs stood a bit taller. Its hands were nothing more than long, thin fingers it was using to keep balanced. It had de-cloaked, and Ilvriss’ heart was thundering.
Not now. Why n—
“ᴡᴀʟʟ ʟᴏʀᴅ ɪʟᴠʀɪꜱꜱ ɢᴇᴍꜱᴄᴀʟᴇ. ʟᴀᴅʏ ᴜʟᴠᴀ ᴛᴇʀʟᴀɴᴅ ɪꜱ ᴀʀʀɪᴠɪɴɢ ᴀᴛ ɪɴᴠʀɪꜱɪʟ. ᴘʀᴇᴘᴀʀᴇ ʏᴏᴜʀꜱᴇʟꜰ.”
It spoke, voice flat and loud and—his scales crawled, and Ilvriss felt it all coming together. He managed a nod as the Rubirel Guard called for reinforcements.
“For war or peace?”
The Golem didn’t respond. Its legs extended, and then it stepped over him. It was forty feet tall now, and began striding north. Each step taking it impossibly far, like a half-Giant.
That—that was no normal Golem. The [World’s Eye Theatre] hadn’t spotted it. Even Ilvriss’ aura and his new precautionary spells—the Drake wondered if the Erchirite Spears could down the Golem if they knew it was there. Then he focused on what it had said.
Terlands had come. One of the Five Families had begun to move in force, and Lady Ulva Terland…
“Well, she’s known to hold a grudge. Miss Mrsha, would you kindly inform Lyonette that it’s time to panic or find a miracle? And ask my Uncle if he’s got anything, please.”
Then he straightened his back, adjusted his suit, and sighed.
It was time.
 
——
 
Lyonette du Marquin received a message from Nerul, terse and brief.
“I will try to make it. Engaging them now in negotiations. Your preference how you want to dance, but it’d better be a truce first. They’ve come for war.”
She sat there, then had a thought. She appeared in front of Ilvriss as he was galloping back to camp.
“Ilvriss?”
“Ahh! Don’t do that!”
“Sorry! Nerul is contacting them, but I’m told there’s dozens of Terlands, and Xitegen himself is riding with Ulva!”
“Is that positive? Negative? He knows you.”
“I think it’s positive? Ilvriss—how many cows did you steal from the Lischelles?”
