If she took on more work and did enough, it was inevitable she’d need to speak to Wall Lord Ilvriss. Which, at this moment, was one of her crowning goals.
Meet the Wall Lord again, get in with The Wandering Inn, and potentially have dinner with him. He seemed quite good at what he did, and if Damia was going to make a list of possible partners…well, she still had to scope out a few other famous people from the inn, but she was quite open to dalliances.
 
——
 
The one silver lining to being a former [Incestuous Lady] was that Damia had zero concern about her maidenly values. If anything, her mother would have probably said any rendezvous besides Wernel could only inflate Damia’s worth in that very simplistic regard.
Plus, Damia had never had people vying for her attention in any way beyond her power or fame herself. She was writing down a list of ideas for morale as she chatted with Binevy and Varnie in their shared tent.
“Let’s see. Can we do a talent competition or—or music one like the Battle of the Bands? We don’t have much instrumentation, but everyone can sing, right? Let me talk to—who’s my contact today? Right, Ridbnell today. Binevy, you were researching worker productivity in other continents. Noelictus does musicians in the fields, and there are storytellers in weaveries in Stitch-folk cities? Anything else you found out?”
Binevy handed her a selection of texts she’d paid to have copied out, and Varnie flipped a knife up and down, eying Damia with much the same expression as the [Head Maid]. Then Damia glanced at her.
“Varnie, if you were going to have a one night stand with Merls, Gless, or Ridbnell, who would you choose?”
The [Gang Leader] missed her timing on the dagger and it nearly ran her through her bared stomach. She rolled out of the hammock she’d set up, swearing.
“Are you serious?”
“Lady Damia, they’re Drakes! Not even well-placed Drakes!”
Binevy appeared horrified. Damia twirled a quill, scowling at Binevy.
“Oh hush, I’d make it clear it was temporary, and what do I have to lose? It’s better than Wernel.”
“Well…yes…”
It was really hard for Binevy to argue with that. Varnie just folded her arms.
“You have to be doing all this for a reason. You think Salazsar’s going to make you that rich, is that it? I’ve been trying to figure out your game, boss lady. Savin’ me, that’s a proper Reinhart move, and I’m grateful. But as far as I can tell, the Wall Lord’s not payin’ you to be running around like a lapdog. What’s this for?”
It was good to have employees who weren’t yes-men. Sule was the most obedient and straightforward of the trio, but Binevy’s glance made Damia chuckle to herself. She knew that despite her Skills, Varnie’s loyalty was no sure thing.
She was a Face, and gratitude wore out. Binevy…
“Are you still reporting to my Aunt Cosoi, Binevy? Or have other members of the family made you offers? Is Aunt Cosoi alive, by the way? I hope she is. You’re allowed to take money to spy on me, just not tell them anything valuable. The same for you, Varnie.”
Binevy jumped and was so visibly rattled Damia congratulated herself.
“M-milady Damia, I—”
Varnie blinked, and Damia smiled. It had come to her when she was dozing one time while using [Think Harder].
“It’s fine. It’s the House Reinhart way. Just remember—I did save Varnie, and I’ve earned a good amount of gold in record time, levelling no less than six times this month and counting. You want to back the right horse? That’s me.”
She blew on the ink, stoppered the inkwell, and turned.
“As for why I’m here, Varnie, you’re right. It’s not about the gold. I want to get in with Wall Lord Ilvriss.”
“In his sheets or good graces?”
“At least the latter. The former if I really like him or it helps me. I’m a Reinhart, Varnie. Why are you giving me that look? Haven’t you traded on everything you could to get to where you were?”
The former leader of the Sorcerous Blades folded her scarred arms. She was a veteran of knife-fights, a very dangerous person with them according to the other [Gang Boss]—just not against heavily-armored Golems.
“Talk to the Sisters of Chell if you want to exchange stories like that. I never slept around to get where I was. It’s a fast way to lose respect.”
“Well then, I shall tactically do so when I feel like it. Or for fun. The point I was making is that Wall Lord Ilvriss has more to offer than gold. He’s connected to The Wandering Inn.”
“Oh Five Families, it’s your inn theory again.”
Binevy groaned. Varnie just listened as Damia explained.
“The Wandering Inn has what we all want. Stop shaking your head, Binevy. You’ve levelled too! It makes people high-level, Varnie. Even Faces! Look at all the guests of the inn and even friends. All of them have levelled over ten times in one year. Octavia Cotton—now Saliss of Lights’ best apprentice and inventor of Occillium. Liska—you saw her yourself! Coach Joseph—and the adventuring teams the inn helped out are approaching Named-rank!”
Varnie squatted down, picked her dagger up off the floor, and began flipping it again, but thoughtfully.
“Or dead. That woman’s left a trail of bodies longer’n most average [Gang Leaders]. You don’t want to mess with the inn, kid.”
“What do you know?”
The [Gang Boss] shrugged. She was technically an [Underworld Leader of Stabbed Corpses]—a very awesome-sounding class. Level 36. A full Face, even if not the biggest one around, come from the north. Her gang had been small but deadly. She had barely fourteen of her people left, but Damia had a real staff in the works with Cosoi’s servants as well. Security and staff.
She needed more money to pay for all their wages, but at least right now she was doing okay with Ilvriss’ money. Actually…that gave Damia an idea, and she wrote something down. Her brain seemed to be getting better at thinking. She could do it longer, and she had more and more creative ideas the more she practiced.
“What do I know about the inn? Just a bit. Names’n faces. You don’t gauge places like that by what they do in the gangs. More like who they leave behind. And she’s got names. Not done in by her, but…there’s Mister Soot. Ripped to shreds in Liscor. Used to run the place. A full squad of the Hatmen and the Sisters wiped out by a single Goblin. The Gentlemen Callers walked up to her front door, and apparently even they got rocked. Several high-level brothers—Crimshaw the Bowler ate it. Or not—there’s a weird rumor around that…oh, and the Bloodfeast Raiders want her dead.”
“Is that last part as impressive? They want everyone dead.”
Varnie grinned mirthlessly.
“They want her dead, and she ain’t. And the inn’s not burned and everyone dead. That’s a warning in itself. So yeah, I buy it. The inn’s got power. But it’ll scorch ya if you can’t harness it. Got a plan?”
“First, I need to find it.”
Damia’s eyes glittered. She grew so excited when she thought of going through the doors of the inn she had to get up and pace.
“I-if I got in, and you know the front hallway’s trapped? If I got in, Varnie, that’s what counts. The inn wipes out its enemies, but I’m not one of them. I could just be useless to them—that’s the second-worst outcome. But so what? I’ll take being Jeweled!”
Neither of the other two got the reference, so Damia had to tell them the Jewel story. Varnie’s eyes rose, and she actually recalled the addendum to the famous quest to find Mershi. She listened attentively, sold on Damia’s ideas.
…But she did stop listening after the fourth inn story.
 
——
 
Damia didn’t spend all her time helping Ilvriss, of course. He had a very brief meeting with her at the end of the first work cycle and personally handed her a contract with her pay sent to the Merchant’s Guild—and a sizable bonus.
“I’ve been exceptionally impressed, Lady Damia. If you’re willing, I’d love for you to continue on in your posting. Welsca and my people had nothing bad to say about you; quite the contrary. I only regret I can’t spend as much time here—I’m always riding back to Liscor, and it is a hectic time.”
For some reason, he had a miner’s helmet on his head. And a pickaxe by his side.
Very…magical items. Varnie had been biting her knuckles bloody all day. She’d told Damia every instinct in her and her people’s bodies had screamed to steal those items.
Damia wore the most pleasant, helpful smile possible.
“I’m delighted to hear it, Wall Lord! If there’s anything I can do to help? Is there a project I could assist with, or the excavation troubles? I’m no [Strategist], but I do have a higher-level fighter under my command in Varnie. If I can do anything—”
Unfortunately, for once, she miscalculated. Ilvriss had been somewhat off, and now he glanced at Welsca, who had a second helmet and miner’s gear on her. His claw stole possessively to the pickaxe, and he cleared his throat.
“That won’t be necessary, Lady Damia. I do appreciate your willingness, but we’re engaged in highly sensitive operations. Major Shellc has it well in hand, and Captain Asrira is also forming a new taskforce—I do appreciate the offer, however. Someone to keep the gears running smoothly is already helpful enough.”
Translation: he didn’t trust her. Damia’s face fell.
“I understand, Wall Lord. But if you had the chance, I’d love to ask a few questions of you? Purely as a student of the south and—Liscor, really. Do you have an evening free?”
That interested him.
“I did want to speak to you and Clan Leader Plisce more in person. Welsca, do I have any openings in the evening?”
Yes, yes, y—Welsca snapped a folder shut.
“I’m afraid that you need to return to The Wandering Inn, Wall Lord. One must dance away to Liscor.”
“Ah, damn. My aching shins. Perhaps after that, Miss Damia?”
“Of…course, Wall Lord.”
Damia deflated and wondered what the hell that meant. It had to be something incredible. Then she smiled and locked eyes with Welsca.
The one member of staff who wasn’t her best friend at the moment eyed Damia. She walked Damia out, and the [Lady] whispered to her as they left the tent.
“I thought we were being friendly, Welsca! What was that about, may I ask?”
The Drake [Adjutant] pointedly glanced Damia up and down. The [Lady] had put on a formal dress, despite it not fitting with the dirty plains and tents; perfume; and styled her hair after bathing.
“Moved on so quickly from Merls, Lady Reinhart?”
“Moving on implies I didn’t intend anything more than a stop on my travels, Miss Welsca.”
“Ah, well then…your affection for Wall Lord Ilvriss is noted. However, he is still mourning Lieutenant Periss.”
“I know that! I wasn’t pushing—”
Welsca leaned over.
“You’re not the only person who is holding a [Light] spell for the Wall Lord, Lady Damia. Sadly—if anyone has a shot, it’s that dratted [Princess] at the inn.”
Damia gasped. Did she mean…? Welsca wore a sour expression.
“Not that I think it’s the most likely in any case, but I know a bad engagement when I see one.”
“But you—? Then why are you sabotaging me and sending him to Liscor?”
The Drake adjusted her spectacles.
“Misery prefers company, Lady Damia. I’m dangling off a cliff, and you’re dancing on the edge. I’d prefer to pull you off so we can hang together.”
That—was a very Drake and Reinhart way of doing things. Damia stuck out her tongue at Welsca, and the Drake did likewise. Then they laughed, and Damia realized she and Welsca might become actual friends.
“You’d make a lovely Reinhart if you were meaner. Fine, you win. I’ll be back.”
Welsca adjusted her helmet.
“Today’s not a good day, anyways. It’s rather—delicate. But you are working hard for House Gemscale, and I am paying attention. If you really are searching for company, may I recommend a brothel? I wouldn’t normally, but we have an employee working there…”
She sighed. Damia snorted at the strange suggestion.
“What? I thought you’d tell me to give Merls a second chance.”
“Me? Ancestors, no, he’s been insufferable all day. I’m sabotaging him too. Ever met a Level 50+ [Courtesan]?”
“A what?”
 
——
 
Damia was a bit let down by the short interaction with Ilvriss despite all her hard work. She told herself he was clearly in the middle of something super interesting and important…she just had to work harder.
But she had done her best, and she was a teensy bit depressed. So she went to a brothel.
Mostly because she really wanted to meet the legend herself, Xesci. The [Courtesan of Change] greeted Damia herself, and she did not disappoint.
“Hello, Lady Damia. I’ll just call you Damia since you clearly want to be my friend. Sadly, I’m not working. Managing is a full-time job. And you’d like…Roubles. A classic farm-lad. Huge shoulders. Very enthusiastic.”
The Drake held up a little book with a headshot and details, and Damia peered at the rather fetching young man, then smiled.
“I, ah, I rather came to meet you, Miss Xesci. I’d love to make your acquaintance.”
Xesci glanced Damia up and down again. Her brows bobbed up and down.
“Yes, you would. Fascinating. Few people feel that way. Unfortunately for you, I don’t like being desired as I am.”
“What? I’m sure I don’t think I was implying something—scandalous.”
Damia hesitated, because she was no stranger to the scandalous acts two women could get up to together, but Xesci was a Drake. However, the [Courtesan]’s smile was brief.
“Yes, you were. Wernel’s lost his appeal now no one cares, hasn’t he? Fair warning, Miss Damia, you’ve been poisoned.”
“How do you know about Wern—tell Wall Lord Ilvriss that’s long behind me, please! Wall Lord Ilvriss employs you? Do you have any interest in working for me?”
Damia was on the backfoot, confused. Who is this woman? Is this a Level 50 person? She’s so amazing. Xesci just walked around Damia, smiling like a serpent rather enjoying playing with a chick who’d wandered onto her coils.
“You’re so funny. I’ve met dozens of Reinharts, and you’re the happiest one.”
Those familiar words. Damia spat back, because she couldn’t help it.
“No one knows Reinharts. My family’s been gone from the world for nearly two decades! You don’t know us!”
Everyone had this image of Reinharts as evil, treacherous snakes, and there was some truth to it. But were they all—? Yet Xesci just raised one eyebrow.
