

Edmund paused, looking up at the place his Strethian lash still hung from the riverbank atop the waterfall, beyond the reach of even his spear. He sighed. “The lash was always a limited resource. How valuable do you think this ‘recurring objective’ is gonna be?”

“Extremely.”

“Then it was worth it.” Edmund didn’t wait for a reply before turning back to the waterfall, shielding his eyes from the deluge as he passed where Liam’s opening had shut. He didn’t stop to open his constellation until he’d made it to the exit.

The obvious choice would’ve been to combine Solitude and Perseverance to form his last tier 2 confluence, at least, that’s what most delvers did before looking towards tier 3 or a fourth base Aspect. Edmund wasn’t most delvers.

Neither Perseverance nor Solitude glowed with anything close to the resonance of his other Aspects. While none of his current Aspects could combine with Madness, both Obsession and The Recluse had options. Combining with one of them would offer more immediate strength, while delaying his next confluence with Madness by a floor. If he combined Solitude and Perseverance immediately, he’d be weaker for the sixth floor, but able to combine the result with Madness by the seventh.

In the end, Edmund let conventional wisdom guide him, if for the wrong reasons. While others might’ve combined their base Aspects first in the hope of finding where their resonance would be, Edmund combined them because he already knew.

He’d chosen Madness long ago, and he’d commit to walking its path.

With a slight nod and a simple exertion of his will, Edmund selected Solitude and Perseverance and accepted their confluence into his soul.

Tier 2 Aspect: The Island - Gray Resonance

Level 1 - Grants resistance to over-time effects while alone.

Edmund scowled at the ability description. “That’s suitably vague,” he muttered. As The Island solidified with the same gray glow as Perseverance, missing the dull red of Solitude, Edmund scanned through his other Aspects for any changes. Solitude remained the same, but the newly level 3 Perseverance had swapped the word ‘limited’ from the description of its health regeneration for the word ‘minor.’ Edmund, of course, had no way to quantify the difference between limited health regen and minor health regen, but he knew it was a good thing.

He sighed as he reopened his eyes, disappointed in the somewhat narrow effect of his newest Aspect. He hoped it would still prove useful through the next floor, at least long enough for him to combine it with Madness to make something a bit more powerful.

In the meantime, Edmund had a few more things to check on.

Liam was gone, presumably bored with the realization that Edmund had no intent of returning to town. Edmund took the quiet moment to analyze every inch of the chamber behind the waterfall. Given that the space itself was a secret, he didn’t truly expect to find anything, but if that one outcropping was the only place he could explore without fighting off a whole nest of rockjaws, he’d at least explore it to its fullest.

Only once he’d searched every corner of the available space, tried and failed at throwing rocks at his dangling rope to get it to swing into reach, and otherwise exhausted his every idea of finding ways to better equip himself without facing the rockjaws did Edmund finally gather up his gear, retighten the various straps on his armor, look to the secret exit the fox had led him to, and step into the darkness.

Edmund Montgomery Ahab

Aspects Unlocked: 6

Tier 1 Aspect: Solitude - Red Resonance

Level 3- Gain increased constitution while fighting alone.

Tier 1 Aspect: Perseverance - Gray Resonance

Level 3 - Gain minor health regeneration.

Tier 1 Aspect: Madness - Prismatic Resonance

Level 3 - See beyond reality.

Tier 2 Aspect: Obsession - Gold Resonance

Level 1 - Gain strength and agility for each consecutive day spent pursuing your obsession.

Tier 2 Aspect: The Recluse - Gold Resonance

Level 1 - Empower the effects of Madness while alone. Lessen the effects of Madness while accompanied.

Tier 2 Aspect: The Island - Gray Resonance

Level 1 - Grants resistance to over-time effects while alone.
