Edmund landed on his hands against rough hewn wood, the toughened skin of his palms resisting any damage as he skidded to a horizontal stop. Fighting off the urge to simply groan and catch his breath and release the tension in his arms to just lay there for a bit, he shoved himself back onto his knees.

He caught a flash of azure fur disappearing into the crowd just as a hand reached down to him.

“C’mon, son.” A gruff voice pulled him from his thoughts. “Let’s get you out of the way. Thrax knows when the next lot’ll be through.”

Edmund took the calloused hand with his left and grabbed his spear from the floor with his right, rising to his feet and stepping away from the entrance in a single motion. “The fox,” he breathed, “did you see where it went?”

The man, tall and slender and dressed only in basic cotton clothes flashed Edmund a bored expression. He patted him on the shoulder. “You’re safe now, son. Dungeon mobs can’t move between floors, and they aren’t allowed inside the ring.”

“But I just saw…” Edmund trailed off as a group of four emerged from the entrance and the man moved away to usher them through. He watched as a tall and well-equipped delver greeted the man like a friend while his three party members simply stared forward with sunken eyes. Edmund sighed. Whoever this man was, whoever’d hired him to keep the entrance clear, wasn’t going to be any help. With a shrug, Edmund moved on.

He found himself on a wooden deck constructed of mismatched beams of lumber, some rough and jagged like those he’d landed on and some polished smooth enough he might’ve thought it used for furniture in a previous life. The platform stretched some twenty feet in a circle around the entrance, through which adventurers arrived in sporadic intervals no more than a few minutes apart. Those that didn’t immediately move out of the way soon enough found a calloused hand ushering them forward lest they overcrowd the doorway.

Opposite the entrance sat three rows of benches, where a number of men and women waited with tense or bored faces, each glancing up with hope and fear whenever a new set of footsteps echoed across the deck. One of them leapt to her feet at the sight of the group behind Edmund, rushing over to engulf one of the harrowed delvers in a great hug. The man on the bench next to her broke down in tears.

Edmund didn’t linger to watch the experienced adventurer move over to comfort the crying man. He didn’t wait to hear what’d happened to the fallen delver. Loss was a constant presence in these lands, as much a fixture in the landscape around the Eternal Depths as the hills themselves. Edmund knew it as well as anyone. Better, even.

He swallowed back the knot in his throat, pushing aside rolling waves of rage and disgust he’d come to know, only to find something new lurking beneath the surface: disdain.

That kid who’d died had come into the dungeon with every advantage. If his party members were any indicator, he’d been armed and armored from the start. He’d have been trained, pushed to level five or even higher, guided by a delver who’d cleared the first five floors time and time again, and still he’d managed to fuck it up.

Edmund had made it through with none of that.

His stomach turned at the thought, his face going pale as bile rose up in the back of his throat.

He knew he’d been lucky to survive this long. He knew nobody, regardless of their background, should have had to experience the things Edmund had.

It wasn’t that dead kid’s fault he’d grown up in a city that idolized risking one’s life for money and power. It wasn’t his fault he’d been born to a father who’d run the Depths before him and placed that expectation upon him. It wasn’t his fault.

It was the dungeon’s.

Edmund couldn’t let himself forget that. He couldn’t allow his own success to somehow diminish the immense toll of human life the Depths claimed. It had to stop. It had to stop. It had to stop.

His motivations as ironclad as ever, Edmund stepped to the edge of the wooden landing, leaned against the uneven railing, and surveyed the fifth floor.

A cavernous space stretched out before him. To each side of the floor’s entrance, a line of flat stones inlaid in the ground arced out in the beginnings of a great circle, one Edmund couldn’t see the end of. At first glance they might’ve looked like a path of stepping stones, but for the ominous fact that verdant grass and daisies and dandelions sprouted from the far side while only bare dirt coated the ground within.

The usher had mentioned dungeon mobs not being allowed in the ring. Edmund wondered if that applied to plant life too.

The outside of the ring stretched far beyond what Edmund could see, the edges of the floor obscured by the rolling hills that surrounded the central area and the wooden landing. He’d have to explore their hidden dangers later.

Directly ahead stood a marketplace to rival dungeon square.

Several rows of stalls cordoned the crowd of delvers into distinct lanes, providing the merchants ample opportunity to shout the value of their wares at the relatively captive audience.

Artisans bought crafting materials from adventurers and gatherers alike. Tradesmen sold everything from creature comforts to enchanted gear to information. Auctioneers facilitated the trade of loot between parties, all for a fee. Each and every one of them set up shop behind a stone counter, fixtures of the dungeon provided to keep the space neat and orderly. Some merchants decorated with bright canopies or tablecloths or signs, anything to call attention to their particular stall. Others let their wares speak for themselves, a noble—if relatively unsuccessful—strategy.

The stench of tanning mingled with the musk of sweat spun circles around the delightful scent of roasting meat and warm pastries. Edmund took it all in, unable, if but for a moment, to keep the corners of his mouth from tilting up as he felt the kiss of wind against his skin for the first time in what felt like an eternity.

The flat and gray hue of a cloudy day cast shadowless light upon it all, its source a mystery as the ceiling above remained shrouded in darkness.

Edmund scanned the crowd for the azure fox.

He gazed over lines of cots where delvers and merchants slumbered, glanced past a set of tables where groups dined together, and scowled at canvas tents that hid their contents from his wandering eyes. He grinned wistfully at the gentle creek that wound in and out of the ring, the stones that marked the border crossing the water like stepping stones.

It wasn’t until his eyes passed over the bathing delvers too impatient to wait in line for one of the curtained-off sections of the creek that a voice reached Edmund’s ear.

“You should stop there first.”

Edmund glanced sideways at where Liam stood to his left. “First I need to talk to people, while their memories are fresh.” He pushed away from the railing and stepped off the platform onto the loamy soil below, making his way into the bustling crowd.

Liam followed. “You really should take a bath. Most people don’t like talking to delvers straight out of their first floors. Beyond the fact as a lot they’re not good conversationalists—all jumpy and panicked and sullen—they gods-damned stink, and you, my friend, are the worst of the lot. None of them have been down here half as long as you.”

“Nobody’ll want to talk to me if I keep talking to hallucinations, either,” Edmund snapped. “They’ll think I’m crazy.”

“They already think you’re crazy.”

“And because I keep talking to you, now they’ll know I’m crazy.”

“To be entirely fair,” Liam argued, “you are crazy.”

Edmund ignored him. It didn’t evade him that Liam had neglected to even acknowledge his disappearance, nor the question the hallucination still owed. Edmund would have to grill him later, once they were away from prying eyes, and hopefully once they had a lead on the azure fox.

Still, Liam’s comment about the people thinking him crazy rang uncomfortably true as the crowd gave him as wide a berth as they could manage in the busy market. Whether they’d caught some part of his conversation with Liam, noticed his particularly determined yet disheveled appearance, or he truly did stink horrifically, the only looks Edmund received among the throng were of cautious curiosity at best and outright disgust at worst.

He took advantage of his apparent repulsiveness to make his way to the first stall without a line, that of a woman selling smokeless torches and campfire equipment. She stared at him as he approached.

“Excuse me, I’m looking for a bright blue fox. I think it came this way. Did you see where it went?”

The shopkeep glared, a sharpness to her words. “Torches are three coppers. Campfire kits are nine.”

“No,” Edmund said. “I’m looking for—”

“Torches are three coppers,” the woman interrupted. “Campfire kits are nine.”

Edmund sighed. “Alright, fine.” He didn’t bother wondering whether she didn’t know or was withholding the information until he made a purchase. He had no money to spend either way.

As he wandered through the crowd, a strange sense of comfort washed over him, as if the hustle and bustle of the marketplace echoed those he’d seen in the city above so well as to remind him of his life before the dungeon. The sounds, the smells, the near-oppressive atmosphere of humanity all around, it all came together in a confluence of normalcy that seemed almost wrong in such an abnormal place. It felt good, soothing.

It wasn’t until he tried to evoke Madness to guide him and failed that Edmund realized The Recluse was to blame, at least in part. Shaking the thoughts from his head, he continued his search.

The leatherworker two stalls down hadn’t seen anything. The cartographer across from him refused to even look Edmund’s way. The more shrugs he received, the more scowls and rejections and disdainful head-shakes, the more Liam’s words drilled themselves into Edmund’s head. He was just about to give up and head to the creek for a bath when a voice caught his attention.

“I saw it!” a man called, his voice hard and roughed with age.

Edmund turned to find a barren counter, decorated with neither silks nor signs nor canopies, behind which a man sold kebabs. Nobody stood in line. No money changed hands.

Edmund approached. “The blue fox?”

“Aye,” the man nodded and met Edmund’s gaze. A scar ran up his wrinkled face, directly over his left eye—which Edmund realized to be made of glass—and up his scalp, forming a line along the top of his head where the snow white hair around it refused to grow. His clothes were brown and plain, obscured, mostly, by a canvas apron that was probably white somewhere beneath the smattering layer of stains.

Edmund leaned in. “Did you see where it went?”

“I did,” the man said, “and I’ll tell you if you give me something in return.”

Edmund exhaled. “I don’t have any money.”

“Not money. An answer. Seems fair.”

Edmund narrowed his gaze, but couldn’t fathom a reason to turn the man down. “Okay. What do you want to know?”

“Oh, that’s easy,” the kebab-seller said. Without turning his head, he shifted his gaze to Edmund’s right, his glass eye sitting eerily still as his real eye moved. With a toothy grin, he gazed directly at Liam. “I want to know what he’s doing here.”

Edmund froze. His breath, his heart, the blood within his veins all seemed to halt in that moment. He opened his mouth but no words came forth. No thoughts arose. No protests burst through. No thoughts ran through his mind beyond the sudden, stark realization.

He can see him too.

Either unaware or simply amused by Edmund’s state of shock, Liam let out a laugh and stepped up to the counter. “I could never fool that eye of yours, could I Bill?”

“It’s William,” the man grunted. “And judging by your friend’s face, he doesn’t know who you are. Should I enlighten him?”

“No, no,” Liam said. “I have the distinct impression we’ll be getting to that soon enough. In the meantime…” He shrugged. “A man can sightsee, can’t he?”

“That’s a question, not an answer,” William barked. “Why are you here? It’s obviously for the kid. What’s he to you? And I warn you, I’ll know if you’re lying.”

“I can’t lie,” Liam said. “You know that. As for the kid… he’s interesting. I found him on the first floor spawn-killing some giant rats. Spent a week there fighting them for no loot, and he’s only gotten more interesting since.”

“That’s not the whole story.”

“When have I ever told the whole story?”

William huffed. “Good point.”

Edmund’s mind raced as the conversation washed over him. He wondered if he should tell the kebab-seller that Liam had once called him a paragon, or about the wager they’d made. A part of him wanted to grill this William for all the information he could get. Another demanded he push this conversation to an end so he could speak with Liam in private. He could always question William later. There was no telling when Liam would disappear again.

“The fox,” he eventually managed. “Where is it?”

“It ran up the creek,” William answered. “Out the circle and past the hills.”

“Thanks,” Edmund said with a curt nod. “I’ll be back later with more questions, and answers with which to pay for them.”

William smiled, his glass eye pointed at Edmund and his real eye pointed at Liam. “I look forward to it.”

Edmund did his best to walk away calmly rather than storming off, but found the distinction remarkably difficult to recognize in the first person. At the moment, he didn’t give two shits what Liam thought, but he still wanted information from William. Leaving a bad impression would make that more difficult.

He walked along the side of the creek, boots sinking just noticeably into the soft yet firm soil. He weaved through the queues for the curtained-off private bathing areas, strode past the pool where others bathed in the open. He didn’t know where exactly he was going, other than that eventually he’d have to follow the waterside to find the fox. For now, he just wanted distance.

He stopped just short of the stepping stones that marked the boundary between the exposed earth of the ring and the grassy hillsides of the dungeon floor. A few bathers and passersby still lingered in the area, but the series of short waterfalls that delivered the creek from the hill to the ring helped mask Edmund’s voice.

Liam cared little for the boundary, stepping right across it to sit back on the grassy hillside.

“You’re no hallucination,” Edmund said plainly.

