The thing didn’t even try to dodge his spear.

Edmund felt more than saw the beast impale itself, tightening the muscles of his arms and hands to hold the spear in place as it drove itself down the monster’s throat. With a grunt, he shifted his right hand back to the handle at the base of his spear. With a twist and a tug, the hydraulic segments went to work, bending the tip up into a brutal hook.

The beast twitched once, then twice, then stilled.

It was over before the water fell from the air.

Edmund pushed back the handle on his spear, straightening it so he could pull it free of the dead beast. The thing itself stood as tall as he did, through most of that height was the fake river rock atop its back.

Below water, it’d stood on four short legs each coated in scales the same dull gray as river rock. Its mouth opened horizontally, its relatively short snout ready to clamp its two rows of razor sharp teeth around the leg of an unwary passerby. As Edmund gazed down upon its back, he found four holes had opened in the fake rock—two for eyes and two he figured were for air.

As he wiped his spear on the grass, he snarled at Liam. “Visible and non-lethal, huh? That’s what the accords say?”

“You can’t tell me that rock wasn’t extremely visible,” Liam countered. “And its first strike was non-lethal. Last I checked, a splash of water to blind you isn’t deadly.”

“I shouldn’t have listened to you,” Edmund growled. “If I’d stopped to ask one of the gatherers or escorts for advice, they’d have told me about these things.”

“They’d have told you nothing because you still haven’t taken that bath,” Liam argued. “At best they would’ve told you to stay away from the water, something you had no intention of doing either way.”

“Instead you gave me half-truths. I would’ve been safer if you hadn’t told me anything at all. At least then I would’ve been on the lookout for traps and ambushes.”

“Lesson number one.” A hardness appeared in Liam’s voice, a certain derisive intensity that hadn’t been there before. “I always tell the truth. I never tell the whole truth. That’s on you to find out.”

“Assuming I don’t get killed before I do,” Edmund snapped. He pushed himself to his feet, taking one last glance at the dead beast.

River Rockjaw

These ambush predators disguise themselves as rocks. Once prey gets in range, they blind and surprise their target with a spray of water before darting in and clamping down on the target’s leg. Once a rockjaw closes its jaws around its prey, only the death of said prey will open them again.

“Nasty things, those,” Liam said. “Once it’s got its teeth in you, it doesn’t let go until you’re dead, and that includes if you kill it. I don’t think there’s a healer on this floor that hasn’t had to amputate somebody’s leg ‘cause they pulled up with a dead rockjaw clamped to it.”

“And if I hadn’t been ready for it, that’d be me.”

“Or you’d be dead,” Liam chimed. “I don’t think I need to share the survival rates for rockjaw bites. The good news is, they’re easy to spot when you know what to look for.”

“And what do I look for?”

Liam grinned. “You’ll figure it out.”

With a sigh, Edmund turned to face the herbalist in the distance who’d warned him. He held up his hand in a wave that said at once both ‘thanks’ and ‘I can handle myself.’ The herbalist gave a thumbs up and returned to her work.

“Alright,” Edmund said, holding his spear at the ready for another fight. “Let’s keep moving.”

He barely made it a hundred yards before he saw it. Sticking out of the creek up ahead, water rushing by it, was a pointed stone. More curious still were the ways it matched—every corner, every angle, from moss on the leeward side to the chips in the stone itself.

Edmund blinked. “It’s the same rock.”

Liam tapped him on the side of the arm. “Told you they’re easy to spot.”

With a grunt Edmund approached, keeping his spear leveled at the hidden rockjaw as he walked straight into its ambush. This time, he watched the rock quietly slip beneath the surface, spotted the ripples in the creek that marked its approach.

When the water exploded into a shower of droplets and the thing burst out, Edmund was ready.

He didn’t need to hook his spear and mangle its insides for a kill this time. He got it right through the eye.

Liam was slow-clapping when the water fell from the air. “You’re improving.”

“Practice makes perfect,” Edmund said, not stopping to examine the corpse before the dungeon reclaimed it. Before Liam reclaimed it, he realized, forcing through the realization that they were one and the same. He grit his teeth and kept moving.

He encountered two more of the rockjaws as he followed the winding creek, neither of which posed a challenge. It seemed the wild animals, while dangerous predators, were not particularly bright. They had no instinct programmed into their brains for what to do when the prey bit back, so one by one they fell to Edmund’s spear.

Having figured the creek out to some extent, Edmund spared additional attention towards watching the meadow on his left. Nothing had yet attacked him from that direction, but he’d seen what the el-cat had done to that herbalist. He didn’t find any lurking, but he did come across a party of leatherworkers skinning one.

“How come they get to skin it?” Edmund asked once he’d passed. “Everything I kill dissolves.”

Liam shrugged. “They have skinner’s marks. Same reason those herbalists can pick flowers and not have them dissolve the moment they put ‘em down.”

Edmund blinked, realizing his opportunity to claim otherwise wasted resources. “How do I get those marks?”

“You don’t want one.”

“Of course I do,” Edmund snapped. “I need resources.”

Liam sighed. “Gatherers’ marks are mutually exclusive with delvers’ marks. If you intend to go any further than the twentieth floor without buying passage on an expedition, you don’t want a gatherers’ mark.”

“What do the delvers’ marks do?”

“All sorts of things,” Liam chimed. Before Edmund could ask any more, Liam elucidated. “All sorts of things that you’ll find out later. Delvers’ marks unlock on the tenth floor. You don’t need to worry about them now.”

Edmund nodded, for once agreeing with the cryptic dungeon. He could ask questions and plan for the future when he wasn’t in hostile territory—not that he ever left hostile territory. Until he felt confident an el-cat wasn’t going to pounce at any minute, then.

His journey along the creek came to an end at a waterfall. While a path up a hillside could’ve led him to the top of falls, Edmund didn’t care to explore.

There, on a wide flat rock just below the falls, sunning itself in a narrow beam of light that shone in a circle around it, sat the azure fox.

Edmund stared up at the yellow glow which seemed to appear from nowhere in the dark ceiling. “Is… is that sunlight?”

“Indirect, of course,” Liam said. “Brought down here through a series of mirrors, actually, but yes. That’s sunlight.”

“And that rock the fox is sitting on…”

“Is just a rock.”

Edmund nodded.

“Those other rocks though…”

Edmund blinked, and sure enough, hidden in the whitewater below the waterfall, stood no fewer than two dozen of the same pointed rock he’d seen four times already. “Thrax,” he cursed. “I can’t fight that many.”

“If that’s the case,” Liam said, “I would suggest not fighting them.”

“Then how do I get to the fox? I can’t swim—for obvious reasons, and that drop from the top of the waterfall is too high to survive.”

Liam shrugged.

Edmund let out a breath. “Useful, as always.”

His spear in hand, he stepped away from the riverbank to follow the hillside, keeping his distance from the rockjaws as he made his ascent. The top of the waterfall showed little promise.

He’d hoped to find… he wasn’t sure. If not a hidden path then at least a good place to secure his rope and rappel down. The trouble was, if he wanted to rappel to the fox, he’d do it with the entire waterfall pounding down on him the whole way. There was no way he’d be able to manage a controlled descent like that.

That left him with only one option.

Edmund stopped at the creekside just next to the top of the waterfall and pulled his Strethian lash from his shoulder. With a gentle toss, he allowed one end to burrow into the bank. With a few tugs to confirm its security, he climbed back down the hillside, uncoiling the rope of roots as he went.

He wrapped it twice around his wrist before taking a running start.

With a great leap, he pulled himself up the rope as he swung over the infested creek. Two of the stones sank into the water as he passed, but none made a move on him.

Edmund slammed into the edge of the fox’s perch, his stomach catching the corner of the flat rock at the worst possible angle. With his free left hand he scrambled for something to take hold of, managing to jam his fingers into a crack in the stone. The tension in the rope pulled his right wrist up and back, pulling Edmund towards the creek and the rockjaws within.

Clenching the knuckles in his left hand as hard as he could, Edmund swung his right arm around in two circles, unwrapping the rope around it. As his lash swung away from him, he pressed his newly-free hand into the stone and pushed himself up.

He rolled onto the platform, coming to stop face to face with the azure fox. Apparently his arrival had disturbed its slumber.

It pawed over to him, tilting its head in curiosity as it approached. Edmund stared with wide eyes as it brought its face to his, its nose twitching as it sniffed him. Then, in a single motion, its tongue burst from its mouth to lick Edmund’s forehead. Before the action even registered, the fox darted away, running across the platform and into the waterfall. By the time Edmund made it to his feet, the creature had vanished.

“Now that is interesting,” Liam said, his eyes fixed not on Edmund but on the waterfall. “Looks like you’ve got yourself a recurring objective.”

Edmund rubbed at his forehead where the fox had licked him. “A what?”

“Check your constellation.”

Edmund obeyed, shutting his eyes and imagining the clear night’s sky that so defined him. Sure enough, right next to his Trailblazer’s Sigil of the Rootmother stood another image, this one of a baby blue fox.

Trailblazer’s Sigil of the Azure Pup

The first step on the Path of the Azure Fox. Increases agility.

Trailblazer bonus: Sharpens hearing.

Edmund closed his constellation.  “What’s the Path of the Azure Fox?”

“Hells if I know,” Liam said. “Sounds exciting.”

Edmund sighed and pushed himself to his feet. “Alright, let’s see where it went.” Holding his hand to his face to shield it from the deluge, he stepped up to the waterfall, took a deep breath, and stepped through.

The chime rang out before he even opened his eyes.

He found himself in a small hollow lit both by a single torch on the wall and what light passed through the waterfall. The room’s only contents were an iron chest on the ground and door that swung open to reveal a curtain of darkness.

Liam stepped through the waterfall, coming out completely dry. He laughed. “A secret behind a waterfall, classic!”

Edmund blinked. “What is this?”

“A hidden exit,” Liam said. “They come with better loot, or loot at all in this case. The main exit to the sixth floor is inside the safety ring. You don’t get loot for finding that one.”

Edmund stared at the darkness through the doorway. “And the fox is on the next floor.”

“Thrax knows where that fox went,” Liam said. “But I’d keep an eye out for it if I were you. I’m sure you’ll have a chance to find it again.”

“Yeah,” Edmund grumbled, “of course I will.” Absolutely one to look a gift horse in the mouth, he stepped carefully up to the loot chest, swinging it open with one hand while his other clasped his spear.

Inside he found two of the familiar sharp stones, each miniaturized to be smaller than his head.

Rockjaw Pauldrons

Provides protection against piercing and water damage. Vulnerable to ice damage and blunt-force damage.

Edmund didn’t hesitate to grab the pauldrons and wriggle his arms through their leather straps. They fit perfectly, as every piece of loot did. As Edmund adjusted them to make sure they’d stay put in the heat of battle, Liam spoke up.

“There’s one more thing, since you’ve been complaining about it.”

With a scowl, Edmund leaned back over the iron chest to find a small pile of silver coins where the pauldrons had been sitting. “Do these chests normally have money?”

“A bit,” Liam said. “More the further down you go. I tend to give it to groups when I don’t want them fighting over loot—it’s easy to split.”

Edmund scowled. “Why wouldn’t you want them fighting over loot?”

“Oh, I do,” Liam said. “But if they’re forced to come up with a fair way of dealing with loot division early on, I can’t make it a problem for them later. Knowing when to drive a wedge between party members is just as important as knowing how.”

Edmund spat.

Liam laughed. “More things you don’t need to worry about.”

Edmund gathered up the coins and shoved them into his pocket. He’d have to get a pack of some sort, sooner or later. He wondered if it’d be worthwhile to return to the market and buy one with his newly acquired coins before the realization struck.

He looked up at Liam. “Are these meant to tempt me to go back to the market?”

“You need a bath.” Liam dodged the question. “And I get the distinct impression you won’t be taking one outside the safety ring.”

“And how do you propose I get back to the ring? My rope is dangling in the middle of a rockjaw nest.”

Liam paused, furrowing his brow. “Good point. Follow me.” With a wave of his hand the waterfall split open, making way for Liam and Edmund to pass through. Once back on the sunny rock, Liam snapped his fingers, and the rockjaws rearranged. Three of them separated from the others, moving slowly and deliberately through the water, until they sat in a line between Edmund and the bank.

“You’ve gotta be kidding.”

“I usually am,” Liam said.

“No,” Edmund put plainly.

“What? Whatever happened to that young delver who wrung everything he could out of a floor before moving on?”

“I’m thorough, not suicidal,” Edmund said. “I’ve got my loot, I’ve got an Aspect to unlock, I’ve got a new sigil. I’m not going to run along the mossy, slippery, angled, moving backs of a bunch of predators for the chance to go shopping.”

“What about the chance to reclaim your rope?”