“You don’t know that,” Liam replied, the ever-present mischievous smile stretching across his face.

“That kebab-seller saw you.”

“Maybe he was a hallucination too.”

Edmund scowled. “No, no, that can’t be right. I was in a huge crowd of people. Thanks to The Recluse, that’s probably the sanest I’ve been in a while. There’s no way I came up with a brand new hallucination.”

“Maybe you did,” Liam offered. “Maybe you’re hallucinating The Recluse’s effects.”

Edmund paused, his eyes flitting back and forth as he pondered Liam’s statement. It could’ve been possible. Strictly speaking, once he’d admitted the possibility of imagining entire conversations with his dead friend, hallucinating new Aspects or other people logically followed. How much of it was real? Could he ever know? His mind spun as ran down the spiral of—

Liam let out a burst of laughter. “By Thrax, the look on your face! Gods, you are fun to mess with.” He smiled and shook his head. “No, I’m not a hallucination.”

“But you said—”

“I didn’t say anything. As I mentioned to dear William, I can’t lie. You assumed you were hallucinating when I first showed up, and I never bothered to correct you. Honestly, I’m impressed the charade lasted this long.”

Edmund furrowed his brow. “And why did you show up?”

“Just to be clear, you’re asking why I first came to you?”

Edmund paused, realizing the weight of Liam’s statement. “No,” he replied sharply. “That’s not the question you owe me, at least.”

Liam nodded. “And the question I owe you is…”

“Who are you?”

Liam grinned, his eyebrows popping up as he spoke. “Good choice.” He pushed himself to his feet, looking down on Edmund from his spot on the hillside. With a flair for the dramatic, he stretched his arms out to the sides with open palms and spoke the words.

“I’m the trees, the grass, the dirt beneath your feet. I’m the hills that texture the horizon and the torch that lights the way. I am greed. I am valor. I am hope. I am that which lurks within the shadows, and I am the shadows themselves. Most of all I am death. The death of weakness, the death of fear, the death of men. I am the Eternal Depths, and you, Edmund Montgomery Ahab, have sworn to destroy me.”

Edmund plunged his spear through his chest.

The action came unbidden, motivated beyond such paltry reasons as fear or rage or desperation. No thoughts crossed Edmund’s mind, no plans materialized. He simply acted.

The spiderleg spear passed straight through Liam, drawing no blood and facing no resistance, before planting itself firmly in the hillside behind him.

Liam laughed. “It’s gonna be a bit more difficult than that, but I give you points for trying.”

“Why should I believe a word you say?”

“You should believe every word I say, exactly as I say them. I can’t lie. We’ve been over this.”

“And why should I believe that?”

Liam shrugged. “It’s in that book of yours. You can check if you want.”

Edmund did.

Misdirections

The dungeon may not speak falsehoods by any means, including but not limited to through avatars, mobs, text of any kind, verbal or nonverbal declarations, and clearly-translatable imagery. See accords 817.1-819.5 for further details.

Edmund blinked. “What’s clearly-translatable imagery?”

“Think arrows pointing down the wrong path,” Liam explained. “That sort of thing.”

“Assuming you are actually the dungeon, and you haven’t found some way to get around this clause in the accords, and that everything in this book you gave me is actually accurate—”

“Oh, don’t get me wrong,” Liam interrupted. “I absolutely have found ways to get around that clause; they just usually involve talking in a way that makes it sound like I’m saying something I’m not. I never said I was a hallucination, but I did a damn good job of implying it.” He stepped to the side, phasing through Edmund’s spear until he stood free from the weapon. “That’s better.”

“And why me?”

“You’re interesting,” Liam said. “I believe previously I’ve used the words ‘remarkably entertaining.’ You’re not the first delver who’s wanted to destroy me, but you’re certainly the first to try at level one. Then when you finished the first floor, instead of continuing on your quest for vengeance, you stayed back and fought a bunch of rats for a week. I’d never seen anything like it.”

Edmund thought back to that day, realizing, in hindsight, that Liam hadn’t first appeared when he’d taken Madness as a hallucination might’ve. The dungeon’s first words to him had been to ask him why he was killing rats for no loot. “Why Liam?”

“To mess with you, originally. I generally like to appear to delvers in a form they’re familiar with, and since I know nothing about your family, it had to be someone from your party. Liam seemed like the most fun.”

Edmund paused, something about Liam’s words bothering him. “You know nothing about my family?”

Liam raised an eyebrow. “Should I?”

Edmund swallowed back the growing knot in his throat. Liam had said it outright. Unless his book of accords was false, the dungeon actually didn’t know. Edmund took a breath, heart racing as he found his first crack in Liam’s armor: something Edmund knew that the Eternal Depths didn’t.

Liam leaned in. “This wouldn’t happen to have something to do with why you hate me so much, would it?”

“We’re getting sidetracked,” Edmund said. “You called me a paragon, once. What does that mean?”

“That would be telling.” Liam grinned. “You know what? You’re right. We are getting sidetracked.” He made a show of shielding his eyes from a sun that didn’t shine and swiveling his head to each side in a pantomime of searching for something. “That fox of yours has gotta be around here somewhere.”

Edmund grunted, wanting little more than to bury his spear into Liam’s smug face. He knew it would accomplish nothing. He wanted to scream, to throttle him. He wanted the apparition to leave, to let him hunt in solitude. He’d figured he’d catch the dungeon’s attention eventually—Liam had practically said as much when he’d ended up on the phased-out second floor.

The worst part of it all was how valuable Liam had proven to be. Already the asshole had practically overflowed with useful information, and regardless of Edmund’s opinions, he recognized the optimal strategy would be to stay on Liam’s good side, at least for now. He’d have to be careful, but Edmund was always careful.

Biting back his pride and rage and thirst for vengeance, Edmund resolved to keep this particular enemy close.

“I want proof. Here of all places, you should be able to prove you are who you say you are.”

“Oh, that’s easy,” Liam said. He snapped his fingers, and the grass around his feet shrank back to reveal an image, in full color, of Liam’s face smiling and winking at Edmund. “Feel free to ask around,” he said, jerking his thumb to a pair of men bathing in the creek, “those delvers’ll confirm they saw it too.”

Already Edmund’s mind reeled with the various ways Liam could’ve faked such a thing, from illusion magic to more hallucinations to simply paying off the various bystanders to lie about seeing whatever he asked them about. He realized in that moment that he had to trust, to some extent, the world as his senses depicted it. Mad or otherwise, if he started doubting everything he saw and heard, he’d know nothing and get nowhere.

“Fine,” he eventually growled, leaning across the boundary stones to yank his spear from the hillside. “What can I expect to face out there?”

“A few wild animals, some that roam the fields and some that live in the water. No traps. A few secrets, but you’d look for those regardless of what I said.” Liam paused. “Oh, you should know I’m only telling you this because this is the most scouted-out floor in the entire dungeon. All those people, you know? You could get all this info from asking one of them; I’m just saving you the effort.”

“Or you’re deliberately leaving out something one of the other delvers would tell me.”

Liam grinned. “Now you’re getting it. Putting aside the fact none of them will tell you fuck all until you take that bath I keep telling you to take, the only relevant thing I left out is that the floor changes. Not much, but anything out of sight of the safety ring moves around, reorganizes, that sort of thing. Gotta keep it from getting too solved.”

“Alright,” Edmund said, grasping the shaft of his spear tightly in his right hand. “Let’s do this.”

With the creek to guide the way, a whole new ecosystem to explore, and the one creature he hated more than anything at his side, Edmund stepped across the stones, out of the ring of safety, and back into the deadly embrace of the Eternal Depths.

Edmund half expected a dozen monsters to pop out of nowhere the moment he left the safe area behind, but the hillside left him in peace. It wasn’t until he reached the peak that realized what Liam had meant by wild animals.

A vast wilderness stretched out before him. A herd of some kind of hoofed beast with nine pointed horns grazed upon the plentiful grass. Birds flew overhead, stopping to bathe themselves in the creek or nesting in the cluster of trees on the other side. A group of herbalists picked flowers under the watchful eye of a woman in scuffed plate-mail. A pair of hunters cleaned the corpse of some animal mangled beyond recognition. Edmund could practically smell the blood.

“Nature sure is beautiful, isn’t it?” Liam asked, his hands on his hips as he surveyed the meadow from Edmund’s side.

“None of this is natural,” Edmund said. “It’s just something you made.”

Liam grinned. “That makes it better.” He pointed across the meadow to where a seven-legged cat prowled through the grass towards a herd of what looked like regular deer. “Those two species don’t even live on the same continent. This is the only place you can watch an el-cat hunt those deer.”

Edmund watched as the el-cat pounced, only to come to a sudden halt midair. It yowled in surprise as it hung there for a moment, before some invisible force launched it across the meadow. It landed with a crunch.

“Oh, by the way, avoid the deer. They’re telekinetic.”

Edmund opened his mouth to reply, but stopped short when an agonizing shriek rang out in the distance. He jerked his head to follow the noise, only to find a team of delvers in the process of dispatching another of the seven-legged el-cats. The beast stood atop the torso of a man in herbalist robes. Said torso’s head, arms, and left leg lay scattered some distance away.

“Nature sure is beautiful, isn’t it?” Liam repeated, matching his previous tone and posture flawlessly.

Nodding his head in a moment’s silence for the fallen herbalist, Edmund tightened his grasp on his spear and set off. He knew no boon could justify that man’s death, but as with every other awful thing he found in the Depths, he’d take everything he could from it—in this case a grim reminder that death lurked in every shadow.

“This blue fox of yours is certainly interesting,” Liam said as they walked. “Did you know you’re the first one to actually save it?”

Edmund scowled. “That can’t be right.”

“Oh, it is. See, it’s there as a mechanism, a way to make that level easier,” Liam explained. “If you kill the fox, the shadows stop moving. Makes getting around a lot easier.”

Edmund blinked. “Is that what people do?”

“Most, yes.” Liam nodded. “Some just kick it or knock it over or cut it off—slow it down somehow. If you help the shadows catch the fox while it’s still alive, you get a piece of bonus loot.”

“And in both cases the shadows stop,” Edmund reasoned, “making the level easier, and making it possible to claim the floor-loot at the end without getting caught.”

“Basically,” Liam replied, speaking up to out-volume the noise of the nearby creek rushing around a pointed stone. “It’s meant to be impossible to claim the floor’s loot if you just run through without hunting the fox—think of it like an easy mode. You, though…”

“I cleared the floor on hard mode,” Edmund said.

Liam jogged in front of Edmund and turned around to speak face to face. “Except there wasn’t supposed to be a hard mode. Dungeon mobs shouldn’t be able to move between floors at all, and that fox of yours is a dungeon mob.”

Edmund stopped in his tracks and took a deep breath. “And what does that mean?”

“It means something’s changed.”

“You mean you changed something,” Edmund said plainly.

“No, no, I mean something’s changed.” Liam waved his hands wildly in front of him to illustrate the concept of some dubious something. “Contrary to common practice amongst dungeons, I like to leave things a bit more organic. Fewer scripted scenes, more… sets of circumstances that are allowed to play out. Generally the same things end up happening over and over again, but sometimes somebody does something new. Right now, that means I’ve got a dungeon mob on a floor it isn’t supposed to be on, and the distinct impression there’s more to come.”

“Can’t you just… look at it and know what it’s doing? You made it.”

“But where’s the fun in that?” Liam grinned. “In my line of work, you eventually find that knowing everything gets real boring real quick. I’d rather…” He trailed off. “Oh, dear. Looks like someone’s trying to get your attention.”

Edmund turned, following Liam’s gaze to find a woman out in the meadow jumping and waving her arms back and forth. He strained his ears to listen, but could only catch some of her words over the noise of the creek.

“—away from the—it’s not—”

Edmund blinked and rounded on Liam. “You said there were no traps. What about ambushes?”

Liam simply smiled.

Edmund grabbed his spear with both hands and pivoted to face the creek, surveying the smooth and calm flow of the water with narrow eyes. No threats revealed themselves. He scowled. “Where’s the rock?”

Liam didn’t answer.

“There was a rock there,” Edmund insisted. “Where did it go?”

The newly calmed river cleared the air enough for the distant gatherer’s shout to reach Edmund’s ears.

“Get away from the water! It’s not safe!”

A cheshire grin and a glint of mischief colored Liam’s face as he spoke the words, “Might be a bit late for that.”

The creek exploded.

Edmund squinted against the shower of water, refusing the instinct to shut his eyes or recoil from frigid droplets. Under such conditions, he only saw the thing coming for him as a dark blur darting up the bank.

But he did see it.

