Every skill can be countered, every Pathbearer has a blind spot, and every environment offers opportunities and limitations. You are not going to be able to control every single variable. That is impossible. Do not even try. What you can do is understand the variables you have the best chances of altering and then use them to your advantage by overwhelming your enemies before they can figure out the same thing.

When conducting a raid into hostile territory, stealth and speed are your best allies, but on top of that, distractions are viable options as well. In fact, a multi-faceted approach might be to your greatest advantage. But in this is a lesson. Ignorance protects you. What your enemy does not know, they must assume, and assumptions are deadly. If you face a Pathbearer with any experience at all, they will not rush to be made prey. They will wait, they will watch, and then they will act, but only after they have accrued a certain level of surety. Do not give them that. Continue to act under conditions of chaos. Be an agent of havoc and carnage, and never be predictable. The harder it is for your enemy to understand who you are, to grasp your skills, to know your limits, the longer you will remain alive in all situations.

But above all, if you are the one on the receiving end, if you find yourself facing a foe you don't understand and cannot predict, then the wisest thing to do is to retreat.

Retreat, gather more information, form your intelligence, and fight when the terms are more favorable to you.

No songs are sung of fools who rush in. Even tragic heroes perish knowing the insurmountable odds they face. Theirs is a bleak choice. But even then, it's better than an accidental suicide built on the foundations of stupidity.

—Captain Harry Irons, TacStrat 101

308To Break a Curse [V]

"Stop cutting your head off."

"But it's fun, and I'm bored."

"Well, it's bothering me. It keeps bouncing off the ground and making that thumping noise—was that a bloody smirk? Were you smirking at me? You're doing this on purpose, you bastard! Stop it! I already have enough nightmares!"

"Trust me, I'm not actually trying to traumatize you. It just feels kind of funny. Like when the world gets too much, I'm just gonna cut my own head off, and then everything is peaceful for a while. It's pretty great."

"You want to know what else is great? Being able to distinguish between my actual life and a fever dream."

Shiv ignored Adam and cut his own head off again. Once more, everything went dark. Blissfully, peacefully dark. No noise, no complaining. Without ears, Adam wasn't real. Without eyes, Adam couldn't be seen. Without a nose, even the foulest smells could be avoided. Truly, headlessness was the finest way of existing.

A Glimpse of Perspective 75 > 76

Alas, peace could never last forever. After a few seconds of blissful silence, Shiv felt someone jab his mind.

“Shiv,” Uva said flatly. "Adam is leaving. You've bothered him too much. If you were trying to be annoying, you've succeeded.”

“I really wasn't. Not having a head is just peaceful. Trust me.”

“I will… take your word for it at present. But though I loathe to be the harbinger of bad news, I need to inform you that the Slipgate is almost ready.” Faint emanations of tension radiated out from her mind. “Are you truly sure you want to do this?”

“Yeah, I promised the Enchanter I'd help him find his brother. I don't think the poor guy is still alive or anything, but it's better to find something to bury than nothing at all. Besides, the Stranger is hurting right now. The best time to hurt or kill someone some more is when they are already in pain. If I can shit in the Stranger's breakfast some more today, then it's gonna be worth it. Besides, what's the worst thing he's gonna do? Kill me? Crush my mind? Been there, suffered that.”

Shiv restored himself. A new head sprouted free from the stump that was his neck. All his senses popped back into being at once. The bunker was the same way as he'd left it: dull gray metal walls; shimmering Dimensionality drifting through the air, lighting everything in a paradoxical bright blackness. The orcs had applied their ridiculous attention to detail in replicating every aspect of the bunker on the other side of the portal, back in Gate Piety. They even had the right scratches and blemishes. The only differences here were the mana diffusers that had been bolted into the nearby walls, and the unseen obelisk that was now stored within a tunnel underground.

At that moment, Shiv sensed the frequency of the gateway changing. If he were to walk across now, there would be no telling where he'd end up. Definitely not in Gate Piety. Absolutely not the Outside either. The transition chamber held only two: Merrielmel and Shiv. The rest were connected to the latter through psionic links maintained by Uva. Or so Shiv assumed. He'd lost track of Valor at some point. The ancient Pathbearer was probably testing Shiv, trying to see if he could improve his awareness. But try as he might, he couldn't feel, hear, see, or smell any indication that his mentor was nearby.

But that meant little when it came to Valor. He could be standing right next to Shiv, and the latter wouldn't notice.

Still got a lot of stuff I need to improve.

A ripple flickered across the surface of the gateway, and Merrielmel let out a triumphant squeak. "It's done, it's done! We've connected again! We've found another point of instability that—Ah, it doesn't matter. It doesn't matter at all."

His legs moved faster than his body could react, and his torso lurched back as he sprinted at Shiv. He nearly fell over in his over-excitement, but Shiv caught him, preventing him from cracking his skull open against the metal walls.

The Enchanter seemed utterly indifferent to the near impact he'd almost suffered, and instead began digging through his tasseled robes. "Here, I've been working on calibrating this Divination matrix with every chance I've got! This—this, perhaps second only to the Slipgate, is the realization of all my labors. Now if I can only find it…"

"You take your time. I'm not going anywhere. Neither is that gateway." Shiv offered him a calm expression to steady him. Sage of the Enkindled Heart saw through Merrielmel like he was transparent. The Enchanter was a mess of terror, hope, and yearning. He'd dreamed about this moment for a long time: a redemption, a return of the brother he'd lost. In the form of Shiv, there was hope. Someone not only brave enough, but also capable enough and expendable enough, to delve into the Outside.

Should the Deathless fall, it would be of no matter. He would depart again and again and again until he found some trace of Merrielmel's brother. For a promise was a promise, and the Stranger's misery was added cream atop that cake.

"There! Found it! Finally!" From within his tattered robes, Merrielmel produced a strange, cube-shaped box that constantly leaked the violet hues of Divination mana. It tainted the air with a faint sheen of gloss. With Merrielmel being less than half of Shiv's size, the divination matrix was a small, fragile box, barely larger than one of Shiv's fingers. He pinched it carefully, once again glad he'd picked Leviathan of the Shapeless Tides as his Legendary Skill evolution rather than an ability geared toward raw, bestial destruction. Life was about more than inflicting damage, and even in times of constant war, control was invaluable.

You just couldn't afford to break some things.

"Give me a second," Shiv said. Pinching the matrix between his fingers, Shiv repositioned his Severed Shadow using his Chronomancy. His Revenant form was cast back in time—but the time it referenced was his physical body, so it blinked into place right behind him and immediately began applying the spool of Vitae over the Divination matrix. Soon, the small cube was utterly encased in a layer of solidified life force and orichalcum. Shiv examined it a moment further and then detached part of his hand, wrapping his flesh around it like an additional glove.

"Just for safety, and to make sure I don't break it before it sees any use." He gave the Enchanter an apologetic grin. "Also, I hope you have a backup or some kind of grand schematic because I don't know the odds of you getting this back."

A nervous chuckle escaped Merrielmel—and then he started choking on his laughter when he tried to inhale at the same moment. "It's fine, it's fine. I can… I can make more. I know how to make more. Once you have the design down… Ah, I'm rambling again. You don't need this. You don't need this at all. Feel free. I have more prepared. As many turns as it takes, right? As many attempts as it takes."

"Yeah," Shiv replied, confident. "As many attempts as it takes. I'll find your brother, Merrielmel. I can't promise that I'll find him alive, but if there is any trace of him at all, I'll find them. And I'll bring something back for you. But you keep this in mind: I can't promise you peace. I can only give you a resolution."

Something hardened first behind Merrielmel's eyes, and then in the expression on his face. "A resolution is more than what I would have gotten anyway. Before it was a dream, then it was a hope. Now, now there is an attempt. I thank you. I thank you a thousand times over. I thank you. I thank you."

"Thank me after I get this done," Shiv said. "Besides, we owe you more for getting Uva and the others out of the Outside and us back home. Now, I know you're still attached to the academy, and you're a citizen of the Republic, but… maybe talk to Adam. We don't offer much yet, but we don't let Inquisitors drag off our people into torturous dungeons."

"No need for Inquisitors when you have an army of grayskinned behemoths at your beck and call, willing to extract pain at a moment's notice and on the whims of their own cruelty." Merrielmel’s smile was forced.

Shiv sucked in a slightly embarrassed breath. "Yeah, don't worry about them. I'll make sure they don't do anything to you."

"It was a joke."

Sage of the Enkindled Heart: He means that only partially. The orcs terrify him. One of them likely has already threatened him. His drones are meager, even for self-defense. He's not a martial Pathbearer. This is a terrible place for him to be. He is exercising significant amounts of bravery being in the Tutorial at all.

Shiv reached down and carefully gave the man's shoulder with an appreciative squeeze. "Stay strong, Merrielmel. And stay patient too. This might take a few tries. As many as needed."

The bald elf nodded and took his leave of the Departure Chamber. Finally, Shiv alone. He stared into the depths of the dimensional gateway. Its frequency tuned, Shiv saw a glint of eldritch colors seeping out, trying to pierce through that static black fabric.

“Shiv?” Uva said, her voice gentle but stern.

“Look, I promised Merrielmel I'd do this. Actually, I want to do this. I want to make the Stranger's life miserable for everything he put us, but especially you, through. You don't need to worry about me. The bastard has no easy way to put me down for good. You don't need to feel ashamed either. You’ve done more than—”

“It's not that. I simply have something to tell you: Die violently. Make it hurt for him.”

Shiv was already vicious at his core. Something about her request turned him downright feral. “Well, since you asked…”

He ended his reply by launching himself through the gateway, into the dark, into the Outside once more. His body glowed bright red, a ravenous mass of edges, of bone, of cancers unfettered, and of wrathful intensity. His skin cape dragged behind him, straightened by sheer acceleration. As soon as he passed through that tunnel of pressure, he emerged in the Stranger's hellish garden once more—

And immediately found himself assailed by nightmarish screaming.

Echoes of psionic anguish rippled through the entirety of the dimension. It was like the fabric of the world was a displaced wave slamming into Shiv over and over again. The Stranger's Garden was somehow drawn taut, all of the blackened branches pressing together, ripping into each other, an act of self-mutilation to distract from a greater pain. The eyes that lined them were all squinted shut as well. The Outsider God was experiencing an agony above anything Shiv could express.

And the Fingerlings he could see remained in a miserable state as well. Most of them were curled like digits on a hand gripping bed sheets during a boiling fever. He caught sight of them using his Atlas. Their bodies lit up a mess of incomprehensible architecture, but they glowed all the same. They drifted through the Garden, weightless debris amidst the surging limbs of the eldritch forest. Some of them were threaded through like sausages impaled on the end of a stick. But all of them shared a single thing in common: an emanation of tarnished gold, an expression of retro-continuity, Eldritch-twisted Chronomancy.

In the golden light they cast were shadows, imprints, and distortions. Shiv used his farsight to get a closer look and saw someone he recognized. The outline of Valor holding a blade, carving into something. A thing that resembled a hand. A thing that writhed and screamed. A thing that was screaming still.

