"The Outsiders are both gods and slaves of their own nature," Valor said from right beside Shiv. The Deathless barely held down a high-pitched scream. Regarding his student with a faint hint of amusement from the corner of his left eye, Valor continued, "For that which allows them to defy the natural ways also sees them enchained and tormented by the mutation they seek to apply to our world. This Stranger sees the past and present as the same thing, and so he must relive everything that happened before eternally, infinitely, without choice. The future is simply more glories to be archived in that eternal now, but also more scars will be accumulated as well."

As Valor spoke, the scene played on. Shiv could see the ancient Pathbearer's past shadow cleaving away fingers. Everything he severed within the Chronomantic veil burned. Cuts opened on the Fingerlings, painting paths of pain along their lengths. The wounds of the past leaked over into the present. It seemed like Valor's earlier encounters had reopened old scars—and made them new injuries as a result.

"You know, I kind of suspected you were beside me the whole time." Shiv studied his mentor. "You sure it's a good idea for you to be here? With what you did to the Stranger, I think he'd give just about anything to have a piece of you right now."

"That would require him to find me first." A hint of an arrogant smirk hid in the tone of Valor's voice. "But indeed, I will not remain unnoticed for long. Nor do I desire to deprive you of your deserved struggle. I am simply here to take in the after-fruits of my labor, and to remind you that our adversary is far more fragile than you know. The Stranger is a unification of time. But that means he does not have the insulation of history. Whatever you remind him of, he must suffer. Where you can fall time and time again, and rise every instant after. One wound, one humiliation, one defeat is all it will take. Use patience."

Valor briefly paused. "Also, don’t embarrass me, Shiv. I will be watching."

Shiv chuckled. "No pressure, huh?"

A thunderous roar shook the entire dimension. It rumbled forth from every branch, from every Fingerling that was. From the very particles in the air itself. The noise was terrible. It made things within Shiv coil and twist. He wanted to turn it on himself. He wanted to rip his own head off to silence the sound. And he almost did. But he realized he didn't need to go to such extremes. Instead, he unmade his ears. They sank back into his flesh rather than bursting apart. But with that, he heard no more. Despite this, his equilibrium remained, and the psionic aspect of the Stranger's screams continued to get louder and louder with every passing second.

“Vermin… Will take you… Will keep you in a CAGE! Will BREAK you. Will make your suffering and death eternal. No way out, NO WAY OUT!”

Shiv's retort to the Stranger's ravings was silent, spiteful, and brutal, all at the same time. He launched himself into a mountain-sized tree’s trunk that had a single colossal eye open at its core—and punched through like a ballista kissing rotten wood. Particulates of festering, black matter erupted out, but Shiv's own biology changed as well. Limbs extended out from his skin. His cape swiped out, wrapping and consuming the hostile biomass. He could feel the Stranger's will wriggling against him, lashing at him, trying to prevent him from taking what once belonged to the master of this realm. Though Legendary, Shiv was still nothing more than an insect before the Stranger's complete might. Yet he possessed one thing the Eldritch God didn't have: a Severed Shadow, a means to mutilate both matter and soul.

The Stranger reached across, tried to re-sheet those particulates, tried to pull them away. Shiv triggered his cutting aura. His slashes slipped through the physical without effort and then skipped hard off an ironclad wall of Eldritch mana. Shiv grunted. It felt like he was trying to drive a cooking knife through plate armor. But the Stranger's dimension shuddered as well. Everything grew tighter, the pressure got greater, and it was like the Eldritch God was dragging in a ragged inhale of disbelief and rage.

“YOU! Abomination! You dare return, you wretch, you festering boil on existence! You unnatural, ruinous, deceitful, devouring, gluttonous, hateful THING!”

The particulates Shiv fought to secure scattered entirely, becoming so thin and desperate that he couldn't hold on at all. He failed to puncture the incredible barrier of mana guarding the Stranger's soul as well. The Eldritch magics at the Outsider God's disposal weren't just dense, they were also deep. But his shredding aura wasn't altogether impotent. It left gashes and scratches upon the mana. That was damage. Though not severely, he could harm the Stranger. For Shiv to reach the subtle essence that was the Stranger's soul, he would need to drive harder, walk in the same place over and over again.

And where the Stranger himself was far grander than Shiv, the Fingerlings were neither of their equals. He continued on, ripping through everything in his path. Along the way, he triggered the Divination matrix. He used his Tides to rip away the outer layer of flesh, and then peeled through the Vitae as well. As soon as it was exposed, it began to spin, its cubic shape twisting and turning, every segment shifting from place to place until it projected a beam of violet energy. A pathway of mana streaked forth into the horizon, sliding between gaps in the branches and even passing through certain Fingerlings.

Shiv followed that trajectory exactly.

It didn't matter what was in front of him. Whatever didn't move would be split in half, and whatever he couldn't split in half, he would eventually find his way around. He was a blade traveling through supple flesh. Pinkies were utterly obliterated in the face of his coming, dissolving outright instead of being carved apart. Recollectors were split down the middle, their fingers tumbling out, bleeding from their severed stumps, ripped asunder of mana and matter, with golden fractals spilling into the air and blackened pustules following thereafter.

Spells sailed out to claim him from almost every direction. Most of them were magic powered by retro-continuity, things meant to pin him in place temporally. Then some beams served only the purpose of destruction. A great many of the hostile spells missed, blindly unleashed by unprepared Fingerlings. The weaker spells never got anywhere near Shiv. The mana powering them was shredded apart by his cutting aura. Then came the strongest of the spells, magics unleashed by the Indexes. Shiv had faced these attacks before. Portions of the world vanished as golden suns flared into being, and after them came coruscating waves of twisted time.

To be struck meant fated destruction, even for Shiv, and with how dense the Chronomancy powering these spells was, Shiv wasn't sure how easy it would be for him to cut through. He implanted an Animated Skill Infusion of his Shapeless Tides for this body. It was an extension to his naturally present Shapeless Tides that didn't have magical resistance. But Shiv knew he couldn't soak that much damage, and so there was one skill he relied on in particular. He struck the oncoming tide of gold dead on. His timing was perfect: the world gave a resounding clash, like steel greeting steel, and his Return to Sender Skill triggered.

The oncoming attack was sent back the same way it came. The entire wave twisted inward, inverting in an instant as Shiv bent its directional tides with a flare of effort. Some of his bones creaked, but thanks to his Eldritch Physiology, the damage wasn't even minuscule. He simply regained the full functionality of his form with a thought as he dove on.

More such attacks came, more such attacks were parried, and the Deathless continued to move. Everything that was of base matter, Eldritch or not, he shredded through. Entire trunks had massive crevices left along their sides. Branches fell, alongside scattered remnants of Fingerlings.

Every Outsider he ripped apart was connected to the Stranger in some way. And as he left scratch after scratch upon the Stranger's being, the damage accumulated. The dimension groaned and trembled. Faint marks began appearing within the garden, spreading across all the Fingerlings and expanding along the midsections of the trees. It looked like someone had dragged their fingernails across leather, leaving faded white marks in place.

But though Shiv was getting faster, was getting tougher, was building more strength, the entirety of the Stranger's Garden knew he was raiding and responded in kind. The forest shifted around him, and he began feeling that overwhelming pressure again. Every bit of the Eldritch woods was drawn away. The Pinkies retreated. The Recollectors glided back, forming a protective wall as they continued bombarding him with unceasing beams of elemental, gravitic, and temporal devastation. The Indexes did the same from much further away. But instead of unleashing their full might, they jabbed at him with narrow threads of time magic instead. Their attacks now wouldn't guarantee certain destruction if returned the same way. And Shiv couldn't parry everything. Some of the attacks got through and slammed against him.

He resisted the harm using his body and magic, his Shapeless Tides flaring bright as hostile spells broke against him. Direct blows of kinetic force broke against his ever-strengthening Pillar of Orichalcum, or in a few cases left dents within the red-gold surface. However, though Shiv's body was punctured, he didn't suffer any true harm. The wounds he sustained closed immediately, as more bone, flesh, or enamel simply replaced that which had been lost. Above all, his cutting aura reduced the damage he sustained. Any Fingerlings foolish enough to engage him up close found themselves utterly reduced to threads and tatters. No spells arrived intact either. Portions of shape and pattern were hewn free from the grander magical architectures. Some of the spells destabilized, immediately detonating as chaotic expressions of mana. Others lasted a while longer, even striking Shiv, before they burst apart without achieving true injuries.

Through it all, Shiv continued following the trail painted by the Divination matrix. He didn't stay and fight any enemies. He didn't linger in place or spend an unnecessary amount of time considering his next step. He was here to find anything left of Merrielmel’s brother. Any monster or object that got in his way would be cleaved down the middle. And through it all, Shiv remained without ears, with no intention of suffering any of the Outsider's shrieks or the Fingerlings' attempts to distort him using sensory-based attacks. As a series of pitch-black quills slammed into his Pillar of Orichalcum and punched all the way through, Shiv felt three holes pass through his body. The quills went in one side and left the other. The holes then promptly closed.

The Deathless continued on.

Eldritch Physiology 15 > 18

Few things countered Eldritch bullshit better than the Eldritch Physiology skill. People died because the stability of their bodies broke down. Organs were ruptured and began to fail, or severe damage was sustained by the brain, and everything collapsed thereafter.

Shiv no longer had such weaknesses when he drew upon his unnatural physiology. His body was a single organism, but a desynchronized one. Something that could regenerate, grow, and continue to adapt to almost any situation, so long as it didn't burn him, prove too overwhelming, or cause his body to suffer an instability cascade or something like with Bifurcated Processing.

The world around him began to blur. The thunderous membrane that sheathed his body rattled with joyful rage. He grew faster with every second he spent traveling through the Stranger's Garden. And ahead, he could see a final destination nested far below, through a ravine deep down in dense foliage. However, he wouldn't be able to arrive without facing down a final foe, as even more skills and spells greeted him from all sides. A single colossal entity finally entered the fray. It was the very same entity Shiv had fled from before, the one that the Educator and Valor faced down, buying everyone else time and inflicting a final hit of trauma upon the Stranger. A creature made of twin hands, clasped together in praise of the Eldritch God, drew closer and brought with it a palpable weight of all-crushing pressure, a weight that slammed into Shiv's Pillar of Orichalcum and crumpled it like a tin can.

As the red-gold veil folded inward, Shiv felt his body pull, then break. A second later, he re-inflated as if nothing had happened. He needed to be pulled apart for him to properly lose biomass. He was still burning through some of himself, but with an added Aegis of Assimilation skill, he regenerated what he lost and kept himself going. There was an unusual synergy between his Biomancy field and his Eldritch Physiology. It was like how his natural flesh magic remembered the wholeness of his body without being confused by the instability of his Outside-touched biology.

More obliterating wavelengths hit him one after another; Shiv suffered normally fatal damage every time. But as he was, he endured without any suffering at all and drew closer.

For the first time, he faced down the Stranger's greatest Fingerling, surging forth without fear.

“Get out of the way, you big ugly bastard!” Shiv cast telepathically.

