Furious at his insult, the steepled hands of that colossal entity grew bright with unnatural Chronomancy. The gold grew tarnished. The world around it turned dim, and it began to surge forward at a speed altogether unreasonable for a creature large enough to dwarf mountains. Shiv didn't know much about physics, but he felt like Integrated Earth as a whole wouldn't fare particularly well if this creature slammed into it at that speed.

As it drew closer, the only thing Shiv could compare it to was the Tarrasque, and even then, it was a near thing. He was less than a speck compared to this leviathan, and in the scant span of a heartbeat, it blurred across the many dozen kilometers separating them, striking him so hard that his pillar ruptured wide-open before it even passed by. Yet, Shiv didn't die. Half of his body had been utterly obliterated, trailing as disconnected tissue and blood far behind him. He regenerated himself from what remained of his biomass.

It had been a close thing. If that Supplicant had hit him dead on, Shiv would have disintegrated. But it missed, mainly because Shiv carved a small groove along the edge of its body. A gap formed along its length, and because of that deformation, Shiv was sent along a new path as they crashed together.

It took him little time to reform himself. It took the Supplicant longer to realize he wasn't actually dead.

Though Shiv wanted to turn and make a fight of this, he never lost track of his main goal and was ever closer now. It seemed like there was a building dot of condensation for the Divination matrix. He was going to find a final stop in this clearing where Merrielmel's brother apparently remained. What was left of the man, anyway.

Undeterred, the Stranger's greatest Fingerling turned, trying to chase Shiv down before he finally arrived at his destination. It was far faster than he was. Every second he spent in its presence caused him to suffer greater ruin. His body was flatter than a sheet and constantly being squished into paste. The retro-continuity bleeding out from the Supplicant had shattered his temporal shell like an egg and was now eroding through his Shapeless Tides at an alarming rate, even with his cutting aura chipping away at the tarnished gold.

Ultimately, it was a near thing.

As Shiv pierced through another section of the Garden like a spear threading through leaves, he saw a small gap, something that he wouldn't have noticed himself, something that made his awareness dim, that commanded him to look away. It was an uncomfortable sight, seeming like a cavern built into the side of a trunk. And it was built in. It was not organic. It didn't light up before his Atlas like everything else within the Stranger's dimension, and the insides gleamed with an artificial texture.

But that wasn't the most peculiar aspect. The most peculiar aspect was that being near it made Shiv feel sick, made Shiv feel weak, made Shiv feel the same way he did when walking the old-world ruins not far away from Piety’s Abyss gateway.

Radiation? Why isn’t the System—

Twin waves of crashing gold slammed down on Shiv from two sides, then they passed through him. Suddenly, his Legendary Magical Resistance collapsed. Then his Pillar of Orichalcum was ripped in twain from two directions. His upper body went along with one wave, his lower half was dragged away by another. It was like two clashing riptides of time intersecting and then pulling everything between apart.

As soon as Shiv found himself separated, he had to pick a portion of his biomass to continue inhabiting. He chose his legs—which were then promptly crushed to a microscopic ball as the particular riptide that held him collapsed in on itself before spreading out in all directions, turning him into less than fine mist.

Death took him. Death, when he had come so close to his final destination. When he had glimpsed something most peculiar. Previously, he didn't think there was any hope of Merrielmel's brother still being alive. Now he wasn't so sure.

A place that the System couldn't reach, that magic didn't work in, that even Shiv had a hard time laying eyes on, was infused right inside the Stranger's Garden. And something told Shiv that the Eldritch God didn't build that place himself.

He resurrected in an instant, and a new body stepped out from his Severed Shadow, taking in the metallic walls of the bunker back in the Tutorial. Once more, he began transplanting Animated Skill Infusions into his new physical body as he also activated his Eldritch Physiology. A thread passed through the walls, slipping into him.

“Already?” Uva asked, sounding surprised.

“Got a little distracted there at the end,” Shiv admitted. “But I saw something interesting. Don't tell him that, but Merrielmel's brother might not be a corpse at all. And I'm gonna have to be a little bit quicker or avoid getting noticed by the Stranger's big, mean Supplicant, because up close, even with Eldritch Physiology, I can't survive for that long. But maybe I can make myself last just long enough to reach that cavern.”

And so, Shiv began concocting a new scheme. “Alright. Let’s go again.”
