“That’s what’s getting me the most, here. All of these things happening look almost predetermined. Or at least his reactions are predetermined. Of course he has been at this for multiple thousands of years… Even so. I’m not sure I would be so quick to enact the same sorts of justice. But then again I have [Reincarnation], and he does not. Or at least I don’t think he does. So he doesn’t have the same options I have.”

Emily nodded a little bit; that wasn’t where her thoughts lay, but she was glad to be talking about all this.

Solomon said, “I am conflicted by the level of violence we saw with that elementassi case. On one hand, Avandrasolaro did what he needed to do. The problem in that kingdom is now over. And that’s attractive. We’ve done the same thing many times already, but yeah… He’s violent. Possibly exactly as violent as he needs to be? Hard to say. All we get to see is this small happening. 5 minutes of talk, and sometimes there’s a time bubble. And that’s it.” Solomon asked Emily, “How would you have done that case?”

“There’s a lot of moving parts here,” Emily said, “Assuming this really is justice and not a show, then I would have blacklisted those responsible for the corruption in my organization and told them to move to another part of the universe. It was just corruption. It wasn’t murder. So I feel the angel’s murder of those people was too much.”

Erick disagreed, saying, “They were enacting regulatory capture in an attempt to set up murder and otherwise, later and legally. In that, something drastic had to be the response, and especially because it was the angels moving on the elementassi for their dealings with neighboring demons. Avandrasolaro has a line in the sand, and it is distinctly sensitive against all angel/demon interactions.”

Emily argued, “Yes, but nothing actually happened yet. Avandrasolaro acted with way too much force.”

“I agree that there was too much force, but maybe Avandrasolaro is prognosticating? Fate Magic, too. Probably a whole bunch of magics that we simply do not have over here on Veird.”

Solomon asked Guile, “Do you know all of what magics Avandrasolaro is using?”

Guile decided something at that moment. He said, “I know what I taught him to use, but he has gone above those primitive lessons of long, long ago.”

All eyes turned to the little blonde fox.

Erick asked, “You know him? Like personally?”

“Why didn’t you say anything earlier?” Solomon asked.

Guile scowled at both of them, saying, “Because I wasn’t sure if this whole thing happening here was a trick until about half an hour ago. All of this whole ‘Veird’ seems like a cage of some sort to me, and then you all go and talk about anti-memetic threats that are clearly happening in this New Cosmology, and I am wondering if Melemizargo’s initial idea that this entire world is a trap is not completely unfounded. And I didn’t want to drag an old servant out of the Dark until I could be sure this wasn’t a trap. I am still not sure, mind you. But I am erring on the side of trust, since My True Kingly Queen seems to be trapped here, too.”

Fairy Moon stepped to Solomon’s side, her gaze directed forward, to Avandrasolaro. “Stop dithering and digressing. Bring him back and get the Forever War into a great grave.” She looked at Solomon and Erick. “An amalgamation of those always adversaries would be a boon for this lesser land of limitations should any Odd Others show themselves.” She said to Erick. “The party is progressing perfectly. If the Other Others should show, I can delay them for a dithering, but not for all always.”

Erick instantly asked, “But is Avandrasolaro a good thing to revive? Would he even want to come back? Could he handle this lesser world?”

Fairy Moon waved a hand, “Right now he is a dreaming dead. His desires do not matter until he matters.”

Erick was not happy with that answer at all—

Fairy Moon huffed, then said, “When the Other Outsiders make themselves known on this nascent world, you’d do well, Wizard, to have more power in your pocket. And now I must make merry!”

Fairy Moon stepped away through a flash of Springtime; gone.

How the fuck could she [Gate] inside the Dark?

… She was a fairy, of course. That’s how.

Guile’s ears flicked as he listened to the world, and then he said to Erick, “The man you see there is the ruler Avandrasolaro. The man himself is very different in different venues, as most people are. He is not like this all the time.”

“Now that makes me a whole lot more comfortable with this.” Erick asked, “What is he like, as a person?” Erick added, “And I still need to know what his actual powers are.”

“Aside from being a Book archmage and accomplished in Time and Spatial Magics, Avandrasolaro is most interested in making people work well together, and also enjoying the fruits of life.” Guile pointed with his tails at some people in line. “That male alvani there in red and that female alvani in the black are his descendants, but I cannot tell the familial distance, only the truth of it. You can tell by the wing-motifs on their soul weapons. Avandrasolaro had a lot of children and a lot of lovers. I believe his court is composed of mostly wives and husbands; very few political people… Though his wives and husbands are all political figures anyway, so the exact nature of all that is up for debate.”

Erick had more and different concerns, now.

Solomon said, “We’ll be ripping him away from people he loved, and he’ll never get them back.”

“Yes, and not just his court of partners, but also these people here; these kings and queens. Do we want to bring them back, too? They have no kingdoms.” Erick asked, “Is it wrong to leave them dead? We won’t be able to get this Judgment Day back once we use it, so those people will be lost to eternity.”

Erick let his words hang.

… He kinda wondered when he had started calling this a ‘Judgment Day’ in his mind, but that seemed right, so he left it alone.

Emily asked, “He’d do better with family and friends, right? So yes; we rescue them all.”

Everyone let those words hang.

And Erick thought. Four silent seconds later, he said, “I think I know how to handle this, but I need to know what Avandrasolaro’s initial reasons were for becoming the man he became. Guile?”

The blonde fox sat tall on his stool, his tails flicking out and then going lazy, as he began, “Avandrasolaro was not born the prince of a kingdom that spanned 500 worlds. He made himself into that sort of person. At first, he was born a simple angel, on the front of the Forever War, on a plane made of Glass and Lightning and all the Elements in between. He was fodder to hold back the tide for as long as he could, as the plane he was born to was destined to be overrun by demons within a century. But he survived. Time and time again, he survived by killing those who needed killing, and making allies along the way.

“At four thousand years old, he found me, upon a world of Metal and Water and Exalted, passing among the forgemasters of some mid-sized city, trying to find someone worthy of raising to power. Avandrasolaro turned out to be that person. He had ruined his weapons and he needed more and he showed promise, and so I moved into his forge and whispered power into his dreams, guiding his insights into Metal and Air.

“When he crafted a true artifact, I revealed myself, and we entered into a Contract.

“By the time I met him, Avandrasolaro wanted nothing to do with the Forever War, but the Forever War was not done with him. You don’t get to be a 4,000 year old angel without coming into your own sort of true power, with a lot of enemies on the other side wanting you dead.

“To make an incredibly long story short, I stayed with Avandrasolaro for a while, raising him up to true power, at the cost of him supplying me with all the demons I wanted to eat. It was an enemy on the other side who turned out to be not so bad which caused Avandrasolaro to try for peace. I wanted to eat that enemy, though. And so our relationship soured. I ate his arm, and then left him to his own devices.

“Avandrasolaro went on to found the Bisection several hundred years later.” Guile said, “And that’s as much as I should tell you of his past. He is a good man, to a fault. He is also a violent man whenever he needs to be.”

After a moment, Erick said, “Okay. Then I’m confident that we’re making the right decision in bringing him back.”

Erick laid out the idea.

After some discussion, Solomon was on board, and Guile gave all the suggestions he could. Lorizal approved, though she still wanted to observe Avandrasolaro with her people for a while longer.

Erick gazed at the crowd, counting people and estimating timeframes. “How about another 4 hours?”

Lorizal looked. She counted and estimated. “Ah? Three of Avandrasolaro’s descendants at once, at the front of the line?”

“As good a time as any.”

Guile added, “The more I think of it, the more I think these Judgment Days could last months; so yes, it is as good a time as any.”

“Which is why we’re not waiting overlong in the rescue,” Erick said.

- - - -

Avandrasolaro spread his wings and his gaze for the 578th time today, spearing through the plaintiffs in this case, killing 3 people whom he had thought were a good fit for the lands he assigned to them, but who were clearly not. His angelic forces had been overzealous in their persecution of the demonic lands, and yet the demons were allowed to defend themselves from unjust persecution, even if that defense had been over-orchestrated and punitive.

That war had cost three thousand lives and ten good generals, all of whom had been following unjust orders.

Avandrasolaro stared down at the defendants, a trio of fifth circle demons, each of them dressed in their finest bodies. They had come prepared to win, to defend themselves from unjust persecution, for if they had come prepared to lose then they would have come in their true forms, as Vile creatures of Greed and Power. They would have left these well-crafted bodies for their descendants, or in hiding holes in case they managed to get away from the Judgment Day.

No one got away from Judgment Day, though. People certainly tried, but they did not succeed.

People tried a lot on these particular days.

For the last ten hours, someone had been trying something, but Avandrasolaro could not put a weapon on what was going on in his Hall, not exactly. No one was speaking in the Grand Hall, which was proper, but… For some reason, Avandrasolaro heard voices that were not his own, or those of the judgery.

Someone —several someones— were criticizing him.

The plaintiffs always criticized him, but they at least had the decency to do it in the beer halls and courtyards of their victories or defeats, and not in line. So who the fuck was—

Something moved in a way it should not.

Avandrasolaro saw a flicker of something white in the air; there and then gone.

Someone was pulling some shit.

Avandrasolaro ignored it, like he usually ignored the smaller things. The disturbance was almost at the edge of the Grand Hall, anyway, and the next case was coming up. Soon, Avandrasolaro was listening to a rather standard corporation-overreach case involving the Queendom of Dition and the Kingdom of Lost Flowers. Avandrasolaro assigned a dissolution of the corporation and a payback of 50% of the damage done to Dition by Lost Flower’s court of nobility.

An hour and 5 more cases later, Avandrasolaro saw the white glow again, sparking in the air beside the flow of litigants. Three people in the line saw the sparks, too.

Avandrasolaro held up his hand and the litigants in front of him stopped talking. He raised his voice, weariness heavy in his words, angry that he had to say anything at all, “Whoever is doing that, remove yourself from my presence and from the seriousness of this Judgment Day. If one of you should come forward and I find out you were casting strange magics in my Hall, then you will not like the outcome of your case.”

A minor lie, for Avandrasolaro was always as just as he could be and never punitive, but it was a lie told within the scope of reasonableness and it was fine. Rarely did anyone like the outcomes of Judgment Day. This right here was a final recompense against unsure odds; people only came here if they were desperate and all the other layers of the Bisection’s Bureaucracy and problem solving centers had been unable to help.

No one spoke up.

Well that was fine, too.

Avandrasolaro told the litigants in front of him, “Continue.”

The litigants continued.

Avandrasolaro judged mostly in favor of the plaintiffs, but not completely. He executed 3 angels and 2 demons and 5 co-conspirators among the mortal races, 9 of them on the defendants’ side, and then he increased the tithes on the plaintiffs from 2% to 4% and set them with the task of rebuilding the destroyed forests that had been the location of the plantations they were fighting over. Prognostication bore out the success of that plan, but prognostication was never 100%, and the litigants left the speaker’s area looking overly-dejected. Hmm. Avandrasolaro sent a signal through a small Gate at his back, to have the others in the after-Judgment area adjust his proclamation slightly. He had missed something in the deaths he had caused. Someone might need to be revived.

The Church of Koyabez and his Holy Necromancers would do that, no problem. This happenstance was just another event that actually needed to be categorized and reported, though, so that a proper request for resurrection can happen.

Judgment Day progressed.

Before he knew it, three of Avandrasolaro’s kids were next in line. He hated Judging them, but he had to. At the same time, they felt they had to come to these Judgment Days, to ‘show off’ that they were on the right Path in life. It was like a rite of passage for them. Avandrasolaro hated it; he’d much rather they’d just visit him on a normal day and introduce themselves.

Had he ever met these three before?

… No.

Avandrasolaro hated how his children were political tools, how he didn’t know any of them that well at all, and how all his marriages had been unions of politics. When was the last time he actually loved someone? Sure, his harem was fun, and he did love them all in a deep way, but they only got together every other year. Everyone thought that he was some great lover, but all those women and men were too enamored with him to actually love him for real. How could he blame them for that, though? When all of them came from the Bisection, where Avandrasolaro had ruled for the last 20,000 years—

