A bubble enveloped the speaker’s space, completely occluding the proceedings, but Erick and many other sovereigns watched intently. It was a time bubble, for sure, and the people inside were already turning into blurs. They didn’t move back and forth much at all, except for the lawyers, but everyone did all gesticulate and make small movements here and there. That was enough to make viewing them unintelligible, not to mention they were half a kilometer away—

Suddenly, the bubble popped, and everyone was back in their starting places.

The demons seemed less happy than before, though emotions were kinda hard to tell with them.

The people from Rivermaw seemed reserved, and vengeful.

The male lawyer said, “Reconciliation is not possible. The evidence produced by Rivermaw meets basic requirements for a true trial. It is in this court’s opinion that the Deadfield return the property in question to Rivermaw, and return to your borders. It is our opinion to remove the tithe against Rivermaw, and install Paladins of the Bisection to oversee a return to peaceful times. Certain demons must also be brought to justice, but that is outside of the recommendation of this lower court.” He asked the litigants. “Please state for the record that you wish to accept this declaration of reconciliation, or continue to true trial. Rivermaw?”

Rivermaw answered, “We wish for a full trial.”

“Deadfield?”

The demon made of tentacles and eyes, stuffed in a suit, said, “We wish to go to full trial and for these aggressive Rivermaw elves to be put down for the good of us—”

“Enough of that.” Avandrasolaro’s wings lifted up a bit more, almost threateningly. “We go to full trial.”

The male lawyer clapped his hands again—

The bubble of time was much larger this time, enveloping the whole speaker area and the throne—

The bubble collapsed.

All three demons were dead, reduced to smears upon the ground.

The Rivermaw elves were relieved, two of them crying tears of joy.

Avandrasolaro proclaimed, “The demons of Deadfield have massively overstepped the bounds of their individual allotments and the Bisection Pact itself, and worse, they have used deceit and my own Paladins to sow chaos and destruction among the people.” Avandrasolaro opened up ten thousand small portals all around his throne. “I now decree Deadfield to be in Grand Violation.”

And then his wings went outward, through the portals.

Screaming and death followed.

In less than a minute his wings came back layered with blood and guts. A simple flick cast that mess to the ground, though his wings remained slightly red. The mess was not a mess for long. The dead demons from before were already evaporating off of the ground, through some sort of cleaning magic, but when Avandrasolaro scattered so much more blood that cleaning magic really took off. Within moments, his wings of weapons were clean, and so was the floor. Even the demons’ clothes had vanished into the manasphere.

Avandrasolaro proclaimed, “Justice is done. Every demon of Deadfield who surpassed 75% guilt to my eyes is slain. Those below 75% have suffered wounds that they will survive. 15% of Deadfield is now dead.”

Rivermaw’s people looked relieved, but also terrified. Kinda hard to see from this angle.

Avandrasolaro said, “The tithes against Rivermaw are ended. You will have assistance to rebuild, but you have failed to be good neighbors, so you will provide the demons with assistance to rebuild. You will build bridges, not war. Attack the demons who remain and you will be removed from power next. You will be under probation for the next 5 years, as will the demons of Deadfield. Your case is over.”

The elves of Rivermaw bowed.

The lawyers guided the elves away, toward the left.

The next case started. It was about a tax issue, and it was deadly, involving bandits and corruption inside several corporations, but not as deadly as the demon-involved case. Halfway through, Erick turned his attentions back to his people.

“I believe we will have to wait a long time, and from what I am seeing in your eyes, Lorizal, and among your Paladins, you have some discussions to make amongst yourselves, if you really want Avandrasolaro to come back.”

Lorizal was visibly worried. The paladins near her shared those worries.

An angel who could open [Gate]s to the enemies and simply annihilate them like that? Kinda terrifying. Erick could do the same thing, but he never would. Avandrasolaro’s display of power gave him the heebie jeebies. No one should have that much power…

Erick considered something.

Erick said, “He is at the height of his power, in this place. We could look for a lesser version of him. Someone not quite so willing to enact violence like that. But you wanted a real solution to the Quiet War, and this seems like it could be that, and looking for a less-solid version of him might be impossible.”

None of them spoke. All of them were thinking.

Guile dropped from Solomon’s arm, turning into a fox as he said, “Avandrasolaro never changed. His enemies just learned how to kill him, and he stopped growing to prevent that. That is the story of his death, while in his life, he was strong and capable of ruling peacefully, as much as any nation of trillions can.”

Lorizal focused. She asked Guile, “Would he attack incani? Just because of who we are?”

“No,” Guile said, firmly. “I am sure if we watch enough that we will see some demonic group get their side upheld.” He lifted his head toward the lands beyond, while pointing with three of his ten tails. “That woman there is a demon.” He moved his tails three more times, pointing out people, saying, “Demon, demon, demon. They sent their best looking ones to try and curry favor, so you can’t really tell. But they’re demons inside of all of those fleshbags.”

Lorizal frowned a little, then asked, “Deadfield sent the monstrous ones in an attempt at intimidation? They knew their case would fall through?”

“A correct assessment,” Guile said, “And the ones who appear more presentable think they have a good case.”

Lorizal said to Erick, “I would ask for time to sit and study these proceedings.”

“And you shall have it,” Erick said, as he conjured some nice chairs. “Anyone else going to change clothes? Or move on and come back later?”

There was a rearrangement.

- - - -

The rearrangement did not take long.

Lorizal changed into a simple dress and took a chair to the side. Then she conjured binoculars and a hearing horn so she didn’t have to stress her eyes and ears for the next few hours, because this was going to take hours. Her paladins joined her, alongside many of the assorted dignitaries from all over the world. The girls stuck around, but Emily was the only one truly interested in what was going on with Avandrasolaro’s style of governance; Erick, Solomon, and Guile were right there with her. The other girls got out board games.

It wasn’t long till every single person in the delegation was openly debating on what it meant to actually bring Avandrasolaro back to this world. Side debates soon began concerning the nature of the various arguments presented.

Guile and Solomon and Erick all watched the full proceedings from the comforts of chairs set to the right of the portal, so as not to block the view forward. None of them spoke much. All of them were listening to everything happening around them.

The big question got tossed around.

“Where do we actually want Avandrasolaro? What would he want to do? What is our goal in bringing him back?”

There had been plans to hook him up with the Church of Peace, and Koyabez, but it increasingly appeared that the world of Veird might be biting off more than it could chew with this particular angel. Avandrasolaro was ‘only a demigod’, and that would probably go away when they brought him back, but every single person in this space, with the exception of Guile, had vastly underestimated what that meant, exactly.

- - - -

Around the thirtieth case, hours after starting, Solomon broke the silence between him, Erick, and Guile, and asked Guile, “What age is he here, do you think? How long since he established the Bisection?”

Guile paused in thought, then began, “The angel was around 35,000 years old when he was assassinated. He established the Bisection in his fourth millennium, and grew his ever expanding bureaucracy to the style he would use for the remainder of his life in about a thousand years post-establishing. What we are seeing here is that legendary bureaucracy in action. He decided the fates of entire worlds from this throne… So… I would say, based on the surety of his deal with Deadfield and that Oceangoers trial and the one with the alvani, number 13… Maybe 20,000? Post Bisection Pact? Somewhere around there.” He added, “Hard to say, though, since the Bisection never left a ‘golden era’; it was constantly expanding peacefully all the way until Avandrasolaro’s assassination. After that event, the whole thing completely collapsed within 500 years, turning into one of the worst Forever War fronts in the entire known Cosmology. The angel was too strong, and too many people were dependent on his strength.”

Erick understood that completely.

Solomon nodded in understanding, too, and then he asked, “Any idea how long these judgment days last?”

“Ohhhh…” Guile hummed a little. “Hard to say. The line is full and as people finish, more people show up all the time... No one in line is speaking… Probably out of reverence or law or politeness. Not sure. A lot of them are tired, though. Seems like they might have been waiting in line for days? We can’t know how long the line is without poking inside and looking behind the Black Gate, either. Unless we can move the gate?” The blonde fox looked at both of them. “Turn it around and see the line of people coming down the hall?”

Erick shook his head, almost answering—

But Solomon was already saying, “Bad idea. I’m rather sure the angel would detect that. Or something. This is our viewpoint, and so this is our viewpoint.”

Beth overheard all that and called out, “I can go inside and ask!”

“Nope!” Erick said, vetoing that option.

Beth chuckled, then went back to her chess game against Jane, who was frowning at her. Both of them knew it had been a bad idea to go into the Black Gate right now, but while Jane was willing to wait, Beth wanted action.

Erick turned back toward Solomon and Guile, and asked the question that no one wanted to answer right now, “So! Is it a bad idea to pull this guy from the Dark?”

Every single person capable of hearing Erick went a little tense. A few people who hadn’t heard him, or hadn’t thought to pay attention to him because they were involved in the drama happening across the way and in their own conversations, all looked at their friends and colleagues. And then they looked toward Erick, and tensed. They probably had mana sense and they checked the past to see what had happened; no one here was a slouch, and Erick wasn’t cleaning out the history of the manasphere at all.

Lorizal had been focused on both arenas. She was thirty meters away from Erick, sitting down with her binoculars and hearing horn, as she called out, “I and the Church of Peace are not giving up on him, Wizard Flatt.” Then she turned to him, and said, “But you are correct in questioning this decision.” She turned back toward the day of judgment, adding, “We were warned that Avandrasolaro was a strong demigod. That he was fair yet brutally swift in his judgments. But perhaps he is too swift, and too violent. We are reformulating our response to him, and our requests to bring him back to life. To that end, we will speak to him when the line gets shorter, however long that might take.”

Beth mumbled, “Three hours and only 30 people down in a line of over 140—”

Abigail added, “—and it keeps getting longer—”

Candice finished, “—which means days of this.”

Everyone else went back to talking in their small groups.

And Erick asked the people near him, “Wanna start dissecting his judgments?”

Emily instantly spoke up from Erick’s side, “Finally! Yes. What did you think of that blue elementassi’s claim of Avandrasolaro’s overseers committing regulatory capture of the blue guy’s kingdom’s merchant guilds?”

Everyone focused on them again, and probably for a variety of reasons. Listening to world-class Wizards talk about how and why they rule, and to compare themselves against other rulers, was a valued pastime. The outcomes of Erick’s decisions shaped the very world they lived on, too. Everyone here liked politics with the exception of Jane and her sisters, perhaps. Except for Emily.

Emily increasingly reminded Erick of the heir that Jane never wanted to be.

Erick had been hankering to dissect Avandrasolaro’s judgments ever since they started, and for much the same reasons as everyone was interested in his own thoughts. The angel demigod was ruler for trillions of people. This kind of experience didn’t come along all too often! Not since before the Sundering, and absolutely never in Erick’s entire life.

He had been silent about all that because this was Wizardry, and talking might disturb this place, but it all seemed stable. So, it was time to talk about the angel that they might be inviting into this world.

Solomon seemed to be on Erick’s same wavelength. He asked, “Sound and view shield?”

Erick considered. Did he want to do this privately? “I normally wouldn’t.”

Solomon nodded.

Emily was doing a bad job of hiding just how excited she was to be here, talking about all this stuff.

Erick tried not to be too excited, too, for this was one of the very few times he had ever talked politics with his daughters… With any of them. He began, “That blue elementassi brought grave accusations against Avandrasolaro’s tenth-tier underlings, which was far down the list of who the angel had directly appointed, but the angel still brought in someone like the fourth-boss above the elementassi’s kingdom rule in order to mediate whatever had happened there. I would have liked to have seen the actual hour-long talk with those forces, but they were behind that time bubble, though when they came out the outcome looked almost predetermined; a house cleaning. Two executions and four displacements and the rooting out of an entire criminal underbelly that had infested Avandrasolaro’s far, far underlings.” Erick said, “That is probably how Avandrasolaro has to act in order to maintain order across a trillion-person-sized population. No time for due process.

