“Who is doing that,” Avandrasolaro said, as the air sparked again near the entrance of the Grand Hall. The litigants in front of him went silent in a little bit of terror; they didn’t know what was happening. Avandrasolaro gestured with several weapons toward the sparking area, to the right of the Hall. “That. That sparking.” He frowned, and said, “The Judgment Day is having an out-of-order event. Current litigants to the side. Whoever is disrupting these proceedings will come forth now and present themselves. All others to the side.”

Disruptions were not unheard of, but they were a drag. All the kings and queens and regents or otherwise walked to the side, away from the disturbance. Some were quicker than others, and some lingered to look at the sparks. Those lingering people rapidly moved when they were the only ones remaining behind; they didn’t want to get blamed.

“… And no one claims credit, eh?” Avandrasolaro raised a hand, and Pulled upon the sparking air—

… And nothing happened.

What should have happened was the sparks should have gotten closer, so that he could better inspect them, and whoever was casting them should have been Pulled along for the ride. It was a simple spell, too, and rather hard to counter. Impossible to counter, actually, unless he was dealing with a very powerful Wizard, and there hadn’t been one of those in his Bisection for a long time.

Avandrasolaro turned the Pulling gesture into an Annihilation, weaving Exalted power into a beam of strength that obliterated the world in a column stretching from himself to the… sparks…

Hmm.

A meters-wide length of silent, wrathful power had extended from Avandrasolaro’s front, complete in its destruction to a stretch of reality between here and the target, but when it struck the target, it struck nothing. Or rather, Nothing. The Annihilation had touched upon something stronger than itself, and became… Nothing.

What could possibly be causing this? Answers came fast enough. The Fae, the Dark, a Divinity of some sort. No other options.

Avandrasolaro calmly said to his people, “My subjects and friends. If you do not wish to be involved in whatever this is, please leave. I think it is here for me—”

Writing appeared on the empty air, words in some unknown language spilling out across a very small slice of reality, as though they were surfacing from another dimension. Which had to be exactly what was happening. Avandrasolaro didn’t understand the words themselve—

Ah. Dwarvish. That one is understandable. Archaic, but—

A lot of things happened all at once, as Avandrasolaro read the words upon the air. They read ‘We come to rescue you, Avandrasolaro, and all who desire to be rescued from the dreams of the Dark. We have room for you all, but you are all we can reach. Don’t evacuate anyone. Anyone who leaves this area is completely lost to us.’

Of the many simultaneous events happening, the first was that Avandrasolaro felt a Truth behind those words.

Secondarily, all his Gates stopped working, and each one filled with soft shadows. The clouds outside of the Grand Hall became things of Gloom. The land beyond turned indistinct.

The subjects of the Bisection read the same words that Avandrasolaro had read upon that Empty Gate, and while he was still calm and rapidly becoming not calm, a few people panicked and stepped away fast, through side doors, straight into Shadows and Gloom, like they couldn’t even see that blackness.

Prognostications failed; everything turned indistinct beyond this Time, this place, wherever this place was. Avandrasolaro had thought he had known where he was, but, no. This was not the Grand Hall. This was not a Judgment Day of his making.

He knew what this was.

He had died, and he had been living a dream.

A Dark Dream.

How had he died? He did not know—

A great wind flowed through all of reality. The scents of Exalted Order flowed away, through a hole in this time and space, directly into Darkness.

A king, another king, a strange demon priestess, and a blonde fox stood on the other side of that hole into Darkness. Each of them were prepared for diplomacy where they held all the cards and Avandrasolaro had nothing except himself to offer. But that’s what they were here for, wasn’t it. You didn’t go digging around in the Dark for little things. You also didn’t go digging around in the Dark without the Dark’s permission, or at least his ambivalence. You didn’t do dangerous rituals without a true desire...

… That fox was Guile. Avandrasolaro would recognize the ten tails of that gluttonous fae anywhere, even if his form was vastly different from usual. Could be an impostor, but probably not.

In the five seconds since the opening, not much had changed in the Grand Hall, except everything had changed forever.

Everyone in this room was dead.

Everyone in this room could live again.

If the people who had summoned Avandrasolaro wanted anything approaching reasonable, he would do whatever they wanted in order to save his people—

Oh Holy Gods, what could have happened to kill them all?—

Avandrasolaro banished that awful thought, for the Dark was already crawling upon his skin and eating away at his very self. The people beyond the Dark tried to say something, but he was not having it. “Save my people and I will do whatever you want, within reason!” He shouted at everyone who hadn’t run away. “Go through the portal! NOW.”

The lead man on the other side called back, “Come quick! Your world is collapsing!”

Avandrasolaro stood from his throne as Darkness crawled into the Grand Hall from every shadow, from every opening in every wall, from behind every column. He threw his wings wide, pieces of himself cast into the Black, to hold back the tide of Black, his power and soul disintegrating instead of his people who still didn’t know what to do. Some were quick on the uptake; primarily his children. Avandrasolaro loved them for that—

And then the people beyond the Gate sent in their own squad of warriors, and Avandrasolaro heard the Wizards beyond the Dark call them their ‘girls’. The family resemblance was noticeable. Avandrasolaro’s opinion of these high tier resurrectionists improved by a lot, both by how the girls moved as organized units, and how they held back the Dark a whole lot better than Avandrasolaro could.

People disintegrated before they reached the Gate…

But the Wizards pulled souls back together, twisting them into forms made of Nothing, or whatever it was that existed beyond this death. The alvani and dwarves and demons and elves and otherwise were not the same as they once were, as they slept there on the other side, and priests and paladins organized sleepers into groups. Physically, they looked like humans. Avandrasolaro couldn’t feel them, though, as some other reality invalidated this one.

Which was true. This reality was dead and dying even faster.

As the Darkness closed in and Avandrasolaro moved toward the Gate, his everything flaking away, his proto-divinity shredding, he could not help but wonder what lay beyond this death. Because he would survive. The Wizards seemed highly competent as they frantically turned free-floating souls into people once again. Only humans, though, which was concerning, even though there was some sort of demon over there with them...

Maybe he could fall in proper love once again, like he had when he was young.

No doubt there’d be more worlds to explore, too...
