Other things were nice, but a single mid-Tier world like that equated to a new marquess. A new hub world would justify additional worlds being grabbed for the earls needed to oversee the viscounts. They, in turn, would need to rule over the tide of barons who would be required to govern the countless low Tier worlds needed to keep the spiderweb firmly bound together.

And that was one mid Tier world during a time where resources were already stretched thin.

There were even several high value areas in the Federation, though they were warned against going after any of them until they were cleared to break the silent armistice. They might not have taken the warning seriously, but he backed it up with a personal message direct from Manny to all of the Generals, warning all of them of sparking conflict in the first few decades.

Their plans decided, they skipped the speeches and formations by virtue of leaving.

At Tier 25, they’d been given a nicely made ship specially built for Allie to teleport it and its occupants around at will.

At Tier 35, they’d been given a nicely made ship specifically built around Matt’s ability to generate mana.

The first thing he noticed about the ship was its engines. In fact, most of the ship was its engines. Eighty four percent. Of the remaining sixteen, a paltry two were dedicated to the ship’s weaponry, while another nine were dedicated to the ship’s shields and defences. The final five percent was the absolute minimum they could dedicate to the crew and general living space.

Given the different use cases for the ships, he wasn’t too surprised their new ship was much larger than the one Allie had been hauling around, at almost eighty times the tonnage. He was even impressed until he saw the comically large thrones scattered throughout in all of his favorite places to lounge between battles. The command deck, one of the three private workshops, and the engine room itself. Each and every one was inlaid with more mana conduits than was reasonable for anyone but him and his augment.

Aster’s titters as she inspected the spikes and baubles earned her a glare, but a longer inspection confirmed that most of the protrusions weren't purely for show, which somehow made it all that much worse. If they’d been cosmetic, he could have cut them off himself. Given the complexity of the ship and its components, he wasn't willing to risk it.

The crew were all seasoned Tier 35’s with applicable Talents and/or Domains for their roles, combined with oodles of time honing those skills. There wasn’t anything more they could ask for.

Almost a twentieth of the hundred person crew even had their Aspects, which technically made those soldiers elites, even if they were the lowest ranking of elites. That was fine, as they weren't exactly fighters, even if they could hold their own in a rift thanks to their advanced Domain.

For the average Tier 35, the difference between having an Aspect and not was night and day.

While not every Tier 35 elite necessarily had an Aspect, every Tier 35 who had an Aspect was an elite. For the average soldier, the difference was that important. Without all the armies’ safety nets, an Aspect was only safe to make at Tier 43. As Ascenders, they could skip the line to use the safety nets multiple times if they wanted to, but the average soldier didn’t have that luxury.

They either risked death or waited in enormous queues.

Despite all of that it was worth it.

An Aspect against an Intent wasn’t as dramatic a gap as Aiden’s Authority, but the practical differences were the same for most people. At the same level of power, when all other things were ostensibly equal, a Domain stage was pivotal.

It was why Yvette and Halford’s teams were assigned to them.

Matt took what he knew would be his common spot, letting the chair attach itself to the conduits in his augments.

Few places or applications considered fifty million mana a second as an idling cost, but when the ship got moving, he understood the need for the protrusions on the chair.

As the ship’s acceleration pushed the mana draw past a half billion mana a second, they reached the limits of even enhanced Tier 35 conduits. At that point, the extraneous protrusions blinked to life as they acted as secondary, and then tertiary, stabilizers. Together, they kept the flow of mana to a manageable glow rather than a raging river of energy as it burned through the channels that were supposed to be containing it.

Captain Barns and the rest of the command staff looked a little flustered at the glow illuminating the back of the room, but Matt just shrugged as he spoke to the room at large. “I can’t really stop or prevent that. I can probably hide it with an illusion, but we all know why that would be a bad idea.”

None of the seasoned veterans needed something that simple explained to them, and he knew they'd settled in quickly enough after a few days once the unusual had time to become commonplace.

Out of everything Matt wanted to say, the only thing he could manage was that the ship was fast. There was no denying or obfuscating that. However, no ship, no matter how speedy, was comparable to instant teleportation, and he couldn’t help but chafe at the reports of the war that trickled in as they passed by nodes in chaotic space.

If they’d still had Allie on their team, they could have responded to every report of a lost battlefield before they’d fallen and helped every push. Or, that's how he felt. Realistically, he knew that wasn’t how things would have played out, but their manual travel grated on all three of them.

They were only able to watch as the initial stages of the war kicked off across the Realm.

The Federation and Clans war started in a spectacular fashion, with the Federation breaking through the frontline and gaining a foothold in each of the three most important Tier brackets: Tier 15, 25, and 35. It wasn’t much in the grand scheme of things, given they’d made over fifteen full scale incursions, but it did explain why Manny hadn’t wanted to interfere.

Thankfully, their aggression to the Empire wasn’t nearly as well coordinated. Or existent for that matter. There were no dedicated armies ready to punch through lightly defended spots or capture important hub worlds that would allow deeper access.

Most of the border troops on both sides held their defensive stations, mirroring the Empire’s stance of non-escalation. At least for the most part. There were fights as individual units moved on both sides for raids of opportunity and general sabotage, but on the scale of the Great Powers, anything less than a full scale army was nothing to worry about.

The Collective border wasn’t as fortunate.

The war there hadn’t kicked off with aggression, rather a slow methodical escalation as the two Great Powers brought troops in from all across their lands and funneled them into the border planets.

The Empire, knowing war was possible, if not likely thanks to the lack of truce with the Collective, had armies stationed and ready to react all across their borders, but their stance was passive. They could have struck out and occupied some worlds before their opposition arrived in full force, but they moved to meet the Collective troops on the border worlds, only aiming to take the fortress worlds and take a defensive stance.

Those low Tier uninhabited worlds became charnel houses as armies of various Tiers traded possession back and forth in the month it took them to reach that region of the border.

Their ship slowed down as they reached the frontlines to receive updates, but the Tier 20 local army's current orders were to hold their ground and wait for reinforcements to arrive from deeper in the Empire. That wasn’t in line with Matt, Liz, and Aster's strategic or tactical goals, so they slipped along the border to reach one of the Tier 35 battlefields. They didn’t exactly pick a random one, but given the ever expanding warfront, it didn’t exactly matter which one they went to until the peak and pinnacle Elites arrived from the core regions.

The trio entered the real space border world without interference, but they weren’t trying to hide their presence either.

Their ship and the pinnacle elite teams were there for backup or cover should too many hostile pinnacle elites arrive and try to overwhelm them, but they hoped that wouldn’t be necessary. Especially not this early into the war.

While there could be pinnacle elites already on the border, most such people were important enough that they’d been near their respective Great Powers’ heartlands. And as he knew from recent personal experience, the Great Powers were large enough that travel was a hassle without an Ascender level teleporter.

If all went according to plan, they should have beaten most of the strongest elites to the frontlines. That meant they had time to get their feet wet in the new bracket without the fear that two or three teams of pinnacles would descend on them out of nowhere.

That was their only real worry.

As Ascenders without Aspects, they were generally still on par with pinnacle elites, but where they could previously reliably win those fights, it would now be far dicier. There were plenty of tales of newly T35 Ascenders forced to retreat when faced with a Pinnacle that was particularly skilled or suited to counter the Ascender and they didn’t want to be another such example.

Conversely, that also meant the best place to hone themselves was right where they were.

Matt sighed as he exited the ship and into the comforting emptiness that was space.

It was big and there wasn’t much in it to break, unlike planets that seemed to be made from tissue paper and wishes. Sure, the planet was only a un-terraformed Tier 8 planet as befit an unsettled border world, but the outer system had been fortified by what a quick analysis told him had been both sides, indicating the fortress had changed hands more than once already.

The Collective currently held the all important fortress world that sat at the outermost edge of the central star’s gravity well, far away from the things the Great Powers considered important, which made it an ideal battlefield. Combined with them being in a border world without a permanent population, things couldn’t be better.

Both armies bustled with activity as they appeared over the uninhabited planet that housed the teleport tethers, but a [Portal] put them next to the Empire’s troops where they recovered, a few thousand miles away from the fortress world.

A Captain rushed over, prepared to give them a readiness report, but Aster deflected him by speaking first. “We are going in this one alone, so long as there aren’t any new elites.”

When he confirmed there hadn’t been any new attention, matching what Matt had pulled from the army intel units, they got moving. He was already working on hacking the enemy’s systems, but he took pains to not get detected.

While the Great Powers surely knew he’d integrated his [AI], he didn’t want to give them any more data than he had to on how powerful his Insight was this early in the war. He’d make them work for every data point, just as they’d do the same to him.

Matt hoped that so long as he kept his usage limited during the early parts of the war, they might let their guards down in the later half, no matter how unlikely that was. A part of him knew that he’d probably end up brute forcing some issue before the end, but he didn’t want to give the game away too early.

As they approached, the Collective army shuffled their formations under the barrier of blue that shrouded the planet, but they didn’t retreat as the three of them entered the no man's land between the armies.

Liz sent out an offer of surrender, but Matt wasn’t surprised when no one accepted it. This was a population war, and the Collective no doubt had orders against such deals, but they still sent out the offer.

They weren’t beholden to the Collective command structure, and even if they were, they didn't particularly care. By sending out the offer, anyone who did flee could use them as an excuse. It might not change anything this soon into the war, but it was all the mercy they could give.

Whatever the case may have been, this army seemed to be willing to try their luck. Or at least, the commander was. They’d have to see how that worked out for them.

Matt already had an inkling on how it would play out.

Withdrawing his blade from its special storage ring, Matt flew forward towards the shielded planet, gaining both speed and mass with every moment and mile. Rather than decrease his weight as he normally did, he flipped those mechanisms and pushed the other way with all of his might.

His augment had fully encased his bones, and the first enhancement that came after made moving the increased weight feel effortless. That feedback was false, as that very same part of him told the story of the strain his actions put on his body.

He wasn’t quite planetary heavy, but he was close.

When he reached the halfway point the planetary defensive cannons opened fire, unleashing tens of millions of mana with every single attack. Rather than dodging, he activated his half mixed amalgamation of [Cracked Phantom Armor] and [Archmage’s Presence] and took the initial salvo without slowing down or deviating from his path.

Aster used the wash of energy to cover her casting the merge of [Tailwind] and [Swift Strides], she called [Grace of Wraith]. The merged skill bolstered both his speed and maneuverability, but rather than take advantage of the secondary effect, he only sped up further. As they got closer, she also took over dispelling and redirecting as many of the cannon shots as possible, letting him concentrate on his primary target.

