His spiritual perception wasn’t strong enough to pierce the shields and observe the troops' expressions, but he doubted the Collective’s cultivators were any less confused than the Empire ones who hadn’t yet understood what he was doing.

Matt’s longsword didn’t twinkle or shimmer as it landed on the planetary shield. There wasn’t enough light this far out, and the barrier of mana wasn’t so wasteful as to be illuminative.  The sword simply was.

A moment later, the shield could no longer claim the same thing.

From transparent, to translucent, to opaque, to gone, the planetary shield’s transition was almost instant, even to a Tier 35’s perception.

He didn’t stop there. He couldn’t.

Matt slammed into the Tier 8 ground and its layer of Tier 35 fortifications sword-first. Neither made any difference.

He was only able to bring his momentum to a halt a quarter of the way into the smaller than normal planet’s crust, well after he’d punched into the network of mana conduits and channels that powered the orbital shields and cannons. His impact and the devastation he’d caused was still transmitting through the planet as it protested the new crater he’d created.

Liz didn’t help the situation as over a hundred winged copies of her followed him planetside under the cover of Aster’s [Cracked Ice Canopy] that turned them into a snowy comet. When they got under the still absent shield layer, they engaged anyone foolish enough to continue fighting now that they’d breached the outermost defences. He also felt his bond picking at the smaller building shields, but that was a slow process she only managed when she was otherwise unbothered ,which wasn’t often.

Matt moved through the ground. He didn’t burrow, or dig, or even use spells to open his path, he didn’t need to. He simply flew through everything, letting his body carve his way through sheer physical power. He reached the surface just in time to receive the effect of [Astral Path], along with the Lizzes.

Every enhanced movement caused streamers of illusions to follow behind them, and Aster didn’t waste a single one as [Illusory Summons] multiplied their presences further.

Clones of Matt split off and ahead of him, attacking and ‘killing’ combatants, while others started casting magical attacks. While most of the first deaths were managed through Aster’s own skills masquerading under the illusions, the second wave were far more practical. While he hadn’t figured out how to make it so his flash-cast liquid mana stone talismans could be activated by the others mid-combat, he had figured out how to do so if he made them well in advance.

Aster had mountains of mana stone talismans in her spirit space, and had gotten very good at bringing them out and mixing them into her illusions for devastating effect. She had her own spells that she did use, such as [Icicle], [Airsnow], [Wind Lance], but the talismans allowed her to focus on her role as a support while still inflicting major damage on the scale of an army.

After a few cycles of real and fake, even the best prepared enemies would slip up and block when they should have dodged, or vice versa, which was all the mistake she needed.

Matt had just barely reached a bunker he’d been picking up orders from when a Liz slammed into and through a nearby wall as she fought a large bronze badger that kept burrowing through solid objects to get away from her.

While Aster kept the general army off balance, Liz was aiming for the active leadership and any elites she could identify. Half of her bodies harassed and corralled them so they couldn’t launch a coordinated counterattack during the panic, while the other half acted as mid range mages casting spells and curses alike.

Taking the cue from the badger, he decided to forget the well defended entrance and its fortified door and ran at the wall.

The wall crumpled around him as easily as the shielding had, but Matt didn’t let that stop him.

His longsword moved in large wide sweeping motions as he preserved his momentum between each attack. He was bombarded by dozens, then hundreds, of spells, as the defenders tried to pivot and react, but it didn’t do them any good as he cut his way deeper to where he felt the defending army’s leader.

Or at least their general, which amounted to the same thing.

Matt found two teams of high elites defending General Oask, but didn’t let that change his plans when he saw no one on either team were reported to have particularly noteworthy Talents or Aspects.

The instant he had a visual confirmation, he slammed everyone with a wave of [Telekinesis] hard enough to cause confusion, but not so much that he disrupted their formation as he crashed into it.

One of the frontliners tried to deflect Matt’s longsword upward, but the blade didn’t waver in its path as it blew through his sword arm, armor, torso, and finally the horrified defender next to him who’d been prepared to cover his opposite flank.

Matt didn’t move to deliberately finish them off, letting them activate earth aura escape talismans and disengage.

The backline fighters, two mages, a crossbowman, a dagger wielding fighter who blended into the wind, and a support that comprised the two high elite teams looked aghast at losing their primary melee fighters in one blow, but that didn’t stop them from launching more attacks in an attempt to slow him down.

Matt felt one of them muster and use an Aspect that tried to mire him down in the most viscous of mud, but he already had his momentum, and as such, their attempt was doomed to fail.

Their Aspect lasted three steps before he felt something tear and the support dropped to their knees, clutching their head and screaming as they bottomed out on willpower and continued anyway.

He tried to keep his attack away from heads, but one of the mages still died as they tried to dodge and ended up getting in the way of his knee.

When he finally came to a stop before General Oask, he reached out his left hand and grasped the woman’s skull without putting any pressure into the movement. He wasn’t trying to be nice, but he knew that following such violence with a measure of control was the best way to strike fear into even a seasoned combatant.

“Surrender, or die so I can ask your replacement to do so. This battle is already over.”

Matt could see the confusion flit across her face at his words, but he didn’t care as the system’s Collective forces surrendered en masse, just before his hand tightened.

Three minutes and eleven seconds.

It wasn’t a record, but it had to be close.

Less than an hour later, before the cleaning and repairs to the fortress world were finished and they returned to the Empire encampment, they felt two new presences enter the local real space.

Matt checked the arrivals before eyeing Liz and Aster.

Peak Collective Elites had arrived. Reinforcements that realized they were far too late.

They may have been skeptical about the [Portal] that opened up in front of their ships, but Matt summoned the exit far from himself and the battlefield. He was genuinely trying to get their enemies there faster.

He didn’t want more reinforcements to arrive before they finished.
