“Mama Bun, Mama Bun, Oh Mama Mama Mama. Mama Bun! Ba boom boom boom boom...”

With the wind in her hair and her pipa in hand, Tali played a silly little tune while riding to the bamboo grove. Though there was still a ways yet to go, her cheeks were already hurting from smiling so much, because for the first time in forever, the whole family was getting together for a group outing. They weren’t going anywhere new or exciting, just to silly mister Taduk’s garden and maybe their manor in the district, but it was still better than meeting everyone in the Citadel, where the streets were loud, cluttered, and stinky. Granpa and Rainy had to live there because of work, and Tali loved them both to bits, but she was happy when Mama and Papa announced they were moving out to the countryside, even before there was a district to visit. Things were just so much better away from all the crowds, and while the flat, boring plains were no match for the majestic sights and calming sounds of their mountain village, anything was better than living under constant guard back at the stuffy Citadel.

Chittering as she ran across the open fields, Paku most certainly agreed. Following hot on the heels of Mama and Suret, sweet Paku was having the time of her life as she huffed and puffed to keep up with her dam’s speedy pace. This was how Tali knew Mama had something on her mind, else she would have slowed down so the younger quins could keep up and so she could sing along with Tali’s playing. Something had happened with the family, which was why Mama was in such a big rush, but this was all the more reason for Tali to sing and play louder though, to help keep Mama’s spirits high. Aside from Tate’s naughty antics, Rainy was the only person who could get Mama so anxious and flustered, which meant whatever the problem was, Tali’s trouble prone uncle was sure to be at the centre of it.

She wasn’t worried though, because even though no one said anything, she could already tell it was good news, and not bad. Though Mama was in a rush to get to the bamboo grove, it wasn’t because they were running late, but because Rainy and everyone else had left the Citadel early. If there really was an emergency, Granpa and Granma wouldn’t have brought Rainy out to visit mister Taduk, mister Taduk would’ve gone to visit them instead, and Mama would be bringing them to the Citadel rather than the bamboo grove. Too bad Tate didn’t believe her and was scowling up a storm, his pinched and broody scowl almost an identical match to Surra’s. At least his quin had an excuse for his foul mood, seeing how his poor shoulder was still sore and chafed from a twisted harness the last time they rode, but Tate was just fretting for no reason.

There was no talking to him though, not when he’d already made up his mind, so Tali kept playing and singing while ignoring his pointed glares and directed scowls. He didn’t like her singing and said she was bad at it, and truth be told, Tali knew he was right, but that didn’t matter. She wasn’t good at singing now, which wasn’t the same as saying she would be bad at singing forever, but she would never get better and sound as good as Luo-Luo if she didn’t practice. Even though he was in another coma again, Rainy was living proof that hard work paid off, because no one worked harder than he did, and now, he was even higher ranked than Granpa and Great-Granma.

Falling Rain, Legate of the Outer Provinces, that’s what everyone called him, but when the other kids asked what Rainy was really like, Tali often had to lie, but only because no one ever believed her when she told the truth. Everyone saw him as this big, brave hero and warrior, a brilliant leader who would lead the Empire to victory against the Defiled, but the Rainy Tali knew was a crybaby, a big scaredy cat who worried about everything and anything. He hated fighting, hunting, training, and doing chores, and he loved complaining about them all the time, even though Mama and Granma never forced him to do his chores like they did with Tali and Tate. To hear Rainy say it, he would sit around all day playing with his pets and never leave home if given the choice, but even if that was what he really wanted to do, he was always working hard to help everyone else. That’s just the sort of person Rainy was, which made him even more of a hero in Tali’s eyes. It was easy to be brave when you were confident like Mama, or fierce like Granma, or scary like Granpa could sometimes be, but for a scaredy cat like Rainy, even basic courage didn’t come easily to him, so he had to work twice as hard as everyone else to find it.

Tali still remembered a time when Rainy would lock himself in his room for days and refuse to come out, or she would find him fast asleep in the quin pen because he had a nightmare and didn’t want to sleep alone. Mama and Papa said it was because Rainy went through a really bad tribulation before finding his way back to their family, but Tali only recently learned the details after Rainy told the entire Empire he’d once been a slave. A terrible thing, slavery, one which wasn’t allowed back in the village, and she couldn’t understand why the Emperor allowed such horrible practices, but Mama said ‘such is life’. Still, despite everything he’d been though, Rainy never gave up, and instead threw himself into his training. Tali once overheard Mama say Rainy worked hard to become a Warrior of note because he didn’t really trust anyone else to keep him safe, but Tali knew better. He wasn’t afraid for himself, not really. He just didn’t want anyone else he loved to go through what he did, so he faced his fears and worked hard to become strong enough to protect everyone else. That was Tali’s kind, hardworking, cowardly uncle Rainy, and it made her sad how no one ever believed her when she told the truth about how amazing he really was.

Of course, she still thought he was silly to work so hard at something he obviously hated, especially when he was so talented in so many other areas. Rainy didn’t know how to play any instruments, but he was always humming one pleasant tune or another that no one had ever heard, and he told the most imaginative stories about people in strange lands with unbelievable customs. He was also an amazing cook, brilliant physician, successful merchant, shrewd inventor, and all-round gifted individual, but he just had to pursue the Martial Path. Everyone supported Rainy with all their heart, but Tali thought Rainy would’ve been better off if they’d all come together and told him that he would be better off doing anything besides pursue the Martial Path.

Well, maybe not painting or calligraphy. Rainy had terrible brushwork, but then again, if he really worked hard at it, Tali was sure he would become one of the best painters or calligraphers ever. Knowing this, even though it was embarrassing to see Tate wince every time she started singing, she was determined to be more like Rainy and practice until she became better. Strumming away at her pipa, she sang and listened for the strange warbling that cropped up when she tried to match her voice with her instrument, but she couldn’t quite get it right all the time. Dissonance, Luo-Luo called it, a mismatch in harmonies, so Tali focused really hard on the notes and worked to improve just a little with each passing day. Even though she wasn’t good at it, she loved singing, dancing, and playing the pipa, so she would work hard to become the best singer, dancer, and musician she could be. If Rainy could work hard and become the Number One Talent in the Empire, then Tali could at least become a passable singer, ya?

Singing wasn’t all she worked hard at though, and this trip wasn’t just for fun, because she had a super special secret ready for Rainy. All too soon, their little race came to an end as they arrived at Mister Taduk’s garden all together. Granpa and Granma were waiting outside to greet them with big, bright smiles, smiles which had been all too rare these past few weeks. Unable to resist, Tali urged Paku into one final burst of speed before stopping short to launch herself off the quin’s back and into Granpa’s waiting arms. Bursting with laughter as he twirled her about, Tali buried her head in his chest and pretended not to hear Mama’s ‘tch’, having been warned too too many times about how dangerous that could be. That was silly too, because Granpa was one of the strongest Warriors in all the Empire, and he would always catch her and keep her safe.

Dizzy from all the spinning about, Tali giggled and gasped until she caught her breath and found her feet again, only to find herself wrapped in Granma’s warm embrace while Granpa stalked over to wrestle with Tate. No one ever believed Tali when she told them about her fun-loving grandparents either, which was a shame because they were the best, just like the rest of her family. “Tate, sweetling,” Granma called after Granpa and him had their fun. “Be a dear and help your sister bring everything inside please. There’s something we need to discuss with your parents.”

Probably the reason why they came to the grove so early instead of waiting until lunchtime like planned. With Tate’s help, Tali grabbed the saddlebags off of the quins back and set them loose to frolic before heading into the bamboo grove. Huffing from carrying too much, Tate stopped to listen to Luo-Luo’s music, though Tali was certain he was more interested in making moon eyes at her instead. Not that she could blame him really, because Luo-Luo was so beautiful even Tali sometimes found herself staring. Mi-Mi, Yan-Yan, Li-Li, and Lin-Lin were all pretty too, but they were like a beautiful, natural landscape, while Luo-Luo was an impossibly perfect painting of the same. Both were nice to look at, but there were plenty of landscapes out there, but only a few paintings more beautiful than the real thing.

Silly Mister Taduk gave Tali a goofy little smile when she called out hello, digging in the dirt alongside so many bun-buns, while Great-Granma and Great-Granpa called her over to pinch her cheeks and slip her sweets, like she was still a six-year-old who needed to be charmed. Not that she minded, since she loved sweets, but what she loved more was how big her family had gotten in recent years. Great-Granma and Great-Granpa were both a little scary at first, especially Great-Granpa with his frightening scars, but Tali had long since gotten past that and knew they were both sweet and caring as could be. Besides, it was funny to watch Granpa and Granma act like kids around them, always on their best behaviour just like Yan-Yan and Mi-Mi were around them. Great-Granpa was really funny too, and he eyed Tali’s boxes with a greedy smile. “Oh?” he rumbled, his nose twitching with exaggerated sniffs. “I smell something... delicious. Come lass, show yer Great-Granpa what ye got squirrelled away in there. A man’s liable to starve after comin’ all this way, where there ain’t nothing but rabbit food to fill his belly.”

“Ah! This isn’t for you!” Hugging her box close as she moved to shield Granma, Tali puffed her cheeks and said, “Papa has food for you, Great-Granpa, so be patient. This is for Rainy.”

“Ah, so that’s how it is then?”

Seeing Great-Granpa’s fake, sad expression, Tali sighed and said, “It’s just ingredients. There’s nothing cooked in here, ya?”

“Oh? So yer sayin’ it’s not all fer the lad, and that when it’s all done cookin’, yer great-grandda here can have some too? That’s a good lass, proper filial you are. What is it? Dumplings, smells like. Pork and scallions, I bet, the lad’s favourite. Mine too, in case ye didn’t know, so I can’t hardly wait.”

Rolling her eyes, Tali pursed her lips and huffed, just like Mama would. “Fine, but only one okay? The rest are Rainy’s.” It wouldn’t just be one, because Great-Granpa was a glutton who would steal food off Rainy’s plate if no one watched him, but he mostly did it to pester Mi-Mi and Mama. Luckily, Tali had expected as much and brought more pork and dough than necessary, but there was still one last ingredient which she just had to save just for Rainy. This she got from Lin-Lin, who had to pick her way through a crowd of begging bunnies all clamouring for a treat, but Tali steeled her heart and ignored their hopeful stares, patting paws, and thumping tantrums because Rainy needed it more. Inside the linen pouch was the last of Mister Taduk’s Spiritual Coriander, which Tali was going to use to make something healthy and delicious for Rainy. Papa, Mama, and Granma had all given up on feeding him Spiritual Plants, but the bunnies wanted them so badly and Mama Bun thought it’d be good for Rainy, so there had to be something there.

“Hiya Rainy,” she said, greeting him with as much enthusiasm as she could muster. Usually, he was all smiles whenever she saw him, but today he was still as empty and unresponsive as ever, sitting in the grass and staring at nothing at all. Tali hated seeing him like this, so wooden and distant, because it just made her miss him all the more. Poor Aurie was pressed up against him, cuddling close in hopes of a hug or a kiss, two things Tali provided for the wildcat in Rainy’s stead. “Don’t be sad, Aurie,” she whispered, rubbing the big, silly kitty’s cheeks just like Rainy would. “He’s just sleeping, ya? He hasn’t left, he’s just resting, you’ll see.”

“You haven’t heard have you?” Beaming impishly as she hugged Rainy tight, Lin-Lin nuzzled his cheek and said, “Hubby almost woke up earlier, when we were strolling through the market.”

“Really?”

