Coming out of my self-imposed coma is... disorienting, to say the least. A deluge of questions hits me like a tidal wave as everyone rushes over to check my health, and were it not for their care and discipline, I might well have been crushed underfoot. Their voices register in my ears and the words feel recognizable, right up until I try to discern their meanings which is when things get jumbled and confusing. I can make out individual words and even some phrases, but I cannot for the life of me parse together their entire sentences, though I can tell my confusion worries them. Understanding eludes me and my mind feels muddled and unresponsive, but there is no such barrier for emotion, both mine and everyone else’s. The flood of ineffable sensations is vast and intimidating, compelling and anxiety inducing, paralyzing and awe-inspiring all at the same time, an experience unlike anything I’ve ever felt before as I re-experience the full gamut of emotions for the first time in an eternity. All too quickly, I find myself overwhelmed by the love and concern radiating around me, invisible to the eye yet all too clearly there, emanating not just from these beloved people standing over me, but also the furry and feathery creatures pressed up against me.

Family. Animals. Wives. Parents. Pets. The words come belatedly, like lagging voice messages arriving seconds too late and playing at one tenth of the speed, making for familiar sounds that take considerable effort to parse through and frustrating me to no end. You’d think it was nothing big, this minor delay and jumbled speech, but it’s so noticeable I almost can’t stand it. It’s like I just went from playing a local game with no delay to an online one with over 300 ping and different controls for everything, not exactly unbearable, but far from pleasant. A voice sounds, and I raise my head as directed, my body responding before my mind pieces together the message. “Raise your head,” Taduk said, and now I’m looking him in the eyes. Puzzled as I am by my automatic reaction, I’m soon captivated by Taduk’s gaze. He has such soft, kind eyes, my Teacher and surrogate father, so filled with hope and concern, while smelling like herbs and cinnamon, a pleasant and unique combination I’ve never smelt anywhere else. While I stare into his eyes, he says something else, a command from the tone, and this time, it takes a short eternity for me to understand his intent. “Squeeze my hand.”

Squeeze. To exert pressure.

My. A pronoun and possessive adjective, in this case, indicating something of Taduk’s.

Hand. The end part of a person’s arm beyond the wrist, including the palm, fingers, and thumb.

Exert pressure on Taduk’s hand.

Oh, okay. He wants me to squeeze his hand.

I squeeze. Or at least, I mean to, but after a while, Taduk speaks again. I parse through the message only to find he repeated himself, asking me to squeeze his hand and leaving me to wonder if I actually did. I thought I did. Or did I just think about doing it, and never do anything? If I squeeze twice, would that change anything? No, he’s just checking how responsive I am, which at the moment, is not very. Squeeze his hand. Ah, I see the problem. His hand is in front of me. I wasn’t already holding it. I have to take his hand first, then squeeze. Makes sense, makes sense. There you go. Lift your hand, take his, and then squeeze.

Pain and discomfort in Taduk’s expression. Why? Oh no, I squeezed too hard. Let go. Dude. Let. Go. Relax your fingers and let go. There we go. Now... now say something. “I squeezed.” Say something else, like you’re sorry. “You’re sorry.” No, I’m sorry. Say it. “Sorry.”

Taduk’s reply comes too quickly for me to catch, but he cups my cheeks and smiles, which is enough to tell me that all is forgiven. What’s going on? Why isn’t my brain working? No, it’s working perfectly fine, it’s just not... synced with the rest of me. Oddly enough, everything works fine when I’m not paying attention, because I only now just noticed Taduk kept asking me to do things, and I’ve been doing them all without thinking. Raise my right hand. Close one eye. Close the other. Wiggle my ears. Tell him what two plus two equals. Going over what I just did and understanding what happened takes even longer than it took to do it, and when I finally come out of contemplation, I find myself facing a worried Taduk while the rest of my loved ones watch on. Again, it takes a moment for me to understand what happened, and I realize that while I was trying to make sense of things, I was ignoring everyone and everything, which made them think I slipped into another semi-conscious coma.

“Sorry.” The apology come naturally, even if my tone and expression don’t follow suit. I got lost in contemplation, but I don’t know how to express it, and after long moments of thought, I realize everyone is telling me there’s no need to apologize. Course once I figure this out, it only makes me feel worse, especially since I can feel their palpable dread and tangible relief on this roller-coaster of misunderstandings and emotions.

What’s going on? Why can’t I function properly?

As Taduk eases off on the health checkup, Tali brings me back to finish lunch, allowing me to mentally step back and let my reflexes take over. For awhile, it almost feels like nothing has changed, that I’m back inside the void while my body runs on autopilot to eat and do other stuff, except this time, I am both in control and not in control of my actions. I don’t entirely understand it, but after thinking it through for... well, a long time, I believe that all my problems are due to how I severed the connection to my mind and body. It’s not that I can’t ‘reconnect’, because I’ve obviously already done it, but rather that because I spent so much time in the Void, I’ve forgotten how to actually pilot this meat suit.

Way to go. You forgot how to be human. Good job, idiot.

It’s not entirely a lost cause though. I can do stuff if I really, really, really focus on it and direct myself through every minuscule step along the way. Words are still a problem, because I’ve stopped thinking in words, or at least, I think I have. Not sure. It’s more like everything I think is more of a concept, one unique to my own understanding. I’m not thinking these thoughts like reading words off a page, just experiencing it all at once.

And even then, I can’t stop the monologing. Amazing.

I didn’t notice it while in the Void, but this was how I adapted. I wasn’t a corporeal being anymore, a person with bodily needs and sensations, but just a construct of thoughts and memories. Now that I think about it, if I cut myself off from my body and mind, how was I functioning at the time?

Oh.

A doi.

No body.

No mind.

Which only leaves one thing. I was subsisting in the Void as a Soul. Not a Natal Soul, but just... my soul. Weird.

Ha! Turns out, I am now living proof that you don’t need a brain to think.

Hmm. Humour. I can’t really say why, but I feel like that’s a good sign. Probably is, for some reason or another. Maybe because I’m remembering what it means to be a person? I dunno. I think there’s less brain lag now too, or maybe it never existed. As a soul, there were no neurons to fire off in order to think, which probably means I was ‘thinking’ at the literal speed of thought, which is why I lost track of time so easily. I’m just adjusting to life as a person again, with all those minor needs like breathing and blinking to keep track of. Though it feels like forever, I don’t think I’ve been back in my body for more than... I can’t really tell, but looking back on what’s happened, I’m currently eating my...

Second dumpling.

...

Really? That’s it? I could swear I’ve been sitting here for a while now...

Man... time is slow.

No, that’s not true. Time is constant, it’s just my perception of time is skewed. I’m used to doing everything at the speed of thought now, and I’ve forgotten how to keep track of all those cues I use to denote the passing of time. Like breathing, blinking, heartbeats, and all those other constant rhythms I used to subconsciously keep track of. What’s more, I keep fixating on my thoughts and nothing else, ignoring the waking world around me and causing it to feel like time just... skips. It’s as if I’m watching my life unfold in slow motion before my own eyes, with little to no agency to affect it, and every time I stop focusing on the here and now, time either slows or accelerates without rhyme of reason. This more than anything is causing a disconnect between me and reality, because it’s hard to feel grounded when everything keeps changing.

Lin-Lin’s sweet laugh draws me out of my thoughts, and it is the most beautiful sound I’ve ever heard, one that fills me with love and longing for my sweet, delightful wifey. Meeting her eyes sends butterflies fluttering through my belly, and I follow her gaze down to my side, where Ping Ping is squeaking up a storm as I absently stroke her head. I didn’t make myself do that, it just happened, and the sweet girl is delighted by all the attention, and her skin feels so smooth and soft I can’t stop touching it. Perking up even more as she directs a burst of Loving Aura towards me, I belatedly realize this was in response to a directed Aura of my own. My emotions just slipped out without me noticing, which is something I’ll need to keep an eye on. In fact, right now, I’m still using my Aura to tell everyone I love them, yet somehow delivering a unique emotion to each and every person. The love I have for Lin-Lin is different from the love I have for Ping Ping, and the same can be said for any other two people here. Everyone else responds in kind, though aside from Song who is surprisingly receptive and responding with a loving Aura of her own, no one else is tapped into their Aura. I’m simply picking up on their emotions somehow, and it’s really, really great.

Especially Mama Bun. I mean, I pretty much knew it even before she visited my Natal Palace, but having proof that the sweet bunny actually loves me is just incredible. Plus her fur just feels so velvety soft against my cheek, I just want to hug and hold her all day...

Basking in the love and affection of my family, I do what I can to assure them of my good health and ease their troubled minds. I can’t explain it in words, but I know that my problems will fade with time. The sabbatical from my mind and body took a toll on me, and adjusting my Soul to fix my Core while separated probably didn’t do me any favours either, but things will mesh back together soon enough. It’s like... putting on a new pair of glasses. Things look weird for a little bit, but eventually, the body and mind will adapt.

Lunch goes by slowly and I savour every bite of the delicious meal, the highlight of which are Tali’s delicious, Spiritual Dumplings, a dish she somehow successfully created while Mom and Charok failed. Curious as to how she accomplished this, but I expected as much from my bright, talented, hardworking niece, and I suspect she’ll have an easier time figure this out than I will. Though Tali has no love for the Martial Path, the same cannot be said in reverse, as she is beloved by the Heavens and blessed with Talent whereas poor Tate only has hard work going in his favour. It’s alright though, I was the same way, so I’m sure Tate will succeed at whatever he puts his heart into. I’d be happier if he gave up his dream of a soldier’s life and pursued a safer job instead, but regardless of his choices, I will be there to support him every step of the way.

When the meal is finally over, I spend the afternoon drifting in and out of focus while lazing about with my loved ones and following all their instructions as best I can so that they can maybe figure out what’s wrong with me. I listen to Luo-Luo’s music and lean on Mila’s shoulder, bury my cheek in Aurie’s fur while Yan strokes my hair, hold Lin-Lin’s hand and smile while Mom fusses with my hair and clothes, and sit in the comforting shade of Dad’s back as he sits with Alsantset, Akanai, and Husolt so they can watch over me in silence. Throughout it all, Charok’s warm smile and Taduk’s big grin welcomes me back from my absence, and my beloved floofs demand all my love and attention to make up for lost time.

This is my family, and I was a fool to ever abandon them.

It’s good to be back.

Chapter Meme
