“Ya! He unleashed his Domain and it was like ‘Wah!’, and then he started channelling all this Chi which made my skin all tingly and prickly. He also looked a little scared, but no one else saw it, so I think he’s just gathering his courage to come back.” Gazing at him with admiring eyes, Lin-Lin gave Rainy another squeeze and whispered, “It’s okay. Nothing to be scared of hubby. We’re all here, waiting for you, so you don’t need to worry about a thing, okay?”

Lin-Lin understood Rainy best, even better than Tali. Gladdened by the news, Tali gave Rainy a small hug and made sure her things were secure from thieving bunnies, curious kitties, and hungry bears before heading off to say hi to all the animals. She paid extra attention to the birds, especially the fledglings because they were cute, curious, and refused to be ignored. A shame Rainy wasn’t awake, because he would love to hug and scritch these roly-poly birdies who were so trusting and loving they’d snuggle up in your lap, but since he was still in a coma, then Tali would just have to spoil the birdies in his place. The bunnies too, but they were only swarming her because of the pack of Spiritual Plants tucked into her sleeves, and she refused to share any since she knew Mister Taduk gave them more than enough to munch on. He was a lot like Granma in this one regard, where he spoke ill of the bunnies but actually loved them to bits.

Almost an hour later, Tali was finally ready to get started on lunch, though she needed everyone else to help keep the animals away. Even Rainy lent a hand here, though not on purpose as Mama Bun had fallen asleep in his lap, clutching Pong Pong no less. He was the prettiest turtle Tali had ever seen, even prettier than the cute and adorable Ping Ping, and though this was a rare chance to pet the mysterious turtle, Tali would not let herself get distracted from helping Rainy. He was almost awake, but still scared, so she would cook him a delicious, Spiritual Meal just like the Imperial tofu pudding he kept going on about.

If the Imperial Clan could cook Spiritual Plants, then there was no reason Tali couldn’t do it too, so after washing her hands, she settled down to work and did everything exactly as Rainy taught her. These days, all of her cooking lessons were taught by Papa, but Rainy was the one who introduced her to it, all those years ago back in the village. She still remembered the first time they cooked together, when he showed her how to crease the folds on the dumplings to make them look pretty. “Wanna know the secret to making delicious dumplings?” he’d asked, smiling one of his rare, real smiles, not the fake smile he usually put on so no one would worry.

“Ya,” Tali had said, and Tate had chimed in as well, so happy to be helping even if he didn’t like cooking. “Tell us, tell us!”

Gathering them both up in his thin, but strong arms, Rainy had hugged them tight and whispered, “Love. Gotta put lots of love into the dumplings, else they’re just steamed meat and dough. That’s why you guys were such a big help, because I love you both so very, very much.”

Glancing at Rainy’s blank expression, Tali held fast to the memory as she set to work, laying everything out just the way Rainy used to. That’s why she chose to make dumplings, instead of something easier for him to eat like soup or congee, because they were something they shared, a special memory between them, and she wanted him to remember this and come back. The dough was already prepared and the meat ground, spiced, and tenderized, so Tali chopped up the scallions, diced the Spiritual Coriander, and mixed it all thoroughly with her bare hands. Rainy’s method of gauging the perfect amount of filling was to take a big handful and squeeze his fist until a glob oozed out from between his thumb and index finger, giggling all the while. There were cleaner and better ways to measure the filling, like by using a proper sized spoon, but Rainy preferred using his hands because, “It’s more fun this way”. A perfectly Rainy way to do things, not the best way, but his way, so Tali meant to honour that and follow through.

Besides, he was right. It was more fun this way.

Rainy was never someone who cared too much about appearances, but Tali believed food tasted better when it looked nice, so instead of doing the basic, three fold wraps like Rainy taught her, she decided to wrap the dumplings as prettily as possible. The first batch she wrapped as a three-pointed stars, and the second in what Papa called a ‘round basket’ style, with a doughy bowl on top where people could drizzle soy sauce, vinegar, or hot sauce into. She also wrapped some with an open top for Rainy to eat first, and others like a folded pouch, because she knew Mama liked to bite through the dumpling skins to let all the steam and heat out first before eating them in one gulp. Lastly, following a bout of inspiration, she wrapped a dozen dumplings using three wrappers each and equal amounts of meat to make a bouquet of rose-shaped dumpling that were sure to have Rainy praise her.

While she worked, Tate got the cooking fire started and heated the water to a boil, so once Tali was finished wrapping, all she had to do was put the bamboo steamers into the pot and tend to the fire to make sure it didn’t get too hot or too cold. It was a delicate thing, as differently wrapped dumplings needed different amounts of time in the steamer, and she didn’t have a pocket-watch like Rainy. All she could do was watch the fire and use her best judgment, so she settled in and waited. When the dumplings were about three-quarters of the way done, she removed the three-pointed star and pouch dumplings from the pot before frying them in a pan of pork fat. She’d used the same filling for all the dumplings, so this would add some much-needed variety to keep things exciting. By the time everything was all ready and she’d taken the steamers out of the pot, Great-Granpa and Tate were all but drooling as they sat by the fireside, while a pool of spit had already formed underneath Banjo and Baloo’s chins.

Suddenly feeling drained from all her efforts, Tali wiped her brow and plonked down in the dirt, only for Lin-Lin to come over with a handkerchief in hand. “Wah, you worked so hard,” she said, wiping away Tali’s sweat before planting a kiss on her forehead. “It smells so yummy, and looks pretty too. You’re such a great cook Tali.”

Everyone else chimed in with similar sentiments, and it was only now that Tali realized they’d all been watching her work. Papa was even plating things out for her with a big smile on his face, and Tali’s cheeks flushed with embarrassment. “Did I take too long?” she asked, wondering why everyone was staring. “Sorry.”

“You didn’t take too long at all,” Papa said, and over by Rainy’s side, Mama reaffirmed this with a nod as she smiled ever so brightly. “We’re all just watching because you did such an amazing job, sweetling. How do you feel?”

“Tired,” Tali replied, nuzzling against Lin-Lin’s shoulder as she realized just how exhausted she really was. “Really sleepy ya?” Rubbing her eyes with a yawn, she added, “And my head hurts a little.”

“Have some tea,” Lin-Lin said, helping Tali over to sit next to Rainy, who still had Mama Bun and Pong Pong asleep in his lap and Aurie pressed against his back. “Daddy brewed it special for you, so drink slowly and finish the whole thing.”

Giving the herbal tea a careful sniff to check if it was medicine, Tali was surprised by how fragrant and pleasant the tea smelled. A careful taste test confirmed that the drink was laced with honey, but not to hide any bitter taste or strange surprises, so she gulped it down greedily with a smile. “Thank you mister Taduk,” she said, feeling better already as Lin-Lin refilled the cup. “The tea is delicious.”

“You’re welcome, dear girl,” he replied, patting her head with a warm smile. “And I’m sure your dumplings will be even more delicious.”

While everyone else settled in to eat, Tate shuffled over to sit beside her and whispered, “Are you okay? You were really weird back there.”

“What do you mean?”

“You don’t remember?” For a second, Tali thought Tate might be trying to trick her, but he was genuinely confused. “You got really still for a few minutes and didn’t answer when I asked you if something was wrong. I was gonna shake you, but then Great-Granma stopped me and said we should leave you alone.” Pursing his lips in thought, Tate leaned in and said, “I think you were channelling. Did you have an Insight maybe?”

“I don’t think so.” Tilting her head to think, she asked, “Sorry for ignoring you. I was just making dumplings and thinking about Rainy.”

“Ah.” Though he didn’t have much else to add, Tali could see Tate was worried Rainy would never come back. They were so similar in the worst possible ways, because even though Tate knew Rainy just as well as Tali, he idolized Rainy and wanted to be just like him, without learning anything from his mistakes. Tate didn’t love fighting either, he just wanted to be strong like the rest of the family, but that wasn’t a good reason to become a Martial Warrior. You didn’t have to be a dedicated Warrior to be strong; Papa, Granma, and Great-Grandpa were all living proof. Sure, Rainy was great at everything and was now a hero and Legate, but Tali knew he would much rather be unknown and carefree again, rather than struggle every day to cope with all the fame, stress, and danger.

A shame Tate didn’t understand that, but hopefully, he would come to his senses soon enough...

Pulling her brother in for a hug, she clutched tight until he stopped squirming to get away. Ignoring his forced scowl, she grinned and whispered, “Don’t worry, silly. Rainy will be just fine. You’ll see.”

“You don’t know that.”

Even he didn’t believe Rainy wouldn’t be okay, but Tate just had to agonize over something. That’s how Rainy was after all, and Tate had picked up that bad habit. “I know,” Tali declared, releasing her brother from her grip, and somehow, she really did. “I just do.”

Then it came time to eat, with everyone praising Tali’s dumplings, while she felt bad for Papa who worked so hard on everything else. “The noodles look really yummy,” she said, which earned her a soft smile from Papa as he added an extra piece of mutton to her bowl. “And is that stir-fried shrimp? We haven’t had that in forever.”

“Because a certain greedy little beast kept eating it all,” Papa replied, his eyes settling on the sleeping Mama Bun in Rainy’s lap. “Even the portions set aside for other people.”

“Lucky!” Reminded of Pong Pong’s presence, Tali took a moment to gaze at the pretty turtle and resisted the urge to stroke his sleepy head. This was the first time he’d trusted them all enough to fall asleep in their presence, and she didn’t want to do anything to break that trust, so she left him and the snoring Mama Bun alone. Instead, she pet Ping Ping who was resting her head in between Tali and Rainy, and the sweet Guardian Turtle squeaked happily in response before going back to staring at Rainy’s blank expression.

Stifling a small sigh, Tali clung fast to hope and put Rainy’s bowl and chopsticks in his hands. Usually, he would take them and start shovelling air into his mouth, but today, he almost dropped them both. Tali had to close his fingers around the bowl and give it a little squeeze before she could let go, and even then, Rainy only held it loosely. The same went for his chopsticks, which weren’t being held in his hand so much as balanced in his palm, which was odd since he usually ate without help. Tired and light-headed as she was, Tali was determined to get Rainy to eat her dumplings, so she shifted her seat into a kneeling position and took his bowl and chopsticks from him. Leaning forward to grab one of the open-topped dumplings, she gingerly placed it into the bowl and blew on it to cool. Then she added a single drop of soy sauce and big drizzle of chili oil, just the way he liked it, and on a whim, offered him the bowl again. “Here you go Rainy,” she said. “See? I made yummy dumplings for you to eat, so you’ll be strong and healthy again. Pork and scallions, your favourite.”

Even though she didn’t expect a response, she still tried to talk to him as often as possible. When Granma was in her coma, she heard Granpa talking to her, so there was no reason to think Rainy couldn’t hear them now. To her surprise, he even responded this time, raising his arms to take the bowl and chopsticks from her hands. Her breath caught in her chest until she remembered that this was normal, that he always ate his food on his own and this was no different, or at least that’s what she told herself until she raised her head and saw him looking back at her.

His expression was still blank, but his eyes, those told Tali everything, so full of warmth and love as he raised the bowl to his lips and ate the dumpling within. Chewing slowly to savour the taste, his gaze shifted to Tate and then around the grove to take in the rest of the family. With each passing moment, his face filled with life, the colour coming back to his cheeks as he returned to the waking world unnoticed by anyone except Tali. Her smile threatened to split apart her cheeks as she watched it all happen, and by the time his eyes landed back on her, she knew Rainy was back for good.

Because only Rainy could look so tired, worried, and happy all at the same time.

“You’re back!” Throwing herself into his chest, Tali cried tears of joy as he hugged her back and stroked her hair. “Rainy’s back!”

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

