Erick offered, “Want me to enchant a mobile purple lightmask on a diamond for you, or something? You can leave the one down there for questers.”

The Headmaster paused. He said, "Okay.” He added, “Done. 75 percent.”

Erick smiled. That was a better rate than Erick had expected, for something anyone could do once they understood the trick. He poured out the last of the coftea from the stone pot, into his cup, and into the Headmaster’s. With a thought, he [Cleanse]d the pot, spilling a tiny stream of thick air into the room. With another thought, he cast a permanent, two meter wide purple lightmask onto the coftea pot. Everything turned purple, because he was in the lightmask effect. He set the pot on the table in front of the Headmaster.

The old dragon looked down at the purple pot and chuckled. He picked up his full mug saying, “Cheers,” then took a swig.

“Cheers,” Erick said, then sipped from his mug. “Who are you going to sell to, anyway? Don’t give me a line about 'only your Elites', please.”

The Headmaster laughed once. “That was not a lie! I will only sell to them, and only to those who prove themselves capable of the responsibility of having an artifact.” He said, “I outfit my Elites well, but they still have to pay for the best equipment. They get money for this by questing the world over, to rid us of the more dangerous monsters and reap the rewards of those endeavors, or by working their way through monsters on the Lesser Quest board to acquire the grand rads necessary to buy that gear.” The Headmaster said, “The All-Stat items I make from this purple pot will join those already for sale to those who qualify. I will likely charge 10,000 per ring, or considerably less if I cannot figure a way to duplicate your coating and thus make them artifacts.”

Erick offered, “Do you want to buy diamonds from me?”

“No. Thank you.” He said, “I prefer pearls, and I have my own resources for that. I will not be taking the diamonds from the dungeon, either. Those little slimes truly do like all the sparkly lights.” He chuckled. “I feel almost a kinship, there.”

“The option for me to sell you diamonds is open, but that spell should also be in the Script in 6 months, anyway, or something like that.” Erick asked, “Unless you can bypass that restriction as the Second?”

“I cannot. When the time comes, I will have to spend a point, just like everyone else. The Script of the Registrar is a lot more open than most, but that comes with just as many restrictions. I will likely go the harder route, though, and try to recreate the spell myself, to save that point.” The Headmaster set down his empty mug and picked up the purple pot. He stood, and said, “It has been a pleasure, Erick Flatt. You are welcome back at Oceanside at any time.”

“Thanks for having me.” Erick stood, saying, “I might be back, soon enough. I still haven’t solved the [Polymorph] problem, but I might not need to if the [Eyes of the Goddess] says all of my targets are in the same location. Maybe all I need is some normal sleuthing to find them. Or maybe someone else has done all of that sleuthing for me, and I just have to ask a spell a question based on physical form.”

“It is possible. You should know that we never got a lead on the people who attacked Messalina. If we had, I would have sent you off with some mementos from those hunters. If you do feel the need to communicate with that woman, don’t let her get into your head more than she already has.” The Headmaster warned, “She is more than capable of ruining your life.”

“She’s already put a fair dint into my plans by making me respond to her presence at all, but I understand what you’re saying.”

The Headmaster looked into Erick’s eyes for a short moment. He said, “You did not ask, but I feel you should know that the unknown pixie was not a spy for Messalina. He was a distant family member that was visiting without checking in first. Thanks to him, we did discover that the colonies in Nergal’s jungles are in complete disarray, but the pixie teenager knew nothing beyond that. We let him go, with our apologies for his rough treatment and an offer of assistance to those still living in Nergal.”

“Thanks for telling me.”

The Headmaster nodded, then blipped away in a shattering of purple light, taking the purple coftea pot with him. Normal light returned. Gold shimmers hung in the air for a brief moment, before that too, vanished.

Erick sagged back down onto the couch, giving a heavy sigh as he tilted his head back and stared at the high ceiling. Whatever complicated emotion was passing through his head, relief was a major part of it.

Relief from securing funding for further enchanting work, to securing the release of his All-Stat items into the world in a way that put the Headmaster in the line of fire, instead of just himself, to relief that he hadn’t pointed out that pixie only to have them killed—

Erick almost punched himself. He needed to get over that particular emotion if he was ever to lead a fight against a Shade.

Erick breathed deep. He sat up. He removed the Headmaster from [Prismatic Ward]s permissions as he simultaneously spotted a small spider on the edge of the window, near the ground.

… On a whim, Erick blanked everyone's [Prismatic Ward] permissions, then inundated a purging pulse of magic through the spell in what felt like an appropriate thing to do, if he wanted to get rid of every possible permission he could have ever added. He had been subjected to more than a little bit of mind control over the past few months, and all the spiders around the house warned him that maybe he had accidentally invited other unknown people into his space.

The air around him solidified as the dense air of [Prismatic Ward] held him tight. For a brief moment, he could not breathe. He immediately added himself back to the spell’s permissions, and breathed easy.

The spider by the window didn’t seem to care. It moved a little, as the air around it shook with Erick’s uncommon magical demand, but the spider settled back into his waiting position soon enough. Erick poked it with his Handy Aura, just to be sure that what he was seeing, was what he was seeing. The spider scurried a foot before stopping.

Erick said to no one in particular, “I guess spiders are normal, home-things.” He stared down at the spider, saying, “But [Scry] doesn’t fly through solid spaces like in this [Ward], so whoever would use you to spy must use a complicated spell. It probably kills you when they use it, too. Maybe? I don’t know enough to say that, actually.”

He began methodically adding the people he trusted back into [Prismatic Ward]s permissions. Jane, Poi, Kiri, Sunny, Teressa, Rats, Ophiel—

He called Ophiel in from outside. The winged [Familiar] blipped onto the couch beside him, already singing in violins and harps. Erick patted the little guy. It was time to go back to Spur. He called everyone back to the Manor with a short telepathic message.

- - - -

Bags were packed. Vinsez and Powell were bade farewell on the front lawn of Windy Manor, and the [Prismatic Ward] around the house was taken down. The groundskeepers would keep the place nice and neat while Erick was away, and Erick would pay them out of money that came from the dungeon. They both smiled at that proclamation. They were happy to have the stability Erick’s decision afforded them, and they were happy for the gardens, too. Powell was beginning to really enjoy her lemon bars and cinnamon rolls, and that was fine, because she was eating for two, now. She and Vinsez would be mother and father, sooner than they thought.

Erick stumbled over his words as he congratulated them. He had no idea they were together. They never acted that way at all. Erick quickly rummaged around in his packed bags to find a suitable present. He gave each of them a pair of his old All-Stat rings. They were visibly taken aback at this, but Erick insisted. They accepted the rings with a heartfelt ‘thank you’.

Erick took one last look at Windy Manor, the green forest all around the two meter high walls, his garden of lemon trees and potatoes and cinnamon trees, and at the expansive ocean to the west, past the steep cliff at the edge of the property. The wind blew in from the salty ocean, carrying the mana ocean on the eternal breeze. This place smelled of travel and vacation and magic, but Erick’s time on Oceanside had been work, work, and more work. And now it was time for even more work. He smiled to himself, thinking that retirement was no longer 15 or 20 years away, but maybe 200.

That was a much better thought than thinking of an early end because of a mistake already made, or a misstep in the days or decades to come.

He turned back toward the house. He’d be back here in a week or so to pick up Jane. Hopefully this Messalina mess would be over by then.

Erick, Poi, Kiri, Teressa, and Rats, boarded Erick’s [Teleporting Platform], along with all of their stuff. Books, bags, luggage, equipment made and raw materials never used, all of that formed a pile almost as large as Teressa in the center of the platform, tied down with ropes and wrapped in cloth. Erick cast an Ophiel, which then cast a full strength [Prismatic Ward] onto the platform. Dense air resolved into a nice bubble that would protect them from the wind and anything else that might happen along the short trip.

Erick paused. And then he went.

They, and all of their stuff, vanished from Windy Manor in a white blip. They reappeared over the oceans. A few more blips took them to the mountains. Sunny and Ophiel followed behind, under their own power so the trip did not incur more mana costs than necessary; all of the stuff the group had picked up over their nearly three months in Oceanside already amounted to an extra five people in the [Teleport] cost calculations.

It was 14 blips total to get all the way back to Spur. Erick might have been regenerating 8 mana a second, but that was not enough mana to cover the full distance. They took two fifteen minute breaks on the way home; Erick wanted to be on full mana when he arrived. Soon, the tan and orange sands of the Crystal Forest spread out below them in all directions. It was a nice sight.

Soon, they were home.

- - - -

Home was a pile of debris and dirt half a story tall, cordoned off from the rest of the mostly-empty Human District by small juts of stone, each with a warning against trespassing inscribed at the top of those juts.

Erick set down his [Teleporting Platform] and all of his passengers, a few meters in front of the still-standing front door of his house, and a few meters away from his greeting party. Three people had shown up to welcome him back to Spur. Guardmaster Merit, all orange scaled and dressed in silver armor, Silverite, who wore a nice white dress over her quicksilver body, and brown-haired Ramizi, who stood in attendance as the representative of the Headmaster’s Elites.

“Morning, Erick,” Merit said. “You’re looking rather not like your usual self.”

Ramizi’s eyes went a little wide, as his face briefly turned a shade of pink. He said, “Hel— Hello. Hello again, archmage.”

Erick smiled as he stepped off his his platform, but remained inside the radius of his [Prismatic Ward], for now, saying, “I got a nice bonus for adding to the magical knowledge of Veird, just the other day. I was as surprised as anyone else.”

Silverite said, “We are prepared.”

“Right to it, then,” Erick said.

“I eagerly await your results!” Merit smiled wide, showing sharp fangs; waiting.

Ramizi cleared his throat, then said, “Our people are in position.”

Erick said, “Then let’s find the targets.”

Erick launched [Cascade Imaging] into the sky, just high enough to catch all of Spur in its effect, and eventually give a good, fully realized miniature view of the city. White light began to spill out of a ball in the sky, as a fog appeared on the ground. Erick stepped back from the forming fog, moving the dense air surrounding the platform away, along with all of their stuff, and Erick’s passengers; Kiri, Poi, Rats, and Teressa, had yet to get off the platform. Spur was a lot safer than when they first discovered that dream worms were everywhere, but Poi was the cautious type, and this was the plan they went with, for coming back to Spur.

Merit had approved their caution, when Poi spoke to her and Silverite both, earlier. This caution seemed to have been necessary, considering that tiny blue dots began to appear on the resolving foggy image of Spur.

“Gods to the east and west!” Merit exclaimed, “There are still dream worms in town!”

Ramizi glared at the map. “Those little fuckers.”

Silverite frowned. “I guess there are.” She grumbled, “We must still have a pixie problem, too.”

Lines of telepathic intent radiated from Merit, Silverite, and Ramizi. Erick just watched, as the three of them controlled the situation from here, directing their forces all around the city to capture and contain the exposed threat. Buildings and streets and city walls gradually fully formed out of the fog, as blue dots began to vanish, one after the other.

“Shit.” Ramizi said, “Some of the infected are [Teleport]ing away.”

Erick said, “If you can collect a piece of them then I can track them, as long as they don’t [Polymorph].”

Merit said, “Heard and understood.”

Silverite said, “Search for pixies. Forget the worms, for now.”

Merit glanced at Silverite, but said nothing.

Erick renewed the spell, searching for ‘pixie’. Several blue dots appeared.

Silverite steeled herself as she said, “Ignore the one at the Courthouse. Capture or eliminate the rest. Those are the threat.”

“Understood.” Merit said, “Adjustments of targets disseminated.”

Ramizi said, “Oceanside will follow your lead.”

“They’re running,” Merit said. “They know we see them.”

Erick watched the map as Merit, Silverite, and Ramizi went silent. Blue dots began to disappear. Not one minute passed, before every single blue dot was gone, except for the one at the Courthouse. As soon as the pixies understood they were seen, they vacated the city quick as a blip.

Erick and his people had yet to leave the safety of his [Prismatic Ward].

