Silverite said, “Back to searching for worms, please. We will take the targets carefully, this time.” As Erick tuned the map back to ‘dream worms’ and blue dots reappeared, Silverite added, “Sorry that your return wasn’t met with a better outcome. I had hoped… It doesn’t matter what I had hoped.” She gestured at the map, as blue dots began to reappear. “Hopefully this is Caradogh Pogi’s doing. No one has found him, either, but he was already a dangerous man before he began to work with Messalina. Now, he’s a dangerous man with nothing left to lose.”

Erick said, “We can find him, too.” He turned to Ramizi, saying, “I heard the Headmaster’s Elites hit his house but found nothing, but did you find like… a hairbrush, or something?”

“Yes.” Ramizi said, “We’ve found many items to use for a tracking magic. I’ll see to it that you get a few of them. What do you need, exactly?”

“The biological bit at the root of a hair. Blood. Some physical part of Caradogh.”

Ramizi nodded, as he turned back to the map, saying, “We will get you your pieces as soon as possible.”

Erick began moving the platform, with all of his people, closer to the house. “I’m going to remake the house, then.”

Merit did not look up from the map, as she said, “This is a big help, Erick.”

He nodded, and left them to their work.

He turned to the house. It had been destroyed so that it couldn't be used against him; so that Messalina or anyone else couldn't place traps or parasites in the structure, to lie in wait for Erick to walk into their trap. As a pile of rubble and sand it was much easier to prevent those sorts of surprises.

Erick flew Ophiel into the center of the house and cast [Mend] through the [Familiar], linking it with the Mana Shaping option to turn a targeted spell into an area spell, for 500 mana, and Aurify, to hit the whole house. Power poured through Erick, through Ophiel, soaking into the piles of sand below.

[Mend] took hold on the front and rear doors that still stood like monoliths poking up from the debris. Sand flowed upward, turning to walls, to staircases. Erick smiled, as stone turned to home, once again. He smiled wider, as he saw beds and dressers and mirrors and tables, many things that had been broken in the destruction, come back together, back into position, before walls covered them up.

A blue box appeared.

Mending Aura, long range, 572 MP per second

Restore a very large, complicated location to its prime. Time since the structure was destroyed may alter final results. Automatically repair all objects in the area of effect.

Minor ability to affect magical objects.

The house came together in several seconds. Erick’s southern mage tower lifted straight up from the sand. Jane’s northern tower rose into the air like a building collapsing in reverse. Balconies and doors and glass windows reappeared out of the destruction, like they had never been broken or shattered. Al’s somewhat-Victorian architecture solidified out of the [Mend]ing stone, like a resolving image.

When it was done, Erick summoned an Ophiel and used that mana to cast a [Prismatic Ward] around the house. He would personally recast that spell later, and utilize his Clarity bonus to double the effectiveness of that dense air, when his own mana recovered to full. For now, he just walked to the front door, opened it up, and stepped inside.

The ground was flat, the walls were straight, the staircase in the center of the house was wide and beautiful and curved upward just how Erick remembered, and it was all done in wonderful orange stone. Orange was a nice color. The air was dry compared to Oceanside, of course, but even that was a nice return to normalcy.

Erick was home again.

Jane was still at Oceanside and she was technically vulnerable right now, but the Headmaster was watching her, waiting for a reprisal from Caradogh or Messalina. Erick might not have personally discussed that with the dragon in their last talk, but Poi had done a lot of his own organization for leaving Oceanside.

Alibeth wouldn’t be the only highly qualified person watching for some errant Mind Mage to try to make a run at Erick through his daughter. If anyone attacked Jane’s location, they were in for a very big surprise. Jane was safe as could be for being unconscious.

Erick breathed deep the air of Spur. It smelled of clean stone, and hard edges. He turned around and waved his people inward, saying, “Come on in.”

Teressa hopped off the floating platform as Rats began to untie the wrapped luggage.

An hour later, the house was mostly put together right, but there were problems. Scattered jars of coftea and rotten potatoes and other food stuffs littered the kitchen and a few other nearby rooms. Mirrors had [Mend]ed, but needed to be physically placed back on the walls. Beds were out of position. Pipes were clogged with various problems. The whole house was dark; every single wardlight needed to be remade, but temporary ones went up for now. When Erick’s mana reached full, he recast the [Prismatic Ward] around the house, properly, himself.

Erick fixed many of the more pressing issues with a [Cleanse], or a [Scry] down the pipes to see, and fix, the blockages here and there. Kiri, Poi, Teressa, and Rats, each attended to their own places first, then to the rest of the house.

Eventually Erick was in his tower, looking for more problems. Boxes of diamond spheres and their contents laid scattered everywhere; he had actually found some of those orbs downstairs in the kitchen, blocking the water pipes. His lathes were intact, but on the floor. The water system for capturing platinum rain from the outside to funnel it into the tower, into troughs, seemed intact, but he wouldn’t know for sure until he tested that system. Erick smiled. All in all, the tower had fared okay.

He looked up.

The globes of Earth’s Solar System and the Sun, that Erick had made with his first applications of [Stoneshape], that he had hung on the ceiling, were gone. They had not been repaired in the [Mend]ing. They were simply absent.

Erick frowned. He sighed. He began picking up diamond orbs and setting his tower to rights.

Outside, Merit and Silverite and Ramizi continued to ask for further [Scan] targets. They occasionally sent him a telepathic request, and he responded with an Ophiel on site, near the map, recasting [Cascade Imaging] as needed. A few times they asked him to track a specific person using a sample from that person. Erick left his cleaning efforts behind for a moment then went to the front door to retrieve whatever sample they had, and did as they asked. He would experiment with having Ophiel cast his DNA tracking version of [Cascade Imaging] later, so he wouldn't have to personally cast the spell, but for now the city was full of problems that required immediate action.

Erick wasn’t the only one cleaning house today.
