“What do you mean by that?” Adam asked.

“It means the Courts won't even let each other take easy peeks across the land. Why do you think you're going to be so special?” The Bread-Knight sneered. “Expect to be keeping your eyes to yourself, huntsman.”

“What? That doesn't make any sense. You can't just block someone's Awareness skill without… There can't be wards layered across all of the Fairwoods, can there? Can there? It's an entire dimension." Adam waited for the Bread-Knight to add to that, but the fae simply continued sneering. “That’s… that’s just complete bullshit.”

“Looks like we can feel useless together, Hero Adam,” Uva deadpanned.

“Readers hate spoilers, and we're going to be walking right into a storybook place,” Shiv said. “I won't blame either of you if you want to just sit this one out. With everything we know so far, I’m just planning to dump Toasty back with the Summer-Court, see if they can help with the Curse, and then go to the Winter Court if they can’t.”

Toasty squealed with disgust. “Please, Deathless, do not cast such unintended slander upon me and mine! If the glorious Risen Dawn cannot save you, then what hope does the pale and cold light of the Forsaker's Moon?”

“That's what I'm going to find out,” Shiv said. He regarded his companions.

“I’m hiding in your mind,” Uva said. “Little risk for me.”

Adam scoffed. “Well, even if the entire realm is warded, you still need someone to keep you from doing something stupid and get you back in one piece. If my greatest skill doesn't work, then yours will probably run into plenty of impediments as well. We don't need you trapped inside some cage of unbreaking… restraint. We’ll have to end up rescuing you if that happens anyway.”

“If someone puts me in a cage, I'll just go Non-Sequitur,” Shiv said.

“You know what I bloody well mean,” Adam snapped.

“And the Gate?”

“Still Water and my father can manage just fine for a while. Let’s get this done quickly so you aren’t a danger to every automaton in existence. And before you turn all my buildings to rust.”

“Ah!” Shiv said dramatically, like he'd caught a murderer in a lie that revealed his guiltiness. “There it is: The true motivations of the Young Lord revealed—he’s afraid the street kid will shit up his property values. Uva, I’m being oppressed!”

“Be meaner, Adam,” Uva whispered as she unraveled in a stream of strands and burrowed back into Shiv’s mind.

“Ouch,” Shiv whimpered. “Not really feeling supported for what we’re about to do.”

Adam sneered. “Oh, shut up, Shiv. Get in before I shoot that orichalcum slab you have instead of a head.”

Shiv chuckled and began walking toward the gateway. He cracked his neck and summoned his Last Morsel to hand. Flicking his frying pan a few times, he was glad the Legendary item didn’t suffer from the effects of the Curse. He wondered why that was, but he wasn’t going to complain. It was good to have something he could rely on as a weapon. The way its edges lit up with cutting aura might just let him take a chunk of a haughty Fae.

“I… Deathless,” Merrielmel called out as Shiv walked by.

“Just keep the gateway active and let the orcs keep watch,” Shiv replied. “We’ll be back in no time. It's just a short trip. And once we do get back, I’ll do another run in the Stranger’s Garden—see if we can find out where your brother went this time.”

A grateful sigh escaped the anxious bald elf. “That’s—that’s all I can ask for.”

Shiv came to a stop before the gateway. Something tightened inside him. It felt like his Non-Sequitur should have triggered, but just… didn’t, for some reason. “Alright. Here we go. Into the place where bread can be knights, stories are the law of reality, and maybe where I can find a way to tell Maiden to go fuck herself.”

“You will find grand wonders and marvelous splendor in Summer Court,” Toasty declared. “For my return, you will be regarded as a champion to the children of the dawn, and all your ails will be relieved. Furthermore, with your uniquely bad cooking—”

“It’s not fucking bad!” Shiv hissed. “I was just Cursed!”

The Bread-Knight ignored him. “You will cook for the Princess so that she is fed and can discover the true depths of Patternist degeneracy. For even horrid experiences can be novel and worthwhile.”

Sage of the Enkindled Heart: Shiv. Do not jam your Morsel into the Fae’s asshole. He probably doesn’t have one. And it’s unbecoming.

Shaking, Shiv chose to be the bigger man. Mainly because of said lack of asshole. “Alright guys. Let’s hope the System doesn’t shit up the gate while we’re gone.”

“Why do you have to say such things when we’re on the verge of leaving?” Adam groaned.

Laughing, the Deathless stepped forward.

He splashed into the veil of Dimensionality, and waves of pressure pulled him along. He felt himself get dragged across dimensions, carried by unsteady waves down a narrow, cramped tunnel. With every second, that weight in his chest grew tighter, and the chill in the air grew worse. In fact, the air was so cold that it actually bothered Shiv. His face and fingers were starting to hurt. He couldn’t remember suffering something like that since he ran up against Andra back at Phoenix Academy.

Just what the hells is happening on the other side?

He got his answer as he crossed over into the Fairwoods for the first time in his life.

Before he witnessed the apocalypse unfolding before him, a sprawl of text spilled across his eyes.

Quest Gained: Save the Summer and Winter Courts from destruction at the hands of the Usurper Queen.

Success: Gain 1 of 3 Narrative Skills as a Boon from the King of the Summer Court; Gain 1 Heroic-Tier Chef-Path item; +10 Levels to a selectable Skill

Failure: The Fairwoods are consumed by the Pale, and all beings within their confines are afflicted with the Usurper’s Winnowing Curse.

Quest Gained: Aid the operatives of Aviary in capturing or eliminating the Usurper Queen.

Success: Gain 2 Heroic-Tier Skills from the Path of the Shadow; Grants Secondary Narrative Stealth Skill; +5 Levels to all Skills

Failure: All non-Fae within the Fairwoods are exposed to the Usurper Queen’s Awareness.

Quest Gained: Stop the Usurper Queen from reassembling the Broken Watchtower.

Success: Evolves Chronomancy Skill to Legendary-Tier; grants a secondary Chronomancy Skill at Adept-Tier

Failure: Cedes complete authority over Seasonal Resets to the will of the Usurper Queen.

Warning!

Quest Failed: Save the Summer and Winter Courts from destruction at the hands of the Usurper Queen.

Quest Failed: Aid the operatives of Aviary in capturing or eliminating the Usurper Queen.

And as soon as Shiv hurriedly dismissed the notifications, he raised his head to behold a spherical moon—immense and pale—tear open along the center, expose a set of yawning jaws, and descend to swallow what paltry embers remained of the Fairwoods’ dying sun.
