Again.

The story begins again. This struggle of sun and moon, this clash of seasons and all things in between.

Again.

Always and forever.

Henceforth and nevermore again.

Again.

I have ceased to count the years. Time no longer holds any significance. I have danced to this song so many times that, even with my mind fully absent, I know every step. All the lines—those meant for me, those spoken by my subjects, and those of the enemy—are seared into my memory. And as the heavy hands of our looping world draw near, bringing sun to face moon in a full embrace, I must breathe the words again, again, and again. I must perish and prevail again, again, and again.

I have played Queen, fool, slave, knight, and countless more. I have pretended to be monster, hero, priestess, and butcher.

I have been all, and all have been me.

The ambrosia that is novelty has long since been sipped dry. And yet, I know that I must strive to kindle this flickering joy, these dying embers, for my task requires my passion endure beyond the reach of repetition, beyond the stagnation of this withered old tale I’ve lived since my birth.

But even my muses, these evanescent children from the patterned realms, can offer me no more inspiration.

I am everlasting, this narrative ever-ongoing, but they pass, and they return, as new people and new skins, making the same mistakes, never holding onto the lessons imparted upon their forebearers. Some are trapped and die, withered away by time or by folly, a single slash splitting their lifeblood, spilling what they could have offered, everything they might have been, while others age too far for their feeble physiology, unable to progress further here in this land they fled to to avoid the cruelty of strife to begin with.

And with you, things will be no different. You are not the first one I have bargained with, little girl. I and mine will still be here long after the faintest memory of you has turned to dust. Long after the last ripples you cast upon the waters of your feeble world have stilled into silence and then less.

For so long have I been trapped in this purgatory that is my kingdom. And despite all my grievances, I have come to love it. All the peoples, all the stories, all the revolutions. From end to beginning, and from beginning to end.

But soon, perhaps, I might see the grand stage of my existence expanded to encompass everything. To bring all under my reign and spill new oil upon my passions. So that eternity might go on more vibrant than before, if only slightly so.

The coming cycles may yet see Father Strife consumed from within by a more deserving sovereign.

One season is not enough for me anymore. This realm is too small, this reality too limited to sate the depths of my gluttonous heart.

—Evanescia, the Queen of the Winter Court, Mother of Moons

316

To Break a Curse [XIII]

Shape of Monstrosity 161 > 163

The terror Shiv drank deep from the three captives was sweeter than nectar. The commanding lead of the Prismatic Guard was unbound and released, taken away from the Tutorial, beyond the sadistic grins that lit the faces of their orc captors, and guided back to the surface gateway. With their party came a new addition: one of Shiv's resurrected bodies. It was bundled tight in chains of adamantine and left comatose for their convenience.

That did nothing to damn the rivers of terror flowing out from them. Dread surged into Shiv as wild streams, and every body he possessed, even his Severed Shadow, grew greater in size and empowered of magic. The captives were made to carry Shiv, and though they had Physicality enough to easily heft his weight, it was the promise of what he was that burdened them. Every movement they made was delicate, inflamed by worry. Even after they slipped beyond the ward surrounding the surface gateway, the fear didn't end. Even when they were well and truly behind their own lines, the worries continued. The anxiousness that boiled within them never abated. They knew what he was.

They knew what awaited them within Gate Piety. The orcs. Valor Thann. The Deathless.

And Shiv pitied them for that. They were more pawns than soldiers. Pieces Veronica could sacrifice against Shiv to compel him into compliance. When they came in, there was a confidence to them, a certainty that they could pacify whatever waited in the gate and secure the minor dimension for the glory of the Republic. That confidence was now gone. That certitude was destroyed and remade into a new understanding: if they tried to take Gate Piety, they would die. They would die ugly, miserable deaths.

Within that Category II Gate was not glory waiting to be claimed, but hell. There were Legends, an army of grayskinned psychopaths that drank the suffering of others as one might find nourishment from a broth, an ancient lich that abducted the guard’s elite at will, and his disciple: a Pathbearer who could only be refined by the touch of death and not silenced.

The wards placed around the surface gateway were drawn back in record time. Once confining, they now offered a wide berth to Gate Piety and an open channel pointed towards Fortress-City Diego. The dispatched Prismatic Guard remained present, but their forces were drawn away, creating more distance as if that would provide them with any safety.

For now, there would be no war between the Republic and a small Gate serving as a sanctuary to the betrayed people of Blackedge, and so, Shiv’s path to the Fairwoods was finally clear.

“Was that really necessary? What you said to her at the end?” Adam kept looking over his shoulder as they walked down the hallway, as if he were anticipating an ambush. With how Uva’s puppeteer strings were spread out, her guard was high as well. Shiv couldn’t blame either of them for being worried, but his psychological instincts were rarely wrong.

Shiv grunted. “Guess I was a bit mean, but yeah, I do think it was necessary. I also think it was good for her. And us. We're putting everything on the table. Jessica's gotta decide if she wants to play along with Veronica forever or take a chance and be her own person. She's been living on the leash for too long, in my opinion. Will probably be sore for a while. Maybe she'll beat the shit out of me or carve a bloody hole up my ass again for revenge… But I don't see it. She knows I'm right. Even if it hurts her feelings to hear all that. We’re gonna have to get this loyalty shit out of the way sooner or later.”

“Well, I would prefer to be bloody later,” Adam breathed. “She still has a vendetta against my family, against my father—”

“And Uva's got a vendetta against her grandson. And we all got a vendetta against Udraal, Veronica, the Ascendants. Lord Scorn’s got his teeth out for you.” Shiv shook his head and chuckled humorlessly. “Everyone has something or someone coming for them. But if we do this right, if we keep our enemies close and occupied—”

“Pathbearer Shiv,” Can Hu's reverberating voice interrupted him before he could finish.

The trio stopped just before they reached the final set of vault doors leading into the gateway chamber. The Penitent came into view, carrying what appeared to be a bundle of silk with its manipulator arms. Shiv felt a faint ebb of Dimensionality mana infused into the fabric.

But after it stepped up to them, the automaton seemed uncertain. “I… I…”

“Can Hu?” Uva took a step toward the Penitent. “Is something the matter? I thought you said you were occupied with the Gate’s district construction efforts and asked to remain undisturbed?”

Its body tensed, but no reply came. It looked like a human trying to fight off a nerve agent. Its joints whined and hissed, the many appendages spasming. Shiv sensed something was wrong immediately, but found himself clueless as to what. He couldn't use his Atlas on inorganic life forms, and what Can Hu was undergoing looked to be a mechanical failure. This came as quite the surprise, since the Penitent had been reforged by Shiv’s Vitaemancy and Udraal’s ministrations. The alloy that compromised its body was no longer rusted; its joints no longer squealed like they were on the verge of snapping apart with every movement. Certain components and skills that it had lost had been restored. It now sprouted a whole arsenal of guns from its back, and its industrial limbs were more reinforced than ever before, seeming capable of slicing through steel beams with ease. Furthermore, the four thrusters that now sprouted free from its back gave it a vigorous aura, not to mention it standing taller than ever, able to stand shoulder to shoulder with an orc on the smaller side.

On the surface, Can Hu looked better than ever. But Shiv knew better. After his experiences as a resident, he'd learned that a body could look fine from the outside but be on the verge of complete collapse within.

“Do we have an engineer inside this gate?” Shiv asked Adam. “Someone that specializes in automata?”

Both of them approached the twitching Penitent. Shiv gently took Can Hu into his arms, making sure that nothing obvious was broken. He circled his Shapeless Tides through the inner articulations of the automaton's body and couldn't feel anything wrong there either.

Adam's eyes flared bright as he used his awareness to detect any hidden damage. The Shattered Star revolving around itself above his head flared bright as he hit Can Hu with a full dose of his soul-mending powers. “I'm not certain… Perhaps something among the survivors infected it? I’m going to see if giving it a boost helps.”

“P-P—Shiuvvvv—” And now Can Hu sounded like it was undergoing a stroke.

“It's alright, Can Hu. It's alright. I'm here.” Though Shiv was a bit shorter than the bot on baseline, he was far bulkier, and he easily picked Can Hu off the ground, cradling it as the group began walking out of the bunker in search of aid. But before they could take more than a few steps, Can Hu’s entire body began to visibly erode.

“What the hells—oh shit! Adam, catch!” Shiv flung Can Hu at Adam the moment he remembered the Touch of Rust Curse Maiden had placed on him.

“Wh—” Adam cried out as an automaton almost twice his size came flying right at him. “Oh, bloody—”

But Can Hu never got there. The Penitent’s thrusters roared to life, blasting both Adam and Uva back as it hovered in place. More spasming occurred. Can Hu's industrial arms began to clip and bump Shiv. Its eyes flickered between green and red, and its voice fell an octave. “Hostile target detected. Orders incoming. Hostile—No… No! System… system reboot! Reboot!”

Suddenly, Can Hu's manipulator arm lashed out. It cast the bundle of silk it was carrying aside and drove one of its fingers directly into Shiv's left eye. It bounced off the eye all with a dull thud, but still caught Shiv by surprise. One of Can Hu's new guns unfolded along its back and fired a shot directly into Shiv's face.

A massive detonation shook the bunker, loud enough in the enclosed space to make the eardrums of an Adept burst, but the attack itself went as well as Can Hu's attempt at an eye gouge. A series of small metal needles struck Shiv’s forehead next—and ricocheted. They scattered in all directions, a few skipping off the walls, one accelerating toward Uva. She called her bound shield into existence. Another deflection followed. Sparks danced off of Can Hu’s ribs.

The Penitent's eyes were blood red now. All four of its limbs were clasped tight around Shiv's head, and it was using every ounce of its Physicality to try to crush him, but a pair of even perfect scissors had little hope of parting a mountain.

Still, the Penitent strained itself so much that steam was erupting between its joints, vented out as waste heat. Shiv remained stunned, uncertain why Can Hu was trying to attack him, but that confusion lasted only a second. As Adam and Uva pulled the Penitent away from Shiv, he swapped his physical body with his Severed Shadow. Can Hu fired a final spray of bullets just as Shiv stopped time. A trail of small metal rounds glinted a finger’s distance away from Shiv in the air. Beside the Penitent, Uva was a pillar of coldness, freezing even the flow of chronology itself. Steam rose from her time magic, and instances of her noticed him—sent him a concerned look.

She still didn't know what was happening, but Shiv had a guess.

He pulled up his skill status with a thought.

Name: Tanner “Shiv” Lowe

Age: 19

Race: Human

Path:

Deathless

Feats [5/6]:

He Who Rises From Ash Eternal (Unique) – Allows the Pathbearer to quickly learn new Skills and advance existing Skills through repeated deaths.

Master of Rage (Master) – Allows the Pathbearer to infuse a skill with rage to increase its effectiveness. Consumes the Pathbearer’s anger.

Causal Scargiver (Unique) – Causes the injuries inflicted by the Pathbearer to be scarred upon their enemy across time and causality.

Dread-Tainted (Legendary) – The Pathbearer has left a divine being scared with terror. Gods have fled your presence. You are now a source of absolute fear. Allows the Pathbearer to lace their Skills with the divine entity’s lingering terror.

Grudge-Tethered (Heroic) – Allows the Pathbearer to strike once at an enemy who has wounded them from any distance.

Skills:

Poetry (Common) 1

Coping (Common) 1

Riding Proficiency (Common) 1

Lance Proficiency (Common) 1

Engineering (Common)1

Alchemy (Common) 2

Physics (Common) 2

Leadership (Common) 7

Baking (Common) 9

Barter (Common) 10

Marksmanship (Common) 13

Writing (Common) 15

Acting (Initiate) 21

Rhetoric (Initiate) 25

Memorization (Initiate) 29

Analyze (Initiate) 1

Portomancy (Initiate) 6

Magical Theory (Initiate) 8

Spear Proficiency (Initiate) 11

Hydromancy (Initiate) 15

Comedy (Initiate) 16

Deductive Reasoning (Initiate) 23

Pyromancy (Initiate) 33

