Psychomancy (Initiate) 34

Whip Proficiency (Initiate) 48

Scheming Bastard (Adept) 8

Gardener of Doubt (Adept) 73

A Glimpse of Perspective (Adept) 76

Bifurcated Processing (Adept) 86

Phase Frame (Adept) 88

Eldritch Physiology (Master) 68

Plaguefueled (Master) 81

The Chef Unwavering (Master) 82

Sticks and Stones (Master) 93

Atlas of the Flesh Scryer (Master) 125

Return To Sender (Master) 158

Shape of Monstrosity (Master) 163

The Creeping Void (Master) 170

Strider of the Unbending Path (Master) 187

Aegis of Assimilation (Heroic) 140

Sage of the Enkindled Heart (Heroic) 166

Inertial Overdrive (Heroic) 270

Pillar of Orichalcum (Heroic) 383

Vitality Drain (Legendary) 138

Leviathan of the Shapeless Tides (Legendary) 514

Non-Sequitur (Unique) 167

This Severed Shadow of Blood and Bladed Soul (Unique) 192

Lord Commander of the Slumbering Uneaten (Narrative)

Blessings:

Song of the Vigilant - Allows the Pathbearer to maintain absolute focus while the song is active. The song will expand out from the Pathbearer as a web and form a Resonant Perimeter.

Icon of the Paindrinker - Allows the Pathbearer to manifest the icon from their body. The icon will magnify the damage and pain Pathbearer and all nearby enemies and objects suffer.

Curses:

Hands of the Bloodied - Anything you craft and create will be stained with blood and degrade at an increased pace.

Favored Archenemy - An orc will always be able to sense your presence, regardless of guise or appearance. An orc will always have a sense for where you are. Regardless of dimension, world, distance, or time, you are marked for an eternal war.

Golembane - All artificial constructs will view you as a hostile entity.

Meta-Dyscalculia - All numbers you see will be scrambled; math will be your enemy.

Touch of Rust - All metals and materials erode, tarnish, and break down when you touch them at an alarming pace.

Ritual:

Bloodrites of the Vaketh-Insul - Slay enemies of an appropriate quantity and tier to gain an equivalent in orc recruits from the Lone Star Orchestra

“Golembane?” Shiv snarled to himself. “I thought it would just be golems, but… Fucking of course.”

Artificial constructs meant more than just golems. It meant automata and certain dimensionals too. Maybe even specific creatures of flesh that were deliberately designed. Maiden wasn’t the Ascendant of machinery or artificial life, but technology in general. That meant her reach extended far further than just a few gadgets and drones.

As if taking my cooking from me wasn’t enough. But now Shiv knew what was wrong, and he had the solution. He cast himself back in time, blinking his Severed Shadow into the Tutorial using the timeline tied to his physical body. The world blurred. He emerged atop his Court Leviathan—and was promptly blasted by deafening soundwaves as thousands of rival orc musicians playing a plethora of instruments hosted a very literal battle of the bands all around him. The skies trembled from how loud they were being, and Shiv could even feel himself on the verge of a concussion as the air itself quaked with every devastating note.

Fixing the orcs with an annoyed glare for doing this atop his restaurant without permission, he thought about what to do now. He was confident in Adam and Uva’s ability to pacify Can Hu without sustaining any harm themselves, but his worries about Can Hu’s condition remained. He might have taken himself out of the equation, but that didn't mean the Curse was finished being a thorn in his foot. The details of the Curse were also vague about duration and severity. His first thought was to recruit an orc engineer to help him. This thought was then cast into the “horrible, shitty, incredibly stupid pit” in the back of Shiv’s mind. A High-Tier orc engineer might be able to help Can Hu, but he would most certainly also shove a miniature high-yield mana bomb inside the Penitent as a joke.

So, instead of doing that, Shiv went Non-Sequitur and flung himself toward the gateway.

He barely managed to get halfway before an eruption of Psychomantic tendrils washed out from the bunker. Shiv returned to context, allowing Uva to connect with his mind. “How is Can Hu?”

“Recovered almost immediately. The moment you vanished, it regained control of its body. Apparently, it came to tell you about an idea on how to further improve your cape, but the moment it laid eyes on you, something inside its core logic was compromised. It described it as some kind of virus, contaminating how it viewed the world, how it understood reality. Looking at you sent it back into the past, made it think it was still fighting on behalf of the Legacy Empire.”

“That's why it called me a hostile.” Shiv sighed. “Fucking Maiden…”

“Wait, this was her doing? One of her Curses?”

“Yeah. Golembane. I need to stay away from all automata for now. Hells, all artificial creatures. Get over into the Tutorial. I'm crossing as soon as possible. No more waiting. We’re going into the Fairwoods now.”

***

The act of unbinding all his items from the Severed Shadow and transferring them to his physical body was an awkward but necessary process. As the Voidmantid armorer's mycelia laced itself to Shiv's nervous system, he rolled his right arm to re-acclimate himself. The biological armor went from feeling like a tight glove to a second layer of skin in seconds.

“Not intending to use your new Eldritch Physiology Skill?” Uva asked from within him.

“Doubt it's going to be reliable against the fae. Cullywier and Toasty managed to shrug off a lot of Eldritch magic. Something about the fairies is immune or resistant to the Outside. I think a bit of redundancy is smart.”

Uva considered that information for herself. “Does that make me uniquely vulnerable? Or stop my stilling cold from affecting one of the fae?”

“No idea. But we can find out.” Shiv eyed the uncaged Bread-Knight on the other end of the chamber. The crust-armored Fae stood, gazing up into the turbulent waves of Dimensionality splashing across the enclosed gateway and spilling into the chamber. The Slipgate’s Mana Diffusers burned bright, the colors of a rainbow gliding along their pyramid-like shapes flanking the gateway. At the center of the room, Enchanter Merrielmel continued shaping and flinging spatial spells into the gateway.

Shiv stepped up beside the cold iron cage and knocked against the bars. “Hey, Toasty.”

The Bread-Knight turned and stared down at Shiv along the bridge of his nose from his vaunted vantage point of one and a half meters. “What is it, my aberrant yet strangely honorable captor? Have you any inquiries about the land above lands? The eternal land, the place of stories and lore and all things—”

“Can you let Uva hit you with a spell?”

The expression on Toasty’s smooth, green face contorted with confusion. “You wish for me to do what?”

“Just stay still and let her hit you with one of her spells. We want to find out if Eldritch magic can work on a fairy.”

“I—You—“ Toasty was on the verge of sputtering. “That is not how this works at all! It's useless! It doesn't work, for one, and secondly, it doesn't work in different ways depending on which of the Fairest you attempt to offend with that… that Nonsensomancy!”

“Nonsensomancy?” Shiv couldn't help it. He snorted. “That's what you're calling it?”

“That's what it is! Think, Deathless! Think of what being an Outsider means. Nothing! Their existence has no logic. You're simply misinterpreting a thing that already exists. ‘Oh, they are beyond the concepts of the Patternists. Oh, you cannot comprehend them.’ Bah, if you can't comprehend something, what are the rules? How does the story unfold? What structure should it have? Having no structure at all means you are nothing, which means you must collapse in on yourself. What kind of story can be told if there is just nonsense?”

“Uh-huh,” Shiv replied, nodding along. Uva stitched herself back into shape, stepping free from his physical body. There was another good synergy they'd discovered. She could reposition herself across any of his physical forms, and every time she tapped into his mind, she settled in the Severed Shadow. This kept her away from harm and allowed her to puppet any number of his bodies at the same time. Additionally, it also allowed her to step out from one of his bodies to fling a bolt of time-stealing ice at a certain incredulous fairy.

A shard of golden frost tore through the air and struck Toasty head-on. It burst apart in a bright blast of Chronomancy, but ultimately, the spell did nothing. It didn't freeze the fae. It didn't hold Toasty in a temporal stasis. It simply shattered like a glass ball meeting a rock.

“Well, that was disappointing.” Uva sounded more than a little sour as she beheld her impotence. “All that suffering. All that metamorphosis. And still inferior to a poorly sliced piece of bread.”

“You take that back, you witch!” The tiny Bread-Knight pointed his halberd at Uva, shaking it in vigorous offense. “I am finely sliced. Princess Plum Blossom assured me so. There are no Anointed Knights better sliced than I, better tasting than I!”

“Alright, alright,” Shiv said, holding up his hands. “We just wanted to check.”

“And your idea of experimentation was to turn me stale?” The Bread Knight threw his head back and harrumphed in outrage. “If I knew you were this underhanded, this callous, this vile, I would have never agreed to grant you my Skill! In fact, I demand it back right now! Returning the skill is the only thing that will assuage the offense, I feel.”

“Hey, hey, come on now.” Shiv gave the Bread-Knight an easy smile. He drew upon his psychology and wielded it finely, like a scalpel. He could incense Toasty, fan the flames of anger directly through Sage of the Enkindled Heart, but he could also do other things with a few targeted words. “Look, I'm sorry if that offended you, but the only reason why I had her cast that spell on you was that you're the strongest Fae I know. By far. I knew that spell wouldn't work on you; we just needed to see what happened when it hit you. Using our greatest abilities on others is how we express our respect among Patternists. You wouldn't want me to give the respect I owe you to Cullywier, right?”

“What? My respect? To that foul, race-traitorous wretch? Never! NEVER!” The Bread-Knight comically stomped his feet, seeming more like a child throwing a tantrum than a soldier bearing great burdens bestowed upon his shoulder by a dignified princess.

And maybe that's the point, Shiv thought. He didn't know why this thought hadn't occurred to him sooner. Maybe Toasty’s meant to be a comical and exaggerated character or something. All these Fae follow different rules, right? If they're really characters from a story, then what might a kid remember more? A funny knight with a big personality made of bread, or just a frowning guy in a tin can who will eventually get crushed when a certain Councilwoman orders him to fight me.

“Exactly, so I'm going to keep respecting you as much as I can, and before you know it, you'll be home with all sorts of new stories to tell. In fact, we'll be right there with you, telling Princess Plum Blossom about how easily you massacred the chefs who dared to transgress against your people, how wise and smart and cunning you had to be to convince me to bring you home.”

Shiv continued rattling on how much he would praise Toasty in front of Princess Plum Blossom, applying flattery like a mallet to the Bread-Knight’s head. Against a just slightly more astute person, it wouldn't have worked at all, but when talking to a character bearing such an exaggerated personality, how else was he supposed to act?

By the time he was finished, Toasty’s chest was cartoonishly inflated. He threw his head back, and his spine bent unnaturally far. He practically turned into a looping spiral of arrogance, not even remotely looking in Shiv's direction anymore. “Hmph. Well, as long as you remember that you're only forgiven because I'm so great and wise and smart and cunning and powerful, I suppose I could make a generous exception.”

“Yeah. All those things.” Shiv nodded. And really fucking forgetful, considering how much nasty shit I did to you before. Guess he doesn’t have a very good Memorization Skill. He's not even afraid of me anymore, when he was shit-scared of me back in the kitchen just a few days ago…

A strong pulse of pressure washed through the room. Shiv and everyone else took a half-step back as the Slipgate finally stabilized. A taste of something flooded the room—a harsh, winnowing chill that dried one’s lungs with every inhale. Shiv frowned. He remembered scents of spring and nature last time. “Hey, Merrielmel, is the spatial frequency tuned to a different place this time?”

“Eh?” the Enchanter replied. “Ah, no. It’s still the same frequency.”

“Is something wrong?” Adam asked. He had three different bows hooked over his shoulder. The first was his Spellstring, but then there was the temporal bow Shiv had taken off one of Scorn’s Vultegs, and finally a massive adamantine greatbow procured from one of the Rubix Well’s guards, as Shiv had found out a while ago.

“With us? Always. But I’m not so sure.” Shiv stared off into the gate. “Last time it activated, I smelled pine trees and other nature stuff. You know. Earth and flowers. Now, it’s just really cold.”

Adam sniffed and glared at the gateway. “I can't cast my senses through the portal. It's like I'm pushing up against an invisible threshold that's just bottling my senses.”

Toasty laughed boisterously. “Ah, that is quite normal. The Fairwoods do not allow spoilers. Your conventional Patternist means of scrying won't help you here.”

