Caelillia, for her part, was stubbornly carrying the heavy crate, paranoid that the scraping wood would vibrate and jostle the potions and might break one. Ranthia supposed she understood the sentiment—the crystal bottles at least looked fragile, though it hadn’t felt particularly flimsy in her grasp. Still, it wasn’t like she had tested the emptied bottle, and she was willing to trust that the girl knew what she was doing. Especially since her wound had been entirely restored.

If Caelillia wasn’t hurting herself, she was welcome to do whatever she thought was best.

It was after lunch time—which created more than a few complaints—by the time the group arrived at Remera. The gates were noticeably slow to open, but they finally did just before Ranthia was close enough to physically reach out and touch the gate. Past the levitated stones, guards stood ready with spears—though many of them lowered them when they saw her.

Ranthia strode in first—for once not shifting past the gate, people were already tense enough—and let a [Healer] poke her. After she was cleared, tensions relaxed a bit more and the others were hurriedly brought in. Once Caelillia was healed—which allegedly required only a few points of mana—Ranthia eagerly led the young elf home.

Honestly, she wished Caelillia would have let her carry the crate, but the young elf was stubborn. Ultimately, it was too minor a matter to be worth arguing about.

“<Mom!>” Caelillia called out, as soon as they entered the tent, her eyes already locked on Avyna’s profile.

“<My sweet Caeli!>” Avyna cried out. She rushed to her feet and ran over, though Ranthia didn’t miss that her lover was keeping her head angled to try to hide the bruise—as much as she could, at least.

“<We just got held up; everything was fine.>” The young elf boldly lied to her mother.

Avyna took the crate from her daughter and roughly set it aside, before her eyes started to water. She seized the girl and pulled her daughter into her arms, then grabbed Ranthia’s wrist and pulled her into the hug too. Caelillia stiffened more than a little at being in a group hug with Ranthia involved, but Avyna desperately clung to both of them while she shook with emotion.

“<You both came back to me. Thank you. Thank you both.>” Avyna whispered fiercely.

A heartbeat later, Caelillia narrowed her eyes. Clearly, she was making assumptions about how Avyna saw through her flagrant lie.

“<Moooom! You told me you got rid of that Skill!>” The young elf screeched in melodramatic outrage.
