If Ranthia hadn’t known the base commander better, she might have thought that he was somewhat displeased. Fortunately, she—in spite of her preference to avoid him—knew him well enough to recognize the truth: he was pissed.

Not that Ranthia was entertaining any notion of guilt for shirking the man’s obstinate orders. The dwarven [Battlemaster] was only alive because Ranthia got the woman to the [Healers] so swiftly. The only reason that the casualties only numbered north of a hundred and twenty-eight was because she had drawn enough of the shimagu’s attention to give the [Battlemaster] freedom to act, driven off the twin, and then rejoined the field to slaughter shimagu until they were forced to withdraw.

“Excellent work, Grace.” The man saluted her in Reman style, with the falsest, thinnest smile Ranthia had ever seen painted over his half-bared teeth.

It was an absurd effort to save his own face and authority. As if anyone present doubted that she had acted of her own accord.

“Any time.” Ranthia answered, not bothering to conceal her own glibness.

She had no respect for anyone that would have consigned hundreds of his own people to death, just to preserve some semblance of a status quo.

Ranthia watched the funeral pyres alongside Avyna, as faces—many of them familiar—were consumed by the flames. Sertius, the legionary that had defended Avyna from his own superiors, was on one pyre. Grudgingly bowing to Reman customs, the entirety of dwarven team Shattershot, men and women that Ranthia had hung out with, had their own. The Miasma had claimed proficient veterans of the war alongside the freshest recruits, and Ranthia hated herself for it.

She had to be better. She needed to be strong enough to stem the tide of death, no matter what the shimagu pulled.

“<Oh, my love, please! Like I said, feel free to go to bed. I can take care of the tasks that are keeping me occupied today without you. But you have been awake for three days! So go, get some rest, my love.>” Avyna repeated her offer while she put away the dishes.

Ranthia was exhausted enough that she could tell something was off, but she couldn’t figure out what it was. She had been surprised when she found Avyna at home, rather than at her shop, when she sought her beloved for the funeral. Yet Avyna’s sunny mood seemed to barely have been marred by the loss of acquaintances and customers. Which, yes, the elf was used to death, but…

Ugh, by Xaoc, it was hard to make her head follow a thought for very long.

Avyna was focused on some tasks around their home, but Ranthia still wasn’t sure what they were, even after asking.

“But…” Ranthia trailed off, as the thought escaped her. She failed to even notice that she’d spoken in Creation instead of High Elvish.

“<Sleep, my love. I know that you would appreciate the company, but I have much to do. Come, I can at least tuck you in and give you a good night kiss.>” Avyna offered.

Maybe that was it; Ranthia supposed her misery at a lack of snuggling could have explained her unease. She was being selfish. With a sigh, she assented.

And so, Ranthia found herself in bed. Alone. But she finally fell asleep sometime just after midday.

Fueled by her fears, frustrations, and desperation, the nightmares that she had silently dreaded came for her almost the moment that she succumbed to slumber.

Time was often strange while she dreamt. A few moments of wonder could absorb her entire night, or a thousand and twenty-four horrors could have played out in the span of a few paltry hours. That day, Ranthia’s nightmares chose the latter form. Fragments of memory stitched together to form twisted horrors. While her body rested peacefully, her mind was tormented by its own abominations.

She relived the battle against the troll shimagu twin, except he slew Avyna while Ranthia desperately battled him throughout Coalition City. Carnage bloomed around her as they fought.

Then she fell, except there was nowhere she could send an image to. There was no escape.

Something seized her, and her body was crushed beneath countless blows while she was blinded by the moonless night.

And then everything was okay. For a few moments, until Avyna realized that she could do better and left—only to perish just outside Remera’s impossibly tall, jagged walls. Walls that unerringly prevented Ranthia from reaching her.

She turned and witnessed Pyra and Juvenae, trapped inside a blazing inferno, on the other side of those impassable walls that formed her cage—she struggled to find a way to save her friends while they screamed in agony. She tore her flesh against the barrier until they expired.

In the aftermath, the base commander seized her and carried her atop that accursed stone tower. He proved impossibly strong, and Ranthia was unable to escape his grasp while he forced her to watch as every last legionary and dwarf died to the Miasma classer, before every twin she had ever witnessed gathered and began to carve pieces out of her.

In the horrors conjured by her own mind, she perished at the hands of the shimagu. In a twisted realm, Xaoc denounced her as an agent of order and ordered His angels to destroy her soul once and for all.

Visions of blood, madness, loss, and regret tormented her again and again. Scenes were disjointed just as often as they were connected, yet her feverishly dreaming mind never quite seemed to notice the moments of nonsensical transition.

The kraken, now legion—though tiny—grappled with her. Their tentacles pierced her flesh with ease as they assailed her. She was allowed to fight back, though every time she cut one, it cleanly split in twain and reformed into two krakens that continued their assault. Her flesh was rent, pierced, and torn. Her body knew the sensations all too well, a memory that her nightmares weaponized against her with relish.

And then, for a glorious instant, she was safe. She rested in a simple cot, hale and relaxed. Then came the pain of a blade piercing between her ribs. She tried to twist, but a pale and horrible creature with glowing red eyes seized her. Its fang-filled maw split open, and the stench of old blood threatened to overwhelm her. The beastly thing moved in close.

And with a terrified scream, Ranthia lashed out with a desperate punch.

Her punch connected. The unexpectedly real sensation—somehow materially different than any conjured memory—ripped Ranthia from her torment, back to the waking world. Just in time for her to register a pained cry.

Oh, gods and goddesses, she knew that voice by heart! Oh Xaoc, no, please tell me I didn’t!

Ranthia hurriedly sat up, gasping and almost dry heaving as panic assailed her.

Next to the bed, Avyna stood with her back turned. Her hand was raised to her face.

“Oh gods, what have I… <Gemheart, I am so, so sorry, I swear I didn’t…!>” Ranthia scrambled to her feet, her eyes blurry with tears.

“<It… It is okay. I am okay…>” Avyna answered quietly, her back still turned.

“<I’m so sorry! I swear, I didn’t mean to hurt you! I would never!>” Ranthia pleaded, praying against all evidence that she was still trapped in her nightmares.

“<It is okay, my love. I had not realized you were in a nightmare; you seemed so peaceful.>” Avyna finally turned to face her, offering Ranthia a reassuring smile.

Which revealed the bruise that was already blooming across the left side of her jawline.

The apologies that Ranthia was scrambling to create died on her lips. She had hurt the woman she loved. The evidence of her grievous, unforgivable sin marred the perfect flesh of the only true source of happiness Ranthia knew. A dark, burning hatred—directed at herself—threatened to choke all sense and reason from her mind.

“<It does not matter. My love, I am sorry, but let us discuss this another time. I… I need your help.>” Avyna whispered. She started to tremble, but it wasn’t from her pain—it reflected whatever fear her words brought to the fore.

“<What’s wrong?>” Ranthia asked, while she shoved her guilt and self-loathing deep down. Emergencies always came first.

Avyna started to speak, then stopped herself and took a deep breath. The words came so fast that Ranthia had to accelerate her perception just to keep up.

“<The caravan was supposed to have been here today. Had there been a planned delay, they would have sent word. Our merchant caravans do not just run late. My daughter is with that caravan; I meant it to be a surprise. The base commander said he sent scouts to investigate, but I just spoke to one of the scouts and she told me that none of them had been dispatched, nor had they heard anything about this.>”

Ranthia processed her elf’s words, then nodded and sprinted for her armor.

“<I’ll find her, Gemheart. I swear.>” Ranthia vehemently promised after she shifted into her equipment.

Avyna worriedly chewed at her lip, but she nodded.

“<I shall entrust you with this. Thank you, my love. Stay safe but bring my Caeli back to me. Please.>” A mother, fearful for her daughter’s safety, pleaded.

It was a side to Avyna that Ranthia had never seen before. Elf or human, it seemed that the all-too-rare good mothers were the same. Ranthia felt a discordant pang of jealousy in her heart, but she had no time to waste on such inanity. With a final look at the bruised woman she loved, torn between her regret and the determination that she clung to, Ranthia hurried out of the tent.

She needed answers from the base commander before she left Remera to hunt for the missing caravan—if he truly sent scouts, she needed to know who to expect. Ranthia raced through Remera to the command tent of the day.

The base commander was, of course, absent. The waning crescent of the moon suggested the night was still young, but without a crisis, the man was prone to end his day with the setting sun. Ranthia strode across the mostly quiet tent to his desk, which was manned by one of his advisors.

“Where’s the base commander?” She demanded.

The analyst raised a hand to stall her, while he continued to write whatever unimportant drivel held his attention. Not that Ranthia had any intention of waiting. She slammed her fist into the desk as hard as she dared—being a better person meant that she shouldn’t break useful furniture just to get some peon’s attention, no matter how overwhelmed by emotion she was—and repeated her question.

The analyst looked up angrily—his handwriting had been devastated by the impact—then blanched when he realized that he had locked glares with an Unhappy Sentinel.

“He… he asleep!” The advisor croaked out an almost coherent answer before he gulped nervously.

The poor guy nearly choked on it. Not that Ranthia had the headspace for banalities like sympathy. She spun and checked the guards stationed on the tent… there, that one had Gale, Brilliance, and Gravity for his [Warrior] classes. Which probably marked him as a speedster.

Ranthia pointed at him.

“Wake the base commander and get him here immediately. Go!” She ordered.

The man, to his credit, saluted and darted out of the tent promptly and without question.

Ranthia simmered while she waited impatiently until, at long last, the base commander arrived. He looked weary, but his lightly armored uniform was crisp and neat.

“Sentinel?” He asked as soon as he arrived.

“There’s a missing elven caravan and you lied about sending scouts.” Ranthia snapped. It wasn’t quite what she meant to say, but it was challenging to set aside how combative her mood made her.

The man rolled his eyes and dropped into his chair—the advisor had abandoned the desk as soon as he had entered the tent—and accepted a mug of strong tea from a different advisor. He made a show of taking a purposefully slow sip from it before he answered.

“I am not going to waste key resources to investigate what happened to non-Legion personnel, especially not for those that insist on trying to churn a profit in a war zone.” He finally stated, calmly.

“You’re an idiot.” Ranthia bluntly retorted. “Remera is reliant on the assistance of our allies, and doing the bare fucking minimum to protect them is obviously the smart thing to do! Give me eight of our best scouts; I’ll have this resolved by dawn.”

“We only have twelve scouts worth their salt in Remera thanks to that stunt the slimes pulled. That would leave us all but blind until you deigned to return them.” The base commander countered. A hint of heat seeped into his voice despite his usual self-control.

“Fine, six then. We don’t have time to play stupid games! This search should have gotten underway hours ago!” Ranthia snapped.

“I will not waste a single scout on such a frivolous matter, nor am I letting our only proven defense against the shimagu twins just walk away.” The base commander warned her.

Ranthia raised an eyebrow at him.

“I don’t answer to you. I have worked with you as a courtesy. Never forget that.” She was unable to keep the snarl out of her voice.

“Enough of this. Escort this woman back to her tent.” The base commander ordered the stationed guards, an angry scowl writ across his features.

“On my authority as Sentinel Grace, stand down!” Ranthia snapped over her shoulder at the guards.

The men looked visibly panicked. She had just rendered the lines of authority perilously muddied—there was no clear path for them to have a happy future. Not to mention that the men were hopelessly outclassed and out-leveled if she resisted.

“I am the one in charge of this base, girl!” The base commander roared, his face reddened with rage.

Ranthia leaned in close.

