Something was very, very wrong. He was in danger. Nothing had changed in the manasphere, and nothing had tested his Domain. Uchena remained seated in her chair, looking like a perfectly at-ease person. But she was very much not that at all. She was boiling with anger. Ready to cut him down if he moved wrong at all. And she would do it without remorse, too. The only other people whom Erick had ever gotten this dangerous feeling from were the Shades.

Perhaps Uchena was similar to Goldie, the Shade of Assassination.

Erick calmly asked, “Do you have a problem with me?”

She lied, “No. I never have. I never will. You’ve done great things. I approve.”

Erick wasn’t sure what to make of her lie.

She could ‘hear’ him exactly like Poi could. She had displayed this ability not two minutes ago. Which meant that she had the opportunity to clear up a potential deep misunderstanding, and she was choosing not to take that opportunity. She was choosing to be like this. Why? What did she hope to ga—

Ah.

She wanted to assassinate him, but she wanted him to make the mistake of first aggression. Did she really think that he was coming in here to kill her? Why would she think that! He had a good track record! And now she was ready to kill him to—

No. She didn’t want to kill.

Imprison.

She wanted something from him but she wasn’t willing to kill to get i—

Uchena stood, lying, “Apologies.” She said, “I must leave this room.”

And then she left, pretending to be a simple woman walking away, and not like the volcano ready to explode that she was. She did not activate the defenses of the room. She did not make another sound—

Her feet were silent, actually. All sound was gone from her. When did that happen?

Erick had no idea when that had happened, but Uchena silently vacated the scene, and she kept going, back to the back rooms of the place, and through a rear exit. She would have run if she wasn’t being watched by an Ophiel hanging out on the roof of the church, so she simply walked across the open balcony that was also the roof, to the railing that surrounded the balcony. With a quick hop over the railing and one single tear shed at the apex, like she couldn’t hold back the volcano any longer, Uchena vanished.

Just. Gone. She didn’t hit the ground beyond the railing. She wasn’t in the sky.

She had vanished, exactly like Goldie could—

Erick would have kept looking for the crying woman but Kromolok was already stepping up the stairs to the offices of the inquisition. He had been rushing to get here while Uchena was running away.

At that moment, Erick realized that Uchena had been the only person in these offices. There were rooms for work to be done and small offices for individuals, but he had been completely alone with her, and he hadn’t even noticed—

Ah.

No. He had noticed.

Mind Mage shit, then. Uchena had tried something, and decided against it.

Erick’s breathing had remained even the whole time, and he was thankful for his own composure.

Kromolok stepped into the doorway, looking ashamed but hiding it very, very well.

Erick didn’t comment on the other man’s appearance, as he stood and said, “Hello, Kromolok. I’m here to help with whatever problems you guys might have. I was thinking some mental monster hunts? Or a general clearance of the tunnels around Stratagold.”

Kromolok went along with Erick’s direction, stepping into the room and saying, “We will be glad to accept your assistance with the mental monster threats, but anything else would require clearance from the Heavies. Have you thought about coming to Bright Tea?”

So they would both ignore what had almost happened.

This was fine.

“Thought about it.” Erick said, “Decided to see about helping people who asked for help, first. Killed about 700 monsters out there and saved some lives in the process. It was rather useful for discovering where everything is located down here, too, but I gotta say that it’s rather surprising how empty the Underworld is, even this close to a major Geode. Looks like nothing survives without wrought assistance.”

The white metal incani man took a long, short moment to think, to reflect, to converse with people who were not direct participants of this meeting. Kromolok and his people (who were apparently not the Mind Mages? Not directly?) weighed impossible weights against each other, trying to decide impossible choices. And then the moment passed like so many great moments in history; with choice, and then resignation.

He chose honesty, and vulnerability.

Kromolok said, “We’ve done as much as we can without becoming tyrants.”

“I know.” Erick said, “Which is why I want to help in any way I can.”

Kromolok tried to redirect the conversation back to something more personal, “Are you sure you don’t want to discuss… Several other items of interest. Like what happened with Uchena?”

Oh. So they would talk about that, eh?

“I’m guessing her reaction has something to do with her weighing both sides of the scale and finding the scale breaking from the weight.” Erick said, “Not too different from what is happening to you, right now.”

“… I’m going to put up this Privacy for this talk.” Kromolok gave Erick a moment to voice his objection.

Erick said nothing.

Kromolok touched the doorframe and the world vanished beyond this room. He waited another beat, trying to suss out Erick, and when he found nothing, he stepped over to the chair Uchena had been in and sat down. Erick sat back down in his own chair, keeping a firm rein on Ophiel, who was currently blind and shaking a little on his shoulder. With a pat, Ophiel calmed down. Yggdrasil’s [Scry] eye was suddenly gone.

Kromolok said, “I will be blunt. I am having a crisis of faith, and I am not the only one. What do you say to this?”

“That I honestly do not wish to harm anyone, and that I could use some help to ensure less harm and more good happens. For instance, how to reverse major Curses laid down at the beginning of the Script, like the Dragon Curse and the Black Curse of adamantium and other metals.” Erick asked, “Would you like to help?”

Kromolok said nothing for a long moment, then he said, “There are some things I must clear, first.”

Erick nodded.

Kromolok said, “You have a vast capacity for destruction. If you fail this Worldly Path, if you were to die or give up everything you’ve worked for, then the world would return to a very different status quo. We would have a hundred years of upheaval but then things might calm again. In that calm, nothing would change. Nothing would get better, but nothing would get worse, either.

“But if you succeed, you put Veird onto a new path, one where everything is larger, and the dangers grow to fill that larger space.

“The threats of the Old Cosmology were what you would term as galactic. It is highly likely that one of the many unmitigated threats of that time, or perhaps a whole new one, is what finally ended it all, causing the Sundering.

“If you were to open this New Cosmology to us, there would be no base structure to prevent the same thing happening again. We could physically solve the problem, though, but in the process we would become tyrants. This methodology is likely what will need to happen anyway, but it would only be sustainable for several millennia. A New Cosmology built by wrought hands will eventually fail. Some Wizard like you would come along again and destroy everything, because they will rightly judge that we have been corrupted in our tasks to ensure stability and freedom for all.

“Such was the fate of many immortal-created societies of the Old Cosmology. Mortal societies fared little better, taking perhaps 50 or 200 years to degrade. It is the same cycle for both, but just on different timescales.

“It might not even be a Wizard that tears down our creations, either. Some Shade could do the same. The Darkness himself might decide that our attempts at stability are dangerous, and he will fall upon us like a tide of Destruction, tearing down everything in some random burst of insanity—

“Because gain this Sight to see, Erick. Melemizargo is not cured. I have seen him bounce between lucidity and depravity many times before. This is merely a larger high, which will inevitably lead to deeper depths.

“And do not mistake the words of gods for anything solid on this subject. I’ve cleaned up at least one godly mess every year since Veird made it to this New Cosmology, and Rozeta has caused several of those, too. We’ve tried to help Wizards before. It always fails… Admittedly, the reasons for those failures are almost always a Shade, and you’ve already dealt with the majority of them…

“But. Erick.

“When I look at you and see the possibilities before us, my fear grips me. Everything I have ever known tells me that ending you is the safest path, because the other path has already ended in a thousand tragedies already, with horrors best left Forgotten and buried under the depth of time. Even if we were to succeed...” Kromolok said, “Even on the best possible path, a few hundred worlds later, a few thousand more years… Everything might end in another Sundering.”

Silence filled the room.

Erick had many possible directions he could go to refute Kromolok’s words, but the man was speaking from his heart just as much as from his head. So Erick asked, “What sort of horrors do you see out there, that are worse than the horrors we have here?”

“Vacuum Decay. The Big Freeze. The Big Rip. Gamma Ray Bursts. Rogue Black Holes.”

Erick blinked a bit, unsure how they had come upon these particular fears.

Kromolok nodded, saying, “Your existence has enlightened me to quite a few new horrors, because something like the Vacuum Decay is probably what caused the Sundering, though even that doesn’t make sense. But we surely did drop into this New Cosmology, so perhaps there was some fundamental force in the Old Cosmology that finally broke.” He lightly stared, saying, “And with the non-existence of mana in this universe, and with mana’s possibilities, something like a widespread [Vacuum Decay] could actually end it all, all over again, because this universe has no protections against mana.”

Erick took a moment, then he said, “There will have to be some new Bans.”

“Not just that.” Kromolok said, “There would have to be entire orders dedicated to rooting out these terrible magics. In a future of more worlds, and with the Inquisition still alive, I would need to kill millions of people to save trillions more, and the killing would never end because... Killing wouldn’t be enough.

“The very second that someone with enough power figured this out, then they could end everyone. It would come from some unexpected source, too. Someone reading a perfectly normal book and connecting some perfectly odd dots, and then, suddenly… Another Sundering.

“The problem is even larger than that, though.

“You know you’re not the only planar we’ve ever had on Veird. This means that there are other worlds out there than the one you came from. Those other worlds could have people and ideas on them that could also end this New Cosmology as we know it, for many of those places are more advanced than Earth. You think of ‘spaceships’ and we have one of those. You think of ‘hyperspace’ drives and we have one of those, too. There are devices which work on ‘internets’ far more advanced than what you had on Earth. We’ve seen too many strange magics from too many planars... We’ve seen more dangers out there more than you can imagine.” Kromolok added, “And that’s not even touching the Wizards that we’ve had to end before they could destroy this world.”

Erick sat stunned.

And then he asked, “So because the problem is large, we should not try?”

“Right now, I, personally, have enough power to solve many of the problems of Veird.” Kromolok said, “This will not remain true if you meet the barest of expectations foisted upon you.”

Another long silence.

“Constraining life is not a solution to anything, and I think you already know this.” Erick said, “What you need is help. Help to ensure that problems are minimized and—”

“I need to explain it better.” Kromolok said, “Here is a small example of a Banned magic that I feel I can tell you about, for I know you won’t try to un-Ban it: Elemental Love is Banned. It used to exist. It doesn’t exist anymore. Someone made it and then it got out of control and then it was Banned. But there’s the problem: Someone had to make it first. If someone makes Elemental Vacuum Decay, then we’re all dead. There will be no do-overs. No possibilities for mitigation. It all just ends, as absolute annihilation spreads out from the casting point at the speed of light.”

Erick just sat there for a long moment.

Kromolok waited.

Erick said, “Let us create a counter-force inside the mana itself, then.”

“Even if such a thing were possible, which I doubt, a Destruction Wizard will come along and erase that force.” After a moment, Kromolok added, “There are theories that there used to be a counter-force in the Old Cosmology, but then something happened to it. The destruction or twisting of that theoretical counter-force might have caused the Sundering.”

Kromolok was heartbroken but kept it well hidden.

While Erick felt a sudden blossom of hope.

Erick rapidly asked, “Was the counter-force Melemizargo?”

“No. You’ve latched onto— It’s a theory, Erick. Not fact.” Kromolok said, “The Dark Go… Melemizargo is the current avatar of the Dark. We have no idea what happened to the Dark itself, but it’s probably still around. Whatever the case, the Dark and its current avatar did not care what you did as long as you fostered overall growth. The Dark was not a counter-force. The Dark regularly allowed people to use magic to Destroy planets and people and all sorts of things. The Dark is not a source of life or stability. It was a source of utter Chaos.”

“… That sounds like a counter-force against total annihilation to me.”

And then another thought occurred.

A deep thought about the creation story of the Old Cosmology he had once heard from the Shades themselves.

Erick frowned as he considered the horrible words inside his own head. And then, because they were too large to leave inside of himself, he let them out, “What if the Dark itself caused the Sundering? This New Cosmology is so much larger than your Old Cosmology, right?”

Kromolok frowned a little, saying, “He might have. It’s another theory.”

“I don’t mean Melemizargo. I mean the overarching Dark.”

Kromolok nodded. “It’s a theory.”

Erick frowned. “What about gods? Could gods be a counter-force in the mana?”

