“Gods are a stabilizing force but they depend on people to operate. It is very possible that the death of some certain god —either through sacrifice or ego-death or otherwise— started the Sundering.”

“Okay. So… What I’m hearing is that there are already rails in place to prevent many dangers, and that it will take work to prevent more.” Erick said, “And aside from Vacuum Decay, which is just theoretical anyway, the other disasters are either too large or too distant to care about. And besides that! All of these things are so far outside of the realm of what is actually harming people and actually causing pain that they should be thought of perhaps once or twice, and then discarded as concerns in favor of concerted action to solve current problems.

“I would much rather talk to you about ideas of post-scarcity or [Renew] runic webs for everyone or taking back the Main Roads for habitation.” Erick said, “These fears you have are real, but they’re not pressing… But I see that these problems are more real to you than the problem of monsters invading the edges of the light.”

“I am the Inquisitor, Erick.” Kromolok said, “Others man the gates and the walls and patrol the streets, but I have kept this world safe from itself since the beginning. These are the very things I must concern myself with. These are the problems I have with you opening new worlds, and being a Wizard out in the open.”

“Okay. Fine. I understand that. But I’m not the problem; you’re just looking for a convenient, simple answer to a whole mess of problems that you never expected to happen.”

Kromolok sighed. “… This is also true.”

Erick added, “I think this is a discussion you should be having with all the gods and Melemizargo, too. All I want to do is make life better for everyone. I don’t care how it happens; I just want safety and peace and freedom for all—” He had a thought. “Ah. Okay. How about this? Some Fate Magic that people can cast which will guide them directly to those who would cast anything like [Vacuum Decay], no matter what form such destructive magic might take.” Erick said, “It could even be a counter-force on several levels. Give it to a god, and a civilization, and make a religion out of it. Maybe the Mind Mages could do this, perhaps? You would know more of this than I, of course.”

For yet another long moment, Kromolok sat silent. Thinking. He lightly stared at Erick with soft, yet judgmental eyes. He certainly didn’t look like a man who had killed millions of people. But then again, Erick had killed tens of thousands himself, and he knew he didn’t look like it, either.

Kromolok said, “This is a fringe idea. It probably won’t work and we cannot have Melemizargo be a part of the proceedings. Even if this idea was approved, it would require letting Fate out of its box, too, and that is dangerous.”

“Seems to me that it was never inside a box, since I am on the Worldly Path.”

“Ah. No. There are lots of things inside boxes, Erick. Lots and lots and lots of magics, stripped from the world.”

Erick had another wild thought. “Is that why Melemizargo is insane? You’ve stripped his mind from him?”

“It certainly doesn’t help, but the alternative was complete destruction.” Kromolok said, “And with that said, you can understand another problem of opening new worlds, and especially with Melemizargo’s idea for ‘unchained mana on new worlds’ where ‘The Script only holds the mana onto the world, and that’s it’. If Melemizargo gains access to unfettered mana then he would gain access to every Banned magic we’ve ever managed to squash and contain. Who knows what such a massive change would do to the insane dragon, so you can understand that we’re reluctant to try any experiments in that direction. The second certain Banned magics come back into the fold…” Kromolok said, “I am not going to explain how that would be bad. But you can guess, and your guess will likely be near enough to count as correct.”

Erick had a lot of thoughts all at once.

The Script had made Melemizargo insane. The Bans kept him insane. Particle Magic helped to bring him back from his deeper insanity, but he wasn’t cured yet. Was— Erick asked, “Was it a lie that Melemizargo went insane due to losing the vast majority of himself?”

“No. That is true.” Kromolok said, “Melemizargo was barely holding onto his sanity before Veird fell to this New Cosmology. He could have helped us wake the Goddess of Knowledge, but he was inconsolable. His insanity started small, at first, because everyone was still in… What you would call ‘shock’, I suppose, though that word pales in comparison to what occurred. Melemizargo physically recovered at about the rate as everyone else, but instead of mentally recovering he went insane, and then went on to destroy everything and everyone he could in an effort to break the Script.”

A pause.

“Something isn’t adding up.” Erick said, “Rozeta said that Melemizargo could break Veird at any moment he truly desired. So why didn’t he kill everyone back then?”

“We theorize this is because he is the God of Magic and the current avatar for the Dark, so even though he physically went insane there were still certain actions that he could never do as the God of Magic. One of these absolutes is that he could never kill every producer of mana around him. This is not usually a problem for the Dark, as the Dark has watched worlds die before and done nothing, but since all the producers of mana were on Veird, the Dark could not allow its avatar to kill everyone.” Kromolok said, “To add to that theory, Melemizargo has briefly come out of his insanity before to test the direction that mana moves at the Edge of the Script, to make sure that mana can still flow into Veird. It can, by the way. That is why planars are able to appear on this world at all.”

Erick leaned back in his chair, closed his eyes in thought. After a moment he opened his eyes and looked to Kromolok. He asked, “What can I do, as a Wizard, to solve any of these existential problems?”

Kromolok had no words.

Erick had more words, though, so he shared them, “Could I paradoxically ensure that a [Vacuum Decay] spell is Banned while never being cast, in the first place? Can I… Look for a way to bring Melemizargo back from insanity? Fully? Enact some Fate Magic to ensure a counter-force against these existential threats?” He said, “Because there have to be solutions. We just need to find them or make them.”

“… I don’t have any solutions.” Kromolok said, “But it does make me hopeful for the future that this is how you approach these issues.”

Erick sat a bit straighter. “If the Shades had been willing to talk honestly I would have done so. But they weren’t. I believe you are, though.”

Kromolok gave a small, sad smile. “I don’t appreciate being in the same category as those monsters, but…” He left something dreadful unsaid, then looked to Erick. “Opening new worlds will kill maybe 50 million people in the ensuing rush. You have heard this before, but I am restating it so you understand what will happen.”

“I’ve proven prognosticators wrong before.”

Kromolok’s expression evened out. “I suppose you have.”

Erick asked, “Now… I’d like to talk about other, more immediate concerns. A sweep for mental monsters, perhaps? Or something else?”

Kromolok paused, and then he said, “Okay. I’ll take down the Privacy for this, and we can speak less freely, and more about current events, and current monster issues.”

Erick nodded.

Kromolok canceled the Privacy around the room. Erick’s senses expanded outward. Nothing untoward was happening outside, except the majority of his Ophiel had gathered on the roof, directly above the room. They were worried. The Ophiel on his shoulder cooed as his sight and his connection to himself returned. Ophiel was fine. Yggdrasil was fine, too; the big guy’s [Scry] eye lazily floated back into the room.

Erick and Kromolok got down to talking about solid, solvable issues.

Later, Ophiel spread out across the land, through the Main Roads and elsewhere, Imaging for problems and finding them. Working with Kromolok was not a problem, though Erick had expected it to become a problem somewhere along the line. The man and his organization knew that killing Erick would solve a lot more problems than letting him run free, but they weren’t willing to do that to him.

Which… Gained them a few points in Erick’s book. He supposed.

Maybe.

Working with Kromolok was only the barest bit of difference from working with Poi. A bit more frigid, yes, but overall the same. Monsters were found, executed, and then soldiers moved on to the next Imaging that held in the stony sky elsewhere in the Underworld.

Ten hours and a few breaks later, all of Stratagold’s domain, over a thousand kilometers in every direction from the Geode itself, was free of every single discoverable mental monster threat, and a few more besides. There were likely a few more mental monster threats hidden in the dark Side Roads or the open caverns that no one had visited in a hundred years or more, but Erick had no way to find them and Kromolok eventually called it quits, so those distant or well-hidden monsters remained unkilled.

Somewhere in all that, Erick asked Kromolok, “Why haven’t the Gemslicers helped with this? They have my Light Magic; they must have this magic, too.”

“Ah.” Kromolok said, “They have this magic, but not everything else necessary to make this work in this way.”

“… Somehow I expected more evasion from that question.”

Kromolok smiled, saying, “They don’t know your secret of blood; that’s tripping them up a lot. Otherwise we would have already done this months ago.”

“Actual answers!” Erick laughed. “That’s downright the opposite of what I’m used to!”

“Yes. Well.” Kromolok said, “You are a major part of the fate of this world and I can get away with spilling secrets where I deem necessary and I have deemed it necessary that you keep certain things secret, like the secret of blood. This is hard to do when you don’t know which secrets need keeping and why they need keeping, thus: transparency.”

“Ah. Okay.” Erick paused. After a moment he added, “This secret of blood is something that people should eventually learn. Not this year and maybe not for fifty more. But eventually.”

Kromolok took a moment to think, decided against his original words, and said, “One catastrophe per year, please.”

Erick almost asked him what he was going to say but he decided against that, opting instead for, “Fair enough.”

It’s not like knowledge of DNA could help heal people, anyway. That’s what all the other Healing Magic was for.
