He decided that he wanted to keep the ‘This spell is extraordinarily resistant toward dispelling effects.’ part that he got from including anti-Dispel frameworks. So then he made that spell. A blue box appeared.

Steadfast Ward, instant, self, 3800 mana

Enact a personal ward of absolute defense, preventing 165 damage from all outside sources. This spell is extraordinarily resistant toward dispelling effects. Lasts 24 hours.

For his third attempt, Erick decided to try adding [Renew] to the mix, just to see what would happen. It wouldn’t be an undirected addition, of course. He channeled the spell through a hand and listened to the sounds of renewal and regrow—

Hmm.

There was something there.

Erick channeled [Renew] in one hand and [Grow] in another.

There was something there. Whatever it was… Seemed recursive? Like an ever growing sound that didn’t actually grow at all? Well… That just made a whole lot of sense, didn’t it! Erick smiled. See this? This was why he loved magic. There were so many connections everywhere, and this right here was too good of an avenue of inquiry to leave unexplored.

Erick handed five spells off to Ophiel; [Ward], [Force Wall], [Dispel], [Grow], and [Renew]. It was an odd combination, with an odd melody hiding within the discordant sound, but with an adjustment here and a heightening there the fog of jumbled Realities began to clear into something deeper. Erick added in some tricks of Permanency—

Suddenly, the obscuring static between him and this new magic went away, revealing the music of a mountain that only grew with each drop of falling mana. He realized that all his ideas for Permanency magic were already inside [Renew], and also that he had cast the spell before he had thought to cast.

Ethereal Force took hold inside his flesh, solidifying in his body like so much phantom imagery. Bones of heartwood that might bend but would never break. Bark for skin, and only the strongest wood for muscle. Structures like roots spread from his heart, perfectly following his arteries to then return through his veins and strengthen all the other tubules of his body.

He held up his hand, slowly and just as easily as he usually did, feeling no entrapment or danger. He did feel a hollowness inside, though, because this spell had taken a lot of mana—

Unbreakable Form, instant, self, 7500 mana

Enact a personal ward of absolute defense, preventing 250 damage from all outside sources. This spell is extraordinarily resistant toward dispelling effects. This spell will stack <2> times. For plants, this spell will stack <4> times.

Permanent until dismissed.

Erick blinked a bit, and then smiled. This was a good spell. This was almost exactly what he wanted, anyway. Magic was wonderful! After a bit of testing with [Hermetic Shredder], [Unbreakable Form] worked exactly as it should. It even looked good; like nothing at all except for a very strong and oddly Shaped [Personal Ward], that one would only notice as odd if they had a good mana sense. Erick’s usual [Personal Ward] sometimes shimmered white when he took damage, or when he moved too much, but this thing had no visual effect at all.

It might not work for Erick, himself, for anything over 2000 damage would still get through this sort of defense, even with it maxed at 500 absolute defense, and he had very much taken hits worth well over 50,000 points of damage in the past. His current [Personal Ward] was worth nearly 130,000 points of defense, for reference, but there were no natural damage reductions on that. Erick took the full hits, every time.

With this new spell, even counting his Constitution-enhanced defenses with [Defend] active, which only lasted a minute, giving him 95% damage reduction, a 50,000 hit would still cause 2500 points of damage, which would still be 2000 damage straight to Erick’s Health.

He only had 2600 Health.

So Erick needed something more normal than this. Perhaps Riivo was right and a [Steadfast Ward] was just not good for him. A hybrid spell would do everything he wanted, but that sort of spell was apparently ‘too difficult’. According to Riivo, they had records of such things in the archives of Archmage’s Rest, but nothing substantive other than ‘yes, this theory does actually work; good luck trying to replicate this success, and also this person never filled out that record properly, so I can’t even show you how it is supposed to go together’.

Anyway! Yggdrasil couldn’t very well use a [Personal Ward] for at least another 100 years, because that would require him to use all his mana to make a good one, and since he was mana, that would kill him. So [Unbreakable Form] was good for him.

Erick handed the spell over to Yggdrasil. The big guy cast it upon himself and nothing visually changed. But it worked. There was a definite ethereal/physical change, though. Thanks to Yggdrasil using [Eternal Stonetree] his body was more than that of a normal [Familiar]; it was filled with actual structures instead of hollow magic. He had heartwood and bark and sapwood, along with vesicles of his own. Now, those things became lined in Ethereal Force. On the surface, there was no change, but under the surface, Erick watched as Yggdrasil became much more solid.

Yggdrasil exclaimed, “The bitey fish no longer bite!”

Erick smiled. “Absolute defense is like having tougher skin and stronger bones; you simply can’t be hurt until the attacker overcomes that barrier—” He paused.

Erick almost asked if Yggdrasil wanted to do some testing, to see exactly how much damage he could take, but Erick didn’t want to hurt Yggdrasil. Not at all. And yet he probably should, just to know what sort of numbers he was dealing with—

That reminded him of something else. How much ‘Health’ did Yggdrasil have, anyway? For [Familiar]s, their Mana was their Health. For Ophiel this number was easy to know; it was the same as Erick’s own Mana, at just over 13k. But the blue box for Yggdrasil only ever said that Yggdrasil had a lot more mana and resources than him. So, actually, there was no way to know what sort of mana resources Yggdrasil had at his disposal.

So did Erick need to do that sort of testing right now? Would it even be useful? No. Not really. Yggdrasil would eventually become fully real, and at that time, Yggdrasil could run his own numbers himself. For right now, [Unbreakable Form] was more defenses than the big guy had ever had before, and those defenses would continue to grow, so this was fine.

Erick continued, “Your [Unbreakable Form] will become a lot stronger with more casts, so when you can, recast it. Don’t get low on mana, though.”

“Okay!”

Yggdrasil instantly recast the spell, then again, and again. And agai—

“That’s enough.” Erick said, “You can stop. That’s maximum effectiveness.”

“Okay.” Yggdrasil shimmered a bit, then said, “This funny feeling. Strong feeling.”

“Are you okay?”

“I good!”

“… Yes, you are good, Yggdrasil.”

And he had just spent 37,500 mana. Erick knew that Yggdrasil had a lot more mana than him, but damn.

Erick almost went back to magic making, but he decided to put his thoughts in order while he did something else for a little while, and he knew just what he needed to do. First, he tore apart the failed spells he had made, and then he said to Yggdrasil, “I’m going to go back into town for a while. Are you going to play with the fishes?”

“Yes.” Yggdrasil said, “Big fishes Holorulo bite rough, but can’t bite now. I stronger.”

Erick smiled, happy for several reasons. First, it was rather apparent that [Unbreakable Form] suited Yggdrasil quite well. Yggdrasil also seemed to be getting better with words. The big guy was still missing a lot of joining words, but he was getting there.

Pretty good for a 5 month old.

- - - -

The Church of Rozeta was split into two parts; public and business. The whole thing was large enough to be a cathedral worthy of two or three gods, or perhaps all the varied gods of Veird, but it was dedicated to only one. The embassy was easily over 100 times the size of the church, though, so the church obviously wasn’t the important structure in this cavern.

The public section of the church had thousands of people waiting for appointments with hundreds of Registrars, while a small ceremony for the freshly Matriculated was going on in the main room, under the watchful eyes of a stone depiction of Rozeta, half-hiding behind her clouds.

The business section of the church, nearer and connected to the embassy, was much more in line with the rest of the embassy; hallways, offices, nice lighting instead of opulent lighting that truly made the sculptures and frescos seem to come to life.

It was that part of the place that Erick now walked, having been guided this way by the guy at the front desk, and further by the various signs here and there. He had yet to talk to someone in the church. People had been staring at him this whole time, and no one had tried to talk to him, to ask why he was there and if they could help. They wanted to know why he was there; Erick could tell by the wide eyes and the quiet stares and the polite bows that everyone gave him. None of the people here looked like young acolytes, either. Maybe some of the shinier wrought were young, but they were silver, so Erick sort of doubted that interpretation. It was hard to tell the age of most wrought based on their looks.

Not a single person stopped his walk to the deeper offices.

Which was kinda odd. If Erick hadn’t scouted the place out with Ophiel flying around outside then he would have been lost. Maybe it was because Erick knew where he was going that no one made to stop him? Perhaps.

The place he was headed didn’t seem too popular, though it was still very much an important part of the church.

Erick arrived near his destination. A basic stone arch framed the start of some stairs that went to the floor above. It was a rather basic architectural feature of little importance, except it did read in thick, unassuming runes: ‘Offices of the Inquisition’. There were no guards. There were no guarding magics. The nearest other offices were in the other hallway. Nothing was here, in this place, that wasn’t supposed to be here.

Erick walked through the archway and started up the stairs.

The stairs curled back over to the second floor, where Erick exited into a plain office room. He was almost startled. He didn’t expect to see Rozeta here, but—

She wasn’t Rozeta.

She was a white wrought of human female form, and she had thoughts coming off of her whole body like invisible tendrils. Erick instantly reevaluated the woman. She sat behind a desk, like she was a normal person here to greet visitors and not some ancient killer of people exactly like Erick.

The woman passively looked his way, a bit perturbed by Erick’s wordless words of recrimination.

Erick almost apologized, but he knew he had gotten his impression right the second time. And besides, he had a lot more words of recrimination for them besides that. What was going on outside these walls was near criminal. Stratagold should be helping everyone everywhere, a lot more than they currently were.

The white woman narrowed her eyes a fraction.

Oh, sure, there were problems of runic webs getting out of control and everything ending up in a Forgotten Campaign anyway. But if everything worked out with his own Worldly Path, then he would be opening up new worlds in maybe ten years, or a hundred at the latest. All he had to do was get everyone on board, first. The inquisition was just the first step —perhaps the largest step— of many more steps yet to come. Making Melemizargo sane was a large problem too, and he had no idea how to fix that except for the passage of time, and with people actually helping the guy through his trauma instead of shunning him. Which… Someone had to have attempted it in the past, right?

The woman sighed.

“Unsuccessful attempt, then,” Erick spoke, breaking the silence.

“I heard the stories about how good you are at reading people, but I’m still amazed to experience it myself.” The woman said, “And you’re… So very much not a mind mage. You have absolutely zero capability. And yet…” Her words trailed off as if to say that Erick was a mind mage, but of a different sort. One that they weren’t allowed to force into their society, to adhere to their rules. She said, “Yes. Exactly that. Anyway. Kromolok will be back in minutes.” She got up from her chair, then walked toward a side room, saying, “Come on then. We have some rooms that can’t be spied on. Can’t have this discussion out here.”

Erick followed, asking, “What’s your name?”

“Uchena.” Uchena said, “Kromolok has been here the longest of any of us, but I am a close second.”

They walked into a side room with runic web ribbons strung throughout the walls, like a Faraday cage. The spellwork was inactive at the moment, but Erick guessed it was some impressive Privacy magic. While the whole church and embassy had a timeless quality to it, the furniture in this room looked comparatively new; comfortable and soft. Uchena grabbed a seat for herself as she gestured to one of the others in the room.

“How old is Kromolok and the Inquisition?” Erick asked, as he sat down across from the white wrought.

Uchena said, “Kromolok was among the first of us born on this world when the Grand Translation solidified the wrought into their immortal forms. I came along soon after, but the Inquisition didn’t come along until year 11; when the first of the extra Bans needed to happen. We didn’t learn these Mind Mage tricks until later.” She added, “We don’t actually adhere to the Mind Mage code, either. We’re the enforcers of that code. We’re the enforcers of many unsaid codes all across this world, to ensure that nothing ever breaks ever again.”

Erick felt a spike of worry and almost asked what she meant by not adhering to the Mind Mage code, but it was a reflexive question, which he already knew the answer to. This woman was a killer. So why was she trying to intimidate him? Was… Had he walked into a trap, while thinking he was just going to pop in to see if they needed help with something? But Kromolok had told him to come on over if he wanted to talk, and—

There was a dissonance here. What he saw in Unchena’s microexpressions and tone of voice and all the rest of her was not the feeling that he got. She displayed poise, but she was ready to kill.

She wanted to kill him.

But that was just… Ridiculous. Right? He had come here to help, and she was trying to…

