As Ember turns, more and more streams of Demonic aura breach through his golden defenses.

The serene nature of his primordial dragon form does not change at all; even the expression in his eyes stays calm. He is not being overpowered at all, whatever he's doing is entirely on purpose.

Echoing waves of the Demon's voice reach out into the darkness.

I raise my sword again to block the silver threads that flow through with them.

They are far louder, and the moment they touch the outside of my origin body, I feel it shatter along with my soul again.

Both Maria and my entire beings get obliterated over and over, at a controlled rate. Every time our essence is summoned back by the void, the time between full shatters lessens. In turn, the metallic flames and sparkling ice that naturally flow off our bodies are able to seep out into the void further as well.

This is all happening subconsciously while the Demon speaks directly to Ember, but is very aware that we are listening in.

"Now you're letting me see them? These are what you call anomalies? Pitiful. I am the only true anomaly. You even called Marcellus an anomaly, and many others in that era. Even that Lich. The Dark Elf, what a sorry state that anomaly fell to. Many that reigned over the system for billions of years before me. Do you expect me to believe there is one that appeared just in time with a fraction of the energy remaining in the system? Your mind must have finally broken. To think there was even a flicker of fear left in my heart when I sensed your presence enter the membrane."

The Demon even begins to laugh, wasting his aura to project it into all of our minds.

However, in the time it takes this Demon to speak his words, my mind and soul have adapted enough to start taking the hits without my entire origin body shattering each time. There is a whole other layer of defenses that upgrades too, as the churning of silver threads inside my soul weapon echoes in my inner ear, like trillions of pieces of liquid metal are scraping against each other until they melt and become fully digested.

The pulse of Crimson aura after this ripples throughout my origin body like a reverse magnet, repelling any energy I don't want to absorb.

Though, I still take in every attack head-on, as in this state they only benefit me.

All three of my cores creep closer to each other in the center of my chest, but I feel a heat build up inside me and a ringing in my ears sound when they get too close. It's the same sensation I've felt many times before trying to suppress my Royal Vibrations, or break through seals on my glyphs.

When I push too hard, it sends deep cracks shooting out through my sacred and origin body.

I watch the same exact phenomena happen with Maria.

Her cores falling in toward each other work in a far more unorthodox fashion.

The only way Maria's True Core was capable of forming in the Lower Realm was to conceal it deep within her soul energy core, within the darkness of an unnatural gravitational void.

Yet now, with every passing moment, to keep up with my rapid absorption and healing techniques, Maria has to use a special technique of her own.

Every time her Angelic Origin Body is shattered, she summons countless more pseudo cores to stack upon each other and create a near-infinite pool of deep royal blue icy power.

Quickly, the amount of soul energy cores she summons reaches an astronomical amount. Every single activation of this skill follows the Fibonacci sequence, adding the last two summoned amounts to trigger the next layers of cores. In an exponential equation like this, by the time her origin body is destroyed only 1 million times, the number of cores she has summoned to counter it has reached 208,988 digits.

Even without having my natural absorption talent, she keeps up without a single ask for my primordial fire's help or need for me to use my arrays to shield her from the brute force attacks.

I watch the corner of Ember's lips turn up in the grin he always shows when he gains the edge in a battle, then feel him reveal the aura behind him even faster.

A wave of purple and silver light explodes outward, filling most parts of the darkness, and I even feel a pair of silver demonic eyes peer directly at me.

"A pair of humans? Is this a joke? One of the lowest lifespan beings to come from the origin plane? Races like these are weakest to my skill. You believe they can kill me...? Even if you have given one of them the blood of a demon, and the other the essence of the membrane. Still, they would need billions of years in the origin plane to mature their cores enough to actually consolidate them. It is why some lesser lifeforms were never meant to touch this much power. You are only lifting their hopes for nothing."

As another burst of energy starts shattering all of my energy forms again, I feel the ring of silver threads in the Realm Wave surrounding us start to close inward too. Direction and space itself is bent in a very odd way, but it is still clear that a strong curved portion of the Realm Wave is moving toward our backs faster than the rest of it.

Yet, at the same time, this loosening of my consciousness also makes the tension between all three of my cores far less violent too. I'm able to push them even closer together before the violent cracks and ringing attack my mind again.

Ember's golden aura washes through the darkness as he responds to the Demon's words again, "All of your words are true. As we both know, if I am to collide with the force you have created, the sacrifice of my past will be in vain. I will only be able to observe, but my role to do so is just as important, for without a witness, no time would ever pass. You will see what a true anomaly is capable of."
