The [Enchanter] looked at Ryoka as he cradled it in his hands.
“Before I inform you as to this item’s usage…I don’t suppose you would consider my offer? I realize it is completely unconventional, but I feel compelled to make it.”
“Which is?”
“Allow me to pay you eighteen thousand gold pieces to purchase this wand from you. I will not make this offer again, and if you desire to accept you must not ask what this wand’s usage is.”
Reynold sounded like he’d inhaled his tongue. Ryoka blinked a few times and put her hand to her ear.
“Eight…eighteen? Not just eight?”
“It is the number for silence, for not inquiring. The wand may be worth less, but this is my price. Will you take it?”
Ryoka gulped as she met Hedault’s eyes. She looked at Reynold—the man was blinking rapidly as his eyes fixed on the iron wand. There was quill and inkpot balanced on his hand as he held a small book in front of him.
The young woman turned back to Hedault and sighed.
“Damnit, if you knew me…I have to know what the hell that wand is. Sorry, no deal.”
Hedault nodded. He looked visibly disappointed—Ryoka supposed that was crying and weeping on anyone else. He stroked the wand and then looked at Ryoka.
“Very well. Then, an explanation first. This wand is not metal as you might surmise. It is iron wood—it comes from a rare tree that is extinct as far as I know. But inside the wand…there is something. A core.”
“You mean, the thing that gives it magic?”
“Yes. I do not know what it is.”
“You can’t tell?”
Hedault shook his head.
“It is something I have never seen before. Something…powerful. This wand is powered by the core—it is a classical wand. I suppose you do not know the difference between a classical wand and variation designed for spellcasting…? No, I see not.”
“Let me guess. One’s better?”
“Substantially.”
Hedault nodded. He indicated the wand he held.
“This wand has no spell attached to it. It is…well, I suppose you could call it an aid to spellcasting, but an aid hardly encompasses…it will boost any mage’s ability to cast spells immensely. Not like the modern wand. Those have cores of course, but these are almost invariably small mana stones. They are consumed with every cast of the spell embedded in the wand—you understand?”
“One’s temporary and helps cast a certain kind of spell, the other one’s good at everything and doesn’t run dry?”
“Exactly.”
Hedault nodded as he reluctantly let Ryoka inspect the wand. It was heavy she found—and the iron wood did indeed feel like wood. Cold, metallic wood.
“Such a wand is…valuable does not begin to describe it. Consider, please, the limits of modern construction. A—a wand made today would have to be of some high-quality wood. Perhaps meltwood, or cerabark? And the core might be unicorn hair or unicorn horn if you were so unimaginably lucky—it would be inferior to this wand by a substantial degree.”
Ryoka whistled as she held the wand.
“Ceria and Pisces are going to tear each other apart over this thing.”
“Any mage would. In fact, I advise you to take care in transporting it—it is not magically significant so a casual [Detect Magic] spell would not identify it immediately if concealed correctly, but any mage worth their salt would do almost anything to obtain such an object.”
Ryoka eyed Hedault.
“Why didn’t you lie about what it was, then? Seems odd you’d just tell me what it is after making one offer.”
The enchanter glared at her, outraged by the suggestion.
“I make my living based on my trustworthiness. I would not lie—even when sorely tempted to.”
“Sorry, sorry. It’s just—wow, this is the big one, isn’t it?”
“Yes. It is.”
Hedault grew silent as Ryoka turned the wand over in her hands. He sighed.
“Congratulations, Ryoka Griffin. I am told there are two mages in the Horns of Hammerad. One of them will benefit greatly—assuming the other does not attempt to kill them to possess this wand, that is.”
“We’ll see.”
Ryoka put the wand down and turned to Hedault. She felt lightheaded—possibly because she’d listened to him chatter on about magical artifacts for the better part of an hour. Or was it more? She couldn’t tell how long she’d been standing here.
“Was that it? You said something about repair costs…”
“Ah, yes.”
Hedault flicked his fingers and levitated the buckler up.
“This is the only object in need of repairs to function. The hilt of the sword enchanted with weight could use touching up, but that is a minor cost. Now, I estimate that this buckler can be fixed with a modicum of effort and time—say, five days? I could do it myself for a small reduction in fees.”
Ryoka nodded.
“And the price?”
Hedault tapped the buckler twice as he thought.
“I would think that the least I would ask is…one thousand and six hundred gold coins for the buckler, and four hundred…and fifty for the hilt. Now, understand that an error might occur in the repair process in which case the fee will be refunded, but the enchantment will in all likelihood be completely lost.”
He looked up and saw Ryoka had gone dead white.
“If you like, I can offer you a very good price if you would consider trading the wand—”
 
——
 
Outside, quite a number of streets away, Laken sighed impatiently. He was sitting with Durene and Gamel, both of whom were flicking crumbs from their lunch and snack at some inquisitive birds who’d flown down to look.
Laken knew he should be at the inn they’d found, feeding Frostwing. And he had business at the Merchant’s Guild—and the Runner’s Guild—and the Adventurer’s Guild. But he was waiting here for Ryoka Griffin.
“Where is she? I wonder if something’s happened?”
 
——
 
Across the city, one of the overworked [Receptionists] in the Mage’s Guild sighed long and hard as he got another message in. This one was addressed to a name he’d had cause to curse in the last few days.
He neatly took note of it, recording the sender and the addressee.
To: Ryoka Griffin
From: Erin Solstice.
This was the first message from this sender, but he had messages from…the [Receptionist] consulted the sheet out of idle curiosity.
Ah yes. From Krshia Silverfang, Selys Shivertail, Klbkch (no last name given), Lyonette (no last name given), Ceria Springwalker, Pisces (no last name given), and now Erin Solstice.
He wished she would turn up.
 
——
 
And last, but certainly not least, the female [Receptionist] at the Runner’s Guild grimly stopped talking with one of the Runners who’d come in. She was going off-duty for the day, but she left a message for all [Receptionists] on duty. She had a message for Ryoka Griffin too, and she was sure the girl wasn’t going to like it.
And outside, the snow began to fall. The winter was more than half-over. It had been a long one, but the longest day of the year was fast approaching. After that, the snows would linger for a while, but then melt.
Winter was ending. But there was a lot to do first. And much of it turned on a young woman who was currently talking about payment plans with an [Enchanter].
