Strelkova downed her small cup of tea in one gulp, and then everyone else followed. There wasn’t much in the cup, so Erick had no trouble doing the same. And he had been right; the contents were little more than hot water and a hint of Light Essence.

It tasted of sunshine. It was nice.

A band started playing up above, on one of the balconies. Music flowed into the room and people began moving around, taking their teacups and setting them down in trays where they would no doubt be used at the next Bright Tea, five days hence. There were no servants moving anything around, but there were some event organizers among the crowd making sure things worked out as they were supposed to. It was those event organizers who then grabbed the trays and moved them away.

The second half of Bright Tea began with many people clearing the center of the room, to stand beyond a golden filigree circle thirty meters in diameter. A few people remained in the circle, though, and they called out to one another, jesting in proclamatory challenges to any and all who would come forth, to try their skill at a proper dance. It was practically a show, but it was more a matter of everyone here knowing everyone else, and of the people in the center wanting to show up others in friendly competition.

And somewhere between moving out from the crowd to take center stage, the people had put on underwear. How odd! Erick almost laughed when he mana sensed that, but then he realized that if they were going to truly dance then they likely didn’t want anything flopping around, because that would probably make some distracting slapping noises—

The silver incani man moved, blurring for a moment as he twirled and swayed, making the first real opening movements on the field. When he came back to himself, he called out to a copper woman, asking, “Have you mastered that one yet?”

The woman laughed, a trilling, happy sound, before copying the man exactly, swaying her way across the stage to mirror the man in everything but form. At the end of her own actions, she turned to the man, saying, “You’ll have to try better than that to trip me up!”

And then they started dancing, but to call it that would be to ignore the truth of what one could do if they actually moved as these people moved.

It was a battle without touching. What would have been a deadly punch to the throat became caresses of metal skin at the last moment, touching upon a shoulder and then moving on. Kicks that could decapitate were instead grabbed by the one so attacked, and the kicker gently tossed away, using the movement to spiral into the air and come back down on one foot, with the other leg curled up behind them and their back so arched they almost touched their own foot to their own head.

And then the whole dance reversed in roles and action, and the other one ended on a back-curling tip-toeing stance. All the while the band up on the balcony kept a steady, quick beat to their music, helping the dancers time their movements.

The silver man and copper woman showed off only the first of five such public bouts, each between different people, and each more physically demanding and more interesting than the last. Erick got the distinct impression that he was only seeing the latest incarnations of friendly feuds centuries in the making.

After the fifth dance, there was one more.

Sitnakov strolled away from his friends, heading into the center of the dance floor, challenging, “A dance with a prince! Anyone strong enough! Limber enough! Fast enough to come forth—”

“I see the prince requires another lesson in just how far he has yet to go!” A bright red incani woman strode out from the edge of the field, venturing away from her own friends, some of which happened to be the other strong dancers who had been on right before Sitnakov. Erick got the impression she was a teacher of some sort. “This humble instructor accepts the responsibility of teaching you proper movement!”

Sitnakov smiled wide, saying, “I humbly accept your tutelage, Rubikia.”

Sitnakov was half again the size of the woman, but Rubikia wasn’t worried at all. If Erick was reading it right, Sitnakov was deeply worried that he had pulled in a larger fish than he could handle—

Rubikia moved, rushing forward, starting the dance fight with an instant chop of her left hand against Sitnakov’s right hand that he had just left hanging out there for some reason; maybe he hadn’t expected Rubikia’s speed. Her attack became a pulling motion, using the back of her own hand to grab at his and send him careening forward, while Rubikia continued in her own forward direction, her left hand now attempting to take off Sitnakov’s head. Sitnakov recovered, flowing into a sudden limbo-ish maneuver, avoiding the strike to then twist up and out of the attack, flowing into a backhanded attack of his own.

Sitnakov’s hand brushed against Rubikia’s back. If it had been a real attack Rubikia would have been sent flying, or her back broken, but instead, Rubikia used the pressure to soar away, where she then curled into a ball and twisted right out of it, to land back on her feet. A perfect 10 landing by any judge’s standards.

It would not be the last time one of them sent the other flying.

Even though Rubikia had to weigh an eighth of Sitnakov’s weight, she was no less strong for it.

Punches, kicks. Twists and flips. It could have been a thousand times more deadly than it was, but Sitnakov and Rubikia were immortals at the height of their power, for the wrought did not wane with age; they just grew more experienced. They danced a dance that would have killed any mortal attempting it, either from the too-hard touches that sometimes sent sparks flying when metal hands touched metal flesh, or from a non-wrought dancer not knowing how to do the dance itself, which seemed made up on the spot, but also made up of a thousand previous lessons that no one ever saw except in private—

Sitnakov twirled through the air, his kilt flipping up to reveal a loincloth, and landed in a mirror of how Rubikia had landed before, but when his feet touched the ground he accidentally dug in, scraping the crystal floor, causing the entire room to try not to wince at the noise. Sitnakov just chuckled.

Ruibikia chuckled, too, saying, “Less parties, more training, Prince. You should have landed that one.”

“I accept your advice; thank you for it.”

And then Rubikia limbered up a bit and put her body into the same non-ready stance that Sitnakov had had at the beginning of the dance. It was her turn to play his part.

Sitnakov went for it, shooting forward and using the back of his left hand to guide/yank Rubikia forward. She executed his fumbled first steps much nicer than he had. Going under his attack (which she made look perfectly easy, which was both due to her size and her experience) Rubikia flicked her hand and sent Sitnakov across the field, launching him in such a way that could have easily broken a person’s back. Sitnakov curled into a ball just like Rubikia had in that first exchange and twisted out of it just like her, to land daintily, and ready for the continuation of the dance. He did not fumble that landing.

Their bout proceeded as it had already, but with roles reversed and Rubikia pulling off every single one of Sitnakov’s maneuvers with perfect grace, turning what had been a battle in all senses of the words except in effect, into a beautiful dance.

At the end, Rubikia sailed through the air due to Sitnakov’s final throw and landed on her feet, without making a sound. No crunching crystal floor for her. Sitnakov bowed to the red wrought woman, and Rubikia bowed to her black metal prince.

They left the floor, each heading back to their own people.

Sitnakov might not have won, but he had been magnificent to watch. And, fuck him, but he knew what that kilt of his did when he twirled too fast, too. Erick was absolutely sure that there were other people in the crowd that were happy to witness the physical beauty and all the rest, just as much as they were happy to see the physical display of power. Erick was firmly in both camps there, for sure.

Rubikia was pretty damned hot, too.

So many hot people, everywhere—

Erick was thoroughly impressed that people could incorporate so many backflips and fingertip dancing into their normal routine; Stats helped people do strange things with their bodies, for sure—

The starter events were done, apparently, as the band shifted to another song, a bit slower and more musical. Less made for punching and kicking, and more made for multi-person dancing, for a lot of other people took the field, all at once, and began organizing themselves into some sort of choreographed number, and yet the field was empty of a lot of space—

“The show offs are done, so…” Tasar whispered to Erick, “Care for a dance?”

Erick glanced at Tasar. She looked hopeful, but reserved, and ready for a ‘No’.

Heck no! That looked like a lot of fun!

Erick held out a hand, saying, “I would be delighted for a dance, but only if we’re not doing anything nearly that dangerous or precise.”

Tasar brightened with an easy smile and took his hand, pulling him out into the field, saying, “Just follow along.”

Erick took his place next to Tasar at an edge of the thirty-ish people out on the field. She raised her hands in a certain way to match everyone else already on the floor, and Erick copied. Soon, the floor was full, and some drums began to beat out the end of the start of the song, getting everyone ready for—

And then they were off!

Erick took a fraction of a second to understand what he needed to do, and then he did it.

Twirling and shimmying back and forth on the white crystal floor, Erick danced around Tasar, who then danced around him, just as all the other partnered people were doing all around. Erick only needed several missteps to finally catch up to Tasar’s centuries of practice.

It was nice. Friendly. And then the partners came together. He put one hand on Tasar’s waist like he was supposed to, and she put a hand on his shoulder, as their other hands gripped each other and they spun around the white crystal, following in the footsteps of those who came before, while other people followed Erick and Tasar, and the whole group turned into a circle with one partner on the inside and another on the outside.

With a twirl and a hand off, everyone moved one place to their left and Erick briefly danced with a handsome iron human with a beautiful smile, and then he switched back to Tasar. Another handoff had him with a gold dragonkin woman who Erick had already talked with before now, so it was fun to dance with her here and now. She seemed to enjoy it, too.

And then he was back with Tasar and the whole pattern changed; the circle shifted into a star pattern, and then back to a circle, before changing into a square-shaped dance form, before coming back to the never ending circle again. He danced with a blue harpy woman and a petite celesteel man, before coming back to Tasar. He smiled as the music’s pace and the dance quickened. He followed Tasar as demanded by the dance, and then he led the way when it was his turn to pull her forward.

It was a dance of shifting power and presence, and though Erick had a few missteps here and there, his Stats more than made up for the nuance of it all. He held onto Tasar’s bright black and green hands, and smiled at her own joy of just existing.

Erick was glad for the breezy togas; it was getting warm in here.

And it was nice.

Erick smiled and gently laughed, and he wasn’t the only one. People in the audience clapped along in good time, keeping the dancers on track, happy to participate even if they weren’t on the floor themselves. Tasar seemed to be having a good time, too—

The music suddenly cut and Erick kept going for another half step, but the song was over and every single clapping person on the sidelines clapped loud and proud at the fantastic dance, while the dancers began bowing to each other. Erick followed suit, bowing to Tasar and then their neighbors as she did the same. With a bare five seconds between the music ending and then starting up again, Erick rushed off the dance floor, laughing with Tasar as other people rushed in; it was time for other people to have a go.

Erick went to the food and the drinks for the first time of the day, with Tasar close by his side. He said to her, “That was wonderful. Thank you for the invitation.”

“Thank you for accepting!” Tasar seemed to have a deep joy in her heart, and a perpetual smile on her face, as she exclaimed, “I didn’t know you could move that well! You should get a better partner for the more intricate dances later and try one of them. I can’t do the later dances at all.”

Erick laughed loudly, saying, “That wasn’t one of the more strenuous dances?”

“Oh my no.” Tasar said, “That’s the one for us casters. The muscle-brained warriors take the field later to show off all they can do. The music gets a lot faster. But I bet you could do it! You caught on quick!”

Erick smiled as he grabbed a little golden apple tart from the open banquet, saying, “Maybe I will.”

The tart was near-divine. The golden apple cider was delicious, too.

And then people started coming up to him, chatting him up about this or that, and when he could, Erick went back to the banquet. He had to try the fried meat pastries and some of the candies on display, and he was glad he did; they were fantastic.

Eventually, Kromolok showed, shining bright white in a toga of the same. “Greetings, Erick. Glad to see you enjoying yourself.”

“Glad to see you here, too.” Erick was half joking as he asked, “Got any news about the current problems?”

Tasar almost sighed, resigned to getting back to business. She was happy that the fae hadn’t shown, but now, it seemed that something else might be happening.

But Kromolok quickly laid those worries to rest, saying, “Nothing that bears mentioning at this time.” He added, “But after today’s Bright Tea I ask that you stick around for a little while, for the King and Queen wish to have small words. I’ll be there as well, and Riivo plans to attend. Until then, thank you for all that you’ve done for the world, Erick. The Church of Rozeta appreciates your efforts against the Dark.”

Only some small politics, then.

Erick gave a small nod, saying, “Glad to help.”

A few people in the audience were a bit startled by Erick’s ‘glad to help’, as though he had made a social error of some sort, but Kromolok simply gave a tiny smirk as he nodded deeply in turn, and then he left, back through the crowd.

