Alfonin asked, “Have you ever made deals with the Darkness, any of his minions, or anyone representing his interests, with regard to the destruction of this world, the destruction of the wrought, or the destruction of any peoples living or dead or planned to exist?”

Erick did not expect the lawyer-speak. His paranoia was suddenly confused. Erick had heard the king’s question correctly and understood it all the first time, but he had to run it through his mind again to make sure that he knew that he wouldn’t be lying, and then he said, “No.”

The white dome around Erick did not shift at all. Everyone looked to Kromolok and the Inquisitor just nodded. Whatever small tensions that had existed in the room had vanished after Erick’s passing of the first question. Even Uchena seemed less angry. Awir gave up on his lemon-eating expression completely, opting for quiet acceptance.

Strelkova said, “That was the large one. We appreciate your honesty. I would ask my own followups. First: Have you ever made any deals with anyone regarding the creation of new worlds? Have you thought of how to make new worlds? Please elaborate as you deem necessary.”

Erick answered, “Not… really. No deals made for creation, or anything like that. That is beyond me at the moment, and probably for always. I barely know where to even begin—” The air around him gained a hint of shadow. “Okay. I would know where to begin.” The air cleared, turning white again. “Yggdrasil seeds floating out into space, each holding a perfected Script with a strong Edge, gradually gaining mana… somehow? No people on a seed to supply mana, though, so… Bind a Creation Wizard’s power to Yggdrasil and have them make infinite mana that can then be gifted to the seeds, which will then [Duplicate] dirt and air and whatnot until planets form, and then… It goes on from there, I suppose. Sort of a rolling system of life creating life. But that’s long, long term space travel ideas. The main method will be planting seeds on the other worlds of this system, and transforming them into habitable worlds. That will be a lot easier. Still going to take many centuries to accomplish this, though.”

Kromolok’s spell had remained white after Erick’s initial flub. There were some reactions to that flub, but nothing too dangerous, or which demanded more answers that Erick wasn’t already giving.

Strelkova gave a tiny nod, then she asked, “Does Rozeta have plans for you?”

“Oh, sure!” Erick said, “I don’t know what those plans are, exactly, but yes. She has plans.”

Strelkova said, “List the current threats to your person that you know of, in descending order, until you come to the wrought.”

Erick tensed. That was a loaded question. The other wrought in the room did not tense; they knew this sort of thing was coming.

Erick thought for a moment, then said, “I will give you them in no particular order, for I am not sure which ones are more dangerous than the others, for danger comes in many forms. There’s the fae. Melemizargo and his Shades, though the only Shade I am actually worried about is… I don’t know. They’re all still dangerous, I think. Then there’s Sininindi and her nascent World Tree; no idea what’s going on there. Whatever is happening with that one Patriarch of Terror Peaks which we never caught and I never Blessed. Some black swan type of event, like an assassin I never saw coming. Which brings me to the dragons, actually. I was in the area when one of them tried to kill a lot of people, and also near when a dragon of Olooraptoor tried to soul-mutilate a man to throw me off of the dragon’s tail. And then there’s the wrought.”

“Why do you consider us a threat to you?” Strelkova asked.

“Aren’t you a threat to everyone?”

No one reacted to that; they knew that Erick spoke the truth.

Strelkova, however, disagreed with the breadth of Erick’s assertion. “We are not threats to those who do not threaten, so what do you threaten, Erick? What dangers are you hiding from us, and from the world? What horrors will you unleash if we let you leave this room alive? What sort of country do you hope to build out of those horrible shadelings up on the Surface?”

Ah.

Being angry was easier than being scared.

Erick’s blood rose at the mention of ‘horrible shadelings’, but he maintained that part of himself to a quiet fire, and said, “I am hiding a great many magical dangers, such as the true nature of light, the true nature of sound, and several apocalyptic magics that I hope are more fantasy than reality, but, if I understand correctly, Kromolok is already working on the solution to those apocalyptic magics, and I already know the danger of letting out more knowledge than the world can handle. There will not be a repeat of the Particle Magic lectures.”

No one reacted to that, except to await more words.

Erick continued, “If I can get away with it I hope to expand civilization quite a lot, but not because I have any particular need to go back to Earth or to become some sort of emperor of the world. I don’t want to become the king of shadelings, or anything else like that, either. In fact, I’m not even for the generalized expansion of civilization, but expanding civilization will naturally come about because of the peace and prosperity which I do hope to foster, and to let grow as much as it can. That’s all I actually care about: helping people become more than what they were before. This naturally leads to children and to growth and expansion.” Erick said, “If any unforeseen horrors are unleashed because the population of the world increases and people begin to encroach upon the hidden horrors out there, then I hope for your assistance with taming or destroying those horrors. Rozeta already asked me to respond ‘With Light and Ash’ to upcoming troubles my proposed changes might bring into existence, so… If you ask me what I threaten, then I threaten the world with betterment.” He added, “I don’t know exactly what that means yet, though; I’m still figuring it out.”

This answer seemed decent to everyone there. The part about Rozeta asking Erick to kill things in her name was a surprise, but it was also highly welcomed.

Strelkova lifted her head slightly; an expression of queenly discernment. And then she gave a polite, “We wish you well with accomplishing your goals, Erick. As long as those goals remain focused on the good of all good people, then we will not be enemies. Know now, though, that we disapprove of your recklessness with venturing into the Core. We disapprove of your Blessing of the Shades, when you could have annihilated them. We disapprove of how you disseminated Particle Magic out into the world.

“However.

“We approve of your alliance with Rozeta. We approve of your goals. We approve of your accomplishments against the Quiet War, against the Sects of Nelboor, against every threat you have ever gone up against. You have made the world a better place by ending or mitigating those threats.” Strelkova glanced at her husband, then back to Erick, saying, “Please answer my King’s next questions with a similar level of thought as you gave mine.”

Erick felt a weight come off his chest—

King Alfonin asked, “If you were to acquire [Gate], would you ever allow your specific Gate Network to fall out of your power for any reason?”

Erick said, “Yes. Since summons eventually outgrow their summoners, eventually, Yggdrasil will control [Gate] all on his own. I might create more [Gate]s, though, because I can easily imagine wanting a private [Gate] system.”

Erick’s answer was accepted, but a few people raised eyebrows at ‘private [Gate] system.'

And then Alfonin stared at Erick, his eyes gaining a hardness to them that they had not possessed before. Erick felt a sudden sweat. Ah. Shit. Was this going to be the big question—

“Are you still mortal?” the King asked.

Erick flummoxed for a moment.

“… I don’t think so.”

As the white spell around Erick remained white, the people in that room were too well guarded to let their true emotions show. Mostly. Tasar openly gasped. Awir glared. Riivo sighed, but barely. And then King Alfonin lost his stoicism, completely, his shoulders slumped a bit as his expression went soft; caring.

Strelkova had about the same reaction as her husband, but she was the first to actually speak. “Oh… It seems we must have this particular conversation after the fact. I did not expect that.”

While the words were worrying, her body language was nothing but caring. Everyone in the room had similarly shifted toward something less serious, and that was perhaps more worrying than most other possible reactions. Erick had not expected… Whatever this was.

Erick glanced around. “Uh? What's wrong?”

Another silent outpouring of compassion filled the room.

Alfonin said, “I’m so sorry, Erick. You’re going to have to see everyone you love eventually die.”

Erick almost shot back something unkind and probably stupid.

But Riivo spoke up, “I did not think that Rozeta would do this to him, either.”

“I can understand why she would do this.” Strelkova spoke casually, “She would literally never find anyone better to walk Yggdrasil into eternity.”

Uchena scowled. “Yggdrasil losing Erick is just a longer term problem, now. This man is going to get himself killed and then Yggdrasil will break. It won’t be pretty.”

“Or the rigors of immortality will break Erick first,” Riivo said softly. “And then it will be a disaster of a different sort.”

Erick frowned a little, completely unprepared for… whatever this was. Back when he first met Sitnakov at the edge of the cloudgate in the Core, the man had tried to tempt Erick with an offer of immortality through ‘any number of methods that Erick should be able to cast, given his history’. So this sort of reaction from these people now was a bit incongruous.

He decided to say as much. “What’s wrong with immortality?”

Everyone else went silent. The non-royals glanced to Strelkova.

Strelkova resumed her queenly mien, “All mortals with the desire to continue will reach for eternity, but few ever get there. To fail to grasp eternity is a blessing for them, on this Veird, for this world is full of mortals, and there is no true separation between our different societies. Mortals live as children, enjoying the world for what it is, and then they grow older and contribute to the causes, while in their old age they hand the governance of the world off to the younger generation, always coming up behind them. In this way, mortals are the best of us, for they are always challenged in bettering themselves before the end, and to ensure that whoever will come after knows how to take care of what they were granted.

“And then, at the end, they die, and join the gods in perpetuity, returning to all their loved ones who chose the same path. Or they join the mana, and become part of the cycle of forever, assisting those who come afterward in ways they never could while alive. It is that final journey that makes mortals strive for betterment. For growth.

“But as an immortal…” Strelkova’s voice turned softer, and harder at the same time. “The world will never change unless you make it change. There is no hope except that which you provide. There is no growth except that which you demand. When you get the urge to help people, and I imagine you, specifically, Erick, will get that urge a lot, it will be through the mortals where you will enact the most changes in the world. You will grow attached to them. You will watch them age and you will not. You will watch them die and you will not. You will watch their children age and the children of their children age, each of them putting their own mark on the world, each hoping for a better world for their children…

“And you will watch them all die.” Strelkova said, “This is what it means to be an immortal living in a mortal world. What Rozeta gave you was a boon that you will likely one day return, as so many of our people do whenever they venture out into the world and come back to Stratagold, beaten and broken by living among mortality.”

Erick had no words, but in the silence of Strelkova’s ending speech, it appeared that they wanted him to have some. So he said, “If I could make everyone immortal and healthy, I would.”

All around the room was silent pity.

Strelkova simply nodded, saying, “Of course you would. If such a thing were possible, I would do the same.”

Erick scowled at that, but his sudden anger was met with more pity, and he felt unmoored.

Strelkova continued, “Apologies for the rough interview.” She glanced around. “Does he still have to do the inquiry?” Her eyes fell upon her son, Abernikon, “We’re helping him now, fully and completely.”

First Prince Abarnikon spoke up, “He still has to do it for everyone has been waiting for the event, but I can make the inquiry as painless as possible.”

Strelkova agreed, “This will have to do.”

Tasar whispered, “I’m so sorry this happened to you.”

Sitnakov stepped closer and put a hand on Erick’s shoulder. His eyes were full of sorrow, as he said, “It’ll be okay.”

Erick’s unsure frown morphed into narrowed eyebrows and a small scoff. Nervousness warred with paranoia and with all the true, caring emotions he saw on display all around. Erick patted Sitnakov’s hand, then slipped out from under the heavy, honestly caring touch, saying, “Thank you for the concern, but… I don’t agree that only mortals can do good things.”

“Of course you don’t,” Strelkova said. “I won’t try to correct this idea at this time.”

… She was condescending, but also truly caring, so Erick had trouble being angry at that.

Erick explained, “My daughter is a Polymage. She can learn the proper way to [Polymorph]-enabled immortality, I’m sure.” And now he was angry. “And! And there are other methods you tried to tempt me with. So there are other ways out there to solve the problem of mortality!”

A few eyebrows raised, but then they went right back down.

Erick added, “Even if Jane is required to abandon everything she knows, including me, I can still visit her after she changes. This is fine. And it’s also 50+ years away! Big deal. There are a lot more immediate problems that need solving.”

No one shared Erick’s positive outlook.

And Erick understood why. They all knew the pain of touching upon mortal society. They had all seen loved ones die way too often to ever allow themselves the vulnerability of living with mortals, which were just people who you cared about who died a whole lot faster than the people back home. So of course these wrought stayed near other wrought; to do otherwise was to invite pain into their life.

