The spherical crystal was a meter across, and it was the only thing on the ceiling not lit up with visible light, while also being the only thing with visible spellwork surrounding it, protecting it and adjusting the effect of the ultraviolet light. With a bit of mana sense, Erick saw grooves in the ceiling where the whole crystal sphere could be moved into the ceiling, into a protected space beyond the reach of the ballroom.

Which meant that the sphere was highly valuable, or rather, that the blacklight wardlight cast onto the orb was valuable. This meant that Erick should probably not cast a dozen more blacklights into the rest of the room to heighten the glowing effect, like he very much wanted to, just to fuck with the Gemslicers who had made that blacklight.

Probably a bad idea.

The room was easily a few hundred meters across, a hundred meters tall, eight-sided, with a lot of balcony space and upper rooms to all eight sides, with places for people to sit, or to dance, under the light of the glowgem above. About a thousand people were already in the space, in every part of the room, but there was enough space to hold ten thousand.

The line of party goers walked along the side of the room, avoiding all the activity in the center, all the way to the other side, where a dais of raised crystal held several gold crystal thrones of various sizes. The royal family of adamantium orcols were mostly seated upon those thrones. Two of the six seats were vacant, though.

Erick recognized none of the royal family; Sitnakov wasn’t there—

Sitnakov stood out among his friends, or whoever they were, in the center of the ballroom, talking and laughing about something or other. His muscular black metal body glowed a brilliant violet, while his short white kilt, the only thing he wore, glowed faint blue. He wasn’t the only one wearing as small of a toga as he could get away with, for many of his friends went topless, too.

A lot of people were all over the place, in various cliques or group discussions, or milling about the banquet set out; either the organic food banquet, or the other one. Tasar had told Erick about how metal tea cups made of specific metals were set up near the foods, but separate and separated into categories, too. They were for wrought to partake, for actual nourishment, with each type of teacup clearly labeled by its location in the setting, and also by runes inscribed into the filled-in metal center—

People were already noticing Erick, but now they truly saw him. Whispers abounded. Erick noticed a group of golden people of various races, all of them glowing gold, too, begin to move through the ballroom, toward where the entrance line let out, near the royalty.

Erick would be dealing with the royalty before he met with the golds, though.

The royal family was close. Almost here.

The line moved unceasingly forward. The people directly in front of Erick and Tasar stepped away from the wall and moved to stand before the royal family. Erick did not know the royal family, but it was easy enough to judge who sat on which seat, based on what Tasar had told him and what he already knew from other people.

There was the empty seat for Second Prince Sitnakov, then came First Prince Abarnikon, followed by King Alfonin in the largest throne, then Queen Strelkova in the second-largest throne, and finally First Princess Yatzeva. There was one more seat for Third Prince Chernom, but he was dead; killed a few centuries ago in circumstances which Tasar did not elaborate upon. She had spoken a bit about the royal family, telling Erick what he would find here at Bright Tea, but not much beyond generalized etiquette and strict advice to acknowledge Chernom’s chair, but to then put it out of his mind and to focus on the living royalty.

All of them were orcols, so it was rather easy to focus on the living royalty, as they were all drop-dead gorgeous, and all of them wore togas of various styles with gold hems. King Alfonin reminded Erick of some sort of Zeus-figure, with a full beard and full hair, with his lower fangs prominently poking out of his mouth. Queen Strelkova looked like Hera, with a sternness to her that most other people could never match. The prince and princess were of similar looks as their parents, and if it weren’t for the larger chairs, Erick would have had trouble telling the king and queen from the prince and princess. He could certainly tell the difference now, and they did all look a little bit different, but if he had met any of them outside of this venue? Nope!

The royal men wore togas that bared a shoulder, while the women wore their outfits like how Tasar wore hers. It seemed that Sitnakov was the only member of the royal family that had opted to go topless, just letting those great big muscles hang out all over the place.

Fucking hell.

They were all hot.

Erick was rapidly finding himself quite frustrated that ‘no underwear’ was normal attire for this sort of thing. Luckily, he was nervous enough that his body didn’t start to betray him by acting the usual way it acted around beautiful people. And yet, even wearing the togas themselves was close enough to Erick’s pre-Jane days that this whole scenario was already doing a number on—

He put all that out of his mind and followed obvious protocol, watching as the people ahead of him took their place atop a circular metal design on the floor in front of the royal family, bowed, received a nod from King Alfonin and Queen Strelkova, and then moved on.

Erick followed beside Tasar and the two of them went to the same spot.

The eyes of wrought royalty fell upon Erick, having a weight to them that he rarely experienced anymore. He almost wanted to giggle and laugh at it all, but he thankfully refrained.

He bowed. Tasar bowed, too.

He raised. Tasar raised, too.

The King and Queen did not nod. Erick and Tasar were not dismissed; not yet.

Alfonin’s voice was quiet, but it carried across the separating ten meters of space like he was right there, “We are pleased to see you accept our invitation. Welcome, Erick Flatt, to Bright Tea.”

Strelkova spoke next, “We will be speaking privately with you later. Avail yourself of our hospitality at your leisure.” She added, “Welcome to Stratagold, Erick Flatt.”

The prince and princess each added, “Welcome.”

And then all four nodded. Erick was dismissed.

He left the welcoming zone alongside Tasar, feeling light on his feet and lighter of mind. In ten steps he ran right into the bunch of Gold Caste wrought who had been coming straight toward him, each of them with large smiles on their faces. Almost all of the smiles were genuine, too. Erick knew of the golds from his various EIPC preparations, but he only recognized some of the people here from Otaliya’s specific briefings.

And just like that, it was time for business. Erick greeted the ones he knew by name, eliciting a surprised and happy round of bright smiles and some fan-ish gushing.

A particularly animated gold incani man named Zooli, who was on the committee for trading regulation around Stratagold and other assorted allied lands, who would likely be filling the merchant caste inquiry position this time of year, asked for Erick’s plans for the Crystal Forest. In a way that Otaliya had already coached him, but also rather honestly, Erick explained how he would need the use of some stone archmages to cordon off walls and then systematically clean the place of crystal mimics, but after that, actually healing the land would require a lot of rains and soil replenishment. It would take time, mostly.

But besides that, all Erick wanted to do was to open up the land for generalized habitation, perhaps like Nelboor did it, with roaming bands of warriors constantly cleaning the land of larger threats. He did not like the Greensoil Republic’s [Weaken Monsters] methods, but he had yet to see those in action, so maybe he would if he had.

Zooli was happy with that answer, though he did want more specifics, and so Erick gave them to the best of his knowledge.

More than once, though, Erick’s answers boiled down to, “I’m just providing space; I don’t really care what people do with it. I’ll likely fill some sort of overview role that people can submit paperwork to in order to help with the tougher monsters, but I suspect the Adventuring Guild or individual cities will want to guard themselves from the constant threats out there.”

“Yes yes. They will.” Zooli said, “But it’s good that you’re thinking ahead. Too many people try to get into this city-building business without making the proper connections before they get to actually building cities. It’s difficult to extend civilization! To carve a new brightness out of the Darkness on the horizon takes a lot of constant pressure and time.”

A different gold spoke up, “I’m more interested in the continued clearance of the larger monstrous threats, which is the usual power that archmages are expected to have, and to wield...”

The subsequent conversation about ‘keeping a revived Crystal Forest clean of monsters’ took up twenty minutes. It could have gone on a lot longer because they somehow got into the nitty-gritty of [Polymorph] potion prices based on rarity increases, but then Archmage Riivo came over to the group, along with Aisha, the celesteel prognosticator who Erick talked to before meeting Kydyr for the first time. Riivo’s presence changed the questions.

They spoke of plans for [Gate] locations.

This time the conversation was a moving target, involved practically everyone, but only in small portions at a time, with golds coming in first to ask after taxes for [Gate] usage (free if the setup and maintenance isn’t too expensive), and then Aisha asking after locations (whoever wants one and can provide proper security), and then the golds moving away, and some adamantium guy (with a goblin form) who introduced himself as the guard captain, asking after Erick’s expectations of security needs (hopefully as little as possible, but at least a good runic web and a contingent of ten soldiers on site).

The guard captain didn’t like Erick’s answer, and many other people didn’t either, but Erick acknowledged that ‘security’ was a moving target until he actually managed to make the spell, and that brought down the worries in the room. Everyone knew what the normal [Gate] spell looked like, but based on what Erick was discovering, crafting a [Gate] from scratch would likely not cost 500 mana. Erick suspected it would cost a lot more, and then have a smaller cost to maintain. Other people had other ideas.

Erick met with more people, with Riivo at his side introducing him to some, while Tasar stood on the other side and introduced him to anyone of adamantium caste. The reason for that division of naturally assumed duties was cultural, for sure.

Somewhere in the middle of all that, people had stopped filing into the ballroom. Everyone who wanted to arrive, had arrived, and though the place was packed there was still lots of room for more.

Erick continued to talk to whoever crossed his path, speaking either of his experiences on the Worldly Path, to what happened in the cavern with the Darkness, to giving a polite smile whenever someone congratulated him on his boon from Rozeta.

And just like that, two hours passed in the blink of an eye. Erick only noticed the passing of time because Tasar had marked it, and then not three seconds later Queen Strelkova stood from her throne and the room went silent. It was time for the actual ceremony.

Strelkova announced, “Welcome, one and all, to Bright Tea.”

In a single, unified action, every wrought faced the center of the room and held out their right hand, palm up. Erick did the same, for he had already been coached on what would happen. The glowgem in the ceiling glowed brighter, sending ultraviolet light out in strong pulses that caused the wrought to fluoresce in response. Like waves in a rave, the glowgem flickered and flashed out power. And then it brightened further, and stayed bright. Every wrought poured out their own light like they were each in lightform.

Another ripple went out from the glowgem and every person gained a small cup of brightly-glowing tea in their upturned hand, little more than the size of a thimble. The glowgem faded then, constrained by some nearly-invisible spellwork, plunging the wrought into the room almost all the way back to normal colors. The glowgem remained on and everything faintly fluoresced, but it was nothing compared to what had happened in those brief moments of actual power.

Erick had gained a small cup of tea, too. The cup was unenchanted, despite the bright white glow of the steaming waters. There was no spellwork here save for the [Mass Teleport Object] which had put the thing atop his hand. Erick sloshed the cup a little bit, trying to understand what he was seeing. And then he understood. It was just hot water and a bit of Light Essence. Almost completely diluted, too, but still bright enough to look like a drop of sun in a cup. It was obviously ceremonial; Bright Tea was not meant to serve as a source of [Lightwalk], though Erick suspected that the wrought were easily capable of gaining this power if they wanted to. There was probably a separate Bright Tea ceremony for that sort of event.

Maybe they called it ‘Brightest Tea’?

Maybe they even had light dungeons down here? Though probably not, if the Gemslicers hoarded their light-based knowledge. And that was kinda funny. Yggdrasil’s innate [Kaleidoscopic Radiance] would eventually fill his cavern with light slimes that needed to be harvested before they turned into light oozes. With that major, extra source of Light Essence, Erick suspected that Bright Tea in Stratagold might eventually contain a full-strength helping of Light Essence in every cup, and that the cups would be larger, in the coming years.

Queen Strelkova spoke, “We thank thee, Rozeta, for the blessings of this life, and for the good fortune to know what we need to do in this life, unlike so many others. We hope that purpose finds all those who lack, and that good fortune comes to all good people of this world. For the good of all, we [Cleanse] where we must, and we keep ourselves fit for that task, for now, and for forever. [Cleanse].”

As one, every single wrought in the room, and Erick too, cast [Cleanse] centered on themselves. The thick air produced from the cleaning was minimal, for this room was already rather clean. Almost embarrassingly, the thickest air in the room actually seemed to come from Erick himself, but that was probably him just being self-conscious.

