And thus, the floodgates opened. People came to Erick and thanked him for any number of things. First was Zooli, the gold incani, who spoke of how the golds were glad to make his formal acquaintance. Then came Riivo, who spoke of Erick’s accomplishments with the various threats around Stratagold, lurking in the shadows until Erick’s light shone down upon them. More people showed who Erick had never met, but who wanted to meet him and thank him for killing some monster or containing a threat in this or that location. They told Erick of how their sponsored cities were better off now that Erick had helped out, for they simply couldn’t help with all the problems of mortals, and Erick’s help was greatly appreciated. Apparently, a lot of these people were directly connected to the cities out there, mostly through appointed barons.

Erick would have spoken to more of them, but the music revved up and the clapping of the dancers’ audience got loud. He excused himself from his small gathered group to see what was happening on the dance floor. He was glad he did; it was time to witness the warrior dances.

The warriors had taken the field, dancing this way and that, and Sitnakov was on the floor alongside thirty other well-muscled or superbly lithe men and women. Gods, was it annoying how beautiful that asshole Sitnakov looked out there in just his kilt. He twirled and stomped along with all his cohort in a supreme display of physical acumen, with every single one of the people, no matter their species, moving in unison. The single goblin in the group, of pale green copper caste, was perhaps the most impressive, for he kept up with the human-sized people, and even with the orcols. He moved around like a puppet on a string in order to keep up with everyone else. No one was overtly using magic, either, so that was definitely pure skill out there on display.

And the audience loved it. They clapped right along in time to the music, and to the rhythmic stomping of forty-four pairs of feet slamming into the crystal all at the same time, over and over. The dancers danced, getting low to the ground and kicking out this way and that, but then they flipped onto their hands for a moment between synchronized twirls that sent togas spinning. Sitnakov’s kilt spun up, too, revealing his loincloth again, and Erick just chuckled. He wasn’t the only one out there to spin fast enough to expose himself, though almost all the people out there wore underwear. But besides that, the titillation was purposeful; Erick wasn’t the only one taking a minor joy out of seeing dancers in peak physical condition show off the goods.

Seeing Sitnakov and all the rest of them out there, having fun, almost made Erick forget the threats the man had made to him and Jane and to everyone else Erick knew and loved. And yet… It seemed like those threats were truly just to get a fight out of him. The man loved fighting.

Sitnakov was just like that, Erick supposed.

Erick enjoyed the show and clapped along with everyone else in time to the ever increasing pace of the music. Getting over his dislike of Sitnakov was easier than Erick had supposed it would be. It helped that Sitnakov was absolutely beautiful, and part of Erick felt foolish for being taken in by a pretty face and a rocking body, but whatever!

Only one thought kept Erick from fully enjoying the experience; if these people ever found out that he was a Wizard, there would be real war, and real fighting, and that was just kinda sad. But those were thoughts for later. For now, he enjoyed the show.

Sitnakov and his friends, and a great many of the other warriors out there, stayed for three dances in a row, each more dangerous than the last. The final dance was full of knife-edge hands and whip-fast kicks, barely missing each other in some dance that surely would have ended with someone dead if anyone else but immortal wrought were to try. Even with their precision, though, some people got togas clipped, and shredded. As Erick saw smiles at bouncing breasts and other bouncing body parts, he knew that even this much was likely just for show. They could have not clipped togas, but they chose to do it, anyway.

The music cut. The warriors stopped.

The crowd erupted in thunderous applause, and Erick heard more than a few people talk about how this was the best Bright Tea they had been to in years.

After the warrior dances, Queen Strelkova chimed some sounds into the room and the glowgem above brightened once more. The crowd turned to their royals, silent and patient, as Queen Strelkova brought the Bright Tea to a close.

Strelkova stood upon her dais, saying, “We thank our Goddess for these bodies that she has bestowed upon us, and for the honor and privilege of acting in her name, the Most High Goddess of the Script, Rozeta. Let us [Cleanse] this world as she demands, and for the benefit of us all.”

Queen Strelkova cast a [Cleanse]. And so did everyone else. Erick joined in half a second later, following along like he had for most of the night. Like before, there wasn’t much thick air. Erick produced a bit because he was sweaty, but then that was gone.

King Alfonin spoke, “Please take whatever food you wish to have, to enjoy at your leisure. All who we have asked to speak with, come forward.”

The ceremony of it all rapidly began to disintegrate, with people going outward as they were wont, or gathering food from the banquet. Erick asked Tasar if she thought this would take long, or if breaks would be provided, and Tasar suggested he grab something to eat if he was hungry, but otherwise there would likely be normal breaks; she had no idea how long this next part would take. Erick grabbed another meat tart and a drink of cider from the banquet—

Sitnakov sidled up to him, smiling as he said, “I was waiting all day for you to talk to me, but it seems I must confront you, first. So what do you think about my offer?”

Erick was caught off guard for multiple reasons.

Sitnakov was very tall, practically naked in a kilt, and he had removed his loincloth sometime since the last warrior dance.

Erick crushed down that part of himself, and focused on the politics of the moment.

The room still had lots of people in it, and some of them turned to watch whatever was happening between Sitnakov and Erick, and to judge it for the spectacle Sitnakov was trying to create. Erick was trying to decide what sort of spectacle he wanted this to be, too, but… Erick noticed that there was a complication. Sitnakov had already decided that he had been wronged, somehow; that Erick had left him hanging. About what, though?—

Oh.

Sitnakov had not asked, but it was heavily implied that he wanted to be allowed into Erick’s Worldly Path going forward, and—

Oh. Sitnakov was trying to head off the discussion that Erick was heading into with the King and Queen; Stratagold was likely going to try and lay down some rules, or something, regarding Erick’s Worldly Path. Sitnakov wanted to fight alongside Erick, on that Worldly Path, but unless he forced the issue, then his parents were going to tell him to stay home—

Or.

Ah. If Erick didn’t accept Sitnakov here, then the large man would not be on his side against whatever plans his parents had for Erick’s Worldly Path.

… It was something like that, anyway. Erick wasn’t sure. As Erick held a pie in one hand and a cider in the other, he decided that it was better to have Sitnakov on his side, than as a potential enemy, or whatever.

Erick said, “There will be some rules elaborated upon later before we finalize this arrangement, for I will be the leader of my Worldly Path. Not you. Or Tasar, or anyone else, or even Stratagold. But other than that— Welcome aboard. Glad to have you, Sitnakov.”

Sitnakov had tried to keep a straight face all the way through Erick’s declaration, but he couldn’t help but smile halfway through. His fears had been unfounded! Erick had seen the light. Erick had accepted Sitnakov’s superiority… or at least that’s what the man was thinking.

At the end of Erick’s words, Sitnakov clapped his hands together, laughing loud, and happily proclaiming, “Then that is how it will be!” He leaned in a bit, politely demanding, “But you will accept valued advice, yes?”

“Of course.” Erick sipped his cider, then said, “Now let’s go meet your parents.”

Tasar, who had stood to the side like many people, watched in horrified fascination as Erick invited disaster into his party. Other people gave varied reactions, from smiles (Sitnakov’s bros), to raised eyebrows (most other people, who rightly knew exactly what Erick had invited into his life). And—

Tasar sighed, and her disapproval drowned the rest of Erick’s investigation into what other people were thinking. She said to Erick, and unfortunately to Sitnakov as well, “Come along then!”

Erick scarfed down his small pie and gulped his cider. A small [Cleanse] cleaned away the remnants of the snack as he followed Tasar to the side of the room, near where a door beside the royal dais led into another large room. Sitnakov followed right behind Erick, giving a wave to his bros as he stepped lively onto the Worldly Path.

- - - -

The room beyond was done in the same gold-inlay, white crystal style as the ballroom, and while it was much smaller, it was still large enough to comfortably hold a good twenty people. There were less than twenty people in the room at the moment, but it was still rather full of wrought, all standing around standing tables, their crystal cups sitting on those tables as they watched Erick walk in. He knew of everyone in the room, and he had spoken with some of them already.

Archmage Riivo, of Archmage’s rest, with his characteristic joy at everything on full display, while Prognosticator Aisha from the same location had a small grin of joy. Gemslicer Awir looked like he had sucked on a lemon and chose to keep eating because it was the only thing to eat. The gold incani from the Merchants, Zooli, along with a gold orcol woman who Erick had only briefly chatted with, both were overjoyed, but quiet about it. Then there was Kromolok, of course, looking resplendent in a nice toga; he gave Erick a small nod of greetings as Erick walked in, and he seemed to be happy. Uchena was beyond pissed, but she was in the same boat as Awir, it seemed, and was forcing herself to be content in the face of royalty, and destiny.

And then there were the royals.

King Alfonin and Queen Strelkova stood at the far side of the room. First Prince Abarnikon and First Princess Yatzeva stood to their parents' opposite sides. All of them looked pensive and reflective, but the remaining royal, Sitnakov, stood at Erick’s side, looking like the cat that had caught the canary. Sitnakov’s family eyed Sitnakov, and Sitnakov only grinned wider.

Tasar stood tall and secure, showing off her pride as a Geode Guardian, or for her station, or something, but she was trying to make herself small at the same time, so she stepped to the side to stand near Riivo and Aisha. A lot of people in the room had that sort of reaction to being around the royals, Erick realized.

Erick might have shown a bit of deference, too, but that seemed dishonest. Respect was easy to have and to display, but not deference. That just wasn’t in him… Unless the situation required it, he supposed.

He ignored his trains of thoughts, and walked forward, into the center of the room. Kromolok was the nearest person to that location so it seemed like the right place for Erick to put himself, and it was, apparently; Kromolok gave Erick a second nod.

The room was silent with gathering purpose—

Ah. This was probably going to be the inquiry, then? Not officially, of course, but it seemed like a correct assessment. Erick almost frowned the second he had that thought. The inquiry was supposed to be in front of a tribunal of twelve, and public, not held in a smallish room directly after a ceremonial get together. It seemed that back room deals abounded even in wrought society. Oh well! Erick was ready for the inquiry, anyway, that was why he spent so much time going around and attempting to make allies.

King Alfonin took a step forward, into the silent, waiting room. His voice was quiet thunder, “Archmage Erick Flatt of Spur, planar of Earth. You may kneel.”

“I do not wish to kneel.”

Erick’s answer had come out faster than his thoughts could have prepared him. A few eyebrows raised around the room, while Uchena and Awir seemed to get even more angry. But nothing came of Erick’s refusal. King Alfonin was stoic, and completely unreadable. If he had found offense, Erick could not tell. Whatever had just happened had been a test of some sort, and Erick had… Well. He had gone through the test. No idea on the outcome, though.

Queen Strelkova stepped forward, saying, “This room will be made private now. Riivo.”

Riivo gave a half bow, then turned around and touched the inlaid gold around the archway door—

Erick gave a quick sending of ‘Don’t worry!’ to Ophiel and Yggdrasil—

Suddenly, reality seemed to end at the edge of the room. The space had been cut from everything else. Erick and the wrought here were the only ones in existence.

Queen Strelkova spoke, “The official inquiry will occur as normal. You will venture into the White Room of the embassy and you will be bombarded by invasive questions for four hours, from 12 different people. But since we have certain sensitive questions that need answering before that date, before our Abarnikon interrogates you at the inquiry, here and now is when the outcome of your inquiry will truly be decided.

“Or, at least, whether you receive our vote, or not.”

Oh? This was just for securing the royal vote? That wasn’t so bad, then. Not nearly as shady as Erick had suspected it of being.

“Kromolok. Please enact your [Truth Ward].” Strelkova said to Erick, “Kromolok will also be providing Mind Mage insight into your words, so if you choose to lie then it will be found out, and that will likely impact your chances of a successful inquiry.” She added, “We Heavies have a lot of weight on the inquiry board, after all.”

Erick’s whole body tensed as Strelkova spoke of truth magics, worry climbing into his head like a terrible fate. And then the paranoia came around; it had been lost amid the fancy party, but it was here now. If the people here wanted to kill him they could all easily do so. As Kromolok’s white spellwork filled the air around Erick, and no one else, Uchena looked a bit happier, and that was worrying for all sorts of reasons.

Strelkova continued, “We have three questions. Acceptable answers to this first question include Yes, or No. Our King will ask the question, and then you must say Yes, or No. Choose one.”

Ah. Shit. They were going to ask him of Wizardry, weren’t they?

