Tasar, however, latched onto the positive attitude, saying, “Yes! Of course Jane can learn that skill!” She came forward and took Erick’s hand into both of hers. Her metal was warm to the touch, and though she was more solid than mortal flesh, she still had a pliability to her. “There are a lot of problems to take care of, and at the very least, death is a long way off for everyone of this current generation.”

Riivo spoke up, “Tasar is right. We should all be a bit more concerned with mortal affairs for a little while. Maybe a century or two. It will hurt, but it is good for the world, and for the future of all worlds.”

First Princess Yatzeva, who had remained silent and passive this whole time, gained a sudden edge at Riivo’s words. She tried to be polite through her rage as she spat, “No. I refuse to live with mortals ever again. It was good to meet you, Erick. I’m done here.” And then she walked away, toward a crystal door, slamming it open and breaking the thick crystal into shards which rained upon her, tearing her cloth toga. She didn’t seem to care, for she did not take injury, nor did she walk any faster. She simply went away, trying to be polite but knowing she was not.

The whole world returned as Yatzeva’s actions broke the runic web, or something crucial in the walls.

Tasar sighed, saying, “We should talk about your summons gaining sentience and what to do after. You will likely create several new species in your life and I need to talk with you before you create the next one. Ophiel is going to hurt you a lot, Erick.”

Erick didn’t get a chance to respond to that—

King Alfonin said, “Dismiss the spells, Kromolok.” The white dome around Erick went away as Alfonin said, “Normally, Erick, I would be giving you a lot of gruff for taking my son on your Worldly Path, but you can deal with him yourself. If it looks like you’re going into Ar’Cosmos then we’ll have a lot more talks in a war room setting, before you go there. For now, enjoy yourself in Stratagold. The city is open to you, but please respect other people. You never know who you’ll meet far down the line who you didn’t respect once and they remembered it for all eternity.” Alfonin frowned. “I probably should have asked you that last question first. In my defense, I thought you would still be mortal.”

“I have faith.” Strelkova said, “Rozeta surely knows what she’s doing.”

Kromolok said, “The only danger we truly face is that of Scripts actually opening on other worlds and of the Dark returning to full power, but we have time to decide how that will happen.”

Everything was moving quite fast.

Erick wasn’t happy with any of it.

But he felt unmoored. He had no edges to grasp in any of the conversations happening all around him. There were a few more small words exchanged where Erick gave rote responses, but soon enough Erick found himself walking back through the White Palace, to the t-station. And then he was back at Yggdrasil with Tasar at his side, Ophiel happily singing on one shoulder, Yggdrasil’s [Scry] eye on the other, and Sitnakov saying that he would see Erick later.

As Erick sat in his Privacy in his [Fairy Stronghold], doing his [Renew] and cycling business, and then switching back to his Normal Form as fast as he could, he was still thinking about what had happened at the White Palace.

… What had happened was an objectively good outcome. They hadn't asked about Wizardry, and they told him that he had their vote at the inquiry. And all the people in that room showed true caring for Erick’s newly-immortal life.

Even Uchena and Awir seemed sympathetic to that part of Erick’s new reality, though they disagreed with all the rest of him for certain, individual reasons. Awir was jealous of Erick’s Particle-based Light Magic. Uchena was worried because she knew Erick was a Wizard, and she wasn’t comfortable with that.

But…

The Wizard thing.

They didn’t ask him if he was a Wizard. They could have! They probably should have.

Either they were being polite, in which case his Wizardly status was still a bomb waiting to explode. Or they already all knew and they did not care, so therefore Erick was worried for nothing (not bloody likely!). Or they knew he was a Wizard and they were waiting for him to be more vulnerable? But… No. He had been fucking vulnerable in there. It was weird.

… And Fairy Moon hadn’t shown.

He and Tasar were pretty damned sure that Fairy Moon was going to show.

But she hadn’t been there?

Also weird.

- - - -

Kromolok sat in a room that was not a room.

Fairy Moon sat on the other side with a mischievous smirk upon her face. “Fate’s fickle fingers find Erick exactly who they want that man to be. A blessing and burden! An engineer and eradicator! An averter of dear disaster when all looks lost.”

Kromolok glared. “I am not here to talk about him. He is simply the field upon which the rest of Eternity will be built. He is not for you to touch. Stay away from that Wizard, Fairy Moon. Stay away or be purged.”

Fairy Moon sighed, and said, “He is more than you want him to be and less than he is when he is around you. And if you could have purged me, you would have. Speak no more of tiny threats.”

Kromolok frowned, and spoke in the Old Power, “You broke bargain. You vacated your vow. Tell me today what you want, Fairy Moon. By all the laws both ancient and new, I demand your deference.” Kromolok said, “Tell me what it will take for me and mine to get Anti-Apocalypse magic, and for you and yours to leave Erick alone.”

Fairy Moon relaxed a little, then said, “Erick’s emergence demands our diligence. Our presence and our power.”

“Make plain your pining. Less lies of soft sideways.”

“I want off this rancid rock.” Fairy Moon said, “I want problems purged and justice judged. I want Kirginatharp killed for what he did to my inamorato Idyrvamikor. I want Rozeta removed. I want Melemizargo made whole. I want the Demons to disappear and the Angels to acquiesce! And I want you to be less than you are.”

“Reduce your requirements. I only wish and want for apocalypse averted for all always.” Kromolok said, “This is nothing next to your yearning. What will it take to get me my goals?”

Fairy Moon smirked. “For… ALL… always?”

Far away, someone tsked.

There were too many ways to interpret ‘All always’.

“… I see you Sight this time a waste of wishes.” Kromolok stood, and then began to vanish. “We will pick this up again when you decide to be less of a fae about the seriousness of your transgression and the seriousness of my demands. Interpreting my ‘all always’ as ‘murdering everyone right now to prevent future collapse’ is not a viable alternative.”

Fairy Moon frowned, her smirk turning into a hateful thing of jagged lines. “You play at powers you have no time to tame! I am not being ‘fae’ about fuck-all!”

Kromolok fully vanished, glaring all the while.

Fairy Moon shouted to the room, saying, “Damn you!”

And then Fairy Moon vanished, angrily.

The room remained.

Unchanging.

Unmoving.

And then the room unfurled, revealing itself as the six sides of a cube floating in an endless blue sky. Clouds drifted across the endless horizon like lazy fish. One of those clouds swept across the floating cube space, brushing across it like a giant dishcloth, twisting halfway through the brushing as it [Cleanse]d, like a great big dishrag getting out the burnt-on food. For a moment, the clouds twisted even more vigorously, and then they stilled.

And then the cloud continued on.

In their passing a brilliant white wrought stood upon the space, looking the land over for imperfecti—

“Ah.” Rozeta took another cloud and finished cleaning up the Fae Magic that Fairy Moon had left in her wake. “There we go. All clean, and ready for more talks later.” And then she sighed. “No one holds a grudge quite like old fae, do they.” She frowned, and then she moved to where Kromolok had stood, and said to the empty space across the way, “You know, Idyrvamikor was my son. I’m not happy that Kirginatharp did what he did, but...” Rozeta frowned. She didn’t want to touch upon that particular conversation at this moment, and especially not alone. She pondered aloud, “Maybe I’ll join the next talk.”
