The White Palace’s true name was actually the White Palace of Eternal Light, and with a name like that, it was as magnificent as Erick expected it to be. The place had the same sort of energy as the Spire back at Ar’Kendrithyst, but while that place was made of clear crystal that reached up higher than all the other clear crystal towers of the Brightwater, this place was very much the ‘White Palace’. While the crystal city skyline in the distance was clear-gold with white striations, this place was almost completely white, and opaque.

Located in the heart of Stratagold, just to the south of the center of the city, the White Palace was the only set of crystal… things for ten kilometers in every direction. Erick was hesitant to call the structures of the palace ‘towers’, for some of them were near horizontal.

A central spire of white crystal ascended from the bright lands below, while another descended from the bright lands above. The stalactite and stalagmite crystals reached for each other, but instead of touching each other, they touched the tops and bottoms of a massive splash of white crystals, kilometers long themselves and half that wide, all bundled together in an arrangement of buildings that made a complete mockery of proper physics. Sideways skyscrapers. Dangling dormitories. Teetering towers.

Actual architecture seemed like an afterthought, and only to make the place work as a palace. It seemed to Erick that the people here had taken a natural treasure and added roads, and planter boxes filled with golden plants, and other such niceties, but only to make the place actually functional. The only thing that stood out as a true secondary creation, tacked onto this place, were the concentric circles of white crystal skyway that surrounded the palace. Like highways in midair, those skyways joined together some of the larger floating pieces of crystal held outside of the main splash, like white rock islands, floating in space. All of the whole White Palace seemed held up by nothing but prayers, or, more likely, a whole lot of runework and magic embedded into the crystal. And, of course, the Underworld’s natural propensity to make large objects float instead of fall.

There was no main ‘central’ crystal tower, but any of the larger crystals amid the grand central splash could have served such a function.

The t-station was positioned on one of the further concentric skyway rings around the place; out of the way, but still more or less in the right area. There were no guards here, just an open arcing skyway, ten meters wide and similarly empty of people.

Erick had taken a long second to see everything, and he knew there was lots more to see than he was currently able, but Tasar was already moving off of the t-station, so he followed.

The path ahead circled the main structures, before running into a crystal that split off a path down toward the center. All along that path there were other people, all in togas. All wrought, of course, and all different metals and species, though the various species did walk next to their own; they seemed to be arriving and going to Bright Tea in groups.

The lack of any sort of soldiery was odd, but the complete lack of visible security was simply impossible. There had to be people hidden under [Fairy House]s, or something, watching everyone walk by… Or perhaps they were just using long range [Scry]s? [Scry]s were more likely, now that Erick thought about it.

With tension in her shoulders, Tasar whispered, “You can have Ophiel go anywhere on the outsides of buildings, but not inside. Yggdrasil can watch from outside, too. [Scry] is spelled against once you pass into the White Crystal itself so all of them will be blind inside, anyway. Many basic viewing spells and a lot more besides are protected against.”

Behind them, the t-station blipped with light and a trio of silver dragonkin stepped off of the platform to sedately follow behind, keeping distance from Erick and Tasar. It was then that Erick realized that Tasar was pacing the people ahead of them, as well. It was part of the ceremony of it all. The only thing that mixed were the voices from the other participants; they were quiet, whispers, but their words still flowed on the air, telling of their days or weeks. They were the words of normal people, catching up with friends they hadn’t seen in a while.

Erick summoned an Ophiel and sent him flying up and away, whispering to Tasar, “Can he land in that golden tree down there? Near the end of the path?”

Tasar looked to the right. She narrowed her eyes, and said, “… Not Arbor Gold. One of the smaller trees is fine, though.”

Erick perked up. “That’s an arbor?”

“Yes. He sleeps, mostly.” Tasar said, “He’s aware of everything happening, though. We’ll pass by so he might speak to you, in which case we will stop and talk. Don’t purposefully wake him with Ophiel, though— Ahh. Other people are noticing, now. That took longer than I thought it would.”

One particular crowd of wrought, three groups ahead, were keeping pace where they were supposed to be, but their happy faces and small waves toward Erick let him know that he had been seen. Erick waved at the people waving at him, making sure not to break stride. The crowd waved back with enthusiasm, then turned back to their little group and began speaking fast and quiet. Not quiet enough, though, for Erick not to hear that they were so glad they decided to come today. They weren’t the only ones to notice Erick, either, but they were the only ones to wave. Everyone else just had a bit of surprise and acknowledgment, and then they moved on.

Ophiel landed in a smaller tree, next to Arbor Gold, and the rather small arbor (only fifty meters tall? Odd) did nothing. The land around the arbor —which seemed like a bit of farmland— and all the other trees were covered in a thin layer of gold leaves that seemed to get everywhere, bringing a little bit of color to the white land. Wroughts in togas crunched through those leaves as they passed by, headed toward their destination inside one of the larger central spires.

With a hint of playfulness in his voice, Erick tried to be as happy as some of the other partygoers as he asked Tasar, “This is a fun ceremony, right?”

Tasar would have blanched if she were a human. Her voice came out ragged, “It will be what it will be.”

Erick kept his paranoia in check as he asked, “What are you not telling me?”

“I don’t know.” Tasar said, “I just feel like something is going to happen. Not sure what. Some surprises. Some… Unexpected event. I was on the Path before, Erick, and this feels bad.”

“… Oh.”

Well...

They passed into a short crystal tower, where the path broke away from the circling skybridge to go in four different directions. There were some offices and people in this area, with rooms carved out of the crystal and staircases leading up and down to what looked to be defensive runic cannon emplacements and other assorted high-powered destructive workings, but mostly, the bridge either continued through another archway to another concentric highway, and also down a path to the center of the White Palace.

They hooked a right and continued toward the Palace.

Erick said, “What’s probably going to happen is that the fae will show up, having demanded some sort of capitulation from Stratagold that allows her to be diplomatic in this area.” Tasar made a face of utter horror, and Erick added, “Or, if that is completely outside of the realm of possibility, as your sudden disgust is telling me, then we’ll have a normal party, and perhaps I’ll get to show off my own glowgem spellwork, making the Gemslicers truly angry with me.”

Tasar lost some of her horror as she scrunched her face, then decided, “We wouldn’t accept the fae’s presence here. She’s been too destructive as the Letter Killer. That’s not going to happen.”

“Ah! But what if she kills that persona? Like a proper [Polymorph] change?”

“… Still no.”

Erick frowned at her, saying, “Your people would do what was necessary to get anti-Apocalypse Fate Magic. I know you would.”

Tasar frowned right back at him. “One doesn’t treat with people who have no intention of holding to their word. I believe you even said this a few times, and quite publicly, too.”

“But then… How did the various bargains to not fight each other happen?” Erick elaborated, “Like how you left the Surface to the Shades? I’ve always assumed there was some leave of territory to the undead lands of the Fractured Citadels in Quintlan, too.”

“You are operating under a misunderstanding, then. It never happened quite so organized.” Tasar said, “Maybe there were some angry roars across the battlefield and some cessation of hostilities because no one wanted to escalate and the people who opted for war got themselves killed, but to my knowledge, we do not treat with threats that have no intention of being less threatening to us, or to others. We just sort of… ended up kicked off the Surface, and no one wanted to go back, because then there would just be more endless war. There can be no bargaining with Darkness, Erick.” After a moment, she added, “The Shades won the Surface, and we got the Underworld. Now though…” Her voice trailed off.

Erick tried to tune his words toward sarcasm, instead of spite, as he said, “Maybe I’m just a lowly mortal who needs to make friends in order to survive, but even I know the value of nations not going to true war over every hostility; the value of words over violence. And Stratagold does have some sort of bargain with the fae; Kromolok seemed like he would be able to get Fate Magic concessions from them because of the Letter Killer’s actions.”

“… Okay. Well.” Tasar said, “When you put it like that, I suppose the only forces that we never bargained with at all were the Shades. In the case of the fae and with Ar’Cosmos… And with the Fractured Citadels… Actually. You’re right. I suppose. We do have bargains all around. Nothing cast in adamantium, or even in gold— Truly just words thrown across a battlefield, if I recall correctly. In which case...” Tasar scowled, saying, “Maybe the fae is here.”

They had reached the furthest scattered leaves of Arbor Gold that had blown all the way up the bridge. The bright leaves crunched underfoot, while the air began to smell of autumn harvests. The path branched out, but Erick and Tasar followed the procession, walking toward where the scattered towers of crystal had been connected by a myriad of pathways. Right at the major intersection between three different towers, in the bright shadows of the White Palace, was Arbor Gold’s planter box. Golden wheat and golden gourds and all sorts of golden plants grew alongside the large, golden tree, almost looking wild in their arrangement, but there was no way this bit of farmed land was wild at all. Ophiel hung out on an apple tree to the side. That tree’s leaves were a duller shade of gold than Arbor Gold, but vibrant gold apples weighed down the branches. The golden apple tree was one such example out of several gold-fruit trees, which included not-peachs, tarips, and beanpods of some sort. The center of the pathway here was clear of leaves, but only because so many people had already cleared the path in their walking of it, and the wind didn’t stir this deep in the White Palace.

Erick asked, “Are the apples good to eat? Or is it all for show?”

Tasar glanced at Erick, then over to the apples. “You want one? They taste rather good, but they’re nothing special. No magical plants here— Well. That is actual-gold skin, but that’s all it is.” She added, “They’ll serve a lot of all of those golden foods at the ceremony, though, if you want an apple tart?”

Erick glanced up at Arbor Gold as they passed under his boughs. The gold guy did not speak, or move, or show his presence at all. So Erick and Tasar kept walking.

“Nah.” Erick said, “I’ll wait for a tart. That sounds lovely.”

They passed into the main area of the White Palace, between three of the largest towering crystal spikes. The interior of the palace, between the majority of towers, was organized into layers, all exposed to each other with a vast amount of air between the ‘buildings’. White crystal had been formed into staircases and platforms and decorative archways in the crystal towers themselves. The path to Bright Tea was not marked off at all, and if Erick had come here himself he would have gotten lost for a little bit, but the crowd of toga-wearing wrought was headed in a single direction, so they were easy to follow. Up and around a main central fountain and around upstairs, they went, then through a large archway and into the left crystal tower, into a hallway.

The White Palace was even prettier inside. Expansive hallways. Bright lights above. Pillars of crystal and staircases of the same. Gold filigree and moldings. This was not a place for business, like so many other locations Erick had been to in the past. This was a place for ceremony, with decorative, and yet somewhat austere architecture.

At the end of the grand hallway was another large archway, twenty meters tall and ringed with crystal carved into the shape of clouds. Beyond, were people. Lots of people.

The congregation proceeded forward into a well-lit ballroom beyond, but as people passed the cloud gate, they began to glow ever so slightly. Coppers gained a green glow to their skin. Silvers turned almost teal with brightness. Iron fluoresced purple. Cobalts turned brighter blue than they already were, but it was the white togas everyone wore that turned the brightest blue. Almost Script Blue. But it was still a faint effect, barely noticeable in the bright white lights of the White Palace. It would likely be more pronounced later, as they exposed whatever glowgem they had hanging up in the room beyond.

And then it was Erick and Tasar’s turn to pass through the cloud gate. Tasar’s black-green body gained a purple and neon green hue, and both her toga and Erick’s shimmered with a faint blue light. Erick almost expected his own skin to fluoresce, but nope! Same color as… always…

The whites of his eyes were fluorescing a bit, and especially his white irises, but that was normal-ish. Probably nothing. The effect wasn’t much of a hindrance to his normal eyesight at all, but mana sense was a good way to view the world, too, so mostly, he ignored the slight blue glow to everything…

No. Wait. The white walls were slightly blue, too. Everything white was glowing blue. Okay. Not just his own eyes, but all the white togas, and all the wrought, and practically everything was faintly glowing. This was likely due to the massive spherical crystal up above that was emitting the blacklight effect.

