“That's the front door.” They said together, and Ren smiled as he stood up.

“I'll see who it is.” He said. Teepo. Ren thought, then went downstairs.

“On it.” Teepo came out of his living space and flew over to land on the door just as Ren reached the first floor. Teepo squeezed out under the door. “It's several soldiers, Ren.”

Do they look angry? Ren thought.

“No.” Teepo said and flew up to see their faces. “They look a little happy, actually.”

Ren went over to the door and opened it, just as the soldier was about to knock again.

“Can I help you?” Ren asked.

“Lord Eric orders your presence at the mansion.”

“Really?” Ren said. “I don't remember joining the army.”

The soldier looked at him like he was crazy.

There's that look again. Ren thought in amusement, and Teepo chittered in laughter and landed on his shoulder.

“Lord Eric... requests... you attend to him at the mansion.” Another soldier said.

“That's better.” Ren said. “I'll just be a minute.” He said and shut the door in their surprised faces. He ran up the stairs and to the bedroom. “Elerlyth, I've been summoned to the mansion by Lord Eric.”

She got out of bed and felt Ren's appreciation of her nude form, then smiled and equipped her bodysuit and armor. “Let's go.”

“I have to pop through the portal to tell Nathalia what's going on, and that I'll be a little late getting back.”

Teepo dissolved into the ring and Ren went into the living room, followed by Elerlyth.

“I'd really like to go through that with you.” Elerlyth said, and Ren smiled.

“If I can figure out a way to do it, I'll let you know.” He said. “As it is, you'd be killed instantly if you tried.”

Elerlyth nodded and Ren stepped through the portal and concentrated on talking to Nathalia.

*

Nathalia was standing in front of the ornate door, when she noticed her Sending Ring started to glow. She clenched her fist and covered it with her other hand. She looked around as Ren's voice came out as if he were standing right there with her.

“I'm really sorry for bothering you so early.” Ren said. “But I've been summoned to the mansion by Lord Eric. There was a fire in the city last night, and I helped deal with it. I'll explain more later.”

“Can't talk. Busy.” Nathalia said, and sighed in relief because no one else had been around to hear.

*

Ren looked at the ring, and frowned. Something must be going on. He thought. I wonder if it has anything to do with that scroll? He stepped back through the portal and nailed the cabinet shut.

“Ready?” Elerlyth asked.

Ren nodded. “Let's go have an audience with the high and mighty Lord Eric.”

Elerlyth snorted. “You better not say anything like that while in the mansion.” She advised. “You know some of the spells they have in there.”

Ren nodded and they walked down the stairs together. He opened the door and let Elerlyth step out ahead of him, closed and locked the door, and concentrated on his Command Aura.

“Lead on.”

The soldiers recognized a command voice, and led the way down the street before they even realized Ren wasn't someone that should be able to command them. Ren and Elerlyth followed closely behind and looked around at the city. Now that it was daylight, a lot more of the details could be seen. Fire had pretty much touched everything; from the paving stones to the buildings, and to people and their clothing.

“It's sad, isn't it?” Elerlyth asked. “There's so much damage from the fire.”

“That depends on your perspective.” Ren said. “You could also say that there's so much left after the fire.”

She glanced at him. “What would you actually say?”

“My first thought was that the fire had touched everything.” Ren said. “So that's how I see it.”

Elerlyth smiled. “You always have a neat perspective on things.”

“It's because I'm so short.” Ren said and chuckled. “I have a completely different angle to see things from.”

She put an arm around his shoulders and pulled him close, and Ren looked up at her face as they walked together behind the soldiers.

“Although, to be fair, it doesn't matter what angle I see you from, you're still beautiful.”

Elerlyth glanced down at him, and smiled as she felt the truth from him. “You might be a little biased.”

“A little?” Ren raised a single eyebrow and laughed.

The soldiers didn't comment about the conversation they were overhearing, but they were in awe that such a little man could talk to such a dangerous creature and not cringe. Elerlyth could feel their fear and awe, though.

I can't even enjoy it. Elerlyth thought, looked down at Ren, and grinned. You're really doing a job on me, aren't you?

They walked to the mansion and Ren noticed that the townspeople were gone.

“I wonder where...” Ren started to say, when the front doors of the mansion opened. “...never mind.”

He saw that the place was packed full of townspeople, who noticed him and started to cheer.

“Ren!” “Ren!” “Ren!”

“Your adoring public awaits you, little hero.” Elerlyth said and grinned.

“Oh, crap.” Ren said, and she laughed.
