"Cale, the plan was to walk directly into the storm, and you assured us we probably wouldn't have to."

"Probably," Cale emphasized, but he let his expression settle into something a little more serious. "Look, if you don't want to do this, we can still back out."

Flia scoffed. "Put your barrier up already. You think any of us are backing out now?"

Cale grinned a little, but the grin faded as he turned to the lizardfolk standing with them and staring stiffly at the storm. "Kazza? You're going to have to come with us. Wouldn't want to leave you exposed to the storm."

"I am aware," Kazza grumbled. He was hiding his own shaking well, but this was difficult for him; he'd been forced to watch this storm tear his own people apart once already. "I just... give me a moment."

His breathing was quickening, though he was doing his best to control it. Cale opened his mouth to say something, but before he could, Damien stepped over to Kazza and reached out to offer his hand.

"I don't know if this will help," Damien said quietly. "But, um, I used to panic like this. A lot. And my... there was someone who would hold my hand, and tell me to squeeze if it was getting bad, and focus on the touch. You don't have to or anything! But if you want, I'm here. Only if you want, though."

Kazza stared at him. "I am not a hatchling," he muttered, but he took the hand anyway, and after a moment, squeezed it tight.

Cale said nothing. In fact, he made sure not to look at them at all, and he made his barrier large enough to give Kazza the space he needed. "Alright. If everyone's ready, let's go."

With Cale's barrier protecting them, they made their way toward the approaching storm. This close, it looked almost like they were staring into another realm.

Flia fell into step beside him. "He's a natural, isn't he?" she muttered.

Cale smiled slightly. "Born to be a healer, I think. Just needs to figure a few things out for himself."

Not long after that, they stepped into the Aspect Cascade, and the world around them changed.
