For as long as he could remember, Goujian lived the life of an ascetic. Early on, the choice had not been his, for poverty meant he had no coin or time to spare for luxuries or hedonism. Every waking moment was dedicated to finding enough food to fill his belly, and he failed more often than not. As time wore on and he grew in wealth and power, he clung to his humble lifestyle because even though he’d fallen out with the Penitent Brotherhood over a difference in beliefs, he still respected their Precepts and found wisdom in their teachings. Extravagant luxuries and decadent comforts were but one step removed from losing one’s self to base desires, and left one vulnerable to the Father’s whispered temptations.

A lie so laughable, Goujian could scarcely believe he hadn’t seen it sooner.

Thus, for the first time ever, Goujian frittered away his morning in idle relaxation. Waking with the rising sun, he smiled, rolled over, and fell asleep once more, luxuriating in the warmth of his satin bed sheets and goose down mattress. Hours later, he opened his eyes when a servant entered to ask if he would like breakfast served in bed, and it seemed like such a novel idea, he couldn’t bear to say no. Swaddled in his blanket, he sat in bed and feasted on a sumptuous meal of the finest dishes of Central, all the while wondering why he’d waited so long to enjoy such simple pleasures.

Since opening his eyes to the Truth, not only had Goujian’s aches and pains subsided, his mind and senses were sharper than ever. Whether it be the feel of silk on his skin or the taste of tea on his tongue, experiencing the pleasures and joys of life made Goujian’s intestines turn green from regret, cursing his stubborn foolishness and hard-headed beliefs. It wasn’t entirely his fault, for Imperial propaganda was cunningly designed to make him believe their lies, perfected through centuries of deception and misinformation. Through self-denial and deprivation, Goujian had closed himself off from the Truth and the proper Martial Dao, not a path of control and moderation, but a path of freedom and self-discovery.

How could one be a part of the Heavens while denying so much of what it offers?

Following his base instincts and desires, Goujian enjoyed himself to his heart's content. After breakfast in bed, he availed himself to the in-house hot spring, a marvel he’d read about but never experienced first-hand. Before entering the spring, the servants scrubbed him clean from head to toe, their warm washcloths tarnished black by weeks of sweat and grime accrued whilst posing as a common shepherd. His hair and beard were even worse, tangled and matted from his time spent hidden in a smuggler’s hidey hole, but the servants were well equipped to deal with it, using an assortment of mild soaps and scented oils to unravel the mess. As he sat on the stone bench and watched the filth cleansed from his body drain out of the room, he wondered what it would take to do the same to his soul, to cleanse his mind and free him from the burden of the sins he’d committed in the name of a ‘noble’ cause.

After one final rinse to remove the last of his physical impurities, Goujian took his long-awaited step into the hot spring and made himself comfortable in the smoothed-stone depression. Carved into the rock and designed to support his frame, he found he didn’t need a single muscle to keep himself upright and allowed himself to relax. Uttering a groan of relief, the tension melted from his body as he soaked in the near scalding waters, but there was still more to be had. A pair of strong yet delicate fingers ran across his scalp before digging into the meat of his neck, and he discovered a pleasure unlike any he’d ever felt before. More hands joined them and he lost himself in pure bliss, availing himself to the pleasures of the flesh and the joining between man and woman for the first time.

Well, man and women. Goujian’s new hosts were not stingy with his accommodations, and he had many decades of celibacy to make up for.

Hours later, he sat in loose silk robes and enjoyed the morning breeze on skin, sitting idle upon a balcony while the inhabitants of Sinuji toiled away in the streets below. Unlike the North, there was no natural geographic barrier to differentiate between provinces, and Sinuji was just one dozens of so-called border towns straddling the divide between Central, West, and South. What made it unique was its middling location, equidistant from the Azure Sea to the North and the Arid Wastelands to the South, which was why Sinuji had been chosen as the headquarters on the front lines.

Fools and buffoons, picking a location which had already been compromised by the Enemy.

No, Goujian corrected, not The Enemy. The Empire’s Enemy, but not his own. Though enlightened to the Truth, he still fell back into old habits and only hard work and time would correct them. A part of him understood why his Disciples had refused to follow him down this path, but it had to be done. It was his fault things ended as they did, but perhaps their fates had been set in stone from the day they’d met. Goujian had saved them, but in doing so doomed them to a fate worse than death. He’d raised them on Imperial lies, lies he embraced because it was easier than pursuing the Truth. In service of those lies, he and his Disciples sinned against Heaven and blackened their souls in devotion to the Empire, and when Goujian told them the severity of their sins, his frail Disciples were too weak to accept the Truth.

Oh his poor, ill-fated sons. How he wished they still stood at his side so they might fix this broken world together, but he had no choice. He had to kill them, for they knew too much regarding his plans, foolishly shared in his time of weakness because he believed they could be trusted, but alas, it was not so. Only Yuanyin was strong enough to follow him down the right path, the others too cowardly and set in their ways to see what needed to be done. Even though he loved them as a father loves his sons, Goujian could not trade their lives for the lives of every citizen in the Empire. Hundreds of millions, if not billions of people, all living under Imperial yoke, how could he let this travesty stand?

It was his fault his sons were dead, and he accepted his sins wholeheartedly. He’d been too eager to return to contemplating the Truth and left his poor sons to flounder on their own, coming to grips with harsh reality bereft of his guidance and support. Had he not immersed himself in Heaven’s Impartation for nine straight days, then he would have seen the warning signs of his Disciples errant thoughts and convinced them his actions were just. For new seeds to be sown, the field must first be cleared. How could anyone argue against such basic reasoning?

Alas, there was no cure for regret, but at least Goujian still had one son left to him. Having learned his lesson, Goujian was not yet ready to leave Yuanyin unsupervised, so he gathered his Chi to look in on his sole remaining Disciple. Like his Master, Yuanyin had lived a life of abstinence but was young enough to still feel constrained by it. No longer required to represses his urges, the young man wasted no time indulging his lust, but now sat in quiet meditation as he parsed through the mysteries of the Truth with more dedication than ever. This was the true Dao of Balance, not the one peddled by Imperial lies, one which made more sense with each passing day.

Nodding in approval, Goujian’s curiosity got the better of him and he turned his Watch to the other young man in the manor. According to the reports, this Gen was a common village boy who turned Defiled after an encounter with Falling Rain, but if so, then someone had taught Gen well. The very picture of a young noble, Gen’s handsome features and strong jaw lent an air of honesty and integrity to his words, a warrior brimming with confidence and tenacity. Sitting cross-legged with impeccable posture, he meditated with an intense focus rarely found in one so young, his metallic hands hidden within his wide-brimmed sleeves. Goujian expected much from this former denizen of Sanshu, a startling talent by any measure. Chosen by Heaven was the only way to describe it, a common boy who Awakened to a Divine Blessing mere days after discovering the Truth. How strong would he be after almost a year of practice? What about ten years, or twenty?

Gen was an example of what the Imperial Clan feared most, an informed and enlightened populace with strength enough to challenge them. Small wonder they hoarded their knowledge so jealously, but Heaven’s secrets would not remain hidden forever, especially not if Goujian had his way.

Moving on, Goujian turned his Watch to Mao Jianghong, the so-called traitor of Sanshu. The former Guard Captain sat in his office, scowling darkly as he conversed with hidden allies, allies Goujian had yet to uncover. Granted, he had yet to put any effort into the search, merely a cursory sweep of their surroundings before retiring for the night, but he figured introductions would come in due time. Trust would be difficult, but they were both enlightened beings Chosen by Heaven, though Goujian viewed himself as undoubtedly superior. Jianghong stumbled across the Truth after succumbing to ‘dark’ powers, a man who willingly surrendered his soul in return for vengeance, and only luck saved him from eternal damnation. A petulant, weak-willed child of luxury, wholly different from Goujian’s life of dedicated service. Even though every death darkened his soul, Goujian’s faith never faltered, not until the Monk’s actions revealed the Imperial lies for what they were, and now, he was more resolute than ever and willing to sacrificing everything to set things right.

Everything.

Even though Goujian couldn’t listen in on Jianghong’s Sendings, there was much to be gleaned from the traitor’s expression. Last night, Jianghong had been supremely confident, but today, that confidence had been shaken. Anger and disbelief marred his handsome features, having received news he found difficult to swallow. Though hoping to work alongside them, Goujian drew a measure of satisfaction from Jianghong’s unknown setback, for if they were truly as strong as the traitor believed, then what use would they have for Goujian?

Nose wrinkling in annoyance, Jianghong glared at the ceiling above him and stared directly into Goujian’s Watching eyes. A Sending arrived soon after, Jianghong’s voice dripping with sarcasm and irritation. “If the vaunted Confessor truly seeks an alliance, then perhaps he’d deign to dress himself and discuss matters in my office.”

With a languid stretch, Goujian yawned and Sent, “Perhaps.” In no rush, he ambled back inside and order the servants to bring him a selection of clothing. Once they arrived, he spent long minutes looking them over before rejecting them all and forcing the servants to go running for more clothes while he amused himself with a lovely and enthusiastic young woman. Truth be told, he didn’t care too much about what he wore, but the delay was more to show Jianghong that the Confessor would not be ordered about like a lackey. Besides, he needed time to consider this new information, for Jianghong’s action inadvertently revealed what Goujian had suspected for months now. A method existed to determine whether one was being Watched, a method kept secret from the warriors of the Empire.

But not Falling Rain.

And with this single loose thread, Goujian finally unravelled the mystery behind this inscrutable and illogical young hero. While under observation back at the Northern Wall, Falling Rain undoubtedly knew someone was watching and his every action was meant to throw Goujian off the trail. The young hero’s story had all the markings of a poorly written drama, and Goujian now understood why.

Falling Rain was an Imperial lackey, one planted to sell the lie of ‘Balance’ and give false hope to the uninformed people the Empire.

It explained everything about the boy’s history which Goujian found questionable. How could a young boy of sixteen defeat a skilled Warrant Officer during the challenge for Shen Huo’s Magistrate’s Office? How did he escape unharmed from the Society’s pursuit while burdened with children and non-combatants? Why did the Bekhai keep their young hero at arms length, filling his retinue with former soldiers and captured bandits instead of fellow tribesmen? How did he not only stumble across a Defiled plot, but also play a pivotal role in defeating it? Where did he find the resources to take in and heal so many cripples, or feed so many hungry mouths at the Wall? All this and more could easily be explained if Falling Rain had Imperial backing, a mere puppet raised among the Bekhai to add authenticity to his role.

It seemed Goujian underestimated how far the Imperial Clan would go to keep their propaganda alive. No one would believe the lie of Balance if no true heroes ever emerged, so they concocted heroes for the people to look up to. Even if Goujian’s poisoner had done his job and killed Falling Rain during his wedding banquet, the boy’s place in history had already been firmly established. A savage tribesman who rose higher than any before him, the youngest Second Grade Warrant Officer, the Number One Talent of the Empire, and a member of Imperial Peerage living amongst the people of the Empire all before the tender age of twenty, Falling Rain’s legacy was to become a beacon of hope for all to aspire to for centuries to come.

Magnificently played. Utterly brilliant.

