More certain than ever he now tread upon the correct path, Goujian picked out the least gaudy robe the servants brought him and set out to meet with Mao Jianghong. Arriving at the traitor’s office, he let himself in and took a seat before offering a silent nod in greeting. With no servants to pour his tea, Goujian served himself and left Jianghong’s cup empty, inhaling the fragrant aroma before availing himself to a taste. Draining the cup with an appreciative smack of his lips, Goujian poured himself a second and asked, “So, what matters trouble Comrade Mao? Perhaps my humble experience might prove of use.”

“Oh, I hope so.” Steepling his fingers, Jianghong leaned back in his seat and added, “Though perhaps it’s best we speak through Sending. One can never be too careful when it comes to privacy.”

A jab, but not an undeserved one. A week ago, Goujian would have known better than to pry, but he was still adjusting to his new, unfettered mindset and finding it difficult to exercise restraint after his first taste of true freedom. Accepting the reprimand with a grimace and a nod, Goujian filled Jianghong’s cup as apology and Sent, “Then tell me, what troubles you?”

“A setback in our plans, but not one we cannot recover from.” Shrugging with detached disinterest, he accepted the cup and continued, “Ancestral Beasts are a territorial bunch who rarely appear in groups, so how were we to know sending one would not be enough?”

The revelation caught Goujian by surprise and he paused ever so slightly while lifting his cup to his lips. Jianghong implied that if not for the presence of multiple Ancestral Beasts, his plan would not have gone awry, the ramifications of which, if true, would be far reaching indeed. So Jianghong’s mysterious faction had not one, but multiple Ancestral Beasts cooperating with them, and these most formidable weapons were already in play. The Treaty be damned, this would be a battle to end all battles, a war to end all wars, and Goujian wouldn’t have it any other way.

Widespread chaos and destruction would expose the roots of Imperial Corruption, and only then could he step in and scour them clean from this world.

Unfortunately, his experience in the North taught him he lacked the strength to stand against an Ancestral Beast, but with his eyes opened to the Truth, he knew he would reach the lofty peaks of Martial Strength soon enough. Eager to resume studying the mysteries of Heaven’s Impartation, Goujian impatiently gestured for Jianghong to end his grandstanding and get on with it. Grinning in victory, the insufferable twit explained, “We dispatched a raiding party to Nan Ping, a vanguard meant to spread fear and chaos, but they were discovered by Imperial Forces led by Du Min Gyu and subsequently put to rest. Our Ancestral Beast ally claims she crossed paths with no less than four beings of comparable power, including one who had a similar mastery over the Divine Earth. What do you know of her, this Ancestral Beast Eccentric Gam calls Mother?”

“Next to nothing,” Guojian replied. “My expertise lies in the realm of men, not in powers beyond my comprehension. Such matters are privy only to the oldest of noble houses, whereas I am of humble origins and am friend to none.”

“Hmm.” Annoyed, Jianghong pursed his lips and Sent, “And here I thought the Confessor held the Emperor’s ear and had spies hidden across provinces, ferreting out every noble’s deepest, darkest secrets.”

“My spies, as you call them, are merely common men and women of the Empire, servants and soldiers reporting on corruption and degeneracy. How are they to know of matters never spoke out loud?” Shrugging, he added, “They were useful enough in finding you, though I admit it took a stretch of the imagination to put the pieces together. The reports suggested you might be a Western noble who evaded capture at the border, a possible harbinger of Taint and Corruption, but there were clues enough to discern your true identity.”

“Oh?” Stroking his jet-black beard, Jianghong scowled in displeasure before conceding to Goujian’s expertise. “Then I shall have to impose on Senior to point out the flaws in our guise. If you can find us, then others can too. In fact, we are preparing to leave even as we speak.”

“Good.” It was always better to work with competent allies, though Goujian often had little choice in the matter. Embroiled in discussion, they traded ideas on how to escape detection until it was time for lunch, at which point Jianghong invited him to the dining room. Since Gen would also be there, Goujian Sent for Yuanyin to join them. Once they were all seated, Goujian raised his cup in a toast and said, “To old enemies and new allies.”

“Hear Hear.”

“Eh-Mi-Tuo-Fuo.”

Jumping in his seat at the familiar dharmic greeting, Goujian drew his sword and pointed it at the Monk standing at the head of their table. Yuanyin and the others joined him in their surprise, and Jianghong roared, “Who the hell are you?”

“Such Sin,” the Monk muttered and sighed, “Such Regret.”

Mustering his courage, Goujian sneered and declared, “I have no regrets monk, only that I didn’t see the Truth sooner.”

Raising an eyebrow, the Monk asked, “And this truth led you to slaughter your Disciples? This truth led you to ally with the Enemy?” Holding a hand up to forestall Guojian’s answer, the Monk continued, “Speak not and spare this one from your lies. You have lost your path and altered your Dharma, but the decision was yours to make. This one speaks not of your regret, but of mine.” Closing his eyes, the Monk pressed his hands together and bowed his head in supplication. “How much longer must this one suffer in the cycle of Samsara, forever unable to change his wicked ways?”

A bolt of fire spattered harmlessly across the Monk’s body, thrown by the talented young Gen. Barely even noticing the attack, the Monk opened his eyes and shook his head, so filled with anguish and remorse Guojian almost empathized with him. “Perhaps the Abbot would plead to save your souls,” the Monk said, taking hold of his spade, “But this one is a sinner through and through, and now, he must sin once more. May you find peace in the afterlife, and enlightenment in the next. Eh-Mi-Tuo-Fuo.”

The Monk moved faster than Goujian’s eyes could follow, disappearing from the head of the table and reappearing beside him, the crescent blade of his spade resting lightly against Goujian’s throat. Were it not for a portly stranger holding the spade at bay, Goujian feared the Monk would have already taken his head, unbelievably fast for a man so large.

So what did that say about this stranger, who was not only faster, but also larger?

“Now,” the stranger drawled, his accent curious to the ear, “Correct me if’n I’m wrong, but Ah don’t remember invitin’ no Dharma Protector in ta mah estate. Seems murderin’ my guests’d violate the Treaty.”

“Hmph.” The Monk, who apparently was an existence on par with Ancestral Beasts, glared at Goujian’s mysterious saviour with such vehemence he seemed like a man changed, so at odds with the kind but stern lecturer who taught Goujian about the Four Noble Truths. “Zhu Chanzui, you finally dare reveal your true self and claim dominion over these Defiled?”

“That I do,” the Ancestral Boar replied, snickering beneath his breath. “What are yew gonna do about it?”

Visibly struggling with his anger, the Monk took a deep breath to calm himself. Then, he took another, and another, all to no effect. After an eternity of waiting during which the spade trembled against Goujian’s throat, the Monk finally retracted his weapon with a grimace. “Then so be it.” Slamming the butt of his spade against the floor, the Monk infused his voice with Chi and announced, “The Defiled traitor Mao Jianghong is currently residing in the Canston Trading Group’s estate. Conspiring with him is the Confessor Guojian. Loyal warriors of the Empire, seize these traitors and execute them for their crimes.”

Sucking his teeth with a long, protracting inhale, Zhu Chanzui shook his head and sighed. “Really wish ye didn’t do that,” he said, lips pursed in a frown. “Well, guess there ain’t no choice anymore, is there Mao Mao? We wanted fear and chaos, so this gonna be the way it gotta be.” Breaking into a grin, the Ancestral Beast added, “Besides, ah been itchin’ fer a good fight fer ages now.”

And then the room exploded into chaos and destruction.

Chapter Meme
