He was moving fast if he was already at Yibre, and the tale was he had landed last night on the outskirts of Tiqr. Sure enough, he picked up the pace; he must have slowed to not alarm the [Farmers]. He took off striding, then began to run, as if he had no intent to slow down, and the Fury of Winds dashed alongside him with Spitty galloping lazily behind the two.
They were about a mile out when Nevun, looking for the carpet with great eagerness to see the famous vehicle, cried out in a wail.
“No! [Soldiers]!”
Loreiil spun, and his heart sank. Of all the timing! They must have been coming to levy all they could again. No—his eyes widened.
He hadn’t seen so many before. This wasn’t a few dozen [Riders]. This was at least a hundred [Soldiers], and they had spotted Orjin. But they were making for Yibre.
Collusion? To Nerrhavia’s angry [Soldiers], it must have been obvious. There was the Strongest, and he was departing from a village that had helped him. It wasn’t far from the truth, either. Loreiil shouted for everyone to get inside and prepare to run.
Yet he lingered at the door, hand grasping his hoe, as if it were a match for the spears and swords of Nerrhavia’s Fallen. He knew that it was ridiculous—but his eyes were on that man.
The Strongest of Pomle. Orjin had come to a standstill and had looked back.
Over a hundred [Soldiers], some armed with bows, the rest approaching in a phalanx of metal, shields raised, aiming spears at him, were moving towards the village. He could doubtless outrun them, but a hundred versus three? Two, since Spitty was a camel.
Yet—Loreiil hesitated. Levels or not, they lived in what had been the Waning World, an era of normal men and women. Aside from the King of Destruction or a Named-rank adventurer, one did not win a one-on-five fight, let alone…a hundred.
There was so far for Orjin to go, and he could not risk getting hurt with healing potions in short supply. He owed Yibre nothing. Heroism was a thing of fools in war.
All this was true.
So—why was the man moving in Loreiil’s vision? Not away, but getting larger? He was running now, and even the Fury of Winds and Spitty looked astonished. Then they gave chase. The [Soldiers] of Nerrhavia’s Fallen halted in disbelief.
The Strongest of Pomle was running at them. And then the villagers of Yibre turned and really saw the truth behind the story.
 
——
 
Orjin saw a row of spears twenty wide halt, and huge shields locked together and formed a wall of metal before his eyes. His blood was pounding, and his bare feet kicked up clouds of sand.
“Orjin! Don’t be a fool!”
Soloxenethn was calling on him to run. But Orjin had seen the [Soldiers] aiming at Yibre. If he ran, the villagers would suffer.
And—he remembered how they had come to Pomle. So the Strongest just accelerated and lowered his body until it looked like he was half his height, sprinting low to the ground. He heard yelling—and then a shout.
“Loose!”
The snap of bows came a second later, but he already saw the arrows streaking at him from over the heads of the soldiers holding spears. Behind them, there would be warriors with swords.
They had metal armor, mostly. He saw rough skin; Hemp or Cotton were the soldiers Nerrhavia liked to use. But even their conscripts bore iron or steel painted gold.
The spears were an unwavering line of golden tips aimed at the huge man running at them. But they wavered as he began to zig-zag.
A thft sound—an arrow hit the grass right next to his right foot. Blurred black lines were streaking down; Orjin saw one falling at his face, and his arms, crossed to guard his head, moved.
He batted the arrow aside, his hand striking the tip and shaft. He saw another one curving at him, and his hand knocked that one down too.
“Loose!”
The [Soldiers] were drawing closer. He saw the whites of one’s eyes behind an open-faced helmet with a simple noseguard. Brown skin, stitch-marks around the nose and ears. Sweat beading down their upper lip.
Boy? Girl? Too young. The spear that the [Soldier] was holding wavered. Orjin headed for it. They were aiming towards him, two layers deep, ready to skewer him—Orjin looked up and saw more arrows falling.
So—he accelerated faster. Arrows struck the sand behind him in a line, and a cloud of dust arose from his wake.
Their eyes were so wide now. Why?
He was just one man. He was the one outnumbered, barehanded. Yet—he could not die here.
Orjin was feet away from the wavering speartips grouped so tightly he could not fit a hand between the thick shafts of wood.
They might have Skills. So he saved his own, and his lowered body tensed. Then—Orjin slid forwards, one foot spraying dirt as the spears tried to dip—he slid forwards five feet until he was amidst the shafts of wood trying to track him. Then he exploded upwards.
The tower shields were like a wall, solid, and the [Soldiers] were bunched together. Orjin didn’t have time to waste on them. He grabbed a spear, heaved as he pulled it, and a figure stumbled, but they let go instead of being pulled out of line.
Clever. Orjin dropped it, chopped a jabbing spear, and his hand slashed the tip off.
“Stab him! Stab—”
The spears were trying to pull back. Orjin ground one into the dirt by stomping on it, feeling as if he were amdist a grove of bamboo in training, constricting his movements. The jabbing spears and shields trying to shove him back made it hard for the [Soldiers] to see the Strongest. A terrified Stitch-man yanked the spear back and peered between the gaps of his shield and his comrade’s to stare.
He saw Orjin crouched low, blue eyes staring up at him. Then the Strongest leapt, knocking the spears back, clearing the tops of the tower shields.
Orjin saw the faces moving up slowly and swords rising as he jumped over the first rank of shields. He kicked once in midair and caught a [Soldier] with a plume in their helmet as they tried to swing a sword.
The kick to the chest made them stumble back, and the tight-knit phalanx tried to break up. Orjin landed and didn’t block the swords they tried to swing at him. Instead, he struck, his fists jabbing out in a flurry.
He struck the six [Soldiers] he could reach in the second rank, punching each one in their chin, an unguarded spot thanks to their open-faced helmets. All but one sagged or dropped; the last recoiled and stood there, dizzy.
Then the Strongest spun and put all the force he could—it hurt even so as his leg struck the armored knees of the soldiers he had landed behind. But he knocked down two with the force of the blow, and the others were still turning.
A blow to a back opened the line of shields up and sent one [Soldier] flying forwards. Another dropped the long spear, fumbling for a sword. Orjin ignored them and threw an elbow back, hitting a Stitch-person in the nose and breaking it. He began to walk sideways, throwing punches and elbows into the tight-knit [Soldiers].
“Reform! Ref—”
The plumed officer was trying to gasp the words with the breath knocked out of them. Orjin stomped on their chest, and the word turned into a gurgle. The Strongest threw a punch that took an [Archer] off their feet—reversed the punch into an elbow that hit a jaw hard enough to make the teeth crunch.
An arrow was aimed at him point-blank from a bow. Orjin saw the fingers let go and leaned sideways, twisting. A line of pain crossed his chest, and someone screamed. The [Archer] stared until Orjin’s kick shattered the bow and sent them flying.
Then Orjin was through the ranks of [Soldiers]. He turned, checking himself—he had a shallow cut on his chest, and the skin on his foot hurt from hitting the metal, but nothing serious was cut.
I should have activated my defense Skills. He whirled, setting himself, and to his surprise, half the [Soldiers] were still facing the other way or turning with that wide-eyed stare. Slow. Pomle’s warriors would have been faster.
“Behind u—”
One of the back ranks screamed, and Orjin leapt, a snap-kick taking them down. He resumed his attack from the rear as the [Soldiers] finally began to turn—only to hear a keening scream.
The Fury of Winds leapt over the heads of the spears and landed, punching and kicking in a flurry as Orjin grabbed a [Soldier] and tossed them over his shoulder into the other [Soldiers], resulting in a mess. He saw the left side of the formation had whirled to face him and ignored the right. Orjin tensed as they made to rush at him, and he saw a glob of spit smack one of the [Soldiers] in the face.
Spitty’s back hooves kicked a [Soldier] from behind, and the group stumbled. The [Martial Artist] saw the gap.
“[Hacking Chop]!”
A [Soldier] rushed at Orjin with a sword, swinging wildly. He kept his footing, struck the sword from below, and the pommel squirted out of her hands as if it were greased. Orjin stepped past the [Soldier], delivered two punches, swung the flailing [Soldier] without weapons at her comrades, using her as a shield.
He delivered jabs past the collapsing two [Soldiers], throwing punches as they tried to get past their friends.
The ones on the right are getting up. Orjin saw the sword he’d knocked upwards falling—he grabbed it.
“Soloxenethn!”
The Fury of Winds looked up and side-stepped the blade that Orjin hurled like a javelin. It struck a shield and sent a [Soldier] stumbling; the Fury of Winds began pummeling the [Soldier] with rapid punches.
A slash from behind. Orjin’s head turned, and his arm rose. He blocked the steel sword strike, and it skated across his skin, as hard as metal itself—for a second. Orjin shifted his block, and another sword shuddered to a halt against his skin.
The [Soldiers] who’d struck him stared in horror at the blades; his palm strike broke a rib and rammed one backwards. Orjin side-stepped a spear as the group finally turned the weapons around and rammed one at him. He heaved up, and a [Soldier] was lifted off his feet, screaming, as Orjin used the spear like a lever.
Punch. Step. Punch—sidestep a second spear—strike a throat and hear a choking sound. Sweep the leg of the [Soldier], elbow the stomach as the figure falls until the sand billows up. Step back in the cloud, reposition—kick and feel the steel plate bend—
Then Orjin was looking around for enemies. He set himself grimly. Waiting for his moment of surprise to end. Orjin saw four dozen figures fleeing. A terrified Stitch-man threw down his sword as he stared at Orjin, and the Strongest gave him a puzzled look. Then looked around for foes. He’d been saving his best Skills for when they started using theirs.
 
——
 
They cheered him like he had won a great battle. It was a hundred [Soldiers]; he’d fought less than half of them. The other half had begun running when they might have triumphed.
Nerrhavia’s Fallen had been said to be able to field over a million soldiers in their Glorious Hordes. Orjin had seen how even the best [Martial Artists] could be overwhelmed.
Yibre had never seen a great battle, then. And Buler didn’t make it any better. The boy had arrived just in time to cheer and leap around.
“I hope they will not come back to trouble you, [Farmer]. I must be going, quicker now. If they return to take vengeance—”
Orjin hesitated. He knew they had come time and again. How much anger might these [Soldiers] or their commanders take out on the farmers or accuse them of helping Orjin? Yet Farmer Loreiil just bowed his head.
“We have survived their scrutiny and unkindness before, Strongest. They need [Farmers]. It will be worth it, I hope. The Empress of Beasts needs every ally.”
“I should not have come here.”
The [Martial Artist] bowed, ashamed that he had not thought of this very scenario. Loreiil tried to reassure him it was not his fault.
Once again, I have taken from those I meet. The blood stained the land, yet Orjin was vaguely glad none of the [Soldiers] had actually died. Perhaps he should have killed them all, but he could not find the heart to.
I am a poor warrior, compared to Vandum. When Orjin’s head rose, he spoke.
“I cannot stay to protect this place. But if they should threaten you, I ask you to flee. I will find you and return to check if I survive my journey.”
He meant every word, and the [Farmer] shook his head slowly.
“Strongest. You say these things, and I think…you mean them. But this is not your kingdom. The Empress of Beasts will one day reclaim the soil, and every tear and drop of blood we shed will replenish Tiqr. When I offer you my crops or shelter, I do it knowing the cost. Do not think I tilled this land without choosing to stay.”
He met Orjin’s eyes again, and the flash of will embarrassed the [Martial Artist] again. Thoughtless altruism was the kind of thing he had disliked witnessing as much as indifference. So a second time he bowed.
“I am sorry, Farmer Loreiil. I only thought that this land should not die, nor the people on it. I have walked Tiqr, and for all its many oases, the Empire of Beasts is scarred, the places dead. This place, this village of Yibre, yet breathes.”
The statement made Loreiil blink and tilt his head to look Orjin up and down. Loreiil had heard that Tiqr’s animals had fled and many places were now untended or in the hands of foreign powers. Yet he did not think Orjin meant that.
“Breathes, Strongest?”
Embarrassed, Orjin shrugged.
“I am sorry. I do not know farming terms. The land is loved. Not just the fields; I saw a wintering hive of bees, the marks of both insects and ground rodents. When the spring comes, birds may return.”
“Many of the ones we knew are gone, perhaps never to return.”
Orjin nodded slowly and closed his eyes.
“Yet it is still singing. I have not found a place as good as this since I left Pomle. The Lantern Lands were cold, for all the light, and the mists whispered at night. If I returned to find it screaming as my ruined home of Pomle, I would regret it for the rest of my days.”
He looked at Loreiil, and again, shifted and ducked his head.
“Apologies, Farmer Loreiil. I do not speak of this often. Others have called it fanciful talk.”
“No…you honor me with how you describe my home, Strongest. We have always lived with the wilds.”
Yet the strange look the man gave Orjin made the [Martial Artist] embarrassed and grow quiet. For the wrong reasons, he thought. He turned.
“I will go now, but if I find my [Secretary], I will ask her to check in on you. Once again, I am sorry for the trouble.”
He began to stride off until Loreiil called to him. The man gave him a wide-eyed look as Orjin rubbed the cut on his chest.
“You don’t need rest? A potion?”
“This will heal.”
Orjin pointed at the cut, and sure enough, the thin line of red was already vanishing. He had Skills. Then the man looked him up and down, and Orjin realized Farmer Loreiil thought he had another injury somewhere.
