Torreb’s Daughter had killed the greatest [Warrior] of Chandrar. The Strongest of Pomle had returned.
Stories.
 
——
 
In the aftermath of the battle, there were a thousand and one accounts of how the Great General Thelican of Nerrhavia’s Fallen had fallen.
No one could agree on how he had died. Some claimed to have seen him run through by rebelling soldiers. Another said that an [Assassin] sent by the palace itself had slid a blade across his throat: punishment for so disastrous a failure.
Another claimed he had gotten on a flying carpet, which had crashed, overladen. A fourth said he had simply run off into the desert, shedding clothes and dignity and armor, gibbering mad.
No, it was the camel who had killed him, racing around, hurling phlegm and sending the Silk [Warriors] screaming back to Nerrhavia’s Fallen. A glob had landed in the man’s throat and choked him.
It did not truly matter. By the time night had fallen, the only [Soldiers] of Nerrhavia’s Fallen left were those who had surrendered. Never mind that Pomle was outnumbered even by the prisoners; a [Secretary] was making the surrendered Stitch-folk organize themselves.
“Ransom money. And the terms of Nerrhavia Fallen’s peace.”
“Peace?”
Vandum shouted, but he fell silent as a man who stood at the center of everything nodded.
“If they will have it, this war is over. There is no point to more of it, Vandum. We may level in the fighting—but my path does not need it.”
He locked eyes with the [Strongest of the Martial Age], and Vandum clenched his fists. Then he looked away. As if uncertain his class would remain by the time dawn broke.
“What are your terms of peace? Nerrhavia’s Fallen may shake, but they are too mighty to be pushed over.”
Itkisa was curious. She held Torreb’s Fist, leaning on it as if she had held it all her days. She still wore the plain clothes of the woman who had taken care of Torreb’s household, but Orjin thought they were like paint flaking from an ornamental sword or toy object, cracking away and revealing the blade beneath.
Or like a great beast finding her fangs. Soon, he thought, she would look different. She regarded him with a curious look, and he nodded.
“They are. I will not be surprised if they refuse. Pomle will agree to peace—once the last [Soldier] has left Tiqr and Pomle and they have signed a magical contract to leave us in peace. At least ten years. I would prefer a hundred, but Salii claims no nation would sign that.”
“Doubtful.”
The [Secretary] chimed in. Itkisa raised her brows.
“Tiqr and Pomle?”
“Our fates are linked. When Tiqr fell, it was Pomle who was party to it. We have taken in Tiqr’s folk; some have become [Martial Artists]. It was the Wildkeeper who came to try and heal Pomle. Now, we have no home. If there is one or any ally, it is the Empress of Beasts. She understands the same principles that my martial art does.”
The animals. The land. They were a part of Orjin’s understanding of his new path. How many styles had been developed by watching the movements of animals?
“Then you have a greater struggle ahead of you.”
Itkisa commented, and Orjin shrugged.
“Perhaps. But I will not be alone. At least, I have found my path. It took…a long time. Thank you for your patience.”
Her smile was a sad one, and she turned to where her father still lay. Itkisa frowned, searching for Torreb’s corpse; there was so much confusion, and she had run down to join Orjin…
“I took decades for this moment as well, Strongest. What do you mean, you won’t be alone?”
For answer, Orjin pointed, and Itkisa turned and sighed.
Soloxenethn was practicing, altering the moves he had seen Orjin using, surrounded by dubious [Martial Artists]. Salthorn gave Orjin an entreating look, but even Sorron and Jalte were listening. Though they would have doubtless liked to listen to Orjin himself.
Soon. They had to rebuild, and Orjin wondered if his powers could push the very earth out of Pomle, at least enough to cleanse the oasis. The water might not return, but at least it would be free of taint.
Perhaps, in time, whatever wondrous power this was, this attunement with the natural world, would result in the power to cleanse the world like a [Druid].
Or perhaps it was more subtle than that. Orjin didn’t know. He was excited to find out, like a child who had just learned his first step.
“I have reached the end of my path only to find that I am at the beginning of an even greater journey.”
That was what he said to everyone, and it was Vandum who offered him a smile that was both bitter and slightly respectful.
“If Collos had lived, I am sure he would have one day said that. Pomle cannot rise further without competition. I will watch how far you go, Orjin, and challenge you at every step.”
“I suppose you will.”
Orjin sighed. He was not looking forwards to that. Then he stood and looked around as Pomle’s warriors, children, friends and allies stood there. Even a waving [Innkeeper]. He nodded to her, and her eyes shone with wonder at his magic.
He was, he told them, repeatedly, afterwards, one man. And ‘Strongest’ was a title that had special meaning in Pomle. It didn’t always mean ‘the Strongest’. It was one battle. He was one [Martial Artist].
But even Orjin of Pomle would not deny that one event could change the world.
 
 
<Quest Reward: [Way of the Elements], class paths unlocked.>
 
[Conditions Met: Superior Martial Artist → Fist of the Living World!]
[Fist of the Living World class created.]
[Fist of the Living World Level 53!]
[Skill – Way of the Elements: Fury of Skies obtained!]
[Skill – Boundless Leap obtained!]
[Skill – Way of the Elements: Path of the Land created!]
[Skill – Torreb’s Step created!]
[Skill – Way of the Elements: Current of the Sea created!]
[Skill – Revine’s Jet created!]
 
——
 
So sang Barelle the [Bard] of the Strongest of Pomle. Orjin, first of a new kind of martial arts. On a long journey. But never alone.
[Fist of the Living World], Orjin of Pomle. And…
[Fist of the Empyrean Sky], the Fury of Winds, Soloxenethn. Already, more were arising, and more students joined their ranks.
[Disciples of the Wind]. [Students of Pomle]. Barelle sang of a foolish [General] who had thought himself capable of ending a story, as if you could kill an idea.
Of brave camels, flying carpets, wily Djinni, and a great warrior who was neither a simple killer nor reclusive hermit. A figure who stood with the peace of Pomle against armies wherever he found cause.
Of the death of Torreb, and his daughter, who had bested his strength, and how his soul had admitted defeat. And yes, of <Quests> and great battles and this ever-changing world.
“Is this what you wanted? Truly?”
A man with black eyes and white pupils asked a woman who stood smiling as she watched the battlefield. Her people, at least the descendants of the people that Nerrhavia had claimed, lay beaten or ran back the way they had come. Yet even though it was a puppet she used, the Immortal Tyrant seemed pleased.
“Archmage of Death, you know nothing of what it is to rule.”
Nerrhavia’s voice was light as she looked down on Orjin, and the wind blew around her, as if seeking to throw her off the continent itself. But she ignored it. The will of the land was lesser to hers. She turned her head, and the Necromancer’s eyes flashed.
But in this, he did listen, for her smile was contented. This was her home, and he had seldom seen her do anything for no reward. But he thought she might have this one time.
“Tell me.”
Az’kerash waited as Nerrhavia pointed down, and the Strongest’s head turned, as if sensing them. Nerrhavia lifted a hand in acknowledgement.
“Even in the era you think of as the rule of the world’s worst tyrant, there were men and women like him I sought. There must be law. And there must be a desire for righteousness.”
“In your empire?”
He turned, truly surprised, and she rolled her eyes.
“Who can live without justice or righteousness, Necromancer? What people can endure without a chance to rise or the fear of falling? Say what you will, but I understood that. This nation which feasts still on my bones has forgotten that. Hemp. It was not so when I was ruler. They replaced my injustices with another. At my end, I imagine I looked much like the rulers of now.”
She turned her head, and her gaze swept the horizon.
“The Strongest and Pomle will change my empire, as they must. Nothing stays forever; I knew that too. If he had died, he would be unworthy of the mantle I place on him. I do this for myself; do you think I hate men like him? Or even you?”
A finger prodded the Necromancer, and he blinked again. Nerrhavia turned to go and looked back once. Her eyes lingered on Orjin, and then she chuckled.
“Besides—”
She threw her head back and gave Az’kerash an embarrassed look and lowered her voice.
“I am a daughter of Chandrar, in the end. I love stories.”
The wind blew and carried her laughter across that continent along with the tale of Pomle and the Strongest.
