“A Djinni told me how to fight magic itself, but I just cheated this battle. It is all coming together in my head, Salii. But the answer?”
He gave her an embarrassed smile.
“I don’t have it yet.”
The Drake blew out her cheeks, about to say they’d work around it or something, but Orjin held up a hand. She waited, and he looked around. Pomle.
“It feels right. Fighting for my people and home. When I left, I said that I had failed everyone, and I meant it. Yet I was more lost after that. The reason I came back is because I needed this. I wanted to be Strongest.”
He said it as if it were a surprise, and Salii’s flat look echoed everyone else’s.
No kidding? 
Orjin smiled faintly and looked at them.
“—I have a vision of a Pomle that may never come again. One where there are more disciples than there ever were. When people come here, it is the Peace of Pomle they accept. Be it the lost, refugees, anyone. Safeguarding that vision is hard. Nor could I do it by simply letting Pomle be. While Tiqr fell into chaos, I did nothing. When I saw armies march past Pomle, I claimed Pomle was neutral. If I had travelled out from Pomle, the same people I met would surely have become my friends and allies. But I pretended I was blind.”
Orjin closed his eyes.
“Pomle should always have fought for the causes it believed in. Not as [Soldiers], but to causes we felt were right. Now?”
His head turned northward, as if he could see them drawing together as [Soldiers] by the thousand shook the earth. He heard a scream in his bones, and yet his skin chilled, and he felt strength despite it all.
“It feels as if Pomle itself pushes me forwards. General Thelican has destroyed Pomle, laid multiple nations to waste in war. From the animals to the land and his own people—I cannot sit here or flee. Even if it means my death, I wish to stop this once and for all. And if our deaths halt this madness, so be it. But I will always seek victory. My path is almost complete.”
He felt it in his bones, the understanding quietly shaking the earth around him. Even if no one could hear it, surely Soloxenethn felt the wind laughing at his back, the dying trees of Pomle trying to send him their last dregs of energy. He was unworthy.
Yet when Orjin stood, he was ready.
And Salii was smiling. She stepped back, and Buler was standing by his carpet. Then, Salii raised her voice as the Fury of Winds, Spitty, Mendi, Earthers, and even Jvaile, to Orjin’s surprise, waited there. The greatest [Secretary] smiled with all her teeth.
“Come, Strongest of Pomle. You have an appointment in fifteen minutes with Thelican, Great General of Nerrhavia’s Fallen, and a hundred thousand soldiers. Your destiny is scheduled for today, and we’ll move it up, and I’ll push back your meeting with death as long as I can.”
The Strongest of Pomle smiled, ducked his head, and after bending to pick up a few objects, he stepped aboard Reizue’s Dream. Then he was flying, and his heart was steady.
He was heading to his answer at last.
 
——
 
Great General Thelican of Nerrhavia’s Fallen had victory in his hand, but his own limbs would not stop shaking.
He didn’t know why. It could not just be Orjin of Pomle. He was one man.
Everything had aligned for his great day of triumph. Even pieces he hadn’t thought were in play.
The [Queen], Yisame herself, and the Court of Silks were watching his final battle with the masters of Pomle. He had been told this as part warning, but how could he lose?
They were surrounded again, a repeat of the last battle. But this time, barely thirty men and women were standing in the center of a great circle.
Nothing fancy. Thelican had pinned them down with arrow fire, sacrificing his riders to box them in while he formed a living wall of soldiers. Any way the [Martial Artists] ran, they’d be exposed, and the containment would reform.
But they couldn’t run; they were hunkered down behind some upturned ground churned up by one of their Skills and a few spell scrolls. But the volleys that reached them from over a thousand feet, well out of bowshot range, were the contemptuous power of real weapons of war, not idiots with fists.
Ballistae.
If he’d had his Magic Throwers, Thelican would have ended them already. However, the ballistae had similar range, and one of the [Martial Artists], Jalte, he thought his notes said, had already fallen, unable to stop the deadly ballista bolts with his body.
What kind of idiot would do that anyways? Now, the [Martial Artists] were sheltering in the center of the battlefield, and if they ran in any direction, arrows would cut them down. The siege weapons were continuing to blow chunks of their cover away.
Perfect, contemptuous victory. Thelican had even unveiled himself and was sitting with a cup in hand, lounging rather like Fetohep of Khelt had. Demonstrating his sheer relaxation.
Why, then, was he watching the two figures fighting in the center of the battleground, so angry at the interruption—despite it being his doing—that he just wanted the ballistae to open fire and end this once and for all?
Vandum the Strongest of Pomle was locked in combat with a Djinni. A cat-man, dancing back, grinning despite the holes in his form, and the bloody Stitch-man, who refused to back down even when flames burned his very cloth.
That annoying Djinni had descended after failing to kill Orjin on a technicality. Thelican had allowed the battle, and the two were equally matched; if Vandum died, the [Martial Artists] would lose hope.
Of course, the Court of Silks was screaming at him about ‘war crimes’. As if he hadn’t already technically committed them. Thelican had told the Minister of War exactly why it was good to show this.
We have Djinni. Remind them of that. All our enemies. Yes, it’s illegal, but so what? Everyone knows that when we need to, we’ll reach for the best weapon. Thelican took another gulp of wine.
Remind the damn Hemp as well. He wasn’t blind. They all needed a lesson. No matter what, Nerrhavia’s Fallen won. When he came out on top, all the things he had to do to get there would be justified, the problems erased.
Thelican’s fist clenched harder on the goblet than he wanted, bending the soft gold, and he glanced over, teeth gritted.
He had better come up with a fantastic ode to Thelican. That arrogant [Bard].
There was Barelle the Bard, standing far apart from Thelican’s position. He was on a hilltop of stone, his harp in hand, watching Pomle’s end.
You see? Here was Great General Thelican ending a legend of Chandrar with Barelle the Bard watching. It had all the auspices of a great moment of stories.
Not just even Barelle the Bard! Thelican turned his head and forced a smile.
“It seems even a vaunted Djinni struggles against the Strongest of Pomle. While we wait, may I offer you any refreshments? Sir?”
He said ‘sir’ by accident and cursed inwardly. A Great General did not address anyone as ‘sir’. Yet there he sat, a man who drew so many eyes to him that Thelican felt envious, intimidated, and, he told himself, reassured.
Torreb the Undefeated, the greatest warrior of Chandrar, waved away a wine cup offered to him by a nervous [Slave]. His daughter, likewise.
Itkisa, Thelican thought her name was. The old warrior glanced at Thelican.
“The Djinni is losing. That Djinni isn’t very strong as they go. Vandum or whatever that one’s name is—he’s not bad.”
He grinned, his face lighting up as his gap-toothed smile and weathered skin gave him the look of a senile old man. But his club, Torreb’s Fist…
When he touched the handle, everyone in a thousand paces shivered. Torreb’s aura lit up the skies. Thelican was glad, very glad, the old man had asked to observe.
As…a backup card. Yes. His daughter had her hands folded, and she looked bored.
“Orjin is arriving soon, Father.”
Torreb had been yawning. But at the name, he sat upright, and his eyes opened wide. He had barely glanced at Thelican, but now he sat forwards, a hand clenching the club’s handle tighter.
“Yes. He hasn’t surpassed Collos yet. But I swore I sensed him fighting. I have to see it.”
Thelican forced a laugh.
“You surely jest, Lady…Miss…Itkisa. Orjin of Pomle will not be able to do a thing, even if he makes it here. His people are surrounded.”
She gave him a cool look that unsettled Thelican terribly.
“He will come. My father wishes to see whether he has found his answer.”
Torreb’s jaw was set, and he made no reply to Itkisa. Thelican glanced at Itkisa and remembered that Torreb had drawn him aside with his offer to interfere if need be. As if he hadn’t wanted his daughter to hear.
Yes, that was it. Thelican saw a messenger running towards him with a report about a flying carpet sighted in the distance—but all the ballistae were trained on the [Martial Artists]—as he realized what the problem was.
The <Mythical Quest>. Torreb wanted it! Thelican’s eyes widened, and he kept his face neutral as he realized what the old man wanted. Rumor was that Torreb was close to another capstone.
Well…if it meant assuring victory, so be it! There was surely room in that <Quest> for both the [Great General] of Nerrhavia’s Fallen and the strongest warrior of Chandrar.
But it bothered Thelican greatly, because when you framed it like that.
Barelle the [Bard].
Torreb the Undefeated.
All these observers, this <Quest>—it was as if they had come not for Thelican, but for Orjin. And he would not make it here. He would not! This was not his stage. Thelican snarled as he gave an order.
“Wherever he lands—stop him from breaking in! Guard the ballistae! There are thousands of soldiers! Do your jobs!”
Then he leaned forwards as he felt the wind change. And all the eyes turned away from him as a laughing Djinni backed away from Vandum, clutching at his faltering magical body. He fled, and Thelican hammered a fist down on the wine cup.
“Open fire! Kill the [Martial Artists]! Now!”
 
——
 
Orjin leapt down from Reizue’s Dream before it had even landed. Salii was shouting.
“Orjin! They’ve pinned down the [Martial Artists]! Are you going for the ballistae?”
He couldn’t even see them that well among all the [Soldiers]. Orjin shook his head.
“I am going to join Vandum and the others. If we can break out from the center, we will.”
“That’s not strategic—go!”
Orjin saw the [Soldiers] closest to him turning and setting themselves as they saw him land. Terrified faces—but so many.
The same numbers that had killed Xil. Orjin was not immune to steel nor could he sweep them aside with a wave of his hand. Torreb could, perhaps.
Torreb.
As Orjin surveyed the army before him, his eyes locked on a distant figure sitting next to a distant palanquin of gold as if drawn to that speck like an iron filing was drawn to a magnetic stone. Even with the air trembling and the blare of horns and the roar of battle—
Orjin saw him first, then Barelle. Like lighthouses on a coast, or so he had heard them described to him. Blazing spirits.
Torreb the Undefeated, the greatest warrior of Chandrar, was not the same man who had offered Orjin his home and friendship. This man sat there, eyes clear of drink, and Orjin felt his skin prickle with the beginning of sweat.
Why was he here?
The Strongest knew in a moment. It was obvious. Torreb, the Stitch-man of the Lantern Lands, had told Orjin from the start. He had welcomed Orjin like a curiosity, helped him for the sake of Collos, wanting to see what Orjin discovered, because he was bored.
That terrified old man waiting to die who would never rise higher without changing. Torreb who could not change.
Would not. And would therefore never reach the next step. Unless…
The <Quest>. A loophole in the insurmountable obstacle facing Torreb. A gift that even he would grasp for.
Orjin could not make out the man’s face this far distant, but he doubted there would be any shame or regret in Torreb’s eyes. He was an adventurer, a warrior. He had found something worth grabbing, and he would take it if he could.
So be it. Orjin just hoped Itkisa was not here for the same reason.
He might never make it to Torreb. The ranks of [Soldiers] were pivoting to face him, and Orjin remembered the Hemp folk he had spared. He could not afford to show them mercy. There were too many between him and the masters in the center. Orjin would have to force his way through.
But as he prepared to charge, another figure landed lightly, on the tips of his shoes, and regarded the forces on the perimeter. Soloxenethn.
The Fury of Winds paused there, and he spotted Torreb at once. His head surveyed the gleaming army in front of him, and even he wavered a second. Orjin had fear in his heart too, but he saw his friend master it. When he turned, Soloxenethn’s voice was light and carrying.
“This is where we part, Strongest. There are merely thousands of [Soldiers] here. A fitting place for the Fury of Skies.”
Soloxenethn struck a pose, and the air gusted around him as he smiled. Orjin looked at the master of Windcaller’s Wrath.
“They have bows and spells. You can’t fight an army.”
“I can distract them long enough for you to reach the others. Go, Orjin. This is not a battle for you to waste energy on.”
Orjin hesitated—then he raised his fist and clasped it against his palm. Now, his heart was thundering.
I do not see a victory even if we fight together. If I die—let it be with the last masters of Pomle. 
“Thank you. Soloxenethn.”
He bowed, and the other man copied the gesture. His smile was as arrogant as it had been the day they met, but his bow was lower than Orjin’s, and when he rose—the wind began howling with him.
“I, too, wish to find the next step in my journey. If I follow you, Strongest, I might one day reach it. Today, let me clear the way.”
And with that, he was running down towards the [Soldiers], feet leaving a trail of dust behind him. Orjin watched, a pain in his stomach.
He would die. Even alone, this was madness. Arrows were already flying, and the Fury of Skies punched the air. The arrows snapped against the wind pressure. He did a flying kick that scattered sand around him like an explosion, and the [Soldiers] wavered as Soloxenethn shouted.
“I am the Fury of Skies! Master of the Windcaller’s Wrath school! Warrior of Pomle! Stand aside or die!”
He struck a pose, fearless, and a bolt of lightning touched the space where his chest was—but he was pivoting, dodging, and he landed light on his feet. The [Soldiers] were advancing, and Soloxenethn gave Orjin one last look.
He was afraid. Orjin saw it in his eyes, even as the Strongest prepared to dash through a break in the lines. Orjin wavered…
