But all that he had been feeling since the day he left…was just more in his heart. Pain. Loss. Orjin had walked around, checking for [Assassins] or some final gambit by Thelican, and he had stopped by his hut.
It said something that not even a [Soldier] wanted to use it for shelter. Some had gone inside, though since the door was unlocked they hadn’t broken it down, and his belongings were scattered around, but nothing had been taken.
Again, because Orjin didn’t really have anything of value. He emerged with a few pots in hand, checking them over, and found the [Druid], Jvaile, standing outside his hut.
“Wildkeeper.”
“Strongest.”
She paused a second, and this time, Orjin did not deny it. He stood there, battle-scarred, but healing, and he felt more of the Orjin who had left. Yet he had to admit…Orjin looked around the oasis.
“It is not the same. It cannot be the same. I know you are first of your [Druid] circle, Jvaile. Is there any hope for Pomle?”
The woman bowed her head, reluctant to answer right away.
“I…I shall be honest in respect to you, Strongest. I should like to lie and tell you nothing is beyond the power of nature to heal. And perhaps a Treant could undo this magic, but that spell was from the days of myth. When I beheld that filth in the oasis’ waters…I imagine one could gain an entirely new class there.”
Orjin raised his brows.
“…From the oasis?”
She shuddered.
“Yes. It reminds me of the filth that the truly mad or desperate would bathe in, a corruption so foul it would be of Rhir. Surely, it is that dangerous. The land is not merely just lacking water, Strongest.”
“It is corrupted. The poison has already worked its way into the plants and a hundred feet deep.”
The [Druid]’s head snapped up, and she blinked at Orjin.
“Yes. How did you know?”
“Pomle is screaming. How could I not?”
Now he was here, he heard it again. That wail of the world—and Jvaile looked in astonishment at Orjin for one long moment.
“Yes, of course. I had no idea you could hear it.”
Orjin’s head turned, and he frowned at Jvaile.
“No one else can?”
The moment of clear confusion on the [Druid]’s face was his answer. He had heard that wail the day he left, and the pain of it had driven him to leave. Returning, he felt Jvaile’s words without her telling him.
Pomle was lost. That corruption was a poison so foul it would kill any who settled here, even if they did not drink the waters. It had to be removed, but if he touched it with his hands, he was sure he would suffer it.
“At the very least, we must try to remove it. Or else Pomle might birth horrors in time. Or simply be another death zone of poison.”
The [Druids] would do their best. Yet Orjin was still searching.
“Strongest! Vandum and the other masters are still out there, and Thelican’s army is closing upon them! They will be cornered by evening; they are clashing with the [Riders] trying to box them in.”
Soloxenethn’s urgent voice made the two turn and break away from the dire talk of Pomle’s future. Orjin called back.
“How? What about the storm?”
“What storm?”
Orjin looked around, and the sandstorm that he had been fighting under…was gone. Of all the times for it to finally waste its energy! It might have let Vandum’s forces reach Pomle! At least here they would have the home ground.
“Wildspeaker, I must go.”
“Of course, Strongest.”
She bowed, and he went striding back to Pomle’s people. It did feel the same, corruption and scream of Pomle or not.
For there was a certain Drake organizing people and making lists.
“Wonderful. And you just upped and came with Orjin? That sounds like him. Right, you are Group 3, understand? If I say ‘Group 3’, you’re part of it. [Memorize That].”
“Salii.”
The Drake glanced over as she tapped someone on the head with her clipboard. Orjin was, somehow, never more relieved to see it was battered but unbroken. Salii didn’t acknowledge him at first, just finished assigning groups to people. Then she slowly turned.
“Orjin, did you find your answer to your journey? Yes or no? I have two boxes here, and depending on the answer, you’re either going to do something incredibly stupid to defeat Thelican, or I need to organize an exit plan. I don’t know if I can save Vandum and the others, but maybe with Reizue’s Dream we can.”
Her voice was brisk, and she didn’t quite look at him as Orjin stood there.
“Salii, you told everyone I was coming. You paved the way for me, didn’t you?”
“Well, of course I did, Orjin. Technically, I’m working for Vandum, but he was concerned about you. Did you run into many patrols here?”
“No.”
“Well, that’s the power of faking [Messages] for you. Soldiers really do obey most orders they’re given without question. At least, Thelican’s lot do. I guess they’re used to stupid orders. Is that a ‘yes’ or ‘no’?”
Her quill raised, and she looked up at him. Orjin shook his head.
“I don’t have my answer yet.”
“Ah, well…I’ll work with Plan C, then. Let me know if it changes. I’d say we have one full hour before we need to put a rescue into operation or begin running for the hills. Let me speak with the leader of the [Druids], get one glass of clean water, wash my face, and then we’ll have an employee performance review, and we can do the death and glory bit.”
She briskly circled a few things on her clipboard, and Orjin spoke again.
“Salii. I’m glad you’re alive. Why did you go to war with Vandum?”
The Drake paused and sighed.
“…Okay, we’re doing the performance review now, then.”
Now it really felt like the old days. Orjin paused.
“What? I don’t know what that is.”
The [Secretary]’s roll of her eyes took in all of Chandrar.
“I know you don’t. It’s amazing how many non-Drake nations don’t have one. Orjin, I’m your employee. You’re the employer. Doesn’t it strike you as…logical to have a moment where we sit down and analyze what I’ve done wrong? Correct me in a formal way so I can reflect on mistakes? Drakes have it in our society.”
With Thelican’s gigantic army bearing down on them, at the end of his journey, Orjin was somehow learning about employee practices. He folded his arms.
“Why would I need to sit down with you to do that? And when is there an…employer…performance review?”
Salii’s flashed him a bright smile full of sharp teeth.
“Funny thing, Orjin. If you’re at the top, you don’t get one. That’s Drake culture for you. I agree it’s important, but who gets to boss the boss? At any rate, I think it’s valuable. For me. Listen…humor me.”
She brushed at her cheek, covered in ash, and he thought her claws were shaking.
“A thousand [Martial Artists] went to war with Vandum. Not all of them died, but our final count between those Buler got and Vandum’s forces is about a hundred and fifty-three. I think at least four hundred deserted rather than died, and there are prisoners of war who survived. But I got half of Pomle killed. I could have told them to just run, but Vandum wanted to counter-level.”
She gave him a too-bright stare.
“I helped him.”
“The war began because of me, Salii.”
The Drake held up a claw.
“Which I allowed. I could have stopped you, you know. I know your personality. I never gainsaid you, pulled you aside to say ‘this is going to result in war’.”
“I knew.”
“Shut up, Orjin, please. I didn’t tell you outright. Maybe if I had laid it out for you…on the plus side? I helped you get to Torreb. I take credit for helping Vandum outwit Nerrhavia’s Fallen this long; I’ll even mention that I gained [Proficiency: Martial Arts], and I have two other combat-Skills as a result of following Vandum.”
“Congratulations.”
Salii was breathing too hard. She looked up at Orjin.
“Yes, well. I got all that as a result of enabling Pomle’s war, which has killed half its population. I did not stop the destruction of its only natural resource, and this war looks like the end of everything, miracles aside. Now, Orjin, this is the part where you tell me what I’ve done wrong and how I can improve from your perspective. Oh, and I didn’t do much with the Earth-children when I could have.”
She nodded vaguely at Iratze and the others. Then she waited. Orjin stared up, past Salii’s head. He thought for a long while.
“—I cannot think of anything I would ask you to do differently. I would recommend you to other employers if you would like a written…recommender.”
Salii’s clipboard slapped his arm, and Orjin winced; she’d hit a wound.
“Orjin!”
He met her furious gaze.
“Nothing you did strikes me as wrong, Salii. Vandum and I made our choices. You saved lives, even at the end.”
He looked at Mendi, who was hugging Iratze and Raul and the other Earthers. Salthorn’s disciple was alive thanks to Salii. But the Drake just shook her head. She closed her eyes, then stepped forwards and leaned her head on his chest.
“I’m so tired. I knew you wouldn’t be good at this. Orjin. Can’t you reprimand me? Once?”
“That is something you do best to yourself.”
She glanced up at him and exhaled.
“You’re a tougher boss than I thought. You…you know I came here to Pomle just to use you, right? I told you it was because this was the most miserable, unorganized place. But I knew it was full of potential. I didn’t care about you. I just wanted to use you or whoever was Strongest. When you left, I thought, ‘I’ll do the same with Vandum’. And look.”
Her gaze found the wounded [Martial Artists], some with severed limbs, others sitting without the will to fight. The pit in the center of the oasis.
“Yes. But isn’t that what [Secretaries] do? You helped us. Whether it was right or wrong, it was the definition of your class.”
Salii’s smile was bleak, and her tail left a faint trail through the sand. He realized she’d lost the tip of it. Didn’t Drakes think that was very bad?
“I used to think so. I came from Salazsar, Orjin. I’ve told you what the City of Gems is like—but maybe I never explained it. You work, you make money, and morality and feelings come into your business only if you want to be stupid. I thought that’s how it was. How it should be. A [Secretary] does her job; she might report corruption or incompetence, but…”
She stared past him.
“It didn’t feel good, working with Vandum. I had more fun in the Pomle that you thought was fine. Orjin. I feel like I might have wasted ten years of both your and my time, almost. I don’t think I made a difference.”
She gave him such a sad look that Orjin moved to put a hand on Salii’s shoulder. And he felt like this conversation mattered, because her words of guilt sparked something in his mind.
“Salii. But for you, Pomle would never have changed. You may have been what many warriors thought was radical, unnecessary, and against the spirit of Pomle. But upon my journey, I realized how important what we did was. Pomle was just a training ground; you turned it into a place that was growing. A sanctuary. In your way, you ever had more of the spirit of Pomle than anyone else.”
She looked at him, watery-eyed, and wiped at her face. Orjin’s voice had reached the others waiting for him, and they looked at her and him.
“So I did nothing wrong? This is the worst—I’ll do my own review later. Better. Go on, Orjin. Let’s do something productive instead.”
That was what she said, but she wiped her face on her sleeve—which only made it dirtier, then looked up at him with a smile.
And he returned it. Then Orjin really did feel like the Strongest of Pomle.
 
——
 
“I have returned home.”
That was how Orjin greeted the assembled people in front of him. They waited, and Salii covered her face with her clipboard, because Orjin hadn’t thought of anything else to say.
“…I have not found what I am looking for, yet. But it is here. I know Vandum and the other masters are being cornered by Thelican’s army.”
Buler had flown up a bit and said that Thelican had every intent to take Pomle, but Vandum would go first. The ballistae were setting up, and…Orjin stared into the distance.
The skies were annoyingly clear when they all could have used the cover of a storm, and orange light was matching a setting sun. Orjin turned.
“I will not ask you to come with me. In fact, I hope you will all stay behind and run.”
“Not all of us will. I have sworn to follow you, and so I shall!”
Soloxenethn leapt to his feet, and Orjin sighed.
“You, perhaps—”
“I must go after my master! Strongest, please, let me go!”
Mendi clasped her fist against her hand and bowed. Salthorn was out there. Orjin had a feeling about what was coming next.
“People, please! What the Strongest means is that most of you will need to stay behind. Nerrhavia’s Fallen will show no mercy to you. The [Druids] will pull back. I will make a shortlist of those going with Orjin. If we can, we’ll use Reizue’s Dream to flee. Go on, Strongest?”
He gave Salii a nod of gratitude. Orjin took a breath and stared north.
“I have no great will to throw myself into war, as Vandum did. You have called me the Strongest of Pomle all this way here, despite the fact that Pomle is gone. Yet here I stand.”
He paused and looked at them.
“If you call me that, I will try. For my people are there. The masters of Pomle are my comrades and friends and rivals. I cannot stay here. I do not know what comes next. But if you allow it, I will go one last time as Orjin, Strongest of Pomle. It is how I was always happiest and surest.”
He asked them, bowing deep, and they looked at each other before copying his gesture. Hundreds of heads bowed back, and Orjin raised his own head.
“Thank you.”
“You don’t have a Level 50 class and Skill, do you?”
Salii whispered to Orjin. He shook his head.
“Level 49.”
She exhaled.
“I hate gambling. But I guess I have to bet on you one last time. What do you need for your answer, Orjin?”
“I think I found it. But it’s silly. I don’t know what it means, but something Erin Solstice said…I have her answer. It won’t save us from those ballistae. But I will try to rescue the others.”
Salii’s brows rose.
“That woman reached out to you? Really? She’s getting as bad as Magnolia Reinhart. Good for her. What’s the answer?”
Orjin didn’t say. Salii jabbed him in the side with her clipboard, then narrowed her eyes. She stared past him, and he tried to block her vision.
“Oh, no. Really? That’s your answer?”
“It’s…an answer to her question. The other answer came from Jvaile. From being here.”
Orjin bent down, scooped up the dirt and sand, and let it fall from his fingertips. He thought he was in the very earth. Collos was buried here. They were all sons and daughters of Pomle. He looked at Salii.
