And then he felt the wind pick up. Orjin’s head turned, and he sensed a great gust blowing across the flatlands, wind whipping where it had not before. He generally knew when the weather would change, and this wasn’t something he had predicted. When he turned his head—a woman stood next to the surprised Fury of Skies.
“No.”
A meddlesome woman, Salii had called her. A certain [Innkeeper], who, like the [Bard], liked to put her finger on the scales of each story. Yet when Orjin stared down at the figure who had joined Soloxenethn, who was laughing and bowing, he did not see Erin Solstice.
Ryoka Griffin gestured as the two figures moved their arms together, like the pattern of the wind, and a gale blew over the [Soldiers] of Nerrhavia’s Fallen. Armor began to rattle, and the sand whipped up into tornados as the advancing [Soldiers] slowed.
Then the Strongest smiled, and he bowed to her—and he was running. Running, as two figures channeled the wind itself, throwing [Soldiers] off their feet.
 
——
 
Vandum was bleeding and burned to his bones. He was leaning against a wall shuddering with the impacts of ballista bolts, gasping.
“We charge at the [General]. Kill him.”
“Vandum. It’s over. They have us pinned like rats. Enough.”
Salthorn knelt over Jalte. His partner, Sorron, the master of the Stonebody school of martial arts, looked up as the remaining warriors sat there.
“I beat a Djinni. Four more levels. Four more! If I had enough time to rest—”
Vandum was raging. He was half-dead and still. Salthorn spoke to the others.
“This isn’t even a single chance in a million. Surrender.”
“Salthorn. What are you going to do?”
She was retying a belt around her waist; she’d changed bodies, taken one of the fallen warriors of Pomle who had told her to use their body. Now, she flexed one arm and looked at Vandum.
“Sorron. Will you come with us?”
Vandum stopped snarling. He looked at her with respect, and Sorron’s head rose.
“Someone take care of Jalte. I will.”
The three foremost masters of Pomle stopped, and then Vandum nodded.
“The ballistae have us tracked. Three will be as good as thirty. If we fall, fight on. A single one of us can kill that [General]. The survivors will lead Pomle to greatness. Rebuild it.”
“Perhaps. I saw Torreb the Undefeated with the [General].”
“Then we will slay a legend.”
Salthorn’s eyes were bleak. And despite his boasting, even Vandum paused a moment. He turned his back to the soldiers outside and clasped his fist against one palm.
“You, who have fought with me this far. We have kept Collos’ dream alive. It was a privilege to fight beside you.”
They copied the gesture slowly. Vandum looked at Sorron, and she was trying to rise—but Jalte’s hand was on her arm. She gently unprized his fingers, and the three of them turned.
The walls would cave in soon. Salthorn heard cheering from Nerrhavia Fallen’s army when they had been so silent after they had seen the cost of taking Pomle to the edge. No…was it cheering or the sound of battle? She tilted her head, and Sorron held up one palm.
“Hold. Are they charging?”
It made no sense, but Thelican might have ordered it. Everyone stirred—and then they heard the sounds of battle right on top of them. Vandum’s snarl returned, and he crouched, flicking a blade out of his gauntlets.
Salthorn closed her eyes, pivoted as she sensed someone outside the enclosure—and then halted, mid-grab.
Vandum’s throwing dagger did not. The enchanted blade spun through the air like a whisper—and Orjin caught it between two fingers.
“Orjin!”
The [Martial Artist] was breathing hard. Arrows pattered off the stone walls, and there were horns blowing wildly. The thump of ballista bolts intensified, and the [Martial Artists] shot to their feet.
“Strongest.”
The whisper came from Jalte. Vandum looked like he’d seen a ghost. Sorron’s face broke into a smile. The woman reached out, and she and Orjin clasped arms.
“How did you get here?”
“I ran.”
His voice was so calm—no, there was a note of tension in it, but it was Orjin. That joke was his deadpan one, so flat and serious you could mistake it even if you knew him.
Salthorn began grinning, but Vandum’s leap cut her off. The [Strongest of the Martial Age] jumped at Orjin, and the other man caught Vandum and arrested his momentum.
“Vandum! Stop!”
“You—it’s time to settle this. I knew you would return. Let’s finish this now.”
Vandum’s gaze was wild, and Salthorn couldn’t believe him. Their shelter was caving in and he wanted to fight to the death? She yanked him back, pinning him against the wall with Sorron, and then she saw his gaze.
Fear. For all he doubtless had five levels on Orjin at least—Vandum looked at Orjin as if he were an apprentice who had just spotted a master.
Or perhaps it was that sense Salthorn had. She gave Orjin a second look. He had changed. He looked calmer now. He was no less the Strongest who had beaten the Siren, but it seemed like he was on the cusp of something.
Two paths of Pomle met, and neither Vandum nor Orjin looked away until Orjin spoke.
“I am the Strongest of Pomle.”
Vandum said nothing, and Sorron and Salthorn tensed, but Orjin clasped his fist against his palm.
“Let me be it today, Vandum. Please. We shall settle anything after the battle. I have not yet found my own path. But I shall today or never.”
Vandum’s desperate stare and his taut, straining form relaxed abruptly. The panting Stitch-man, wounded and scarred from unceasing battle, looked at Orjin.
“I never took the title from you. I wish I had. Xil is dead.”
“I know. I have come to fight with you.”
“With an army?”
Salthorn’s hopeful voice was answered by a shake of the head.
“There is a carpet. Buler, the rider, rescued Salii and Mendi. But it cannot reach us.”
“Mendi is alive?”
Her heart leapt, but some of the will to die also fled Salthorn. She feared that, and Orjin nodded.
“The Fury of Winds allowed me to reach you, but there is no army. We must face Nerrhavia’s Fallen head on.”
The masters of Pomle stared at him in silence.
Oh. He was the Orjin that they remembered. Slowly, more got to their feet, but Orjin held up a hand.
“I will go alone with Vandum.”
“Not alone. I’ll go with you.”
“And I.”
Sorron and Salthorn stepped forwards. Orjin gave them both a nod. Vandum was calm now, as if he had found his own equilibrium. He reached out, and Orjin clasped hands with him.
“Then let us show them our abilities. They must come to us.”
“Agreed.”
Orjin was pulling something out of a bag of holding, and Salthorn recognized what he held.
“Please tell me that’s a secret weapon.”
“No.”
He smiled at her.
“It’s just a silly thing.”
He opened the lid as Vandum peered at what was inside with Sorron. They looked at him, then at Salthorn. She recognized what it was: a mundane substance. Yet Orjin looked confused when they asked if it was magic. Because it did look like it.
 
——
 
The legends of Pomle walked out onto the sands, leaving the stone shelter studded with ballista bolts and magical scorch marks behind them.
The ballistae ceased firing for a second, and four masters of Pomle strode forwards and halted.
Vandum. Orjin. Salthorn. Sorron.
Whether they knew it or not, it echoed in the memories of those who remembered how Pomle had first begun.
A [Great General] snarled and told the ballista to take aim. The other three spread out as Orjin took some jars from his home, his only possessions, out and put them down on the ground. The army watched as ballistae snapped and giant projectiles sang through the air.
They curved up, up, and then fell, and the [Martial Artists] moved.
Vandum leapt into the air, dodging the ones aimed at him. One tracked him, homing, and he threw a punch that turned into a blazing fist that smashed into the bolt. He landed, pivoting, and he raised his vambraces to block another—
Sorron raised her arms and interposed herself between the bolt and Vandum. The impact sent her skidding back, and her body was stone. Yet not mere iron. The stone of mountains from which mithril was hewn. Veins of precious metal; a will stronger than even that. Two more bolts hit her, from the side, in the back—and she rocked.
But the bent tips of the bolts landed, and the master of the Stonebody school rose. Yet even stone could break. Blood ran from her side, and Vandum nodded to her.
Salthorn held still as a projectile flashed towards her. She was waiting, tenser than she had ever been in her life. Her hands were held out, and she faced the projectile square on. Her hands flashed—
The ballista bolt jumped, curving over her head and crashing into the ground a hundred feet behind her. The Selphid staggered, then swiveled.
A second bolt—and those watching saw it jump again.
Had she thrown it? The greatest grappling expert in Pomle, the [Master of the Moving World], was panting. Her hands were shaking.
She had never done that before. Nor could she keep doing it. But the artillery crews had halted in astonishment again.
Was it useless? 
“Fire!”
Thelican’s scream made them take aim again. And this time, one shot at Orjin of Pomle.
The Strongest had been bending over his pots as the projectiles streaked past him. He had known none were aimed at him. Now, he looked up, and like last time, he held perfectly still. Vandum spun.
“Orjin!”
He howled, and the bolt struck the ground and threw up dirt and debris. Vandum shielded his face and used [Evasive Dodge] to hurl himself out of the way of another bolt. When he saw the dust clear—Orjin was standing exactly where he had been.
“Impossible.”
Even the other three masters looked incredulous. Sorron had to take a knee as three more impacts sent her down, and Vandum and Salthorn covered her. Not even Sorron could block that! How was Orjin…?
Then Vandum saw something impossible. As he watched, able to see Orjin from the side and closer than anyone else, he realized something was wrong.
Orjin’s eyes were closed. He opened them after the dust had settled. As the ballistae cracked in the distance, he closed his eyes again. Vandum’s head spun—but they were aimed at Orjin this time.
The [Strongest of the Martial Age] watched as Orjin took one slow step left. The wind was blowing, and Vandum saw Orjin tense.
A ballista bolt passed straight over his shoulder, missing him by inches. Another hammered the ground next to him, and sand struck him, but he didn’t move. But the third one was dead on, and he…
Moved his palm and pushed the ballista bolt aside the moment before it hit him. 
Orjin vanished again as the trio of impacts threw up earth. But when he reappeared, he was standing in the same spot. Opening his eyes.
“How is he doing that? A Skill?”
“No. I’ve…have I heard of that?”
Salthorn, the oldest of the masters, was staring at Orjin in the same shock as the others, but she was trying to remember. Her eyes widened.
“That’s an aura technique.”
“Orjin doesn’t use his aura. He doesn’t have an aura.”
Vandum snapped back. It was one of Orjin’s few weaknesses! Yet he could not deny how Orjin had done that.
But to calculate the ballista bolts…they had been fired from a thousand feet away. Not even an [Emperor] inside of his lands could do that.
What was going on? Then Orjin opened his eyes.
“Arrows, next.”
The [Soldiers] were advancing. Now, Thelican intended to overwhelm the [Martial Artists]. Just as Vandum wanted.
“We have to charge.”
They were advancing into arrow-range and, except for Sorron, the arrows would kill them, and the enchanted ones would slay even her. Vandum began to stride forwards—and the first hail of arrows filled the sky. He looked up, activated an enchantment on his vambraces, and leapt back.
“Back!”
Salthorn took two arrows, though her Selphid body avoided them, and Sorron blocked the rest. There were so many that Vandum cursed.
Orjin hadn’t run forwards with the others; he had stepped back. He looked at the sea of arrows embedded in the sands.
“I can’t dodge that. I can knock one volley out of the air with my Skill.”
“Likewise.”
Vandum tasted death on his tongue as he stared at the vast distance between him and that Great General. But they had to get among the [Soldiers]…he saw Orjin lift a hand.
“Wait. Please. Let me try something. At the very least, I want to show someone what I promised. My magic in martial arts.”
Vandum hesitated. The [Archers] were advancing slowly, getting closer. But he nodded. He looked at the pots, and Orjin reached down into one and pulled something out:
Colored sand.
 
——
 
It was just colored sand. Orjin had been pleased to realize no one had wanted it. And hurt.
It looked as if someone had opened every pot and begun collecting it until they realized it really wasn’t magic, then tossed it back down. Salthorn had recognized it, and so would Xil.
But Vandum, Sorron, and the others had never known about Orjin’s particular hobby. Which was to gather up Pomle’s sand and sort it, grain by grain, into pots. And then…
He let a handful of blue dust blow from his hand through the air as a figure landed next to the other masters, and Vandum nearly killed the Fury of Winds.
Soloxenethn had an arrow in his shoulder and several cuts, but he had survived. He stared at Orjin.
“Sand?”
The Fury of Winds was incredulous. He had fought through Nerrhavia Fallen’s army for this, thinking it was Orjin’s secret weapon.
But it was just blue sand. It swirled up into the air in a beautiful pattern, tracing the way only the wind could move. And Orjin had green sand, yellow sand, red sand…
They were blowing upwards as the Strongest opened the pots. It seemed like even the Great General of Nerrhavia’s Fallen had completely stopped, wondering what was going on. The [Soldiers], [Archers]…stared at the sand.
A thousand [Detect Magic] spells crossed the air, and they found nothing.
It was sand.
Not a Skill either. Not poison.
Just sand.
Orjin tilted his head back and smiled. Are you watching, Erin Solstice? He let the blue sand billow out from between his fingers, the hard work of years, as he emptied the pot, then moved his hands, as he had taught himself to do in his hut. The sand swirled around him like a shimmering veil, and he parted it as sand like black diamonds formed a twisting snake between his careful movements.
It wasn’t normally possible to do this in the open.
“Thank you, Fury of Skies. The wind is beautiful today. Twice, now, it has given me power. The storm at Pomle, and now this.”
