Then his head turned, and he looked out across the camp. Aside from Thelican’s central camp, the other camps were quiet. Mundane fires lit them, and he had seen thousands of [Soldiers] lying wounded, having limbs replaced with cloth by the [Cloth Healers].
He still smelled the six officers that had been burned alive this morning. When Barelle the Bard looked around, he noticed the [Soldiers] watching him.
Of course, Thelican knew they were watching him. But Barelle wondered what the [Great General] saw. Maybe it was different because he was Human or they weren’t trying as hard with him.
But he met the eyes of the Hemp [Soldiers], and it felt, to Barelle, that the only thing keeping them here was the knowledge that if they deserted, their families would all be put to death. Nerrhavia’s Fallen had excellent bureaucracy, at least on an administrative level.
This was high morale? 
“Sir Barelle! You’ve toured our great empire for the last two months! Tell me—how have you found it? Cognita Truestone and Barelle the Bard are so moved as to visit; let us have some music. But something appropriate, nothing about Prince Zenol.”
Thelican might be drunk, but he remembered the [Prince] and sneered.
“That fool who got in the way of my victory at Pomle along with those damned [Gladiators]…I know you have a soft spot for him. All the sympathy for him—your doing, eh? Barelle’s famous voice and music has power.”
He wagged a finger at Barelle, who bowed.
“You found me out, Great General. Nothing escapes your eyes.”
Thelican flicked his fingers.
“I shall forgive it; one must have a great friend. I have almost forgiven Yvlon myself. But I shall have new music from you tonight. Something fitting.”
“Fitting…”
Barelle looked at Thelican, and he saw the [Great General]’s eyes shifting. He was a nervous man behind it all. He had to know Orjin was no mean foe. He’d given more orders than just moving the ballistae. Here was a man who had unleashed a weapon that not even the King of Destruction’s enemies had countenanced.
A man who did that once would find it easier the second time. And yet—Barelle stood, and the laughter and sound went quiet.
“Great General Thelican, you are, to me, a man who embodies the very heart of Nerrhavia’s Fallen. It may be off-the-cuff, but I do have a song I will sing of you.”
Even Thelican noticed Barelle’s tone, and his smile faded and a troubled expression crossed his face. Yet—before he could ask Barelle what he meant, the [Bard] unslung his famous double-harp.
It had two rows of strings. One regular. One…strung with magic. Seldom did he pluck the glowing strings on the other side, even for royalty.
Each one was a different color, and Barelle liked to think that they were unique. Why, even the [Innkeeper] he had once met might have taken some cues from his strings. Though her fire might be the colors that endured longer than his tales.
He was old. Barelle was grey of hair where he had once been a young man, adventuring. His bones hurt from the road, and he remembered being sprightly with envy.
Yet. The older man had seen a far larger world than the younger one had. Perhaps a younger Barelle would have been laughing with Thelican.
The one of now? He slowly stretched his fingers across the harp. The first string he plucked was the second-highest on the magical side. It was strung with yellow, like someone had taken a strand from the sun. The note was high, and it rang.
The Hemp [Soldiers] stirred. They turned, heads raising with real interest, and the sound rang across the camps. In the distance, voices fell silent, and Thelican dropped his goblet. It fell to the ground, and the sound it made as the metal struck ground matched the note.
But Barelle didn’t pluck that string only once. He began playing with it and the white string above, the highest note. It rang like a crystal glass, like a bell.
One. Two. One. Two.
He wasn’t just touching them! He was strumming them—a fast, folk tune. Yet one that echoed for thousands of feet. It went into your bones and into your head.
And it was not an entirely pleasant tone. It was urgent and quick. It had all the hallmarks of a fun, catchy song, but the longer you listened to it, the more ominous it sounded.
 
“Silk and steel and Tyrants die.
Judged before Chandrar’s eyes
An Empire of the richest cloth
Never shall it die; we see it rise
Cotton and Hemp voices cry
Freedom was ever Nerrhavia Fallen’s troth.”
 
The [Great General] began tapping his foot to the rhythm after a few seconds, then clapping his hands. Barelle had studied folk songs, and the tune was familiar. It was indeed a song you could find yourself singing with others, albeit a bit more complex.
But his fingers was still playing the magic strings. Then he struck a blue chord, midway down, the deeper bass echoing like the sea. Like sadness and death, and Barelle looked around. The [Soldiers] were listening. Yet his voice grew higher.
 
“Oh, our weary cloth
We toil for the brighter days
The bonfire blaze
Shall consume it all.”
 
Then his fingers were plucking the white string, and it no longer sounded like the chime of crystal. They moved up to the end of the harp, and it sounded like a violin shrilling a plaintive tone.
A white shroud over a bier. A warning elegy. Thelican’s clapping slowed. He saw Barelle shifting his fingers. His fingers strummed the lowest notes now. A string made of shadows, blacker than night. A string of indigo thread, made of a Wyrm’s sinews.
Then the [Bard] struck the yellow chord, and it blazed orange, now, like he was holding a bonfire in his hands, and the Stitch-folk shrank back from the light shining through those dark notes—but some leaned forwards.
 
“The Tyrants fall
It was ever the Empire’s will
Brightly blazing light
Illuminate this night.”
 
Silk officers danced under the light, drunk, food spilling off the tables. Hemp and Cotton [Soldiers] watched, eyes flashing with the colors of his harp.
Then Barelle was certain. He played harder, and the song caught. He could see them listening, memorizing it.
After he was done, Thelican made to clap and found he had a catch in his throat. He couldn’t say why, but the new music, for all it was catchy, didn’t leave him best pleased.
“What a—fine song. What do you call it?”
“It needs a bit of work. But I may call it Illumination. A song in tribute to Nerrhavia Fallen’s great past.”
He smiled, and the [Great General] licked his lips and teeth uneasily.
“None more fitting. But you must compose an elegy to my victory as well, Barelle! Current events do matter.”
“I apologize, Great General Thelican. I swear I shall write a song of your next great battle. Upon my name.”
The man bowed smoothly. Thelican beamed and warmed at once, and he heard the tune of Barelle’s song spreading already. And he was part of this grand moment.
In the future, Barelle’s song would spread throughout Nerrhavia’s Fallen until it was known in every pub and inn. But that was a tale for a later date.
 
——
 
Orjin of Pomle had a nightmare. So did Thelican. Both men woke gasping. One lay there, gripped by a terror after Barelle’s song, and gave an order he knew he would regret.
“Bring me—bring me a [Message] scroll. A private one. Now.”
The other was having the same nightmare that he’d had at Torreb’s mansion.
He was kneeling in a field of ashes, staring at Collos’ back. Pomle vanished, and Orjin saw the Strongest turn. He raised his fists, and Vandum was there, waiting to challenge him.
When Orjin woke, gasping, he felt the sense of wrongness, even as he raised his own hands to fight.
“We are all in Collos’ shadow.”
When he stood and paced around their tiny camp, he saw Buler sleeping, literally rolled up in his carpet like a blanket. Soloxenethn was sleeping next to him, a blanket covering him and a sleeping mask over his eyes.
Spitty, though, opened one eye as Orjin stood. The Strongest strode away from the embers of a campfire, and the camel got up. When Orjin stared across the quiet nation of Tiqr, he noticed Spitty following him.
“Is this what happened to Ksmvr of Chandrar, Spitty?”
“Mweh.”
The camel made a faint sound that Orjin took to be ‘yes’. Orjin looked back…and saw another campfire behind him.
“That is Farmer Loreiil’s nephew. And someone else. A traveller, maybe. One of the ones Buler was talking to. I knew I saw him ferrying people around. They’re not bound for anywhere. They’re following us.”
Spitty nodded. Yup. Orjin stared at the sleeping figures. In his defense, he hadn’t noticed them because they’d caught up in the night; he had outpaced them, but Buler must have helped them catch up…or they’d just doggedly followed. Either way, it took some doing.
“If Nerrhavia’s Fallen attacks—they will be in danger. I should chase them off tomorrow.”
He heard a wheezing sound—and realized after a second that Spitty was laughing. Orjin had never seen a camel do pushups or laugh. Spitty was capable of both.
“—Is this what happened to Ksmvr?”
With Nsiia around? You have no idea. Orjin stood there and wished he could ask Spitty for advice.
It seemed, if he had Soloxenethn and Buler for company, the camel could be just as wise as the two. Or maybe Erin would reappear with some sage advice.
However…Orjin was not relying on her. It was not that the [Innkeeper] didn’t have wondrous powers. That was the very definition of her craft. Yet she could not solve his quandary. And he thought she would tell him that.
He just feared he didn’t know what he was searching for. So Orjin rambled about the thoughts he had had on his journey to Spitty.
“Magic. [Martial Artists] cannot beat magic. I was given [Magicbreaker Fist] when I levelled up. Maybe that was completion. But I did not want it. I see Collos in my dreams, and I feel like I am chasing him with Vandum. Yet I raise my fists to fight him, and I am ashamed.”
“Mweh?”
Spitty’s second grunt was confused. Orjin looked at the camel.
“I truly wish I knew if you had words to give. Are you speaking or…?”
He was about to ask if Spitty actually understood, but the camel gave him a few nods with his long head. Orjin stared at him.
Spitty understood him perfectly. And yet he had not understood the depths of the camel’s intelligence nor, knowing it, had the power to speak with Spitty.
Another ability he wished he had. Another thing his martial arts had no bearing on. How vast the world was.
Orjin stared at the stars and the few snowflakes drifting down. He was cold and shivered slightly. Unless he was moving to warm up, he chilled easily without much fat to insulate his body.
“How weak martial arts are, sometimes. The Stonebody school can weather any attacks, or so Sorron claims. Yet when I think of Yibre…I think Pomle is flawed. Do you remember my greatest warrior?”
Spitty nodded sagely. Orjin looked back the way he’d come and voiced something he had been thinking of.
“I think I erred even when talking to Torreb at the end. The greatest warrior that I described, even a path that lets any single person become an undefeatable champion—is still a locust. I have eaten, drank, slept, and by the standards of cities, I cost little; I left my mark on Pomle, which is humble, little. I was proud of that. But what did I give back? The [Monks] of Sottheim may be superior to [Martial Artists] after all.”
He thought of the [Farmers], who grew enough food for countless people to live on. Spitty frowned at Orjin, and the [Martial Artist] went on.
“Sottheim. I do not know that monastery exactly, but [Monks] farm, create texts, both provide for themselves, ideally, and train. Some must beg or rely on donations, but they provide services for the communities they join, unless they are reclusive to the extreme. Pomle never did that. We were a waystation that taught only battle.”
“Heh.”
Spitty understood at last, but the camel’s expression made it clear he thought Orjin was wringing his hands over nothing. Yet it was Orjin who wondered.
“Xil once said his spear could tie a knot, plough the ground, slay a beast, defend a town, even wipe the tears off a babe…though no one would let him try. He said this when Vandum argued with him whether a hand or spear was more superior. Yet…he told me the spear was not meant for these other things. It could hunt or kill. My hands, likewise. But now I wonder if I should have practiced farming. No; I wish I had.”
He looked back once, and Spitty watched as Orjin smiled and lifted his hand a moment before sand blew across the desert. It got in Spitty’s eye, and the camel spat angrily, but Orjin had shielded his face.
“It was a good place.”
The camel stared for a long time at Orjin as the Strongest fell silent. Orjin didn’t need to speak. He just stood there, copying the pose of the [Farmers]. Not when they leaned tiredly on their tools, but the form that appeared in grace when they felt the earth moving like water.
How would you adapt that? He felt his way around, shifting his feet, bending, using one palm like it was the edge of a hoe. Then a foot since bending over was ungainly.
The camel watched as Orjin gently dug his foot into the ground around the oasis and left a trough of dirt as naturally as if he were walking. Spitty tried with one hoof and was still stomping the dirt when Orjin came back and, shamefaced, retamped the land down.
“Silly things. I will practice if I ever have time. I am no [Farmer].”
Orjin wished he understood why the camel stared at him with an open mouth and began to mweh rapidly. At length, he patted Spitty on the head. It was late. Orjin went to sit back cross-legged as Spitty kept digging at the dirt.
The [Martial Artist] stared at his hands and felt like he was wrestling with an idea he could not yet give form. His dreams, the advice he’d been given, his puzzling over the greatest warrior—it was like he was facing a foe, but blindfolded. He had clues, but he could not put together the final shape of his opponent, his goal.
Yet when he dreamed once more, in the moments between sleeping and meditation, Orjin had a vision of a greener Pomle that sang as he had remembered it. But when he woke—he thought he could still hear the scream that had never ceased since Thelican’s poisonous lightning had fallen.
 
——
 
Orjin sat cross-legged until the sun rose. By the time he got up to talk to the followers, Spitty had fallen asleep. But the camel, Soloxenethn, and Buler were in good spirits that morning.
So were the followers, who were munching on rations. They got to their feet, two young people and three older ones. Two women, three men.
One was indeed Nevun, Loreiil’s nephew. He had come with the [Farmer]’s blessing. Orjin had no idea what the other man was thinking.
