Orjin bowed his head as they sat on the swaying carpet. They were flying, now; he had given up running, and Buler was cautiously moving them ahead, but keeping away from the forces he claimed were waiting for them.
“Vandum and I are not that different.”
“That may be what you believe, but to me, you never lost to him, Strongest. I saw you defeat the Siren and show her mercy; if you lost to anyone, it was Thelican’s magic. And who could stop that?”
“Collos, perhaps.”
The [Duelist] shrugged, and Orjin thanked him for taking in other disciples he’d found. In fact, Iratze and a bunch of the Earthers were among the last group that Orjin found, camped a mere fifteen miles from Pomle.
They dared go no further; in fact, Orjin found refugees, Earthers, and more [Martial Artists] in a strange camp with the last people he expected to find, all of whom greeted him with great surprise.
Orjin, though, just blinked at a woman he had never met, but who had known Nsiia.
The [Druid], Jvaile, and over a hundred other [Druids] and related classes had the wildest of camps, complete with chipmunks, birds, and other animals as well as loosed oxen, who pulled the carts and wagons of their own accord.
“What are you doing here, Wildkeeper Jvaile?”
He bowed to her, and she bowed back.
“Strongest. I was called back by both my class and the will of Chandrar. You know we fled Tiqr rather than fight?”
She looked ashamed as she saw many of Tiqr’s inhabitants, and Orjin nodded.
“You wished to save as many animals as you could. There was no shame in fleeing a lost war.”
The woman had braided brambles in her hair, but they didn’t seem to hurt her, and one had a pale bloom, which she touched.
“So you say. I feel it, nevertheless. I left and sought the guidance of other masters and nature itself. I was rebuked, yet not censured. Shame would have been on me either way. War is shameful, but I am guilty. That is not why I returned. It was Pomle which called me.”
“Pomle is gone.”
The [Druid] nodded, and her eyes flashed yellow like an animal herself as she snarled.
“Yes. That bastard Thelican unleashed a magic so foul I smell it from here. On an oasis! If the Sea Shepherds were here…he had best not set sail to the New Lands or he might end up a mass of chum being eaten in the sea. If I had my way, I would bury him up to his head and let termites eat him alive.”
The wrath of [Druids] was not light indeed. But the woman calmed and looked bleakly east.
“…We wished to see if Pomle could be healed. I fear it cannot be, but it is our duty to try.”
Healed? Orjin had seen the pit and tasted the corruption in the air from that magic. The idea that anyone could reverse that damage was incredible—yet if anyone could?
The leaping of hope in his heart was the realest thing that he had ever felt. He bowed to the woman.
“If you can, we will be forever in your debt, Wildkeeper Jvaile. But I take it your presence here means Nerrhavia’s Fallen holds Pomle?”
“We were there for over a month, but they retook the oasis. I have seen the [Mages] fly in by carpet. Be careful. They are [Battlemages]; I could sense their magic from afar. And there are more ‘specialists’. All to kill you, Strongest.”
“I am not…”
Orjin’s voice was tired, and he was weary. Home was within view now; he could see the canyon’s walls from here if he stared hard from Buler’s carpet. But. He now feared he would find nothing.
The Strongest sat with the [Druids], and a flying squirrel landed on his lap. He looked at Iratze.
“Raul went to fight?”
“Idiot. Fucking idiot. Salthorn threatened to twist me into a pretzel if I did, but Raul went, and Vandum insisted. Some others made it back here, who ran away from the fighting. It’s just a bloodbath. I should have stopped Raul, but I couldn’t find the words.”
The young man hung his head, and Orjin placed a hand on his shoulder.
“I was angry enough to go, myself. But I…”
Iratze searched for words as those around him stared at him. Orjin realized they were watching him, and in that moment, he did feel like the Strongest.
He hated it. He hated being relied on. He had told Salii a hundred thousand times he didn’t want the responsibility, that he only had the role because he liked the challenge.
But that was a lie. Part of Orjin had always lied, even to her, which was shocking to the [Martial Artist]’s way of life.
Yet, truthfully, Orjin hadn’t wanted Vandum or a more radical master to take over Pomle. He had been proud of the title, and the fact that he did take a role in affairs rather than let things sort themselves out…
“I never should have freed those [Slaves].”
Orjin spoke to Tiqr’s refugees, to Iratze, to the [Duelist], Celcino, to Soloxenethn, Buler, and Spitty. He looked at the [Druid], Jvaile, and bowed his head.
“With respect, I never should have allowed Tiqr’s folk into Pomle. Nor even hosted the summit. If I had done this, Pomle would still be there instead of a hole in the ground taken by Nerrhavia’s Fallen.”
He pointed, and Nevun looked at Orjin, shocked. The Strongest’s blue eyes were calm as he lowered his hand. He put his hands on his knees as he sat there.
“It is my fault all this has come to pass. I take responsibility for it. I should not have freed the [Slaves]. Nor taken in Tiqr’s refugees. However. I cannot regret it. I regret what was lost. That I was too weak to protect Pomle. I was a poor Strongest, because I did what was right. I felt Pomle was more alive in the days before it vanished than it ever was before. And yet now it is gone.”
The duality of it hurt him. The guilt he bore could not scratch the confidence that what he had done was not wrong. Only that the outcome was terrible.
He was angry, he realized. Even now. Angry that he had been burned by the Djinni. Angry at Nerrhavia’s Fallen. Fighting those [Soldiers] had been—hard.
He had wanted to do more than just knock them around. Yet Orjin did not want to be Vandum. He knew his people were fighting Nerrhavia’s Fallen, and he understood why.
“Vandum, Salthorn, Jalte, Xil, and the other masters fight on. They fight to the death, many of them. You may wonder why. I understand. They think it is the test they have been training for their entire lives. They think it is the purpose of Pomle, to prove its greatness. I never thought we needed to prove it again, but I understand the uncertainty. They are trying to prove their class matters.”
He closed one hand and looked at it. Then Orjin shook his head.
“I could not join them earnestly, which is why I left. I am a killer with a killer’s fists, but in my heart, I have never enjoyed nor respected my ability to kill. Even when I had to. Some might tell me this is because [Martial Artists] practice a way of nonviolence and strength, but even in sparring, I injure others. I will kill if I must. I am lost, and I hope to find my answer in Pomle.”
Orjin addressed his friends and those he had come with and found on the way. He rested his hands on his knees and bowed down. When he raised his head, he said this:
“Tomorrow, I go to Pomle. I must do it alone. I cannot ask any one of you to die.”
“Ridicul—”
Soloxenethn leapt up, but Orjin raised a hand. His eyes were steady, and the Fury of Winds hesitated. Orjin looked eastwards, and his home…
His home was waiting for him.
“Tomorrow, I will go alone as I must. But when I reach Pomle, I will try to answer your expectations as Pomle’s Strongest.”
He looked around, and they cheered at that. Orjin sat there and smiled. But when he lay down…he dreamed one last time. Not about Pomle, or Collos.
He dreamed of something else, and when he woke, the air was heavy and silent.
 
——
 
They looked like a sea of milling insects covered in gold and red. But they had the faces of people, wide eyes, mouths open, stitches straining as they heaved forwards, shoving aside the dead, flinching as fire washed over them.
Arrows falling amidst their own kin. Xil could look down with his sharp eyes and pick out faces he thought he recognized from the last battle. A staring boy shoved aside by an older Hemp warrior, face grimly set, who took a splash of molten stone from a falling [Meteor] spell.
Their comrades pulled them up, and they advanced. Through a hail of stones that dropped an [Archer]; rocks hurled by a [Martial Artist] who tossed each one through the air hard enough to sunder metal and bone.
A technique Xil had seen them work on for years, kicking up stones and punching them. He saw the Stitch-woman, her cloth knuckles scarred beyond belief, and remembered laughing at her and telling her it was a technique only a Stitch-person would be dumb enough to master until she tried to wing him.
Now, that brave [Martial Artist of the Shattering Way] stood there, her fists striking stones, even hurling blades through the air as a thousand arrows came back for every one she tossed.
An arrow stood out from her collarbone, and she stared down at the ones jutting from her arms as she fell to one knee. Someone tried to pull her up, shield her from the volleys of arrows. Jalte, the [Ironbody Martial Artist], cradled his comrade in his arms. Bent down—and then his head rose.
Another technique vanished as Xil flew higher. His wings were ragged. His breath came painfully, and he looked down.
They were trying to let the disciples flee. Xil saw Salthorn, one arm torn off, hurling enemies away from her as she broke south. But they were pressed against a rock formation, and Thelican’s forces advanced. How many [Soldiers] had he annihilated by his own friendly fire?
That was the only reason they were alive. In the distance, eight Magic Throwers were alternating spells every five to ten minutes. Each time they fired, people died.
Meteor strike. Lightning bolts. A hail of ice spikes. The [Soldiers] and [Martial Artists] would take cover, and the damage the spells wreaked on Nerrhavia Fallen’s own lines kept them from attacking. For a moment. But it was also killing Xil’s people.
We are close to Pomle. This is a fitting place for it to end. Even if Vandum gets there—this is the same place where we won our freedom.
If he left and flew south for half a day, he might reach Pomle. The thought occurred to Xil, even as his wings labored to carry him higher.
He was exhausted now, an older man without the energy to fight on. Stamina potions didn’t seem to be working. He was out of healing potions, and he hoped…
He hoped Salii had escaped. She should have never come with them.
“Are you there, Orjin?”
The Garuda’s head was turning, and he wobbled in the air and looked down. An arrow had passed through his wing, and he saw the wide-eyed [Archer] who had shot it impossibly high up and struck him on the move.
“Genius.”
Xil let the arrow fall as he felt blood dripping down, tiny droplets falling to earth. He looked around and could not find Thelican. The man was too clever to let himself be killed.
“So be it.”
He had nevertheless made a mistake in his eagerness to finish this battle. The Mage Throwers had changed position to hammer Pomle’s warriors. Instead of spreading out, Thelican had placed them together and surrounded them with his Silk [Warriors], who had been watching the fighting for the last month.
Why not? Xil raised his spear as he finally neared a thousand paces to the first one. He drew his arm back—and threw.
“[Bolt from Clear Skies].”
Across from him, [Warriors] looked up and cried out as a spear flew down, growing larger, moving faster until it hit the first Magic Thrower, and the ground quaked. Xil caught his breath and then looked at the Magic Throwers.
A flickering magical shield wavered—and reformed as the artillery weapon turned towards him.
“Thought so.”
An adequate [General] protected his artillery like that. Xil turned again and looked back.
Was that Vandum he saw? From this far away even he couldn’t tell, but he thought he saw the man. A desperate, snarling figure, those vambraces flashing as he fought on.
There was neither despair on his face nor hope. Xil had looked in his eyes and saw only death. Like a man who had become the swinging sword itself.
He could not remember how Collos had looked when he had won Pomle’s freedom. Only how his back had seemed when he strode forwards and armies trembled. But Xil remembered when the two had faced each other on opposite sides, and he had seen that calm determination, like a banked fire, that exploded out of Collos.
Yet Xil had chosen to come here. Because this was what Pomle was.
Or so he’d thought.
“I must be getting old. Why didn’t I…go with Orjin? Salthorn. Were we trying to prove Pomle was still the Pomle of stories? I never had to prove anything before they called us that.”
How had the Fury of Winds seen clearer than he? Xil flew higher, and he saw a bolt of lightning touch down, felt the clap of the air. Saw figures scatter apart like tiny dolls.
They’re dying. Now, the exhaustion seemed to leave Xil’s veins. He was grateful for it. One arm rose, and he saluted those figures. He thought he saw some pause and look up at him. The few Garuda among Pomle’s ranks had all landed, unable to keep dodging through the skies alone.
He was glad that silly Peki wasn’t here. She would have been dead, choking on her own gore like too many others. His apprentices were almost all dead.
“I am a poor master of Pomle. I have always been a lazy teacher. But at the very least—I was there, thirty-six years ago. I can remind you of what existed.”
Xil called down to the army, who heard not his voice, but heads rose as he gathered his strength. Xil spread his wings as arrows rose and a spell flashed up at him.
He dodged the bolt of lightning and, in a moment of silence, spoke.
“[Summon: A Weapon Worthy of Me].”
The [Peerless Spearmaster] raised his clawed hand and concentrated. Below him, Nerrhavia Fallen’s army looked up as someone cried out.
A Silk-warrior, one of the commanders, his plumed helmet hidden among the ranks to prevent being targeted, jerked as the warriors around him turned.
He was trying to hold onto his weapon, which had suddenly shot up. The furious man clung to the spear, tassels decorated with his house’s lineage. The etched Orichalcum blade had been enchanted five hundred years ago and glittered with power.
Yet it was trying to fly up. Towards the Garuda.
The commander tried to will it back, his very aura straining against the Skill. But—then his feet left the ground. And he was kicking, and now, holding onto a spear rising faster, faster—
Xil looked down. He hadn’t used this Skill in over two decades. A [Spearmaster] did not need a magic weapon. But one last time…
The spear shot higher, faster than an arrow now—and he caught the weapon and admired the curved tip. Checked the balance and understood how to swing it.
