Rain was falling. Not snow, from those skies. Nor were they grey with winter’s heart any longer; they had turned orange.
Soot blew across Xil’s feathers. Soot and ash. Even flying embers that made the milling figures below flinch. He ignored them as he flew higher, eyes fixed on the horizon.
The air whipped his feathers, and he tasted iron in his lungs. His breathing was hard; his grey plumage was stained with blood, though he had taken no wounds so far. The rain tried to cling to him, weigh him down. He refused to let it, and his spear rose.
It was a plain, low-quality steel spear enchanted with magic he’d seized from a foe and used all his time in Pomle. To him, it was as fitting a weapon as any other.
A [Spearmaster] did not need the greatest of weapons, and whoever had made this had balanced it perfectly. It had been with him for over…how long, now?
If he counted correctly, it had been thirty-six years. Thirty-six years since he had flown these skies like this.
Since Pomle had won its independence and freedom. Now, Xil, the [Peerless Spearmaster], flew once more.
“Goodbye.”
He lifted the spear and saw how worn it was, yet how beautiful. The magic had faded, but the blade had survived ten thousand sharpenings. It had come from war and known peace. He drew his arm back—then threw the spear.
It flew through the skies, a single tiny thing amidst the arrows falling below him. Spells futilely struck the air, missing him as the groundling [Mages] of Nerrhavia’s Fallen aimed up. But Xil was just raising his gaze higher.
His spear left a trail of vapor behind it, an arrow’s wake in the smog and ash. It spun, and that tip of metal struck its target.
A falling mass of rock and stone, practically molten. A meteor spell. The Tier 5 magic had been aimed at his people; now the spear carved a hole through the rock, sending it spinning until the force of its movement tore apart the stone and sent the fiery debris falling over the army below it.
Xil saw Stitch-folk screaming, fleeing the fire, rolling to put themselves out. They feared fire so much—but it was their favorite thing to use against their foes.
“Vandum! The Magic Throwers are firing again! I cannot stop them all!”
The Garuda’s howl reached a bloody figure in the center of the fighting, who was plunging towards an enemy commander. A brave Hemp [Captain] held his ground as a sea of [Soldiers], low-level conscripts, tried to keep back a tiny band from pushing further.
The warriors of Pomle. They looked like a single drop amidst a sea of foes. Yet this battle was theirs.
If—Xil’s head turned, and he saw another spell coming. An arcing bolt of lightning, slower than the real thing, controlled by the Magic Thrower, a device capable of projecting a powerful spell. He shouted, but it was curving down on the warriors following the Stitch-man with vambraces covered in blood, teeth bared in a grin as he crushed a skull with his fingers. Vandum looked up—and a second [Martial Artist] stepped forwards.
“[Will of Steel]. [Magic Guard].”
Xil saw Jalte, the [Ironbody Martial Artist], plant his feet on the ground. Warriors and [Soldiers] alike sprang away from him as the bolt of [Arced Grand Lightning] curved and struck him.
Thunder. Xil looked down as he circled, dodging arrows flying up at him, and the flash of light revealed ground turned to glass—and a single Garuda, arms raised in a block. His skin was black, and steam rose from his body—but Pomle resumed the charge.
A single man blocked the power of your artillery. The sight of it should terrify Nerrhavia Fallen’s [Soldiers]. And it did. They were close to routing already, but there was nowhere to go.
Legions of Hemp [Soldiers] were advancing, like moths to a flame, trying to throw themselves into death to kill one of Pomle’s warriors. The arrows shot at Xil were landing, striking friendly targets—yet another volley rose. He caught one arrow and hurled it back the way it had come, like a bow.
A single [Archery Lieutenant] dodged too late, and the [Archers] flinched and scattered as he dropped. But Xil was already streaking away towards the Magic Throwers.
They were surrounded by Silk-caste warriors who backed up, packing up the artillery, in case Xil tried to attack the ones nearest him. They had virtually no presence on the frontlines. Hemp fought while Silk and Cotton stood to the sides. This was the way of Nerrhavia’s Fallen; Xil wondered if the fool of a [General] knew what he was doing. Not just the tactics. The tactics, the Garuda knew all too well.
Bleed them dry. Surround them. Bring them down with sheer numbers. It was the simple strategy of General Thelican. Worse, it was working.
Vandum killed the [Major], and the battalion scattered, but another rushed in as Xil saw the battlefield changing. A wave of terrified [Soldiers]…
He could pick out their very faces. A young man staring wide-eyed as he rushed behind a pike he and two others were carrying, the tip wobbling unsteadily. It could still kill, but—
A hand plucked him from the ground and tossed the boy. Not just him; fifteen [Soldiers] went flying, tripping up their comrades, tumbling into the dust. A massive hand had flipped them like stones on a board.
Salthorn. The master of grappling strode forwards as her disciples and younger [Martial Artists] rushed ahead. Risky, but they knocked the stunned and disorganized [Soldiers] down. One that Xil recognized delivered a jump-kick that took a Stitch-woman in armor clean off her feet and sent her onto her back five feet away.
Raul. He shouldn’t have been here, but where else would he go? Tiqr? Vandum had turned no one but children away.
Another small victory in this battle. But Xil’s eyes caught a [Martial Artist] too eagerly rushing forwards and a stray arrow striking his shoulder. The Dullahan paused, and a sword cleaved across his front. Salthorn leapt forwards, knocking the [Soldier] down, but the bloody [Martial Artist] needed a potion. If they had one…
How many had died today? How many would level? Xil dove, feinting as arrows and magic rose.
“This war will consume us all.”
Thelican was hounding them all. He was out there, somewhere, watching as his soldiers ground against Pomle. There were so many. Yet, onwards Xil flew. Alone in the sky. He dove and, like a passing breeze, plucked a spear from a Stitch-girl’s hand.
Her mouth opened wide, and he saw bright purple eyes staring up at him. Felt her try to hold onto it—then he spun above the heads of the battalion of Cotton [Soldiers] as they cried out. Xil spun the spear, deflecting arrows, and saw a flight of Garuda arise.
They looked at him and knew his name. Brave children, born into the Empire of Nerrhavia’s Fallen. Xil raised his spear over his head and dove at them, dodging under a clumsy slash from a sword. His spear’s butt unkindly tore at a wing, snapping it down and forcing the Garuda into a dive. He used the other end to slash the wing feathers of another Garuda hesitating, unable to find a target; a scream as she fell.
They’d survive. Xil rose as he saw another [Flying Swordsman] dive.
[Flash Cut]!
The other warrior had never seen anyone block that blow. Xil let the haft of his spear absorb the cut, rotating it so the blade just skated across the weathered wood. The wide-eyed [Swordsman] hesitated. Xil kicked him in the stomach, grabbed the sword, and flicked it.
It went through the wing of a fourth Garuda trying to aim a bow at him. Xil counted silently. Five, six…
The squad of Garuda dropped from the air, and then Xil was flying again. He saw Vandum breaking for the east at last, where reinforcements were having a hard time surrounding them. Thelican wasn’t pushing hard; he’d taken enough casualties. But he’d be back.
A thousand [Martial Artists] of Pomle were now reduced down to three hundred. Each one had gained levels, some as many as sixteen, but two-thirds of their number had been killed, wounded, or simply quit.
Is this the end of Pomle or our rebirth? This war will grind us down. But I don’t feel the same hope I did when Collos fought. 
Xil would never run. He had been Nerrhavia’s great warrior, then joined Pomle after Collos won his independence. Now, they had destroyed that place he cherished for no better reason than they could. But when he looked up…
The fiery orange glow of the skies did not look a thousandth as beautiful as the blue skies of Pomle. He tasted blood and fire and death, and if there was a will in him at all that kept the flame alive—
Another flight of Garuda were rising. Thelican had finally realized that Xil was the reason his artillery could never pound Pomle. He thought he could kill the greatest [Spearmaster] of Nerrhavia’s Fallen with half-trained Garuda. 
There was even a [Carpet Rider], some Silk-caste champion who was probably Level 30, waving an enchanted blade spitting sparks. Xil caught his breath and centered his will.
Why did he fight? To accompany Pomle on its final battle, wherever it was. To see his shared dream end.
And—his lower half of his beak moved slightly, and he smiled. Salii had told him yesterday in the camp.
He was coming. Orjin, the child of Pomle, one of the true children who had never known anything else. A son to every master [Martial Artist] and warrior who had ever breathed Pomle’s air. Whatever it would be—Xil exhaled. Then he raised his spear overhead.
“Pomle is not dead yet. Face me and die. I am Xil, the one who was called Spear of Nerrhavia’s Fallen!”
He saw his kindred waver. The carpet did not. Xil’s eyes flashed.
[Spear Art: The Sword of Damocles Falls].
The [Spearmaster] descended in a thunderclap and watched another flying carpet fall, a hole torn in its center. The Silk-caste warrior was falling, but his descent was slow; he slashed wildly at Xil who flew just out of range, cursing the [Spearmaster] loudly. A ring glowing with [Featherfall]’s magic kept the Silk-man from plummeting instantly.
The Garuda swung his spear and caught the hand filled with magic rings. He watched as the figure fell, screaming, flailing until it struck the ground. Calmly, Xil pried the rings off the fingers and put them in a pouch to give to Salii. Then he was flying, a legend like the warriors of Pomle.
Waiting, like Salthorn, Jalte, Sorron, Yesq, and even the furious Vandum, though he might never admit it. For the return of Orjin.
Waiting…to see how it all ended.
 
——
 
It felt like decades, not a mere year. But it had been a long wait since Tiqr fell. A long, long war. To those who had to live it, the war wearied the soul.
Nothing was sacred or remained. The Kingdom of Beasts that had been so proudly rich in wildlife, if not always gold, was no more.
Foreign nations now laid claim to every inch of it, and the animals had fled. Those who had not perished during the war had left in droves. These days a Nerrhavia’s Fallen [Soldier] would shoot at any bird, plagued by memories of flocks of them diving, shredding eyes and tearing faces.
The Grand Elephants, so prone to bothering the farmers for tidbits or migrating here or there in vast herds, were dead or gone. The prowling hyenas slaughtered. Tiqr felt barren, like a wasteland.
Oh, the oases might be there, and enough people remained—more, in fact, with settlers from other kingdoms—but it felt like the color was bleached from the land. When it fell dark, there was no flash of bright feathers or the eyes of an animal watching curiously from afar. It was now just a flat horizon of shadows. Whipping winds of cruel sand.
And that war.
The [Farmers] of Yibre had seen the entire war from start to finish. They had debated rising to join the Empress of Beasts in Oliphant, the capital, when it was under siege, but they had been told that their grains and Yellats would be more sorely needed.
And they had been—just not for Tiqr. Instead, Nerrhavia’s Fallen had come to announce new laws. Taxes. The [Farmers] would be allowed to stay, and General Thelican was the new military-governor of the province.
They had seen more Stitch-people arriving to take over farms. Houses had been claimed, sometimes with the owners still intact, and [Soldiers] had marched in, bearing the gleaming gold metal of the largest empire of Chandrar.
No one spoke of rebellion then, but every ear was still listening for tales of Vasraf, the Empress’ greatest [General], and that tiny ember of hope in the Kilalle Steppes. Then they saw Nsiia on the scrying orb, a captive, but still alive.
When she was freed, the [Soldiers] of Nerrhavia’s Fallen arrested hundreds each day or found any reason to charge someone for dissent. More citizens vanished, sold to Roshal or relocated—or just left for safer lands or to find Nsiia.
The [Farmers] stayed. For one thing, they had hopes; Yibre was not far from the western border. True, the Empire of Scaied, the damned scorpion-loving [Mercenaries], were threatening to join the war, but they hoped…and then they heard the Monks of Sottheim had left their monasteries.
The Loquea Dree were flying with Tiqr, and the Monks marched under her banners as well. Nsiia was winning battles with the help of a Golem from Illivere and an Antinium, Ksmvr of Chandrar. Some of the [Farmers] went to town and came back with stories of seeing the recordings—which were now contraband, and the punishment for having one was harsh.
Illivere, Savere, Nerrhavia’s Fallen, and so many nations were joining the war to kill the Empress of Beasts, but she kept fighting, winning another victory at Pomle. Then her armies were pushing Nerrhavia’s Fallen along the borders, and a day came when a flock of [Riders] rode into Yibre—the [Soldiers] had fled two days before.
That was when the [Farmers] opened up their stores and celebrated for three days straight. It seemed, then, as they drank the Yellat juice and wheat ale they’d hidden away, that the day of Tiqr’s liberation was at hand.
…That was months ago. The [Farmers] had given what they could, seen the [Riders] depart with cheers, and waited.
And waited. Then they heard Tiqr had lost a battle—but the Empress was still alive. That Nerrhavia’s legions were marching forwards again, and a day came when a patrol of Nerrhavia’s [Soldiers] arrived to claim this land…then departed in a rush two weeks later after confiscating all they could.
Were they winning or losing? The news was that Illivere had joined with Tiqr. And yet Savere was raiding inland, and Nerrhavia’s Fallen continued to send armies west—yet the King of Destruction threatened the north! Surely that would make a difference.
