The man was huge, his skin had pieces of metal still embedded in it, and crusted blood had made his beautiful armor black and caked with filth. Yet his eyes seemed to Buler to be fierce and wild.
“You are with Orjin? He is returning?”
Vandum’s face changed when Buler leapt from the carpet to explain. Several weary [Martial Artists] raised their heads, and Buler counted.
There are barely a hundred left. 
“Where…where is the rest of Pomle?”
“Fled. Or separated. Where is Orjin?”
“Forget that, Vandum. Boy. Will you take our wounded and disciples to safety?”
A woman with one arm and glowing eyes, pulsing veins of orange in dead flesh, pushed forward. Salthorn’s face was bleak, but she looked at Buler.
“Thelican means to catch us. His riders are set to catch us by midday.”
“We will force him to meet us in battle. Pomle’s name will echo in Nerrhavia Fallen’s ears a thousand years.”
Vandum’s lips were flecked with spit. Salthorn gazed at him and looked away.
“Xil is dead. I have no more stomach for this war. If I thought I would survive, I would surrender. But that ‘[Great General]’ has no mercy. I knew that the moment I saw him destroy Pomle without a moment’s thought.”
A huge warrior, Jalte, his own body scorched despite his skin as tough as metal, nodded. Buler was looking around for someone as Vandum bared his teeth silently.
“Where is Salii? Orjin’s [Secretary]?”
“My [Secretary]. That fool tried to break away when she saw Thelican closing in.”
“She was wise enough to tell the others to run. She fled north, boy. But Thelican’s army…many disciples went with her, and masters. I fear—”
Jalte pointed, and Buler’s heart sank. He looked around as Salthorn shaded her eyes.
“I think I see them coming. Boy, will you take the others away?”
“Y-yes. There is a gathering of [Druids] and [Martial Artists] and those following Orjin. I will take them there!”
“Close to Pomle? A fitting place to make our last stand. Almost. If you all pass Level 50. If I had more time to reach Level 60—I’m halfway there. Only halfway!”
Vandum was muttering to himself, flexing and unflexing his hands. No one looked at him. Buler stared wide-eyed at Vandum. Level 55? Then he was one of Chandrar’s champions without question!
Yet he did not look like the Strongest of Pomle.
 
——
 
By the time Buler brought nearly half the warriors of Pomle to Iratze and the others, he was told Orjin was almost to Pomle. Another sandstorm was blowing in, and the skies were not fit to fly. But Buler insisted on returning. Not to Vandum and the others. They had told him to forget them; Thelican would shoot him out of the skies. The masters of Pomle were going to make their final stand, and the sandstorm might well hide them.
“I must find Salii!”
That was all Buler shouted. He took off again, and Soloxenethn was too slow to leap aboard Reizue’s Dream and stop him.
The wind was throwing Buler left and right, and he feared this would be his death as Reizue’s Dream battled the sand that tried to grab and hurl him down.
“Spitty! Hold on! Spitty?”
He turned—and realized the camel was gone. Had he even come with Buler on the ride back? No!
Buler was flying ahead of the sandstorm, which was indeed forcing even Thelican’s [Soldiers] to take cover. He didn’t even see the warriors of Pomle, but he did spot the battleground where Xil had died and made for it.
North, Salthorn had said. Buler skimmed across the ground and saw countless pyres—but also so many bodies that it was clear Thelican had given up on even burning them and left them to be consumed by the sand.
His stomach roiled, and Buler tried to not vomit at the sight of all the death. Yet a single figure below him made Buler skim low, practically touching the ground, and scream.
“Spitty!”
The camel had been running around the battlefield this entire time, ignored by Nerrhavia’s Fallen as just a wild camel, perhaps abandoned by a [Rider] in battle. Not worth hunting down.
He was searching the dead, turning over bodies, and seemed to have worked his way from the place Pomle had been trapped until Xil attacked and was now heading north. Buler followed from above and saw what Spitty had noticed.
There were more bodies heading north. Clearly, Pomle had tried to break northwards and left many, many dead in their wake. But Buler’s heart stopped when he saw a pyre of bodies.
“No. No!”
Here the signs of fighting ended. Just past the canyon walls, Buler saw a pile of the dead, heaped so high it seemed as if a master had made their final stand and slain so many they had fallen under the weight of their foes. Buler landed, sobbing, and Spitty ran around the pyre, groaning.
No one had lit the Stitch-folk aflame, and the gold armor was caked in sand and blood. Buler fell to his knees and buried his face in the sands.
Enough. There was nothing for Orjin to save.
He was weeping so long and hard that he never noticed the pile of bodies moving. Only when someone spoke, in a raspy voice, a sibilant note to her words, did he freeze and look up.
“No one punch the kid. I recognize that camel. Thelican’s not smart enough to set a trap.”
Buler’s face rose in disbelief—and a Drake’s unmistakable head poked out of the pile of bodies. Spitty recoiled, and before Buler’s eyes, the pile of the dead began to shift.
[Martial Artists] got up, pushing the corpses of Nerrhavia Fallen’s warriors off them. There were dozens of them! Maybe even forty—some even sat up, shaking dust off them.
“A flying carpet. That has to be Reizue’s Dream.”
Salii, the greatest [Secretary] of the Walled Cities, had a helmet on. Two of her neck-spines had been torn off, and she looked bloody and battered as the others. But Buler and Spitty raced over, and the camel shed huge tears all over the Drake.
“Easy. Spitty, stop that. Where’s Orjin? Did that idiot, Vandum, make it? Everyone, up! Get ready for anything.”
Salii was coughing, and Buler stammered.
“But how—?”
“We broke north while they were focused on Vandum. With all the spells coming down, it was hard to see—I faked a [Message] to Thelican and pretended we’d been wiped out. He pulled back his forces to focus on Vandum and Xil rather than ask an officer on the ground what was going on. Frankly, I think the Hemp left us alone and just didn’t report we were playing dead.”
Salii was shaking as she drank from a water flask Buler had. She looked up and asked a question she already knew the answer to.
“Xil’s dead?”
“Yes. And Vandum and the others are about to be caught by Nerrhavia’s Fallen.”
The [Secretary] nodded.
“End of the line. His gamble didn’t pay off. He thought he’d hit Level 60 by the end of the war and that he’d have fifty Level 40+ [Martial Artists] at his back. I’d say five people passed Level 40, and Salthorn might be closing in on Level 50. But Xil’s dead. Counter-levelling doesn’t work if everyone dies.”
She took a shuddering breath.
“I backed Vandum’s play as long as I could. I thought a [Secretary] should try it his way. Now, I have enough [Martial Artist] Skills to survive a war. But if I was employing me, I’d fire myself for being a fool.”
Her face was bleak, and Buler saw the regret as her head swiveled to see the people she’d saved. Even with this new group, half of Pomle’s warriors had met their end in this last battle.
“Come—come with me, Miss Salii. I will take you back to the others. There are still more of Pomle’s folk! And [Druids]. Orjin is going to Pomle. It’s not over.”
The Drake’s head rose, and her gaze fixed on Buler. He thought he saw her straighten, and the other warriors, Raul, Mendi, Cheindurana, all looked up.
As if Orjin’s name betokened a better time.
“He cannot stop Nerrhavia’s Fallen. Two Vandums will not halt Thelican’s army. Without Xil…we are [Martial Artists]. That [General] is fighting a war. If all of the warriors of Pomle join together, we will still be overwhelmed and destroyed.”
Cheindurana, one of Pomle’s masters, a [Slayer of Fists], shook her head. Salii nodded, but she gazed at Buler.
“I want to see him. Take us to him, please? I want to know what he found on his journey. Did he—did he find his answer?”
“Not yet.”
Buler met Salii’s gaze. She had known Orjin far longer, but he felt a kind of connection as he ushered the [Martial Artists] onto his carpet. This great tale was reaching its end. And Buler would be there to see it.
 
——
 
I am not me.
Orjin walked into a storm. The air was freezing, and the sand was whipping across the desert lands of Chandrar. The morning became night, and the storm was the same that had begun in the Lantern Lands, a whirling mass of razor’s blades pursuing and engulfing him.
Like his heart. The man who so many called ‘Strongest’ walked towards Pomle and saw harsh lights in his home. An invader’s careless beacons.
His skin tingled with scrying spells. He could smell a foul, diseased air in the distance. Corruption in the very earth. He felt it, like bile on his tongue.
Yet his heart was bleaker than even the pain in the land. Xil was dead. And Orjin now saw how his people had died.
Strongest.
Strongest?
He had left them. He had never protected Pomle. He had begun all this, and now…Xil was dead, and Thelican’s great army closed in step by step.
One man could not stop them. Orjin knew he was walking into a trap. But his steps could not halt.
I. Am not. Myself.
 
——
 
What did you see? Were you the Court of Silks, watching from afar, as if this were a [Gladiator]’s match? Toasting victories and placing bets?
Were you an [Innkeeper], silently watching, unable to do anything more than trust?
Were you others, an audience watching through a screen, removed a thousand miles from this event? The people of Pomle, who looked at Orjin knowing hope was futile, but still watching? Those who had heard his name, watching the silent figure halt a mile from Pomle?
What did you see? The Court of Nerrhavia’s Fallen had roused themselves to a panoply of sound and entertainment, and the [Slaves] and servants worked overtime to amuse the angry Court of Silks.
Last night, they had tried to celebrate, but no one could. The Garuda who had defined the pride of their nation was dead. They had brought down a great foe, one of their old heroes. No wine could make that sweet, and the knowledge choked and sputtered in the throat and sat ill in the stomach.
Now, Great General Thelican claimed the last hour of the Strongest of Pomle had come. He had survived [Assassins], Djinni, fought [Soldiers]…yet it seemed a hollow boast to many. For they had never truly seen Orjin fight.
Strongest. A strange name for a man who did so little battle. A name only those of Pomle understood. Many had perhaps seen Orjin’s face before as he gave judgment with the Arbiter Queen. Or in battle.
Queen Jecaina and King Raelt both watched from Jecrass, the sight of that man halting, a speck in the distance, even with the [Scrying] spell someone was casting. Itkisa and Torreb watched as they rode a Djinni’s flying sled, and perhaps even the Djinni herself gazed at him out of the corner of her eye.
A single man halted, feet planted in the sand, and the oasis he had returned to stirred. A rank of figures lazily stopped playing cards around the flying carpet they had flown in on.
[Mages]. But they did not stand, not yet. They were waiting.
Somewhere, Great General Thelican was giving orders and a speech, his face filling a scrying orb and reflecting his own smile. But no one was paying attention to that.
The [Soldiers] who swiveled a ballista towards the Strongest of Pomle moved swiftly, adjusting the war machine as someone calculated distances. It was not as beautiful as Bird’s ballista, but they were efficient enough, and their faces were set.
The Cotton [Artillery Crew] looked at the confident warriors waiting for Orjin. Then at the man who had become a name they had heard—part of the reputation that was one of the stories of Chandrar.
Strongest of Pomle.
When one of them heard the order to fire, they pulled a string after a moment’s hesitation, and the ballista thumped. A gigantic ballista bolt shot up and ahead, curving at terrifying speed to strike the man there.
No one could survive that unharmed. Even someone Level 50. The masters of Pomle would soon face a hail of these weapons.
Orjin of Pomle had begun walking when he saw the ballista aiming at him. That distant man seemed to tilt his head back. Then, as it curved, a [Homing Shot]…he moved at the last second.
A plume of dirt and the faintest of sounds from this far away. The [Scrying] spell only showed a dust cloud, which faded as the storm blew closer, buffeting the soldiers, who drew veils over their faces and hunkered down. Then…a soft exclamation like a sigh.
The man walked out of the dust cloud, unharmed.
“Miss. Reload and fire, fools!”
 
——
 
“This makes our artillery seem incompetent.”
Yisame barely heard the grumble from one of the watchers. She had no breath left to give. Her heart hurt. She heard the [Generals] angrily discussing the coverage.
“The death of Xil made it seem as though our [Soldiers] were water fleas who won a battle only by the weight of them. Another nation would prove how extraordinary our foes are. Once the King of Destruction is forced back, we should demonstrate—”
“Thelican has prepared well. I see nothing wrong with his plans. The Strongest will die. Only damn this sandstorm. The [Weather Mages] assured me it would be clear. Fools, they. Like the magical hurricane; they cannot predict anything worthwhile.”
Another bolt was loaded, despite the complaints of the crew’s ability, and Yisame heard a sound.
“Fire!”
A second bolt, this time faster, not curving, but flashing across the distance. It was dead-on, and Yisame made a sound as it shot towards Orjin’s chest. She didn’t see the moment of impact; it was too fast. A cloud of dust arose, and everyone fell silent.
Then—Orjin walked out of the cloud of dust. This time, Yisame saw the ballista’s lead operator turn his head, clearly uncertain of what to do.
“Reload! Fire, you idiots!”
Someone screamed, and the ballista loaded a third time. The third bolt flew without confidence, no more Skills empowering it. And again, it seemed straight on, but when the cloud of dust blew away…he was still coming.
Only a fool would try again after that. So the commander kept screaming orders, and the ballista kept thumping. Six. Seven…
At last, the crew just stepped away, shaking their heads, unnerved. Each shot they’d placed perfectly, and still that figure walked on. So, General Thelican gave a curt order, and Orjin halted as the [Battlemages] got ready for combat.
