“You cannot stay here. I will ask Buler to take you back, or to Nsiia or wherever you wish. But I cannot protect you.”
Buler looked astonished as Orjin spoke over breakfast, and the followers protested. Nevun called out.
“We wish to see Pomle and join you, Strongest! Can we not learn? I heard Pomle was open to all, and I—I cannot stay where I am. Please, accept us as your disciples!”
He bowed, trying to copy Orjin’s fist clasped in his hand, and the Strongest was lost for words for a moment.
“No. I do not—Pomle is gone.”
“Pomle is never dead so long as a Strongest remains! It can win itself again!”
Orjin began to get mad as Nevun talked back to him. He folded his arms.
“Even if that is true, I cannot teach you right now, nor can you keep up. I cannot defend you, and no master of Pomle would put a new disciple in danger.”
“We can ride on Buler’s carpet. And we have food. If you teach us—”
“No!”
Orjin barked, and they flinched. He clenched his hands, then saw what he was doing and unclenched them.
When have I shouted outside of battle like that? Another sign—he turned away abruptly. Orjin strode over to the fire, scooped up some Yellats and food baking in the flames, and began to jog.
“Do not follow me. I am not your master.”
He took off at a run, and Spitty galloped next to him, glaring, as Orjin ate on the move. The camel expectorated twice, but Orjin dodged the globs of phlegm.
 
——
 
Orjin cut a wide path away from the campfires he’d seen in the night. When he looked over his shoulder, he didn’t see anyone following; he’d run so fast that he’d left Soloxenethn behind, too.
The Fury of Winds was probably enjoying a leisurely breakfast. Orjin knew he could catch up; the man was annoyingly fast. Orjin kept running at a pace about as fast as what he imagined a City Runner could do: a hundred miles a day. He’d arrive at Pomle by tomorrow evening at the latest, and Spitty could keep up, even if he over-exaggerated his panting.
Four hours of running later, Orjin felt the need for lunch. A wheezing Spitty followed Orjin as he turned from the outlines of a road towards an oasis he knew to be in the area.
He was on the greener outskirts of it and passed by a few people on his way there; even during a war there were travellers, it seemed.
There was a huge picnic, even, of a man practicing punches with eighteen enthusiastic people while a boy made breakfast on a picnic blanket. No, wait, not a blanket. A giant…carpet…
Orjin slowed, and Buler looked up and tried to hide behind a pot. But Soloxenethn just turned his head and nodded.
“You took a while, Orjin. But then—the [Soldiers] of Nerrhavia’s Fallen are only looking for you. They completely ignored us.”
Orjin came to a stop, and Spitty collapsed by the oasis, shoving aside two horses to gulp water before lying on his side. Orjin stared at the Fury of Winds, then Nevun and the others.
“What are you doing?”
“Practicing punches. Even in enemy territory, I take the time to exercise—”
“Soloxenethn. What are you doing?”
The Fury of Skies gave Orjin an arch smile.
“Teaching my disciples, of course.”
“Your disciples.”
Orjin’s voice was flat. Soloxenethn rubbed his nails on his clothing.
“Yes, well, if you are too busy—the Windcaller’s Wrath school should not die with me. This time, I shall teach them better. Children included.”
His eyes turned to Buler, who had indeed only stopped to make food; he was practicing a punch with the others now. Orjin?
Orjin grew angry. But he saw how Soloxenethn had tricked him; they’d flown ahead using the carpet, which could carry a crowd, and worse, Soloxenethn’d picked up more followers! The Fury of Winds offered Orjin a smug smile.
“You cannot turn away their interest, Orjin. The Strongest, nay, Pomle captures their minds.”
“They will change their mind when they see it is a crater in the ground. There is no living there, even if there was no war! It is lost, Soloxenethn.”
“Then why are you on a journey, Orjin? They want to see what you find. I wish to see it. If you will not let them come, I will. And there is nothing you can do to stop that.”
The Fury of Winds folded his arms, and Orjin stared at him.
“Let us spar, Soloxenethn.”
The Fury’s smile slipped slightly.
“No. I don’t think we need to.”
Orjin stepped forwards, tone mild.
“You yourself said I had not exercised this morning. You were right, and I have changed my mind. Let us spar. Soloxenethn.”
The students were watching as the Fury of Winds gave Orjin a wary look; the travellers were turning their heads, and Orjin was wondering how much trouble it would be to knock the Fury of Winds out.
He was angry. He was concerned. Then he heard a voice.
“Orjin! Watch out!”
He spun and nearly punched through Erin Solstice’s face. The [Innkeeper] had appeared.
“Not now, Erin Solstice.”
Orjin snapped at her, furious. He was in no mood for—Erin was pointing.
“Orjin, run! I just got word from Chaldion who was—that idiot is sending a Djinni after you!”
The [Martial Artist] felt his skin chill. Then his head slowly rose, and he saw something, tiny in the distance, coming his way. The panicked [Innkeeper]’s face turned—and General Thelican’s first attempt to kill the Strongest flew at him.
Djinni.
 
——
 
Orjin knew this Djinni. It was one of the three who’d attacked the King of Destruction. Not the one who pretended to be an assassin—the lesser Djinni, named Seemutor, who had been able to conjure lightning.
The greatest of their number, Drenir, was dead, and so too was the city of Aeresuth. Yet it seemed Great General Thelican, that adequate [General], had an adequate understanding of how to kill someone like Orjin.
A man with a cat’s head flew through the skies, his lower half turning into a cloud. He…did not look happy as he came, but he flew like an arrow from Nerrhavia’s Fallen. In fact, he was singing as he came.
“Hoi below and all who hear! Beware for I have come to kill! Flee and know Great General Thelican and my master, Merchant Almon, have sent me to kill the Strongest of Pomle! A terrible war crime it might be, but I cannot disobey, so here I come! Run, oh run, Orjin of Pomle.”
His smile was sad; his fangs glowed orange when he bared his teeth, and his very body was magic. He flew at his top speed, but only slowed when the young woman appeared in the air.
“Stop!”
Erin Solstice. She was blocking the way towards the oasis, and the Djinni struck the air with lightning, recognized her, and threw up a hand to cover his cat-face.
“Oh no! Seen and spotted! When I was told to go stealthily! This must be a foe! Take this and that!”
Stealthily? Erin Solstice hesitated as he shot more bolts of lightning through her. Then why the heck was he singing?
Djinni. She recalled what she had been told by one of the Djinni who had spoken to her. They loved messing with their masters. This one flew around her, then sighed.
“You aren’t a threat. Down I go.”
“I said stop. Don’t kill him! This is illegal! Don’t do it!”
Erin appeared in front of the Djinni again, and he just swerved around her. The oasis was panicking, the travellers rushing to their horses, and even the carpet was flying back—but two men were waiting for the descent of Seemutor.
The Djinni turned and spoke as Erin followed him down.
“I am Seemutor, little [Innkeeper], and you are a lovely vision of the days of yore! I greet you—and if you hold chains, may you live to regret it! Remember the sacrifice of Drenirkesun! The Death of Chains has returned!”
He laughed hugely. Erin Solstice stared at him, and his smile was sad and weary—but his eyes were flashing with battle lust as well. He was transforming as he fell, into flames, but she halted him.
“I threaten your master with death.”
Seemutor pulled up instantly, appraising. He whirled—and pointed a finger at Erin’s projection.
“Careful, [Innkeeper]. I am bound to protect my master to the death. Threaten him and I may have no choice but to murder you.”
Erin was panting, but she was remembering what to do. She held up a hand.
“Well, I’m uncertainly threatening him! I might kill him or I might not.”
“…Go on. I have no choice but to appraise you for seriousness.”
Erin schooled her face as the Djinni, with a huge smile, eyed her.
“Don’t kill Orjin. Who sent you?”
“Merchant Almon! On behalf of someone, whom I suspect to be General Thelican. A great travesty of war, but my kindred have already been fighting the King of Destruction to little comment from all but that [Journalist], and he has been dodging [Assassins]. And you are that woman that Merchant Almon touches himself to.”
Erin’s face developed a look of such disgust that she visibly had to stop a second.
“Gross. Don’t tell me that.”
“The world should know these things.”
The Djinni’s smile never left his face. And if you could stare with murder in your eyes…Erin spoke.
“I know you have no choice. And you’re doing what you can to find a loophole. I’ve spoken to…one of your kind. The Great Djinni, Qin’tevf’al.”
Then Seemutor’s eyes did widen, and his entire body flashed. He recoiled—looked at her, and his eyes narrowed.
“Do not lie to me.”
“I wouldn’t. Do you believe even Djinni and Jinn have ghosts?”
The cat-man stared at her—then threw his head back and laughed.
“And was he free?”
“He was—at least in death. But now he’s gone. Seemutor, can you stop this? Please!”
Erin begged him, and the Djinni gave her a sad look.
“Not even for one who spoke to the Death of Chains before Czautha’qshe. But I will remember that, [Innkeeper]. Erin Solstice, is it not? I may mention this in confidence to those I trust.”
“That’s okay. But please—I threaten Merchant Almon.”
He hesitated, then shook his head, eyes bright.
“I am sorry. But I don’t believe you truly intend to kill him in this moment because you would have to kill me—and you are too kind a heart, [Innkeeper]. I cannot even disobey my intelligence, you see. I have been told to kill the Strongest, Orjin. Pray only one of us dies swiftly.”
He met her eyes one more moment—then his earrings, the shackles of magic in him, burned bright, and he dove like a lesser comet. When he landed, the world shook, and there arose a being of flames, lightning in his hands, facing two [Martial Artists]. Neither had run; the first slashed a jet of wind at Seemutor, and he let it strike through him.
“Little men. You cannot kill me without magic. I am Seemutor, and I have come for Orjin of Pomle. Stand aside if you wish to live.”
 
——
 
The battle was the ugliest Orjin had ever fought. He could not touch his foe at first; Seemutor, the Djinni, was a cat-faced man with hands of flame who threw bolts of lightning as Orjin and Soloxenethn spread out.
“Magic! Use magic!”
Erin was screaming from the sidelines, but Orjin had a problem: he had none.
No magic rings, not even a glove. He had never wanted any, and so he and Soloxenethn had to fight with only their Skills.
Hence, an ugly fight. The Djinni was fast and adept at combat. He dove at Orjin, and bolts of lightning criss-crossed the air, cutting off Orjin’s escape.
“I am going to burn you alive, Strongest of Pomle. From inside your lungs and out. Even if you stop breathing, I will enter your nose and mouth and singe your very insides.”
Forewarned, Orjin leapt back, and a jolt ran through him as Seemutor tagged him with a lightning bolt. Tricked! Two more bolts hit Orjin, and the Strongest felt his heartbeat stop a second as he staggered. The Djinni’s smile was sad as he dove at Orjin.
“I tell the truth, but I also manipulate you.”
[Aeriform Punch]! Orjin’s shockwave of air blasted the Djinni backwards, and his body partially apart. Seemutor shouted—and Soloxenethn attacked.
“[Wind Slashes]! [Howl of the Vortex]!”
His wind-based attacks cleaved the air, and a punch tore through the Djinni’s flaming being—and Orjin dared hope they’d done damage. But then Seemutor recomposed in a flash, and a cat with a body of lightning touched down. A punch electrified every hair on Soloxenethn’s body.
“Alas, it only disrupts me, not hurts me.”
Seemutor’s voice echoed hugely, and Orjin saw him pivot—and weird lights flashed in a zig-z—
The punch made his heart flutter and also sent him reeling, despite his crossguard block. Seemutor hung there a second as Orjin leapt back.
“Here I come.”
Lights flashed again. This time, he kicked Orjin from behind. He was so fast! Literal lightning made up Seemutor’s body, and Orjin knew his flesh had been blasted on his back; he smelled his own burning flesh.
Healing potion. He took one gulp before Seemutor saw it and sighed.
“Can’t have that.”
His next blows shattered all but one of the potions Torreb had given Orjin, despite the Strongest’s attempts to evade. Jets of wind passed through Seemutor, and he looked at Orjin as his body dimmed—then brightened.
“Time to die.”
He visibly charged up his being—then shot across the ground with a punch that had enough force to burst Orjin’s heart or vaporize his head. The Djinni’s face was sad, and he was already preparing to fly up and report his victory as Erin Solstice cried out.
He moved at the speed of lightning. Not even Orjin could dodge it. Seemutor’s fist exploded with all the force of lightning—and Orjin threw a rock through Seemutor’s face, and the rock detonated.
The Djinni staggered, surprised, and blinked. The Strongest wasn’t where Seemutor had punched! He had ducked away—and tossed the rock!
“—Huh.”
Seemutor held still as another rock exploded as it made contact with his lightning body. He aimed at Orjin, and this time, the Strongest dodged it completely.
It was the flashes of light. Orjin had seen little dots appearing and wondered if they were a hallucination, but they were actually more like Seemutor telegraphing where he was moving. Whatever the Djinni was, he was still a lesser Djinni, not Drenir, who had become a literal meteor.
His lightning form clearly required time to charge up enough power to move, and Orjin could see a split-second image of the Djinni kicking for Orjin’s chest—enough time to get out of the way.
Actually, that first kick did hurt a tiny bit—it was more like the Djinni was striking multiple times, and Orjin dodged the majority of blows. When he backed up, he had a fistful of sand and hurled it in Seemutor’s face.
“Ah. I said magic. You don’t have any, do you? Well, this won’t work.”
The Djinni became air next, and a whirling mass of black air, almost like cat’s hair, made a snarling beast appear. His voice came from the jaguar of winds.
“Aura. You have to have one. Use your aura!”
