Below him, a tumbling body flailed and screamed before it landed among the golden figures. Xil lifted the spear over his head, then pointed it down.
 
——
 
Rheite had not so much as swung his spear for the duration of the entire campaign outside of practice. For one of Nerrhavia’s [Spearmasters], it embarrassed him.
But he was Cotton, elevated to Silk even if everyone knew what his true cloth was, and Thelican had told his army this was a battle that Hemp would win.
So Rheite and the finest warriors of Nerrhavia’s Fallen had stood back while the Glorious Hordes threw themselves at Pomle like water towards a blaze. How could you stand there and mock the Hemp when you saw a [Captain] charging in against the storied warriors of Pomle?
Many did. It made Rheite ashamed, and so, today of all days, after hearing the Magic Throwers roar death for three hours, his face set, jaw clenched so hard it ached—he craned his head back and did smile at last.
Though terror coursed through his veins. Though his own hands began to shake…horns were wailing across the forces stationed around the Magic Throwers.
“It is just one Garuda! General Thelican’s orders are to hold and protect the Magic Throwers at all costs! [Spearmasters], forward!”
Rheite was already walking, but he stopped, lazily, and looked from side-to-side. Silk-caste warriors armed in enchanted metal were singing war poems. Some were applying poison to their blades or sipping from ceremonial drinks.
The warriors around him looked up, and Rheite’s voice silenced their false bravado. The [Spearmaster] gazed upwards and smiled as that figure hung there. Unkillable, though they had shot tens of thousands of arrows up at him, sent every Garuda and flying carpet and artifact up.
“Make ready. The greatest [Spearmaster] of Chandrar is about to descend.”
The others looked at him as if to deny his words, mock him. Then their heads rose upwards as a Magic Thrower fired desperately. A bolt of lightning seared the skies and flashed straight up. Towards that figure.
Xil, the one who had been called the Spear of Nerrhavia’s Fallen, whirled the spear. He swung it slowly. So slowly Rheite saw the blade’s movement…but somehow, that slow strike made the very air hum.
The bolt of lightning split past the Garuda, dissipating in the air, and the other [Spearmasters] looked up in uncertainty.
“That was no Skill.”
Rheite agreed with one of his comrade’s whispers.
“No.”
Then he saw the Garuda aim downwards, like an arrow, and he was diving. Diving, and Rheite’s blood was surging, and he lifted his spear with a wild grin on his face. He leapt forwards as a faded green bird landed upon the earth and danced there a moment until everything around it vanished.
 
——
 
Xil had forgotten his years. Forgotten his wounds. Forgotten his weariness—at least for a moment.
He danced as he could not remember doing since he was young, his spear moving in glorious arcs, parrying, thrusting, carrying him forwards in a continuous dance that had no end or beginning.
He was just—counting. One last count before he could let himself be in the moment fully.
Five. That made five. Magicked wood was collapsing as he passed by a Magic Thrower, the wood and magic imploding, drawing everything in around it.
It tore feathers free from his back, but he scarcely noticed. Xil had only eyes for the worthy.
[Spearmasters]. Brave warriors holding any weapon in the world. Any who walked forwards or did not flee were brave.
He found a man of Cotton who bowed to him, and his spear was a whirling quarterstaff, deflecting Xil’s strikes, then a flurry of spear thrusts. He planted his spear and cleaved the earth in half for fifty feet.
Xil parried the blow and counted as it engulfed another Magic Thrower.
Six.
Xil lifted the spear, and the man of cotton smiled before Xil cut one arm off and ran him through. The Garuda turned—and a second [Spearmaster] ran him through the side.
Xil beheaded the second Stitch-man and saw a weapon art tracing itself across the world. A fluttering butterfly’s passage, traced in metal, fast as thought.
But the owner of the art just copied the technique without truly understanding it. They traced the same pattern without variation or mastery. To Xil, it was as simple as raising his spear and placing it where he knew a throat would be, and a fool ran onto the blade. The copy of true art ended.
[Spearmaster], they said. The class they thought was a great accomplishment was only the first step on a journey. And the first step was understanding all you knew was a copy of something else. Beginning to seek worthiness in using what you had been given.
Xil was distracted, and the arrows touched him. Then he was moving, whirling the spear around him, but there were so many…and more warriors were throwing themselves at him.
“[Spear Art: The Great Desert Opens].”
When Xil cut the ground, everything around him vanished. He walked out of the falling storm of debris and leapt into the skies.
But not far. He landed, and a [Mage] stood behind a magical barrier. Xil’s spear pierced the magic, and he slashed through the arm of the next Magic Thrower.
“Seven.”
He would have flown up now, but he could not. Xil looked down, and instead of faded green plumage mixed with pink, he only saw black flesh.
His wing-arms were scorched. The flight pinions gone. But the muscle and bone beneath refused to vanish even as more magic struck him.
The last Magic Thrower fired one final spell. A glowing meteor that crashed down on itself. Xil admired the resolve of the crew as he shook molten stone from his eyes and slashed through the fire.
“Done.”
Now he could relax. Xil cast his eyes to the distance, but he no longer saw Pomle. Whether they were there or not…his world had narrowed to a small field around him. He had eyes only for the soldiers coming towards him.
An arrow hit him in the chest, and Xil stood there, shocked a moment, before he pulled it out. Shocked because he felt it not.
Grateful, because it would have interrupted his dance. He lifted his spear and wondered why they slowed as he walked down the hill towards them.
Children’s faces, filled with terror and awe. But this was a battlefield, so the Garuda leapt. When he landed, he danced a moment, and there was no end to those who threw themselves at him.
Arrows touched Xil; magic struck him as he whirled his spear around his body, but it was as if he had forgotten they existed. Only the blades had any right to hurt him, and he was waiting, now.
Now—
He was weary. The Garuda blinked, and he stared up at the setting sun a moment.
How long had he danced? He didn’t know, but he thought he was the last dancer on this field. All around him were warriors. He beckoned them, weary.
“Come. I don’t have much energy left. But enough.”
Why did they run? From an old man? Well—that was wise. His cracked beak moved in a smile as he raised his spear.
He had to remind them of the truth behind Pomle’s story.
 
——
 
They said of it, afterwards, those who survived, that the Garuda flew down laughing. That he pierced the magic protecting the Magic Throwers like one burst a bubble and destroyed the ancient weapons of war as the greatest [Spearmaster] of Chandrar danced his last.
Seven [Spearmasters] faced him, three-on-one by the end, and they seemed like silent statues before a storm. He walked out of a burning hail of stone, and still, the Spear of Nerrhavia’s Fallen refused to die.
Pomle’s warriors had fled an hour since, and still, a single figure stood, surrounded by the Glorious Hordes of Nerrhavia’s Fallen. Arrows stood out from his body, and cratered land had been turned to ash and glass.
And still he danced. Waiting as a [Great General] of Nerrhavia’s Fallen screamed and ordered soldiers forwards until they threw down their arms and fled rather than die.
“Execute the cowards. Take him and restore the title of [Spearmaster] to Nerrhavia’s Fallen!”
It was only when blood spilled onto the sand, enough to turn it red, that the silent Garuda raised his head.
First came Silk, poisoned blades falling without touching his skin. Xil danced over the blades as Cotton followed. Skills to make skin like steel, spells raising walls of ice or magic. Then went Hemp until only his spear cleared the space around him.
It seemed as if his vacant eyes had been staring ever southwards, towards his home. Dreaming, Xil danced, until a moment came when he stopped and stared down at the tip of the spear that had scratched him.
Just a touch. The Garuda halted and walked free of the sea of corpses, and his head turned. Part of a skull, exposed to the air, tilted, and he finally found someone standing on the ground, spear in hand.
A [Soldier] of Hemp, who held the spear up, shaking, waiting to die.
They said, then, that the other [Soldiers] halted as Xil smiled. He lifted his own spear and stepped forwards and stabbed at the Stitch-girl, who knocked his spear away and halted. Then, with shaking arms, deflected another stab.
Xil whirled his spear up and waited. Slowly, the soldier copied him. When he brought the spear down, the blow sank her boots into the ground, and her legs shook—but she copied the blow, and he staggered.
At last.
That was what he whispered, or so many claimed. Finally, Xil raised his spear and waited. Two figures stepped forwards, and when he let go of the spear and regarded the weapon in his heart, he nodded and fell back. And his successor picked up his spear and knelt before him.
A [Spearmaster] of Chandrar died, and another took his place.
 
——
 
Afterwards, General Thelican ordered a celebration begun. The silence displeased him. There should have been great cheering. The greatest warrior of Pomle, arguably greater than even the Strongest, was dead.
The honor of Nerrhavia’s Fallen had been restored.
“Collect the spear from that Hemp warrior. Give them the bounty—no, triple it. We have lost too many great warriors to leave that Relic in their hands.”
He turned, not noticing his subordinates’ stares, and began giving orders.
“Reform the army. Pomle’s warriors have been all but decimated. Ballistae; our Magic Throwers are gone, but this time, they have no Xil. We will finish this tomorrow.”
He turned his head to look for Barelle the Bard and smiled, his golden armor flashing in the twilight of the battlefield. After a moment, Thelican held a scented handkerchief to his nose to cover the smell of the pyres of corpses and coughed.
“Both Pomle and Orjin are merely extraordinary warriors. Even legends die.”
Today was surely proof of that.
 
——
 
When Orjin awoke, he knew something had changed. He could not say why, only that some constant was gone. The world, he felt, was lessened.
His home was weeping. Though he had not set foot in Pomle, Orjin woke with tears in his eyes.
He knew Xil was dead before they told him. Somehow. Orjin asked how his mentor and friend had died as Buler delivered the news, stammering, and he sat.
Orjin’s heart had been falling to pieces all the time he had been away. Now—he felt a true tear in it. But when he stood, all he said was this:
“I am going. Find Pomle’s people for me, Buler. Please.”
Buler stared at Orjin, but the Strongest’s face was blank. His tears had dried in the dawn, and he began to walk towards Pomle. No one dared stop him.
“Please, go after him and make sure he is safe!”
Buler begged Soloxenethn, the Fury of Winds, but the other man just sat there, cross-legged, head bowed. The Fury’s face was bleak, and he shook his head, meditating, eyes shut.
“I would never dare. This is his battle.”
The boy grew angry, then. He pointed, shouting.
“There are [Battlemages] there! I saw them from afar! So did the [Druids]! And warriors! Pomle has been made into a trap!”
Soloxenethn opened his eyes slowly and looked at Buler.
“They will not stop Orjin.”
He said it with such conviction that Buler turned, and Orjin was already distant, striding towards the oasis in the distance. Surely the wise would shudder and flee him. Buler felt his own body quaking—yet Xil was dead.
The greatest [Spearmaster] of Chandrar was dead. Buler’s eyes stung with tears as he climbed onto Reizue’s Dream. This was not the story he had wanted.
He regretted listening to the [Innkeeper] and trying to help. He did not want to be part of tales any longer and see how terribly they ended. His heart hurt—and yet he could never run from Orjin. He would rather die than abandon the Strongest.
Because Buler could not fight alongside the Strongest of Pomle, he began to fly northwards. To find Pomle, and perhaps—save Orjin’s heart from breaking further.
 
——
 
It took Buler nearly five minutes to realize he was being followed. He looked back on a hunch and saw a distant figure galloping after him.
“Spitty?”
Buler slowed, turned around, and landed. The panting camel trotted onto the carpet, and Buler tried to read Spitty’s bleak gaze.
“Come on, then.”
The camel knelt as the boy took off. Flying higher. He knew he was in grave danger; General Thelican’s army was on the way.
And his reinforcements were already arriving. Buler saw a distant shape creeping down one of the roads, and then a distant object halted and turned. Spitty made a groaning noise of alarm, and Buler dove—and a ballista bolt pierced the air overhead.
“Damn your stitches, you cowardly pieces of maggothide!”
Buler screamed as he skimmed the sands. There were still so many of Nerrhavia Fallen’s soldiers! As he escaped the range of that ballista, he skimmed higher and saw yesterday’s battlefield from afar.
The land was so blackened he could see it behind the column of gleaming metal that was Thelican’s army. A torn cliff of stone. So many dead that even the pyres were still smouldering.
“How can they keep fighting and fighting and sacrifice so many to kill Pomle?”
Buler wondered aloud. Surely the [Soldiers] were at their limits. Yet he saw more winding snakes of [Soldiers] joining the main army. As if Thelican’s force were not people, but one of the fearsome Hydras of other continents, a bundle of snake heads that died and were replenished.
Bitterly, Buler thought it was a strategy worthy of a [Great General] of Nerrhavia’s Fallen, who was willing to kill a thousand for every one of Pomle’s folk who died. No one would tell stories of him.
So fast was Reizue’s Dream that Buler found Pomle, though he thought the ragged group of warriors marching southwards were [Bandits] at first.
Nothing of them looked like the glorious warriors he expected. When he alighted and saw a warrior raise filthy gauntlets and shout at him, Buler did not recognize Vandum.
