He leapt, and Orjin threw an elbow, ducked away, weaved back, punching and jabbing, and Soloxenethn tried to slash the Djinni in half.
All they got were slashes from the air, which was like blades. But Soloxenethn’s blows did make the jaguar snarl and claw at him.
“Not bad, but not nearly strong enough!”
“Aura, Orjin!”
“I don’t know how.”
Both the Fury of Winds and Djinni stared at the Strongest, and the jaguar sighed.
“Well, then. So you die.”
He leapt, and Orjin braced.
“[Flesh is Steel]!”
The jaguar’s teeth closed on his throat, and the air lashed at him in the shape of claws, but the Skill made it feel like nothing at all. Orjin waited, both arms raised, guarding both sides of his face. Now he understood something about Seemutor—he was waiting. Waiting…
The Djinni knew his attack wasn’t working and shifted. His body glowed, morphed into what looked like steel, all edges and razors, like a man made out of spikes. He swung a fist, and Orjin’s own punch hit him square in the face.
The counter was the hardest Orjin had ever thrown; he had known Seemutor would have to change into something else and hoped it was a physical object he could hit.
He felt like he’d almost broken his fist! But the huge, metal Djinni actually reeled a second, and Orjin followed it up with his best Skills.
[Quake Palm]! [Dulav-Ra: Tetrad of the Solar Aura]!
A shockwave ran through the Djinni before four flaming punches tore his armored body into burning metal. Then he did scream.
“Aaaaah! It worked!”
He leapt away, the cat again with what looked like a humanoid body, and regarded his wounds. Orjin was panting, and he felt like he had fractured his knuckles. How much damage…?
The wounds were closing. Seemutor gave Orjin a pained smile.
“That one worked. But you have to destroy much, much more of me. Can you do that again?”
Seemutor ducked as Soloxenethn slashed through where his head was with a palm. Then blocked a blow from behind—spun—and his own palm strike sent the Fury of Winds staggering back.
He was a martial artist too! Worse, he seemed to be working even harder this time. He was fast, and the blow that came at Orjin was solid enough to make the [Martial Artist] grunt, but when Orjin tried to snap the arm, he just tore the arm straight off, and it vanished.
“Light, this time.”
Orjin backed up as the punches came in, hard and heavy. He punched a hole in Seemutor’s face only for it to turn into freezing ice.
I can’t hurt him. How did the King of Destruction do it? Collar. His collar—
But Seemutor had none. Then he saw the earring in the cat Djinni’s ear and went for it. But Seemutor just tilted his head aside, turned his claws to stone, and slashed across Orjin’s chest.
“Ah. Even if you freed me, my master saw what happened to Drenir. They’ll explode before I’m freed.”
He gave Orjin a rueful smile, and then the Strongest really did wonder if it was over.
“Orjin! Run! I’ll hold him off!”
Soloxenethn exploded into a combo of punches, and Seemutor winced as his fists, which were surrounded by his aura, did hurt the Djinni. But Seemutor just backed up, turned to lightning, and then walked into Soloxenethn.
The full charge sent the Fury of Winds down, smoking, eyes bleeding, and Orjin shouted.
“Soloxenethn!”
He made to charge, but the Djinni didn’t make a move to attack the downed Fury of Skies. He came at Orjin, lashing with those claws again, and he was panting, betraying the effort so many changes took.
“I was told…only to kill you.”
Orjin realized what he meant and backed up, taking them away from Soloxenethn as Buler ran over with a potion.
No aura. No magic. And his greatest Skill wouldn’t be available in the time it took for the Djinni to kill him. The one thing Orjin had over Seemutor was his superior skill at hand-to-hand combat. For all his age, the Djinni seemed impressed at how few blows he could land. Even when he turned his body to needle-metal, Orjin just deflected blows, minimizing contact.
“You truly are the Strongest of Pomle. If only you could touch me—you would set me free.”
His fist burned Orjin’s flesh, searing layers of skin off as he grabbed Orjin’s arm with a fiery hand. The Strongest, grimacing, replied as he lifted his fist.
“I do not wish to.”
The second [Aeriform Shockwave] muffled Seemutor’s laughter. The Djinni, shaking his head, walked forwards as Orjin backed up, panting. The [Martial Artist] raised his fists.
It may not work, but my only attempt left is to drive him into the oasis when he is lightning or flame. The water may do something to him, but I doubt it.
He was preparing for his final attack when a voice shouted.
“That’s it! Seemutor—halt! Your orders are wrong!”
Erin Solstice reappeared, and the Djinni hesitated.
“Erin Solstice, you cannot stop me. Unless…my master has changed his mind? I have to kill Orjin of Pomle.”
“What was the wording of your order?”
Erin was panting. Orjin poured healing potion over his scorched wrist, and Seemutor hesitated. His earrings flashed, and Orjin resolved to grab one even if it meant both their deaths. But could he even break it?
“I have to kill Orjin, the Strongest of Pomle.”
“Strongest?”
Orjin glanced up, and Erin’s eyes flashed.
“That’s it! I knew I heard it—he’s not the Strongest of Pomle.”
Seemutor’s fist had been about to hit Orjin; he had subtly changed into his lightning form. He froze. Then a look of delight and relief spread over his face.
“He isn’t?”
Orjin looked from Erin to Seemutor.
“He’s not. Orjin lost the title to Vandum. You’re after the wrong person!”
Instantly, the cat Djinni stopped and stepped back. His face changed, and he became the half-cloud Djinni with an abacus. He flicked a few beads, then pulled out what looked like a notecard from the air.
“My wording is to ‘slay without delay or failure: the Strongest of Pomle’. Indeed, indeed. This is all wrong.”
His eyes twinkled, and he looked at Erin. Then he laughed and threw his head back.
“What a blunder my master made! And he so confidently gave me the wrong directions! So you are not the Strongest?”
He looked at Orjin, and never had the man been more grateful to shake his head.
“I am not.”
“Then I have no cause to fight. Well done, [Innkeeper]. Well done. I hope I did not injure you beyond repair, Orjin of Pomle. And I hope you level from this and gain a Skill to remedy your weakness. For I will doubtless come at you again. And next time…you will die.”
Seemutor’s eyes turned black and bleak as he looked at Orjin. The Strongest shook his head, but not in denial.
“I am too weak.”
Seemutor was turning, turning, but he seemed relaxed now and very happy and relieved.
“I have no idea where the actual Strongest of Pomle is. And I am too weak to face them; I must surely rest. So here I rest, and be assured, my Master has many clauses forbidding me from hurting the innocent!”
He winked one huge feline eye as he sat down in the air. Orjin, incredulous, looked at Seemutor, but the Djinni inhaled and exhaled.
“Failure is not an option either. And my master never forbade me chatter, more fool he. Do you know how to focus your aura, not-Strongest? I am told it is your very soul you put into a fist or idea. It can be wide as a field covering a ship, or even an entire nation, or focused into a razor’s edge.”
He sat there as Orjin, panting, caught his breath at last, and Soloxenethn leapt to his feet blearily. Erin stood there, blinking, and that cat Djinni winked.
“Or so I’ve heard it said.”
 
——
 
The Djinni, Seemutor, rested for a bare twenty minutes before he decided he was well enough to travel once more. Twenty minutes wasn’t much time.
But it was still a lot of words if you spoke fast. Long enough to attempt a crash course with Erin about the power of auras with Orjin.
The problem wasn’t that either was a bad teacher; if anything, you’d be hard-pressed to find more motivation and a longer-lived expert than Seemutor.
The problem was that Orjin couldn’t figure out how to use his aura.
“I don’t understand how it works.”
“Just focus on being you, Orjin. Focus on your fist…”
Even Erin could project an aura, although an [Innkeeper]’s was far less potent than what Seemutor claimed a [King] got. But Orjin tried and felt nothing.
“This is a problem. He doesn’t understand what to do. Hope I don’t make it back to you within the day, Orjin. Or…hmm.”
The cat was plotting his trajectory back the way he’d come. Orjin looked at Soloxenethn.
“Soloxenethn, what am I doing wrong?”
“Your nature and pride as a [Martial Artist] must go into your fists. I embody the very power of the wind. See?”
Soloxenethn could make a kind of ‘glove’ of air, which he had used to strike Seemutor, if weakly. The Djinni rolled his eyes.
“Yes, so dangerous. Focus on your fist, not-Strongest. Imagine it is the realest thing in the world.”
Orjin tried, but when he made a fist, it was just a fist.
“I do not understand. It is not…a muscle. I have never trained my aura. Can one train it?”
Everyone assured him they could, and Seemutor frowned, flipping over.
“You seem to have a strong one. I can see that sort of thing, and you know yourself well, not-Strongest. Yours should be stronger than even his—hers is faint, but I suspect it’s the entire inn she has.”
He nodded at Erin, and Orjin was encouraged. But…
“I have no idea how to form it. If it is my fist, it should be a muscle I can move. If it can take any shape, am I moving the air?”
“Oh dead gods, he’s like Ryoka and magic! He’s too literal!”
Erin was groaning as she understood his problem. Orjin felt like this was an insult, but he thought it was right.
He couldn’t understand auras. Nor, frankly, did he like them.
“Auras. Magic. It seems at the end of each [Warrior] class, or any other class, including mine, the only answer is to turn to something we are not. It would not bother me if it didn’t mean all I knew and practiced was worthless.”
Seemutor shrugged.
“I am the very nature of magic, not-Strongest. Mortals and their levels and Skills have always seemed to me like cheating. But you are a canny, excellent warrior on your own; you must find a way to defeat those like me.”
“And it’s not you wasting your power, Orjin! You still have to know how to punch people!”
“Perhaps. It’s just difficult to practice something that is unlike what I have devoted my entire life to. Perhaps I was missing it all along, but this does not feel right.”
Erin, Soloxenethn, Spitty, Buler, and Seemutor all traded looks. The Djinni stopped sitting and stood up in the air. He bowed to them and began to rise.
“Alas. My time is up. I must be going now, but I am overjoyed to be so incompetent as to fail here. My thanks to you, Erin Solstice. And you, Orjin of Pomle.”
He paused once as he floated over to the carpet.
“Reizue’s Dream. Do you care for it well, [Carpet Rider]? I remember so many who have ridden it.”
Buler bowed deeply.
“I do, mighty Djinni. I…”
He hesitated and then looked at Orjin, and the Strongest’s head rose.
“I—I am Buler, if it pleases you! I am but one rider, but I am proud to be the last of my family to ride Reizue’s Dream!”
Seemutor’s head turned away from the carpet. He bent over, and his cat’s eyes focused on Buler’s face. The boy trembled, but the cat just smiled.
“I will remember it so long as you live, and thereafter, Buler of Reizue’s Dream. All your names. I only hope I will not be your end. Farewell.”
Then he sprang up into the sky, and Orjin saw him streak back the way he’d come, a laughing cat calling his master’s foibles and failings to the world.
Never had Orjin met one so sad or seen shackles so obvious and yet so invisible. He was shaken long thereafter. Erin Solstice stood there, looking at Orjin, and her eyes were sad.
“That’s all I could do. I don’t think I did much. And I—”
Her gaze shifted.
“I have to go. Soon, I won’t be able to help you at all, Orjin of Pomle. There may be one thing, but it won’t change the war. I’m sorry.”
“Do not be. You have saved me twice, Erin Solstice. I…must find my strength myself. Magic in my martial arts. Aura.”
Orjin closed his eyes. Pomle. He turned to the horizon, and his breath was quiet.
He thought he would find it there or nowhere.
 
——
 
A great battle was taking place the same day Orjin escaped Seemutor’s attack. He caught wind of it from Buler; the boy had scouted ahead and came back, face pale and troubled.
“Strongest…”
“I am not that, Buler, remember?”
Orjin tried to joke, but Buler stood there, afraid to say anything until the words burst from his mouth.
“Strongest. Pomle has been cornered once more by Thelican. They are retreating across the border, close to Pomle, but he harries them. They say—they say he is bringing more and more weapons to bear. But the Magic Throwers are raining down on his troops and theirs alike. They say it is a battle meant to end it all.”
Orjin’s smile faded. He stood, his head turning to the horizon, and the sky was orange and black. Then Buler spoke again.
“Strongest, I saw them waiting. They have a ballista—and [Mages]! And more. There are soldiers at Pomle, what remains of it. One threw lightning at me.”
So Thelican had more than one trap. Orjin turned.
“Then I must continue on, but carefully. Thank you, Buler.”
He said nothing of the battle far past Pomle. They would not make it in time, even if he wished to ask Buler to take them into combat. It raged throughout the day as he ran towards Pomle, then into the night.
The next morning, it drew to a conclusion. But he would not know of that until he woke.
 
——
 
The Strongest of Pomle ran into one last group by the time evening fell and they were just making camp. By now, over a hundred people were being ferried around by Buler, who looked pleased to have his carpet so filled.
Orjin had no idea where they came from. Yet he clasped hands twice with [Martial Artists] and realized they had heard of Pomle—and had come to greet him.
“Strongest.”
The weathered hand belonged to one of Pomle’s [Duelists], who had come here with a silver bell. He had not stayed with Pomle and looked ready for Orjin to reproach him, but of course, Orjin would never do that.
“I grew sick of killing after the third time I ran someone through. And that was the first battle. I am ashamed it took me three deaths. I think…I think I will leave for Terandria, after this. I cannot stomach war. I would have fought on, but Vandum has no purpose but vengeance. If you had told me we were fighting for Pomle’s independence, I would never have left.”
