The [Soldiers] marching towards Orjin had seen him evading each spell. They halted, forming that wall of shields and metal, and Orjin turned. When he raised his arms and advanced—he looked like Vandum and snapped through the first layer of pikes, hurling opponents aside with each blow before backing off, leaving them milling in confusion before back charging in.
He fought like Pomle. When one of the [Battlemages] hurled [Icy Lances] at him, Orjin kicked a stone into the path of the massive Tier 4 spell, and its trajectory missed him.
He was at the canyon walls, now, and the [Mages] inside the oasis saw him appear on top of the canyon, running up the steep cliffs as if they were stairs as the [Archers] screamed and scattered.
“General Thelican, we are pulling back to the carpet. We will destroy him from above and retreat if it is impossible to kill him after exhausting our mana reserves and potions.”
The [General] was screaming at them to stay on the ground while his troops reformed, but the [Mages] refused.
“[Mass Featherfall]. Alright, take it up.”
The [Golem Artificer] shot the carpet up as Orjin raced into Pomle. The pit of corrupted ground that was all that was left of the oasis was still there, the abandoned buildings that Tiqr’s people had bought converted into barracks.
But so much was the same, even the tiny shack that he had built, which no one had wanted. He looked around Pomle, and the [Mages] pointed down at him.
“[Valmira’s Comet].”
“[Muddy Ground].”
“[Silent Sickle].”
“[Deathbolt].”
“[Light Arrows]!”
Five [Mages] saturated the ground as Orjin spun away, dodging a spell that should have been invisible as it cut through air—why did he look so calm? Calm, and eyes alight with adrenaline. Like no warrior the [Mages] had ever killed, who lived and breathed battle and the frenzy of the fight.
He aimed his spear up and hurled it—then punched the air, and the [Golem Artificer] dodged the shockwave—and swerved as the spear nicked the carpet’s center, shredding the tapestry and leaving a great hole in the center. But it bounced off a glowing shield one of the [Battlemages] had raised.
“That’s his best? Don’t let him hit the carpet, fool. Higher!”
Their leader snapped, and the [Golem Artificer] pulled up slightly to drive them higher. But then the carpet, two hundred feet up, began to slant down.
“No! He damaged it!”
“Damn. Let’s teleport out and put up wall spells—”
“We’re going down too fast!”
The [Mages] realized they were falling hard. One of them stared at the others.
“[Featherfall]. Why isn’t it working? [Featherf—]”
They had cast the spell! But they were descending faster than they should be falling. The carpet was nosediving, the magic ruined by the spear, and then one of them shrieked.
“The [Flight] spell! It’s pulling us down! Teleport! [T—”
One of the [Mages] shrieked the first letter of the spell before they hit the ground. Orjin had seen the carpet fall, and he stared at the figures on the ground, then bowed his head. Somewhere, Buler was weeping for another artifact lost and seeing the end of all who dared to fly like that.
Thus, carpet riders died. Orjin caught his breath at last and gazed around.
But he saw no more [Soldiers]. Just fleeing figures and an impotent, important, screaming [General]. Orjin walked over to a scrying orb and looked down. His hand crushed the crystal orb—and then exhaled, at last.
“I am home.”
 
——
 
One last trial awaited Orjin, and it was the hardest of all, at first. It was as the troops fled Nerrhavia’s Fallen, of not exacting vengeance.
Many of the higher-level ones had fled with magic or on horseback, but the sight of Pomle’s warriors and the [Druids] made the fleeing [Soldiers] throw down their weapons and surrender.
“Don’t kill us, Strongest. Please.”
The [Martial Artist] halted, his fists still covered in the blood of his foes, but he did not raise his hands. He looked down, and a [Captain] of Hemp bowed to him.
“You are enemy [Soldiers].”
“We have no will to fight. Please—let us return home.”
“Return home? After what you did?”
One of the [Martial Artists] shouted, but Orjin looked at the man’s scars and his simple armor, gold and battered, revealing plain steel underneath the gold leaf.
“You are Hemp. Thelican ordered you to face me. I know that your people fight for Nerrhavia’s Fallen, sometimes against your will. But we are still enemies. If I let you go, will I see you once more on the battlefield?”
The [Captain] gritted his teeth as the few hundred [Soldiers] shivered. The [Druids] were staring at them with no more love than Pomle’s folk or the others.
“It may be so, Strongest. If so—I ask you let my people go. I am a Level 22 [Captain]. My people were conscripted. Surely you know Nerrhavia’s Fallen gives the Hemp little choice?”
Orjin did know. He had only been tempted a moment by dark thoughts. He let his hands relax and nodded. Buler was returning, and he had brought more than just Pomle’s warriors. As Orjin turned, he saw two unexpected figures with the others. He raised a hand to Salii—and stopped as a figure with a handsome travelling cloak as old as he was swung himself down.
Barelle the Bard. Of all the people…Orjin frowned, for the [Bard]’s smile and the way the air blew around him like a warning seemed at first as if Orjin had met a stranger in the desert who would either die or be his end.
However, when the [Bard] saw Orjin was not moving to strike the surrendered [Soldiers], that tension relaxed. And he bowed slightly, using the gesture of Pomle’s warriors.
“Bard Barelle. What are you doing here?”
For some reason, the Hemp [Soldiers] recognized him, with clear relief, and several of them shot Orjin glances. Barelle’s voice was deep and carried to the ears of all.
“I saw Reizue’s Dream in the distance. I feared it might lead to further bloodshed, so I beseeched the rider, Buler, to carry me here. I shall have to return to Great General Thelican soon, but perhaps my presence was unneeded. Orjin of Pomle. Please let these [Soldiers] go.”
“They are still my enemy. Even if they claim they had orders…”
“They would have been executed for fleeing. Many have been. You must surely know how bloody Thelican’s war against Pomle has been. He throws the commonfolk of Nerrhavia’s Fallen at his foes like a sea, without regard for us any more than he would have for the surf.”
“Yet they go.”
Orjin frowned at Barelle, whom even he had heard of. But the [Bard] just nodded at a second figure who swung herself down and bowed to him. Another Hemp warrior, this one wearing a commander’s plume.
“Our families would be slaughtered if we fled. We are not blind, Strongest. But many of us enlist on the promise of the gold we will receive—far more than we would earn any other way. Nerrhavia’s Fallen sings a sweet promise as they have for millennia: any Hemp [Soldier] may one day, by virtue of deed and level, become Cotton or even Silk. I myself would already be eligible for Cotton. But if Alked Fellbow has little loyalty for Nerrhavia’s Fallen, it tells you that one can change their stitching, but never their cloth in the eyes of others. I am Commander Viradectia, and I beg Pomle’s mercy even if I have no right to it.”
Orjin grew angrier for a second, though not at the Stitch-folk [Commander]. She was clearly not here under Theilcan’s orders. Families slaughtered? Orjin’s head turned from Barelle, to Viradectia, and then to a Drake, who strode forwards, pushing people out of the way.
“Orjin.”
“Salii.”
He almost hugged her, but the [Secretary]’s first words were all business.
“Before you say anything—part of the reason the [Martial Artists] and I survived escaping Thelican was because it turned out the Stitch-folk were too busy running away! This [Commander] popped out of nowhere with Barelle the Bard!”
She gave the man an accusing look, and the [Bard] bowed. Then Orjin saw it.
“Deserters.”
“Casualties.”
Commander Viradectia corrected him with a tight smile. She nodded to the [Captain], who gave her a wan smile.
“Or at least, lost [Soldiers]. Thelican, that pompous donkey with a silk covering, is no fool. He executes any officer whose command deserts. But his war has been costly. He reports tens of thousands of dead [Soldiers] per battle, and he has killed as many hurling us against Pomle. But he cannot count. An army relies on its limbs.”
And if the limbs decided they were done…Orjin saw it. Even so, he imagined only a fraction would play dead or escape.
“Is this what Nerrhavia’s Fallen is like?”
“It was not always so. I have seen the empire differently, the time I have been here. I ask your forbearance, Strongest.”
Orjin looked into Barelle’s eyes, then at the other [Soldiers]. He sighed.
“Once again. If I meet Hemp [Soldiers] in battle, I may not have the right to show them any mercy. I am troubled.”
He stirred, and the soldiers of Nerrhavia’s Fallen tensed. Barelle’s hand rested on his harp, but Orjin just raised his hands and brushed at the blood drying there.
“The longer I travel, and the more I learn, the less enemies I find. The Great General of Nerrhavia’s Fallen is mine. But I cannot hate the [Soldiers], either.”
Even the other warriors of Pomle and Soloxenethn stared at Orjin in disbelief. But the [Commander] knelt and clasped her hands together.
“Thank you, Strongest. I regret it, this war. If I could have stopped it, I would have. I cannot speak for the citizens, or the people I do not know, but I have not felt any righteousness or confidence.”
She looked up, and he wondered if she had been there when Xil died. For a second, a great fury rose in Orjin—and the oasis of Pomle blew in a storm as if echoing his feelings. Barelle’s head rose, and he lifted his hand to shield his face from the whipping sand.
Yet like the wind, Orjin’s head lowered, and he exhaled.
“Why did you become a [Commander] in Nerrhavia’s Fallen, Viradectia? Please. Tell me. I do not understand many things, but this, most of all, I feel I should know.”
The Stitch-woman raised her head, but it was the [Captain] who bowed.
“Strongest, I am Captain Metrizen. If it pleases you, I know the answer for my city.”
Orjin nodded, and the man gestured at the fallen [Mages]. His smile was—bleak.
“For a Hemp [Soldier], it would be worth it to take a single sword or pick up a fallen warrior’s blade. Of course, the punishment for looting a superior’s weapon is harsh, but it would be a fortune like they could never earn. We do level quickly. The dream of all is to one day become Cotton and that our children or grandchildren might make Silk. In other wars, it is worth the risk, for many. Not against Pomle.”
Commander Viradectia muttered.
“Nor the King of Destruction.”
She lifted her eyes, and Orjin stood there. When he replied, it was not merely with mercy in his heart. He was not that kind a man, nor could he put aside his grief and anger.
But it seemed to him that their deaths would only turn Pomle’s sands even redder and do nothing at all. So he hurled a spear back towards Nerrhavia’s Fallen as he met Barelle’s eyes.
“Go. If we meet in battle, Barelle the Bard…”
The man simply bowed and stepped back.
“If we meet, Orjin of Pomle, it will be for a reason neither you nor I can sway on. I hope that day will not come. Thank you.”
They left, and Orjin turned to the [Martial Artists]. Buler was panting from the swift flight, and Orjin crossed over to take his hand. Then he turned.
“Mendi?”
The [Grappler] clasped her hands, and he saw her bow. Orjin returned the bow, then took her hand.
“I am weary, Strongest. Salthorn told me to run.”
“I will find her.”
He promised her, and the Stitch-woman nodded. Without a word, Orjin turned from her to the others. He breathed in and out. He met Soloxenethn’s angry gaze as the man watched the Hemp [Soldiers] leaving, and he looked to the other angry [Martial Artists].
“The peace of Pomle.”
That was all Orjin said. And he saw a few turn away. But then one of the [Warriors] made a face, clasped his fist against his palm, and bowed slowly.
“As you say, Strongest. Welcome back.”
He smiled, and so did Orjin.
 
——
 
Orjin stood in Pomle, and it was not the same. He knew it was not and, perhaps, never could be.
The screaming in his heart, like the knowledge of Xil’s death, were like holes in his body that hurt far more than the wounds he had taken.
Just like when he had left Pomle, he felt the hole that the magic had caused. The oasis, which had turned black, the remaining water now a sludge so toxic that even Nerrhavia’s Fallen had shoveled in dirt to avoid the fumes from poisoning them.
How could anyone live here again? He did not know. And yet.
He was home. No matter how far he had gone and how welcome he had felt with Torreb and Itkisa, this was home.
He had been born here.
He had been raised here.
Orjin did not know, though, if he should die here.
That was not what Xil and the others would have wanted. That image of Collos that had flashed before his eyes had smiled when Orjin pulled back from the brink of madness. He had fought, and yes, he had killed. The [Mages] were dead, and he did not know if some of Nerrhavia Fallen’s [Soldiers] had died.
But he had not aimed to slaughter. He had fought as the Strongest of Pomle should, in his mind: a warrior without hesitation who neither sought death for his foes nor retreated when the moment came to fight.
Orjin was glad he had remembered himself. Would he have been lost forever if he had fought in hatred and wrath? No, perhaps not. Did it make men like Vandum inherently worse than Orjin? No, of course not.
But it was what he, Orjin, wanted out of his martial arts. Along with the power to undo this tragedy and never let it happen again.
In the minutes after his victory, many things happened quickly. Pomle’s people, those who had followed him, Soloxenethn, and the [Druids] came flooding into Pomle, shouting victory.
As well, Buler’s carpet flew in, bearing more weary [Martial Artists], and Orjin’s heart leapt as he saw one of them quietly dismounting.
Of course, that was when he had to speak to Barelle, and so the moment when he reunited with Salii and the others was delayed—and there were injuries to tend, explanations to be made, and people to count.
Spitty ran around in circles, sniffing the ground as if he were a hound; he had gone to the places the freed [Slaves] had been, as if to make sure they had gotten out.
Orjin, though, didn’t go to Salii or the others right away, for all they were gazing at him. He was standing and looking at the oasis, slightly…lost.
He had thought the moment he set foot in Pomle, he would come to some great understanding, like in the stories.
