Soloxenethn opened his mouth as the Strongest of Pomle opened his eyes; he had been moving the sand around based on how he thought—no, he vaguely knew how it would flow. A stream of white sand formed a wavy line against the black sand as he swung his arms, tracing a pattern that faded into a rainbow of colors.
The wind wasn’t behaving normally. Salthorn, Vandum, and Sorron saw the colored sand blowing around Orjin and no one else, spiraling up into the sky. Orjin was smiling at Soloxenethn, and the Fury of Winds looked around for Ryoka Griffin.
“I—I am not doing that.”
Orjin gave the man a puzzled, suspicious look, as if wondering why the Fury of Skies was lying. Then he heard a shout—and everyone took cover.
“[Aeriform Punch].”
“[Howl of the Vortex]!”
“[Skysplitting Strike]!”
Orjin, Soloxenethn, and Vandum all struck, and the colored sand blew to bits. The volley of arrows exploded overhead. Their reprieve was over.
“We must use the shelter as a base. The other masters—”
“I will block one entrance.”
Sorron stepped back, and Orjin took a breath. This was it. Pomle would fight to the death after all. He just wished—
Orjin’s head turned, and he frowned. There it was again. Just as he was ready to fight—so it was her after all.
Ryoka Griffin. It had to be her, because a sandstorm was billowing in again, and Orjin was sure Thelican would have used weather spells to keep the air clear. It was breaking over the south side of Nerrhavia Fallen’s armies.
If only it were here, they’d have some cover from the arrows and ballista bolts. Orjin’s head snapped forward, and he dodged another projectile just as he thought that.
He had known it was coming. It was like…
He couldn’t explain it. It was just him knowing where the bolt was. He put it down to training. It reminded him of the scream of Pomle that no one, not even Xil or Salii, had said they heard. The Strongest closed his eyes tightly. Then sprang as fire touched the ground.
Magical fire. Not real flame. He landed, and his foot traced a circle in the sand as he spun. If only the storm were closer. If only he could pull it like the sand. Just like—
Orjin’s arms moved like they had in his games, as if he were pulling the wind with him. He almost felt resistance and a great weight. He swung his arms forwards, ready to strike the first [Soldiers] charging at him.
And then—sand was blowing across the back of his head. Orjin froze—and the storm was on top of him.
 
——
 
The [Soldiers] halted as a sandstorm billowed across their ranks, moving unnaturally fast. The wind buffeted their shields and forced them to halt.
“Wind spells! Wind magic! What are you doing?”
Thelican was howling, and the storm died down as [Mages] suppressed it. But when he screamed at a [Grand Mage], the man shouted back.
“We’re trying! We’ve been fighting the damned Courier and that Fury of Skies this entire time! They’re too strong!”
“Two non-[Mages] can beat the pride of Nerrhavia Fallen?”
Thelican screamed back, hammering on his palanquin. Then he halted.
The Strongest of Pomle was standing in the center of a cleared space, the colorful sand splashed around him. The other warriors of Pomle had turned, and even the flying carpet swooped dangerously close.
Orjin of Pomle was looking around. Then at his hands. His head rose. Why did Thelican feel such a panic?
“Kill him! Kill him, kill him, kill—”
The [Archers] loosed a volley, this time only on him. Enchanted arrows, [Piercing Shots]—and the Strongest of Pomle shifted. He pivoted and extended an arm. As if slashing…something to the side.
What was he doing? Then Thelican felt the wind howl—and the arrows blew in a sudden gust of wind, off-target, landing amidst the [Soldiers] on the right flank.
This time, the [Great General] connected Orjin’s actions with the wind along with everyone else.
“What…was that?”
Thelican licked his suddenly dry lips and hunted for a chalice of wine he couldn’t find. He turned—and Itkisa was on her feet. Torreb was blinking.
“That wasn’t magic.”
“No one cast a spell. That wasn’t—it wasn’t the Courier either, [General]. We’re suppressing the [Innkeeper]’s Skill with a linked circle of a dozen [Mages]!”
Thelican turned his head. But how? A Skill? He refused to believe…it didn’t look like a Skill. In such quick succession?
“How is he doing that?”
Now, Orjin was staring at the ground. He faced the [Soldiers] who had gathered their nerves for a charge. Slowly, Orjin took a step forwards. Nothing happened. So the Strongest—he bent and placed his palms on the ground.
As if feeling the very ground and earth. He straightened, then, and as the first [Soldiers] ran at him, stomped his foot as he brought both fists up and out, head bowed as if guarding himself.
Martial arts and something else.
Orjin’s foot struck the ground, and the earth in front of him shook. Stumbling [Soldiers] fell over, and when the Strongest’s head rose…Thelican dropped his winecup.
 
——
 
Back. Nerrhavia’s Fallen were scrambling back, despite their officers’ orders to attack him. The Strongest strode forwards as the warriors of Pomle stood, watching his back.
Orjin heard the ballistae firing again, supremely confident in their distance. The weakness of warriors. [Mages] ensconced behind glowing shields.
He felt it all. No aura. Even now, they couldn’t see it, the other masters. Orjin had never felt his either. He did not understand his aura.
But—he understood Pomle. He understood every inch of the canyon, the oasis, the very ground and trees. When the earth shifted, he had known what had changed almost before he saw it. Orjin felt like that.
As if the very air were his limbs, the ground connected to him by his feet. He saw the ballistae, firing from such a distance, and pivoted to avoid each bolt. The world seemed to tell him where they would land, though it was experience and awareness that kept him safe.
They were so far away from his body. But what if—
He reached out, and his tentative questing failed. So Orjin thought of how he would move the earth if rock were a part of him. Not like a hand. Think of it like the very stone itself. Like this—
He flicked his palm up as his body moved like the shifting of stone.
A thousand feet away—a reloading ballista trembled. The crews looked down, and a pillar of stone punched through the wooden weapon, splintering screws and wood and metal everywhere.
Orjin opened his eyes as a cry reached his ears from Buler’s carpet. He had done that. In disbelief, he paused—then pivoted in alarm.
Someone was shooting at the other warriors! Orjin pushed—and a wall of stone arose, rising upwards until the bolt slammed into it.
This time, it felt almost natural, but he had no control. No finesse. Orjin felt like a child practicing a punch for the first time.
It didn’t matter. When he turned, he stomped, and a shockwave hit another ballista. The Fury of Skies was looking at Orjin. The Strongest of Pomle slowly pivoted, as if gathering something up into his fist.
Soloxenethn thought he saw it. The Fury of Winds copied him and realized it was the other way around: Orjin was copying his martial arts. The two performed the same gesture—and a vortex of wind howled across the air, scattering the crews of a third ballista.
“How is he doing it? This is impossible.”
Vandum couldn’t understand what he was seeing. Was it magic? Orjin looked like a [Druid]—but no [Druid] that he had ever seen. Salthorn was looking at Orjin, and then she turned her head a moment before a third ballista exploded.
This time—a bolt of lightning came down from the skies. She looked up, and the sandstorm had changed into a storm in truth. Rain was beginning to fall, and the Selphid whispered.
“There it is. That’s where his aura’s been the entire time.”
Sorron looked up and exhaled.
“Oh. Of course. He truly always was part of Pomle. No wonder he heard it scream.”
He wasn’t using his aura at all. The Strongest had no power to make the rain fall from the sky, even with the greatest aura. It was more like he was asking the rain to fall, or the ground to move, like a part of his body.
As if he had learned to punch with the sky’s wrath itself. And the [Soldiers] looked at the Strongest of Pomle as the other warriors strode forwards, watching him. Copying his movements like the Fury of Winds.
A flying carpet descended, and more disciples leapt down, a [Secretary], Earthers—the army of Nerrhavia’s Fallen was still there, but they could not stay away.
“What are you doing?”
Orjin snapped at Nevun, Mendi, Iratze, and the others. He couldn’t protect them all with this newfound power! But Mendi just shouted back.
“If we lost this knowledge, Pomle would be gone forever!”
More masters were racing forward from where they had been watching. They had to witness it and learn it. So Orjin turned and struck as hard and swiftly as he could, and a thunderclap flashed down behind him.
“I am the Strongest of Pomle! So long as I live, Pomle will never fall! Flee or face me!”
He no longer felt like he had nothing left to lose. He felt like he had it all—and he had never been more determined to fight. Orjin stared at the Hemp [Soldiers].
“I do not wish to kill you. But I will if I must.”
Slowly, he placed his fist in his palm and bowed one final time. He saw the weary men and women, who had fought against Pomle for so long, hesitate. They turned to look at the distant [General] and then at the [Martial Artist].
Who respected them more? And who did they fear more? Silently, a [Captain] threw down her mace. And the [Soldiers] began to turn and run.
 
——
 
“Turn and fight! Execute the first rank! Open fire! Open the emergency scrolls!”
General Thelican was losing his mind. The ranks of Hemp were deserting, and Cotton and Silk too. A great panic had swept through the army, like a hivemind.
They could not fight the world itself. Fight Orjin? Fight a story?
For every company that held and attacked their own, nine more were in flight, and Pomle’s warriors were not idle. Desperate Silk warriors locked blades with Pomle’s warriors, and Vandum threw a knife through a [Mage]’s eye.
They were still fighting. Thelican was on his feet, but the tide of cloth was against him, and a great panic overtook him.
“Stay back! Stay—”
He drew his sword as his tent began to collapse, and the soldiers around his bodyguard began to fight, first for their lives, then with eyes on him.
An army beginning to rout. Yet the battle was not lost. Orjin had terrified Nerrhavia’s Fallen with what they did not understand, and Thelican was losing command. However, it was still a bluff.
He was one man, and Pomle was outnumbered. He had no control of his powers.
He could die.
He—had to die.
Torreb’s heart was thundering as he took hold of Torreb’s Fist. His hands shook like they had when he faced Collos and felt like there was no defeating him.
Not again. Not my legend. 
His body was screaming as his legs bent to first leap forwards and restore order. Then—his eyes locked with the Strongest as Orjin’s head turned, sensing the killing bloodlust. Vandum was whirling, making to defend Orjin, and Torreb began to roar his greatest Skill.
“[Zeikhal Shakes Before My N—]”
His arm rose halfway, and a hand gripped the handle of his club. Torreb’s body halted, and his head turned. A woman had hold of the weapon. Itkisa.
“Father. No.”
Her arm was straining, and her feet almost left the ground before they dug into the earth. Torreb snarled.
“Let go! Let go!”
The officers around them had turned, and even the rebelling [Soldiers] backed away as Torreb the Undefeated howled at his daughter. But Itkisa refused to let go.
One hand on the hilt of his club, they wrestled silently. Torreb’s face was red with rage, then white with murder, his eyes rolling; Itkisa’s face reddened, and veins began to stand out across her temples and forearm with the effort.
The club wobbled forwards—halted—then back. Now, the ground was shaking, and Thelican was thrown from his palanquin. [Soldiers] were stumbling back.
A fissure was opening between the two. Torreb’s face was draining of color, yet he was pulling with more of his might.
“Stop. Stop. You promised. You stole that from me when you were born. You copied my greatness. You never earned it.”
“I know.”
Itkisa’s eyes were glowing like a rising sun, the orange light reflecting the colors of a faded-storm in his eyes. She spoke, every word strained, as the world shook around the two of them. Fake and illusory dreams of people running and beholding the two.
Torreb. And his only real daughter. Itkisa whispered as Torreb’s arm shook, a piercing hiss.
“I have always loved you for your one gift you ever gave me. But when they remember Torreb’s daughter, remember it was my mother who took your power from you the day I was conceived. She bested you, who never even remembered her name.”
His mouth was open wide now, and he raised another hand to take hold of the club. But then his fingers loosened a second—and it tore from his grip.
The Named-rank adventurer recoiled, rocking back, a snarl of disbelief on his face and his body tensed. He looked at his child, and for the third time in their lives, Itkisa raised her hand against him.
Torreb’s lungs expanded, and a howl of rage rose from the core of his being to scare the Jaws of Zeikhal into the sands and send all of mortality fleeing.
And she met his eyes as her grip tightened on his club. Then Torreb the Undefeated looked in her eyes and saw she would not relent. Not this time. Never again.
Torreb was looking into a mirror of time, and the scream halted in his lungs. Torreb stumbled back and raised a hand. And his heart—
Itkisa drew the club back, waiting for a blow to split the firmament in half. Tensed, eyes flashing—and then her eyes stopped flashing. Her clenched hand let Torreb’s Fist fall.
“Father?”
The Named-rank adventurer, the greatest [Warrior] of Chandrar, never swung his fist. He was collapsed on his side, arm still raised, a look of horror on his face.
His eyes did not blink, but all the focus on the world around him had left them. They stared at a distant land, and his breath had halted. His soul had fled in fear, and the mightiest warrior’s heart had stopped. Just as promised.
Torreb’s daughter touched his shoulder. Then she gently reached out and closed his eyes. She held him in her arms as those who had seen it backed away.
Thence, a great cry arose, even amidst the chaos of the battlefield. And every head turned.
Torreb the Undefeated was dead. And his daughter bore his weapon. She strode down and joined the Strongest, and then even the bravest took to their heels.
