Surely…and another month passed on ‘surely’ and ‘any day now’. Then they heard Pomle was gone, and every one of Yibre’s folk stopped where they stood for a moment. That strange, yet beautiful tale of the oasis, the lone nation of martial artists—became the tale of vengeance, of a ruined land and more warriors fighting Nerrhavia’s Fallen with no home to go back to.
Yet, as painful and shameful as it might be, Yibre’s [Farmers] could not mourn Pomle. And again.
That was months ago.
Now? They were tired. They had no notion of how many [Soldiers] Nerrhavia’s Fallen may or may not have lost. The places where Tiqr was winning became lists. The Empress of Beasts was winning more than she lost, but a terrible realization was in the bones of many.
How long might this war take? Years? Decades? There had been wars like this before. Every day, they rose and tilled the fields; even in the winter, they had things to do, and Yellats grew indoors if you warmed them enough and gave them tiny bits of sunlight.
They would wait as long as it took for the Empress of Beasts to free Tiqr. But they were still tired. Their gold savings were gone. The winter was long and hard, and doubtless, harder still on the [Soldiers] who came every two weeks to ask for what could be spared.
At least they levelled up. One of them had finally hit Level 30, which should have been a moment for great rejoicing. As it was—Loreiil had simply gained [Sunwarmed Fields] and gone out that morning to till them as snow lightly covered every plot of land. His wife, Wuze, had gained [Smuggling Compartment], so they would hide whatever was grown in a compartment the size of a single brick in their home.
Hope and triumph and weariness and determination. Some days, it felt like everything was hollow, and they wept for the lack of animals and the endless war. Some days, it felt like they had never been closer or more alive or stronger, despite it all, refusing to break.
And the war continued. It seemed like the Empress of Beasts and her army had something of an upper hand; General Thelican was trying to destroy Pomle’s people, and the distracted Great General had left underlings to hold the Empress back. She was here and there, raiding Nerrhavia Fallen’s stores of food and weapons, like a fierce hyena, taunting the bloated empire but forced to run when the legions arrived.
Illivere, it was said, was holding off Savere and Nerrhavia’s Fallen with its Golems, and their tireless automatons were providing enough food for the armies both, yet if Thelican turned that crushing hammer upon them, one or the other might fall and the fragile alliance crumble.
Pomle would not fight forever. The news that filtered into Yibre was like that these days. Pomle escaping another bloody battle. The Empress of Beasts with her amazing sword taking a town. A legion of Nerrhavia’s Fallen retaking a village and the people being sold to Roshal as collaborators with the Empress of Beasts—but the Bane of Roshal liberating them.
Hope. Despair. Victory. Defeat.
Waiting—there was a strange feeling to this winter. Christmas had been a moment of some small comfort, at least to pretend things were better. They said, of spring, that the Empress of Beasts would surely take the fight to Nerrhavia’s Fallen and push them back once and for all.
They said that she had great allies coming, more than even the two forces that pledged loyalty to the King of Destruction.
What allies? Who would aid Tiqr now when even the King of Destruction had been silent and far away?
It was unclear. When Yibre’s folk visited the town and pressed for answers, they found the people there just as uncertain. There were ‘allies’ coming. Just wait. Surely, surely. Tiqr would be free soon.
That was how Yibre’s folk felt, and it seemed like this winter would pass painfully slowly without hope. The snows that fell left the ground cold. There were no animals, like a Rainbow Fox nipping at the chickens, which someone would have to call a [Druid] to talk to, or a lost bird pecking at the shutters to be fed and housed for the winter.
When they greeted the sun, they just saw grey skies and those snow- and sandstorms. Or distant lights at night, of military outposts that the Empress had yet to take, glowing like a painful sea of stars, endless as Nerrhavia Fallen’s contempt.
Yet—today, Yibre’s folk heard something odd from the town. It wasn’t some great victory. It was a minor thing, surely, in the war. Yet it caught the mind. Perhaps it was how it was said, for Chandrar’s folk loved stories. Perhaps because they remembered how this war had first begun and his role in it.
Or maybe it was the <Quest>, which felt like it mattered. Even if it had been some distant monarch or an [Innkeeper] of Izril. It was a mystery.
A <Mythical Quest> posted by…who? Not the Queen of Nerrhavia’s Fallen, surely. The Magus-Crafter of Illivere? A friendly monarch like Fetohep of Khelt? Nay, the Quarass perhaps. Someone who knew something.
And that man. Apparently, he had been spotted in countless cities. He was returning.
The Strongest of Pomle had come back to reclaim his home.
They had said the Strongest of Pomle was now Vandum and fought in Nerrhavia’s Fallen. But they also said that Orjin of Pomle had gone to train with Torreb the Undefeated. Word came through the village of Yibre.
“He walked into one city and challenged every single guard and warrior there—then, when they had been defeated, he walked out. And he defeated the Siren of Savere in single combat. That was witnessed.”
Farmer Loreiil leaned on a rake, listening to one of the younger men reporting on what he’d heard.
“He’s just one man.”
“But he’s the Strongest of Pomle. If Torreb the Undefeated personally sparred with him—”
Torreb the Undefeated. The greatest warrior of Chandrar had given Orjin his blessing and respect? A man like that would make even Nerrhavia’s Fallen hesitate. Loreiil had grown up with tales of Torreb and couldn’t help but glance westwards.
“From the Kilalle Steppes, you said? That’s close. But he is one man.”
“One man that Nerrhavia Fallen is so terrified of they sent [Assassins] after him. And he isn’t alone. He journeys with a camel the Empress of Beasts personally blessed and a man called the Fury of Winds.”
“…I’ve heard of that one. I think. But that is only a group of three.”
“Four.”
Loreiil could count and glared at his nephew.
“Four? Where’s the fourth?”
“I’ve heard a flying carpet, Reizue’s Dream, is flying across Tiqr. And it might not even be four, Uncle. Wherever he goes, people are rising to follow him. Pomle’s warriors did not all go to Nerrhavia’s Fallen to fight and die. Plus, every [Innkeeper] and [Guildmaster] felt that quest.”
Loreiil hid his expression as best he could.
“He is just one man.”
He insisted on saying it like that. If Nsiia, Vasraf, and so many others could not turn the tide of this war, it was wrong to put faith in one man.
Even the Strongest of Pomle. The excited [Shootling Farmer] needed to get back to work, so Loreiil was about to hint to him that he should really help till another batch of Yellats; with Loreiil’s [Sunwarmed Fields], they were able to till six whole fields more of the fast-growing Yellats in winter.
Tiring, but it would feed hundreds—if they worked. Loreiil let the boy have his excitement and turned his head, reluctant to force the lad to work the hard, cold ground.
He was staring left as his nephew, Nevun, spoke.
“Uncle, why would Nerrhavia’s Fallen be trying to stop him from returning to Pomle if it doesn’t matter? I’ve heard they’re preparing to stop him. If it didn’t matter—Uncle? Uncle…?”
Loreiil didn’t reply. He had stopped, and Nevun followed his gaze. Then Nevun stopped as well, and his mouth hung open.
A figure was walking towards the village of Yibre. A simple cloak blew around him, buffeted by the cold sand, and yet he was still bare-chested, barefoot. He looked like a giant of a man, even from afar, his steps measured. In his wake trotted a camel and a man with long, bright silk clothes that flashed blue and yellow in the morning light, striding along, feet so light he danced upon the sands.
The wind blew Orjin of Pomle’s braided hair, and he walked forwards as Yibre’s [Farmers] stopped. When he halted, it was before Loreiil’s fields, and he clasped his fist in his hand.
A gesture of a [Martial Artist], to show he meant no harm. He bowed.
“Greetings. We are passing through. We mean no harm, but we would like to pass by your village with no word spoken of us. We are no friends of Nerrhavia’s Fallen.”
“You are the Strongest of Pomle, aren’t you?”
Loreiil found his voice at last. He felt everything was surreal. He had seen Nsiia, of course, and met other famous figures, but Orjin of Pomle?
Pomle, that place of stories, had ended. Now, Orjin was here. The man looked vaguely surprised. He exhaled, slowly, and shook his head.
“I am not the Strongest of Pomle. My name is Orjin.”
“So you are him.”
Once more, Orjin paused, and the man next to him raised his voice. He had a strident tone.
“You see, Orjin? They know you. It does not matter what you claim to be if that is how Nerrhavia’s Fallen sees you.”
“Vandum is the Strongest. I am merely another warrior of Pomle.”
That was what Orjin said to his companion, then turned to Loreiil.
“We do not mean to inconvenience you, but we would like to ask about soldiers. We are attempting to avoid them.”
“As you return to Pomle?”
“Yes.”
Something about the way Orjin spoke was so matter-of-fact it just added to the sense that he was some character out of a book. He did not make small talk, and in that way, and how he seemed ready to move or exert himself at any moment, he was unnatural to Yibre’s [Farmers], who had never met someone like him.
“Of course you may pass by. We will say nothing of your passing. But please. Do you need food? Anything to drink? Our wells are clean…”
“We have provisions. I would not wish to take up your hospitality.”
Orjin assured Loreiil. Then he looked to the side and sighed.
“Spitty.”
The camel was nibbling at a full-grown Yellat. He gave Orjin a glare as the Strongest pulled his head back. But Loreiil was only too happy to offer the camel the Yellat himself, using [Quick Uproot] to yank the stubborn thing from the soil.
“Is this…is this the camel Ksmvr of Chandrar rode? The wise and brave Spitty? The one blessed by the Empress of Beasts herself?”
And again, Orjin hesitated, not because he was unsure, but because he probably disagreed with the characterization. The camel itself looked incredibly smug.
“This is Spitty, yes. I will pay for whatever he eats.”
“Can we offer you nothing, Strongest? Pomle is far—you will have to cross through Nerrhavia’s Fallen, and there are countless outposts. I have heard they’re preparing for you.”
Nevun looked sideways at Loreiil, shocked as the [Farmer] self-importantly informed Orjin of the dangers as if he knew about them.
“Yes. We have run into three patrols already. We should not linger.”
“Three—”
Now, all the [Farmers] of Yibre were clustering around, and Orjin’s attempts to downplay the situation continued to backfire.
“They were simply [Riders]. We killed none of them.”
“A dozen [Riders] is no match for any one of us. Even Spitty put the leader out with a single mouthful of phlegm.”
The Fury of Winds, Soloxenethn, posed and demonstrated his own powers with a punch that made the air ripple. Orjin rolled his eyes.
“I cannot do much. I am simply returning home. I am sorry, [Farmer]. I did not even ask your name.”
“Loreiil. This is my wife…”
Loreiil introduced the others, and Orjin bowed again, deeper.
“I cannot help you, and I only bring danger to you the longer we linger.”
“This is nothing compared to what we endure, Strongest. At least take something to eat—!”
The Strongest tried to protest.
“We are full on provisions. But—”
He hesitated, then sighed.
“—If you would accept coin for your Yellats, I suppose they may be needed. I have coin enough. My [Secretary] somehow got some to me…she tells me that there are other places in Tiqr that are starving.”
This was true enough, and Yibre had enough to eat—but knew well that not every place was fortunate enough to have been spared the war, let alone have a Level 30 [Farmer]. Loreiil looked at Orjin.
“If we could get the food and goods to them, we would gladly give it. How—how much could you afford?”
They had to be paid, and it embarrassed Loreiil to ask, but Orjin instantly produced a bag overflowing with gold. He offered it to Loreiil.
“As much as you can spare. There is a boy, Buler, who has a flying carpet.”
Nevun broke in excitedly, eyes wide.
“Reizue’s Dream? One of the last forty great carpets of Chandrar?”
“…Yes.”
Everyone murmured loudly, and Orjin’s exhalation grew longer.
“He will be here soon; if you would let us pay for the food, quickly, we can send it to other places he has found.”
“We will get as much as we can. And if you are going to Pomle—will you fight with the Empress of Beasts?”
Another moment of hesitation, and Orjin ducked his head.
“I do not know. Empress Nsiia I count as an ally. But I must find my people. If I meet her—”
“Her soldiers are not far, Strongest. And if your followers need food as well—”
“I do not have followers.”
“What of the people marching to Pomle?”
Orjin frowned.
“…What people? I am going by myself. There are some who wish to see Pomle freed, but I have told them all the same thing: I cannot promise their safety. I must go alone. It is safer to join the Empress of Beasts or go elsewhere.”
At last, Loreiil saw his weary expression and a bit of the man behind the story standing in front of him. That gave him some reserve and made him understand Orjin meant every word.
The other [Farmers] thought he was being humble, and Nevun even asked if he might join the group—or the carpet! He had thought to follow the Empress of Beasts, but the danger of a lone man being captured as a rebel and sold to Roshal…
“Buler is already in enough danger defying the Guild of Skies to help us. He only takes those he can carry to where they are needed. Please. We must be going.”
“This is correct. Enough! We will wait for Reizue’s Dream! Leave the Strongest be.”
Loreiil agreed, and the reluctant [Farmers] stepped back. Orjin looked relieved and bowed again. He was about to be on his way, having been pointed towards what Yibre’s folk thought was the safest route to Pomle.
