Rows of [Riders] with nervous horses and camels were readying themselves; two companies of [Soldiers] and fortified ground led into the oasis.
The same terrain that had made it so difficult for Thelican to take Pomle would resist anyone trying to reclaim the home of the [Martial Artists], worthless as it was.
Yet one man…the [Soldiers] were nervous, and even the [Mages] began casting spells in preparation. But Thelican’s voice rose, high and angry.
“Enough! The reputation of Pomle has disgraced Nerrhavia’s Fallen too long! There is no nation in the world that exceeds our own! There is no class that we do not have mastery of. This day—we will prove it. [Martial Artists]—forwards!”
Yisame’s breath caught. Then she saw a group striding into view.
Ten. Somehow, Thelican had scoured Nerrhavia’s Fallen and found ten experts. How not? The nation was vast, and there were [Monks] and experts of every kind, some of whom might have trained in Pomle itself.
They were all Stitch-folk, each one dressed in silk. Some had robes or flashy clothing like the Fury of Skies; others had more practical uniforms. One was as bare chested as Orjin save for a breastband.
“I recognize some of them. That one is Solekr the Spinning Fist. User of the [Spinning Way: Spiral Strikes of the Unicorn’s Horn] Skill.”
At least one of the [Martial Artists] was known. At least one, then, was definitely over Level 40. The other [Martial Artists]? None below Level 30 as Yisame read a list. Two more over Level 40.
Ten versus one, and Thelican had no intention of letting it be a one-on-one fight. So why—
Why did Yisame look at the distant man’s face, which she could almost make out the details of, and feel afraid?
She had met Orjin. But there was a blankness to his expression she felt from here. He halted as the [Martial Artists] slowly spread out, forming a wide semi-circle. They met him half a mile from Pomle, and now the sandstorm was blowing around them, but none of them moved. They were tensed, watching Orjin.
 
——
 
He stood there, unmoving, without taking a fighting pose. Slowly, Orjin’s head turned right and left.
As if searching each face. He was met with gazes that refused to waver, spirits grinding against his own. Auras clashing.
The [Martial Artists] of Nerrhavia’s Fallen pushed with their auras, for they were all masters, searching for his will to overpower and clash with it and overwhelm him.
But there was nothing there. Only a perfect nothingness, not even a void. The storm blew around Orjin, and his hair collected particles of sand as he breathed in and out.
Then he raised his hands and clasped his fist in his palm. They waited.
He did not bow.
The first [Martial Artist] crossed the distance with a kick out of a [Flash Step], a blow aimed straight at Orjin’s face. The Strongest caught the leg with one arm and brought down his elbow.
He snapped the femur, and the leg bent up as a scream choked in their throat. Orjin’s palm found the face and thrust it down into the dirt. He rose, and a figure lay embedded in the ground; he ducked a palm that slashed over his head like a razor. It severed one of his braids of hair, and he thrust a palm back.
The tip of his fingers pierced a throat, and a choking [Martial Artist] staggered back, clutching at the hole in their cloth flesh. Orjin took a blow from afar; a [Martial Artist] threw another punch that crossed two dozen feet. Orjin saw a flicker from the side. He tensed and ignored a blow to his face. The [Martial Artist] winced and checked his fist; Orjin dodged a twisting blow that passed over his face and tore the skin of one arm open from the passage.
The [Martial Artist of the Spinning Way] paused, and three more [Martial Artists] leapt forwards. One went for Orjin’s legs in a sweep while the second and third closed in from the sides.
The Strongest’s kick struck a chin and sent the [Grappler]’s head up, but the Stitch-woman absorbed the blow. He threw a punch that slowed the charge; she took the blow across one cheek and kept coming.
His fists moved faster, and he kept punching. The [Submission Expert] tried to grab for his legs, and Orjin’s hands kept flashing.
Two dozen blows. Three dozen—she collapsed, and Orjin’s arm spun. One of the leaping [Martial Artists] tried to dodge, and he brought his palm down.
Cloth and string fell apart. The [Martial Artist] tried to raise their left arm and saw it fall. They clutched at the blood running from their arm. Orjin turned the other way, and three blows struck him simultaneously. Crotch, leg, chest—[Dual Blow] and a kick.
His foot struck the ribs of the fifth [Martial Artist] and kept going. The figure fell without a word, and the remaining masters stopped their advance. The highest-level ones had been watching. Now—one of them halted uncertainly.
Which Skills was he using? A [Thunderpalm Martial Artist] locked eyes with another closing on Orjin from the rear, and they timed their attack.
Orjin deflected punches, twisting, head weaving away from the blows of the first master, taking the second on his other side at the same time. He could not block all the blows, and a palm struck his chest like the clap of lightning. He seized the arm and brought his elbow down, breaking it, then swung the elbow into a head, which snapped back.
Three strings along the seam of the neck exploded, and the [Martial Artist] fell. The other disciple of the Magic Fist school tried to back up; Orjin tackled the figure, and they grappled on the ground. Orjin had a knee on the back of his opponent as one of the other masters tried to attack him; he knelt on the first [Martial Artist]’s back and struck their head against the ground rapidly. Then he pivoted and took the second grappler onto the ground.
They threw him; he landed on his back, and the two were trying to lock each other’s joints. The master swung around Orjin, body like a snake, seized an arm; he reversed the grip, snapped a thumb off, and twisted an arm up. The other fist swung for his face, and he broke it as well.
The last two masters were waiting when he rose. The first leapt forward, exploding into combinations of kicks and punches, a neverending assault that forced Orjin backwards, blocking and deflecting the attacks as the [Martial Artist of the Spinning Way] stalked right.
Waiting to use [Spiral Strikes of the Unicorn’s Horn]. Orjin’s head turned, and the two exchanged one glance as blocking the first expert sent his feet skidding back in the sand. Then he found his opening, and his head crashed into the first master’s nose.
Now.
[Spiral Strikes of the Unicorn’s Horn]! The other master’s fists spun, and a lance of twisting flesh, an elongated blow, like twisters of a hurricane, swept at Orjin’s side. Each one could pierce steel plate armor—
Orjin’s fists glowed, and his hands struck four times.
[Dulav-ra: Tetrad of the Solar Aura]. 
A glowing fist met the twisting blow four times. Then—the [Martial Artist of the Spinning Way] stepped back, eyes wide. Orjin had used his own capstone Skill to defend himself.
Orjin lifted his fists as the last master hesitated, feet shifting on the sands. Then the expert of the Spinning Way burst into a frenzy of blows, twisting, deflecting a punch, spinning, exchanging punches and kicks, bursting out of a hold—
They fought for five minutes, the longest of the ten. When the final [Martial Artist] of Nerrhavia’s Fallen collapsed to one knee, not one finger of their hands had survived the exchange of blows that had torn them off.
Orjin stood there, panting, blood running from his wounds as his breath rose. He stood over the last master, and a bloody hand tried to jab at his throat. He struck the chest, punched the collarbone, the face, knelt down and kept throwing punches until he thought someone grabbed his shoulder.
When he spun, ready to strike—he saw no one. Then Orjin looked down and saw the mess of blood and the silent figure in front of him. Only then did he stop.
Somewhere else, there was sound. It returned to Orjin’s world of silence as he looked at his hands, covered in blood. Down at his foes.
He was a boy again, in his dream, looking at the opponent he had killed. He was Vandum, his eyes alight with battle. Refusing to surrender even with his arm torn off.
Is this Pomle?
Orjin lifted his eyes and wondered if he were dreaming.
He swore he saw Collos’ shadow waiting for him at Pomle’s entrance. The [Strongest of the Martial Age]. The first Strongest.
Someone was shouting, giving distant orders. Orjin was walking forwards, fists raised.
Collos. 
He saw arrows flying, saw [Riders] bursting from one entrance of Pomle, and in the distance, [Battlemages] were chanting. [Soldiers] were marching at him…and Orjin was not looking at them. Only at Collos.
A javelin flew at him, and he knocked it aside. Collos!
Orjin’s jaw was clenched. His every wound ached and burned. His body was burning.
And it was wrong.
Xil was dead. The First Strongest was waiting for him. But in his dream, Orjin had raised his fists just like this…
Orjin halted and stared to his side.
A javelin was lying on the ground. Orjin had lost his spear after the battle with the Siren. Yet the spear didn’t matter, or so Xil had ever taught.
Slowly, looking away from Collos, Orjin bent down and picked up the spear. He held it, feeling the heft of it, and without thinking, his palm chopped off the haft, balancing it better. Xil.
Xil, that master, had spent so much time lazing in Pomle, arguing with other masters, not training but simply talking. His last moments had been a warrior sacrificing himself for Pomle.
The [Peerless Spearmaster]. The Garuda giving Orjin advice, teaching children and experts as he pleased. Approving of Orjin taking in Tiqr’s folk.
What is Pomle? Which one was Xil?
Orjin raised his gaze, expecting to see the vision of Collos vanish, but the First Strongest was still there. That man, superimposed over the vision of [Mages] aiming spells at him, walls of magic guarding them, and the soldiers rushing towards him. The [Archers] were taking aim, arrayed on Pomle’s cliffs.
Collos was waiting. Orjin didn’t know what to do. Then—he looked at that dream of Collos. And he lowered his hands. Slowly, Orjin planted the spear in the ground in front of him. He raised one bloody fist and clasped it into his palm.
He bowed his body from the waist, feeling his breathing stabilize. The urge to kill replaced by something else in his veins. It was not his goal.
It never had been. Yet when he raised his head, his eyes fixed upon Nerrhavia Fallen’s warriors without wavering.
He met Collos’ eyes—and he thought he saw the First Strongest smile. Then he vanished.
And Orjin felt the storm around him change. He took one breath, then another. Controlled himself.
 
——
 
The Strongest of Pomle stood there, again, but the rage that had been in every line of him was…
Not gone.
But mastered. Controlled. When he bowed, even the [Mages] hesitated—but then they took aim, spells readied. Orjin’s head rose, bows snapped, and a flurry of arrows rose into the air. He plucked the spear out of the ground.
Then—as a shower of the steel-tipped arrows fell, Orjin raised both his arms and tensed. The moment before the volley struck him, his entire body flexed, and the arrows struck his flesh—and bounced off.
Stonebody Martial Arts. The [Archers] looked at each other, and a cry went up for them to hold—hold—
The [Riders] were coming. The [Mages] muttered as a stream of Stitch-folk on horseback whooped and slashed the air with sabres, riding down on Orjin. Then the [Martial Artist] untensed, lifted his spear, and leapt forwards.
The twisting figure slashed through the [Riders] racing past him, knocking figures off horseback, deflecting the swords—with a spear! He emerged through the first wave, planted the butt of the spear, and vaulted up.
As if he could fly. When he landed, kicking a [Captain] off a horse, he spun the spear and deflected a rain of arrows.
“[Mages]! Spells—now!”
Six [Battlemages], each one over Level 30, released Tier 4 magics. The first one simply shot [Extended Lightning Bolt] at Orjin. The lightning flashed across the distance, a power that few [Warriors] could match.
The Strongest saw it coming and leapt. The bolt of lightning struck him as he thrust the shaft of the spear down into the earth. The flash illuminated him—and he landed as the [Mage] blinked.
“What was—?”
The [Battlemage] had no idea what he’d done. She had never actually looked at a bolt of lightning in a storm and seen how it travelled or why it moved. To her, it was magic.
“[Fireball]! [Fire Orb]! [Flame Strike]!”
The second, a [Pyromancer], began hurling spells. The Strongest saw the roiling masses of fire, and his spear extended as the [Fireball] reached him. He stepped back as the spear touched the [Fireball], and it detonated. Orjin’s feet slid back, and he leaned under the flaming orb of fire and looked up.
Fire poured down from the heavens. Orjin flipped out of the way of the flames, and a gout of fire, the third spell, made him slash with the spear, parting the flames. The heat baked him as he strode forwards—but fire was a tempestuous thing. He had walked on burning coals and seen how the heat had to gather before he burned.
The earth rumbled, and Orjin looked down. He jumped—and a crevasse opened, then snapped shut. He gazed down, then hopped again—and when the spire of stone rose to impale him, he slid down the side, dodging a series of stalagmites erupting from the ground, walking through them as they burst next to his feet.
“How is he doing—”
“[Hundredfold Arrows of Light]!”
Another [Mage] just fired a wave of arrows, and Orjin planted his feet. He dropped his spear and began to punch, like Lemocles had once shown him to do. The arrows came in a stream, not one simultaneous attack; Orjin’s jabbing punches met each one as he walked backwards, leaving motes of sparkling light in the air.
“G-Golem!”
A [Golem Artificer] pointed, and a huge mass of metal with a glowing head, a copy of Domehead, ran at Orjin. The [Strongest] looked up as it raised an arm covered in spikes to punch at him. He let the Golem extend the fist, walking with it, and seized the arm as it passed by his shoulder at full extension.
The [Mages] saw the giant creation of metal tilt. Then—rotate. Orjin threw the Golem over his shoulder and paused, panting, as the automaton lay there. It didn’t understand what had happened. It was not programmed to get up, so its feet kicked at the ground uselessly until it stopped.
