Soloxenethn hadn’t even a scratch. But then, he’d landed and used his wind-punches to keep most of the [Soldiers] reeling. Orjin bowed once.
“I must continue. Thank you for your hospitality. Remember. I am not the Strongest. I am just one man, returning home.”
He felt like of all the villagers, Farmer Loreiil had understood the truth. But when the old man just gave him a goggle-eyed look, Orjin sighed.
Then he turned and was running through the sands. Onwards. It was not the first battle he would fight this morning.
Nor the last. Even for a trained [Martial Artist], it was tiring. Rather, it should have been tiring. But Orjin’s gaze was fixed ever eastwards. Home.
He had to find his answer.
 
——
 
Even after it was done, Queen Yisame of Nerrhavia’s Fallen couldn’t quite believe her eyes.
“That is the Strongest of Pomle? I knew he fought well, but that?”
He had taken apart a hundred [Soldiers] so fast she barely blinked. She turned, incredulously, and realized she had spoken aloud at the Court of Steel.
Hugely inappropriate. Normally, her translator, the Queen’s Voice, would take her cues and speak. The Court of Steel looked at her, but their unease was palpable.
At least, some of theirs. The Minister of War, and another Great General, looked far less impressed, or at least, seemed to be. Those who were not warriors stared at Orjin.
Yisame had seen [Gladiators] fight. She had seen other scrying spells of battles, but they were a chaotic affair. She had thought she knew what high-level warriors were like.
But she had never seen a man bring down so many bare-handed and, apparently, barely any Skills used!
“He treated them like toys.”
That was a comment from one of the other [Ministers], but at this, the Minister of War did bow. This was a meeting to address the issue of the warfronts—and the Strongest had come up.
“Hemp. They fight better in larger formations. They have always struggled against powerful individuals, Your Majesty. I have instructed General Thelican to deal with this man; he is just a man no matter what the stories say, and the true Strongest, Vandum, is still present with Pomle’s armies. Yet if the <Quest> rewards Orjin of Pomle’s death…General Thelican has already made plans.”
A sideways glance, as if the [Minister] thought she had posted the <Mythical Quest>. Yisame kept her face blank, and her Voice spoke for her. She had to leave them uncertain.
“We are concerned, Minister. Great General Thelican, mighty as he is with words, has assured the Court of Steel for two months that the legions upon legions he has asked for will triumph over the Empress of Beasts and Pomle. Yet what we hear is Pomle sacking a city or taking a fort! Yerrebod, the sacking of Pirnthol—and even today, they escaped his traps.”
Instead of addressing the Voice’s displeasure, the Minister of War turned as if talking to the rest of the court.
“He is bleeding them, Your Majesty. These things take time. I remind the Court of Steel—Pomle is a third of their number, now. And Thelican may have demanded ballistae and our Magic Throwers, but only that. He has very considerately left most of our high-level warriors and artifacts for the war in the north. Yes, he demands many soldiers, but levying the region provides him with ample Hemp warriors. And it is just bodies he needs.”
Yisame didn’t like how the Minister of War spoke, but he was a friend of Thelican, and he had tied the Great General’s success to his own. She, a lover of stories, [Reader], now [Writer] and great personal friend of Yvlon Byres, had been worried about the Hemp more and more.
They were unto peasantry as Humans understood it, but Yvlon, in her infrequent letters, had a different opinion of their status. Even if they were the backbone as laborers, soldiers, and so on of Nerrhavia’s Fallen, they weren’t unlimited. Besides—Yisame looked at her Voice, and the woman translated the [Queen]’s thoughts.
“So many soldiers dying to Pomle must surely affect their morale. So too—if Pomle is a third of their number, what about counter levelling? This has all the hallmarks of an ill-omened story…”
The Voice hesitated, but Yisame did not like the parallels to the last time Pomle had fought. The Minister of War’s smile was too wide; he did not like being pressured by the crown, nor was he used to it.
Yet the truth was that Nerrhavia’s Fallen had problems. Plagues of metal insects. War against the King of Destruction. Two wars in the west! 
Plus all the infighting between multiple [Princes]. Yisame’s stomach hurt, and she knew the King of Destruction was still advancing.
Slowly…slowly. They were throwing army after army against him, and with the lack of potions, even he couldn’t advance fast, but he would smash an army with his Seven, pause a day or two, then keep going.
It was, in fact, not the first Court of Steel gathering that had occurred, but this time, the [Queen]’s displeasure began to echo. The Minister of Affairs cleared her throat tactfully.
“General Thelican is a Great General of Nerrhavia’s Fallen. No one can deny his successes in taking Tiqr, and his methods have indeed worked—even if they earn the censure of nations by destroying Pomle.”
The Minister of War smiled—until the Minister of Affairs went on.
“—It feels, to us, as if he should prove his status as Great General by now. If a <Mythical Quest> is posted, should General Thelican not finish Pomle and then quell the Empress of Beasts so we might focus on the north?”
A murmur arose as Yisame opened her fan with a snap. Exactly. The Great Sage of Nerrhavia’s Fallen, Etrikah, just shook her head as the Minister of War tried to defend himself.
“Your Majesty, a war cannot be resolved in months—”
“The Strongest of Pomle, Orjin, then. If he is one man, then bring him down!”
“No.”
Yisame whispered that. She sensed her Voice hesitate, but the discussion rose, and Yisame sat there.
Orjin of Pomle. She had met him. She had liked him. Now, he was at odds with her nation, and she cursed Thelican for it. Orjin had the look of stories about him, and she? She feared being in a book’s plot on the wrong side.
Nay, three. Domehead and Nsiia. The King of Destruction and his Seven. Now, Orjin and Pomle.
Why her?
“I would rather we have armaments not plagued by these metal shortages, Minister of Affairs. If we are casting blame, then the Court of Silks could be said to be letting down the Court of Steel—”
One of the Great Generals was arguing, trying to cast blame upon the Court of Silks. Another [General] nodded.
“Plus, it is not even pleasant in Tyrant’s Rest. The [Gladiators] are still refusing to fight for their imprisoned, traitorous comrades—we should make an example of them. The Foxkin are unruly—”
“They would not be if you took those who attacked them to account.”
Etrikah snapped back, and the [General] hesitated. Yisame’s glower silenced a reply, and the courts of Nerrhavia’s Fallen rustled. At last, the Minister of War spoke in a strained voice.
“I shall inform Thelican to deliver results. One man cannot change this war.”
“That will be one small step, at least.”
The Minister of Affair’s voice was dangerously light, and the Court of Steel agreed. Great General Thelican had better deliver results. Fast. Or the ‘Great’ part of his title might be called into question.
 
——
 
When the orders from the capital came to General Thelican, he was busy.
Busy doing what he had been doing for the last two months: raising morale.
The truth was that Nerrhavia’s Fallen had its great moments of glory. The western fronts imperiled by these wars and the northern border could be said to be reflections of where the largest nation in Chandrar demonstrated incompetence of state.
The east was yet unplagued by either beetle or war, and a large portion of Nerrhavia’s Fallen was only watching the fighting, untouched by conflict. Yet.
However, the largest thing that could be said to affect the majority of Nerrhavia’s Fallen wasn’t the fiscal cost of doing war or the fear of the King of Destruction. It was the topic that the Court of Steel had barely touched on:
The war between Prince Zenol of House Isphel and House Quarein. The issue was twofold. Firstly, Prince Zenol was a rather popular figure after his Village of the Dead raid. He might be a lesser [Prince], but to common folk who didn’t actually know the hierarchies of [Princes], it looked like two fighting on equal terms.
The fact that Prince Zenol had agreed to battle the King of Destruction had, ironically, won him more favor. But there was another reason why the [Prince] was so popular.
He had a great supporter. Not a [Servant] or a [Slave] or patron. Rather, it was the figure quietly sitting in General Thelican’s tents, observing the [Great General] of Nerrhavia’s Fallen.
Barelle the Bard had a different view of Nerrhavia’s Fallen than the palace did. The most famous [Bard] in the world had been touring Nerrhavia’s Fallen these last two months. Coincidentally, it seemed like support for Zenol arose wherever he went.
How not when his famous harp could play the very notes of magic and when he had declaimed the tale of Zenol’s father and the [Prince]’s famous heroism with the Horns of Hammerad? Barelle was a famous [Bard], and his presence in Nerrhavia’s Fallen to chronicle the events was taken as a sign.
An opportune one, or so the Court of Silks claimed, but you could view it the other way as well: the King of Destruction was making war, and either way, Barelle had doubtless predicted something of note would occur here.
Yet. The [Bard]’s normally smiling countenance was troubled as he drank deep from a cup of wine. For he had observed the second thing that even the east was noticing.
The [Soldiers]. There were three castes in Nerrhavia’s Fallen: Hemp, Cotton, and Silk, with countless subdivisions of cloth and ranks between the three. But Hemp did fight the wars and build the cities. They were lowest, toughest, and in Thelican’s case, an overwhelming majority in his armies.
There were twenty Hemp for every Cotton or Silk soldier in Thelican’s army, staggering, which was at odds with the ten-to-one ratio in regular armies, which actually echoed the distribution of Stitch-folk in general. But Thelican’s Skill—[Troops: Commoner’s Offensive]—and his strategy regarding Pomle meant that he was throwing the [Soldiers] into battle with minimal support.
No chariots. No costly Silk regiments with enchanted weapons. Just Hemp until Pomle’s [Martial Artists] literally grew so exhausted that a stray arrow or blade killed them.
It worked. But even an adequate man like Thelican could have guessed morale would be low for any [Soldier] who knew they were up against the legendary Pomle.
To raise morale, Thelican had taken the following steps:
1. He had instituted a hundred gold coin bounty for any [Martial Artist] of Pomle killed to be paid to the [Soldier] and their immediate completion of their conscription service.
2. He had graciously given orders that any group of Hemp [Soldiers] who fled would not all be put to death. But their commanding officer—who was also Hemp—would be burned alive, regardless if they fled or not. As these were elected officers, it discouraged that sort of desertion.
3. He put on parties to raise morale and show everyone that he had utmost confidence in the war’s progress.
Instead of dining in his command tent, the [General] was dancing in the center of his camp. He was inviting lesser officers, even Hemp, to join the food and drink, and he had his [Slaves] dancing.
He was drunk, and he rose unsteadily.
“Damn that man! Do they think I can’t take down Orjin of Pomle? I have a trap set just for him—but it’s no small task to take down a high-level [Warrior]. It’ll be done. A <Quest> for me—it’s as if the [Innkeeper] was thinking of me! They want Pomle crushed? Fine, I shall deliver the crushing blow! But I require eight more legions and all the ballistae in the west.”
He gave orders, moving pieces carelessly across a map for all to see. A [Strategist] was protesting.
“General, those are the only weapons keeping Illivere’s Golems at bay—”
“And I have orders to finish the fight in Pomle! Let them advance a few miles; have them packed here! It’s a sign, a sign. Think of it.”
Thelican tapped his head rapidly.
“I have heard the House of Minos sent a magnificent one to that Antinium. My spies, you see, have monitored The Wandering Inn. Now, the woman posts a <Quest>—she should have sent for ours! I would have had a fine one sent from our stocks if she’d but asked.”
He laughed hugely; Nerrhavia’s Fallen was one of the few powers who had old siege weapons like that despite not really remembering how they were made. Or they’d bought some from the House of Minos over the years.
“Enough! Enough! We have Barelle the [Bard] here, and he hasn’t even played a song! How do you find my camp, Barelle? You note how I treat my officers?”
“I do, Great General Thelican. It is a sight.”
Barelle’s smile made Thelican grin. The [Great General] rose. He seized a [Slave] dancing with a veil and began to swing her around. Then he was singing one of his famous patter-songs as the [Musicians] tried to keep up.
What he saw was his officers raising their cups and cheering him, fresh for battle, ready to deliver a hammer’s blow. High morale after confirming nearly two dozen dead [Martial Artists]. If Thelican thought of the Court of Steel, it was as fools who didn’t see his vision or understand war.
The lights of his party were glowing with magic, and the huge tents made of silk, of course, were at the center of the sprawling central camp surrounded by smaller tents with more mundane fires.
It shone like a carnival, a jewel from which wealth and food and drink poured. On a whim, one of the Silk-caste officers tossed a bag of gold, and the [Soldiers] watching and being treated to some of the food went scrambling and fighting for it.
A glorious campaign. Thelican’s worries about Orjin were pushed aside as he bent over to kiss his [Slave], then order more wine sent around.
But what did Barelle the [Bard] see?
 
——
 
The music that Barelle heard sounded like it was hollow. The [Musicians] were good and could play a warbling assortment of flutes and brass, but to him, it was joviality’s seeming without the core. It was confident, wild, and raucous…
But the [Bard] didn’t smile unless Thelican turned to him. An old, Human man sat at the edge of the camp, eyes glowing as shining magic illuminated everything.
