Archmage Syllea Wyrmrest chose to meet Erick, and his ward, not inside the house, but outside, at the stone gazebo half a block away from Erick’s house. This was fine by Erick. Syllea looked every bit as beautiful as Erick remembered. Tight leathers, heavily tooled with Ancient Script but barely enchanted with a simple [Mend] spell, hugged her tall, green amazonian form, and her considerable chest, while long blond hair draped down her back in a single, thick braid. Her eyes were something Erick had not noticed before, but as she spied Erick walking toward the Gazebo, he saw her eyes were like chips of blue ice; she was angry, but she was controlling that anger. Her lower fangs peeking out from her lips would have been cute, if not for the harsh lines present in the rest of her visage.

Hours ago, as the morning dawned on Spur, and had yet to dawn on Treehome, Syllea’s home, Erick had woken the woman up with a message sent through Poi. She had been angry. She was still angry. Why hadn’t he called sooner? He could have talked to her as soon as he heard a single clue as to how to reverse the Curse of the Shadeling, but his response had been that he did not know, for sure, how the curse worked. Justine seemed to know, though, and she had been a shadeling herself, so with those words said, Syllea made a plan to come to Spur.

And here she was.

Erick stepped into the gazebo, saying, “Hello, Syllea.” He looked to her compatriots, saying, “Hello… Other people?”

“Erick.” Syllea nodded politely, some of her anger fading behind civility as she spoke with her warm, rich voice, saying, “Thank you for the invitation.” She gestured toward her companions, who stood in the back of the gazebo, staying away from the meeting, much how Teressa and Poi did behind Erick. One of Syllea’s companions was a male orcol who could be her brother; he had almost the exact same body and features, but male. The other person was a barely feminine orcol of brown skin, black hair, and black eyes. She looked built for tougher wars than Guildmaster Mog, and that was a surprising thought for Erick. Syllea said, “Omaz, my brother. Bayth, my oldest friend.”

Omaz smiled brightly, as he waved once, but said nothing. Bayth just stood like a castle fortification in the back of the gazebo, her eyes gently moving from Erick, to Poi, to linger on Teressa, as though she was waiting for something bad to happen. Erick could relate.

Erick said to Omaz and Bayth, “Nice to meet you.” He introduced, “This is Poi and Teressa. We’re all in Spur’s Army, together.”

Syllea simply asked, “Where’s the former shadeling?”

“She’s still inside the house,” Erick said, getting to the reason that Justine did not come out to speak. “When I took her in, I was made aware of two attempts on her life. I’ve also fended off half a dozen or so kidnappings from Candlepoint since I took the city.” As Syllea’s countenance took on a harsher feel, Erick continued on to say, “But she’ll come out to speak. I’m just here to make some introductions and answer any questions you have beforehand.”

Syllea discarded her almost-frown, and gestured to the small table beside her and Erick. It was the same one he had sat at with Killzone, yesterday. She said, “Acceptable. Let us sit, and discuss.”

She sat down, and Erick did, too. The stone was almost cool against his backside, and though air breezed through the gazebo, it was warm, desert air, and the clouds overhead were not too dense. Today looked like a dry day, though not nearly as dry as it had been before Erick got involved. Ophiel twittered on Erick’s shoulder, and took the other seat at the table. Syllea regarded the [Familiar]. What was he doing taking a seat?

Erick explained, “I’m just popping up a [Prismatic Ward] for Justine, for when she joins us. She’s only level 12.”

Syllea said, “Ah,” as her gentle frown returned.

Erick nodded, then expended that Ophiel into an oval of dense air, across one of the seats, forming an oblong sphere of [Prismatic Ward]. With a quick look, the seal at the bottom of Candlepoint’s lake remained intact, and with a quick cast, Erick had another Ophiel sitting on his shoulders, twittering in violins.

With thoughtful eyes, Syllea looked to the dense air, saying, “There have been a handful of people who managed to get around the [Solid Ward] limitation. You’ve joined an elite history, Erick.” She added, “Not to mention all the other achievements.”

“Thank you. That’s all Ophiel, though.” The feathered little guy trilled at his name, and Erick continued, “I got very lucky when I summoned him. I’m actually working on a new tree-based [Familiar] for stationary defenses, though it is not going so well. I’ve gotten the impression that such a thing is impossible.”

“Oh?” Syllea said, “I can’t imagine you would have a problem with behavior, yet. Or did you make a high-tier tree? How far have you gotten?”

“Nothing like that. Sorry, I misspoke. I’m sticking to tier 2. But… Shades can kill anything. That’s the problem.” Erick added, “I’ve even been informed by a credible source that one of those Shades has been personally empowered by Melemizargo in order to kill me if I step out of line, if you can believe it.”

Syllea lost her anger. “You know...” She glanced south out of the gazebo, toward the flat orange land of the Human District, the buildings beyond, and the wall of Ar’Kendrithyst in the far distance. She turned back to Erick, saying, “I expected to be at war, right now. On the run, at the very least. Candlepoint got good and broken, but they’re the only ones, so far. I expected more Odaalis, honestly.”

“Everyone did.” Erick said, “I heard your liaison to the city was killed. Britha.”

“Yes.” Syllea said, “They kill their own more than they kill others. They always have, so I did not think much of such an action. She was a dastardly puppet, who tried her best to convince me she was real. She did the most she could to get more of my people to come to Candlepoint, and partake of the fruits on offer. She told me that shadelings were real people, that if we saw shadelings as a proper race, and not as an affliction, that maybe we could see that there was no need to vilify those so changed by Darkness.” She said, “Many went to her, because of her connection to me. I tried to crush that action as soon as I saw it, but… You know how it is. According to all who saw her, she was the perfect gentlewoman.”

“How bad is it at Treehome?”

Syllea said, “There are now two hundred and five shadelings at a commune outside of Treehome. Britha spread her poison far and fast. Every single Wyrmrest Tribe has a person afflicted by the Curse of the Shadeling, because of her. Because there is power in Darkness, if you can make it out alive. Some managed to unlock two Stats, or three. One managed four.” A look of pain bade her speak on something else. “The shadeling commune is a model of perfect orcol society and it all seems like an awful trick, Erick. Part of me cheered when they killed Britha. She would never tell me how to remove the Shadeling Curse. She never considered it a curse.”

Erick had only interacted with Syllea once before, back when he gave the lecture on particles at Oceanside to all the other archmages, and the Headmaster. She had seemed bubbly and serious at the same time. But now, she just seemed serious. All mirth had left her. Erick knew it would get worse before the day was out, too. That’s how life was currently going for Erick, after all. All the archmages of the world were in similar situations as him, and Syllea was no exception. Archmages were the fulcrums of defense for nations, and the people who found magical solutions to life’s greatest problems. Some skewed more to defense, than solutions, like Erick. While others, like Syllea, were more solution oriented. That she hadn’t found a solution to this shadeling crisis, visibly weighed on her.

Erick said, “They seem like real people to me.”

Syllea laughed. “Optimism!” She asked, in a hateful, jovial mood, “Do you not see the long-con, Erick?”

“If the long con is to make an evil society less evil by introducing a half-Dark society to Veird, then that is okay.” Before Syllea could sigh in frustration and anger, Erick added, “But if the trick is to get under the skin, and kill from within, then I will be the first in line to flood Ar’Kendrithyst with destruction.”

Syllea breathed out, then asked, “Do you truly not see them as a ploy?”

“They are a ploy. Hundred percent, for sure.” Erick said, “But I don’t think it’s against us. I think they’re a long term ploy, in order to force the gods to work with Melemizargo to enact some sort of transformation to the universe beyond Veird, so he can spread beyond this planet.”

“… If anyone else would have told me that, I would have considered consigning them to a mental health asylum.” Syllea said, “People rarely have effects on godly behavior.”

Erick dropped his voice, saying, “I’m not lying by any stretch of the word, Syllea. I’ve spoken to multiple gods, and Melemizargo himself, and seen thousands of shadelings speaking of what is to come. I’m not just helping Candlepoint; I’m also spying on them more than I ever could before. They honestly, truly, do seem like real people. But they’re not the problem. The Dark Dragon wants to escape Veird, and take his power elsewhere. The only problem I see with letting this happen, is that he could leave bombs behind, to kill everyone else. Maybe not physical bombs, but they don’t have to be.”

Syllea almost spoke halfway through Erick’s words, but she remained silent, and listened.

Erick continued, “So far, he needs three things to escape. He may need more, or less, but these three things are vital to his plan.” Erick listed, “One. He needs a way to move between planets of at least this solar system. Anything beyond that can come later. Two. He needs some way to create mana, for the mana trapped on Veird, under the Script, is the only mana left from the Old Cosmology. Without a new source, his space ships are dead in the water. Three. He needs a way to protect that mana from blowing away in this New Cosmology, both on the ship he would fly, and on the world he would colonize.

“There was a quest for a spaceship up on Candlepoint’s quest board, before I took the city from Bulgan. So at least that much seems in line with what we know he needs.” Erick said, “He probably knows how to make mana already, if there is a way. He probably already has copies of the Script ready to go, too, since the Script does a great job of keeping the mana on Veird.

“So maybe all he needs is a ship.”

Syllea listened. She silently considered, her eyes going wide, briefly. She said, “That’s a monster tale, if I ever heard one.” She added, “I don’t think he has a copy of the Script. That is Rozeta’s domain. Any attempts to copy the Script in any way end in various punitive actions from the Dragon Goddess, herself. But even if there’s no punitive actions… You can’t copy the Script.” She said, “Theoretically, you could make a new one. Maybe that’s the true point of the shadelings? The wrought make the Script. Shadelings could make a dark-Script. But only if they got out of the Script of Veird. I’m reasonably sure you can’t make a smaller Script in a larger Script, for the larger would automatically take precedence over the smaller, wouldn’t it?” She shook her head. “I don’t know. But besides that: You can’t get out to the Void, Erick. Once you get beyond the Script, gravity crushes you back. It’s an instant, non-magical action, too.”

Erick looked up, at the ceiling of the gazebo, thinking about what lay beyond the sky. He turned back to Syllea, saying, “But you can make a [Gate] to the moons, can’t you? Converter Angels or Breach Demons come back that way. There’s Script out there, too, no doubt, and the gravity must be a lot less.”

Syllea froze. She thawed quick enough. “No. Hell would never allow it. Celes is even less forgiving for what Melemizargo has done. There is no way Koyabez would ever condone such an action.”

It was Erick’s turn to freeze, as he realized something very important. Koyabez was Melemizargo’s old friend. Holy shit. That’s a weakness, right there.

Syllea noticed. She asked, “You have thought of something?”

Erick decided to be wildly optimistic, as he said, “I think Koyabez might allow it, in a few centuries of peace and calm action.”

Truthfully, he didn’t think it would take that long at all. A year. A decade of peace. If Melemizargo pulled out all the stops and ended every threat he ever created… Erick could easily see Melemizargo duping all the gods in a year, through his old friendship with Koyabez.

Syllea went silent, her facade perfectly controlled and neutral with thought. She softened, slightly, tentatively saying, “In a few centuries, I could see that happening.”

“But we’re here to talk about shadelings.” Erick said, “Whatever Melemizargo’s plans may be, if the shadelings are fake people, I doubt his plan would work. He wants us to actually work together, while lording power in his back hands to use against us if we step out of line.”

“You seem confident about that.”

“As confident as anyone can be about the actions of beings far above their station.”

Syllea smirked. “So not that confident at all.”

“About seventy five percent.”

Syllea sighed, then said, “Maybe the shadelings aren’t a trap, for us. At least not directly. But if they’re a trap for the gods, then it may be our duty to end the shadelings, just the same. If the gods are not there to empower us against the Darkness, then we are at the mercy of a being that has proven themselves ready and willing to kill on a whim, or on purpose, and then to abuse our souls afterward.”

“Melemizargo deserves to be Ended,” Erick said, feeling that the discussion took a sudden, awful turn, and the he needed to get it back on track. “But his creations are innocent.”

“Innocence doesn’t always matter when it comes to the Darkness.” Syllea said, “Especially if he’s plotting a long war to murder our gods.”

Erick did not want to get into that argument. He had planted seeds. He would see how they could grow. He changed the subject, asking, “Ready to speak to Justine?”

“Not yet.” Syllea asked, “I want to know what you want out of all this, Erick. I still owe you a bargain of trade from before, from your lecture at Oceanside. And now you’re giving me this knowledge of godly events and how to possibly cure my people... What do I owe you, this time?”

Erick almost asked of assistance with creating a tree [Familiar], or maybe some knowledge of Force Magic, or Mana Alterings. Syllea was a Force Mage, with known ability to transform her spells to meet any elemental need— Ah. That was actually something important that he needed to know.

“How do you make light defeat the dark?”

Syllea smiled, slightly. “I can help you with this. Very well. I accept. I wish to speak to Justine, now.”

Erick nodded, sent a message off to see if Justine was ready, which she was. He cast [Teleport Other], with the Ophiel waiting inside the house. As Justine appeared beside her [Prismatic Ward]ed chair, the Ophiel in the house went blipping back to Candlepoint, back to overseeing the city.

Syllea looked to the white-skinned, red-eyed incani. She sniffed. It was a dismissive sound. Or maybe not. Erick couldn’t quite tell. He just watched as Justine got her bearings, glancing around the gazebo to see Syllea’s people, and then Erick and Poi and Kiri. She turned to the other archmage in the meeting.

Justine bowed. “Greetings, archmage.”

Erick became nothing more than a facilitator, at that point. Syllea asked questions regarding the shadeling curse. Justine answered, open and honestly. She spoke of Melemizargo’s Heart, in Ar’Kendrithyst, where cursed shadelings needed to go in order to ‘listen to Melemizargo’s story’ whereupon he would personally cleanse the shadeling of their curse, if they wished. Syllea frowned at this, then proceeded to ask a multitude of questions Erick had never directly asked before, because he didn’t need to. Mostly, Syllea’s questions were of the ‘how do you know this’ variety, which ended up being answered with variations of ‘Melemizargo has declared Erick Untouchable, and he wants Erick educated, so she was given more information than most, and more clearance to speak’.

Erick was slightly perturbed by his own fate being laid out there, but those were the breaks.

This whole situation felt surreal, after a while.

And then it got worse when Syllea calmed, and asked, almost appearing to not want to ask, for she feared the truth, “On the matter of multiple Stats: can you explain why some were cursed, and others not? We haven’t found a single defining thread between anyone.”

Syllea’s companions leaned in at this, maybe half a step, but still remaining five steps away. Omaz, looking contrite. Bayth, looking two motions away from taking off someone’s head. Justine noticed their rapt attention, but turned back to Syllea. Erick felt the back of his neck prickle, as Justine spoke:

“Because they already know the truth. There is no need to force them to come to him, because they are already a part of Melemizargo’s Cult.”

Bayth launched at Omaz; one second she was still, the next all three hundred kilos of her was in the blond orcol’s face, her fist in his chest.

Erick was ready for something, but not that. Syllea had no such problems adjusting to the event. All around the gazebo, clear, solid air snapped around every single person, like sudden explosive growths of crystal. Erick got one dose of the magic, Poi and Teressa each got their own. Crystals slapped around the dense air around Justine, but did not encroach into the [Prismatic Ward]. Though the crystal touched his skin, it didn’t hurt; this wasn’t exactly an attack.

Omaz and Bayth were instantly locked behind individual crystals, larger than the rest.

In half a flashing second, as the initial crystals materialized, what looked like a targeted, individualized spell, turned into something much stronger. Pillars of clear crystal erupted out of the stone gazebo, trapping everyone where they were, except for Syllea. She stood in the empty center of a sudden palace of jagged edges and solid panes of Force.

One second had passed since the spell started.

Erick was fine, probably. He had taken no damage, and now he was actively running [Hunter’s Instincts] as well as [Greater Lightwalk], so the world seemed marginally slower, as his thoughts happened faster, and his sight expanded far outside of his own body. He decided on doing nothing. Justine had decided the same, though she was definitely experiencing a ‘freeze’ response.

With a touch of light, that had already been wrapped around Justine’s ankle, Erick blipped her back to the house, to the foyer, where time seemed to resume and Justine promptly collapsed. She pulled herself to the wall, to huddle as she stared at the ground.

… She was not okay, but she was physically whole.

Teressa was not calm, in the crystal behind Erick.

Poi was calm, and he was already telepathically sending to him, and likely to Teressa too, because she calmed as Poi’s voice came to them, ‘Omaz has fled. Bayth tagged him. Please take down the spell, Archmage Syllea.’

… Poi was sending to all of them, apparently.

Syllea shook her hands in the air as her voice rang out, “FUCK.” Softer, but more violent, “Fuck! Omaz! What the fuck!”

Bayth, trapped in crystal, her voice muffled, but not really, shouted, “I TOLD YOU! I TOLD YOU!”

“He’s my gods’ dammed BROTHER, Bayth!”

“AND HIS HEAD SHOULD HAVE BEEN ON A PIKE YEARS AGO!” She yelled, “Cut the [Crystal], Syllea!”

The crystal around them all snapped. Force dissipated into fragments, and then glitter, then nothing. Piles of dust fell to the floor of the orange gazebo as the spell finished falling part. That dust become no more than air, as Syllea held her head in her hands, staring at the spot Omaz had been, whispering, “He’s my brother, Bayth.”

Bayth stood over the spot where Omaz had been. She stared at the ground, then whipped toward Syllea, saying, “He never should have come to this meeting. His involvement was suspect from the start. I told you that—” She cut herself off. She calmed, barely, as she asked, “Did you tell the elders yet, or should I?”

Quietly, and with her back to Erick, Syllea said, “They were listening in the whole time; yes. Treehome knows everything we heard.”

Erick felt briefly concerned. They had been watching the whole time? Ah. Well. People watched his house all the time, too, so maybe the extra eyes had been out there. By design, this wasn’t a private meeting.

“Good.” Bayth took a second, then said, “I could have had him, Syllea. Knocked him out, if you hadn’t interfered.”

Erick’s lightform body was not fully active, but he held slight control of the light all around. It was the only way he was able to see Syllea’s hateful face, shown only to Bayth. Bayth kept her own face neutral, likely because hers was visible to everyone else in the gazebo.

In order to forestall whatever drama was happening with his guests from Treehome, Erick said, “You did not have him, Bayth. I was ready to [Teleport] everyone to their own separate corners, if necessary.” He added, “But I saw it was not necessary.”

Bayth stood straighter. She looked to Erick, saying, “Apologies, Archmage Flatt. Treehome has had some... difficulties.”

“I’m sorry, Erick.” Syllea turned to him, her face composed once again, saying, “That should not have happened.”

“Don’t worry about it. This is a violent topic.” Erick said, “But if you don’t need to go home and deal with the fallout, I could answer more questions. Or Justine could?”

“Just… I need a moment,” Syllea said, tendrils of intent flowing from her head.

Warm air blew from the north, as a half cloudy sky dappled the orange land in darker colors, outside of the stone gazebo. Syllea breathed. She calmed as she spoke to others, elsewhere. Bayth threw out a few tendrils of thought, and stepped back, to the side of the gazebo, back into position. Erick, Poi, and Teressa had barely moved through the entire exchange.

Poi sent, ‘It wasn’t necessary for us to move.’

Erick asked, ‘No warning about Omaz?’

‘… There was no immediate threat on your life, or the life of anyone else in the immediate area.’

‘What about far reaching threats?’

Silence was Poi’s response.

Erick wasn’t exactly happy with that answer, but that line in the sand between acceptable actions and not was a good one to have, and one Erick suspected was implemented rather early in ‘Mind Mage Organization’ history. People had dark thoughts all the time. Acting on those dark thoughts was a necessary thing to prevent, but punishment for simply having them would lead to Mind Mages killing everyone, and then themselves. … Unless they were hypocrites. Which was entirely possible.

Syllea sat down, bringing Erick back to the moment, as she said, “We’re not needed at home. Whatever Omaz was involved with… I don’t want to be there while others clean it up. What I need, is to see if what Justine said was true.” She stared at Erick, saying, “I would like to see a shadeling at Candlepoint call out to a god for help. I want to know if that part is true before we start sending sacrificial cattle to Ar’Kendrithyst.”

Erick frowned. Then he said, “Let me ask around.” Almost flippantly, and trying to get his point across, he said, “Maybe someone is willing to court Death, today?”

“Someone always is,” Bayth said, in the back. “I just heard now from the commune: We’ve got ten people ready and willing to try their luck at Ar’Kendrithyst’s trap.” She said to Erick, “They don’t care if it’s a lie. They’re ready to die, anyway.”

Erick almost commented on his disbelief at the speed of that decision. But he knew how bad it could be, to be ostracized from your community. On Earth, exclusion from the people you loved was bad enough. On Veird, exile was a common sentence, just above a death sentence, for those who harmed or didn’t belong to a community any longer. A ‘commune’, how Bayth used the term, sounded like something halfway between exile and segregation.

Erick gestured to his house, saying, “I’d invite you in, but Justine is having a war response right now.” He stood up, saying, “We need to take care of her. When she is calm again, I will ask around in Candlepoint for volunteers. Are you going to stay in Spur for a few hours?”

Syllea stood, saying, “Yes. I look forward to an answer, soon.”

Erick nodded, then blipped him, Poi, and Teressa, back into the foyer of the house.

Justine had been crying, huddled against the wall. But at Erick’s appearance she froze, again. Erick did not approach fast. But he did what he could, with soothing words and a calm distance. Soon, Justine started crying again, full out, loud wailing. Erick did what he could for that, too, but he knew that Justine had been through a lot more than he could likely ever know. Mostly, he made lemon honey tea for the both of them, and sat two meters away from her, while he let her take her time. Eventually, she took the tea. She did not speak. She just breathed, and sipped, and time passed as it always did.

- - - -

Ava stood at the edge of the lake, with her elbows on the top of the stone barrier surrounding the expanse of water, and her hand supporting her chin. The water was not nice. It was full of purple eel larvae. Ava had dealt with purple eels many times. Usually it was just a small infestation, but this one happened on the surface, and it was extensive. A short [Scry] to the bottom of the lake showed that the feathered [Familiar] was still there, but the other side of the barrier was mostly clear of eels.

She came back to herself and raised her head, to watch as the archmage’s radiant ooze-like [Familiar] zipped out from nowhere to hover above the lake. It dropped a load of tiny brown fish into the waters, for what had to be the tenth time.

Ava had almost screamed in frustration the first time she had seen this waste of resources, but by now, that emotion was rather subdued. The radiant ooze flickered away and Ava immediately lifted her hand, controlling the water the mud flits occupied, to then bring it just above the lake’s surface.

Her frustration ebbed as she watched the flits acclimate to their new floating surroundings. She had picked up the mud flits because they could not just instantly clean up all the eels in the lake. They had to adapt to the water. If they didn’t have a few minutes of easy transfer, then the eels would eat them, instead. She watched, right now, as an eel she had accidentally picked up, went after a flit that barely moved. Well that flit was dead, but its brothers would wake up soon enough and return the favor to the lone juvenile eel.

“You don’t have to do that, you know,” said a new voice.

Ava stood straight, then frowned at the man who suddenly stood beside her. Dark skin, bright white eyes. A Shade, wearing the armor of a guard. Ava was done panicking, though. Today had been one surprise after another, and her emotions were ragged. So what was one more Shade? This was a city of Darkness, after all.

A part of her felt vindicated. Here was the Shade of Candlepoint! The story of the archmage had to be a lie, too. She was likely swimming in lies, now that she thought of it.

She held the sluggish flits in her [Watershape], while saying to the stranger, “They survive better when they have time to adapt to the water.” She added, “Just look at them. They can barely swim.”

“You’re Ava, right? Our new Sewermaster? Is the sewer done?”

He spoke in a friendly way, and not at all like the Shade he appeared to be.

She replied, “Taking a break before Mana Exhaustion takes a toll.”

“Ah. Okay!” The man joyfully said, “I’m Slip, the Captain of the Guard, I guess. Thanks for looking after the fish.” He added, conspiratorially, “But Archmage Flatt is just throwing money at the problem.”

Following the script, Ava said, “Archmages never change.” She still held the flits in her control, though, watching as some of them began to recover from their sudden change in environment. Sluggish, half-tumbled fish began to flop, and reorient, their movements coming together into an organized school of brown. Some of them spotted the eel in their midst and went after it with their tiny, gnashing teeth. They might look like vicious little pack hunters, but they were actually omnivores. But there was a problem. The lake was brand new, and bare of any plants. But these flits were awake now, so she dropped her control of the water, letting them flow into the lake, unimpeded. Keeping on topic, she asked, “Is there a plan to keep them fed afterward?”

“We’re getting in some lakeweed and grasses tomorrow.” Slip said, “But we’re only putting them in the water when the mud flits start cannibalizing, so we know the eels are gone.”

As if to punctuate his words, another load of mud flits fell out of a particularly bright spot of the air over the lake. Ava grabbed this bunch, too, as soon as the [Familiar] went away, but as she spent that mana and cast that [Watershape], a twinging headache began behind her eyes. Mana Exhaustion. Ava hadn’t felt this feeling since her last life over two hundred years ago, before she gained Scion of Focus. It sucked then, and it sucked now. Part of her was glad to know that Mana Exhaustion was the same, too. At least the world hadn’t changed that much, even if her experience of it all had.

The levels and the Stat points in Focus and other assorted bonuses came fast and easy when one was a shadeling. Visiting with Mephistopheles and learning more about what she could do in her new life was both marvelous, and tragic. Cycling her mana gave her experience, and yet it did not count as ‘mana spent’ for the purposes of her Mana Exhaustion limit. Only casting actual spells counted to that limit. She had to eat rads, though. When Mephistopheles had given her one, she almost put it in her mouth, but then he revealed that as a joke; Ava was too mentally taut to find his attempts at humor as anything but boorish.

Clutching the rad and crushing it, though… That was like touching the Core, or a well made ritual spell, or partaking of her long-gone mother’s shalecake. It was healing, and it was home, all in one tiny rad.

… Ava wondered if her tribe survived her death, down there, under the surface. Did someone else take up the sewers, to defend the Descent? Were the Jadescales prosperous? Were the upper defenses maintained? Or had everyone been subsumed by their neighbors, Obsidian Lair?

Slip’s words brought her back to the moment, “That’s why you don’t have to help the mud flits survive. They’ll only have done their job when they start eating each other.”

Ava said, “Was that the plan for Candlepoint? For us to fall to each other, so that only the strong survive?”

Slip looked away, seeming contrite as he mumbled, “It’s not the same. They’re fish. We are people.”

Ava said, “I lived alongside the Darkness for a hundred years. I know how it is with Melemizargo.” She gazed toward the lake, and saw the flits in her floating water were organized, and lively. Letting them go, she said, “He prefers the strong survive and the weak perish. That’s why he pushed these violet eels to the surface. To temper this growing city in fires of rebirth.”

“The eels could have been an accident?” Slip said, hopefully.

With a light touch of venom in her voice, she said, “Doubtful.”

Slip asked, “Did you get a chance to see the blockage, down below?”

“Yes. It’s acceptable, for now.” The ‘blockage’ was an excellently made [Prismatic Ward], and it was doing its job well enough. But it was just a cap that ignored everything but the passage of water, and was not a permanent solution at all. Ava’s idea for a permanent solution would eventually include a series of reservoirs, with the lowest ones possessing a multitude of pylons to block the larger monsters, the middle ones holding bobber worms and glowfish to eat anything that passed the pylons, and the upper reservoir existent for a variety of plant and animal life that liked to live that deep. And for bobber overflow. Those vicious worms would likely spread out over the deepest parts of the lake, as soon as they started to multiply. She said, “We need some bobber worms and glowfish.”

Slip smiled again. “I already told Archmage Flatt. He’s getting them, when he can.”

Ava was reminded of another problem. She said, “And those [Cleanse] wands aren’t going to be enough.” She asked, “Is there no way to get [Cleanse]? It is hard to be a sewermaster with an unclean domain.” She wanted to ask about [Teleport], too, but Slip was obviously here in a professional capacity; he came to see what Ava was doing with the fish.

Slip lost his smile. He said, “Not… really.” He asked, “Is that going to impact your job?”

“Yes.” Ava said, “Like being a guildmaster without a quest board.”

Slip looked like he wanted to say something, but he did not.

Ava watched as the flying radiant ooze dropped off more fish. She did not catch them in a water bubble, this time. Instead, she turned to Slip, and gave the man her best displeased face. It was easy to do without her mask.

Idly, she wondered if she would ever make herself another mask. With the power of a few more levels under her Status, and more Focus, she had fully retracted her green scales. She could pass for a human, like this.

Slip let out a secret he did not seem to want to share. “You can become your normal race again.”

Ava gasped. What! That was possible! About a hundred thoughts flew through her mind at once. She had never expected to be free of this new fate—

Ava settled herself. As her momentary excitement was ground down into dust, she stared at Slip. There was obviously a problem with this un-transformation. Elsewise everyone would have done it. Who wanted to be a shadeling? Sure, the leveling was easy and that was pleasant, and she saw how that was attractive for most people, when most people never got over level 20. But Ava had been level 85 when she died. She could do that again. So what was the danger, here?

... There was the most obvious one.

Ava guessed, “The rest of the world will kill us if we aren’t easily identifiable. It would be a shadeling hunt unlike any other.”

“Yup.” Slip looked to Ava, like he was reevaluating her. “Also, the process could kill you, and you lose everything you have gained as a shadeling.”

Ava almost balked at those pathetic worries. But then...

Ava thought for a moment. Was she okay with dying again? Perhaps, she was. But she ran the idea through to its conclusion, just to be sure.

One of, and perhaps the most important reason for braving death, was that this town had nothing. No art. No nightlife. No good food. No reason to live. Even if she was able to gain access to the spells she needed to make life bearable, like [Cleanse], to rely on the kindness of others for basics, like food and shelter, was a travesty of the highest order. Even if she was forced to live here…

If her tribe was gone, then there would be no need to seek them out. But to seek them out, she would have to be herself again. They killed shadelings down below, on sight.

Brushing those difficult thoughts aside, and in the best case scenario of her home still existing…

She was not the Sewermaster of the Jadescales, any longer.

Her attainment of the position of Sewermaster of Candlepoint by just stating that she had been one in her old life, was a great boon. It was a great start to a new life. Back in the Jadescales, she had needed to indispose three other applicants for the position, after she had forced the previous sewermaster into an early retirement. And then she had to defend her own position for the next seventy five years…

She was still unclear on how she died. Was she indisposed herself? Did something come up from the Depths, and gobble her down? Ah. No matter. She died. That was the bulk of that truth, and the only fact that truly mattered. Now she lived, in a half life sort of way.

Half lives were not worth living, in her opinion. Even if she died to this un-transformation process…

When she succeeded, she could just [Teleport] somewhere else, like a normal person, leaving Candlepoint for a day, or a few hours, and come back with all the proper supplies she needed to live a good life. Portal still existed, right? She could likely buy anything she ever wanted in that place. She’d just have to avoid being outed as a former shadeling. She could use even intermediaries to purchase things for her, if needed. That was a perfectly fine solution to that problem. There was no doubt in her mind that she would be killed, by anyone outside of Candlepoint, the second her true nature was revealed.

Ava said, “I have nothing as a shadeling.”

“But you’d have to regain all your levels and spells back?” Slip said, disbelieving and concerned all at once.

“What level were you in your last life, Slip?”

Slip waved a hand through the air, dismissing the question, saying, “I was nothing. My other life might as well not have been lived.”

“I was level 85, and Sewermaster for seventy five years.”

Slip’s bright eyes went wide, as he joked, “You don’t look a year over thirty.”

Ava blanked for a good half a second. When her thoughts came back, she laughed. It was a good laugh, and she enjoyed the simple emotion for what it was; proof that she was still alive. Slip smiled.

With her own smile, Ava asked, “Will I suddenly age back to what I was?”

Slip shrugged. “I have no idea. No one has survived, though not many have tried.” Slip added, “One survived. She’s basically an acolyte of Koyabez, though. So. You know… Probably not your path.”

“I would not be so lucky. I understand.” She decided, “Youth is overrated. Tell me this process.”
