Sitting down on a bed of dry leaves, Marina pulled the luxurious flask from her [Inventory] for a quick sip.

“You sure you still want to return that to me?” Hecate sat next to her.

“To be honest, the more I use it, the more I get attached. It’s just such an amazing gadget. Free zero-calorie soda whenever you want.” Marina took another sip. “We can just share it.” She handed the flask to Hecate.

“We have quite a handful of problems right now, my dear.” Hecate giggled as she took a drink from the flask.

Hiding around the outskirts of the forest while waiting for a never-arriving nightfall was what they both agreed was the plan. From here, they had a clear view of the entire village as well as Mellie's house. In the distance, Marina could vividly spot a bright figure slowly making their way into town, which relieved her of some stress.

“Look, Mellie is home.” She pointed. “We are about to be dead. You didn’t write anything over the top on that note, did you?”

“No,” Hecate shook her head. “Not by my standards at least.”

“Hecate!” Marina knew just how absurd Hecate’s standard might be.

“It is just an ordinary farewell letter, nothing over the top, my dear–” Hecate paused. “Is that the village chief walking towards her house?”

“Huh?” Marina glanced back. “Shit! This is bad. We need to do something.”

She expected the chief to have some ill will against Mellie after their departure, but not right after they took their leave! And unlike the two of them, or rather Hecate, Mellie did not possess any way to defend herself. The chief was an Authority Bearer, which in itself was dangerous enough, considering what she had seen with the Phantom and the Guardian.

“I left her one of my cloaks. She is a smart girl. She should be fine.” Hecate said.

“Yes, but what if she doesn’t know how to use it?” Marina yelled. “Ah! The chief is knocking on her door now!”

“Worry not, my dear, I doubt the chief will do anything to one of his own. Mellie had already lived with them, so the chance that—”

Mellie’s front door suddenly shattered into pieces. From this distance, Marina could hardly see the process that led up to it, other than the chief’s back.

“Hecate! We need to go now!” Marina rushed through the brush without another thought.

“Agreed.” Hecate trailed behind.

Activating the concealment of her cloak, Marina hurried through the woods into the meadow. She was desperate to rescue Mellie, but still needed to stay hidden from the Bee-ple just in case they had already been written onto a wanted list. The cloak given to Mellie was originally Hecate’s, but even without it, Marina still could not sense the vampire’s presence anywhere near her.

She sprinted through the grass, her breath getting heavier with each step, but she knew she couldn’t slow down. As she prepared herself to climb over a small hill, a hand grabbed her from behind.

“My dear, wait.” Hecate held her wrist.

Marina jumped around to find no one behind her. “What is there to wait for?”

“Mellie had escaped from her house; I could sense her scent coming closer.” Hecate pointed out.

“Even then, we still need to stop the chief. She is being chased!” Marina argued. “We need to—”

An unseen force knocked her onto her back. It didn’t feel like an attack, but more like something fell right into her. She grunted as she grabbed onto the mysterious object that sort of had the shape of a human body. It was an invisible figure that crashed into her, and it fought back, pushing Marina right in the face. The strike removed the hood from her head.

“Miss Marina…?” The figure stopped before revealing themselves.

“Oh, Mellie, thank god you’re okay. We need to run now!” Marina pushed herself up from the ground.

“About that, my dear.” Hecate appeared beside her. “This escape will be quite difficult now.”

“Wha—”

A pulse of energy grazed through the air around her. Looking up to find the source, Marina caught a glimpse of a middle-aged man hovering in the air before them. It was Chief Humphrey. His aura had changed completely; he was no longer the same man who bowed before Hecate’s blade at the village entrance. In fact, his presence was even greater than Hecate’s at this very moment.

“I have given the two of you a chance to leave, and yet you decided to return anyway.” The chief’s voice rang. “Redeemers sure are as naive as I was told.”

Marina’s eyes widened at the chief’s words. She made sure to keep her identity a secret and went as far as testing the visibility of her System multiple times around Hecate. If no one other than her and potentially other Redeemers can see her System, how was the chief able to figure out her identity? The only explanation that came to her was the night before, when Hecate revealed the truth. The chief was also able to sense the Celestial Energy within her body, just like Hecate.

“You want something from us. I can feel it.” Hecate stepped forward. “What is it that you wish to have?”

“I am someone who wants many things in life, but recently I have been particularly interested in one specific thing.” The chief pointed. “And that would be your life!”

“My life…?” Hecate laughed. “Big words for a puny insect.” The chief remained calm before Hecate’s dagger-like words, but there was a noticeable change in the air around Marina. It was getting harder to breathe.

“When I first saw you at the village entrance, I was not able to tell the stage of your Authority. And I thought to myself that you may be far greater than anything I am.” The chief said. “Turns out, you are still just a Ground-level Bearer.” He mocked. “And you call me an insect?”

“Tell me!” Hecate roared. “What did I or my dear do that angers you so much that you want me dead?”

“Oh, you have done more than you could’ve ever imagined. You destroyed everything I’ve built and loved!” The chief shouted back. “I give you two options: give me your Authority and extinguish your own soul, and I will spare the two behind you. Or else, I will do it myself, and it won’t be quick and easy.”

“Hecate.” Marina grabbed her hand. “Don’t listen to him. If you die, neither Mellie nor I will survive either.”

“My dear.” Hecate glanced back. “I have failed you, and this is my price to pay.” Her hand transformed into bony claws before ripping right into her own chest.

“No! What are you doing?” Marina wrapped herself behind Hecate, trying to stop whatever it was that she was planning to do. “Hecate, please, you promised me you won’t leave! Last night was all my fault, and if you’re angry, then be angry at me. Don’t do this, please. I beg you!” She cried. “Mellie, say something!”

“I… I…” Mellie froze.

“My dear…” Hecate stuttered as blood dripped from her lips. “I’m sorry… I did it again.” From within her body, she extracted a small red orb. “My poor judgment has caused you to be in danger twice now. I have failed.”

“No! Hecate! No, you’re wrong!” Marina yelled.

This was not the ending she had expected. Not at all. All she could do now was hide behind Hecate and sob as if it would change anything. She was of no help, all because the System decided to grant her a stupid class that provided nothing of value. Hecate was put in danger alongside her every single time because she was naive enough to think she could help everyone. In the end, she couldn’t even help the person who watched over her, who loved and adored her more than anyone, and who sacrificed everything for her.

Hecate fell to her knees at the unbearable pain. “I need you to swear on your own soul that you will let them go.” She looked up at the chief with a deathly gaze. “Now!”

“Fine.” The chief reached out his hand as he drew a small sigil in the air. He looked down at Hecate, and with the wave of his fingers, the red orb flew to his palm. “What a beauty. I can’t believe an Authority like this is wasted on someone like you.” He smirked. “And for the last part of the bargain, extinguish your soul.”

“Hecate, no!” Marina looked to the chief. “You have already taken her Authority! Isn’t that enough? Why can’t you just let us go?”

She was growing tired of everything. The Bee-ple, the forest, these powers, and all the threats lurking around every corner of the realm. She just wanted to go home, back to the bakery, and spend the rest of her days with the person whom she loved the most. Had that become a luxury she couldn’t afford now?

“R-right…” Hecate slowly rose from the ground. “Extinguishing my soul…” She began laughing manically. “Who do you think you are!”

“...”