Relc considered this with a nod for logic. Then he held up a finger.
“Or, and hear me out. Or…we could have more food and stay here longer.”
Klbkch stared at him until the finger lowered by itself.
“I am sure you would prefer that. But we are being paid to work, not to enjoy ourselves. Moreover, you are eating all of this Human’s dinner.”
Relc glanced at the table. He stood up immediately.
“Right. Well, let’s be going. Um, sorry about that, Miss. Here, let me just pay for the food…”
Erin tried to protest, but a scaly hand prized hers open gently and deposited several copper coins and two silver ones into her palm.
“I insist. That blue drink is really good, by the way.”
“Thanks.”
“Well, we’ll be off then. Good night to you.”
The two left the inn. Erin watched them go. The door closed, and she heard them speaking lightly about reporting back and filing…
Then she heard nothing at all. Erin went to go sit down and ended up sitting on the floor. She stared at the door. She stayed sitting for another hour in complete, stunned, gratified shock.
What just happened?
 
——
 
Relc and Klbkch left the inn. They began walking through the grass under the night sky. It was cool, but both moved quickly. Each one scanned the landscape as they walked and kept their hands on the spear and swords at their sides. They weren’t nervous, just wary. 
However, they were also moving a lot faster than average to get back to the city before complete nightfall; they had to clock out and file that report. This patrol had taken longer than they thought, but they were so busy thinking that it took five minutes before Relc finally broke the silence. He turned to Klbkch and murmured.
“What a lonely girl.”
“Is she female? I could not tell with complete accuracy. She sounded so, but I have met few Humans in social settings.”
Relc nodded wisely and glanced over his shoulder.
“I can. It’s the things on her chest.”
“Mammary glands? Breasts, I think they’re referred to. Or maybe the word is tits.”
Relc hesitated.
“Really? I thought those were birds.”
Klbkch shrugged.
“That is what I heard some small Humans saying once. But she’s female. And young, correct?”
The Drake nodded slowly, frowning back at the old inn.
“Yeah, I’d bet on it. I’m not sure why a Human would be out here anyways, let alone in that place.”
Klbkch shrugged.
“Inquiring into others’ personal affairs is only a matter for the Guards while we’re on duty. Respecting another’s personal space is a principle of social interaction.”
Relc elbowed him, but Klbkch had sidled out of range.
“Shut up. She just seems lonely, that’s all. Why else would a Human female want to hang out with a Drake and an overgrown bug?”
Klbkch was silent for a while.
“Do you believe she is a lawbreaker or fearful for her life?”
Relc shook his head again.
“Even if she was, who’d hide there? You’d have to be mad, or be a [Warrior] or [Survivor] to want to live by yourself. Plus, the plague! Do I look sick? Am I oozing?”
The Drake checked himself with vague paranoia, but Klbkch shook his head.
“It was almost certainly safe as I and Watch Captain Zevara assured you repeatedly, Relc. Besides, that young woman’s presence is proof enough. She would be dead within the day if the disease were still present.”
“Bet she didn’t know. And her expression when we walked in—she’s never seen a Drake or an Ant before in her life. Well, the Ant part makes sense.”
“I would prefer that you call my species by their proper name.”
Relc ignored that. He glanced over his shoulder.
“What do you think? I bet she’s some kind of runaway or a child that got separated from her clan. Do Humans have clans? Or is it all [Lords] and [Ladies]? Maybe she’s not even from this continent.”
He waited for more speculation, but the ant man had turned his head and was refusing to speak. Relc glowered, but then grudgingly snapped.
“Fine. Antinium. Happy?”
Klbkch replied at once, as if nothing had happened.
“Her being a runaway would be most likely. I find it hard to believe any Human would wander so far into the grasslands by accident, and she did not seem to be looking for directions. Her magical teleportation story is also possible, but why would she not have asked to be taken to the Mage’s Guild? It is clearly a cover story.”
“Bastard.”
“You are correct in at least one definition of the word. But speculation is pointless in any case. We investigated the smoke, and now we can make our report. She is not breaking the law since the inn was abandoned nearly ten years ago.”
“What about the Dragon? Do you think she made that up?”
Klbkch hesitated and glanced at Relc. His pincers made a clicking sound as they came together in thought.
“She was not lying, at least not intentionally. But it is possible she was mistaken.”
“Yeah. A Dragon? Really?”
Relc laughed, and the Antinium shrugged.
“It seems more likely that she was hallucinating. However…she may have run into a fire-breathing salamander. I cannot imagine she would survive an encounter with a real Dragon. Armies would not.”
“Plus, we’d know if a Dragon lived around here. They’re pretty obvious.”
“…Indeed.”
More silence. At last, Relc summed up the contents of their report.
“So…scared Human female? Not a threat? Probably a traveller? Makes good pasta?”
“That was my assessment.”
“Right, right. Let’s tell the Captain and get some sleep. Or rather, I’ll sleep and you do—whatever Ants do to sleep. Sitting-sleeping or whatever.”
“Agreed. And it is very restful. You should attempt it sometime.”
“Pass.”
The two walked in silence for quite some time. The road back to the city was long, and in any case, they were still alert for potential dangers that might be sneaking up on them. Not that either had much to fear from most predators so long as they kept their eyes and earholes open, but you never knew.
After a long time, Klbkch broke the silence.
“So, shall we return tomorrow?”
Relc blinked and looked at his partner in disbelief. Because he had been about to say the exact same thing, and he was sure Klbkch would shoot it down.
“Oh, definitely. Right after work?”
“We may be able to fit checking in there as part of our duties if we convince the Captain it is necessary.”
Relc slapped Klbkch on the back of his shell in delight.
“Klb! That’s so devious! We can waste hours and say it was all an investigation! Now you’re thinking like a Drake!”
“I will endeavor not to in the future.”
“Go roast yourself.”
They walked on for another few minutes until Relc broke the silence again. There was just one last thing he had to bring up. He eyed his partner, looking amused, but Klbkch refused to respond. Relc indicated the empty bottle hanging at Klbkch’s belt.
“So, a lesser healing potion of no worth, huh? You know, I’ve never heard you lie like that.”
The Antinium’s voice was calm as he replied.
“Would you have had me tell her the true value?”
“No, no. It’s for the best. Mind you, I think she figured it out.”
“…Perhaps.”
“How are you going to explain that to the Captain, huh? That’s supposed to be special-issue. We won’t even get another shipment of that quality for months, probably! All the way from Pallass once the Blood Fields are frozen.”
The Antinium was unmoved.
“I did not believe a lesser one would be worth the risk. I shall make do with a replacement, and I will deduct the cost from my pay. Besides which, it was used to protect a civilian.”
Relc rolled his eyes.
“You’re a regular do-gooder, huh? Trying to level up your…[Good Person] class? Is that a class?”
“You know fully well that I have no levels in any class of the kind. I was merely being kind.”
“Sure, suuuure you were.”
“I have no sexual attraction towards Humans. Unlike you.”
“Me? I don’t like Humans. They’re scaleless, hairy, and they smell funny. I mean, this one’s nice, but I definitely wouldn’t want to see what it looks like under those clothes.”
“Mm. It’s not very interesting. They are very fleshy.”
“Ew.”
“Indeed.”
The two walked on in silence. Eventually, Relc spoke again.
“—It’s not that I’m not interested. I have an open mind! I wouldn’t mind looking. If I was offered. They’ve got nothing on good scales, but I could get over the fleshiness. Maybe.”
“Deviant.”
“Shut up.”
The two were almost in sight of the walls now, and Relc waved up at the figures watching them. He turned to Klbkch, but the inn wasn’t even visible from here. The Drake smiled, and Klbkch nodded.
“She was quite interesting in any case. It was pleasant talking to her.”
Relc sighed.
“Yeah. Yeah, I’m glad we didn’t have to kill her.”
“Indeed.”
 
——
 
Erin sat against one wall. She was falling asleep. She wanted to run around screaming about lizardmen—Drakes—walking ants, and a crazy world, but that was passé. Besides, she’d already done that for a few hours anyway.
Her mind was swimming. Her eyes were drooping. Erin was about to fall asleep. But her hand didn’t hurt. So she was smiling.
At last her mind finally blanked. Erin’s breathing deepened, and her eyes closed.
 
[Innkeeper Level 5!]
[Skill – Basic Crafting obtained!]
 
Blearily, the young woman stared up into the darkness.
“…Just let me sleep.”
She closed her eyes once more, but she was still smiling as she drifted off.
