With no one left to fight, I stand alone, panting on the bridge and surrounded by corpses. My Sentinels join me and line up, weapons ready to defend. Behind us, the guards let loose with cheers of victory, taking up a chant for Sanshu even as they stagger to the ground, exhausted and spent. Adrenaline still surging through my veins, I step forward and scream in wordless challenge, glaring at the Defiled one by one.

“I am Falling Rain.” The crowd hushes to hear my words, though I’ve not really anything to follow with. Wasn’t really planning on making a speech, the words just sorta slipped out. Going with the flow, I continue, “The Undying Savage. Student of Medical Saint Taduk, Disciple of Major General Baatar, Grand Disciple of Lieutenant General Akanai. Khishig of the Bekhai.” Err, shit. Now what?

An armoured form shoves his way up the bridge, wielding a sword and shield like my own. “An impressive youngster. Brave too, offering challenge like that.”

Wait what?

Ah fuck. All that naming business is prelude for a duel, isn’t it? Me and my big fucking mouth.

Snapping out of my shock, I pick up the end of my opponent’s sentence. “... heart Nazier who puts an end to your life, something to take pride in.”

“Rain step back, you’re not his match..” Tenjin’s Sending sounds in my mind, but it’s too late. Nazier tenses as his head drops from sight and time slows to a crawl. Recognizing the stance, I know exactly what to expect because I’ve done the same thing often enough. Balance on Windy Leaf into... something. Either a thrust to my heart or slash at my neck, those are the most likely candidates. Almost as an afterthought, I lob Peace in an underhanded throw, Honing and Guiding the sword while lifting Tranquility to guard my neck and leaving my arm to take the brunt of any possible thrust.

God I hope I guessed right. I can survive a thrust with a little luck, but if he cuts my head off, it’s game over.

As expected, Nazier appears directly before me. His grin twists and falls away, transforming into a look of sheer terror as Peace plunges into his throat and coats me in a spray of blood. His momentum doesn’t stop as his final strike lands firmly on Tranquility, my gamble having paid off for once. The blade deflects downwards into my shoulder but lacks any follow through as Nazier drops dead after impaling himself on Peace.

Still, the blow is powerful enough to lift me off the ground, and in a moment of sheer panic, I realize I’m flying through the air, arcing over the bridge and into the water. Weightless and breathless, I hang in the air for a heart-wrenching second, glancing back at the guards and Sentinels waiting in the plaza. Mila’s mouth is opened in a scream, tears spilling from her beautiful, brown eyes. Cracking a smile, I channel my Chi and pack it densely as I can, embedding a short message before Sending it away, praying it doesn’t unravel before reaching her.

“Goodbye my love. Sorry.”

Plunging into the cold, murky waters, a voice in the back of my head laughing at the absurdity of it all. At least I didn’t die a coward, and even took down my undoubtedly superior opponent with me. Plus, I’ve been wanting a swim for a few weeks now, and this totally counts. Gotta look on the bright side sometimes. Closing my eyes, I wait for death by carnivorous fish while sinking into the warm, comforting waters of Sanshu. It swirls around me, enveloping me in it’s embrace, and a smile stretches across my face. You know what? This is fine. It feels right, a cleansing dip in the waters, freeing me of all worldly fear and apprehension.

I should have done this days ago. Why did I wait so long?

Chapter Meme

- End of Volume 11 -
