Kathereine laughed scornfully. They had been through this argument countless times, and here they were again. “But you are a mortal. And you see far less than you assume. Understand that your position is at risk as well, girl. As the enduring face of the Auroral Council, this farce will fall on your shoulders, the public will demand a lamb for the altar, and the nobility will weave their schemes.”

“Let them. Let’s see if they can play the game well enough. In the meantime, I will finish what you could not and secure the Deathless myself.” Veronica made no mention of how she already had the boy by the throat. The fact that her grandmother said nothing revealed much. Kathereine didn't know about Veronica's meeting. She wouldn't be able to control herself otherwise.

If there was one thing to know about the Songbringer, it was that if you gave her the opportunity to demonstrate how much greater she was compared to you, she would take it, she would use it, she would maul your heart, and she would move on without a care in the world.

Veronica didn't have that bad habit. And so her hidden ace remained just that: hidden. "For now, we remain patient, but not reactive. We will hunt him, we will drive him, and sooner or later, he will go to ground. Now. Go plot and scheme your next attempt to slay the Starhawk while I will keep our Republic together.”

“Tell yourself that as much as you will,” Kathereine spat. “But know you would have been nowhere without me.”

“If by nowhere you mean spared of every headache I have suffered, then we are in deep agreement, grandmother.” Veronica sighed. She was done with her Ascendant; time to bully another.

"Daughter," she said aloud, speaking to the Waif. The young girl shook, her chubby cheeks glistening with undried tears.

"Not you," Veronica repeated. The girl shrank. "Daughter."

Suddenly, a spilling mass of tar erupted from the girl's orifices. It fused over her, and that misshapen creature that thought itself a god loomed over Veronica. "You can't call me like that. You're not my mother, you're not." The Daughter was rattled; terrified, even. She had faced the Deathless again and tried to tear into him, but the fact that she didn't kill him had left a scar on her psyche, and that made Veronica just the slightest bit more proud.

"That is fine. I apologize for imposing myself on you, Great Ascendant. Would you like me to read to you as an apology? A story of the time before the tar? Of the girl you were and the valley that loved you?”

Daughter turned away from her, and her expression adopted a girlish pout. As much as a mutilated monster could adopt such an expression. "That's okay. I forgive you this time. What... what do you need? And also—”

"Of course, I will read to you later, Daughter. And it’s not what I need, it's what we all need to do," Veronica said patiently, as if she were Daughter's parent. Which she practically was, considering how absent Maiden was, always occupied by some new contraption or some new invention—ones that only she could use. "I need you to reach out to the Black Orphanages. I need you to gather your Waifs. And I need you to visit all the safe houses, nooks, crannies, and little underworld smugglers that exist within the capital."

"Are we doing another purge?" Daughter asked, clapping the flat end of her blade upon her palm. Tar splashed into the air, and Veronica ignored the foulness of the stench.

"Not a purge," Veronica said. "An ambush. Because if they wish to escape the capital, then they're going to need to find another way out. There will be no walking away from this city."

The Word and the Will 507 > 508

Veronica blinked. Her breath caught in her throat. It had been years since she'd gained a level for this skill. Now, to gain a level from just this—

His favor has bled into me, she realized. And the mana threshold is changing. Already… We don’t have ten years.

“Daughter,” Veronica said absentmindedly, her thoughts racing. “Do hurry.”
