My most used skills have all felt some sort of growth, with a few seeing exceptional improvements. I've grown more used to using Magic Threads in my everyday life, and combined with the skill levels I gained in Air Walk and Dancing; I'm much more nibble on my feet now.

Plus, every other night, I go into my soul and practice Soul Manipulation along with Mental Resistance.

I wonder if it’s the pressure of leaving my village that’s furthering my growth? Or maybe it’s having a seasoned training partner like Tabitha that’s helping me?

Either way, I realize I'm still not strong enough yet. I still haven't managed to land a hit on Tabitha, and Pacore's strength is an even greater enigma. I can't let my recent success go to my head.

“Is it ready?” Sandra asks me, holding a beaker of prepared herbs.

“Ready when you are,” I give her the go-ahead, dismissing my status page.

I don’t know what it is, but as Sandra uses the tongs to place the beaker into the forge, I get the feeling that today is the day we finally decipher engraving inks fourth step.

Today is the day we succeed; I know it!

**********

A Certain Receptionist’s Point of View:

"Your manifest?" I hold out my hand, giving the young merchant a dazzling smile.

"Right here, mam," The young man fumbles over a piece of parchment, clearly dazed by my smile. It's incredible how good looks effortlessly sway some people.

“Thank you,” I take the offered parchment while using my free hand to twirl my bangs. “How was your run; any issues that need reporting?”

Blushing, the merchant stutters out a reply. "We ran into a small goblin pack in between villages, but my guard and I took care of them," the young man proudly proclaims. He flexes one of his arms, showing off his less than toned muscles. But I shouldn't expect much from a level 37 traveling merchant. The boy is still green enough that he isn't aware of my status here. He's probably one of the new hires Grey picked up to temporarily fill in the open positions while the company is divided.

Blaiton, Yleles, and the earls keep fell weeks ago, and there's been little communication from Giovanni. "I hope the boss is ok," I mumble to myself.

“What was that?” The young merchant leans forward, thinking I was talking to him.

“Nothing sweety,” I playfully push against his chest as to keep him from leaning over the counter. "I was just remarking what a wonderful job you did." The young man is so captivated by my smile that he overlooks my hand, blurring over his document stamping it as required, or when my eyes scan the document, double-checking the math in my head.

Everything appears to be in order, and it doesn't appear he fudged a single copper in his report. Just another sign he's new to the game. "Do you know where to receive your pay?" I ask the still star-struck man, holding out his paystub.

"I-," he stammers, taking the offered piece of paper. I patiently wait for the boy to gather up his courage and ask what all the new hires ask me. "This is my first big payday," he motions to his paystub with his eyes. "Would you care to celebrate with me tonight, my treat?"

I give the young man another radiant smile, if only to keep myself from laughing. The young man just got back from his first route, and just because he was paid a little more than a single gold coin, he believes he did a good job.

Once he starts drinking later, I'm sure he'll brag about his accomplishments to anyone who'll listen. Then he'll learn from his seniors that returning from a route earning less than three gold coins for your work is only considered sad.

"Sorry, maybe next time," I smile politely, letting the boy down easily. I'm sure he'll hear stories of me tonight as well.

“Oh,” the young merchant hangs his head in defeat. “Then I’ll see you around, miss…? I don’t think I caught your name,” he rubs the back of his head embarrassingly.

I hold a finger up to my lips. "It's a secret, let me know if you figure it out," I playfully wink at him, and his hope is rekindled.

“I will,” he happily proclaims, waving goodbye to me.

“No, you won’t,” I say to myself as he leaves through the building’s front door.

With that taken care of, I turn around in my chair and address the girl who’s been patiently waiting for me to finish talking to the budding merchant.

“News from Blaiton, head receptionist,” the girl bows her head, offering me the letter with both hands.

"Thank you; you may go," I take the note, dismissing her so she can get back to work.

She curtly nods and scampers off while I open the letter that has the bosses' seal on it. I promptly scan through the letter that looks like a simple update on the surface. The letter mentions how boss Giovanni has successfully brokered a deal with Scholl and that soon the branches can be linked up again, an essential update, but that's only the surface message.

Using a code only I know, I read the message that is secretly hidden in the text…

Pacore agrees, now is the time to remove Grey. Leave no loose ends and make sure he suffers!

Short and sweet, just like the boss.

I activate Twin Minds and think to myself, "Giovanni has permitted you to take care of Grey."

“Alright, I’ll start making preparations,” a voice similar to my own echoes back in my head. “Does he suspect anything?”

“I’m not sure,” I think to myself. “I need to report that Giovanni’s message arrived, and I’ll see his reaction to the news.”

“Be careful,” the voice in my head warns me.

“Of course,” I reassure it.

Straightening up my workstation, I turn to the other receptionist working with me. "I have to deliver an important message to Mr. Grey; does he have any appointments at the moment?"

My coworker shifts a few papers around before shaking her head no. “It looks like Mr. Grey cleared his schedule for today,” she informs me.

"Is that so? That's good news for me," I giggle, but on the inside, I'm on high alert. I heard nothing about Grey clearing his schedule, and if the information never naturally made it to my ears, it means he took steps to hide it from me.

I grab the letter from Giovanni and head up to Grey’s office to see his reaction to its contents. The cipher I’ve memorized is incredibly complicated, and there's no worry that Grey or his associates could unravel it, so I have no fear of leaving it with him. Besides, Grey would think it more suspicious if I didn’t show him the note from Giovanni.

As I make my way up the last flight of stairs leading to Grey's office, I notice it's quieter than usual. I can still hear staff members talking to one another, but it's muted for some reason like the offices nearby are emptier than usual.

“There might be something going on,” I communicate through Twin Minds.

“What is it?” I’m asked back.

“I’m not sure,” I reply.

"Retreat for now!" The voice in my head demands.

“I’m fine,” I try communicating my feelings through the link. “I have the defensive treasures you gave me. At the first sign of trouble, I’ll activate them and escape. Always so paranoid,” I playfully admonish the voice in my head.

I come to the hallway leading to Mr. Grey's office and see his office doors are closed. Sneaking up to the doors, I try to listen in on any conversations that might be taking place on the other side. I hear nothing, but I use my meager magic skills to activate my defensive rings should this really be a trap of some kind. Great, now I'm paranoid too. For all his cunning, Grey wouldn't risk burning all his bridges by attacking me.

I bring my hand up to knock on the door.

**********

One’s Point of View:

A loud explosion rips through Drey as my connection with my sister abruptly cuts off.

"Lizzy!" I scream as I emerge from my hiding place. Leaving the shadows of the alleyway behind me, I activate every one of my movement skills and rush across the branch's front lawn. Fragments of charred stone and still burning wood are scattered everywhere.

People are lying on the ground, dazed from the explosion that just tore a giant hole in the building. Where once was Grey's office is now a raging inferno.

The world slows as a vast pit forms in my stomach.

I activate a magic ring meant to protect me from flame spells and quickly scale the building. Holding my breath, I dive into the flames, searching the wreckage for my sister, telling myself she must have activated her defensive magic tools before she entered the office.

I overturn flaming rubble, again and again, looking for any signs of her. My sharp eyes pick out the fragments of an alchemical bomb as I search the remains of the room.

Grey, you bastard, I don't know how you knew to run, but I'll enjoy torturing you to find out. And Gods help you if you killed my sister, I'll make your death so gruesome it will even frighten the Goddess Ebeon!

Struggling to hold back my rage, I scour every inch of the blast site for any signs of my twin sister.

I’m about to give up hope when I see one of Grey’s doors leaning over the remains of a nearby wall.

Rushing over, I fling the door to the side and see my sister's charred remains underneath. We're identical twins and have always looked alike despite the scars I've gotten from my line of work, but my sister is almost unrecognizable. Most of her hair was burnt away by the blast, and I'd estimate over 90% of her body is burned. Her only defining feature that lets me know that it's her are the two magic rings on her left hand that I gifted her years ago.

I scoop my sister up in my arms and jump out of the burning hole in the wall. People shout as my robed form crashes to the ground below, but I ignore them as I fish my best healing potion out of my satchel. It's faint, but her heart is still beating.

Uncorking the healing potion, I take a large swig of the bitter brew and force it down my sister's throat with my lips.

I don't waste any time waiting to see if my potion starts working. Picking up my sister again, I rush out of Silver Herd's courtyard, heading towards the best healer remaining in the city.

Pushing my body to its limits, I don't slow down for anything. I don't have time to be stealthy, so dozens spot me as I weave myself through busy streets and run across rooftops when needed.

"Don't die on me, Elizabeth," I keep repeating over and over, hoping my sister will regain consciousness.

It's only been seven minutes since the explosion, and the fire-bells finally start ringing in the distance. Once one bell starts ringing, the entire city comes alive. Soldiers are signaled to take up their positions on the wall as emergency bells meant to warn people to return to their homes start going off around the city.

“Damn you, Grey!” I hiss through my teeth. I can’t believe he would resort to an alchemical bomb in the city.

I can see him retaliating against Giovanni, but this is overkill. Scholl won't show mercy after such a stunt. I only hope he evades their capture long enough for me to find him.

*********

Lennard Grey’s point of View:

“It appears our parting gift was found,” I remark to Max, glancing back at Drey in the distance.

“I’d say so,” Max dryly agrees.

It’s faint, but I can hear the sirens going off in the distance. “Do you think we got that number bitch?” I smile at Max.

“I instructed everyone that you weren’t to be disturbed unless it was important, so chances are she’s the one who set off the bomb. Only the head receptionist isn’t afraid to interrupt you.”

"But do you think she's dead?" I clarify my question.

"I'm not sure," Max admits. "If she were really One, like the evidence suggested, then I’d say there’s a 60:40 chance she’s dead.”

"Only 60%!?" I shout. "That was a fuckin alchemical bomb I had you prepare!"

"You asked for my opinion," Max calmly tells me while leading our two jelen forward. "We're talking about Giovanni's top agent after all. It took us four years to put her identity together and even longer until she was assigned to our branch. Even now, I'm not 100% certain she was One in the first place."

I snort at my bodyguard. "It doesn't matter if she was One or not. That blasted woman reported my every move to Giovanni and got what she deserved," I grin from ear to ear. "Let's pick up the pace; I want to reach Red Dust Mountain before nightfall."

“Are you sure your information is accurate,” Max asks me with a worried look.

I can't help but laugh at my companion. He didn't hesitate to get me an alchemical bomb, but he's worried we'll get lost in some old caves. “I have the map right here,” I pat my pocket, reassuring my friend.

“And the route leads through Red Dust Mountain?” Max skeptically asks.

“My people found this map when we took over the operations in Teeburn. Back when Red Dust Mountain was still known as Iron Pit Mountain, the city had much stricter tax codes. The city lord taxed everything that moved through its gates. It was fine when it was mostly iron being shipped from city to city, but what about when the miners discovered a rare metal sample or even a vein of magic gems? Moving it through Teeburn meant you'd lose a good chunk of your profits. So, one day, the various mining crews got together and found a single route through the various caves in the mountain."

"The existence of this path has been lost to time, but if we follow this map, we'll be able to bypass the blockade around Teeburn. And once we're back in Olebert, we can use the various information we have on Pacore and General Pitz to secure us a new start further in the country. And even better, after we tell everyone how Giovanni rolled over to help Scholl, he'll never be able to reach us."

“What about Aaliyah, sir?” Max asks me.

