"You know your stitches should be one continuous line, right? They shouldn't zig-zag all over the place like that," Sandra makes fun of my needlework.

“It gives it character,” I point out.

“That’s a whole lot of character,” she jokes, and I can’t help but laugh along with her. “Don’t you think it’s time to make a new one?”

"You may be right," I agree, looking over my breastplate. Poor thing only made it a few months too.

It’s been three weeks since I started my training sessions with Tabitha, and this is the fourth time I’ve had to fix it. My beautiful leather studded kaglese breastplate looks nothing like it did when I first made it. The leather is more seams than leather at this point, and the kaglese plates are smaller than when I originally made them from all the reforging.

The alloy has also lost a bit of its mana conductivity. I think microscopic amounts of mithril are being eroded when I reforge the metal. And if that's true, I'll have to keep an eye out to see if the mithril fragments bind with my tools and mess up their mana structures.

It might seem like a good idea to mix some mithril into my anvil and hammer, but mithril is a soft metal and the last thing I would want mixed in with my tools.

I've discussed this problem with Master Del, and unfortunately, he has no ideas on how to remedy the situation. Master rarely got to work with magic metals, let alone find a situation where he needed to recycle them.

Depending on how intense our sparring sessions are, I can usually get away with just heating the plates and hammering the cuts out, but not all the time. I had to remelt the plates and reforge them from scratch after that fateful first sparring session and again the following week. At least Tabitha limits her attacks to my chest piece, or else I'd have to reforge all my armor.

I'm sure my breastplate could be made to look decent again, but that would require me asking my mother for help, and I'm still downplaying my sparring sessions with Tabitha to my parents.

Soon I’ll need to experiment by adding more mithril to the plates in hopes of restoring their previous magic conductivity. If I can’t, I might have to just deal with the weaker armor seeing how I’m out of kaglese.

I’ve used up my whole supply, and all that remains is what I have set aside for the arrows I still need to make. Over the past few weeks, I’ve been busy and crafted another nine spears and ten swords, giving me an even forty of each to sell after the new year. In fact, I finished my kaglese weapons two weeks ago and have been focusing on the village's gear since then.

I added another twelve bucklers to the village’s armory and a whopping forty-eight helmets. Now the village has twenty small shields, sixty helmets, and over a hundred spears. Should something happen to the village in the future, I'm much more confident everyone could protect themselves. That is, as long as it's an everyday threat like goblins or farkas.

Casting a glance over towards master on his bench, I make eye contact with the woman in armor sitting across from him. Tabitha's blank face lights up for a moment before pouting in disappointment when I shake my head no and look away.

“Go somewhere else! It isn’t one of your days to spar with her,” I hear master growl in frustration while he pretends to be asleep.

“Then why don’t we go another round?” Tabitha excitingly suggests to Master.

"Never again," Del huffs and rolls on his side, facing away from Tabitha. "All these people in my clearing!"

“Come on,” Tabitha leans closer to a grumpy Del. “Just a quick match. I’ll even go easy on you this time.”

"Children these days, no respect for their elders," Master continues to grumble and ignore Tabitha.

“Doesn’t she want to fight you because she respects you?” Sandra points out to Del.

Seeing an excellent time to butt in, I add the icing on the cake. "You know Sandra's right."

Del sits up with flames in his eyes. “Now the two of you are against me! Where’s your loyalty gone?!”

Sandra and I start laughing in response to Del’s reaction. This isn’t the first time he's gotten mad like this. Tabitha started showing up in the clearing on the days we weren't scheduled to train, and now she's dug herself in like a tick.

Early on, Master Del took on Tabitha's offer to spar with one another, hoping to get her to leave, but his plan backfired horribly. The fight was both fantastic and boring at the same time. Tabitha tried blocking master with her shield much as she did with me during our initial clash, only master's 420 points of Strength weren't so easily deflected, and master sent Tabitha flying.

By that point, I had already fought Tabitha twice, and I'll admit I took some pleasure in seeing the armor-clad woman finally take a decent hit. Unfortunately, I only got to see it once. After taking Master’s initial blow, Tabitha made sure to dance around his following attacks, choosing to avoid his strikes altogether and delivering swift counterattacks until Master had to throw in the towel. Master has plenty of Dexterity as I do, but also, like me, he had virtually no fighting experience against a trained opponent.

Since master's loss to Tabitha, she's proposed several rematches, all of which master has declined. But like a stubborn mule, Tabitha continues to ask him, hoping he’ll eventually say yes.

But other than asking Master Del and me to fight her, Tabitha has been a surprisingly good house guest. She's quiet 90% of the time and doesn't interfere in our work unless we give her our attention. Every so often, Tabitha comments that I should spend more time practicing my combat skills, but that doesn't bother me anymore. My family comes first, then blacksmithing, then spending time with Sandra, and all the extra time I can spare goes to Tabitha and her crazy dance lessons.

That’s why I’ve made sure to keep my two days off with my family intact and just cram the other five days with everything I need to do. Two days of rest, two days of blacksmithing, two days of sparring, and one day to research engraving ink. I’ve been running myself ragged, and if it wasn't for everyone helping me, I might have snapped.

For the last three weeks, every morning has started the same. I get up and do my usual run with Mom, only now we spend some time dancing afterward. Mom was happy to pick up another new skill even if she’ll probably never need it, but hey, who doesn't love more experience points? And unlike my sessions with Tabitha, dancing with Mom is much more fun and relaxing.

Both of us don't have our skills at that high of a level yet, so we don't do anything crazy, but it sure is fun to dance with someone not trying to trip you every second. And on rare occasions, I catch dad before he goes to work, and I get the chance to dance with someone taller than me for a change.

I was skeptical whether or not practicing Dancing would really help me with Tabitha’s sparring sessions, but I have to admit, I sure was happy when I started noticing small changes in my overall footwork. My Dancing sessions with Tabitha now last twice as long and see me falling on my ass a lot less. Tabitha even gives me the odd praise here and there, complimenting my rate of improvement.

And my footwork isn’t the only thing that’s seen improvement either. Tabitha has made me leave all my other weapons at home and has demanded I only carry my war hammer with me. I’m still not able to hit her, but since Tabitha had me focus on a single weapon, I’ve noticed a slight improvement in my blacksmithing.

“Ready to help me?” Sandra snarkily asks me behind her cloth mask.

“Yeah, yeah, I’m done,” I tell her, setting my freshly mended breastplate off to the side.

“Today's supposed to be our day to work on the engraving ink together. Not me doing all the work while you badly sew off to the side," she snaps.

“Harsh,” I reel back, acting like I’m offended.

“Sorry, mood swing,” Sandra quickly apologies, rubbing her stomach affectionately.

Sandra is almost into her second trimester now, and her Vitality glow is almost blinding. Her loose clothing hides her barely protruding baby bump, but that doesn't stop Sandra’s and my mom from demanding she shows them her progress every time they see her. Soon-to-be grandparents are scary.

“It’s fine,” I give Sandra a reassuring smile. I'm already used to Sandra joking with me one minute and trying to tear my head off the next. At this point, I just find it funny and laugh it off. Though sometimes I get the feeling she’s angry at me for other reasons, but for the life of me, I can’t think of a reason she would be and chalk it up to my imagination.

"Thanks, I'll get the next test batch going while you start the fire," Sandra's mood switches to happy again, and she divvy's out the tasks like she's the one in charge.

“Sure,” I smile to myself as I get the forge going. Sandra’s really taken to researching engraving ink. It’s gotten to the point she had me construct a small stove off to the side so she can practice making engraving ink while I’m forging. Sandra has a passion for all things magic and has already convinced her father to purchase the materials needed for Master Del to create her own engraving pen when trade resumes in a month or so.

A very hormonal Sandra hounded poor Master until he agreed to make her a pen as he did for me. I hope Master doesn't find out I'm the one who told Sandra she needed to ask him because I was unfamiliar with the process. It isn't because I was lazy or anything like that; it's just that I'm pretty busy, and I'm not sure if I'll still be around by the time Sandra gets the materials she needs. That's undoubtedly why I did it and certainly not because it was funny to watch Sandra hound master until he reluctantly caved in, certainly not.

I hold in my laughter as I build up the fire we need.

I bet most of Sandra's excitement comes from the fact a contract doesn't restrict everything we're learning about engraving ink. It would probably take over a decade for Sandra and Richard to save up enough coin to buy herself out of her master's restraining contract. Still, if she can learn to enchant items alongside me, that time will be drastically reduced.

Her crazy amount of motivation is the driving force behind our success. Sandra thinks we're close to figuring out the fourth step, and after we succeed, we'll only have the fifth one left.

I glance over at Sandra, who's preparing the next batch of engraving ink. Her smile is hidden behind her mask, but you can tell how excited she is by looking at the fire in her eyes.

As Sandra’s eyes reflect the growing flame in the forge, I decide I should take this time to check my status page. I’ve been so busy as of late, I haven’t taken the time to brows over my recent gains.

LV: 73 Experience: 890,386/ 956,780

Health: 2,430/2,430

Stamina 1,561.71/1,650

Mana: 951.72/1,020

Vitality: 243.00

Endurance: 100.06

Strength: 152.04

Dexterity: 150.05

Senses: 62.48

Mind: 65.33

Magic: 102.90

Clarity: 78.89

Status Points: 0

Skills:

Tier 1:

Meditation (LV79), Running (LV78), Blacksmithing (LV73), Hammer Skills (LV63), Axe Skills (LV60), Cleaning (LV53), Chanting (LV50), Mining (LV50), Drawing (LV46), Trading (LV45), Cooking (LV41), Sword Skills (LV40), Dagger Skills (LV34), Acting (LV33), Wood Carving (LV31), Sewing (LV31), Dancing (LV13), Alchemy (LV11), Pugilist Skills (LV8), Spear Skills (LV2)

Tier 2:

Sense Mana (LV79), Double Step (LV64), Charm (LV50), Measurement (LV47), Hammer Arts (LV44), Axe Arts (LV39), Writing (LV32), Intimidating Shout (LV31), Mathematics (LV31), Steady Hands (LV26), Increase Price (LV21), Lower Price (LV20), Sword Arts (LV17), Dagger Arts (LV13), Gourmet (LV7), Marching (LV5), Shout of Valor (LV3),

Tier 3:

Expel Mana (LV63), Mana Manipulation (LV62), Weighted Strike (LV41), Precise Strike (LV40), Double Strike (LV40), Flash Step (LV29), Contract (LV14)

Tier 4:

Mental Resistance (LV57), Mana Skin (LV56), Inject Mana (LV54), Extract Mana (LV36), Magic Blacksmithing (LV31), Air Walk (LV15), Magic Threads (LV15), Empowered Spell (LV14)

Tier 5:

Sense Soul (LV40), Soul Manipulation (LV13)

Tier 6:

Soul Devourer (LV2)

Increased Skill Levels

Meditation (LV79) 3,950exp

Running (LV78) 3,900exp

Blacksmithing (LV73) 3,650exp

Hammer Skills (LV62-63) 6,250exp

Sewing (LV31) 1,550exp

Alchemy (LV10-11) 1,050exp

Dancing (LV1-13) 4,550exp

Double Step (LV64) 6,400exp

Hammer Arts (LV44) 4,400exp

Mathematics (LV31) 3,100exp

Steady Hands (LV25-26) 5,100exp

Expel Mana (LV63) 9,450exp

Mana Manipulation (LV62) 9,300exp

Weighted Strike (LV41) 6,150exp

Flash Step (LV27-29) 12,600exp

Mana Skin (LV56) 14,000exp

Mental Resistance (LV56-57) 28,250exp

Inject Mana (LV54) 13,500exp

Extract Mana (LV35-36) 17,750exp

Magic Blacksmithing (LV29-31) 22,500exp

Air Walk (LV13-15) 10,500exp

Magic Threads (LV11-15) 16,250exp

Soul Manipulation (LV12-13) 12,500exp

Skill Experience: 216,650exp

Crafting Experience: 98,711exp

Fighting Experience: 3,438exp

Total-experience Gained: 318,799exp

A manic grin forms across my face when I see how much progress I’ve made. My goal was to hit level 74 by year's end, and it looks like that's almost guaranteed at this point.

There's one more month left in the year, and even if I don't level a single skill and just continue my crafting, I'll easily reach level 74.

But I’ll admit, I didn’t expect to see such spontaneous growth after I started practicing with Tabitha. Focusing solely on my hammer-related skills, I've finally managed to pass level 40 in Weighted Strike and spurred the growth of many other skills.

