Lute already knew about the trip to Artona I. Everyone in the family—maybe everyone on Earth—knew that Hazel had gone to meet verrry important people. It was all any of the aunts, uncles, and cousins could talk about. Some of them were excited. For some reason. Some of them were panicking. For some reason. Aulia had bought Hazel a brand new cell phone with a matching watch and a pair of hot pink glasses.


The display on the glasses mimicked a System interface. Hazel wanted Lute to ask to look through them.


He’d die first.


It was Avowed stuff anyway, and Avowed stuff wasn’t for Lute. He didn’t understand why everyone cared so much, and his mother said he didn’t need to understand.


A lot of noise about a little girl, she’d said. That’s all.


“You’re supposed to leave me alone while I’m practicing,” Lute said.


It was a house rule, no matter which house he was in. Lute’s music was just as important as everyone else’s wordchain practice or their language lessons. His mother said so, and she enforced it.


They’d even put a piano on Libra just for him.


“What are you playing anyway?” Hazel asked, leaning over to stare at his sheet music. “It’s so slow. It can’t be hard.”


“It’s just a song.”


Gymnopédie 1 was his mother’s favorite song. He was going to learn it as perfectly as he could. Mrs. Yu was helping him figure out how to modify it in the places where his fingers couldn’t reach.


“It doesn’t matter if it’s slow or fast. You have to think about expression,” Lute said.


“I’m about to turn nine,” said Hazel. “You should play Happy Birthday.”


“I just turned seven.”


“You didn’t have a party.”


“Yes I did.”


“You didn’t invite me!”


Lute had invited his parents, his grandmother, Aimi, the crew, a kora player he’d heard on the street a week before, and Mrs. Yu.


No. Other. Cousins.


He had been very specific about his guest list, and his mother hadn’t argued. Aimi said she was surprised to be invited, but it was the best family party she’d ever been to.


“I didn’t invite you because it was an adult birthday party,” Lute said. “I only invited grown-ups.”


“You still should’ve invited me. We’re friends.”


Lute missed a note. And then another.


We’re friends? Were they friends?


“Friends are supposed to be nice to each other. You’re not nice,” he said.


Hazel plinked a few more keys. “I’m nice to you. You’re just too little and dumb to understand. I look out for you all the time.”


“You don’t look out for me!” Lute said angrily.


“Kids, don’t fight in there!” a woman’s voice called from the another room. The housekeeper was spending an awful long time cleaning the bathroom today. Lute was sure she was just avoiding Hazel.


“You’re rude and you bother me when I’m practicing,” Lute hissed. “And you never do anything but brag. You’re not my friend, and you’re not nice.”


“I don’t brag!” Hazel glared at him. “And I am nice! There are all kinds of things I know about you and Aunt Jessica but I don’t say them just to be nice!”


“Liar!”


Hazel’s eyes narrowed. Her voice lowered to a whisper. “Orpheus says you’re not allowed out of the house without S-ranks around, and my Daddy says it’s just because Aunt Jessica wants to make sure nobody says anything about you.”


Lute stopped even trying to play the song. “What does that mean?”


Hazel gave him a superior look. “You’re both whiffs, and so people might say mean things around you. Aunt Jessica takes guards so that those people will be scared to do it where you can hear them.”


“We’re not whiffs!”


“Yes you are.”


“No we’re not!”


“Stupid. I bet you don’t even know what it means. That’s what it’s called when you’re supposed to be Avowed and you aren’t.”


“You’re making that up!”


Hazel pulled out her phone. “I’ve known about you forever. And I don’t say anything because I’m supposed to be nice to you and not make trouble for Grandma Aulia.”


Lute was breathing hard.


“Here, I’ll prove it. I found this the other day when they were talking about your guards. My new phone doesn’t have little kid settings like my old one because when I went to Artona, I proved I was responsible. I can find anything now. I’m typing in ‘What mean things do people say about whiffs…?’”


A minute later, she whipped off her new glasses and shoved them onto Lute’s face.


They were too big. He had to hold them in place with his hand. He didn’t want to. He wanted to take them and throw them across the room. But the lights in his eyes…the possibility that Hazel wasn’t lying and she really knew things about him he didn’t…her new phone was a grown-up phone?


Are they saying bad things about us? Do Hazel’s parents tell her secrets about us? What kinds of things are on grown-up phones?


Lute didn’t have a phone at all. His mother said he didn’t need things like that at his age.


“This one,” said Hazel. “Look. It’s a board where just people from here on Anesidora go to talk.”


“A board?”


“A place online,” Hazel said. “I’ll read it to you since you probably can’t.”


“I can read!”


Hazel ignored him. “Someone says, ‘I’m seventeen already. What am I going to do if I’m a whiff?’”


Lute could read the words himself. They were blazing in his eyes. He couldn’t read them quite as fast as Hazel was, but he could tell she wasn’t lying.


“And then the next person says, ‘You need to start praying,’ but that one’s not important. The one after that says, ‘My dad’s so nasty. He loves all the mean whiff jokes.’ Then he writes some out.”


She read them all aloud to him one by one. It took her several minutes to finish the list and explain what they all meant.


Then she took her glasses back and stared into Lute’s wide eyes. “See? That’s the kind of thing people say about you and your parents. And I knew. And I didn’t tell you. Because I’m nice to you.”


She spent the next two hours trying to force him to stop crying. She failed.


He hid in his room and sobbed until he was exhausted, and when his mother woke him up, he burst into fresh tears. He was so inconsolable that even his grandmother got involved, and the whole story was pried out of him between blown noses and hiccups.


Hazel’s parents and her grandparents were called, and there was a meeting in Aulia’s office that Lute was not privy to. But she lost her phone, her glasses, and her watch. She gained two additional tutors and a uniformed nanny who traveled with her everywhere for the next year, so that she was never left to her own devices, even on weekends.


It would be a while before she and Lute were alone in a room together again.


Apparently Aulia’s tolerance did have a limit. And that limit was Hazel explaining a joke about how whiff was the sound a tissue should’ve made as it entered the trashcan.


…because it would’ve been better if the sperm went there instead of in the whiff’s mom.


Later, Lute would decide Hazel was lucky Jessica hadn’t thrown her off the yacht when nobody was looking.


Up until then, his questions about how babies were made had been answered with very sweet euphemisms about two people creating a new life out of love. In a world so full of magic, that kind of explanation could make sense for a long time. The entrance of sperm cells and trashcans into the story, forced his mother to have many long conversations with him about delicate family matters.


For example, Jessica came from Aulia and a man who preferred to remain anonymous and uninvolved, as a couple of other high profile donors did with their Velra offspring. She had also been genetically engineered to an extent that was illegal on Anesidora. Even on the island, an ethical committee usually would have prevented the creation, for aesthetic reasons, of someone who looked so significantly different from both the average human and her own parents.


“Am I short because the scientists made me that way?”


“No,” said Jessica. “You’re short because Mommy is short. There were no scientists involved in making you. Just me and your father.”


Another delicate family matter—Hazel’s Mommy and Daddy hadn’t made her by themselves. Cousin Hugh was an A-rank and his first wife was an S-rank, and they’d made Orpheus, who was also an S. Then Cousin Hugh married Cady, who was only a C-rank, but she wanted an S baby like the first wife had made. So a Hazel egg had come from Aulia. And a Hazel sperm had come from a hyperbole named Sonde.


“I see,” said Lute, after this had all been explained slowly.


“Do you?” Jessica asked hesitantly.


“Hazel has four parents.”


“That’s right.”


“Two sperms and two eggs, and Cady carried them all around for nine months.”


Jessica sighed. “Let’s go get some grapes from the fridge, and then I’ll try this again.”


Eventually, it was all unraveled. Including the fascinating news that Aunt Hikari had been married to Uncle Corin before she switched over to his brother, Uncle Benjamin.


Lute pondered it for a while, then nodded. “That was a good decision. Uncle Corin never thinks about anything but Hazel. Aunt Hikari would be bored.”


******


Lute recovered quickly from the shock of having the birds and the bees, and the Avowed version of the birds and the bees, explained to him all at once. It just became background information, like everything else about his multitudinous relations. But he had a harder time getting over the jokes.


They stuck in his head.


They were there when he went to sleep at night. And when he went out with the bodyguards. They were there whenever grown-ups whispered something over his head or when the cousins looked at him and snickered.


Are they talking about me? Are they saying those things about me? Are they being mean to me and my parents?


Worst of all, the jokes were there when he played the piano.


“What is this, baby?” Jessica asked a week after the incident, sitting down on the bench beside him and stroking his head. The sheet music for Gymnopédie 1 was in front of him. He’d been trying to read it through the angry red scrawls he’d made across it with a crayon yesterday. “You usually enjoy practice. You can play another song if you want.”


“I don’t like the piano,” Lute said quietly.


His mother stared at the sheet music for a while. “Maybe a little break,” she said. “How about you take a few days off?”


He did.


A few days turned into a few more days. When he yielded to practice again, he could hear himself hating the notes. He had been learning piano since he was three. He’d never hated the notes before.


Mrs. Yu and his mother eventually had a meeting. The next day, Jessica took him to a concert. The day after that, she took him to see a string quartet.


A jazz band. A xylophonist. The kora player again. They started having mother/son brunches at places with live music—piano, violin, cello, saxophone, pipa.


Lute became aware that they were instrument shopping, but he was having so much fun he saw no reason to resist the project.


“What about that man who plays bagpipes on his sailboat?” he asked hopefully as they left a restaurant with a sitar player.


“Bagpipes?” Jessica said with an alarmed look. “Oh yes. Those are so exciting. And loud…I think the bagpipe man might be busy this month.”


If the bagpipe man hadn’t been busy that month, who knew what might have happened?


As it was, Lute found the harp.


The sound was mesmerizing. There were so many different types and sizes. And the big ones were so big.


They were special, and he felt special when he held one.
 
That was a feeling that was growing harder and harder to find, so he clung to it. And he played until his fingers blistered.Stolen from its rightful place, this narrative is not meant to be on Amazon; report any sightings.
*
