“They’re not the same. I can perform wordchains, too. A lot of them. Enough that nobody worried too much…” Jessica shook her head. “But I can’t do other kinds of magic. And I never will be able to. And your father can’t. And you can’t.”


But, thought Lute. But…


Everyone could do magic. Everyone he had ever met. All the adults anyway. Talents, skills, spells, points—these were the things people talked about. These were the things you got for being a grown-up.


Avowed meant you went to see the Artonans sometimes. It was all right if Lute couldn’t do that. But making water into animal shapes and flying and reading the names painted on the sides of ships and boats even though they were kilometers away…those were different. Lute wanted those things. He wanted to be like the cabin stewardess who made the bed every morning without using her hands. He wanted to be like the crewman who checked the hull sometimes without ever coming up for air.


The current in the pool had spun him around. He kicked his feet to face his mother again.


“I can’t do magic?” he asked.


She shook her head.


“Not even a little?”


“No.”


“What about when I’m as old as Grandma? Then will I be able to?”


“You won’t.”


He panicked. It wasn’t okay. It was like someone had stolen his birthday. In that moment, he couldn’t fathom a worse outcome. He was different. He was different in a bad way. And it wasn’t fair.


His thoughts rocketed around. “What if I’m good? What if I’m good every year all year? I will be!”


Like for Santa Claus.


“Lute,” said Jessica, “no.”


“What if I try my hardest? What if I practice every day?”


Like he did for Mrs. Yu.


“Lute—”


“Sometimes the System picks people! Sometimes it picks globals!”


Yes! This was it. Sometimes Avowed didn’t come from Anesidora. He remembered now! Sometimes they come from other countries all over the world. And those Avowed had parents like his. And—


His mother had stood from the sofa. She wasn’t smiling. Her face was smooth like glass.


She sat on the edge of the pool. Sometimes, when she wasn’t doing important work for Grandma, she let Lute pick out her clothes and she wore whatever he chose. That day it was a sarong covered in a birds of paradise print and a necklace made of diamonds and conch pearls. She didn’t remove either before she slid into the pool. The fabric of the sarong drifted around her legs as she walked toward him. Her eyes never left his.


She cupped his face in her hands. She leaned forward. Their noses were almost touching, but she didn’t rub them together.


“Lute,” she said, “you will never be chosen. You will never be an Avowed. You will never do any magic other than wordchains. Do you understand?”


“But, Mommy, everybody else…”


“Say you understand.”


Lute burst into sobs.


She held him while he cried. She held him every time he cried about it over the next couple of years.


Some disappointments were far too bitter to overcome in a single afternoon.


******


When Lute was six, his parents got divorced. It was a quiet finalization of something that had been in progress for an eternity by the reckoning of a young child.


His father had stopped living with them a few months after the fight Lute had overheard. When Jessica and Lute were on Libra, he was in the Velra mansion. When they were in the mansion, he was in Aulia’s apartment. When they were in the apartment, he was on Libra.


Lute visited him a lot, then a little less, then every other weekend.


After the divorce, he moved to a large apartment in a family neighborhood. “How do you like my new place, Lutey?” he asked when Lute came by for the first time. “You’ve got your own room! It’s the biggest one!”


He would continue to mention that Lute had the biggest bedroom for years, as if it was proof of his love, until finally, at twelve, Lute ended it for good by saying, “Isn’t that because Mom owns this apartment and she had the room with the en suite decorated for me?”


She’d had a picture of a lutist installed on the shower wall in mosaic tile. Lute’s monogram was carved into the bed’s footboard. It was crystal clear who she expected to sleep there.


At six, though, he was less jaded. He always looked forward to his weekends with his father. Jessica worked a lot. Cyril was never too busy to play. And there were so many other children in the family neighborhood!


Lute was used to being around adults mostly. Cousins similar in age were frequent visitors wherever he was, but they were never his visitors. If they were around, it was because their parents had brought them to see Grandma. Lute was expected to let them have their special time with Aulia without stealing any of her attention for himself.


“We live with her, baby,” said Jessica, when Lute complained about it. “You get to see her more than any of them.”


“I don’t like them.”


“None of them?” Jessica asked.


“They pretend like my pools belong to them.”


“Your pools?”


“Grandma said they were mine since I spent the most time in them.”


“Oh, I see…” Jessica smiled.


Lute thought about telling her the other thing about the cousins. The thing that had happened at the New Years party—how in the children’s dining room, a whisper had gone around, and everyone had started speaking in Artonan.


They all took lessons in it. Hazel sometimes bragged that her father and her grandfather—Lute’s Uncle Corin—spoke nothing but Artonan. Which wasn’t true. They spoke English to everyone who wasn’t her.


“I don’t speak Artonan,” Lute had told the cousins. “I’m learning Mandarin instead.”


Once he’d learned Mandarin, his mother said he could choose his own third language. Anything he wanted. But not Artonan.


“I spoke Artonan better than English when I was your age,” Jessica had said. “It was a lot of hard work, and all I had to show for it when all was said and done was a funny accent.”


Sometimes, they still practiced wordchains together. When Lute asked. But his mother didn’t seem to enjoy it, and Lute asked less and less.


Chainers did wordchains better. Somehow. Lute didn’t quite understand how it worked. But he knew he would never be a Chainer. Even if he tried to grab that little bit of magic for himself, it would always be worse than what his own relatives could do.


And when Hazel and Grandma Aulia parted, Aulia always said, “May the warmth of the Mother comfort you until we meet again.”


When she said goodbye to Lute, it was only “goodbye.”


“Could you all speak English so I can talk, too?” he’d asked the cousins at the party.


They’d switched back, but not until Aunt Hikari and Uncle Benjamin came to check on them. By then, they’d been saying things Lute couldn’t understand for five minutes.


It’s not our fault you can’t do it. We have to practice.


Yeah, Lute, we have to practice.


One day, we’re going to be Chainers.


“Actually, only some of you will be,” Hazel had informed them all when Hikari finally left. “The Artonans don’t have enough jobs for all of you. Even if Grandpa Corin’s office buys every single Chainer the System offers, some of you are going to have to be something else. Grandma Aulia told me so.”


Grandma Aulia seemed to be telling Hazel more and more every day. Things she didn’t tell Lute.


“I don’t like any of my cousins,” Lute told his mother stubbornly. “Except Aimi.”


“Well, Aimi’s too old to be your playmate. She’s my age.”


Lute shook his head. “She says she’s sixteen.”


Jessica had sighed through her nose. “The rejuvenator made Aimi look and feel sixteen again recently. She thinks that being heavily tutored made her miss out on the teenage experience, so she decided to take her slot prematurely.”


“I understand," said Lute.


He didn’t. And he still liked Aimi. One time, when the yacht was out sailing, she’d shaken her butt in the direction of Apex and said, “Look! I’m mooning the moon!”


That was enough reason to like someone, wasn’t it?


******


Jessica Velra took her son into the city often, but they never went alone. Someone was always with them, usually several people. If it wasn’t family members or crew members, it would be strangers dressed in clothes appropriate for whatever they were doing that day.


“Our friends for this outing!” Jessica would say, whenever she introduced Lute to a new entourage. “They’re going to help us get where we’re going and make sure we have a good time! Say thank you, Lute.”


Lute always thanked them. He never minded having them along. They were all friendly, quiet people who wandered through markets and parks with him and his mom. They carried bags, held seats, and ran back for lost toys.


He assumed those things were their purpose in life, and everyone who went out on a sunny day must have some helpful seat holders and runners of their own. Even when he was visiting his dad, at least one of the helpers would appear if they ever left the family neighborhood.


One day, when they were getting ready to leave his grandmother’s midtown apartment to go shopping, Cousin Orpheus wandered through the living room as Jessica was giving the quartet of helpers for that day their instructions. Lute was supposed to be practicing on the baby grand piano until the last possible minute, but he was easily distracted by the appearance of the one family member he’d been told in no uncertain terms that he ought to avoid.


“Is he a bad man?” he’d asked his mother when the instruction had been given.


“No. But he has some troubles,” Jessica had said.


“Isn’t he an S?”


“That only makes his troubles more troublesome for the rest of us,” she’d muttered.


Hazel’s older brother was getting harder to avoid, though. He’d started hanging around Grandma Aulia more often and actually using his cabin on Libra. Today he was in his underwear, scratching at the family tattoo on his ribs while he strolled around the living room, hunting for something. He checked inside boxes and behind books on the shelves. He looked under the leaves of a potted plant.


“Orpheus,” Jessica snapped. “I’m busy. None of your special medicine is hidden in this room anymore. Mother hired a sniffer to clean it out last week.”


Orpheus yawned and scratched himself some more. He took in the day’s entourage—all standing around Jessica in crisp polo shirts and ironed pants—with an amused look.


“Cripes, Aunt Jess,” he said. “Are you afraid someone’s going to kidnap the squirt? If they did, where would they even take him? It’s an island.”


Jessica looked over at Lute, who went back to playing Gymnopédie 1 at a slightly too fast tempo.


“Our friends will be helping us with our shopping,” she said.


Orpheus laughed. “Who hires four high-ranks to help with shopping at Rosa Grove Mall?”


He left it there. The true purpose of the helpers might have remained mysterious for a long time after that, if not for his sister. She came over to spend the night a few days later.


It was an increasingly frequent event. And a miserable one in Lute’s opinion. Hazel was almost two years older than him. And when she wasn’t holed away with Grandma Aulia drinking milky tea out of painted cups and learning wordchains, she always came to find Lute and be a show-off.


He managed to avoid her for a whole day, night, and morning. But then on her second afternoon in residence, Aulia was called away to deal with something and Jessica went with her. Lute, sensing danger, was trying to pretend that he and the piano were very, very busy together.


But the thing about Hazel was that nobody was ever too busy for her to interrupt them. She would walk right up to the housekeeper while she was vacuuming and ask her to stop making so much noise. On Libra, she would bother Chef Kabir for “grilled cheese with light butter” even if he was in the middle of making lunch for everyone else onboard.


Lute wasn’t allowed to do things like that. The other children in the family weren’t allowed to do things like that either.


Hazel…was different.


And it wasn’t the bad kind of different, like Lute was.


She skipped toward the piano, her braid swinging, and she plinked a few keys at the highest octave, right in the middle of his song.


“My Daddy can play the piano,” she said. “I asked if I could have lessons like you, and he said I wouldn’t need them.”


She told Lute this every time she heard him play.


“Mrs. Yu says practice is important,” said Lute.


“The System will enhance my hearing, my pattern memorization, and my mantle dexterity when I get Chainer. So Daddy says I’ll be able to play just about as well as anyone could want after I’ve become an Avowed.”


Lute thought “mantle dexterity” wasn’t the right phrase, but he wasn’t sure enough to argue with her and risk being wrong.


“Mrs. Yu says…”


No. He wouldn’t repeat it. No matter how mad she made him. This one thing, the thing a non-Avowed classical pianist had shared with him, he would keep to himself. So that Hazel couldn’t find a way to ruin it.


He went quiet. He tried to ignore Hazel’s toneless plinking.


“Grandma Aulia and Grandpa Corin took me to Artona I,” said Hazel. “They took me there to meet some verrry important people. So that I could show them what I can do.”


“All you do is have headaches.”


Hazel bristled. “They’re not just headaches! I’m sensitive!”


She smacked the keys in front of her with a fist.


