Ali took a deep breath, pushing down her uncertainty and listening quietly while her friends discussed the options she had unlocked.

This is going to change everything, she thought. Even though she had chosen carefully from the paths presented, and even though she quite liked the advancements she had unlocked so far, disrupting the sense of comfort she had developed with her class was filling her with a strange, melancholic unease.

“It will be alright, dear,” Lira said softly.

Ali started, glancing up to find Lira’s kind brown eyes staring at her with a look of understanding.

“Did you get an empath skill with your ascension?” she asked, jokingly.

“No, I just know you well enough to tell this is all very unsettling. It was for me, too. To be honest, I’m sure it will take a while to get used to it still.”

Ali gazed at her Aunt, realizing in that moment the full depth of how much she’d missed those kind words and her uncanny insight.

“I just never imagined I would reach the third tier,” Ali said. Well, obviously, she had dreamed of it in her childhood, just like everybody else, but to actually believe it enough to process how it might feel? No, that she had never done.

“Well, you should be proud of your achievements,” Lira said. “I know everyone here is.”

“Thanks,” she said, and while her words didn’t say much on the surface, it was her abiding sense of caring that moved Ali’s heart. With renewed energy and fresh calmness, she turned her attention back to the shrine and the remaining paths she had been offered. Ok, time to see what Azryet’s mentorship has unlocked.

Maker, Breaker, or Destroyer? She reread the descriptions, studying every word and detail.

“Maker looks a lot like the Infinite Maze,” Ali said, eager to redirect the conversation back to a more productive mood. Certainly, Cael and Gage loved puzzles – deadly ones when she had first met them – and they had proved remarkably effective. Still, there seemed to be far more to it than that. It appeared to be a way to facilitate the kind of grand array Nevyn Eld had built inside Aman Rak, or the domain-spanning suppression aura Cael and Gage had crafted. Moreso, her links to the Wells and the Anvil would become greater, and her facility with traps would become much more prominent. Provided the path didn’t remove her standard options of using monsters, she would be willing to consider it.

“It has potential, but the other two seem far more useful for what we have to do,” Calen answered. “Breaker would probably allow you to fight Nevyn Eld’s armies far better. He must be using something like that to get his armies to leave the dungeons. And Destroyer looks like the ideal path to kill the Crypt of Kings.”

“Those are good points,” Ali said. Trust Calen to read between the lines, ignoring the aggressive wording and strip it down to just the core potential in what was offered. It was why Ali loved consulting with him – his mind was so sharp and perceptive.

Destroyer had been unlocked by destroying so many dungeons. Specializing in dungeon rage seemed absolutely horrible to her – she hated the dungeon rage at the best of times – but Calen was exactly right, they needed to destroy the Crypt of Kings to wipe out the Blind Lich for good. And she, more than most, if she wanted to free herself from the cursed title and permanently eradicate the watching eyes of Baaoht Yll’shuum. Azryet himself leveraged dungeon rage as a weapon, and she had been taught the first steps toward wielding it. This, then, would be the natural development of that path.

“Breaker is surprising,” Lyeneru said. “When did you trigger so many dungeon breaks?”

Ali stopped, puzzled when she read the requirements for Breaker closer. More than a hundred? There’s no way…

But then it came to her in a flash. Of course. Every time I go outside. She always took minions with her when she left the dungeon, no matter what. Malika and Mato had drilled it into her relentlessly – don’t go outside without protection. Technically, every single trip into Myrin’s Keep had been a dungeon break with dungeon minions leaving the dungeon – at least until she’d claimed the entire town. The words ‘dungeon break’ inspired fear across the continent for the vast potential for destruction, and yet, she’d often used them to stroll through town.

But it was true, each time she set out with her friends to fight, she was technically at the head of a dungeon break. Which means… She carefully reread the description in the light of her new perspective, and then her decision was made.

“Breaker,” she announced. “I’ll be taking Breaker.”

“Care to explain your sudden insight?” Calen asked, arching his eyebrows.

“Every time I take my minions out of the dungeon, it’s a dungeon break. I do that a lot, so getting bonuses for something I’m already doing would seem smart, right?”

“That’s a good way to look at it,” he admitted.

The only problem was, each choice was a keystone, but a random one. And whichever choice she picked would undoubtedly influence the end result of the path. Her only certainty was that this path would undoubtedly improve the strength of her minions, which was what she desperately needed.

What do I need most, though? Defensive maybe? Or Survival? What’s the difference? She definitely did not like it when her minions died, but was it better to endure damage, or to deal more of it with Aggression?

After agonizing over it for a while, she finally decided she just had to pick without much to go on. Survival seemed the most reliable, so she put her first points of Authority into that one, knowing that at least she could unwind the whole process if something went catastrophically wrong.

[Breaker 1/6] Martial Insight gains Minion Survival(Minions gain +[skill / 2]% regeneration during a dungeon break)

“Is that all regeneration?” Malika asked as soon as Ali shared it.

“I believe so,” Ali said. Given that her Martial Insight was currently at one hundred and thirty-five, it was a very respectable bonus.

“That’s going to help with your healer mana a lot,” Malika said, pursing her lips and nodding her head in approval.

“Yes,” Ali said. It was a surprisingly good bonus awarded for a single node. It was almost seventy percent more regeneration for mana, stamina, and health – a bonus that would be multiplied across the number of minions she had in her party.

Very good indeed. Good enough that she decided to buy it again when she saw that her node options hadn’t changed.

[Breaker 2/6] Martial Insight gains Minion Survival(Minions gain +[skill / 2]% movement speed during a dungeon break)

“Oh, movement speed,” Ali said, surprised to find the bonus was different this time.

“Makes sense,” Calen said. “Movement speed is a great survival skill. Gets me out of a lot of tough spots.”

“It’s not bad at all,” Ali said, her anxiety over the random nature of the decisions subsiding. Still, she was two nodes in and the options hadn’t changed. Should she continue to specialize in survival, or should she change it up? “What do you guys think I should get next?”

“Aggression,” Mato said without hesitation. No surprises there.

“I agree,” Calen said, making Ali’s eyebrows go up on their own.

“Not more survival?”

“You took two good abilities,” Calen said. “But your minions are the bulk of our team’s damage. Killing stuff faster is survival, too.”

“That’s not a bad reason, Ali,” Malika said.

“Well, I am looking for ways to become more powerful,” Ali said, her mind easily conjuring images of Death Knights pouring through portals in waves. Aggression probably implied more attack-focused improvements, and the faster her minions destroyed the monsters or bosses, the less chance there was for her friends to die or mistakes to happen. If picking some damage-focused improvements directed her paths in ways that could defeat undead hordes, she was all for it.

[Breaker 3/6] Martial Insight gains Minion Aggression(Minions gain +[skill / 2]% damage during a dungeon break)

“That’s very good, Ali,” Calen said, nodding approvingly.

“Told ya,” Mato said, grinning.

“Should I reset and take all Aggression?” Ali asked. It would be a massive waste of time, but if it were that good, it might be worth it. The only issue was that she had no idea how Authority was assigned and whether she’d have the same amount on her second try.

“The damage boost only affects your attacking minions,” Lyeneru offered. “The survival ones will help your healers, too. They’re all very strong.”

“Ok,” Ali said, and decided to roll the dice one more time on Aggression.

[4/6] Martial Insight gains Minion Aggression(minions gain +[skill/2]% attack speed during a dungeon break)

“Attack speed,” Ali announced.

“Yes, that’s very strong,” Lyeneru said.

She returned to her choices eagerly, but this time, in addition to the three random selections, she had a keystone waiting for her.

Martial Insight gains Outside Knowledge. Cost: 12(Your minions gain bonus experience during a dungeon break).

A boost to Minion Ego? Her minions already gained experience from combat, but now she would be able to level her minions faster if she took them outside with her. Or even sent them out on their own. Long term, this was likely to be extraordinary, especially given her style. Ali didn’t hesitate, spending the points immediately.

[Breaker 5/6] Martial Insight gains Outside Knowledge.

Ali was about to share her new gain with her friends when the chime sounded a second time.

[Breaker 5/6] Your Domain aptitude gains +100% domain mana.

“Huh? What does this mean?” Ali asked as she shared the two conflicting notifications.

“You got a hidden bonus,” Val’korr said, straightening himself up to lecture. “It happens occasionally. My theory is that the Authority spent to gain the ability is a little too much, but it has to be rounded up to the next whole amount of Authority. The leftover is applied to something else you’ve bought before.”

“So, I didn’t lose the keystone?” Ali asked.

“No, you definitely got both,” Val’korr reassured her. “And you didn’t lose any additional Authority.”

“Phew,” Ali said. She was sure she didn’t need to admit it out loud, but she had been extremely worried for a moment, there. Well, more mana means more minions, she thought, deciding it was good and moved on.

With her anticipation rising, Ali studied her reachable nodes, but when she saw what awaited, she gasped.

Domain Mastery gains World Walker. Cost: 16(You can empower [skill / 10] minions with untethered Domain Enhancement three ranks below your maximum [Elite]).

Oh. That’s… Ali reread it just to make sure the words weren’t an illusion. It was a single-sentence summary, but what it implied was enormous. Untethered domain magic? Did that mean… world bosses? Even if she could currently only make eight Elite bosses, it would allow bringing Domain Magic spells to their dungeon dives, and the ability would grow. Ali purchased it before she even shared it.

[Breaker 6/6] Domain Mastery gains World Walker

“You’re growing truly terrifying, Aliandra,” Lyeneru said, her mouth forming a grim line, but then, to Ali’s surprise, the dour Pathfinder grinned fiercely. “I’m so glad you’re on our side in this war against the Blind Lich.”

“I just want to prevent his armies from killing everyone,” Ali said, surprised by the Night Elf’s apparent change of heart regarding her dungeon nature.

“This is the first time I feel hope since Nathaniel betrayed us all,” Lyeneru said, her eyes glittering in the light of Ali’s magical forest. “With skills and abilities as powerful as what you’ve just unlocked, we might even be able to take the battle to him!”

Before Ali could reply, her chimes sounded, reminding her that she still had more Authority left.

Breaker path completed.117 Authority remaining.Maker path removed.Destroyer path removed. 4 new paths found.

“Four new paths,” Ali said. I just hope whatever remains is nearly as good. I was worried for a while there.

As the path details appeared, she shared and studied them – and was immediately distracted by a yelp from Malika and a gruff, heartfelt, “Oh, crap!” from Mato as she read the first description.

It That Lurks Within the NightmareRequirements: Experienced the Nightmare. Tainted by an eldritch touch. Opened your mind to the true nature of the eldritch and survived.The ancient, nameless eldritch gods are the one true power. Submit yourself to the inevitability of your doom, or rail against it; it matters not. Taking on the mantle of insanity, wield the nightmare. Cultivate your knowledge of eldritch mysteries, growing in understanding and power until you lose yourself within the darkness, and one day, you, too, may ascend to the ranks of true power. With this path, your race is upgraded to Eldritch Monstrosity, and your magic is imbued with true power.Traits: +Eldritch, -Fae, ???, Insanity, Intelligence, Magic, Mind.Path Length: 13Reachable Nodes:Upgrade your race to Eldritch Monstrosity. Cost: 35Quality: LegendaryPath – Race

Ali shuddered at the sight of her first path option, all the terror of being trapped in Baaoht Yll’shuum’s nightmare crashing back in. Even from the relative safety of memories, her mind quavered at the recollection of all that twisted and terrible knowledge flooding into her, the horrific understanding as her deconstruction tried to make sense of an existence that embodied insanity.

Even the text of the option seemed to writhe under scrutiny, and Ali nearly threw up as her entire being rebelled.

“Ugh. The first one is a no, obviously,” Ali managed. The responses from her friends ranged from frowns and pursed lips to gasps of horror and disgust.

“That’s fucking awful,” Mato grumbled after visibly collecting himself.

Calen patted his friend’s arm. “Already rejected.”

“It’s ok, dear,” Lira said, putting a comforting hand on her shoulder. “You don’t need to accept anything like that.”

Ali swallowed and pressed on, hoping for something a little more reasonable, but fearing the worst.

