The Flight of Draconic MajestyRequirements: Title (Defiance of the Meek), Mentor (Azryet).You have faced the pinnacle of dragon-kind with defiance and rage, demonstrating the true essence of draconic nature. You have studied with dragons and taken as a mentor a dragon god. You summon dragons and count dragonkin among your friends. The path to the peak of ascension is the path of a dragon. Now take your first steps to reach your destiny. Your race will become dragonkin, and you will gain access to draconic magic and a breath weapon. Traits: Draconic, Intelligence, Wisdom, Strength.Path Length: 12Reachable Nodes:Upgrade your race to Dragonkin. Cost: 20Quality: UniquePath – Race

Ali breathed a big sigh of relief at the sight of a more normal path. “Azryet’s influence,” she said, sharing the details. This path was obviously strongly influenced by her interaction with such a powerful being. From accepting his mentorship enchantment and mingling her mana with just a little of his, she had allowed it to guide her growth. It was a vaguely described path, certain to be or become powerful.

But do I want to be a dragon?

“That’s better, Ali,” Malika said, smiling reassuringly at her.

“Anything would be better than that nightmare,” she said, uncertain about her draconic path. Am I just that unsettled by the first one?

She read on.

The Nature of MagicRequirements: Fae bloodline. Mentorship by a Fae essence of at least the fifth tier. Sage of Learning (tier two)You are of an ancient Fae bloodline. Stand proud in your heritage. This straight path develops your bloodline and your attunement to your magic. Deepen your roots and spread your wings. Erase your weaknesses and distill your strengths, and step forth to face the unknown with confidence.Traits: Fae, Bloodline, Magic, Nature, Arcane.Path Length: 7Reachable Nodes:Strengthen your Bloodline. (Increase the effectiveness of any attribute by 50% or affinity by 150%). Cost: 7Quality: UniquePath – Bloodline

“Clarence?” Ali said, and her heart immediately melted at the sight of her delightfully playful mentor, textbook, and remembrance of her mother popping into existence beside her and zooming around her head. “This is your path?” she asked, sharing the details. The excitable book did several flips and loops in the air. So, you’re actually in the fifth tier, just like Azryet and Lira? Getting a good read on the shy book’s power had always been impossible. In fact, her biggest clue had been Azryet’s inability to identify him.

And yet here she was, presented with a path that was Clarence’s namesake – his title, and her mother’s magnum opus: The Nature of Magic. A path representing the Fae bloodline.

“Elowynn,” Lira murmured, and Ali caught her eyes and smiled.

One more, Ali thought, pressing onward so that she could make her decision.

Celestial Sovereign AscendantRequirements: Title (God Maker). Restored the Well of Divinity and the Well of Souls. Crafted the Elixir of Ages. Earned the gift of celestial knowledge from the ancient wells.The strength of your being is not yet sufficient for divine ascension, but your achievements are exemplary. Cast off the weakness of your current vessel and take up the mantle of a Celestial, taking the first steps towards becoming a deity. Go forth and conquer, Celestial Sovereign Ascendant!Traits: +Celestial, -Fae, Magic, Demigod, Reputation, Tithe.Path Length: 9Reachable Nodes:Upgrade your race to Celestial. Cost: 25Quality: LegendaryPath – Race, Demigod

“Demigod?” Ali gasped and stared at her final path choice, absolutely speechless for a long time. Long enough for Malika and Mato to begin sending worried glances her way. If only to head off their worries, she collected herself and shared it.

As soon as she did, the entire grove fell into a stunned silence.

“Well…” Calen said.

“I didn’t expect that,” Val’korr said.

“Congrats, your little celestialness,” Mato chuckled.

“Oi,” Ali said. “I’m not little.” It seemed everyone was just as surprised by the Celestial Sovereign Ascendant path as she was. But, besides the awkwardness, something else was bothering her. “Why does everything want to change my race? What’s wrong with just being Fae?”

“It has to do with magic and how much the mortal races can handle,” Val’korr said, immediately assuming his favorite distinguished professorial tone, only moderately undermined by the soot stain on his left cheek. “On the path to a divine ascension, most races cannot handle the sheer density of the magical power required. So, the paths are offering you upgrades so that your vessel is more suitable for what you will have to bear.”

“The grumpy troll is right,” Lira said, “A dryad would not have been able to bear the magic I now hold. Instead, I chose to advance to the World Tree.”

Val’korr grumbled under his breath, but Lira simply smiled at him, and he suddenly grew strangely awkward.

“But… I want to stay… well, me,” Ali said. “I don’t want to be something else.”

“I am still Lirasia. But now I am also a World Tree.”

“You can’t be saying I would still be me if I chose that awful Eldritch path,” Ali said, suppressing the shudder that seemed to rise every time she considered it.

“No matter what you choose, it will change you,” Lira explained, waving her hand as if she wished to swat that option into oblivion. Ali approved. “But some more than others. The Draconic one may come with a little more arrogance, for example, and I most certainly don’t recommend the Eldritch one, but I think you would never pick that even if it was your only choice.”

“Why is it even there?” Ali knew what events had precipitated it, but if it was against her nature to pick it, why was it being offered at all?

“Paths like that are for those who wish power above all else,” Val’korr said. “The Eldritch path is the most powerful of your choices, but it comes with a high cost.”

“More powerful than the Celestial Sovereign Ascendant? The demigod path?” Ali asked, surprised by his assessment.

“Yes, It That Lurks Within the Nightmare would likely have power equivalent to a full ascension. This is the nature of Eldritch might. You would undoubtedly lose your sanity; you have nowhere near the wisdom to withstand it. Perhaps Lirasia might…”

“I doubt it,” Lira answered soberly, shaking her head. “And to me it would not be worth the risk, even if I did.”

“What is your assessment of the other paths?” Ali asked, curious to have a scholarly take on her options, and interested to know where her favorite would rank.

“Celestial Sovereign Ascendant is clearly the second strongest – unlocking reputation and followers early is an enormous boon. The Flight of Draconic Majesty is the next strongest, setting you up for an early ascension and a great deal of power. Surely the result of Azryet’s influence.”

“How do you rank The Nature of Magic?” she asked, feeling her heart squeezing just a little in her breast.

“It’s easily the weakest choice,” he said. “While Fae are one of the elder races, they have always been the weakest of them, and it is the only path choice that doesn’t explicitly mention ascension.”

“Is remaining Fae really that limiting?” Ali’s heart seemed to have fallen down between her feet. She didn’t want to be a dragon, and even the idea of becoming a celestial didn’t entirely appeal to her. She liked her Archons, but she didn’t necessarily want to become one. Still, if she needed to take it, that would probably be her most practical choice given what they faced.

“You can ascend by developing your bloodline, Ali,” Lira said. “Strength doesn’t have to come from race. It might be a little more roundabout, but it is a viable path. And, while Val’korr’s assessment is accurate to my mind, I should point out that even the weakest of your paths is unreasonably strong. I don’t think your heart will lead you astray.”

“I really want to pick The Nature of Magic. It feels like me. It reminds me of mom, and I love Clarence,” Ali said. The book bumped her shoulder softly, almost shyly, and she reached up to scratch along his spine.

“Then you should choose that, dear,” Lira said, smiling serenely.

Val’korr choked and then coughed, trying to make amends. “That might be the most… unconventional reason for choosing a path I have yet heard, but Lirasia is right, you should feel like it’s the best path, no matter the logic or reasons.”

Mato and Calen smiled at her, and Malika gave her hand an encouraging squeeze. “I think you know what’s right for you, Ali.”

“Thanks, Malika.” Ali turned to the shrine and picked her path. The path was seven nodes long, and it was not a keystone path, so she expected it would be quite focused. She just needed to organize her priorities.

Intelligence and Wisdom, she thought immediately. An easy choice. But then a thought occurred to her, and she immediately turned to Calen, seeking his opinion.

“What do you think?” she asked, sharing the path choice.

“Intelligence and wisdom obviously,” he said. “But you’re asking because you’re considering the ring, right?”

“Yes, is it worth it?” she asked. His observation about losing her Tiny aptitude had stuck with her. And here, her Fae bloodline path was offering her a different way out of her limits. Still, she barely used strength, and her vitality wasn’t nearly her most important attribute – spending two path nodes on them might not be the smartest choice.

“Picking your path around your gear is not usually a smart plan,” Calen said, deep in thought. “But that ring is a ridiculous power boost for you. I’m certain you can get Giddy to duplicate that enchantment simply because you can make enough of them that she cannot fail to learn it eventually, and that’s only if you don’t learn to manufacture better rings when you’re at a far higher level. I think the Summon Supremacy far outweighs even doubling down on intelligence for you.”

“Ok,” she said, hoping he was right. At least the vitality boost would have a direct survival benefit for her. Still, nobody was arguing.

“Save some for perception, too; it will help all your counter magic,” Calen added.

Ali nodded and then summoned her will. Feeling much like she was committing a horrible sacrilege, she spent her first point on strength. For the berserkers, she thought, trying to console herself.

[The Nature of Magic 1/7] The effects of Strength are increased by 50%[The Nature of Magic 2/7] The effects of Vitality are increased by 50% [The Nature of Magic 3/7] The effects of Perception are increased by 50% [The Nature of Magic 4/7] The effects of Wisdom are increased by 50% [The Nature of Magic 5/7] The effects of Intelligence are increased by 50%

Two more. With a little thought, she decided to spread her options, raising her affinities too.

[The Nature of Magic 6/7] +150% spell power to Arcane magic.[The Nature of Magic 7/7] +150% spell power to Nature magic. The Nature of Magic path completed.68 Authority remaining.It That Lurks Within the Nightmare path removed.The Flight of Draconic Majesty path removed.Celestial Sovereign Ascendant path removed. The increased strength of your bloodline and the amount of Authority remaining have unlocked a hidden path.

She bit her lip in shock. What? What – a hidden path?

Feeling as if she’d been thumped over the head by a flying Sandwyrm, she quickly read on, her heart trembling right up in her throat.

The Authority of the FaeTraits: Magic, Reputation, Bloodline.Requirements: Fae Bloodline. Title (God Maker). Title (Defiance of the Meek). Reached the third tier with at least 250 Authority.Your Fae bloodline runs rich with magic, hearkening back to the ancient bloodlines of old. You have befriended and seek the advice of deities and powers far beyond your level, and you have accomplished feats and achievements considered impossible even for those tiers above yourself. Unlock your reputation and the Authority that goes with it, and take your first step upon the path to ascension. Path Length: 3Reachable Nodes:Strengthen your Bloodline. (Increase the effectiveness of any attribute by 50% or affinity by 150%). Cost: 7Quality: MythicPath – Demigod

Ali very nearly yelped when she saw the path. She would never have been able to live down the embarrassment, but who could have predicted a Mythic path? She froze in the act of sharing her path, the thought ‘what if it’s not real’ sneaking into her brain.

“Ali? Are you ok?” Malika asked.

“I…” she squeaked, finding herself unable to articulate the jumble of complex feelings pulling her in every direction. Before the silence grew awkward, she simply shared the path.

“Holy shit!” Mato yelled, on his feet and jumping about.

“Mythic…” Calen whispered. “That’s… a mythic path!”

Malika squeezed her shoulder, and Val’korr burst into a fit of choking coughs as if he’d swallowed a bug.

Ali glanced up to find Lira gazing at her. “Your title… it unlocked a hidden path for me,” Ali said, letting the path description do the rest of the explanations.

“Now there’s something special. I didn’t expect you to unlock it quite so quickly,” Lira said.

Ali tried to respond, but Lira just nodded encouragingly, so she read through the description for The Authority of the Fae again, but there was no reason to shy away and every reason to take it. The first two nodes were just the same as her previous path, so she split the two nodes between her arcane and nature affinities.

[The Authority of the Fae 1/3] +150% spell power to Arcane magic.[The Authority of the Fae 2/3] +150% spell power to Nature magic.

When she reached the final node, she froze, staring at it for some time. The reachable node read:

Demigod (Unlock reputation gain and access to Authority). Cost: 50

It’s real, isn’t it?

Even though she hadn’t shared the newly revealed node yet, Lira still squeezed her hand and whispered, “Your heart will lead you true.”

She glanced up and met her aunt’s eyes, and then spent her points.

[The Authority of the Fae 3/3] Reputation gain and Authority unlocked.The Authority of the Fae path completed.4 Authority remaining.

When no new paths presented themselves, Ali finished up by spending her final four points buying forty intelligence.

Class evolution completed.You have lost the aptitude: Tiny.You have gained the aptitude: Demigod.You have gained the ability to earn Reputation.You have gained the resource: Authority.

Then, her class reacted with several new notifications of its own.

You have learned a new Domain Magic: Greater Attribute Enhancement (Wisdom)Class experience has resumed.Dungeon of Knowledge has reached level 252 (+2).+20 attribute points.

