The shape of the hole in the roof and the brightness of the moon up there kinda made it all look like an eye. A bright white eye. Melemizargo didn’t have an altar here, but he was still very present in the Darkness of every nook, and in overwatch, up above.

The priests of all the gods were still moving in, but Kromolok, the High Inquisitor of Rozeta, was already here.

The incani-shaped white wrought stepped into the white and blue light with Erick, grinning as he said, “You look exhausted.”

“I am pooped.”

Kromolok chuckled. “That’s about the weirdest slang I have ever heard from you.”

Erick stood up straight. “How goes it?”

“It goes.” Kromolok said, “Plan Surround and Consume finished 6 hours ago and then this Crushing addendum worked quite well. Rozeta is handing out Personal Scripts on behalf of the entire Pantheon…” He glanced away, and then looked to Erick. “Which means your Mark is now out to about 500 million people. Barely a fraction of a percent of a percent of the people down there. We can also see the other side of Fenrir, now. The inside. There are concerns, but you’re checking off those concerns even now.” He asked, “So how are you feeling, Erick?”

Erick sighed.

Erick was tired. He hadn’t lied about that.

The outcome of Plan Surround and Consume had resulted in them Crushing the magics down there, and then reordering the magics of Fenrir itself. Solomon had been involved with that, but so had all the other Relevant Entities of the Script.

6 hours in real time lasts a lot longer than 6 hours when you can control where you are in time.

Erick cast his Gaze to Fenrir, and then further beyond, to the sun sitting at the center.

The interior of Fenrir held more people. It was a land similar to the land on the exterior; a bunch of different lands stolen from this or that place and then strewn upon the surface like peanut butter on bread.

And the sun was just a sun.

No Nothanganathor.

No climactic battle.

Not even any Red Gods. Not really. There had been one incident out there… Eh.

Nothanganathor had simply moved away from that version of Fenrir down there, and he had taken all of his toys with him. Or perhaps he had never been there at all. Erick thought the first option was more likely than the second. He had surely been there at some point in time…

And yet when Nothanganathor had dragged Erick to his Wizard-kill-box, that place had been in a different slice of Layer 789 where there was no Fenrir at all, and Nothanganathor veritably filled the entire surface of that sun with his back-lit body.

Erick looked up at the sun-like moon in the sky, and then he looked back to Kromolok. “I feel tired and thin. Drawn in too many directions at once, and utterly furious and happy that there wasn’t any final battle right now. I also feel a great many of the people of Fenrir, calling out for help… They need help.” He chuckled. “Kinda worrying that I can hear them like this, too. I already checked in with Yggdrasil so I’m not going to get deified, or anything like that. It’s probably the Benevolence Mark inside of them. All the other gods have already begun to ascend higher, though.” He gestured to the room around them. “I mean, look at this. Stone statues! I’m sure they could take control of any of them and they’re probably watching, but… The ritual went very well, and then what came afterward went better. Kinda disheartening to see them as statues instead of as people, though.”

Kromolok said, “They’re still there. Same as always. But they are gods. They do want to help their people just as much as you do, and they fully accept the power those people are giving them, now that the Red is gone. Their plan to put more of themselves into their Champions worked well. Those who had no Champions at all even appointed some before they went to Fenrir… Have you considered a Champion yet?”

“Ha! I’m not a god.”

“The way you’re going, there is no way that you don’t Ascend to godhood of some sort.”

Erick smiled sadly at that. “Yeah. I know… Or at least I suspect that outcome to be true, too. Yggdrasil is doing all he can, but for certain people who do too much… Those people have to move to Margleknot full time or else they Ascend as an idea, instead of a person. I’m hoping that with Yggdrasil here that we can make this place just as good for that particular need. Yggdrasil seems to think we can.”

“There are different options for you.”

“Oh sure. Lots.”

Kromolok frowned a little. “I’m just gonna come out and say it. Erick. Have you asked Melemizargo for a Mantle? No? Why not. You could easily be a sun god. Melemizargo even has that Mantle of Light.”

“Asking questions and answering them yourself isn’t very cool, Kromolok,” Erick said, grinning. Kromolok said nothing. He stared. Erick sighed. “He hasn’t offered, and I have not asked.”

“Did you become self-destructive when I wasn’t looking?”

Erick huffed a laugh. “Not to my knowledge.”

Kromolok was not amused. “A lot of events are happening all at once out there, and you helped. You did a great deal of the actual work. I see you, Erick. And I see how the people look at you. Even I’m feeling a slight rush of divinity right now, but Rozeta felt that and she began to siphon it away. You might have only seen me as a coworker. But I’ve been the High Inquisitor of Rozeta for 1453 years or more, depending on how you count this Long Year. I was there at the very creation of the Script, as one of the first wrought to exist. I have led Forgotten Campaigns and executed civilizations for crimes against reality. I have been on the harsh side of the light for a long while. But I’ve also been a savior, as one of Rozeta’s strongest claws.

“Rozeta killed her Red Reflection easily. Most of the other gods did the same. But the real power is coming from those who got a Personal Script. Your Benevolent Mark is giving out Quests for people to save themselves… A lot of Quests.

“They think Rozeta made it. Rozeta is mostly just documenting it. All she did was hand them out to people who truly needed them.

“And divinity is flowing to the Pantheon and Yggdrasil has planted himself in several areas already.

“Melemizargo and Rozeta and the Pantheon are experiencing the largest rise to power that any of them has ever experienced, and you’re along for the ride.” Kromolok asked, “So? Do I have to worry about you, or are you handling it?”

“I appreciate your concern, and how you laid out the full breadth of your concern, but I am fine.”

Kromolok held his tongue, and then he switched topics. “Is this the version of you before all the stuff you’ve done out there, or the one after all that stuff?”

Erick chuckled at that. “Unfortunately, this one is just the one that did all the background work to get this whole thing functioning fine. I think I spent a year down in the depths of Fenrir, cleaning out Red infestations and other shit. I blasted a few bad actors with some [Grand Reincarnation]s. I checked out everything around all the big battles… But now I have to go do those battles.” He sarcastically said, “It would have been nice if all of the Red Gods would have left to wherever the other ones all went. As it is I just have to help kill… However many there were.”

“Three,” Kromolok said. “We only saw three god battles, mostly done through Champions. Rozeta and her Red copy. The Shades against the Shades. You only appeared at one. Oozy didn’t show up at all...” He eyed Erick. “Should you, perhaps, go to some other Layer and take a break?”

Erick waved a hand. “I spent a while in a [Time Out] to recover some. I’m just feeling stretched. It’s taking a hot minute to calm down, and this was a good time for that calming, which is why I am here, at this moment in time.”

One of the reasons he was here, anyway.

Erick Flatt, [105-ish] [Current Location: Layer 789; Veird, year 1453]

Mana split; Soul, Body, Mind: 31%, 30%, 30%

Reson allocation rate: 9%

Soul: 7.9b per day / 91,550 per second , [Mark of Benevolence Level = 7.91]

Body: 4981

Mind: 6450

Overall Stability: ↑↑ [+83,310, -162] Basic upkeep

Mp: 32.7t/∞, ↑ [+28,380, -54] Basic upkeep

Hp: 32.7t/∞, ↑ [+27,465, -54] Basic upkeep

Pp: 32.7t/∞, ↑ [+27,465, -54] Basic upkeep

Resons: 1.2t [+8,239 = +915]

Erick said, “Today cost me over a quadrillion mana and 90 trillion resons, and now it’s time to go to battle. I mostly came here to solidify this outcome. It’s a whole lot easier to make the right present happen here on Veird than it is on Fenrir; and that is why I am here, to solidify this part of Infinity. Infinity itself is splayed wide open down there and now I need to get to bringing all of that together.”

Kromolok’s face went hard and concerned, like he had a lot of sudden concerns, from questioning if he was in a failed universe to questioning the validity of their hard fought wins.

Erick watched him have his concerns, and he waited.

Kromolok asked, “Can the gods actually handle it? Or are they changing in the new environment, too?”

Erick said, “Surprisingly, or maybe unsurprisingly, the fact that they all knew what was coming down the line through the worship-attack has allowed them a lot of power to resist it. They are their Mantles and themselves, after all. The Red Gods are just figments, and they were easily slaughtered from what I saw. But, speaking of battles… duty calls!”

Erick Stepped away.

Kromolok stayed there, standing in the blue light of the orb, held by the tree’s branches. Ten thousand tendrils of thought arced away from his body. He was still busy, too, even if it looked like he was doing nothing at all but contemplating the present…

But there was certainly a lot of contemplation going on.
