A child ran under the light of the sun across a break in the ground, leaping from desert to grasslands, and then running faster. The demons were coming, and they weren’t like grandma and grandpa. They were the Old Demons, and the child had been running for days. He had been living in the settlements outside of Stratagold and now he was up here, on the Surface, except it wasn’t the Surface at all.

Behind him, the many-legged clawer stabbed across the ground, pulling itself across the land. Its face was the face of the child’s mother, calling out, “Don’t run away so fast! Mommy can’t catch you if you run that fast!”

Then came the laughter.

The child tried not to cry—

The sky vibrated.

The Old Demon stopped chasing but the kid did not stop running.

And then the kid saw the sky ahead, where mountains topped the endless horizon. A gently-curving line of moons lay across the sky, and some sort of red rose from the sky, rising upward into the moons. The red had not been there before, and now it was there.

Everything turned Red.

Just as fast, the moons vibrated, sending out what could only be a [Holy Wave] of power from each and every one of them.

That wave crashed into the Red.

The ground heaved, and the child was in the air.

The sky came down, and then there was no breath. No down. No up.

The sun/moons in the sky went bright.

The world broke.

The child began to pass out from the trauma of it all, from the cold and the pressure that was not pressure at all, and from the rocks cast from the ground like [Rock Bolt]s, but in that moment, White Sparks drifted across the world, scouring the Old Demon from existence and then moving on.

Hours later, the child woke in a field of pristine grass and a blue box he had missed so very much appeared to him.

You were taken from us.

We came to get you back.

A child’s assistance <Species: Incani>: Casting [Greater Treat Wounds].

You are at 1 HP. You have stabilized.

A child’s assistance <Species: Incani>: <A Quest has been issued on your behalf!>

<Your location is known! Someone is on their way!>

Help support creative writers by finding and reading their stories on the original site.

The child cried for so many different reasons.

- -

A man with one arm remaining held off the horde of ballooning spiders with his broken greatsword, slicing through the torso-sized monsters like a rookie, here in the final room of their estate. He was ashamed. He was terrified. He did what he could. What remained of his family huddled behind him, his son bleeding out, his daughter dying of poison, his wife already gone. He should have been better at killing these beasts, but he was not. The Script had abandoned them all.

The gods had even joined in the slaughter of the people last week, Red sparking from all of their bodies. The man would never forget the sight of Rozeta eating the entire capital in one bite and then breaking the mountains apart with one casual flick of her continental-sized tail—

A spider got to his leg and began pumping him full of venom. He hacked at it, killing it, but he knew. He knew the end was here. One bite was all it took—

The world shook. Everything broke.

White Sparks flooded the land and remade as much of what it could, while taking the spiders away.

A blue box appeared and the man almost swiped it away, cursing Rozeta’s name. But then he read the box.

You were taken from us.

We came to get you back.

Minimal assistance available at this time.

Here is a Personal Script to assist you with doing what you already know how to do:

Accept / Deny

The man wasn’t sure what to do—

“I accept!” said the son, and then the son started healing the sister.

The father almost blacked out, but then the son was there with a [Cleanse] and a [Heal] and the father’s eyesight cleared again, just in time to see a new blue box... Except it wasn’t a blue box at all. Words floated in front of him, in front of just his eyes, and he could already tell his son didn’t see them.

Quest Offered: Transformation of [Rejuvenation] into [Greater Regeneration].

Cost: Kill 25 spiders.

Accept / Deny

The father almost asked what the words meant—

But the reprieve from the spiders had just been that, a reprieve, and now they poured back into the strangely-immaculate manor, breaking windows that had been broken long before now, and yet here they were, getting broken again. He said ‘Yes’ to the floating text and he picked his sword back up.

The man still only had one arm, but power flowed through him as his [Rejuvenation] was active, somehow, and working overtime.

Somewhere between killing the 25th spider and the 26th, something changed inside of him and more text appeared.

Quest Complete!

[Greater Regeneration] achieved!

Power flowed through his body and the man’s missing arm began to regrow.

His son touched his back and healed him faster.

His daughter twisted flames into the spiders, and the spiders burned, the fire spreading to catch them and only them on fire.

Whispering, the daughter said, “Rozeta came back, dad. She’s back.”

- -

A dragonkin woman on the high seas pulled on the line, holding the boom of the mainsail in place, yelling something incoherent and furious into the storm all around. Her eyes were full of rage. Her sister and brother in the boat, holding onto the wheel and holding onto the railing, roared with her. They sailed on in defiance of their death, rushing through the waters behind them.

The monster rose from the depths again, cackling as it roared out red lightning. “Sininindi calls!” it mocked. “Give up and join your people in my belly!”

“Never!” roared the woman at the main mast, holding the main sail in position to catch the wind of the storm. She knew it was futile to run, but she had to run. Storm’s Edge had been turned into Red horrors, and she and her family were the only ones who had seen it. “I’ll never—!”

The world thrummed.

The storm parted under a great wash of white light, shimmering from above the clouds, piercing through the sky like knives. The waters rose from the ocean with a great thrum of white light. The red leviathan evaporated under the onslaught from above—

A real blue box appeared.

The woman didn’t know how she knew it was real, but this one was real.

You were taken from us.

We came to get you back.

Minimal assistance available at this time.

Here is a Personal Script to assist you with doing what you already know how to do:

Accept / Deny

“Accept!” roared the woman, and her siblings.

The leviathan was gone, but the ocean was still in the air, and suddenly the ocean crashed down. The woman got a mana pool back, but none of her usual mana. The next two minutes were the craziest of her life, but she had been through many storms before, and this one was breaking. The air crackled with golden lightning and the woman felt Sininindi in the air. The real one. She laughed at the circumstance. What was a natural storm but a test of the gods, and this was a test she could handle!

The ocean churned and things died in the depths and a few points of mana came to her over a hazardous minute. That was all she really needed to [Mend Ship] and prevent her boat from breaking. Her brother calmed the water and her sister calmed the air, and that was enough to weather the worst of it.

Ten minutes later, they were sailing with mended sails under a clear sky stacked with moons.

They stared upward.

“It’s just… one right on top of the other, higher and higher?” asked the brother.

Yeah. That’s exactly what it was.

Except, the woman noticed something. “They form a line. They’re stacked, but they form lines, and…” She looked at the horizon. There, shining like a city on a distant hill, was another moon. It could have been an illusion created by the vast, flat distances of this strange new world that was not Veird at all, but the woman didn’t think that was the case at all. “That one ain’t in the sky. It’s in the ocean.”

The brother instantly said, “Let’s go to it before the leviathans come back.”

“I’m right there with you, brother,” said the woman.

The wind picked up at their backs, and all three of them startled. The sister startled the most of all.

The woman looked to the sister. “Did you pray again?”

“It was an accident!” the sister exclaimed. “I’m sorry!”

It was weird for the woman to chide her sister over praying to Sininindi, but… The last week had been horrific and wrong. The woman recognized that. The sister recognized it, too, and she dared to believe.

The brother said what they were all thinking, “It seems that we are truly in the hands of the real goddess again.”

The wind picked up stronger.

Even the waves crested in the direction of the sun resting upon the surface of the world. The woman took up no argument against the validity of this Sininindi, whoever she was.

She just grabbed the lines and the ship came together a little bit more. Her magic was working like it should have once again, though she only had bare trickles of mana flowing how it should. 10 mana here. 20 mana there in the next minute. This ‘Personal Script’ was all sorts of different and she didn’t trust it, but it was what she needed right now. What they all needed.

The siblings moved silently, working as a team, the brother on the wheel, the sister at the sails, and the woman at keeping the ship itself together, as they always had before.

Something like hope kindled in their hearts as they sailed toward the sun, sitting in the ocean.

- - - -

The anti-Whirlpool ritual had gone off without a hitch, and then everything became a hitch. Not in the way Erick had expected, though.

Erick had been watching Fenrir for a while at this point. For everyone else, the last three days had been 3 days. For Erick, it had been 29 days, or something like that. Or maybe 229. He knew the exact time, but he tried not to think in those sorts of ways.

Erick had been watching Fenrir.

He knew where to strike to eradicate their built-up forces. He also knew that most of the people down there were not evil at all, nor were they believers in the Red. But some people were. During the encirclement, three days had passed for both Veird and Fenrir, and certain parts of Fenrir had moved somewhat in order to do whatever they wanted to do to fight back against the coming encirclement.

Then the encirclement had finished, and Nothanganathor had struck back with some sort of semi-tamed Whirlpool. He had initiated his attack not from the Godpact world, but from a part of the multiverse of Layer 789 that contained no Veird at all. Nothanganathor had done some Wizardry with some artifacts of some sort, no doubt, so the effects of the Whirlpool had been targeted to this God Pact slice of Layer 789. The actual Whirlpool had been over here, where Erick now floated.

Erick hadn’t spent any time at all on the other slices of this multiversal battle because chasing someone through infinity was a fool’s errand in too many ways to count. From the fact that Erick was focused on the godpact world, to the fact that infinity was infinity… Erick had left the multiverse alone.

Nothanganathor had unleashed the Whirlpool from the multiverse.

In this space, a good hundred-Fenrir-wide swaths of reality had been subsumed into a washing, crashing, spilling maelstrom of ripping and tearing black-white-blue. No Red; not unless you counted the red part of the spectrum of light as ‘Red’, and Erick certainly didn’t. There wasn’t any more red than there was green or orange or yellow, meaning not much at all. The Whirlpool was already dying down and all the Red magics that had focused it onto the Godpact Veird were gone, because the ritual Erick had done with the gods and the fae had killed Nothanganathor’s controlling spellwork. This area was now a dead-end of the war. Without a mana ocean to eat and live within, the Whirlpool was the same as any evaporating black hole; it had a lifespan.

Erick floated far outside of the former-Fenrir system, as a black dragon, far away from the Godpact world, watching as the very universe itself twisted into a roil. It crashed and imploded and soon it would die. Maybe 150 years? Hard to know, and Erick didn’t feel like venturing into the future to make sure of any timeline; that would give solidity to Nothanganathor winning this war.

Checking up on this end of Veird’s Crushing Ritual was just checking a box off, too. One of many different boxes that Erick had checked off in the last 6 real hours, and several thousand subjective hours.

He Stepped back to the Godpact Veird, to orbit, above the Northern Spellsurge Mountains. Another Step brought him back down to the Weaver, and to the control room of Plan Surround and Consume.

The meters-wide white sphere that had been the weaver map, surrounded by gold dots, and which had been briefly attacked by the Red Whirlpool, was now a simple, solid blue sphere, like a tranquil ocean. A gnarled tree grew up from the ground and grabbed onto the blue sphere, its branches wrapped around the sphere like a woven truth. The tree itself glowed a little, brilliant white in the cracks and with tiny flaming green leaves and a rainbow sort of light around it. It was not Yggdrasil, but it was an offshoot of the big guy.

The priests and the singers and all the people who had made this thing work were gone; on to the rest of their life, into different plots and plans for Fenrir. A few different priests had moved in after the ritual.

The altars to Atunir, strewn throughout the room and around the former map, had been altered irrevocably, and so had the Spellsurge mountains. Atunir had her prayerstones here and there, of course, with cornucopias of food pouring forth in stone relief, but most of that was gone. Where once there were prayerstones only to fertility and field, there were now prayerstones to Rozeta for good magic, or prayers to Phagar for a Good End or asking him to stay away for a while longer. Peaceful Koyabez stood in relief on the wall over there, his hands holding broken swords. Righteous Sumtir held a sword aloft over there, shining bright and carving through sparks. Aloethag had her Rage. Others had other powers on display in hands, and in gestures. And then there were the stone shapes of the fae, hiding here and there on the edges of all the rest of the space. All was done in stone. None of it held color. The only color in the room was the blue sphere, gently glowing underneath the branches of the softly white and green tree that held it in the center.

The roof of this ritual space was gone.

Up above, beyond a moon’s distance, lay a planet that glowed like a sun.

Soft white light shone down into this space, but this space was still mostly blue in the center.

