He missed his children. Some of them missed him. It was about time for another visit. But the Archmage was stressed, busy with a war that Eldavin had begun—the situation with Amerys—
And his one moment of solace besides sitting at his crafting station was ruined three minutes into his bath. The Archmage stomped out of his rooms as the alarm-spell grew louder and louder.
“Who is making that racket? No one should be able to manipulate the door-alarms but me.”
Or an Archmage. If this was some j—
Viltach stopped. He looked up, went for a wand, realized he was in his hastily thrown-on, unenchanted robes, and realized this was the moment he died. It was, of course, never how you expected it.
The looming figure’s crushing hand of porcelain hovered above his face. A gleaming, perfect mask of sculpted ceramics. A Golem. This was it. They were going to kill him. This was—
Viltach realized it was not his death a moment later, and the instinctive fear turned to relieved anger.
“What are you doing?”
The Golem was no serving Golem. Nor was it Cognita, but for a second the pale white of the light blue porcelain had made him think—
But it was a male Golem, with an impressive physique under ornate, sculpted clothes. No serving Golem, this. They tended to have some element of puppet-qualities, a deliberate lack of details. This Golem?
This Golem had a sword on its back. It was one of the protector Golems. Viltach never saw it roaming about.
“Wh—what is this about? Who sent you?”
The Protector-class Golem looked at Viltach. The Archmage realized it couldn’t speak and was looking around when he was disabused of that notion. The Golem’s mouth opened, revealing a disconcertingly marble, uncarved opening. A puppet’s mouth, and the voice was equally unsophisticated. Yet it did speak.
“A Golem is destroyed. An intruder is in Wistram.”
Viltach stared up at it. The Protector-class Golem waited as the Archmage’s mouth moved.
“Who? What? Did you catch it?”
The Protector-class Golem stared at him. It repeated itself.
“A Golem is destroyed. An intruder is in Wistram.”
Viltach hesitated.
“Yes, but where? Who? How many? What’s the context?”
The Protector-class Golem stared at him, and the Archmage realized—with Cognita gone? He’d opened a bottle of wine to celebrate that monster’s absence. Now, he began to wonder if her absence was a bad sign.
An intruder is in Wistram. Viltach closed his eyes.
It had begun.
 
——
 
“There is a reason my King sent no great army to take Wistram. Or even a smaller group. He could not afford to send so many. Also? Unless he had his armies from before his slumber, there is no guarantee we could triumph. I knew this—but I was sure the moment I began my surveillance and study of the academy. There is a Golem buried at the base of the academy. Under water. It could wipe out a standard, unenchanted warship on its own. It is so vast it would be called half-Giant class.”
“So…”
“As large as Zamea.”
“D-does that imply there’s a Giant class? Or bigger?”
“Yes. But that Golem was made by the greatest Archmage in the field at the time. And it is not alone. There are more, buried there. I cannot kill them. I do not need to. Tell me about the layout of Amerys’ prison again.”
Gazi Pathseeker looked at Calac and Trey’s map. She had a map of her own. She sat in Trey’s room, and he remembered why he had not called for her instantly.
It was simple. Trey respected Gazi. He liked her. He felt very conflicted about her, but he saw her good qualities that she liked to hide behind her scary mask and reputation.
However, because he knew her, he also knew that she was terrifying. Trey had convinced Calac not to call on her at first because it was risky, because she might be noticed and then the game would be up and they’d be really out of time. However, Calac had agreed because Trey thought he understood the same thing he did.
When Gazi moved, people would die. And Wistram’s [Mages] didn’t deserve that, by and large. He had missed her, though. She was intelligent, scary…
And, currently, on her third pie. The Gazer licked her fingers; she hadn’t taken off her gauntlets, but she reached for another bowl of food.
“This is good. Earth food?”
“Um. Yes. Do you want more?”
One of her five eyes swiveled towards him. Another fixed his bag of holding with a pointed look.
“Yes. What are those round things with multiple components?”
“H-hamburgers? It’s just an Earth food.”
“I will eat them.”
Trey looked at Calac. The young man had heard rumors of Gazi, as had Trey, but neither of them quite remembered ‘Gazi the Omniscient’ also being known as ‘Gazi the World Champion Food Eater’.
However, the half-Gazer woman was chomping down food as fast as she could while she stared at their map and hers. Trey unpacked the hamburgers, grateful Wistram’s [Mages] didn’t blink twice at you stealing food from the buffet line.
“Are you hungry, Lady Gazi…?”
Calac ventured. Gazi stared at him, and the young man quailed a bit before that huge eye. Everyone did. You thought you’d been stared at hard by someone before? Try an eye half the size of your face staring at you without blinking.
“I have been eating food underwater for over a month. Raw fish. In the ocean. Preserved rations. Underwater. What is that?”
“A puff pastry?”
“What is that substance inside it?”
Another thing about Gazi—she saw everything. Noticed everything. However, she didn’t understand everything, so she was actually very cautious and demanded to know what whipped cream was before she had one of the dough treats filled with sugar that Telim loved so much.
Trey watched Gazi. Calac watched Gazi with as close to hero worship as Trey had ever seen.
Minizi? She peeked around Gazi from behind Trey’s bed. One of Gazi’s eyes was rolled up in her head, watching the Golem.
“You made a Lifesand Golem after me.”
“I, uh—uh—yes? I was bored and I made a lot but she—Minizi—stuck.”
Trey turned beet red as Gazi regarded him. The Gazer smiled, peeling apart the hamburger to inspect each section.
“I see. What is this…white stuff? I have never seen it before.”
“Um. Mayonnaise. Egg yolks and oil and such.”
“Hm.”
That was all she said. The Gazer licked the mayonnaise experimentally and smacked her lips. Which was such a normal thing to do, it didn’t fit Gazi Pathseeker.
Trey had often thought this privately, but even more now that he had been to Wistram and seen every species represented save for the myriad of Drowned Folk, Gnolls, and Fraerlings in person.
Of the known, civilized races of this world—Gazers were the most alien. He did not think this just because he had seen A’ctelios Salash and the parallels.
There was something different about Gazers. A lack of a nose, for one thing. The only species who had an equivalent were Lizardfolk and Drakes, but they had lizard-like nose holes and that distinctive reptilian cast to their face. Or draconic, if you didn’t want to make the Drakes mad.
Garuda also lacked noses, but they had beaks, which were arguably the same thing. Minotaurs?
No, that was it. Each species was patterned after some ancient ancestor. Many humanoids echoed monkeys. Drakes and Lizardfolk, reptiles. Garuda? Birds. Minotaurs—cows.
What were Gazers made in shape of? Where did they come from? 
Such an alien woman, and she was the only known Gazer who had served Reim in the spotlight. One of her kind, half-Gazer, and the rest of her species in Baleros. Yet…she was here, and Trey was relieved.
Gazi smiled as she recompiled her burger and took a bite. She was watching as Calac spread out the maps, explaining what they’d learned. And how they’d failed. Gazi calmly looked at the shamefaced [Lord]’s expression.
“It was never easy, Calac Crusland. Focus on the next attempt. It will be our first and last.”
That was as encouraging as she ever got, and she spoke in that deliberate, quiet way that was all too ominous. Yet Calac seemed to take heart from it. He glanced at Trey, and the young man saw the complete trust in his eyes.
Of course. He was looking at a living legend. One of the Seven. Trey was reassured, but only because he liked Gazi.
He couldn’t help but remember the fact that she claimed to be the weakest of the Seven in levels. Also…that, until recently, someone had poked her eye out.
“So. They’ve trapped the hallways. Six Guardian-class Golems. Gembound Protectorate. Wistram’s old Golems, it must be.”
Gazi’s eyes fixed on the map. Trey stirred.
“Is that their name? Do you know them?”
One of Gazi’s eyes flicked to him; that was how you knew she was listening. She seldom turned her head to acknowledge anyone but Flos, but if one eye was on you, you had her attention. It was something people had to get used to, like Goelv learning that people got upset if you didn’t look at them with your entire body.
Goelv. What would he think if he knew Gazi were here? Trey kept glancing at the door, but Gazi smiled.
“No one is watching us. Yet. I can see [Scrying] spells and all but the most powerful illusion spells.”
“Can you see through all of Wistram?”
The Gazer instantly shook her head. She frowned, her one huge eyelid narrowing in a rare sign of displeasure.
“It is impossible for me. Some places…yes. Mundane enchantments. Most of it? No. Wistram is confusing. It has always been confusing. I knew it, coming here.”
“You’ve been here before.”
Calac sat up. Another eye rolled towards him and calmly fixed him with a violet glare.
“Yes. Amerys invited me before. I know some of what is dangerous here thanks to that. Those Golems I know. They are Gembound Golems. Each gem is a source of power. They fight well. They would be…difficult to kill for me. I would not fight two. Nor are they like the other Golems.”
“How so?”
Gazi sipped from a cup. She reached out behind her and poked Minizi in the eye as the Golem tried to sneak up behind her. The Lifesand Golem retreated, stared at Gazi, and instantly fled behind Trey’s bed. The young man stared at Minizi. He didn’t know what was up with his creation, but he thought Minizi was…nervous?
“They are Wistram’s soldiers of older times. Zelkyr did not make them. Hence, the Archmages can control them more directly. Hm. Even so, she has control. So. Trapped hallways, maze, Amerys in bindings, and guards.”
Gazi stretched her four-fingered hand as the two young men nodded. She considered the obstacles and shook her head.
“That alone I could handle. The real threats are the Archmages. Do they personally patrol the areas? The ward spells—are connected to them?”
“I don’t know.”
The Gazer nodded as Trey looked shamefaced. Her main eye kept buzzing around, checking every area for spells.
“Then…Ullsinoi. As great a threat. I remember them from the war.”
Calac and Trey traded glances. The [Lord] half-bowed.
“Lady Pathseeker. Do you mean the recent wars with Hellios, Belchan, and such? Or do you mean…?”
The [Scout] stopped eating.
“We fought them during my lord’s first kingdom. When the King of Destruction began to take Chandrar, I remember strange tricks. Powerful illusions. Orders that mislaid entire armies. We encountered them rarely. I killed two of their number—I think—over the course of the entire war. Amerys went to Wistram to negotiate a truce. They are a powerful enemy.”
Trey could only agree with that. He thought of Galei’s warning and shuddered.
“I think they know I was trying to break Amerys out, Gazi. I don’t know…if they know about you.”
She shrugged, her armor capturing every motion with ease. It was apparently feather-light; Gazi had once told Trey he could lift her up fairly easily. It allowed her to scale walls and perform tricks most [Knights] wouldn’t dare imagine.
[War Scout]. A former [Infiltrator] and [Mage]. Even a [Silent Commander]. However—
A Level 45 [War Scout]. ‘Low-level’, according to Gazi, which meant that she was a Named Adventurer almost by virtue of that level alone. But this was Wistram—unlike anywhere else in the world, Gazi was among people close to her level.
Or higher. Yet the Gazer was clearly going up her ranking of threats. Golems, Archmages—and then Ullsinoi. She seemed most concerned by one more factor and turned to Trey.
“Ullsinoi must be dealt with. The Archmages likewise; the Golems can be evaded or delayed. I have gear and preparations. A single Archmage I could battle. I do not need to free Amerys, only that we get to her. We have an escape route planned. However…what about her?”
“Her?”
Gazi shifted. She looked…uncomfortable for a second, and her spinning main eye kept zooming around.
“Cognita Truestone. She is the most dangerous being in all of Wistram. She could slaughter us all, and I am no [Mage] with the protection of the academy, but an intruder.”
She didn’t know. Trey’s mouth fell open—but of course! Gazi had been in infiltration mode for—the Gazer fixed on Trey’s face.
“Cognita? Has something changed?”
“She left Wistram, Gazi. Everyone’s talking about it. She left Wistram, and she’s apparently in Nerrhavia’s Fallen. No one knows why but—oh, I think I know part of the reason. Grand Magus Eldavin did something, but he’s gone too, along with half of Terras.”
Calac turned sharply to stare at Trey; the young man had told no one about what he’d seen. Gazi, though? All five eyes stared at Trey for a second.
Then she began to smile that evil, malicious smile she worked so hard on.
 
——
 
A Golem was dead. Or destroyed.
It was the talk of no one but the Archmages, who had all been summoned—for lack of a better word—to deal with the issue.
‘Alerted’ might be the word some would use, but the Archmages had been roused from their activities and been told this was an issue. Solve it. There was a difference in how each word was used, and the Archmages resented that difference.
Even so.
“It’s not one of the Gemstones guarding Amerys.”
“You’re sure.”
Viltach leaned on the table in one of the private rooms as four Archmages conferred. No Eldavin, no Valeterisa, or Amerys, or any of the others.
Just the ones here. Feor, Nailihuaile, Viltach, and Verdan. The old Archmage of Dullahans looked sleepy; he might have been roused from his rest.
Nailihuaile looked annoyed.
“Maybe one of them fell into a hole or ran into a trap spell.”
Feor shook his head impatiently.
“A Golem? A careless student who wandered into a dangerous part of Wistram—perhaps. But a Golem? This was no accident.”
“Do the Golems even know what happened?”
Verdan muttered. Viltach sighed in exasperation.
