The first Silk-warrior was howling in Eribis’ ears. The young man turned and saw a movement across the flat ground.
Chariots. Chariots and horses, a wave of them storming forwards, ignoring the danger of the towers. They had held back for eight days, but now they sensed the opening. Once the gates fell, they’d storm into the city.
Yet there were still so many [Soldiers] below. A wave was positioned just below the walls, waiting for the gates to open. Grim faces staring up at Eribis. He met someone’s eyes and felt a shock. And…the civilians were watching. Some were armed with kitchen knives, or even hoes. Would they have to fight them? Butcher them?
No, Silk will do that. Hemp had bled and formed a breach; as ever, Silk and Cotton would go ahead of them. Even so, Eribis yearned to see the glorious chariots of Nerrhavia’s Fallen storm through the streets, deploying enchanted blades, an unstoppable impact of force, crewed by deadly [Charioteers] throwing javelins and sending the best warriors into the fighting. In the streets, they’d crash through any press of bodies, although it would fall to infantry to take the narrow alleyways.
But this was the gap into which Reim’s fall began. Eribis shouted, feeling a wild excitement in his veins as he pressed forwards. He heard more people taking it up.
“The gates! The gates!”
“Horses! Horse!”
Horse? The cry was half-taken up, but then it changed into a stranger pitch.
“Horse!”
Eribis saw the Silk-warrior turn from watching the gathering riders as well. Both he and the man glanced at each other, for one second of simultaneous confusion, and then their heads turned. The young man looked across the wall, and the Silk-warrior of Tussar’s 2nd murmured.
“But we’re on a wall.”
Eribis agreed with a nod. Yet still. He saw someone riding across the battlements towards them. A man on horseback, ignoring the arrows, galloping past other soldiers, a spear raised over his head in two arms.
A…Human? Eribis saw the rider was mounted on a mare, not even a stallion, bareback. He wore ill-fitting leather armor, and Eribis saw hair white and wispy behind an iron helmet. He was an old man, laughing and charging the [Soldiers]. Behind him came charging [Soldiers], but the forces of Nerrhavia’s Fallen locked on the improbable rider, who had somehow climbed the stairs on horseback.
Coming straight at them. Then—Eribis heard a scream from behind him. He took his eyes off the charging [Rider]—who was only one man—and looked over his shoulder.
“Officer assault! It’s—it’s the [General]—the—”
A finger pointed. The [Soldiers] whirled, and the Silk shouted in excitement. Eribis turned and saw a knot of warriors pressing down the walls from the other end. He looked up and didn’t realize who he was seeing, at first.
All he saw was a helmet, a set figure holding a shield, pointing ahead with his sword in the middle of the fighting. Then the Silk-warrior shouted.
“Venith Crusland! Take his head! Command has promised a hundred thousand gold to the warrior who does!”
A hundred—Eribis’ head swam with the thought, but he looked at that figure. Venith Crusland, one of the vassals of the King of Destruction. His armor was red with blood, and suddenly he seemed bigger.
Bigger. The Hemp and Silk charged the new warriors, motivated by the gold and prospect of fighting him. But then Eribis saw Venith shoulder aside the warriors in front of him. He lowered his sword, and it began to glow. The [Lord] angled his sword like a spear and charged.
“Skill! Skill! Back up! Back—”
The press of bodies turned to confusion as the Silk warriors saw the danger and tried to back up, but ran into the others. One even tried to dodge and went over the battlements, screaming. The rest aimed their blades at Venith Crusland.
The [Lord]’s form grew. He seemed to turn into a man half as large again, armored head to toe, for a second. Eribis saw a giant hit the first rank of warriors, spearing a surprised Silk [Warrior] through the stomach. And he kept going. His other arm, holding his shield, rose and tossed three figures back over the ladder.
One of the ladders snapped as a figure hit it and sent a dozen screaming [Soldiers] down with it. Venith’s charge stopped as he literally rammed corpses into the others. The warriors stared up at him as he seemed to shrink—but that sword rose and beheaded a snarling [Captain] before he could lunge. Then it was plunging downwards, and Reim’s soldiers followed him into battle.
Howling. Eribis was screaming, but he looked into the faces of Reim’s soldiers, and his shout faltered. He felt like he was staring at a wild beast armed with a blade, who threw another [Soldier] off the walls before wildly slashing down another’s front. Wildly, as fast as a blink, but with all the experience Eribis lacked. Ducking a blade, coming up, spearing another figure below the gorget of armor through the neck. And that was one [Soldier].
The Hemp and Silk turned to face the advance of Venith Crusland and his personal guard. Eribis was setting himself when he heard a scream, felt an impact run through the people around him. He looked around and up—and there it was.
A horse. That old man had somehow closed the gap. But all the [Soldiers]? The [Veteran] who’d hauled Eribis up? Where…?
“Move!”
A hand threw Eribis sideways. The young man stumbled, gladius swinging wildly, but the Silk warrior charged the rider. He aimed his curved sword at the mare’s head, and Eribis saw a spear explode through the Silk warrior’s face. It was so fast he saw the afterimage of the Skill as the old warrior whirled his spear.
“Forwards! Run, you traitorous pieces of cloth! Twice we broke your armies! Then and now!”
The [Rider] was howling. His eyes looked like they were glowing as his spear flashed down again. Eribis cowered back and it saved his life. The old man whirled his spear.
“[Scythe of the Slaughter]! Die.”
Blood spattered Eribis’ face, and he screamed as he saw bodies collapse. The old man rode past him, howling, and struck down a ladder as he passed by. Venith Crusland was advancing on the other side. The old veteran—perhaps one of the King of Destruction’s original soldiers himself—rammed forwards. He couched his spear like a lance and ran two figures through with it.
An ancient, enchanted blade. So old that the glitter seemed faded. Deadly as could be. He turned, grinning, and the young man realized he’d been spotted.
There was one Hemp [Soldier] left on the walls still breathing. Eribis realized it was him and all the blood ran from his face. He turned and ran, dropping his gladius, screaming, fumbling to pick it up, and the [Rider] turned. The old man raised his spear, riding towards him—
And an arrow went through his back. Eribis, hands raised, saw the old man jerk. Another arrow struck him, and his look of bloody triumph turned melancholy. He grabbed at the second arrow, just under his armpit, and turned.
“Lord V—”
A third arrow hit him. Then a fourth, a fifth—a shower of arrows rained down around him, and the mare went down without a sound.
[Archers]. The old man was still alive, somehow. He stared up, no longer breathing, but still alive.
Waiting. Eribis saw a man walk forwards. Bend down.
Venith Crusland knelt, grabbing the old [Rider]’s hand. He stared down into the eyes, bent his head as the old man smiled and whispered. Eribis saw the [Lord]’s grip tighten—and those eyes close.
The spear slipped from a limp hand. Eribis saw Venith’s helmeted head bow. Then…
The [Lord]’s head rose. He looked straight at the boy, and the [Soldier] waved his gladius, shaking.
Hemp [Soldiers] were coming up the walls, listening to the screaming [Line Captain]. They hadn’t seen what had happened above. They landed around Eribis, and saw the armored warrior pick up the spear and hand it to one of the warriors behind him. He raised his sword and shield and advanced. Eribis was shaking. Then he looked over his shoulder and saw a squad of warriors charging at him. Screaming the King of Destruction’s name.
One raised a mace as they came. Eribis saw the motion and raised his sword, hesitating. Flinching. Blocking—
The mace bashed his sword into his face. Then it struck him. The gap disappeared, and the ladders fell back. Bast’s 14th retreated after taking casualties.
Reim held out another hour. But the dead [Terror Rider] never came back. Nor did any of the fallen. Still, for every one of the defenders who fell…they were replaced.
For now.
 
——
 
This was the moment when levels lost their meaning. Not because they were useless. On the contrary. They lost their meaning because it was war.
Levels jumped. People gained a dozen levels and died. [Blademasters] died, blinking, staring at [Greenhorn Recruits] who stabbed over their corpses, not knowing who they killed.
They were bleeding great warriors. She saw it.
Lady Maresar stood on a platform, loosing arrows from behind barriers. She shot a high-level warrior of some kind through the face. She had seen that boy die. She had loosed three arrows, but let Venith hold the line.
She hadn’t been able to save that old man. She didn’t know his name, but she thought she had known his unit of old.
Terrifying riders who charged alone into masses of infantry like that and wiped them out with area-of-attack Skills. A task for men and women who didn’t fear death.
Someone had fought in the first armies, and lived through Flos’ slumber. Had grown old enough to have white hair and not be called to the front. Then they took a mare, their spear…
And died on these walls. Maresar didn’t question why—she just charted his life like that and reached for another arrow. That was how it worked.
The [Bandit Lord] aimed an arrow, loosed it. She didn’t know what kind it was until it left her quiver.
Unenchanted. It slammed into an armored chest, and a figure staggered. Some kind of heavy-armored warrior who was cutting down too many people. He turned, saw her, and raised his shield. With his other arm, he made a taunting gesture.
What class? Did it matter? He had to die. [Legionary]? [Armored Officer]? [Immortal]? [Gladiator]?
Maresar reached for an arrow, realized her quiver was empty, and looked around. She saw a bundle of arrows lying at her feet, reached down—
“Volley incoming!”
The [Bandit Lord] threw herself down, smacking into the wood of the platform. She felt a heavy impact on her back, but her enchanted armor saved her.
Not so for one of the [Markswomen] in her group. Maresar rose and looked into the dead eyes of a Level 34 [Markswoman]. Another old woman who could barely draw the arrow to her chest but hit every target.
They died. Yet…Maresar saw someone roll over the woman. Shake her. Then, amidst tears, a wordless cry—a young man with blood in his dark hair grabbed her bow. Did he know her? Was he a grandson?
The [Bandit Lord] read his class. Level 12 [Hunter]. He wasn’t even one of the dedicated [Archers], but he had been running them arrows. He snatched up the old woman’s bow, lifted it, and drew an arrow. He loosed it—and Maresar whirled.
She saw, far beyond the walls, one of the distant [Longbow Archers] crumple. An arrow through the eye.
Maresar’s head turned back and saw a Level 14 [Hunter] loose another arrow. Someone else went down, an arrow through their throat.
“Back up! Back up and stop shooting!”
One of the other [Archers] hadn’t seen the arrows land and thought the boy had gone mad with grief, which he had. Maresar raised her hand.
“Take her place. Get another runner. Back in position!”
And like that, a boy found out he had a talent for war. When he slept—and he would soon—he would hear those levels and be stronger. Maresar kept her eyes on his face, counting. At Level 20. Or…
She turned. That armored figure was smashing his way forward, roaring, and she could see no weak points.
“Lady Maresar! That warrior—”
“I see it. Get me an enchanted arrow.”
A figure ran for the stash but they were out. Maresar cursed. She looked around for arrows fired at them—and her hand went to her side.
She had one arrow left. The tip was glittering with a beautiful, flawed metal. A jagged shard of Naq-Alrama steel.
Retrieved from Clan Tannousin’s failure. Maresar looked at it, the enemy warrior. Not that one. 
Not yet. Another arrow. She hunted around. Then saw something which had been tossed at them, sticking out of the ground. From some volley? A throw from the walls? She grabbed it, lifted the javelin up, and checked the armored warrior.
“[I Can Shoot That].”
Maresar didn’t look at what she was holding. She nocked the arrow, felt the weight of it on the enchanted bowstring. Heavy—it was going to drop—she aimed up, above the helmet.
The armored warrior looked up, spotted the javelin coming towards his face, and blocked it. It still knocked him stumbling back towards the wall. His head tilted up, and Maresar shot him through that sliver of his throat. She lowered her bow, arm burning, and searched for Venith.
He wasn’t dead. So Maresar breathed in, checked herself, and reached for another arrow. How much longer until the walls fell? Until…
She wondered where Calac was. Maresar grinned. If this were any other battle, if she didn’t have him—her eyes locked on Venith—
She’d run. Run and live, but how was she supposed to run if he wouldn’t? If everything that mattered was here—
Ah, no wonder she’d stopped leveling in [Bandit Lord]. Maresar looked up.
And Calac was in Wistram. Wonderful. She smiled as she reached for another arrow. The army kept climbing, ten thousand targets, a hopeless battle. Maresar grinned as she shot another arrow, not for the love of blood or anger or joy. Just relief. Venith was still standing. Calac was in Wistram.
She had nothing to fear.
 
——
 
Three Days Ago.
 
Archmage Viltach was a man who took baths. As opposed to a man who took showers, which was largely what you could split most of the known world into. Baths—yes, steam baths and saunas and whatnot were variations—or showers.
There were also the degenerate monsters who took neither and just walked around accumulating and spreading filth, or the even more deranged [Mages] who cast [Cleanse] on themselves every day.
Viltach, however, was in a subset of bathing people who employed various mixtures to improve bathing. Herbal additives, oils, and bubbles.
Oh, lots of bubbles. Was it childish to create a huge pool of hot water you could jump into with suds so high they’d hide you from the world?
Yes. But his children loved it, which proved the point, and Viltach had learned the romantic and relationship qualities of a bath. Yes, you could in theory do that in a shower, but a shower was always rushing things.
