But not filled with beans. One was a liquid couch, and Trey realized it was because the Star Lamia curled around her flexible cushion rather than a rigid chair. Indeed, there were odd chairs of twined wood that let a tail rest around them.
A place for Lizardfolk. But he couldn’t focus on that long. Naili fixed him with a smile and intrigued stare.
“So what do you want? Beatrice said you had something to…offer me? But you want something in return?”
He licked his lips.
“Yes. I’d like to trade for a—a scroll. Or artifact. A powerful one. A warding amulet. Something that could deflect Tier 4 spells, even, and attacks. Or something like that.”
Nailihuaile recoiled slightly. Beatrice, who had joined them, raised her eyebrows. The Star Lamia coiled around her seat, but her humanoid torso rose.
“That’s not an easy ask, Troy. Not even if you had…knowledge of Earth you were willing to give me. I’m afraid I wouldn’t want to part with an artifact like that—even if I had one—for nothing. Why do you need a protective charm like that, anyways?”
She peered at Trey, and he began to sweat. She was no fool. Nailihuaile’s eyes flickered over Trey.
“Is something wrong?”
“No—no, Archmage Nailihaile.”
“So there’s nothing I wouldn’t want to know about?”
“N—”
The Star Lamia’s slitted eyes glittered. Truth spells. Trey clamped his lips shut. She smiled, and her seat rolled forwards as she slithered a bit closer, now resting on top of it.
“Troy. We—the Archmages—really do sympathize with you Earthers. We know it’s not easy, and everything’s changing. But there are sides. I know you’re on Eldavin’s, or at least, he claimed you. But I want you to be honest. What’s up?”
Of all the Archmages, she made him most nervous. Not because she was smartest, best at magic…he had no measure, aside from the feeling that Eldavin was the best by far.
Yet he had the feeling Naili could be the most…vindictive of the lot. Nor was she slow.
“You know something. Out with it.”
“Nothing. I just—I wanted to know if I could trade a big secret. A Major Secret for…”
The young man stuttered as Nailihuaile left the seat and circled him. Beatrice saw Naili glance at her and stepped back. She became a statue, watching, as Naili frowned at Trey.
“What kind of secret? No, no. Let’s not get away from that first part. Why do you want an amulet to keep you safe, Troy? Someone…thinking of doing something dangerous, maybe?”
“It’s…”
He avoided her gaze. But now the Archmage was very intent on him, and she could put two plus two together.
“I hear you visit Archmage Amerys. You weren’t planning on breaking her out, maybe?”
“I—”
“You’ve seen the new traps and security. That would be a mistake, Troy. We’d have to be unpleasant about that. But that would be curious as to why you were doing it.”
“It’s the Golems.”
The young man burst out. He met Naili’s eyes for a second. She frowned.
“The Golems?”
Trey’s breath was coming too fast. He spoke quickly.
“Yes. The—I saw one of the Golems in the maze. And the other ones. Are you sure they’re safe? Are you sure—did you order them to come down and guard her?”
The Star Lamia recoiled slightly.
“Ordered them to guard Amerys? Of course we did.”
“Each one?”
The young man met her eyes. The Star Lamia saw genuine unease there. She hesitated.
“Yes…Ullsinoi did for…there’s a Golem in the maze?”
She glanced at Beatrice for confirmation then smiled at Trey. But with a hint of uncertainty behind the needle-sharp teeth.
“Why? Why would that matter?”
“I…I have a secret. A big one. I’d trade it for a charm. Something to protect me. Just in case.”
“In case of…? Beatrice, find me my best warding amulets. I don’t have an Amulet of Protection—but I do have some powerful ones. Besides, you know a secret has to be worth a lot.”
“It’s a big one. The biggest. It’s worth—it’s worth the best artifact you’d give me. I think I might need it. Maybe. I don’t want to need it, but I might.”
“Really?”
Nailihuaile looked at Trey and saw no lie in that. She hesitated, and slithered over to inspect the amulets Beatrice brought. She frowned, shook her head, and went over to a cabinet. She opened it, stared down at a carefully-wrought cage of silverish metal around a core of something bright and fiery red, scintillating like a little molten core in the center of it, floating.
“This is an Amulet of Xion, Troy. Do you know what that is?”
He shook his head as she came over with it. Beatrice silently held the other artifacts, and Naili dangled it in front of him, smiling.
“I can’t make it. Yet. Xion was an [Enchanter] who specialized in this kind of thing. Each gem is a powerful mana stone, the kind that you can’t make. Something like the core of magic dug out of a monster. This is the most powerful amulet I would ever consider trading; I don’t wear it myself because of interference with my robes and staff.”
She gestured at the Relic-class artifact. Trey looked at the curved piece of wood augmented with shining crystal and other strange stone.
The Serkonian Lance. Naili saw his expression and laughed.
“I know Viltach tutors you. And Eldavin? Neither one has the artifacts I do. The Serkonian Lance is a jealous weapon, though. Still, even the amulet is worth far more than most Major-class secrets. But let’s put it on the table.”
She did so, on the low table, and nodded at Beatrice.
“You can haggle with me for the lesser ones. What’s this big secret you have? Don’t worry about Beatrice. She’s beyond loyal. The Golems? Now why would you be worried about them?”
She leaned forwards eagerly. She saw the young man lick his lips. Trey looked Nailihuaile dead in her eyes.
What did [Mages] fear? Gazi had asked him that.
“What do [Mages] of Wistram fear? Know that—and you know one of their weaknesses. That they trust in their magic and truth spells is another. When you lie with the truth, they believe you.”
He looked Naili straight in the eyes, and he didn’t have to try to appear uneasy or afraid. All he had to do was remember.
“Are you sure the Golems are obeying you? Have…have you seen Zelkyr’s test?”
Naili recoiled slightly. Beatrice made a sound.
“Zelkyr’s test? Don’t tell me you went up there! That’s dangerous! And if it’s that secret flesh-Golem—that’s not a huge secret. But—”
She was off-guard for a second. Her answer told Trey everything he needed to know. She hadn’t been up there recently. The Archmages avoided that place like the plague.
“You haven’t seen what Cognita’s done, then.”
He looked at her, even more visibly nervous. Naili’s eyes flickered.
“Cognita? She left. Why. Do you know why she left? No one knows why. If you just happened to know, that would b—”
“She might be free. Eldavin might have set her free. He was trying to when he challenged her. That’s what I heard when I rescued him. He tried the test, and the Golems of Wistram…he fought Cognita.”
Archmage Nailihuaile’s grin was frozen on her face. Her head was slightly turned, and Trey saw her breathing—but the Star Lamia, always bouncy, moving—froze up. People could turn into statues, but she held every muscle still, half uncoiled, her body arched. Then her eyes slid over to his.
“What was that? He did…”
She didn’t know. Trey looked Nailihuaile dead in her eyes and delivered unto the Archmage of Lizardfolk, the Star Lamia, the [Enchanter], a nightmare.
“You haven’t taken a look at Zelkyr’s last test, have you?”
 
——
 
Five Golems had once held this ground. Four permanently, in the magical battleground, the reinforced courtyard in front of the massive, sealed doors. One the true protector and mistress of Wistram.
Six Golems, but not even Trey knew the one hidden in the heart of the giant metal warrior. However, that was always how it had looked.
An invisible Golem of flesh, stalking left and right, putrid breath wafting from its maw as its eyes glowed.
A Golem made of burning magma and stone, burning from within from a heat that defied belief—a core like a star.
The tall thing of wire and metal, a scythe of a body, thin, infinitely malleable.
That too-plain, too weak giant of metal armed with sword and shield, paling in comparison to even some of its other lesser peers.
The last of them, the greatest, would walk here and greet any [Mages] who dared the final test to become true mages of Wistram. Truestone. Cognita.
That was always how it had been. An understated threat, for all the overt death here.
No longer.
If you opened those doors, the first thing you saw was a real siege weapon. Not a ballista. Nor a cute cannon from the dawn of gunpowder on Earth.
A [Mage]’s siege weapon. One of their city-breaking siege weapons.
A Valmira Cascade launcher. It had a design similar to a bow, but since it didn’t fire arrows, the contraption had no elongated wings. It did have a dangerously fragile-looking construction of charged glass orbs that were blindingly white when filled with power.
Each one threw one of that famous Archmage’s spells with a regular shot. [Valmira’s Comet]. And it scaled up. However, the siege weapon could and would detonate all that charged magic that it pulled from the air and its magical fuel—which could wipe out anything nearby.
The gunner didn’t care. It sat fearlessly, aiming the rotating, hovering weapon on its pedestal straight at any intruder.
A Golem. No regular Golem either, but one made for war. Its outer casing was Wyvern-hide; it looked like the Golem was wearing leather all over, save for one huge, oval ‘eye’ that was its entire face.
Again, they had taken from Gazers, but this Golem just had one huge, glowing, oval gemstone for a face. Deep red, cherry dark until you noticed the swimming lights. Perfect vision.
That was one Golem. A humanoid one, with its claw-hands perfectly adapted for the controls meant for Drakes, pointing the muzzle of the spell-throwing weapon down.
One Golem.
They were legion. Archer-Golems stood with classic longbows behind fortified ground, glowing one-way shields. Golems with swords and weapons like classic armies—Zelkyr’s legacy—were arrayed in ranks, holding the choke-points.
The entire room had changed. Now, the four Golems stood like the final bosses at the end of the room. To get to them?
You’d have to go up, through narrow passes held by Golems. Simple choke-points. If you wanted to fly over them—a reasonable thought—the Golems with bows and similar siege weapons would cut you out of the air.
Or the flying Golems. Like the one that hovered in the air, a glowing Golem’s Heart in its center. Wind and rain and lightning all flashed around, forming a ‘body’ visible only by its contents.
Storm Golem. Some of the Golems were like that, elemental. Others were crafted after the physical form, built for war.
Some were neither, a mix of the two, like the huge, dog-like beast that bounded left and right, a crushing pair of mithril-alloy teeth opening and closing.
Zelkyr had made a lot of Golems. Trey thought this wasn’t even close to all of them—but it was apparently as many as their leader thought was necessary to hold this place in her absence.
He didn’t bother counting. Nor did Trey Atwood peek long. He simply took the Amulet of Xion from Nailihuaile’s limp grip, put it on, and carefully backed away as she and Beatrice stared at the Golems aiming every single weapon at them.
They even had laser sights. Trey walked down five flights of stairs, found the closest bathroom, and sat there for a while. He touched the curious cage of wire around the glowing gem. If Naili wanted it back, she could have it; it was a perk. But Trey had a sneaking suspicion she wouldn’t.
 
——
 
The buzz that evening was of confusion. Archmage Feor himself went striding over to Nailihuaile before dinner even started.
Why had all the Golems save the original two been removed from Amerys’ security? Not just that—there were far fewer serving-Golems in Wistram than before.
Oh, and some were now skirting the Revivalist areas and refused to do deliveries or carry goods through there. All per a certain Archmage’s orders.
Paranoia was a lovely thing.
[Plotter Level 7!]
Trey had taken a nap, or rather, a lie-down as a hunch and been rewarded. He saw Naili arguing with Feor, and the old half-Elf’s face changed from annoyance to uncertainty in a flash.
He was not sitting close to the head table or with the Earthers. Trey sat with his friends. Emirea, Tov, Goelv. Calac was still on his job.
“So. Were you all sick this morning or something? I heard you missed class.”
Astritha looked uncertainly at her friends. None of them answered immediately. They looked at Trey. Emirea was shaking visibly. Goelv was still stunned, but Tov was just inspecting Trey.
They were in. And his friends might be obviously off, but not so much that Astritha and Messill would go to anyone with the news. Trey looked around the room and saw one of Doroumata’s daughters was angled towards him. The [Depth Mage] herself? Not present. Nor was he overtly being stared at behind the dark veil.
He wished some of the others were as covert.
“You son of a bitch. I’m in—”
One of the Earthers slapped the other on the shoulder hard as he pointed at Trey. The [Sand Mage] sighed.
They thought it was a joke. He knew better. Trey looked around and rose.
“I’m going to bed early. I’ll see you all tomorrow. I have to meet with Archmage Viltach, but I’ll see you after dinner.”
He looked at Emirea, Goelv, and Tov, and saw them nod shakily. Astritha leaned over as Messill whispered to her.
“Look at this guy. Bragging. ‘I get lessons from Viltach. I talk with Doroumata and Fissival’s [Mage Lords]! I take lessons from Eldavin!’ Sheesh.”
Trey half-jumped and smiled guiltily. He saw Feor hurrying off to have an upsetting experience and saw Calac as he walked towards the exit. The young man looked at him and nodded.
 
——
 
Today.
“They’ve taken the walls twice now. We cannot keep forcing them back. The gates are…breaking.”
The reinforced wood and metal had been rebuilt into enchanted gates by the King of Destruction’s Skill. However, there was only so long they could endure bombardment, and even the battering rams that made it to the gates before they were destroyed.
Venith Crusland wore red. Maresar? Not a drop on her.
Teresa Atwood’s arm burned, despite stamina potions. She inhaled, exhaled, as she listened to them talk. Venith Crusland had no speeches. He uttered no fiery words as he turned to the officers present. They had held for eight days. Takhatres, Mars, Orthenon, all were fighting to return and bring a force large enough to break the siege while safeguarding their areas.
