Flos Reimarch had told them to hold back. He could have sent Takhatres against this army, but for Hellios and the Gnolls. He could have pulled back and ceded Belchan and retreated—but then they would have come for him on all sides, and he would have lost everything.
Maresar spat casually as she stared into the distance.
“If it were any other battle, they would have already called this a disaster. Even Nerrhavia. They will not relent here. They see an end to this war. Venith. Call it.”
He nodded. The [Lord of Battle] turned to the others and gave a quiet command as he stared into the heart of the city, where people had gathered. Some ran water or supplies or tended the wounded, but most just waited.
Countless souls; some stayed in houses close to the walls because they had no choice. Every citizen from the countryside. Many had taken up arms, but they had lived and died on those walls. Now? He looked at the civilians with not a single combat level to their names and nodded.
“Arm them. We will hold them in the streets once the walls fall.”
Teresa raised her head to say something…looking at the palace. The King of Destruction lay there. She turned and heard a sound go up through the city.
A rending, winding screech of metal. The scream of a spell breaking and a roar from all around them from countless voices.
“The north gate.”
Venith stood. He started running, and Maresar lifted her bow.
“Another hour. Teresa—retreat to the palace if they take the walls. We will bleed them until they run for the death of it or fall, today. Do not throw your life away.”
The [Bandit Lord] stood as Teresa looked at her. She drew her first arrow and launched it skywards. The [Swordswoman] said nothing. She felt it, with that growing instinct that made all the others so quiet.
It would be today, one way or another. The sun was setting as the first gate went down. Then…soon after, the second.
Then one of the walls was breached.
 
——
 
Perhaps they were too slow. He could have been faster. He could have been smarter.
All Trey Atwood knew was that it had begun. All the pieces were in play—or would be soon. Distractions, plans laid, actions set in motion by himself, Gazi, and Calac.
However, one thing remained, and it was simply the end. Amerys. If they reached her—when they reached her, blood or perfect infiltration or chaos or not—
They had to set her free.
There was only one recourse Trey had for that. So he knocked, and carried the bottle of wine carefully under one arm as he put a smile on his face.
After a long, long time, the door opened. The face which appeared in the doorway was familiar. Welcoming.
“Troy, you’re early.”
“I’m sorry, Archmage Viltach. I brought a gift.”
The man blinked down with surprise and gratification.
“Where did you get that? And your amulet? Magnificent magic—you remembered my fondness for wines. Is that…?”
“Amentus wine.”
The Archmage beckoned Trey in, smiling.
“Izrilian. You know, the fruit is very poisonous? The seed core, not the rind, but that’s part of the allure. Although any basic toxicity test fails because even the best stuff is a tiny bit poisonous.”
“I know. But you mentioned you liked good wines, Archmage, and I wanted to present you with a little gift for all you’ve done for me and Minizi—”
Viltach smiled. He beckoned Trey in, and the young man saw they had a small snack platter, a pre-dinner dinner. Just as planned.
“Where is Minizi?”
“Below, I think. I can feel her returning.”
“Ah, should we upgrade her next? You know, this wine might be too good to waste. Especially because I don’t believe in hoarding bottles.”
“If you’d like, Archmage.”
Viltach smiled. He ushered Trey into a seat. He was a generous man to his friends, and he enjoyed fine things.
He was also a craftsman. He led the Libertarian faction, and Trey knew that Viltach’s great love was making wands. Making…things.
He had a few slimes in his workshop, and he had Eldavin’s gift on display. Archmage Viltach noticed Trey’s look at the complex, three-element wand and grimaced.
“I’ve barely gotten started on reverse-engineering how he made that. A cunning Archmage, that Eldavin. I don’t think it’s a practical wand. I rather feel like an apprentice being handed a test piece—you know, like blacksmith puzzles? An odd feeling at my age. But we can discuss that later. Do you drink? You’re a bit young by some standards…but I won’t tell if you won’t.”
He winked, and Trey tried to return it. Viltach was…kind. It made what was about to happen feel worse.
“To Golems who won’t kill you, friendships, and magic.”
Viltach suggested. Trey smiled as he took a cup. He drank, and the Amentus wine was very sweet. Almost too sweet.
“Gah, that’s sugary. But I knew that…you know, Magnolia Reinhart loves sugar?”
Viltach took a sip and grimaced, then tried it again. Trey took his time in responding. He had to take a bite of some brie…chomp hard on the powdery pill Gazi had given him, wedged along his back molars, and then cough and take another sip of wine.
Foul as hell. But he wouldn’t go loopy, prone to answering questions, and then topple over.
If a truth spell existed, did a truth serum? Obviously. Trey tried to smile at Viltach, but it was so hard.
He didn’t feel bad about Nailihuaile. He didn’t like her. Elena? He felt awful about that in part, but he was also acting in relatively good faith…
No. Trey would wrestle with that too, but this was direct. This was looking Viltach in the eye as the Archmage smiled at him and…Trey put down his cup as Viltach took another sip and put it aside, shuddering.
“Maybe we need to cut it with water or something.”
“We don’t have to have too much. A sip’s enough. How are you, Archmage? It’s been a strange few days, hasn’t it?”
Viltach agreed. The Archmage went for a pitcher of water and poured a cup. He grimaced as he swished the water in his mouth and gulped.
“It has. You visit Amerys, don’t you?”
Trey blinked at him. Viltach shrugged. He put the cup down and sighed.
“…I never let you see her. You asked and asked, but Eldavin was the Archmage for you, eh?”
The young man hesitated and ducked his head.
“I’m sorry, Archmage Viltach.”
The man spoke a bit sharply.
“It’s Viltach. We are friendly enough to say that, Troy.”
He relented as he looked up when he saw the young man’s expression.
“I was being careful. I know you went with Eldavin—who wouldn’t? Honestly, Troy…Amerys is just dangerous. I was being cautious—and we still are. But you and I make our choices and we can’t go back. So let’s not speak of that. Not yet. How are your studies going?”
“Good…I don’t quite like barrier spells, though. They give me a headache.”
“Keeping it up? I understand. You get nosebleeds. What spell did you learn first?”
“[Light Barrier].”
“Naturally, naturally. Er, you do know you can sneeze on that spell hard enough and break it? Well, that is what that amulet is for. How did you get that?”
“Archmage Nailihuaile gave it to me.”
Viltach’s brows shot up.
“So that’s why she…ah, we do have more to talk about. Do you have long?”
Trey checked the timepiece set on one of Viltach’s tables. He looked out the window at the fading light.
“I have a bit, Archmage.”
 
——
 
Calac Crusland met Tov and Goelv in his rooms. They were waiting for Emirea and Trey.
“You’re early. He won’t be here for another hour.”
“I cannot stay in my rooms. I am nervous. Th—where is Gazi Pathseeker?”
Goelv whispered after the door was closed. Calac met his gaze briefly, and Tov settled with his back to the wall, watching the door.
“In her place.”
“She won’t be with us?”
“She’ll meet us at the Creler-mural. She has to go undetected.”
“Hm. Right. So…we’re doing this.”
Calac nodded. He looked at Goelv and Tov, and took a breath.
“You’re both in. I never asked you why. Was Troy that convincing?”
The two young men looked at him. Goelv half shook his head.
“Troy? He is a friend, but…that is Gazi Pathseeker. She knows more about magic and our people—even as a half-Gazer—she’s Gazi Pathseeker.”
He said it as if it said everything, and it did. Tov was different. He just stared at Calac.
“She serves the King of Destruction. A living legend. I…”
He hesitated. The Drowned Man rubbed at his slug half.
“Greatness. Greatness lies in that, and I’d be part of a legend. I could say I helped free Amerys. And I will be rewarded, won’t I?”
Calac Crusland nodded. He opened and closed his hands. He had seen the news about the siege of Reim this morning. The speculation.
One more hour, and they’ll know Amerys has returned. One more hour and the King of Destruction can threaten them with her wrath. She might even reach Chandrar if she can teleport—
“You have my vow as a Crusland.”
Tov just nodded, then frowned.
“Who is he?”
“Who? Crusland? My father is—”
“No. Who is Troy? Why does the King of Destruction trust him so much he sent him? You, I understand. But who is…he?”
The Drowned Man frowned, looking at Calac and then at Goelv. He was surprised by Calac’s smile.
“That would take too long to explain. You can ask him yourself.”
Tov gestured at the window.
“We’ve over an hour left.”
“It would still take too long.”
Still, since they were here, Calac began to explain. He waited for Emirea and Trey, checking the sinking sun.
The others. Were they in position?
 
——
 
“Twenty-eight, twenty-nine, thirty…thirty-one…”
Elena was counting the Earthers preparing for their breakout. She didn’t see Troy, but he had told her he’d catch up.
“George? You’re coming?”
She stopped one of the young men entering. The Earther grinned at her, shamefaced.
“I wasn’t sure, but I talked it over and everyone’s coming. Saif, Eun—we’re packed and ready.”
“Does anyone suspect anything? Sidney?”
The little girl was clinging to Basil’s hand as he walked into the room. The [Smelter] was shaking.
“We’re all going. If you’re going.”
They were a group. George nodded at the door.
“I don’t think we were followed, but it’s hard to tell. Something’s…odd, tonight. You know those [Mages] were freaking out about the Golems yesterday?”
“Mhm? I heard they were being removed from key areas. It made my life harder. I was trying to sneak around and prepare a distraction.”
George glanced out the window.
“Us too. There’s a lot of ‘em in the corridors.”
Elena frowned.
“Wait…you made a distraction too?”
George shrugged.
“Well, we paid some [Mages] to help out. It’s just a prank. But it’s weird vibes out there, I’m telling you. Like…you know that funny Centaur guy?”
“Which one?”
“Him. The one who’s helping us?”
“Oh, Galei?”
George nodded. He glanced at the corridor again and licked his lips as he turned to face Elena. He grinned.
“It’s probably an illusion. But I swore I passed him four times on the way here.”
 
——
 
Could you…tell something was off? Gazi didn’t even have to look. She eyed the trotting Centaur. She couldn’t tell if he was an illusion or not, but she kept multiple hallways between her and each Galei.
They were made. Or perhaps it was the Earthers. The Gazer didn’t know, and, to an extent, she didn’t care.
She had factored failure into elements of her plan. What she didn’t like were all the Golems. That…made no sense.
But perhaps it was an element of Naili ordering them away from the key areas. After all—Gazi peeked towards the Creler-murals. She was nearly eight hallways removed and had chosen this vantage spot because these particular walls didn’t obstruct her main eye’s vision.
She could dimly, dimly sense the magical maze in the lounge area, but that wasn’t what Gazi was focused on. She counted.
Two. Two magical, artificial presences. Two Golem hearts.
She couldn’t see into that maze of course, not without being in it, but it was clear the other Gemstone Protectors were gone. Trey’d done the big thing. All he needed now was the key. Gazi was prepared to cause a distraction if need be since they had Goelv.
Multiple elements. She pulled the single-use [Message] scroll from her belt pouch. Slowly, slowly, Gazi moved down the hallway, watching for [Greater Invisibility], for more security from Ullsinoi. They were her opponents. But she was ready. She triggered the [Message] scroll.
They’d have a way out. Gazi moved a bit closer, and the huge eyelid of her main eye lowered slightly.
Wait. What was…?
 
——
 
“With Eldavin gone, we are in charge, still. Nominally. But we fight. You know, Nailihuaile pulled all the Golems but the original two out of the hallways, Troy? Countermanding Ullsinoi, Feor, and myself…but that is how it goes. We squabble.”
Viltach was noticeably…off. His voice wasn’t slurred so much as he was talkative, drowsy. Trey watched him with a pang in his heart as the Archmage fumbled for a seedless grape and popped it into his mouth.
“I don’t see Minizi. Is she coming?”
“She’s coming, Viltach. But tell me more about Amerys. You didn’t want me to see her?”
“Dangerous. She is a dangerous woman. She cannot be freed.”
Trey nodded. Viltach’s head was lolling.
“But she won’t be. Even if someone got to her, she’s all locked up. I saw that. The guards have a key to her mask…”
“Ah! It’s not the one to her shackles! Double—something. Protected. Who gives the key to the [Jailor] who stands right next to the cell? Seems…that always seemed silly in books, don’t you think?”
Viltach went to tap his nose, grinning at Trey. The young man was breathing hard, but he tried to keep as casual as possible as he sipped from his wine cup.
“Yes. Then there is a key somewhere else, isn’t there?”
“Exactly. The key…the key to Amerys’ shackles is in my possession.”
“Really?”
Viltach nodded, looking around as if they were being watched even here.
“Well, mine, Feor’s, and Nailihuaile’s. Silly damn stuff. None of us trusts the others, so we need three keys. That’s Wistram-logic for you. But only one of us can unlock it. So?”
He shrugged. Viltach unsteadily showed Trey a mithril key with a tiny gem on the handle. Trey’s eyes locked on it. Viltach put it into his bag of holding and patted it slowly.
“…I keep it on me. Feor probably hides his, and Naili too, but there is a scenario where we let Amerys go. If the King of Destruction started winning—one of us would probably slip in, cut her a deal, and let her go. It hasn’t come to that. He’s on the ropes, don’t you see?”
“I do.”
Viltach muttered, head lolling down.
