Trey scratched at his head. He spoke, too-casually. Too calmly. But that was why Elena believed they had a shot. He had confidence. He had a plan.
“If I were a [Mage], I’d have to do something complicated. Eldavin told me ‘first detect, then dispel’. You’d make some kind of sensor-net—that’s how I think of it. You make sure there’s nothing on you, then the air around you, then you make a kind of huge net if you’re checking an area. And then you look for invisible, hanging spells like distant hexes. They can be a mile up. And once you’ve found them all—you hope you’ve found them all—you can figure out how to get rid of them or trick them.”
“Dead gods. That sounds like a nightmare. Hacking and counter-hacking.”
Elena muttered. Trey gave her a rueful grin.
“I think only Eldavin and a few others can actually do that. He teaches me how it’s done properly—I bet it’s not even that sophisticated, what’s done to us. But I can’t find or counter them.”
“So…?”
Trey scratched at his chin, unconcerned.
“So we’ll get someone else to take care of it.”
The [Beautician] waited. Trey didn’t elaborate. She took a surprised breath.
“You are serious.”
“I am.”
He met her eyes, watching her almost as carefully as she was inspecting him. Elena grinned.
“I can tell. You look like her when you have a plan. She clams up too.”
“Who?”
“Cara.”
Trey blinked in surprise. Elena walked around the room and went to a cupboard. She checked the contents, looked back at him.
“I haven’t exactly been slouching, you know. I’m ready. We’ll see how many people are in. Some won’t be. We’ll have to swear the others to secrecy.”
What will you do if they tell the [Mages] the rest of us are going? Her eyes asked Trey, but she didn’t quite say it out loud. She knew he had to be thinking of that if he had a real plan, so she assumed Trey had a counter.
What Trey couldn’t tell her, what weighed on his conscience, was his reply.
I’m sorry, Elena. I’m counting on it.
 
——
 
“Yo, someone tried to get in. Not one of us.”
The Earthers’ secret room was crowded. Packed. Every single one of them was here. When Elena called, they came. They knew something was up.
Elena looked around sharply as she tried to keep order.
“How do you know?”
“Scorch marks. Someone got zapped by Aaron’s security. It actually works.”
A hand pointed at the entrance. Trey’s hair rose slightly. Elena gave him a quick glance and murmured.
“Maybe someone just saw one of us going in.”
“What’s this about, anyways? Someone said there’s a big plan?”
Eun was sitting with Sang-min. It was interesting; many of the Earthers kept together. With people from or close to their countries, if they were minorities, but they also had their friends, who sat next to them.
And enemies. And people who didn’t get along at all, like Saif and Sang-min. Or Erik and Haley, [Actor] and [Squire], for reasons which Trey didn’t know at all.
He didn’t know them well. He hadn’t made close friends with any and only knew Elena from their conversations. Perhaps it was self-defense. Trey felt like he’d known from the start he wouldn’t stay with them.
And this…he felt too calm. Was it the [Plotter] in him taking over? Or just the fact that when he spoke, when they shouted and asked questions and argued—
He wasn’t invested?
“Escape? Are you crazy? Do you know what’s out there? There are people hacking each other to bits!”
Caroline exclaimed. She looked at him as if horns were growing out of his head. Basil nodded, sheerly uncomprehending, but Trey barely focused on him. He was counting.
There were plenty of voices. Elena shouted.
“Let Troy explain. Shut up. This isn’t a game. Shut up—”
“This is a democracy!”
“Shut the hell up, George.”
Trey waited for silence. When he spoke, it wasn’t to Caroline, or George, or Basil, but to the people who were watching him and taking this seriously, not grinning like children.
Duha, Shun, Sang-min, Justin, Lamont, a young man he didn’t recognize fingering a cross, Elena…
He looked past them at Aaron Vanwell and saw the disturbed look on the [Magictech Engineer]’s face. Not him, then.
“I can’t guarantee where we’ll go. But anyone who wants to go—there will be a place and a time. Tomorrow.”
“Tomorrow?”
Elena recoiled. He hadn’t told her that. The others just stared at Trey.
“Wait. You’re serious?”
Leon spoke into the silence. There were laughs, but Trey just kept meeting the eyes of the people who were listening.
“Absolutely. The reason why I didn’t tell anyone is because…it has to be fast. It has to be now, before anyone chickens out.”
“Before anyone spills the beans.”
“I hate your American expressions.”
“Who’s going to tell? Are you going to go? This is crazy. Who’s taking us?”
“I can’t say. If you’re in, you’ll know more. If not? Just don’t tell anyone.”
And then everyone had to know more details, which Trey refused to tell them. Some of them got in his face, but he held his ground. An angry guy or girl was not exactly the King of Destruction shouting at you.
“I can’t tell you where we’re going or how. I can only tell you—I’m leaving. I have to. No matter if it’s uncertain or risky. Don’t volunteer unless you’re certain. But if we do leave—we might be able to go anywhere in the world. Then we’ll be on our own. You can go your way alone or find others. That’s the deal.”
That was the promise. Trey hoped Doroumata would keep it. Elena rose, and everyone turned to her, listening. The [Beautician] scanned the room, and when she nodded, it was tiredly.
“I’m going. I hope some of you will go with me. I’ve been trying to get everyone to go…but that was never going to happen. I realized that, but Troy convinced me. Listen. I’m going to go, and if you don’t want to, that’s fine. But if there’s any loyalty, any friendship—don’t tell anyone we’re going. If I get out, I’ll take anyone who wants to go with me to Terandria.”
“Why there?”
Elena looked around. She hesitated, her eyes scanning the room, and she bit her tongue, thinking hard.
“Because I know Cara, the Singer of Terandria. And she…is helping more of us. That’s all I’ll say. I came here to see what Wistram was like for her. Some of you know that. If we can get to her, we’ll be freer and happier than Wistram. Maybe not safer, but that’s what I’m doing.”
Uproar. Trey silently looked at Elena. Someone else on a mission. Now, even the people who had every reason to stay in Wistram were looking uncertain, like Sidney. Elena was the mother, in a way, who helped take care of them. Some of the Earthers didn’t want Elena to go, but she was adamant.
“I want to help Cara. I don’t like Wistram. You’ve all seen what Eldavin did, haven’t you? He’s the best Archmage of the lot. I am not staying if there’s a chance of going and…that’s all I have to say about that.”
“You know the Singer of Terandria? What’s she like? Can we trust her?”
Caroline demanded eagerly. She’d flipped so fast once she heard that, Trey had whiplash. Elena smiled.
“She’s amazing. She has high levels. She’s fought real monsters. Believe me—if we get her, we’ll be as safe as she can make us. We can trust her!”
“No. You can’t.”
Someone interrupted Elena, and it was the last person Trey expected. He was watching Aaron, who was the one person Trey was almost sure wouldn’t leave. He had expected Aaron to say something and sway the others, but he just sat there.
Wrestling with himself, from the look of it. Both Aaron and Trey looked over and saw a young man rise to his feet.
Leon. He looked bewildered as he turned to Trey and Elena.
“Why do you want to leave? Wistram’s better than anywhere, and trust me, I’ve seen Pallass.”
“We know, Leon. You tell us. You’ve seen the world. I haven’t. I landed in one city and Wistram grabbed me. I want to go. Don’t squeal on the rest of us.”
A sharp voice from Randolph, sitting far from him. Leon glared, but then raised his hands.
“I know it sounds great. But you can’t trust the Singer of Terandria.”
“And why not? You’ve never met her. I know you haven’t, even if you’ve met all the other Earthers you claim to.”
Elena gave Leon a dark glare. The young man just looked at her.
“You can’t trust her. I mean—she might be great. Maybe she really does know a safe place, and she’s high-level. It doesn’t matter. It’s not safe because she’ll die. We all will. I thought I was safe. I…I knew someone who was high-level. The highest-leveled Earther in the entire world. I stayed at her inn.”
Everyone went silent. Trey turned back to Leon as the young man sat there. His detractors and hecklers and people who didn’t like him raised their voices…and hesitated.
Because Leon stood there, and suddenly he seemed lost. He gazed about, and something genuine was in his gaze.
“Her name was Erin. Erin Solstice. She was amazing. She did insane things—she had friends—even the Antinium. She fought monsters, and I knew I’d never be able to measure up to her, or the others. That wasn’t why I left. I could have made something of myself. Everyone did. I left because Erin was all that. She did everything right, and she was tough, and…they shot her. Some Drakes just ambushed her, and shot her dead. Just like our world. She was the best of us, and she’s dead and never coming back.”
He looked around, hands trembling as they clenched. He was shaking.
The room grew silent. Instantly, quiet. The excited, argumentative mood turned into uncertainty at once.
Someone began crying. Sidney. It was too close. Too real. Elena looked at Leon, searching for a rebuttal. But she didn’t have one.
It could happen. She had been there. She had seen it. She looked at Trey, but he was not able to say anything to Leon as well. The young man continued.
“I came to Wistram because I didn’t want to die. You either get lucky and you go somewhere safe and play football like Joseph—or you die. I came to Wistram, but I wasn’t a chosen one here either. Flynn has super-armor. I don’t. I’m not going out there again to get killed.”
Elena stirred. Her eyes sparked, and her sympathy turned to anger for a moment. She pointed at Leon.
“You don’t get chosen. You stand up. That’s what Cara did.”
“Then they put a target on your chest.”
He wasn’t right, but he certainly wasn’t entirely wrong either. The Earthers were split once more. And as if by magic, every eye turned to one person who’d been conspicuously quiet.
“What do you think, Aaron? You’re the person who helped find us all. You’re…the first.”
Aaron Vanwell, Blackmage, looked around as if he were waking up from a dream. He stood, slowly, and his dreadlocks moved as he turned from face to face. He seemed…odd.
Like he was fighting with himself. The words came slowly from his mouth, as Aaron looked at Trey. As if he saw right through him. Trey waited, and everyone looked at Aaron. First, despite all that had happened.
Yet what Aaron said surprised Trey. The [Magitech Engineer] took a deep breath and forced the words out.
“I think…I think we can’t tell what will happen if you leave the academy. It will be dangerous. It’s bad out there. Leon’s right.”
Elena opened her mouth, and his eyes slid sideways to meet hers. Aaron smiled.
“…But Elena’s also right. Troy’s given you all this chance. I think that you should all ask yourselves what you want to do. And go if you’re going. You might never get another chance.”
He looked around and sat down heavily. As if saying that had taken some great effort. Trey watched Aaron, confused.
Why did he smile? He had said nothing…but he looked up at Trey and smiled and nodded. So Trey bowed back.
He would never know it, but that was Aaron Vanwell’s proudest moment. His finest victory.
After that, it was simple. Trey told them when and where and let them argue. Elena wanted to speak with him; they all did.
“Take the camera with you.”
“You don’t want it?”
“I know what it says. Tell everyone you meet.”
“We could show it to the world. We have scrying spells. The television—Eldavin?”
Trey shook his head. He pointed at the camera in Elena’s hands.
“They all know about A’ctelios Salash. No one has done anything yet. It will fall to us. I will see you tomorrow, Elena. I have to get ready.”
She nodded. The [Beautician] stared at Troy for a long time, and he wondered if she saw right through him. But all she did was nod slowly.
“Good luck. I hope this works. I trust you, Troy.”
He looked at her and hadn’t the courage to reply. So Trey just nodded and walked off. Terrible.
He was betraying trust.
 
——
 
Gazi had gold and gems. She had artifacts for the breakout. She had given some to Trey to bribe Tov; most of her gold had gone to Calac, who was on another mission.
However, gold was worth less in Wistram. To move pieces into position…Trey found someone who could help him. The issue was Golems.
Golems, powerful Golems. It was and always had been, even with Cognita gone. Even so, the young man felt he was at the peak of danger as he fidgeted in front of the door.
A silent Dullahan woman stood next to him, her head held in her hands, inspecting him.
Beatrice. She never smiled. Nor did the woman who opened the door, the Archmage, make Trey any more comfortable. Nailihuaile was short—for one of the Naga—but the Star Lamia glowed, with strange radiance coming off her scales.
“Troy! Come in! Beatrice said you wanted to see me? Or that you had something to offer me?”
The young man started.
“I—yes, Archmage. I was hoping for a trade. That is—a favor? Something like that.”
“Interesting. Well, come in!”
Nailihuaile’s rooms were nothing at all like Viltach’s. Eldavin’s were still ostensibly guest rooms, albeit with many gifts and his projects, but the two Archmages who had time to ensconce themselves in Wistram had configured their rooms to their personality.
What Nailihuaile liked, it seemed, was magic. Visible magic, like the glowing crystals set into pedestals. A circle of magic drawn in the center of her room as visitors entered.
Viltach was a craftsman, but he and Nailihuaile both enchanted. The difference was that one’s room had practical tools in the workshop.
Nailihuaile’s living room looked like a great [Enchanter]’s domain. Books were strewn about, opened to certain pages, and she sat Trey down just past that, around an untidy set of what were more like bean bags than anything else.
