“On the ropes. On the robes. Strange expressions your Earthers come up with. The King of Destruction will die soon, and all will be well. You see that, don’t you? That nightmarish man who slaughters people. Trey. You know…I’ll be glad when that threat is removed. Wistram should be peaceful. Eldavin—Eldavin’s a dangerous man. A genius, but I was sick of war before I even saw one. Life should be peaceful. That’s why I like Terandria. But for Ailendamus, war does not destroy nations. It—it’s stable, you understand?”
Trey looked at Viltach sympathetically. His fingers twitched towards the wine bottle, then he relaxed.
“I understand, Archmage. I would like that too.”
Viltach was shaking his head like a dog, but it was lessening.
“People think I favor Terandria over other continents. I do. Because I’ve always thought it was better. Better than Baleros, filled with bloodshed! Better than Chandrar with horrors—like A’ctelios Salash.”
The young man froze in his seat as Viltach looked up.
“Have you heard of that nightmarish place?”
“I have…I have.”
Viltach shuddered.
“They call it their Shield Kingdom. Izril? Izril is a little better, but the Antinium have infested it, and the Drakes can be so petty…look at Zelkyr. Look at the poor Gnolls. No, Terandria. That’s where my children are.”
“You have children, Archmage Viltach?”
The Archmage of Terandria nodded. He stared down at the table and sighed hard.
“I do. I keep it a great secret…because Wistram is so political. I have a family. I…I visit them as often as I can. I spend months in Terandria, when events like Earthers aren’t happening. I wish my children liked me. Some do. Some…I have made mistakes. But Wistram is also my home.”
“Can’t you put the two together?”
Viltach shook his head.
“Some of my children have no talent for magic.”
“Oh.”
The Archmage laughed.
“From me! And I’m…Archmage Viltach. Can you imagine what Naili would do, that serpent? That—they wouldn’t be happy. So I kept the two divorced. Which led to a divorce.”
His face fell.
“Which led to them hating me.”
“I’m sorry, Viltach.”
Trey looked at the man. The Archmage gave him the most rueful, melancholy of grins. He filled his cup with wine and the other with water and sipped from both.
“You know, Trey. I liked you. I thought of you like a second son—no, that’s an exaggeration. I thought of you like a young man and treated you like a son.”
“Thank you, Viltach.”
Trey’s head lowered further with the weight of his guilt. Viltach closed his eyes. His breathing was quieter now, and he slumped backwards.
“I truly did like you. Not just for magic. Nor just for any of that. Just you.”
“I’m sorry.”
The man sat back, head staring at the ceiling. His hand moved towards the wine bottle, and he murmured under his breath.
“Would you like another…drink? I have water too. The wine’s strong.”
“I’m fine, Archmage.”
Viltach nodded as he closed his eyes. Trey glanced out the window and then half-rose, looking towards the man’s bag of holding. Viltach’s breath was a whisper.
“You don’t want any water? I put the antidote in the water. You must have taken it already.”
Trey’s eyes snapped open. He recoiled—and Archmage Viltach sat up. Suddenly, the drunken, comatose Archmage looked at him.
“I was truly hoping you wouldn’t, Trey. But the King of Destruction has a hold on you. Doesn’t he?”
Trey froze, and then he realized—for the last little bit—he hadn’t noticed because it was his name, and he was used to alias and name both. But—
Viltach had been saying ‘Trey’, not ‘Troy’.
The [Sand Mage] had put his staff at the door, but he had the wand Viltach had given him. It rose from its little holster at his side, and Viltach pointed a finger.
“Activate!”
Something flashed, and Trey locked up. The Archmage stood, looking…immeasurably sad. Sad, disappointed, yet bitterly triumphant. He gestured.
“[Rune of Paralysis]. I thought you might notice, but I wrote it into the wood of the chair. Eldavin may have taught you well, but he only gave you a month. And you were too nervous.”
Trey was locked up. He could move his face, but nothing else. He stared at Viltach.
“How did you know?”
The Archmage of Terandria rubbed at his face, his goatee, wearily. He shook his head.
“Trey. I knew from the start.”
The young man watched him and the Archmage shook his head.
“You’ve been in the company of the King of Destruction. You might have anti-[Appraisal] wards and you’re clever—I don’t know who you’re working with, but I can guess from your friends. Did you really think I wouldn’t know? Trey Atwood. You went to A’ctelios Salash, you poor boy. And he has your sister.”
Viltach rested his hands on the table, looking at Trey. The young man spoke.
“I…she’s a prisoner. You can’t keep Amerys forever.”
“Nor will we. Nor you, Trey. Just until that man dies. I wish you had trusted me enough. I truly do.”
That seemed to be what hurt Viltach most of all. He drew the key from his bag of holding and held it out to Trey. The young man looked at it—and Viltach carelessly tossed it onto the table.
“—But I cannot let you free Amerys. Naili you duped. You even fooled Eldavin—or at least, he’s not here. Feor? Feor underestimates you all. But I do not. Ullsinoi is on patrol. And while it’s true four Golems were pulled off their sentry duty, I took care of that. Amerys is guarded by more than just her regular guards tonight.”
 
——
 
Gazi Pathseeker stared into the Mershi-lounge and realized they’d been made in all truth. She focused on the maze and saw a figure ghosting along the winding hallways.
The singing Golem. But not just that—she looked ahead and heard something that Trey and Calac had never seen when they had been scouting out the place.
Music. Laughter.
A lot of voices.
“Come on, everyone! Archmage Viltach has expressly opened the lounge tonight!”
Yolv and the other [Guards] sighed as a bevy of [Mages] strolled towards them. They glowered—the Naga especially, not because more people was unwelcome—
More because the all-Human crowd was. Libertarians, young and old, raiding the kegs, bringing food, and a lot of bodies.
After all—there was a taproom. Gazi stared grimly at an army of [Mages] and the Golem. Then she realized Trey was in trouble. Then she realized they were all in trouble as she heard the clip-clop of hooves behind her.
“Lady Pathseeker. You’re good at seeking. Less so at hiding. What now? Tag or hide-and-seek?”
She turned and saw four [Mages] including Galei facing her down the hallway. The Centaur smiled and calmly lit one of Palt’s signature cigars.
 
——
 
“He’s late. So’s Emirea.”
Calac checked the sun, and Goelv started.
“It’s only a few minutes past the sun going down the horizon. Maybe they’re delayed?”
“I don’t like it. This feels like a bad storm brewing.”
Tov stared at the door. Calac didn’t want to say it, but he thought the Drowned Man was right. Then…he heard a quiet knock.
They should have done a secret knock or something, but Calac was just relieved to hear someone knocking at all. Actually—why did you have a secret knock? He thrust the door open.
“There you a—”
“[Paralysis].”
A wand poked him on the chest, and he went over backwards. Calac’s mouth was open in shock, and Tov and Goelv froze as a figure slithered into the room.
The reason you had a secret knock was to let you know if it was a trap. Revivialist [Mages] followed the Star Lamia into the room, and Calac, staring at the ceiling, heard a plaintive cry.
“Don’t hurt them!”
A girl clung to Beatrice’s hand, staring at Calac in horror. The Archmage stunned the other two young men and then slithered back to pat Emirea on the head.
“We won’t. They’ve been very bad, but you were brave to come to me, Emirea. Now, where is Troy?”
She looked around, eyes meeting Calac’s. The young man stared up at her as his heart sank.
 
——
 
It was all going bad. Viltach looked at Trey sympathetically. He raised a finger to his forehead.
“Yes, I have him, Nailihuaile. You caught the others? Well done. I have been aware of the problem for over a month. And you? Today? Well, Ullsinoi can confirm my account. Yes, I thought that might make you happy.”
Component parts or not, squabbling [Mages] or not—the pieces were falling down. Trey Atwood sat there, as Viltach rose with a sigh.
“Ullsinoi’s run into someone. Her. No wonder you never backed out. But there’s four Archmages and an army of [Mages] between her and Amerys. So long as that rune is active, you won’t leave, and your friends are hostage too. I don’t take chances, Trey. I am sorry.”
“You…you could let us leave.”
Viltach looked at Trey blankly.
“I really couldn’t. It isn’t just that I oppose Flos, or that I fear what he’ll do. He’s dangerous, Trey. He has killed countless innocent people with his damned wars. Don’t you see what he does? I don’t take chances with him. And in case you’re wondering—I switched the key to Amerys’ lock. Nailihuaile and Feor can’t let her out. The key is hidden, and I won’t remember where it is until tomorrow.”
Trey’s mouth opened wide in horror.
“What?”
Viltach gave Trey an apologetic shrug.
“I read every book on breakouts I could find. Why bother letting you even open the lock? Her bindings are secure. I’m taking one last precaution too, incidentally.”
It was Viltach. He was the most dangerous Archmage. Not because he was as cruel as Nailihuaile. He was someone who made wands. Who made sure a plan, an object, was flawless.
Trey had made a plan. Viltach had made a plan. The Archmage, the thorough man, raised his wand to his throat and spoke.
His voice was on a delay—then Trey heard a reverberation through the room. Through…Wistram.
“I am Archmage Viltach of Wistram. Troy Atlas and Carn…Carn…”
He hesitated.
“Troy and Carn are agents of the King of Destruction, attempting to free Archmage Amerys. If you see either one, do not let them escape.”
He hesitated, lowered the wand, and Trey stared at him. Viltach shrugged.
“We’ll keep Gazi quiet. We don’t want a panic. I’ll return after I grab her. I’m sorry.”
He walked towards the door. He turned back just once when Trey spoke.
“Viltach. Do you know why I didn’t tell you everything? You, Eldavin? Anyone? It wasn’t because Flos threatened me or my sister is with him. Or Gazi.”
Viltach turned, curiosity winning over everything.
“Why, then?”
The young man met Viltach’s gaze. Bound, paralyzed, Trey still looked Viltach in the eye. There was nothing to gain by it. He closed his eyes, speaking as he used every Skill he could, straining every muscle using magic…he couldn’t move. So he looked at Viltach and told him, honestly.
“It was Wistram. You [Mages]…the academy. It is a beautiful place. Wonderful, magical. It could be so much better. But it isn’t. You think Wistram and Terandria are better than other continents? I have never been to Izril or Baleros or Terandria. But I look at Wistram and I see the same thing as Chandrar. You keep [Slaves]—you just call them something else. I liked you too.”
He looked at Viltach. The man stood there, very still, waiting, with a faint pain behind his eyes.
“But what?”
Trey smiled sadly.
“…You are a kind man, Archmage Viltach. Just not a good one.”
Viltach inhaled sharply. He looked at Trey, touched his chest, and rubbed it for a second.
“Well spoken.”
Then he opened the door and left. Trey was left alone, helpless. All except for one thing that Viltach had overlooked.
[Prepared Signal]. A little alarm was going off in someone’s head.
Not Gazi.
Not Calac.
After all, Trey was supposed to meet both of them. The alarm rang again and again, telling the person that things were going very bad. Even so…the little Lifesand Golem slowly raised her sword.
No one noticed her, at first. Alone, the Lifesand Golem was the only person not incapacitated or under attack. Elena and the Earthers were frozen in place, unsure of what to do. But the plan was moving. Parts of it, anyways.
The Golems in the hallways were prepared for something. Not Gazi, incidentally. Or Trey.
Archmage Feor sat in the banquet hall, counting Earthers. He was disappointed at how few remained, but Aaron Vanwell was there. The young man pretended nothing was wrong, but there was someone with the gumption to say what needed to be said.
“You are protecting them, young man. And I shall remember it.”
He turned to Leon as Aaron stared at the Archmage of half-Elves. Leon nodded, not meeting Aaron or the other Earthers’ glares—some already apprehended by the Golems.
“I know.”
The Wistram [Mages] and students were in uproar after Viltach’s announcement. Feor’s own skin was prickling unpleasantly at the thought. So that was what the King of Destruction’s last gambit was about.
But he was reassured by Naili and Viltach. They might fight, quarrel, and backstab, but when an outside threat came towards them, Wistram still pulled together. That was what Eldavin didn’t realize.
Wistram. Wistram, that Academy of [Mages]. The banquet hall was full with dinner diners and everyone was talking about the drama. Minizi tottered forwards clumsily, trying to stay unnoticed. She saw Feor…and was vaguely worried.
Trey was in trouble. Big Gazi was in trouble. But Minizi stuck to the plan. What came next would be different, but Trey Atwood did know one thing.
What did [Mages] fear? He had thought of it long and hard for the first part of the plan. Trey knew what wise men feared. He knew what [Sailors] feared. And [Mages]?
Minizi was beginning to get noticed. A few [Mages] frowned at her. Someone pointed.
“That Golem’s…odd. What’s up with…”
Then they noticed her sword. The [Mages] turned. A few backed away. Now Minizi was caught, but it was okay. She was clumsy, but she raised her sword.
A [Mage] stared blankly up at her as she found a random target. Well, not-so-random. Mage Rievan of the Libertarians was just about to head to the party—he’d pulled a Telim and raided an entire banquet table.
“What is wrong with this Golem? It’s got a sword—”
He hesitated. Then his eyes grew round as Minizi raised the sword. Feor’s head turned.
What did you see? Minizi saw the [Mage] staring at her, backing up, fumbling for a spell, but—shocked. Confused. He didn’t expect this, but it was the nightmare crawling in the back of his every thought when he looked at Cognita or Golems.
But it didn’t…happen. What did you see?
A Lifesand Golem? Minizi very much doubted it. What the students and [Mages] saw was probably one of the serving Golems, a ceramic-clad Golem. With a sword.
A Golem of Wistram has been destroyed.
