Not first-hand. Just from movies and stories.
However, it was also true that three people plus one Lifesand Golem was three. Or four, but no more than that. Against all of Wistram’s finest?
They needed an edge.
So Trey made a list, and Gazi checked it twice. She even recognized some names, and when she smiled—Trey knew they had a chance.
He had already made one plan with Calac for a distraction. Now? Trey expanded it. It was beyond risky, but he thought he had a shot. For one main reason.
He knew people, and he knew people who didn’t really like mainstream Wistram. Also, he knew a guy.
 
——
 
Tov was that guy. The Drowned Man gulped down a lot of water to keep his fish-half hydrated. He and Trey were standing on a balcony outside of Wistram. No scrying spells, no prying ears. They stared over at the surf and watched as a screaming student leapt off a higher balcony, trying to slow their descent. Both winced as they heard and saw the terrible bellyflop.
“If you want privacy?”
“Yep. Privacy. Absolute secrecy.”
Tov glanced at Trey, as serious as could be. The Drowned Man wasn’t sociable—mainly because he was a Drowned Man. He kept a lot of customs of the sea, and he had few friends. Trey was one of them, so he mulled Trey’s question over for a long time before sighing and replying.
“Ask her to swear by hull and ward. No…ask her to swear by Tillaevae’s hull and ward for privacy, deal or not. Make sure she swears not to tell.”
“What’s Tillaevae?”
“A ship. Not her ship, but one of the great ships of the deep. As close as we have to a city. She probably maintains the wards herself. If one of us swears by that and breaks the oath—”
Tov shook his head with a shudder.
“She wouldn’t break it.”
Trey nodded.
“Thanks, Tov.”
The Drowned Man looked at Trey, seriously.
“Don’t thank me. I’m warning you again. Don’t talk to her. Depth Magus Doroumata is not…she’s as to an Archmage to us as yours are to landfolk, understand? I don’t know why she’s stayed around, but don’t bother her. Seriously, Troy.”
He caught Trey’s arm, and his touch was sticky, but Trey just met Tov’s eyes calmly.
“I’ll be careful, but I need to speak to her. How much do I owe you?”
It was a big, big secret. Not one of Wistram’s, so Tov turned away, embarrassed.
“Pay me in gold or something. Or a big secret of your own.”
He stared at the crashing waves moodily for a moment—until he heard the clink and glanced back to see Trey counting gold pieces into a pouch. A lot of gold pieces. Tov’s eyes widened, and Trey realized he was never going to fit all of them in the bag. So he pulled out a carefully wrapped item so as not to break it and showed Tov a glowing opal.
“Will this settle it?”
The young man looked at Trey.
“What are you…yes, salt me! You don’t have to pay me—how did you get that?”
“I’ve got a few big secrets of my own. And I want to square up, Tov. Being Eldavin’s apprentice has some perks.”
Trey handed the young man the opal and gold. He walked off, leaving Tov staring at his back.
 
——
 
Depth Mage Doroumata would have taken the goth world by storm if only she had met them. She dressed in abyssal black, as did her daughters. Identical daughters. Descendants of a Starfish Drowned Woman.
Also, someone who had gone toe-to-toe with Eldavin. One of the great [Mages] of the sea.
Yet she had stuck around for far longer than her entry into Wistram, and there was only one reason why that Trey could see.
“Earthers. Since we swear to keep all secret…tell me. You are what they call Earthers, aren’t you? A boy from another world?”
Doroumata spoke…no, Trey saw the dark veil behind one of the daughters flanking her move. They spoke for her.
It was eerie, but Trey kept his back straight and his hands folded behind him.
“Yes, Depth Magus.”
She sighed.
“Wistram has achieved the land’s bounty. It explains more, though I cannot speak to any of you easily. Even this might have eyes…but only eyes on my door, not ears for what lies within.”
She gestured delicately at her guest rooms. Trey nodded again.
“…What does it explain, Depth Magus?”
The woman hesitated, perhaps having revealed too much herself. Trey saw her veil move, and one huge, dark eye regarded him. He almost shuddered until he realized it was…pity.
“Death. The Drowned Cities. The ships. We found them—they triggered the alarms. But we could not account for a single one. In a city? Perhaps, though it is beyond unlikely as an accident. But on a ship? Each strand of rope, crew, and rat is counted and marked. So why. Why did we find dead children in the deeps?”
Trey Atwood went cold. He stared at Doroumata, and the Depth Mage sat back.
“You found…?”
“Too far down for us to find much. Yes. It is one of the reasons why we came. To see if Demons or something were doing this. It must end. It will end; Grand Magus Eldavin has seen to it.”
“How? He did? What did he do?”
The [Depth Mage]’s daughters shifted, three of them, but she raised a hand, and they subsided. Doroumata answered for Trey.
“We will manipulate the barriers. Catch them as they come. It is not easy, but he knows the deep wards. A great man. He has sailed below the watery sky.”
Trey nodded carefully. He felt…he pushed the emotions down. He’d tell Gazi later. He met Doroumata’s eyes.
“So you don’t have any Earthers.”
“No. Which makes your proposal all the more curious. Tell me…how many would it be?”
“I don’t know exac—”
“How many?”
Three voices whispered it. Doroumata stared a hole into Trey’s soul, and he flinched.
“Truth and lies are simple spells, but I can use them anyways. You know. How many?”
“…Maybe as many as thirty.”
Five daughters shifted. Doroumata never blinked that he could see behind her veil.
“And you would all want to voyage in the deep? No. No, I can see a lie without magic.”
“Not a lie, Depth Magus.”
“Really? Then how would you reconcile our desires and yours? I have been watching you children. Landfolk all. Maybe one boy loves the sea, but even he has never sailed beneath the waves. I can be cruel and ruthless, but I am not a fool. I do not take fish out of water and expect them to breathe unless I find they have lungs. So above, beneath. Even if I…acted…they would be like here. And Wistram’s cage chafes. Which is why you are here.”
Well-reasoned. She was far more cunning than many [Mages] and…Trey thought…she also thought of the Earthers. He was sweating, but he hadn’t come this far and slipped notes beneath her door to screw up this audience.
Honestly, the ‘notes beneath the door’ thing was a bit embarrassing. The third time Calac had sent her covert messages, one of Doroumata’s daughters had opened the door to tell him to knock it off.
Yet Trey had something Doroumata didn’t, and that was perspective. He spread his hands.
“Depth Magus. Shadeward.”
She started, and one of the daughters smiled at the proper address.
“It’s true that most of us would be unhappy in places that don’t suit us. We aren’t happy here—not all of us.”
The truth. Stick to the truth when you lie around [Mages]. Trey went on earnestly.
“…But it seems to me the Drowned Folk have more of what we might want than anyone else. Freedom. Freedom to move, and travel. Drowned People don’t stay in one place long—but you have for months.”
“True. What is your point? Ahh. Do you mean…?”
Trey bowed to her deeply and pointed to something on the far walls. It was a map. A map of the known world—but not of the five continents above. It was a map of the undersea, and there were places never charted.
“Depth Magus. It might be that we’d be willing to…compromise. Compromise, with a people who are willing to make deals rather than have it one way. We want to see the world, and seeing the world means we could walk about on land. Or…what if you did something us landfolk would like?”
“Hm. Elaborate?”
She leaned forward, and Trey thought of Fetohep.
“Paradise. A safe, nice place where we could be and live. You could visit us. Depth Mage. Do you need more than one or three? If nothing else—do the Drowned Folk keep [Slaves]?”
Her eyes glittered. A daughter of hers spoke.
“[Slaves] make poor crew. Not all ships trade with Roshal. On another deck, that would be a deadly insult, Troy Atlas.”
“Silence.”
Trey bowed to the daughter and mother.
“I hoped the answer was no. I thought you were more righteous than that and I’m glad. I just ask because—if nothing else, Depth Magus. You could simply deliver us to a port of choice. Let us go free.”
“I would make a terrible enemy of Wistram. Wistram, which is mighty and growing stronger, and makes armor to fly above land and sea.”
The old woman said that, but she sounded so…calm. Deliberately calm. Trey licked his lips.
“That’s true, Shadeward Doroumata. But Wistram is political. You might make an enemy of some, but you get nothing but scorn from the academy, save for [Mages] who know your worth, like Archmage Eldavin.”
That he knew was true. Doroumata moved slightly, and Trey went on.
“Besides. You might gain a great ally of Earth.”
He watched her carefully and saw not a movement or trace of her face beyond that dark veil. But he heard a smile in her reply.
 
——
 
It was always the things you didn’t expect.
 
[Plotter class obtained!]
[Plotter Level 3!]
[Skill – Prepared Signal obtained!]
[Skill – Straight Face obtained!]
 
“I don’t want a [Plotter] class! That makes me sound terrible! Or like I’m a gardener!”
Gazi Pathseeker just smiled. She patted Minizi’s head and looked at Trey. She threw out a hand and two fingers opened.
Scissors. Trey closed his eyes. After a beat, Calac, who was wearing a blindfold with his back turned to the two, started.
“Uh—uh—paper! No, knife!”
“Scissors, Calac. I signaled you twice!”
The young man tugged up the blindfold, embarrassed.
“I know. I just forgot which one was which. I felt it twice! It’s like—what is that sound?”
“A beep.”
Trey had copied the electronic sound for his [Prepared Signal] Skill. He could bind it to exactly one person. Very limited use, and Gazi told him there was a limit to range…but undetectable, practically. At least from a magical angle.
Calac shook his head.
“It sounds strange. But it does work, Lady Pathseeker. I’ll remember, um, how many times.”
The Gazer was pleased.
“Simple is best. We will use it instead of speaking stones or other cues. With time, we can use one Skill to do far more. Even a simple signal can be used to create larger messages.”
“Like morse code.”
Gazi blinked at Trey, then nodded with pleasure when he explained what that was. Trey resigned himself to the class. He’d seriously considered turning it down, but he needed every edge he could get.
Meanwhile, Gazi was correcting their plan. Starting with the most egregious and stupid of their mistakes they’d made in their first botched attempt. She held up the lock that Trey could unlock so easily with Lifesand.
“Magical locks do not open with tumblers, Trey. Or if they do, they require magical signatures. There are ways to open such locks with keys [Rogues] use—not this.”
His heart sank. Calac cursed, and Gazi saw both look at each other.
“But then how do we open the door and Amerys’ lock?”
The Gazer stared meaningfully at Trey.
“I could most likely cut her bindings loose and remove her from the magical cell at least. She might free herself. But it would be important to find the key to Amerys’ lock. So. You may wish to talk to Archmage Viltach.”
Trey scrubbed at his face. He didn’t want to do that.
“How am I supposed to ask him covertly?”
Gazi shrugged.
“I do not know. But we also need the Golems removed, even with a distraction.”
“What about our escape route? Lady Pathseeker, it will be a race to the exit if we are discovered, and with Ullsinoi, we might well be. Do you have a ship? A [Greater Teleport] scroll?”
Calac turned to Gazi, and the half-Gazer shook her head.
“Not that grand magic—but I do have a way to leave Wistram. Believe me—that is not the issue. The Golems are.”
She frowned, and Trey frowned as well. He had a very…very risky idea, but he turned back to the others.
“Even if we remove the Golems, there are all those guards, and Mena went with Eldavin to Terandria. How do we drug them now?”
“We have to find someone else who delivers them food. Threaten them. Convince them to work for us. It is not difficult. I will do that myself. Or you could deliver them snacks.”
“There’s no guarantee they’ll all eat it at once, Gazi. And they’re not stupid. If one falls over…they have to be hungry.”
Gazi smiled, and Trey looked at her, growing slightly pale at the suggestion. Calac cleared his throat. He’d been working on his end of the plan, as well as surveilling the corridors. He gave Trey an anguished look the young man didn’t understand at first.
“I…think I have a solution to that, Trey. I don’t like it. But it might…I know someone who’s been asked to deliver food. She does it every few days and they trust her. But…it’s someone we know.”
“Who?”
Trey didn’t understand his hesitation until Calac spoke.
“Emirea.”
Gazi saw Trey bite his lip, hard. She raised her brows.
“What is the issue? I can threaten her…”
“She’s a little girl, Gazi.”
The Gazer blinked once at Trey. Minizi copied Gazi as the half-Gazer scratched her head calmly.
“So?”
Calac’s face was one gigantic wince as he looked at Trey. The [Sand Mage] and [Plotter] imagined Gazi blackmailing poor Emirea…his head slowly rose.
“Maybe we go the other way. Maybe…Calac. Gazi. You were talking about how Ullsinoi might have hidden [Mages] in the maze too. Even if I get rid of the Golems with this next stunt, we might be relying on you, right?”
Gazi nodded with a frown. They couldn’t drug or distract the people they didn’t know were there or not, and that was Ullsinoi’s biggest obstacle. Trey licked his lips.
“What if we didn’t have to rely just on you?”
“Do you know someone who can dodge traps? Or are we getting another security amulet? Because I’m not wearing it. We’ll give it to Minizi again.”
Calac frowned at Trey. The little Lifesand Golem emphatically shook her head. Trey did likewise. He glanced at Gazi.
“No…Gazi. You can see through the traps, right? And the maze? How…do you think someone else of your species might be able to do the same?”
She blinked one huge eye at him in surprise for the first time.
 
——
 
One Day Ago.
 
Reim was under siege. It was all over the news—along with Eldavin’s war on Ailendamus. Actually, it was only part of the news, and that was amazing to Trey.
