Today.
They saw a vision of the future. Every army said it, and every nation thought it. When [Historians] dipped their quills in ink to write of the past, glorified or sardonically, they still drew a line between then and the present.
No matter how good your armies were, how inspiring your leaders—that was then. We are the armies of the modern era, who shall not be surpassed. We have built upon the bones of the fallen and learned all their mistakes.
Or rather, that was what Earth’s soldiers and warriors and thinkers believed. Unlike other worlds, they had never gone back. Realized they had lost an arms race against their ancient ancestors.
This was because Earth had experienced the fall of a civilization, like Rome. It had not seen the firmament break, gone through true armageddon where the survivors searched for pieces and found only dust. The Humans currently on top of Earth had suffered no giant cataclysm.
Yet.
However, even in this world, armies believed they were the greatest of their time. That they had, if not the greatest soldiers ever conceived, something. Superlative [Archers]. Tactics or discipline beyond others.
What a strange feeling it must be. For both children of Earth and [Soldiers] to look up and realize they were now the past.
They flew through the sky like mocking bullseyes. Armor painted so vividly, even beautifully, in monochrome colors that they seemed to call out for targets. Yet armored—enchanted, beyond the means of most to even hit. Only an enchanted arrow from a skilled archer could even bother them.
Slings? Pikes? Swords and armor? [Knights] riding around on horseback looked up at fire from the skies. Soldiers of the future, flying in suits of powerful armor.
The nightmare of two worlds, the future, flying overhead of the past with contempt for all who had come this far. Chasing down the [Knights] who looked up in their plate armor at their replacement.
That was the terror for anyone who wanted the world to stay the way it was. For people who understood that this would change…far too much. Far too swiftly.
For now, it was one battlefield, and one man—one half-Elf held the reins of power. Eldavin, the Archmage of Memory. However, he had made one mistake:
He had left Wistram. And the plotters who had no counter for him took that moment. Elsewhere in the world, armies were fighting with conventional arms and weapons. By the time he came for them—they would be ready. But for that, they needed their Archmage. Time was running out; Reim was under attack.
The siege was entering its ninth day.
 
——
 
Everyone said war was hot, which had always confused him. It might be true of other places, but Chandrar? Chandrar was cold on those nights. So cold you could freeze to your cloth in the open.
It was hot by day, but who would fight under the glaring sun? A true battle, in the young [Soldier]’s mind, was most economically fought under the moonlight, perhaps in some grand surprise attack. Under the clear skies, with ample moonlight? You could well take the enemy off-guard and have enough light to see by.
That was the kind of naive thinking of someone who had never seen a war. By the time his unit of Bast’s 14th was rotated into the front, he had seen [Soldiers] marching, running under the full heat of the sun. The glare of armor was baked into his eyes, and even standing in formation was hot. Some people collapsed from the heat of it, despite the [Line Captain]’s shouting or blows.
Heat had killed over three hundred, despite the water rations. Just…heat. However, the [Soldiers] fought until they dropped. They had to; they were pressed forwards by their fellow [Soldiers]. An endless wave of Hemp-caste [Soldiers] who followed regiments of Cotton and Silk leaders into battle.
This was Nerrhavia’s endless horde. It terrified the young Hemp-[Soldier] and exhilarated him. The roar was deafening as he turned his head and saw a line of bodies that stretched thousands of feet in every direction. Not a single mass like a swarming anthill; they were neatly separated into divisions, regiments, which were arrayed by type and level.
Waiting. Every few seconds, something would break through the distant roar ahead of him. That city, engulfed in motion across the walls. Figures climbing, falling—and the blood. You could see it, even miles away. The flash as someone raised a sword and brought it down on a helmet.
The young man stared at the person on the walls. A Human? A young woman? One of the defenders of Reim.
Capital of the King of Destruction. The last bastion of this war. He shivered, despite himself.
The jagged crown of towers rose around the walls and the city proper. There were ladders everywhere; you could barely see the wall for the ladders. A group began falling as someone kicked them down, and another set collapsed into flames.
“Fire.”
Someone murmured hoarsely, and the Hemp-[Soldiers] shuddered. They saw figures waving their arms, rolling on the ground, fleeing the fire as a [Mage] threw down a [Fireball]. That was what the young man feared most. Death by fire. He could survive losing an arm or a leg so long as he didn’t bleed out. But fire?
The terrifying thing was, he never heard them, even as [Soldiers] went up like distant candles, burning out, collapsing. The air was shaking from so many voices—he never heard them.
“Bast’s 11th and Phloem’s 2nd!”
The [Soldier] jumped. He almost started forward, but that wasn’t his regiment. Two groups advanced towards the retreating [Soldiers] fleeing the burning section, ladders ready to go. Infantry, like him, without distinct levels or gear, and a group of mixed slings and archers.
Thousands. Each division was two thousand strong. So four thousand went to take the wall. Compared to the number of [Soldiers] on it, it seemed they should overrun the city in a second.
But it was so vast, and that broken crown…the young man’s name was Eribis. He looked up at it.
They were not black towers, fit for some villain. They were grey and partly beige, but with dirt and dust more than anything. They were evenly spaced out around Reim, eight towers—or rather, six.
Two were broken, like the tines had been snapped off a crown. Yet the remaining six were the reasons why Nerrhavia’s great army was pulled back so far. Even as Eribis watched—a tower lit up.
“Inc—”
The rest of his [Line Captain]’s scream was drowned out. Eribis threw up his hands and felt something punch his armor. He stumbled, ran into someone, and the blinding flash was replaced by…
Eribis gazed out and the battlefield was silent for one second. He saw one of the divisions marching on Reim’s walls, those glorious armored figures, had been replaced by a huge crater of glass and smoke. The figures scattered around it were lying still. Some got up, stumbling around dizzily in circles. Eribis saw someone sitting, picking up their helmet, shaking their head.
“Bast’s 14th!”
The roar came for him. The dizzy [Soldier] felt the Hemp-soldiers jerk into sudden motion. They looked at each other, uncertain, but the [Line Captain] heard the order from the distant command tents and roared.
“[Obey Me: Forward March]! [Get in Formation]!”
Simple, low-level Skills, but they worked. Eribis felt himself moving forwards, and realized he was out of place. Like someone had drawn a ruler—Bast’s 14th suddenly began moving in orderly rows, not a disordered mass.
Straight at the walls. Eribis began to sweat. He realized what they meant when they said war was hot. It wasn’t just the heat of the sun, or the weather. He felt like he was burning up. His heart was in overdrive, and he longed to have someone stitch it up, make it bigger, cool him down.
It was too hot. Eribis heard the other Hemp soldiers gasping around him. One of them—an older [Veteran] who didn’t make the cutoff for a better regiment—was muttering.
“The King of Destruction falls. Heroes. We’ll be heroes…”
Eribis listened, along with everyone around him. That was what the [Great General] had proclaimed on the eve of the first attack. This was the end of the King of Destruction. Eribis felt the moment in the air. Yet…he looked up.
Eight days, and they hadn’t even breached the walls.
They’d tried. There were four spots where the walls had caved in when magical artillery and spells had blasted holes through, but the damned towers had destroyed the siege towers, even countered the [Mages]. And then—when they’d put two dozen holes in the walls the first time, the King of Destruction had used his Skill. The walls had risen, the gaps mended.
Higher. Thicker.
Now—they loomed forty feet tall. Even so, Nerrhavia’s Fallen had countered that. They’d brought fifty-foot ladders. The siege towers kept being destroyed before they could roll towards the walls, but Reim couldn’t stop ladders from every direction.
Eribis saw Reim was surrounded as Bast’s 14th marched. They jogged, looking up at the towers, moving faster despite their armor and exhaustion from standing tense so long. Better to get to the walls than face annihilation like that.
The towers did not glow. And Eribis looked at the walls and saw how each division was throwing itself up the ladders. Entire groups of [Archers] were skirmishing with the walls, and [Mages] were throwing spells up, rotating out once they’d taken too many casualties.
But the infantry kept coming. Multiple attackers for every defender on the wall, and even as Eribis watched, he saw a knot of [Soldiers]—enemy soldiers, flesh [Soldiers]—scream and break apart as a bolt of lightning struck them. Shouting Hemp-warriors took the walls, and Eribis stared at them.
We’ll win. Nerrhavia had put three vast armies into one. This was a force to wipe Reim out and end this battle. He’d receive his victor’s allotment, and he’d say he was there. He’d helped claim the King of Destruction’s head. He might even be promoted to Cotton or Silk; after great victories, entire divisions had received that honor if they were the ones who took the city…
“Ladders up! Ladders up!”
The [Line Captain] snapped him out of his daydream. Eribis turned and saw the ladders rising as dozens of Hemp-soldiers dragged them up. He stared upwards and, at last, he made out the faces of the soldiers on the walls.
They had bows, arrows; some even threw stones. But the majority of them had spears, swords, and axes and hacked at the ladders, trying to force them back. One splintered even as Eribis watched, but the first line of [Soldiers] were climbing up despite the danger, and a shower of arrows made the defenders take cover.
“Up! Up! Don’t stop climbing! Take that wall and hold it until reinforcements get up! Go, go, g—”
Then he was climbing. Eribis didn’t even think. He just realized he was climbing the wooden struts of the ladder, panting, arms shaking.
No, no. Dead gods. Not me! He’d thought he might be lucky and they’d take the city before Bast’s 14th even got to the fighting. It had happened twice before. He was a Level 8 [Soldier], but he’d gotten all 8 levels just by enlisting and training and marching for a few months. Conscripted—partly. He had a ‘choice’ and he’d chosen…
He wasn’t ready. The city loomed above him, and that citadel where the King of Destruction lay rose as his head cleared the walls. For a second, Eribis saw it. A faded, crumbling palace, but it made his blood chill and skin grow cold.
The legend of Chandrar had come from here. And now—
“Hold them off! Reinforcements! R—”
Eribis’ head snapped up. He reached for his gladius, panicking, and dropped his shield. The young man saw it flash past him and hit the ground, causing the [Line Captain] to jump back.
He tumbled over the battlements and hit the ground. He was dead! He was—
“Up, Eribis! You idiot!”
Someone grabbed him and heaved him up. He saw the [Veteran], a mad glint in her eyes, laughing. She had blood on her sword, and the Hemp-boy realized—
They’d taken this section of the walls. He looked around and gasped. All he saw were dead bodies. Torn flesh—
Glowing arrows? They stood out in a blank man’s throat, as his eyes stared deadly at Eribis. The Hemp [Soldier] realized they’d just been bombarded by a spell.
“[Scintillating Arrows]! Shields up! Shields up!”
They came from behind Eribis as he and the [Veteran] ducked. A rain of arrows that showered the sporadic Humans, enemy Stitch-folk, even a Garuda.
“Up! Up! Hold the walls!”
More Hemp [Soldiers] were climbing over the walls. One half-landed, stomping on Eribis’ leg. He rolled away, crying out, making way for the others. Scrambling to his feet, Eribis saw the city below, houses just as crumbling, a paved street as bad as any cobbled or dirt one because it was so worn and yet to be repaired.
Yet, a glorious city. And…he wavered as he saw racing figures headed for the stairs.
“To the breach! Alert Lord Venith! Hold them off!”
[Soldiers]. Reim’s reinforcements were coming, and Eribis saw a clear demarcation in the city. Civilians, actual children, women and men, were staring up at him with fear and hostility. Reim’s people. But the [Soldiers] were already fighting with the Hemp of Bast’s 14th, trying to push them back or hold them in place.
Yet every second, a dozen [Soldiers] came up the ladders. Eribis laughed as he saw they had taken a spot on the walls! A breach! And if they held this section—
“Tussar’s 2nd. Coming up the ladders! Make way, you ill-wrought scum! Take the gates and let the chariots through!”
A roar from behind Eribis made him flinch. He turned and saw a glowing helmet rise from the very same ladder he’d been climbing. A beautiful face. A Silk [Warrior] threw himself over the ladder as one of the very best of Nerrhavia’s army took over the assault.
“Tussar’s 2nd? Then we’re storming the city!”
One of Eribis’ friends breathed. The Silk [Warrior] ignored him and shouted—he shoved at Eribis, snarling.
“Forwards and fight, you slack-threaded fools!”
Hemp obeyed, and Eribis turned—but the press on the walls was so tight he couldn’t actually reach the fighting, two dozen paces away though it was. He saw Hemp warriors clashing with desperate men and women who were stabbing into their armor and flesh, yet the Hemp advanced without fear. Someone tried to ram a steel spear through one [Soldier], and it actually failed to penetrate their thick cloth skin!
The Silk were right behind the Hemp, brandishing enchanted blades, ready to fight.
Tussar. Unlike Bast and Phloem, named after the cheap components of thread and cloth, Tussar were named after types of Silk. Enchanted gear. The veterans had told Eribis that if he ran into the dead of any Silk-division to steal their armor or swords because one piece would be worth more than he’d ever make.
“The gates! Forget the walls and open the gates!”
