The King of Destruction was under siege. This could be it. But until the walls fell…
He stared at the distant image of one of Drevish’s towers throwing down a massive bolt of lightning. As if he could see the battle. When someone took the walls for a second, or a high-level Skill was used, the [Mages] zoomed in.
Twice, they had shown Venith Crusland or Maresar, who they labeled as Flos’ vassals. ‘Carn’ pretended not to stare at the scrying orb.
“What’s this about, Troy? We have class in under an hour.”
The young man was leading the group out of the banquet hall. He didn’t answer Tov at first. Messill and Atritha weren’t with them.
It was Emirea, Goelv, and Tov. Calac helped Trey by distracting the Rhir-girl and Drake by asking them to help him study for a test and a spell he was getting wrong; they were all in the same class.
The more advanced students were with Trey, and his biggest friends outside of the Earthers. The Earthers…they’d be next.
They had to move fast. Tomorrow, Gazi had told Trey. Tonight was prep. Like him, she knew they had to hurry, but she insisted they had to get it right. Give everyone time to get everything in order.
He’d suggested leaving this part off till the end so his friends could choose. Giving them a night to think seemed unwise, but Gazi had overruled him.
“We will tell them now and let them choose. I will watch them. But we must know ahead of time what they will do.”
He couldn’t argue with that. Emirea glanced at Trey.
“Are you alright, Troy? You look pale. Is everything okay?”
“Please tell me it’s not worms again.”
Goelv elbowed Tov, and Trey almost flushed at the memory.
“No, it’s, um…I have something to show you. A big secret.”
“A Hidden Hallway?”
Emirea grew excited. Goelv stared at Trey, and the young man tried to smile at them.
First his friends. Then Elena and the others. Then he had to get rid of the Golems. Tomorrow? Viltach. Viltach, and Trey would have the key or know where it was. He’d link up—
And they’d go. Trey led them towards his room, and Tov snorted.
“Unless there’s a Hidden Hallway in Troy’s room, I bet he’s made a new Golem. What next? Flos-zi?”
He was in a bad mood today, for some reason. Perhaps it was guilt over revealing the secrets of the Drowned Folk to Trey or rightful suspicion. Emirea still seemed ready to be impressed.
Goelv? The Gazer boy was never talkative to begin with, slightly timid and self-conscious. However, he was chatty enough most times.
He had suddenly gone stiff as a board. His many eyes locked on one spot, which was so odd for a Gazer that Tov and Emirea looked at him with concern.
“Goelv? Is something wrong?”
“G—that—wh—”
The boy stammered. The young [Mage] looked at Trey, and the [Sand Mage] slowly opened the door.
“Just inside.”
Tov hesitated. He looked at Goelv, but the Gazer slowly walked forwards as if he couldn’t believe his eyes. Tov followed, reaching for a dagger. Emirea hesitated, but she looked at Trey with such trust before she went in, he felt terribly guilty.
The three friends walked into the room as Trey closed the door. And cast a [Silence] charm just in time because the first thing Emirea did, as Tov and Goelv stared, was scream.
 
——
 
It turned out stories were true. Legends were real, and they smiled at you with sharp teeth. Kings woke up and…
And he was just a man. A man who sometimes did things beyond belief. A man who was sometimes too small, too disappointing.
At the same time, it was possible to fly on a magic carpet high over the world and breathe in that night sky. If you didn’t mind dying.
There was so much wonder in the world. Too many things to do. You could live free—or burn a rotten city to the ground to save a few souls.
What were you doing here, then? What was the point of risking your life if you only got one chance?
If you believed you would never die, that was one thing. You were simply wrong. But if you knew you would die? If you had seen an old man’s head encased in ice and known what it was like to bleed out on the floor? Why did you fight?
There had to be a reason. Trey had a reason to risk it all. Beyond that?
Wistram was too small. If the higher floors were unlocked, if they dared to descend into the catacombs and below—if they opened every door and smashed every cage, it would have been the academy of dreams and no one would ever think of leaving.
It was small, for as large as it pretended to be. Perhaps it fooled the other [Mages], but Earth’s children had already flown through the skies. They had walked through vast cities whose suburbs stretched out beyond the line of sight, looked up and seen skyscrapers too.
“If you could go anywhere in the world, where would you go?”
Trey Atwood brought it up over lunch that day. He sat with the Earthers. Not Emirea, Tov, and Goelv. They’d all skipped class, as had Trey, honestly. They needed a lie-down.
No, Goelv was lying down. Emirea might be more passed out. Tov had gone for a walk. Calac was watching Goelv’s rooms. Minizi was sitting in Emirea’s room. Gazi was watching Tov.
“Hm?”
The Earthers at the table looked up from food. Good food. A level—six levels above a continental breakfast at any hotel. Fine rooms. Silk bed sheets, if you could finagle them. Free room and board. Magic lessons optional.
They were staring at a scrying orb. A scrying orb showing Flynn flying through the air. That was one of the people in the magical suits of armor.
The others? A strangely intense young man, a boy, getting into the armor.
“Archmage Eldavin, what is the point of offering these suits of armor? To…can you tell me who this is?”
A Drake was speaking to the half-Elf on screen. Eldavin. He nodded.
“This is Lancest of Pheislant.”
“And is he a [Mage]?‘
The Archmage of Memory stroked at his beard as he watched Sa’la help the boy put each piece on, teaching him how to use it.
“Hm? No. Not a student of Wistram at all.”
“Then…is he an acquaintance of yours?”
The female Drake sat at a desk. Eldavin frowned.
“I met him only yesterday and interviewed him. Lancrest is a son of Pheislant, whose nation is de facto at war with Ailendamus. He has seen the wars of yesteryear. His parents died in the border conflict with Ailendamus. That is why he is wearing the armor.”
His eyes glinted. He seemed to be looking at Trey. He spoke, as if to the young man.
“He has no authority, no power to redress what happened to him. He never will. But he will have the chance to change the future. We all have our reasons to risk everything, [Reporter] Tewing. Ailendamus will be checked. To use a metaphor, this is my line in the sand. I invite them to try and wash it away, because I will continue to draw it until I find what I want.”
“…And what is it you want, exactly, Archmage?”
He did not reply. Trey saw everyone lock on the image of Eldavin as Flynn flew past him. The magic helmet was off, so they could see him laughing and flying over Pokey’s head as the Needlehound raced below him, barking.
“Fuck, Aaron. You made Iron Man. Congratulations.”
Saif spoke at last. He turned to the [Magictech Engineer] and slapped him on the shoulder. Aaron Vanwell gave Saif the exact opposite of a smile.
“What was that, Troy?”
Elena turned to Trey as another young man leaned forwards at the table.
“That’s Drassi. I knew her, back in Izril.”
“Yeah, I know, Leon. You said. Where’s your autograph?”
“I don’t have one, but…”
It was the same question, repeated a hundred times. Trey saw some of the others turn away from him, but Elena leaned forwards. So did one of the Earthers close by. A man that Troy had seldom talked to.
“Where would you want to go?”
He asked the question almost idly. Almost. Yet Elena looked at Trey as if it were the first time she had heard the question.
So did the Korean man. Sang-min. He didn’t always eat with the others, possibly due to the language barrier, though he could speak English fairly well, unlike some of the others who were from China or Punjab, not from the cities but more rural areas.
“Sang-min? Would you want to go back to Terandria? You were a [Mercenary], right? Want to borrow my gun?”
Saif had too much bravado—and too much of an ego for someone who happened to be holding an airsoft gun. The [Battlemages] made much of it, but even enchanted, Saif’s gun had all the force of a punch to the face.
And not even a good punch. Sang-min looked at Saif calmly.
“That is not a real gun.”
Saif’s grin faltered.
“No—but if you replaced the ammunition in the cartridge with custom-made enchanted stuff, it could do a lot of damage, Nailihuaile says.”
“So someone has to hand-enchant each bullet? That’s some real dark age shit. You know, they can’t even make steel everywhere?”
Basil remarked sardonically. Saif shrugged defensively.
“It’s not crazy! In this other universe in the future. Okay, do you know Warhammer…?”
“Oh my g—”
They broke off as Elena slapped the table. She was still staring at Trey.
“Go on, Sang-min?”
“Maybe a nice country. There’s too much war around Ailendamus. Where I fought. North. Or Baleros.”
“Why Baleros? It sounds like a hellhole of a jungle to me.”
George chewed on a pancake as he glanced over. Sang-min thoughtfully speared a bit of sausage with his fork.
“Baleros people look more like me. Drath. Maybe they speak my language there. Maybe not.”
“I thought they were Japanese.”
The [Mercenary] shrugged. Trey’s ears perked up as he muttered something that no one understood except maybe George, who tried to [Translate] it.
“…I thought she understood that. An [Emissary] from Drath came here.”
“Really.”
“You spoke to her? Sang-min, it’s a secret—”
The man shrugged. He looked around tiredly, one of many Earthers, but the only one besides Eun who spoke his language. One of the few who didn’t laugh about being an adventurer. He eyed Trey, and the young man nodded at him. Sang-min nodded back.
They recognized each other. Somehow. Trey looked straight into those brown eyes and saw they were haunted. He didn’t know who. He didn’t know where or exactly how Sang-min dealt with it, although it surely had to do with why he was so absent, kept to himself.
Yet Trey looked straight into the [Mercenary]’s eyes and saw someone dead there. Sang-min must have recognized the same on Trey. Elena looked at the two, then focused on Trey.
“Group meeting in thirty. Get everyone. At the place. Be there. No excuses.”
She announced to the table. Some of the Earthers glanced up, and a few groaned.
“Come on! I was going to play magic soccer with some of the [Mages], Elena. They enchanted a new soccer ball and everything.”
“I know Joseph, you know—”
Someone put Leon in a headlock.
“Tell me again, Leon. Tell me you know Joseph.”
Elena ignored them all. She rose, and Trey saw her follow him as he bussed his plates and tray.
 
——
 
“I got your message. I saw everything on the camera.”
Elena followed Trey towards the secret Earth-only rooms. The [Beautician] saw the young man flinch. However, when Trey turned to her, he was too calm.
Too calm, for the nightmares she’d had four days running. Elena had seen horror movies—who hadn’t? She was good at watching horror. She liked it. She got something from it, jump scares and all.
That hadn’t been a horror movie. It was nightmarish because it was real. It wasn’t found footage. It was a documentary.
“Was that real?”
She pressed after Trey said nothing. The [Sand Mage] just looked at her. Elena had met people who’d had to kill too. One look was her only answer and she turned paler still.
“Where did you get that camera?”
“A’ctelios Salash. From the people who owned it.”
They came to the secret door and entered as Elena muttered the passphrase. Trey glanced over his shoulder. Both of them had to do more than just speak the passcode, actually. Aaron had told them how to access this secret area and apparently reconfigured it to let only certain people in.
They stood in the sumptuous lobby area as they passed through a wall. Proper Hogwarts stuff. That was the thing. Everything was a reference if you wanted it to be. Right up until the monster from your book reached out and tore your head off.
“I saw the last part as well. The part you recorded. I was waiting for you to slip me a note or meet me here. I camped out for two days straight. What happened?”
Trey looked at Elena guiltily. He rubbed at his hair.
“A plan fell through. I’m sorry. I had to figure things out again.”
When Minizi exploded. Elena raised her brows.
“A plan fell through? You had one. You made one in secret and told no one. I can name three people who had anything like a plan.”
“Really? Who?”
Trey turned curiously. Elena jerked her head.
“Shun, from China. He tried to make a break for it. Actually, he got towards the edge of the calm bubble in a sailing boat before some [Mages] realized he wasn’t just having fun. He wiped out—good thing, too. He sailed straight out of Wistram into a storm. Not exactly a smart maneuver…but he thought it would work.”
“How? Wistram’s surrounded by water for thousands of miles.”
Elena smiled sadly.
“He thinks this is all a trick. Smoke and mirrors. A foreign government, maybe. Once he leaves the bubble—he’ll wake up or get out of it. He’s probably in, but I’m worried about him. Lamont tried too, you know. He was smart. He just hitched a ride on a ship; they were going to smuggle him out in the cargo hold, and he’d work off his debt. The [Captain] had no idea Lamont was one of us. He just thought Lamont was a student who’d had enough.”
“And?”
Trey thought he’d seen Lamont the other day, playing badminton with Sidney. Elena shook her head.
“That poor [Captain]. Five [Mages] teleported onto his decks before he was more than ten miles out of the academy. Blew up his sails—made him go back to harbor.”
“Ouch.”
Elena saw Trey grimace. His eyes flickered, and she took a seat on one of the plush chairs. Rich chairs. The kind of real-wood, hand-sewn whatevers that multi-millionaires wished they could afford back on Earth. They went for authentic Italian leather sofas. This? This was the kind of thing you might put down actual money for. Something old, grand, expensive.
If you wanted to live like a [King], Wistram was a fine place for it. Yet Trey had given her the camera. She prompted him.
“You know that means there are tracking spells on us. There was no clue; Lamont only told me, and I covered for him. They still found him.”
“I know.”
“Do you have a plan for it? [Dispel Magic]?”
“I doubt that works. It’s probably cast by a high-level [Enchanter], or maybe it’s not even directly bound to us. They can do that, you know.”
“Then how do you fix it?”
