She was actually doing it. He saw the half-Gazer walking down the hallway in an odd pattern. Like a wavy snake, not at random, but clearly dodging tiles that had, to Trey, the faintest glint of magic now that he knew to check. That was Eldavin’s teachings in detecting magic on a ‘superior level’, as he put it. Trey would never have trusted to it, but Gazi?
She bent under what must have been a tripwire, squeezed through a curtain of something in the air, and seemed to time her next step. Then she was at the maze and glanced at Trey once.
A smile without teeth. A master-class [Infiltrator]. She looked around the maze and grinned. Trey felt like using the restroom—he saw her look at him and wink one eye.
She could see through the maze.
Golems down! The Gemstone Golems hadn’t noticed her on their patrol; Yolv and Trey had helped; they were stopping to scan him. The [Mages] were oblivious, and the ones inside? Trey didn’t know what was going to happen next. Would Gazi free Amerys? Would they come out? The half-Gazer disappeared into the maze, clearly carefully picking her path, stopping at intersections.
Would they come out and fight Yolv? He felt a sudden pang as the kindly Dwarf sat.
“It’s so boring. Maybe you should bring your spellbook, Troy. We could teach you some spells. What’s your specialty?”
“Sand magic and light.”
“Let’s teach you a few spells! Bring your friends, even!”
A smiling woman suggested, Viltach’s faction. Trey was embarrassed, and the Naga nudged the others.
“The poor boy has class tomorrow, probably. Don’t make him study tonight.”
“Another night, then. Or what about—how old are you, Troy?”
“Er, seventeen?”
The Naga smiled.
“Then you can have a drink! No party; we’re on duty, but—”
“He’s underage!”
“He’s seventeen. Oh, come on. Terandrians. Eighteen? You’re going to tell me you waited until you were eighteen in Wistram to drink…? It’s not even enforced equally across one continent!”
The guards started arguing, and Trey tried to focus on the conversation with them. But all the while he was imagining what might happen next, he really needed to pee, and his nerves were humming.
No. Trey glanced up and realized Yolv was frowning. The young man looked around and heard it grow louder.
The air was humming.
“What’s that? Oh, for the love of beard wax—”
Yolv half-rose. The other [Guards] stopped bantering and looked up. Trey heard a sound in the air. All the hair on his neck rose.
A voice.
No…was it a voice? It sounded…
Far too vast to come from lungs. Vast, yet high-pitched. An eerie wail.
“I thought it was supposed to stay inside the—”
“I know. Maybe it saw something. Another rat? Wands out. Troy—get behind us.”
The [Mages] rose in a second. Trey saw them walk forwards. He looked at them, then saw, as the [Mages] walked forwards—
Gazi. She had activated at least two more Skills because she was half-blurred and invisible to him. She reappeared, crouching by one of the open doors. The [Mages] didn’t notice; they triggered their detection spells almost as an afterthought. Magical barriers went up, and Trey saw them preparing spells.
The singing grew louder. The [Mages] seemed almost as nervous about it as…the possibility of an intruder.
“It’s definitely coming this way.”
“Fuck, fuck, I hate the idea that it’s malfunctioning. If it’s a rat again—”
Trey peeked out of the hallway over Yolv’s head. He looked into that maze of mists the Ullsinoi set up and saw something as the echoing voice came closer. He looked at Gazi, and the Gazer stared at him with one eye. Three were locked ahead of him, and she was no longer smiling. He saw something turn the corner in that illusory maze and cursed Ullsinoi. Cursed the pranksters of Wistram.
Galei had warned him. Ullsinoi, that jovial, mocking faction was funny and they laughed at everything.
Until they stopped. And then everything was for keeps.
Trey had seen the Golems of Wistram before. He had even beheld the terrible truth of Zelkyr’s final test. Golems made for war and destruction on massive scales.
The Gemstone Golems heralded a time when Wistram deployed them to fight as [Mages] made great war. An echo of Eldavin’s flying soldiers in magical armor.
But this Golem…
This was from a time neither dominated by outright war nor pure control and power. Had Ullsinoi had it all along? Was it just…buried in Wistram, condemned to wander other places? Or did the [Mages] keep it out of sight unless they needed it because they didn’t need nightmares?
Perhaps all of these things combined. The one thing Trey knew, the instant he saw the singing Golem, wandering the maze was simply this:
It had been made by [Mages], [Golem Artificers], of Wistram. For the singing…Golem…even had robes and carried a staff, like a parody of a [Mage]. Male? Female? He couldn’t tell. But instinct told Trey that whenever it had been created…
It had been made by Gazers. When an Archmage of their kind, perhaps, ruled Wistram.
He knew this because of the eyes. So many eyes. Too many—and not the gemstone ones that harkened to a machine’s look. Sculpted, too-real eyes. Nor was this Golem made of marble or stone. It looked…wet.
It sang, and each eye was searching around. They must have been able to see as well as Gazi’s eyes. Because when Trey peeked out at it, an eye was already locked on him. Gazi Pathseeker backed away. He saw her retreating, as the guards argued and shouted at it to go back. As unnerved as Trey, for all they hid it.
Gazi left, and Trey did too, not that any of the guards even blamed him after seeing that. But that was the thing about heroes and legends. It was reasonable that she failed; this was a scouting run. Even so, he saw the uncertainty return to Calac when they debriefed. Felt it himself.
That creeping possibility of failure.
 
——
 
“I do not know what that is. All I know is that the singing heard me. As Trey says…like bats and some monsters who use sound. What did you call it?”
“Echolocation.”
Gazi just nodded. She sat there, tending to her sword.
Which, to be clear, didn’t mean sharpening it. Gazi had told Trey once that she had never needed to sharpen her sword, a fact that defied belief for him until she cut through a stone, chunk by chunk, hacking it down and then letting him test the edge with a feather.
Rather, Gazi was applying something to the edge. Brushing it down with a strange, floral-scented liquid.
Poison? Something else? She sat very straight, calmly talking to the two young men.
“I could not bypass it. So I retreated. Nor do I like the four [Mages] on the outside and the two on the inside. I have proven I can reach the mage. So. We must account for the remaining variables.”
Calac Crusland nodded. Gazi glanced at him and gestured. One eye rolled towards Trey, and the [Sand Mage] hesitated as Gazi went on.
“…I have been prepared for a long time. I will take no chances, Calac Crusland, nor should any of us.”
“Of course, Lady Pathseeker.”
She smiled, still focused on her blade.
“Months of preparation. For me? Sitting in the ocean. I even levelled.”
Trey and Calac blinked.
“You leveled?”
Gazi lifted her sword.
“Yes. From hiding. Killing monsters—Reefeyes, among others—on the edge of Wistram’s barrier. Practicing magic. This is a difficult errand, but I did level.”
“Did you gain a Skill, Lady Pathseeker?”
She swiveled one eye to Calac and smiled mysteriously. The [Lord] flushed.
“Forgive me. That is surely a secret.”
“Mm. But take heart that I am levelling. Hm…”
Gazi checked the edge of her claymore with her thumb. She glanced at Calac.
“I need a whetstone. Could you find me one suited for enchanted blades?”
“I have one in my rooms. I could fetch it if it suits…?”
He instantly leapt to his feet. Gazi nodded, and Calac hurried off. Trey frowned as Calac closed the door.
“I thought you said that you didn’t need…?”
Gazi put aside her claymore. Then she stretched out. She lay her head against the edge of Trey’s bed, stared up at the ceiling, and her relaxed, confident demeanor vanished. She spoke upwards.
“I don’t. I needed him to leave.”
Trey saw Gazi exhale, long and loud. She sat back up, and he realized that she had been sitting deliberately. Confidently, her sword on her knees, looking Calac and Trey in the eyes.
With the young man gone, Gazi sagged, ever-so-slightly, and Trey saw the motion as familiar. Because it was what he would have done.
She didn’t put her head between her knees or cover her face—and she certainly hadn’t in front of Calac. But with only Trey in the room, and Minizi edging over to her claymore? Gazi revealed her own disappointment.
“That thing spotted me. It nearly had me, but it was on patrol. It saw me, Trey. It was made by my kind.”
“Gazers. Is it—how dangerous is it?”
The [Scout] shrugged. She looked at Trey.
“What did it seem like to you?”
“Um…scary. Too intelligent. The [Mages] made it go back, but I thought…it was following you.”
Gazi saw Trey shiver. She nodded imperceptibly. Then she hesitated.
“Did it seem…beautiful to you?”
Trey Atwood looked at Gazi. He wavered between honesty and…no, he went with honesty.
“No. It horrified me. I’m sorry if that’s…it scared me. It reminded me of A’ctelios Salash. It was terrifying.”
Gazi looked at Trey for a long time. Then she turned her head and smiled.
“I, as well. I did not find it beautiful. Though, surely, it is to Gazers. I have seen their artwork. The eyes, the look of it—it is beautiful. I could not find it so. I suppose I see beauty as my other half does.”
The young man sat up and looked at Gazi in surprise. She didn’t look at him with any of her eyes. Instead, she picked up Minizi as the foot-tall version of the Lifesand Golem tried to steal her claymore.
The Lifesand Golem began punching at Gazi’s arm at once. But Gazi ignored her and placed her in her lap. She watched as Minizi delivered the old one-two to her stomach, and her sand-fists did nothing at all to Gazi’s armor.
“Why did you make an image of me as your Golem?”
She looked at Trey. He was still focused on what she’d said and how sad it was. The young man muttered.
“I, uh…didn’t have anyone to talk to. I thought it was fun. Minizi isn’t you. She’s funny.”
“She is? Hm.”
Gazi tilted the Lifesand Golem left and right, ignoring the kicking and even attempted biting. Trey tried to elaborate.
“Viltach—Archmage Viltach, I told you about his private lessons? He likes her too. Minizi’s a good helper. I don’t show her around, but a lot of people like her. She’s not like you—she’s a toy, sort of. She’s cute.”
“Cute.”
Trey paled as he saw Gazi glance up at him. She held the bobble-headed Golem up and inspected her face, albeit with simplified cartoonish features. Trey had a horrible feeling Gazi was upset and Minizi went still suddenly. Nervously.
Then the half-Gazer smiled. Gazi looked at Minizi.
“Cute. I have never heard that word used about me. Good.”
She patted Minizi on the head, awkwardly, and put her down. The Lifesand Golem sat on her butt and stared up at big-Gazi. The two locked gazes, and Gazi sighed. Trey saw her glance at him.
“I cannot defeat it. I do not wish to try. So. That Golem must go, or we must find a way to bypass it. I will not gamble on Amerys’ release if I can—and if I must, it will be the best odds possible. Trey, I need your help. You must find a way to clear the path.”
“Me?”
Of all the things…Gazi just stared at Trey. Seriously. With no hint that she was pranking him.
“Yes, you. I need your help, Trey. I cannot do this alone. That is why I asked my lord to send you with me. Why you took so long to learn Wistram. You have to help me. You can do what I cannot and build this escape.”
“But I failed. I’m not good at infiltration or…”
She raised two of her four fingers and flicked them dismissively. Instantly, Minizi copied the gesture, looking at Trey.
“Not that. I know how to do those things. Hide, strike, be merciless—if this were another place, a war camp, and Amerys were a prisoner under lock and key, I would set fire to a nearby village. Or kill a patrol. Distract them. Harry them. Or slip in like a shadow and set her free without anyone noticing. I can do neither, here. This is a dangerous place—so I need someone who can move it from within. I need you to trick the [Mages]. Manipulate them. Charm them, Trey. You already have a distraction. It is a good one; you must help me as much as you can.”
She stared at him intently. Trey sat there, dry-mouthed. Gazi went on.
“Allies? Set them against each other. I will help you decide if it is good—but you must help me do it.”
“But…me? Why was it me?”
Trey had always assumed that he was picked because he was the only person for the job. Teres was a soldier, and she had been spotted on the scrying orb in Flos’ company. He was the only young man who Flos could trust…
…Besides every young man in all of Reim who was truly loyal to Flos. Oh. Gazi turned to Trey, and he saw Minizi now copying her, motion for motion.
The Lifesand Golem smiled sadly and touched just below her central eye.
“It was never possible for me to perform your role, even if I could disguise myself. I am not charming, Trey. I am not…friendly. You are. Even Fetohep and the Quarass like you.”
“She cut my throat!”
Gazi shrugged.
“She did it personally. She does not do that for just anyone.”
He thought it was a joke, but no one laughed. Gazi went on, and that look of melancholy intensified.
“I envy that ability. Seeing the best in people. I never learned how. I only saw the very worst in them for a long time. Until I met a boy who would be [King].”
Her gaze slowly lifted towards his. Trey was very still as Gazi went on, her eyes distant.
“He is flawed, stubborn, I admit, and he does not see the world I do. Nor even you. He harms people, and he has put people into chains, and he will do terrible things. He is not perfect. But he has never let power make him worse in all the many ways it makes others. He was the first person I met like that.”
Trey said nothing. Gazi put her hands on her legs and then stood. Her large eye flicked to the door, and she spoke as Calac Crusland edged back in with eight whetstones of various gradations.
“So. I am counting on you, Trey. Where do we begin?”
Trey looked at Gazi. He inhaled, exhaled hard, and spoke as Calac turned to him.
“Calac and I couldn’t do it.”
Someone kicked his leg. Trey amended his statement.
“And Minizi. You’re right, Gazi. We can’t do this alone. So…we’d better get reinforcements.”
 
——
 
Two Days Ago.
The bigger a plan was, with more moving parts and people, the more likely it was to fail. Trey knew that.
