Daphne scrambled to her feet from where she’d been knocked back from the spell’s recoil. She hadn’t meant for the spell to be that strong. It was only supposed to wound, to keep the man in place.

Before her thoughts could spiral further, the flames died down. In their center, Llyr stood calmly, unscathed, a translucent watery shield around him.

He waved his hand, and the water dropped to the floor with a light splash, dousing the remaining sparks. He took a step forward. Daphne felt cold fear settle heavily in the pit of her stomach.

Coming to a decision, she yelled a chant and snapped her fingers. In a flash, a wall of fire rose from the floor, covering the entryway just before Llyr could step through. She only stayed long enough to make sure the healer was stuck on the other side of the flames, then turned around and sprinted down the hallway with all her strength.

Daphne was strong. There were very few—possibly no—mages that could match her in terms of raw destructive power. But she was also smart enough to know when she was outmatched, and it was abundantly clear to her that she stood no chance alone against the monster currently trapped behind her.

She needed to get Pyre. While she didn’t want to put the demon in danger, especially when Llyr seemed to have some kind of vendetta against her, she was the strongest of them. The thought rang clearly in her mind, a mantra as she pushed herself to run even faster. She and Callan were probably still waiting in the infirmary. She just needed to get down the stairs, then—

Movement flashed in the corner of her eye. Daphne twisted her head back, barely having enough time to process the doused fire in the doorway and the figure just behind her. Llyr raised a hand towards her.

Daphne jerked around and fired another spell at the man just before he reached her. It was small compared to the earlier blasts, but some of the flames managed to singe him.

Llyr winced back a little, but he didn’t slow down. He just lunged again, but this time he was too close. She wouldn’t be able to cast another spell in time. Daphne braced herself for the worst.

A dark shadow suddenly fell over her. The mage’s head snapped up just in time to see a mass of amorphous flesh shooting out from somewhere behind. Llyr’s eyes widened, and he leapt back, but he was too late to completely dodge it.

At the end of that fleshy mass, a gaping maw sunk razor-sharp teeth into his bicep, ripping nearly half the flesh straight off the bone. The bite was followed by the rest of the limb slamming straight into the man, knocking him far away.

The healer landed hard on the ground, skidding backwards along the floor before finally coming to a stop several feet away. Daphne’s attention, however, was focused behind her.

There, standing at the top of the staircase with one arm still warped, was Pyre.
