Matt agreed with Aster, but offered his own suggestion, trying to kickstart a bright idea. “Anyone over Tier 5 would have had their own Concept. This asteroid is mainly made out of Tier 6 materials. Let's assume it was at least Tier 3 or below when it was launched, and it's been here long enough to be passively Tiered up by the planet below, so it looks like any other rock. While it's risky to travel without shields, this much material between the inside and outside is safe enough if you are only traveling between worlds in a single universe. It's also possible the people who flew this had gravity-faking Concept abilities like we have telekinesis.”

Zack disagreed, as he carefully inspected what Matt was pretty sure was a light-amplifying rune set in a basin that Matt couldn’t quite figure out the use of. “Possible, but unlikely. I don’t think this place was ever lived in actually. It's too clean and sterile. Minimal human habitation signs. There are only a few spots discolored by human produced oils. It gives me more evacuation pod vibes than anything else. One massive room with shelves containing food residue, cots, and what I think is equipment to signal for help. I don’t think anyone has ever lived here, which is why this place feels so strange.”

Matt looked the ship over with a different eye and found what Zack said to be plausible.

Liz raised her own question. “What about the gravity, though? Or lack thereof. Surely they didn’t expect to be orbiting around a habitable planet close enough to rely on its gravity for direction. Not with this level of tech at least.”

Susanne went over to one of the locked cupboards and pulled out some of the strangely wide cups which were still neatly packed away. Next to it was an area that looked like it might have been used to store water, with magically joined together walls and a tightly sealed lid that would prevent things from crawling inside and contaminating the crew's supplies.

The more Matt saw, the more he agreed with what Zack said.

Aster, however, didn’t back down. “Let's turn this place on and find out. I think there is something deeper going on than an emergency shuttle. Things aren’t adding up. It's still an escape pod of a most likely chaotic space ship. It makes no sense. It doesn't have artificial gravity, but they build things like normal. Something is strange.”

None of them went and started touching the ancient devices they suspected might hold information; instead, Rah went and grabbed the portable and standalone AI the crew had already dug out of deep storage for them.

It was a useful but expensive device that could be lifesaving when connecting one’s [AI] to unknown devices.

As it turned out, the device was entirely useless, as the ancient tech was so old they predated [AI], or at least [AI] hadn’t been incorporated into its design.

Instead, the ship, or the civilization who made the ship, used a series of crystals which they etched information into and read off of in a seemingly permanent process.

It turned out to be a good thing, because it meant that, despite the passage of time, the Tiered material had kept its form long enough to be readable.

From that alone, they found out the ship was as old as they expected. Hundreds of millions of years old was their best, but not very definitive, guess, based on the physical material’s suspected age.

With a mix of trepidation and excitement, everybody present took as complete a scan of the crystals with as many methods as they could. All scans were backed up, then fed to Matt's [AI].

Normally, such efforts would be a fool's errand. That much data, absent of any context, from a civilization so old that even if their current language was a direct descendant, which was extremely unlikely, no remnants of that connection would remain. That went doubly so when the information was pulled from a medium that, even with its Tiering, had degraded and was likely encrypted to boot.

It wouldn't matter how much mana he fed his [AI] if there wasn’t enough of a connection, and if he forced it to provide info despite that, the [AI] would be making stuff up. Such ancient relics needed to be taken to specialists.

Or at least, that would have been the case before he modded and merged his [AI] to such an extreme extent. While Matt of course felt how much faster and snappier it was even when running on less mana, he mainly had it doing things it could already do and had done.

Reading and interpreting this data was the first task where he was quite confident his pre-modification [AI] would have outright failed.

For five full minutes, his [AI] churned away, burning billions of mana.

Thanks to his mergers and modifications, Matt was familiar enough with its structure that he could follow the broadest strokes of what was being used. While the [Decryption] part of the skill activating was no surprise, the conglomerate blob that was all the simulation skills he had added draining mana very much was.

Finally, his [AI] compiled its findings and provided it to him perfectly organized via the also-merged [HUD]. It was still somewhat of a mess, with everything given tags representing level of certainty and even offering reasons why, but it was readable and coherent. Those same tags also revealed why the simulation structures had gone wild. To better translate things, his [AI] back calculated the physical degradation of the crystals to try and gain more concrete data.

A task made infinitely harder by how the crystals had Tiered up, and changed how they decayed, several times over.

Despite all of that, what it returned was fascinating.

Starting with what his [AI] was almost completely certain of, Matt shared with the others.

The civilization that created the ship started as a series of between five and eight major city-states. They were in a similar state of tension as the modern Great Powers, with an arms race to gain higher-Tier cultivators. This was aided by their star system actually having two Tiered and livable planets, one higher-Tier than the other.

They somehow managed to move between worlds even before they developed spaceships. How, his [AI] has no idea, the method was always referred to by a singular word with no elaboration anywhere whatsoever. It was only certain it wasn’t a skybridge because those only worked between worlds passing by in chaotic space, and they found the name for those used elsewhere when talking about later explorations. His [AI] did offer some suggestions, but they were pure speculation boiling down to ‘A Talent did it’.

Things nearly started boiling over on the civilization when the first person reached Tier 15 and then didn’t die of old age like everyone before them, kicking off an arms race.

It was the only Tier his [AI] was fairly certain of, as it directly referenced immortality but it could have meant anywhere from Tier 14 to Tier 17, depending on their cultivation techniques. Each Tier seemed to have an actual name, and there weren’t enough context clues in the scattered data to figure out the rest with any degree of certainty. To make matters worse, the names of each Tier seemed to be used to refer to people, making it even more confusing. The best guess, and one that Matt felt was the most likely to be correct given everything else, was that the Tiers were named after the first to reach them. That, or it was a title given to the first person to reach the Tier.

In fact, names of people and objects or concepts overlapping seemed to be a theme in the limited amount of retrieved data. From just one sample, his [AI] was deeply uncertain whether the objects were named after people, or if their culture just used object names as people names a lot more than the current Great Powers did.

The Empire's culture had plenty of names in the same vein after all, with Aster herself being named after a constellation. And Matt couldn’t count the number of Smith’s he had met over the years who were actual smiths. Without additional context, that would be really confusing for others to encounter.

Digging in deeper at the others’ urging, Matt was amused to discover how one of the main sources of both the seemingly irrelevant information to a spaceship, as well as the cause of most of the uncertainty: Since the storage crystals weren’t kind enough to contain something as convenient as a clearly labeled history book, most information was pulled from information in what looked like a default media center.

One that had a biography or historical fiction section.

There was a small but distinct chance everything he’d shared was just distraction literature for possibly long rescues. His [AI] deemed that unlikely, as it pulled the information from otherwise unrelated other stories, but it was possible.

According to that collective source of information, the city-state who first created a Tier 15 was gearing up for a final confrontation, only to be stymied as several more appeared in short succession and joined various other powers. As more Tier 15s arrived with their own alliances and enemies, it created a tangled mess that ensured the stalemate continued once more.

Susanne looked to Rah and asked, “Any idea on the city-state thing? Have you encountered something like that in your travels? It doesn’t make sense for a city-state to control not just one planet, but several, and still be called a city-state. But we long haven't had independent governments like that beyond the Great Powers."

Rah looked around still keenly interested and shook his head. “No, but that means little. No disrespect intended to the translation, but as Matt said, he’s working off very little. I’d suspect it's a quirk of translation or possibly some historical relic when they once were city-states before believing they truly were singular city-states. How they saw themselves and how we interpret that might also depend on the language itself.”

When everyone looked to him, Matt could only agree with Rah.

Instead, he moved onto things he was far more sure on. The ship they were in hadn’t been a spaceship at all, as Aster suspected.

Or rather, it had been a ship used to travel between what Rah called sky bridges, the naturally formed connections between passing worlds. This room usually parked on the edge of a much larger ship, and only split off when they wanted to build another mother ship or an emergency happened and they needed to evacuate.

Why this ship had been sent out through real space to land in a non-essence star system Matt couldn’t guess, as he didn’t get any information from the records about possible deliberate essence seeding.

Zack, having gotten confirmation that it was probably safe to do so, sent mana into what they thought was the key to activate the local formations.

The asteroid hummed as runes carved into its mass activated for the first time in possibly millions of years.

In fact, it wouldn’t have activated at all if Zack hadn’t bridged several of the flawed and destroyed runes with his own mana, approximating the best shapes he could with what he saw around him.

The shaking finally stopped as a wave of ambient mana was sucked into the ship before the rush slowed as the systems started up.

They spent a few more minutes getting additional scans of the ship as it was working, but the ship didn’t have any additional or interesting features beyond the data storage, as it was never inhabited. So, once they were convinced that there were no other mysteries to uncover, they decided to leave. They did get a speech sample from the device, but it was so short and came with so little context, it would take a team of Talented archaeologists to decipher it. Even Matt’s [AI] gave up after a few attempts.

Withdrawing, they let the crew package up the entire asteroid as they reboarded the Unsparing, still riding the exhilaration of the find. Rah was even talkative about his lower Realm and one of the rumors he heard about unique government types he had run into.

Riding his excitement, Matt continued to check on everyone else and see their reactions as they settled down in the Unsparing.

Zack was smiling as he started forming the crude runes he had memorized into the air and began tweaking them, seeing if there were any interesting effects in the muddled script. Susanne was with Aster, looking closely at an ornate bowl Matt’s bond had snagged on their way out. Liz was giving him a suggestive hint that they should escape to their room, which he was tempted to take her up on, but one person wasn’t exuberant.

The one person who should be crowing off the loudest about how it was only her persistence that had kept them here long enough to notice the anomaly was sitting there quietly.

Allie.

Instead of being happy, she seemed distracted, and that realization caught up to everyone else a moment after Matt noticed.

Aster hip bumped her friend and asked, “Why aren’t you happy? This was a huge find.”

Allie shook her head. “This isn’t it. Or, I don’t think it is. Why were there three extra worlds ‘accidentally’ essence seeded if this is just a safety vessel? These are meant for real space travel off a mother ship right? To make new ships while everyone loots the fuck out of the local world. That makes sense. I can follow the logic. Did people do that in your Realm, Rah?”

Rah paused but slowly nodded. “With sky ships, yes. Those who were near active areas often did similar. More ships of war than what these seem to be. If we could have done something like this, people would have. Maybe they did, and I never heard of it. Few people bothered going into space after they reached Tier 15 and the novelty wore off. It was rarely worth it to fly to another world that was usually weaker than the world you were on after all.”

