Allie steepled her fingers, but with a serious enough expression, Matt wasn’t sure she wasn’t messing with them for dramatic effect.

“How important was it to make it back in time for the planets separating? Really important, right? What happened if you missed the ride back?”

Rah looked at Allie, confused, but agreed. “Of course it was. Everyone who crosses over via a sky bridge can feel approximately when the planets will separate. It's not perfect, but it's usually years, and everyone knew to leave well before the tether could break. Still, it did happen, and it was understood what to do. You need to rush ‘up stream’, trying to jump from world to world and connect back up with our more permanently connected areas. There is a famous explorer which that happened to. Ah’Tra the Determined. He and his company were stabbed in the back by his brother and left trapped to either die or be lost forever when the worlds separated. He famously brought all but three of his people back with him to slay his brother, just before he was able to officially take over as the next patriarch. It took him a hundred and nine worlds, but he managed it. Few are so fortunate, though. The lucky ones have enough people at the right Tiers that they can settle down and survive. Then, when the worlds connect, we might have a new trading partner or a new enemy to fight. The unlucky ones just die or are lost forever.”

Allie just nodded before turning to Zack. “What kind of sensors did that ship have? What about its controls?”

Zach flicked them all a file of the various enchantments they recorded. “It's rudimentary, but it exists. It could see a planet or asteroid belt, but propagating those images with their computing technology would have taken hours, if not days. The completed full design looks like this. It's basically a space-based cargo hauler. It's better and stronger, but that’s not because it uses better tech, but because they had more processing units on board. It is unlikely they had any spatial items unless they were lucky rift drops, and these ships solved that problem.”

Allie spun her finger as if edging Zack on, but when he stopped speaking, she continued, “New ships would probably be sent out first thing so they can use their cargo capacity when people leave. A small ship would eat asteroids or whatever and then make a few new baby ships, preparing to have the next round of ships ready when they raided the next world. You said they might act as a life raft for the main ship as well. Anyone want to take a bet that each mothership came with three life rafts?”

Matt’s mind raced as he understood what Allie was implying.

Liz cursed as she along with everyone else looked at the two other suspected essence seeded worlds. “Mother fucker!”

If the highest-Tier world was the original world, and three life rafts had been launched into space, there was a good chance someone or something valuable had been in one of those ships.

Aster, fully on board, started bouncing on her toes. “Last-minute mutiny? Pirate attack? Betrayal? Super valuable Natural Treasure? An even more valuable rift reward, preferably made out of metal and well-oiled or otherwise properly stored, so it's still valuable so many millions of years later? Which other world is our real lucky ticket?”

Liz rubbed her hands together. “Don’t be so pessimistic. Essence will hopefully ensure it's mostly preserved. This stuff was still in decent shape. No reason to assume the other stuff will be worse. And this is really fun speculation. I’m hooked. I need to know what happened.”

Rah immediately agreed. “Why launch three potential seed ships? I agree it's likely two distraction ships and one real ship.” Rah then frowned and added, “Though it could have easily been three distraction ships and the real one turned around once they saw the cost was clear.”

Aster immediately shook her head. “Zack said it, the sensors are as bad as everything else. I can’t imagine either ship having much acceleration, meaning their deceleration is equally shit. And given how expensive those ships are to run, I’d bet they were usually really slow, relying on building speed rather than fast accelerations.”

Matt, instead, thought about the logistics. If he cast [Portal] at his max range over and over, how much of the travel time could he cut from the several light years travel.

Their real space engines were good, but they weren’t built for long hauls, and so they wouldn’t be more than two or three times faster than light.

Could he justify the mana expenditure to the crew? To a degree, yes, but not as much as his theoretical maximum. Would that, mixed with Allie teleporting them as much as she could without too much spiritual strain, be enough to make the trip reasonable?

Matt looked to Allie, who met his eyes and raised a single eyebrow in silent return question.

Susanne poured water on their exuberance, following similar logic. “Unless we want to give up on the breach, we can’t reach the other system. Even with the ship's real space engines, we can’t reach there in less than five years. And that assumes Allie teleports us back here, which means sitting long enough for her to make a waypoint?”

Allie's expression didn’t change as Susanne spoke, still just looking at Matt.

He caved first and raised an eyebrow in return, silently questioning her question.

“What’s your idea? The Seekers?”

Allie shrugged as if her following words would be no big deal. “Too slow. What if we are here and back in twenty minutes? Ten minutes to each system, but we'll only need to visit one. I can feel it.”

Matt narrowed his eyes as his mind and [AI] churned through possibilities. “Impossible.”

Allie’s grin turned dangerous as she stalked forward. “Almost. That's why we can do it.”

Matt looked to see if she was messing with him, but he saw she was entirely serious. “How?”

Allie tapped him on the chest with a dagger she let run between her fingers. “Do you know how the [Portal] skill works?”

Matt reviewed his knowledge just to make sure he hadn’t overlooked something, but nodded a moment later. “Yes. Quite well, as you know, given you helped me modify it.”

Allies grin winded. “And in those training sessions, I had an idea. [Portal] needs your spirit to locate the other end node, but your spirit doesn’t have to be in the spot so long as it hasn’t been too long, and your relative position hasn’t changed too much. I get a part of your spirit halfway between star systems for a fraction of a second, and then you cast the spell.”

“Wouldn’t that hurt my spirit? It’d cut that piece of my spirit off as that piece of my perceptions disconnects."

Allie nearly pinched her fingers together as she said, “It would, but only a teeny tiny little bit. Way less than the strain casting [Portal] such a distance is liable to cause. Oh, and make sure to lower your defenses. I need a clean cut with no resistance.”

Matt considered the idea. He would need to act fast, but it seemed possible. With her abilities, Allie could teleport a small enough object halfway between star systems. The mana cost of that [Portal] might be a tad high, but theoretically, he didn’t see why he couldn’t pull it off.

“Let's try it.”

Liz stopped him with a palm to the chest. “Try not to explode in this shirt. I like this one.”

She then grinned at him and winked, leaving Matt and Allie standing next to the navigator’s station.

After getting the heading, Matt and Allie both looked in that direction. Matt began casting [Portal] on Allie’s signal and felt a tiny piece of his spirit being severed, causing a sharp stinging pain, a moment before it was teleported. Because it was his spirit and such an innate part of himself, Matt could feel the piece of him that was in-between star systems.

The connection was almost immediately foggy, but Matt managed to grab the location with [Portal].

Not hesitating, he sent more mana into the spell, but when nothing immediately happened, he shoved his entire mana pool into [Portal], letting his mana regeneration rate skyrocket.

It wasn’t until he was throwing two hundred million mana a second into the spell that a ship-sized portal opened.

Matt felt like he had been punched in the chest by Moe and had to glance down to ensure he hadn’t actually ruined his shirt; but thankfully, he hadn’t.

He did, however, feel spiritually battered.

The whiplash of casting such a large spell had been far harsher than he expected. It was hard to send that much mana into a spell most of the time, at least not channel spells. [Portal], despite being a type of channel spell, wasn’t meant to take that much mana for its initial cast, as the spell was only ever designed to work inside the caster’s spiritual perception range. Tier 28s weren’t meant to cast spells between star systems, and so his spirit wasn’t able to perfectly handle the cast, which nearly caused [Portal] to fail, despite him having enough mana to cast the spell at the range he wanted.

Matt didn’t have time to think about that and flooded his body with mana to reinforce himself with his Millennium Willow Lifesap. It wouldn’t heal his spirit, but it would help him be a little sturdier for the second cast, which would limit any further damage.

The moment they were through the portal, their navigator started scanning to gather their new location and then triangulated their final destination.

Seeing the grimace on his face, Liz looked worried. “Everything alright?”

Matt replied in a personal message. “I’m fine. Turns out there is such a thing as a spiritual paper cut and Allie just gave me one. It also really stings. However, I just discovered I’ve been thinking about my mana in a way too limited way before this. We can talk about it later.”

Seeing Matt was mostly fine, Allie once more cut a tiny fraction of his spirit and sent it as far as she could with her Talent.

The second portal only barely put them in the system's gravity well, but at that point, Matt could simply cast a few normal [Portal]s to get them deep enough in the system the ship could start scanning.

The minute they did so, Allie was proved correct.

There were clear signs of habitation.

It was, however, very clearly long-abandoned, with all the systems shut down.

Carefully scanning, they actually found a note carved into a steel plate set in the large asteroid’s door.

It was in the same language they had seen before, which only further confirmed their theory about them being the same source.

‘Trapped here, I leave what caused all of this. I hope it brings you better luck than it brought me.’

Right inside the lived-in ship, there were ingots carved with a story that explained more, and everyone rushed Matt to translate before going inside any deeper.

The additional information and actual writing examples helped the translation his [AI] gave him massively. Oddly, there was no name ever listed, and it was all written in the first person.

“The person had exceptional luck in delving a strange area that let them design a reward after they defeated all of their opponents, monsters and human enemies alike. They asked for a skill that would let them always find home, and were given a skill to do exactly that. Except my [AI]’s flagging that. Hold on.”

Matt looked at the flag and he paused for a moment before his spiritual sense swept out.

The person hadn’t been given just any skill shard, rather they had been given a ‘bundle of shards’.

Matt puzzled over that for a moment before his mind went to the only possible answer.

“They didn’t get a skill shard, but rather a skill orb!”

Everyone immediately spread their perceptions through the rest of the asteroid, but Susanne was the one to find it in what was probably once a store room.

In a metal box like a dozen others, sat the skill orb.
