The world had changed in a day. A grand conspiracy had been unveiled. Big things were going to happen and now everyone sensed it, not just the Titan of Baleros.
What did you do on such days? Well, you either talked, processed it, or you kept moving. In great tragedy or triumph, what else could you do?
Perhaps…even Niers was taken completely aback by what came next.
“So, [Shamans] are a power of spiritual magic?”
“Collective. I don’t think there’s a difference. Certainly in how they cast it, but one’s simply innate, which is why you can suppress it. The other’s shared. I’m not a [Scholar], but I know enough to know how to foil both.”
“Intriguing. But how do [Shamans] get magic?”
Niers shrugged.
“Ask Ulvama.”
Bird went over and plucked at Ulvama’s arm. The snoozing Hobgoblin jerked, raised her staff, and relaxed only fractionally.
“Oh, you. Bird. What? Trouble?”
She peered at the Gnolls, unconcerned with Gnoll drama. Bird shook his head.
“How do [Shamans] get power, please?”
Ulvama peered at him as if doubting this was a real question. Then she shrugged.
“All Goblins have power. Not just magic bzzt.”
She flicked her fingers, and tapped her chest.
“Power. Because we are united. Tiny bit, lots–usually tiny. [Shamans] gather. [Shamans] have power from old things too.”
She saw Bird’s blank expression, and Fierre’s, who had come over for a history lesson. So Ulvama sighed, and switched into a suddenly more advanced diatribe.
“There is magic in many things. Magic in tradition. Magic in ideas. If you take a boring rock, and put it in a special place for a long time, it is powerful. Not to [Mages] unless the special place is mana zone, because [Mages] only see one thing. But [Shamans] see the value. [Shamans] take it. So our magic does not do what [Mages] do because it is not the same magic. Understand?”
“Oooh. Yes. So even non-[Mages] can…”
“Yes, yes. I go back to sleep now. Okay?”
Ulvama was turning over and Niers was chortling. He was going to borrow that for his lecture on [Shamans]. It was a nice little way of explaining it. What Ulvama didn’t say was that the same held true. Cut off a [Mage]’s magic and they had none. That was simple; anti-magic fields, or Skills, although a truly extraordinary [Mage] could punch through it.
To beat a [Shaman], you could have a harder time or easier. Like a [Wizard], if the staff mattered, hit the staff. If a tribe’s will mattered, shake it.
He was about to explain this all to Bird, since he regarded the Antinium as something of a pet project–how high could his [Revalantor] class go? What did it do?–when Bird spoke.
“If it does not matter how much each person has, like Gnolls have [Shamans] even though there was a bad stone, does that not mean that Antinium can have [Shamans]?”
Ulvama had snuggled into a ball, facing deliberately away from Bird. Fierre saw the crimson eyes open. The Vampire girl herself sat upright, blinking.
Niers said nothing at all. Bird looked around. He nodded to himself.
Then, he walked over to the Antinium. They were milling around, the ones with names and the many with none. Of them was Infinitypear, an [Adventurer], Touma the Great, [Martial Artist], and so on.
And the Antinium with scars all over his carapace. He had no name. He had an aura. He was old.
Bird did not know his story. No one knew his story. That was fine. The Soldier had never expected anyone to tell his story. He had never had Erin sit him down individually. He had never done anything worthy of note–certainly not like these Individuals. He did not envy them. He did not hate them. If anything, he was glad they had come because things were better.
He had not even known Mrsha that well. So why was he here? Because he had seen her, scampering around once when he got to come to the inn. He had eaten a bowl of congee. Stared into a fire and seen half of a play.
And that was more than he had ever had in six years of his life. So when they called, he came.
…Bird passed right by him. The Antinium turned as Bird peered at an Antinium Worker with something interesting on its shell. Rather than just paint, it had discovered that some of the paints were also glues, so it had sprinkled dirt and grass onto its back shell, and applied what was more like a resin than glue.
Thus, Grass Shell had been created. The Worker had a little shortbow, a spear, and a buckler. He stopped still, as Bird came to him. The Individual of the Free Antinium pointed at him with all four hands.
“You. You have the power of grass and dirt on your side. Therefore, you are most worthy. You are a [Shaman].”
Grass Shell’s antennae waved frantically. A [Shaman]? Him? He peered down at his chest. Bird nodded.
“You have the magic of the Free Antinium. Yay. Xrn will be happy! Or not? Someone tore her head off. Part of it.”
He hopped away, humming to himself. Ulvama stared at Grass Shell. Xeu, Pivr, looked at each other in dead silence.
Niers Astoragon sat there, and came to a slow realization. Of course, he had known it, but he gave voice to it in full.
“You are exceptionally dangerous, Bird.”
The [Bird Hunter] tilted his head.
“Me? I am just a silly Bird. You must be mistaken.”
The Titan rubbed at his chin, smiling. He thought for a while, then mused aloud.
“I wonder…no, I don’t have a copy of a chessboard. And Tallfolk’s are way too damn big. A pity. You told me you played chess, once. If only–”
“Pawn to F4.”
Bird happily spoke. The Titan blinked. He paused for a long moment. Then replied.
“Pawn to E5.”
“Pawn takes E5. My bird is appearing.”
Bird happily clapped two of his hands together. The Titan blinked, in the silence of his hat.
“Erin Solstice taught you how to play chess with numbers?”
“Of course. Every Antinium can do it if they learn. Chess does not need a board. Silly. Even Apista can play chess with a board.”
Apista, the undisputed grandmistress of chess in the bee world, buzzed lazily past Bird. She had, in fact, demonstrably won a game against Mrsha one time. It took nearly two hours as the two wandered away from the chess board–well, Mrsha did. Apista kept having to figure out how to correctly attack with knights.
…But she did win. Niers sat in Bird’s hat, murmuring chess notation. It did not go unnoticed, of course.
“Bird. Are you playing a chess game against yourself?”
Fals couldn’t help but ask. Bird stopped muttering his moves, and hesitated.
“No? Yes. I am lying.”
The City Runner took it at face value, but Fierre almost went cross-eyed trying to work out…Fals grinned.
“We can play an actual game of chess, if you want. I have a board. From Erin’s inn. I bought it back in the day. It might be worth something, right?”
Some of the Gnolls looked over as Fals hopped onto the wagon and Bird climbed onto it.
“I would like to play games of chess.”
“Well, take it easy on me. I’ve seen the chess players in The Wandering Inn. I can let you finish your game.”
“Do not worry, Fals. It was only in my head. And I was winning.”
Someone kicked Bird’s antennae and he winced and slapped his hat. Fals didn’t notice.
“Anyone else play chess?”
Even the angry [Hunters] looked up. Fals was friendly enough to get a response from the growling Gnolls.
“Chess? We’ve heard of it. Some people in our tribe have a chess board. All they do is play the game. I had to hunt with one of them, once. Idiot watched a Corusdeer walk right by him because he was thinking of the next move.”
“I’m not bad at chess.”
Fierre offered. Numbtongue just rolled his eyes, but even Badarrow had been taught. And of course, the Antinium knew the game. It was Ulvama, of all people, who yawned.
“Silly game. I am good at games. You show me, I win.”
Her instant confidence made Bird’s head slowly turn. Niers whispered in Bird’s hat.
“Let her win two games. Then crush her.”
For once, both Antinium and Fraerling were in complete agreement. So Niers sat, watching, playing off games with Bird. It was amazing, but he actually did it. The Titan actually had to peek under a crack in his hat as Fals spluttered.
“Poke me with needles, it actually looks like a bird. Sort of.”
Chess and drama. Numbtongue listened sympathetically to a species who had gotten the quintessential Goblin experience for the first time in living memory. Ulvama began losing rapidly, for all the [Shaman] was, in fact, the best player in the Mountain City tribe, and started throwing fits.
Grass Shell just lay down. The thing about Antinium was that they had no true class. [Butcher], [Digger], [Warrior]–all usually below Level 5, let alone Level 10.
[Shaman], now? He’d never even dreamed of being a [Shaman]. What did a [Shaman] do? He must be, though. Bird was a [Liar], but he didn’t lie. The power of grass is in me? The little Antinium lay on his shelled back and lazily waved his arms and legs as he stared up at the sky.
 
[Shaman Level 1!]
[Skill – Ambient Focus: Grass obtained!]
[Spell – Razorgrass Patch obtained!]
 
—-
 
Some people who didn’t know all about the betrayal of Gnolls, the drama at the Meeting of Tribes, actually covered a lot of ground.
Ksmvr of the Horns of Hammerad ran across the ground, in the kind of run the Antinium could keep up forever. Only, faster because he had the Ring of Jumping that let him easily leap over obstacles, and his [Brave Skirmisher] class.
Next to him rode a woman with dark skin, bright eyes, hair flying behind her. Below her, horse sped along, bearing the Empress of Tiqr, the Empress of Beasts, on its back. Other animals had more speed, more enhancements by Skill or magic or pedigree. Few had such will.
A little cat meowed on the back of the saddle, strapped in to avoid falling off. She kept staring at a giant figure, running as the lights flashed in its crystal ‘head’, carrying a huge battleaxe on one shoulder.
Domehead was the slowest of the lot, which meant that the Golem’s dead-run that never faltered, and could run down horses within an hour or two, was the benchmark by which they travelled. They did not stop travelling, the three.
They were being followed. And they had destiny to catch.
“Ksmvr. Do you know where your comrades are?”
“Yvlon is behind us, in Nerrhavia’s Fallen. However, Comrade Pisces is a captive of Roshal. I do not know where Ceria is. It is Pisces I must go to first. He will not be a [Slave].”
Nsiia’s eyes glinted.
“No indeed. Well-reasoned. Do you have a plan to catch him, though?”
Ksmvr nodded.
“I sequestered the aid of the First Crafter, among others. [Bandits] have been hired to raid Pisces’ caravan. Along with other bits of material aid. However, I will personally free Pisces if need be.”
“All by yourself? I heard tell it was a large caravan.”
Ksmvr shrugged.
“I am a Gold-rank adventurer. I will pick them off, lay traps. And I have this.”
The sword of the [Paladin] was sheathed at his side. Nsiia eyed it.
“Hyenas laugh at me, but that’s fair enough. Even a Djinni would fear that blade.”
Ksmvr nodded. He glanced at the Empress of Beasts.
“And you are headed the same way to find your army along the Kilalle Steppes. I suppose we are allies, then. It occurred to me an army might free Pisces.”
The woman smiled.
“It might, mightn’t it? But that would depend on whether we stick together.”
Ksmvr nodded. The sun rose over the borders of Illivere’s lands, as they passed out of the greenery and cliffs which had given rise to each state’s strength in stone and the cultivated lands built on Golem-labor. They headed north, for anyone wanting to hide marched along Zeikhal, the Great Desert where sand and sheer distance made it easier to elude pursuit.
“Are you sure you didn’t want to take the Golem horse?”
Nsiia asked Ksmvr after the first hour. She was busy setting herself, adjusting what she had taken, and looking at Domehead. Domehead, who had come after her, not to Femithain or anyone else when freed. Ksmvr had called her a poor mother.
Which meant he was a son? The Empress of Beasts had no idea what to say to that. If she feared anything, more than pursuit, being captured by the forces that would surely follow from all countries that feared her return and Femithain himself, she feared that Ksmvr was right even more.
Ksmvr replied steadily as he ran.
“I am a [Skirmisher], I have plentiful stamina potions, and I am Antinium. We have marched for days on end without rest. It is what we were designed to do. Moreover, as a law-abiding adventurer, stealing a Golem Horse would be considered theft of a national treasure.”
Nsiia threw her head back and laughed.
“The rest of it was not a crime? Facing down Illivere’s finest, freeing me?”
Ksmvr shrugged. He calmly munched on a dry ration bar, as he had exerted himself a bit that night.
“It is lawful refusal to be held prisoner, asserting my right to self-defense…and I did not free you.”
“Oh?”
“I simply waved my sword between your hands. That is what Ceria told me to say if I ever got in trouble. It sometimes works.”
Nsiia laughed. She threw her head back and breathed in. Free. There was a difference, for all that Femithain had never chained her until the end. Free. She spoke, a note in her voice.
“I shall not forget this, Ksmvr of the Horns of Hammerad. This is a mighty thing you have done for me. I failed my kingdom once; never again, I say. I shall have it back. Not at any cost. I paid one far too high in losing it, but I hear my people are the poor subjects of other lands, slaves like your friend. I will free every single one, and I will repay you as well.”
Ksmvr’s head turned. He nodded, calmly.
“I shall register the debt, Empress Nsiia.”
She regarded him.
“Ksmvr of the Horns of Hammerad. Ksmvr of the Free Antinium. Have you no last name to call yourself, Ksmvr?”
“No. I do not need one. Antinium have one name, if any.”
“Hm. You should have two. One so they know you, the other so they know from where you came. Be it tribe, or deed, or place. I am Nsiia Oliphant, so-named because of my capital city, and the very Grand Elephants my people made friends with long ago. You should have a name like that. Perhaps you should choose one?”
Ksmvr stared ahead.
“…Byres, maybe?”
The Empress’ eyes brightened, but Ksmvr shook his head.
“It does not matter at this moment, Empress Nsiia.”
“True! As for you. Domehead!”
The Golem turned, arms and legs pumping in distance-covering run #1, the algorithm running smoothly. Yet Nsiia saw lights shine from individual crystals in its atrium-dome. She drew closer as the Golem kept running. It never changed speed, never did more than slightly turn to her, as it was programmed to do when addressed.
Yet she sensed something watching her. Nsiia reached out. Her hand hovered near the reinforced plate armor. And Domehead…moved back.
