“I can see they still remember me. And I’m told you own an inn of your own, Erin Solstice.”
“Yes. Um–wow. So you’re the guy who went around with that jerk? I mean–the King of Destruction?”
Erin was conflicted since she didn’t hear nice things about Flos. Drevish’s mouth quirked.
“‘That jerk?’ Hah. I can see you’re worth the travel, if only to get rid of that annoying witch.”
He nodded at the [Witch] who’d come to find him. Then he peered at Erin.
“With that said, refrain from insulting him in my presence, young woman.”
“But he’s a warmongering guy who…”
“He is the King of Destruction, and you do not know him, clearly. There is a reason I served him, and if you are at all polite, I ask you to be polite. Know him before you mock him, because the tales told about Flos Reimarch range from truth exaggerated to falsehood completely. And I do not build walls out of lies.”
He had a little cane, and waved it slightly before tapping it on the ground. Erin Solstice blinked at Drevish.
“I…sorry.”
The ghosts around her were impressed. This [Architect] had done more than some royalty, including Nerrhavia, who had stormed away from Erin twice while telling her tales. Perhaps it was because Drevish was not royalty. He nodded at her.
“There is much to talk about. I am told you might need help upon living, if such a thing can be done. And perhaps you need information about my [King]. Indeed, there are things I could tell you that would…persuade him to act.”
He glanced, troubled, around this vast gathering. Califor’s eyes were on Drevish’s face. The Architect shook his head.
“I do not know if that is appropriate. I do not know if it is wise for the dead to haunt the living. And he is haunted, that fool. If Queravia were here, I would let her decide. Or…Tottenval. But I am told Tottenval might not be here, if he was lost at sea. As for Queravia…I cannot find her. Perhaps she lies on Baleros.”
“Likely so.”
Califor muttered. Drevish shook his head.
“I had hoped to meet them in time, and we had forever to reunite. But I simply sat and relaxed and before I knew it, a calamity was upon us. Simply obnoxious. Who designed death and life so?”
Erin smiled. He was so offended. Yet the old man fixed her with a gaze, as if she were a pet project and he was wondering if she was worth the effort.
“Well, I shall take stock of the situation, as always. But before that, young miss! You will sit down, as I am old and I feel tired, even though I am dead, and tell me all about your inn. What style was it? I’m told you have inherited the [Garden of Sanctuary]. Have you unearthed its secrets? Have you designed around it? What is the style of Izrilian architecture today? Please tell me you don’t have decorative pillars or I may have to simply up and leave…”
Erin stuttered. Suddenly, she was faced with the greatest challenge of her death. Which was explaining why she had separated outhouses, a weird Bird-tower, and the particulars of her inn to an [Architect] who had opinions on how stupid each part was.
“So you have a pointless hallway filled with obvious traps that everyone must proceed down and waste precious seconds of their life? A hallway that did not, in fact, save your life when you were shot by crossbows?”
“W–buh–when you say it like that it sounds stupid. But it works! I think!”
Drevish looked pained beyond belief. He was already making Erin sketch since only she could create in the world of the dead.
“If I tell you anything, you will swear to me to completely rework this abomination. It sounds like these Antinium are good [Builders]–I should have liked to meet them and studied their design. But the style? Did a [Princess] of Terandria decide to make this rubbish?”
“Now that you mention it…”
Oh, a great meeting. Oh, the dead who mattered in conjunction with the living. Erin and Drevish were arguing about Bird’s tower, but he took her by surprise, as the Giant standing sentry on Chandrar’s shores with the umbrella raised his head and called an alarm.
“No, no. If you’re going to do a watchtower, miss, you build the inn around it. See here! A central tower, three times as tall! Put Liscor’s walls to shame and mount a ballista on top.”
“…Are you sure you’re an [Architect]? Bird would love you.”
The old man smiled.
“Miss Erin Solstice. What is the point of being generic? Buildings should be perfect for their intent. They should also be grand when they need to be. Impressive! Eye-catching! Worth building. They should protect, and inspire, and make people laugh.”
She looked at him, and liked him. And wished he weren’t here to meet her, because Drevish the Architect was alright.
Then she heard the hubbub, the call to arms. That copy of the sword in the stone rose, and Erin saw all heads turn. Something was coming. Something was…
No, it wasn’t an attack.
Not yet.
Not…
Yet.
 
—-
 
It was in fact, a familiar ghost who came. Well, one of them was familiar.
“Xarkouth!”
The Void Dragonlord rested his wings, panting. He rasped as he landed in front of Khelt’s palace.
“Greetings, undead rulers.”
“Dragon.”
Khelta inclined her head a fraction of a millimeter at him. The two traded barbs, but weakly. Xarkouth shook his head.
“We barely escaped them. But not for Terandria’s ghosts in the south sallying forth–and they seemed distracted, from the presence as well as something that drew three north–even so, we barely made it.”
He had passengers. Ghosts who landed, calling out greetings. Erin, peeking down at Xarkouth and waving, heard a shout.
“Glorious Calanfer be with you!”
“Oh, dead gods. Terandrians.”
One of the ghosts muttered. Erin just smiled and laughed. For no less than a [King] and [Queen] had come on Xarkouth’s back! And more!
“It amazes us! We thought only Baleros yet lived, but here we see sunlight and a sword to match any relic we battle the foes with! Greetings, queen of…”
The [King] did a double-take at Khelta’s clear [Necromancer] origins, but the [Queen] shoved him aside.
“From Noelictus to you, I bear words of hope and support, kin.”
“Ah. Then you are well met indeed, cousin! How fares Terandria?”
Khelta kissed the cheek of the Noelictus [Queen] with delight. Xarkouth nodded at Erin.
“Mortal girl. Have they not brought you back, yet?”
“Not yet. Hey, Xark.”
The Dragonlord gave her a look. Erin grinned. Drevish harumphed quietly, taking it all in.
The ghosts were talking, conveying news, how they had held off the six with weapons that remained in death. Also, events of note.
“We come from Ailendamus, where they make war on the Dawn Concordat. A waste of time–but something happened. For a second, I swear I smelled grass and felt the wind on my face. It certainly frightened the six. It was centered in Ailendamus, in the castle.”
“Where? I have never heard of this nation.”
“Brand new. It’s swept each nation aside, and there’s a reason for that. If I could but warn my kingdom…”
“Silence. Enough petty talk!”
Xarkouth bellowed and offended ghosts looked up at the Void Dragonlord. Yet he opened one wing and revealed a final ghost.
“That you have a name for the foes who assail us–I brought the news from Baleros, and there are kin there who want to speak with you. Great ghosts, Erin Solstice. However. There is news of even greater import here. They were not sure whether to tell me, these petty arguers. Seeing one of the six convinced them. Tell them what you know, [Knight].”
A single figure, far less grand than the other ghosts present, but still shining with some measure of her soul, stepped forwards and bowed. She was wide-eyed, with that look of Cawe’s, that of someone recently dead, taking it all in. She looked at Erin, then addressed the others, humbly, sinking to one knee.
“I am Dame Eclizza of Ailendamus. Great Knight, and newly fallen to the Death of Magic.”
Some of the ghosts stirred. Others muttered, ‘who’?
“Our sympathies for your death, but the Death of Chains, even the Death of Magic are not the threats that concern us. Perhaps what they hold back…but we know not details.”
It was the Rebel of String, Elucina, who called down. Dame Eclizza nodded.
“Yes, great ghosts. In this time and place, loyalty and bonds of the living fall away. I understand that now, but when the great Dragonlord came, I realized there was some knowledge I had that might aid even the greatest of you. I…heard of the girl who was not yet dead. No–I heard that a muster was being taken, to fight these six…things. There is more than resistance to be put up. There is a way to fight back.”
She clenched a fist. Khelta raised her brows.
“If you mean a weapon of Ailendamus we can bring to this world…”
“No, great Majesty. I mean something else entirely. I am privy to a bit of knowledge about my great Kingdom, but far less than those…directly involved. Yet I knew enough. So when Great Xarkouth came, I journeyed to persuade one who could tell you all.”
“Thus, she came here. Listen, you arrogant fools of Chandrar. Listen.”
Xarkouth’s head rose. The Great Knight Eclizza’s eyes burned.
“I died escorting one called the Wind Runner of Reizmelt to Ailendamus. She was a curious woman. A ‘thief’, or so the Duke Rhisveri of Ailendamus claimed. She had tried to steal a certain object, of whose worth even I was not aware until recently. His great treasure.”
Erin Solstice choked. She knew–? But Eclizza wasn’t done. She bowed her head low, as if struggling over her vows to secrecy she had held in life, but what was that now, in death? Faced with the threats upon them?
“No one living knows, save the Duke, who is, in fact, in control of Ailendamus. Who is…not a mortal man. He has an object of such worth that my death was a pittance to it, in my own estimation, and I am a Great Knight of Ailendamus! I tell you this now, as it is heard among Terandria. Yet Terandria has no agents in the mortal realm.”
“What is this Duke? Not a mortal man?”
Xarkouth’s eyes glittered in dour amusement, and the ghosts of dead rulers looked offended. Yet for answer, Dame Eclizza only turned.
“…It is not my tale to tell, and I forswear my oaths even now to relate this, milady ghosts, Miss Solstice. Nor do I know the full tale of it. I only knew who to ask.”
She turned, and the last ghost approached, who had not ridden with Xarkouth. Who could not. Ghosts looked up and Khelta muttered an oath that shook the land slightly. Erin Solstice’s jaw opened wide, wide…
No one living knew what Rhisveri possessed. Ryoka knew it was there. But even the Great Knights did not know. Yet the dead? Oh, the dead knew, and they were willing to talk.
Down, out of the skies, came a figure larger than Xarkouth. Beautiful, ghostly scales, deep eyes of power.
A Wyrm. He descended, as hostility rose from the ghosts below, but the Wyrm sneered, even at Xarkouth, though they were distant cousins.
“So here are the fabled ghosts of Chandrar. Well, for this journey I roused myself, and I shall accept your gratitude.”
He was not the oldest of his kind, or the grandest in death. But he had a temperament to match. Khelta called out, frowning at the arrogant Wyrm.
“Who are you, Wyrm of Terandria?”
“Second-last of my spawn. Perhaps the last true Wyrm’s get in this world. Certainly, of the last male Wyrms. For the serpent who spawned me and my kin was the last, and our sisters died young. We grew, and fought, across age to age, but withered. The last of us were great, and Dragons feared us.”
“Hah.”
Xarkouth muttered, but Erin was entranced by the Wyrm. He raised his head.
“I am Calthusveri. Brother of the damned Rhisveri of Ailendamus, who masquerades as a man. I died eight hundred years ago when we fought. The last two of us, over my great treasure he now hoards. An artifact of such power that even you sneering ghosts of old would wet yourself at its name.”
The sneering ghosts of old looked at the Wyrm. Yet–Erin suddenly saw a flicker in even the oldest’s eyes. Could it actually be?
“Do not delay, Calthusveri. What is so important a Dragonlord, Wyrm, and such ghosts risked their souls to cross the ocean once more to tell us of?”
The Wyrm hesitated. Then his eyes grew crafty.
“If I tell you, I would demand a favor in kind.”
“Not to use it.”
Dame Eclizza interrupted hurriedly. The Wyrm snarled at her.
“Silence, you little…! Very well. I shall tell you, since it is more common knowledge. But I expect favors in kind! From this working, perhaps. It may all be realized, and we may all benefit if we use it right. Not that it will be easy to acquire. My brother will defend it with everything, yet I hear you have a nation you can spur to fight. So. Then.”
He huffed, clearly regretting telling anyone. His eyes glittered as he glanced at Erin, but he did not care about her.
“It is more valuable than a half-dead child. More than a way to talk with the living. After all, did I not acquire it from the deepest places, from the very fingers of legend? Was it not worth kin battling kin to the death for? Yes, each of you ghosts, one yet remains. One more! One of the greatest works ever created, by one who reached the zenith of magic!”
The ghosts looked as the Wyrm raised his head and told them what Rhisveri was hiding. What Ryoka Griffin had nearly stolen. Erin Solstice couldn’t believe it. It was unfair. It shouldn’t exist.
But if you had a game. If you had levels, and classes, and Skills…you also had this. At least one, from days so ancient even Dragons thought none remained. It would change everything. But who would use it?
“A Scroll of Resurrection.”
