However, things changed so fast. Eldavin opened the door to Aaron’s room without asking. Aaron would have protested, but nothing…special…was in there.
“Grand Magus Eldavin. What are you doing in Aaron’s room?”
Eldavin turned at Elena’s sharp voice. He gave her a slight nod.
“Miss Elena. Excuse the intrusion, but I am in a hurry. Moreover, young Vanwell did mention this before…ah, there it is. Is this gun-object there too? To the battle rooms or whatever nonsense you call it.”
He turned. And he had…Aaron’s heart skipped a beat. Elena started.
The Iron Man glove.
That was what everyone called it. It could actually shoot lightning, but it had to be hooked up to a bulky magicore battery. Eldavin eyed the creation of Aaron, Archmage Naili, and to some degree, Emerrhain, with distaste.
“I see what’s been done, now. Yes, yes. A decent reinforcement spell, non-conductivity and electrical resistance, obviously, and a simple link to a [Shock Volt] spell from the magicore battery. Activate in a number of ways. How…simple. Yet I’m told it echoes some element from Earth?”
“Er…er…stories, Grand Magus. It doesn’t exist yet, but it’s one of the uh, superhero stories.”
“Ah, yes. Theoretical. But this is a version of a weapon from your world? It fires pellets, though, not metal?”
Saif had the airsoft gun that had perplexed and intimidated the [Mages] on the wrong end of it. The pellets that the [Mages] had made for it gave it more ammunition, and indeed, they had found out how to maintain it.
Just not replicate. Eldavin stared at the object with clear distaste.
“I’d like to see it in action. Teura, would you do me the favor of…?”
She was already stepping into the battle room, and let Saif do his demonstration with his Boots of Speed, tricks, zipping out of cover, firing, repositioning…
Eldavin watched as he summoned more of his apprentices. A young [Bard] had some armor–plain steel, unenchanted, unlike the painted gauntlet Aaron had worked so hard on. He had a bad feeling about what was coming next.
“I see. So Earth’s amazing tactics, which so befuddled our best battle mages, is a simple upgrade of a crossbow and the ability to use cover and move around. The age of Wistram’s name being feared on every war front is clearly long gone. No wonder that Magus Grimalkin told me he had a kill count of over three dozen.”
Eldavin looked disgusted. Not at Teura, but at Saif’s amazing combat abilities. The young man saw Eldavin walk over.
“I can see what is meant now. If that object were to fire metal at the speeds described, I hardly imagine a mundane army would survive long. [Mages]? We can certainly counter that.”
“You have a thought, Grand Magus?”
Teura reappeared, and his personal cortege listened avidly. Eldavin smiled.
“Intangibility spells. Unless their munitions are enchanted, it should be a standard. We’ll bring it back. However, Earth has many unique ideas that echo, or build upon, concepts of times past. Their notions of armored vehicles…intriguing. I have to say, there is some charm to experimenting. So, young Aaron, I’m told you’ve been working on this ‘armored suit’ idea for quite some time.”
Aaron stared as Eldavin turned, holding the glove out.
“Will you talk to me about this ‘Iron Man’ concept?”
“I–I–well, it’s only an idea. But I thought if you had a suit of armor, and you could still cast magic…or just fly around…”
Elena watched as Aaron tried to explain to Eldavin. For some reason he stuttered, despite being so enthusiastic about it. Eldavin hmmed, tapping his lips.
“So a flying [Knight]. There have been those in the past. What I like is the idea of this magical battery. You see? Clearly a simple magicore battery is foolish, but a pack mounted on the rear?”
“It’s an expensive idea, Grand Magus. A single suit of that would cost gold to bronze pennies compared to even a traditional [Knight].”
Telim murmured. The High Magus liked the idea of adventure, same as Aaron. But Eldavin…why was he asking?
“Of course, High Mage Telim. But considering that it might protect a [Mage], who has spent decades in study? A single warrior can change the tides. That’s what a superhero is all about, isn’t it, Aaron?”
“Sort of.”
Eldavin smiled. It was kindly, but…Elena thought it was different from how he had acted at the start. He was less mysterious. More…active.
“Then we’ll begin. Everyone, follow through. I don’t think we need to enchant from the ground up; we’ll get some Boots of Levitation. Just so long as we keep the magical interference near zero. Teura, you lightweight that breastplate. I’ll overlay it; just keep the enchantment concise. Should I enchant Saif’s gun to enhance the output? Perhaps not if it’s meant to be demonstrated. We don’t need casualties already.”
Aaron’s mouth went dry as Eldavin pointed and a gauntlet rose. The Grand Magus hmmed, and it changed color, matching the very gauntlet he had.
“Grand Magus? What are you doing?”
Elena spoke quietly. The half-Elf turned.
“Realizing young Aaron’s project, Miss Elena. Aaron, I hope you will volunteer to trial the armor? If we can get it working, this can be one of the hearts of Wistram’s own arm of battle. Flying, [Armored Mages]. It’s been done before. They don’t cast spells, they just blast things with bound spells from the gauntlets and rely on magical batteries. Ingenious.”
Blackmage and Elena traded a look. Eldavin turned back to the suit of armor as the other [Mages] gathered around. Teura went off to get the boots. Aaron stood there.
It was one thing to make a gauntlet, to dream of it. Eldavin? He intended to realize it.
“Did you say ‘arm of battle’, Grand Magus? Wistram doesn’t have an army.”
He turned, impatient.
“Nonsense, my dear. We have a Golem army here, but we cannot control it or do anything with it. Wistram used to stride into battlefields. Well, if we are preparing for anything, be it Earth, or…anything else…”
His eyes flickered.
“We might as well prepare, shouldn’t we? Aaron, come here. How fast were you hoping to go? And ah, are there any more things about this iron-fellow you can tell me about? Any more ideas would be quite interesting. Flying planes? I don’t see a [Flying] spell being superceded for the moment and this is already one aerial project. However…”
Elena backed away. Saif had his toy gun in his hands, and it was a toy. He backed up too. Eldavin had just offered to transform it. Elena had worried and told the others to keep silent. Now here was the nightmare Cara had dreamed of, calmly making the first suit of magical armor. And that?
That was only the beginning of Eldavin’s renaissance in Wistram.
 
—-
 
When it seemed like the world was burning, when it all seemed bad. Not all hands were against you. Not all events were sad.
The misconception was about enemies. Who were their enemies? Wistram? Drakes? Dead things?
You were against some people by accident, or because you had a side. Not because they were evil. Some of them might be misguided, or simply stubborn or…
They were not all against you. Grand Magus Eldavin was so busy as he worked. Nevertheless, he had time to realize a young man’s dream, and that was how he saw it. Armored [Mages], flying around?
Sometimes you needed them. After all…he paused and thought about it.
House Veltras, backed by the Five Families, was sailing into conflict against Ailendamus. Ryoka Griffin was missing, spirited away by a superi–by a competent spellcaster. He could put two and two together.
That girl is under my protection. The half-Elf hummed. He had felt like he’d woken up. He had indeed had a revelation of sorts. But he was still T–Eldavin. That girl is under my protection.
How dare you? Whoever you are–and children? He had told Valeterisa to look into that little child’s disappearance on her way south. Too long had Wistram allowed things like Fissival’s actions to go unchecked.
There could be a better world. He knew it. Not Earth. A better world. He felt like he had seen it, before. Time now again.
 
—-
 
Who are your enemies? Who, in this wide world, are your foes?
Only a fool said they had no foes. That was a thoughtless, incredibly stupid statement. Understandable, hyperbolic, but consider this: to say you had ‘no enemies’ and you got along with everyone was to turn a blind eye to injustice.
You weren’t opposed to the act of keeping slaves? If you had no enemies, you stayed away from politics or world-events, you didn’t get to pretend terrible atrocities didn’t happen. You just stated, by inaction, you didn’t really care.
Erin Solstice had enemies. She also had great friends. Even now, though, even in death, she had taken a stand.
“Slaves are bad. No, wait. Slavery is bad. Yup. Yup.”
It might be a hard pill to swallow, but someone had to say it. And shove it down every throat, if need be. That was why some of them loved her.
The ghosts of Roshal and their like watched, narrow-eyed, thin lipped, and poor of soul. The ‘best’ of them weren’t even here, but those who were just petty enough not to sink into Riqre’s depths had no voice that Erin wanted to hear.
She sat amongst friends and companions, dead though they might be. She listened and learned and laughed.
“Gerial. Was that what Ceria was like? She’s so…different now.”
“Ah, well. That’s how we knew her. She was in a slump. So were we, in a way. Calruz was always sort of bull-headed, but he really got into trouble when he first came to Izril. He thought they’d make him Gold-rank in a month.”
“That’s Calruz…I need to see him. What should I…I say?”
The man thought. He shook his head, but not for lack of words.
You got one chance, ever. Which was terrifying because everyone forgot it, until it was too late and they were reminded. But if you got two…
“Tell that bull-headed idiot. Tell him…tell him I said…”
He leaned over and whispered. The [Innkeeper] listened. And promised to remember.
“I’ll tell him, I promise. And–and has anyone found anyone else who knows someone I know? I don’t think Mrsha’s parents are here, or…her tribe. Maybe there are some ghosts still coming?”
“If there are any, we will find them.”
Calmly, Califor replied. Erin nodded. Now was time to rest. They would go back to studying soon, but she had a day off. A day, measured by the dead.
“What day is it today? Is it the fourteenth or fifteenth?”
Out on the sands, a Queen of Nerrhavia’s Fallen seized a newly-appeared [Bandit] and shook him until he answered her. She relaxed.
“Still the same day!”
Nerrhavia’s own shade rolled her eyes at Queen Merindue.
Silly ghosts. Silly…sad ghosts, working together. Erin was aware of a great event taking place with Khelt’s rulers. They tried to keep it secret, but everyone could see the magical thingamabobby they were working on.
However, she had different goals and a job to do. Erin’s head was packed with revelations of the dead and she feared she’d forget some things. Unimportant things, like Potions of Youth, as opposed to Gerial’s last words, of course.
It was as she sat, though, that a few more ghosts introduced themselves to her. The [Witches] were aware even Erin’s ghost had limits to the knowledge she could cram into her mind. They were cutting out that portion of her learning.
“Just in case her head were to explode upon returning to her body.”
Somillune remarked. Erin Solstice hesitated.
“Hah. That’s a joke, right?”
“Most likely.”
However, one ghost did come up the steps, hobbling, frowning up at her. Erin Solstice, in the midst of asking Cawe about her family, anyone to talk to, hesitated.
“Who’s this? Someone else to help out the Khelt-people?”
Queen Khelta herself frowned down as she floated past, but shook her head.
“Not ours. Is yon figure a guest, Witch Califor?”
The Witch peered down. Her eyes blinked twice, and she looked past Khelta, sharply.
A gigantic [Witch] of tree and earth nodded.
“I HAVE FOUND HIM, THOUGH IT TOOK A DOING TO CONVINCE HIM TO COME.”
The ghost walking up the stairs winced, and put two fingers in his ears. Khelta blinked, and the ghosts stirred.
“Who’s that?”
A [Vision of the Desert] nudged the [Archmage of Grasses], the Gnoll who was really unhappy to hear about what those damn Drakes had done to her people. The Gnoll stroked her chin.
“I…don’t know. Perhaps he is not as important?”
On the contrary. The older ghosts had no idea, even the ones who had been [Legends]–literally–in their era. Yet all the hip, trendy new ghosts knew.
“I didn’t even think to–Califor, you sent for him?”
The Witch nodded at the recently dead. Her eyes lit on an older man, balding, grumpily stomping up the stairs and looking around. That he was old, was a meaning. Some ghosts looked like they had at the prime of their life. However they chose.
But this man clearly believed how I died is how I damn well died. He had his eyes on Erin, recognizing her as halfway between life and death as all ghosts could.
“So this is the young woman you hauled me all the way here for? Well, she doesn’t look like much. And I’m to celebrate her as the ‘one true hope’, eh? Hah.”
Erin Solstice blinked as a crabby old man halted, arms folded. He wore a kind of robe, but more sensical than [Mages]. Many pockets, to hold sheafs of paper–there was a quill behind one ear, and two in various sleeves. He had ink stains on one arm, a sign his ghost was more powerful, and remembered such details.
Personality. He peered down his glasses at her.
“Um. Hello. Who are you?”
“Annoyed, miss. Annoyed that even when I’m dead, I don’t have time to work and sit alone in peace. Annoyed that you don’t have the courtesy to stand up and introduce yourself despite me coming all this way.”
Erin Solstice blinked. Then she slowly rose. She had the conflicting desire to poke fun at this old man, and to apologize.
“I’m sorry. Sort of. Uh, I’m Erin Solstice. Who are you?”
She offered him a hand. He took it, briskly, and shook it.
“Architect Drevish, formerly of Reim. At your service, miss.”
Below her, ghosts turned. The old ones had no idea what all the fuss was. But Cawe went wide-eyed, as did Gerial. Even Reim’s former king, or rather, grandfather of Flos, raised his head.
“Drevish. Drevish. Hold on. I sort of know that name. Drevish…”
Erin rubbed her chin with genuine puzzlement. The [Architect] snorted. Gerial whispered.
“Erin! This is Drevish, the Architect! One of the King of Destruction’s Seven!”
Erin Solstice’s eyes widened. Below her, every [Architect], [Builder of Fables], and similarly-classed ghost looked up in deep offense. Yet the greatest [Architect] of his time had an ego to match.
