To avoid hurting her by accident? Getting in her way? Or…?
“Oh, Domehead. I have not treated you well. Do you…do you understand me? Can you communicate?”
The great automaton said nothing, but the lights moved in its head. Nsiia threw her head back and yowled, like Yinah. A guilty sound. Ksmvr nearly fell over a rock as the sun began to bake the dry, flat ground. It was warm at first, then unpleasantly hot. He absently reached for a water bottle. He must remember to hydrate.
“I will make it up to you. I must apologize. You–Domehead, never let anyone strike you again. Not I, not your creators, not anyone. Do you understand me? Can you tell me if you rage?”
He said and did nothing, just ran. Nsiia looked at him. Then she rode closer.
Again, the Golem veered away slightly, but Nsiia just followed. Domehead hesitated…then did what no unthinking Golem should. He stopped moving away and let her come nearer. As they rode, Nsiia gently placed a hand on his side.
“I know not what Femithain has given you. But if Ksmvr is correct…I beg your forgiveness again, and again, Domehead. For you are a child born of metal and magic. Yet…you come to us, on this day we shall mark, and mark again. Little child. Born to Tiqr. Beast’s friend. Stop your crying. Still your fear. For wherever animal or person roams, a friend shall be near. I ask that you grow older, and wiser, and live long. Levels come to you, and may your life be filled with song…”
Ksmvr listened, as she began to recite a nursery rhyme. He had never heard it before, and she dared not slow, even as she rode. Yet the Empress never took her hand away from the great Golem as she sang.
So passed their first hours in flight. As the sun rose, it got hotter, and hotter, and hotter.
Ksmvr knew this, of course, but he found it displeasurable the more it baked his brown-black carapace. Nsiia was used to it. Domehead didn’t care. Ksmvr did not slow, but he emptied the first water flask that would have lasted him half a day on Izril.
“The heat is a disadvantageous foe.”
He confided to Nsiia as they slowed. She nodded.
“What manner of provisions have you? I didn’t have much to take, although I had a bag in case I did ever manage to flee…”
“I have ample food and supplies. Observe. Rations.”
He had bought nearly twenty pounds of dried rations, a staple across Adventurer’s Guilds and one of the things they sold. These were, of course, a local variety used by Illivere’s folk, so it was a kind of Yellat-paste mixed with nuts, dried jerky, then sun-dried and compiled into bars or even cubes.
Nsiia’s look of disgust said it all. Yinah sniffed a bit of a bar and tried to hawk a hairball up.
“I shall hunt, if we have time to slow. Or on the ride.”
“Will your horse tire? If we must slow…”
Ksmvr was aware horses needed such things. Nsiia laughed and patted the brave mare who tossed her head and actually reared slightly as if she understood everything.
“She rides in the company of the Empress of Beasts! A finer horse you will not find even in Jecrass! And this is a woman who was born for battle and adventure. I will only give her the strength for it!”
“Ah. Enhancement Skills. Very nice.”
Nsiia lost some of her smile. She frowned at Ksmvr.
“You are a bit too practical for my tastes, Ksmvr. Have you no sense of drama?”
“I have attended many plays, thank you.”
Ksmvr carefully topped up his water supplies. He had a lot of water, but he still felt unpleasant, so he drank more. Nsiia saw, and nodded.
“I know how to find wells. We shall stop and perhaps purchase more supplies. It is hard to disguise you, but at a distance with a cloak? It can be done. No doubt we are being scried.”
She snapped her fingers with vexation.
“Femithain gifted me with a ring to hide my presence! A standard thing. But you do not have one, do you?”
“No.”
“Nor does Yinah. Or Domehead. Well, I shall simply have to try to ruin any [Scrying] spells myself. Let me simply…”
She frowned mightily, and Ksmvr felt the air change. He felt his heart beat a bit faster, and Yinah yowled.
“What are you doing?”
“Using my aura to block spells. I dislike it, and it will tire me out. Grr…there.”
She shook herself, as if shedding something on her back. Ksmvr was mightily impressed.
“Auras seem very convenient.”
“They are. I myself trust a blade more than an aura, though. Enough talk. If you have one, perhaps I shall teach you as we run? I do not have the means to unearth it, though. Onwards!”
They headed off. Ksmvr ran, but something began to happen after only twenty six minutes. He began to…slow. Domehead moved up a pace, and Nsiia glanced at him.
“Is something wrong?”
“I do not feel good. This is a distasteful heat.”
“A potion, perhaps…?”
Ksmvr sipped a stamina potion, and felt the jolt of energy, but he still felt bad. He sped up anyways, but Nsiia watched him, frowning.
After only six minutes, Ksmvr went for his water again and drank a lot. Nsiia cautioned him.
“Too much will slow you down.”
Ksmvr splashed some on his body.
“I am not a fool. Do not lecture me, Empress.”
She blinked once. The Antinium had a snappish tone to his voice. After only three more minutes, he slowed further, stumbling.
“Ksmvr! What is wrong?”
“I do not feel good. It is hot.”
The Antinium muttered. He tried to keep moving…then slowed down. Then he fell down and curled up. Nsiia, astonished, leapt from the mare’s back and ran over to him. She put a hand on his shelled back and yanked it away.
“You are burning up!”
Ksmvr was hot to the touch. Not like metal left under the sun, but close. She grabbed her own water flask and poured it on him.
“What’s wrong?”
“Hot.”
That was all Ksmvr said. She was watching him shut down in front of her. Why? He had seemed to hydrate and he was a Level 30 [Skirmisher]! What was…?
It was as Nsiia stared at the sweat on her own skin, and at Ksmvr, that she realized what it was.
Perspiration. He wasn’t sweating.
“Ksmvr! You don’t sweat?”
He didn’t respond, but Nsiia realized–bugs didn’t. They didn’t regulate their body’s temperatures, not like other creatures did. They hid in the shade in the heat, under the sand, and when winter came…
Heat and cold. Ksmvr wasn’t moving. Frantically, Nsiia dumped the rest of her flask over him and looked around.
This was not the place for shade. They were entering Tiqr, but a war-ravaged part of Tiqr, and this was one of those places where you travelled in arid conditions from oasis to oasis, which were greatly important. Further towards the capital there was more water, but it was a plague across Chandrar.
Water. Some nations had the Purifier Golem, or had money to buy water, or natural rivers. Or they stole it, like Savere. But nowhere was immune from thirst. And heat?
A shadow passed over her. Nsiia whirled.
“Domehead! Stand here, please! Shield Ksmvr from the sun while I think.”
The Golem instantly blocked the killing sun from covering Ksmvr. Nsiia searched through his gear, frantically. However, neither was a [Mage]…
“We need to cool him down. Ah! He hasn’t any elemental scrolls…very well. Very well.”
She seized the objects he had and improvised to save his life.
 
—-
 
Ksmvr was hot. He was too hot. It was pain, not like physical pain, but a bad, terrible suffocation of heat. He couldn’t see or think. It was just there, to be endured, with no relief.
Until it wasn’t. Until he felt something all over him, dripping, swishing, pattering. So much of it that it cooled him down.
Right up until he realized he was drowning.
“I am going to die! Water! Water!”
He flailed his arms wildly. Nsiia backed up, and Yinah stopped bathing in the entirety of Ksmvr’s water rations she was dumping on him. But it had worked. She had given him the perspiration his body lacked, and Ksmvr came to.
“Wh–what happened?”
“You are dying of heatstroke, friend. Domehead, help me. Carefully, carefully…”
Ksmvr tried to move, but it was like someone had hit him with a spell. He felt two massive hands pick him up, and Nsiia fussed around him, bending down, applying something to him.
“What are you doing? I will run…I am a Gold-rank adventurer. I do not fall to heat.”
She patted his shoulder.
“You are in no condition to do either, Ksmvr. Until it turns dark and we can cool you down, you are as weak as a Sariant Lamb, the worthless little things. Rest. Domehead will carry you.”
“But the sun? You have used up my water.”
“Yes. We will manage. A well will present itself. But this…should save you until we get there.”
She pasted more of whatever it was all over Ksmvr. It was mud, he realized. The glop from all the water she’d dumped down. A cooling covering.
“I am embarrassed.”
“Everyone has a flaw, friend. Isn’t it lucky you took me?”
“Yes. Thank you.”
Domehead’s crystals whirled as he carefully held Ksmvr, the dangerous Antinium, weak as a lamb in his hands. If the Golem thought…Nsiia put a hand on his arm.
“You see? We two laid you low, Domehead. He, of necessity. I, of cruelty. But we are allies. Protect him, I ask you.”
The Golem did nothing. Nsiia stared up at him, anxiously. Ksmvr, head lolling, indeed unable to move, had an insight.
“You. Domehead.”
The Golem adjusted its posture. Ksmvr whispered.
“You nod when someone asks you for something like this. It is a sign of affirmation, and expected.”
The Golem paused. Then Nsiia saw it try to nod at her. Her eyes went wide. Ksmvr smiled. Nsiia’s head turned to him.
“How did you…?”
“I had to be told too.”
 
—-
 
Onwards, and this time with a pressing concern as the trio moved. Nsiia rode ahead, head high, on a swivel. From what the delirious Ksmvr saw, it was not good.
So flat. The horizon turned to wavy lines in the distance. They were passing through a true desert terrain and it seemed to Ksmvr nothing could survive here. That anything did was because they were so small they could survive off the barest hints of moisture–or they had magic in them.
“Sand Worms will be our only true threat, I think. This is not part of Zeikhal in truth; just a place sands reclaimed. Yet there will be wells.”
“Wells. Where does the water come from?”
“From mountains. It runs down. Or groundwater from whenever it rains, deep basins. Or simply…up.”
“That is not how water works.”
“Then you have not seen all wells, friend! And it may seem deserted to you, but any traveller knows there are wells on their journey. I think…if I recall correctly…aha!”
She spotted a well at last, though Ksmvr had no earthly idea how. Experience; Nsiia pointed, and they headed down the barest hint of a road, packed from use compared to the dust around them. The very earth was cracked, but as promised, there was a well.
Just a circle of tightly-packed stones, into which you could hurl a bucket or waterskin and use the rope to draw it up. Nsiia was doing just that.
“Water for your rations, cooling for you. We must travel at night and find a way to remedy your weakness, Ksmvr.”
The mud had baked dry already in the heat. The Antinium was still weak as she applied more water and fed Yinah some. It was not good water, but it was there.
“I did not expect this. I have never been away from Izril.”
“Ah, well…when we reach my people, we sh–”
Nsiia broke off, because there was a scream from above. Then, without warning, a stone struck the earth near them and a shape circled overhead.
“That is my well!”
Ksmvr tried to pull for his blade, but he couldn’t. Domehead moved–but Nsiia held up a hand.
“Domehead, stop! Hey there, well’s guardian! We did not see a sign!”
A Garuda landed, far enough away to be well out of danger, a sling in one hand, a simple spear in the other.
What was this? Ksmvr saw the Garuda eye him, but he must have seemed a ball of mud. Domehead and Nsiia he was far more wary of.
“What’s this? Are you travellers or nobility, to have a Golem bodyguard? What’s that he holds?”
“Private business, friend. I come from Illivere.”
The Garuda grunted. Ksmvr didn’t see his dress, but it must have been light to let him fly around.
“That’s clear. This is my well.”
“And I did not see the sign. Was there a bowl? I would have left the fee if I had seen it. You come to anger too fast, guardian.”
“Hmph. Well, it must have been blown away, though it was secured! The fee is four silver. More, with all the water you’ve taken.”
Nsiia mumbled and Ksmvr, holding still, heard her fish around in her bag of holding.
“It seems a steep price to pay! I have been at this well before, and it was a silver only, and we saw no guardian.”
“Well, I must not have seen you. Times are harder. Tiqr’s fallen, but this is my well. I’ve maintained it for years.”
“Only the one?”
“Psh. What do you care? It’s a pittance to you and it keeps me alive.”
Nsiia nodded agreeably. The Garuda kept frowning at Ksmvr as she tossed the coins down.
“We’ll leave and be on our way, friend. As soon as we draw the rest of the water.”
“Hmph. Do that.”
Ksmvr heard the beat of wings, but he still didn’t move. He heard Nsiia go back to the well, and draw more water. She filled his flasks, then murmured.
“Domehead, he’s circling. Turn slightly.”
The Golem obeyed, shielding Ksmvr. Nsiia was silent as Ksmvr whispered.
“Is that common?”
“Oh yes. Someone must own a well. Someone must make sure it is not befouled. It is a living, and individuals or tribes or cities hold their own. A single Garuda is a threat indeed. Had I no bow, he could strike me with stones with the right Skills, or even harry a group. Even if they were mighty, he could warn others out of maliciousness.”
“I see. A different place indeed. No one does this in Izril.”
“So I am told. They don’t claim rivers?”
Ksmvr shook his head slightly. He felt so miserable. He was beginning to hate Chandrar. It definitely ranked below Izril on his scale of exactly two continents he had now been to. Below Rhir, maybe, even though he had heard Crelers came from there.
“Some do, but not for access. Yvlon tells me that no noble truly tries to claim all of a river. Some do things like toss silver into wells, but that is only tradition.”
“What, to purify the water? Odd traditions, Ksmvr. I should like to visit, nevertheless. Someday…we have the water. Domehead, keep up. Quickly, now.”
Something was wrong. Nsiia set a fast pace, so that Domehead jolted Ksmvr a bit. Did she want to escape the Garuda?
No. As it turned out, she was merely finding the right place. She set herself, on a hill of all things, a natural rise and the only such one, and bade Domehead stop. She waited.
“Why have we stopped, Nsiia?”
“For his friends, of course.”
