“I know... I overreacted.” Much as I hate to admit it, I totally did. “I was desperate for a solution to all my woes, I just went along with his suggestion without thinking. If I’d stopped to think about it, I could’ve mentioned that I drank Water Chi before and it had no effect, but I just... I wanted the Abbot to be right. I took a blind leap of faith and got upset when I landed on my face, when instead, it shouldn’t have come as a surprise.”

“It’s okay Rainy. He’s a monk, he’ll forgive you if you apologize. And don’t worry about wasting your Water Chi. Even if you poured all of it away, you’ll still figure this all out, and if you can’t, then just wait for Daddy to come up with a solution.” Patting my hand, Lin adds, “But maybe you should temper your expectations, ya? It took mister Pee-Shi decades to recover, so why are you in such a big rush?”

I would love to see how Broken Blade Pichai reacts to being called ‘Pee-Shi’, but he’d have to show up first, or at least reply to a letter. “It’s not like I’m rushing because I want to. I would’ve been perfectly happy recovering at my own pace back in the citadel, but the circumstances won’t allow it.”

“Then just leave, ya?” Bolting up with a smile, Lin tugs on my good hand but fails to free it from Aurie’s grasp, his arms wrapped carefully around my wrist in silent appeal for pets. “Not even the stinky Legate can stop you if you want to go. Just have mister rat-rat bring you away, or Abby, or I could talk to Daddy and he’ll –”

“Leaving won’t make all the problems go away, Lin.” Giving Aurie a kiss on the nose, I carefully sit up and look my sweet wifey in the eyes. “I’ll be safe, but what about everyone I leave behind? Even GangShu can’t bring all the Sentinels safely back North, and if I leave, they’ll be the ones to pay the price. Besides, I’d never forgive myself if I ran away and abandoned my soldiers. Dastan and the others would haunt me to my dying day.”

“Them? They’ll be fine hubby.” Rolling her eyes, she asks, “Das-Das killed a Demon, hubby. Zu-Zu is probably already pressuring the Legate to overturn the Disciplinary Corps’ judgment, because Das-Das is too talented to throw away.” Nodding with confidence, Lin declares, “Once Zu-Zu’s opinion becomes known to the public, we’ll be back in the citadel by end of the week, ya?”

It takes an embarrassingly long time to realize Lin’s talking about Nian Zu, because it’s hard to connect the Colonel General and Hero of the Northern Wall to ‘Zu-Zu’, but after thinking it through, I realize she’s probably right. Having built his career out of what other Officers view as a thankless task, Nian Zu’s word holds a lot of weight in the North, and his rank does the same for the rest of the Empire. If he says Dastan is too talented to be wasted on the front lines, the other Colonel Generals will take notice and maybe weigh in.

While the people will always revile a traitor, any commander worth his salt will understand that one can never have too many talented soldiers.

Pulling Lin into my embrace, I kiss her cheek and squeeze her tight, though I don’t dare do anything more. My tiny tent might be free of Lin’s veiled guards, but it will prove no defence against them if I should overstep my bounds. They guard Lin’s chastity more fiercely than the Emperor guards his harem, and I’m told he has a whole city set aside just to house them, one defended by women and eunuchs to keep him from getting cucked.

Seems a bit overboard, but on the other hand, what would it be like to have a harem big enough to fill a whole city?

...No. Bad Rain. Bad. Five wives is already plenty, and more than you deserve. Lin and the others already deserve better, so don’t go dreaming of making things worse.

With Lin’s help, I head out and find Alsantset waiting nearby with Song, Luo-Luo and the rest of my floofs around her while Ping Ping looms in the background. Greeting me with a hug, Alsantset looks me over with a smile and says, “I see your mood has improved, little Rain. When you feel up to it, go thank the Abbot for keeping your tirade from reaching any other ears, though I am still tempted to wash your mouth out with soap, if only on principle.”

Oof. “Sorry, sister. I shouldn’t have lost my temper, it reflects poorly on me and my upbringing.” Intending to go apologize right away, I change my plans as Alsantset moves to reheat my dinner and my belly rumbles at the sight. “I’ll find the Abbot after dinner.” Not just to apologize for my childish tantrum, but also so I can ask why he thought drinking Chi Water would be a good idea. He was wrong, but the road to success is paved with mistakes. “So... what’d I miss?”

“While you slept, I brought your consort to the training grounds to examine her progress.” Judging from Luo-Luo’s hang-dog expression, I suspect she hasn’t progressed much at all, which makes it all the more surprising when Alsantset says, “She is a passable Martial Warrior.”

Passable? Really? That’s pretty high praise considering she comes from a long line of Martial Warriors who don’t believe in positive reinforcement. I was one of the best of my generation, and the best I ever got when starting out was ‘barely passable’, which speaks volumes to Luo-Luo’s talents. Before I can ask for details, Alsantset continues, “Li Song has also made great strides, defeating Dastan, Tam Taewoong, and a number of other would-be challengers.”

Challengers? More like suitors. I bet they’re all here to try their hand at taming a ‘Bekhai Savage’, but Song is the worst target they could’ve picked aside from Mila. Seeing her cat-ears flickering with pride, I smile and say, “Impressive showing, Song. How’d you defeat Dastan?”

“By knowing when to advance and retreat.” Though stony-faced as always, Song’s enthusiasm gives her away as she explains in great detail how she beat Dastan by using his strength against him. Knowing she couldn’t match him in raw strength or overcome his fancy footwork, Song tricked him into thinking she was going to clash head-on, but pulled back at the last moment and forced him to overextend. Clever girl using his strength against him, because even if Dastan sees it coming, he can’t half-commit on an attack because Song’s attack could also be real, so he has no choice but to commit to the offensive or hunker down and stay on the defensive, which is not an ideal position for an axe-wielder.

Though I also ask Luo-Luo how her matches went, she’s less descriptive and more vague, so I quickly lose interest. She’s only had a few months of training, but considering she still flinches when Mafu rushes to her side, I doubt she’ll be any use on the battlefield even if she had another decade to prepare, which is fine. She’s no warrior, and I’ll do everything I can to keep her safe, because even though we’re not in love, she’s proven her loyalty time and time again. Maybe the Legate still has plans for her, but I’ll deal with the problems as they come. For now, I just need to take things one step at a time, which means dinner, then an apology, probably followed by a heated debate on theology.

Problem is... custom demands I present a gift alongside my apology, but what do you give to an ascetic, masochistic monk?

Chapter Meme
