“Don’t blame me. This is for your protection,” Zac said while erecting a series of barriers and communication jammers around the cave, effectively turning it into a holding cell.

With Ramses’ ruined cultivation, he could bash his head against the shields for years without any results. Left by the bedside was also enough water and rations to last Ramses a few months. It was by no means a foolproof solution, but restraining Ramses with sealing treasures like Ogras did with Tavza was a death sentence.

The mountain range hadn’t changed much. A few days was not enough for nature to recover on its own, making the green patch created by the priest stand out all the more. It didn’t make sense to Zac. Why was there no reclamation work underway? Where was everyone? The Limitless Empire wasn’t the kind of force that would let nature slowly recover. They should be imposing their will on the harried mountain range, shaping it to suit their needs.

The mountaintop palaces that survived the tribulation were abandoned, and Zac couldn’t sense spiritual fluctuations from any direction—not even the distinct aura of the Margrave’s Heavenly Territory. If not for meeting the priest the other day, Zac might have thought he’d been ejected from the memory domain upon leaving the Judgment Plateau.

There were no calls of treasure or accumulations of fate no matter which direction Zac turned. Zac took out the Primo’s feather from his Spatial Ring. He’d already done this a few times while growing impatient with Ramses’s slow recovery. It still didn’t react in the slightest to the surroundings, and it rejected Zac’s attempts to infuse it with any of his Daos. Not even the Void could penetrate the absolute Death it held.

With nothing better to go on, Zac flew in the direction from which he’d sensed the Margrave’s aura when first arriving. Zac figured the members of Fuxi Halls would have flocked to him for safety when the Heavens descended. The rolling mountains and deep valleys seemed endless, and their gargantuan size made Zac’s progress seem slower than it was.

Nevertheless, after hours of uninterrupted flight, Zac started to see some change in the environment. The further he moved from the tribulation’s epicenter, the better off the mountains looked. Fewer were crushed by Heavenly wrath, and the cracks covering their surface didn’t go as deep. They also retained more energy, though it was still less than what you’d find in the shallows. Zac had to use Cosmic Crystals to keep his reserves topped up.

With less foundational damage, signs of recovery were further along. Life and Death came from above while Imperial Faith filled the depleted mountains. Surpassing them both was the void seeping through the cracks in the valleys. Zac suddenly stopped and closed his eyes. Ten seconds later, a Void Vortex appeared before him.

His hand met solid rock the first time he sent it through. The aim was off, so Zac created a second vortex miles beneath the surface. This time Zac barely had time to extend a finger before he recoiled with a grunt. There was no need to close the vortex; it had been crushed by an unexpected energy surge that singed his fingertip clean off.

Undeterred, Zac made a third attempt. This time, he successfully brought out a small clump of subterranean moss. It immediately began to crumble when exposed to the winds, and reactivating [Void Zone] didn’t help. The middle D-grade Void Plant was no use to his cultivation, so Zac threw it into [Fuxi Mountain Gate] before it collapsed. It was only a drop in the ocean, but every bit helped.

Zac sensed six more Void Treasures over the coming day, all more than five miles underground. The Void Energy came from even further down, rising to the surface like it was drawn to something. None of the hauls were very impressive, but each discovery increased Zac’s curiosity about Fuxi Halls’ underground world.

Was it connected to a Lower Realm, possibly the Lowest Plane they glimpsed in the Hidden Earth Abode? Or did it dig deeper, going straight for the source? What else could be found down there? The Void grew stronger the further down he looked, and his treasure sense could only scratch the surface. Perhaps there were C- and even B-grade Void Treasures waiting to be claimed.

Of course, one needed to be alive to get them. The only way to investigate the depths was by heading down himself. With Void Energy constantly seeping into a realm aligned with the Dao, the underworld was significantly more unstable than what Zac had seen in Kavista. Zac wanted to check his other options before taking the risks. Two days later, Zac understood there were none.

He’d stopped at a mountain that had shattered by lightning, creating a jagged flower at its peak. It was the third time he’d encountered it in as many hours. The mountains continued to the end of the horizon, but something prevented Zac from going any further. The restriction wasn’t as overt as the outer bounds of the Orom World, but he was trapped all the same.

It was no wonder there were no people around, or why the priest only appeared with a golem made of mud. The mountain range had been quarantined with Zac in it.
