“I've got a lot of progress so far.” Ren said and smiled. “Who would have thought doing something like building a Church would be a constant boon?”

“That's great.” Elerlyth said absently as she stared at the popup she had received. It can't be true. She thought and looked at Ren. “Ren, do you... feel any different?”

“Besides feeling really good you mean?” Ren asked, and she nodded. “No, I don't feel any different.” He felt her concern. “Why? What's up?”

“Nothing.” Elerlyth let her happiness overwhelm her concern over what she had read, and she saw Ren relax.

“We've got about 10 hours before morning.” Teepo said. “Are you going to get some sleep?”

No, actually. Ren thought. I think... yes, I better do it now. He sat up. “Elerlyth, I'm going to do something that I've been putting off for a while now.”

“What's that?” Elerlyth asked and read the popup again. It can't be. She thought. He's just Ren.

“Don't be mad.” Ren said and climbed off the bed and equipped his armor, but left off the gauntlets and helm.

“Why would I be mad?” Elerlyth asked and turned to look at him.

Ren told Teepo what he was about to do, took out a Revealing Light Pearl and activated it, then tossed it to Elerlyth.

“Ren, what...”

Ren reached into the Dire Wolf Hooded Cloak and took out the tarantula the Queen of the Dark Elves had given him when she had marked him with her favor. He held the spider close to his lips and spoke.

“I'm ready, Lylyth.” Ren said.

*

The Queen of the Dark Elves had recovered quickly from Ren's latest sexual encounter, unlike her attendant and the healer.

“All right, I... I won't kill him... not right away.” The attendant said and sighed. “Great Vasalor, that was...”

“I can still feel him.” The healer said and rubbed the spot over her heart. “Even though I'm not touching you My Queen, he's still here.”

It was then that they heard a disembodied voice. “I'm ready, Lylyth.”

“AHHH!” Lylyth yelled as she felt a sharp pain in her chest. The image of the spider that was over her heart filled in that last little bit and was completed. She was covered in a dark blue glow for a moment, and then she stood up.

“I'm coming, Ren!” She said and the wall of spiders dropped down as one and swarmed around her. She strained as hard as she could against the magical chains that still bound her arms, and she screamed in frustration that she still could not break them. She opened the portal and her 10 foot long spider familiar appeared before her from the mass of spiders, and used it's ability to widen the portal for her. Lylyth stepped through and dragged the chain that held her to the large piece of stone floor it was still attached to.

*

“Ren, NO!” Elerlyth exclaimed, but it was too late. She hopped off the bed to try and get to him, and then a portal opened in front of him and her body stopped moving against her will. Giant spider legs pushed the portal wider and higher, and then Lylyth, the Queen of the Dark Elves stepped out of it. Her 9 foot 2 inch tall body was almost completely bare, except for a few traces of cloth over her breasts and waist.

Ren gave her a regal bow as he tucked his spider back into the cloak, and looked at her chained arms. He used Enchanted Eyes and saw they glowed, but didn't gain the plans or a new rune from them. He raised a single eyebrow at her, and she almost laughed at how cute he looked.

“I would take you in my arms, Royal Consort; but, they are bound by magical chains that resist my every effort to strain against them and break their hold.”

Ren thought about it for a second. “So, the more you try to escape, the more they hold you?”

“Essentially.”

Ren smiled. “Then relax.”

“Wh-what?”

“Don't strain. Don't try to break free.” Ren said and grinned. “If they get stronger the more you struggle, then stop struggling.”

Lylyth looked at Ren like he was crazy, but she felt his confidence. “Very well.” She said and took a deep breath, let it out slowly, and stopped trying to break out of the chains that held her. It took several moments for her muscles to relax, and when they did, she took another deep breath and let it out. The chains stopped glowing, loosened their hold, and then rolled off of her arms as if they were water and she were oil.

Lylyth stared at the pile of chain on the floor in front of her, then she looked at her arms. “It... it worked.” She said, surprised. Her arms were heavily bruised from straining against the chains, and even had fully formed indentations of chain links in the skin. Her arms also didn't quite work right after being held immobile for so long.

“I'm so sorry.” Ren said as he saw her arms and took out a Major Healing wand. “Please, allow me.”

Lylyth didn't refuse, so Ren took out a step ladder and climbed it to the top. He gently probed one of her arms and caressed the damaged skin.

“Nothing's broken.” Ren said and checked her other arm. “You've just over-stressed them.”

Lylyth watched wordlessly as Ren used the wand to heal her and the bruises faded away to nothing, and then her arms filled back out and the damage she had suffered was no more.

“There. All better.” Ren said and stored the wand, then looked at her face. “You can hug me now.”

Lylyth smiled before she could stop herself, and took him into a hug. His armor creaked a little, but it held. Her long white hair fell forward and covered him as she leaned down a little, then she picked him up.

“Ren!” Elerlyth finally managed to say through her immobility, and then she felt actual terror as Lylyth looked at her with solid black eyes. Not play terror, or enchanted terror, but real honest-to-goodness actual terror... and she didn't much like it. Lylyth let a grin out as she felt what Elerlyth felt, and Elerlyth shivered as she felt Lylyth sample everything within her.

Ren was right. Elerlyth thought. Being willing is much more pleasant than having someone just take it.

Lylyth held Ren close, turned back towards the portal and stepped through it. It closed a moment later, cut off the magical chain that Lylyth had left, and cut off Elerlyth's shared Spider Aura with Ren.

*

Elerlyth almost stumbled when she regained her movement, and she ran to where the portal had appeared. She dropped to her knees and picked up the severed end of the thick chain. It was sheared across one of the links, and she looked at the smooth end and sighed.

“Don't let this be you, Ren.” Elerlyth said and looked at where the portal used to be. “Don't let it be you.”
