“I’m not sure I can help you, Piety. When I was with you in your mindspace… It was like nothing I’ve ever seen before. To have pierced the veil and survived is a wonder in itself. If there had been more time at the High Temple, you could have been properly trained. I always knew there was more to your power.”

“I understand. I simply thought you should know.” Without waiting for further response, Piety thrust her power at the ground and leapt into the sky.

The flight back to Redhill was made with less haste and she found herself contemplating the half moon. The dark valleys and bright mountains stood heavy against the velvet blackness of its second half. But Piety noticed that though it was difficult to see the dark half, it was not impossible, and she could see similar valleys and mountains upon that surface as well. As she contemplated the moon, she rose slowly higher. When she noticed the cold, she conjured a layer of warmth to protect her body. When it became difficult to breathe, she pulled breathable air through the cosmos. When her body felt as though it might fly apart, she kept it together through sheer force of will. And soon, as the moon grew larger in her eyes, she felt as though she might reach out to touch it.

She wondered what it would be like to live there. To be far from the toils of the people below her, from all that needed doing, from all those who made the doing necessary—it would be a great relief. There was nothing, after all, to hold her back, nothing she couldn’t live without. The power of the cosmos could sustain her in any environment, so why, she asked herself, shouldn’t she simply will herself to the moon and be done with the strife of others.

“Piety?”

Piety blinked and looked around. She recognized the voice as that of Temperance, but Temperance was not here with her, in the cold above the world. Looking down, Piety realized that she was so far above that she could see the whole of the landmass on which Khulanty spread. She could see the sprawling island chains of the Tarakani Empire and the snowcapped mountainous island called the Mountain Kingdom. She could see other landmasses she had no name for. It appeared to be nothing but a giant, blue and green ball. It was distant.

“Piety?”

But she knew that voice, she knew it for a tie to that place of strife. And she knew that it could bring her back from the cosmos—that once it had. She just wasn’t certain that she wanted to go back, back to war and terror and the death of friends.

“Piety? Where are you?”

“I’m here,” Piety whispered, but her voice was lost so high above the world. The barren landscape of the moon offered her peace, but she turned her back to it.

Before Temperance could ask for her a fourth time, Piety floated through the window and landed lightly on the floor. At the sight of Temperance, frightened, worried, Piety remembered why she couldn’t leave; there was still too much to be done, and she couldn’t leave Temperance to face it all alone. She felt herself slide away from the cosmos, and with it went her strength. She sat heavily upon the bed. She held up a hand before Temperance could ask her what had happened.

“I’ll explain later. Please tell Tobias that I need to speak with Isabel.”

Temperance nodded. “Maybe you want to put some clothes on first?”

Piety looked down at herself and tried to remember when she’d lost the nightdress she’d left in. She blushed. “Right.”

“We’ll meet you downstairs.”

• • •

The narrow stairs to the inn’s common room weren’t lit and Piety made her way down by feel. She could see the light from the common room, and hear Tobias and Temperance’s quiet talk as she rounded a corner on the stairs. She thought about reaching for her power to hear what they were saying, but stayed herself. She no longer felt drained as she had at the funeral pyre last night, but she did feel… delicate, as though having just recovered from a long sickness or a thorough beating and that any overuse of herself would be painful.

“God’s Pockets, what happened to you, Piety?”

Tobias sat with Temperance at one of the common room tables. The room was dimly lit, only a lantern by the door and one on the table. The room was empty but for them, and it was still dark out. Piety looked down at herself, still a few steps up from the common room, to make sure she was still wearing her clothes. She looked back up.

“He means your hair, Piety.” Temperance ran a hand over her own chestnut hair.

Piety mimicked Temperance’s movement and found that her hair, like her nightdress, was gone, only a small bit of stubbly fuzz remained. She looked at Tobias.

“I don’t know. There was an incident but…” She shook herself. “Did you bring the mirror?”

Tobias nodded and slid the mirror along the table. “I made the magic work, but she hasn’t responded yet.”

Piety joined them at the table. “Then I’ve time to tell you what happened.” She told them about Hirrom’s call for help, about meeting Arthur McCaffery and his children, and about Marcus Radden raising an army and occupying Olytan Lighthouse. “And I need to inform Isabel that there will be a battle here in the north. And that I intend to stop it.”

The mirror glowed then, and Isabel’s face gazed up at them. Piety pulled the mirror to her and looked to the Royal of Khulanty, the face so like her own.

“Tell me, Isabel, how have your dreams been?”

Isabel raised an eyebrow. “I don’t have time for riddles, Piety.”

Piety nodded. “Me neither. Lately I’ve dreamt of war. I’ve always had this dream but now I think it will truly happen. Father Vytal suspected I might be a dreamer.”

“We’ve been at war for many months now. Is this all you summoned me for?”

“You know Devorah is an umbramancer I assume, that she can travel the shadows. Well, I believe she can also send others via the shadows. I suspect she can send an entire army. And there is an army here to meet her.”

Isabel frowned.

“It’s Marcus. He’s come north and he’s recruited an army of the faithful.”

There was several moments of silence while Isabel looked thoughtful before she eventually said, “An army clad in black against an army clad in white on a field of checkered light. I too have dreamt of war. Does Marcus’ army of the faithful wear white?”

Piety nodded. “So I’ve been told.”

“I’ve dreamt of this war since I was a child.”

“I’m going to end it, Isabel.”

“How do you intend to do that?”

Piety did not respond. She had no idea what she was going to do to halt the conflict. The only thing she could think of was what she had done at the Battle of Upton Port when Father Vytal had died. But if her dream was accurate, this conflict would be much larger. Further, there was the coming Twilight Intersect and the problem of Frederick Vahramp.

Eventually she said, “Perhaps I’ll think of something.”

“No. Stay safe, Piety. I’ll talk to Commander Byron. Devorah isn’t the only one who can move troops via magic.”

“Isabel, do you really think that more troops are the answer? Which of your problems have armed soldiers solved?”

Isabel looked annoyed and not a little angry. “My soldiers have held off Kempenny’s invasion for months now. They’ve risked their lives for the safety of the nation, and I’ll not have you impinging them.”

“I mean no disrespect to the soldiers. It’s your actions I disapprove of.”

Tobias stood. “Piety, that’s enough. You don’t talk to the Royal that way.”

Piety didn’t look at him. It hurt her to ignore him, to act as though what he said was unimportant to her. She could picture his expression, stern but slightly pained as though he’d expected better of her. She kept her eyes on Isabel’s, so much like her own, and waited, uncertain if there was anything left to be said.

“This army Marcus has raised, they’re not soldiers, are they?” Isabel asked.

“Volunteers.”

“I’ll not let my people be led to slaughter by that wolf in shepherd’s clothing. I’m sending soldiers.” Isabel paused. “I don’t suppose it would do any good to order you to stay out of this mess? I’d rather you didn’t get hurt.”

“I took an oath to protect, Isabel.”

Isabel sighed and shook her head. “There’s just too much to be done. But my dreams tell me this Intersect will be important. I… Perhaps I’ll see you soon, Piety. Please, stay safe, little sister.”

Isabel’s image faded quickly until the mirror was again just a mirror. Tobias picked it up and tucked it under his arm. Piety dared to look up at him. His expression was stern, as she’d expected, but without the hint of disappointment. Piety bit her lip, made uncertain by his gaze. He didn’t say anything to her, he just turned and left the inn. A gust of winter air swirled about her, given momentary access by Tobias’ departure. Piety shivered and missed the comforting insulation the cosmos had provided. She sniffled and rubbed at her nose.

Across the table from her, Temperance stood. “What did she mean, “little sister”?”

Piety shrugged. “I suppose we do look similar.” And she was reminded of the note in the room in her mind.

Yes.

Her mental partner in chess was Devorah Kempenny, had always been Devorah Kempenny. And now Kempenny was using the information she’d found in their shared mindspace, information Piety had put there, to attack the people Piety had sworn to protect. She sniffled again.

“Temperance, I learned something dreadful this evening. Something I haven’t mentioned yet.”

Temperance laughed, not the reaction Piety had expected. “You intend to put yourself between two armies, confront undead, and defy the High Cleric all just days from now, and there’s something else?” Temperance gasped between words and wiped tears from her eyes. “God’s Wounds, Piety, how could you possibly have anything more to deal with?”

Despite herself, Piety smiled, then laughed a little. Soon the two were giggling with abandon, tears streaming down their faces. They clung to each other until the giggles faded and they gasped for breath. Piety swallowed hard and tried to discipline her mind so she could tell Temperance what she needed to tell her. But then Temperance looked at her, similarly trying to catch her breath, and Piety had to clamp her jaws on a laugh, which turned it into a snort, which brought a giggle from Temperance, and they were at it again until they were breathless.

“Don’t look at me,” Temperance said, still gasping. “I can’t… I… just…”

Piety understood. It took several minutes of not looking at each other before she felt like she could finally tell Temperance about the note, about sharing her mindspace with Devorah Kempenny. Temperance nodded and held her hand.

“Which is how she got the fire-arms.” Piety concluded.

“Well, that just confirms it then. You must be sisters, all three of you. I’ll bet the Royal shares your mindspace too.”

Piety blinked. She’d expected Temperance to be upset. “You trusted me to hide those notes for you…”

But Temperance waved her off. “That’s not your fault. It’s like you keep saying, about what you do with the tools you’re given. I’m more interested in your sisters.”

“They’re not my sisters.”

Temperance shrugged. “Whatever their connection to you, the connection is important. You can’t just ignore it. Wasn’t it Saint Claes that said ignoring the truth doesn’t make it go away?”

“Saint Ruth.”

“I always mix up those two.”

“I’m surprised you brought it up at all, you’re not one to quote the Scriptures. I thought you didn’t believe.”

“Just because I don’t believe doesn’t mean there isn’t wisdom in the words.”

Around them, the room had begun to lighten, a late winter morning finally filtering through the shuttered windows. Piety sighed and stood and stretched. They’d need to be on their way soon, and there was one more thing she needed from Temperance.

“Temperance, I’m going to need your help. Do remember when we studied the notes of Saint Weston, and what he said about “piercing the veil”?”

Temperance nodded, worried. “He wrote that to look beyond our reality brought wisdom and madness. He said that to stare into the cosmos could easily strip one of empathy.”

“That’s the one, yes.” Piety swallowed. “I’ve done it, and sometimes I’ve fallen in. Twice, it was your voice that brought me back. I’m not sure what comes next, but I may need to go to the cosmos to stop this fight, to stop Vahramp and Willow and Marcus, and to protect Hirrom and his students. If I do, you’re the key to bringing me back. I’m going to need you.” Piety fixed her friend with a sober gaze, all trace of the giggles gone.

Temperance stood and hugged her and nodded. “Of course, Piety. Whatever you need.”

• • •

The Olytan Lighthouse had once been exactly that, a stone tower standing strong against the storms of the north coast, high on the cliffs of Olytan, warning seafarers of the dangerous rocks below. As the years passed, as the sheltered bay below the cliffs had become strategically important to the defense of Olytan County, and then Ceres Province, and eventually Khulanty, as Olytan Bay became integral to shipping lines and trade, the lighthouse had expanded to include a small fortress surrounded by a forge, stables, and barracks. Eventually the fortress became a castle and the few outbuildings a walled town. Now the sister cities of Olytan Lighthouse and Olytan Bay were the most populated area in the north of Khulanty. The original lighthouse still thrust over the city like a silent sentinel.

They approached the walls of Olytan Lighthouse at noon amongst a crowd of refugees. Over the past few days, Devorah’s mercenaries had continued to make forays into Ceres Province, threatening the farms and orchards that were Khulanty’s primary source of food and one of its greatest exports. The road was packed with wagons and mules and people afoot, stinking of the sweat and grime of travel and bubbling with dozens of private conversations. Overhead, the winter sky was overcast and smelled of rain while gulls circled and cried. In the distance, on the other side of the looming Lighthouse, the dull roar of waves against the Cliffs of Olytan was a steady drone.

Hirrom and his students had found a cave in the cliffs of Olytan less than an hour’s walk from the city. Tobias had told them the caves in the cliffs had once been the havens of pirates who had ravaged the northern shores less than one hundred years ago. Piety had been interested in the story, she’d never heard about pirates before, but Tobias said no more than that the Khulanty navy had halted all such actions along their coastlines.

