Piety sped through the cold night air with all the celerity her telekinesis would allow, her eyes shut tight against the air resistance, a thin shell of power protecting her from the elements. She could feel the desperation of the vhamps, the determination of the Swords, and the closing space between them. She was reminded of the powers of Devorah and Isabel, powers that would have had her at the aid of her charges far more quickly. To travel the shadows or the spaces inbetween would have been imminently useful in this moment. But she felt no desperation. This was simply something she needed to do, and it needed done quickly. The cosmos insulated her from desperation.

Below her, the rolling hills turned rocky. She could feel every fold and crenellation, each scrubby sage plant and slumbering jackrabbit. Through that space in her mind where she could see into the cosmos—she balanced on the edge but did not fall in—she drew on far more power than she otherwise would, and she knew more than she could otherwise know.

She knew that Arthur McCaffery, a senior Sword of the Church, held a particular hatred for undead. His wife had been killed by animated corpses, zombies, nearly twenty years ago. They had lived together on the northern coast of Ceres Province, he the town’s cleric and mayor, she the best baker for miles around. When she had died, he’d been left with two children, a girl and a boy. He had taken them with him to the High Temple, and now they followed his zeal to hunt and destroy undead, including the newest scourge called vhamps. He’d always had a talent for sensing the undead, a minor power, but imminently useful in his chosen path.

And she knew the vhamps Hirrom had rescued huddled in the dark, as far back in the deepest cave they could find, their number already reduced by one. Their thoughts were a jumble of fear and anger, the urge to fight and flee. Hirrom held them in check when they could not hold themselves.

Arthur and his children crested the small rise leading to Hirrom’s hiding place.

Piety landed lightly among the spiky grass and frozen earth. She felt the cold dirt beneath her bare feet, the sharp stones, but they did not bother her. Though she wore only the shift she’d awoken in, the elements did not distract her.

Her sudden arrival did not go unnoticed. She could feel Arthur’s surprise, the sudden rush flooding his body with energy, the mental focus that would unlock the potential of the sunblade he bore; she felt his children follow his lead. The brilliant light from the sunblades bathed her, and she gathered it to her so that no stray beam entered the cave. The light was a palpable substance she could touch and direct with only the barest of thoughts.

“Clerics. Lay down your arms.” She did not shout, but her voice carried both physically and mentally.

Arthur spat, and he’d have charged if not for his daughter’s hand on his shoulder.

“Father, that’s not a vhamp.”

Jules was the elder of the siblings. Her brother, Isaac, followed her lead, lowering his weapon and dimming the light of his sunblade.

Arthur did not look at his daughter. “Vhamps are tricky creatures. You know that.”

Isaac took a step forward. “She doesn’t feel like a vhamp. She doesn’t feel like any sort of undead. Can’t you feel it, father?”

“I feel the creatures in the cave beyond. Why does she protect them?”

Jules faced her father, but didn’t turn her back on Piety. “Father, look at her. White hair, the sunburst—you’ve heard the stories. We all have. Look at how the light gathers about her.”

“Aye, and stories grow with the telling.”

Piety took a step toward them and all three brought their swords to the ready.

“I can read your thoughts, clerics, as easily as I can see your faces. I hope you’ll forgive the intrusion but I cannot…” She groped with the words, unable to adequately describe how she could no more not know their thoughts than she could stop breathing. “It’s as though I cannot close my eyes.”

The three were not comforted by the news.

“Arthur, I know from your thoughts that you knew a man at the High Temple, a teacher who helped you hone your ability to sense the undead. I know he taught your children as well.”

Arthur whispered the name. “Hirrom Berek.” He cleared his throat roughly, lowered his sword and took a few steps toward Piety. “He was a good man. Killed by vhamps. What of it?”

“Perhaps he can convince you that he and his students mean no harm.” Piety called to Hirrom mentally, and with trepidation he approached the mouth of the cave.

“I told you, he’s dead.” Arthur insisted.

Piety nodded. “I suppose he is, but that doesn’t mean we should deny him his chance at salvation by his own hand.”

Arthur sensed the approach of the vhamp and turned to face it, intensifying the brightness of his sword. Piety absorbed the light, leaving Hirrom bathed only in moonlight. Arthur cursed. But a moment later, when he saw the man emerging from the cave, he lowered his blade and dimmed its light and cursed even louder.

“By God’s Eyes, is that you Hirrom?”

Hirrom nodded. “You look well, Arthur.”

“I thought you were dead.”

“I am. Do you remember Frederick Vahramp?”

Arthur flexed his grip on his sword. “Yes. It’s true then that he is responsible for the vhamps? For…” he gestured with his chin, “for what you’ve become?”

“In a manner of speaking.”

Jules sheathed her sword and Isaac followed her lead. “Is it truly you, Father Berek?”

Hirrom smiled at the younger McCaffreys. Arthur nodded absently though he kept his gaze on Hirrom.

“He feels like a vhamp,” said Isaac quietly.

The sweep of confusion from the Swords of the Church whisked over Piety and she let it pass her by while they talked, Hirrom reassuring them it was indeed he and recounting the horrors of what he could remember under the thumb of Frederick Vahramp.

The sensations would have overwhelmed her had she not benefited from the emotion dampening influence of the cosmos beyond her mindspace. Instead, her emotional and physical senses took on a great deal more than usual, and she absorbed it. She could smell the sweat and leather of the warriors, the oil they used to keep their blades from rusting. She could smell the lavender that had been used in the soap to wash their clothes. She could hear the nervous but hopeful whispers of the vhamps at the back of the cave. They whispered that she had saved them again, that the Church would not damn them, that her blood had lifted the curse. She could see the tiny bumps and hairs on the leaves of a scrub bush on the top of a hill several hilltops away with nothing but the moon to light it.

But the crisis was passed, and Piety no longer needed the power from beyond her mindspace. She tried to release the cosmos, the calm emptiness that allowed her to draw upon more power, that had, before, swallowed her to float in calm infinity, but it would not release her. She took a breath and closed her eyes and in her mindspace she sat on the edge of the room, her legs hanging off into the cosmos, kicking idly. She tried to stand, to scoot back from the edge, but she could not move. She was stuck fast.

She let out the breath and opened her eyes, still able to see the details on the leaves of the scrub bush so many hilltops away.

“This is a dangerous game, Hirrom. You’ve a focused mind, and if anyone can beat this curse it’s you. But what of the others? What’s to stop them from losing control and killing an innocent? You can’t keep this up forever.”

Piety realized that though her senses were enhanced, her attention was not. She’d missed part of the conversation

Hirrom nodded. “That’s why we go to the Twilight Intersect.”

At this, Arthur cursed and put his hand on his blade. Isaac’s was already in hand. Piety held up her hands. She could sense their concern. They knew the legends of those who had gained powers by visiting the Realms.

“Gentlemen, that is enough.”

“We seek to enter the Realm, never to return,” Hirrom added hastily, also understanding their concern, being familiar with the legends himself.

“You wouldn’t survive it,” said Arthur.

“Then there’s no cost to you. Either we’re killed by the Twilight Realm, or it takes away our bloodlust.”

Arthur relaxed a modicum. “What makes you think it will relieve the curse?”

“The Realms of Light and Dark are aetheric and abstract. You’re right, it may just kill us, but we’ve accepted that. Better oblivion than the cursed life we’ve known these last months. But I believe that the nature of the Twilight will change us, that we will lose our corporeal form, and therefore the lust.”

“It’s a long shot, Hirrom.”

“Yes.”

“Arthur,” Piety interrupted, “why are you here?” She sensed his irritation at the sudden change of subject, and his contempt, considering the answer obvious, so she moved to interrupt. “I know you’re hunting vhamps, but there have been no reports of them in the north until just a few days ago, not nearly enough time for the High Temple to dispatch its warriors. So why are you here?”

She sensed his surprise and frustration at the ease with which she interpreted his thoughts. But to her, his mental shield was porous, like a sieve; she couldn’t help but read his thoughts. And so she sensed the answer she sought. He was vanguard to a force of volunteers who would fight in white tabards to show their loyalty to the Church of Khulanty and to High Cleric Marcus Radden. Unbidden, Piety remembered her dream, the dream of white and black clad soldiers rushing to kill one another. She frowned.

“I see. The High Cleric has raised an army.”

Hirrom looked aghast. “He wouldn’t.”

Arthur’s frown deepened. “He didn’t mean to. But word got out that a prophecy had been uncovered. A small volume of prophecies attributed to the Purple Prophesier. “The light shall face the dark at the Intersection of Twilight.” And people just sort of began joining up.” He looked from Hirrom to Piety and back, his posture defensive. “People are tired of being afraid of vhamps and of Kempenny’s brutes. They want something done.”

“And mobilizing an army has worked well thus far.” Piety said.

“You dare question the High Cleric?”

Piety nodded. “But he is not wrong in so far that Kempenny poses a threat in the north. Her mercenaries raided Redhill, just south of here. I believe her abilities in umbramancy have increased so that she is able to transport cadres of mercenaries through the shadows, perhaps even entire armies.”

Arthur spat. “Black magic.”

“A false dichotomy,” Piety replied. “My priority is to protect as many people as I can. That includes escorting Hirrom and his students to the Twilight Realm, and it includes stopping any conflict between Marcus’ army and Devorah’s. You may tell Marcus this if you wish.”

“You cannot mean to stand against the High Cleric. His word is law. It will mean excommunication.”

“Arthur, I sense your conversation with Hirrom has convinced you of his good intentions. I trust you’ll leave him and his students alone now?”

Arthur sheathed his sunblade again. “Fine then. And I will be telling the High Cleric about… what you said.”

His thoughts told her he was considering what she had said about the futility of mobilized armies and though he hadn’t come to any conclusions, the coming loss of life disturbed him. They also told her the High Cleric had commandeered the holdings of the Magistrate of Olytan, an ancient castle on the cliffs.

“Thank you, Arthur.”

She watched them go, hearing their thoughts: Isaac calmly considering, Jules certain in the rightness of the outcome, Arthur awash with worry. Behind her, the vhamps came to the mouth of the cave, having felt the outcome of the confrontation based upon their telepathic connection with Hirrom.

“I’m sorry for the inconvenience, Mother.”

Piety turned to Hirrom. In the calm of the cosmos, she examined the smoothness of his skin, like a perfect icicle, his eyes that perceived focused and refocused with a acuity, the way his nose flared as he scented the air.

“Hirrom, I have something for you.” Piety thought about the room she’d awoken in and she could see it. Upon the nightstand, next to the bed, was the sunburst amulet Adora had given her.

Though Adora had asked she see it back to the High Temple, a cleric entrusted with the amulet of a fallen compatriot was free to award that amulet to whomever they deemed worthy. With a thought, she snatched it off the nightstand and brought it to her, hurtling through the cold winter night. She plucked it out of the air as it came to a sudden rest in the space between them.

“You are a Father of the Church of Khulanty. You should have an amulet to bear witness to your faith.” She held the looped cord open to him.

Hirrom reached out a finger to the amulet and brushed it gently, a faint wisp of smoke rose on the air. “It’s made of gold.” But Piety knew he meant that as a good thing. He took it from her, slowly, gently, and put the cord over his head, so that the small, golden amulet with a single red stone at its center, lay against his chest.

“Thank you, Mother.”

Piety wanted to smile at him. She wanted to tell him he should call her Piety, not Mother, she wanted to hug him and tell him that they would figure this all out, that they would work until they made it all right again. But all of that slid across the cosmos and did not touch her but for a moment.

“What is the cosmos beyond the mind?” She knew the question had caught him off guard, that it reminded him of what he’d been wanting to talk to her about since he’d approached her in Appledel.

“Yes.” He put a hand on her shoulder. “Piety, you know my hobby is the observation and classification of powers, abilities beyond the norm. ‘Magic’ is, unfortunately, an imprecise word we use to describe all powers. Nonetheless, those we term mages are people who collect power simply by being alive, as though they were a pitcher constantly collecting water from a stream. Whenever they use power, some of the water is emptied but it will be replaced in time.

“But you, Piety are a Sorcerer.”

“A word from the Scriptures.”

“Indeed. It’s the word used to describe the most powerful. I use it to describe those like you. You are not limited by the size of that metaphorical pitcher. You can reach beyond, to the cosmos, and draw upon the power of reality. It’s a rare ability Piety, and it can make you powerful, but it’s also dangerous.”

Piety nodded. “I’ve fallen in before; it has swallowed me. And now I sit on the edge between. I can’t back up.”

