Tobias was still mad at Piety. He spoke to her only when he had to and then curtly, with all the formality of when they’d first met. In such close company with strangers, he demanded Piety and Temperance ride just behind him and was constantly scanning the crowd, though all Piety could see were refugees and farmers trying to get to the safety of the Lighthouse walls.

They had received no further communication from Isabel, though Piety had considered leaving her a note in the mindspace. She wasn’t convinced that Temperance was right, that Isabel and Devorah were her sisters, that the three of them shared a mindspace, but it seemed possible. The only reason she hadn’t was because she didn’t know what to say. Should she apologize even though she wasn’t sorry? Should she further urge non-military options? And then there was the possibility that Devorah would find the note first. Would Devorah see note passing via mindspace as a way to sabotage Isabel?

Piety had written a note to Devorah. In it she had asked her black-haired look-alike what she thought to gain by raiding the villages of Ceres Province, by sending rapists and killers into unarmed villages, by causing such strife. The people of Khulanty weren’t likely to support her claim to the throne after such actions. Devorah had yet to respond. Perhaps she wouldn’t.

The outer walls of Olytan Lighthouse were imposing. At least fifty feet tall, their tops were patrolled by men in bluff-colored tabards slashed with white and bearing the device of House Olytan, a tower topped by a half sunburst, the Lighthouse.

But for every one soldier of Olytan Province, there were three wearing an improvised tabard of unadorned white. Some were actual tabards but some were just long shirts and some seemed to be former bedclothes. The Children of the Faith they were being called, and their arms and armor was as piecemeal and well-kept as their tabards. It seemed to Piety, based upon how the official provincial soldiers moved along the walls only in groups, while the white-clad strutted with impunity, that Marcus’ impromptu army was in control of the city. And when they finally reached the gates to the city, it was the white-tabard-clad Children of the Faith who determined who entered the city and who did not.

“Pull your hoods up, Mothers, and make sure those sunbursts are out of view. Remember, I’m escorting two young orphans to the nunnery.”

Piety frowned. She didn’t like this plan. She didn’t like sneaking about. She preferred to walk into Olytan Lighthouse, to confront Marcus, and to demand he disband the force he’d gathered. After that, it would only be a matter of waiting for the Twilight Intersect at which point Frederick and Willow would make their move, and she could stop them, and then Hirrom and his students could pass out of this Realm and into the Twilight. Of course, she knew it wouldn’t work out so simply, but it seemed to her that complicated plans had a way of falling apart.

“I still don’t see why we have to hide.”

Tobias sighed and grumbled, but it was Temperance who answered. “Because the Royal thinks the High Cleric will try to use you as a figurehead. Because General Vahramp wants to kill you and likely the Mother, I mean Willow, does too. Because there are too many people here for us to effectively protect you or get anything done if they know you’re here. We have to wait for others to make their moves first and that’s best done in hiding. So, for once in your life, Piety, let someone protect you rather than the other way around.”

Tobias made a satisfied noise and Piety couldn’t help but give his back a dirty look. But she nodded at Temperance. “Fine then. You’ve made your point. But if we’re in hiding, I should go by an alias, don’t you think?”

Temperance looked dubious.

“Call me “Sweep” while we’re here.”

Temperance’s dubious look turned to a frown.

“I know you don’t like it, but I never minded much. Piety Sweep Churchstep—that doesn’t sound so bad.” She smiled at Temperance. “I liked that you called me Piety, but I was okay with everyone else calling me Sweep. For that matter, I liked the chore as well.”

Temperance didn’t look convinced. “You liked sweeping?”

“Yeah. It gave me time with my thoughts, kept me out of the way of everyone, and it was useful. I’ve missed doing it.”

“I hated that they called you that. It was like they were saying you were less than a person, no more than a chore.”

“If the whole point of hiding is to keep people from knowing that Piety Churchstep, the Light Cleric is in town, then I’ll have to go by another name. “Sweep” is the only other name I’ve ever gone by. It’ll be easy to pick up the habit again.”

Temperance looked away. “Fine. You’ve made your point.”

Soon they were at the gates and Tobias was questioned by one of the white-tabard-clad guards, a professional looking man with clean chain mail and a sword at his hip who smelled of well-oiled leather.

“Name and business,” he demanded.

Piety and Temperance kept their hoods up, their heads down, and their mouths shut. Tobias did the talking.

“Name of Toby, sire. From down in Wheatridge, ya’see. T’ain’t safe fer girls to be mindin’ that old chapel all themselves. The village council sent letter and letter was sent back and here we are, sire.”

Tobias had slipped into a regional dialect Piety had never heard before. She almost confounded the ruse by gaping at him in surprise.

“Who did your village council send a letter to, boy?” The questioning soldier seemed to be taking careful pain with the enunciation of his words, as though Tobias’ accent was a personal affront.

Tobias shrugged. “The church here in yer lighthouse, I’spose. Name of Abbot?”

“Abbot is a title, not a name,” the soldier spoke slowly.

Tobias shrugged again. “Iffen you say so, sire. Here,” Tobias drew a rumpled but folded piece of paper from within his jacket. “This letter ‘splains it. I’m t’deliver the orphan girls to Abbot.”

“Well why didn’t you show me this right off, you fool?” the soldier demanded.

Tobias chuckled. “You sound like m’da.”

The soldier made a show of looking the letter over then handed it back. Piety was pretty sure he hadn’t actually read it and suspected he couldn’t read at all. After a little more grumbling and posturing, he waved them in.

“And dismount, all of you,” said the guard. “No one rides in the city walls but for the High Cleric and his people.”

Tobias nodded affably and dismounted, taking his horse’s reins as a lead. Piety and Temperance did so with less grace, and followed him into the city.

Inland of the Cliffs of Olytan were the rolling plains that made such good farmland and provided Khulanty its primary source of food. As the landscape approached the northern ocean, it steadily increased in altitude as though leading to some gargantuan mountain. But just before the land became truly steep, it was cut off, as though sliced by the Hand of God, revealing instead the ocean and the Cliffs of Olytan. Olytan Lighthouse followed that steep sweep of landscape with the ancient lighthouse at the top most bit so that each street closer to the lighthouse was higher in elevation than the last. Sometimes to reach the next street up required stairs, which was difficult for the horses and they occasionally had to go several blocks out of their way to find shallow stairs or ramps.

The nunnery was about halfway up the city in a tall but narrow building facing an inclining road making the building seem like it was leaning downhill. The nunnery was one of the few buildings in this part of the city with grounds, and as they stepped off the street to the flagstone courtyard they were met by a tall, plump woman with a stern expression and the scent of cinnamon. She was dressed in a conservative habit; her sunburst amulet rested upon her chest. With her were two young women who also bore the sunburst amulet.

Piety especially didn’t like lying to the Abbot. It was Tobias who told the actual lies, but Piety felt them like they were her own. He told them of their false predicament in Wheatridge and presented the note, which the Abbot looked over. After several minutes she grunted and nodded.

“All right then. We’re crowded as it is, but I’ll not turn away church wards. You’ll have to share with some of the other girls. We’re four to a room now.” She looked at Piety and Temperance and pursed her lips. “I take it the two of you are used to sharing?”

They nodded.

“And used to work I hope. There’s plenty to be done with so many under a single roof. Have either of you got a specialty?”

“Sweeping,” Piety said quickly. “It’s why they call me Sweep.”

“Sweep? And were you assigned a last name?”

“Churchstep.”

The Abbot nodded. “Common enough I suppose, though you know you share a last name with a famous Mother. She was once an orphan, like you. Remember that. God has a plan for us all, even those of us in humble positions have a role to play.” She looked at Temperance. “And you?”

“Temperance Sunday. I like to work in the kitchen.”

“Are you any good at chopping?”

Temperance nodded. “I know how to use a knife. I’ve had lots of practice with herbs.”

The Abbot smiled then and it made her look more matronly, less severe. “Good. A pair of willing hands in the kitchen will be a welcome change. I’ve just finished putting some pies in to bake, but I’ll need help with this evening’s dinner.”

“You cook the dinner yourself, Abbot?” Temperance asked, and Piety could hear the surprise in her friend’s voice.

“I do indeed. It was Saint Mary who said that idle hands and minds sought mischief while honest work made for an honest soul.”

Piety smiled. She liked this woman.

“Take down your hoods so I can get a good look at you.”

Temperance lowered her hood and shook out her wavy chestnut hair that shone in the weak winter light filtering through pale grey overcast. She was pretty, Piety had known that, but in the time since leaving Sacred Heart with Father Vytal, she had grown taller, confident, and filled out into womanhood. She was sixteen years old now, no longer a little girl.

Piety lowered her own hood to reveal the short, white hair that lay against her head like a skullcap.

The Abbot looked them over. Piety waited out the moments with bated breath, realizing that she may well have revealed herself. A part of her though, was relieved at the idea. Perhaps with the truth revealed, they could simply ask the Abbot for shelter until their business was done. But the matronly woman nodded once then looked past them at Tobias.

“We haven’t room for you, young man. I’m afraid you’ll have a hard time of it if you intend to stay in the city. I suggest you head back home.”

Tobias smiled. “Yes, ma’am.” He’d dropped the accent and gave the Abbot a half salute, startling her. Piety knew he wasn’t really leaving, that he’d made arrangements with Magistrate Olytan’s soldiers and would be bunking with them. Tobias gave them a wave and went back into the morass beyond the wall of the abbey, soon lost to sight amongst all the people.

Piety was sad to see him go.

“Come girls, I’ll show you where you can stable your horses. Our stable is small, but we rarely have girls arrive with horses, so there’s room. You’ll have to care for them yourselves.” She led them around to the south side of the abbey, past a small garden patch hard with frost, to a stable roofed in sunbaked tiles.

After weeks of traveling with Tobias, Piety knew how to unsaddle a horse and rub it down, how to take care of the saddle and tack, and how much to feed and water the horse. The horse nuzzled her gently and whickered and Piety patted his nose. The Abbot watched them with an air of approval.

Piety had just finished and was going to see if Temperance needed any help, Temperance often found it difficult to clean her horse’s hooves by herself, when she was butted gently on the shoulder by the donkey in the stall across from her horse. Absently, she patted the beast on the head and was butted again. Giving the beast her full attention, she gasped.

“Steady.”

“He won’t hurt you,” said the Abbot. “He’s a gentle creature, just a pack animal.”

Piety nodded. She hadn’t been trying to calm the creature, but to call him by name. It was the same donkey Father Vytal had purchased from Farmer Kaver, she was certain of it. Temperance came up beside her to pet the donkey’s nose.

“Where did he come from?” Temperance asked while Piety stroked the donkey’s ears.

“He came in with the High Cleric’s arrival.” The Abbot did not sound pleased. “Made the trip all the way from Kinswell. Magistrate Olytan’s stables were able to accommodate most of the animals, but a few needed other housing. This one made it here.”

Piety smiled at the woman. “That was awfully nice of you.”

The Abbot smiled in return. “I think you two will do fine here. Follow me, please.” She showed them where they would be staying, in a room with two other girls who she identified as Rose and Summer, and then to a small bathing facility in the cellar. It wasn’t as impressive as the bathing facilities at the High Temple but was infinitely better than bathing in a creek in the foothills of the Western Mountains in wintertime.

• • •

The abbey was the tallest building for several blocks in any direction, even with the ever more steep incline to the north. The tallest bit of the abbey was a small attic used to store extra clothing, a broken rocking chair, and a stack of leather-bound volumes. A small window adorned each wall in the attic affording Piety a view of the city, mostly its rooftops. There was a thin layer of dust on everything and little sign of anyone having been in the room for several months.

For the past three days, Piety had taken on the sweeping duties at the abbey and no one was inclined to take it from her. She had the sweeping down to a pat routine by now, sweeping the whole building in an afternoon, though, of course, it needed sweeping again by the next afternoon. This attic was the only room she hadn’t visited yet and, since the rest of the sweeping was done, she decided to tackle the project.

When Temperance finally found her, she was covered in dust, staring out the north window at the lighthouse. The room was looking much less dusty. She’d opened all the windows to vent the room after her first coughing fit.

“It’s time for dinner.” Temperance spoke softly, as if afraid she’d startle Piety.

