Regardless of whether his contacts provided truth or fiction, he brought it all back to Madam Luo to parse through alongside the names of a half-dozen Healers in Sinuji who might be amenable to declaring Master Rain unfit for duty. It was more names than he expected, but Healers were always an arrogant bunch, understandable considering how in demand their services were. Even if a Martial Warrior learned to Heal his own injuries, they still had families who might one day need a Healer to soothe what ails them. Still, this was the Imperial Clan they were talking about, but the Healers on Junior’s list had all been heard sympathizing with Master Rain’s plight, and it’s not like they’d have to do much besides attest to the truth: Falling Rain was in no physical condition to be fighting on the front lines.

After informing Madam Luo of all the relevant details regarding Master Rain, Junior hesitated before adding, “One last thing, unrelated to the matters at hand but it may be important. Last night, a small party of six arrived at the rear gate. They gave no names and displayed no crest or insignia, but one of the sentries recognized Mitsue Hideo amongst their number.”

“Relation to the commander?”

“Er, Mitsue Hideo is the commander’s nephew and one of the Hwarang.” Seeing Madam Luo still didn’t understand the relevance, Junior explained, “He was defeated by Dastan during the Imperial Grand conference, and likely holds a grudge as a result. This one believes Mitsue Hideo meant to step in to duel the Defiled after Dastan was felled, but he never got the chance.” All thanks to Dastan’s phenomenal performance, stories of which were already making the rounds in Sinuji. Slave, traitor, or otherwise, the people loved a hero, and Dastan’s humble beginnings and lofty ambitions resonated with many a soldier, but few cared to voice it for fear of retribution from the ruling elite. It was no great secret that Sanshu had been the corrupt jewel of the North for decades now, but Dastan still tried to overthrow its right ruler, and worse, allied with the Defiled to do so, which meant that any supporters of his plight were silent ones, though it didn’t keep them from sharing news of his exploits.

“Mhm.” Obviously not sharing Junior’s concern regarding Hideo, Madam Luo filed the information away in her mind before moving on to more pertinent matters, such as asking for a status update regarding Master Rain. Sadly, Junior had nothing new to share and they could only stand around and wait for battle’s end, which according to Junior’s sources, should soon be at hand. This was in no small part thanks to Major Alsantset’s efforts, running roughshod through the Defiled infantry with her quin-mounted retinue. Say what you will about the glory of melee combat, but Junior would much rather learn the bow and slay his foes from afar.

Not only was it safer, it was also effective. Forget honour and glory, war should be about killing the Enemy as efficiently as possible while minimizing the risk to one’s allies.

Within the hour, they welcomed a bloodied and exhausted Master Rain back to the camp with open arms, or rather, Madam Luo and Madam Mei Lin did so while Junior stood off to one side. Master Rain looked far worse than Junior expected, though not quite as dire as Madam Luo’s gasps would convey, a weary man covered in blood that mostly wasn’t his save for his fingertips which were torn to shreds, no doubt from dragging himself and another man across the battlements. In addition to his customary shaky gait, he now also walked with a limp, favouring his right leg while his left arm hung limply at his side. Worst of all was the formative bruises revealed around his chest and shoulder as Madam Mei Lin helped him remove his armour, a dark, reddish-purple patch visibly spreading as the blood pooled beneath his skin.

So not quite unharmed, but at least Master Rain escaped with minimal injury, which meant Junior had sizable winnings to collect from several bookies, all of which he’d hand over to Mister Rustram to help pay for pensions. Junior got out from the retinue and would no longer be called upon to fight, but others were not so lucky.

Despite having been pardoned for his past crimes, he found it best not to parade himself before people he’d tried to have assassinated, so he stood to one side and kept his mouth shut. Unfortunately, Madam Luo had different ideas in mind and tasked Junior with explaining his idea to go to the Healers, which he did with great reluctance and the utmost speed. “... giving you legal medical reason to return to the Citadel in safety.”

“But Dastan and the others would be left behind. Forget it.”

As Madam Mei Lin predicted, Master Rain refused to use Junior’s ploy to escape without a second thought, but Madam Luo was prepared. Gently scrubbing dried blood from his cheek with a cold towel, Madam Luo all but whimpered, “But Lord Husband, Luo-Luo worries for you so. A single battle and you return to us bloodied and bruised, how are we to sleep knowing you suffer so?” As if the idea just came to her, Madam Luo added, “There can be no harm in asking, and if they refuse, then why not instead ask the Healers to have you classified as a recovering soldier? It would afford you the luxury of hot meals and heated baths. You eat so little these days and will need your strength for the battles ahead, so it couldn’t hurt to take a few liberties, right?”

Many saw Falling Rain as an uneducated fool, but Junior now knew the depths of his Master’s intelligence. Madam Luo was trying to manipulate Master Rain into accepting her course of action by having Junior detail a plan she knew he’d reject before offering a more suitable alternative, but he wasn’t fooled for a second. Master Rain even seemed somewhat disgruntled by the innocent deception, but perhaps that was the way of the Bekhai, where women were strong and direct instead of cunning and manipulative. “No,” Master Rain said, shaking his head. “No hot food, hot baths, bigger tents, or anything which might be construed as preferential treatment. I am a soldier without rank, and I will live like one, lest the Disciplinary Corps find issue with my behaviour.”

“But – ”

“No buts. My decision is final.”

Though Madam Luo pouted and fell silent, Junior felt compelled to say his piece. “With all due respect, Master Rain, you may not be looking at this correctly. While we are all familiar with the details of your health, the Empire is largely ignorant.” Gaining confidence as he spoke, Junior explained, “Although most understand that the loss of a Spiritual Weapon is crippling for Martial Warriors, few truly understand what you are currently going through. All they know is that you’ve been weakened and can no longer use Chi, but the Legate provided you with an elixir to bolster your health, so they think you’re no worse off than a regular citizen. With proper documentation from a Healer, we can spread word of your plight to the public and garner sympathy for your cause. In your circumstances, showing weakness will not be fatal, because you are weak, weaker than most commoners even, which paints the Disciplinary Corps as overzealous bullies seeking to torment an ailing hero of the Empire.”

“...Plus, I’ll get to have hot meals.” Chuckling beneath his breath, Master Rain shook his head and said, “It’s tempting.”

Seizing the opportunity before him, Junior said, “We’ll do everything by the rules. No bribes or promises, just an official appointment with a Healer tomorrow, after the worst have been treated and the Healers have had time to rest. All we need is an official statement from a Healer which describes your state of health, and by this time next week, the people of the Empire will be asking what gives the Disciplinary Corps the right to treat a hero so unjustly.”

“...Okay,” Master Rain said, and Junior rushed away to obey, happy to finally be of help once more.

Honestly, he figured this was the least he could do after trying to have the man killed.

Chapter Meme
