Ren thought about it and he could use the feelings Tristan felt when he had finally 'caught' Ren that time. “Okay, hold on.” He said and gathered that feeling and built it up, multiplied it, and made a huge reservoir of it.

“Oh, my god.” Tatya said. She still held Ren's hand and she could feel him doing it. “Ren...”

“Should I leak it or pour it all out?” Ren asked.

“Pour.” Kenkoth said.

“Pour.” The healer said.

“Can I be excluded?” Jirqym asked.

Ren felt him not want to interrupt his skill reading task, so he nodded slightly and cast a Magical Barrier of Protection around Jirqym, who was then surrounded by a body-hugging version.

“You can't move in it, though.” Ren said.

“How did you do that?” The healer asked and stared at the result.

“It's just a simple modification of the spell.” Ren said, then smiled. “Is everyone ready?”

“Will I get a bigger dose because I'm touching you?” Tatya asked.

“Significantly.”

“Then do it.” Tatya said and held on, and he opened the reservoir of emotions he had built for the happy conclusion of a hunt. It dumped out into the carriage and slammed into Kenkoth, Beholo the healer, and Tatya. The three of them stopped breathing as they felt the joy of catching a very elusive prey and how satisfying it was going to be to kill it. In the next instant the flood of feelings hit Ren's silver magical barrier and rebounded and slammed into them again.

“Oh, GOD!” Tatya yelled and her whole body shook, and Ren felt her emotions and her hand start to change. He looked down at their clasped hands and saw claws start to extend from her fingertips. Her skin started to change color from a nice tan to almost black as short hair started to grow. Her fingers shrunk slightly in length and fattened up to become wide and grew thick pads on the bottom to compensate for the size of the claws.

Tatya hadn't tried to let his hand go, even through the transformation, and Ren let his gaze roam up from her now paw-like hand and up her furry arm to her shoulder, then took a breath and lifted his gaze to look her right in the face... and a large almost human-shaped cat face looked back at him with Tatya's golden eyes.

“Oh, wow.” Ren said.

“You're not afraid.” Tatya said, and he felt her surprise.

“I knew there was something special about you; but, I didn't know what it was.” Ren said and lifted his free hand up to touch the side of her face. He dug his fingers into the spot just behind her cheek and rubbed it with his fingertips, and a low rumbling met the movement. “So that's what it was when we were fighting.” He said, his voice full of wonder. “You were purring!”

“I was.” Tatya rubbed his hand with her face.

“Why didn't you tell me you were...” Ren stopped talking and stopped rubbing her cheek. “Never mind.”

Tatya chuckled, and it sounded like she was trying to cough up a hairball. “Yes, not everyone is as... accepting of our appearance as you are.”

“What about King Alamast?” Ren asked, and he heard another bark of laughter. He turned to look at Kenkoth, and saw a black-furred lion-man looking back at him. Beholo the healer looked like a jackal.

“He was sufficiently wary of us until we assured him... and signed appropriate documents... that we weren't going to eat him or any of his people while in his lands.” Kenkoth growled.

“Oh, that's funny!” Ren laughed, and Teepo chittered in delight. “Did he relax after that?”

“He did, and treated us as if we had been longtime friends.” Kenkoth said.

“Please tell me you didn't bite a few people just to show him that you could!” Ren kept laughing. “Wait, wait!” He held up a hand to stop their response. “He offered you animals to eat, didn't he?”

Tatya, Kenkoth, Beholo, and even Jirqym joined Ren, Teepo, and Artemis in laughter at the absurdity.
