“I don’t know if Everit Draom is dead or if you’ve possessed his body, but he is no more,” Astora continued, and Zac felt like a mountain pressed down on his shoulders. The pressure relented before Zac could act on his escape plans. “However, Senior Grand Dream said you can be trusted, which is why I’m willing to give you a chance.”

‘That old man really is our benefactor. It’s almost a shame we have to rob him,’ Esmeralda said with a grin while sinking back into her pond.

‘We have Janos to thank for this,’ Zac said while outwardly maintaining his persona.

“I’m not sure what you’ve heard. Is it that sage who’s told you something? I assure you, it’s all a great misunderstanding,” Zac said as he took out Everit’s identity token. “I’m Everit Draom, alright?”

“If you say so. Frankly, I don’t care who or what you are, so long as our interests align. We are entering a turbulent period, and it’s all hands on deck,” Astora said as she took out two boxes. “However, seeing as your identity is… complicated, you’ll have to contribute before I can help you.”

“What’s this?” Zac asked, seeing no point in trying to force the issue of his identity.

Astora opened the larger of the two boxes, which released a storm of corruption. Zac briefly saw a few dozen crystals chalk-full of extremely condensed energy from the Lost Plane before Astora closed the lid.

“This is a special resource gathered by the Theomore Dynasty. You should recognize the energy from our enemies,” Astora said. “Be careful not to use it yourself. It may seem like it holds enlightenment, but it’s a lie. Even my family must pay a great price to remove the taint before using this force for cultivation.”

“So why are you giving me these?” Zac asked.

“Because they are needed for this,” Astora said, opening the second box. “This is a [Courtyard Compass]. Its function is simple. Sacrificing a crystal will create a resonance of all corruption in your surroundings. So far, it’s our most effective method of exposing our enemies.”

Zac’s back was suddenly slick with sweat upon realizing his earlier actions were based on insufficient information. It could very well have been the deathsworn who scanned him for signs of corruption back then. Zac wondered what the deathsworn would think if he realized he’d been exposed by a complete shot in the dark.

“I should warn you, the array is not perfect. Those sent to this side have come prepared, and some are able to elude its scans. Furthermore, the [Courtyard Compass] cannot be used continuously. Not only will each use sacrifice a crystal. Activation will also corrupt its pathways, reducing its accuracy. Repeated use is even worse. Its creator recommends letting it rest for a day between each use.”

“These limitations are an important reason I’m reaching out despite the issues surrounding your identity,” Astora said. “You noticed something was wrong before I did during the worship ceremony. You managed to travel through the dimensional overlap for a short moment. Now, you proved you could expose a deeply hidden operative without the help of a [Courtyard Compass].”

“I’ll do what I can to help,” Zac promised as he took the token. “You said something about a test?”

“Head to the Peregrine Isles after you’ve gotten settled,” Astora said. “You’ll take your test there. It’s also a good opportunity for you. I can feel how you’re accumulating momentum for breaking through.”

“I’m still some ways off,” Zac truthfully said.

“The isles will bring you closer to the goal. They can help you consolidate what you gained during the crossing. More importantly, a unique Natural Treasure can be found there. [Peregrine Almonds] can make the imperfections in your core illusory and desired changes real—up to a certain point.”

“There’s such a good thing hidden in one of Citadel’s permanent fixtures?” Zac said with surprise.

Astora’s deduction was right on the money. He hadn’t planned on breaking through to Peak D-grade inside the trial, but the River of Destiny was rushing him forward. Even if his breakthrough ended up delayed, improving the quality of his Cosmic Core was a top priority. [Void Heart] had refined and released the Tribulation Lightning from his dual Dao-breakthroughs while he was unconscious.

The lightning had fixed some of his core’s imperfections on its way out, but there were still some ways to go before it was qualified to be called a Peak Quality Cosmic Core. It was hard to say when Zac could get his hands on similar items after the trial ended.

“Don’t thank me just yet. I expect the invaders will target the fruits along with the sealbearers looking for them. The scattered islands are a good place for an ambush,” Astora said. “I’ll judge your suitability based on your performance there.”

“That’s fine by me. Then I’ll take my leave,” Zac said as he got to his feet.

He couldn’t wait to get going, and not just to get away from Astora’s stare. The Peregrine Isles held all the opportunities he needed in one package, and he’d even gotten his hands on a tool to expose invaders. The gamble truly paid off this time.
