Zora could sense the platforms hanging in the air, and after it almost claimed his head by predicting where he would jump, Nick started switching things up. He conjured multiple barriers to increase his options. Sometimes, he leapt from one to another. Others, he surfed on the Shield beneath his boots to move himself out of the way. When a pillar of fire arrived from an angle he couldn’t evade, he tilted the platform like he was riding a wave, blocking the conflagration while trailing blaze like a comet.

The longer the fight wore on, the more certain he became the creature’s core contained a critical weakness. It might be temporary, but right now, too many elements of the other monarchs’ essence, Concepts, and mana remained. While the dreadbeast’s energy was as vast as the sea, the opposing magics rebelled against one another, creating inefficiencies and weaknesses he could exploit.

For one thing, the shadow-aspected minions couldn’t approach the searing tides of flame. For another, while Fenrir’s power let the moth multiply its constructs a hundred times over, Nightmare’s reliance on instilling terror made the summons far weaker against opponents who weren’t afraid.

Zora’s Concept was older and its reserves were deeper, but every aspect of the All-Devouring Blade was unified, all the way down to his abilities and bloodlines. His Build had been refined, tempered, and honed to form a syngenetic whole that grew stronger with every exchange of blows.

Nick carved his way through the winged horde, dodging, blocking, and disrupting fire magic along the way. Blightbane was shining like the full moon, packed full of energy and ready to fire. His next Sonic and Severing Slice combo almost claimed the monarch’s life. It pulled off a desperate dodge at the last possible second while playing its ace in the hole.

Its mantle of Nightmare detached from its body, spreading like a net to engulf him in a living cloud that extinguished the light of the world. He was immersed within an ocean of consummate darkness, rendering his eyes useless as Zora burned through its reserves to regain the upper hand.

It would have been the end of most people, but Nick didn’t need eyes to see. He used Theater of the Mind’s Eye to recreate his surroundings, supplementing his insane powers of visualization with his energetic senses to track the dreadbeast and unravel the nature of its attack.

The cloud of Nightmare was a gigantic minion formed from the full force of Zora’s Concept. It generated a psychic assault that was considerably stronger than any that had come before, trying to make him afraid and siphon his vital energy. The malefic miasma could also condense to launch physical attacks, which meant he was trapped inside a sentient shredder.

He tried slinging spells and letting loose with Severing Slice. The Nightmare behemoth flowed around his magic like missiles through mist, taking negligible damage while chipping away at Force Armor and the bastion of willpower shielding his psyche.

Nick was in a tight spot, but witnessing the dreadbeast’s powers up close led to some profound insights regarding the nature of Concepts, building on what he learned from speaking with Bandit while crossing the dungeon. Unlike abilities granted by the System, Concepts were reflections of their bearers’ quintessential selves—soul granted physical form. They combined essence and mana and could be used in two primary ways.

Concepts could infuse abilities and techniques to grant them additional aspects, but they could also be controlled directly in a process that was similar to free-casting spells. His instincts were telling him this manifestation was the latter, and it could be countered by taking the same approach.

Nick didn’t have as much mana as Zora, and while Devour was more potent and better integrated, he couldn’t manifest nearly as much at the same time. However, he didn’t need to defeat this carnivorous ocean of shadow; he just needed to protect himself long enough to close the distance and take the dreadbeast down.

While weathering endless attacks from the moth’s colossal minion, he visualized the form he wanted, drawing Devour out of his energetic network and into the space around his body. He created a sphere, added blades to the surface, and set it spinning at an incredible rate, forming a ball of magic-severing Concept centered on his position as he launched himself off a platform with explosive speed.

Nick tore the heart out of the Nightmare cloud, slicing and dicing every wisp of shadowy magic that dared to enter Devour’s territory. He carved a path like a comet through smoke, assimilating the shorn scraps of Zora’s mantle and claiming its power for his own.

He thought he could turn this into a technique that would let him control the battlefield, erasing hostile spells and sapping vital energy from his foes while leaving his friends untouched, but that wasn’t important right now.

Ready to enact a gambit of his own, he drew deeply from the magic within and fired two dozen spells at once, casting over and over to form a relentless barrage. Piercing Rays and Mana Darts came at the Death of Dreams from three sides, forcing it to dive to get out of the way.

He kept them coming while adding Severing Slices to the mix, preventing the monarch from reforming its mantle as the ground came rushing up to meet them. The dreadbeast was completely engaged with weathering his full-power assault, which meant the moment of truth had arrived. He didn’t have enough in the tank to try this again, and his fate would be determined within the next fleeting handful of heartbeats.

The next time Nick swung Blightbane, his fingers came free from the hilt. The weapon went spinning through the air in a streaking flash, heading straight for the monarch’s heart.

Zora sensed the Legendary sword coming a bare second before impact. It swerved out of the way while shrieking in delight, thrilled that he’d disarmed himself at this critical juncture—certain that despite facing far fiercer resistance than it had anticipated, fate had smiled upon the monarch once more.

If Nick had let go his blade by accident or intended his throw to land the killing blow, this would have been the final, frustrating sentence in the story of his life.

His tale had only just begun.

Their war in the Blade World had strengthened Fritz too, restoring a portion of the damage his soul suffered while battling the Crimson Blight. Thus, when the king’s regal form materialized beside the soaring sword, the attack he unleashed was an order of magnitude mightier than anything he’d issued before.

Nick had infused Blightbane with pure mana and Devour, tying off the weaves so the magic didn’t dissipate right away. Combining multiple techniques into a seamless tapestry, the Last King of Kastilla kicked off the platform Nick conjured while Zora was distracted.

Fritz reversed his direction while spinning toward the dreadbeast, burning through his energetic reserves to unleash a devastating strike. The colossal cloud of darkness was reaching out to reform the monarch’s mantle, but it was already too late.

The Concept-clad blade sheared off a great, shadowy wing while carving a canyon into the chitin below, driving the Death of Dreams into the ground with an impact that shattered the stonework.

The noble warrior rode the plummeting moth, waiting until the last moment to fling the sword Nick’s way. Fritz dematerialized before the monarch crashed, grinning as Blightbane landed in Nick’s hand and the battle arrived at its gore-splattered finale.
