The angry young Drake was quick. He ran at Erin, claws clenched into fists. Erin turned back, realizing she wouldn’t get away. She braced herself, ready to take a hit first before she hit him back. He was nearly on her when a hand yanked him off-balance. He stumbled, and Erin turned.
A Drake with light green scales and a huge, muscular body caught the purple-scaled Drake. He grinned at him, showing off his pointed teeth. He had a [Guardsman]’s armor on—a mixture of steel and leather—and carried a spear in one hand. He grinned at the smaller, younger Drake.
“Hi, I’m Relc.”
The Drake blinked at him. Erin blinked too. Relc waited a heartbeat, and then head-butted the other Drake. It was so fast that Erin didn’t have time to blink twice. The younger one wobbled, and then fell over.
“[Relc Headbutt]!”
Relc raised both his hands over his head like he was a wrestling champion, and then looked around. The street was staring at him. He waved at a group of Drakes.
“All taken care of! No need to worry! Senior Guardsman Relc is on the job! Hey, Erin, help me move this guy over here so a wagon doesn’t roll over him, huh?”
He lifted the Drake and, with Erin’s help, dragged him to one side of the street. Erin stared at him as Relc casually laid him down next to a building, and then at Relc.
“Um. Aren’t you going to bring him somewhere?”
“What? Nah, here’s good enough. He’ll wake up in a bit with a sore head. It’s not worth bringing him to the barracks.”
Relc straightened, casually dusting his claws off. He grinned at Erin.
“Good thing I was here, right? Lots of Drakes are angry at you. But we can’t attack Humans randomly! That’s against the law. I think.”
He grinned cheerfully at her. It was such an alien expression that Erin didn’t know how to react to it. She stared at Relc and then at the Drake again.
“Um. Thanks. I hope you don’t get in trouble for hitting him, though.”
“What? Nah, nah. I won’t get in trouble. Probably. I was doing my job. Defending the innocent and all that. Hey, what’s with the long face? How’s the inn going? You still have all those Goblins there, right?”
“I do.”
“Weird.”
Relc shook his head. He looked around, more animated than anyone Erin had seen all day. He fidgeted, shifting his weight from one leg to another, and then scratched at his stomach. He eyed Erin furtively with a surreptitious glance he probably thought she didn’t notice.
“You doing good in that inn? Lots of inn-like things happening?”
“I guess?”
Erin stared blankly at him. Relc nodded. He bounced on the heels of his feet, looked around, and lowered his voice.
“Uh, got any plans for lunch? I’m kinda hungry, and I thought I might drop by if you have something good to eat.”
He misinterpreted Erin’s blank stare.
“It’s just that, y’know, there’s a lot of restaurants closed right now, and all the guys in the taverns tell me to shut up when I’m eating. And your place has good food, so…”
“You want to have lunch at my inn.”
Erin said it like it was a question. Relc stared at her.
“Well yeah, that’s what you do, right? Food? Inns? Have you stopped serving food? I’ve got money, I can pay—and I won’t cause trouble with the Goblins. Promise!”
The Goblins. Erin stirred. This wasn’t the first time her keeping Goblins in the inn had caused trouble. She hadn’t dared enter the city on the first day. A small crowd of Drakes had chased her away. She’d asked Bird to watch out for trouble for that reason. He’d had to chase away four Drakes already at night. She looked at Relc, remembering.
“You just want food?”
“Um. Yes?”
“And you’re not going to cause trouble? Really?”
She scrutinized his face. Relc stared at her, perplexed.
“Hey, I don’t cause that much trouble! There are plenty of taverns I’m still allowed to drink at!”
“I’m sure.”
Erin wasn’t convinced. She remembered how Relc had attacked Rags before. And that had been Rags, before Zel Shivertail had been killed by a Goblin. Her throat closed for a moment, and Erin had to pause. Relc waited, uncomprehending, almost insultingly energetic. At last he frowned, sensing Erin’s hesitation.
“Why can’t I come over? Don’t you trust me? Hey—are you still mad at me? I thought I got a pass after Christmas! I got a present from Santa, didn’t I?”
Christmas. Erin nearly laughed at the memory. She controlled the impulse and glared at Relc.
“You did. But as I recall, you hate Goblins. And I have Goblins at my inn.”
“Right.”
Relc stared at Erin. She waited, and then gave up.
“So you’re not planning on attacking them?”
“Why would I do that?”
Erin bit her lip. Relc’s wide-eyed look of confusion was annoying her. She began to feel angry rather than numb. She snapped at the Drake.
“Because you did it last time! You hate Goblins!”
“And you kicked me out. I want lunch. I’m not going to cause trouble now. Duh.”
The Drake spoke as if it were obvious. Erin folded her arms. He sighed.
“Really? Fine. I won’t cause trouble, I promise.”
“Why?”
“I’m hu—”
“Why?”
The [Guardsman] grumbled. He fidgeted, spun the spear in his hand and nearly hit Erin on the head, twitched his tail back and forth, and then answered while avoiding Erin’s eyes.
“I miss the inn, okay? And I’m hungry. I can handle some damn G—I won’t cause trouble again. Okay?”
Erin stared at him. Relc looked away, and the scales around his cheeks turned slightly red.
“What?”
“You really miss the inn?”
“‘Course I do! It’s got pasta and blue fruit drinks and fun stuff! It was fun to—look, I don’t have to go. It’s just that—it’s the Goblins, right? I can handle them. Really.”
“But I thought you’d be angry at them. You know, with Zel—”
Erin broke off. Relc’s tail drooped and, for a second, he lost his energy.
“General Shivertail? Yeah. You’re not wrong. I mean, the entire city’s depressed. I bet the other cities are all like this. Those Goblins…but that’s the thing, right? Those Goblins aren’t your Goblins.”
Erin blinked.
“What?”
Relc scratched the spines on his head, trying to explain.
“Well, I mean, they’re not the Goblins who killed General Shivertail, right? Those are probably the only Goblins that I’m sure didn’t do it. So…they’re innocent. Sort of. You keep saying not all Goblins are alike, right? I know those Goblins didn’t do anything. So I can handle being around them.”
It was possibly the most logical thing Relc had ever said. Erin gaped at him. Relc seemed uncomfortable.
“What?”
“Nothing. I just thought you’d be angrier. At the Goblin Lord. But that’s—”
“Oh, the Goblin Lord? We’ll kill him. Don’t you worry about that. He killed General Shivertail, so we’ll hunt his entire army down and cut his head off, put it on a pike, and mount it over the General’s grave.”
Relc grinned, showing all his teeth to Erin. He didn’t loom, and he didn’t make any provocative gestures, but in a moment his eyes changed. He went from friendly Relc to someone who had killed and was imagining killing. Erin felt a slight chill, but she kept her face straight.
“You think the Drakes will really do that?”
“We’re already forming another army to deal with him. You think we’ll trust the Humans to do it? No—he’s dead. Him and his entire army.”
Relc’s gaze darkened. Then he caught himself and grinned at Erin again, trying to sound light.
“But like I said, your Goblins are, uh, okay. I won’t pick a fight with them if they don’t bother me. Just get me a seat facing the wall, maybe. So…what do you say?”
His tail wagged hopefully. Erin paused. She still felt like a ghost, a specter without feeling. But the sight of Relc made her feel grounded in a way she hadn’t felt in days. He looked alive. Alive, and not gripped by despair. She couldn’t help but ask him about it.
“You’re really more energetic than everyone else, aren’t you? I thought you’d be angry or sad about Zel—I mean, General Shivertail.”
Again, Relc paused, and again, Erin saw his tail stiffen. But whatever sorrow possessed him had a fleeting presence. Relc smiled crookedly and, yes, sadly, as he played with the long spear in his hands.
“Of course I’m upset about General Shivertail. He’s a war hero, a legend. He was, I mean. But he died in combat, y’know? It happens. I drank myself silly three days ago, and then the day after, and today…well, I feel better. I know everyone else is still upset, but there’s not much I can do for the General. He’s gone.”
The Drake shrugged his broad shoulders, glancing around to see if anyone else had heard. He edged a bit closer to Erin as he continued in a low voice.
“Besides, he was a warrior, a [Soldier]. That’s how most of us go out. We don’t die in bed. And even if your buddy dies, even if you lose a friend, a brother, a [General]…life goes on. You know? You can’t mourn forever. You march on, and someday the pain goes away. Well, mostly.”
Relc paused and coughed, embarrassed. The ghost named Erin stared at him, and she felt her body warm. She blinked. And then she smiled.
“Huh. That was sort of smart. Okay, let’s have lunch. My treat.”
“What—really?”
Relc did a double-take as he scratched his tail. Erin smiled at him, feeling her facial muscles strain slightly with the motion. But the smile stayed, and it felt—oh, it felt good to smile.
“I’m sure. Come on—I’ll treat you to a meal on the house. And I’ve got alcohol now. You want Firebreath Whiskey? I’ve got an entire keg of the stuff, and it’s nasty.”
“Oho! Things do change for the better! And it’s on the house, you said? Is that because I saved you from that Drake? You can kick him if you like. No? Where are we going?”
Relc followed Erin down the street. She walked with a spring in her step. Just a small one, but it was there. Erin felt like she was waking up, and, for once, Relc’s chatter helped. He followed her, tail wagging like a dog, pestering her with questions as his stomach rumbled loudly.
“Does that mean one plate, or two? Can I get a free refill? How about an extra helping?”
“You can have a few plates for free. And I’ll refill your drink if you don’t break anything.”
“Ooh, really?”
She smiled. And that smile illuminated the street. Perhaps it didn’t stop the tears of a Drake child. Perhaps it made some of the passersby angry that she could be happy while they were not. But perhaps it did help in some way. It certainly helped her. She talked with Relc as they walked down the street, two living people in a city full of ghosts.
“Really. Do you like pork belly? I’m told Gnolls like it, so I was going to pick up some from a [Butcher] Krshia knows for dinner.”
“Pork? Give me a belly, tail, liver, whatever! I’ll eat it raw! Wait. Don’t give me a tail or liver. And I’ll eat it cooked.”
“Okay. But I might need you to carry it.”
“I can carry a pig!”
“Awesome. And how do you feel about milkshakes?”
“Say what now?”
 
——
 
The inn was quiet, like a wake, like a funeral. It was silent like the grave. It was a place of quietus, the silence of a passing soul hovering over it, casting a shadow on every action. Lyonette sat at a table, next to Mrsha, staring blankly ahead. She could hear the Gnoll’s belly rumbling, but Mrsha had refused all offers of food, and Lyonette had given up trying after a while.
There was no one in the inn. Well, the Goblins were there, but they were staying in the basement. The adventurers had left, and neither Drassi nor Ishkr were coming in. Erin had given them time off. It wasn’t like there was any business, anyways.
General Shivertail was gone. Zel was dead. Lyonette felt like someone had torn out her guts. She couldn’t believe it. She sat, remembering every time she’d talked to him, every time he’d made her laugh or she’d smiled or—the inn was like a crypt, like a mausoleum, like a sigh, a last goodbye—
The door slammed open. Lyonette jumped, and the ball of fur and Ashfire Bee both jolted. Insect, Gnoll, and [Princess] looked up in alarm as Erin Solstice barged into the inn, arguing with a huge Drake carrying an enormous package of meat wrapped in wax paper.
“I said, get rid of the spear! It’s dangerous, and you always poke people with it!”
“I can’t go anywhere without it, Erin! I’m a [Guardsman]! A Senior Guardsman! And I get lonely without a spear. It’s my security spear! I need it to sleep!”
Relc protested as Erin took the meat from him. He clutched his spear possessively as he edged towards a table and saw Lyonette, Mrsha, and Apista.
“Oh hey! You’re that thief-girl! And there’s the weird Gnoll kid, and—is that a bee?”
He stared goggle-eyed at Apista, who fanned her wings warningly at him. Lyonette just stared. Mrsha did too. Then they saw Erin approaching. The [Innkeeper] smiled at them, looking strangely upbeat.
“Hey Lyonette, get some plates out! I’m making lunch and I could use some more water. Oh, and Mrsha, honey, if you haven’t had anything to eat, get ready because I’m making pork belly! It’s going to be delicious, so you wait right there, okay?”
She gently touched Mrsha on the nose. The Gnoll stared at her. Lyonette did too. She rose, feeling her legs protest the sudden motion, and hesitated before going over to Erin.
“Um, Erin. What’s going on?”
“Lunch!”
Erin beamed at her. She was already moving into the kitchen before Lyonette could ask another question. Erin spread the choice cuts of pork over the counter and whipped into action. Oil? Spices? She thought she’d make a pork belly sandwich. That sounded very lunch-like, and she had a lovely spread of condiments. Even some mayonnaise! Mrsha would love that, although it was a royal pain to make the stuff.
There was no sound in the inn except for Relc calling for a drink and Lyonette hurrying to get him one. Erin began to hum to fill the silence. Yes, that was what her inn needed now. Noise.
Relc was right. Strangely, he was. There was a time for sadness, and a time for not-sadness. Erin knew she’d continue being sad, so she made an effort to be happy, if only for a moment. There was always time to be sad, but happy? She was good at making people happy.
Noise. Erin clattered around with pots and pans, lighting fires, shouting at Lyonette that they might need more pepper, and felt the inn stir a bit. She began heating up the oven. Apparently, you needed to prepare pork belly ahead of time with spices and stuff. Erin had never made it before, but her [Advanced Cooking] Skill had warned her of the time requirement. Thankfully, there were Gnoll [Butchers] who sold pre-prepared pork belly. The spices looked good, and Erin scraped them off before shoving the meat into the oven for some cooking.
