Ilvriss strode towards the door, inspecting it, staring at the place where Erin’s inn stopped and the other city began. Erin stared at the sky. It was the same sky, the same time as far as she could tell, but the sky was bright and blue there. There was no threat of rain around Pallass. It was stunning to see.
“Mind if I come through? I could use a place to sit and rest.”
Hawk gestured to the door. He would have stepped through if Ilvriss and Erin weren’t crowding it. Erin moved aside, then remembered and hopped back in place.
“Hold on! The inn doesn’t have enough mana or whatever to let the door transport more than one person at a time! I think that’s what Pisces said. If you come through, we have to wait twenty-four hours.”
“Really? Damn. I suppose there had to be a catch.”
Hawk sighed. Erin hesitated and raised a finger.
“Well, you can come through. I just meant that if you want to go back you have to wait—”
“Oh. In that case—”
“I will be using this door first. I commissioned this new portal, after all.”
Before either Erin or Hawk could react, Ilvriss strode through the door. He walked onto the streets of Pallass and looked around.
“Incredible.”
“Hey!”
Erin shouted after him. She raised a fist and shook it at Ilvriss.
“You can’t do that! You jerk! What if Hawk wanted to come back?”
The Wall Lord turned back to look at Erin. Hawk stared at the Human, askance.
“Um, Miss Erin—”
“I hardly need your permission to use the door I paid access for, Human.”
“That was a deal to let you go through, not monopolize the door!”
“Erin, did you just—”
“I required a route back to my home city of Salazsar. The conditions I specified were quite generous. You give me access to this magical door of yours, and I would not only pay you for the use of it, but hire the Courier to install your doorway in Pallass. Which, I might add, is still a long distance away from Salazsar itself.”
“Yeah, I get that, but Hawk could have had a break! Now we have to wait for the door to recharge! And what are you going to do without your aides?”
“About that. Miss Erin, Wall Lord Ilvriss, have you noticed—”
“I will survive on my own for a day. And I am not used to being addressed like a fool. Understand me, Human. You may have satisfied some of my requirements with your inn, but the needs of a Lord of the Wall take far more precedence than—”
“Excuse me!”
Both Erin and Ilvriss turned. Hawk stared at both of them and cleared his throat.
“I appreciate the two of you are arguing, but have either of you noticed where you are?”
“What?”
Erin looked at Ilvriss, confused. He looked back at her and then at Hawk, irritated at the delay. Then he paused. He stared at Erin. Erin stared at her feet.
“Um.”
Her feet. They were on stone. Not wooden floorboards. Erin stared down at the smooth, paved stone at her feet. She was standing on a massive block of stone—rather like a sidewalk, actually, but smooth-cut. It was cream-colored, only slightly grey and dirty from the passage of many feet and years. Nice stone, in other words.
Definitely not part of her inn. Slowly, Erin looked around. She saw blue skies, tall stone buildings, and other, newer buildings of wood. She heard the pounding of drums, trumpets sounding some kind of marching music. And then she turned and looked back at the doorway.
The empty, plain doorway that was set into a stone wall. There was a wood door there, with a gem set in the center of the door, the same mana stone that Pisces had attuned to the door back in Liscor. And, in theory, the doorway should be showing Erin’s inn, ready to let someone step through to the other side.
In theory. That theory fell apart if the door were out of mana, however. It only had enough to carry one person across from Liscor to Pallass. Or…perhaps Pisces had been wrong and it was two. And perhaps, just perhaps, Erin had stepped through the doorway to harangue Ilvriss.
“Ah.”
Erin stared at the blank doorway. She stared at Ilvriss. The Lord of the Wall had a very, very curious expression on his face as he stared at the blank stone wall and at Erin. She thought he was trying with all his might not to laugh in her face. She looked past Ilvriss and up at Hawk. The tall Rabbitman stared at her and at the blank doorway with chagrin written all over his face.
“That recharges, right? Tell me that recharges.”
“It does! It does! It just takes a, uh, day.”
Erin hastily reassured him. Hawk nodded slowly. He looked at Erin and at Ilvriss, and squared his shoulders. Then he coughed.
“Right. Well. Miss Solstice, Wall Lord, welcome to Pallass, north-most of the Walled Cities.”
He gestured helplessly around the city made of stone. Erin scuffed at the ground. There wasn’t much to see here—Hawk had set the door in an alley. But she heard the drums, heard the horns, and in the distance, the sounds of many voices cheering. She stared at the blank doorway leading back to her home, chewed her lip, and then shrugged.
“Aw, what the heck. I like new places. You said this place is called Pallass? I always wanted to see a Walled City. Let’s go exploring!”
She walked out of the alley. Hawk choked as he stared at Erin, and then back at her door. Ilvriss stared at Erin’s back in shock for a second and then stomped after her.
“Hold on! I go first! Are you completely unaware of protocol? And why did you follow me through—”
“Shut up, shut up! It was an accident, okay?”
Hawk heard the two arguing as they walked out into Pallass. He stared longingly at the door and poked the wall through the doorway as if hoping it would restore power to the magical artifact. Then he shook his head and hurried after the Drake and Human.
“No one pays me enough for this job.”
And then Erin was there, in a Walled City. Just like that. It was sudden, unexpected, but it was real. It had happened. And there was no going back. The world was slightly different for what had passed. She could be shocked about it, but only for so long. This was how things were. It had happened.
Just like that.
