“I’m hungry! How long until I get food?”
“Fifty minutes!”
Erin shouted at Relc from the kitchen. She heard an anguished cry.
“Fifty!?”
“Maybe more! It’s not even past morning yet! Hold on—I’ll get you some snacks!”
Erin finished setting up her kitchen and came out with some bread and soft brie cheese for him. It was a very nice and aromatic cheese from some place called Vaunt. Apparently, they made really high-quality cheeses, and Erin had been lucky enough to get some when she’d been in Celum.
“Ooh! Cheese! Is this free too?”
“Yep! But if Mrsha asks, you have to share!”
Erin winked at the Gnoll and saw Mrsha stir a bit. Relc eyed the Gnoll child and protectively encircled the bread and cheese with a claw. It was the worst thing he could have done. Mrsha got up, padded over, leapt onto his table, and stared at the food. Relc looked at her, grumbled in his throat, and passed her a heel of bread. She began to eat.
There were ways to cure a broken heart, or make it stop bleeding. One of them was food. Food, and other people. Erin had learned this lesson long ago, and she put it into place now. Lyonette arrived with two buckets of water and hesitated before going over to Erin as she prepared lunch. The young woman had a saucepan full of sugar, cream, and milk on one of the stovetops and was grumbling about a lack of ice.
“Oh, Lyonette. Good timing! I need some ice. Can you get it? It’s about the only thing that doesn’t last in this inn. I might need to buy a freezing rune after all.”
“I can do that. But Erin—are you sure it’s time for such a big lunch? I mean, it’s so much and…”
Lyonette eyed the production on the counter. Erin paused, turned and saw the [Barmaid]’s face. Lyonette looked blank and lost, much like Erin had been. The young woman thought for only the merest fraction of a second before winking and nodding her head to the common room.
“I know it’s soon Lyonette, but…we’re cheering Mrsha up. She needs to eat, you know?”
“Oh!”
Lyonette’s gaze refocused. She blinked, and, like Erin, woke up. She nodded at Erin and slapped herself lightly on the cheeks.
“Of course. She hasn’t eaten all day, and she barely touched supper. You’re making that ice creamed thing again? I’ll get some ice.”
“If you see the Halfseekers, tell them we’re having food in an hour! And if you see that grumpy Drake, tell him he’s invited too!”
“Who?”
Lyonette paused at the door as Erin shouted after her. Relc was busy fighting over the last slice of bread with Mrsha. Erin poked her head out of the kitchen.
“Ilvriss!”
 
——
 
“I am not a grumpy Drake.”
That was the first thing Ilvriss said upon entering Erin’s inn. The Lord of the Wall glanced around Erin’s inn with his customary sneer, but he didn’t insult her immediately on walking in. Erin thought that was as close to a ‘hello, good morning’ as she’d get.
“Okay, you’re not grumpy. But you are stuck-up. Do you want a pork belly sandwich with mayonnaise or without?”
“With what?”
The Drake turned up his nose-holes at the sandwich Erin presented him, but she could see the way his eyes followed the glistening sandwich packed with pork belly, fresh veggies, and slathered generously with mayonnaise. He put on a long-suffering sigh as Erin served him the sandwich and only picked it up when her back was turned.
It was gone by the time Erin came back. She looked innocently at the empty plate with a few crumbs.
“Like it?”
“It was—acceptable.”
He tried not to meet her eyes as he drummed his claws on the table. He instead frowned at Relc, as the [Guardsman] lay in a mini food coma at his table. He’d eaten four huge sandwiches.
“I see your clientele is as unkempt as ever.”
“What, Relc? He’s a friend. And he cheered me up, so don’t be mean. You’re like his boss or something, right?”
“Hah!”
Relc sat up slightly at the same time as Ilvriss’ brows wrinkled. The Wall Lord answered for both of them.
“I would not have a soldier like that in my army. I am a Lord of the Wall of Salazsar. That [Guardsman] is a former [Soldier] of Liscor. I have no authority over him, except in the most dire of situations. Thankfully.”
“Yeah, and I don’t take orders from—hold on, I think the fourth sandwich is coming up—”
Relc covered his mouth with a claw. Ilvriss looked away in disgust, and Erin laughed.
“I told you not to scarf them down! Anyways, Ilvriss—”
“Wall Lord.”
“Ilvriss. I was so down and Relc cheered me up. After Zel—”
She broke off. Sitting at her table, eating a smaller sandwich, Mrsha’s ears suddenly flattened, and the Gnoll dropped her food. Lyonette, who’d taken over the churning of ice cream, came out, and Ilvriss looked at his claws. The Wall Lord didn’t weep, and his eyes didn’t glisten. They were hard as they stared at the table. But Erin saw the feeling buried beneath the gaze.
“Yes. Shivertail was…a fine [General]. I regret letting him leave the city. If he’d only taken a few Drake soldiers instead of that Human army he might have—he will be avenged, I promise you that.”
The Lord of the Wall turned his gaze towards Lyonette and Mrsha. The Gnoll stared at him. She looked at her food and pushed the plate away, but before she could curl up again Lyonette was there. She stroked Mrsha’s head comfortingly and whispered to her.
“I know, I know, Mrsha. It’s alright. It’s going to be alright. You heard the Wall Lord, didn’t you? Keep eating. You need to eat! Who’s a lovely thing? You are! Do you want Erin’s, uh, special new food? I’m sure it’s sweet!”
“Very sweet! It’s liquid ice cream!”
“What?”
Relc shot up from his table. Erin made up for her slip by disappearing into the kitchen and coming out with some lumpy milkshakes in cups. Mrsha looked up, sorrows forgotten by the promise of something new.
“Want some?”
Erin teased Ilvriss. The Wall Lord sniffed. He took one gulp of the milkshake, put it down, and pushed it aside.
“There is such a thing as too much sweet, you know.”
“Not in my book!”
Relc was downing his milkshake with record speed. He got halfway through his cup and clutched at his head.
“Gaah! The pain!”
Erin laughed at his brain freeze and then frowned at Ilvriss. She handed Relc the milkshake instead.
“You don’t like sweet stuff, huh? You liked the milk with honey.”
He gave her an arch look as Mrsha lapped at the milkshake and her tail began to wag again. She had to fight with Apista to have the drink—the Ashfire Bee was buzzing excitedly around the milkshakes and Lyonette had to shoo her away.
“I am a connoisseur of food. I appreciate sweet food in moderation, Human. This has all the subtlety of a bag of sugar mixed with milk, which I highly suspect it is. Serve me another half a sandwich and a quality drink. Goat’s milk will do, I suppose.”
“Fine. Jerk.”
Erin grumbled into the kitchen and grumbled out just in time for the door to open. The Halfseekers walked in, looking dispirited and tired. Jelaqua had an arrow sticking out of her shoulder, but they all brightened as they saw, and perhaps sensed, the change in the inn.
“Hey, is that food I smell? Let me at it!”
Jelaqua waved and grinned at Erin. Erin stared at the arrow. The Selphid noticed and grimaced.
“What, this? Arrow trap, don’t mind me. It’s barbed so I don’t want to get it out yet. Poisoned too, probably. Seborn missed it.”
“I did apologize. I told you something was off about the corridor.”
The Drowned Man was apologetic. Jelaqua rolled her eyes as she sat at a table and peered at the milkshake Relc was holding.
“Yeah, that’s why I went first instead of you two. ‘Always send a Selphid first’, remember? This body’s nearly done for anyways. Hey, what’s that stuff the Drake’s drinking?”
“It’s sugar. Sweet sugary cold stuff.”
Relc dreamily grinned at Jelaqua. Ilvriss snorted. The Selphid glanced at him and then raised a hand.
“One of those for me! Seborn, Moore?”
“I’ll try it.”
“None for me. But I will have whatever’s for lunch.”
The half-Giant and Drowned Man sat at the same table, and Erin was soon bustling around, asking how the dungeon trip had gone. Ilvriss sat, looking grumpy, chewing on his sandwich, but as Erin had observed, deliberately being here rather than elsewhere.
“Thisissogreat. I’llhavethiseveryday. Ilovethisstuff.”
Relc was vibrating in his seat after his second milkshake, and Erin decided he’d had enough. Unlike Ilvriss, Relc couldn’t get enough of the drink, and only her finite amount of milkshake stopped him from racing into the kitchen and running off with the entire batch.
“I bet you could sell this on the streets and you’d earn a bit. It’s good—although it probably is the wrong season for it. I’d love this in the summer.”
Jelaqua commented as she sipped at her milkshake. Relc nodded rapidly and repeatedly.
“Why don’t you sell this stuff more often? It’s great! Beyond great! I’ll buy it all the time! I’ll buy it every day! Why isn’t this on the menu everywhere?”
Erin made a face at Relc as she handed Lyonette a handkerchief. The [Barmaid] cleaned Mrsha’s face as the Gnoll scarfed at her food, appetite restored.
“Because it’s expensive, Relc. I’d have to charge a lot for it—and the price of sugar keeps going up!”
“Right, right. Because it’s got to be shipped here and it’s winter. Sugar comes from Baleros and all that. Damn.”
Whatever sugar high Relc was on slowly subsided as the Drake stopped shaking. He had an amazingly quick metabolism. Ilvriss just snorted. When Erin looked at him, he dismissively pushed his plate back.
“That drink is disgusting. It might sell well among Humans with no palate, and a few Drakes with similar deficiencies—”
“Hey!”
“—But it is no drink for the people. You would do well to avoid selling it, except to children and the easily-satisfied. However, I will give you credit for your other creations. That condiment you used on the sandwich. What is it?”
“What, mayonnaise?”
“Is that a Human creation of some kind?”
“Sort of…I think only I make it. Why? Does it make my inferior Human cooking good?”
Erin smiled at Ilvriss. He stared haughtily at her.
“It is acceptable. I will collect the recipe from you before I leave the city. I’m sure my personal [Chef] will be able to adapt it more suitably into his cooking.”
“Sure, sure…but it’s a trade secret on how to make it! No one else knows. I think. So I could charge you!”
She’d meant to tease the Drake, but the Wall Lord didn’t blink twice.
“Only naturally. And if you would keep your mouth shut about the creation of this mayonnaise, I would offer an additional fee. It would be a suitable surprise for me to entertain my guests with, when I return to Salazsar. I will have one of my aides discuss the matter with you.”
“Wait, really?”
The [Innkeeper] faltered. Jelaqua sat up and whistled.
“Ooh, [Lord] money. Nice!”
“It is customary to secure new inventions and developments ahead of time. You Humans might not grasp the idea of secrecy, but even small creations are a political tool to be employed at will. The difference between a successful banquet and an unsuccessful one can be worth a war’s gains in the realm of politics.”
Ilvriss informed the room at large with his haughty tone. Erin blinked at him and stared down at the pot of mayonnaise in her hands.
“Whoa. Mayonnaise diplomacy. I’ve seen everything.”
Lyonette giggled, and Mrsha smiled as Erin lifted the mayonnaise high overhead theatrically. Jelaqua snorted, Seborn ate quietly, and Moore smiled. Ilvriss just scowled, while Relc laughed and asked for a fifth sandwich.
This was The Wandering Inn. It wasn’t perfect. Some of its guests were missing, but, in that moment, it was whole again. The shadow of Zel’s passing lingered, but for a brief second there was sunlight peeking out behind the clouds. And then someone opened the door.
Not the door to the rest of the world, to the Floodplains of Liscor. No, it was the door on the far wall, the magical door. Erin turned her head, wondering if Octavia was hungry or if a guest had come in from Celum. However, instead of seeing the [Alchemist]’s shop, she was blinded by a sudden flash of bright sunlight. Loud horns and drums suddenly echoed in the confines of the inn, and she saw a tall figure standing in the doorway. Half-blinded, Erin shielded her eyes, then exclaimed as she recognized the door-opener.
“Hawk?”
The Courier stood in the daylight, his vest stained with sweat. He looked windblown, covered in dirt, but he seemed alive, burning on a runner’s high. The Rabbit Beastkin’s fur was dark, and he was still breathing heavily. There were tears in his eyes. He stood in the daylight, on a stone path, and the sky was blue and bright behind him.
He was somewhere else. Somewhere hundreds of miles away, yet he was connected with the inn through the magic of the door. Erin stared as she heard the distant drums beating and horns blowing. It sounded like there was some kind of celebration or—Hawk stared at her through the doorway.
“It worked. Dead gods.”
His voice was rusty, and he coughed as he spoke. Breaking out of her reverie, Erin went to the door. She spoke through it, peering through the other side. She could see houses behind Hawk. He was in a city. No—if he had opened the door that meant—
“Hawk, is this…a Walled City?”
The Courier blinked at Erin. He nodded slowly.
“That’s right. I arrived in Pallass this morning. I didn’t know—I hadn’t heard about the General until then. After that…I found this spot and set up the door like you said. It took a while to figure out how to activate the stone that Pisces gave me. But it worked.”
“Dead gods.”
Someone whispered the words behind Erin. She stared at Hawk, not quite sure she was hearing him right.
“So this is a Walled City? I mean—”
Just like that. Erin stared through the door. It had opened, and suddenly—it was another city. Hawk nodded. He looked tired, but he still seemed as surprised as Erin.
“I can barely believe it. I knew that was what you wanted, but—Erin, I ran for the last four days to get here. It wasn’t my fastest run, but I’m a Courier. And now I’m staring at you—that’s one major magical artifact you’ve got there.”
“Wow. I mean—yeah. I knew that, but—a Walled City? Pallass, you said?”
“Pallass! So your door works as you claimed, Human. This is excellent. Extraordinary, even.”
