“Behold my empire. Once, each street was packed with people from every nation. Every storefront held goods brought from countless thousands of leagues away, and messengers sped to every corner of my expanding kingdom. By day and night my armies marched forth, and the world trembled to hear the clash of blades and my name on the lips of men.”
The twins looked out at the city, but couldn’t imagine the sight the king described. All they saw were crumbling bricks and ragged people walking without life. The gutters ran with filth, and what food was on display in the shops was rotten or rotting. The king gazed down upon his city and shook his head.
“Once. But I abandoned my dreams of conquest and let the nation I had built collapse around me. And why? Because my vision was too small and my goal too achievable. I had swept through a continent and brought low countless kingdoms and yet—it was an edifice of the moment, a paltry creation born of opportunity and luck. It was worthless. One moment of grief brought it tumbling down. I was unworthy of it, for all to spring up around me.”
The twins stared at the dying city below them. They shuddered as they saw the malnourished faces of the people below. The king glanced down at the two.
“You pity them?”
Both nodded, unguarded. Then they flinched, because they understood something of monarchs and knew it might be unwise to tell it to this man’s face. But he just nodded sadly as his smile became guilty. He gazed down, leaning on the balcony.
“Well and good. They deserve a better ruler than I. In my regret and self-indulgent misery, I have failed my subjects. But the fire in my soul had long been extinguished. I could barely stand. Until this day.”
He swept back into the throne room. The twins ran after him, drawn in his wake like minnows in the tide. The king ascended the dais of his throne two steps at a time and stood, looking down at the two twins. He seemed larger all of a sudden, and this was a man already commanding by physical presence alone.
“Once, my name echoed throughout the world! My deeds were spoken of in awe! And yet you have come here—come here, to the heart of my fading kingdom—to tell me that a greater world exists than I had ever dreamed?”
His voice thundered through the throne room. The twins gripped each other in mortal fear. The king pointed at them.
“And to be told that all I had accomplished in life—all the glories that empires dare to claim as their proud history—to be told that is nothing compared to the wonders of your world. Is that not intolerable? Yet, for all the strength of my armies, we cannot match a single—bomb. And though my [Mages] could labor a thousand years, they could not fly up to the twin moons in the sky and dare to land on them. Worse though…they never even dreamed of it. Land on the moons!”
He raised his arms and roared with laughter. The cavernous room echoed with the thunder of his voice.
“What a jest! What a challenge the heavens have sent me!”
The boy and the girl held each other. They had seen many things in life compared to the citizens of this world, or so they claimed. They had seen men and women flying, they had looked upon their world as a small orb of blue and green, they had witnessed armies marching on television screens and men walking upon the moon. 
They had told him this proudly. Proudly and nervously, as if trying not to frighten him. They could not see how enraging their words were. Not the glory of it, but the caution.
As if he had not seen a woman fly through the air like a bolt of lightning. As if he could not order a spell cast and gaze across the world. Their world was a marvelous mystery they hailed from, and they were right to be proud of it. 
—But they could not boast forever before him, the reality of that king. He beheld their home, if not fully, then in their stories of another planet where one species alone ruled. They told him of nations far more advanced and mighty than his. 
And he? He laughed. The King threw back his head, and the [Soldiers] started from their posts. The laughter ran down the hallways, and a servant looked up at a sound she thought was a dream. The man backed up, stumbling up the steps of the dais, and he leaned on a golden armrest of his throne for support.
His laughter beat down upon the two twins like a physical thing. He laughed at their world, not mocking—but like a man who had never seen more than a creek suddenly beholding an ocean blown by a storm. Like a man who, at the edge of the sea where it met the shore of his dry continent, found two children who told him it was greater than the desert he called his home. With conviction, pointing across that wide, green-blue expanse all without having walked a mile of the journey of countless leagues that had borne him to this place.
The laughter. The passion. It was like a spark growing on dry grass. The [Soldiers] had heard it. So too had the servants.
The [Steward] had felt it. But he had dreamed so often that he came back from training in private, still angry—but drawn to the smoke in the palace. And the king?
He stood there, panting with his hilarity—and realized he was standing against the throne. He looked down at the chair and hesitated. Then—
As if his legs had grown tired from standing this short while. As if the throne drew him down. As if the weight of that circlet suddenly grew too heavy, and his conscience bloomed with water long lost from this land.
All at once, the king sat down on his throne. In a moment, his mirth was gone, and the insane energy that had filled him had been replaced. The twins did not understand the meaning—not quite—but they sensed it.
The air changed. One second, the man was but a man, arrogant and passionate, but not quite himself. Not quite real. Then he sat—and something filled the throne room.
It passed through the hallways, enveloped the palace, and spread across the city. Slowly, but growing second by second. A presence, a choice made. The figure with red-gold hair now seemed to smolder on his throne, and when he stood up again, he was a different man.
He was a [King]. He spread his arms and woke. Tears shone in his eyes. Tears, for it was done. He stood and stretched, and decades fell off him slowly. When he called out, his voice was fuller, surer, and he pointed down at the two children, who only began to realize what they’d done now.
“Come, then. Let us wake this sleeping nation and bring death and glory to this hollow world once more!”
He walked down from the dais and began striding across the throne room towards the double doors. The twins followed him, not daring to be left behind. The [King] called out.
“Orthenon!”
The King bellowed. He stopped beside the smaller chair and planted one foot on it.
“Orthenon! My [Steward]! Come to me!”
For a second, all was silence. And then the double doors opened, and a man entered the room. He was a tall, gaunt man who walked with unnatural grace across the marble floor. His hair was black and grey, for he too had aged, and he carried a long, slightly curved sword at one hip.
He wore black, almost like a servant of another time, but he too wore armor beneath cloth. What separated the two was that if the [King] was a man of passion, Orthenon’s own passions and personality were like a swinging blade. Precise—but the years had left rust on him as well.
These strange feelings in his chest, the two twins, and the familiar orders from that man had left him—unsettled. Angry. When he entered the throne room now, even his sure stride was slow—
But he did not see what he wanted. What he saw was the [King], foot upon that chair. While that pose should have tipped him off, he had missed the moment the man sat down on the throne.
That feeling was filling the air, but Orthenon’s own grief and wait were too long. All he saw was the chair, not the throne. So when he bowed, it was low, but with a cold, tired anger of an exhausted man waiting with arm raised, clinging to a cliff’s edge. Waiting, hoping, for the day that might never come.
That was all contained in his not-quite-glare as he approached his king.
“You summoned me, Lord?”
Lord. It was an insult borne of a despairing man. The [King] nodded; he saw it. Yet now, his eyes were dancing with anticipation. He was still smoldering from the inside, and the fire was growing, but his steward didn’t see it. Not yet.
“Tell me, Orthenon. What is the state of my kingdom?”
The man made a bitter face. He had heard this question before, and again, he missed the tone. He answered, glancing at the two twins, his voice growing rough with impatience and frustration.
“As I have told you time and again, sire, we are dying. This nation is crumbling away. Our enemies take our land, your vassals bend knee to foreign powers, and we cannot even feed our youngest.”
The [King] nodded. His eyes seemed to burn in the half-light. If Orthenon would look up—but he didn’t. The [Steward] continued talking, his voice slowly rising with passion as he listed the frustrations of years.
“Better nations have risen in the ashes. The Emperor of the Sands leads his armies across the deserts even now! The other nations break their armies upon his forces as he rises in the west. Nerrhavia sits fat and indolent to the south, and Medain pushes ever southwards against Jecrass and Belchan. While our people starve, Germina’s agents flit about, and the Quarass and Hellios test our borders. I have told you this time and time again, Lord! If you will not take the throne, why do you ask it of me?”
“Because I am your [King].”
Orthenon looked up. His look of rage changed to uncertainty, and his balled, gloved hand, almost curled as if to strike—suddenly became limp with disbelief.
Then he saw it. Two green eyes, roaring with a younger man’s passion. Burning—in a face too old but a heart too young.
Twenty-two years. It had aged the [King]—and not at all at the same time. He had been a prisoner here, a slumbering man of his own making, so it was a younger man mixed with an older one who stared down at the [Steward].
In that moment—Orthenon knew. The [King] stepped forwards and placed a hand on his shoulder. Just that. It trembled as his most loyal vassal looked into his eyes, and the king’s own shone with tears. And the fire spread from one man to the other.
“Rejoice, my steward. I have returned. I sit upon my throne at last.”
That was all the king whispered. For a moment, the gaunt man gaped. Then his eyes filled with tears. He clasped his King’s hand, and the two embraced for a moment.
“I had hoped—we have waited so long, Your Majesty—”
“I know.”
The [King] patted Orthenon gently as the man choked on his words. But in seconds, he had mastered his weeping and bowed low to the ground, one leg extended forwards as the other swept back. One hand on his chest as the other extended outwards. It was a different gesture than the stiff bow he had given earlier. The bow one gave to a ruler.
The [King] nodded in approval. He lifted his foot off the chair and picked it up with one hand.
“Never again. You have my word.”
With a sudden move, the King hurled the chair. It flew through the air across the room and shattered on the far wall, fifty feet away. The throw was so powerful the wood pulped and the old frame became a hail of splinters. The twins gaped as wood rained down. The man exhaled, nodded, and turned back towards his steward.
“Now then. Report, Orthenon. Tell me of my kingdom once more.”
Orthenon spread his hands out as he faced his king. His expression was conflicted as he spoke. Starvation and the pain of years weighed him down, and yet a fire was stirring in his eyes. He did not look as he had a few moments ago—a broken, exhausted man.
Something was filling him up. Now—the [Steward] felt lighter, and his own back straightened, and when his eyes flickered, truly thinking, not complaining or watching stone break and age—
—They were the eyes of a man who had seen nations burn. Who had led armies. Who stood behind the [King], at his side, and had driven armies of legend into the sea. Even so, his words were tinged with regret. Regret—and with a rising passion for what he knew would come.
“How can I report upon chaos, sire? I could list a thousand dire issues and still have a thousand more left unspoken. The kingdom is failing. Our treasury is empty, our people are starving, our crops have failed, our animals are dead, and our armories full of rust and decay. Every decent soldier save a loyal few have fled for greener lands, and we teeter on the precipice.”
“Wonderful.”
Orthenon stared at his king. The twins stared at the red-haired man too. They gaped at him as if he’d gone mad. But that too was being part of a [King], and he was used to their incomprehension. Slowly, the ruler tapped his palm with his other hand.
“We have never fallen so far before. My kingdom and I have sunk to our lowest. How wonderful. It shall make the coming days, weeks, and years all the greater. I repent it. I repent all I have done—but if there is one thing to take, Orthenon—let it be that when we amend these wrongs, let the first sip of water be sweeter, the first horn call the most passionate that all those who have waited have ever heard. I regret it—but rejoice in that, I beg you.”
The twins didn’t understand. But the embers began to burn, and Orthenon’s eyes flashed. The King looked out towards the balcony.
“What of those loyal to me? What of my vassals, those I chose to lead in my absence? Have they abandoned me as well?”
“Not abandoned, my king. But they were forced to bow or be broken by other nations. Even now, foreign armies hold your lands and impose their laws upon your people. From Sottheim to Tiqr—they are checked, suppressed, even if they would rejoice at hearing your voice.”
The [King] nodded. He swept towards his throne, and now the fire in him was fully lit. As he passed by the twins, they shivered uncontrollably. What was happening? The old man they had first met was gone, and in his place something fierce threatened to burn down the entire castle. The King was far larger than his mortal shell. Even his clothing seemed to be brighter than before.
“Send word to my vassals closest to me. Tell them they have three—no, two days to dispose of the worthless dogs that would grind their pride to dust. They will rejoin me here with as many warriors and youths of worth as they can muster. Then send word—covertly—to those further abroad.”
Orthenon hesitated.
“I am not sure they would believe it is you, sire. And it has been so long—some might turn away.”
The [King] stood by his throne. He pointed down at Orthenon.
