"She must be trying to reach a higher realm than Stella," he guessed as he moved away from the Eternal Realm and returned to the Hellroot Abyss in Floridawn.

Elysia was calling for his attention through the ethereal root network.

Arriving at Floridawn, he was reminded of the immense drain on his Qi reserves that he had numbed himself to. With his Desolation Law reaching 100% comprehension and the ball approaching, he had decided to make a statement and see how far he could push his new strength.

The answer was quite far. Empyrea cultivators seemed to be struggling greatly with firing techniques through the haze of desolation he had blanketed over the beast tide and his newly grown forest of demonic trees.

Unfortunately for the freshly grown demonic trees and all other trees in his ethereal root network, they were being sucked dry of their Qi to fuel his advances. Even with the World Tree lending him increasing amounts of Qi as her restraints weakened, the cost of using Desolation Law was simply immense.

This wasn't something he could keep up indefinitely. Luckily, the ball was only a few days away. By then, his roots would have thoroughly infiltrated Empyrea, hopefully giving him reach to wherever the ball was being held.

Peering into the Hellroot Abyss, he saw Elysia and Cyphion standing over a corpse. Even in death, it was radiating the spiritual pressure of a Monarch, with light Qi leaking out of the remains of its severed neck and spilling into the darkness—the corpse's head was nowhere to be seen.

"Did you two kill a Monarch?" Ashlock asked, somewhat surprised.

"No," Elysia admitted, shaking her head. "Stella came by, said she left you a snack before teleporting off. We then found this corpse moments later."

Ashlock laughed in disbelief. "What? Stella left this here for me? But she only infiltrated the Celestial Empire this morning!"

"Yet she already killed one," Elysia said, looking disappointed in herself.

"So cleanly as well," Cyphion added, crouching near the corpse and inspecting its severed neck. "I think she killed him in one blow," he shuddered. "I wonder if he even saw himself die."

Ashlock carefully picked up the corpse like a prized treasure.

Ready to devour it to feed his quest reward, he had a thought.

What if he turned it into an Ent instead?
