If looks could kill, Derek would have been dead multiple times over from the stares looking at him from the group from Linderis. The leader looked over Derek’s group again, then at his companions. Then, his gaze shifted to the Absolute Nullification wall hovering above Derek’s group. Finally, he took a step back.

“Gather the wounded!” he shouted. “We’re leaving!” With one last look at Derek and his group, the man picked up the woman known as Holly, then left. He looked over his shoulder one last time and yelled, “Don’t think this is over, Dawn Siren!”

Alanah, who was standing beside Derek, disappeared from his side, then reappeared in front of the leader. The next second, she disappeared again and was standing beside Derek once more. Moments later, the leader collapsed onto the ground, his body rolling one way and his head the other.

“He gave you so many chances,” Alanah said to the group, who were stricken silent. “You have lost your leader. What will you do now?”

Don’t piss Alanah off, Derek thought. She didn’t exactly have a very long fuse when she was in her siren form.

One of the elves went and picked up the remains of the leader, then they all took off at a speed far greater than they had before. Finally, all that was left was the single young elf. She gulped audibly, then stepped forward.

“Please excuse my insolence,” she said, then bowed. “It is an honor to meet the legendary Dawn Siren. You have my thanks for taking it easy.”

“I tried to, at least,” Derek said.

The woman bowed deeper at Derek’s words, then raised her head. “If you will excuse me.” She turned around and left.

“Smart girl,” Derek said.

“I agree,” Alanah replied.

“Mhm,” Edgar muttered with a mouth full of some fruit. “Pretty, too.”

“We should finish up here, then leave before they send a whole army after us,” Alanah said. “A small group is fine, but I may feel bad if we have to destroy another army.”

“Sounds good to me,” Derek said. After that, they all turned back around and got back to work. It had been a busy day, and Derek couldn’t wait to get back home and take a nice, warm shower.

***

A few days after coming back home, Alanah woke up from a dead sleep and stretched. She had thought that there would be no way that she’d get to sleep the night before because of what today would bring, but ever since she, Derek, and the others destroyed the Echoing Willow, she had slept like a baby. It was actually some of the best sleep she’d ever gotten in her long life.

The last few days were nice. She had a very good conversation with Avery after they all earned the ‘World Boss’ Achievement, and she was able to tell him more about what was going on—not a lot more, but enough that the man was able to convince Stella that it was something that Alanah had to do, even though neither of them could go into details.

Alanah threw her legs over the bed, sat up, then reached over to her dresser and opened a drawer containing a dozen storage rings of different sizes. She slid one on each finger, then attached the rest to a necklace she was wearing. All the items inside were things that she thought she might need wherever she ended up.

With a sigh, the siren stood from her bed. After that, Alanah went to her bathroom and took a very pleasant shower. She, too, was happy that Derek had brought the idea of showers to their world. In fact, one of her storage rings had a few different showers—some temporary, and some permanent. She also made sure that Natalie and Geoffrey didn’t give her any of those damned things that broke after so many uses and had to be repaired.

As Alanah walked down the stairs of her hotel for maybe the last time, she looked around and smiled—she had built herself a pretty good life in Cydaria. Her workers all gave her nods, waves, and smiles as she left. After that, she went to her restaurant to grab something good to eat before leaving.

When she walked inside, she was met with all of her chefs, servers, and remaining employees on her main restaurant staff. Each and every one of them bowed and thanked her for everything. Seems like they are all just trying to make me cry, Alanah thought. Finally, her eyes found Stella.

“What is all of this?” she asked.

“I let the staff know that you would be going away for a while, and wasn’t sure when you would be back,” Stella replied. “They wanted to do something special.” Stella motioned all around her. “What do you think?”

The first floor of her shop had a delicious aroma, and on the tables were some of the restaurant’s best dishes, and even some that she’d never seen before. Looks like they’re all getting creative, she thought. “It’s nice,” she said. “Thank you.”

Alanah then sat down and had one of the best breakfasts she’d ever had. She wasn’t sure if it was the food or just the general thanks and love she felt in the air, but it was very nice.

“Thank you for all your hard work,” Alanah said as she gave her staff a slight bow before leaving. “Come on,” she said to Stella, then left the restaurant.

“You sure you have to do this today?” Stella asked as they walked down the street.

“I could wait a little longer, but I want to do it on my terms,” Alanah replied.

The two had already had the same conversation a few times since she and Derek came back to Cydaria. It always ended the same way—with Stella telling her that she would be missed—and this time was no different. Once the conversation was over, they went silent and headed to their destination.

It didn’t take too long before Alanah and Stella found themselves outside the dragonkin kennel. It was a location far enough away from any of the cities to keep some things secret, and if something went wrong, maybe it wouldn’t destroy the city from this distance.

There weren’t a lot of people gathered there, but there were more than she had expected. Edgar and Edwin were both there. Alanah smiled and nodded at the former king, who tried time and time again to gain her affection while he was young.

Along with those two, some of Derek’s people were there. Both Malorie and her daughter had come. The young girl looked like she had better things to do, but it looked like she was doing her best. Alanah giggled a little, thinking about the young smith and what she was going to make of herself in the future.

Natalie Savannah had also dropped some things to make it. There were only a few people who knew a little of what was going on. The others had come only because they had been informed that Alanah would be leaving for some time. Even the Walking Forge had come by to see her off—but some of that was because he wanted to check the kennels, and his companion was having fun with his kin.

Finally, Alanah saw Derek, Avery, and Silvi waiting for her. Alanah looked at her friends, then over to Lyra, who seemed to be slumbering in the distance.

‘Lyra, can you hear me?’ Alanah asked. If the dragonkin didn’t answer, she wouldn’t disturb her more.

‘I can hear you just fine,’ the beast sent back.

‘Great,’ Alanah said. ‘I thought you may have been asleep.’

‘No, not asleep,’ Lyra said. ‘What is it that you need?’

‘I just wanted to thank you for watching over Avery, and to ask that you keep doing so,’ Alanah said.

‘Of course I will,’ Lyra replied. ‘You need not worry.’

‘Thank you,’ Alanah said.

After that, the siren moved forward, closer to Derek and the others. Finally, she found herself just a few feet away from them.

“This is it?” Derek asked.

“This is it,” Alanah answered. She looked behind them and saw that they had cleared out a large area for Alanah to do what needed to be done. “You’ve been busy,” she said.

“Not really,” Derek said. “It didn’t take too long.”

“Well, better get this started,” the siren replied. “Wouldn’t want all this work to go to waste.”

“You sure you don’t want to try to trick it?” Derek asked. “I could always put you in my Time Prison and close it until your deadline passes.”

“I’m sure,” Alanah replied. “But thanks.”

“Anytime.”

After that, Alanah turned to Avery. “Avery, you take care of those kids. They need you. And do look after Stella until she’s back to herself.”

“Of course,” Avery replied with a nod. “I’ll do so until it’s time for me to go find you.”

“I’m sure you’ll get there before too long,” Alanah replied. After that, she turned to Silvi. “You make good use of those recipes and ingredients that I help get you.”

“I will, I will…” Silvi’s voice chimed from her communication crystal. “You sure you need to go? Will miss delicious restaurant owner.”

“Yes, I’m sure,” Alanah replied. “But I appreciate the care.”

Once she finished with those three, she sighed. I’ve been looking forward to doing this, but now that the time has come, I am quite nervous, she thought to herself. Better just do it before it gets worse. Finally, Alanah looked at Derek once more. She walked forward and grabbed Derek’s wrists with her hands. After which, she stood on her tiptoes and leaned forward. Alanah gave the clueless man a quick peck on his cheek, then whispered, “When you come find me, you’re taking me on a real date. No more of this dungeon running bullshit. I want food and candles, and you’re paying.”

“You just remember your words,” Derek looked down at her and smiled—causing the siren to actually blush a small amount.

“Would never forget them,” Alanah. “Just don’t take forever.”

“I wouldn’t dream of it,” Derek replied.

“Alright! Let’s do this.” Alanah pulled back from Derek, then walked past him to the center of the cleared area. When she turned around to look, everyone had gathered on what could be considered the edge. “Take care of each other,” she shouted out to everyone.

Now… let’s see… Alanah opened her status, then focused on the part that showed that she had met the requirements for advancement. She focused on the tab and received a notification.

Would you like to initiate advancement?

Yes/No?Note: There is still time remaining before forced advancement.

Alanah focused on ‘Yes.’ She looked up and waved at the group of her friends and companions. They all waved back—including Stella, who was very teary-eyed. With one last deep breath, Alanah selected yes. Next, she was enshrouded in a bright white light. After that, she was gone.
