Chapter 487: Confrontation/Epilogue

While everyone was working hard, Derek checked out the description for his new Achievement.

World Boss I

This Achievement (Title) is awarded for defeating the monster designated as a World Boss by a system. World Bosses are rare creatures that are known to devastate worlds if not defeated in a timely manner. These creatures do not appear often, and once defeated, do not respawn. It is impossible to know when a new creature capable of carrying the title ‘World Boss’ will appear again and receive the designation.

Because of how rare these creatures are, few ever encounter them, and even fewer are capable of defeating them.

For accomplishing such a feat, you have earned a free stat point boost of 5% of your total combined stat points, or 350 Free Stat Points—whichever is smaller. You have also received Three Skill Upgrade Points granted by the Origin System.

Defeat more World Bosses to increase rewards.

Note: This (Title) Achievement has been graciously granted by a stronger system, and thus, will be carried with you throughout your journey.

Oh… I get it now, Derek thought. This is something else I need to talk to Dave about if I ever see him again. Was he the one who designated the tree as the World Boss? Or did it just grow strong enough to automatically be given the title? Derek shrugged. I’m liking the fact that this is an upgradeable Achievement, too.

Derek licked his lips—if anyone would eventually be in position to find and hunt World Bosses, it would be him with his traveling ability. I wonder if there’s one on Earth, he thought. But that system encompasses a lot more than just Earth, and it doesn’t sound like each world actually gets one. Oh well. He shrugged. I’ll find out later.

After going over everything one last time, Derek nodded. The journey with Alanah was well worth the small inconveniences. With it all over now, Derek looked at his status sheet to see all the gains he’d had over that time.

Status

Personal Information

Name:Age:Level:Experience:Class:Race:

Derek Hunt302458,800,000,345,850/11,600,525,450,650Void Monarch (Mythical)Human (Void)

Health:Mana:Stamina:

413754125041375

Stats

StrengthDexterityEnduranceVitalityIntelligenceWisdom

Stat Points Remaining

165016501655165516501650

386

Contracts

Alanah Swan (Crown Restaurant)

Silvi (Bonded Beast)

Stella Brighton (Crown Restaurant)

No Proxy (Torith Adventurer’s Guild)

Rudolph Mckinney

Natalie Savannah via Malorie Stewart (Void Emporium)

View Contract

View Status

View Contract

View Contract

View Contract

View Contract

Skills

Absolute Nullify Lv. 20, Bare Fist Specialty Lv. 5(View Upgrades), Basic Repair Lv. 1, Chain Lightning Lv. 20, Channel Void Lv. 20, Cleaning Lv. 13, Cure Toxin Lv. 17, Dismantle Lv. 17, Enhanced Movement Speed Lv. 4, Fire Resistance Lv. 20, Greater Meditation Lv. 16, Identify Lv. 20, Magic Resistance Lv. 20, Mental Resistance Lv. 20, Multi-Strike Lv. 20, Physical Resistance Lv. 20, Polearm Specialty Lv. 3 (Void’s Harbinger), Powerstride Lv. 9, Rejuvenation Lv. 20, Spatial Collapse Lv. 9, Spatial Redirection Lv. 5, Spatial Rend Lv. 8, Sweeping Slash Lv. 20, Telepathy Lv. 12, Time Prison Lv. 15, Void Call Lv. 6, Void Creation Lv. N/A, Void Sense Lv. 20, Void Shift Lv. 15, Void Steps Lv. 20, Void Storage Lv. N/A, Void Travel Lv. N/A, Whirlwind Slash Lv. 11

Skill Points Remaining: 15

Skill Upgrade Points Remaining: 0

Skill Upgrade Points (Origin System) Remaining: 3

Shared Skills from Companion: Active Void Shift Lv. 10, Void Lightning Bolt Lv. 10

Shared Skills to Companion: Void Sense Lv. 10, Void Travel Lv. N/A

Skills Available to Share:

Absolute Nullify Lv. 10, Channel Void Lv. 10, Time Prison Lv. 10, Void Call Lv. 6, Void Sense Lv. 10, Void Shift Lv. 10, Void Steps Lv. 10, Void Storage Lv. N/A, Void Travel Lv. N/A

Achievements

Greater Giant Slayer, Jack of All, Lesser Dungeon Explorer, Lesser Dungeon Traveler, Lesser Enigma, Lesser Enforcer of Oaths, Major Repetitive Dungeoneer, Minor Slayer of the Unknown, Solo Diver, Magical Glass Cannon, Meat Shield, Lesser Explorer, Offensive Powerhouse, The Bigger They Are, The Impossible, World Boss I

He didn’t know where to begin as he looked over the sheet. He’d not been paying a lot of attention to any of the notifications he’d gotten throughout the journey—just the main ones like his void skills that he’d been focused on after learning how Alanah met the second requirement.

Pretty much all of his skills that weren’t already at max level had increased by a decent amount in all that time. His Mental Resistance had skyrocketed to level 20 during the World Boss fight because of all the echoes he had to defend against. His Void Steps had also reached level 20—leaving him with Void Shift and Void Call left to level. He was sure that leveling Void Shift wouldn’t be too hard, but it would take a while to do the same with Void Call. He would definitely focus on Void Shift first and often, as Void Call required a bit of setup and safety before he could use it—he didn’t want to summon a beast within a town or anything, after all.

Other than those, his Powerstride movement skill had increased a bit, too. He even gained another level in Greater Meditation and Polearm Specialty—two skills that were insanely hard to level. His spatial attack skills had also gone up a small amount during his fights—along with Whirlwind Slash. And finally, he was well on his way to maxing out his Telepathy skill. He was even thinking about solely using it for a while just to get it there, just to level it. Once Alanah leaves, I’ll have to go hang out with Lyra at the kennels.

Derek took one last look at his stats, noting that his Health, Mana, and Stamina pools had all also gone up alongside his stat increase from his ‘The Impossible’ Achievement. It was nice to see that he was able to do so when everyone else was stuck with question marks after reaching 1,500 stat points in a stat.

Finally, he closed the stat sheet and sighed. I guess I should help a little, too, Derek thought, but before he was able to make a move, an unfamiliar voice sounded out from behind them.

“What the fuck is going on here!?” Derek turned to see a large group of Elves marching toward their group. “Did you… the Echoing Willow… how dare you!” the man in the lead shouted out—seemingly unable to wrap his mind around what was going on.

Derek, being the first person to notice the new arrivals, disappeared with Void Shift and reappeared directly in front of the group. He counted twelve elves and two half-elves in the bunch.

“What was that?” Derek asked, cupping his hand over his ear.

“Human!” another voice shouted from the group.

“Ah, yes… that I am,” Derek replied. “But to answer your first question… ‘what the fuck is going on here’… I needed some firewood, and my friend knew just the tree to get it from.”

“You!” The leader clenched his fist, then an enormous green aura exploded out from him, and targeted Derek.

Derek picked his nose and yawned when he felt the aura. He was well past auras doing anything to him. “That it?” he asked.

“Holly, Varias, Rentfield…” the leader said, and three people behind the man all released their aura as well. “Kill this hum…” the man started, but was interrupted by Alanah appearing next to Derek. After the fight, she had transformed back to her normal self and was no longer in her siren form.

“The fourteen of you should leave,” Alanah said. “Now.”

“A half-elf?” the leader muttered. “Was this your doing, too?”

“It was my orders,” Alanah answered. “I think I have every right to do with my former home as I please, do I not?”

“Former home?”

“Yes,” Alanah replied, then, her hair began to fade into a withered green, her nails grew long and sharp, and her teeth took on a ghastly appearance. “My home,” she said, her voice now threatening in a way that sent a shiver down Derek’s spine.

“The two of you need any help?” Avery asked as he and Edgar walked up from behind Derek and Alanah.

“I’m pretty sure these guys were just leaving,” Derek said, then he looked at the leader and released his aura—an aura made up of around 10,000 combined stat points. It completely washed away the auras of the four elves and left them dumbfounded.

Still, while the group was cautious around Derek’s aura, their eyes were trained on Alanah.

“The Dawn Siren…” the leader muttered. “You’ve come back.”

“I have,” Alanah said. “And with allies who are no less strong than me.” Seemingly with perfect timing, in the far distance, a full-sized Rocky shot out of the ground and spewed molten lava everywhere. He’d been doing so during the whole cleanup—he was young and bored, and was unable to help with the cleanup, so he’d been entertaining himself. Alanah turned her head to glance at the dragonkin, then turned back to the group with a half grin. “Do I need to add the lot of you onto my list of revenge?” she asked. “I was going to leave it at the Echoing Willow, but I can make an exception if you wish.”

“N-no, ma’am!” What looked to be the youngest elf in the group spoke up with a shout. “I… I mean… Miss Dawn Siren.”

“Hush!” the leader turned and shouted at the young elven woman, who backed off and lowered her head. Then the leading man looked back at Derek and the others. “I can’t just let you destroy a precious training ground, then leave.” The man cracked his neck, then took a step forward. A set of vines shot out of the ground and began circling around him.

“This again?” Avery muttered, then nocked an arrow, imbued it with his stamina, and released it… directly into the man’s torso. The man’s armor held for a moment before shattering—Avery’s Drill Shot continued on embedding itself into the man’s stomach before coming to a bloody halt. “That was a warning shot,” the archer said as he stepped forward.

“Sir!” One half-elf and another full-blooded elf rushed forward and began healing the wound created on the leader.

“Ugh!” The leader spat out a mouthful of blood, then looked at Avery with death in his eyes.

“I’m the weakest one here,” Avery said with a smile. “And I could probably take at least two or three of you… including you,” he said to the leader.

“You sure you want to kick this hornet’s nest?” Derek asked. “By the way, I’m the strongest here, and I’m sure I could take all 14 of you without breaking a sweat. Could probably kill half of you in a single blow. So, like I said before, you were all just leaving, right?”

Derek heard a collective gulp come from the group. Then, the newly healed leader said, “You lie! There is no way that is true.”

Derek rolled his eyes and sighed. “Fine… I guess I’ll give you a little taste.” With his hand held out, he summoned Harbinger. Then, he injected as much mana into his glaive as possible. “Run,” he said. “Or die… it’s your decision.”

Multiple earth barriers shot up between everyone. The young woman who had spoken out of turn before ran off to the side—seemingly believing Derek’s words.

“Three seconds!” Derek shouted out as a massive geyser of flame shot into the sky over the earthen barrier, then began crashing to the ground—directed at Derek and his group. With a wave of his hand, Derek summoned an Absolute Nullify wall over them, and when the fire got close enough, it was sucked directly into the wall.

“Two!” Derek said as more magical attacks shot out from behind the earthen barrier. He doubted the elves could even see what was going on, but he did look over to the young female elf—who was staring at him like he was some kind of monster—and winked. “One… zero.”

With Harbinger full of the void, Derek struck with a void channeled Sweeping Slash. Though there was absolutely no love lost between him and the people of Linderis, he decided against adding Multi-Strike to the attack for now. He had given them multiple warnings, and they attacked. He even counted down after, yet they did nothing. So now, he was giving them one last chance after experiencing one of his attacks. If they chose to continue, his next attack would include Multi-Strike.

Derek’s attack hit the earthen wall and bit into it without cutting all the way through. The young elf to the side tilted her head in confusion. Derek smiled. Moments later, the wailing began.

“Sir! Are you okay!?” a voice called out.

“Lady Holly! Wake up!” another voice shouted. It was pure chaos behind the earthen wall—an earthen wall which shattered when Alanah stuck her rapier in it, then flicked it with a finger.

Finally, they could see what happened. Seven of the elves were sprawled out on the ground, unmoving. Of those six, they included the man who looked to be in charge, the three elves who had released their auras with him earlier, and the two healers. Four of the others were kneeling on the ground with massive amounts of blood pouring out of every orifice they had. Then there were three who didn’t look too worse for wear. It seemed they took after the young elf and tried to escape at the first count.

“I told you,” Derek said.

“Ugh…” the leader coughed up another mouthful of blood, then rolled over and tried to stand. He fell twice before making it to his feet. He flicked his wrist and drank down a red potion that appeared in his hand. He looked back and down at those on the ground.

“Looks like they are all still alive…” Derek said. “For now… though, those two seem to be in a Dying State. You may want to take care of that soon.” He nodded at one of the healers and the woman named Holly. “You have one last chance to leave, or I’m going to swing again, but this time, with full strength.”

