“I am absolutely sure that if Fallopolis wanted to Repent, she would receive this Quest as well.” Erick said, “The primary reason I did not Bless her was because she seemed to honestly be working against every other Shade all around her. She was the Culler of their Clergy, and she orchestrated the murder of the vast majority of Last Shadow’s Feast; if she had had her way then they would have all died, because, in her words ‘They all deserve to die’. The only reason any Shades survived beyond her was because I Blessed them, and Melemizargo and Koyabez wished to reestablish what it meant to be a Shade. With the Quests they received to do good in the world, perhaps they will, though that is up to them; I will not shelter or hide them, but neither will I help anyone else try to kill them for revenge.” He added, “But as for the specific reason: The fighting was over by that point. I had won. I didn’t want to be punitive, and aside from all her horribleness, Fallopolis did help everyone who wished to go into Ar’Kendrithyst to kill the current Clergy of the Dark.

“It seemed wrong to try and mutate that into something different.”

Abarnikon said, “And yet, Shade Bulgan was not one of the Shades Blessed. According to your publicly released memories of Last Shadow’s Feast, you desired to kill him the most.” Abarnikon said, “If one were more cynical, they might say that the only reason he died and the others lived is because the others had not personally offended you. That your revenge is more worthwhile than the revenge of others, for though I will not go into details, I will say that Shade Treant, for example, has killed thousands upon thousands of orcols in Treehome. And yet you Blessed him. You let that monster go. One might say that all it takes to get out from under your [Luminous Beam] is to not personally offend you.

“This seems like a poor way to run a civilization.

“This seems like you could not kill a friend if they had betrayed you and started murdering others, as long as they had remained friendly to you. This seems like you are incapable of impartiality. This paints you as incapable of actually enacting the hard choices that life so often brings. This colors you as weak.

“What say you to this?”

There was some twisted logic in there, twisted to paint Erick as an idiot of a specific flavor, though he was not sure what flavor Abarnikon was going for. Erick had barely thought of Bulgan since then, though, so the question was a bit of a slapping wakeup call.

Was Erick incapable of impartiality?

Could he kill someone who had personally crossed a deep line that should not be crossed? What sort of scenario would make Erick ‘do what needed to be done’?

Erick didn’t have a full answer, but he had something of an answer. “I probably should have Blessed Bulgan, but he was created specifically to counter everything I did, and I didn’t create the Crystal Star until after he died. But if I had to do it over again… Which I did, thanks to Phagar…

“I would still kill Bulgan.

“Bulgan was a monster of the Quiet War, who killed humans without remorse, and who plotted to kill more. Through his orchestrations, and working with the Shades, he corrupted certain institutions of Spur, turning the good people there from simply defending themselves from human aggressors, to unwittingly complicit in ongoing murderous attacks.” Now that was stretching the truth, but whatever; there was no currently visible [Truth Ward] around him. “When the normal institutions failed to drive me and my daughter out of town, Bulgan tried to murder me and my daughter.

“Any valid government would have executed him for his crimes, if they had been known. But it wasn’t until my daughter and I came along and upset everything that the depth of his treachery was discovered.

“I have learned a lot since my early days on Veird, when I didn’t want to kill monsters because ‘they were living things, too’. I killed my first person accidentally— two people, actually. But it was a tactical strike against Frontier, which saved the city from annihilation.

“I’ve killed a lot more since then.” Erick said, “I never wanted to, but I did what had to be done.

“… And yet, was my solution to Bulgan a bit too drastic? Should I have Blessed him into being a better person?

“Perhaps I should have, if I had had the opportunity.

“Because there will always be Shades. So why not try a world where Shades are Blessed into realizing the depth of the damage they do to others? Where they try to do good, to make up for all the bad they have done?” Erick said, “Perhaps Bulgan didn’t need to die. But at the time, that was the only option I had.”

Erick… Wasn’t sure how he felt about that answer.

He was uncomfortable with the idea that he could have Blessed Bulgan… For a lot of reasons.

Moments passed in silence.

And then Abarnikon said, “Speak about your experience with Goldie, Queen, and the Chelation War in Songli. Do you feel your Blessing worked out there?”

Erick nodded; this was a question that he had expected to happen. He said, “A trusted source in Songli spoke of how Terror Peaks comes back every 50-60 years, committing mass slaughter. They were already primed to do this when I showed up. This trusted source explained that Songli expected casualties in the half a million to 3 million range.

“Goldie and Queen apparently worked over the entire continent to make this event line Songli up to eventually become Empire.” Erick said, “According to Goldie, who I spoke with after the war and subsequent hunting down and eradication of the entire Terror Peaks culture—” Erick wiped away a horribly embarrassing tear, muttered an apology, then continued, “According to Goldie, who is a world-class prognosticator, she and Queen expected 200,000 deaths, and for my assistance against Terror Peaks to eradicate one of the major philosophies of Nelboor that contributed to the constant warring on that continent. That was and still is their repentance goal; to stop the wars that the Shades have been inciting and supporting in Nelboor for… for forever, if my understanding of the situation is correct.

“But the final death toll was 4.5 million people.

“Goldie directly spoke of how she suspected foul play from a few different sources, in particular with regard to the extreme light materials and the soul spears. She suspected some duplicator had gotten loose from somewhere, or something like that, but she was not able to confirm anything in that regard. All she had was accusations and leads that she and others have tried to follow up on, but if anything has been discovered in that area then I have not been made aware of such a discovery.

“As for my Blessing of Goldie and Queen…” Erick said, “It is better to have Shades that feel bad about hurting people than it is to have Shades completely oblivious to the harm they cause, who believe that the people of this world are all illusions. A Shade that realizes they did wrong is better than a Shade who realized that they could have killed all of Songli at once, if they wanted to support Terror Peaks instead.”

Another moment of silence.

Archmage Riivo leaned forward a fraction, and spoke, “Are you aware that Shade Lapis is currently suspected to be assisting with Black Star Caizoa’s purge of the Angelic forces currently deployed by the Converter Angel on the Surface? What have you to say about that?”

Erick did not know that, at all. It took him a hot second to reorient to the Converter Angel problem.

He said, “I did not know that, for I have stayed away from those people who have asked me to stay away, and as of right now Caizoa has asked me on behalf of the Wasteland Kingdoms to stay out of it, for now. I have given my word, though, that I will assist in killing the Converter Angel should it show on Veird, or should Caizoa ask for help. So far, she has not.

“But should it be needed, I will always step in on a case by case basis to help to stop the Quiet War from erupting into a full war, as I did when the Greensoil Republic and Champion Yetta asked me to help with the Breach Demon about a year ago. It is my understanding that the Converter Angel has not been seen on Veird since shortly after Last Shadow’s Feast, nor have I seen indications of the usual soul-shift that indicates Angelic-conversion; and I have been looking.” Erick said, “I think, then, that Shade Lapis, under the direction of Black Star Caizoa, has erased that problem from Veird, for now. Right now, it is my understanding that the Demons and the Angels are engaged in talks of some sort over at Oceanside. After I am done at this inquiry and with Stratagold, I plan to go to Oceanside and see what that is about, since Headmaster Kirginatharp has asked me to participate in those talks.”

Archmage Riivo asked, “So you believe that it is acceptable for a Shade to mutilate the souls of whoever comes under their purview?”

“Soul surgery has to be done to help get these people out from under the sway of the Angels. If Shade Lapis is the one to do it, and if she does it well, then this shows how Melemizargo’s Clergy has changed in the wake of my Blessing.” An uncomfortable statement for many, but while some people squirmed, some people saw the utility in Erick’s statement. He continued, “If Shade Lapis proves to be the evil Shade that she likely was before, then I’m sure that I’ll likely get a quest to End her, and any of the other ones that step out of line, after my Worldly Path is over. I have already promised Rozeta to help with those sorts of situations, should they arise, and I plan to keep that promise.” He added, “But as far as I am concerned, and how I will act going forward: The only Shades who are on shaky ground are Goldie and Queen, and only for their involvement in Songli. If all the rest do good, honest work for the rest of their lives, then I see no reason to persecute them further.”

Most of the fleshy civilians in the inquiry hall were wildly unhappy with Erick’s openness about forgiveness, and some of the wrought were the same way, too. Otaliya and Tasar had already heard this from Erick, though, in their prep sessions, though they did not get this deep into it. Sitnakov was staring a bit and likely thinking deep thoughts, though; Erick had no idea what those particular thoughts were, though.

Many of the people on the inquiry board were simply reserved.

Riivo spoke, “It makes me glad to know that when this farce of forgiveness for the Shades comes to an end, that you are on the side of Rozeta. I wish to be wrong, and that this will not end in disaster, but I look forward to working with you when that inevitable disaster comes.”

Riivo seemed both more satisfied than he thought he would be, and still somehow disappointed. Erick could not point to exactly where the old iron human-shaped man was sad, but it was there, underneath his wizened exterior.

Erick probably would have known more if he had ever asked about Riivo’s relationship with the Angels and the Demons, but why would he have? It simply never came up, and Erick had tried to stay away from all that Quiet War shit as much as he could, anyway. There was a reason Riivo had asked these specific questions, though, and Erick knew that wrought society as a whole was mostly on the side of Koyabez when it came to the Angel/Demon war, but Riivo obviously had some sort of specific relationship with the forces of the Quiet War.

He would ask Riivo about all that later.

It was time for the next inquirer to speak.

Kromolok tilted forward, asking, “Why did you feel the need to breach the Core?”

For a brief moment Erick’s blood pressure spiked, for he had no idea what the Inquisitor would have asked him, but then he heard the question and relaxed. He said, “I did not know what I was getting into when I did that, and so my reasons for breaching the Core are likely insufficient. I really just wanted to see what was on the other side of the defenses.”

“Hubris and curiosity, then.” Kromolok asked, “Did it not occur to you that there were reasons we protect the Core?”

“Of course it occurred to me that there were reasons to protect that land. It also occurred to me that I needed to visit the Core in my Worldly Path, and I am glad I did.” Erick said, “I certainly didn’t endanger the Core with my presence, either. I desecrated no lands and allowed no monsters to follow me inside. I took very little and left everything as I found it as much as I could. I did not approach the Inner Core. And I had a nice chat with Rozeta about… A lot. My presence in the Core was necessary.”

Kromolok said, “Let it be known that Erick did not, in fact, endanger the Core with his presence, for though he forced his way inside he also ensured that no monsters or otherwise followed him into that sacred land. He had no idea what he was doing, but did have personal reasons for going into the Core which we will not get into here. Moving on:”

Abarnikon, Riivo, and a few others on stage did not like that, but they said no words to countermand Kromolok. The audience was rather stunned, though. Some people got out of their seats and yelled something about how Erick should have gotten clearance first, drawing the attentions of the people around them, but Erick could not pay those people much mind at the moment, for Kromolok looked to be gearing up into something big.

Kromolok continued, “It is the sacred duty of we wrought to protect the Core, and to ensure the safety of this world at large. Prior to Last Shadow’s Feast we could not freely visit the Surface to inform the general populace, as well as people like you, of this fact. We could not tell you that the manner in which you breached the Core could have been catastrophic. Thanks to you, though, and due to the Gate Network we expect you to reestablish, we will be able to create a presence on the Surface unlike ever before. We will be able to work with the people of the Surface like never before.

“We will be starting with the near-reclaimed city of Ar’Kendrithyst.”

Erick felt his pulse rise and the people behind him stare.

“Now that the Dead City is cleared of its recent soul slime troubles—”

Erick felt a near panic grip his heart as he had no idea what Spur had been facing recently, and here it was coming up in this inquiry. What the fuck was a soul slime? Was this Worldly Path shit? Or—

