

Erick might have some of the particulars wrong, but he had most of them right.

Erick turned his full attention back to Fairy Moon. Barely two seconds had passed, and though he was still angry at the inquiry, he could compartmentalize that anger for now. For the greater good.

Erick said, “Thank you for staying after the Sundering. When all the other true travelers went on to wherever, you remained here to remind Veird of what was vanished from collective consciousness. I don’t know what it was called before, but if I were to Name the Power that you call Fate and Time and Life and Death, in a Confluence of Demand, and an Infection of Fae Understanding…” Erick said, “I would name it Elemental Benevolence.”

Fairy Moon’s eyes had gone wide at Erick’s second ‘thanks’, but when he named a new Power she was absolutely beaming. Her skin even seemed brighter. And it was her skin, for she was there, with them, on that beach. She smiled, and it was as though the world lit up brighter.

“Ah. Yes.” A tear rolled. “A new name for a new age. It works. Or it will work once we use one of our Wizards to weave that working. In order to thank me properly, though, you can come to Ar’Cosmos and benefit from our own benevolence whenever you find yourself at our bit of the Old Cosmology.”

For a hot second Erick was worried, but then nothing happened.

Kromolok looked worried, but also hopeful. Abarnikon seemed full of plots and worries, but he also had a deep desire to kill Fairy Moon if she should step out of line. Sitnakov just wanted to kill the fae; but he was smart enough not to say or start shit right then. Erick was glad to see that.

Tasar was simply quiet, with her eyes and mana sense focused on all corners of the world, searching for any inkling of shenanigans from Fairy Moon. Erick was sure there was something happening behind the fae’s green and pink eyes, but nothing came to the forefront.

Erick said, “I will eventually take you up on that offer, but not today, and not until other necessities are observed and solved.”

“Then till we meet again, young Flatt.” Fairy Moon said, “You have my thanks in turn.”

Erick felt a great sense of relief at that—

Fairy Moon stepped backward—

Gone.

She was gone, just like that. Even the firefly-thing that had projected her image into the air was gone, too, though Erick was pretty sure that everything that he had seen was Fae Magic, anyway. Who’s to say what was what, when reality had been supplanted by the individual Reality of Fae Magic.

Erick breathed out a little, then he said to Abarnikon and Kromolok, “That went well. Better than the inquiry. You all work on Elemental Benevolence, or whatever.” Erick breathed deep again, then he took a step forward, saying, “I’m going to Yggdrasil to pack—”

He stepped into a [Gate] of pink and green.

The world dissolved into color as something reached into Erick’s mind and pulled out all his thoughts, leaving him bare to the world, as a massive clawed hand of pink scales and white claws reached forward and grabbed him, snatching him, pulling him deeper into a swirling tunnel of pastel springtime.

Tasar yelled. Black and green shadows swirled into springtime, trying to rip it apart.

A black wind flowed into the tunnel, following fast. A black hand reached for Erick but a pink tail slapped the hand away. Sitnakov roared bloody murder as the [Gate] shut on his arm— But it didn’t snap the black forearm from its owner.

The world was a tunnel of pink and white and the barest green, but with a single spot of black, a single hand reaching into forever. A second hand slipped in beside the first and pried—

Black and green shadows followed Erick, widening the tunnel, spreading it open. Sitnakov raced forward like a half-invisible darkness. Ophiels followed, sharp-feathered and full of fury.

Fairy Moon screamed from the back of the pink dragon to hurry. The dragon was a young one for sure, at only ten meters long, but their two forward arms held Erick tight against their sinuous body as the springtime tunnel began to collapse into black and green shadows, and brilliant shafts of [Luminous Beam]s.

Compared to his usual self, Erick barely understood what was happening. He tried to touch his mana—

Fairy Moon yelled something.

A massive red dragon, like a snake made of lava, flowed out of springtime and into the black-green shadows. Fire and carnage and light erupted in the tunnel. And then, all Erick could think was that the shadows were falling too far behind, that the light was too slow, that it was weird to want shadows to save him.

Jane would be okay, right? Surely—

Springtime claimed him.
