Bayolth spoke of his hopes for a stable future for him and the twenty-seven families he represented, along with a small organization of adventurers wishing to retire into simple defense of their proposed city, while they mentored others who would then go out into the Dark and clear out the dangers therein. After another half an hour, in a completely new gesture, Prince Abarnikon tapped his finger three times on the table in front of him, interrupting everything.

Everyone went silent. The audience was suddenly completely still; even the hundred and… thousands, actually, of people who had shown up in the audience since Erick had arrived. Ah. He had barely noticed that. Apparently, the massive stadium was filling up. Word of Erick’s presence had gotten around. The royal seating up top remained empty, though everything else was about three-quarters full.

Prince Abarnikon’s calm voice radiated outward, though he was speaking to his fellow inquirers, “I believe we have heard enough about basic competency. It is my belief that Respondent Bayloth knows how to govern, even if he is relatively untested at a mere 5 years at working as a judge in Section Windward’s legal division. Is there anyone here who believes he has failed this part of this inquiry?”

Every single inquirer said nothing.

And then suddenly Bayolth relaxed, his breath coming out ragged, and then calm; he had stopped breathing for a good twenty seconds. He smiled, and then he forced himself back to a professional appearance; no smiles allowed. But if it wasn’t frowned upon Erick suspected he would have danced on that stage.

Bayolth’s people started to cheer, openly and loudly, though that, too, was a quiet celebration of shaking the shoulders of their neighbors and halfway jumping out of their seats. Erick expected there would be noise but, once again, noise canceling all around. Other gathered people in the audience clapped.

Prince Abarnikon moved on. “Then we shall speak of levels and spells and skills, and hopefully you have developed enough of a following to qualify in this regard. How do you wish to proceed, Respondent Bayolth?”

After a happy silent moment, Bayolth said, “I would like to speak of aggregate numbers of people, based on the star ranking handed out by the Adventurer’s Guild, in addition to overall levels and Health of the average citizen, and the large number of qualified Healers and Herbalists and Farmers which should prevent any collapse to come from any of the known reasons for a failed city.”

Abarnikon nodded. “Proceed.”

“We have 322 people lined up for the initial founding of the city, with a median level of 40, though 100 of us are either 50 or much higher. Of those who would fight, our average ranking is 4-Star. Though we have no archmages or archwarriors we do have ten people, myself included, who are ranked 7 star…”

As Bayolth continued to speak of his number of adventurers, and then of Farmers and Healers, Erick watched as the entire inquiry board showed obvious surprise. Erick was a bit surprised, too. According to everything that he knew, Bayolth had set himself and his people up for success. Most of the adventurers who came through Spur were either 6-star by the time they moved on, or they died. Most adventurers in the rest of the world only reached 5 star, which was basically level 50 and with the skill to kill something semi-dangerous, like a single, normal ooze.

According to most of the world, Bayolth was qualified.

Bayolth finished, looking relieved and nervous at the same time. Erick expected he had gotten through the toughest part of this inquiry in the first half; proving he was capable of actually founding and maintaining a city out in the untamed Underworld.

Prince Abarnikon spoke his verdict, “Congratulations, Bayolth. You and your people will be receiving full and complete assistance against the Dark within the month. Stratagold will assist you for 25 years, with a recheck for competency every 5 years after that. Please attend to the clerks; they will work out the particulars.”

Bayolth shuddered with joy, and then he bowed. “Thank you, Stratagold.” He rose, and turned.

His people were jumping in their seats, elated for a success; the time for propriety was over, it was time for celebration.

Bayolth allowed himself to smile as he did a little pump with his fist and walked off the stage to where three wrought clerks waited.

Abarnikon announced, “There will be a ten minute recess to allow for orderly switching of the room. Would Bayolth’s people kindly move along now, and congratulations to you all, too. Stratagold looks forward to your new city, and to your success.”

The audience rapidly turned contrite and moved along; some orderly, some excitedly.

Erick glanced over at his own people which were not truly his people at all. But Otaliya’s joyful expression, Tasar’s calming solidity, and the gruff and somewhat worried faces of his three EIPC people, the human, Radigo, the dragonkin, Loori, and the incani, Walz, were all rather nice to see. They all honestly wanted him to succeed for their own reasons, from the prestige it would bring the EIPC teams, to Tasar wanting Erick to like Stratagold more than he did. Otaliya’s goal was perhaps the most pure; she just wanted good things for Erick, for he had done good things for the world and she thought that he deserved nice things done for him, in turn. They had all done a lot to help Erick realize and understand what it would take to win this inquiry, but in the end, it was up to him.

And about a year from now, or sooner, they’d all fall under heavy scrutiny for helping a Wizard.

A lot of people would fall to heavy scrutiny, actually, which was why Erick needed to do this right.

If he managed to succeed, then the full weight of Stratagold would get behind him, and with the Shades gone, this meant runic webs, and t-station access, and mutual defense on the Surface. Of course, the fly in the ointment was that this might only last a year. But with any luck, and with how much faster Erick wanted to walk the rest of this Path, he would have a [Gate] network up and running for at least 8 months before [Renew] came out in the Open Script. And that would mean he would be important enough to deal with diplomatically, instead of with assassins, or worse.

… Hopefully.

He still had ten minutes before he had to speak, though, so he went to the respondent-only bathroom located around the corner, had a drink of water from the fountain, paused as he realized the pure depth of what he was getting into…

Paused again as his mana sense told him what was happening outside long before his eyes or Ophiel could.

And then he went back out to face the double firing squad—

Well. It wasn’t that bad.

There were at least 50,000 people in the audience, though. A lot of them wrought, but there were plenty of dragonkin, human, incani, and all the other species of Veird up there in the myriad stands. Most of the stranger races were wrought in the forms of goblins or harpies or otherwise. Not many flesh-and-blood harpies down here in the Underworld—

Erick glanced at the royalty seats, saw no one, and moved on, turning to the inquiry board.

The proxies were mostly gone, replaced with the heads of their various organizations. Otaliya had warned Erick that this might happen; that he might not get ‘whoever was on the bench that day’, and that the inquiry board would reach out to the people who actually controlled the current seats, and that those true owners would come here in person. Not everyone had switched out for their true owner, but a lot had.

Archmage Riivo of Archmage’s Rest sat at his chair to the left of Prince Abarnikon. To the prince’s right sat Inquisitor Kromolok. Zooli, the gold incani man from the Merchants, was there. One surprise was sergeant Kappra; the iron incani woman who stood with her small contingent of people outside of Yggdrasil’s tunnel. She must have been more important than Erick realized, or maybe the actual owner of the seat wanted Kappra there to be able to ask direct questions about what she had observed from Erick for the past week or whatever. Aisha, the celesteel human-shaped woman from Archmage’s Rest was there, too. Did Archmage’s Rest get two chairs? Or was she there in some other capacity? She was a very good prognosticator. Awir, the silver incani-shaped Particle Mage / Healer / Gemslicer sat stiffly in his chair, looking smug. Erick hoped that he wouldn’t get too much trouble from the Gemslicers, but if they fucked him over here then Erick was going to fuck right back, and release ‘glow gems’ to everyone who wanted one—

Anger rose and beat back nervousness with a bladed stick, and then anger stayed around, but stayed quiet. Smoldering. Like a wary man waiting for the opposition to make the next move.

Ah.

Okay.

Erick relaxed.

This was good. Less nerves, more solidity. They were all just people...

Erick glanced back. Maybe 60,000 people in the stands? There was a rather conspicuous hole in the crowd near the front, though, where Erick’s people would have sat, if he had some. All he had was Otaliya, Tasar, and his EIPC people.

That looked rather embarrassing, actually.

… Erick had nine of his Ophiel flutter over to sit in the stands, each of them turning human-ish-sized and taking up two seats, while he had Yggdrasil make another [Scry] eye of about the same size to take another two seats, next to all his Ophiel. Ophiel cooed. The audience chuckled. Most approved.

There. That was better. More people in his seats was good. Otaliya seemed to get a kick out of it, too, laughing a little. And then Otaliya mouthed, ‘Good Luck’ as she waved quickly—

Well. She spoke the words, loud and happy, as a hundred other people yelled the same, while even more joined in with cheers. It seemed Erick could hear the audience if he was listening through Ophiel.

Erick quietly divorced himself from that distraction, though he left Ophiel where he was, and smiled. He turned back to the wide arc of the inquiry board, and then he stepped over to his designated space, onto the small dais to stand beside the podium of the respondent—

Erick watched as, behind him, Prince Sitnakov happily walked out of a tunnel and into the center of the stadium seating, along with three of his friends. Sitnakov instantly looked down at Erick’s designated audience and smiled wide as he moseyed down the staircase—

Tasar spotted the man a little after everyone else in the audience spotted him—

Prince Abarnikon sighed, and then his voice traveled out, “Will the audience please refrain from overt displays of any sort, and remain more respectful of this institution.”

Sitnakov and his friends made a show of hunkering down as though dodging from [Fireball]s as he put a hand over his own mouth. He quickly stepped down to Erick’s section, but had his friends sit at the top, away from the main respondent reserved area. The audience eventually went quiet again. Attention refocused forward as Sitnakov sat down right next to Tasar, who glared up at the taller man, frowning all the while. Sitnakov smiled—

Erick ignored that, and focused forward.

Prince Abarnikon began, “Stratagold greets Archmage Erick Flatt of Spur, a planar from a world called Earth, who released a new magic into Veird for the first time in over 1200 years, who will revolutionize the way alchemy is taught, and who has done more than any mortal in current memory to alleviate the threat of the Dark from the good people of Veird. They’re calling your trip through Ar’Kendrithyst ‘Last Shadow’s Feast’. What would you call it?”

Starting strong, then.

Erick stated, “I was in the right place at the right time and mostly tried not to die, while also trying to do the most good. Through my actions, but also through the actions of Melemizargo which mostly involved his direct removal of support for all of the Shades, all but 7 Shades perished. If he wants people to start trusting him as they did in the Old Cosmology, which is, I believe, a major part of his plans, then I doubt he will be making new Shades anytime soon.”

The audience was completely silent; rapt with sudden attention and deep horror in equal measure. Some of them didn’t expect Erick to speak so openly. Some visibly recoiled at the mention of ‘Melemizargo’. All of them were on the edge of their seats, even the few youngsters in the audience, brought here by their parents for whatever reason.

Probably to watch history being made.

The inquiry board was silent, too, but their silence was one of deliberation of how to attack to inflict the most damage and to test Erick’s responses. They had all tangled with Melemizargo directly, Erick guessed; the name of the Dark’s current avatar held no power over them.

Prince Abarnikon led the charge, “There are several parts of that statement which we will need to get into, but before we do that, I ask for your desires regarding this inquiry. What do you hope to get out of this?”

Erick had only practiced a few parts of his various speeches. No one knew exactly where this particular inquiry would go. But they did know that Abarnikon or someone else would ask this specific question, and Erick needed to have a strong answer.

“I hope for runic web clearance. I desire assistance with pushing back the Crystal Forest into small plots of maintained ecosystems, with most of the land being reclaimed for habitation; forests and rivers and such. I ask for assistance with [Gate] and all that entails. I want to establish political ties that will last a lifetime, and beyond.” Erick said, “But mostly, I want to establish trust, first and foremost, so that in these changing times we can still look to each other as sources of stability, no matter what storms might open up overhead, or whatever monsters might come knocking at the door.”

Abarnikon nodded. “An admirable set of goals. All which seem reasonable, and truly desired.” He stated, “Then we shall begin with the question of why you allowed seven Shades to live, and allowed one of those seven to get away without receiving a Blessing of Empathy from your Crystal Star. Why did you allow Fallopolis to get away without the Quest to Repent?”

