All inquiries took place in the same room in the embassy.

That ‘room’ took up a hemisphere of space almost a kilometer across, and half a kilometer deep. Erick had poked his mana sense that way a few times with Ophiel to see what was what and to view parts of ongoing inquiries here and there. The inquiry preparatory committee hallway had a few scale models as well, which the people there used to show potential ‘respondents’ —the name given to those who were to undergo an inquiry— what to expect once inside.

Erick saw those dioramas and experienced a shortened prep session around one of them when he went to that IPC hallway to gather his team. After Otaliya also came by they once again went over what to expect inside the inquiry. Tasar’s mother, and pretty much every single person in EIPCs had been surprised that he was actually going ahead with his inquiry this quickly. Erick had told them in the beginning to expect a quick inquiry, but they didn’t actually believe it would be happening today.

But Erick had done his due diligence; he had done everything he could to line up a positive outcome, except prepare for a full year. All he truly wanted was runic web clearance, and he was pretty sure he had that in the bag; everything else was gravy.

After final preparations, Otaliaya was the most enthusiastic of them all, saying, “I wish you the best of luck, Erick! If anyone deserves a positive inquiry, it is you!” She smiled. “Savior of Light. Now let’s go secure that win!”

Otaliya and the EIPC teams had been invaluable in helping Erick understand the people he would be facing in the inquiry room, but they could not help him in the final showdown. They were allowed to sit behind him during the actual inquiry. All the rest of the crowd would find seats in the higher stands.

No one would be allowed to interact with Erick aside from the inquiry panel once the inquiry started.

Seeing the stadium in person was an experience. Everything was white and gold, with yellow cushioned seating and yellow drapes hanging down all over. It had multiple levels of seating which all faced a relatively small arena-like space down in front. It was like a fancy theater with almost all of its space devoted to the audience, and with clear purposes regarding who could sit where. The first 150 front row seats were reserved for guests of the respondent. Some of the balconies were clearly reserved for mortal nobility, with their easy access to bathrooms and such mundane needs. Others were reserved for wrought, with one in particular on the left side looking like an obvious place for the Heavies to sit; where royalty could watch if they wanted.

It all kinda reminded Erick of a half of a football stadium.

Erick arrived at the inquiry desk, where he filled out final paperworks much to the surprise of every single wrought working that desk. Some of the nearby wrought went running off, no doubt to tell people that Erick was here, and that his inquiry was happening today.

Events proceeded semi-rapidly from there.

The clerks in charge set Erick down in the queue, to the left of the main stage, alongside two other people who promptly recognized him. One fellow respondent was a human woman in noble-like clothes who saw and recognized Erick, and then she excused herself from the line. She went to the clerks and told them to reschedule, which they began helping her do. The next person in line, an orcol man, chuckled when he understood what was happening. He wished Erick luck as he also stepped out of line to reschedule. Both of them would try their hand some other day, when the inquiry panel is back to who they expected to see on the bench.

And so, Erick sat down, and he watched.

The current respondent on stage was a dragonkin man. As the hubbub in the respondent’s box distracted him he glanced Erick’s way, his eyes going wide as he flubbed whatever he was going to say, but then he recaptured his words and kept right on going. The hundreds of people (mostly dragonkin) sitting directly behind the respondent (and also spilling over into the other nearby seating) all noticed Erick too, as Erick made himself comfortable in the queue, about fifty meters from the respondent’s podium.

Except for the current respondent’s voice, the place was pretty quiet.

Erick suspected that he would have been hearing a lot of whispers and open talk if not for the runic webs buried here and there, keeping sound cordoned off and one-directional, for the most part. According to what Erick knew, the respondent’s words would go out to everyone sitting in the stands, while the stands were spelled to not spill sound outward. The inquiry board had their own complicated set of sound spells that they could control and direct as they wanted; either for private deliberations or for open speech.

Every single inquiry board member sat behind a wide arc of a solid crystal table that curved away from the respondent. Every one of them had the same sized chair, except for one; the chair in the middle, which belonged to the Heavies. The royalty of Stratagold. Behind the assembled panel rose a relief of crystals and light and sculptures of white-metal wrought helping sculptures of wooden people to ascend to the brightness above. Erick suspected there was a symbolism there about the permanency of metal and the weakness of wood, but maybe that choice was just to denote the true difference between the wrought and everyone else. Wood could grow and change. Metal did not.

The inquiry board was all wrought, of course, but the only person Erick actually recognized was Prince Abarnikon, who sat on the central, largest chair. The Prince glanced to Erick, in a regal sort of way, and simply nodded, as he continued to listen to the current respondent. All the other board members were a lot more open about their noticing of Erick. They whispered to aides or glanced around, expectantly. One guy flipped some switches in front of him to fully obscure his body and his words. Seconds later an aide raced out of that guy’s obscured space; a man on a mission. And then that guy’s obscuring bubble went away. Mostly.

Erick couldn’t hear any of the people on the inquiry board, nor could he read their lips, because there was some sort of generalized obfuscation surrounding and hiding many of the smaller actions of those people. It was easy enough to read their body language, and the small plaques set up in front of them which read which force of Stratagold that person represented. Some of the people were excited, like the gold wrought from the merchant caste, and the one silver wrought representing Archmage’s Rest. Some were ambivalent, from the white wrought from the Church, to the guy representing Stratgold’s armies and guard, to the woman representing agricultural concerns…

Erick would have thought that he had done a lot for agriculture on Veird—

Ah. Fuck. Should he have followed up with having Yggdrasil run [Exalted Rain] in his cavern every now and then? It would have been a great food source… Oh well. Later. He could look into that later. Before he actually left, or perhaps even inside this inquiry, too. Yes. That was a better idea.

The guy from the Gemslicers wasn’t happy at all.

Erick was not surprised by that, though he felt it odd that the Gemslicers were large enough to warrant a seat at this table, anyway. Otaliya had told Erick that they represented the interests of the Healers, though, so with that in mind their presence made some sort of sense.

The current respondent rested his right hand on the podium beside his station, supporting himself as he continued to answer the question he had been asked, though he flubbed his answer again, and then he froze in pure, terrified worry. He was fucking up.

Ah. Erick felt bad for the guy. Nothing to be done about it, though. Erick was content to wait his turn. These things usually didn’t take more than two hours anyway and he had [Renew]ed himself in his Other Form before coming here.

… The dragonkin respondent wasn’t recovering.

As five seconds of silence stretched into ten, and then thirty…

Prince Abarnikon touched some controls on the armrest of his chair and his calm speaking voice sounded out to the rest of the room, “If the respondent would like a five minute break we can oblige. We honor your time and your willingness to be here, and so, no matter who is slated to come next, your inquiry is just as valued as any other.”

The respondent gave a nervous chuckle—

The respondent rallied, saying, “I thank Prince Abarnikon for his grace. I would prefer to continue.”

Abarnikon nodded. “Then: you were speaking of vulnerabilities of agriculture, and how to solve for [Grow]ing food in the deep Underworld for an estimated 25,000 people.”

The respondent, named Bayolth, stood tall, and spoke, “Surveys of the proposed cityspace indicate that…”

Seeing an inquiry in person was about the same as seeing it through Ophiel. Boring, but stressful. Erick had an idea of what sorts of questions they were going to ask him; from questions about Last Shadow’s Feast, to his failure with Terror Peaks, to the handling and his plans for the Blessing of Empathy of his Crystal Star, to other such questions.

Comparatively, Bayloth was getting a completely normal inquiry. ‘How do you handle defense?’ ‘How do you handle governing?’ ‘How would you enact Stratagold’s itemized list of demands 1 through 37?’ From Bayloth’s answers and the reactions of the people both on the board and in the audience (after Erick’s presence once again faded into the background), this guy was knocking it out of the park. In fact, he seemed to be getting into it, speaking eloquently and precisely, like he was answering an oral exam and all his loved ones had shown up to support him…

Which is exactly what had happened, wasn’t it?

According to the EIPCs he hired and Otaliya, and Tasar, all of whom sat in the stands up and behind Erick, some respondents treated this exactly like an oral exam. This methodology was considered the ‘safe way’ to secure a victory, for Stratagold valued organization and knowledge and all the usual things that were conducive to a working, successful society. If one didn’t know how to solve the triple threat of monsters at the gates, no food in the pantry, and sickness spreading in a town, then they weren’t really qualified for defending against the Dark, and thus Stratagold would not want to enable such self destructive behavior.

Erick would likely get a few softball questions like that. His answers would be along the lines of: ‘I would solve all of these problems myself and in an hour, and then look for someone else to keep it solved.’

The qualifier on that statement would be important, for ‘solving it oneself’ is actually the wrong answer, because the followup would be ‘what if you’re not there?’ and Erick would currently fail that followup. Honestly, though, Erick could answer that typical followup with ‘then Ophiel or Yggdrasil will be there’, but that would show a disdain for trying to get a working society to follow in his wake.

And that’s what the inquiry truly wanted.

Stratagold wanted to support those who would support others, to continue the chain of support down to the average person in any given society. They wanted prosperity for all, and their support was just an inquiry away.

… Erick had this in the bag. Sure, most of his information on how to make a society flourish was out of date and from another world, and had required a whole bunch of updating since he got to Veird, but he felt he was doing okay these days, and the future was looking up!

Bayolth spoke for another half an hour, answering a few more soft questions with hard, specific answers. A few of the inquiry people asked harder questions, twisting Bayolth’s answers in unexpected directions, turning his good answers into the worst possible answers anyone could have given.

“A man murders his wife. What do you do?”

“The likely result is execution, but there will be a trial and [Witness]-enabled search, as provided by my people who I already have lined up for this sort of thing.’

“The man’s goal was to get into your jail all along. Now that you put him in that jail to enable easier questioning the man goes on to face steal your captain of the guard and kills your [Witness]er using the captain’s body. What do you do now?”

… Now Erick wasn’t 100% sure, but he felt that specific counter-question was halfway directed at him. Or maybe the inquiry person asked that just because he was here? Maybe the latter, actually.

Bayolth stood strong, though, and spoke of various spells and keyword systems that they had to prevent just such an event. A spy or hidden murderer on the loose in your place of power was a common enough event that people had to plan for it, and Bayolth had plans.

Erick rated Bayolth’s system a 7 out of 10.

The best method to uncover face stealers was [Cascade Imaging] based on blood and to ask another [Witness]er to come in, and to throw in a few truthstones here and there to catch a culprit on a lie and you’d be good. None of them were fool-proof, but if you put enough of them together then the net tightened pretty hard, and you usually caught whoever was fucking up your shit. But of course, if such a random face stealer managed to get into the bowels of your governing structure like that you were pretty fucked, anyway.

“… And then there’s the second path,” Bayolth said, “I would likely require help at that point due to the nature of the problem. I would ask Stratagold for aid.”

Ah.

Yeah. That was a correct answer, too. That’s what Stratagold was here for, after all. A few inquirers flipped through some papers sitting on the arc of a table in front of them, marking down some words that Erick, and no one in the audience either, could read, due to the obfuscation in effect.

The next person to speak was the representative from the gold caste, who asked a question pertaining back to an earlier sort of question about taxes and the specific brand of economy that Bayolth was trying to set up. Bayolth responded with a rather standard answer, and the inquiry board jotted down what they felt relevant, or something. Erick was quite annoyed that he couldn’t figure out what they were writing down.

Their hands were obscured when they wrote, and the papers were like gibberish. Erick could not discern the movements of the pen tip to recreate the words in his own head, either. His mana sense went very fuzzy when around that inquiry table, which had to be by design. Oh well. Whatever.

