“—Stratagold will be joining a coalition of Geodes to fully reclaim Ar’Kendrithyst from the troubles that remain, and to establish a true wrought presence on the Surface. I urge everyone here to understand that, if you join this coalition, that this means mingling with mortals. Ar’Kendrithyst will not become a normal Geode. We will not be kicking out any mortals that decide to live there, but we will be reclaiming that land from the Darkness, fully and without reservation.” Kromolok turned back to Erick, saying, “We look forward to the new dawn.”

People started talking behind Erick, but he couldn’t hear them.

He could only say, “Pardon. My people back in Spur told me to stay away from them and their troubles due to the Worldly Path… What is the soul slime? I have not heard of this. When did this happen?”

Abarnikon spoke, “The cause of the nightly Dark Tide of Ar’Kendrithyst was ended as of 3 hours ago, when you sat down to wait for the previous respondent to finish.” He said, “The soul slime was a creature that turned the long dead souls trapped inside the kendrithyst crystal into a sludge of Blood Magic, Soul Magic, and tens of more smaller magics which our people are still trying to pick apart and understand. In short, it turned all the dead and the living of that Dead City into amalgams, mashing them together and combining powers and abilities like we have never seen before. I understand your daughter was instrumental in dealing the final blow against the soul slime before it could recover under the comfort of night. She and the people of Spur, and even Shade Farix, all played a large part in solving that mess.” Abarnikon said, “But it was the Dark that finally allowed your daughter to strike the final blow, as the Dark himself held down the grand core of the soul slime, and asked Jane Flatt to kill the soul slime in the Dark’s name. Which she did. And then the Dark took something from the soul slime, claiming he would make something complementary to this new way of life and this new world that you, Erick Flatt, are attempting to create.”

… This was not news to anyone on the inquiry board. They all stared at Erick, waiting for a response and preparing to weigh that response.

This was shocking news to Erick, and judging from the audience, it was shocking news to them, too. Tasar and Otaliya and Erick’s EIPC people were all upset in various ways. Otaliya was yelling foul. Tasar glared. Sitnakov, though, had a weird reaction. He furrowed his brows as he stared at his brother, Abarnikon; questioning.

No inquirer asked anything else. They were waiting for a response.

‘Your daughter pledged a kill to the Dark. What say you?’

Erick did not directly confront the ‘attack’ from Abarnikon. Anger began to boil but he kept a tight lid on that.

He deflected, asking, “Why did she do that? It cannot be as simple as you say.”

Abarnikon leveled his gaze, saying, “Because she was asked, and it was the easy solution to the problem. This easy solution—”

“No. You’re lying.” Erick found himself interrupting the man, “Jane wouldn’t pick the easy way if there was any other choice. Don’t lie to me about this. This is large. This is big. This is bigger than lies. Tell me the truth.”

Erick very clearly saw though his Ophiel as Otaliya flinched, and said, “Oh slag.”

“It is not a lie to say that your daughter chose the easy way out.” Abarnikon said, “The actual kill took place like this: The monster was locked down by your apprentice, Kiri Flamecrash, and by all the other forces of Spur and Ar’Frontier—”

Erick’s mouth dropped open a little, as he mouthed, ‘Ar’Frontier?’ Something had happened to Frontier? He dared not actually interrupt the prince again, though he dearly wanted to.

“—We see the news of Ar’Frontier is also upsetting.” With a small sliver of near-invisible disdain in his voice, Abarnikon said, “It seems that Mayor Silverite truly did keep you out of the circle.” He continued, “So allow me to inform you, and everyone else here of what has transpired on the Surface; the full story of the soul slime, and of the Dark Tide it produced:

“The soul slime killed all of Ar’Kendrithyst and spilled out every night to swallow the land in Darkness and fates worse than death. Frontier couldn’t handle it. They evacuated. Some of those surviving humans moved to the city of Spur.

“The threat of the soul slime was very real.

“And yet, it was allowed to exist and grow strong because it created level 95 monsters on the Surface.” Abarnikon said, “It was allowed to grow out of control because the Mayor of Spur allowed it to run out of control, because level 95 monsters made her city truly prosperous. I hear Spur even has strong ties to Songli, now, of all places.

“With those connections and with the archmages of that city, and with Erick Flatt’s apprentice, Kiri Flamecrash, it is the opinion of Stratagold that they could have killed this monster a week after the first sighting of the black ooze. But no! They allowed it to grow. And so it grew so large and it swallowed up Ar’Kendrithyst with so much soul sludge that it began to pour over the walls every night, becoming a sweeping ocean of horror that amalgamized everything it touched with everything else it had already touched. It birthed monsters more deadly than we have ever seen before.

“Even the smaller monsters were worth level 60, or higher.

“And so Silverite and her General—” Abarnikon’s voice had filled with hatred as he said ‘General’, which meant Killzone, which meant something big, but Erick had no idea what. “— allowed the problem to grow so large that, even with the thing helpless and near-dead, that no one could kill the soul slime itself before night fell. And so, your daughter killed the soul slime in the Dark’s name in order to stave off the actual kill method, which would have erased Ar’Kendrithyst from the Surface!

“Headmaster Kirginatharp was prepared to blow up the entire Dead City to kill the soul slime. He had his spells lined up. He had time to enact those spells. He was ready to cast the big one. Such a spell would have damaged the Surface for a hundred kilometers in every direction and ruined the land for years. It would have brought utter devastation to the local economy—” He almost snarled, as he said, “But like that fucking matters.” He controlled himself. He said, “This cratering outcome would have been much preferable to whatever uncertainty has happened now that the Dark took the soul slime’s Truth out of its body. The Dark will likely use that Truth to create a Shade. Perhaps another Champion, like Tania Webwalker.” He stared at Erick, “And now you understand the severity of your daughter’s choice.”

While Erick was reeling from that—

Kromolok spoke up, “But since Ar’Kendrithyst was not destroyed, it provides us with an opportunity to have a presence on the Surface. A bastion of newly cleaned-out power for we wrought. A midway point between us and all the rest of the Surface.”

Archmage Riivo spoke, “I fear you lightpaint a different image of the outcome than what we scholars would lightpaint, Prince Abarnikon. If Headmaster Kirginatharp’s spell had been allowed to happen, all we truly know is that he would have destroyed the Dead City; it is not a sure thing that he would have killed the soul slime. Four Paladins of four different gods tried to kill the thing, but they could not. Our own Paladin White attempted to [Strike] the thing while it was locked down, but his sword could not pierce the soul slime’s [Absolute Barrier]. Five different archmages. Ten different archwarriors, including the General of Spur. Decay, Void, Magma. [Luminous Beam] ten at a time. Nothing worked against the soul slime. Antirhine weaponry was similarly useless.

“The Dark even spoke of the soul slime as being the most dangerous part of Erick’s Worldly Path, so it is likely that only he could have actually killed it, and only through power which he does not yet possess.

“Through [Gate].

“It is highly likely that if Jane Flatt had not done what she had done, then she would have died in the attempt, and the soul slime would have continued to thrive, and then the sun would set and night would fill that part of the world. And then, the slime would have been able to truly fight back. The True Revelation revealed by Erick’s guard, Teressa Rednail, would have come true, and we would have a much larger problem on our hands than the Dark getting another toy to play with.”

Erick felt like he was floating. All this new information was like punch after punch. And now he was numb. How much danger had Jane been in? How much danger was she getting into up there? When would the danger end?

… And then he came back to himself.

A calm descended.

He needed to end this now.

Erick stated, “I would end this inquiry now, and move on with my Worldly Path, to solve [Gate] and to discover what has happened back in Spur on my own. I wish for the full support of Stratagold in my endeavors going forward. What say you?”

The audience wanted answers just as much as Erick did.

It seemed that Abarnikon and the rest of the inquiry board was done with this inquisition, too.

Abarnikon said, “Our support is contingent on several key factors. A list will be provided, but one will be stated right now: the Worldly Path is the most disruptive ritual on Veird, for it grows with the Walker, and you started your Path with Last Shadow’s Feast. Therefore: Complete your Path in the next two months, or find a contingent of wrought demanding you stand down. We have broken many disruptive archmages from the Worldly Path before.

“We will do it again, if we have to.”

Fine.

Fuck you.

“Heard and understood.” Erick gave a quick half-bow to the gathered inquiry board, then rose, and said, “Then I’m off. Look forward to working with you soon.”

And then he stepped off the stage and began walking away.

The audience went wild with questions, though they were still mostly wrought, so they mostly remained seated. Apparently this happened sometimes. The major players on the inquiry board excused themselves while news criers came forward and began explaining everything that Abarnikon and Kromolok had spoken of, but Erick was already moving on.

- - - -

Erick light stepped to the tunnel leading to Yggdrasil’s cavern and hit a wall.

A fog of green-black Domain lay across the entrance. It was Tasar’s Domain. Erick angrily slapped the fog—

The fog vanished.

He heard sudden voices on the other side.

Otaliya and Tasar stood on the sandy beach on the other side. It seemed Tasar could [Teleport] in the Underworld without using the t-stations. Something about that little secret being revealed now almost set Erick off again, but he quieted the volcano. He needed to get to Yggdrasil and talk to Poi and everyone else before he made any more decisions. Yes. He was close to there. He could relax.

He could deal with whatever this was.

Otaliya instantly said, “That was wrong of them to do that to you in there—”

“NO FUCKING SHIT?!” And then Erick instantly calmed, saying, “Sorry, sorry. Didn't mean to blow up at you like that. Sorry.”

“Completely understandable.” Otaliya said, “No need to apologize. Usually an inquiry is rough but that was too much. If I could apologize on behalf of Stratagold I would, but I cannot. I don’t know why he did that—”

Sitnakov and Abarnikon stepped off of the t-station at the other end of the beach.

Erick breathed deep as he locked eyes with Abarnikon. Then he yelled, “Fuck you!”

Otaliya whipped around and saw who was coming their way. Tasar tensed, but remained silent.

The two princes kept walking Erick’s way, not even breaking stride.

Erick yelled again, “They all said it would be a test of character, but what the FUCK was that SHIT? I don’t know what the fuck is happening in Spur! And you spring that up on me now?! Fuck you!”

Abarnikon spoke as he walked closer, “You were going to find out as soon as you left, but we all found out earlier while you were sitting on that bench. It was a confluence of Fate Magic, of the Worldly Path, and certain things needed to happen on our end as news of the timing would have gotten around just as fast as the news itself. It was decided to question you there and then in order to get your un[Cleanse]d reaction to the news, and to also remain in control of a rapidly developing situation.” He stopped meters away from Erick. He loomed like only an orcol could loom; gorgeous and deadly at the same time. “Which brings us to here. What do you think the Dark wanted with the soul slime’s Truth? Is it a new Champion? Or is this the start of the spread of a new monster into the world? Melemizargo specifically said ‘Something to go along with this new world your father is forging’. So this means you are involved.”

Erick felt whiplash as every single thing about Abarnikon, from his stance to his non threatening appearance, was completely at odds with the man Erick had seen back in that inquiry stadium. That other Abarnikon was a powerful dictator in his place of power. This Abarnikon was a politician, and deeply troubled.

And it all seemed like an act, like this was who Abarnikon had to be to remain in power in a world full of immortals. This guy was truly different from Sitnakov, wasn’t he? Sitnakov was a battle junkie. Abarnikon got off on… Not control, but on bureaucracy.

Oh. Gods.

Erick understood Abarnikon, loathed Abarnikon, and realized that Otaliya’s words about ‘let the Heavies do what they want and then work around them’ was some top-tier advice.

Erick spent all of half a second thinking over Abarnikon’s question, then said, “If it’s supposed to be complementary then it has to be a mana maker. It was soul magic, right? So maybe it’s going to sunder all the souls in Ar’Kendrithyst. Or maybe Melemizargo will make a bunch of Creation Wizard Slimes! Free mana for days! Or maybe it’s something else! Fuck if I know.”

Not a single nearby person thought Erick’s words were anything less than prescient; Erick was a bit pissed off at that.

Tasar and Otaliya’s eyes went wide. Sitnakov scowled.

Abarnikon lightly breathed, then said, “Ah. We had thought that was a possibility. Low, yet possible. It will have to be moved up the list.”

Sitnakov scoffed at his brother, saying, “Why would he do such a thing! That makes no sense! He can’t just make Wizards can he? If he could, he would have done so long before now.”

