Everyone except Otaliya tried to talk at once, but Erick’s voice came out on top, “I’m leaving! Packing my bags and having a nice long chat with Spur and then I’m fucking off to Oceanside to solve the Forever War, or some shit like that. You all can debate this crap on your own.”

Abarnikon pivoted, “If you’re not going directly to Spur then you should stay here for another day while we sort out this mess and decide what it all means. That inquiry was what it had to be, Erick. It was a personal attack and you passed through the storm injured, but not broken. It is not good for you to engage in the Forever War as upset as you are.”

“Oh oh oh! You mistake my intentions, Abarnikon!” Erick said, “I’m half a mind to join up with the Headmaster and find out a way to enact his plan to destroy both Hell and Celes unless those two sides can finally get along. I am done with the Quiet War bullshit and that fucking barb inside the inquiry was the last time I ever want to have anyone question me about this shit ever again.

“I am very glad I killed Bulgan. Yes, people who piss me off personally deserve what they get. It’s a personal fault, so what!

“I will not allow the Quiet War to ever affect me ever again.

“I would rather see billion billion already dead people finally die their last death than muck up whatever is happening here on Veird one more time.” Erick added, “Cause mark my words: the problem will only grow if the problem is allowed to exist once we open up new worlds.

“And then! When I’m done with those assholes! I’m going to solve this dragon shit in the Forest of Glaquin, and probably end up getting [Gate] there, too. One way or another, this world will have stability, and I’m also going to wring the solution to anti-apocalypse magic out of FAIRY MOON!—” he yelled at the air. “And then this world will finally have true stability. Now are you with me? Or are you bystanders?”

Otaliya rapidly turned to Tasar and took her daughter’s hand, saying, “I love you. You stay safe.” She said to Erick, “A pleasure meeting you.” After a quick yet respectful nod to Abarnikon and Sitnakov she scampered off toward the t-station.

Abarnikon glanced around. Sitnakov was on high alert, too, but in a much more easy-going sort of way. He was ready to throw down if Fairy Moon should show. Abarnikon was apparently a bit scared, though he was very good at not showing it. Tasar was scared, too, but in a calm sort of way, where everything passed her by and she was ready to kill if needed. She didn’t have her black staff or her summons out, but she could summon it to her hand whenever it was needed.

Otaliya blipped away through the t-station, leaving the beach behind.

Abarnikon finally spoke, “You shouldn’t call her name like that. She could take it to mean you are offering Hospitality Rites, and she will take advantage of this when you assault Ar’Cosmos.”

He meant well.

It was condescending, but he meant well.

Honestly, Erick’s whole experience with the wrought had been one mistimed or mishandled bit of help after the next. From fighting with Sitnakov in the Core, to seeing how they did things with runic webs, to the shit with Kydyr trying to get Erick and the wrought onto a misunderstanding of guilt. Everything was trying to make them fight each other…

But the wrought did not want to fight other good people.

And Erick didn’t either.

It was a fucking conspiracy of the Worldly Path, for sure.

And the subtle patronizing did not help.

“…Thank you for your words of wisdom. I will take them as the honest help that they were offered.” Erick said, “But I already know that about Fairy Moon and about the fae. And [Gate] requires Fae Magic, I’m sure, so who better to learn of [Gate] than from the only remaining True Fae of Veird?”

Tasar mumbled nervously, “There’s a second fae, but that thing is barely fae.”

Erick was trying not to be short, so he corrected himself, “—who better to learn [Gate] from than one of the only two True Fae left on Veird? And besides: I’m going to have to talk to her sooner or later, and it will need to be a large talk, with unintended words said somewhere in all that will transpire. Anything she wants to take in a different manner in which it was offered, will be taken. I know what the fae are like. And yet: Since Fairy Moon has not accepted my invitation, then I can just do this:” He spoke with power, “I rescind your Invitation, Fairy Moon. You have spurned me too many times. If you wish to reopen communications then you may contact me through zero-magic letters left in obvious-for-me locations.”

Fairy Moon said, “You cannot rescind your invitation!”

Ah. So she was here already.

Okay.

The calm of battle descended upon Erick.

The white human-looking woman stood to the side, wearing a no-frills business dress in pink and white and a bit of green. She was also not there in person. Some little firefly-like bug floated in the center of Fairy Moon’s torso, projecting the woman’s image into the air. Or maybe that was a fairy lie, too.

Erick rapidly declared, “Everyone calm the fuck down. Abarnikon, get Kromolok on the line. Sitnakov, shut the fuck up. Tasar, with me. No one else is to show. Let us have this discussion now, too.”

A flurry of half-movements and spell preparation suddenly halted. The battlefield redrew with Tasar at Erick’s left, Sitnokov four meters to Erick’s right, and Abarnikon two meters beyond that. They faced the shore, and Fairy Moon who stood upon that shore like a statue made of alabaster marble. Yggdrasil rose in the far distance like a green and rainbow mountain.

This might not have been Fairy Moon, but…

Erick was absolutely sure this was Fairy Moon, if she wanted it to be.

She just wasn’t sure if she wanted to be here in person, yet.

Fairy Moon lightly glared as she stood her full height, which still made her shorter than everyone else on the beach. Her voice was that of weighty judgment, “We will come to terms or we will terminate this convocation, and it shall never again be realized; I wasn’t getting anywhere with Kromolok anyway and Rozeta was even less helpful.”

She had started off with fae-speak, her words laying the stage for power and presence, but she rapidly shifted to normal words.

Erick said, “The decrease in lacing of power in your words is heard and realized. Thank you for that.”

Erick had purposefully thanked the fae. This was a cardinal rule to avoid when dealing with the fae; never thank them, they could use it as an invitation to take whatever they wanted as recompense for your gratitude.

Erick knew this. Fairy Moon knew this. Tasar and Abarnikon and Sitnakov all showed various signs of stress at what they thought was Erick’s casual ‘thanks’. But Erick was not acting casual at all, and he had given his thanks as a specific test.

For he was willing to bet that in that moment that he could break any magical shit Fairy Moon tried to pull, even if it broke him in turn. He was beyond angry, and he knew that he needed a [Renew] cycle, but he was beyond caring about weak ass shit like the magic of other people, and especially those who held themselves up as some sort of arbiter of justice.

Bah!

Fairy Moon recognized the test, and said, “This neutral ground is lovely for a conversation about Fate and the future of this world, and all the rest. I thank you in turn, Erick Flatt, in the hopes of a brighter future to come.”

Kromolok stepped off of the t-station at the other end of the beach and began walking to the party with methodical, yet quick steps.

Erick began the discussion without the Inquisitor. “It is my understanding that you, Fairy Moon, know of a way to prevent the rise of apocalyptic magic through the use of Fate Magic. Can you prove this claim made of you by Melemizargo?”

“Such a wonder would require Fate freed from its box.”

Erick narrowed his eyes.

Fairy Moon gave a regal shrug, saying, “Great magic follows great words. Speak of small spells if you wish, but only through true talk can creation be made manifest.”

“… Is it possible to have a working relationship, or are you magically, physically, or otherwise unable to come to the table on a level that we can all appreciate?” Erick added, “Earlier I said that your decrease in power of words was a good thing. And now you revert so easily.”

Fairy Moon gave a barely imperceptible frown.

Kromolok said, “She is unable. She is fae.”

Erick frowned.

Yeah. She was fae, wasn’t she. Literally incapable—

Fairy Moon narrowed her eyes. “The whims of mortals do not sway ancient power. I am who I am, and no other. I am deigning myself as much as I am able.”

“You could do more,” Kromolok said.

Fairy Moon gained an edge of rage as she stated, “Do you know how hard it is to deal with mortals? No! You do not!” She listed the people from Erick’s left to right. “Tasar, 780 years old. Erick, 49. Sitnakov, 1235. Abarnikon, 1335. Kromolok, 1438. You are all so very young. Even Rozeta is only a few thousand years old. Melemizargo is only 15,000 or something. I don’t care to know the details. I never needed to know the details before Veird! Before I was trapped here for all time because of the Script! Life used to be free and wonderful.

“I’m over a million fucking years old, you little shits.

“You play at justice and you play at honor and you play at power. You know nothing of power. You know nothing of great wonders and beauty and truth and JUSTICE.” Fairy Moon said, “So yes! I look down upon you! When you are gone I will still be here. You are the grains of sand upon the beach of which I live; uncountable and worthless! I am larger than the Dark! I was there dipping my fingers into the Original Dark, back when that eldritch cosmos first crafted life from a stupid planar who fell off a Path and into your Old Cosmology.

“I have traveled universes! I have seen stars born and die! I have seen petty tyrants such as you grasping for power across all of my existence! And you ask me if I am unable to comprehend life at your scale? Bah!

“You are unable to comprehend life at my scale!”

“I can comprehend you just fine,” Erick said, without hesitation. He gave Fairy Moon no room to reorient as he instantly continued, “We just have different ways of existing, and that’s fine, but I need you to come down to our level and help sort this problem of mana in this New Cosmology, and the rise of new anti-apocalypse magic. I already know you’re capable of such because there is absolutely no way that justice has remained the same all throughout every universe. Justice is personal, to both a person and to a society. It is not something as large as the concept of Light or Dark. It is as nuanced as Illusion and Fae.”

Fairy Moon paused, then looked at Erick, and said, “Justice changes all the time, but certain parts of it remain true, always. And…” She juggled something in her mind, then just came out with it, saying, “This is the secret to anti-Apocalypse Magic. Fate Magic, Time Magic, Life Magic and Death Magic and a Confluence of Pure Demand, along with an Infection of Fae Understanding; these are the components of anti-apocalypse.

“But telling you that is like telling a red soul the concept of blue; impossible, for the basic Understandings are not there. Such a working requires the mending of magic! The un-Banning of [______]—”

She spoke, and Erick heard nothing.

He ignored the blood dripping down from his left ear.

“— which is something that you metal men will never do!” Fairy Moon stared at Erick with glowing eyes of pink and green and white. “But maybe you can. Prove to me that this talk is not a waste of willpower. Prove your providence, that even in this mutated mana, in this world of Darkness and a dearth of Light, that your yearning has brought you the answer to Always.”

Erick had a moment of insight.

And then that insight blossomed into a spiral of thoughts.

Something had bothered him when Fairy Moon spoke of her age. She claimed to have witnessed the birth of the Old Cosmology. But that was crazy. Too crazy to believe. She must have seen the rise and fall of countless Gods of Magic, like Melemizargo, and also Melemizargo’s mother who came before. But to live that long then one must have been truly strong and lucky, or have some specific skills that allowed one to avoid utter catastrophe. (Time Magic was also a solution to this conundrum, but that felt hollow to Erick.)

She had escaped to Veird during the Sundering, after all, and then survived this long; to outlive all the other fae who fell to Veird, and then to outlive all the other fae who could not hack it in this New Cosmology, where all magic was governed by the Script.

So Fairy Moon had changed who she was to survive. She came out on top.

All the other fae, except for one other, died.

Or perhaps… Perhaps all the other fae escaped while they could. But Fairy Moon had stayed behind…

But she just said she was trapped. So what did that mean?

Was she physically trapped?

Erick felt a swell of something inside, as he quietly asked, “Did all the other fae die, or did they leave?”

“They’ll come back when they can.” Fairy Moon stared at Erick; one eye blazing pink like a strange sunset and the other neon green as radioactive springtime. “But I am here because I have to be.”

She meant that yes, they did die, but also that they would come back when they were allowed to come back. Erick felt a profound sense of something to the side of loss, as he studied at Fairy Moon.

Nothing was truly lost in the mana. It was only locked behind Bans and Forgotten Campaigns. Were the other fae like this? Lost behind a Ban too old to change? Yes; Erick already knew this. The fae had died off in the enacting of the Script. But he didn’t truly understand what that meant.

Fairy Moon didn’t act like they were truly gone, though. She wasn’t someone who had lost everything, like all the other immortals from the Old Cosmology. She didn’t fall to despair like Melemizargo, or all the other immortals who died off after the Old Cosmology collapsed. She couldn’t do that. For she was the last watcher left on duty while everyone else ‘took a break’. She was the one trying to free them, too, but not very hard because her timescale was all fucked up compared to everyone else’s. So what if they’d been dead for 1437 years, according to the calendar for the current year, Post Sundering? That much time was nothing to her.

Or at least that was how Fairy Moon saw it.

And yet, the other fae were truly dead. But it was also quite possible that fae never truly died.

Not unless they were Banned and put into a box, never to see the Light ever again.

In the corner of his eyes Erick saw Kromolok glance his way.