Tier 3…no. Not for the defensive auras. 10k is a lot for something I might not use. I might unlock tier 3 for one of the other trees though. I have enough to unlock two of them…

“Hey Val,”

“Yeah?” said Val, looking over.

“When you are capped, does experience bank itself up or something, or do you just not get it?”

“The second one. Why?”

“Thanks. No reason,” Rain said, not feeling like explaining.

Yeah, like I thought. Use it or lose it. It isn’t going to build up behind the scenes. Sitting at the cap does me no good, so I might as well unlock everything I can. Next up, offensive auras, including tier 2.

Offensive Auras

Tier 1

Radiance (0/10) (+)

9-10 light (fcs) damage per second to entities

Brightens environment (fcs)

Range: 1.19 meters

Cost: 5 mp/s

Requires 5 ranks in Immolate

Shroud (0/10) (+)

9-10 dark (fcs) damage per second to entities

Darkens environment (fcs)

Range: 1.19 meters

Cost: 5 mp/s

Requires 5 ranks in Refrigerate

Shear (0/10)

9-10 force (fcs) damage per second to entities and environment

Not occluded by mundane materials

Range: 1.19 meters

Cost: 10 mp/s

Requires 15 ranks in Offensive Auras

Tier 2

Corrosion (0/10)

9-10 chemical (fcs) damage per second to entities and environment

Sufficient damage disrupts health regeneration

Range: 1.19 meters

Cost: 5 mp/s

Requires 5 ranks in Shroud

Requires 10 ranks in Refrigerate

Fulmination (0/10)

9-10 arcane (fcs) damage per second to entities and environment

Sufficient damage causes paralysis

Range: 1.19 meters

Cost: 5 mp/s

Requires 5 ranks in Radiance

Requires 10 ranks in Immolate

Tier 3

Locked

I could take shroud or radiance now. Light damage would be useful against dark hounds, but we’ve got Val for that. Can’t get shear yet. I could level up immolate and refrigerate today, though, and take it tomorrow. It’s an option...

Two new ones in tier two. Corrosion sounds like it would be acid. Nasty. Fulmination… doesn’t that mean lightning or something? It says arcane, though. Jamus uses arcane magic, and those whips of his look like they have a lightning aspect. Maybe it’s related? Anyway, not useful at the moment. No point unlocking tier 3 until I check the others. Utility auras, whaddya got for me?

Utility Auras

Tier 0

Summer (0/10) (+)

Boost H.Regen by 12% for all entities

Range: 1.19 meters

Cost: 1 mp/hr

Spring (0/10) (+)

Boost S.Regen by 12% for all entities

Range: 1.19 meters

Cost: 1 mp/hr

Tier 1

Life Well (0/10)

Convert mana to health and transfer to all entities within range, including user

Transfer Rate: 1.188 hp/s

Efficiency: 20%

Range: 1.19 meters

Requires 5 ranks in Summer

Energy Well (0/10)

Convert mana to stamina and transfer to all entities within range, including user

Transfer Rate: 1.188 sp/s

Efficiency: 20%

Range: 1.19 meters

Requires 5 ranks in Spring

Tier 2

Precision (0/10)

11.88% boost to physical precision for all entities

Range: 1.19 meters

Cost: 1 mp/s

Requires 10 ranks in Velocity

Requires 10 ranks in Energy Well

Acuity (0/10)

11.88% boost to physical senses for all entities

Range: 1.19 meters

Cost: 1 mp/s

Requires 10 ranks in Detection

Requires 10 ranks in Essence Well

Tier 3

Locked

The seasons and the wells... Yup, nothing new there. I know about Fall, but I can’t see it. There must be a corresponding well too. I wonder what it does.

Some new ones in tier 2. Precision and acuity huh? ‘Enhanced senses’ is self-explanatory, but a boost to physical precision? What does that mean? Well, either way, I can’t take them yet. I’ll think about it later. Tier 3…yeah, I kinda want to know. Utility auras have been good to me so far.

As Rain spent the 10,000 experience to unlock the third tier, an unsettling feeling slithered into his gut. He swayed, grabbing at the side of the cart for support.

“Urk,” he choked. “What the hell is this?”

“What?” Jamus asked.

“I unlocked a skill tier, and now I feel awful. Shit, it’s getting worse.”

“You probably overtaxed your soul.”

“What the fuck does that mean? Urgh.” Rain asked, squeezing his eyes shut. He’d broken out in a cold, clammy sweat.

“Just give it a minute. You’ll be fine. Maybe hold off on the skill tree unlocks for a little bit.”

“I think I’m gonna be sick!” Rain fought to keep his breakfast down, hanging his head over the side of the cart. “Stop, stop,” he panted, waving at Carten urgently. He clambered down as the big man brought the horse to a stop. Val moved to help him. Rain frantically waved to warn him, then heaved, chunks of ration bar and bile splattering onto the dirt road.

“Augh! Nasty!” Val cursed, jumping back.

“What happened?” Ameliah asked, approaching rapidly from where she’d been walking up the road. She laid a hand on Rain and he felt healing rush through him, though it did nothing for his nausea. He dry-heaved, but there was nothing left in his stomach to come up. She activated purify and the swirling white light started to work on removing the mess.

“Soulstrain,” rumbled Tallheart.

“Ah,” Ameliah said. “Rain, take deep breaths. It will pass.”

Rain followed instructions, fighting to bring his spasming stomach muscles under control. “What the fuck is going on?” he managed.

“Don’t worry, it isn’t serious,” Jamus said, stepping closer now that the mess was more or less gone. “Various things can cause it. Using too much mana all at once, being healed too many times in a short period, a few other things. In this case, massive experience loss. What was it, tier 3?”

“Yeah,” Rain panted, still not feeling any better. He wiped the sweat from his forehead.

“That would do it. You’re paying for that rare class of yours. Your soul hasn’t had enough time to get used to that level of power.”

Rain flopped to the ground and stuck his head between his knees, still breathing deeply. “How long is this going to last?”

“It depends. I’m guessing not more than a half-hour.”

“Ugh, this is awful. Why does nobody warn me about stuff like this? How was I supposed to know that spending experience would—” Rain gagged and choked as his muscles spasmed, trying to void his already empty stomach.

“Sorry,” Jamus said. “I didn’t even think of it. I had no idea you could even access tier 3 skills yet. You must be higher level than I am now.”

Rain focused on his breathing, fighting the continuing spasms in his stomach. He flashed from hot to cold, then back to hot again. Ameliah kept her hand on his back, occasionally healing him. It helped to soothe his clenched muscles but didn’t do much more than that. The symptoms persisted for what felt like days, but eventually they started to ease. He lifted his head out from between his knees. “I’m ok. I think it’s passing.”

“Good,” Tallheart said, offering Rain his hand and hauling him to his feet. “Do not do that again today. It will be worse the second time.”

Rain nodded feebly and pulled himself back up onto the cart. Ameliah climbed in with him and sat nearby, ready to catch him should he topple over. Carten clucked to the horse and they started moving again. They rode in silence for a few minutes, Rain’s breathing slowly returning to normal.

“Are you okay now?” Ameliah asked.

“I’ll be fine. Thanks.” He forced a grimace into a smile.

“You should be careful when you do things like that,” Jamus said, walking beside the cart. “10,000 experience is a significant loss for the soul. I haven’t seen that strong of a case of soulstrain in years.”

“Why? What is it about using experience that causes...that?”

“Health, mana, and stamina are traits of your soul, not your body. Experience is the same. Spending that much all at once would be like losing an equivalent quantity of health. It is...traumatic. More so for you, due to the rate at which your soul has grown.” Jamus said.

“What...is a soul? The term in my language is...vague. I’m not sure I’m translating it right.”

Ameliah laughed softly. “It is the same here. There are various theories, but no real proof of anything. Some would tell you that it is a gift from the gods; others would argue that it does not exist at all. It depends on who you talk to.”

“What do you believe?” he asked, turning to her.

“Humm. I like to think of it as a deep pool of power within myself. I add to it with experience, and it rewards me with the strength and skill that I need to survive. As for whether it is divine…I leave that to the scholars.”

“Well said,” Val agreed. “Now, enough philosophy. What did you get for all that trouble? Anything good?”

“I hope so. I haven’t looked yet. Got a bit distracted.”

“Well? Look already!” Carten shouted back over his shoulder. Ameliah rolled her eyes but didn’t comment. Rain pushed questions of the soul out of his mind and tried to ignore his lingering nausea. He brought up his newly revealed skill options and paused to consider them.

Utility Auras

Tier 3

Empire of Will (0/10)

Boost Focus by 12 for all entities

Range: 1.19 meters

Cost: 20 mp/s

Requires 50 ranks in Utility Auras

Requires 10 ranks in Essence Well

Empire of Grit (0/10)

Boost Endurance by 12 for all entities

Range: 1.19 meters

Cost: 20 mp/s

Requires 50 ranks in Utility Auras

Requires 10 ranks in Energy Well

Empire of Brawn (0/10)

Boost Strength by 12 for all entities

Range: 1.19 meters

Cost: 20 mp/s

Requires 50 ranks in Utility Auras

Requires 10 ranks in Life Well

Tier 4

Locked

Now those are some suitably metal skill names. Empire of Brawn? I love it. Looks like they give flat stat boosts. That’s...strong. Really strong. With the kind of range I’m getting up to now...yeah. Instant army: just add grit. Mana cost is the highest I’ve seen so far though. I’m gonna need even more regen. I wonder if there is a hidden one of these for Clarity or the other regen stats.

The requirements are pretty high, though I could take the Focus one tomorrow, probably. I’ll have to think about that. For now, I think I need to fill Carten in before he explodes.

Rain cleared his throat. “Who wants to know what is in tier 3 of utility auras?”

“Me!” shouted Carten, raising his hand like a schoolchild. Rain laughed at his eager expression. The others were also looking his way with interest on their faces. This is going to restart that whole argument again, and I don’t even care.

“Right, so there are three of them. I think I’ll call them the ‘imperial auras’. They’re a set, like the seasons and the wells. Empire of Will is a flat boost to Focus for everyone in range. Twelve points at rank 1, cost is 20 mana a second. Empire of Grit and Empire of Brawn are the same, but for Endurance and Strength.”

“Ooo! Oooooo!” Carten grunted as he listened, his eyes lighting up. “The Endurance one! That’s the winner!”

“For you, maybe,” said Jamus. “I’d prefer the focus one, myself.”

“What? You need the Endurance even more than I do, you orange scarecrow. Everyone needs endurance.”

“Humm, I suppose you have a point, Carten,” Jamus mused. “Rain could benefit from it quite a bit too.”

“Wait, did you just agree with me?” Carten stopped to stare at Jamus as he walked past. “That means I win!”

“No, Carten, I’m not saying it is what he should take, just that I saw the value in it. Focus would be better.”

“You’re both wrong,” Val said. “The strength one is the best. That’s the obvious choice.” He ran a hand through his hair, which he was busy retying back into his usual neat ponytail. Carten turned to glare at him.

“And why’s that?” he said loudly.

“He needs health more than he needs resistances. A single big hit would kill him, and shaving a few damage off the top wouldn’t make a difference. He doesn’t have enough depth. Even if he does get a healing aura, that wouldn’t—”

“That’s what the physical ward skill is for, ya idiot. Rain, you find it yet?”

“Yeah, it’s tier 2,” Rain responded, watching as Jamus flailed with his hands, trying to butt his way back into the conversation. To his surprise, it was Ameliah who cut in over him.

“Well, I’m not sitting around for more of this,” she said, hopping off the cart. “Rain, those all sound good. Use your judgment. Tallheart, want to come scouting with me?”

Tallheart nodded and the two silent figures walked off to the side of the road, leaving the others to their argument.

Ha, I don’t blame her. They’ll be at it for hours.

Rain did his best to tune them out and brought up his menus again. He still had two more skill trees to look at. He brought up Magical Utility first, more to check for new hidden skills than anything else.

Magical Utility

Tier 1

Overcharge (0/10) (+)

Delay cast of an immediate spell to charge it with mana

Charge time reduced by mana manipulation

Boost effect intensity by up to 120%

Maximum mana charge 120%

Requires 5 ranks in Intrinsic Focus

Mana Manipulation (0/10) (+)

Allows internal control of mana

Allows expulsion of mana to environment

Allows transfer of mana to and from capacitive items with direct contact

Maximum transfer rate 120.0 mp/s (fcs)

Requires 5 ranks in Intrinsic Clarity

Tier 2

Tier 3

Locked

Nope, nothing new. It’s so lame that Magical Synergy was the only thing in tier 2. Channel mastery was in this tree, but it was hidden until I had two ‘channeled’ skills at rank 5. I’m betting that this tree has a ton of skills like that; I just don’t meet the requirements for them. I wonder why Overcharge isn’t hidden? Auras aren’t ‘immediate’ skills, are they? No, it would have said if it was revealed by meeting the requirement like Channel Mastery did…

Bah. I was hoping for something else to boost mana regen, but there’s nothing useful to me right now. I’ll have enough experience to unlock tier 3 tomorrow, but…

He waved to attract Jamus’s attention. “Sorry to interrupt, Jamus. Quick question. This ‘soulstrain’ thing. How long until I can unlock stuff again without puking my guts out? Oh, and should I be afraid of using mana, now that my soul is already ‘overtaxed’, as you said?”

“You should be fine in a few days. Take it slow. You usually won’t know you’re near the edge until it’s already too late. As for excessive mana use, your high Clarity must be protecting you, otherwise...”

“Thanks, Jamus. As you were.”

Rain looked at the tier 3 unlock button, then sighed and dismissed the window.

Last but not least, Aura Metamagic.

Aura Metamagic

Tier 2

Aura IFF (0/10) (+)

User may exempt entities from direct aura effects at will

Selected entities receive 90.0% aura output

Requires 10 ranks in Amplify Aura

Requires 10 ranks in Extend Aura

Requires 10 ranks in Aura Focus

Prismatic Intent (0/10)

