User may maintain 2 auras simultaneously

Requires 10 ranks in Aura Synergy

Requires 1 rank in 15 different auras

Tier 3

Locked

There it is! No longer grayed out. Excellent. Damn, no hidden skills anywhere in all of this. Oh well. I’m taking IFF. I’ll think about what else I want later. Maybe these chuckleheads will actually come to a consensus. Nah, probably not.

Rain spent one of his free skill points on IFF and then closed out all of his menus and prepared to test the effect of the new skill.

Let’s see, how does this work? Ummm, ok. Essence well transfers… He pulled up the skill in its own window.

Essence Well (9/10) Exp: 689/7400

Transfer mana to all entities within range, including user

Transfer Rate: 10.692 mp/s

Efficiency: 20%

Range: 10.7 meters

...10.7 mp/s. First test, include everybody as a control case.

Rain dropped Winter, then activated Essence Well with no modifiers whatsoever. He checked the mana drain, seeing it at 51 mp/s as expected. 53 mp/s would be the cost of the skill given the 20% efficiency; however, it would also be providing 2 mp/s to Carten, Jamus, Val, himself, and Mr. Ed. He wondered if the horse—whose real name he didn’t actually know—might be affected by all the overmana it was getting.

I suppose a talking horse wouldn't be that much stranger than what I’ve seen so far. Anyway, IFF Test Case 1: Nobody.

Rain concentrated, trying to focus on the concept of a blacklist. He mentally excluded all five of them from the effect of his aura. Essence Well activated, the familiar blue rings forming around the four humans and the horse. Rain saw the mana drain listed at around 46 mp/s.

Ok, so that’s working. I’ll check the full math later. Aura IFF Test Case 2: Greed.

Rain removed himself from the blacklist, watching the numbers closely. His mana drain increased from 46 mp/s to 50.5 mp/s.

Ok, that wasn’t quite what I expected. I should be getting more than they are, so the total drain should have gone down…No, wait. The well auras are weird. I’m actually transferring more mana and paying the efficiency tax on the increased transfer. Humm. More research is needed. Aura IFF Test Case 3: Selfless.

He reversed his blacklist, concentrating on blocking the aura effect for only himself, but not the others. The drain changed again, increasing to 51.5 mp/s.

Humm. I think I’m going to have to work this one out later. The math isn’t straightforward. Let’s try an easier example. Aura IFF Test Case 4: Winter.

Rain left his blacklist alone and activated Winter instead of Essence Well. His statistics display showed a multiplier of 164% for his mana regeneration. After removing himself from the blacklist, he saw it jump back up to 171%. The cost of the skill didn’t change.

That’s straightforward. Man, this is going to be trouble. I’m going to have to keep track of the blacklist settings for each aura. Winter is for friendlies, Refrigerate is for enemies, and the wells…yeah. I need to think about that one. It would also be nice if I could get a whitelist instead of a blacklist for the offensive auras. I don’t want to accidentally freeze someone solid if they wander into range and I don’t know about them.

Ok, 200 Clarity, don’t fail me now. I can’t get a calculator, fine, I’ll accept that, but IFF is a skill within the system. A little support isn’t too much to ask for.

Rain focused on what he wanted. After a few seconds, the outline of a blue panel flickered into being in front of him. It was unstable, fuzzing around the edges and crackling with interference. Rain’s eyes widened; nothing like this had happened when he’d tried to summon the calculator. He focused harder, willing the panel into being. He felt a strange resistance in his mind, but he didn’t relent, forcing the system to bend to his will. His head started to throb as the tension built and built. Suddenly, the resistance broke and the panel popped into place as if it had always been there.

Aura IFF Configuration

Winter | Essence Well | Refrigerate | < | > |

Blacklist

Richmond Rain Stroudwater

Nice! Exactly what I…oh no.

Rain squinted his eyes shut and held on to the side of the wagon. The feeling of nausea that had appeared when he unlocked tier 3 had returned. Thankfully it wasn’t nearly as strong as it had been before. He fought it down, taking deep steadying breaths. The feeling passed after a few minutes. None of his companions even seemed to notice, so intent were they on their argument.

Ooh, message received. Messing with the system strains the soul. Got it.

Returning to the new panel, he investigated its features. He was able to tab through his auras and add or remove items from the blacklist for each one. To his delight, the panel remembered the specific list for each skill, even if he closed and re-opened it.

Awesome. And I can still change the list without having to open the panel if I want to. Now, can I make it use a whitelist instead?

Rain switched the panel to show the settings for Refrigerate, then concentrated, trying to switch the mode. He felt the same sense of resistance in his mind, so he stopped for fear of further straining his soul.

The resistance means it is probably possible, whatever the skill description for IFF says. I’ll push tomorrow. My soul is tender and I’ve puked enough for one day.

Rain removed himself from the blacklist for Winter, restoring it to default settings. Then, with another thought, he added “enemies” as an entry. He defined this to mean anyone that he considered hostile. The panel seemed to accept it without complaint.

Cool. I’ll set all my other skills up in a bit. For now, I need to figure out how to train IFF. A 10% reduction isn’t going to cut it. I guess more mana means more experience as always, so I’ll blacklist everything and use a shit-ton of mana.

Rain sighed, resigning himself to a few more hours of the sensory deprivation tank that was Aura Focus. He activated Essence Well with minimum intensity, blacklisting everyone, including the horse. Immediately, he spotted a problem. He pulled up the display for Essence Well again to check the current state of the skill.

Essence Well (9/10) Exp: 689/7400

Transfer mana to all entities within range, including user

Transfer Rate: 1.0692 mp/s

Efficiency: 100%

Range: 10.7 meters

1mp/s transfer at 100% efficiency—so 5000 seconds to drain my mana pool. That won’t do. Channel mastery is rank 9 now, so this would be 10% of normal power. I guess 100% is the limit for efficiency. Damn, I was hoping to get more out than I put in. Oh well, I’ll figure out the formula later.

I want to get Essence Well to rank 10, so I need it to use a decent amount of mana. That means I need to hold back on holding back. Let’s not make it complicated for once. 50% power for the first round. I’ll do the math while I’m in the tank.

He let the transfer rate of essence well rise until about 50%, then held it there until his mana ran dry. He switched his modifiers over for Winter, using everything that he could to boost it. He could have skipped out on Aura Focus, now that it was maxed, but it was actually the cost multiplier that he was most interested in right now. It was time to power-level Winter at last.

As his senses faded away, he brought up his panel to do the math on how long he’d have to stay like this. He did a double-take at the numbers displayed on the skill description as well as his statistics panel.

Winter (6/10) Exp: 90/1600

Boost M.Regen by 813% for all entities

Range: 57 meters

Cost: 308 mp/hr

Mana Statistics

Total

Base

Mult

Add

Unit

Mana

5100

5100

100%

0

mp

M.Regen

109.9

12.6

913%

-5.13

mp/min

Holy shit. An 800% boost to everyone in a 57-meter radius? That’s insane! Just under 50 minutes to regenerate 5000 mana. I knew it would multiply, but seeing it like this is just...wow.

I wonder if anyone will notice the difference. They don’t have anywhere near as much Clarity as I do, but an 800% boost is still gonna raise some eyebrows. Even more so if they figure out the range. I can’t wait to see their faces when I come out of this! This is going to be a loooong 50 minutes.
