As the days grew short and the nights cold, Du Min Gyu found himself mired in a waking nightmare of marital pursuits.

It seemed like such a small thing, planning a wedding, but there were a thousand seemingly inconsequential details which needed deciding, and he couldn’t bear the thought of making the wrong decision and becoming the fool who ruined his beloved granddaughter’s wedding. How this could be possible, he couldn’t say, but over the last month, people jokingly warned him against screwing things up every time he mentioned he was in charge of planning this grand event. Granted, Yan claimed she didn’t care about the banquet, or even the ceremony itself, but his unconventional granddaughter was far more girlish than she cared to let on. She was fascinated by gaudy makeup and flowery perfumes, contemporary fashions and elaborate embroidery, licentious novels and frivolous gossip, so Min Gyu would be a fool to take her at her word when she said she didn’t care. It wasn’t that he thought she was lying or feigning disinterest, but rather she was lying to herself when she claimed she didn’t care. All women cared about their weddings, even those like Yan who thought they didn’t, because if something were to go wrong during the banquet, then she would harbour her enmity and resentment until her dying day.

Which made it all the more important for Min Gyu not to mess things up. He only had the one granddaughter, which meant this would be his only chance to experience a wedding from this side. Or a wedding at all, considering Kyung’s utter lack of interest in matters of love or lust, but he could only tackle one problem at a time. With Yan serving on the front lines and her betrothed overseeing a massed migration of commoners, Min Gyu was left to plan a grand, lavish wedding banquet for over two thousand people in the heart of the Central Citadel, all by himself.

Well, he wasn’t entirely alone, or even close to it, for Eun and her army of clucking maids were forever pestering him for decision after decision. Handkerchief embroidery, tablecloth material, seating arrangements, and flower combinations, he soon discovered he was not equipped to make educated decisions regarding marriage or decorations. Who knew chrysanthemums were used as such vulgar innuendo, or that embroidering ‘double happiness’ was now tacky and dated? The world had changed so much since his youth, and he did not much like what it’d become, but alas, this was his granddaughter’s wedding, and he would not have it ruined by whispers of gauche, inelegant decor.

Even after Yan’s return from the front lines, she remained adamant about her indifference, to the point where Min Gyu had to banish her from the planning process because she refused to take things seriously. The fool girl wanted a lavender dress with a bouquet of matching orchids, instead of the traditional red and gold which everyone would expect. To make matters worse, orchids represented love and fertility in the language of flowers, a sure way to have guests making snide remarks about her barren womb. Even after carefully explaining this to his headstrong granddaughter, all she did was shrug and ask, “Who cares?”

Min Gyu did. He wanted everything to be perfect for his beloved granddaughter, even if she didn’t care in the least. In fact, it almost seemed like she was going out of her way to make foolish suggestions, like serving pears at the reception or seating everyone at tables for four, homophones for ‘separation’ and ‘death’ respectively.

In the end, Min Gyu handled all the arrangements on his own and prayed little Yan would love it, but on the morning of the Autumn solstice, there were other matters to attend to first, namely the Bekhai marriage ceremony itself. A marvellous thing, these Bekhai traditions, and although he’d been dismissive of them at first, he soon came to see the beauty and reasoning behind them. Take the groom’s hunt for example, a legacy dating back to simpler times when the Bekhai and other citizens of the Empire lived off the land in truth, without all the fuss of contemporary surplus and distribution. If there was to be a wedding feast, then the groom must provide it by taking spear and bow into the wilderness and returning with what he hoped would be a sumptuous offering. Granted there was no need for this here in the Citadel, as anyone could conjure up a grand feast with a wave of a hand and a toss of a purse, so Rain and the Bekhai made do by ceremonially slaughtering a hog outside the Citadel. Since Min Gyu didn’t have a manor in the citadel, he instead reserved an outdoor stage and decorated it with red streamers and red-paper lanterns for the express purpose of this wedding ceremony, which took place in full view of an adoring audience while the raucous melody of drums and cymbals filled the air.

Just as the Bekhai ancestors would understand Rain’s need to bend the rules of the hunt, so too would they understand Min Gyu and Central’s love of fanfare and spectacle. What good were games of skill and strength if there was no one there to watch them?

Once the boy took the stage with his family and the traditional greetings were out of the way, Min Gyu turned to address the crowd, who as expected were taking in the festivities with fascinated delight. “Ladies and gentleman, friends and compatriots,” he began, beaming from ear to ear. “Just as the Mother sets forth trials and tribulations to test our mettle, so too must I test this young man before me, and I have asked you all here to bear witness to the gruelling tests and formidable challenges I intend to set forth for him, all in order to determine if he is truly worthy of my granddaughter, Du Min Yan.”

Grinning in good humour, Rain stood before him in full Imperial regalia, proclaiming his readiness and playing along while Sarnai and Alsantset pursed their lips and glowered with disapproval, and Akanai stoically emanated marked dissatisfaction. Why they were still upset, Min Gyu couldn’t say, but they’d discussed all of this beforehand and agreed to let him hold the contests publicly, so long as they could keep the tea ceremony private. A strange request, keeping the most important part of the ceremony private, for the tying of bonds and acknowledgement of heaven, family, and husband and wife seemed most suited to public display, but Min Gyu knew it would be a crime to keep these contests private, as they would soon become the latest craze across Central for reasons which had nothing to do with Rain.

What better way to show off on one’s wedding day than through games of strength and skill? What better way for a father to express disapproval to prospective son-in-laws than by humiliating them in public? This was simply a marvellous idea, and Min Gyu was excited to start a new trend in Central. “The first test,” he proclaimed, slowly panning over the crowd to bask in their entranced expressions, “Is one of intellect and aptitude, a test designed by some of the greatest minds in the outer provinces.” On his cue, said great minds took the stage, Nian Zu, Ryo Dae Jung, Shuai Jiao, Mitsue Juichi, and Tran Hoang, the five Colonel Generals of the Imperial Army. There was a time when Min Gyu believed he would one day stand among them, but alas, it was not to be, not without more effort than he was willing to put into this endeavour. He was old and out of practice, so his twilight years were better spent making amends with his loved ones than chasing after a young man’s dreams, so he no longer cared for rank or recognition. Still, being well-connected had its uses, and Min Gyu only needed Rain’s help to get Southern Colonel General Hoang’s assistance in this matter. The other four were happy to give Min Gyu face, though Mitsue Juichi only agreed after he learned why his presence was required.

“These great men need no introduction,” Min Gyu began, as the crowd gasped and whispered in awe, “And they are here to lend this old fool a hand. I mean to test my prospective grandson-in-law’s knowledge of military tactics, but seeing how I am sorely out of practice, I thought it best to find minds sharper and more impartial than mine to come up with the questions and judge his answers.” A bit of self-deprecating humour, which Min Gyu found made others see him in a better light than if he were to claim he was sound of mind and more brilliant than ever. A lesson learned from humble Rain, but this was neither here nor there. “And, in the fair spirit of competition, I asked the Colonel Generals to nominate their own young heroes to test their mettle against this young man in this game of tactical acumen. Situ Jia Zian, Ryo Da’in, Yong-Jin, Isshin Ken-Shibu, and Tran Kham, if you would please take your places.”

As the invited young heroes stepped onto stage, Min Gyu explained the rules to the crowd. All six contestants would be given thirty minutes to write a short treatise on how they would approach a certain military engagement. To ensure fairness, Min Gyu took a page from Rain’s playbook and had the Colonel Generals submit ten questions each, which he then randomized and numbered from one to fifty. There on stage, he invited Mitsue Juichi to pick a number to decide which question would be asked, then, rather than reading the question out loud, Min Gyu handed each contestant a sealed envelope containing a copy of said question, and once everyone was seated and ready, he turned over the waiting hourglass and announced the start of the test.

With each Colonel General and Min Gyu responsible for overseeing a different contestant, there would be no chance for any of them to receive instructions without Sending, not without the proctors sensing as much. For some reason, the prospect that Domain-capable Experts could sense Sending made Rain go pale with fright, but that was neither here nor there as the young heroes sat at their desks and put brush to paper while a hired troupe of acrobats performed for the waiting crowd. To ensure complete fairness, neither Min Gyu nor the Colonel Generals watched as the contestants filled in their answers, and when the thirty minutes were up, he had them all turn in their pages to ensure no one would know who wrote which answer, save for the authors themselves, who were moved behind a Sound Barrier so as not to influence the final judgment.

Min Gyu himself read the question out loud, a complex riddle posed by Shuai Jiao involving a static fortification and compromised supply routes due to a besieging Defiled force. Laid out for the contestants was a long list of names and details given in the second person, which painted a picture of events over the course of a week, including sometimes conflicting statements from the commanding officer, the second-in-command, the quartermaster, and various lower-ranked officers. It began with reports of the Defiled force which were never verified, then moved on to patrols being ambushed while off their scheduled routes, followed by the Enemy sneaking into the fortifications through a blind spot in the sentry lines and burning down the lion’s share of the supplies. All of this pointed to a traitor within their midst, and Shuai Jiao tasked the contestants to describe what steps they would take to ferret out the traitor before he or she could do more irreparable harm.

As he read out each answer in full, the gathered Colonel Generals graded them in silence, and before long, they had unanimously decided upon the best answer. Situ Jia Zian and Ishin Ken-Shibu presented near identical papers, meticulously detailing how they would lock down the fortification and use military protocols to ensure no Defiled could move freely. Soldiers were to always travel in groups of four or more, increased patrols to overlap and check in on one another, dispatching a second and third team of messengers to request for reinforcements, and so on and so forth. A textbook answer to an all too familiar problem, but unfortunately, while not explicitly stated in the question itself, careful examination of the statements would have revealed that all those measures were already in place, and had clearly done nothing to salvage the situation.

As for Min Gyu’s beloved god-daughter, Da’in’s answer was similar to young Tran Kham, taking somewhat more extreme measures to lock down the base. While they differed in specifics, the general goal was the same, to uncover the Defiled traitor through rigorous scrutiny and... extralegal actions. In Da’in’s own words, extreme situations dictate extreme measures, and while it was somewhat worrying to see how comfortable she was administering what amounted to extreme mental torture to soldiers under her command, Min Gyu was unable to deny he would likely do the same. Defiled had been known to reveal themselves under duress, and while most were able to withstand physical pain well enough, few could keep up the facade while being dry drowned.

Unfortunately, it also had the unpleasant side effect of causing good, untainted soldiers to turn Defiled as well, so the practice had long since been abandoned after one man, in an effort to prove there were no detrimental effects of dry drowning, subjected himself to the same practice and promptly turned into a Demon. The man’s name had long since been erased from the annals of history, but the lessons had remained to this day, and even the fabled Confessor avoided the practice as it was far too efficient at turning men and women away from the Mother’s light.

