Holding his prize overhead, he basked in his applause while Min Gyu smiled and clapped until his cheeks ached and palms were bruised. There was still hope for the boy’s recovery yet, and even if there weren’t, he would still make for a fine grandson-in-law. Not because of his wealth or status, but because it was clear he loved Yan dearly, as much as he could while also loving his dear Sumila and Mei Lin. Embracing his grandson-in-law in full view of the crowd, Min Gyu clutched the boy tight and Sent, “You be sure to treat her well. She puts on a strong front, but she is as fragile as any young maiden, so don’t you dare give her anything less than your best.”

“Understood, Grandpa Du,” Rain replied, and for once, the appellation didn’t sound forced or awkward.

With the silk ribbon in hand, Min Gyu announced that the obstacle course would remain in place for anyone to use and brought Rain into the restaurant beside the stage which he’d reserved for the tea ceremony. Inside, sat Yan, wearing her traditional red and gold dress, cut as scandalously as Eun would allow which was far more than Min Gyu was comfortable with, but this was Yan’s wedding and she seemed to love it. Kyung and Eun were also there, standing in as Yan’s family, as were most of Rain’s pets, all dressed up in their darling outfits. Even sweet Kishi wore a silk shirt, and even though she was too large to be a lap quin, she was also too stubborn to accept it as she threw herself into Min Gyu’s arms. Hugging the quin tight, he watched with teary eyes as Rain uttered the words to complete the ceremony, and Yan rushed over to accept the red ribbon around her wrists, despite the unseen strings of fate already entwined about their souls. Such was life, for a grown daughter could not be left unwed, but it pained Min Gyu to lose this wonderful granddaughter he’d only just accepted into his heart. A few short years together, not even a handful, and already she was leaving to start her own family, it just didn’t seem fair.

Which he blurted out word for word between tears after completing the tea ceremony and accepting his second cup of fortified wine.

“Oh Grandpa.” Both amused and distraught, Yan wrapped her arms around Min Gyu’s waist and he hugged her back in kind. “I’ll always be your granddaughter,” she said, with tears streaming down her cheeks without a care for her veil or makeup. “Nothing will change, just you watch. We’re still a family, and always will be, no matter what.” Rubbing her eyes with a smile, she pulled Kyung over into their embrace as well and said, “You too Kyung. You’re still my big brother, right?”

“Yes.” A simple statement, but one Kyung would stand by to his dying breath.

“Good, good.” Looking back and forth between his two grandchildren, Min Gyu didn’t say anything else, but his gaze spoke volumes to his love for these two. They were not the blood of his blood, but they were his family all the same, which was all that mattered for today. Wiping his eyes with the back of his hand, he shooed Yan back to her new husband and said, “I think we’ve all had enough of an old man’s maudlin complaints. This is your wedding now, a time for joy and celebration. Nothing else matters, my sweet girl, nothing besides your happiness.”

And he meant it. For the rest of the day, he didn’t care about anything else, not the bootlickers and backstabbers who came crawling in search of absolution, nor the opportunists or covetous rascals seeking to profit from his good fortune. He drank and laughed, cried and cheered, told stories to anyone who would listen about his oh-so-talented granddaughter, while discussing new obstacles to add to the course and lauding the achievements of his grandson-in-law.

People would laugh at him for being a sentimental old man in his cups, but their opinions didn’t matter, for today, his granddaughter had married the man she loved, a capable grandson-in-law who would treat her right, and that, in Min Gyu’s eyes, that made her more fortunate than most.

Best of all? Min Gyu found a kindred spirit in Divine Blacksmith Husolt, whose love of drink was only surpassed by his love for his wife and chess. While Min Gyu couldn’t understand the former, he wholeheartedly embraced the latter, and the two of them played long into the night while lamenting over losing their sweet girls to that lecherous Falling Rain, and discussing what they would do to him if he should ever hurt them.

It was refreshing to know that even after Min Gyu passed, Husolt would be there to uphold justice for little Yan, and soon enough, the Medical Saint might even join their little cabal and become another dagger hanging over Rain’s neck, one who would remain even long after Min Gyu was gone...

Chapter Meme

Gif just cuz
