As for Yong-Jin, he uncovered an inconsistency in the commanding officer’s testimony, and from there, unravelled a plausible explanation for the troubles plaguing the fortification. The commanding officer was Defiled and working in concert with the quartermaster to bring down the good soldiers under their command, and should be taken into custody or executed. Min Gyu even believed it himself, until he read Rain’s answer, which was... strange to say the least. “Whoever wrote these reports and took the statements is the Defiled traitor,” Rain’s essay read. “Probably the commanding officer’s chief scribe. That’s why the reports were never verified, patrols went off route, and blind spots were left in the sentry lines, because the commander’s orders were altered before being dispatched. This is also a good reason for why literacy is a requirement for officers now, and...”

What followed was a brief discourse on how Rain came to his conclusion, and what measures the Imperial Army could take now in order to ensure it would never happen again. Unique code words and written orders, ciphered messages and call-signs, designating field command to front-lined officers and non-verbal orders in the form of coded flag signals and more, it was a fascinating and all too concise look into an entirely different military protocol. Min Gyu had heard from Colonel Hongji about how he’d already put some of these things to use, but Rain’s pithy explanation on the subject matter made so much more sense. It wouldn’t take much to put these practices to use, doubly so now that paper was so readily available allowing for written orders to be dispatched even for the most menial of tasks.

It was, without a doubt, the most correct answer, especially considering all five Colonel Generals recognized Shuai Jiao’s question had been based on true events, and Rain laid out answers which had not been discovered until hundreds of years after the fact. An argument could be made that Rain knew what to say because he’d read about it himself, which was doubtful since it was an obscure text known only by a select few, but even if this were the case, it was a well-deserved victory, for none of the other laudable young heroes were learned enough to know about this dark moment in history, and if they had known, they could not have given as complete an answer as Rain had.

All in all, a suitable performance from the young man, and Min Gyu was pleased by how this first test went down. Unfortunately, it also took up most of the hour he’d been allotted, and thus his second test reflected as much. “For your next test,” Min Gyu began, after thanking all the previous judges and contestants, “I intended to test your resolve and determination, but if ever there were a person who personifies grit and perseverance more than you, then their name would be known across the Empire, and I might be tempted to snatch him up as a grandson-in-law instead.” A bit of bragging never hurt anyone, and since Rain was too humble to boast of his accomplishments, Min Gyu would do so in his place. After regaling the crowd with examples of Rain’s fortitude and accomplishments, Min Gyu went on to say, “As such, I feel you would pass any test I put before you as easily as turning a hand, so I have no choice but to move on to your third and final test.”

Truth be told, all of his boasting served a secondary purpose, which was to give the labourers time to set up the third test, an obstacle course for the boy to run, in full view of his admiring audience. Min Gyu had seen the boy put these courses to good use, whether it be in his personal training, troop training, or animal training, and it was high time the world learned about it too. Not only was it a useful tool, it was rather enjoyable to watch, for the contestants’ failures as much as their victories, and Min Gyu intended to use this to showcase Rain’s abilities were still formidable, even for a someone who could no longer be considered a true Martial Warrior.

The premise was simple, to start from one end of the obstacle course and make it to the other without touching the ground while collecting three trophies along the way. To make it more interesting and exciting, Min Gyu picked four of his guards to show up in two lion dancing teams and had them dance along the course and ‘hinder’ Rain’s progress, though in truth, they were there there to keep him safe as he navigated through the dangers and pitfalls of this advanced obstacle course in his golden Imperial armour.

Though he had yet to begin, it was clear this would soon be another favoured past-time for Central, as the crowd responded with cheers and applause. Even Sarnai and Alsantset looked less upset than before, finally warming up to Min Gyu’s idea to have this all out in the open. What surprised him the most was that they never once accused him of doing this to humiliate Rain, only that they didn’t want to make a spectacle of what was traditionally a private event, which was curious indeed. Min Gyu’s own family thought him guilty of robbing them of their ‘rightful’ inheritance, but Baatar, Sarnai, and the other Bekhai? They trusted him with Rain’s life and honour without question, and their trust meant more to him than they could ever know.

Holding his hands up for silence, Rain smiled at the crowd and said, “Let’s hope these lions have yet to eat, else I may have trouble beating them to the prize. Wish me luck then.” The crowd did so, enthusiastically at that, for he’d won over most of the outer provinces since being raised to Office. It wasn’t just the Legate’s outspoken endorsement, but also Rain’s behaviour ever since, showing that not only did he have the outer-provinces’ best interests in mind, he would also not favour the North too much over South and Central. One and a half million farmers and tradesmen were slated to settle along the new Western Border, and he’d done all that he could to ensure the whole process was straightforward and aboveboard, with none of the typical back-room dealings so common in matters like this.

Rain was a new breed of noble, an honest, forthright, and virtuous one who approached politics with the same zealous dedication and honourable principles he exhibited as a Martial Warrior, and the people admired him for this. So they cheered for his victory, shouting encouragements and inspirational platitudes as he took his place at the foot of the obstacle course, and after a series of stretches familiar to any Martial Warrior, Rain gave a thumbs up at the band and set off across the gangplank at a dead sprint. Cymbals and drums sounded out in an exhilarating beat as he conquered the first obstacle with ease, a wall standing at twice his height which he easily climbed over with the lion dancers hot on his heels. A Martial Warrior could have leapt clean over that wall, but Rain surged over using speed, leverage, and no small amount of coordination, and anyone with eyes could see he did so in the most efficient manner possible and had his hands ready to fight in record time.

If the Defiled were to learn and train in this trick, it could make defending fortifications much more difficult, because Rain spent the least amount of time vulnerable before reaching his feet.

The next obstacle was a field of stepping blocks, arranged at differing heights and distances so as to make it unclear which path was best. Rain took the obvious route, following the stones higher and higher until he finally realized it was a trap, but instead of turning around to retrace his steps, he launched himself at the closest lion dancers and used the costume’s sturdy wood-carved head as a stepping stone before continuing on his merry way. The crowd gasped and cheered at the daring move, and Rain called out an apology from over his shoulder, but he didn’t slow down until he arrived at the next obstacle, a series of low walls no higher than his waist interspersed between suspended bars hanging just above his chest, which he was meant to duck under. Over, under, over, under, the boy jumped and ducked his way through this portion without slowing a single step, not even when the pattern shifted to try and throw him off. At the end of the walls and bars was a wooden tunnel barely wide enough for him to fit through, yet he dove in head first without hesitation and exited out the other end in the blink of an eye.

Even Martial Warriors as slender as Rain would have trouble with that tunnel, but the boy practised on his personal obstacle course often enough, and he was nothing if not daring.

Then came the swinging logs wrapped in cloth to dull the impacts, but Min Gyu could have saved his labourers the trouble. Rain ran through them without stopping, and even picked up his pace to avoid getting clipped towards the end, a feat even the lion dancers were unable to replicate as they stopped every few logs to avoid getting knocked off in front of thousands of viewers. This had more to do with timing and luck rather than speed, but Rain’s performance was impressive nonetheless. Leaving the swinging logs behind, he scampered up the five-story rope climb like a monkey with wings, grabbed the first trophy, a ring which he slid onto his index finger, and slid back down almost as quickly as he could fall before stopping short a scant half-meter above the platform. Then, without missing a beat, he darted off to the next obstacle, all before the lion dancers exited from the swinging logs.

Even if he were a Martial Warrior, that would have been an impressive descent, and the crowd went wild with applause as he left his ‘competition’ behind. Min Gyu was less than pleased, since they were technically there to keep Rain safe, so he ordered the dancers to skip the rope climb and hurry on to the angled platform jumps. Each one sat at a forty-five degree angle and a good two meters apart, but Rain jumped from one to the next as easily as he moved through the flat stepping blocks. Easier even, since he landed with both feet on the stepping blocks, but never set more than one foot down on the angled platforms while leaving his hands outstretched for balance. Launching himself off the last platform, he skipped over the short jaunt over to the ring swings. For a moment, it almost looked like he would fall short of catching the closest ring, but he barely caught on with more than the tips of his index and middle finger, which was more than he needed to get him to the next ring down the line. On the second ring, he swung even further and let go before grabbing the third ring, all so he could throw himself far enough to catch the fourth instead, only to continue on in this same fashion until he was through.

It was getting harder and harder for the crowd to remember Falling Rain was a cripple, for while none of his exploits were particularly difficult, even experienced Martial Warriors might not be able to replicate his feats so smoothly, not without considerable practice. What’s more, while Rain had experience using his own obstacle course, Min Gyu had been careful not to replicate it directly, changing the order, patterns, distances, sizes, and more when putting this whole thing together, yet Rain went through it on his first try as if he’d done so a thousand times before, his movements so natural it were as if he’d been born to perform them.

This was undeniably One with the World, so perhaps the boy wasn’t as crippled as everyone believed, himself included. After claiming the second trophy with ease, a golden bangle dangling from a rope hanging above the highest point on an inclined balance beam, he proceeded to slide down the rest of the balance beam on his feet rather than climb down like Min Gyu expected, and he almost felt like the boy was showing off a bit too much now. Luckily, the wall climb was next, and that slowed him down considerably, as there was no easy way to scurry up the handholds without Lightening or Cloud-Stepping your way over. Before he was halfway up, the lion dancers had caught up, and as if determined not to be outdone, began walking up the wall after him. On the other side, was a steeply inclined rope net they were supposed to climb down, but again, Rain defied expectations by running his way down alongside the lion dancers.

At the bottom of the net, they all came face to face with the twelfth and final obstacle, two smooth, vertical poles which measured just over fifteen metres tall, with their bases planted in the ground almost six meters away from the platform with nothing in between them. At the top of the poles was a rope, with each end tied to a pole and the final trophy suspended between them, the red silk knot they were to use in the next part of the ceremony. This part would be difficult even without opponents, but having been infected by the spirit of competition, the lion dancers soared across the gap without giving Rain a chance to try first. With their legs wrapped around the poles, the two dancers under each lion costume slinked their way up the poles like a strange, furry caterpillar, and for a heart-stopping minute, it seemed as if Rain had given up.

Until his arms shot out and a pair of throwing daggers cut clean through the rope holding the silk knot in place, which Rain then caught in mid air as he somersaulted off the stage.

