Silverite looked directly at him, and said, “Erick. I understand your compulsion to help.” She glanced over to Poi, adding, “And since this compulsion is not magical, I was willing to hear you out. Here is my conclusion: You are cleared for helping Candlepoi—”

Kip shouted, “FUCKING SLAG, Silverite! You cannot be serious!”

Anhelia said, “I agree with Kipernikus. This is too foolish to even entertain.”

“It’s not too foolish! I’m perfectly aware of the depravity of the Shades,” Erick said.

Anhelia rounded on him, eyes wide and anger drawing her face into heavy lines. She almost shoved a pointed iron finger at his chest. But she stopped. She did not say anything. She shook her finger in barely checked rage. In a second, she forced herself to calm, dropping her hand to her side. She said, “All that you think you know is second hand knowledge, but this action will ensure that the Shades give you first hand knowledge.”

Erick said, “I know that Ar’Kendrithyst deserves total destruction.”

Anhelia scoffed a laugh, then turned away to hide the hurt in her eyes. For all their metallic nature, wrought certainly wore their emotions openly, sometimes.

Erick waited for someone else to say something.

“What are your thoughts, Silverite?” Killzone asked.

They all turned to her, as Silverite’s next words came telepathically, ‘They don’t have [Cleanse], but they could easily hire someone to [Cleanse] their food for them. Maybe they won’t. Maybe, we can make them dependent on Erick for food, and if they get uppity, we send them toxic goods. It would be easy enough to create a bean or a rice that would kill a shadeling.’

They all looked to Erick, as Erick had a minor breakdown.

Could he do that? Could he poison people?

Holy shit!

He would have to, wouldn’t he?

He sent, ‘Okay.’

Anhelia brightened, then shoved her emotions back below the surface. Kip looked unconvinced. Killzone simply nodded, while Silverite stood impassively.

Erick pushed his luck. “What about me feeding them rads, too?”

The reaction he got was unexpected.

Anhelia said, “Yes. Do this.” She added, “If they remain monsters with rads in them, they will be much easier to pick out of society when necessary. If they start discarding their shadeling status, they could be worse than Hunters.”

Erick recoiled in disgust. He hadn’t even considered that angle. He almost changed his mind about helping them with food. But. No. He held firm. The shadelings would get their food… And their rads, too. And if they turned into betrayers Erick would…

Erick didn’t finish that thought.

Killzone said, “Monsters who overeat rads doom themselves to a messy death. So them asking for rads is not a big deal on the surface. The danger of giving them rads is that you are interacting with evil, and it will pull you under when it gets a chance.”

Silverite said, “They also use those rads to get levels, so. It’s not a non-issue, but it’s close.”

Anhelia said, dismissively, “They’re capping out at around level 55, so that’s fine. Let them limit themselves.”

“What?” Erick asked. “What are you talking about?”

Silverite said, “Monsters gain experience differently than people. There have been many theories on the subject for a long time, but finding monsters that speak is a rarity, so all we’ve really had is observational data. Like how mimics are almost always level 30 or 31. Candlepoint is a wealth of information about Melemizargo’s forces that we’ve never known before. Almost every shadeling is somewhere between level 35 to 55.”

“You’re not the only archmage to visit that place, Erick,” Anhelia said, the venom of her voice barely hidden. “Some of them have been working to understand the enemy. Not feed them.” She winced at her own words, and turned away, saying, “I’ve had enough. Apologies, all. I can’t do this.” She walked away, her iron feet tapping hard on the orange stone as she left.

Killzone watched her go for a short moment, then turned back to Erick, saying, “I don’t think you know what you’re doing, but a lot of us are scrambling for answers right now. Maybe you’ll find some, without them duping you into some wrongheaded action.” He glanced to Silverite, saying, “I’ve got to go.”

Silverite nodded. Killzone blipped away in a black flash.

Kip said, “Fine. I guess we’re doing this. I got threshers you can use. Today only, though!” He glared at Erick, adding, “They need to get their own threshers. And you need to not help them so much. A little help is fine; it’s the…” He angrily said, “I’m not sure if it’s the right thing to do, but we’re doing it, by Rozeta. I guess we’re doing it. I’ll be right back.” He flickered blue; blipping away.

Silverite and Erick, and Poi, remained.

Silverite asked, “Why are you doing this?”

“Because I feel for them.” Erick said, “And more importantly: No one should be born into a position where everyone is out to kill you, or thinks you’re a threat. They will become our worst fears because that is the only route they have left for themselves.”

“I can see how you would think that statement is valid. In most cases, it is. But not here. Not now. Not when it comes to Shades.” Silverite said, “So I will say this: Never appear to them in person. Never accept gifts without thorough vetting. I’d tell you to never make bargains, but that ship has sailed. And beware that the rest of the world might see this as aiding the enemy.” She stared at him, saying, “And now, I will impart unto you the wisdom we impart to every soldier who takes a tour of duty in Ar’Kendrithyst: never, ever, speak highly or lowly or about anything or anyone you might encounter out there. The Shades and their ilk will twist your sights and beguile your emotions. They will make you feel they are innocent of the killings they have done and caused. But not everyone who is dealt a poor fate in this world turns into a maniacal murderer, or a monster. They chose to become Shades. They chose the Darkness. You are not their savior. You are not a hero. You are a watchdog of civilization, here to ensure the Darkness remains controlled, and to bark loudly when it ventures out of bounds.”

Erick felt Silverite’s words as much as he heard them, especially that part about being dealt a poor fate. He had said basically the same thing to Bulgan.

Erick said, “I understand. I may not have the same history as you and yours, but I understand.”

Silverite looked at Erick for a moment, then said, “Okay. I trust you. Don’t get suckered into doing something you don’t want—”

A patch of air the size of a small car blipped blue, five meters away. Kip had come back and brought with him a metal box with cranks and gears and hoppers and funnels.

Silverite finished, “Don’t let them orchestrate how you move, Erick. That’s the first step to finding yourself plummeting to your death.” She smirked, looking back at his silos, saying, “And don’t use stone from the ground to build structures. If everyone did that, then Spur would be full of holes. Get some stone from outside, and good luck.” And then she flashed silver, and was gone.

Kip called out, “Let’s get this thing done!” He asked, “You got [Control Item]?”

“I do,” Erick said, walking closer to Kip. “Never really used it before, though.”

Kip tapped his blue metal, dragonkin claws against the thresher, saying, “It’s easy enough.” He pointed to a complicated set of toothed gears, saying, “See this gear, here? All you gotta do is...”

After a few explanations and demonstrations, Kip left Erick with his machine. It was a heavy duty thing, weighing in at two tons of mostly solid metal. It was almost impossible to break, even with a poor application of [Control Item]. Erick still managed to break it, though. After a few [Mend]s and a few more tries to get it all right, white beans began pouring out one funnel, while dried, brown shells came flying out of the other.

All the machine really did was bounce around the dried bean pods and then use a strong fan to blow away the shells. It was simple, and it was effective. It only took two hours to get through the beans.

Erick packaged them in meter wide stone boxes, [Stoneshape]d out of sand from outside the city. It wasn’t like he was unaware of Spur’s ban on using the ground to make buildings. He just didn’t consider that fact last night. When he was done with the bean silos, he dropped them back into the stone underfoot, without issue.

Dealing with the rice took a half hour setting and resetting the machine to the ‘rice’ setting, and then two more hours to get through all of his stock.

When he was done, he stepped back. He had seen what he was producing, well before now, but the amount of goods still stunned a little. After threshing, two silos of rice became one silo, which was still a good 25-ish cubic meters of rice. It was about the same for the beans.

Erick’s [Teleporting Platform] could support around five tons, according to his other experiments. But it could only support six stone boxes. Meaning he had about 41 or 42 tons of produce.

He did not expect nearly that much of a haul. But this was good, wasn’t it? He placed the goods under cool and dry temperature [Ward]s, and let them sit out in the sun, for now.

When he was done, it was just past noon, and he was ready for lunch. Kiri had gotten sandwiches from ‘Meat! Bread! Cheese!’ and they were delicious. Erick almost wondered after sources of meat for the shadelings of Candlepoint, but that was way too much assistance. Erick was already digging himself in deep; he would try to go no further.

He wouldn’t deliver the goods until this evening, either. He would only visit Candlepoint at sunrise or sunset. His few moments of being out after full dark had been more than enough to warn him away from trying the city during the ‘dangerous’ hours. He wouldn’t be harmed himself, since he would be riding Ophiel, but anyone he interacted with might suffer because of his presence.

Before he would do that, though, he went to his library, and with Kiri’s help, decided on a plan for automatic rad gathering.

- - - -

He found a decent enough spell:

[Conjure Force Elemental] + [Telekinesis] + [Stoneshape] + Mana Shaping, 500 = [Gatherer] or [Stone Gatherer]

It was a simple combination, but it was a good one.

- - - -

Erick, Kiri, and Poi, stood atop a [Teleporting Platform] that floated over orange dunes to the north of Spur, two [Teleport]s away. Looking out across the land, Erick saw agave half buried by the moving dunes, and mimics standing tall above the sands.

He would have done this a single [Teleport] from Spur, but a sandstorm was moving in against the city. This far north, he was past the storm.

Erick lowered the platform to touch down on the sands, and prepared his spell in his mind, linking form to function, and [Stoneshape] to rads. Rads weren’t exactly stones. In fact, they were as much of a stone as they were water, or air, or fire, or shadow or light. They were mana, and mana was possibility. But stone was a good place to start, because stone could also be used to carve into bodies, to get to the rads. The other elements could do that too, sure, but stone was the most versatile, and most readily transformed into blades. And so, Erick had made a rhyme, both because magic would need to fill in a lot of gaps, and a good version of [Gatherer] was extremely necessary for future endeavors.

Maybe he’d make a [Prismatic Gatherer] in the future, but that was a mountain to summit. This [Stoneshape] version was as simple as climbing a minor hill.

Erick breathed deep, then stepped off of his platform, onto the dune. He felt the sand shift under his feet. Some of it cascaded down the sides of the sandy hill, some of it just slipped into his shoes. This was fine. He smiled, as he imagined touching the world, and joked,

“There once was a being of tools

“that gathered according to rules

“on battlefields ended

“from targets intended

“And brought back plentiful [Jewels].”

Mana rushed through Erick to join the sand in front of him, to soak in, changing inert sand into something else, something with movement. Sand slipped from sand as a creation of magic a meter tall stood up, into the air, dragging dirt with it, only to have excess whipped away by the wind. A blue box appeared.

Summon Jewels, instant, close range, 720 MP

Summon a creation of hardy stone that will retrieve a large amount of rads from as many monsters it can, while it can. Lasts 1 hour.

Erick smiled, as his attention returned to Jewels. The summon had not moved since it stood up, but as the wind uncovered more of it, Erick saw that ‘Jewels’ was a deceptively simple creation.

It was a crystal. Perhaps quartz. Perhaps something else. But it was definitely clear stone, with six sides, a top that came to a point, a body about a meter long, and a bottom that also came to a point. It was a little rough, but it was pretty. Iridescence flickered across the skin of the summon, as it lazily turned in the air. What truly caught Erick’s attention, though, was the intent layered into the air around it, and the tiny cascades of sand it was touching off, five meters away from itself, in every direction.

Erick turned left, and summoned a [Withering] onto the desert. Mimic kill notifications would have popped up, but Erick had already shoved them to the sides, as he watched Jewels’ reaction. Jewels did not react.

After a minute, the notifications stopped.

Erick said, “Jewels—”

The creation perked up at its name. The intent Erick had seen touched off minor cascades of sand as it lifted up into the air, pulling a hundred different stone knives from the dune.

“OooH!” Kiri said, backing up a bit on the floating platform. “Should we be worried, Erick?”

“No.” Erick watched, as larger knives and hammers, which were just hard packed rocks, lifted from the sand. “… Probably not.” He quickly said, “Jewels. Go collect the rads from the monsters I killed. Harm no living thing in the process.”

Jewels rushed down the face of the dune like a minor avalanche and a tornado, all at once.

Erick Handy Aura’d himself off of the dune and back onto the [Teleporting Platform].

Kiri said, “Wow. That’s fast! Or…” She paused. “Hmm. Maybe not that fast, actually.”

Erick watched the summon go, and saw the problem Kiri saw. Jewels got to the first body and ripped into it, collecting a rad for its trouble. That rad was then stuck to the crystal in the center of the storm of blades, but then Jewels stopped. He waited. He was doing something, but whatever it was, was not visible.

