It was a minute before Jewels took off again, headed straight for the next corpse, over fifty meters away. The corpse after that was only twenty meters away, and Erick could see it from here, but it took Jewels another minute to reach the conclusion that he had to go that way, and dig through that body.

“I guess [Scan] magic is necessary.” Erick said, “I had hoped it wouldn’t be.”

“It was either [Scan] magic for a tier 3, or keeping it tier 2.” Kiri said, “This is still good. And you can summon a lot more than one.”

Erick rapidly summoned three more Jewels, and sent them off hunting for rads. They tore down the dune while Erick followed them on the hovering platform.

Forty minutes and one grand chase later, Erick’s experiment ended with him standing on the top of a small dune, with a small pile of rads sitting on the sand in front of him. He counted 76, 10 mana rads, which was the number of mimics he had killed with one [Withering]. That many rads was worth 760 mana, or 380 gold.

Erick smiled.

Jewels could stay. Erick might even make him a tier 3 summon with [Cascade Imaging], later, once he got [Particulate Force].

And to help accomplish that, Erick decided to invent another spell, while he had time. He threw a hundred mana into the air, asking if a certain water gathering spell was possible.

Phagar responded, ‘All versions have already been made. Water from stone. Water from air. Water from fire, too, but that one was kinda… not a good spell. Water from water was basically your [Distill], but not—’ He paused. He said, ‘I’m getting the go-ahead for you to try with your water spell, anyway. Something about making integration easier to—’ He spoke unintelligible, unhappy words to someone else, then came back to Erick, offhandedly complaining, ‘Apparently I shouldn’t have said that. Whoops.’

‘Oh… Okay?’

‘Good news, though: Particle Magic should be fully integrated in two months. That means ‘Particulate Force’ is going away, because all magic will once again be compatible with all other magic. The thing with [Ward] stopping Particle Magic will remain, though, and you’re gonna have to buy [Condense Particle] yourself, just like everyone else.’

‘Okay… That’s…’ Erick was… Happy about that? Yeah. He was happy about that. That saved him a Class Ability Slot. The rest of Phagar’s announcement was perfectly fine. Erick sent, ‘That’s great!’

‘Hopefully!’ Phagar’s connection broke.

Erick smiled, as he turned his attention to the sky. Poi and Kiri hovered on his platform, five meters away, while he stood on a small dune.

Endless blue stretched from horizon to horizon, while a warm wind blew from the north. Not a single cloud marred the heavens. It was a beautiful sight. There probably wasn’t a lot of water up there, but he was still going to try.

Erick called out to the firmament,

“A cy-cle exists for all to see! A twist of air, deposits thee

“upon the land for life to be, growing, here-now! Up goes the tree!

“But wind steals thee from land and sea, now down thy be, and hidden see?

“But then heat rises up and ‘round again, up goes the sky and rounds the bend!

“A sky of rain, waters the land! H and O and H take hands,

“And down again and up and then, around and ‘round and ‘rounds the bend!

“A cy-cle exists for all to see, but here be now, I call to thee

“Come down the sky, water the land, grant us a blessing now and be

“By will and life and cycle seen! Be here! Be now! I call to thee!”

Erick collapsed to the side. The magic was over.

It was only after it was over that he realized that Kiri and Poi had both been screaming at him, trying to get him to stop, but waves of power had been pushing them away. He also realized that the song he had spoken was not the one he had planned. He had planned a much shorter instance of magic. A much more controlled burst of power, and intent.

What he got was something else. Some other force, speaking through him, guiding his words, calling to something deeper than Erick had intended.

As Poi rapidly broke his rod of [Treat Wounds], healing Erick, staunching the flow of blood from his nose and ears, and Kiri yelled about getting out of there, Erick briefly read the blue boxes in front of him, ignoring the one about it being a Basic Tier spell.

Control Weather 1, one minute, super long range, <500 mana + Variable>

Change the weather in a location. Effect lasts longer if desired weather and location are conducive to each other. Minimum duration: <1 day>. Maximum duration: <1 month>.

Particle Mage Only.

Rozeta thanks you for enriching the Script.

+3 ability points.

Uh. Sininindi is going to be pissed. Try getting in front of that one, this time. ~Rozeta.

Somewhere in all of that, the sky changed. Clouds appeared. Light, fluffy things, for sure.

But nothing else happened.

Erick smiled weakly as Poi yelled at him to accept a [Teleport]. He mumbled something that was almost a ‘yes’, but his voice was broken, even with all Poi’s healing. Erick tried to joke about Poi being ‘unable to get it up’, having broken his ‘rod’, but it was a weak joke, and both Poi and Kiri just paled.

And then some other force took a hold of his mind. Poi’s sapphire blue eyes got really big, or maybe it was an illusion of some sort. The world flickered blue, twice, and then Erick was in the admissions room of the Church hospital. He knew this place. But everything was tainted red. He had blood in his eyes, didn’t he?

Oh. He had forgotten to check in on the Mage Trio, didn’t he? Eh. He forgave himself. He had a lot of projects on his plate, after all. As he tried to look around, but failed, the only coherent thought he barely managed to form, was that he did not have time for whatever was happening right now, so if everyone could please just let him get back to work, that would be great.

And then he knew no more, as sleep took him, dragging him under, while multiple hands lifted him up.
