In the end, the King put his official seal on the proposition.

He also offered Angeline the hand of one of his grandsons, which he was certain there must have been two or three of the correct age.

She politely rejected the offer, cryptically stating that she was “keeping her options open.”

The group spent a few more days in the capital. While the proposition had been approved, it had only outlined the general idea. The next step was perhaps the most gruelling yet; figuring out the numbers.

Angeline insisted on having both David and Niala involved. As the new, official leaders, she said they needed to be at least aware of the inner workings of the treaty.

Jordo offered to help, of course. The golem seemed even more jovial and energized than usual. When questioned, he answered that helping his lieges create a new nation for themselves was the epitome of his desire to see them succeed.

They also got the surprise help of Rinka, who had gotten a bit bored and was looking forward to the challenge of translating abstract words into hard, clean numbers.

Half a week later, after working under the oversight of Chancellor Haggleman, the final Reign Ascendant declaration was ready, along with the Amberfall Royal Charter that supported it.

The Crown then called for a special session to convene in a week. The invited nobles were not told why, only that their presence was mandatory.

This surprise announcement meant one thing for David and Niala: dressing up in official clothes.

They went with a Luminous Reign-inspired design, done according to Rinka's description of high-ranking officials' uniforms. They were tailored and fitted suits of whites and pastel yellows, favouring sharp and crisp angles. The long tunic was decorated with a sash across the chest, the colour of which indicated the position of the wearer in the Reign's hierarchy.

For David, Scion, and Niala, Scion Consort, the colour was a light blue. A badge was commissioned, with their new family's crest: a mix of the Luminous Reign, the All Brews and the Wardenfels overlaid upon a shield.

Jordo was polished to a shine, and Rinka retrieved her ceremonial Magister robes from David's cargo cloths.

Cornelius tried to buy out the front page of the capital's newspapers to announce the creation of the new nation sponsored by his illustrious person.

Angeline found out and forbade him from doing so.

He sulked for a day.

The peerage was abuzz with rumours. Special sessions were not called very often, but they always carried significant changes, and changes meant opportunities.

The stronger houses had already been angling and manoeuvring for a full season, ever since the rumour of the richest and purest mana crystal deposit ever found had surfaced. Slowly, at first, and then gaining in fervour as the rumours were all but confirmed.

Everybody expected the special session to officially announce the existence of the mana crystal mine, and thus signify the start of the race for who would control, or at least benefit, from it.

With significant potential gains for even the largest, richest houses, mere representatives were not trusted to properly represent their interests. Within the Royal castle's halls, the heads and heirs of the noble families congregated, and soon wielded rumours like daggers, and the backstabbing dances began.

Throne room, a week later

From within the antechamber behind his throne, King Isadore watched with a mix of glee and annoyance as the room filled with the invited guests. They were no sooner seated that they all began jockeying for position with their neighbours, dealing, blackmailing and intimidating even now.

He sighed. Amberose politics were cutthroat; when the capital's nobles opened their mouth, it was to assault a position, and quarter was only given if a benefit could be gained from doing so. Efficient, direct, ruthless.

He would never admit it, but he much preferred the attitude the Majestic nobles had toward the game. Sure, they backstabbed each other as much as their Amberose peers, but it was more of a playful, teasing stab. They didn't strike to kill, but rather to make you bleed a little and laugh at it.

It seemed more like the game it ought to be, if anyone had bothered to ask him, instead of this savage battle royal.

However, he was looking forward to this session; none of the nobles had any idea what he was going to drop on them. He couldn't wait to drink in their reaction.

The large doors leading into the throne room closed, signifying that the last of the guests had arrived. He looked at the bell clock and nodded approvingly. He had to admit that was one of the advantages of dealing with capital's nobles instead of their Majestic counterparts; they cared about being on time.

After making his guest wait a sufficiently long period of time, he motioned at his chamberlain. The wolfkin woman nodded and stepped out of the antechamber, walked up to the edge of the dais and slammed her sceptre a few times on the floor, quieting everyone and grabbing their attention. Following protocol, they rose to their feet.

“ANNOUNCING, THE REIGNING MONARCH OF THE AMBERFALL KINGDOM, PATRIARCH OF THE AMBERFALL DYNASTY, PROTECTOR AND LORD OF ALL, KING ISADORE AMBERFALL!” The woman shouted before standing aside.

Isadore stepped out of the antechamber and reached his throne in silence. He sat down, let his eyes roll over all assembled, and signalled with his hand for everyone to sit back down.

“Honourable guests and loyal subjects, We have called upon you today to make an announcement which will impact our citizens' daily lives.”

He checked their stares; poised and impatient. He smiled internally.

“Rumours circulated lately about a rich and vast reserve of high-purity mana crystals, found within the previously unclaimed lands north-west of our borders, past the town of Riverwall, well within the region known as the Ruinlands.”

He glanced at their faces once more. Some had picked up on the previously unclaimed portion of his speech. A third emotion had joined their stares: concern. Good.

“It is under the further exploration of this deposit and opportunity that we have come to learn that these lands had been, a long time ago, part of a nation called the Luminous Reign. Further inquiries into this nation have yielded clear and demonstrable ancestry with many noble lineages of our kingdom.”

Was that panic he was beginning to spot? Were they thinking the race had already been lost because of some half-forgotten ancestral claim to this region? Delightful.

“And it was with great joy that we found living descendants from this nation of old, living even today within our borders. Descendants who have a direct and undeniable claim to the lands we call the Ruinlands.”

He allowed himself a small smile. “The crown has recognized these descendants' claim to the lands which had once been part of the Luminous Reign, along with the backing of one of our most prominent families; the Wardenfel.”

He swept a hand at Jacob's Wardenfel's general direction, the man nodding in acknowledgement.

Eyes darted back and forth between the Patriarch and himself. When that family of enforcers and generals aligned with the King, things tended to get rammed down people's proverbial throats. Many of them swallowed at the prospect.

Isadore continued, his tone gaining the slightest hue of mirth. "We thus ask the founding members of this reborn nation to join us.”

He dipped his head at his chamberlain, who nodded in turn and slammed her sceptre on the floor once more.

Her clear and commanding voice rang out. “ANNOUNCING, THE FOUNDING LORD AND LADY OF THE REIGN ASCENDANT, LORD DAVID AND LADY NIALA ALLWARDEN!”

The large doors at the front of the room opened, through which David and Niala, dressed in their new Reign uniforms, walked in lock step up to the dais, followed by Jordo and Rinka. There, as befitting dignitaries from a sovereign nation, they bowed politely instead of kneeling.

Isadore looked down upon them and held out his hand, palm out. “David and Niala Allwarden, we welcome you to this court. As representatives of this new nation, is there anything you wish to announce?”

The king could barely contain his amusement. These next words would be the culmination of this entire circus.

David's procession rose from their bow, and he nodded. “We would, King Isadore Amberfall. As the First Scion of the Reign Ascendant, I, David Allwarden, hereby declare our fealty to your great and just kingdom of Amberfall. We recognize your benevolence and ask for your protection of our fledgling nation, so that we may both grow prosperous alongside each other.”

The faces of the more savvy nobles fell as they connected the dots.

Isadore dipped his head. “We hear your plea, lord David Allwarden, and We answer; the kingdom of Amberfall recognizes the Reign Ascendant as both ally and protectorate. A governor-general shall be assigned to your land to provide oversight on managerial duties. Is there anything else you wish to express?”

David bowed. “Nothing which warrants your attention, King Isadore. We are eternally grateful for accepting our nation within the fold of your reign.” He said, before leading his procession to the side, opening the floor for the Amberfall King once more.

By now, most faces were looking at him with a mix of anger and awe.

Why wouldn't they? With ten minutes of speeches, he'd secured indirect control over the mana crystal mine for the crown, through claims that none of the houses would dispute, and safeguarded his gift to himself by declaring it a protectorate.

Almost all of the benefits, out of reach of the meddling houses, with none of the political hassle.

He really ought to thank David, Niala and Angeline in private, after this.

For now, though, he smiled beatifically at all of the irate nobles doing their best not to appear rebellious.

Sometimes, he did love his job.

A few bells later, in Lord Deeprest's parlour.

“That manipulative despot played us all!” Lord Larvest sputtered. “He had no intention to ever allow any of us to even touch those mines! He dreamed up a dynasty to lay his hands over it for his own family!” His wine glass sloshed around, a few drops falling to the burgundy carpet.

Lord Deeprest watched the precious liquid disappear into the carpet's depths as he idly swirled his own glass.

Lord Torduval, next to him, chuckled. “My dear Elbert, you have to admit, it is a rather masterful ploy. Using our own misplaced honour and shackling traditions against ourselves.”

Elbert Larvest turned his fiery eyes toward the pudgy man. “Emery! Of course, you'd find his ploy worthy of praise! Yet again, you prove that you are but a lapdog!”

Emery sighed. “Lord Larvest, how often will I have to tell you? A beloved and obedient dog is kept safe, well-fed, and forgiven much more than a misbehaving one.”

Torduval swept his wine glass to the side. More of it fell to the carpet under the wistful stare of Lord Deeprest. “Only a dog would feel this way! You are as brainless as those beasts!”

Lord Torduval squinted. “Better a beloved and cherished dog than one of your stupid cats.”

“Cats are proud and alert! They would never allow themselves to be manipulated as such!”

“Cats are aloof and lack loyalty!”

“Dogs are malodorous!”

“Cats are agents of chaos!”

“Dogs are-”

Rufus Deeprest tuned out the two bickering nobles and turned toward the fourth member of their little get-together. “Lord Highbet, I believe you owe me a prince. They began bickering about dogs and cats within half a bell.”

The older noble sighed without any real weight and retrieved the owed coin from his pouch, handing it to Deeprest. “Beyond the obvious, that this farce earlier today allowed our good king to wrap his hands around those mines, what did you make of those... Allwardens?”

Rufus took the coin and let it roll over his finger as he pondered. “Both people of notable birth. Their identities were easy to confirm; the man, David, is the ex-heir to the Wardenfels' main family, while the woman, Niala, is the eldest daughter of Cornelius All Brew.” He frowned. “Those two names, joined together... if their union is an indication of their respective families' disposition to one another, I fear that the Amberfall dynasty and their loyalists have gained a powerful bloc.”

Garland Highbet took a sip of his wine and nodded. “Indeed. I already heard that some of the minor lords have begun prodding in that direction, to find out if it is a new giant that they can attach themselves to.”

Rufus Deeprest leaned back further in his armchair as he kept observing Elbert Larvest's wine glass continue to empty itself on his carpet, one flung droplet at a time. “I have also heard a few... incredulous rumours, about the Allwardens.”

“Oh? Do tell, Rufus.”

The lord waved a hand around. “Blue demons under their employ, access to potions that can pull the dying back to life in the blink of an eye, a fledgling but monstrously expanding commercial empire dealing in... old women, and a collection of relic golems, such as the one we saw today, just to name a few.”

Garland hummed. “This would indicate people of means and resources. The king might not have chosen pliable puppets, but people who could defend themselves, if need be...”

Rufus nodded. “That is my guess, as well.” He said before draining the last of his wine and setting down the glass. “With that said, I believe dinner should be nearly served. I asked my chef to prepare those honeyed lamb ribs you find so delectable.”

Garland smiled. “Oh, you should not have, lord Deeprest.” He thanked the man as he got up and turned toward the door. His jovial expression fled his visage. “Do you think this announcement will change anything for us?”

Rufus scrunched his face. “In the long term, I don't believe so. For now... let's just let things play out. We've been very careful to insulate ourselves from what has been set in motion, and I don't see the need to muddy our hands just yet.”

Lord Garland hummed and nodded, following after his host.

They left behind Lords Torduval and Larvest, who continued arguing over cats and dogs for another bell.