“Okay… are we through with the measuring contest?” Derek asked rhetorically. “Listen up… everyone has already said their goodbyes, so we’re not going to make this an all-day thing.” He opened his Time Prison. “Jace, Malorie, Brandi, Edgar, Marrick, Stella, Bones, Ogre, Roman, Amelia… please enter. You will find that I have included some comforts within.

“My smithy!” Brandi shouted as she ran inside.

Derek chuckled, then his face turned serious. “Thomas! Are you coming?” he asked. Then the boy stepped forward with his head down.

“I… I…” he muttered, then, surprisingly, a stern Richard walked forward and slapped the boy on the back of his head.

“Yes, Derek, the brat is going,” Richard said.

Then, Delilah stepped forward. “We know our grandson. We don’t have much time left. As much as he wants to stay with us to be filial, we will not allow it. His future is to grow strong, to make his parents and grandparents proud.”

Derek smiled and nodded. “Thomas! Go,” he said, then the boy hugged both of his grandparents and joined the others inside.

Derek then looked over the crowd until he saw The Queen and Klaus. “Queen… Klaus… come forward.”

The Queen ran forward with giddy excitement, and Klaus suddenly materialized in the spot as his body at the other spot disintegrated.

“Klaus… you will owe me a favor. I expect you to get strong enough or good enough at something so I will be able to collect one day,” Derek said.

“Oh… I’m on the verge,” Klaus replied.

“That’s not creepy at all,” Derek said. “But… you will not be allowed to stay in the Time Prison once we arrive. I don’t trust you.”

“Acceptable,” Klaus said.

“Go,” Derek commanded, and the former Adventurer’s Guild Leader walked inside. Then he looked at the elven queen. “What is your name?”

“My name? I am Nivara, the former queen of Linderis,” she answered.

“Former?” Derek asked.

“I already stepped down,” Nivara said. Ashley was able to get the teleporters working, so Nivara was able to use them to come back without the need for Derek’s help. He had also procured the teleporter for Brandi to study.

“That confident?” Derek asked.

“Honestly?” Nivara replied. Derek waited. “No, not really. If I am not allowed to go… I will live in Cydaria, and my people can think that I went. And if I do get to go, then it doesn’t matter. And now, I am finally out of politics. Some people’s types do not include those who are political.”

Derek narrowed his eyes. He had no clue what she was talking about, but he decided that he would trust Edgar. “Then you will be under the same rules as Klaus. I do not trust you, so you will not be allowed to stay inside once we are there.”

“Understood,” Nivara said.

“Don’t make me regret it,” Derek said. “Because if I regret it, then you are going to regret it. Do I make myself clear?”

Nivara suddenly became invisible. “As clear as I am right now.”

Derek rolled his eyes. “Go,” he said, and she uncloaked herself and went inside.

“Silvi… would you like to ride inside or out? You will be teleported with me either way,” he asked his companion.

“Want to see what happens,” Silvi said. “I stay with you.”

“Sounds like a plan,” Derek smiled. Finally, he closed the door behind him and pulled the space back together. He looked out over the crowd of people that they would be leaving for a long time. “I guess this is it,” he said. “It will be awhile before I come back. But one day, I plan on returning.”

Everyone nodded. There were a few people crying, but not exactly for him. They were people like Delilah and Richard, who held it together until the Time Prison was shut. Finally, Avery stepped forward and shook Derek’s hand.

“You take care of Stella. If she dies, I’ll find you…”

“And do what?” Derek asked with a smile.

“Probably also die,” Avery answered with a grin.

“If Stella dies, then it is likely that I will already be dead,” Derek said.

“That’s good to hear,” Avery said.

“Take care of the kids and dragonkin. And look in on Rayna and the twins every once in a while, okay?”

“You have my word.” Avery still had all the funds and resources that Alanah had left him and Stella after all.

Finally, Avery walked away, and it was time. Derek focused on his ascension.

…

You have chosen to Ascend.

Are you sure?

Note: This cannot be undone.

…

Derek waved at everyone one last time and said, “Goodbye, friends!” Then, he focused on yes and accepted the ascension. Just as Alanah had done before him, Derek was enshrouded by a bright light. Then, he disappeared.
