He'd gone through the organic trash earlier to make compost, but his efforts had been focused on easily-degradable stuff; half-rotten foods and the ends and bobs of roots and herbs that potion classes didn’t need. Sure, there were some greasy chicken bones mixed in, but those were cooked and broken, relatively easy to decompose. What he was looking for now, were the places mages threw dead horses and dogs, magical beasts they’d hunted and were done with, that kind of thing. He wasn’t going to touch any pet cemetery, but if they’d thrown the animal’s body in the trash, then it was fair game for him. If they didn’t want its bones, he’d take them.

There weren’t as many bones in the trash as he might have expected. The few magical beast remains he found were well picked over, and for the most part, it seemed mages buried their pets and rarely used horses. Even so, there were bones here and there—fish bones, snake bones, discarded goat carcasses and the half-mummified remains of things he couldn’t even recognize. He pulled the ex-flesh off the bones and tossed the bones in a slightly misshapen cauldron that had seen better days. It had been laden with filth, the blackened remains of failed potions sitting in its depths, its sides bulging outward from a near-miss explosion or two, but once he’d absorbed the impurities, it was good enough to cook glue in. Glue didn’t tend to be explosive. As long as the cauldron held up to a reasonable amount of heat, it would be fine, and for all that it was misshapen and blackened, it didn’t look to be any less able to hold a few hundred degrees than before.

The whole time he searched, he kept his intent active on the furnace back at the cooking spot. It was good training; one, because it forced him to hold an intent active for a long span of time, and two, because it forced him to hold an active intent at a distance. He’d thought it would be hard to hold an intent active without touching the object, but when the time came, he’d lifted his hand off the furnace and walked half a dozen meters without realizing it before the mental strain kicked in, and he was forced to face what he’d done. I guess that’s Tier 2 for you, he thought, looking at his hand. Or maybe that was the difference that came from pushing the skill over the level ten threshold? He’d felt the skill change and grow stronger at level ten, unlike his non-path skills, which didn’t appear to pay any attention to level thresholds, except to continue to slow down the pace at which they leveled. He stared at his hand for another few seconds, then shrugged. He could figure it out later.

Now, he returned to a flickering furnace with a cauldron full of bones. He set it down near the furnace, jogged to the nearby stream to get some fresh water, and dumped the impurity-extracted water into the pile of bones. A bit of combustible trash under the cauldron, and the bones started simmering.

Rhys pursed his lips, looking at the bones. It would work—he could eventually cook glue this way—but it would take so long. There were big ships full of students coming tomorrow, who would certainly be eager for a new location and a new experience, and ready to try new things. Plus, they were his enemies (not that they knew it), and if the potato chips got them addicted on junk food and full of potato-chippy impurities, that was their problem, not his. He needed this glue cooked down today. Ideally, right now, so he could start building his bags and bagging the chips Bast was cooking.

I wonder…
