And seriously, why was an elf even wasting anyone’s time with something written by a human? A lot of the Medical Manuscripts went over Ranthia’s head, but she couldn’t believe for a moment that this ‘Elaine’—who may or may not have been the same Elaine as the deceased Sentinel Dawn—had written something superior to any of the elven texts on anatomy and healing. The School of Sorcery and Spellcraft existed, sure, but it was still fairly new. And there just wasn’t any means for a world-class book of accumulated wisdom and expertise to come out of Remus. Few masters shared their wisdom with anything more than a few apprentices, and they were likely to forget half of what they learned and reinvent something worse!

A (minor) nightmare from her past’s return aside, Ranthia was well aware that she was letting her bad mood best her. A fellow Hunter—albeit not one of the ones Ranthia was very close to—perished during a cave-in in an incomplete tunnel, which left the Lodge in a somber mood. Compounding that, autumn was days away and there was still no word from Avyna! As the anniversary of her arrival in the City of Arts came nearer, her concerns swelled. [Immortal Armaments] quite helpfully allowed her to recall the final message she found from Avyna—the one that spoke uncertainly of their prospects of meeting again. And no one from Avyna’s trading house had attended the celebration, though there’d been that one damned couple that loudly and happily reunited during the anniversary celebrations…

Well, the stress was getting to her. She still had no real means to seek Avyna out, so she decided to try to improve what she actually could hope to change. She just needed to find something new to read to Clover, something they could both enjoy.

Thank Xaoc, Sunny claimed she knew a less-frequented library that actually had a robust section of books intended for younger minds. The only library Ranthia had used beforehand focused mostly on factual works—histories, records, and other confirmed accounts. With a robust section dedicated to learning about various arts taking up almost half of the space, of course. Aside from the Lodge (or at least, the Lodge during most evenings) there was no escaping the City of Arts’ excessive focus.

“This is it?” Ranthia asked in disbelief when Sunny beckoned them forward. The building was made out of smoky-colored crystal that wasn’t even slightly translucent—seemingly with no windows. But the bigger concern was that there was no trace of any signage on it, just a solitary (and quite closed) door.

“Of course, my pretty; I would never steer you wrong. If you want to get technical, it’s not really an official library, just one book-obsessed woman’s hobby. But she’s happy to loan stuff out. I visit from time to time. She’s also the best rope-maker in town, assuming you can get her to part with any, and she drifts somewhere in the upper echelons of the ranks for Knitting. At least when she bothers to venture out of her place. No need to knock or anything, she welcomes visitors into the library—just don’t be a creep and try to go downstairs where the basement is without being invited.” Sunny explained.

Something about her smile felt off, but Ranthia was still distracted with her efforts to suppress and contain her ill mood. With a shrug, she strode forward and opened the door.

The scent of aging paper and ink struck her like a natural force as she passed through the door and beneath the curtain that hung on the other side. The inside of the private library was surprisingly dark, with only dim, red light emanating from a handful of crystals. Shelves, overladen with books, were eclectically shoved wherever there was space, often with piles of books alongside them. The air was cool and dry, and it wasn’t like there was any visible dust anywhere—yet the place still felt disused and overly quiet.

Ranthia walked a few steps deeper into the library, then turned back to where Sunny was standing. There was no sign of anyone else in the oversized room, and she wasn’t about to poke around in a stranger’s private collection without—

“Hi!” Without warning (not even from [Divine Eyes in the Void]), someone dropped, head-first, into the space between Ranthia and Sunny. Worse, she found herself staring at the back of the woman’s head, with a poorly wrought Mirage that was presumably meant to be a face placed over it.

Fortunately, Ranthia wasn’t even overly surprised or alarmed. After all, she was quite used to unexpected things happening. Clover screamed though.

“Sorry, I’m—well, other me is—in the middle of a chapter and I—we—didn’t hear you come in! Oh, hi Sunny, I didn’t see you over there! Can I help you with something, or do you just want to browse? So long as you aren’t planning to pleasure yourselves or do anything lurid in a corner like Sunny did that one time, there’s no real rules! Oh, except no food or drinks. And don’t damage any books. And try not to spit anywhere. Um, yeah, just don’t be gross and we’re good!” The woman was hanging upside down from a rope, with her real face buried in a book. She was dressed in pants and a light top that her modest cleavage was struggling to hold in place, with the rope clutched between her thighs.

The ceiling was considerably higher up than Ranthia had expected—whatever Spatial enchantment the building had wasn’t quite symmetrical, oddly enough. The upper regions of the library contained a maze of ropes, like a spiderweb crafted by a highly intoxicated arachnid. There were more books precariously perched up there, along with blankets and—contrary to the stated rules—a few caches of snacks like dried fruit or nuts.

“Relax, I had my fun with her just a couple of weeks ago; I’m good for a while. She’s looking for story books for children, to find stuff to read to the rabbit down there. Figured I’d show her the best place in town for books.” Sunny was still wearing a broad grin in the aftermath of Clover’s reaction to the unexpected arrival.

“Oh! A young adult giant field rabbit, how cute! …It doesn’t chew on books, does it? I… Hm. We give permission, so long as it doesn’t expel waste or chew on anything.” The Mirage nodded, without budging the brown-haired elf’s actual head. “Other me, can you turn the body a bit so I can…? No? S-i-g-h. Okay, so, kidlit’s mostly in the back corner, the one that’s to the east. But not the actual back wall! You want the shelf that starts a few paces from there. Just follow it for more, on both sides. And the next that runs mostly-parallel-ish to it! …I think we might have others piled somewhere nearby, maybe? We don’t read much kidlit, so it’s been a while. Oh, if you see any loose books on the floor, can you let us know? She dropped a book when she got mad that her favorite side-character got killed off out of nowhere three weeks ago, and we still haven’t found it. I think it probably landed atop a book pile and will remain lost for a time, but she insists that’s ‘incredibly unlikely.’”

“Sure. Thank you! Clover, you heard the rules. I know you rarely have accidents anymore, but let me know if you need to go out, okay?” Ranthia met her Bond’s eye, then nodded with a smile.

In those few seconds, their host had (somehow) climbed back up the rope to return to her own domain… using only her legs. Her hands continued to grip whatever book she was engrossed in. Logically, the woman probably had a mind Skill like [Submind]—or, more likely, Secundia’s [Split Mind]—that let her exist as (at least) two distinct entities. The effect was uncanny though, especially while the one that controlled the body was so heavily absorbed in her book.

Ranthia tried to put the strange elf out of her mind and refocused on finding a book for Clover. She had come to accept that she and her Bond had different tastes in stories. Clover had little interest in anything violent or overly dramatic and—worse—was prone to losing interest entirely if intimacy stepped much beyond intermittent hugs and handholding. Yet she could while away a day listening to dry nonsense like Ranthia’s best efforts to parse the complexities of the Medical Manuscript! But even if Clover was an adult in terms of physical development, she was still just a one-year-old (per Litil, give or take up to 3 months). She was a gargantuan bunny, with the mind of a child. …More or less.

Absent a better way to gauge Clover’s interests, Ranthia tried picking up randomly selected books from the shelves, opening them somewhere, and reading a bit out loud. If Clover seemed interested, she carried the book with her. If not, she returned it to the shelf.

Sunny lasted half an hour before she announced that she had an itch to start crafting a new project and made her escape. But Ranthia remained with her Bond, trying to amass a diverse collection of books to read. Even after the bulk of a year together, they still struggled to understand one another sometimes, and there was a stark difference between ‘a page or two sounded interesting’ and ‘the book would distract Clover from her obsession with the Medical Manuscripts.’ Surprisingly, some of the books meant for the youngest readers made the cut, while nothing in High Elvish did—which probably had more to do with Ranthia seldom using the language around Clover.

“Hey,” Ranthia called up after a couple of hours, carefully hefting the stack of books she had selected, “is it okay if I borrow thirty-two books? I’ll return them as we finish, of course!”

“Sure, sure! Just treat them well and don’t damage them. We will be displeased if you do, but so long as you’re good to our books, you will remain welcome here. Unless you make us add three new rules, of course. That’ll get you banned, but no hard feelings! Unless there are any, we guess.” The distracted response came several moments later.

Ranthia tried to keep her expectations in check as she made her way out, though she couldn’t help but feel optimistic. With thirty-two books to choose from, she was all but certain to—at the very least—get a well-deserved break from the Medical Manuscripts!

…She chose to believe she hadn’t jinxed herself.
