Had it all been settled? Damien had no idea. He'd stopped paying attention for a bit.

"We should start talking about how each of you is going to work on your magic," he said. "Damien's up first. Damien?"

Damien blinked, then stepped forward, more out of habit than anything else. He stood there awkwardly for a moment, unsure what to do.

"Question for the class," Cale said. "What's a mana aspect?"

That took him a moment. "The magical embodiment of a concept?"

"Close!" Cale grinned. "I mean, that's most of it, yes, but it's not the whole picture. Think about Leo's labyrinth aspect, for example—what does it mean to have a labyrinth aspect? What would a hypothetical [Labyrinth Bolt] do?"

Leo frowned slightly, not entirely happy with being used as an example but willing to go along with it. "Mana aspects exist at different levels of abstraction," he said. "Higher levels of abstraction tend to be more specific. Labyrinth mana embodies the ideas of navigation, redirection, entrapment; you could make a [Labyrinth Bolt] variant out of any of those, but the strongest spellforms would embody the concept fully."

"Good," Cale said approvingly. "Higher levels of abstraction also tend to be harder to attune, because they embody so many other concepts within them. That's not the problem Damien has, though."

Damien winced slightly. He'd been afraid of that. "What... um, what do you mean?"

"I mean that decay mana isn't really a high-abstraction aspect." Cale tapped the side of his nose knowingly. "It's not a low-abstraction aspect, either. You probably know this already—decay is one of the primordial aspects. That's the reason it can't be fully attuned."

"R-right." Damien hoped Cale wasn't about to tell him he would never be able to heal.

"So," Cale said. "How much do you know about decay?"

Damien blinked at him, thrown slightly off-balance by the question. "It... decays things?" he offered, wincing as he spoke. That wasn't a good answer. "It makes them rot."

"Sure, but what does decay represent?" Cale asked, leaning forward. "A primordial aspect represents a fundamental force. Decay is a lot more than just organic decay. When you do a partial attunement, you're reaching into one of the mechanisms that allow the Great Realms to run the way they do.

"You've spent most of your life thinking of decay as something destructive." Cale's voice became a little more gentle. "But it's much more than that. Even when it's rot, decay plays into the life cycle of every ecosystem. What would happen to a realm without decay, do you think?"

"It would be overwhelmed," Damien said quietly.

Cale nodded, then gave him a pat on the shoulder, where he was still wearing his Manamorphic Cloak. "You're afraid of your aspect," he said. "I understand why. But attunement relies on understanding, and if you don't fully understand your aspect, it's going to be very, very hard to attune it to anything else. Now, all that said..." Cale beamed. "Mind if I use a spell on your cloak?"

Damien blinked. "Um—a spell?" All of Cale's spells seemed incredibly destructive, so that seemed like a bad idea.

"[Identify Artifact]," Cale clarified. "I want to figure out the nuances of how the artifact works and see if there's a way for me to make it work with your needs."

"You're sure you won't destroy it?" Damien asked tentatively. [Identify Artifact] seemed harmless enough, but he'd also seen what Cale had managed to do with [Decay Bite], and he wasn't sure he was going to get that memory out of his head anytime soon.

"Mostly!" Cale paused. "I'll get you another one if I break it?"

"...Sure." As much as he hated to admit it, he wasn't making as much progress with the Manamorphic Cloak as he might have hoped. He couldn't help feeling nervous as he slipped it off his shoulders and handed it to Cale, though.

Akkau probably wouldn't be happy if Cale destroyed it.

"This should only take a moment," Cale said. He waved a hand over the cloak—

—there was a moment where Damien once again felt Cale bringing an incredible, dizzying force of mana to bear, though it lasted for only a second—

—and then suddenly the Manamorphic Cloak was shimmering. Damien stared, wide-eyed, at the clear sense of power it gave off.

"Weird one," Cale said, squinting at whatever message the Gift had sent him. "Something called [Awaken Artifact]. Comes with a lot of limitations, apparently? But it's tier twelve—"

Tier what.

"—and it lets me tune and awaken an artifact, allowing it to be used for spellcasting." Cale grinned. "Can't use it too often, and I probably shouldn't let Imrys know I have this, but this is cool. Wanna know what your new artifact does?"

Damien felt a bit mortified, in large part because he didn't know if he deserved something this valuable. An awakened artifact that could cast spells? If this got out to anyone else in the academy, he couldn't imagine what they might do to have it. Even Flia and Leo looked a bit jealous.

The other reason he felt a bit mortified was because he was actually kind of excited. He nodded slowly, and Cale fastened the cloak back over his shoulders in a grand, sweeping gesture.

"The good news is, this thing was amazing even before I awakened it," Cale said. "Akkau really pulled out all the stops for you. Attunement artifacts are rare, and ones that don't come with like thirty side effects are even rarer. This one didn't have any, so awakening it doesn't worsen them.

"When I awakened it, I gave it the ability to capture different aspects of mana." Cale was wearing a self-satisfied grin. "It's still going to help you attune, but now that's just the first step. The next step is its ability to split any mana you partially attune into decay mana and your attuned mana. It's going to store that separated mana for you and work as a sort of battery pack, which will let you cast both Standard Array and partial attunement spells when needed.

"Of course, you're going to need to bond with it." Cale gave Damien a slight nudge, and Damien jumped, mostly because he was still busy trying to process everything the cloak could now do. "Awakened artifacts get stronger the more they bond with their owners. You're also going to need to achieve a high base level of partial attunement before it's able to capture enough of your mana, but the good news is that once you've bonded enough, it'll handle any mana leakage problems you have. Better yet—" He leaned in to whisper. "It'll work at a distance, so you don't have to worry about people stealing it."

Damien stared at Cale, wide-eyed. He had no idea what to say. This was the sort of artifact that was legendary. Cale had just... what, made this thing in a few seconds? How did he even begin to thank him?

"You do still need to understand and accept decay mana to attune it enough for the cloak," Cale said, giving him a faux-severe stare. "Understand?"

Damien swallowed a bit. "R-right," he said. "I need to... understand and accept decay mana. I can, um... I can try to do that."

Easier said than done, though. He'd seen what decay mana was capable of, and while he knew he wanted to try, he wasn't sure if he could ever accept—

"Remember," Cale said, and his tone became a bit more gentle. "Decay is more than death."

Damien paused, then nodded tightly. Something about those words resonated with him. His mana had helped save that Abyssal in the Inverted Spires, hadn't it? He didn't need to let his past define him.

"Decay is more than death," Damien repeated, mostly to himself. He tugged the cloak tighter around his shoulders, focusing inward on the flow of decay, and tried a small attunement to fire.

And it felt, in just the smallest way, like his mana was moving with him rather than against him. It was the first time he'd ever felt that during an attunement. He glanced up, heart beating rapidly, but Cale was muttering to himself, a slight frown on his face.

"Funny thing is, I thought the Collapse meant artifacts couldn't be awakened anymore," he said, brow furrowed. Damien looked helplessly at the others—were they supposed to hear this? What was a Collapse? "Something's weird about Utelia. I don't get it."

Then, as if nothing happened, he turned his attention to Leo.

"Anyway," Cale said. He grinned in that very Cale sort of way, bordering on manic intensity. "Leo. How do you feel about building a second mana core?"

Leo blinked. "...What."
