The next obstacle is the short wall, standing at three and a half meters tall. No ropes here, but that’s no problem. Stopping at the base of the wall, I Lighten my body once more and concentrate on the timing, successfully Amplifying my jump on the first try. There are few things better than the hang time after vertically jumping twice your height, the euphoria sending me into a fit of giggles as I land neatly atop the wall. Scorning my achievement, Jimjam bounds over in a single leap, sitting prettily while the other animals climb over like mere mortal animals.

To Jimjam, this much is nothing. I’ve seen him parkour all over the mountain, leaping from tree to tree like a damn monkey. To be fair, the bears are nimble climbers too, though you wouldn’t know it by looking at them. You’d think a creature so butt-heavy would be terrible at climbing, but they zip up trees like over-sized squirrels, much to the chagrin of the actual, normal-sized squirrels.

Moving on, we zip across the balance beams and over the long jump, making good time through both. The wall traverse, window jumps, and pillar steps all present no challenge for my fluffies. Banjo and Baloo aren’t really built for vertical jumps, but soon it’s their time to shine as we move on to the heavy lifting. While I Reinforce and lift a lead-core log over my head, my pets have weighted sleds attached to thick ropes to pull with their mouths, though it took a lot of practice to get them to play along. My tanky bears power through this part but the wildcats aren’t built for sustained power, dragging the sleds behind them in jerky bursts of speed. After travelling a hundred metres with our heavy loads, I give the command ‘release’ and they all happily drop their ropes, enjoying the game as I’ve taught them to.

I’m enjoying myself too, but for different reasons. It’s great seeing all my hard work pay off as my fluffies build both strength, confidence, and obedience. Gone are the days when I have to keep a close eye on Aurie to make sure he doesn’t wander off or pay for food Jimjam steals from the market stalls. While I wouldn’t say my fluffies are domesticated, they’re so well-trained it’s almost the same.

At least until the hormones kick in.

After clearing the tall wall, a series of tunnels, a ramp jump, and a log climb, we finish our circuit with a celebratory lunch while I check my fluffies for injuries. With all the hard work I’ve put into training my pets, I now see just how amazing quins really are. Suret’s pups learned how to clear the obstacle course in a single run, running, leaping, and chirping happily the whole time, chasing one another through the course and dragging sleds around for fun. I stopped running it with them because there’s nothing worse than being judged by an oversized, bipedal otter for moving too slow.

Cuddling with my pets for a short break, I take in the scenic, mountain view of frosted forests and mountains, sighing in contentment. Things at the Wall have been quiet of late, as if time itself were frozen by winter’s chill. Who knows how long this calm will last? With things in the Southern Province equally uneventful, an uneasy peace has settled across the Empire, but only because we’ve no news of the West. Eventually, the Defiled hordes will grow bored of razing the West and come pouring into the Central Province in search of fresh bodies to maim. Tens of millions of murderous Defiled warriors charging across the open grasslands of Central, may the Mother have mercy on anyone in their path.

That’s not even all of it. The Imperial representative arrived at Sanshu two months ago and still has yet to pass judgment, so there’s still a chance the city will be Purged. Then there’s the Defiled horde which disappeared from outside our gates, which brings a slew of other worries. Are they still North of us, waiting for spring’s thaw before marching on the Wall once more? Or did we get lucky and they all froze to death?

I doubt it. Nothing is ever easy.

Either way, there’s nothing I can do except keep training, since matters to do with the grand scheme of things are way above my pay grade. All I can do is ensure my pets and soldiers are prepared for battle. Before heading down the mountain with Dastan for our daily sparring session, I watch my retinue running their drills, my chest swelling with pride at the sight of my warriors standing shoulder to shoulder in a shield wall, practising their maneuvers under Rustram’s supervision. I can see it now, my front line armed to the teeth with Spiritual spears and Runic shields, holding off the Defiled hordes like an immovable human fortress while the back line peppers the Enemy with bolts and arrows.

It’s nowhere close to a reality yet, but a man can dream.

Chapter Meme
