It would have been the perfect time for Stella to give a snappy response. But she’d obviously decided to let her spells speak for her, and beams of light struck with the crash of suddenly ionized air. The lasers broke against a sudden sphere of protective force. But the protective magic broke in turn when Stella unleashed the lightning down the paths her lasers had carved in the air.

The split second of pause had given Odrin time to impose his next defense, and layers of gemstone fabric caught the electricity and held under the onslaught. It did serve to cut the Questor off from view and speech, since he was trapped inside a coruscating sphere of lightning that lit the entire arena in strobing brilliance and rattled Nathan’s teeth with the noise.

Stella poured on the power for ten seconds, then fifteen. The shining fabric blackened beneath the lightning, and Nathan thought the defense had failed. He knew that she could keep up this assault nearly indefinitely, but that didn’t seem to be her plan. She was letting the capacitors drain, and the lightning tailed off all at once.

The fabric peeled away, revealing a slightly singed Odrin. The clothes close to his body retained their brilliant sparkle, but past a few feet, his ruffles were a charred mess. His expression was nasty. “A terrible torture…”

But Stella wasn’t done with her spells, and she hadn’t neglected the lightning spell for no reason. The nuke spell floated towards Odrin gently, like a bubble drifting in the wind.

He saw it and his eyes widened, his gaze going past the spell to Stella in disbelief. He opened his mouth to say something else, but didn’t have time before the spell detonated.

Nathan’s heart was in his throat as the crystal sphere was suddenly full of radience. At this distance, the light alone should have flash-burned every member of the audience, and no physically possible material should have been able to contain that detonation. But the magical material of the arena held, and it cut down the light from dangerous to merely bright.

But it still meant Stella was stuck inside that orb with the rebounding energy of her own magic. He didn’t know if she could survive that. But between one moment and the next, the energy was gone, and Stella was left floating exactly where she had been, looking semi-translucent.

She faded back into full visibility with a satisfied smile and addressed the empty spot where Odrin had stood a minute ago. “Your stage? Darling, you’re not even scenery.”

Permanent Talent 1: Magical Destruction 7

Permanent Talent 2: Immortal Body 9

Permanent Talent 3: Skystride 5

Class: End of Magic level 1281

Bottomless Stamina: 129100/129100

Indomitable

The Undeniable Strike of the Antimage

Stamina Burn

Momentum Mastery

Stoneflesh

Arcane Nullification

Galefoot

Close Quarters Mastery

Boundless Aura

Denial of Mysticism

The Ending of Magic

Aura Projection

Selective Dispel

The Living World

Class: Death of Legends level 897

Limitless Focus: 9070/9070

Legendary Blows

Out of Sight

Magical Mimicry

Antimemetic

The Hidden Strike

Nondetection

Mana Control

Lethality Prediction

Wizardly Immunity

Communication Countermeasures

Sorcerous Sabotage

Legendkiller

Bane of Myth

To the Ends of Davrar

Utility skills:

Perfected Mind 3

Inspiration 10

Impulse 8

The Sense of Magic 6

Forewarning 10

The Truth of Magic 7

Evasion 5

Wizard’s Palace 6

Veracity 4

Whiplash 5

Visibility Control 8

Blending 1

High-tier Battle Cry 7

Aura Mastery 6
