I watch as all of the zones below me light up in perfect clarity, down to their last mana particles.

There are only small blind spots in the Lower Realm, but even they are being closed up as the moments pass. They connect together at the same rate the final domains in the outer settlements swear their loyalty to me.

As ancient Imperial Demons are killed by Elites and Lower Class world system users, new powerful forces rise from seemingly out of nowhere, gaining tens of thousands of levels from a single kill.

Multiple Celestial Grade Fighters earn their own level 100 thousand rank-ups naturally, and each one of them that does is capable of holding more Primordial Aura in their minds and souls.

It becomes the strongest in the commanders and generals, as they are the only ones that fought against the real Outer Guard Demons.

However, every bit helps. Even those that do not battle the demons directly and only use this shared power to send coordinates, or just use it as processing power for the World Wide Connectivity system. This is because the Primordial Aura refinement is spread out through countless soul ties.

It is not just pure mental and soul power that fuels this refinement. I get the life experience and worldviews from an unfathomable amount of lifeforms. Their perspectives and ways of thinking about the aura that flows through them are all slightly different.

Even if it is just a hint of understanding that comes from somewhere I have not considered, the feeling and comprehension are echoed back through the soul ties that tether us together through the zones.

These strands of Primordial Aura are connected through the Rising Emperor's interface, only connecting to the links of loyalty I have. These invisible soul ties morph into the Total Isolation barrier and are consumed as pure, warm Advanced Primordial Aura comprehension.

It is nowhere near as fast and accurate as my own, and Maria's comprehension rate while looking at the battle that rages on above us. However, it does fill in gaps that we did not even know existed.

It makes all of the aura we consolidate firm and stable, with no possible cracks or impurities. Every single possible flaw has been evened out by over one hundred quintillion individual minds with unique perspectives.

"Just give up! What nonsense are you spouting? You believe humans can kill me? An anomaly forged in the purest ether our system has ever produced? The seal will be set any minute now. They do not possibly have the time to use the key. I will keep my aura pouring out at full power and kill them the moment you die and that artifact protecting them goes with it!" Marcellus yells while slashing through Ember's flesh with two daggers at the same time.

He roars back and badly burns the Demon's left arm. However, Marcellus doesn't care at all. Since he realized his healing time is many times faster than Ember's, he has been far more reckless with his attacks.

The Imperial Family Head laughs loudly, almost drowning out Ember's reply. "Don't you find it strange, how I never arrived back in the Primordial Garden until you activated the seal?"

The Demon's eyes grow sharp, and Ember grins wider while blocking a flurry of attacks.

Every ten or twenty, there is an angle he is too slow to turn, and another chaotic wound is added to his body.

Yet, the flashing white lights behind his eyes grow brighter, and Marcellus begins to realize the rhythm is not random.

"You... you... connected your immortal core to the seal. If I were to break it here, the seal would shatter too. But you would never return... All I would have to do is create another, and the only threat in this system would be eliminated. Why would you be so careless to do such a thing?" he replies back in a terrified tone, but it is soon drowned out in his own laughter as he yells again and stabs both blades into Ember's flesh. He takes the full force of his white flames against his face without any care.

Flesh is ripped off, and the glyphs on his horns grow more dull as they're burned; but the damage he's causing Ember's internal organs is equal, pouring chaotic aura into his body.

The horrific spectate feed from Ember links to my mind in this moment, and I too feel every surge of agony that these orange and blue waves of Advanced Primordial Aura cause.

It's instantly bounced through Maria and my shared consciousness in this state, and shatters another mental bottleneck.

We process it with ease. All of the inconsistencies are smoothed out by a collective subconscious pouring up from the Lower Realm.

Ember grits his teeth and manages to break away from the deadly collision they were just locked in, and yells back, "You believe it is careless, but I see it as the only chance I had left. There is a new Emperor in this system, but I refuse to believe it is the current Overseer. It is not feasible for an entity like him to rule. If you have seen the pasts that I have, you would know this truth too. You are stuck in your delusions of artificial immortality. To truly live, one must be prepared to die!"

Marcellus has already begun to heal.

The parts of his face burned off grow back, and the glyphs on his horns become vibrant again. It only takes another few dozen clashes for him to be as full of vitality as the start of the battle.

Ember's Advanced Primordial Aura does not change. His will is solid, serene, and immovable. There are no fluctuations at all, even his eyes stay sharp and determined, as though he's winning the battle.

However, internally, I can feel that his physical body is being torn to shreds.

There is something missing, not allowing him to heal entirely. He is not using his full true dragon form, and I'm not sure why.

My first thought is that doing so would not give my consciousness enough time to perceive the lower-grade abilities and weaknesses of his current form. My second thought is, maybe he can't. Maybe just like the seal on my soul, sword, and system, there is something holding him back from using all of his power.

This realization pushes my comprehension even further.

I start to rationalize the thoughts that the battle above me is actually not the pinnacle of power in the Purple Zone. Following this mental track, looking even deeper and higher, instead of trying to comprehend just the energy in front of me, it deepens my comprehension even further.

All of the subconscious minds follow suit and begin filling in the gaps like living glue.

Instantly, thick auras begin to manifest around the outside of our souls, just below the Total Isolation barrier. Where our arms and legs touch in this sitting position, the Auras fuse, but there is a clear color separation in the center.

Mine is dark black and red, with a cool white stream in its center. It flashes with metallic colors, and flows with a soothing, warm, inviting feeling from one angle, but a violent and all-consuming abyss from another. Maria's is icy cold and looks almost pure white, yet in its flowing ripples, it turns a blinding bright blue. When the blue becomes intense enough, it flickers with a rainbow hue that is so sharp, even looking at it feels like an attack.

All of these colors are completely invisible, but also blinding and pouring into the consciousness of anyone that looks its way all at once.

They are volatile and changing. This Advanced Primordial Aura is becoming thicker, denser, and evolves more and more every passing moment.

The instant it's summoned into physical existence, our progress skyrockets by thousands of times. The Primordial Aura strength gap is no longer an unfathomable cliff to jump across. By looking at the clash of Advanced Primordial Auras from high above, now I can finally see the path to matching its strength.
