Piety rode the mild mannered dun gelding easily, but not smoothly. She knew she was riding a horse, she knew she’d been strapped to the saddle after the third time she’d fallen off, but she only barely felt the gait of the horse, tasted the dirt kicked up by their passage. Piety was turned inward, passing the time in the room in her mind. She sat at the desk in her mindspace, reading a book she hadn’t put there. The book was bound in leather dyed black, and it detailed, in word and gruesome diagram, the nature of the undead. The book credited no author and claimed no title.

In Sunslance, Devorah Kempenny had claimed that she’d created a new undead, but there hadn’t been time for details. Father Shane had talked about zombies and liches, but again, there hadn’t been time for details. Since deciding to hunt the vhamps, Piety had become an expert in Devorah’s homebrewed undead. She understood their physical capabilities and weaknesses. She understood their bloodlust was a drive for survival. She understood they had no capacity for complex thought. And, most recently, she had learned they were changing. Why, how, or into what, she had no idea.

So she read the black-bound tome detailing the undead in hopes of gaining some insight. The tome had no entry on vhamps, but covered a wide variety of other creatures classified as undead.

Zombies were more mindless than vhamps with no motivation for self-preservation beyond acquisition of food—living flesh.

Ghosts were the psychic echoes of the dead and existed based upon the attention and memories of others. Ghosts tended to fade away if ignored or forgotten except in circumstances where they gained full awareness and autonomy. Ghosts tended to not be the same person in undeath that they had been in life but rather a version that amplified their most dominate and dramatic traits.

Liches were those with powers who had extended their lives past death with magic. Their bodies became desiccated and withered, but their minds stayed sharp, the dichotomous counterpoint to zombies. The lich’s advantage lay in an increase in powers after death.

The book went on at length about ghouls and banshees, ghasts and revenants, wraiths and specters; it detailed their habits, powers, and weaknesses, and they all had one thing in common; the undead had a taste for the living. Whether it was flesh, memories, or magical power, the undead wanted it, and eventually it became their primary motivation.

Not that the information helped much. Piety had hoped that in reading about other forms of undead, she might be able to figure out what was happening with the vhamps and how better to eliminate them. So far, nothing had seemed relevant.

Piety leaned back in her chair and took a deep breath that popped her back. She rubbed at her aching eyes. She placed the black ribbon set into the book’s binding at the page where she’d left off and returned the book to the shelf.

Automatically, she looked at the chessboard. The board remained as it had for months. Since the battle at Upton Port she hadn’t felt in the mood for games.

This time, however, there was a slip of paper on the board, held down by the white royal. Lifting the piece, she retrieved the note.

White,

Still there?

-Black

Piety looked around; the room was empty but for her.

She went back to the desk and retrieved the ink and quill. She scrawled a quick note on the back of the same piece of paper.

Black,

Still here.

What is your name?

-White

She placed the note under the black royal.

When Piety pulled herself back into her body, night was falling. Temperance rode to her left and Tobias rode ahead of her. She took a deep breath and straightened her back. It was a bit unfair, she thought, to suffer the aches of poor posture both in her corporeal body and in her mindspace. She began unbuckling the straps holding her onto the saddle, which alerted Temperance to her presence.

“You’re back,” Temperance said. “Learn anything useful?”

Piety rubbed at her tingling thighs. “There’s a creature called an organ thief. It’s a kind of zombie that sneaks up on someone in the night, slices open their back and slips into their body. Then it eats the person from the inside out. Most interesting, it eats the person’s brain first and sort of takes over the body, pretending to be the person it’s eating. It takes the creature several days to completely feed and, sometimes, it can go completely undetected.”

Temperance slapped Piety’s shoulder. “That’s disgusting.”

Piety put a hand to her shoulder, shocked. “Ow,” she protested.

“That… that’s just horrible. I’m not going to be able to sleep tonight. Why did you tell me that?”

“You asked.” Piety rubbed at her shoulder. “That hurt, Temperance.”

Temperance’s expression softened. “Sorry. I’m just… That really is horrifying, Piety. Sorry.”

Piety shrugged. “Sorry.”

Further discussion was forestalled by Tobias who glanced over his shoulder and said, “We’re here.” He pointed to lights on the darkening horizon.

“Where’s here?” Piety asked.

“A farm. The only cleric we’ve confirmed to have survived sent her last report from this farm.”

“There was a survivor?” Piety asked. “I thought they all died.”

“All but one.”

Piety didn’t press the issue. Tobias, she didn’t know his last name, was a man of few words. He spoke to them only when he had to or if directly addressed, and he always referred to them as “mother”, which was awkward.

They approached a large farmhouse, hidden in the shadows of approaching night. Children came forward to take their horses. Clearly, they were expected. Tobias spoke with a man at the front door while Piety and Temperance unloaded their bags from their horses. When she approached, Piety recognized him.

“Rauf Kaver.”

The large Rauf bowed. “Mother.”

“Rauf, we’ve met, a little over two years ago. Temperance and I and… and Father Vytal, we helped Catherine Smith with the birth of her baby.”

“By the Holy Saints,” Rauf said as she took a step toward him and into the light from the farmhouse, He smiled and bowed formally. “You’ve grown, Mother.”

They were shown to the dining hall where people gathered, visiting before dinner. The hall was as she remembered it: large enough for two long tables and filled with people, a tall ceiling swallowed the sound of all those people talking, turning it to a muted babble. Rauf Kaver led them to the head of one of those tables where he insisted Piety and Temperance take the place of honor. Rauf took the place to their left and Tobias sat to their right.

Dinner, too, was as she remembered it: a wealth in quantity and variety of food. The smell of roast turkey and boiled potatoes, of mulled cider and well-aged cheese filled her with a sense of comfort. In the years since leaving Sacred Heart, Piety had been well-fed. Even on the battlefront at Pinefort she had not gone hungry, though the food had been basic. But dinner at Rauf Kaver’s had been the first time she’d been presented with a wealth of good foods and been allowed as much of it as she wanted, and the memory reminded her how thankful she’d been for Father Vytal’s intervention; it reminded her that it was Rauf Kaver’s brand of hospitality she wanted to protect in this world.

Once dinner was served, Rauf stood and silence soon followed.

“My dear friends,” he addressed them, “tonight we have amongst us an honored guest. Stories travel fast, and I’m sure you’ve heard of her by the name for which she has become known: the Light Cleric. She is a war hero and a hunter of demons, and even if only half the stories are true, she has saved hundreds of lives. But she first came to this hall a little girl called Piety and helped birth Hannah Smith during a snow storm.”

Piety’s eyes went wide and a flush crept to her neck and cheeks. She had not expected this. Everyone looked at her. She grabbed for Temperance on her left and felt her friend’s hand there and ready. Temperance gave her a reassuring squeeze.

“Mother?” Rauf Kaver turned to address her. “Would you lead us in prayer this evening?”

Piety nodded automatically, but it took a nudge from Temperance to make her stand as Rauf sat. She looked at Temperance who grinned at her.

“I don’t know what to say,” Piety spoke silently and desperately into Temperance’s mind.

“Me neither, but keep it short. I’m hungry.”

Temperance let go of Piety’s hand, and Piety looked out at the people of Rauf Kaver’s farm as they bowed their heads and closed their eyes, and she still had no idea what to say. The Mother’s dinnertime prayers had always been long rants disguised as sermons and the prayers before dinner at the High Temple had been formal and ritualized. But then she remembered when Father Vytal had been asked by the same man to perform the same service. Temperance was right, these people would appreciate a simple and honest prayer.

“Love be unto God, as His love be unto us and the memory of those lost in these difficult times. We thank Him for His love and His guidance. We remember the lessons of His Saints: tolerance, hospitality, and kindness. We remember His gift, the opportunity to bring joy to this world. So be it truth.”

Piety sat amid a chorus of murmured “So be it truth.”

“Very pretty,” Temperance said quietly, and Piety smiled at her.

When dinner was done, Piety touched Rauf’s shoulder gently. “Sir, there is a sister here?”

Rauf nodded. “Yes, Mother. She is… ill and doesn’t come to dinner. I’ll show you to her if you like?”

Rauf Kaver had taken in the sister as he took in all wanderers who asked for a place to stay. Her illness had prompted him to house her in his own home where his wife and children could help tend her. On the second story of the farmhouse, Piety, Temperance, and Tobias waited patiently outside a small bedroom while Rauf knocked lightly at the door. The door opened and a short, stout woman slipped into the hall. Rauf smiled and the woman graced him with a small kiss.

“Maggie, these folks need to talk with the sister.”

Maggie frowned. “She’s unhappy tonight. Could it wait until morning?”

“I’m sorry, ma’am,” said Piety. “I need to speak with her now.”

“Maggie, this is Piety.”

Maggie Rauf regarded Piety, then Temperance. “I remember you two. You’ve filled out well.” Piety smiled and waited, and eventually Maggie spoke again. “Just be gentle with her. Whatever she saw, it wasn’t pleasant.” She opened the door.

Tobias stepped into the room and took position by the door, one hand resting lightly on his sword hilt. Piety and Temperance followed. It was a small bedroom, big enough for a narrow bed, chest of drawers, and a small chair. A woman sat in the chair, staring out the window at the gibbous moon. She wore a shawl about her shoulders and her hair shone silvery in the moonlight. Piety looked at Temperance who shrugged.

Piety swallowed and spoke. “Sister?”

The woman did not respond.

Piety approached the woman carefully and Temperance came with her. Mrs. Kaver had said that the sister was unhappy and Piety didn’t want to upset her further.

Temperance tried next. “Sister? We’re sorry to bother you, but we’ve been sent by Royal Isabel Loreamer to investigate the report of undead activity in this area. You were a part of the previous investigation, weren’t you?”

Still, no response.

Piety approached slowly to stand at the woman’s left shoulder, Temperance at her side. The two exchanged glances again. Piety took a breath.

“Sister, my name is Piety Churchstep. The Royal sent me because I’ve begun to… achieve a bit of a reputation. Some people call me the Light Cleric. If I’m going to hunt the vhamps in this region, I need to know what you know. Won’t you help me do that?”

“What did you say?” The woman’s voice was thin, almost a whisper. She shifted slowly and looked at them. Her face was lined with age and dark circles cupped her eyes, but held a familiarity Piety could not place. Thin-fingered hands clutched the shawl. She looked sunken, as though if the shawl were lifted away, they would find nothing underneath but chair.

“I said, Royal Loreamer sent us—“

“I know who sent you. What is your name?

Piety knelt so that she could look into the woman’s eyes. “My name is Piety Churchstep.”

“Piety.” The woman smiled. “She told me you had died. Serendipity that we should meet again so close to Sacred Heart.”

And Piety remembered from where she recognized the face.

“Sister Sheliah.” Piety bowed.

Sister Sheliah’s eyes widened with surprise. “You remember me? We met for five minutes, ten years ago and you remember me?”

Piety nodded. “You wished me a happy birthday, introduced me to Temperance, and kept the Mother from killing me. And you smiled at me. That was the first time anyone smiled at me. Of course I remember you.”

Sister Sheliah smiled, but it wasn’t the same; it was sad. “I’d never seen her so angry as when you started to glow. She was always bitter that she wasn’t gifted with powers. To see them in an orphan with such an obvious difference… She was never kind, but that night sent her over the edge. She tried to tell us all that it hadn’t happened, that you hadn’t really glowed. It was my job, as Mistress of Orphans to report to the High Temple about your abilities, but she forbade it.”

She looked behind Piety at Temperance.

Temperance folded her hands at her waist and bowed. “Sister,” she said.

“You’re still taking care of her,” said Sister Sheliah.

Temperance nodded. “Yes, Sister.”

“Good. Thank you.” She looked at Piety again. “I’m sorry I didn’t stay. She made me leave.”

“I know.”

Tears made quick, silent rivulets down the lines of Sister Sheliah’s face. She showed no other sign of her grief, no shaking shoulder or quivering lip, just the silent tears.

“It was my job to protect you,” she said.

“You did,” Piety said. “You didn’t let her kill me that night.” She looked over her shoulder at Temperance.

Temperance knelt beside Piety. “She’s right. I saw it. We all saw it. The Mother had gone mad and she just kept kicking Piety. You stood up and made her stop. You got between them even though she screamed at you and hit you.”

Sister Sheliah did not respond, she only gazed at the two of them and cried her quiet tears.

When Piety’s knees began to ache, she said, “Sister, I’m sorry, but we need to talk about what you found in Appledel, about the vhamps.”

The look of terror was brief, but visible. Then Sister Sheliah swallowed hard, took a breath and said, “Yes, of course. Mrs. Kaver told me there was a pair of Mothers here I was to speak with. Go ahead and show them in.”

