Piety blushed. “Ah, Sister? We are they.”

Sister Shelia stood and Piety and Temperance stood as well, shoulder to shoulder.

Facing away from the window, the sister’s face was in shadow, her expression invisible. “You?” She sounded incensed.

Temperance nodded and Piety said, “Yes.”

“But you’re too young. They sent children to face such a threat?” Sister Sheliah crossed her arms angrily. “What are the fools thinking?”

“What threat, exactly?” Piety tried.

But Sister Shelia shook her head. “No. I won’t tell you. It was my job to protect you and I will not fail this time.” She turned back to the window and sat.

Piety was taken aback. She had expected the sister they encountered to perhaps be unwilling to discuss events out of fear, but not this. She had not expected Sister Sheliah, and she had not expected her to try to protect them. She looked at Temperance who looked equally nonplussed and then over her shoulder at Tobias. Tobias’ face remained impassive but he gave a small shrug.

Piety sighed. “I’m sorry we bothered you, Sister. We’ll be leaving in the morning. If you change your mind before then, let us know.”

She turned to leave and Temperance followed her. Tobias opened the door and stepped into the hall, looking up and down its length.

“Leaving for where?” Sister Shelia demanded. Cloth rustled in the dark room as she shifted.

Without pause in her stride, Piety said, “Appledel.”

Tobias stood in the hall now, back to the far wall, hands at his side, stance loose but not relaxed. He reminded Piety of a green tree branch drawn from its resting point, tensed, ready to snap to action, but momentarily still.

“You can’t go there,” said Sister Sheliah. “It’s become dangerous.”

Temperance hesitated, but Piety took her hand. “Keep walking,” she said mentally.

“She’s worried, Piety.”

“She should be.”

Temperance expressed understanding without words and they continued to the door.

“They killed two Swords of the Church. You’re only girls. How can you stop them?”

“Stop who?” Piety asked. She stopped walking but did not turn around and did not release Temperance’s hand. She remembered Sister Sheliah as a kind smile and a warm hand, but she’d still been a sister of Sacred Heart and defying a sister of Sacred Heart rekindled a fear she’d thought buried over a year ago. Holding Temperance’s hand helped keep her resolve.

Sister Sheliah did not respond.

Piety blinked and focused and drew upon her power. It was easy to do so. She sent her senses to the sister, and whispered in her mind. “I am a telekinetic, I can hold without touching; I am a photokinetic, I can create light that blinds; I am a telepath, I could take the information forcefully from your mind.” As she spoke, she showed the sister images of her most recent fight with a vhamp.

Sister Sheliah gasped. Piety turned to see the sister leaning heavily on the wall, a hand to her chest, her breathing labored. She looked frightened.

“I’m sorry Sister Sheliah,” Piety said aloud, “but you cannot protect me anymore. Help us or don’t, we’re going to Appledel tomorrow.”

They were in the hall before Sister Sheliah spoke again. “Wait.”

Piety turned to look at her again.

“If you can just take the information, why not do so?”

“What?”

“If you’re powerful enough to take it, why not?”

Piety frowned. “Because I have no taste for abuse.”

Sheliah took a step away from the wall and held out a hand, entreating. “Please? It would be easier for me.”

Piety hesitated. Temperance squeezed her hand.

“You could do it,” Temperance thought at her. “You did it for me.”

Piety nodded. “I could do that, if you would prefer it so.”

Sheliah nodded and the relief was plain on her face, even in the shadows.

Piety sensed the vhamps only moments before they crashed through the window. There were two of them, one right after the other. The first slammed into the chair Sheliah had sat in only minutes before, dashing it to splinters, shredding its upholstery, and knocking the stuffing from it. She could feel their hunger, their bloodlust, but on top of that, Piety sensed excitement, anticipation for the coming conflict, something she’d never sensed in a vhamp before.

The vhamps tumbled to their feet with unnatural grace and speed. In the shadows of the room lighted only from dim lamps in the adjacent hallway and a fat gibbous moon, amid the rubble of broken window and chair, they were a vision of beauty. Smooth, pale skin; flowing, white hair; well-sculpted faces; they were dressed as richly as nobles in voluminous silk shirts under soft leather vests, linen breeches, and leather boots, though their clothes ran to black and white, as though attending a funeral. Their eyes glowed crimson. They were different from the emaciated, rag-clad horrors she knew.

They reminded her of Frederick Vahramp.

Piety was readying her defense before she felt them prepare to strike, like feeling the rumble of thunder before hearing it, tasting the fall of rain before seeing it. Her mind was quicker than their bodies, despite their unnatural speed. When they sprang, she had a firm wall of force between her and them. But they did not leap at her, they leapt at Sister Sheliah, who still stood beside the shattered window, trying to make sense of the sudden sound and chaos, who was just now beginning to scream.

Fingers became elongated claws, gleaming black in the little light, they tore at Sheliah: throat, belly, thighs. Piety sensed her death, felt her consciousness shocked from her body by violence, and she was gone.

Piety pulled at her power and cast it about the room, like snapping dust from a bed sheet laid dormant too long. Blinding light filled the room bringing a cacophony of screams, physical and mental. But the creatures did not burst into flame. She could feel their panic, she knew they were in pain and would soon burn if they did not flee.

One of them lunged for the door but was met by Tobias whose naked sword drove through its chest. The vhamp clutched at the sword, then raked at Tobias with its claws, but Tobias had scored a heart-thrust and the undead creature’s strength drained rapidly, like the blood from its chest. Tobias steadied himself, withdrew his saber and brought it around in a horizontal strike that took off its head.

The other stumbled around the room. Falling to its knees it gazed up at Piety, tears of crimson streaking its beautiful face. In a high, feminine voice of cultured diction, it said, “Mercy, Holy One, mercy, please, please…”

Piety looked into the woman’s dim, red eyes and saw true penitence, fear, and pleading. She saw sincerity. She saw that this vhamp, this woman, had meant no harm and had been tricked into coming to this place and attacking Sheliah. This woman was not at fault. Piety knew she must show mercy.

Slowly, carefully, Piety relaxed, and the light in the room dimmed. The vhamp woman’s eyes regained their healthy glow and she smiled at Piety, showing off elongated canines that ended in sharp points.

“Piety?” Temperance put a hand on Piety’s shoulder.

With a shudder and a gasp, Piety broke eye contact with the creature and the charm shattered. The creature screamed and leapt, claws outstretched. Temperance pulled at Piety’s shoulder and the claws caught only a glancing blow along her shoulder sending blood down her arm and across the floor.

Tobias slammed into the vhamp bodily, matching its speed and sending it sliding across the floor. It slid to its feet with a grace that defied reality, but Tobias was already following up the attack, moving faster with his sword than Piety had ever seen, faster even then Jack Shane, Sword of the Church. His saber slid through its chest like it was water and pinned it to the wall. The creature coughed, a wet raggedy sound that spilled blood over its chin and stained its silk shirt.

“It’s a telepath,” Piety said. “It had persuaded me to spare it.”

“How?” Temperance asked.

And Piety wondered the same. She wondered how it had gotten around her mental shield and the vhamp’s thought came to her: the eyes. This undead creature enhanced its telepathic persuasion by meeting the eyes of its victims, allowing it to slide through mental shields.

Tobias waited until it stopped clawing at the sword blade, stopped writhing, stopped gasping. Piety felt its mind still, not dead, but not functioning either. Temperance looked away as Tobias withdrew the sword. The creature slumped forward, and Tobias took its head off with a swipe too fast to follow.

“You’re very fast, Tobias.”

The bodyguard cleaned his sword and sheathed it. “You’re not the only one with powers, Mother.”

Piety turned her attention to the torn body of Sheliah. She knew Sheliah was dead, she’d felt it happen, but she couldn’t help but stretch her healing senses to the woman who had once saved her life.

“Piety, you’re bleeding,” said Temperance with a gentle hand on her shoulder. “I’m sorry, but she’s dead, and you must tend yourself.”

Piety nodded and absentmindedly summoned her healing power. She felt her shoulder itch as it mended the damage the vhamp’s claws had done. But as she did so, she felt something tugging at her mind, desperately vying for her attention.

“Temperance, I’m going to… I’m going to lie down now.” And she lay upon the floor, over Temperance’s objections, and closed her eyes.

She opened her eyes on the familiar setting of her mindspace. To her left, the wall opposite the desk was gone, replaced by the now familiar starry cosmos. Standing at the lip of the cosmos was Sister Sheliah, staring into the infinite abyss.

“Sheliah?”

The woman turned, confused. “What is this?” she demanded. “Who are you?”

Piety swallowed, throat dry. Sister Sheliah was dead, she knew that, yet here the woman stood, in the space in her mind. Some of her lingered in the world of the living and, according to Piety’s recent readings, this was the bailiwick of necromancers and had the potential for undeath.

Piety spoke carefully, uncertain what to do. “You need to go now.”

Sister Sheliah turned back to the cosmos and sighed, a look of contentment to her features, the set of her shoulders. “Out there?” she asked.

“Yes, out there.” Piety had no idea what was out there for the manifestation of a dead person. She didn’t know how Sheliah had appeared here, if she was a ghost as described in the black-bound book or, perhaps, a soul as described in the Scriptures.

“What’s out there?”

“I don’t know.”

“Why not?”

“It’s not my time to know. You need to go now, Sheliah.”

Sister Sheliah nodded but hesitated. “There was something I was supposed to do before I left. Something important.”

“It doesn’t matter now.”

Sister Sheliah faced Piety. It wasn’t that she turned away from the cosmos, but that one moment she was facing the cosmos and the next facing Piety. She fixed Piety with a stern glare. “It does. You wanted to know what I saw in Appledel, and it’s important that I tell you. I am Sister Ruth Sheliah and it’s important I tell you.”

Piety nodded slowly. “All right.”

“Stanley and Garret were brothers. They were tall men, thin and getting on in years, but strong and clever. They were Swords of the Church experienced in hunting undead. I was their support, I maintained supplies and cooked and rented rooms at inns so that they could focus on the hunt. But at Appledel…” She shook her head and fell silent.

Piety waited. Sister Sheliah was dead, but also, somehow, here in Piety’s mindspace, and Piety was afraid that if she pressed her, or upset her, that something horrible might happen.

“People were disappearing off the streets at night, some were taken from their homes. No one ever saw what took them, they just disappeared. People started fleeing. Packing up what they could and leaving. Half the people are gone. Everyone lives near the church now. Mother Superior has set herself up as a bastion against the evil creatures. She’s gone a bit mad… I think she’s involved somehow.”

Sister Sheliah took a long, slow breath and turned back to the cosmos, this time actually turning her body.

“The brothers said there was a concentration of vhamps in the mountains, west of Appledel, that they weren’t the starving wretches created by General Vahramp. They went to investigate and didn’t come back. I stayed at Sacred Heart. There was an attack and… and I fled.” She cried, hiding her face in her hands.

Piety approached slowly, but Sheliah took no notice until she put her hand gently on the woman’s shoulder. It felt solid.

“You need to go on now,” Piety said softly.

“No,” Sheliah said through broken tears, “I have to tell her something. It’s important that she knows… and I… my name is… and I can’t remember.”

“You already have,” Piety assured her. “She knows and she’s grateful you told her.”

Sheliah took her hands away from her face and looked into the cosmos again. “What’s out there?”

Piety began to reassert she didn’t know, but hesitated and considered. “Peace.”

Sister Sheliah sighed. “I’m afraid.”

“I know.”

“Will you come with me?”

Again, Piety hesitated. She had stepped into the abyss before and it had taken Temperance to bring her back. Piety wasn’t certain she could come back on her own.

“I can’t go by myself,” Sheliah said desperately, clutching at Piety’s hand.

“All right, it’s all right. I’ll go with you.”

Piety took Sister Sheliah’s hand, and together, they stepped from the stone floor of the mindspace into the great nothingness beyond.

“Oh God, it’s so bright.” Sheliah’s whisper shivered through the nothingness and a gust of air ruffled Piety’s hair. Piety felt Sheliah’s consciousness untighten as it receded, like a knot coming undone, and then it was gone, as though it had never been, and Piety was alone in the cosmos.
