“You didn’t have to,” Pacore smiles and starts stroking his beard again. "The more I talk to you, the more interesting you become. I'm almost tempted to drag you back to Scholl now and let someone else take over."

I glare at the old man. He knows I don't want to leave yet, and he still makes jokes like that! Who does that? I'm briefly reminded how master compared me to Pacore yesterday, and I feel my face start to heat up. Master is getting a bucket of water to his face the next time I see him.

"No need to fret," Pacore mistakes my red face for anger. "I was merely joking. This war is too important for our people to leave to anybody else."

Since he brought it up, I’ve been curious, "why is Scholl invading Olebert?" I ask the million gold question.

I’m surprised when a sad look befalls Pacore. “You said you faced something scarier than me, was that right?”

"Yeah," Pacore's sudden mood change and question threw me off my game, and I answered without thinking.

“Tell me, how did you survive?”

The small hairs on my arms stand on end when I think back on the day I faced the soul eater. Do I tell Pacore I don't want to answer him? I don't want to get into the details of my fight, and I definitely don’t want to tell him what I got for slaying the beast.

Pacore's eyes tell me he won't drop the conversation without an answer, so I plan out what I'm about to tell him in my head so I don't reveal too much information without lying. "The monster I encountered was slow and weak for its level; it was only thanks to that, I survived." I don't mention that I actually killed the beast, and technically I'm not lying about it being weak. For the soul eater's level, it had horrible Endurance and could only move when I looked away from it.

“I see, I guess you’re lucky then,” Pacore gives me an encouraging smile, but a blind man could see the pain hidden behind it. "Scholl didn't have your luck. A water dragon took up residence in the Heart of Scholl; that's our largest body of freshwater. Our ability to produce food has drastically been reduced. If we fail in this invasion, countless people will die."

An actual dragon, fuck me! I could only imagine what a dragon in this world be like, and it has to be ridiculously strong if Scholl decided invading another country would be easier than killing it.

Well, now what do I do? It was easy to blame Scholl for everything considering they were the ones invading, but now that I see where they’re coming from, I actually feel a little bad for them. I’m curious about the dragon, wondering if it’s as strong as I think it is, but the sad old man sitting across from me looks to be in no mood to discuss the beast.

"I think that is enough for now," Pacore slowly stands up. I have to stop myself from asking more questions and keeping him here longer. Pacore notices my strained expression, and a small smile reappears on his face. "I'll send word for my apprentice as soon as I'm back in Drey. In two weeks, you should be able to ask her any more questions you might have."

Damn it, I should be complaining about Pacore assigning me a babysitter, but I’ve started to feel bad for him.

What am I thinking!? Yes, Scholl's situation is sad, but Pacore is still basically abducting me from my home. His problems don't have anything to do with him forcing me to become his apprentice; that's all on him.

I harden my heart and cross my arms. "And where is she supposed to stay?"

Pacore’s usual annoying smile fully returns as he moves to leave the room. “She’s your senior apprentice, so I’ll leave her living accommodations up to you.”

“You want me to house her!?”

"Thanks for offering," Pacore opens the door leading to Camden's hallway and leaves me behind before I can object.

"That wasn't me agreeing!" I shout, rushing after Pacore.

Pacore stops at Camden’s front door. “I’m sure the two of you will get along splendidly. I’ll send a message soon to keep in touch with you.”

Pacore's smooth-talking leaves me stunned as he walks out of Camden's house like he owns the place. When the door shuts behind him, I'm left alone in Camden's entryway. "Screw Scholl, and screw Pacore," I growl to myself. The next time I see him, I'm ripping that beard out with my bare hands. I stomp my foot in frustration, and I hear the stone fracture under my heel.

“Aaliyah, dear, are you ok?” I twirl around to find Camden and Sarette standing together at the opposite end of the hall with worried expressions.

Taking a deep breath in through my nose, I steady my emotions. "I'm fine," I try to reassure them. "The negotiations are finished, and Pacore is leaving."

“Are you leaving with him?” Camden hesitantly asks.

I shake my head, no. "He's leaving me here now, but I don't know for how long. Pacore said he'd send one of his apprentices to oversee me in a few weeks, though."

Camden looks happy hearing I'm not leaving the village right away but frowns hearing we'll have to host another important individual from Scholl.

"You're staying; that's great news!" Sarette chooses to focus on the positive. She moves down the hallway and wraps me in a hug, which I'll admit makes me feel a little better.

“I’m sorry I cracked your floor,” I mumble after we separate.

"It's fine; I'll have your brother fix it later," Sarette waves off my apology. "You should head home and see your family. I'm sure they'll be happy to hear the good news as well."

I'm not so sure they'll share the same optimism as Sarette, but she's right; I should go tell Mom and Dad about my meeting with Pacore. I should hurry too; I still have one more meeting today after I check in with my parents.

"Thanks, Mrs. Downs," I hold Sarette's hands, thanking her for reminding me where my priorities should be.

“Not a problem, sweety. Hurry along, don’t keep your mother waiting any longer than she needs to.”

“I won’t,” I tell her as I push open her front door.

I don't see Pacore around; hopefully, he's already back in his camp, readying to leave. The next time I see him, it will be too soon.

Rushing home, I think over everything I need to discuss with my parents. I hope I'll have enough time for my business call later.

**********

Giovanni Turrini’s Point of View:

“How are things moving, Marshall?” I ask my right-hand man.

"Things are going well, Boss. Earl Vagan sent over another order of wine while the soldiers stationed in the city are putting more and more coin in our pockets."

“Didn’t we just send a delivery of wine to the Earl last week?” I ask.

“We did,” Marshall reminds me. “I guess the rumors of the Earl drinking himself to death are true.”

Groaning in frustration, I massage my temples. After the Earl declared Scholl is not to get past Blaiton under any circumstances and appointed Lord Rayes in charge of leading the defense, the Earl has been oddly silent of late.

Lord Rayes is the governor of Blaiton, and he has an invested interest in saving the city, but a military mastermind he is not. Every day rumors spread of the other nobility second-guessing Lord Rayes' orders, particularly that swine that fled Drey.

The city is packed with soldiers, and more people are conscripted each day. It's only thanks to my friendship with Lord Rayes and his family that I've managed to spare my men the same fate. When the soldiers are given leave time, they crowd the local bars and openly complain about receiving conflicting orders from multiple sources.

Some say Olebert is sending us reinforcements, but Lord Rayes told me he only knows about the battalion they have stationed outside Teeburn, and it's no surprise that that front is stalled. Scholl does have multiple high-leveled hostages along with General Pitz after all, I’m sure she’s considered more important than a few cities out in the middle of nowhere.

It also doesn’t help that the reason behind Scholl’s invasion has slowly spread through the populace. You can’t walk down a dark alley without hearing whispers of a dragon.

Silver Herd is profiting from the invasion on paper, but each day, those profit margins are slowly thinning along with morale. Technically we've lost our Drey and Teeburn branches, and with Grey pursuing his own agenda, we might just have. With all the turmoil, it's hard to predict how we should prepare for the future.

“Boss, your ring,” Marshall points out to me.

I lower my hands away from my temples and see the ring on my left pinky is glowing. That ring is tied to the communication magic tool hidden in my desk. The ring glows when someone is trying to contact me. "Are we expecting a report from any of the numbers?" I ask Marshall.

Frowning, Marshall shakes his head. Damn, that means something unexpected has come up! I quickly pull the communication magic tool out from the hidden compartment in my desk and see which number is contacting me. "Two?" Why would he?

That's right! Two gave his communicator to Aaliyah; why is she calling me?

I activate the magic item and speak into it. "Aaliyah, I wasn't expecting a call from you. Is there anything I can help you with?" I maintain a cheerful tone of voice; I don't want to risk upsetting the golden rock.

“Are you sitting down?” I’m surprised by her sudden question rather than returning my greeting. “I am,” I tell her. Marshall moves next to me, obviously curious as to why she would ask me that.

"Guess who just left my village?" I can hear the frustration in Aaliyah's voice, and my hands become sweaty.

“What happened to the village?” I anxiously ask her. Is my daughter ok!?

"The village is fine," Aaliyah sighs on the other end line. "I have a contract from him, stating Scholl won't mess with the village."

“A contract from who?” I ask.

“Pacore the Deathless.”

The blood drains from my face, and Marshall's eyes widen to the size of dinner plates. "Pacore the Deathless came to your village!? You met him!?" I shout into the magic item.

“Yeah, I met the old geezer. Kicked our asses all by himself.”

"You fought him!?" I feel a pain in my chest, and I consider the possibility I might have a heart attack. "Why would possibly make you think that was a good idea?"

“It’s the best we could come up with on such short notice,” Aaliyah tries to defend herself.

“That’s insane,” I retort.

"This is a courtesy call. If you're going to keep rubbing salt in my wounds, I'll hang up."

"Wait!" I shout before she disconnects the line. "I'm sorry if I offended you; it's just hard to wrap my head around what you're saying. You said the village was safe, so I don't understand why you would challenge Pacore."

“That’s the reason why I’m calling,” Aaliyah sighs again. “Pacore sort of forced me to become his apprentice.”

…

……

……..

“Are you still there?” Aaliyah's voice pulls Marshall and me back to reality.

I swallow back a lump in my throat. “You joined Pacore as a student; are you joining Scholl's army!?"

"What, no! Well, sort of. I guess I'm technically a part of Scholl's army now, but Pacore left me in the village, but that's not why I called you. I wanted to call you because I’m not sure how our partnership will fare in the future.”

She's right; I planned to secretly support Aaliyah until she decided to leave her village finally. But with Pacore as her master, Aaliyah is almost certainly going to be heading to Scholl once the war subsides. "Is this your way of cutting ties with us?" Our business with Aaliyah has always been complicated because of her rapid rise in levels, and now that she's become Pacore's student, she's virtually untouchable.

“It sounds like you’re the one trying to cut ties,” Aaliyah retorts. “I still need materials while I’m here. Plus, I owe Kervin for helping me all these years and for putting him in danger with Grey. I don’t know what things will be like in a year, but I still want to do business with you guys if that’s ok.”

"That's very kind of you," I remark, surprised. She just got an incredibly powerful backer, and she still wishes to work with us without throwing Pacore’s name around.

"Don't get happy yet; I still haven't told you the good news."

“Oh?” I’m curious what she considers good news in this situation.

“My new master,” she emphasizes the word master like she doesn’t like using it, “heard about my deal with Grey. I don’t think we’ll have to worry about him for much longer,” I can practically hear her grinning ear to ear on the other line.

“That… might be a bad idea,” I frown.

“I don’t understand.” I can hear her the confusion in her voice.

"If Pacore kills Grey right now, the two branches we're cut off from will fall into chaos, and that isn't considering any traps he might leave in the event of his death."

"I don't mean to be rude, but that's not my problem at the moment," Aaliyah bluntly tells me. "I have to look out for my village and family; whether you or Pacore resolve the issue with Grey, I profit in the end. My offer still stands to terminate the contract if you need me to, but I need to get going. My mom was already breathing fire when I told her I had to go into the forest for a few hours.”

I want to ask how my daughter is doing, but I'm not sure if I want Aaliyah to be aware of my feelings towards her now that she's Pacore's student. But Aaliyah has proven to be quite loyal to Kervin and the company despite the problems with Grey. With my lines of communication cut off from the village, Aaliyah is the only person I can ask. "Can I have one more moment of your time?" I ask before she disconnects us.

“Sure, but can you make it quick,” she reminds me that she’s pressed for time.

Let’s hope I’m not wrong about her. “How is my daughter doing?”

For a moment, there's only silence on the other end. "You mean Anastasia, right?" She asks for clarification.

