“Yes, is… is my daughter doing well?” I nervously ask. Marshall gives me a nod of encouragement.

“She’s fine,” Alayah tells me. “We don’t talk much, but I see her during important village meetings. Are you asking about anything in particular?"

“No, I was just curious how she was doing.”

"Would you like me to bring her with me next time and let you guys talk? She's helped my family and me multiple times, and I owe her at least that much." It brings a smile to my face to hear Aaliyah complement my daughter. After she was kicked out of the army for her inferior magic talents, she was so depressed. I'm happy to know she's making a good life for herself in Spotted Creek Village.

"That's quite alright," I tell Aaliyah. "Our relationship is estranged after all these years, and I'm sure she doesn't want to speak with me." I still remember the look on her face when I told her I was sending her to a village out in the middle of nowhere.

"I won't pretend to know what went on between you two, but I know as a daughter, I could never hate my father enough to never want to talk to him again. Just my opinion. I'll call back in a few weeks to get an update." The magic tool goes dark as Aaliyah disconnects from her end.

“She’s right, you know,” Marshall throws out his unwanted opinion.

“My relationship with my daughter is not the issue right now,” I snap at him. “What are we going to do about Aaliyah and Grey?”

I was content to play both sides of the conflict and work with the winner, but most of my plans were hedging on Aaliyah's rising abilities. She still wants to work with us, but that only applies until Aaliyah leaves for Scholl. Should I revise my original plan without including Aaliyah, or do I double down on the golden rock and throw Silver Herd in with Scholl?

It has always been my family's goal to grow and be recognized as a major trade organization, does it matter if that just so happens to be in a different kingdom than Olebert?

My father always planned to compete with Olebert's big trading companies, but I'm not sure if that is feasible any longer.

There's a branch in the path before me, and I can no longer see which leads to profit and which to ruin. "Marshall, should I bet on Olebert or Aaliyah?"

Marshall thinks over my question. “Olebert would be the safe bet,” he tells me.

I nod my head.

“But opportunities like Aaliyah only show up once in a lifetime, maybe longer. It’s up to you, Boss,” Marshall reminds me.

I have no idea about the various trade unions in Scholl. A few merchants would risk the trek between nations before the war, but Scholl's only notable export has always been magic beast materials. I'll need to figure out a way to gather more information before committing to one side or the other. But until then, I make eye contact with Marshall. "Contact One, and have her intercept Pacore before he enters Drey."

“And have her do what exactly?” Marshall gives me a concerned look, afraid I might ask that One try to assassinate the man.

I snort at his needless worry. One might be our best agent, but even she wouldn't be able to harm Pacore. Even if the rumors about him are only half true, he would still be able to kill all the numbers on his own. "I want her to convince Pacore that he should wait to kill Grey until we have better control over the situation.”

“Do you think that will work?”

“It’s the best I have at the moment,” I admit.

"You sound like Aaliyah now," in a rare moment, Marshall pokes fun at me.

“Well, you said I should listen to her,” I quip back.

“Gods help us all,” Marshall playfully shakes his head before moving to prepare a message for One.

Left alone to my own thoughts, I can't help but think about whether I'll lead Silver Herd to success or doom. Time will only tell if I make the right decision.
