Veird had survived Primal Lightning before, so it could probably survive a direct strike. Probably multiple, actually. Erick had had a lot of ideas about why Nothangahathor hadn’t killed Veird yet, but perhaps the easiest explanation was that he simply couldn’t. Not when Veird was all working together.

That was why Nothanganathor wasn’t attacking directly, right?

… Who the fuck knew anymore.

Erick said, “I’m ready, Rozeta. Please let us break new ground and solidify the future against the vagaries of fate and mortal failings.”

Rozeta said, “Your desire and the actions you take to empower others, to ensure strength even after you’re gone, will overcome all Fate and failings. I trust you, Erick, because I trust your goals.”

Her words were a bit of a political act, but they hadn’t been rehearsed at all. Rozeta knew all the world was watching, though.

And then Rozeta turned, and spoke to Yggdrasil and to the core Erick had left on that other mountaintop, oh so far away, and yet so near, “Be released.”

The world paused—

Erick’s soul flickered with gold.

The tattered remains of a web-like seal broke apart inside Erick’s soul like an old soap bubble; weakly at first, all the shimmery parts fading to bare grey, and then suddenly. Pop. It was gone.

Yggdrasil began to separate instantly, like half of Erick’s core was trying to escape out of his body.

Erick directed that escape as best he could. As Kromolok and his Fonts supplied Erick with mana, Erick cast one final [Summon Yggdrasil], drawing out the magic with words of prayer oh so similar to the ones he had spoken over a decade ago, when he had first created the [Summon Yggdrasil] before that Shadow’s Feast of yesteryear.

“In ancient lands where magic stirred,

“The wizards walk, their hearts assured.

“Through time and space, fresh wisdom flows,

“A purpose clear, the magic grows.

“With lightning's might, we split the sky,

“A chance enchantment, Fate knows why.

“We formed a core, life's essence captured

“A Benevolent Path, a time enraptured.

“With every step, a grand design,

“Like stars and moons all do align.

“We summoned sky and called the rain,

“A cosmic dance, timely refrain.

“A purpose clear. A vision grand.

“A nurtured life all o’er the land.

“From sparks of seed to glowing green,

“A Worldly Tree, a wonder seen.

“His roots reach deep, claiming stone,

“In timely course, the land is sown.

“As branches soared, he kissed the skies,

“A rainbow crown, of kingly size.

“With power harnessed from the light,

“We grow the tree with all our might.

“Guardian strong, a beacon tall,

“Prismatic hues enchanting all.

“Protected now by mystic art,

“A fortress firm, a beating heart.

“A latent monarch, pure and true,

“A worldly treasure, ever anew.

“The power of a pure good will!

“We call thee now! Yggdrasil!”

At first, Erick’s words brought peace to the painful, rapidly destructive birthing of Yggdrasil, calming the spikes of mana ripping Erick apart from the inside. And then the sky opened up with Red Lightning, far, far overhead. It was the touchdown of Nothanganathor’s power upon the Edge of the Script, planet-sized claws ripping at the world—

And scraping along that Edge like a nail on a chalkboard.

The world screamed.

The gathering saw-heard-felt-knew what was happening.

The screaming started instantly.

Erick was too busy focusing on the event happening between him and Yggdrasil and the very mana itself to spare attentions toward continent-sized dragon claws that slipped as much as they pierced.

And then Melemizargo was there, blocking out the sun, casting the entire world into Darkness and Shadow, except for the mountain where Erick stood, singing an epic to the mana. Light poured off of Erick and into the sky, and also off of the mountain peak up ahead.

Rozeta saw the World Swallower’s claws. She said something to the side as Erick’s core began to shatter, but then golden power flowed into him from Elsewhere, and Erick wasn’t shattering at all. Kromolok poured more power into Erick, and the Benevolence dragons around the entirety of the mountain range began to chant for Yggdrasil.

“Yggdrasil! Yggdrasil! Yggdrasil! Yggdrasil!”

More Fonts stepped out of a rainbow of [Gate]s, coming in from all across the world to channel power into Erick, and Erick continued to speak to the mana. The girls and Evan panicked. Solomon saw the End, and was unmoved, as though he had seen this many times before, and yet he never had, not until this very moment. He scratched at the rapidly reforming tattoo of the Bracelet of Memory on his arm—

Red danced across the horizon, punching through where Melemizargo proved less than the sun. Small parts of the world crumbled. And yet Benevolence flowed out of the very ground and air and water, manifesting from the manasphere of the world, swallowing the Red right back—

It was not enough.

Quilatalap handed the Lightning Shield over to Sininindi and the Goddess of Storm and Sea joined the battle in the sky—

Erick finished his song to Yggdrasil.

Reality parted.

The World Tree Yggdrasil was suddenly there, his trunk forty kilometers in diameter, like a pillar of white light joining the land to the Edge of the Script, his crown of green glows and white lightning branches stretching out into Darkness and Lightning and there was no Red to be seen at all. Everyone on the entire island stood upon his roots like they had been standing on his body this entire time, half of the island simply replaced with his rainbow magnitude.

Erick briefly saw an old blue box—

Summon Yggdrasil, medium range, 2500 mana + Variable

Summon a sapling of the World Tree Yggdrasil.

All Yggdrasil persist until killed or dismissed.

All Yggdrasil are the same creature, but only one Yggdrasil is the World Tree.

THE WORLD TREE IS PLANTED

Summon Yggdrasil has as many maximum summons as the World Tree allows, with a minimum of 10.

Current Maximum: 10

All Yggdrasil naturally have and regenerate mana based on your own mana and mana regeneration, which they may use to cast the spells that you imbue them with, at your own command or at their own discretion. Comes summoned and proficient with [Grow], [Watershape], [Tree of Light], [Kaleidoscopic Radiance], [Control Weather], [Telepathy], and [Scry].

World Tree Yggdrasil’s mana and regeneration are higher than yours.

Imbue your Yggdrasil with new spells, wherever they are. Variable

See through the eyes of your Yggdrasil. Variable

Communicate telepathically with your Yggdrasil. Variable

— And then that box faded, a part of Erick lost forever to the grand moment of creation—

Melemizargo was suddenly there in the Dark beside Erick, and even though all the world howled with Red and Lightning and Black and White and the cacophony of terrified people filled the world, the God of Magic’s voice rose above all.

“A Grand Wizardry has not saved this world. Yggdrasil’s planting has fully drawn the Red Sparks. I am sorry, Erick; the plan has changed.”

Red punched through the skies overhead. A claw ripped across the horizon, incomprehensible in its size, missing Yggdrasil’s birth by fractions of degrees which meant hundreds of kilometers.

“This event will need to be [Return]ed and we will need to hide in the God Pact again. I already have Phagar working on that.”

Even as he spoke Red Lightning ripped through the Edge again, touching down closer—

Koyabez stared at the sky, muttering, “Oh, my old friend. It’s bad this time, is it.”

Aloethag roared out impotent pain and death.

Phagar was gone.

Atunir looked sad—

A great crash of gold lightning shattered the sky to the south and Red poked through that shattering.

The claw was coming for them this time, and it had already got one of them. Sininindi was dead.

Rozeta stared at the golden death of Sininindi, for that was all it could have been.

“Sininindi is dead.” Melemizargo stared at his daughter. “Rozeta. Implement the final measures—”

A voice.

“That will not be necessary.”

All the world had filled with that one sentence, said in Yggdrasil’s voice, writ large. All the sky turned to white, and all the Red could not get through. Claws crashed against a White Edge of the Script, and could go no further. Yggdrasil’s words came again, like spring breeze billowing out an old house, causing magic as it flowed,

“Time and time again, Forgotten Campaigns have saved this world from the knowledge of the Red, though only a few times has this been done on purpose. The gods force themselves to forget, for knowledge of the Red is how it seeks you when it wants, and how it keeps itself unseen when it wants that instead. The only ones who I know will remember this are my father, my uncle, and my aunt. If anyone else remembers the Red, do not test the Red. Make your way to the gates, and pray that you are not seen by the Red before I see you instead.”

The whole world flickered white.

- - - -

Erick sat at the dinner table at his house inside Benevolence. Yggdrasil and Ophiel were nowhere to be seen. Instead, Solomon sat to the side with Guile in a high seat, looking like a blonde fox with ten tails almost pretending to be a baby. Destiny sat in the other chair—

Ophiel and Yggdrasil appeared at the side of the room, both of them looking like young versions of Erick, but Ophiel had his iridescent black wings while Yggdrasil had a small rainbow crown, floating upon his black-haired head. Erick almost asked about Yggdrasil’s orcol form, but now didn’t seem like the time for that.

Ophiel frowned a little, looking defeated, as he said, “Yggdrasil has the big information, and I reluctantly have to conclude that I cannot fulfill the role of the older brother.” He started to cry, but he held it in as much as he could. “I really wanted to, though. Sorry, Yggdrasil.”

Yggdrasil easily said, “I love you just the same, Ophiel.” And then he said to the gathered Wizards and would-be-Wizard, and said, “Greetings, Father, Uncle, Aunt. I was chronologically born 2 minutes ago, while I was created 13 years ago, and have existed for a long, long time, simply sleeping. I do not know how long that longer time might be, and I might never know, but that is fine.

“I have also been working for the last four hours to get us all back to the God Pact world.

“With the help of the gods of Veird, I succeeded.

“The Red Sparks are already back, already searching for us again, but it cannot reach us now that its major attempt at killing us all has been Forgotten by all of the world. I could go into the details of how I did that, but my part was not that important. I mostly provided an ultimate anchor for what Ascendant Prime, Rozeta, Koyabez, and Phagar actually did, which was to break out the ‘in case of memetic emergency measures’. They were surprised to find that those measures have been used four times before. I imagine it surprises them every time they discover that.

“As a result, what you witnessed at my birth did not happen.

“Everyone believes my birth went off without a hitch.

“Moving forward, we must implement the Lifeblood Heart programs and Solomon must do some Grand Wizardry of his own in order to implement his ascent to basic Wizardry, while father ensures that Solomon’s ascent gains other goals, too. While they do that, Aunt Destiny, the Benevolence dragons she has recruited for this purpose, and I, will be running interference, providing the Red Sparks with too many targets to watch, to draw attention away from Solomon and my father.

“That is the basic plan.

“This can go wrong.

“The Red can and will destroy Veird if we look to escape from his control completely, as you all just witnessed at my birth. You were wrong about us being able to ‘outrun’ him, Father, but not wholly wrong; the answer to how you were right and wrong is more nuanced than I will answer at this time, for knowing that answer will impede your correct progress.” Yggdrasil said, “I will not be accepting questions at this time and Father will not be discussing his plan with anyone. It will work, Father. We just have to get close, and then you must ascend to True Wizardry.”

A moment passed.

Erick asked, “So Sininindi is okay?”

Destiny stared. “I saw her die.”

“Yeah. She did,” Solomon said.

Yggdrasil said, “There were no deaths at my birth. The Pantheon is whole and unchanged.” He said, “You should discuss resons, multi-alignment crystals, Wizardry, what you saw in the Vaults, and all topics of True Wizardry you can think of.” He gestured to Enchanter’s Guile, upon Solomon’s right wrist, and seated in the high chair.

“Enchanter’s Guile.

“Rise from your unseeing sleep, and benefit from Solomon’s new immunity to all unnatural Endings.”

Guile flinched—

And then his entire body furred out, like a hair rising in a storm of static, his tails rising and fuzzing briefly—

He shook himself like a dog and Red Sparks fell away from him, into White Benevolence, to be zapped to nothing by the very realm itself.

“Ahhhhh~” Guile sighed, relaxing. And then he looked around at the people at the table, and at Ophiel and Yggdrasil. “Should we involve others in this conclave of obvious Wizardly conspiracy? Or is this what we have to work with?”

Yggdrasil answered, “This is what we have to work with. Please discuss True Wizardry. I have things I must attend to, so I cannot stay. The Red Sparks always draw ever closer and permanently dealing with them is not nearly as easy as you believe it to be. The reality that happened at my birth was something we cannot easily repeat. At least not so soon.”

Destiny asked, “But this enemy can be dealt with? Permanently?”

Solomon and Erick also wanted to know that.

Yggdrasil said, “Yes, they can.” Then he said to them in turn, “Father. Don’t discuss your plan, but please discuss what you know. I have informed Rozeta of the Computer Mage. She will want to speak to you later about that. Solomon. Please discuss your plans for the Lifeblood Heart in full, and be prepared for Erick to interject something toward you somewhere along the way of the actual event. That help will still be disruptive, but you will let it happen, for that help will put you one more step toward your Jane. Destiny. Excluding any sort of murder or murder-like solutions, think of how much good you could do across the entire world if you did not have to hold back for political reasons. We will be doing that good.” And then he bowed and vanished into a rainbow glow.

Erick wanted to sigh. To grab a beer and take a moment. To do something else. Anything else.

He was ragged and tired.

But there was work to be done.

