After a few more transfers of his own making, Erick once again stood outside his house inside Benevolence itself.

Yggdrasil was there in his body. Ophiel played on the jungle gym while also standing beside Yggdrasil, looking smug. Yggdrasil was looking pale.

Erick Looked at Yggdrasil, saying, “She seems like a good girl. She’s incredibly normal, too.”

Yggdrasil brightened a little, blushing. “I know.”

Ophiel got right up at Yggdrasil, not even coming up to his waist, teasing, “He’s in looooooove!” Yggdrasil put his hand on Ophiel’s face and pushed him away, but Ophiel only pressed forward harder, his tongue sticking out between fingers as he spat, “Loo! Looo! Loo!”

He was trying to say ‘love’ and not succeeding that well.

And then Erick added, “I think she might be the Computer Mage.”

Yggdrasil just breathed a little.

Ophiel, however, sputtered and pulled away, stopping all his activities everywhere else inside Benevolence. “SHE’S WHAT?!”

“So not that normal,” Erick added. “I can’t see the Benevolence ring around her neck. But she could be the Computer Mage.”

Yggdrasil nodded. “It’s… What initially drew me to her, I think, after I rescued her as she huddled underneath my roots. A friendship just sort of… happened.”

“And somewhere in all that she tried to see through the illusions you cast upon your body, or something, that you had used to make yourself look younger than the body I made for you.” Erick said, “Or maybe something else happened there. Either way, that girl thinks you might be a fae, or someone else just as special, and she likes you a lot.”

“… I really didn’t mean for that to happen but… I like her, too.”

“Don’t be embarrassed, Yggdrasil.” Erick went over and hugged his son, saying, “You might have aged a lot faster than others because you’re an arbor and you may have this full-grown body because I picked that for you, but you’re only 13. You’re allowed first loves. You should probably stop lying to her by 20, though.”

“I’m 14!” Ophiel said, with way too much cheer.

Yggdrasil hugged Erick back, purposefully ignoring Ophiel, saying, “I’ll tell her before then.”

And then Ophiel poked him with his fingers and his wings. “Don’t ignore me! I’m older than you!”

“I’m glad you told me, Yggdrasil. I want to be there for you and your tribulations.”

“Thanks, Dad,” Yggdrasil said, through small tears.

“I want hugs too!” Ophiel proclaimed.

Erick grabbed Ophiel and brought him into their embrace, squishing him between the two of them, causing him to squirm and Yggdrasil to chuckle and Ophiel to proclaim that dad and brother were too big and that they should be smaller. So Ophiel floofed out into a 5-meter-tall bundle of wings and arms and eyes and hugged as much as he could, which turned out to be a lot. His wings tickled, and Erick sneezed, causing Yggdrasil to laugh and the hug to break.

Erick went on to make dinner, which was scarlet king today, as a treat.

Later, maybe months or years or maybe even never, Erick would tell Yggdrasil that developing a relationship with Darnella Bastion might be dangerous. But since Erick had nothing but unfounded concerns about that, and since Darnella was potentially the Computer Mage which could be good or bad, he kept his mouth shut.

Yggdrasil already knew all of that, anyway, which was why he had taken so long to tell Erick about her.

“So your math scores were pretty good, Yggdrasil,” Erick said, over dinner. “Do you like that stuff?”

“No one loves math as much as Darnella. Gods, Dad. She’s a math freak.”

Erick chuckled. “Reminds me of Kiri.”

Ophiel suddenly yelled, “She’s nothing like Kiri!”

… Erick and Yggdrasil both looked at Ophiel.

Erick asked, “Do you like Kiri, Ophiel?”

“Of course I do! Kiri is awesome. Darnella is stupid fisher.”

Yggdrasil dropped his fork and exclaimed, “Darnella is not a stupid fisher!”

“Nuh uh! Stupid fisher! Can’t even do Trillian’s Displacement Theorem!”

“She’ll get it eventually!” Yggdrasil defended.

Erick short-circuited the wildly informative conversation about stuff he didn’t want to think about, saying, “So I’m going to go talk to Rozeta after dinner to get you unsealed, Yggdrasil. Do you want help making a proper 14 year old orcol body?”

“13!” Ophiel shouted.

“I’ve got a 16 year old [Avatar] ready to go,” Yggdrasil said smugly.

“NOOOOOO!” Ophiel exclaimed. “Dad! Tell him he can’t do that! He’s 13! Not older than me!”

Yggdrasil grinned wickedly.

Erick said, “Less worrying about Yggdrasil and more eating your dinner, Ophiel.” And then he said to Yggdrasil, “No taking joy in Ophiel’s suffering.”

Yggdrasil dropped his expression, whispering, ‘Sorry.’

Ophiel looked at his fish, and then he shoved it away, proclaiming, “I hate fish!”

Ophiel’s plate went sliding off the table, onto the ground to shatter and the fish to plop.

Yggdrasil frowned at Ophiel. “You wasted food!”

“Stupid fish!”

“Kids. Kids. Kids.” Erick said, “Please.”

Erick tried to manage the brewing discontent as best he could.

He mostly succeeded.

- - - -

Erick stood near the edge of the Benevolent Sky, about a kilometer away.

Rozeta stood before him.

Phagar stood to the side.

Neither god looked overly happy.

Rozeta began, “Kromolok implanted a ‘don’t touch this’ lock on your mind, and he doesn’t know when he did that and neither do I, but it was there before you stepped foot into the Vaults last month. And now Phagar has the same thing on his mind regarding a conversation he had with you. I have independently prognosticated Yggdrasil’s release and all signs point to this being a completely bad idea. I trust you, Erick, or at least I thought I did. But you’re hiding something major from me. Too major, Erick.” Rozeta asked, “Why does non-Benevolence prognostication show that Yggdrasil’s release is a bad idea, but the Benevolent Sky shows it as a good idea?”

Erick had thought that this conversation was going to go poorly, but he didn’t think it could go dangerously. But then again, that was always a possibility. He didn’t know of Kromolok’s little message —which he had probably left in that aborted timeline, so he had been carrying that around for a while, and no one had commented on it until now— but he had known about Phagar’s self-message. Erick was surprised to see that the fallout of Phagar’s message was coming to call so quickly, but it was what it was.

They wanted to be reassured, and yet, Erick could not give them the reassurance they truly wanted.

First, Erick got over the idea of having Kromolok’s message to himself sitting on his brain.

And then Erick saw the Benevolent Path ahead.

He walked that Path, saying, “Do you not trust yourselves to leave those sorts of messages for yourselves?”

“I do,” Phagar said.

Rozeta frowned a little. “I do not, but only because Kromolok’s message was a mortal message.”

Red Sparks hovered in the Benevolent Sky like gathering flies; distant and searching, and yet finding nothing.

“Can we have a private moment that you will accept as a ‘do not touch’ sort of message to yourself?” Erick asked.

“No,” Phagar said.

Rozeta said, “Not at this time.”

“Then how about we avoid all of that problem, and just let Yggdrasil be himself? He shouldn’t be controlled like I asked him to be controlled. Separating him from me would be a good thing, in light of your apparent distrust of me. Separation will put him beyond my control and influence, except as a father. Other than those very good reasons for separation, I am absolutely sure that Yggdrasil will want to be a good part of Veird, and he will agree to wrought checkups on all his plantings.” Erick said, “And, if that is not enough to entice you, I believe I have found the Computer Mage, though she is not the Computer Mage right now. She could be the Computer Mage in the future. If you want that very good thing to happen, then I suggest, before I tell you her name, that you let her come into her power on her own, without interference, though perhaps it is this conversation and your interference that triggers her true path in life. I’m not sure. I will leave that judgment up to you.”

Rozeta and Phagar were both focused on Erick, his points hitting good marks. And then he swept up with the bit about the Computer Mage.

Phagar breathed out, satisfied, saying, “I’m voting for Yggdrasil’s release.”

Rozeta’s eyes glittered with a tiny hint of Red as she said, “Phagar.”

Phagar shrugged. “This is a fantastic outcome, Rozeta. Take the win.”

Rozeta frowned… But the Red cleared from her eyes somehow.

She looked at Erick, demanding to know, “Who is the Computer Mage?”

“Yggdrasil can tell you when he is released.”

“… Fine. I imagine you don’t want him released here?”

“Let’s take this elsewhere.”

As Erick opened a [Gate] to the third island of the Dungeon Island Trio, Erick sent a mental apology to Yggdrasil. Yggdrasil sent a wordless reply of sad understanding. He had known what was going to happen before Erick had even gone into this conversation. Darnella would be revealed as the Computer Mage at Yggdrasil’s discretion.

- - - -

The third island of Dungeon Island was known as Depravity. It had been wild and monstrous like the other two for most of its existence, but recently that had changed. The other two islands were being developed.

Infamy was the official Dungeon Island, home to thousands of dungeons and the best dungeoneering on the planet, as well as Ascendant Mountain in the center and the slime dungeon with the Black Gate.

The island Villainy was where Avandrasolaro had set up residence with his kings and queens of the former Bisection. The angelic emperor was still pushing back the threats on his island, but mostly he was solidifying his rule and law and doing all sorts of kingdom-building things. People were flocking to his island.

Depravity was empty of people, and the dungeons were completely wild.

Erick stood on the second-tallest peak of Depravity, facing the actual tallest peak of Depravity, a little over 20 kilometers away. The mountains were rather low here, but the depths of the center of the island went deep. Black waters held in those depths, while a little bit of snow held to the tops of the mountains, and only in a few places. Mostly the land was green and rugged and full of trees.

Erick reached through a [Gate] and plucked out a core he had prepared for Yggdrasil’s final core, and then he reached through another [Gate] and deposited the core onto a flat space he had carved off the top of the tallest mountain. He shut the [Gate]. He nodded to Rozeta.

This was not a small event, so Rozeta was not the only one here.

Kromolok and four other Fonts stood with Rozeta, to the side. King and Queen Stratagold stood with other adamantium wrought; the royalty of other Geodes. A practical rainbow of other wrought people stood with them down the mountainside and over on another mountain. The wrought numbered around 200, and they were among the strongest wrought in the world. Erick was absolutely sure that they were here to ensure that Melemizargo didn’t try anything too dangerous.

There was Phagar, looking like Erick but almost greyer.

There was Sininindi in her storm-wrapped self.

Atunir looked like she had stepped off of a farm.

Koyabez stood to the side, looking incredibly happy; satisfied.

Aloethag stood like a white statue dripping with red blood. She was a female orcol with long, pointy ears. There were no Red Sparks within the red of her blood. The Red Dream was not filled with Red Sparks, though, so Erick wasn’t too worried in that way; he had checked in a dream with Quilatalap a few times.

But those were dreams, so who really knew what existed inside that particular ‘Red’.

A contingent of people from Treehome were here, including several avatars of Arbors. Wyrmrest and O’kabil were looking particularly thrilled for this moment, though there was worry in many of those eyes as well.

The mountains for a thousand kilometers and even further held other lookie-loos, either in person or just some [Scry] eyes. Erick spotted no fewer than 189 Benevolence Dragons, most of them in long dragon form, and a good ten thousand adventurers, and a bunch of others further away; whoever could show up fast enough for this event. Destiny was down there, ten mountaintops away, watching and waiting.

The faeries were all out there, too. They were having a party in a valley over there. Lights were everywhere, and music carried into the air, calling the worried, the burdened, and the scared, to a wonderful party. All cares could be set aside for a while in the jubilation of a dance.

Erick kinda wanted to go to that dance. Not right now, though.

Kiri stood with Teressa, Poi, Solomon, and Quilatalap. Jane, Abigail, Bethany, Candice, and Evan, stood with them as well; with Erick. They were his family, and they had all turned out for this. The only one not here was Ophiel, but he couldn’t leave Benevolence for a few very good reasons, and also because he was mad that Yggdrasil was getting born so fast. Hopefully, Ophiel would grow out of that phase soon.

Hopefully, nothing bad happened today.

Erick fully expected to drag everyone he could with him into Benevolence if something untoward should happen today. Maybe he’d just fully open his mind to Kromolok and solve the problem that way, too.

But then again, maybe nothing would happen.

A lot of people were worried.

Erick was feeling rather secure, though, because Red Sparks filled the air, and yet they were doing nothing. No rollbacks. No obliterations of this coming future. They were just… there. Watching.

Perhaps they hadn’t really tried yet?

Hard to know. Red swirled in the sky and down through the valleys, trying to find Erick. But it could not find him, and it did not touch the gods, because, somehow, collectively, they were stronger than when they were alone. All of them gathered like this, cementing this land for this event, was probably magnifying the God Pact… or something.

This was probably a case of Wizards versus Gods; a domination for the space that would fluctuate based on… Whatever it fluctuated upon.

Maybe Nothanganathor was holding back, preparing a Primal Lightning Bolt.

Well.

That’s what Erick was truly prepared to counter.

He had a song picked out ready to go in case of that event, if he needed to use it. Melemizargo would back him up on it, too. But maybe the other gods would have a better solution; Erick would wait for their better solution and then employ his own last-ditch efforts if needed.

