Ophiel pulled up a chair, saying, “I’m not clear on what happened either and Yggdrasil isn’t telling me; he’s a butthead.”

“I’m fine with causing untold levels of Benevolent Chaos,” Destiny said, “That’s what I’ve been working toward, even if I didn’t know it at the time.” She looked to Erick, asking, “But will I get free rein to actually do that?”

Solomon, Guile, Destiny, and Ophiel all looked Erick’s way, too.

Erick took a deep breath, then began, “As an opening statement, your disruption of the world will be fine, Destiny, for I trust you, but only if the plans for the Lifeblood Heart are shortish plans, for I cannot abide too much Benevolent Chaos. So. Solomon. How long till you have a plan that can work, and work well?”

Everyone looked to Solomon.

Solomon said, “20 days on the short end. 30 to be safe. 50 to be overly secure. Plan A is 80% ready. Plan B is 65%. C is 50%. All of them have similar moving parts, but drastically different setups.” He held up his left arm. Heavy black lines circled his forearm, forming a continuous spiral from near his elbow to nearly his wrist that then turned around and spiraled the other way, knotting into itself like a celtic design. It was the remnants of the Bracelet of Memory that Debby had given him, transformed into something entirely new and deep. That must have just happened at Yggdrasil’s birth. Wheatly’s band of golden wheat held on that same wrist, looking even more brilliant than usual, like he was absolutely charged with lightning just below the surface. That must have just happened, too. Solomon put his arm down, and said, “I remember every doomed world and every near-success that still ended in doom for me and everyone I loved. I could make this whole Lifeblood Heart plan work tomorrow if I had to, but I know it would end in failure. I can make the Black Gate pull out anything I want. I think I even have a good Wizardry Ignition idea. But I don’t want to do that. Not yet. I want to be prepared, Erick. Truly and utterly prepared. I won’t fail this time.”

Destiny asked, “But what are we preparing for?”

Solomon said, “Red Sparks of some sort. All I really know is that it has minimal influence on this main world, except for whatever happened earlier. It likes to rollback time in zones to make bad things happen and it eats individuals that lose connection with others. If you learn about it, it turns back time so that you don’t learn of it. If you look to get close, it turns back time there, too. It doesn’t like to be seen… Except it showed itself today, and somehow that made it easier to show itself. Somehow.” He looked at Erick. “I imagine you know more.”

Guile watched, silent and inquisitive.

Erick began with, “The Red Sparks are Primal Lightning. The Sundering Source is here, in this New Cosmology. I’m going to get through this quick.”

And then he sent out some [Telepathy] packets.

Minutes passed as Solomon and Destiny and Guile digested their packets. Faces turned scared, angry, hopeful, hopeless, and full of terror in turn, eventually giving way to solidness and other, deeper emotions.

Solomon leaned back in his chair, sighing.

Destiny got furious, slammed a fist on the table, and shouted, “We must kill the sun!”

Guile softly said, “We should involve no one else in this and we certainly shouldn’t kill the sun. Everyone will think we’re absolutely crazy—”

“You’re a fae!” Destiny shouted, “You don’t get to have this discussion!”

Solomon rounded on her, saying, “You leave him out of this. If anyone can know how to solve this issue it’s Guile.”

Erick said to Destiny, “Sit down, please.”

Destiny looked like she wanted to roar but she simply stared… And then she sat down. “Perhaps killing the sun was too hasty.”

Erick breathed, then said, “Yes it—”

“We obviously cannot kill it. We have to disintegrate it.” Destiny said, “Turn it into cosmic dust. Void and Destruction.”

Solomon held up a hand, casting a single point of light into the air. “This is the size of Veird.” Then he filled the ceiling with a ball of white light. “This is the size of the sun.”

Erick rapidly said, “Put that away before—”

Solomon canceled the light show. “I know. I was envisioning it as a lightward, not as an image of the sun; I know how tempting powers with names works.”

Destiny scoffed. “The sun isn’t that big! It’s no bigger than the moons, for sure! Just a bit further away, too.”

Erick and Solomon looked at each other. Destiny was born a very, very long time ago and she was only released by the fae several years ago, so that explained some of her lack of understanding. But it wasn’t like common core education had changed that much since she had been walking around free, before the fae found her, a few centuries ago. Kirginatharp and the Arcanaeum Consortium had been teaching the world stuff for the last 1400 years. But then again, Destiny had been raised in a rural area, so she hadn’t gone to school.

But she was a Wizard now, and she got around a lot.

Had she not seen Erick’s presentation on the solar system… Or the orrery of Rozeta? Or any of that?

… Oh. She just didn’t care about that stuff. Okay. That made sense.

Silently, they decided for Erick to tell her, “Solomon’s diagram of the size of the sun versus Veird is correct. The sun is about 10 light-minutes away, too. That’s the distance that light travels in ten minutes. For comparison, a single bit of light could circle Veird at the equator about four times in a single second.”

“The sun is bigger than I made it look,” Solomon said.

Guile watched the exchange.

“… Say I believe you.” Destiny asked, “How would you hope to ever kill the thing living there?”

Ophiel spoke up, “Don’t tell them, Dad.”

Destiny threw her hands up. “Why not!”

“Because if you know, then other people know, because certain people won’t respect you enough to allow you to keep your thoughts your own, and thus you might act in a way that will let the bad guy know the plan.”

Destiny paused. Then she frowned, and said, “Okay! Fine. I can accept that.”

“I would like to speak of these resons, now,” Solomon said.

Guile spoke up, “I know what they are. I have no idea why I did not know, but now I do, and I am wondering why that knowledge was blocked from me. Perhaps we can all think on that for a while. Right now we are talking too much and not digesting anything. You are all smart, but you are not smart enough to instantly come up with plans that will work against this particular enemy.”

Erick nodded.

Solomon silently agreed.

Destiny asked, “We’re not dying right now, right?”

Ophiel said, “No. But this conversation shapes literally everything to come.”

Destiny nodded. Then she said, “I’m hungry, exhausted, terrified, and FURIOUS.” Lightning crackled around her eyes and on her fingers, carving tiny scorch marks on the table between the group. “I need a nap and maybe a cuddle. Solomon? Care to join me?” She stood from the table.

Solomon stood, saying, “Yes.”

“It won’t be... long. We can get back to it soon enough.” Destiny wiped away an unruly tear, saying, “I just… want to hold someone right now.”

Solomon didn’t need any more explanation or words; he was already on board. He also needed time to unwind. The two of them walked off to the side of the house leaving Guile there with Erick and Ophiel.

They picked a side room and went inside and Destiny was sobbing hard. She cried out about how everything made sense now and how the Red had to have fucked her entire life from the start. Solomon went to her—

And then the [Hasted Shelter] went up, hiding them from view.

Erick processed that whole event for a short moment, and came back wondering when that particular relationship had started. Destiny had always been rather chaotic, but this was a side of her that he had never seen—

Guile answered, “They’ve been seeing each other for a week now. She showed up when Solomon tried to work the Black Gate on his own before that started and she helped him with that first time.”

With raised eyebrows, Erick said, “Oh. Well… Good for them?” He added, “I guess I have been out of the loop for too long.”

“Their relationship might last a while. I am unsure. Destiny is too chaotic. I believe her chaos is one of the reasons that Benevolence is able to hide us so well, actually, and why Yggdrasil has her here, working that angle,” Guile said, looking to Ophiel. “But I don’t truly know.”

Ophiel shrugged, his iridescent black wings shrugging with him. “I don’t know. Dad is the one who made us.”

“I just wanted to make the world better, because everything can always be made better,” Erick said. “I did not imagine that making Benevolence would lead here… I don’t think I ever imagined this. Not really.”

Guile nodded, then said, “It is good that the Red came first, and Benevolence is the response. Sometimes it takes a great tragedy to make a great triumph. If we survive this, I imagine that Veird and all of those who come after will never have to worry about a Sundering ever again. Until they forget. Mortals always forget, no matter which immortals lurk in the shadows, keeping civilization afloat. Those immortals change, too, and that’s when the rough patches truly start.”

“Well that’s a problem for House Benevolence to solve, with me sticking around in the shadows for however long I can,” Erick said. “So what about those resons?”

“It’s a field like any Element. Resons are the magical element of this universe. The other ‘magical Element’ is infinity, and it is not touchable by anyone; not directly.”

Erick’s eyes went wide. Not because of the revelation of ‘Elemental Infinity’, but because…

“That means you know about this universe, doesn’t it? How?”

“Not as much as I would like. It’s coming back to me and not nearly fast enough. I don’t believe I was ever a part of this universe at all… I think. Not sure.” Guile asked, “Do you know the Fae Story of the Old Cosmology’s creation? Don’t actually say the words; you will draw them here.”

“Yes.”

Fairy Moon and Gregarious, as King and Queen of some Fae Court somewhere else, had a Daughter. That Daughter dropped her ‘brother’ the Prince’s painting of an astronaut into a painting of the Darkness, and thus the Old Cosmology was born from the meeting of differences. The Daughter went on to become Shadow, the first Goddess of Magic, the first Dragon, communing between the Dark and all Creation, in order to help create a cosmology; a multiverse of a specific sort. Other fae from Fairy Moon’s Court joined her in those acts of creation. That lasted for an eternity and a day. And then they were done. The Daughter came back to her Court and announced she was done being the Goddess of Magic and the universe was ready for population, so Fairy Moon and Gregarious and that entire Fae Court decided to join with the Old Cosmology, to make it their home and their power. And thus was born the Old Cosmology, and thus it had existed for a million years… Or some other number besides 1,000,000; hard to say with Fae.

Erick asked, “Are you a part of the original court?”

“Yes. The Fae of Metal. I helped to ensure that Metal came into being; something hard as stone but malleable and strong. I feel like I should know certain things more than I do, and this is a problem, but it is a problem that might be fixing itself as we speak. You see, I used to inter my knowledge with the Hall of Knowledge, watched over by the Goddess of Knowledge, so that I might have fresh experiences every now and then. Some of this was rescued by my sovereign and preserved, and that knowledge was returned to me when Rozeta opened the Bands of Intent on Fairy.” Guile said, “And just now, with whatever happened with Yggdrasil and the changing of the world to negate that Red Lightning… Yggdrasil spoke of the gods being surprised by the tool they used to accomplish the Grand Forgetting, but it should not be that surprising in light of certain events.

“They have something of Knowledge locked in a box. Perhaps even Knowledge’s corpse. I doubt she is alive… But that is possible, however unlikely. Whatever they have done, they have used whatever it was to enact the Grand Forgetting. I wonder what it was.

“I wonder why Yggdrasil remembers, and why he imparted that knowledge to us. Probably to trigger what he has done to me in that telling. Memories of mine are surfacing, and I remember a lot about a lot.

“Wizard Flatt. Apparent King. Benevolence Itself.” Guile said, “I do not want to know your plan, but I must ask for a general idea of the nature of your plan.”

Erick softly said, “Well… It was going to involve a lot of metal.”

Guile nodded. “That makes sense. Let us keep that to ourselves. I will likely have to discuss this Knowledge aspect with the others when they return any moment now.”

Ophiel wiped the manasphere of memory, without prompting—

The [Hasted Shelter] around Solomon and Destiny popped and the two of them walked back into the room looking well-rested.

Guile began, “Let us speak of the only ‘elements’ of this so-called ‘New Cosmology’; of resons and infinity. Neither are Elements in the Old Cosmology sense. Both are necessary to understand going forward, because both magics have been Forgotten from Veird. I can guess this was probably to keep the Red Sparks at bay.”
