As we approached I realized something. Hazelwood was a city, not a town, nor a village, but a full on city. The walls were probably twenty foot high, stone, and judging by the men walking on them, fairly thick. I could see the crenellations from afar, but once we got near the machiciolations became obvious as well. Judging by the size I would guess around ten thousand lived here most of the time. There were perhaps less right now. It even had guards at the gates seeing who was coming in and out.

"Names, occupation, and business in the city." one of said guards asked as we got close.

"I'm Mystien, this is my apprentice Kale." I could have hit myself. I forgot to ask the fake name he wanted me to use. "I'm a wizard, and my business is seeing an old merchant acquaintance." he spoke as if he'd been through this a hundred times.

The guard stood up a bit straighter when he heard the man he was talking to was a mage, and called over another guard to look us over.

The new man was dressed in lighter armor, and it was easy to tell from his aura that he too was a caster, and not a powerful one.

"I see no strange auras or anything of note. The boy's not that strong, his master on the other hand... may I ask your name sir?""Mystien." he was told.

The second guard stiffened for a moment, then nodded, "That concludes our check, please have a good day sir." and let us through.

After we were through, I looked over at my companion, "His reaction was a bit unusual, wasn't it sir?" I asked.

"Not too much," he responded, "about ten years ago I was involved in a war. Made a good name for myself with the locals." He didn't elaborate.

"Oh, you've never spoken of it before." I was a bit prying about this.

"Because I don't like to, war is not enjoyable lad. I hope you never have to understand that firsthand." That was a clear dismissal to the conversation, so I went somewhere else.

"I see a number of taverns near the gate sir, which shall we be staying in?" It was a harmless enough inquiry.

"We won't be staying near the gate. There are several that are for the average traveler, but as spellcasters we'll need to head a bit further in. In this city there are only two taverns nice enough for us to reasonably stay in, The Golden Lion, and The Scarlet Harlot. We'll be staying in the Harlot.".

"Could you explain why we need to stay in a very nice tavern sir? Also, is the harlot a brothel?"

"Spellcasters exist in an unusual place in the social hierarchy. We are not commoners by law, and while many are nobles, many are not. That and the prices we can demand for our services means that if we stay somewhere cheap, it will reflect badly upon us, and raise suspicions." At the next part he laughed, "And no, the Harlot is not a brothel. One does not normally sleep in a bordello.".

"Good to know sir." I deadpanned.

"Also," he continued, "I know the owner, and would love to see her again.".

As we walked through town I noticed the changes. The gate area was most definitely aimed at travelers, though just past it was a very poor area. Once you got past that things went up, first merchants, getting slowly higher class, then finally where we ended up. The last street we came to was distinctly high class, clean, paved, and with more guards. The people were also well dressed, a few in what might be called finery. I felt we stuck out, but the number of auras told me we'd be fine.

I was a bit put off as we came up to The Scarlet Harlot. For one the building was red, naturally, secondly, it was a bit much. The doors were enormous, and opened for us by an attendant. The inside was bustling, the smell was amazing in here. Obviously there was no lack of food at this level. Mystien led us forward to one of the serving girls, of which there were three, picked for their looks if I had to guess.

"Greetings sirs, and welcome to The Scarlet Harlot." The woman was wearing a rather low cut red dress, as per the theme, and winked at us as we came near.

"Good day." Mystien returned.

"A pleasure to meet you miss." I thought I would be ill.

"My what a polite young man," she smiled at me, "how can we serve you today? Food and drink? A room perhaps? Or shall I make arrangements for something else?" She gave my teacher a very wide smile at that. I was fairly sure I heard him say this wasn't a brothel.

"Two meals, whatever the special is, and a double room. As well please tell Veska I've come to visit." he rattled off, seemingly uninterested in her advances.

"Who should I tell her her visitor is sir?" The woman asked as she led us over to a rather private table.

"Mystien," he said, and she hurried off counting the coins he'd passed her.

The meal was magnificent, roasted chicken with herbs and vegetables, finished off with a cobbler.

No sooner had we finished then we were led down a side hall, ending in a gilded double door.
