Another thousand credits vanished from his vision as he saw something begin to eat away at the rock below Nox.

[Forming Bastion Core...]

[Bastion's operator has been successfully designated as {Nox Duskwalker}]

[Bastion's affinity type set to Onyx (Shadow)]

Waves of dark power rippled out across the mountain around Nox as she began her transformation. The storm overhead suddenly expanded outward to the horizon and went from grey to an obsidian black. Thunder roared so loud that it shook every tree on the mountain, and the sky flashed as lightning gathered.

[Bastion {Nox Duskwalker}'s cultivation is unstable... initiating tribulation]

An ungodly amount of lightning descended upon Nox, but she seemed to relish the onslaught as liquid shadow wreathed her bark, and she greedily absorbed the heavenly punishment.

"Look's like I will have a Nascent Soul Bastion real soon," Ashlock mused as he returned to Red Vine Peak to join the 'fun.' Who didn't love getting struck by lightning?

Once again, and hopefully for the last time, he pulled up his system to begin his ascension.

[Requirements to turn Chaos Nebula into an Inner World have been met!]

[11743 / 10000 Sacrificial Credits

1 / 1 Absorbed Fire Star Cores

1 / 1 Absorbed Water Star Cores

1 / 1 Absorbed Earth Star Cores

1 / 1 Absorbed Wind Star Cores

1 / 1 Absorbed Metal Star Cores]

[Do you wish to form your Inner World and begin the ascension process to Nascent Soul Realm?]

"Yes."

With those simple words, reality began to shake as his soul slowly rose out of his trunk, past his branches and canopy, to float as a literal sun of spatial Qi above him.

[Expanding Inner World...]

"Huh?" Ashlock said as his Star Core floating overhead suddenly began to balloon in size until it completely dwarfed the entire mountain range, illuminating everything in a lilac hue under the dark clouded sky. Through the lilac haze of his soul, he could see the Chaos Nebula being crushed under immense Qi pressure from a mixture of random Qi's into an actual planet.

"That's ridiculous!" Magnus said over the roaring thunder as he pointed to the sky, his finger trembling, "A Star Core of such size and to have the ego to rip it out and challenge the very heavens with nothing but your soul is... is... the act of a true immortal unfazed by heaven's puny might!"

Ashlock didn't want to admit this was the system's doing, as he had no idea how to handle an ascension.

[Beginning ascension to Nascent Soul Realm...]

The heavens answered his challenge by tearing the sky apart, and thousands of lightning bolts of every color and Qi imaginable struck his Star Core and, in turn, his forming Inner World. Some lightning bolts also went and targeted his offspring.

"You dare strike my children?" Ashlock now realized why his system had wanted him to link up with the leyline. He pulled deeply on as much Qi as possible and blanketed every one of his offspring in his Qi to protect them. He wouldn't let them become collateral damage like the mortals of Slymere had.

[Ascension to Nascent Soul Realm at 1% (estimated time of tribulation: 7 days)...]

Ashlock coated himself in his {Lightning Qi Barrier [A]} and hunkered down for the long haul. His past ascension to Star Core had been quick, but it seemed the inclusion of the Inner World and becoming a demi-divine being had upped the difficulty of the tribulation to hell level.

"I just hope the Blood Lotus Sect stays quiet—"

***

Vincent Nightrose's eyes snapped open.

"Too soon," he muttered as he stared at the stone ceiling—he could still smell and feel the vicious blood of the bloodline holder he was bathing in. There was still plenty to absorb before the ritual was complete, and he added their bloodline to his arsenal.

Vincent's eyes narrowed, "Why am I awake?"

Something felt wrong. Terribly wrong.

Raising his pale hand that dripped with blood, he gripped the edge of the stone coffin he was using to bathe in blood and hauled his naked body out. His skin was sunken, gripping his bones like a layer of paint, and his claw-like toenails scraped against the stone floor as he walked.

He sniffed the air, uninterested in the musky scent of death as he crushed the skull of the person whose blood he had been bathing in. Instead, he used his bloodline-hunting ability and picked up on a delectable distant smell.

"Ripe already?" Vincent smirked as he licked the blood and dirt from between his spindly fingers with his pointed tongue but then paused. Something else was tainting the smell—something he hated.

A powerful infant soul was being born. Someone was ascending to Nascent Soul Realm on his land.

"Oh, this won't do at all," Vincent shuffled toward the door of his cultivation chamber.

It would seem someone had forgotten who ruled this place.
