“This is a raid boss!”

“Yes? I needed a good defender.” She had chosen raid enhancement on purpose, that was the point of the entire exercise.

“Here, look,” he said, sharing the results from his Explorer skill.

[Explorer]Category: Dungeon BossThreat Level: RaidMonster Type: KoboldDamage: PhysicalKnown Abilities: Minions.

“Even the identification for your dungeon has been updated.”

“Is that a problem?” Raid bosses were the strongest dungeon monsters, and now that she could make them, she would be able to finally address Lyeneru’s harsh criticism of her defenses. Bosses meant safety for her dungeon, fewer assassins getting in, and fewer random monsters wandering in like the dire bear or zombies and skeletons. All she needed to do was place one at every entrance and chokepoint – raid bosses were the pinnacle of dungeon power; she finally had the tools to protect herself.

It also explained why she had been able to select three Domain Magic skills – it was consistent with what she had observed from clearing the Ruins of Dal’mohra, she should expect three Domain Magic skills for a raid class boss, and two for a normal boss.

“The novices have been practicing on groups of isolated Kobolds and slimes. If this is the next threat they will face, how do you think they’ll fare?” Calen asked.

Ali’s eyes settled on her oversized Kobold and his matching minions – an almost optimal group of classes, equipped with some of her best items and suffused with the power of her domain mana. Her mind conjured images of the novices – Havok, Aiden, Teagan, Seth, Basil… all brimming with curiosity, excitement, and the potential of their powerful new classes. It was them who would be facing her creation. None of them had even reached level ten yet, and all their experience was in groups of three to five, facing her weakest minions. This fight would be far worse than Mato and her facing the Swordmaster Kobold, or the four of them facing off against the Bugbears and Goblin shaman way back before all of them had reached bronze level or even joined the guild.

“Shit! I need to talk to Vivian,” Ali said, a sudden weight settling into her chest. If they didn’t have some warning, the novices were all going to unwittingly stumble into the final chamber of the sewers and die.

Calen made a calming gesture. “Don’t look so worried, Ali, this is all good learning.”

“Not if learning is quite so dangerous,” Ryn said, wide-eyed. “I think you need to help Ali plan this better, Calen – and, to be fair, Ali, you had no idea just how much more powerful your raid-level boss would turn out to be. Those numbers are scary.”

Whipping out a scrap of cloth, Calen mopped Ali’s forehead and said, in his squeakiest falsetto, “I’m so scary, Ryn, I know!”

“Calen, you’re terrible!” Ali smacked his arm as he cracked up at his own joke.

“I know,” he said, grinning – but then his face took on a more serious cast. “On a more serious note, I think talking with Vivian is appropriate. We don’t want any accidents.”

“I just hope it’s not a mistake.”

“Remember when we took down that Skeletal Wyvern?” Calen said. “All it took was some advice and a good plan – this boss has the potential to really accelerate those novices’ levels.”

“Ok,” Ali said. She liked this more confident, easygoing Calen. Something must have happened to him at the Pathfinder Guild, she realized. Something good.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledgehttps://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledgehttps://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg
