Due to the enormous potential for economic disruption, every Silver Cog Trading Co. Appraiser must be familiar with the major classifications for dungeons. Whenever a new dungeon emerges in a region, ascertaining its value before the competition is of paramount importance to reevaluating and pivoting our business interests in the area, and must be accurately completed before the economic fallout materializes.

The categorizations then, in order of increasing importance, are:

Trap or Puzzle Dungeon: This category of dungeon spawns few to no monsters, instead using traps or puzzles to protect itself from invaders. Unless the dungeon has learned to use valuable resource nodes, items, or treasure to lure in adventurers to feed its growth, dungeons like this are of little value and should be ignored. They are dangerous, best reported to our Public Disinformation Department for use in distracting our opponents.

Resource Dungeon: The typical resource dungeon manifests one or more valuable resources that can be harvested. Usually featuring beasts, plants, oozes, or some kinds of undead such as ghosts, these dungeons boast no useful items. But monster parts or mining nodes may be present that can be harvested for a steady profit. Spider dungeons may be harvested for venom or silk, dragon dungeons for scales and bones, plant dungeons for alchemical and herbalism reagents, and so on. A standard agreement with the local guild, if present, is the recommended approach, unless the resource is of extraordinary value. Consult with the resource catalog for more information.

Item Dungeon: Typically containing humanoid monsters such as Goblins, naga, lizardfolk, Kobolds, or even zombies and skeletons, item dungeons strengthen their monsters by creating equipment for them to wear. Depending on the level and quality of the items, and ease of access to the dungeon, the appropriate response might be anything from a standard agreement with the local adventurer guild to investing in a full Silver Cog chapter or even funding the development of a dungeon town.

Obviously, there is incredible variety and crossover when considering specific examples. Be certain to categorize the dungeon by the most valuable resource or item available.

- Internal Manual on Dungeon Economics by Bixi Bargainhunter, Silver Cog Trading Co.

Ali shut the book – a stodgy tome titled ‘The Elven Grammatica: An In-Depth Treatise on Elvish Language’ – deciding that this was a good point to stop their lessons. Ryn had found the dreary book lurking in the Vertias Library a few days ago, and Ali had decided to lighten it up by giving her copy a bright yellow cover instead of boring old brown. Both Calen and Ryn were making fantastic progress – especially Ryn, with the pretty silver enchanted hairpin Calen had found for her at the Pathfinders Guild boosting her intelligence. Still, it would probably be a while before either of them fully mastered the language.

“Thanks, Ali,” Ryn said, smiling and sitting back to roll her shoulders and knead knots out of her neck with her fingers. In typical Ryn-style, she hadn’t even batted an eyelid at the news of her possible magical heritage, being far more concerned with what the story had meant for Ali than herself.

“You’re welcome,” Ali answered, taking out her Grimoire and paging to the Kobold chapter, relishing the sharper insights into the runic magic from the perception boost that came with Calen’s thoughtful gift.

“What are you going to work on, now?” Calen asked curiously.

“I should resummon the monsters the adventurer group killed in the sewers,” she answered. It was a chore she had to do more and more frequently now that her minions were defending against both the eager adventurer groups wanting to train, and the incursions of zombies and skeletons that had continued unabated ever since Alexander Gray had arrived. “Also, a level twenty zombie showed up through the cavern system and took out some of my defenders.” Her minions were doing a great job at keeping most of the monsters out, but she needed to replace them as soon as possible in case they got overrun again.

“I really like the improvements to your security, Ali,” Calen said. “You even learned to see me in stealth.”

“The bats and the slimes are good at detecting stealth,” she explained. “Wolves too, if they’re close enough.” Her enhanced perception was even helping with Martial Insight.

“Could I offer some advice?”

Ali puffed out her cheeks, “I didn’t really want to jump on you the minute you got back, Calen, but yes, I’ve been wanting to ask you… uh, a lot of questions.”

“Aah, thanks. Well, the Poison Cloud traps in the sewer are a great choice, but they all trigger on the third activation. I could stroll right through without setting any of them off. Can you make them more random?”

“Oh, I didn’t think of that,” she answered. She had just assumed she would be targeting the third person in whichever group was walking through the sewer, without even considering the possibility of people coming down solo. It was an insightful observation – even if it should have been obvious – of the kind she had come to appreciate from him.

She considered the options for a bit, deciding that she could mix it up with timers instead of counters so that some of the traps triggered on a fixed duration, and she could also vary the counter traps to have a different number. She wrote it down, adding it to her to-do list. “Any other ideas?”

“Hmm… yes, maybe put some of those Grasping Roots traps in the Poison Clouds? I think they’re a little far apart, still.”

Ali noted it down for her to check on later. It was a good idea – especially if she could find something other than poison for the combination so it worked on the undead. “Hey, Calen. I unlocked a skill advancement for Domain Mastery earlier, and I’m pretty sure it’s for making boss monsters. Do you want to help me figure it out?” Even though she had learned it from the Lich’s book, she had been antsy with anticipation all morning, but she had no idea where to even start.

Calen brightened visibly. “Now we’re talking. What did you get?”

Ali shared the advanced Domain Mastery description with him.

“What do you need help with?” he asked, frowning slightly. “It seems fairly straightforward, right?”

Ali did not miss the sudden appearance of his notebook and the happy grin on his face as he began jotting down notes. She could not be annoyed with him when he was in this kind of mood, so clearly happy to be back with them.

“How do I make a good boss?” she began. “I don’t want mediocre ones – I don’t have the mana for that! Which monster should I choose? How does the enhancement work?” In truth, Ali had a million questions, some of which she knew she would only be able to answer after she had fully explored the skill.

“Whoa, slow down there!” Calen laughed. “I’m not a dungeon, so I’ve never made a boss before. Why don’t we start by thinking about where you want to put it first? Bosses can be used to guard important places, for example, or to restrict access to different parts of the dungeon.”

“Like the library? Or do you mean the ventilation shaft down to the ruins? I could block the entrances where the zombies are getting in. Oh, I know – let’s start with the rockfall separating the sewer and the forest cavern!” Calen’s suggestion had instantly shifted her thinking from what the boss was, to what she wanted to use it for, and she found it focused her quite effectively.

“All good ideas. The rockfall is a strategic chokepoint, and you could put something like a slime or a Kobold there to guard the entrance to the rest of the dungeon.”

It was also how Roderik had got in. “Can we go try it now?” Ali’s mind was already bubbling with ideas, and she could barely wait to test them all.

“Yes, let’s go,” Calen answered, an excited grin on his face matching her own.

“Can I come?” Ryn asked. “I want to see this, too!”

“Of course, Ryn!” Ali flew them all across the Forest Cavern, arcing up through the hole and into the sewer chamber she had enlarged. Her slimes and Kobolds still guarded the area, undisturbed so far by the novice adventurers – presumably because she had put several higher-level challenges closer to the stairway down into the forest.

“Are you going to keep it low-level for the novices?” Ryn asked. “I read that dungeons get progressively more dangerous.”

“I think so. I mean, it makes sense.” She didn’t want to create something that would instantly kill them – the image of Havok’s beaten and bruised body sprung to her mind – and she shuddered at the thought of her being responsible for their deaths. Besides, it would invalidate the entire purpose of her agreement with the Guildmaster, which was to help the novices grow – at least, in the sewers.

“That will make the novices happy,” Calen approved. “Nothing too brutal up here. We want them alive, right Miss Dungeon-Breath?”

“Calen! Be serious – of course I don’t want the test to be deadly, not for novices… ah, this is hard. It needs to be challenging… maybe it’s a perfect way to test out my skill,” Ali said, intending to take advantage of Vivian’s request to its fullest. Starting with a low-level monster would be the perfect way to learn what her new skill did, especially considering her higher-level monsters reserved so much more mana and she was running a little tight at the moment. Hopefully, her new boss would also be able to provide her some early warning for higher-level raiders and assassins coming into her dungeon from the town.

“I think a Kobold,” she decided, surveying the monsters in the chamber. She chose a muscular, green-scaled Kobold warrior sporting a sword and a shield and called him over.

“Command me, Ancient Mistress.”

“I’m going to try a new skill on you that should make you more powerful,” she told him.

“I am ready,” the Kobold answered, flashing her a toothy grin, presumably the idea of becoming more powerful sitting rather well with him.

Warrior – Kobold – level 10

“Here goes.” Ali used her new Domain Mastery ability and picked the warrior as her target. Immediately, a golden line of text chimed into her mind, waiting for her to make a decision.

Choose Domain Enhancement Level: Domain, Boss, or Raid.

“I have to choose Domain, Boss, or Raid,” she said, shrugging. “What do these even mean?” She knew what each one meant, individually, but why were these three things grouped as a choice?

“Can you get more information from the enhancement levels?” Calen asked.

“How?”

“Try with your Sage of Learning? Sometimes skills like that allow you to unveil more insights,” Calen suggested.

“I didn’t think of that,” she said. Calen always seemed to know the most obscure details about anything to do with monsters, skills, strategies, or dungeons. Trying to invoke her Sage of Learning on the Domain Enhancement took substantial focus, but suddenly she received a notification, and a rush of golden text scrolled across the parchment in her mind.

DomainRequirements: Anything created from, and within your domain manax1.2 damage multiplierDomain area restrictionRespawn capableDomain Enhancement

Studying the description merely gave her more questions, so she focused on the other two.

BossRequirements: minion, medium density domain mana+2 Domain Magic skillsx5 to Health, Stamina, and Manax5 to mana reservation costx2 damage multiplierDomain area restrictionRespawn capableDomain EnhancementRaidRequirements: minion, medium density domain mana+3 Domain Magic skillsx10 to Health, Stamina, and Manax10 to mana reservation costx2.5 damage multiplierDomain area restrictionRespawn capableDomain Enhancement

“Oh, domain magic!” Excitement bubbled within her as she shared the information with Calen and Ryn. It was the first time anything in her class had referenced the strange ‘Domain Magic’ she learned every time she deconstructed a boss.

“Well, that’s interesting,” Calen said, his quill scribbling furiously.

The details were a mix of straightforward and confusing, so she simply decided to try ‘Raid’. What was the point of going with anything less when she was trying to figure out what the skill would do? Besides, whatever she made would need to be strong enough to defend her domain, and of all the bosses she had fought, the raid-level ones were the most effective.

“I picked the ‘raid’ enhancement since the Kobold is only level ten,” she said, explaining her choices to Calen and Ryn, who nodded together. She triggered the magic.

An unexpectedly powerful surge rippled through her domain mana, centered on the Kobold warrior. Thick streamers of golden arcane and luminous green nature mana burst upwards and swirled through the creature as he was physically levitated from the ground under the power of the magic coursing through him. Ali took an involuntary step backward, trying to study the complex formations spawned from her domain mana. The arcing and swirling magic was doing something to him, connecting his core to the structure of the domain all around them.

That seems… a lot?

The rush of magic cut off with a visible flash, and the Kobold crashed to the ground. He shook his reptilian head and slowly got back up to his feet, towering head and shoulders above the other Kobolds who were all staring at him with awe. Domain mana still flowed through him as he stood there and examined his enhanced body, now substantially larger and more muscular than before. Even his gear had grown larger, triggering a sympathetic ripple through the Grimoire as it recorded the larger sized variations. It looks just like the Skeletal Wyvern. Obviously, her mana affinities were different, and this was a Kobold, but the way the domain mana interacted with him was unique – unmistakably similar.

“Wow, he’s bigger than Thuli,” Calen said.

“Wait, I’m getting more notifications,” Ali said, nibbling at her lower lip. That was a lot of Kobold.

