Domain Respawn applied to Kobold Warrior.Raid Domain Enhancement applied to Kobold Warrior.Select additional Domain Magic skills for Kobold Warrior.Choose up to three:Attribute EnhancementSource: Class, Piercer Scorpion, Twin Wights, Skeletal WyvernAttributes: Strength, Endurance, Dexterity, Intelligence, Wisdom+50% to the base attribute of a monsterCan be chosen once per attributeSkill – Domain MagicMinionsSource: ClassAssign minions of the same or lower level to your enhanced monster. The cumulative level of the assigned minions must be less than or equal to [monster level x 3] for a Boss enhancement or [monster level x 4] for a Raid enhancement. Minions assigned in excess of this amount will be held in reserve and then a random set of minions will be summoned every respawn.Skill – Domain MagicSummoningSource: Skeletal WyvernAssign a creature imprint for your minion to summon during combat. The amount and rate of summons depends on available mana, and creature type, and enhancement level. Summoned creatures must be compatible.Skill – Domain MagicEnrageRequirements: Raid EnhancementSource: Skeletal WyvernYour creature will gain increased damage and haste below 20% remaining healthSkill – Domain MagicNova StrikeSource: Piercer ScorpionEnhance a magical manifestation skill to produce a powerful nova centered on your minion, striking all targets within range.Skill – Domain MagicAffinity AuraRequirements: Choose a compatible Magical affinitySource: Twin Wights, ClassAffinities: Death, Nature, ArcaneEnhance your summoned creature’s natural affinity to produce an aura of magic that fills the area around it. The nature and effects of the aura are dependent on the type of mana affinity. When used with a raid enhancement it will produce a significantly more powerful effect.Skill – Domain MagicTwin BindingRequirements: Raid Enhancement. Two minions.Source: Twin WightsChoose a second minion as the twin target, binding both together with the bonds of magic. Each minion of the pair can be assigned a single Domain Magic skill. When one of the pair dies, the other is restored to full health and gains the Domain Magic skill of its partnerSkill – Domain Magic

“Oh, Calen! This is what the Domain Magic skills are for!” she exclaimed, excited to finally see the details of the skills she had been learning whenever they killed a boss. She shared all of them with her companions immediately.

“This is getting quite complicated,” Ryn said, wrinkling her nose as some or other skill made her eyes flicker with subtle movements of mana.

“It had to be something like this,” Calen answered, agreeing. “The names of the skills matched too closely to what we saw the bosses doing.”

“What should I pick?” It was a tough choice. While the descriptions were terse, she had faced most of these abilities in combat and had a very clear idea of what they would do. Each had been challenging, but it was the combinations that made the boss work. The only ones she hadn’t seen were the ones her own class had provided. Minions…

“Perhaps the ‘Minions’ one?” Calen said, almost echoing her thoughts. “I’m guessing that allows you to make a group fight?”

“Sounds suitably bossy,” Ryn agreed. “Didn’t you say you wanted to use this to test it out?”

“That must be what the Swordmaster Kobold had,” Ali mused. The monstrous Kobold in the entry hall of the ruins of Dal’mohra had to have been a boss, and he had several minions with him. It had been a dangerous fight for her and Mato, but they had won because of his tenacity and her Martial Insight skill.

She hadn’t had her Arcane Insight skill back then, nor the Magical Analysis for her Sage of Learning, both of which she was certain were required for her to learn the Doman Magic skills of their defeated enemies.

“We need to find some more bosses for you to deconstruct,” Calen said, still studying the list. “The more Domain Magic you collect, the more options you’ll have for stronger bosses or bosses with unusual and powerful skill combinations.”

“How do you always think so clearly, Calen?” Ali said, annoyed that she hadn’t thought of it first. What he was saying made sense. If she hadn’t been able to analyze the spells, she would have only two attribute enhancements and the minions one, and nothing else. Because of her Sage and Insight skills, she now had the potent abilities of three other bosses she could use whenever she needed.

“I can do some research, if you’d like,” Ryn offered. “I’ve been reading up on dungeons a lot, lately.”

“That would be perfect,” Ali said, offering her a smile. Turning to her waiting notification, she chose the Minions skill for her warrior’s first Domain Magic.

Select or create minions: 40 levels remaining.

“I have forty levels to use…”

“Make a healer,” Calen suggested.

Ali considered her options and then created a level ten Kobold Acolyte and assigned it to her warrior as a minion, causing the available levels remaining to immediately drop to thirty.

Select or create minions: 30 levels remaining.

“This seems pretty straightforward,” Ali said. “Thirty more levels.” She could make three more minions of the same level, or presumably more if she wanted to use lower-level monsters.

“What’s next?” Ryn asked.

“Some damage classes?” Ali asked.

“Yes, maybe a spell caster and another melee class?” Calen suggested.

“Easy enough.” Ali summoned a Fire Mage and a Dagger Rogue, customizing their levels as she summoned them so that they were both level ten, and then assigned them to the Kobold warrior as his minions.

Select or create minions: 10 levels remaining.

“I have ten levels left,” Ali said, running through her Kobold options in her mind. “An archer? A Bone Mage? Maybe one of those Slingers?” She hadn’t used her sling wielders much – she always found fire to be far more effective.

“What about some of those oozes?” Ryn said, pointing to the water channel where one of her Brine Oozes lurked.

“Oh, good idea,” Calen said. “They might make a nice surprise.”

It wasn’t as if she had any reason to stick to Kobolds, so she picked two level five Brine Oozes and added those.

Minions assigned.

“What next?” Ali asked. “I have two more Domain Magic skills to choose.”

“You have a strong party – tank, healer, and two damage classes. Perhaps give the warrior some attribute boosts?” Calen suggested.

“Like endurance? Or strength?” Ali hadn’t considered the effects of the attribute enhancements, but an endurance boost for a tank would probably be quite strong. Or even strength. How do I choose?

“Why not both?” Calen asked. “Warriors scale extremely well on both attributes, and you have the space for both.”

“Why not?” she decided, and committed to the idea.

Attribute Enhancement (Endurance) applied.Attribute Enhancement (Strength) applied.

Her domain mana surged once again, and the reservation for her three Kobolds and two Oozes assigned as minions was released, transferring visibly to the Kobold warrior as an attachment of their mana formations. The domain mana flowed through them causing them to grow just like the warrior, although not quite so large.

Her chime sounded.

Domain Enhancement complete.Your reserved mana has increased by +222.Domain Mastery has reached level 21.

“Wow, it’s expensive!” She had already been tight on mana, and this enhanced Kobold warrior had just reserved ten times the cost she had paid for the original, unenhanced version. Perhaps it was too much to expect that it would be free like her domain-attached runic circles. It made sense though; the monstrous Kobold was huge compared to his kin and infused with the power of her domain which coursed through him like a river. He was supporting two powerful domain attribute enhancements, and maintaining five other minions of his own. The consolation was that the mana reservation for his minions had transferred to him, or the domain itself, and Ali was only paying the single – albeit exorbitant – cost for her boss.

“How do you feel?” she asked her Kobold warrior.

“Powerful, Ancient Mistress.” He bared his teeth and stretched his muscles, causing cracking noises to fill the chamber. Ali took an inadvertent backward step. “I wish to fight.”

“You will have your chance soon,” she said, slipping into the senses of her first boss, and exploring his world. As the skill had described, he was now restricted to the chamber in which she had enhanced him, though his range extended a fair way down the tunnels and even down the stairs into the Forest Cavern. She had him run around a little and when he reached the limits of his range, she could sense the pull of the domain mana preventing him from leaving.

“So, he’s stuck here now,” Ali said.

“That makes sense,” Ryn said. “Lots of dungeon books talk about ‘boss tethering’ behavior.”

“Yup,” Calen agreed. “Some people even use it as a strategy. You’ll need to learn to account for it when you design the bosses.”

“I see.” So much to consider. She could even see the effect with her mana-sight – the domain looked somehow subtly thinner, perhaps stretched – as if it were under some sort of load to support the new domain enhancement, and this load coincided with the range of the Kobold. But he felt exceptionally powerful, just as he had said.

She pulled up his status sheet to see what her newest skill advance had created.

Race: KoboldActive Buffs: Raid, Respawn, Warrior's FortitudeClass: Warrior – level 10- Strike – level 9- Shield Bash – level 5- Demoralizing Shout – level 4- Warrior's Fortitude – level 8- Rush – level 4- Shield Mastery – level 10- Rallying Cry – level 1- [Locked] - [Locked] - [Locked]General Skills- Identify – level 7Domain Magic- Damage Multiplier: x2.5 to all attack and spell damage- Minions: 5- Enhanced Attribute (Strength): +50% to base Strength- Enhanced Attribute (Endurance): +50% to base EnduranceAptitudes- Language: Draconic- Draconic Blood (Racial): Resistance to Fire is increased by +70- Kobold Trickery (Racial): +5 to Dexterity and Intelligence. - Unbreakable (Class): +20% to armorAttributes- Vitality: 52 (+18) - Strength: 70 (+24) - Endurance: 89 (+31) - Dexterity: 26- Perception: 18- Intelligence: 16- Wisdom: 16Equipment- Body: Masterwork Steel Breastplate – level 10- Weapon: Bone Shortsword – level 10- Off Hand: Bone Buckler – level 10Armor: 244Physical Damage Reduction: 46.56%Health: 5200/5200Stamina: 7120/8900 (1780 Reserved)Mana: 1600/1600

Ali studied the changes in mute astonishment, wordlessly sharing the warrior’s status sheet with Ryn and Calen.

“Ali…”

“Wow!”

Wow is right, she thought. The first changes were the two active buffs imparted by her domain magic. When she inspected the respawn buff, she learned that her Kobold had a six-hour recharge before her domain would presumably resummon him using the imprint recorded in her domain mana – probably using the magic of her Grimoire of Summoning. It wasn’t exactly clear, given that she hadn’t studied the magic in action, but she assumed that was how it would work.

“Six-hour respawn,” she said.

“Will it resummon his gear?” Calen asked.

“I presume so,” Ali said. It would be a bit stupid if it didn’t. “My Grimoire usually summons them with reasonable default gear choices now that I have customization.” Same with the minions, but she quickly verified that they had the Respawn buff also. She had so many questions, but most of them would need to wait till she had time to run some extensive testing.

Below the usual skills on his status sheet, she found the three assigned Domain Magic skills – enhanced endurance, strength, and minions, but there was something else in that section she had not expected.

“Does that damage multiplier double everything?” Calen exclaimed, catching up to her accelerated reading speed, and stopping at the same point.

“It’s more than double,” Ryn said.

“What else is there, other than attack and spell damage?” Ali asked. It was perhaps not all damage, but there was not a lot else that mattered in combat. If the warrior had poisons or something, perhaps that wouldn’t be affected, but in this case, it seemed that everything would hit a lot harder.

“Maybe alchemical explosions won’t be affected?” Calen mused.

“Wouldn’t that count as an attack?” Ryn asked.

“Yes, maybe…”

Then there were the attributes. Coincidentally, she had chosen to enhance his endurance attribute with one of her Domain Magic skill slots, which happened to be the attribute his Warrior’s Fortitude skill was based on. That made it boost its vitality and strength a little more in addition to the usual benefits of endurance. The base improvement to strength would make the warrior hit a lot harder and block substantially more attack damage.

“Did you see the resources?” Ali asked. It was the health, mana, and stamina at the end of the status that grabbed her attention.

“That’s a lot of health,” Calen observed, when she pointed it out. “Is he getting a hundred points per attribute?”

“I think so,” she answered, checking the numbers with the description she had for the raid enhancement. It seemed that the major enhancement to her Kobold was an enormous increase in health, stamina, and mana. Most races received ten health per vitality point – and the same from endurance and wisdom to produce stamina and mana. Some variation was possible, just rare – like her own race having less health, but correspondingly more mana – but her Kobold had just gained ten times the normal amount in every resource from her domain enhancement, turning it into an absolute powerhouse of a monster.

“If this is the way dungeon bosses typically work, it’s no wonder they take so long to kill,” Calen said, furiously scribbling notes and calculations.

“You’re right,” Ali said, thoughtfully. His comment – if correct – explained precisely why they had had to fight for so long to kill the Skeletal Wyvern and the Twin Wights. Both had been Raid-level bosses. Curious now, she checked with each of the Kobold warrior’s minions, finding that with the exception of the domain skills, they had all been similarly enhanced. At least her ability to check their status sheets answered one other question – even though she had ceded the mana reservation for the three Kobolds to the warrior, they still counted as her minions for Martial Insight, even though they were also the warrior’s minions.

Calen’s eyes suddenly widened, and his head snapped around in alarm. “Ali, I think we might have a problem!”

“What is it?” Ali asked, surprised by the urgency and worry in his voice, the expression of surprise and alarm on his face.

