I can see why he thinks it’s a bad idea for me to stick around, but he doesn’t have all the information. Technically, neither should I, but considering the circumstances, it’d be hard to keep me in the dark. Even knowing what I know, I’d be lying if I said the idea of leaving never crossed my mind, but so long as Dastan and his people are stuck on the front lines, then I will stand beside them. My pride and honour demands it, plus Kuang Biao all but guaranteed my safety, though I doubt he’d be so confident if he knew he was facing an eight-hundred year old Imperial Scion turned meat-puppet master. Regardless, I stick to my guns and tell ZhuShen I’ll remain in Sinuji until I receive orders to the contrary, and he exits gracefully after failing to change my mind the second time around, leaving me free to go back to sleep while Alsantset drags the reluctant Luo-Luo away for their daily spar.

Minutes later, mere seconds after my head touches my pillow, Red One puts an end to my dreams of slumber to inform me that Tam Taewoong is here to visit, so I grudgingly roll out of my bedroll to attend to an uninvited guest for the second time this morning. Unsurprisingly, the Benevolent Asura is also here to convince me to leave before the Defiled arrive, but what’s surprising is that he even tells me through Sending that Not-Gen is riding at the head of the Enemy army. While I already knew this because Alsantset told me as soon as she heard from Nian Zu, Taewoong sharing this information is in violation of military law since Lieutenant Colonel Watanabe expressly forbade all Officers from informing the rank and file of Not-Gen’s presence. Most wouldn’t think twice about ignoring orders to tell me, but not Tam Taewoong, a model soldier and Warrant Officer of the Imperial Army, and especially not for someone who’s barely an acquaintance like myself.

Touched as I am by the gesture, I inform him I have no intention of abandoning my people or neglecting my duties, while also trying to hint that things are not as dire as they might seem. I can’t Send and am under way too much scrutiny to go divulging military secrets, but regardless of how I approach the matter, Taewoong refuses to believe I’m staying in Sinuji of my own free will. To be fair, I wouldn’t believe me either if I were in his shoes, but after emphatically attempting to persuade me for some time and getting absolutely nowhere, he eventually gives up and pledges to do what little he can to help keep me alive while we clasp hands in parting.

A touching sentiment, even though I doubt his help will even be necessary. Colonel Hongji has this all on lockdown, and he isn’t even here.

Before I can even think about going back to the warm comfort of my bedroll, I’m informed I have yet another visitor, this time the matronly Healer Lishan Suzhen. Never one to mince words, she updates me on the latest news with regards to her efforts to create a workable syringe using hollow bird bones and inflated animal bladders. I have no idea how a workable syringe would even be possible, but she still drops by from time to time to see what I might say. Even though I’ve little to add, she’s making decent strides on her own and even throws in a tantalizing piece of information at the end: one of her colleagues from the South described a tree native to her home village which might be of interest to Suzhen, because it produces a sticky, milky sap which reeks to high heaven and could be used to form an air and water tight seal between two tubes without creating too much friction. This tree sap, which the children collect to fashion balls and the locals use to waterproof fabrics, sounds suspiciously like natural rubber, which means it won’t be long before I have a giant ball for Ping Ping to play with, not to mention all the other cool stuff that comes with rubber.

Like… well, honestly, I don’t really know how useful rubber would be. I just want to teach the Guardian Turtle to play fetch.

Once we hit a natural lull in our conversation, the stern woman sits back in her chair and studies me from over her teacup. “You are a clever young man,” she says, though not in a complimentary fashion. “Perhaps too clever for your own good. I’ve no doubt you’ve all sorts of plans and contingencies set in place should the worst come to pass, but man proposes and Heaven disposes. Even the best-laid plans can go awry, so if you should need aid, know that I will lend what I can. This I so pledge, on my honour and the honour of my family.”

While not a Heavenly Oath, Suzhen’s promise is as good as gold because that’s the type of person she is. Grateful for her support and saving me the need to explain my stance for a third time today, I offer her a martial salute and bow in my chair, but only because standing up would be seen as ending the meeting early and therefore rude. With Luo-Luo’s constant reminders, I’m starting to get the hang of this manners thing, and in another decade, I might even be competent.

Without another word, Lishan Suzhen stands up and pats my cheek before signaling that there’s no need to see her out, because shortly after, the third-most senior Healer in Sinuji arrives unannounced to take her place. Declining my offer of a fresh pot of tea, the stocky, swarthy Taokang Geyan takes a brief sip and nibbles on a pastry for the sake of propriety before setting both cup and plate aside. “Your Death Corps guards,” he Sends, making an effort not to look at Kuang Biao in particular. “Do you trust them?”

“About as far as I can throw them,” I reply, wishing I could Send back. The Death Corps are loyal, but not to me. They’ll protect me as long as the Emperor deems it necessary, but if certain individuals carrying the proper tokens, like say the Legate and his Imperial Fan, were to order my death, then Red One would gladly lop my head off without hesitation, as would any other member of my Death Corps honour guard.

Hell, Kuang Biao would probably even smile while doing it.

“Good.” Nodding in approval, the portly Western Healer Sends, “It is this Geyan’s greatest regret he was not in the province when it fell to the Enemy, else he would be there fighting the Enemy instead of sitting here in Sinuji like a turtle hiding in its shell. While here, he saw with his own eyes how you, a mere boy, rose to the occasion to throw back the Enemy, first while out on patrol and again on the fields of Sinuji. He saw how you brought yourself back from the brink of death even after sustaining such grievous injuries, and it grates on this Geyan’s nerves to see a true Hero of the Empire treated so poorly, tossed to the wayside after giving so much to this Empire. The Imperials have made a habit of this in recent times, and…” Furrowing his brow, he lets the thought trail off before leaning forward as if to whisper into my ear even though we’re speaking through Sending. “Have you the means to pass a message to your Grand-Mentor without alerting your Death Corps guards?”

Instead of nodding, I try my hand at subtlety and smile wryly at the ignored snacks, leftovers from my first meeting this morning and all other meetings which followed. “My apologies for the lackluster fare. Were my sister not busy training at the sparring fields, she would cook you a meal fit for a king. Why, earlier today, distinguished Healer Taiyi ZhuShen lauded her culinary skills for all to hear.”

Thankfully, the swarthy Healer picks up what I’m throwing down and we make small talk for a short time before he excuses himself from my table, no doubt in a rush to speak with Alsantset about whatever this might be. Even as he disappears from my sight, he Sends, “Have courage, little friend. The night is darkest before the dawn, but know that you have allies where you least suspect it.”

A bit cryptic, but I suppose the gist of it is he’s here to help, though I kinda already figured it out when he came by to visit. While not as concerned as Taiyi ZhuShen, emphatic as Tam Taewoong, or supportive as Lishan Suzhen, Taokang Geyan means well and probably suspects Akanai has been kept in the dark about the oncoming Defiled Army, else she would’ve pulled my ass out of here the minute she found out. Sadly, that’s not how the People operate, and Akanai less so, as she was always more than happy to let me step and stumble into every pothole and pitfall, if only to teach me humility. Hell, I bet if things were going too well, she’d have thrown a wrench into the works just to see me suffer, because suffering builds character.

…

Could it be that this is one of those pitfalls I’m supposed to avoid? Like, a legitimate situation in which I am supposed to ask for help? If I did, would Akanai tell me to get my ass back to the citadel, or maybe even start heading north?

To top it all off, even Lieutenant Hondou Masahige stops by, though only to warn me about leaving in an unenthusiastic monotone, no doubt forced to do so by Watanabe. “A friendly reminder. During the sentencing of Dastan Zhandos and his traitor retinue, you were also conscripted into the army as a private. As such, you are to remain on station in Sinuji until such a time as you are relieved of duty or given orders to the contrary. Passing control of your slaves to another will not absolve you of your obligations, and should you leave your post without permission, you will be charged with dereliction of duty for which the punishment is to be hung by the neck until dead.”

“Yea, I figured as much, but I had no intention of leaving anyways.” Ignoring Masahige’s disbelief, I turn my gaze westward towards Zhen Shi even though the fort walls and tens of kilometers stand between us. “I’ve an old score to settle, a debt to collect on, and I wouldn’t miss this chance for the world.”

“Mother in Heaven...” Shaking his head, Masahige asks, “You mean it, don’t you? You really mean it.”

Unsure if he’s impressed by my bravery or shocked by my idiocy, I merely shrug and salute him as his rank deserves. I’m still not entirely convinced he’s sympathetic to my cause, but he’s definitely not on my side, that’s for sure. Masahige looks out for himself, first and foremost, and I doubt anything I do will ever change him. Once he leaves, I turn my gaze to Kuang Biao and study the Royal Guardian turned Death Corps Guard. At two meters and change, he’s tall, but not ridiculously so, with a frame so slender one could easily mistake him for a good-for-nothing silk pants if he were out of armour. Handsome, but all Martial Warriors are, meaning his chiseled features hardly stand out from the crowd. There’s nothing in his appearance that hints at his prowess, nothing remarkable about him, which makes his skill all the more impressive. Most genius warriors would be overcome with ego, but not Kuang Biao, a cold, calculating man who has yet to slip and show me his true colors.

On a whim, I ask, “So where do you stand? Four people I respect came to warn me to leave, while the Lieutenant Colonel’s mouthpiece ordered me to stay. Not exactly a close call, but every vote counts.”

“Stay.” There’s no joy in his eyes, no satisfaction from seeing me in my plight, not even a smirk to tease me about my impending doom. “Matters are progressing exactly as expected.”

A statement which for some reason leaves me more frightened than reassured, because I know he doesn’t mean they’re going well for me. I’m merely a pawn, but somehow I feel like we’re all pieces on the Legate’s chessboard, and I’ve yet to figure out what his goal is, much less his plan.

Well, it’s too late to do anything about it now except wait. Seeing how it’s a reasonable hour, the monks are probably finished with their morning chants and self-flagellation, so maybe I’ll go see what Jorani is up to and maybe even make friends with Kukku. I hope so, because if things go south, I might need the giant chicken’s help to get out of Sinuji in one piece.

Hmm… how big is the range on Kukku’s dreaming? Is he strong enough to put a million Defiled to sleep? Or even half-a-million?

...Doubt it. The Demon formerly known as Vivek Daatei only had a range of a few dozen meters, and there’s no way life would ever be so easy. Not for Falling Rain, the Mother’s Chosen whipping boy.

Chapter Meme
