"You're right; you should get some sleep," I hear Tabitha say right in front of me. Good, not only could I dodge her excessive praise, but I'll finally get some much-needed sleep.

Almost immediately, I start to feel my conciseness start to drift away…. That is until I feel my world shift as two arms scoop me up in a princess carry.

"What the hell!" I shout as my eyes snap back open and come face to face with a still-smiling Tabitha. "Why are you carrying me?" Again, I snap, half from anger, half from embarrassment.

"You can't move on your own," Tabitha replies like that magically explains everything.

“Yeah, and?” I fume.

“How else was I supposed to shift you to your canvas?" Tabitha twirls in place and softly sets me down where she was initially sleeping.

“Sorry, I didn’t realize what you were doing,” I awkwardly cough to try and hide how embarrassed I was.

I think my Acting skill might have leveled too much because Tabitha mistakes my fake cough for a real one. "Hold on, give me a second," Tabitha moves over to her bag, grabs her waterskin, and brings it over to me. "Here, drink this."

I stick out my tongue in disgust. “Yeah, thanks, but I’m not that thirsty," I lie. I hadn't drunk anything since midday yesterday, and I was incredibly thirsty after the jerky I had last night. Just not for toad eggs.

Tabitha looks confused by my refusal until her face lights up in understanding, and I’m treated to one of the few times I’ve ever heard her snicker. “It’s regular water,” she uncorks the top and holds the waterskin to my lips.

As soon as the cool water touched my lips, I greedily started to guzzle all I could. Eventually, I had to come up for air, and when I did, I confronted Tabitha. "I thought you filled both our canteens up with toad eggs?"

“Correction, I filled your canteen up with toad eggs. As for the water still in your waterskin, I poured it into mine before I contaminated it. So what, did you think I’d poison both our waterskins?” Tabitha asks me with a straight face.

“Wa…. I….. Kind of,” I stammer.

“Would you like more?” Tabitha holds up the waterskin again.

I wanted to say yes but knew I shouldn't drink what was left of it all in one go. "I'm good, thank you."

Tabitha nods and puts the stopper back on her waterskin. “Feeling better.”

“Yeeessss,” I let out a long yawn. Now that I was no longer parched and lying down, staying awake was becoming increasingly challenging. "Is it ok if I rest my eyes?" I tiredly mumble.

“Of course,” I hear Tabitha say, my eyes having fallen shut.

"You faithfully watched over me; now I'll do the same for you," was the last thing I heard before I slipped into blissful sleep.
