They had moved up to the second floor a while ago for Savral to make dinner. The sky shone orange and red to the west. Down south, visible above the far walls of Spur, were the tall brown walls of Ar'Kendrithyst. Stars were appearing in the east, though night was still an hour away. But inside the sewerhouse, bright yellow-white orbs hung in the corners of the room, keeping alive a bright and cheery atmosphere.

Occasionally a flicker of red light appeared in the air outside. Some bug or something had touched Al’s [Ward], but nothing had gotten inside or overly disturbed the protected space. If something had, there would have been a massive burst of red light.

Savral tossed vegetables in the wok, while Jane and Bacci talked about people they had met, in Jane’s case, or people they knew, in Bacci’s case.

Savral said, “Fifteen hours is too long. Five is fast. There’s only so many kilometers of tunnels down there and Dad knows them all.”

“Well here’s another question, then.” Erick asked, “Why are all the damage spells ‘force’ spells? I thought there’d be more...” He flexed his finger in the air, like he was casting magic. “Lightning fingers and flaming fingers. Stuff like that.”

Bacci laughed. “Why would you have expected that?”

“I expected more fireballs and chain lightnings, too,” Jane said.

“What?” Savral added a mostly-liquid sauce to the veggies. Steam billowed from the hot pan. “You expected the Old Wizard spells? For the Script to hand them to you?”

Jane said, “The first magic we saw on Veird was a black and white fireball from the incani registrar from that incani town, Kal’Duresh. I thought he was normal. I realized my mistakes after I spent some time in the guildhouse, reading from the free public library. Dad hasn’t had that opportunity yet.”

Bacci asked, “What did you learn from what you read?”

“To unlock a real damaging spell you need to take the broken down basics that the Script gives you and forge something on your own with relevant skills, like Mana Shaping and Mana Altering.” Jane added, “Apparently it’s very easy to make a bad spell, but if you don’t like what you’ve made you can delete it and try again.”

“Yeah. That’s pretty much the whole story.” Savral pointed to the window. “That lockdown [Ward] is a special spell Dad created. That registrar’s black and white fireball is probably the same.”

Bacci added, “Fireball’s creation is well documented. I don’t know about that black and white one, but ‘Optimal Fireball’ is a high level [Force Bomb] which serves as the base spell, and Mana Altering 5, which transforms force damage into fire damage. A proper Fireball will do something like 150 damage and set fire to everything it touches.”

“Those spells don’t level like the spells you buy with points, either,” Savral said. “You’re stuck with what you’ve made.”

Erick thought out loud, “[Force Bomb] and [Mend]? Mana Shaping to make Mend an AOE spell?”

Bacci and Savral both said, “Uhhh.”

“Nope.”

“Don’t think that works.”

“[Rejuvenation] and [Strike],” said Jane.

Savral asked, “Now what would that accomplish?”

Jane mocked, “You will take your healing and you will like it!”

Savral laughed.

“I don’t think it would work.” Bacci said, “Or it would, and it would be, like, a torture spell. I don’t think you’d like that on the record of your Script.”

“So a non-starter of an idea,” Jane said.

Erick said, “How about—”

The air flashed crimson, a crack tore across Erick’s sight, as Al’s red [Ward] crumbled like the popping of a soap bubble.

Savral leapt into action. “Fuck fuck! Fuck you!” He slammed off the stove and grabbed his helmet, putting it on as he rushed downstairs. As he did that, Bacci yelled, “Everyone downstairs! Right now!” The world flashed yellow. “Secondary ward won’t hold long!”

Jane pulled Erick along. The other three people were already moving before Erick realized he should be moving, but his brain soon caught up. He raced down the stairs, pausing only briefly on the first floor landing to look out across the front room. Blast marks edged the door. Something slammed into the reinforced steel door as glass crashed upstairs and a flash of yellow marked the death of the secondary ward.

They made it to the office and Rest room hallway before Erick asked, “Do we defend here, or—”

Savral kept moving forward, saying, “All this is expendable. We are not. Down the stairs.”

Bacci ran past the open river door, down the stairs to the river room. Erick followed her, Jane followed him, and Savral closed the river door from the river’s side. Down they went, and soon a loud bang reverberated down the stairs. And then another. And another, but the roar of the river was loud down here.

Bacci was at the edge, hugging the railing, pointing down at the dark water. Purple glitter exploded in the air and water crashed against some new obstacle in the torrent. It was a ward. The new obstacle was a ward cast by Bacci. The air exploded in purple glitter again and the river shifted, again, but softer this time.

‘Shh,’ she mimed, with one claw pressed against her lips.

And then she hopped over the railing.
