Erick sat on the couch, sipping on coffee, with a blanket wrapped over his legs and chest as he read one of Quilatalap’s basic soulwork books. It was a personal tome, made by the archlich himself, to introduce the reader to soulwork, both as a concept, and as a defense. Another book sat beside Erick, outlining the basics of enchanting with souls. The basics of making a soul seemed easy enough, but Erick wasn’t about to attempt such a thing at the moment, and maybe not ever.

Quilatalap was in the kitchen, making dinner. It was steaks again, but he was still on the potatoes. He was making ‘sticky potatoes’, which is something Erick had never seen before, but which involved the continuous pounding of potatoes with a mortar and pestle until they turned into a sticky mess. Sticky whiteroot was a traditional side dish in some parts of the world, and apparently some people had made the same thing out of potatoes.

Erick shivered as he read about the dangers of using sapient souls, and pulled his blanket tighter.

Quilatalap frowned. “Your soul should heal soon enough.”

“I’m feeling better already. Thanks for offering to make dinner, too.”

Erick’s soul had been bruised by Quilatalap’s [Shadow Talons] spell, but it was already healing. He should be all better by the time Lapis came calling.

Erick changed the topic, asking, “Why not use [Cleanse] to balance out the manasphere, for soul creation?”

Quilatalap eyed Erick. “You sure you’re okay? Your soul looks fine…”

“I’m good.” Erick smiled. “Thanks though.”

Quilatalap shrugged, then went back to pounding potatoes, as he said, “You would think that with [Cleanse]’s innate ability to bring balance to an area, that this would be good for making a soul. But [Cleanse] specifically helps to erase malformed souls from the world. Or, rather, it helps to allow unnatural souls to go back into oblivion. In fact, [Cleanse] will do much to erase half-summoned souls, like the average zombie or petitioner or thrall, but for fully-summoned souls, [Cleanse] does not work any longer.” He added, “It is a short hop from [Cleanse] to undead eradication magic. Or demon or angel banishing. Or [Familiar] banishing. Anything in a temporary body, really.”

While Erick thought about that, Quilatalap took his pounded potatoes and put them aside, in a [Heat Ward].

“Could a [Cleanse] take out Ophiel?”

Ophiel trilled on Erick’s shoulder.

“Not directly. You’d need a [Greater Banish] for him. [Banish] would work against most non-real entities, but Ophiel is rather stable, and you’d need a specialty [Dispel] like your [Grand Dispel] in order to get rid of all of him at one time.”

Erick went back to reading, as Quilatalap put some vegetables into boiling water.

Eventually, Erick asked, “What is a Blessing, or a Curse?”

“Hmmm…” Quilatalap grabbed four salted and seasoned steaks and put them on the hot grill. The scent of meat and herbs filled the air. Eventually, he said, “Something you shouldn’t mess around with yet. I’ll give you the knowledge, but you wouldn’t have the skill. You should try to make a buff or a debuff, first. They’re the same general methodology, but while buffing or debuffing is akin to tattooing yourself, Blessing and Cursing is akin to self-surgery.”

Erick instantly remembered his conversations with Syllea, about Mana Altering. He said, “I heard buffs were like Mana Altering the aura of a target. The cleaner and more harmonious the altering, the better the buff. Is it the same for debuffing, but in the other direction? Like taking an [Ultrasight] and adding Destruction to blind a person?”

“Got it in one try.” Quilatalap smirked. “But keep going. What do you think is a Blessing or a Curse?”

“A Mana Alter of the Soul, that sticks around for a long, long time? Something more solid than the moving mana of a person’s aura?” Erick asked, “But how? Doesn’t the soul constantly change?”

“Correct. But the shifting of the soul takes about ten years, in normal circumstances. When exposed to trauma and danger, that shift can happen a lot faster. When you gain levels, the soul grows in power, and this too is a shifting of the soul, but one of vastness. Ah… And we could get into the mind-body-soul triumvirate that allows a person to maintain who they are even when everything else is shifting, but that’s too large of a conversation for now.” Quilatalap said, “To go back to buffs and debuffs: those magics are born in the aura of the creator, as is all magic. But Blessings and Curses need to be born in the soul of the creator, and then gifted or forced into the soul of another. This transferal requires a myriad of skills, including self-soul-surgery and supreme aura control. You can use a conjured soul for Blessing or Curse creation, but conjured souls are not truly alive, since they have no mind-body-soul triumvirate; they have no ability to stabilize the Blessing or Curse. Life is more than just a soul, and it is only in life —in the life and soul of the creator— that a Blessing or Curse can actually live on under its own power.”

“I’m getting the impression that this is all a very high level overview.”

Quilatalap laughed as he flipped the steaks. “I haven’t gone into depth about anything, and yet I see you thinking and comprehending, Erick. You’ll get it, now that you’ve been shown the general shape of the road ahead. Just don’t go delving into anything more than the soul of a slime for at least a month. Don’t try creating souls or messing with any of that for at least a year.”

“Maybe not for a lot longer than that.”

Quilatalap smirked. “That’s what I said when I was first starting out, too. But then I found out I wanted to be a Holy Necromancer of Koyabez.” Erick flinched, slightly disbelieving. Quilatalap looked straight at Erick, as though probing with his eyes. He said, “But someone already told you that.” As though he was a lover finally resigned to asking about fidelity, he casually asked, “Who was it? Koyabez?”

“Rozeta, actually.”

Quilatalap’s shoulders went stiff. He breathed out. “… Ha.”

“She said that necromancy used to be an accepted school of magic. Among other things.” Erick said, “She was the one that recommended me to treat you better.”

“… Ah.” Quilatalap looked down at his sizzling steaks.

Erick decided to go for some lighter topics. “Have you been to many places on Veird, yet? Have any favorites? I might be going on a journey soon enough.”

After a moment, Quilatalap breathed out, and relaxed. He put on an easy smile, and asked, “Oh, there’s lots of places to see.” He took the steaks off of the grill, and began talking, “I’m partial to Quintlan, though the Fractured Citadels is always a nice mess to visit. Like seeing bickering children, if you can imagine that…”

He set out a plate for Erick, with a single steak and some of those sticky potatoes and steamed veggies, while he gave himself three steaks and the rest of the food. He spoke of travels. Of the Underworld. Of politics and underlying faction wars that could trace themselves back to the release of certain artifacts from the Armory. Dinner wrapped up, but the talking did not. Erick made coffee and would have copied his cupcakes for dessert, but they were slightly stale after all this time. So instead, Quilatalap took a cake out from a separate fridge. As Quilatalap handed Erick a slice, he continued to speak of the places of Veird that he had visited over the years, of those that were still there, and those that had vanished long ago.

Erick didn’t ask any more questions about magic, or Shades, or plots, or people scurrying about in Ar’Kendrithyst. Quilatalap didn’t either. It was a nice talk. Soon enough Violet knocked on the front door, and came inside, saying that Erick’s meeting with Lapis was a half hour away.

- - - -

The restaurant was nice, if a bit empty with only three occupied tables out of ten; it was late, after all. White marble floors. Gold-leaf wall and window accents. Giant windows, with a good view of the floating gardens of the Palace District. Straight-backed staff in black butler uniforms, who handed out ruby-red wines and tiny menus with barely any options. Over in a corner somewhere, some small group of people was playing light music. It was opulent. It was the first place that seemed worthy of being under the control of someone calling themselves the Shade of Opulence, and ‘Queen’.

Dinner surely would have been a nice experience, if not for the company.

Lapis, the Shade of Enchantment, sat on one side of a cozy table, while Erick had yet to sit down; he had only just arrived, after all. The androgynous woman wore a nice blue dress that was so dark it was almost black, with the gold and blue jewelry to match. All of it was heavily enchanted, but with what, Erick couldn’t tell.

She smiled at him, saying, “Welcome, Erick. Please. Sit.”

She said it like a command, so Erick had to respond in kind.

“I can see many reasons to sit, so I guess I will.” And then he did so.

Lapis smirked.

The waiter handed out two tiny menus, and asked after any specialty drinks.

Lapis said, “A bottle of red. Whatever is good.” She did not allow Erick to look at much of the menu, for she picked up both hers and his, and handed them back to the man, saying, “We’ll take a little bit of whatever. One of the dishes must be chicken-based.”

The waiter took the menus, bowed, and turned around.

“So!” Lapis centered her concentration on Erick, saying, “I couldn’t have imagined that Poriti would have succumbed to that nasty bit of Stat-Overlap. I’ve done experiments on those sorts of things ever since the Virility-Dexterity scramble, and Poriti should have known enough to not let that happen to him.” Her eyes flicked to Erick’s rings, as she said, “Unless you’ve legitimized these stats of yours, somehow? And made all others obsolete? That’s my current guess. Have you been talking to gods, Erick?”

“If you already have these educated guesses, then what do you want me for?”

Lapis shrugged. “We could talk about your experiences with Intelligence and other Stats. But I already know how you’ve fared. Let me guess: Diminishing returns. An equilibrium reached, and sustained. A broadening of sights and thoughts and a relaxation of the body. Have you tried taking a hit from some high powered spell to see how much damage reduction your Constitution actually does?” She looked at him, with eyes of white depths, saying, “Your soul isn’t any physically stronger. Soul attacks probably pose as much danger as normal. Blood Magic is likely included in that Constitution reduction, though.”

“You sound so threatening, Lapis.” Erick said, “Is there a reason you’re like this? You’re better than everyone else, perhaps? How many souls have you torn apart to make your items? I hope you at least made them with conjured souls and not idiot adventurers.”

The waiter almost came to the table with the wine, but he paused upon hearing Erick.

Many people in the restaurant paused, for almost all of them kept some part of their concentration on what was happening over at the table with the Shade and the Fire of the Age.

Erick noticed, and spoke up, “Look at the reaction garnered from a simple talk between two people in power. This is not healthy for your communities. This is not healthy for your psyche, Lapis.” Erick gestured to the waiter to bring the wine. “Sorry about that. Hopefully nothing will happen tonight.”

With pure professionalism, the waiter brought the wine. Then he left.

Lapis picked up her glass and sipped the wine. “Good wine.”

Erick tried the wine. “It is good. Thanks for the invite. This seems like a nice place.”

The audience around the room resumed pretending to eat their meals.

Lapis said, “It is necessary to be strong in this world, Erick. Strength is everything. Without it, you’re like the butlers and the servers; you live at the pleasure of those above you.”

Erick said, “Well that’s just short sighted.”

“Ha!” Lapis’s laugh seemed genuine. She smiled, and the chill in the air vanished. She asked, “How is that short sighted?”

“You have knocked something loose that I have forgotten about, until just now.” Erick asked, “Have you ever heard of the term altruistic egoism?— Ah. No. English words…” He thought. He said, “There’s no comfortable translation, so I will just say selfless selfishness.”

Lapis sipped her wine, then happily said, “Regale me with ideas of your world!”

“I shall, because it benefits me to instruct you on this.” Erick said, “And that right there is the first lesson. The ideas of Altruistic Egoism is all about imparting something to another so that they may help you in the future. By helping others, I help myself.” He added, “This breaks down when there are true enemies, of course, but the idea should fit nicely into the culture of Polite Society of Veird, in a much nicer way than the simple phenomenon of ‘saving the fights till outside of city limits’, which, unless I am wrong, is the bedrock of Polite Society.”

“That is a correct interpretation of Polite Society.” Lapis smirked. “But that idea sticks around in hostile territory, in the form of Guest Rites and else-wise, like with your own Untouchable status. Your idea breaks down when exposed to enemies, at all, as it is breaking down when you are trying to convey it to me. How is your idea even supposed to work?”

“Because to help your neighbor lift a house one day, means that they can bake bread for everyone the next, means that someone can eat that bread and survive while they teach the children, and everyone else is free to go about their days. This idea remains true over all non-hostile relationships, and it is one of the reasons that I decided to release my Particle Magic out into the world. It is why I released chocolate into the world. I can’t very well expect to get chocolate cake at the local dessertery without them first getting chocolate, for example.” Erick said, “Selfless selfishness is the idea of civilization, at its best, and most basic. Those with power must do what they can to help others, because power is nothing without others around you. Therefore you have a commensurate responsibility to do your part to minimize cruelty, and maximize support, so that you too are in turn supported.”

