And now that he had a few seconds of distance, the black beam was certainly trying to kill him, but the rainbow spells were already there. The one that struck his room might not have meant to kill him?

A step. Another dodge. Another step. A landing a few kilometers away. A few times, a black beam caught Ophiel. Ophiel could almost move as well as Erick could, but he was still a [Familiar] using borrowed spells. He whined in distressed flute sounds, knowing he wasn’t doing as well as Erick could have done, but Erick told him he was doing well, and not to worry. He just had to keep this up for a little while longer. Then they’d be okay. Ophiel whined in sad flutes, knowing Erick was just trying to make him feel better.

A beam lanced out from nowhere, striking the center of Ophiel’s sunform, carving across him like the flashing knife of a killer, splitting his sunform in half. Ophiel rolled Erick out of the way, sacrificing himself to save his human. It had been enough.

20 seconds had passed. Erick activated [Greater Lightwalk]. The next black beam struck the greatly weakened sunform Ophiel, but this time Erick supported their defenses. The black beam skittered off of Erick and Ophiel’s combined sphere of power like a deflected laminar flow.

The black beams stopped.

Elsewhere on the battlefield, Erick had an Ophiel cast a [Prismatic Breaker] at the prismatic maelstrom. It did not work. He did not expect it to, either, but it was good to know. For all that work on [Counterspell]s and [Dispel]s today, he doubted he would get much use out of any of that. Or maybe he would?

Erick tried to be optimistic.

Erick still dodged non-existent black beams for a little while, just to be sure the caster didn’t surprise him with an unexpected version of that black beam. Another 20 seconds passed. He turned on his own [Lodestar], resuming his own, personal sunform. It was time to go on the offensive. With a minor look into the past, he tracked a black beam to where it had come from. He found a blank spot in the manasphere; nothing and no one. There would be no easy hunts tonight.

But with a bit more looking around, he also found Fallopolis, and the actual fight.

Erick took five steps straight up, past the aurora sky, and then kilometers higher, into the brightness that pervaded all of the Brightwater, while the illusions of Old Cosmology planes hovered even higher above.

The Culler of the Clergy of Melemizargo cackled, wild and free, as black lightning surrounded her like a shield made of swords, snapping and cracking in time to her own laughter. She held her kendrithyst staff aloft, condensing an orb of darkness at the tip of that red-purple-black crystal, while countless orbs also condensed in countless clusters positioned a hundred meters in every direction. She was not looking at Erick at all. She was faced the other way.

She was not the only one fighting.

Her opponent was the prismatic Queen, awash in as much color as Fallopolis was cloaked in black.

Four kilometers away, and yet way too close, another battle took place between a great serpent of green shadow and a bird of brilliant midnight. Stars fell as green fire burned the very light in the sky.

In the other direction, a man made of swirling blood was the center of a hurricane of crimson crescents that whistled as they streaked across the darkened sky, aimed at a woman who stood adamant and untouched inside a glass crystal five times her own size. She sent out her own arcs of crystal toward the bloody man, but her spells also broke before she could reach her opponent.

Further north, where the tips of the towers of the Temple District poked up through the auroras below, shadow flame reached up one of those grand dedications to Melemizargo. Erick watched that ten-kilometer tower as it began to lean. It was falling into the city beyond, and would surely kill someone when it fell. A lot of people were going to die here, tonight, because of the Shades and their civil war.

The dark orb atop Fallopolis’s staff reached the size of her own lightning aura. The orbs in the air around her flashed with brilliant shadows.

She laughed.

Queen threw up a six-barrier defense; a layered cake of hexagon sheets in front of her. She pulsed, brighter. Her barriers suddenly tripled in width and depth and number.

The countless black orbs in the sky flowed together, to Fallopolis’s central black orb. Her orb became a beam of darkness that vibrated the world as it crashed through ten of Queen’s barriers, instantly, but it stopped upon the rest, deflecting into countless flashing streams that brought to mind a disco ball, but darkly. Queen held her hands forward, struggling to hold onto her defenses, as Fallopolis laughed like a wild woman, and her main beam flexed thicker. Deflections condensed. Another three layers of Queen’s barrier broke.

Queen repositioned a step backward, replacing her barrier as she moved, strengthening the whole, as she screamed out, “LITTLE HELP! HERE!”

Fallopolis’s beam tracked the target, breaking through a few more barrier sheets.

A gnat of a woman, blue-skinned, blue horns, with blue armor, and weeping tears of rage, stepped through the sky, carving toward Fallopolis with a blue sword three times her own size.

The older woman’s laugh faltered. Fallopolis’s lightning aura flickered sparks toward the newcomer, at the blue incani, but Fallopolis’s spell might as well have been water. Lightning touched upon a layer of divine fire, and deflected.

Erick noticed it, then; the Black Star, upon the blue incani’s chest.

Fallopolis abandoned her black beam, and her countless empowering orbs, as she was forced to vacate her empowered position to avoid the blue woman. It was then that she spotted Erick. Fallopolis smiled wide, and laughed again as her white eyes went crazy. “Erick!” She roared, “Tania is going to kill us all! We're doomed! Doomed, I say! SO KILL KILL KILL, WHILE YOU CAN!”

Queen repositioned, quick as a flashing rainbow step. “There he is, Caizoa!” She pointed right at Erick, “OH LOOK. IT’S ERICK!”

The blue woman, Caizoa, locked eyes with Erick. She screamed something inarticulate, full of anguish and hate.

Ah. So the prismatic attack wasn’t a mistake. It was part of a larger plot.

… Pretty poor opener. Probably wasn’t meant to kill, then. Ah. But it was meant to get Erick involved. Which meant that the blue woman, the Juggernaut Caizoa with the invincibility-granting Black Star, was the true purpose of waking him up like that. But then… What about those black beams? Those certainly looked like Fallopolis’s beams. Would Fallopolis have attacked him? Maybe.

Or maybe Erick was just supposed to think that Fallopolis tried to attack him.

That made much more sense.

Also, Erick only saw maybe seven Shades in the sky all around him, though he was low on Ophiel. 20 more seconds had passed, though, so he conjured another one of those little guys, bringing him up to 5, total.

Erick had a moment to think.

The Shades he saw in the sky were either incani or human, and they were on opposite sides of the battle. Erick was admittedly low on Ophiel, and he couldn’t very well send them out to scout in the middle of a fight this large, but he saw no orcols, or dragonkin, or shifters, or harpies.

Bulgan was either not in play, or hiding, waiting for the proper moment to strike. Tania was somewhere, doing something. Of all the Shades Erick had spotted, and of what Killzone had told him, Bulgan and Tania topped the list of the most dangerous ones to Erick, personally. All the rest of the Shades were not too far behind, but Bulgan was specifically raised as a Shade to counter Erick.

So where were those two?

Waiting, no doubt.

Or… Maybe they didn’t consider Erick a threat?

That seemed more likely.

So. Erick would have to wait to be struck first by a Shade. If he went on the offensive, he would lose the ‘Guest Rites’ of his ‘Untouchable’ status. But if he waited for someone else to strike first, then that decision might end up costing him his life. Even Queen’s ‘attack’ could be a fake out, for if they actually wanted Erick dead, then he would be dead.

Probably.

So. He couldn’t strike first.

They would have to strike first. And this Caizoa didn’t count, even if she did have a Black Star upon her chest and even if Queen had ‘directed’ her to kill Erick.

Caizoa stepped fast at Erick, the blue armor of her body moving with her, like grains of blue sand blowing on the wind. Suddenly, she was there, beside his spherical sunform. Her sword, three meters long and empowered by divine fire, carved a line through his [Lodestar] like it wasn’t even there, proving her power as the dominant one.

Ah. Erick wasn’t taking her Black Star seriously. He saw that now. That was a mistake.

Erick moved away.

Caizoa moved with him, following like she was tethered. Oh! She was! With a blink of mana sense, Caizoa lit up like a vengeful god, and Erick saw the tether connecting her to him. He didn’t recognize the spell or ability, but he could tell its functions easily enough. He would never be able to shake Caizoa, under normal conditions. But maybe…

Ophiel threw a [Grand Dispel] at her, attempting to counter the magics upon her person. That dark splash of power burned out as it touched the divine fire coursing through Caizoa’s aura.

She struck with her massive blue sword, moving faster than most sights could follow. But Erick’s vision was not limited to light. He followed the arc of her cut. He could not escape her, so he flexed his sunform like an ocean parting. The sword went through him, but not through him.

Caizoa tried again, bringing her sword around for another cut.

Erick focused on the tether connecting them. It was a trail of power, wrapped partially in divine fire. Even the part that touched his own aura, almost infecting him with its power, was wrapped in untouchable flames.

Caizoa struck at him, he moved, she followed without needing to move. Her sword cut swept through a suddenly empty part of Erick’s sunform. But then her sword flashed and changed directions. She carved up and over, into his sunform, breaking through a part of him, flickering his [Personal Ward] active, turning his whole sunform white as Caizoa’s sword became a metalgrinder and firework, all in one, brightening the sky with a temporary flash of killing power.

Erick would have winced if she had actually hit his body. Instead, he concentrated on the tether that connected them together. A [Counterspell] from an Ophiel did nothing.

Caizoa made to strike again.

Erick kept the tethered part of himself near her, but moved all of the rest of his sunform away, like an amoeba struggling to get away and let the enemy have a piece of them, instead of the whole. In a sudden thought, Erick moved the tethered part of him into the path of the blade. Caizoa’s sword struck the tether, breaking it, and Erick was suddenly freed. Fast as he could, he stepped away.

Caizoa screamed bloody murder as she advanced again, but she was forced to actually cross the distance between them. There was no easy tether for her to follow, this time.

Erick didn’t let her get close. He ran. He conjured Ophiel. Soon enough, he lost Caizoa in the chase.

Soon enough, he was up to ten Ophiel. Time to counterattack.

Nope. Wait. There’s Caizoa again.

Ah. Right. The Black Star allows the user to see where their enemy is all the time. Erick was going to have to deal with her first, wasn’t he?
