“How did I get roped into making this spell, again?” Erick sketched out more half-baked plans, muttering, “Maybe… this— no. Not that.” He suddenly said, “Wait. I forgot the superposition-y thing.” He thought for a moment. He said, “That can come later. Maybe. But! Wait. Radiowaves do a lot with very little energy, but [Call Lightning] seems like it would demand much, much more energy than what I want here… Does energy matter, when it comes to magic? Obviously it matters a little… But maybe I don’t need that superposition for searching stuff right now...”

After a while, he stopped drawing. He stepped away from the blackboard. He looked to the window, and saw that it was well and truly dark. Whatever time it was, was good enough to serve as a bedtime. He was starting to get a headache.

He went to bed. Ophiel gladly curled up against him, trilling in soft violins, happy for the early night.

- - - -

Shortly after sunrise the next day, Erick stood on the grassy front lawn of Windy Manor, while a westerly breeze blew across the front lawn, carrying with it the gentle scent of the still-dark ocean, just beyond the cliffside. The salt-kissed wind mixed with lemon and cinnamon and other earthly vegetable smells of the nearby gardens.

Poi had already alerted Krigea as to what was about to happen. She then alerted the Headmaster, and whoever else she usually alerted for these sorts of things. An hour later, clearance had been handed down the line to Erick. Poi and Kiri now stood to the side, watching, while Erick prepared for an experiment.

Erick put on a pair of sunglasses as he spoke to the morning sky, still half purple with night, saying, “Thank you, Atunir, for helping to keep this world intact,” as he pressed his intent against Atunir’s [Divine Scan].

Strictly speaking, it was considered blasphemy to try and decode the magics of the gods, so Erick did not have any real help in understanding today’s experiment besides his own intuition. He briefly considered asking Teressa what her Mana Sense told her, but alongside a similar idea to ask Poi what his mental senses were telling him, those ideas were discarded. He would make do with his own senses, and [Hunter’s Instincts], of course.

As he finished pressing his intent against the Kill and Exterminate Quest, a bright yellow orb, two-foot across, flashed into the air in front of Erick, like a miniature sun glowing in the colors of the harvest. Hums, like a chorus, rose in power, as a bright gold ring flickered and settled horizontally around the center of the orb. Two more rings materialized; one above the first, the other below.

The sky cracked yellow as the orb burst with light in every direction, all at once. The orb was dissipating from the outside in, one infinitesimally thin, but also enormously powerful layer at a time. In a flashing instant, the orb was gone. The sky was yellow, as twilight temporarily retreated. As the golden glow spread in all directions at once, twilight came back.

It only took half a second. Erick was barely able to keep up with the spell, but [Hunter’s Instincts] seemed to make everything go slower, or maybe it made him go faster. Whatever the case, Erick saw how the spell worked. Understanding was already coming to him, too.

One minute later, the golden return flash coalesced onto Erick. He took off his sunglasses, and read.

Scan complete.

Denutha Odaari located. Map incoming...

No Daydropper Vines within 10,000 kilometers.

Burned 0 seeds and 0 adult plants.

Please supply 5000 mana or wait 24 hours if you wish to scan again.

The air flickered in front of Erick as a horizontal disk a meter across floated in midair.

It was a perfect map of Erick’s current location, centered around the center of Oceanside. It looked like a floating golden disk, but it was colored the colors of the land; blues and greens and browns. Oceanside was a large island in the center of that disk, but not that large at all compared to the lands north and south; the continents of Glaquin and Nergal.

Erick’s own position was a white dot on the map, on Oceanside. Denutha Odaari’s location was a red dot on the coast of Glaquin, maybe 6000 kilometers northwest, at the mouth of a river. The detail in the map was really quite something. Clouds even hung above some of the lands. Erick studied the map for a little while, trying to understand what he was seeing. The map, for its part, seemed to oblige Erick’s curiosity as he poked at the wardlight construction and his fingers touched nothing but air.

The first thing he noticed was that it was definitely a wardlight construction, because his hand passed through the surface. Erick even stepped all the way inside of the map, both to experience the map, and to see details up close. Except for a thin layer of color on the top, it was completely yellow; the color of Atunir’s magic. The underside was craggy and yellow, and not very well mapped out at all. Atunir’s [Divine Scan] seemed to only penetrate down to the barest surface of the Underworld.

Was that a limitation of the magic? Or a different sort of limit?

Erick stepped out of the map, and just looked at it. It was a good map. Erick smiled. Yes. This was a good map. He could maybe do something like this with radiowaves. The Script would have to do a lot of the heavy lifting, and there was probably going to be an Error, but he could bounce radiolight around to try and create a [Scan], couldn’t he? It wasn’t technically Particle magic, but it might be close enough?

Erick said to the map, and to Atunir, “Thank you.”

The map broke into pieces. In a blink, it dissolved into the ambient mana.

Erick threw a hundred mana and a question into the air.

In the early morning light, the second divinity of the day spoke sarcastically, saying, ‘It’s close enough to Particle magic for me. Go ahead and try. The worst you’ll get is an Error or a spell that takes a while to form an image.’

That was a good enough answer for Erick. He smiled as Phagar’s divine manafire wisped away on the morning breeze. Then, he prepared himself. He breathed. He organized his thoughts. He organized the spell in his mind.

He spoke to the sky, calling to the mana in the original, most well-trod rhyming scheme, shaping his intent into a radiating force,

“Search the land with light invisible! Return to here a map made visible!

“Sift through noise, bring understanding of this cascade ever expanding

“Search the land with light invisible, return to here a map made visible.

“Here lifts a light, a shining star, to pulse and find the near and far; [Radar]!”

High above, maybe a hundred meters in the sky and well clear of the tree line, a spot of white light began to shine, like a glittering star.

Erick sagged, dropping his arms and hands, as rushing noise filled his ears. His neck rolled as his eyes fluttered open and shut. He began to fall to the ground but someone grabbed him upright. A wash of healing started on his shoulder, then tapped a few more times across his back.

Sound returned.

Poi’s voice came softly from nearby, “—got you. I got you. You’re good. You can hear me now, right?”

Erick groaned out, blinking hard as he stumbled to put his feet under him. He held onto Poi’s arm, and Kiri’s arm, too. She held him up from his other side. Her eyes glanced to Erick, but she quickly turned her attention back toward the sky.

As Erick stabilized, he caught sight of a few blue boxes waiting for him, and a stacking pile of light hovering just out of reach. Still blurry-eyed, he tried to make sense of the boxes first. The first one was the congratulations for making a new basic spell. The others were more interesting.

Cascade Imaging 1, instant, super long range, <500 mana>

Gradually build up an image of your greater surrounding area over the course of 10 minutes per spell level. Recasting Cascade Imaging on the same location will extend the spell’s duration to the length of the new cast.

The resulting image will gradually become more precise the longer Cascade Imaging is able to run.

If you designate a <well known target> prior to casting, that target might appear on your resulting image.

<Particle Mage Only>

Rozeta thanks you for enriching the Script.

+3 ability points.

Other Relevant Entities are already bemoaning the restriction, but I’m going to keep it like that for the foreseeable future. I would have thought that spell would have cost a lot more than 500 mana, but for all their propagation, radio waves are rather low energy. Such is the benefit of actually working with the physics of this universe. ~Rozeta

Erick chuckled as he stood up under his own power. He sighed out, then said, “It worked!”

High in the sky, a meter-wide white orb shone like a star hanging in the blue sky. Halos of light released here and there off of the orb, like solar flares caught on an irresistible current, inexorably turning into invisible energy that flowed away at the speed of light. That was just a guess, though. Erick couldn’t see the flares once they got more than ten meters from the orb. Gradually, here and there, light returned to the orb like sparkles settling, like silt relaxing to the bottom of a pond.

A surreal dance of light hung in the sky, while down below a similar happening took place.

Light crashed down from the orb above to land in a foggy, white air in front of Erick. The orb above carved that fog like a sculptor would carve a relief out of a wall, or maybe how a demolitions expert would turn a mountainside into what they wanted.

Rapidly, a meter wide stretch of fog directly in front of Erick turned solid, as the shape of Oceanside island came into view; roughcut and barely shaped like the island Erick knew, at all. The mountains to the south created a solid shadow in the lightward, directly in line with a normal shadow, if the orb above was the sun. This distortion in the map was like a ridge extending to the south. It was a radio-shadow. The spell was not high enough to fully [Scan] around those tall ridges.

But as the spell continued, and Erick recast [Cascade Imaging], renewing the spell to a new, longer duration, the shadow behind the southern mountains began to degrade, and eventually fully disappear. Radiowaves bounced, after all. Erick smiled. It worked.

After ten minutes, most of Oceanside Island stood revealed. All 2500 kilometers of the long, thin island, had been reduced to a 5 meter wide map, with some shadows lingering where certain structures reached high into the sky, while the waters surrounding the island were a perfectly flat, white surface, except for the islands here and there, while the waters beyond the 2500 mark were a foggy, hazy thing. But even that foggy edge was gradually turning into flat ocean as the spell continued to work. While it worked, Erick walked through the waist-high projection map. The map didn’t seem to mind; there were no distortions at his passing. This map seemed to obey the same rules as every other lightward.

Kiri watched in interested silence, as she walked through the light with Erick. Poi watched in concern, standing outside of the spell.

Erick handed them both copies of the spell. He said, “I’m pretty sure I can [Scan] on a much smaller scale, too. In fact! I’m going to try that.” He cast the same spell up into the sky, closer to the house and well above the trees, while the first spell was still running. “Experiments are fun!”

As a second ball of light took shape up above, the first map turned into sharp shapes, like someone had glitched-out a TV signal, turning everything into sharp edges and broken spaces. Magical static rapidly degraded the first spell into ambient mana, while the second spell detonated like a popping balloon, before it could put out even the littlest bit of fog on the ground.

Kiri yelped, then quickly huffed out in annoyance. That got a smile from Poi.

Erick said, “I guess the spells can’t function so close together.”

Kiri said, “Do it again.”

Erick obliged. A [Cascade Imaging] took hold not seven meters up; just above the trees. As it began to put out light, and take in the resulting reflections, a white fog lifted from the ground. Light began to carve out of that fog, soon enough.

Erick and Kiri watched as a miniature diorama of Windy Manor appeared in the fog, along with the radio-shadowed trees all around, making the house look like it was on the edge of a massive, impassible hedge. But minutes passed, and the radio-shadows began to break apart, as more information gathered through the spell.

Erick watched as a little white lightward version of himself appeared on the map, looking down at the center of Windy Manor’s yard. The map itself was not repeated in miniature, but everything else was. Kiri stood beside Erick, watching her own miniature self lean over and look at a blank spot in the air, just like Erick’s miniature self was doing.

There was a problem, though. Ophiel was on his shoulder. Sunny was on Kiri’s shoulder.

So what was the thing flying around them?

Erick watched as a tiny, floating thing, appearing like a white orb, hovered around the floating map, maybe two meters away. Erick looked up at where the floating thing should have been, at around head height, but there was nothing. He glanced back to the map. The white orb was still there. He looked up again. Whatever was floating right in front of his face, was completely invisible to visible light, but apparently not to radiowaves.

Erick got out, “Huh—”

Kiri reacted with a blast of fire aimed at the floating orb. She was slightly slower than Erick, but she did not catch her target; it was already gone. She did manage to catch the lemon trees on fire, though.

Poi reacted with a wide-range communication that came through much faster than it sounded, ‘Mind solidifying… Done. Minimal outside influences… Purged. Parasite testing... Clear.’

The groundskeepers, Vinsez, the incani man, and Powell, the human woman, who Erick had spoken to now and then, but mostly not, appeared in a flash to the side of the garden. Each of them were dressed in cream-colored robes and ready for battle. Vinsez held a spear, Powell held a sword and a shield.

Powell yelled, “I don’t see—”

Erick shouted, “He’s gone now!” As his heart began to beat slower, Erick added, softer, “No need to get concerned.” Erick pointed back down to the map. Vinsez and Powell were now a part of the resolving opaque-white lightward. The pixie, and Erick was pretty sure that it was a pixie, was gone. Or maybe it was just hiding out in the radio-shadows of the forest. He said, “Thank you, though, Vinsez. Powell.” He turned to Poi, “Thanks, Poi.”

Kiri blushed darker green as she waved her hand and put out the fire on the lemon trees.

