He shifted, twisting his arms toward the sky, stretching and growing while his feet pushed down through the earth, turning into roots. He was becoming much more familiar with his Tree Form, finding the shape to be comforting and soothing now instead of foreign. As he stretched himself into his broad branches and grew his leaves, he reflected on life, as he often did in this form. The lesson Lira had taught him via the Elder Tree had been one of balance, and he had not understood it in the slightest at the time. However, after having spent so much time giving back to the land, healing it from the necromantic blight, he was beginning to grasp the edges of the principle.

Not all of life is fighting.

He knew it, of course, deep in his heart – he had friends and family. But, in a way, his service to the land brought it into sharp focus, and it made him feel somehow complete.

His aura bloomed outward and upward, rippling across the blighted fields and through the land, soothing the plants and trees. The taint of the undead blight infused everything his mana touched, corrupting the very land with its dark magic. But his Sanctuary was like a cleansing tide that swept away the blight, consuming it, dissolving it, and restoring the land.

He relaxed, contented by the rightness of it.

Arboreal Sanctuary has reached level 29.

Sometime later, he felt movement – an invader within his Sanctuary. He didn’t know quite how long it might have been – time passed differently as a tree. Although the blight was almost entirely erased, the shambling shape that entered his awareness was wrong. Wrong in a way that made his bark crawl and his branches shiver.

Zombie. Necromancy. Death. But it was the foul unnatural death of those who worshiped undeath itself.

He focused his mind, reaching for his skills, but combat skills required stamina and he had none as a tree. He switched his choice, and throughout his broad sanctuary aura, life exploded into rampant growth. Roots shot up from the ground, brambles thickened and twisted, weeds grew, and vines sprouted, and he wielded them all, twisting, grasping, breaking.

It was not necessarily a primary combat skill, but life hated the undead – and it was more than sufficient for this. A few minutes later, the zombie collapsed to the sound of a simple pure chime in his mind, and his peace was restored.

Rampant Growth has reached level 2.

But it was not for long, and a few moments later his Sanctuary was invaded yet again – this time by a pair of skeletons emerging from the dead forest. He crushed them with his roots and vines, but more came in dribs and drabs, but never ceasing like a leaky pipe dripping undead into the world. He crushed them one and all.

Rampant Growth has reached level 3.

But something came that he could not crush. Something that made him recoil even within the calm of his Tree Form. Something more horrific than he had ever encountered. A true abomination walking on mismatched feet and spewing forth blight and dark billowing miasma with every breath. A being so twisted and warped, he couldn’t even tell what it was supposed to be.

Blighted Patchwork Horror – Undead Abomination – level 38.

The Patchwork Horror tore through his roots, decaying them with the withering miasma while ripping its unreasonably powerful body through the entangling brambles as if they were barely a nuisance, and Mato knew he was powerless to fight it.

In this form.

With a thought, his body twisted, shrinking, growing muscle, sprouting fur, and he roared as his tree was replaced with his Bear Form. He charged the abomination, slamming the full weight of his bulk into the smaller monster, and lashing out with his claws. His magic slammed into the creature tearing rents through its tough, stitched undead flesh, triggering his Brutal Restoration to begin healing him.

You have been infected with Undead Blight.A debilitating infection that grows stronger every day, rotting flesh and propagating to everything it touches.-1% to maximum health+1 count per day10% chance to spread Undead Blight on contactIf you die while infected, your body will be raised as a zombieSmall chance per vitality to recover from Undead BlightDisease – Count: 1

He ignored the searing pain bursting into his lungs as he breathed the miasma and attacked again. The monster shrieked and quivered, lashing out with no fewer than seven mismatched claws and hands, limbs that had been stitched onto its back, nestled among the protruding yellowed rib bones.

His Swipe tore into it, again ripping through its skin to perforate its unnaturally tough flesh, the health cost draining away, ignored just like the blight itself. He had Brutal Restoration and it would need to be enough. With his mana, he grew his roots and brambles again, a vastly smaller surge of life in this form, grasping at the abomination and restricting its movement even as its plague rotted the growth, causing it to blacken and wither.

Your Undead Blight has increased to 2.

He ignored it again; he would deal with it later. He roared, and struck again, blocking several piercing claws and random mouths that tried to bite him.

Your Undead Blight has increased to 4 (+2).

He could feel his body weakening with each infection as if his very life were being drained from him, but he endured. Such a monster was an abomination to the very idea of life and death itself, and he would bring balance with tooth and claw.

His great paw slammed into the monster, slashing its bloodless flesh. It screeched, trying to scurry away. He reacted, instantly retaliating with his Battle Master, empowering his strike with every support skill he had. His claws ripped clean through the monster, crashing into the ground and sending a spray of soil and stones flying through the air. The monster fell twitching and twisting with an unearthly scream that emerged in chorus from many mouths. He struck one more time and the monster was silenced, his chime heralding his victory.

You have defeated Blighted Patchwork Horror – Undead Abomination – level 38.Druidic Shapeshifter has reached level 44.+10 attribute points.Swipe has reached level 28.Brutal Restoration has reached level 30.Bear Form has reached level 28.Rampant Growth has reached level 7 (+4).Battle Trance has reached level 12.

But the miasma did not cease, continuing to pour out of the corpse of the monster unabated.

Your Undead Blight has increased to 5.

Shit. Quickly, he shifted himself back to his Beastkin Form and, using the enchantment of his guild ring, he stored the corpse, finally halting the spread of the blight. Then he shifted once more, returning to the serene sanctuary of his Tree Form, settling in to wait for his Vitality Rejuvenation to heal his blighted body.

The necromancer boy – Seth – was right. He instinctively despised the reek of death that seeped from his body, but Lira owed him an irredeemable debt, and Ali had vouched for him. Mato trusted both of them with his life – if they could tolerate him, he would too. Besides, Mato couldn’t deny he had just verified the source of the plague was an undead abomination, just as Seth had claimed.

If we can kill all of them, then perhaps this land can heal.

***

“Ok, show me,” Vivian said.

Mato retrieved the corpse from his ring and immediately the miasma began pouring from it, forming a cloud at his feet and causing Ali’s moss and mushrooms to blacken and die.

You have been infected with Undead Blight.

“Mato, that thing is killing my dungeon!” Ali exclaimed, backing up quickly.

“It’s killing me too,” he replied. “It doesn’t stop giving off the blight even after you kill it.”

“Well, that’s nasty,” Vivian said. “Put it away.”

“It’s evil,” he agreed, storing the corpse. “But it means our necromancer boy was right, these are the reason the forest is still blighted and throwing out countless zombies and skeletons.”

“I see why you wanted to show me outside, but why did you specifically want to do it in the dungeon?” Vivian asked.

“Yes, why here?” Ali demanded.

“I was hoping Ali would use her deconstruction to eliminate all traces of it,” Mato said.

“Actually, that’s a pretty solid idea,” Vivian agreed.

“Won’t I catch the blight, though?” Ali asked. She stared worriedly at the dead circle of moss on the ground beneath his feet. “And what if I learn the imprint? Ick!”

“Yes, but I will heal you with my Tree,” Mato offered, and after she nodded her reluctant approval, he dropped the corpse on the withered moss again and stepped away, shifting himself into his Tree Form beside the shrine. Through the strange awareness of his Sanctuary aura, he watched as Ali destroyed the remains of the undead abomination and began to replant her moss.

“I’ll talk to the mayor and see if we can get the word out to the nearby towns,” Vivian said, before she vanished, and Mato returned to his normal form.

Mato touched Ali’s arm, “Sorry, I should have warned you.”

Naia flowed along the rocks and crags of the cavern roof, hunting, observing, and directing her slimes in a battle she could not win. Every single slime she had was fighting, and still, she could not make a single inch of progress. She had even removed most of the defenders she used in the caverns above to pretend she was still the same to the humans, desperate for more slimes to hold back the tide.

When Ali-friend had opened the wall, she had been overjoyed to have space, freedom, and new things to explore. She had learned to hunt the flappy-things – the bats. She had hunted the things in the water, and she had grown, taking the caverns and the pools for her own.

But she had not found any new slimes or oozes, and when she had stumbled upon the hive, her progress had ground to a halt. The hard-shells were too many; Borer Beetles that tunneled and ate her Slimes. She could always make more, but there were so many beetles they filled the caverns. Below her, the rock face of the cavern cracked, and chunks of rubble fell, collapsing into the fight below with loud vibrations that she felt through the rock all the way above. She had felt the beetles tunneling, but there was nothing she could do.

Borer Beetle – Rock Beetle – level 27 (Earth).

She felt the clacking of its hard legs on the stone, and the crunching as it ate through the wall. Emerging, the hard-shell scramble-clacked its way down the wall, the vacated space behind it in the new tunnel immediately filled with another hard-shell as they began streaming into the cavern, attacking her Slimes from above.

She would need to give up this cavern soon, falling back to the next one. But then the fight would be repeated, and she would lose. She found herself wishing once again that she could talk with Ali-friend.

Ali-friend is smart. She would know how to defeat the beetles – she had defeated the wall! If Naia had found a few more slimes, she might have been smart enough to figure it out, but she knew her own limits. Below was the hive, and above were the humans. And she was stuck in the middle, just like when she had been stuck in her cave with not even the tiniest crack for her to slip through.

Suddenly, her mana vibrated, somewhere way above at the entrance to the human world, and she felt a chill of fear, knowing she was critically vulnerable. She had nothing left to defend herself from a second attack.

Not human?

Her senses vibrated again as the thing moved, triggering her curiosity and surprise.

Slime?

Ooze!

Abandoning her lost cavern, she twisted her body into the tiny mana-crevice that connected herself to one of the few remaining slimes she had in the upper cavern and squeezed herself through, emerging through its body into the pool of water at the entrance, immediately concealing herself and her mana, taking the form of a rock. Her senses detected the thing, beautiful, glowing, and filled with mana as it crawled, slid, shifted across the wet rock toward the pool.

Sparkling Ooze – Ooze – level 35 (Light).

But she stopped, body quivering as the thing moved. She could taste-feel the mana of it, and she recognized it.

“Ali-friend?” she warbled, certain, but uncertain. It was an ooze, but where was Ali? Her senses ranged around but all she could find was the single ooze.

The ooze bobbed up and down quickly before becoming still once more.

She waited, but it did not speak. Can not speak? Ali? She considered the problem for a while.

“Ali cannot speak?” she asked.

The slime bobbed up and down again, and she recognized the attempt to copy her happy mood. Cautiously, Naia slithered out of the pool and approached the Sparkling Ooze, reaching out with a pseudopod to touch the shiny warm membrane. Slowly, a pseudopod emerged from the Sparkling Ooze and touched her back.

“Ali!” She bobbed up and down in excitement, unable to contain her joy. It didn’t matter that she couldn’t talk, her friend had come to visit! For a moment, she forgot her troubles with the beetles and the humans, just filled with happiness again.

But then the reality of her situation intruded once more as she felt a chunk of the cavern below collapse with a powerful vibration that she could feel even from all the way up here, and several of her slimes vanished from her mind.

“I am going to lose to the beetles,” she explained as the Sparkling Ooze tipped a little to the side in a gesture that seemed like curiosity and surprise. It was hard reading Ali’s reactions, but she explained what she struggled with below, just happy to be able to share her worries and struggles with someone who cared.

She paused as a pseudopod touched her membrane, tugging gently. Not certain what it wanted; Naia allowed her body to grow a new pseudopod where it pulled. Curious, she let it pull another couple of pseudopods out and place them slowly around its own body.

Naia watched in confusion as it pulled another, placing it around itself. The membrane felt good to touch, and she hadn’t realized just how much she had missed her friend.

“What do you want?” she asked, still not quite understanding. The Sparkling Ooze began to pull itself into a ball and nestle up against her body while pulling her pseudopods further and further around it.

“Eat?” she asked, suddenly, incredulously getting the message.

The Sparkling Ooze bobbed once up and down.

“Are you sure?” she asked, not quite believing it.

The ooze bobbed again.

There was no doubt about it, and Naia didn’t hesitate, flowing herself around the larger ooze, quickly enveloping it entirely within herself. Her mana flowed into her center, piercing the Sparkling Ooze and dissolving it quickly. Suddenly it was gone, and the remnants of its released mana flooded into her.

Imprint: Sparkling Ooze completed.

