Her mind expanded, instantly growing sharper and clearer as her skill reacted to the new imprint by growing her intelligence, and then she was filled with sadness. Ali was gone and she was alone again.

But she came. And somehow that was enough. The gift she had been given filled her with joy and a rush of new hope.

Reaching out with her mind, she connected with the few slimes that remained in the deep cavern. It crawled with bugs now, and she didn’t have much time before a queen arrived. A shudder rippled across her membrane. Squeezing her body through the mana connection, she poured herself out of the slime that she had left clinging to the ceiling. Below her, the room was filled with the crunching, clacking of the swarm of beetles. She stretched her mana into a pseudopod, expanding and growing, shifting it to be just like the Sparkling Ooze before she divided and separated from it. She repeated the process three more times before she was ready.

Slipping her mind into her new slimes, she pushed, ejecting the intensely glowing balls of mana, and a hail of orbs cascaded down onto the swarm below, detonating in a continuous explosion that rocked the cavern for more than a minute before she ran out of mana. But in the cavern below, nothing moved, nothing shook the silence. No clacking or crunching. Just mush and sludge that slowly dripped off the walls.

You have defeated Borer Beetle – Rock Beetle – level 20-31 Swarm x73.Slime Lord has reached level 44 (+2).+30 attribute points. Your Sparkling Ooze has reached level 37 (+2).Your Sparkling Ooze has reached level 36.Your Sparkling Ooze has reached level 36 (+2).Your Sparkling Ooze has reached level 35.

She bobbed happily; all her new oozes – Aliandra’s gift to her – had leveled up. The bugs were dead, turned into mush. Against her instincts, she immediately put all thirty points into intelligence. She was a slime, she had never needed intelligence, but she knew she could never defeat the hive unless she was smarter.

Like Ali!

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledgehttps://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledgehttps://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg
