Without the magic the Gift had granted him, he wouldn't have the spells he needed to conduct a ritual of this scale in time. A karmic revelation ritual like the one he was about to perform required the earth to be utterly soaked in blood. It was, as far as he knew, the only means by which a mage could access those otherwise sealed aspects of magic.

The fact that he'd already slaughtered this village helped, but one village simply didn't contain blood in the quantities he needed. Fortunately, that was where the Gift's magic came in—as much as the Gift had resisted giving him this spell, it couldn't avoid performing its core function. That was the disadvantage of powerful, realm-spanning constructs like that. They simply didn't have the ability to be discretionary.

Some time ago, he had been able to force the Gift to create a new, unique spell precisely for circumstances like this. [Echo of Slaughter] was a variant of a necromantic spell that allowed him to bring back everyone he'd recently killed to a stunted sort of life, restoring their bodies but not their minds or their souls. It was a quick and easy way to vent some frustration, but it also happened to be the perfect spell for fueling many kinds of blood magic.

All he needed to do was kill everyone again and again until the village grounds were soaked in a sufficient quantity of blood.

Lifsauhn watched the entire time with that eerie fascination he always had with everything the Red Commander did, with not a word of protest nor even a flicker of disgust. It was one of the reasons he appreciated his assistant so much—Lifsauhn didn't scream as much as any of his previous ones did.

Though it was far from the only reason. Most of the other Hunters would have turned on him if he ever revealed his true self, but Lifsauhn had instead become strangely obsessed with it. The Red Commander had noticed that darkness within the dwarf early on and deemed it a useful trait to be cultivated. It made him far more valuable than any of the others that served him, no matter their strength.

In the times to come, the Red Commander knew, Lifsauhn would be perfect. Perhaps even necessary. He was already indispensible, too important to be actually killed or wasted on some blood ritual. The Commander was vaguely aware that his assistant didn't actually think of himself that way—he thought he was disposable, and seemed to take a twisted sort of enjoyment in the fact—but he was wrong.

His soul was malleable. The obsessiveness with which he followed the Commander had caused his karmic lines to tangle irreversibly with the Commander's. That made him important.

The Commander, of course, saw no reason to actually explain any of this to Lifsauhn.

Once the ritual grounds were sufficiently prepared, the Red Commander took his time drawing a large circle into the mud. Lifsauhn followed after him, careful not to step on the circle but still trotting along as if the stench around them hadn't grown intolerably coppery and metallic.

"What do you know of karma, assistant?" the Red Commander asked.

Lifsauhn frowned in thought, then shook his head. "Nothing, sir," he admitted. "It wasn't part of my education."

"It wouldn't be," the Commander said, still drawing out his circle. "But it is a retributive force present across the Great Realms."

"And something about it changed just now?"

"Any sufficiently powerful being causes karma to bend toward them," the Commander explained as he worked. This particular ritual was an intricate one that required a great deal of focus, but he could spare enough to explain the relatively simple mechanics of this. "When that being is killed, that karma is released in a ripple effect all throughout their karmic lines, mostly unpredictably. You have to be careful about it, though. If you knowingly kill someone before they reach their full potential, all that karmic power that would have been theirs blows back. We call this karmic backlash."

"Is that why no one has killed the dark lord, sir?" Lifsauhn asked. "I know there are mages that should be capable of it."

"Correct," the Red Commander said. "No one wants karmic backlash. Not even me, and you know what I like. Of course, the dark lord's interference in our plans has changed those mathematics, but I have taken steps to reduce the potential backlash. We made contact with the churches of Aersheld, have we not?"

"We have, sir, with your instructions. They will accelerate their prayers. I assume this is related to the karmic void you mentioned." Lifsauhn finally spared the slaughtered village a glance. He stared at the bodies scattered carelessly in the dirt, their blood still soaking down as a secondary spell—[Everlasting Hemmorhage]—ensured the bleeding continued. There was no disgust in his eyes, though, just a sort of distant wonder at the feats his Commander was capable of.

"Indeed it is," the Commander said approvingly. "So. Karmic backlash. I'm sure you have some idea of why I want to avoid it by now."

"It's bad, sir?" the dwarf asked.

"Oh, yes," the Red Commander said. "If you shatter the karmic lines, then fate itself does its best to make sure your every plan fails spectacularly. I had to learn that lesson personally, so I've become attuned to the workings of fate. And now we have a true karmic shockwave, most likely triggered by the dark lord himself."

"What does that mean for us, sir?"

"It means opportunity, assistant." There was a gleam in the Red Commander's eyes. "It means that I can use this ritual to trace every karmic working and consequence and Utelia."

He finished drawing the last part of his circle, then stabbed a curved dagger into the center of his palm, adding his own blood to the mixture in the dirt. The entire diagram began to glow with a sickly yellow-green. The Commander felt the Gift resisting for a moment. It always did, when he tried a working like this, just like it tried to avoid giving him those slaughtering spells.

But it was in its nature to provide. It wouldn't be able to stop itself.

...The Red Commander frowned. It was taking longer than usual.

That wasn't possible. The Gift had never been able to resist one of his workings before. To fight against its nature, it would have to burn vast amounts of precious mana, and he had studied it enough to know it operated a tight ship—it didn't have spare mana to burn just to resist its own divine mandate, let alone the amount it would need to resist a spell like this.

And yet, instead of casting, the yellow-green glow from his ritual was slowly fading instead. The Red Commander stared at the spell that should have confirmed his suspicions, his mind racing while Lifsauhn stared at him.

Then he began to laugh.

"Oh," he said, gleeful. "Oh, you've played your hand, little Gift. He's here, isn't he?"

"Who is?" Lifsauhn asked curiously. The Red Commander turned a fierce grin on his assistant—one so wild that even the dwarf stepped back, his eyes wide, though the Commander neither noticed nor cared.

His laughter turned into outright cackling, even as the realm itself began to react to the atrocities he'd committed. A Greater Indictment was being summoned to punish him, it seemed. He could sense the power gathering. But what did that matter, in light of who was here?

"Yggdrasil's End," the Red Commander answered, his eyes gleaming in delight.
