You have gained a new skill: Improved Toughness (4). You are now harder to hurt by any means.

Notice!

You have gained a new spell: Stone Skin (Level 5). This spell makes your skin like stone, doubles your Armor and Defense values, and anything vulnerable to the earth element will suffer double damage when fought in hand-to-hand combat.

Time Limit: 20 Minutes

“Oh, wow.” Ren said in wonder. “Thank you very much!”

“Cast the spell, Adventurer.” She said and let him out of the hug. Ren refilled the empty Major Healing wand with the Stone Skin (Level 5) spell, and cast it on himself. He didn't look or feel any different, but when the Spirit of Earth hugged him again, his face nestled between her breasts and they pressed against his cheeks like actual breasts would. He wrapped his hands around her and his fingers dug into her skin.

“Is that better?” She asked, and she knew that it was a redundant question because she felt his reaction through his armor bodysuit. “As long as you know that nothing can happen between us.”

“I was about to say the same thing.” Ren said. “Even with these great gifts, I won't betray what I have.”

“Good.” She said. “All I wanted was a hug from someone other than those of mine.”

“Boy, did you luck out.” Ren chuckled. “I'm a hugging machine.”

The Spirit of Earth smiled and they hugged each other. With both of their skin like rock, she no longer had to be careful about hurting him, and he could hug her back and she could actually feel it now. They held on for what seemed like a long time, and then the Spirit of Earth sighed.

“One of the throng returns.” She said and let him go.

Ren wiggled his finger in a come here gesture, and she bent over.

“What is it?”

Ren gave her a kiss on the cheek, and she quickly stood up.

“You sneaky little-” She said, and an Earth being came out of the wall.

“You should see the bumper crop!” The man said. “The people were practically jumping for joy.”

The Spirit of Earth smiled, and then a small portal opened in the forehead of the giant throne. Several silver coins, a bushel of very plump vegetables, and a small ball of Mana came out.

“They said they would send an offering.” The man smiled.

Another portal opened and out came another bushel of vegetables and a little bit of Mana. Ren was about to comment when another portal, then another, and yet another opened. The large platform he and the Spirit of Earth stood on was quickly filled with 450 bushels of vegetables, piles of copper and silver, and the bits of Mana offerings had gathered into a large ball.

“Will the Mana just float there until someone claims it?” Ren asked.

“Yes.” The man said, and then another Earth being came into the throne room.

“You should see-” He was cut off when another Earth being ran into the throne room.

“It's amazing!” A female said as she ran across the walkway to stand in front of the Spirit of Earth. “They're so happy!”

“As are you.” The Spirit of Earth said, and the female nodded. More of the Earth beings came back along the walkways they had made and Ren turned to the Spirit of Earth.

“May I be excused?” Ren asked. “I really do need to go.”

“You have much peril to overcome yet, Adventurer.” She said and raised a hand. Part of the ceiling opened up and a large rock hand came down and grabbed Ren.

“You can call me Ren, Spirit of Earth.” Ren said as the hand pulled him up to the ceiling. “Feel free to come and visit!” He waved and then disappeared as the impenetrable rock ceiling reformed behind him.

*

“Did he just invite me...”

“Ignore him.” One of them said. “He doesn't understand what would happen if you left the underground.”

“We probably could have told him.” The happy female said. “We don't have to wait for people to ask questions, you know.”

“You just want to tell everyone our secrets.” One of the men said. “Or was it because you thought he was cute?”

“I don't think anything of the sort.” The female said, but the gravel under her skin ground around a little faster when the burst of Heat hit her and her skin beaded sweat.

“You like him!” One of the others said, and the gravel under her skin swirled faster.

“I do not!” She tried to deny it, and she felt another blast of Heat and her skin was covered in sweat. The Spirit of Earth reached out and touched the woman, who looked at her with pleading eyes.

“Well, we know the amulet works.” She said and smiled. “I believe if you tell the truth, it's effects will end.”

“All right.” The female Earth being said and sighed. “I like him, and even though he's a Surface Dweller, he's so cute that I want to cuddle him until his heart crumbles for me.”

The sweating stopped and she no longer felt the Heat, and she relaxed.

“You actually like him?” The male asked. “I was only teasing you.”

“Well, now you know.” She said and looked at the Spirit of Earth. “If it pleases you, when the time comes, I will tend to his county and the fields there.”

The Spirit of Earth smiled. “It would please me.” She said, and the others fell silent. “Give it bounty, make it prosper, and those that don't believe will see your work and come to us.”

“It will be so.” The female Earth being said. “You can count on me.”

The Spirit of Earth looked at the others. “You have all done well today, as the tributes clearly show.” She said and waved to the bushels upon bushels of food and metal coins. “Let us enjoy the harvest.”

The Mana ball that had floated there separated into 450 parts and was absorbed by the beings, then a much smaller amount left each of them and entered the Spirit of Earth. They passed around the food and money next, and their bodies made the vegetables ripple like the earth and rock they would pass through. The beings absorbed the food and the metal coins just like they did with the Mana.
