Kindra followed him, wading across the creek and attempting to help pull the wyvern back toward their village.

After a dozen paces, she gave up and blushed. “Sorry.”

“It’s alright. You’ll level soon enough. A little break can help you decide.” Gleon dragged it around a tree.

I do need to level more… How much mana was that?

[Your mana has increased: 2357 → 3583.]

She let out a low whistle. No wonder they said I was weak. “Should I level or save my mana for the morning?”

“Save it,” Gleon replied. “I’ll find some metal and things so you can make more of those.”

“They’ll need to be enchanted.”

He smiled and nodded. “Yes, but even that can wait. Rangers should be able to boost the shot.” He gestured to his axe. “And someday, you’ll make me a better one.”

Kindra leaned closer and saw little runes that were baked into it.

[Level 20 Piercing Axe - Grants the wielder +20 strength and negates 20 stamina on an attack.]

“How long will it last?” Kindra asked, looking up from it.

“It’ll fade in a few decades.” Gleon dragged the wyvern around the trees. “I’m hoping to make a suit of armor from this one.”

“I want armor made from a wyvern,” Aika said, a small grin on her face.

Gleon snorted. “It’ll lock you on the ground.”

“Nah. I’m strong.”

“Liar. You’re weaker than a baby lycat.”

“Am not.”

“Are so.”

Kindra chuckled and followed him back to the camp.

Pausing next to a tree, Gleon knocked on it, and the trunk swung open to reveal an older dwarven woman with graying hair. She looked at the trio, blinked repeatedly, and shook her head.

“I don’t even want to know where you found these two or that,” she said, looking at Gleon with a sigh.

Gleon smiled at her. “We need to get it inside.”

“Well, start chopping then.” She smiled and gestured at it.

Gleon groaned. “I was hoping the town could—”

“Not on your life,” the woman said, scolding him and moving forward, her tan dress swirling around her legs and her ponytail of silvery hair bouncing. “You’re always off gallivanting, ruining armor, and searching for some secret answer. Well, the answer is right there. Work.” Turning, she looked at Kindra and recognition spread across her face.

Pulling Kindra into a hug, she smiled. “And I finally meet my great-granddaughter.”

Kindra looked at the older dwarf and smiled. “You're Gleon’s mother?”

“Your great-grandmother, yes. Just call me Gran.” She smiled at Aika. “And you’re fae-touched, a true blessing.” She patted Kindra on the back.

“Thank you. Can you explain fae-touched?” Kindra asked, trying to clarify the words.

“They were a race of powerful magic users who aligned with the fairy race.” Gran pointed at Aika. “And they still bond with them, regardless of their classes. They’re the fae-touched.”

“Fae?” Kindra probed. What race is that?

Pulling out a stick, Gran sketched something that looked like an elf. She drew three others that ended with a human. “Fae.” She pointed to the one on the end. “Elf, half-elf, human.”

“Oh.”

Gran nodded. “They have an ancient affinity for mana. They once were our enemies, ensnaring maidens and tricking all our kind. Then that changed. We made a truce that lasted a long time. Then the necromancers arrived shortly thereafter.”

Kindra nodded. “Thank you.”

“You’re welcome, sweetie.” Gran released her and pulled out a knife. She walked over to the wyvern and started butchering.

May as well. Kindra walked over and pulled out a knife. “Gran, can you teach me anything about runes and spells?”

“Ah. Yet another dwarf who wants to be a wizard.” Gran sighed loudly into the air.
