There were no large fluctuations or explosions. The complex patterns on the wall silently rearranged themselves until a pathway opened. Behind a shimmering curtain of Imperial Faith was a clean corridor inlaid with glowstones and decorated with simple environment-maintaining runes. It was clearly a proper entrance and not a backdoor.

“Not bad,” Zac praised as he carefully inspected the interiors.

“Just doing what I promised,” a winded Emir said as his mantra returned to his soul aperture.

“Are there any traps—” Zac didn’t get the chance to finish his sentence before the golden shimmer covering the entrance turned opaque.

Then, an extreme suction locked onto both Zac and Emir, who suddenly tapped Zac’s forearm. He felt a flash of warmth as something similar to his Flamebearer seal took shape, and the pull grew significantly stronger. It was like the whole mountain was trying to drag him into the sea of Imperial Faith that now blocked the entrance.

Just when it looked like the two would get sucked in, a pitch-black vortex popped up to block the entrance. The Void Vortex only lasted a moment before shattering, at which point only Zac remained outside. Without its controller, the gateway collapsed. What once looked like the very same portal that Emir had emerged from during their first encounter reverted to its normal pathway with an isolating barrier.

For safety’s sake, Zac created two more vortices, appearing inside the tunnel without ever touching the film of Imperial Faith. The next moment, he disappeared as the [Fuxi Mountain Gate] fell to the ground. Zac had taken it out the moment he noticed something was wrong. He appeared in the Void Treasure’s hidden realm, where Emir had already been deposited. He had been placed right by the gate itself, and he looked lost as he gazed at the darkness beyond.

“Thank you for making things easy,” Zac said as he landed on the platform.

Emir slightly smiled as he turned around. “It was worth a try.”

“Was it?” Zac said with a sigh.

“You’re only delaying the inevitable. Whether you like it or not, you belong with us. It’s both your duty and your destiny,” Emir said.

“My destiny is made, not inherited,” Zac said as his arm flashed.

Emir was cleanly cut in two before he could spout any more nonsense. The weakened mantra recuperating inside his Soul Aperture was ripped apart by a violent storm of evolutionary violence. Zac added a few more axelights for good measure before waving his left arm. What remained of Emir and his treasures was pushed through the mountain gate into the bottomless Void beyond.

That was a space where not even Zac dared to tread, and he watched as all traces of Emir were erased. Zac shook his head and turned away. Emir had truly made things easier for him. Truthfully, he’d somewhat expected that Emir was preparing to sacrifice himself to open the path into the mountain.

Those kinds of selfless acts were more in line with the Limitless Empire than covert schemes, unless you counted the Emperor himself. If Emir had sacrificed his life willingly, Zac would have found himself tied down by yet another debt to the Limitless Empire. Instead, the slate was wiped clean and Karma was severed.

The next moment, Zac was back in the corridor. The exit behind him was gone, while the path to the inner hollow remained open. He could already feel the forces of Life and Death gathering within. One more hour. It should be enough.
