I don’t actually want any of the attention Ignacio just got, he decided. I think what’s throwing me off is having the urge to geek out about how I used my free authority to do something that ended up supporting Bearer…with such dramatic results!…but not being able to share that with the people who saw it. And Ignacio who felt it.

There was also some pressure he couldn’t explain to any of them. He’d taken on a much more active role than they knew, and he didn’t want to keep doing it that way. But Ignacio might be disappointed if Rabbit Recall, as Kon had dubbed it, didn’t work. So Alden needed him to learn how to do his half of it on his own.

He’ll get it with practice. He seems close. I’ll just teach him to perceive what he’s doing correctly. Without letting on. Secret teaching…can’t be worse than Ash.

“Ignacio, since Rabbit Recall only works on me, do you think we should practice it soon, or is it less important than other things we could be trying out? We could save it for when we think we’ll want to use it on a specific run.”

“Are you crazy!?” Mehdi said loudly before Ignacio could speak. He gaped at Alden. “You only had one success. What if you forget how to do it? You have to keep repeating new moves while they’re fresh.”

<<I don’t want to lose the feeling of getting it right,>> Ignacio said. <<You shouldn’t either. Can’t we practice later today?>>

“I agree with them,” said Kon. “I was going to suggest you practice as soon as your skill was back to full strength. I was also going to say you should skip class for it until I remembered your upcoming class is with a wizard. Someone from the university will be breathing down your neck if you’re even a few minutes late for one of those.”

He was carrying the last few of the chocolate almond snacks Lexi had pulled out of the fridge this morning, and he pointed one up at the sky. “The System will be disappointed in you if you learn how to do something so fantastic with your skill and then just…don’t try again for a few weeks.”

“Who cares if Ignacio can only do it with you?” Mehdi was still staring at Alden like Alden had suggested something unfathomable. “What about all the other Meisters you can probably do it with? Did you forget they existed?”

“No…I just wasn’t thinking hard about them.”

“There are a lot of Meisters,” Mehdi said. “Most of them get some way to recall their tools.”

“I know.”

“You need to master this before the window of opportunity passes.”

“Okay. I will.”

“Where is your urgency?!” Mehdi looked to the other two for help. “It’s because he’s a globie or something. You guys need to tell him he’s not allowed to learn how to float and then not do it again for weeks.”

“I said I will,” said Alden.

“But you said it like you were talking about nothing major!”

I’m just not worried I’ll forget how to do it. Should I say so, or would that sound worse to them? Catching the knife was the more difficult to repeat thing from his own perspective.

They’d reached the Garden Hall garden. A woman who was repairing one of the climate-controlled planting beds looked over at them.

“I wasn’t going to say this,” said Ignacio as they entered the building and passed the notice board. “Because I wasn’t sure why it was like it was. But I understood the speed better.”

Alden stopped at the bottom of the stairs, keeping to the side so that he wasn’t in the way of the flow of morning traffic. “The speed?”

Ignacio stepped to the side with him as a trio of guys thundered down the steps, talking about the upcoming weekend.

“The speed of the recall.” He sounded excited as he switched to Spanish. <<It was much easier to control than usual. Learning that has been hard, but with you it wasn’t too difficult. I was afraid of throwing you into the ceiling, since you’re a person instead of a knife. So I went slow. Then you said faster, and I went faster. Then you wanted to move even faster, so I called you as fast as I thought I could catch you. And it all worked just like I imagined.>>

“Fine, you two. Have multiple breakthroughs in a day all by yourselves. Don’t worry about the rest of us, watching from the sidelines as you literally rise above us,” said Kon.

<<Practicing how I recall you might make me better at recalling my knives,>> Ignacio said to Alden. <<Maybe you’re a training shortcut for me. That’s what I’m hoping.>>

“See!” said Mehdi. “‘We can wait a while to practice the technique that might revolutionize training for the most common type of Meister ability,’ said no Avowed ever.”

“I’m really glad it helped you that way, Ignacio,” said Alden. “I’ll make sure we fry my skill at least twice more today.”

“Thank you!” Ignacio said. “I’ll be ready when you are.”

“Revolutionizing Meisters as first years— ”

“Mehdi!” Alden exclaimed. “Quit saying that. How can it be revolutionizing? There’s only one of me. I hope Ignacio’s right, and it’s a shortcut that will give him the knack for improving his normal weapon recalls, too. But even if it is, do you imagine me going door to door to give every Meister on Anesidora access to the same shortcut?”

“Don’t take this the wrong way,” said Mehdi. “But if it works, you should think about doing that. You might get richer and save more lives indirectly through all of those Meisters you upgrade than you will as a Rabbit superhero.”

Alden was drawing a blank on appropriate responses.

“It might actually be your patriotic duty. You’d start with high ranks and work your way down. I have a few relatives who are Meisters.”

“Thank you for the input,” Alden said, starting up the stairs. “I’ll be ignoring it.”

At least Kon was amused. Alden could hear it in his voice as he asked Mehdi what Alden should charge for his services.

******

******

Alden had more than enough time to change clothes and grab the few supplies he needed for his storytelling class. But it didn’t feel like enough as he tried to practice bits of the story in between popping in and out of his room to stare at Lute, who was innocently practicing his own story in the living area, unaware that he was doing vicious damage to Alden’s confidence with his “Little Red Riding Hood”-inspired tale.

An origami klerm sat on Alden’s desk. He was examining it when Lute let out a howl that was so hopeless people were going to be crying for the wolf and plotting revenge against the girl and the grandmother. They were the villains in his story, not-so-subtly named Jess Riding Hood and Growlia Smellra.

“All the best people wear these chains, Young Wolf,” Lute said in flawless Artonan that somehow managed to capture Aulia’s light, charming way of speaking. “You’ll thank me soon.”

“I love you,” said Jess Riding Hood. “I love you.”

That was her only line for the entire second half of the story, but it was frequently repeated, the sound of it growing stranger every time as Lute warbled and crackled through it until he sounded like a damaged antique radio.

It was similar to something Warin-doyis had done in one of the stories he’d told them last week, but Alden hadn’t realized anyone would just go for it like Lute was.

I didn’t know we were breaking out the advanced techniques so quickly.

“I’m not going to suck,” Alden said to the klerm. “I have you. I have the story memorized.”

The wolf howled again. Closer to Alden’s room.

Either Lute is coming down the hall, or he’s learned to throw his voice.

Alden stuck his head out the door. “You’re done practicing?” he said when he saw Lute heading into his own room.

“It’s about time to go, and I can’t wear my pajamas to class.” Lute yawned. “I’m going to wear all black.”

“All black?”

“The room will be dark. My puppets light up. I want the audience to see them, not me, so the black will help me fade into the background while the story comes to life.”

“The puppets light up now…I’m so happy for you.”

Lute blinked at him. “You sound nervous. It’s just a class.”

“I’m not. Weren’t you the nervous one before last week? I learned to be callable by Meisters this morning. That’s not something anyone else on Earth accomplished today. I’m going to tell a story. A funny one. That I spent all week working on and memorizing. I memorized it. Don’t even have to read it off my interface. The funny version might not be the best story I could’ve told; maybe it’s not the one that felt really meaningful, but it’s good enough.”

“You sound nervous for sure. Do you want a self-confidence wordchain to help with that?”

“No way. I might boldly ruin my life if you hit me with one of those things. We’ll be fine.”

“We?”

Alden held up his paper klerm.
