Veron took another one of his blades when something struck him from above. He fell, his ears ringing when he felt something strike his chest and head. He felt himself skid on the floor, stopping with a groan.

A dull pain radiated from his neck. Veron tried to stand up and stumbled. The pain turned sharp but he pushed through it, breathing out as he tried to get his bearings. Hayden and the bear were fighting the same ant. The one from above had dropped down into the chaos. It hadn’t died, though bled from its head.

Silvie and Reka were circling it, cutting at its legs with their swords as it broke through the chains that held it. Veron grabbed another blade fastened to his pack and sent it at the creature’s large back. The projectile glanced off its carapace and hit the dome. Reka cut through one of its back legs when Silvie parried a strike, facing the creature. Another front leg hit her chest and she staggered back.

Veron rushed forward, unable to move his neck as he tried to angle his mace. He saw the ant snap forward with its mandibles, catching Silvie’s right arm as she yelped, her sword clattering to the ground before it bit down. More chains caught the ant and Veron struck one of its front legs, breaking through. Hayden was on the other side, his glowing shield strike smashing into the ant’s head as Reka cut away at its back.

Veron swung his mace into the right eye of the monster, its movements slowing, then stopping entirely. He winced and grabbed at his neck, teeth gritted as he moved over to one of the walls, leaning against it as he tried to push through the pain. Something was wrong with his neck, his back. He could feel numbness in his right leg and arm now, his mace clattering to the ground. His breaths came hasty as he heard sobbing from Silvie, blinking his eyes when he saw her cradling the bleeding stump that remained of her arm.

The ringing in his ears was still there, and now he could hear the pounding of his own heart. Hayden shoved something into Silvie’s mouth and she bit down, her scream dull as Hayden helped her lie down.

“You’re hurt?” Reka asked when she came over. Her voice was shaking.

“My neck,” Veron said through gritted teeth. “Not sure what’s wrong.”

She checked him. “You’re not bleeding at least. Let him… let him stabilize her… and then…”

“Reka,” Hayden called, his voice curt.

She moved over to Silvie’s prone form, kneeling down next to Hayden, the man moving slow and deliberately, pushing a bandage against the bleeding wound, telling Reka to take over when his hands started glowing.

Veron couldn’t hear what they said, all he saw was Silvie’s pale face, the tears rolling down her cheeks. Then she went limp.

Is she?

He wanted to move over and ask but his ears were still ringing and even small movements sent a sharp pain through his neck and back. “Fuck.”

Veron watched as the others worked, Hayden now taking over as he cleaned the stump, then opened his pack, got out a few tools. Scissors first, then needle and thread. Veron looked away, trying to check if there were more ants coming but the three corpses littering the space were the only ones.

Reka came over to him. “You’re still with us?”

“Yeah. Is Silvie?”

“Alive. Come, I’ll help you move to one of them. Lay it to rest,” Reka said and helped him move. “It will help.”

He grit his teeth, the edges of his vision going black as he tried to set aside the pain. Then he was next to one of the dead ants. All he could do was raise his left arm, touching its dented and bleeding head before he closed his eyes.

Veron breathed slower, hearing the sound of threading wire, the breathing of Reka. His own heartbeat moved to the background and he could feel the stone of the tower, the winds caught within the open dome. He felt the hard surface of the dull red chitin, broken and splintered. Why did you have to come here?

He breathed. You nearly killed her.

You nearly killed me.

Veron blinked his eyes, feeling the winds slow around him. The ant had lost its color, ever so slightly. The pain in his neck was only a dull throb, the numbness gone entirely. He breathed deep now, the action no longer hurting.

“Veron, help me here,” Reka said. She glanced his way, hacking away at the ant that had taken Silvie’s arm. She’d cut off the mandibles. “Try to open its mouth.”

He went over and followed her instructions. Slowly, they cut away bits and pieces, opening the jaws before Reka started digging through the flesh and bile. She cursed when she pulled out a mangled piece of Silvie’s arm. Veron let go of the ant and went to his knees, his vision blurring as he tried to control his breathing.

“There are only pieces left… mangled and broken…” Reka murmured.

Someone stepped next to him. “I’ll have a look at Veron,” Hayden said. “She’s stable for now, but we need to get her out as fast as we can.”

“There are more of them out there,” Reka said, her voice sounding flat.

“I take care of him, you think of something,” Hayden snapped.

“Grant me the power to mend his wounds, set his bones,” Hayden murmured.

Veron could feel the magic, something setting into place in his neck. He breathed out. The pain was gone now, but he felt hollow.

“You need to get up, Veron. We’re not done here,” Hayden said.

Veron breathed, and breathed, and focused on the rock below him, the tower built to last eternity. By whom, he did not know. Shelter from the marsh and all the beasts within. He sat there for a moment, focused only on the stone, and the muddy earth below. He breathed out, and opened his eyes, then grabbed his shield.
