The soup had only been great, but that was because it had been made with ingredients the catkin wasn't familiar with.

The rest of the meal had been a revelation. Chefs had it all wrong. They needed to learn alchemy, not cooking. The grilled beef, whipped tubers with butter, roasted veggies, the fried egg salad, and the sweet yogurt berry parfait... she began salivating, and she'd just finished eating.

Anna would forever regret accepting Sammie's dinner invitation, because she would now always wonder what other culinary miracles Niala could come up with.

She sighed. Nothing to be done about it. At least the meal had been so distracting that she'd completely forgotten about the grumpy woman sitting next to her.

She pulled back, letting the majordomo golem empty the table, and sat straight. Time for business now.

Crossing her hands, she levelled a pleasant gaze at her hosts and waited. David nodded and spoke. “Sammie told us that you had been planning on meeting us before he even approached you. Could you tell us why?”

Anna took a deep breath, allowing herself a few seconds to grip her sudden nerves. She could still bail out, right now, if she wanted. It wasn't really her problem...

She looked David in the eyes. “Because you have a lot of mana.”

He cocked an eyebrow. “Elaborate? And how do you know?”

She smirked. “The Landretti company makes it a point to maintain a general file on every known and active family or organization of note. I've personally put together the Allwarden file. Your reputation is a lot more widespread than you seem to realize.”

He nodded. “Just making sure. This valley is kind of isolated. About my other question?”

“Right, why your mana is important...” She resettled herself in the chair. “I'm going to take a guess and say that Emile Landretti has contacted you?”

The man slowly nodded.

“I don't know what he told you, but I can tell you he's after the same thing: your mana. To explain why, I need to go back over the reason this valley has been slowly tearing itself apart after the death of Stefan Landretti, Emile's grandfather.”

She looked around the table, flinching slightly when she found both Sybil and Niala locked in on her. Sammie was leaning back on his chair and staring in her direction. She had to beat back a rise of her lips when she noticed his eyes weren't exactly looking at her face.

David looked every part the dour noble. If she hadn't just spent about a bell hearing him chat happily over dinner, she might have felt a bit intimidated. As it was, he just looked like he was playing a role.

She dipped her head. “I don't know exactly what you were told or learned, so I'll go over everything. To start, Stefan Landretti was a brilliant enchanter, probably one of the greatest of his generation. He was also the first to finally open the vault hidden underneath the valley. And then, before anyone could learn what was inside, he sealed it back up, using his own enchantments to put in a new magical lock.”

Her eyes drifted down to her hands on the table. “The detail I'm certain nobody told you was that he had only been able to open the vault because its mana reserve had been nearly depleted. The new enchantment in place was built on top of the old one, and works differently.”

Before she could go on, David lifted his hand up from the table. “Yes?”

He put it back down. “You know a lot of details.”

She tilted her head to the side, her ears swaying. Where did you learn all that? The silent question said. She smiled. “Did you know that Stefan was a zealous diary-keeper? And that he grew a bit senile in his old age, forgetting all the diaries he had stored in the company's archives?”

David's eyes flashed understanding. Niala and Sybil were still glued to her words. Sammie's gaze wasn't even trying to hide where he was looking anymore.

She shifted on her seat, making sure he got an eyeful of her hips. She smirked as she met his eyes when they snapped back up to her face. He looked up at the ceiling innocently.

Clearing her throat, she continued. “I should also point out that, before hiring me, the company had been without a properly trained archivist for a few decades. They brought me in specifically to start putting order in the paper tornado they called an archive. My boss doesn't have a clue about most of what I've uncovered.”

She shook her head, thinking of all the blackmail material she'd uncovered. She'd used exactly none of it, obviously; she valued her life more than money. “As I was saying, that's where you come in. The new lock is different; it needs mana to activate, the inverse of the original one. The problem is that it requires a ludicrous amount of it; multiple family fortunes' worth of mana stones.”

Niala's ears twitched. “So Emile wants my David to power the new manalock.”

Anna dipped her head. “That, and to help him get the last few secret runes he needs. Before you wonder, Sebastian Quaro wants the same thing.”

“Confiscating my distiller wasn't the best way to get us to cooperate...”

“You'll probably get contacted by Sebastian, offering you the distiller back in exchange for your help,” Anna said.

David tapped a finger on the table. “You said that Emile had some of his grandfather's hidden runes. How certain are you about that?”

“To be honest, it's an educated guess, because I know for a fact that Sebastian doesn't have all of them. I never heard him talk about the specifics, but he's had me retrieve all of Stefan's documents related to the 17 magictools that contain a rune. On a few occasions that I delivered him the documents, I heard him curse about annoying meddlers that didn't know their place.”

Sammie hummed. “It's like a game of blink poker. We don't know who has which cards.”

Anna gave him a smile. “Exactly. I'd still bet on Emile having most, if not all, of the runes that Sebastian is missing.”

David gave her a look. “Why are you so certain?”

She sighed. “I'm not, but it's what makes the most sense. The Landretti name, even if they're less than they were, still holds a lot of clout and weight. You can hear rumours all the time about how Emile has aligned himself with a coalition of other families.”

Niala bobbed her head. “We did hear things like that...”

David gave his wife a smile and then turned back to Anna. “I'd like to know what made you want to meet with us. Do you want us to side with someone?”

She shook her head. “No, I want you to re-activate the original seal, and make all the shadow play between the two sides meaningless.”

“Shadow play?”

Anna nodded. “The company has spent a fortune in tracking down the magictools, as I suspect the Landretti family did in turn. With the final rune, the one they couldn't find, finally available, both sides will probably grow bolder.”

She clasped her hands. “So far, we've only had some break-ins, and I've heard some employees talk of getting visits from strangers, getting intimidated. I wouldn't be surprised if people started getting hurt now.”

She closed her eyes for a second, reopening them and staring at David and Niala. “So, I'd like to ask you to put a stop to this nonsense, as soon as possible.”

The couple exchanged a glance, with David nodding and turning his head back toward Anna. “What's your motivation for getting involved? You could just stand aside.”

She thinned her lips. “Isn't the greater good and avoiding people getting hurt good enough of a reason?”

He didn't answer, just kept looking.

She sighed. “Right... For the record, that is my main reason. This valley is my home, and I don't want to see it or my colleagues get bloodied for old trinkets. With that said, I also want both Emile and Sebastian out of the picture. They're horrible people.”

Her features hardened. “Sebastian is a condescending control freak who churns through people without regard for their personal situation, firing them if they look at him wrong one too many times. Emile is a manipulative diva who throws a tantrum whenever something doesn't go his way. His public meltdowns are well known, and he's physically assaulted several people who refused to do as he said.”

She let out a breath. “Both have violated several laws, labour and civil, and neither got anything more than a slap on the wrist. I'm almost certain that's because they're being shielded by their respective group as their best chance to get access to the vault. If we take that out of the equation... they'll be vulnerable, and I have enough incriminating documents hidden away to take care of them both.”

David's expression didn't change, and he kept staring at her.

And staring.

The corner of her mouth twitched. “I'm serious. Once you see what I found, you'll understand. This valley will be better off without them.”

Sammie cleared his throat, drawing her attention. “I understand how you could get dirt on Sebastian, working at the same company, but what about Emile?”

“Hugo Landretti was horrible at filing his things away. Guess who he kept asking to come clean up his files?”

He quirked a brow. “And he had family documents in his work office?”

She nodded. “The man was a fool. He was completely unfit to be the grand manager. Maybe a salesman, at best.”

“That might be an understatement...”

She shrugged, “Whatever the case, he brought enough of the blackmail he used to keep his son out of jail that we can use it to send him there.”

Looking around the table, she was surprised to find Sybil sporting a face-splitting smile. Sammie spoke up when he noticed. “Don't mind her. She loves sending people to jail.”

The woman scowled and stared daggers at him. “Bad guys! Sending bad guys to jail!”

“Ahh, but you do love doing that!”

“So do you!”

He lifted his hands, palm up. “I'm not denying it.”

“You-!”

David cut in. “Alright. If they're that bad, and all we need to do is seal the vault back with mana, we can do that. There's still an issue left.”

Niala nodded and continued for her husband. “If both sides are missing some of the runes, they won't bring us to the vault in the first place.”

The room fell into silence as everyone's thoughts turned inwards.

Sammie snapped his fingers. “I know! Sybil, do you remember the fat man and his wife?”

She furrowed her brows for an instant before her eyes widened. “I do! You're right, it will totally work!” She exclaimed, both she and Sammie smiling at each other.

Niala looked at each in turn, ears wiggling. “What? What was the fat man and his wife?! What did you figure out?!” She asked, tail wagging.

The two guards shared a complicit look before turning their heads and grinning at Lady Allwarden.

A FEW DAYS LATER

Sebastian was quite pleased.

The last two years, since the death of Hugo, had been a mess. They had come so close to pulling all the details out of the man on the hidden runes, and then the investor board outplayed his faction and got him fired.

He'd ended up missing four of the magic tools, three of them getting snatched up by Emile, with the last lost in the wilds.

They'd spent years' worth of earnings to track it down, to no avail. Well, until it had literally walked through the front door.

Now he only needed to get the Landretti's three runes. He had solved the mana problem yesterday; his plan to offer the Allwarden's distiller back to them if they agreed to help him had worked.

Once the vault was open, he wouldn't need it anymore, anyway.

More than that, that cockroach Emile had played himself by approaching them. Not only had they not believed his fabricated tale that Hugo's death was staged, but they'd also learned of some of his less reputable exploits. The boy hadn't outright killed anyone, but it had been a near thing in a few cases, just to name a few.

The Allwardens' ensuing offer to help trick Emile into giving up his runes had been a very interesting proposition, and one he'd accepted quickly.

And so, tomorrow night, they were going to meet the Landrettis. The Allwardens told Emile that they had chosen to side with him and would get the company to commit its runes by making them think the Allwardens were siding with them.

Emile would bring his runes, thinking he was going to get the company's runes, and from there go straight to the vault. In truth, Emile was going to be made to give up his runes.

It was a triple-cross, and rather devious, but he guessed the Allwarden were true nobles after all, and not the beacons of honour the rumours had painted them to be.

He tipped his glass, letting the spirits warm his throat. After all this money thrown to the winds, all the manoeuvring, and the pressure from his backers giving him heartburns, it was going to be all over.

They were going to open the vault, get its treasures, and the Landretti Company would be given over to the Quaro family, finally.

They had been the silent spine of the Landretti company for too long. Generations of skilled enchanters and managers toiling away in anonymity. It was time for a change of name and leadership.

The Quaro distillers would soon be the brand to own, and the Landretti name would begin fading away.

Yes, he was pleased indeed.