It didn’t help that he carried a spear, halberd, club, sword and shield either. Currently, he looked a little ridiculous carrying as many weapons as he did. But the unspoken tension remained in the fact that he’d only cast spells thus far. And nobody carrying that many weapons and looking as physically capable as he did were unused to using them.

Even Destartes, who’d primarily cast spells throughout the entire battle, didn’t get scrutinized as much as he did.

Still, the presence of Xalyth Mezzer and the escort from the forward checkpoint they’d made contact with ensured that the gate guards of the city let them through. It also prevented the stares from getting too brazen as word had spread by now that a large group of refugee drow, orcs and humans would be arriving.

Xan’Coran didn’t look any different from what he remembered of it. Nefarious dark and purple architecture, gigantic caverns linked together to create a sprawling city, and spider dragons hanging from the ceilings and skittering about. These creatures lived in harmony with the drow, seeking mutual shelter in one another. He had a hunch that the existence of these creatures was partly what prevented the dwarves from launching an all-out assault and eliminating the drow.

Mainly the quadruple Grandmaster spider dragon hanging from the ceiling of the cavern city. It was gigantic, larger than a mountain, and all of its eyes followed his every movement. Which was fantastic, since this thing was who he had come here for.

Last time, he’d needed to study drow enchanting strictly insofar as it related to four-dimensional script and how it could rebuild his System. Back then, the actual spider dragons themselves hadn’t been his focus. But his goal was an entirely different one now. Almyra’s tome had been quite clear on how the former time looper created her clones. They were essentially mirrors of her soul. But these mirrors weren’t real bodies, and they couldn’t cast magic at the full power that her actual body could.

The limitation of these clones not being real bodies would have made the technique useless for him by itself. After all, his martial skills and physical body were as important to him as magic was. And the clones having weaker output didn’t matter for Almyra, but it did matter for him who regularly utilized copious amounts of power. It was clear then that he couldn’t utilize the exact technique for clones that she did.

But that didn’t mean her tome was useless. In fact, the previous looper had extensively detailed her studies of somebody else in her galaxy who had the Action Increase Quest reward. And how it tapped into the System’s underlying framework to achieve it.

Here, in Xan’Coran, under the tutelage of the spider dragons, Orodan intended to learn the mechanisms behind the spider dragons and their silk. He already knew how to make soul weave. But he truly needed to refine it and expand its uses if he was to re-acquire the functionality of the Action Increases he had in the past. And perhaps even farther beyond.

“That spider dragon above… is it the oldest one in the city?” Orodan asked Xalyth.

“The revered Ashganruk? He is not only the oldest within Xan’Coran, but all Alastaia. The dragon flights avoid straying near the Dokuhan Mountains for fear of him, he has slain many of their hunters and aspiring glory-seekers,” the drow woman explained. “If you are curious about the history of-”

“Ashganruk!” he bellowed, voice amplified by soul energy to the point that it echoed for miles like that of the divines. “I’ve come to learn about the process of spider dragon silk and how it can maintain integrity over long distances!”

The gigantic spider dragon which had been watching him all this time had its many beady eyes narrow in a frown of displeasure.

Orodan was used to it, having fought gigantic foes such as Avraxas and Ur-Vah’sahn the Living Crystal, but for the refugees, the drow and even his two mentors, the sight of a gigantic spider dragon leaning down to get its face nearer to them was an unsettling sight. Xalyth and every one of the drow fell to a knee in respect, their gazes downcast. The orc and human refugees kept their heads down in deference. To them it must have been akin to a mountain in the distance suddenly deciding it wanted to have a face-to-face conversation.

The other spider dragon he’d fought in his early loops had been the size of a castle, with legs the size of towers. This one’s legs were the size of entire citadels, each one bigger than the High Spire of Karilsgard and its body larger than Mount Castarian.

Orodan had grown powerful, but he could still recognize and respect the telltale signs of an apex creature. Not only were spider dragons possessed of the same prodigious mana pool and physical might of dragonkind, but they also had eight mighty and dangerous legs which amplified their combat power. A dragon’s advantage was in its ability to take flight and remain mobile. In melee, a spider dragon of equivalent level would butcher a dragon quite easily. A phenomenon supported by historical ambushes and clashes between the two.

All this was to say that spider dragons were an apex species in line with dragon and Arch-Devils. And this one was the biggest and mightiest one he’d ever seen.

“Beast. Your raucous yelling is an offense to my hearing. Why do you shout loud enough to wake the dead?”

Its voice was a combination of a roar and a hiss, a guttural thing.

“I apologize. I didn’t think you could hear me from all the way up there,” Orodan said, gesturing to the fact that the ceiling was many miles away and above.

“Even the slightest disturbance upon my webs, I can sense. The disturbance in Var Turum, your distant footsteps near the checkpoint before even reaching Xan’Coran, I have heard them all. But you especially… the ground quakes with violence and horror whenever you walk. What does a beast such as you want from me and this city? Be warned, these dark elves are under my protection.”

Orodan would fully admit to being a bit of a hardened warrior. But a beast?

“I admit, I’ve fought in a battle or two, but I’m hardly a beast and I certainly mean Xan’Coran no harm,” Orodan replied. “Have I done something to offend you? Maybe I was a little loud but-”

“Your excessively loud proclamation is trivial., the aura of blood and death is apparent. I can smell it from here. You call yourself a warrior? But the line between that and a killer is thin, very thin indeed. And you, Orodan Wainwright, have killed many, many people. That crude weave you have at the heart of your soul does not lie; it reeks of an odor of bloodshed and brutality. Hence, you are a beast.”

He felt it a little ironic that this gigantic and horrifying-looking creature which would cause an entire nation to quiver in terror considered him a beast. But then again, every spider and spider dragon he’d met had some level of odd civility to them. Even in fighting they had some sort of refinement in their mannerisms and ways of speaking.

Perhaps spiders in general were just like that?

But really, he was surprised that this spider dragon’s ability to see the soul was that profound. Only Administrators and other high-level beings of power had managed that in the past.

“How can you peer into my soul?”

“That crude weave you have within, it is a pathetic imitation of the technique we use to create our silk. And yet… it is admittedly intriguing that such a material can be woven entirely of the soul. Beast, where have you learned this and how? Have you met another spider dragon in your travels?” it asked, curious.

Adeltaj and Destartes who were tense this entire time, had their nerves calmed and sighs coming out of their mouths at the next words he said.

“Well, would you believe me if I said I was in a time loop?”

#

[Laboring 61 → Laboring 62]

“You seem unhappy.”

“You… you should not be as pleased by this as you are.”

“Why would I not be? This is an opportunity to train my skills,” Orodan replied, bundling up another spool of silk and placing it to the side. “In fact, why not just let me work with the spider dragons directly? I bet I could train them to produce even more silk.”

“Absolutely not!” Ashganruk roared, sounding utterly scandalized at the suggestion. “Not in a thousand years would you be allowed to do such a thing! That is… a position of utmost intimacy and trust which either a spider dragon’s mate will help with, or very trusted drow silk tenders with many years of service and must trust will assist with.”

Admittedly, given spider anatomy, he shouldn’t have been surprised that it was a most secretive act. Fair enough.

“Right. I’ll just keeping wrapping silk around the spools then. I don’t know why your tenders hate this part of the job so much, it’s just honest toil of the hand.”

“You are an exceedingly strange human, beast. Not only is the silk denser and heavier than you think, but the memories and emotions of the spider dragon it came from are still fresh within, and mere contact is enough to test the will and sanity of those handling it.”

Which, given how bright his soul burnt and how sturdy his mind and will were, wasn’t a concern. Nor was the weight of the silk for that matter.

“You could call me anything but beast, you know? Even calling me human would be fine,” Orodan replied. “Would you prefer I go around calling you spider dragon?”

“I call you so because that is what you are. No spider dragon of sense would be offended at being referred to as what they are,” the gigantic being spoke. “But you… you are a brutal and violent thing wearing the skin of a man. Even a devil possessing a mortal would not be able to do as good a job at wearing the skin as you do.”

“But… I hide nothing?” Orodan queried, confused. “Either you’re attempting to get a rise out of me, or you’ve lose the sense in that hill-sized head of yours.”

“Ah, you mistake me, violent one. In associating with the drow who are less temperamental, I seem to have forgotten that you humans may take offense to such things. Allow me to clarify. When I call you beast, not only is it meant as an honest descriptor, but also as praise,” the spider dragon spoke. “Your steps cause the very earth to recoil, the very air to cow in fear. Most will not see it, their sight merely surface level unless you act. But deep within your soul I can smell it, the weave inside, the scent… it terrifies even I. And I suspect it is an aspect of yours which you have not even fully unleashed yet.”

Orodan had an inkling this creature spoke of that nebulous concept of violence he called upon while wrangling Cleanliness and Infinity under control. How the spider dragon could see it, he didn’t know, but evidently something within his soul stood out. And this creature who was quite sensitive to such things was able to somehow tell.

“I’m not some monster who indiscriminately kills people. You would think a beast would go on a rampage, and I certainly do not.”

“Ah, but you do not see. A beast can be intelligent, very intelligent. But the difference between a mere fighter and a brutal creature of war is in how they operate. Once the decision to spill blood has been made, there is no hesitation, no reluctance. No… rather the beast embraces the blood and the savagery. It likes the pain, it weaponizes it and thrives off of being able to go somewhere dark where mere fighters cannot. You, Orodan Wainwright, are thus a beast. Your inclusion into these time loops you speak of was no accident. And it was for more than your talent in this odd Cleaning skill alone that saw you anointed.”

“Er… I suppose I shall try to take that as a compliment.”

Moving about as a gigantic mountain-sized spider was difficult, and Ashganruk the Safeguard—his full name—had brought Orodan to an area of Xan’Coran where there was no ceiling and the spider dragon could hang off of the cavern roof and supervise his work. It was where the silk harvested from spider dragons was processed too.

Of course, Orodan and the gigantic spider dragon weren’t the only ones here.

Numerous silk tenders, alchemists, chronomancers and laborers were also working. Furthermore, while the silk tenders were exclusively drow, the other specialists had humans, elves and even an orc or two among them, indicative of the fact that the drow had their allies and supporters among the other races as well. Specialists aside, smaller spider dragons lounged about behind enchanted curtains and within specialized chambers. Orodan’s expertise in Enchanting allowed him to recognize that many of the inscriptions were for comfort, temperature control and utter silence within. But some of them were also for privacy, which was understandable given how private of an act the production of silk seemed to be.

Needless to say, Orodan avoided looking into the chambers with Vision of Purity. His current task of wrapping silk around the large spools was all he focused upon. It was good training for his Laboring and in fact helped him understand the properties of the dragon spider silk better.

And as Orodan worked, Ashganruk resumed speaking.

“These… time loops you speak of… tell me more about them. Perhaps at a lower volume so that everyone in Xan’Coran does not hear.”

That was a tall ask, especially since he’d openly narrated the entire thing to this spider dragon in full hearing of the refugees, civilian bystanders and soldiers from the forward checkpoint who’d escorted them.

“What else is there to say? I die, I return in time to midnight of the day of my first death, I repeat. Usually with plenty of training methods people would call reckless along the way,” Orodan replied.

