“Then, we have met before?” the titanic arachnid asked.

“No. I’ve seen you before, in the loop where I worked to rebuild my System. But we never interacted until now. I must say you’re not quite as prickly as I had imagined you to be,” he answered. “But that might just be my bias against spiders talking. At least two out of the three other spiders I’ve met have been most irksome and exhausting to deal with.”

“Even Talricto?” Zaessythra asked.

As he said, at least two out of the three. But perhaps that wasn’t as true as he would have liked to pretend given that his arrival to Xan’Coran was for the purposes of securing passage to Eldiron. From where he would find that irritating dimensional bug once more.

“You have met other spider dragons? The interactions were peaceful I hope?”

“The first? No. I slew him after an extended fight, but I was younger and more hot-headed then, and he’d supposedly slain a dragon, though I only learned that after the fact. I still recall the name too, one of the earliest times I used the Identify skill. Yamalshuk… I believe.”

“That… that hatchling? I suppose nothing of real value was lost,” Ashganruk spoke. “He was, or is, a sadistic killer who enjoys raiding dragon nests for their eggs. He purchases needless ire towards our kind. A criminal who even we would seek to capture and render justice upon.”

“So your lot aren’t at war with dragonkind?”

“Are you humans at war with goblins?” the spider dragon asked.

“No? Why would we be? One of my students is a goblin and it’s not as though any of the tribes cause much trouble for the Republic save a wild band or two in Exerston… ah, I see.”

“Indeed. There is no giant racial collective on either side which would allow for such a collective statement of war to be made. We beneath the Dokuhan Mountains are at war with the Burning Ember dragonflight, but have not had any dealings with the dragonflights of the Republic and Eastern Kingdoms.”

Interesting news. Perhaps these spider dragons were not as malevolent as the dragons would have everyone believe.

Time passed, and Orodan continued working, until at last Ashganruk deemed him tolerable and humbled enough that the tasks lessened in their intensity. Which wouldn’t have really mattered to him either way since working with such large quantities of spider dragon silk began to give him a better feel for the substance and its intricacies. The last time he’d visited here, his learning had been more focused on building his own System. Which meant the secrets of a material composed partially from the soul were put to the side.

But that had come at the cost of his own soul weave supposedly being suboptimal.

“You said that my soul weave is pitiful. Why?”

“Because it is, beast. The soul portion is done masterfully, this I shall freely admit. No spider dragon in this enclave can match whatever you have done in forming the material. But… the structure and design of the weave itself… even speaking of it causes me to feel great offense. At least two of my progeny have filed a formal accusation of harm against you when they overheard your tale of the time loops and how your soul weave is based off of our spider dragon silk. To make us look so… inadequate…!”

This bug! Why did it have to make him sound that horrible?

“I’m not even that bad! Show me then! Where I have failed!” Orodan demanded.

“Look first to the structure of your soul weave, and then look to the silk you work with. Do you see how the transference properties of yours is utterly shoddy?” Ashganruk asked. “How you cycle any power through your soul in the presence of such obstructions is beyond me.”

“What? These are no obstructions, it is soul weave. I feel no block at all when channeling power,” Orodan honestly answered. He really didn’t feel any hindrance.

“Truly? Then provide me some of this soul weave.”

Orodan did as asked, and soon, a glowing length of material formed purely of his own soul was being closely examined by the many eyes of the giant spider dragon. And upon the giant’s request a drow brought an energy battery out.

“You, channel soul energy from that orb into the weave.”

The drow did as asked, and soon enough the orb began glowing.

“Ten percent,” the assisting drow reported.

“Go up to fifty.”

And the orb glowed further. Yet even then there was no change to the weave.

“…max it out.”

And the assistant did, yet even then there was no visible change or transfer of energy within the weave at all. In fact, after five second the orb itself shattered.

Ashganruk however, could only freeze as though witnessing something ridiculous. He’d seen Talricto scared before and had some experience with the emotions and expressions of spiders. But to see fear and astoundment on the features of a spider dragon the size of a mountain was something else.

“Monster of war… just how much soul energy do you cycle through your soul at any given moment?”

“I… do not know? Perhaps a few city’s energy batteries worth?” Orodan tried estimating, though even this was likely an underestimation of the highest order. “No… maybe enough to rival a world core or two?”

Silence befell the silk tending area.

“Absurd… a violent beast with such power… fate is truly unkind and possessed of a wicked mind for entertainment,” Ashganruk muttered. “That orb is connected to a repository we have in the deepest reaches of the city. One containing enough soul energy to power Xan’Coran for years. If you broke it… then that can only mean that the sheer resistance of this soul weave is beyond what we can measure.”

What did that even mean?

“I don’t understand. What does this have to do with my soul weave? How is the structure of it inefficient?”

“Think, Orodan Wainwright. That you manage to channel energy through this material at all is not a testament to its success but proof of your raw power!” Ashganruk declared. “Imagine how miserably inefficient this material is otherwise!”

And to prove it, the spider dragon shot out two thin strands of webbing, grabbing the length of soul weave, and it pulled.

Orodan had expected it to be stretchy, perhaps able to hold its shape somewhat.

But what he did not expect was for it to practically fall apart at the first sign of any pull.

How had Orodan not noticed? Was the soul weave he used to build his System truly that weak? Was he blind?

No. Rather, the answer was only obvious in hindsight. Incredibly few enemies even had the capacity to target his soul, and among those that did harm it, the number who reached all the way into the soul core to destroy his System were slim. Like an iron fort containing a glass goblet, Orodan’s mighty soul had obscured just how fragile the parts composing the System within were.

Well, it wasn’t exactly fragile in the sense that it couldn’t tolerate his soul energy. But it was utterly unmalleable once set within him. It could not lengthen. And he was far too quick and efficient at rebuilding his System on the spot even if it did get destroyed. His competency in other aspects had been masking this weakness that the spider dragon had uncovered.

And if Orodan wanted to replicate his Action Increases once more through the method he was thinking of… then this critical weakness of his soul weave could not be allowed to stand.

“Then… teach me. Please.”

#

[Mana Bolt 28 → Mana Bolt 29]

[Burst Casting 32 → Burst Casting 33]

The flurry of ten mana bolts, only one of which was accidentally overcharged, flew for his target.

Of course, the wizard was ready and simply absorbed all the spells into that shimmering layer of spatiomantic armor surrounding his body.

“You’re improving Mister Wainwright. The number of inadequate Mana Bolts you cast is lessening by the day,” Destartes praised. “At this rate I may even promote you to using Lightning Bolts again.”

The compliment didn’t hit quite as nicely as he’d like given how slow the progress was. And managing to cast nine successful Mana Bolts with good control out of ten casts could be attributed to happenstance. He still needed more consistent practice to shore up the problems. Although he was getting closer to being able to cast a thousand in a row perfectly.

“It seems as though I’ve had some foundational weaknesses revealed recently. First, my volatile soul and enormous mana pool which make Burst Casting quite difficult,” Orodan remarked while slinging another successfully controlled Mana Bolt the wizard’s way. “And the shoddy structure of the soul weave.”

Which, as Orodan had learned, wasn’t entirely without merit. His formation of the weave which made up his System had its upsides too. Sure, it had horrible conductivity for soul energy, but by the hells was it capable of taking a lot of it. Subconsciously, when creating the weave for the very first time in that prior loop, he must have understood that it needed to be incredibly durable rather than flexible. Even Ashganruk had agreed that having him adapt the material of his soul weave directly to the specifications of spider dragon silk might even weaken it.

But that didn’t mean he could let things be as they were. Not if he wanted to go about the method he had in mind for replicating Action Increases. His soul weave needed to be better without losing durability, and it needed a certain level of flexibility for it.

Of course, that was something planned across many loops and not just this one.

Returning to the discussion, Destartes didn’t look concerned with the weaknesses he’d just listed.

“A soul which produces endless power and a mana pool of a size which even the largest dragons would envy are not limitations Mister Wainwright, they are potential assets. Of a volatile nature, yes, but beneficial all the same. And it is my duty as your teacher to refine that potential asset until it is no longer a liability,” the wizard said. “And while I’m no soul mage, that soul weave of yours sounds like an asset too.”

That was a nice way of framing it he supposed. He could see it too, that when he’d gotten both things under control, how devastating they could become.

The two of them practiced for a few more volleys until he noticed the familiar soul of Adeltaj walking along. Visible but still a distance away. Next to the old man, two drow women, one of whom was a vampire, the other Xalyth Mezzer. But that wasn’t the shocking part.

No, what had Orodan shaking his head at the old halberdier’s shamelessness was how each of these dark elf women were on one of his arms. Clinging and giggling as though he was telling the most humorous of jokes known to man.

“Hmm… well it’s good to see him enjoying himself,” Destartes said with a chuckle.

“With how he sometimes goes on about being an old man I didn’t think he had it in him,” Orodan added. “I did hear a number of the drow praising him quite highly. Perhaps he’s better regarded around these parts than I knew.”

It was also a bit on-the-nose and doubtlessly meant to poke fun at Orodan that the old man had a vampire on his arm. The red-eyed drow didn’t look malicious either. None of the vampires he’d seen in Xan’Coran were. They either got their supply from livestock or from willing volunteers, donors or most commonly, intimate partners.

“And yet despite that… his rate of advancement is astounding. One I cannot match.”

It wasn’t envy and certainly not jealousy, but the self-flagellation in the wizard’s tone was obvious.

“Would you take offense if I spoke freely?”

“Mister Wainwright, of all your grating qualities, the straightforward honesty you approach life with is not one of them. Just as I teach you, so too am I open to being the student myself. Please, be candid,” Destartes permitted.

“Then what immediately stands out to me is your lack of willingness to embrace your path with zeal. It would be unfair of me to label you conflict-averse, and you are certainly no coward. And yet, even the Destartes of past loops never truly… dared. Not without support anyhow,” Orodan calmly explained in as respectful a tone as he could adopt. “In fact, on the surface there is nothing wrong with this. You are studious and possess a knack for wizardry, spellcasting and magical research which put you among the finest minds of our world. But… you are not hungry for something the way he is.”

And by he, Orodan meant Adeltaj. Compared to Destartes, Adeltaj Simarji was the sort who threw himself into danger if that meant embracing his path, that of the hero. The old halberdier had died to protect Orodan once, and had unfailingly stood against bad odds numerous times without even knowing of the time loops. It was a consistent character trait.

It came with consequences of course; the man had died. Without time loops, without Orodan, the old Simarji’s valor and daring were the path to a swift death. But that didn’t mean that those traits were undesirable. For if one survived their trials, someone with such a disposition was far better suited to advancement than someone without.

“I cannot dispute that I do not dare enough. When you narrated your training methods, a small part of me thought them an exaggeration. But then I saw for the first time the sort of deathly, singular devotion you possess, and I was forced to recant my assumptions,” the old mage admitted. “But how can I strive to become like Adeltaj? He is younger than me by at least two millennia, but has already advanced more over two loops than I have in decades. At this rate… I can only be left behind in the dust.”

