“Your mistake is assuming that a willingness to embrace death is the same thing as hunger. Hunger does not require acting like me or that old codger,” Orodan spoke. “Sometimes, hunger is about fighting the goons of a noble house while an orphaned street rat just to get better. Sometimes it’s about taking a broom and cleaning the neighborhood with devotion… and sometimes it’s about standing in-between a reckless young man and a True Vampire, giving your life in the process. Now, I do not know what that hunger will look like for you… but I doubt you became a Grandmaster by stting on your laurels for centuries. Find that hunger, and you’ll find your advancement not as slow as you thought.”

His words had caused the wizard to adopt an introspective look.

“I see… then if you do not mind, Mister Wainwright, I should like to take a few days to return to some places I’ve been in the past. I must… gather my thoughts.”

Orodan only nodded and by this point the all-too-happy Adeltaj had entered conversational distance.

“Greetings honored Destartes, and greetings my illustrious student. Hardest working young man I have ever known!”

“Technically, I’m older than you by a decent amount.”

“Ah, a mere technicality my young disciple. How has your training gone?” the old man asked, and then noticed Orodan’s questioning gaze about the two women practically hanging off of him. “My friends Ladies Xalyth and Athlinova? Why we were just practicing our social skills. What did you think we were up to? I must keep my mind sharp against insidious skills if I am to remain at your side.”

Orodan now felt like a bit of a fool for assuming Adeltaj was a lecher. But with how the two were hanging off of the old man a little too insistently, he could be forgiven for that line of thought. Although if it really was training against a social skill…

“Dare to engage in that line of thought and you shall regret it,” Zaessythra pleasantly communicated. Although there was little pleasantry in that tone and plenty of possessiveness.

He didn’t get why she was so prickly when he intended on having her as his practice partner. She quieted down quickly in his mind at that thought.

Returning his attention to Adeltaj, he spoke.

“With my mana pool and the natural volatility of my soul, it’s like trying to throw a planet and not deviate by an inch lest the whole thing go hurtling off-course with momentum. Still, I have been improving, thanks to Destartes’s tutelage and strict standards of course.”

“And the spider dragons? Did you find any useful leads for replicating the Action Increase? With your existing raw power, such a thing would be a monstrous multiplier.”

Adeltaj wasn’t wrong. If he could already beat weaker Embodiers… then what if he two of him fought? Three? Four? From what he’d read in Almyra’s tome of the exact mechanics of the Action Increases and how they functioned, even if he had the old System, that reward would have stopped working by now due to the sheer power he fielded. But if he could re-create his own version of it… he would become a monstrous existence.

“I definitely have an avenue of advancement, though it will take a number of loops until I can perfect it.”

“Also, I shall be entrusting Mister Wainwright’s training and safety to you, Adeltaj. I’ll be going on a… journey, for a few days,” the wizard spoke, and before Orodan could balk at the suggestion that he needed protection, he continued. “Not to keep you safe, but to keep the surroundings and bystanders safe from you.”

He wasn’t even that bad!

“Didn’t you cause a landslide to descend upon an entire convoy of refugees recently?” Zaessythra asked.

Fair enough.

With not much time left until the elves’ envoy arrived to negotiate their passage to Eldiron, Orodan simply ignored Adeltaj and resumed his training.

Needless to say, he hated diplomacy and wasn’t looking forward to having to narrate his entire tale again. And although Eldarion was friendly, the elves treated him with an understandable amount of caution whenever he visited their continent.

He didn’t see it going any differently this time.

#

Orodan looked on, mouth agape.

“Honored hero Adeltaj! Who even knew that your people of the Eastern Kingdoms had access to such fine tea leaves and ingredients? At this rate I shall have to lead a diplomatic mission personally just to savor more of it.”

“You flatter us, esteemed Lord Eldarion. Have I mentioned how beautiful the trees of this grove are? I often meditate within a similar grove of trees back in my home town of Velestok in the Republic, but the arboreal species here are of…”

Orodan tuned out the old man’s speech on the different species of trees, their lineage and how they might have related to those present on Eldiron. Worst of all, Eldarion was genuinely enthused and taken with the topic of discussion as the two spoke.

“Hmm… maybe you are the problem. I suppose that angry-looking face can’t help matters,” Zaessythra remarked.

And truthfully, Orodan couldn’t disagree. He’d seen it first in Xan’Coran and now on Eldiron. Even in the loop where he’d saved Xalyth Mezzer and the prisoners of the dwarves personally, the reception towards him was one of reverence tempered with a bit of fear. Only eccentrics approached him. And on Eldiron he had first been drawn into a one-on-one meeting with Eldarion where the elf had maintained a more diplomatic approach where he still gauged Orodan.

Which wasn’t to say that the elf was wrong for it. But the difference in how he treated him like a potential strategic ally versus the easy friendship which Adeltaj was now striking up was apparent. Hells, even some of the elven children were frolicking about nearby and were now daring to inch closer to the old halberdier.

Where he was a weapon of war, Adeltaj was a genuine hero and a kind soul. Always ready with a subtle joke, a light teasing remark or an understanding kernel of wisdom. In other words, the old man was just a nice person. Even the children, animals and plants could sense that.

Seeing someone who wasn’t him encountering the same social situations that he did, it was apparent that Orodan came across as quite threatening to others. Even if the context of the meeting wasn’t a hostile one, the implied threat of him made people act far more guarded, respectful and business-like than they did with the old Simarji who could somehow get their guards down. His stature, demeanor and intensity commanded attention, but they also made him someone others couldn’t exactly relax around.

Perhaps Ashganruk hadn’t been wrong to call him a beast.

“…lovely! It shall be an honor for us to escort you to the Vylthedin Expanse where you can find this dimensional phase spider. If I had known that all you wanted was to make contact with this elusive creature than I would’ve had you escorted here far sooner!”

“We could not impose upon you in such a manner Lord Eldarion, please, you need not even escort us. We are more than capable of finding our friend ourselves, although I entirely understand if you wish to send an escort with to ensure we cause no trouble.”

The elf waved Adeltaj off.

“Nonsense! How can the man who rescued so many of my friends and allies from the clutches of the dwarves impose upon us? You shall have the finest escort from Aldenil. Come, we have a spatial rift and a squad of dedicated warriors waiting.”

Eldarion walked ahead, leaving Orodan and Adeltaj alone for a brief moment to speak.

“Why do you have that look on your face?” the old Simarji asked.

“You… just navigated that entire situation with far more tact and fluidity than I ever could,” Orodan admitted. “Every time I’ve come here the reception has been entirely different.”

“You’re unhappy about the unfairness of it?” the man asked.

“Not at all. I couldn’t care less about diplomacy and making people smile. Just reflecting on how certain things might have been harder for me if I’d tried the persuasive and peaceful route. They treat you very well, whereas every time I come here I’m treated like a strategic weapon which needs to be monitored. And even when I do earn trust it’s more a form of reverence than anyone truly considering me one of their own.”

Even before the loops, who in Ogdenborough had been his friend? Perhaps Old Man Hannegan. And maybe Parthus, although it had been a little one-sided until recently. But the other street rats? They avoided him. The matrons? They’d not contacted him after he outgrew the orphanage. The laborers working with Old Man Hannegan? They thought him a delinquent too rough for even them. And even in the militia, all the way from basic the other recruits were either jealous or avoided him, and his colleagues in the barracks gave him a wide berth even if they were professional.

Not that he had ever cared about it, but at no point in his life had Orodan truly belonged anywhere. Besides in a fight of course.

“Idiot… have you forgotten that you belong with me? The two of us are outcasts among our own kind. Little wonder you and I fit so well together.”

Perhaps she was right. Maybe being an outcast wasn’t such a bad thing. Not only did he have a place where he belonged, with Zaessythra, but even being someone who belonged on a bloody field of carnage didn’t preclude him from finding his own space among others. He had students now, people he cared for.

Adeltaj considered his words for a moment before smiling.

“Of course you would say such a thing. But consider that compared to you—the seventeen-year-old militia man who suddenly displays the power of an Avatar without explanation—I am a Grandmaster of established renown and history. For me to swoop in and thrash the dwarves while mounting a heroic rescue can be attributed to me having acquired a Mythical skill or having hidden my true strength all along. Besides… you’ve gone through these loops alone for a bit too long. You could stand to rely on others for the things you don’t like to do.”

And in the old man’s eyes was that same look when he’d resolved earlier, to not allow Orodan to stand alone.

“You’re getting sentimental, old man. I don’t need anyone to fight my battles for me. But… I suppose having someone around to deal with all the talking and diplomatic outreach isn’t the worst idea.”

With that out of the way, he felt lighter than he had in a long time.

Eldarion was still beckoning to the portal and Orodan stepped through alongside Adeltaj.

The rift took them directly to the beautiful but wild deep forests. Someplace he’d been before when meeting Talricto for the first time.

“The Vylthedin Expanse. With this honor guard alongside us, we shall have no issue finding your dimensional phase spider. Is he the cordial sort?” Eldarion asked.

“Cordial?” Orodan repeated. “He’s certainly a rather civilized little spider.”

Who wouldn’t hesitate to let anyone know of it. And how inferior they were in comparison to it.

#

“Hmm, I suppose this elven wine is quite sublime and tickles my senses in a most intriguing manner. And sir Adeltaj was it? Your homeland’s tea is wonderful… I have not been on this primitive world long but I suppose my palate can be expanded to include such simple but refined things.”

Orodan’s jaw had been agape before, but now he was just bewildered and could not help but lament the unfairness of life.

Here was Talricto, the arrogant and prickly dimensional phase spider who had always given him the most pushback in every loop during their initial meetings. And this eight-legged bug was now leisurely sipping tea from Ahram-Taj and savoring wine from Aldenil.

Absurd!

“Of course, for such a revered cosmic wanderer to enter our abode, how could we miss the opportunity to present our finest offerings? As hosts we feel a sense of pride in showcasing the beauty of our respective nations,” Eldarion laid on thickly.

The spider was no fool. Talricto had told Orodan in past loops how it had seen splendorous civilizations and met many people. And one didn’t travel as many worlds and planes as Talricto did without knowing what social skills were and how to avoid them. Naturally, the spider was entirely unimpressed by the elf’s subtle usage of his social skill.

But it didn’t matter. For Talricto was more than charmed by Adeltaj Simarji whose kind nature, subtle humor and sagely comments had caused the spider’s guard to entirely lower. Unlike Orodan, the Grandmaster halberdier had taken no offense whatsoever to the spider’s initially arrogant comments, and from there a tolerance and then a fondness had developed.

In fact, the entire first contact had gone quite splendidly as Adeltaj had suggested and carried out the simple strategy of laying out a grand feast of food and several expensive enchanted items which would be of great value to the spider. Instead of sneaking up upon it, the old man had loudly proclaimed from a distance that he meant no harm and was simply approaching the ‘majestic’ Talricto to offer a gift of patronage and invite it for further hospitalities.

Much to his shock, it had worked. And that had led to the spider willingly visiting Aldenil and the current situation where Orodan could only stare in shocked silence as Adeltaj forged a friendship with the otherwise cantankerous spider.

“Why not try some of this? Halfling pipe leaf, not for brewing tea but for smoking,” Adeltaj suggested, holding the implement out. “I like to pair it with my wine and tea when meditating in the grove near my house’s lumberyard.”

“Smoke? Why that would interact dangerously with my physiology… of course I must try it!”

