“We need to stop meeting like this…”

“On the contrary, I avoid the hassle of a careful explanation and get free magic training every time. Why would I want to ever change the order of things?”

“To spare frightening me, Tegin and the soldiers of the city perhaps? Besides, would you not consider it a fairer fight if I had my memories and subsequent skill levels and insights?” Destartes asked.

That was a good point. While it was exceedingly entertaining and efficient to walk up to the walls of Anthus declare that he knew about the conspiracy and then engage Destartes in a magical duel, it wasn’t quite as optimal as facing the wizard when he had the memories of the prior loops.

Perhaps he would have to knock him over the head with Fenton’s orb before sparring him.

Orodan, his students, Old Man Hannegan, Destartes, Adeltaj Simarji and the Lieutenant-General of Anthus were sat in the city’s central fort. Specifically in the war room where a large canvas with details and plans was laid out, courtesy of Parthus’s drawing skills.

The ancient machine had been disabled, the warehouse built afterwards, and everyone collected and given a good smack upon the head with the orb before finally convening in Anthus.

Of the three new additions to the loops, Zukelmux and Destartes took the return of their memories quite well. The goblin’s mind had been fine, and Destartes had barely frowned for a second as he processed the orb’s memories, the wizard’s mind being strong. Aliya had had a slightly painful time assimilating the memories of her past self. But still a lot better than Edrosic or Old Man Hannegan had managed during their transfers.

This he suspected was due to her young age of eight, and the mind of a child being more malleable and tolerant of sudden influxes of new information. She’d only grunted a bit and cradled her head, but then had a beaming smile on her face as she immediately wanted to resume her training and perhaps surprise some people with her new skills and future knowledge.

All that aside, within the war room, the Lieutenant-General could only look at Orodan and sigh.

“Your most brash entrance and greeting aside, the information you’ve brought us is quite useful Mister Wainwright,” Tegin Carrotfoot said. “Elder Adeltaj’s memories of the meetings within the High Spire are invaluable. Knowing which houses voted against allowing you access to the ancient machine helps us narrow down who among the neutral houses might in fact be Cathedral loyalists. And who further among them might have Novarrian interests at heart or worse… be under the influence of this elven psionic web you speak of.”

The halfling general had his work cut out for him. The first time he’d helped the conspirators of Anthus, it had been a very direct thing. But last loop, it had been more subtle. It had allowed for them to identify who was a potential problem. It was Tegin Carrotfoot making use of and exploiting the fact that Orodan was in a time loop. After all, the general didn’t just have to deal with the Cathedral and its loyalists, but also Novarria and the elves’ spying afterwards.

“The elves aren’t so bad. They’re after the Eldritch crown of Balastion Novar but I can’t say they’ve ever harbored hostile intentions against the Republic,” Orodan clarified.

“But that doesn’t stop them engaging in the typical cold wars and national jockeying that all nations do. While they might mean us no harm, they certainly won’t shed any tears if the Republic is weakened and Eldiron remains the strongest nation of Alastaia,” the halfling clarified.

“You’ve a keener mind for politics than I do. Short of open hostilities, do what you need to.”

The smaller instances of jockeying and bickering between nations was something he had no interest in.

“Forget the politics… I’m still miserable at the fact that not all of my skill levels carried over…” Edrosic muttered looking utterly dejected.

“That’s because you’re relying on the System for those Parthus. Without the proper insights being ingrained in you, the skill levels won’t just increase,” Orodan explained. “If anything, consider it good training and the opportunity to correct bad habits and manually acquire the understanding yourself.”

Although it was entirely unintended, one nice thing about Fenton’s orb was that rote repetition and grinding for skill levels didn’t transfer over. Zukelmux, Aliya and Edrosic, all of whom had gained a few levels through rote grinding in certain skills, didn’t have those carry over. And unsurprisingly enough, the skills which hadn’t transferred were those which the three of them weren’t too familiar with, disliked, or simply went through the motions for without attaining true understanding.

Zukelmux and Aliya’s combat gains had been entirely unaffected. As had Edrosic’s Drawing and Weaving levels. And Wainroach of course was a most diligent student who had been entirely unaffected because whatever she put her mind to learning she truly immersed herself in.

Destartes and Adeltaj had similarly been unaffected. The former because he loved magic and couldn’t fathom the thought of mindlessly practicing, and the latter because the man’s Mythical Burden of the Hero skill was quite close to the essence of who the Simarji was.

“Bah! You younglings bicker too much!” Old Man Hannegan spoke up. “Just pull yourself up by the shoestraps and get to working on it again if you have to. Complaining won’t help you.”

“Agreed,” Orodan said and then considered the old foreman. “You know, I let it fall to the wayside last loop, but we haven’t really discussed a training regimen for you, old man. Can’t let you be left behind in the dirt while us young folk acquire all the skills.”

“You’re older than me you rockhead!” the foreman retorted and then simply grunted, gesturing towards the canvas. “And if you’ll notice, I haven’t kept idle while you and your quartet of fools have been gallivanting about.”

To Orodan’s shock Old Man Hannegan wasn’t wrong. He looked closely and only now noticed the discrepancy between the man’s older Status and the one currently charted out by Edrosic. Since when had he possesses that many skills?

“What in the world… since when did you have all… that…” Orodan murmured in shock.

“When else? I just picked up a job or two here and there while you lot were slinging spells or hacking one another up.”

Hells… was working random jobs truly such an effective strategy? From the looks of it the old man didn’t even directly labor at many of these places.

“Could I join him?” Edrosic asked.

“I thought you joined the militia in the first place to get away from the manual labor of your father’s carpentry business,” Orodan questioned.

“Er… yes… but I feel so motivated now to help! How can I allow an old man like-”

“You’re not weaseling out of Oxhead. But since you’re such a willing volunteer I suppose we can have you both attend the academy and work with Mister Hannegan on the side,” Orodan said with an all too happy smile, causing his fellow militia man to wilt like grass in the winter.

“And am I to attend Bluefire then teacher?” Zukelmux asked.

“You are. You beat even the headmaster of Oxhead, a Master-level warrior.”

“But without me Edrosic will-”

“Get beat up? Suffer from being bullied because of his county militia roots?” Orodan asked, and then smiled. “Good.”

The goblin, who was quite protective of the other students like a big brother was his younger siblings, didn’t look pleased with that answer.

“I… I’ll protect Edrosic, don’t worry big brother Zuk!” Aliya declared.

Big brother Zuk? Since when had such a dynamic emerged?

“Be at ease Zukelmux. Your protective instincts do you credit, but Parthus will not learn to shoulder his own burdens unless he faces down adversity himself and stares it in the eye. Whether he loses or not, he must learn to fight independently without you shielding his every step,” Orodan explained. “You would be doing him a disservice by coddling him at every turn.”

“You… are not wrong teacher, forgive me.”

Orodan waved off the goblin’s apology, not deeming it necessary. He could respect Zukelmux’s protective instincts. The spear-and-shield wielding warrior had practically adopted Aliya, Wainroach and Edrosic into the Rising Spears Tribe by this point, acting as a protective figure.

Which—although Orodan would never say out loud—was a funny sight when considering the goblin was smaller in stature than even the eight year old girl. Of course, anyone underestimating Zukelmux based on stature would be in for a rude awakening.

“Alright, we’ve gotten off-course. Let’s review our decisions before we take our steps for this loop. Mister Wainwright, you shall be taking Adeltaj and I to the moon and perhaps even the void for training, yes?” Destartes asked and Orodan nodded. “Right. We shall be looking forward to that, and the challenges with surviving upon an airless rock in the void. And beyond that, I take it you intend to visit Eldiron? Although it might displease my student Tegin here, I can understand the necessity in seeking instruction from the elves in regards to the things you’ve uncovered in that tome.”

“Eldiron really isn’t all that bad. They’re not as hells-bent on subjugating human civilization as people here seem to think they are,” Orodan replied. “Though if it helps you feel better General, I’ll avoid swearing any oaths of allegiance to the elven nation.”

“Why that puts all my worries at ease Mister Wainwright,” the halfling replied with more than a bit of sarcasm. “But I suppose my paranoia is a little unjustified when your information is quite legitimate, as is the trust my master Destartes holds in you.”

“So you’re in agreement then? About my proposal?” Orodan asked.

“This… joint council sounds quite grandiose and more than a little idealistic. I would normally scoff at the thought of this many nations coming together and managing to set aside their differences for the sake of some collective greater good. But… when the costs will all be borne by a time looper whose cosmic might is more than sufficient to keep them in line… I suppose I can see the merit in it.”

“Good. Then my visit to Eldiron will not only be for the sake of learning, but for hopefully bringing them into the fold, though I’m not too good with these political discussions…”

“No need to worry, for Adeltaj and I will be accompanying you there. After all, how else will you learn to master that volatile power of yours?” Destartes asked, and Orodan froze. “Did you think I didn’t pay attention when you told me how unacceptable your usage of Burst Casting in that recent battle in the void was? Do you think I tolerate such inadequacy in my students? No. You will be relentlessly trained every moment until this deficiency of yours is rectified. Not only will you not be casting any uncontrolled and overpowered lightning bolts at me, but you shall not be doing so to anyone else either. Unless that is your intent of course.”

The wizard wasn’t wrong. Burst Casting at a high level of power was still incredibly volatile. In fact he’d perused the records of Anthus and even heard of another mage in the Eastern Kingdoms who had the skill. But unlike her, Orodan’s Burst Casting was notably different. She had a mana pool the size of a normal human, and a soul which wasn’t in a state of constant churning in a bid to generate endless power. And he also suspected that the violence within made his burst casts particularly explosive and abrupt, even by the standards of mages who also had the skill.

“And don’t forget that I’ll be calling upon you regularly too,” Old Man Hannegan piped up. “Gerace and his house will need your help at the quarry.”

As would Esgarius need his skills for their business partnership if Orodan wanted to see his students’ tuitions funded fairly without imposing upon Adeltaj’s house.

But in truth, all of this was just an opportunity for good training. His students, Adeltaj and Destartes, Old Man Hannegan and of course, Guzuhar and Eldiron.

And for the elven continent, his visit wouldn’t just be for the purposes of learning and establishing friendly contact. But to seek out one particularly haughty individual. For this loop, he intended to bring a certain irritating dimensional phase spider into the fold.

“Then Mister Wainwright, if you would?” he halfling commander asked.

Orodan nodded, and his broom hit the ground, the power of his Celestial skill expanding outward from the point of impact. It signified not only the cleansing of all Alastaia’s wicked Gods, but also the beginning of this loop’s plans and training.

#

[Burst Casting 22 → Burst Casting 23]

[Mana Bolt 7 → Mana Bolt 9]

“R-run! Flee! Calamity comes for us all!”

“Varkir save us! Rune lords protect us!”

The dwarf commander in charge of the underground operation beneath the dwarven capital of Var Turum was struck down in a single bolt. His armor turned to molten slag as the anti-magic enchantments upon it were overpowered.

Yes, it seemed to be a successful cast. Although Orodan’s teacher didn’t seem to think so.

“Again! Far too much power! Continue this trend and I’ll demote you to learning and using Mana Light,” Destartes chided.

And given that Mana Bolt was the weakest spell in Orodan’s repertoire and that Mana Light was the weakest known magical projection spell of them all, he was just one step away from hitting rock bottom. Wonderful.

