Yes, the wizard had demoted him from using Lightning Bolts and downgraded him to Mana Bolts. The ban on lightning had come after an embarrassing streak of failures where he’d failed to maintain control over how much power was thrown into each cast. Well, it wasn’t embarrassing as much as it was revelatory of the fact that Orodan faced an entirely unique set of struggles when using Burst Casting compared to regular mages.

The dwarven perpetrators of the atrocities beneath Var Turum might not think his casts to be ineffective, but being dead had a way of making one’s opinion hold less weight than it otherwise would.

In any case, he had the proverbial dunce cap on and was relegated to casting Mana Bolts like some beginner mage learning to utilize their mana pool for the first time at an academy.

The good news was that he wasn’t too likely to be demoted down to learning Mana Light. Because unlike Lightning Bolt, he’d actually succeeded in keeping the power low but constant when using Mana Bolt. Fifty percent of the time at least. This, he attributed to the fact that the basic spell had no element involved with it, and his Mana Manipulation was just on the cusp of reaching the Elite-level. In other words, it was a spell he was less likely to screw up.

The next cast was a successful one, by Destartes’s metric anyhow. Orodan focused, keeping a tight rein upon his mana pool even as he exploded outwards with the spell.

[Mana Bolt 9 → Mana Bolt 10]

[Mana Manipulation 69 → Mana Manipulation 70]

Sure, the spell barely singed the armor of the nearby Master-level armored dwarf, but at least he’d managed to keep the power low.

“There we are,” Orodan remarked, pleased with the result. “I might be getting somewhere yet.”

“Good. It’s pleasing to know that this crippling set of circumstances of yours can be overcome with work and effort,” Destartes spoke. “Once we manage to perfect your ability to cast Mana Bolts via Burst Casting, then we’ll gradually move up.”

The dwarf whose armor had been singed didn’t have much time to celebrate as Orodan launched another five bolts his way. The first four were low-power and the warrior simply laughed. Only for the fifth to utterly melt the stout soldier.

“Four out of five… pathetic. I won’t be satisfied until I can cast a thousand in a row perfectly,” Orodan declared.

“In this case your perfectionism suits you well. This training would have put off many. Why, even my patience would begin to grate after a while,” Destartes admitted. “But if you’re to reach the point where you can seamlessly blend Burst Casting into every individual attack over the course of the regular flow of battle, then training your control over it is critical.”

And that was the real reason for this. Orodan fully intended to get Burst Casting to the point where he could use it with Endless Blitz, Elemental Living Enchantment and Smite of Abrupt Deliverance. The combination he felt, would be truly monstrous. If his body could survive it.

Either way, Burst Casting was truly showing its worth. Even the low-power Mana Bolts which only singed the anti-magic armor of the dwarven opponents rushing him were far stronger than the mana cost for them would indicate. And given that the level for the spell was only 10, the only other way he could overcharge it would be through pouring copious amounts of power into it, which Destartes immediately marked as a fail.

Yet, despite this, for the same amount of mana, each Mana Bolt he cast was hitting far harder than any mage of the equivalent level could manage. It was as though the spell’s fuel—his mana pool—was energized by the sudden momentum and could deliver far more for the same price.

Orodan and Destartes continued down the winding corridors of Var Turum’s deepest recesses. And throughout the course of this he cast hundreds of Mana Bolts, gaining many levels in the skill and two more in Burst Casting and Mana Manipulation. Those of the dwarves coming his way who knew of the atrocities and propagated them? He blasted to slag with magic. Those who were ignorant he simply knocked out. Out of the hundreds of bolts, only seventy percent had been to Destartes’s controlled standards which meant he had work to do.

But in any case it was still good magic practice. And at some point the dwarves began to grow wary and stopped sending soldiers against him while he was traversing the narrow and winding hallways. What was the point? They were just free target practice for him and had no hope whatsoever up close.

And it wasn’t as though they’d just given up. Rather, the defenders of Var Turum had more important targets. Evident with how the forces they’d faced thus far were thinner than expected. And that was because the bulk of them were elsewhere dealing with the second intruder who had gone off on his own within Var Turum.

“I suspect he’ll get overwhelmed soon,” Destartes cautioned.

“And I suspect that moment is farther off than you think.”

“I can sense him beginning to flag. Maybe we should-”

“No. I assure you, he’s made of sterner stuff. Especially with that new Mythical skill of his,” Orodan interrupted. “Adeltaj Simarji has always had a penchant for playing hero and getting himself into situations well above his head. But with that skill… let’s just say it’s tailor made for someone like him.”

The sounds of battle were getting closer too. As they turned a corner they saw an entire military unit of a hundred Masters being led by a Grandmaster dwarven rune lord. The patrol were in such a rush to get to the fighting that they hadn’t even noticed Orodan and Destartes.

“An opportunity for a surprise-”

“You bearded weaklings! Turn around and raise your weapons!” Orodan declared

“Never mind…”

The dwarven rune lord commanding the unit turned around in shock and immediately readied himself alongside his soldiers.

“About face! Anti-magic formation!”

A cavalcade of mana bolts left Orodan’s fingers, and the dwarves were more than prepared to intercept them. If he’d caught them by surprise he might have even slain the unit commander via one of the ‘failed’ casts. But as it was, the rune lord activated several defensive enchantments which not only toughened the bodies of the soldiers, but also their armor and shields.

And his self-imposed restriction of not fighting in melee and using only Destartes’ approved spells meant that he couldn’t quickly kill them either. Still, the sight of the defensive enchantments that dwarven commander was using gave him ideas for later.

“Troublesome…” Orodan muttered, casting Mana Bolt after Mana Bolt at the dwarves who were simply absorbing the magic with their shields. Even the Burst Casts which went awry, they absorbed, if barely. “But this is good training.”

“Although perhaps you could stand to be a little more urgent? The ancestor of the under-mountain confederation is nearing Adeltaj’s position,” Destartes warned. “I know you’re in a time loop, but we cannot allow a comrade of ours to just die meaninglessly.”

He could respect that outlook and saw where the wizard was coming from. Destartes was not used to the time loops. But even then, Orodan had no intentions of letting Adeltaj Simarji fall today.

“Be at ease old mage. You have yet to see how his Mythical skill works,” Orodan said while continuing to cast Mana Bolts, which were measurably getting better and his control over them during Burst Casts, smoother. “He has an entire town’s worth of innocent folk behind him to protect.”

Destartes didn’t seem to believe him at his word. In fact, Orodan grumbled just a little when the triple-Grandmaster mage began eviscerating the unit of Masters.

“Those were mine…”

“You can practice more in the next loop,” Destartes calmly replied.

Soon the dwarven rune lord was dead, no match for what was possibly the greatest mage upon Inuan, and the remaining Masters scattered in retreat. Which left the two of them free to advance towards the rather obvious sounds of battle coming from the central chamber where the prisoners were held.

Along the way they ambushed and eliminated numerous groups of patrols and reinforcing units which were moving to join in, and Orodan’s skill levels in Mana Bolt and Burst Casting steadily grew. It was possibly the weakest magical spell he had in his repertoire in terms of rarity and power, but the control he had over it? Even higher than that of Draconic Fireball, since his Mana Manipulation was so high.

Soon they neared Adeltaj’s position inside the grand chamber.

It was a plan Destartes had suggested. Instead of Orodan simply blowing a hole into the prisoners’ chamber from the top of the mountain, that they instead assail the city directly. It was madness of course, but approaching the gates of Var Turum head on was excellent training. Not just for Orodan who got to hone his Burst Casting, but for Destartes and Adeltaj as well.

The capital city of the dwarves was no joke. A singular Grandmaster, even a prodigious one such as Destartes, couldn’t just walk up to the front gates and enter through force. That was the domain of someone like Orodan, and Destartes wasn’t the battering ram of endless power and regeneration like he was. Needless to say, the triple-Grandmaster wizard had nearly been overwhelmed by the salvos of artillery right off the bat, necessitating Orodan rescuing him by using chronomancy to revert the artillery into raw materials.

From there, once the city had been entered they’d faced even more batteries of artillery. And throughout all those encounters Destartes had attempted to push the limits of his spatiomancy by facing barrages head on. He’d failed most of the time, requiring rescue, but it had been excellent training.

And once they’d entered the main keep of Var Turum? A location the dwarves had genuinely not accounted for any enemy entering? The approach became a lot easier as Adeltaj began a rampage of his own in the tight corridors where the dwarves could field no artillery.

The halberdier, with his new Mythical skill, was strong. Mythical skills were no joke, and the old Simarji’s natural personality synergizing with the Burden of the Hero made him as strong as a Triple-Grandmaster Chosen. Which meant that any responding dwarven Masters and Grandmasters were slain as Orodan’s first mentor tore right through the halls and descended deeper towards where the prisoners were.

Even from outside the city Adeltaj had felt and been able to draw power from the captives beneath Var Turum. Their pleas, their desire for salvation, it empowered the old man to a ferocious degree! It made Orodan proud to see a skill which encapsulated the spirit of the old man so well, and it filled him with satisfaction to see the man who’s taught him so much finally acquire the strength he rightfully deserved.

The universe was a cold and desolate place; Orodan had seen that personally during his travels in the cosmos. But even amidst that misery, seeing a hero like Adeltaj Simarji utilize that Mythical skill kindled the flames of hope in his own heart.

Of course, all skills had their limits dependent on the user. And for the old halberdier, the limit was his body, which was having a difficult time keeping up with the sheer amount of power coursing through him. And in sufficient numbers even someone as strong as a triple-Grandmaster Chosen could be overwhelmed.

Adeltaj’s halberd met a warhammer wielded by a doughty dwarf, the shockwave of the clash scattering a dozen Master-level dwarves. Unfortunately, a one-handed axe then hooked the haft and pulled the halberd down, which opened the old man up for a shield bash from a second stout dwarf. And a third then shot him from range, shredding his shoulder with a runic-enchanted blunderbuss.

He was getting bullied in a three-on-one against three dual-Grandmasters. Each of whom the halberdier could defeat by themselves, but together and backed up by multiple squads of Masters? The predicted outcome looked grim.

That was until Orodan and Destartes arrived.

[Mana Bolt 22 → Mana Bolt 23]

[Burst Casting 28 → Burst Casting 29]

“Stand tall, Adeltaj Simarji,” Orodan said as he cast a dozen Mana Bolts. Nine of them low-powered and barely making the Grandmasters notice them, three of them unintentionally overcharged due to a lack of control which caused the warhammer-wielding dwarf to be sent flying backwards. “The people held captive need you to succeed.”

The old halberdier’s breathing was laborious. The man looked utterly exhausted and on the verge of collapse.

“Orodan… I cannot! I have been pushed to my limits with this alone!”

“And? The Adeltaj I know would not quit, even when backed against a wall. The lives and fates of innocents are on the line, will you falter when they need you? The fancy speeches and grand gestures will matter for nothing if you lose here today.”

Blood leaked from the old man’s mouth and eyes as he stood once more. Vision of Purity let Orodan clearly see the large amounts of power he was pulling from the captives deeper below. It was overloading the man’s body and caused his soul to tremble. It was dangerous.

But… it was necessary.

It would be necessary if Alastaia was to be capable of defending itself and have native-born Transcendents of its own. Orodan would always fight for his world, but teaching the people to fight for themselves was the superior option. And his home world needed someone like Adeltaj Simarji to rise to the occasion.

The halberdier looked shaky and on the verge of collapsing once more, yet Orodan’s hand went out to steady him.

“I will not lie, if you choose to step forward this will be brutal.”

The old wizard who was listening looked quite outraged by this suggestion.

