Birds which were flying high in the sky suddenly wobbled. Not dying, but instantly weakened. Some of the magical trees nearby had their fruits lose their lustre. Insects began writhing as though they’d lost some core connection, and even the grass looked a little shakier than it had moments ago.

And Destartes who had just stepped through a spatial rift to arrive, suddenly dropped to a knee.

“What in the world…” the old wizard muttered. “I cannot feel many of my skills…”

Orodan frantically looked around with Vision of Purity, and he stilled as he realized what had occurred. Or rather, what he’d done.

This… would require some explanation. That and much damage control.

For it seemed his feat of sealing that dimensional crack had gone a bit beyond that.

It had entirely sealed the dimensional boundary surrounding Alastaia.

Completely and perfectly.

He could already see Destartes winding up to let him know that his use of Burst Casting was inadequate.

#

The halfling commander paced about the war room, a slight limp to his gait caused by stubbing his toe. One which remained because Tegin could no longer use the self-healing skills he had.

“So allow me to get this straight Mister Wainwright… you were forced to do this due to actions taken by your opponent during this duel you engaged in upon Eldiron?”

Orodan’s head hung low in disappointment. In himself, in his inability to control Burst Casting and in his decision-making which had caused the battle of pride in the first place.

“Correct.”

“And that is why the System does not work in our world any longer?”

“Aye. I am responsible for it,” Orodan admitted, taking accountability.

“Partly, but your actions were only an attempt to prevent the corruption of Alastaia and all upon it by the Eldritch. The other party responsible for beginning that state of affairs in the first place… do you think this punishment sufficient?”

Tegin Carrotfoot was of course referring to the most majestic and illustrious Talricto the Wanderer. A dimensional phase spider who had a most majestic and regal lump upon its head from the angry smack Orodan had delivered after reversing it back in time. The lump and the symbolic shackles upon its eight legs made the spider look like the criminal it was.

Even if they were unenchanted and it could escape, that would have been pointless when Orodan was present to use Time Reversal.

“We could pluck a leg or two off? Roast it over the fire for dinner?” Edrosic suggested, looking more than surly at the loss of System.

Talricto trembled in fear, but Orodan gestured for his fellow militia man to stop.

“There will be none of that. It takes two hands to clap. I goaded Talricto into a duel and then agreed to the prospect of that technique’s usage. If anyone should be roasted over the coals as well, it should be I.”

The halfling general sighed.

“And what force upon Alastaia will bring justice to you, Mister Wainwright? I do not even know if there are any treaties or laws which cover what you’ve done aside from the damages,” the halfling spoke. “I admit, your actions in helping mitigate things have been most helpful. Nobody has died thanks to your continual Time Reversals and coordination with the authorities of each nation and continent in granting your Blessing, but this does not change the fact that our world is utterly shaken to the core. Blessings from the Gods work no longer, the energy wells have noticeably thinned and the afterlife is… disturbingly inaccessible according to the faithful of Malzim. Not a soul upon Alastaia can contact the Gods. Not anyone on Guzuhar, Eldiron or Inuan.”

“And using Time Reversal to restore the boundary runs the real risk of attracting the attention of this Boundless One and its servants at the core of the System,” Destartes added.

And that only added to the problem they were all discussing within the war room of Anthus’s central fort.

Much damage control had been run. With Orodan spending a full day doing Time Reversals for various sections of the planet until things could be brought under control without any deaths. He’d also granted his Blessing to many, many people in positions of power and critical infrastructure. Certainly, the ability to draw upon endless power helped alleviate a large portion of the current limitations everyone faced.

Still, not everything was miserable.

“I will say… knowing which skills of mine are a weak point is quite nice. And being able to shore up my weaknesses and work on my strengths without the shackling guidance of the System has been… revelatory,” Adeltaj spoke, balancing his halberd upon a finger and doing odd drills which Orodan himself recalled doing when he’d first lost his original System.

“Not only that, but skills which are intrinsic to someone do not just vanish and in many cases aren’t affected at all. My spatiomancy for example, is entirely unchanged. I was always good at that, even as a boy,” Destartes spoke. “I… cannot believe I am saying this; but this is good training. A chance for true illumination of the secrets I have always searched for.”

The old wizard had taken a few days off while Orodan and Adeltaj were on Eldiron, and upon his return the Grandmaster mage seemed in far better spirits and possessed of a deeper thirst for the secrets of magic. Whatever soul searching the old man had done, it had done him good it seemed.

“N-not you too!” Edrosic groaned. “I feel like a child, I can barely fight!”

“…really? I don’t feel all that bad,” Aliya added. “Forgot all about those weird mana exercises, but I never liked those anyways.”

“Neither do I, teacher,” Zukelmux spoke. “I am as ready for battle as I was days ago.”

Wainroach too nodded, seeming mostly unaffected besides some physical weakness as she didn’t quite enjoy the physical training Orodan often put her through.

“Hmm… perhaps this can be leveraged to our advantage.”

#

Needless to say, Eldiron wasn’t pleased at the fact that Cithrel and Athandelu were entirely unreachable and their Blessings completely gone. They also weren’t all too amenable to the idea of him swooping in and providing his Blessing. Rightfully so, since it really did look like a foreign power conveniently coming in to spread influence in their nation.

Still, Eldarion, once told about the time loops, was amenable to the idea of forming an Alastaia-encompassing defence council. As were the Guzuharans and the drow. Although neither of these groups were entirely happy about what had occurred with the dimensional boundary being entirely sealed to the point that even the System’s influence couldn’t leak through.

It certainly gave Orodan ideas about training. And it also gave him a notion about what could be done to prevent the plague of the Eldritch and offer an uncorrupted System instead.

Still, the remainder of the week went well. With Edrosic actually being forced to learn how to fight properly without System access. The same went for Aliya, Zukelmux and Wainroach who were forced to correct foundational weaknesses and learn their magical skills properly.

Edrosic had in fact gotten good enough at fighting that he could now hold against mid-level Apprentices in combat. And Zukelmux was attending Bluefire, although all of their educations were at least somewhat disrupted by the fact that nobody’s System worked. The Status was there, but level gains didn’t trigger without the connection to the central font of knowledge.

Talricto, since the fight, had become quite withdrawn and humble. The prospect of what the spider had done had clearly rattled it. The way it looked at Orodan, who had managed to successfully seal that crack and cleanse the Eldritch, was one of respect but also a bit of fear. In any case, the spider had agreed to come along on the time loops if only so that it could avenge what it saw as its loss.

Personally, Orodan felt that he hadn’t clearly won that either. Having to rely on his unfair power generation and Burst Casting to seal that crack had technically violated his self-imposed constraints for that duel. Beating Talricto wasn’t the issue; beating the spider in a contest of pure Dimensionalism was. And he still felt a step away from matching the pure skill that Talricto possessed.

That being said, the spider’s inclusion was quite helpful as it had correctly identified a few critical mistakes Orodan was making in his attempt to redirect the ancient machine to instead target the Eldritch Boundless One’s very cage.

The machine was built, Orodan transported Mount Castarian to the void, and as usual that goat Embodier came for him.

He fought hard and he fought well, but she was still a step beyond him. Even with repeated uses of Balance Maker, he could only force a stalemate, and each time the difference in power between their attacks caused him great harm in mind, body and soul. Still, the tides shifted once she began pulling power from the world cores of the planets she dragged around with her.

The greatly empowered attack met Balance Maker, giving him a number of levels, but it wasn’t sustainable, and he knew that the next attack from her would cause his death as the backlash from Balance Maker would kill him.

So he did the only thing left to do.

Activating the ancient machine.

And this time, with the modifications Talricto suggested, the dimensional opening accurately struck the cage head on.

Except the ancient machine promptly exploded as the metal wasn’t up to the task of handling this extreme task it wasn’t designed for. And the Eldritch Boundless One, as usual, wasn’t happy with Orodan attempting to liberate it.

He was utterly eliminated and his loop ended by the beam of unfettered Eldritch wrath which came out the rift just before it closed.

And that, he met with Balance Maker.

[Balance Maker 55 → Balance Maker 65]

Darkness followed.

A sharp sensation roused the being to alertness.

And as it slowly focused on regaining its orientation and re-learning what it was, the being felt a strange… motivation within.

Yes, a desire. Something within called it a mad desire.

One where it would repeatedly throw itself against the wall that was the Boundless One.

Train. Teach. Die. Repeat.

As Orodan recalled his name—the reformation of his soul now faster with experience—this he decided would be his new set of death loops.
