And he watched as the spider gracefully took the pipe, pulled it under its abdomen with a leg and took a nice breathful of the smoke from the implement.

It was ridiculous, seeing Talricto so cordial and happy; seeing a spider smoke a halfling pipe. But this was all too real and Orodan could only watch as the celebratory welcome continued.

Seeing all this, he could only contrast it with his initial introductions to Talricto on each loop. Maybe some things were better left to others.

“Speaking of, the main course has yet to arrive. Orodan, if you would. Let us eat good food, drink and be merry,” Adeltaj said, and Orodan brought out the steaming dish he had been cooking for a while now.

“Right. I’m familiar with the sort of food a spider might like. You’re in for a treat.”

A large, steaming dish was placed upon the table and its cover unveiled to reveal a roasted mammal with plenty of fried insect skins, seasons from the elven continent and juicy mushrooms all around. It was a dish which would appeal to the spider in particular but could still be enjoyed by everyone else present. It was in fact the very creature Talricto had been feeding on raw when they’d approached it.

“T-the smell!” the spider exclaimed and immediately dug into the food with gusto.

[Cooking 49 → Cooking 50]

[New Title → Cooking Adept]

As the dimensional spider ate the meal he’d cooked, the skill rose past the threshold and became Adept. Eldarion and Adeltaj also dug in, netting him one more level in Cooking. And finally, when he had a bite himself…

[Gourmand 27 → Gourmand 28]

…his body, mind and soul felt just slightly better.

He had neglected Cooking and savoring fine food for a while. But with these longer loops where he had others along with him, perhaps it was a good time to really delve into the skill. In fact, Gourmand improved every facet of him in a subtle way. And if he pushed it into the Apprentice-level would he perhaps experience a larger and more qualitative benefit?

Food for thought, good accompaniment for the food upon the table.

The drinking, eating and discussions continued for a while longer until at last Talricto got a little too inebriated, got up onto the table and began loudly proclaiming stories about his journeys across the cosmos. And the spider would periodically fling waves of dimensional force outwards at these points.

Most of these that sailed upwards were of no concern. But one of them sailed right towards one of the wisdom trees. And the problem was that Orodan had caught and sent it off course with Dimensionalism of his own.

Talricto’s eyes suddenly narrowed in challenge, the inebriation clearing away quite quickly.

“Skilled in Dimensionalism? A mere fledgling in the arts. Catching a stray wave from me means nothing.”

And Orodan’s pride and temper, continually invoked whenever this arrogant thing spoke, flared.

“A fledgling? How about we have a duel to establish that? Dimensionalism only.”

To the side, Adeltaj could only palm his face and sigh. All the work the old halberdier had put in unravelling before his eyes. And Orodan was somewhat sorry for it, but this needed to occur.

Talricto would not be easy to work with or amenable to coming along in the loops if the spider was not humbled. And unlike on Lonvoron, this time Orodan intended to teach this irritating bug some manners. And this had nothing to do with the desire to test himself after three months of successive defeats in their spars on Lonvoron.

Nothing at all.

“Hmmph… I suppose every world has its share of delusional bumpkins who think themselves better than they are. Come, allow me to humble you,” Talricto spoke, its tone turning aggressive.

Intersecting dimensional waves closed in on Orodan. A whipping motion of his own arm and his own waves met them at the weak point and shattered them.

The spider frowned, getting serious at the unexpected display of competent Dimensionalism from what it must’ve thought was a mere fledgling. Talricto’s next attack was a far more serious one, sending a volley of five-hundred miniature dimensional orbs towards him.

And in response, Orodan returned fire with five-hundred miniature dimensional needles of his own, each one a tiny pocket dimension perfectly suited to popping the orbs coming his way. It was a counter tactic which had Talricto shocked as the spider practically recoiled.

“Who taught you that?!” it demanded.

“A particularly bothersome pest with eight legs and an overinflated ego!” Orodan shouted back, using one of the spider’s own tricks and sending exceedingly tiny dimensions the size of sand grains towards his foe from odd angles.

“Another dimensional phase spider? If this is the extent of your skill then your teacher must have been pathetic indeed!”

Orodan couldn’t help it. Even as he matched Talricto’s next move of opening up dimensional tears to the left and right of him… he laughed like a madman.

“Please, do continue insulting my teacher,” Orodan retorted while slithering two separate tendrils of dimensional power into the very boundaries of the rifts Talricto had opened. And before the lightning and water could emerge from them, the rifts fizzled out and immediately closed. “Your moves are predictable. Your tricks, nothing special. Is that all the mighty Talricto the Wanderer has?”

Yes, he was going a bit overboard with this, but he just couldn’t resist the opportunity to let this prideful spider have a bit of snark.

Talricto stilled. The spider’s voice suddenly becoming very neutral.

“Nothing special? Very good… very good. My friends Adeltaj and Eldarion, I must apologize for the destruction which is soon to come forth… and for the fate which shall befall this companion of yours.”

“W-wait…! What will you do?!” Eldarion demanded. “If you are to have a true battle of consequence then you must move elsewhere! Allow me to move you-”

The spider acted before Eldarion finished speaking. Orodan felt at least thirteen layers of dimensional energy surround him. The energy was slow enough that he could react and shatter the attempt at forced transportation. It was smart too, indirect and clamping the transport all around him instead of attempting to directly manipulate his body. But it worked.

The complexity of all the layers was beyond his understanding, and if he did shatter it, the collateral damage would have wrecked a good portion of Aldenil. Limited to just Dimensionalism, he had no recourse. Begrudgingly he had to accept the forced dimensional step performed by Talricto which dumped him squarely in the wilds of the Vylthedin Expanse, far from Aldenil.

“Now there’s the Talricto I know. Come, let that pride be roused. Show me what the greatest dimensionalist I know is capable of,” Orodan challenged.

“I do not know you, bumpkin. But today you shall receive a lesson in manners.”

“Funny. I was going to say the same thing.”

The very last spar he’d had against this spider, they’d forgotten about fighting each other as Orodan was more focused upon training his elemental resistances with Talricto’s help. But now, with no looming battle against the Prophet and the fate of Lonvoron not in the balance, they could freely fight.

And Orodan realized that what Talricto had said back then—about not using more than a third of the nefarious tricks the spider could have been using—was entirely true.

Dimensional rifts tore open all around him. Seeking not to target Orodan directly, but to bring things into Alastaia. Gaping tears in the dimensional boundary which brought forth all manner of creatures.

The nearest, an entryway into a plane of pitch black so dark Orodan wasn’t sure even a sun could light it up. And out of that entryway came skittering black things so dark their very presence looked unnatural against the green forest floor. If anything, they made the very surroundings darker somehow via the absorption of light.

“Dwellers from the elemental plane of dark. They don’t quite like the sunlight around these parts. Makes them very angry,” Talricto said as the spider began opening more and more dimensional entryways leading to different elemental planes.

Burning slimes which were as hot as the sun itself. Frigid elementals whose very presence froze the air, and wispy beings of wind who eviscerated down to the particle anything they touched.

Orodan got to work. The first things to be sent hurtling backwards from whence they came were the fire elementals. A dimensional wave of force pushed the Grandmaster-level beings backwards into their entryway and a subsequent breaking of the rift’s boundary caused it to collapse. He couldn’t have these things setting fire to the forest.

Next were the elementals of ice who hadn’t even crossed unto Alastaia fully when his popping of the rift boundary shut the entryway. It wasn’t winter season yet and none of these things needed to be here.

And as he started working on sending the creatures of darkness back to the sunless place they dwelled, he was suddenly forced to contend with a pressing assault from Talricto. Of course the spider would take advantage of the distraction. With this being a duel of Dimensionalism only, fighting the summoned creatures with melee or magic was off the table, which constrained him significantly.

“You are… passable. Who taught you? Name them.”

“I already told you. A most mighty wanderer who’s far too full of themselves,” Orodan replied, stepping out of the way of a hail of small pocket dimensions which contained additional attacks within them.

“Another wanderer? I must know who this fraud is so that I might have words with them regarding the inadequacy of your training.”

“Hah! I’ll let them know about your harsh critique,” Orodan chortled as he finally managed to close the entryway leading to the elemental plane of darkness and then rapped the wind elementals in a hastily constructed pocket dimension before shunting them back through the rift and closing it. “Any more tricks? If you’re going to summon other things to do your dirty work for you then you might as well admit defeat here and now. You’re no match for me alone.”

Again, the spider stilled, Talricto’s demeanor turning to frigid fury as though its pride had been horribly wounded.

“You wish to feel the full extent of my power? Know this, thus far I have been holding back to avoid killing you. If you continue… I shall have no choice but to use something I normally would dare not.”

Oh? This sounded interesting. Orodan had never seen Talricto go all out in a fight before. Yes, using his Blessing during the long loop on Lonvoron the spider had been capable of some exceptional feats of Dimensionalism, but even then the eight-legged wanderer had mainly distracted, caused opportune damage and fled during the final battle.

But when its pride was rankled so who could have predicted that there was a secret trick yet unrevealed?

“Show me then. And I shall show you the extent of my prowess too.”

And so the spider did. One moment things were calm in the deep woods of the Vylthedin Expanse, and the next… a small opening to someplace familiar opened up.

Orodan’s eyes widened as he recognized exactly where this was. But it was too late as Talricto was already moving to put as much distance between it and this incredibly small opening.

An opening out of which some of the most potent Eldritch he had ever known was spewing forth. A tiny dimensional crack leading to the very bowels of the System. Where the Eldritch Boundless One resided.

“How the hells do you even know how to do that?!” Orodan demanded as his body flared with soul energy.

But the spider was now gone, having decided to leave Orodan with the bill. This damned eight-legged pest! Fighting him was one thing. But to allow its pride to flare so much that it exposed Alastaia to the raw Eldritch within the System’s very bowels? Talricto would receive a beating after all this.

For now, Orodan focused his all into Dimensionalism.

The crack was small. Perhaps it hadn’t even triggered a warning to the Custodian. But that was besides the point when Eldritch powerful enough to corrupt a world core many times over was entering his home world.

Immediately, his broom lashed out and began scrubbing this out of the air, and as he did, he finally threw his all, alongside the momentum of Burst Casting, into one singular and overpowered movement intended to seal the dimensional boundary wholly and fully.

And with a flexion of dimensional power, Orodan irrevocably changed life upon Alastaia.

[Dimensionalism 89 → Dimensionalism 90]

[New Title → Dimensional Master]

[Burst Casting 33 → Burst Casting 34]

This had been a bad idea. Unfortunately for Orodan, he’d never been good at refusing a challenge. Particularly when the challenger was an irritating eight-legged snob who liked to act as though he was better than everyone and everything in existence.

The problem with Dimensionalism and Burst Casting was twofold. For starters, he had the Dimensionalism skill, not the Dimensional Magic skill. Just like Fire Magic and Fire Mastery were two different things, so too were the former pair. Dimensional Magic, if he’d had it, would use his mana pool. But Dimensionalism, used his soul energy.

And between his mana pool and reserves of soul energy… one was absurdly larger than the other.

Which meant that the entirety of Orodan’s existing soul energy reserves were forcibly thrown, with the momentum of Burst Casting, into the feat of sealing the crack in the dimensional boundary.

It was a feat which had immediate repercussions.

