“You jest? He is near death and his very soul may explode if pushed any farther! Enough of this Orodan, I am hereby telling you to-”

“No. He is correct, honored Destartes. If I cannot stand here and face the foe then what good am I as a hero?” Adeltaj spoke, determination filling his frame.

It was the same grim fatalism which Orodan had seen in the old halberdier’s eyes when the man had given his life to protect him against the True Vampire. He didn’t like that look at all. But he knew this was necessary.

“You have a choice here, old man. You may step back, and I shall gladly lift my restrictions to help you. But if you continue… I cannot do anything more than cast Mana Bolts as per Destartes’s instructions. And Destartes himself will not help you,” Orodan explained.

“This is absurd! There are safer methods of training than this! Your outlook is a mad one Orodan! He can still attain strength without delving into the depths of insanity!” Destartes argued. “Let us stand beside you!”

But Adeltaj had different aims than fighting alongside his comrades.

“If there was no Orodan Wainwright… if there was no time loops… what would happen?” the old halberdier asked, his voice barely a whisper.

“I die in Ogdenborough as usual. The ancient machine devastates most of Volarbury County and then the Eldritch Avatar descends in six months to corrupt all of Guzuhar and Inuan,” Orodan honestly answered. “Without me, Alastaia is likely to fall. For this world has no other heroes capable of standing against it.”

Perhaps Eldiron could survive with the strength of those ancient trees of theirs. Maybe the world core could send out that Transcendent guardian to do battle against it. But when fighting the Eldritch, sending an Eldritch-tainted thing against it was a horrid idea as Balastion Novar had learned the hard way.

The truth then was simple. If Orodan did not intervene at all, then most of Alastaia was likely doomed in six months.

The question then… was simple.

“Will you allow that state of affairs, Adeltaj Simarji? Will you allow this world, your world. To rely upon only a singular lynchpin whose existence to begin with was a matter of cosmic chance?” Orodan asked. “Will Alastaia be defended by only one warrior who stands against all the threats coming for it?”

Or would it have a hero, strong, reliable and possessed of strength enough that Orodan Wainwright need not be the single point of failure any longer?

The power radiating off of the old halberdier as soul energy flowed from the captives… nay… from people even further… answered that question.

It was wondrous, Orodan had to admit.

Hells, he even felt soul energy flow from him to the old man. It was a minor thing, and he could cut the flow if he so wished, but instead Orodan allowed it. For it meant that Adeltaj considered even him as one of the people who he had a duty towards.

The implication was simple but powerful.

Adeltaj Simarji would no longer allow Orodan Wainwright to stand alone.

And to do that, to achieve that outcome. The man needed to step up here and now, and forevermore onwards.

For that was the burden of the hero.

[Teaching 89 → Teaching 90]

[New Title → Teaching Master]

Adeltaj was now glowing with power. The man’s skin crackled with the energy those who depended upon him provided, and Vision of Purity told him that the halberdier’s very soul was beginning to suffer damage at the outer layer.

“Hold strong! Do not allow your soul to explode!” Orodan roared.

This was without a doubt exceedingly dangerous, but if the old halberdier wished to take this step himself, then there would be no interference.

At the far end of the chamber, Thavri Grimbreaker, the Chosen of Varkir and the most powerful dwarf upon Alastaia had finally arrived too.

Win or lose, this battle would be Adeltaj’s own.

#

“H-honored savior… are you… are you alright?”

“I am-krk! F-fine!”

It was not Orodan who was the honored savior Xalyth Mezzer was referring to, but rather, Adeltaj Simarji.

And the man had certainly seen better days. And according to the old man, he would’ve almost preferred death over what he was going through now.

“Wise wizard, can you not do something about his condition?” Xalyth asked, looking to Destartes for help.

“I have made my thoughts on this reckless and dangerous form of self-improvement known already. I can do nothing when Adeltaj chooses to subject himself to this.”

“Adeltaj? Who is Adeltaj?” the old halberdier asked.

“You. You are Adeltaj, come on old man, focus. You’re getting there and I can visibly see your soul mending even if the progress is slow,” Orodan encouraged, speaking as the old Simarji was slung over his shoulder like a sack of flour.

Why was Adeltaj being carried by Orodan? The answer to that lay in the man’s soul. Or rather, it’s greatly damaged outer layer. Orodan had healed the physical wounds but not the damaged soul; and this was at the old halberdier’s own request too.

He couldn’t have been prouder of his first mentor. In the battle against Thavri Grimbreaker and numerous enemy dwarven Grandmasters Adeltaj had genuinely exceeded all expectations. The surge of soul energy he’d drawn upon had empowered him enough that he’d slain numerous enemy Grandmasters and even forced Thavri Grimbreaker into a stalemate.

But the problem was that the dwarven ancestor was exceedingly tough.

With the Burden of the Hero—Adeltaj’s new Mythical skill—the old man in fact hit harder than even Orodan when he’d fought Thavri for the first time. It looked to be a straight boost in power.

Unfortunately, just being a step above Orodan’s past level of offensive power wasn’t enough. And Thavri had drawn him into a battle of attrition back then, which was the current limitation of Adeltaj’s skill. Furthermore, power drawn and inculcated in the defense of the innocent came with a price. Not only had Adeltaj’s body looked nearly as bad as that of a burnt out Avatar host, but the man’s very soul had also suffered extensive damage.

The old man had managed to fight for fifteen minutes straight, holding evenly against a superior foe. But the dwarf’s armor was too tough and the opponent also drew power from the city’s energy batteries. And while cutting the connection or targeting the batteries beforehand would have been an easy strategy… it wouldn’t have been good training.

All this necessitated Orodan having to step in and drown Thavri Grimbreaker in an unending tide of Mana Bolts after Adeltaj finally fainted. The dwarf made an excellent training dummy for target practice. Yes, Thavri was armored, monstrously resistant against magic and backed by a city’s energy reserves, but Orodan had the unfair ability of limitless energy and magical spells which got stronger and stronger over the course of their fight. Even with the self-imposed handicap of restricting melee combat, the outcome was obvious. And although it had taken two hours of unending Mana Bolts via Burst Casting, he had successfully pinned down, suppressed and practically drowned the dwarf in ceaseless waves of mana in order to kill him.

He had gained many levels in Mana Bolt and Burst Casting for that, with two more in Mana Manipulation. Perhaps using an evil dwarf for target practice wasn’t such a bad thing?

“I am Adeltaj? Yes… yes, I think I remember this,” the old man said, falling into deep thought despite the agonized breaths he was taking. “I also now remember a profound sense of failure and disappointment.”

“Why should you be disappointed? You matched the enemy Quadruple Grandmaster blow-for-blow. As expected, a Mythical-rarity skill allows you to hit far above your level,” Orodan reassured. “And we’ll be doing this in every loop from now on. That is, if you’e serious about this.”

“I am. I… I think I remember now why I was doing what I did,” Adeltaj spoke. Orodan noted that the man’s soul was beginning to stitch together the outer layer properly now. “I stood up and dared to be a hero.”

“And you were, honored savior,” Xalyth Mezzer, one of the drow captives they’d rescued spoke up. “Without your noble efforts all of us would have still been trapped, forced to burn our souls to provide tribute to the wicked dwarves.”

“In any case, the higher in level that skill gets, the stronger it will become. And your admirable decision to attempt to naturally recover the outer layer of your soul will pay dividends in teaching you the soul arts,” Orodan said. “In fact… I can see it. Two new glyphs forming. You’ve gotten the skills haven’t you?”

“Soul Mastery and Soul Manipulation. Yes… my memories are coming back as well,” the man spoke, his voice quite with consideration.

“Those two skills will naturally hasten your recovery of the damage,” Orodan said and then chuckled. “Heh… fitting that you learn Soul Manipulation while training under me. I learned the skill while under your tutelage as well. You were and are a good teacher.”

“As are you,” Adeltaj praised. “I did not ever think myself capable of fighting a quadruple Grandmaster toe-to-toe, but today has proven otherwise. Also, I believe you can put me down now.”

Orodan did, and the old man gingerly took a few steps which seemed steady enough. It indicated that the standard feeling of vertigo and the senses and emotions being muddied from soul damage had gone away. But there was still damage remaining.

So he did the one thing which would certainly help. Even if he felt bad about doing it.

Their party had passed a checkpoint and was on the road to Xan’Coran, to their right a sheer cliff, to their left a treacherous looking cavern wall which periodically had loose pebbles fall down from up high. And Orodan’s Mining skill gave him the vaguest notion that it was rather unstable. And would make a nice landslide.

“Oh, I believe this is a good wall for Mining,” he said, producing his pickaxe and taking a swing quicker than Destartes could react.

The wizard was smart and realized what he was doing. But as a mage, the old spellcaster’s reaction times weren’t as fast as Adeltaj’s were.

“Adeltaj do not! You will-”

“L-landslide!” Xalyth shouted.

But it was too late and Orodan could already feel the pull of soul energy from himself and everyone in the party. The old Simarji’s Phoenix Thrust lashed out, its intent a protective one.

To the side, Destartes looked on in shock, quite unused to Orodan’s dangerous methods of training. Hearing about them was one thing, and seeing him engage in such bouts of risky self-improvement was another. But watching Adeltaj undergo extreme training under his encouragement? That had caused the wizard no lack of stress.

“Adeltaj! You cannot use skills which impact your soul when already suffering from soul damage! Let me see… wait… how?”

Orodan simply smiled in response. Adeltaj’s soul looked a lot better now, that much was clear.

“It is simply good training.”

[Teaching 90 → Teaching 91]

“This is improbable and does not make sense. Your outer soul layer was damaged. It should have taken years if not decades to heal it. And you then used a skill which affects the soul extensively? You should be in agony right now.”

“Correct. I am aware of the academic notion of damage to the soul,” Orodan remarked. “The established theories and instructors at Bluefire and Novar’s Peak certainly say all of these things. But sometimes, the established theories haven’t explored all there is to learn.”

Such as the fact that being true to one’s core character and who they were would in fact hasten the soul’s recovery. Orodan had discovered it himself when he’d gone Cleaning to recall his own name. And now Adeltaj looked far better than he had seconds ago due to the simple act of being the hero and protecting everyone.

“You planned that,” the old halberdier said, though his voice lacked any heat.

“If it helps, know that I was more than ready to step in. Of course, in the moment I doubt you had the time to think about that,” Orodan replied with a smile, and then turned to Destartes. “The soul core, the very center of us. It contains the System, and it also has the absolute essence of who we are. Minor things and memories might be lost with time, but the core parts of someone cannot. And doing something integral to one’s self will hasten the soul core bleeding over into the outer soul layer and helping its recovery.”

“And the risk of soul explosion if he got it wrong?” the wizard asked.

“He wouldn’t have. I know the old man a little too well,” Orodan replied. “And if he had… that’s what chronomancy is for.”

Compared to reversing the explosion of an entire soul nexus, reversing Adeltaj’s soul would’ve been trivial. Not that it needed to occur.

With the old Simarji recovered and in far better condition, their group continued onwards and arrived at the gates of Xan’Coran, the capital city of the drow beneath the Dokuhan Mountains. Orodan had been here once, but then it was he who was the center of attention, yet in this loop that role belonged to Adeltaj whose flashy heroics and theatrical stand against the responding dwarves had earned him much goodwill.

Orodan though, just made the drow nervous with how he casually drowned the strongest of dwarven kind in a deluge of mana. A warrior whose armor, enchantments and connection to Var Turum’s energy batteries meant he should have been immune to magic. Should have been. But not quite so much when the dwarf was literally suffocated under an endless barrage of Mana Bolts, with them getting progressively stronger as he understood more about the skill and gained levels.

