Shit, they’re cooperating. It wasn’t a lot of damage, and she hadn’t left any mana in her mana pool, but if she were forced to use her healing magic this often, she would run out of stamina too quickly. She ignored the wound, letting the blood run down her face, deciding to prioritize only injuries that impaired her speed or defenses, letting the slow trickle of health leeched by Soul Strike take care of the rest.

This one should be ready to teleport soon. She guessed it, but she didn’t think she could be as precise as she would like. But right on cue, it blurred into its afterimages. Where is it? She focused all her attention on her senses trying to catch the instant it materialized. There! She caught the subtle shimmer in the image out of the corner of her eye and executed a deep backbend, barely avoiding the attacks that sliced through the air inches above her face.

Soaring through the air, another incandescent ball descended toward her, and she turned her backbend into a flip, landing flat on the ground right before the explosion ripped up the turf, launching clods of grass in all directions. Burning more of her precious stamina on a heal, she found the brawler that had just used its teleport was now leaking a glowing blue fluid from several wounds.

Is that its blood? Previously the brawlers had avoided the explosion with their teleport, but it looked like it had been caught in the blast with its escape skill on recharge. It was the first time she had seen real damage on one of them, and it gave her an idea.

She attacked in a flurry of accelerated blows, several punches connecting with the creature while it was still staggered by the blast. She sprang up, leaping over the monster as the other re-engaged, lashing out with its four-way beam attacks.

A glowing arrow shot past her ear, burying itself deep into the wounded brawler. A thunderous roar alerted her to Mato’s incoming charge, while firebolts and other attacks began filling the air. Most of the attacks seemed comically slow and the brawlers effortlessly avoided them, but Ali’s guided bolts seemed to land, and the Lightning Bolt from her shaman seemed instant as normal.

In particular, Mato looked hilarious, flailing around awkwardly at the afterimages of the brawlers, but his regeneration aura was just as welcome as the warm pulse of holy magic settling in on Malika to heal the wounds she had been neglecting in order to save stamina. And then Mato began stealing damage from the hits she failed to block – a truly ridiculous skill that allowed him to tank damage by proxy even if he couldn’t see or keep up with the monsters at all.

If I don’t have to heal as much… did Calen send him in? Malika powered her Divine Step, boosting her haste, and went on the offensive, taking risks now in favor of landing more hits, relying on her suddenly boosted regeneration to keep her in the fight, along with the support of the Kobold healers.

She punched the brawler in the jaw just as it attempted to bite her, deflecting the attack. As the creature dodged sideways to avoid her kick, it ran into a suddenly appearing barrier and her kick connected. Clever. Unable to hit the monsters with her minions, Ali seemed to be resorting to pinning them down with her barriers and shooting Arcane Bolts instead. Without a second thought, Malika took advantage of the sturdy construct, running up the golden wall and executing a flip at the top, coming down with a vicious knee strike to the back of the monster’s head. It collapsed to the ground in a shimmer of chaotic light images and the chime of the kill notification.

Take that!

But Malika didn’t get any respite, immediately pulsing her healing magic as she failed to dodge a sudden beam of light magic that sliced through her leg and bit deep into the corpse below her. She sprang up into the air with a thrust of her good leg, landing on the back of the one remaining brawler. Wrapping her left arm around the whip-tentacles, she ignored the continuous leech while she grappled with it for leverage. Once she had them secure, she unleashed a brutal series of punches and elbow strikes into the back of its head while it struggled to dislodge her. It shimmered, and Malika’s grip suddenly was air and afterimages as the monster teleported away. She hit the ground running, launching a series of kicks as the monster materialized right in front of her. Her foot connected with a solid strike to the side of its head as she traded blows with the monster, sending blue glowing fluid flying as it struggled against her magical onslaught.

A final kick crushed its jaw from beneath, and Soul Strike pulsed brightly before the monster collapsed to the ground. The shimmer and glow slowly faded as her chime sounded.

Your group has defeated Radiant Brawler – Elemental – level 35-37 x2.Your group has defeated Luminous Slime – Ooze – level 24-25 x2.Your group has defeated Sparkling Ooze – level 34-37 x3.

“Are you ok?” Malika asked, looking to where Ali was still hiding behind her barrier. It had been agony to hear Ali scream in pain and not be able to rush over to heal her. But dragging the two elementals over to her friends would have put them in incredible danger.

“Yup, I’m fine now. I just keep forgetting that light goes right through my barrier,” Ali said, her eyes dropping to her feet in chagrin. She dropped her barrier and walked over to join her by the corpse of the monster and Malika could see that whatever injury she had sustained had been long healed, the evidence remaining only as scorched marks on her clothing.

“You’re going to need to talk to Lydia again soon.” Ali’s expensive tailored armor was sporting several burns and rips which looked like they would need repair. But Ali just frowned briefly, concentrating, and suddenly the holes closed up and Malika remembered Lydia’s armor creations could repair themselves with mana.

“You’re so fast, I can barely see you now,” Ali said, looking up at her. “I couldn’t follow these monsters at all, only my Arcane Bolts could track them.”

“What are they anyway?” Malika poked the heavy, motionless corpse with her foot. The light was already much dimmer, and it was still leaking blue stuff from several wounds.

“Light elemental. Haste and teleport,” Calen said, joining them too. “It’s hard to figure out exactly what they’re doing when they move so fast – it felt like I was trying to shoot a jar full of angry dragonflies.”

“The whip-tentacle things can steal mana too,” Malika observed.

“I couldn’t see anything,” Mato grumbled, cracking his knuckles with a frustrated growl.

“Your dexterity is pretty low, right?” Calen asked him, getting a nod. “Dexterity improves reaction speed, so it helps tremendously with this kind of monster. That and high perception.”

“But I Swiped the air so powerfully,” Mato mock-groaned.

A grin overtook Calen’s unusually intense stare. “Sure, sure, and that waving business with your paws was you trying to knock them over with a whirlwind, right?”

“That or my beastly breath?”

As they ribbed each other and chuckled through increasingly terrible jokes and puns, Malika’s thoughts immediately returned to the middle of the battle when the brawler had drained her mana below the amount she needed to sustain her Perfect Body enhancement. The instant her skill failed, her reaction speed had dropped dramatically. Perfect Body enhanced her endurance and wisdom, but most importantly for this fight, it boosted dexterity by a lot. Calen was right, as usual. A little more dexterity wouldn’t hurt her either.

“Would dexterity help me to attack something like that?” Ali asked, looking up as she finished deconstructing the Brawler’s corpse. Three small motes of bright light persisted, floating in the air where the mana of the corpse dissipated.

Lesser Radiant Essence x3Light-affinity crafting reagent.Mana: Combine 3 Lesser Radiant Essence into one Radiant EssenceValue: 5 goldReagent – Mana Essence

Oh nice, crafting reagents! These might sell well! Malika stored the essences. She would need to do a little research with Weldin to find out who might be a good buyer for them.

“Yes, I think so,” Calen answered Ali. “But I think it would be hard for a mage to prioritize dexterity over wisdom or intelligence most of the time.”

“I have a lot of skills that scale from higher dexterity,” Malika added. “Each point I gain does a lot for me.” She gazed at the huge corpse of the remaining elemental. “I don’t suppose you can make these, Ali?”

“Nope,” she answered. “I would need an affinity for light magic.”

“Too bad, I was hoping you could make them as sparring partners,” she grinned.

“I thought I was the battle junkie,” Mato mumbled while Ali set about deconstructing everything in sight.

“Oh, what were the flying explosion things?” Malika asked, remembering the intensely brilliant explosions that she had had to try and dodge.

“The Sparkling Ooze spits those out and they blow up,” Mato explained, with a pained expression. “It’s super annoying when the other ones blind you and you take the explosion to the face.”

“I really want to make them,” Ali said with excitement.

Malika smiled at Mato’s exaggerated groan and sat down. “Thanks for the regen aura and the damage transfer. That turned the battle for me,” she told him. The more she got to know him, the more she realized Mato craved being useful in a fight. She was certain he was hiding an enormous amount of frustration at spending half the battle flailing helplessly at foes that were too fast for him. As soon as she thanked him for his help, he suddenly relaxed and returned her smile.

She calmed her mind further, focusing on her breathing for a few minutes, feeling the welcome sensation of her regeneration accelerating. With Clarity, the bonus for sitting and focusing, and the influence of Mato’s regeneration aura, she wouldn’t need too long to refill her mana. Looking inward, she began to read the blue-white glowing notifications.

Soul Monk has reached level 34.+10 attribute points.Martial Artist has reached level 16 (+2).Soul Strike has reached level 20 (+2).Healing Mantra has reached level 20.Perfect Body has reached level 17.Enlightened Evasion has reached level 19.Divine Step has reached level 18 (+2).Second Wind has reached level 6 (+2).Clarity has reached level 4 (+3).Dancing has reached level 5.

Dancing leveled from a fight? The last notification took her by surprise, but her parents had been the ones who encouraged her dance classes, saying that skillful and dexterous movements were all based on the same principles. Clearly, the system had thought her fighting style sufficiently graceful, or perhaps she had unconsciously used her dancing skills during the fight.

Maybe I should get back to training it explicitly… The rest of her skill level gains seemed more normal, other than the fact that she had pushed herself to the limits on many of them and the sheer number of levels gained was impressive. She pursed her lips in thought for a moment and then spent four points on dexterity and two each on vitality, wisdom, and endurance.

To her surprise, another notification popped up immediately and she caught her breath, reading through it in a rush.

Requirements met for skill advancement.Soul Strike has reached level 20.Experienced mana leech attacks.Survived being drained to zero mana in combat. Wisdom has surpassed 120.Soul Strike gains Mana Strike.Soul Strike – level 20Mana: Enhance a Melee Attack with your soul magic, striking directly at the health or mana of your opponent. A portion of this health or mana is returned to you. Your Attack gains +207% [40 + skill + wisdom] additional Soul damage. Range: Touch.Soul, Melee, Support, WisdomAccept this advancement?

This is an amazing advance, Malika thought, reading through it again. It wouldn’t improve the amount of damage she dealt, if she understood the ‘striking directly at the mana of your opponent’ part, but she had just experienced how challenging it was to fight a monster that kept sapping her mana. She had Relentless as a defense against that – an opponent relying on mana without something like her aptitude, or a very high regeneration rate, would be rendered helpless.

“Hey, what do you guys think of this?” she asked, sharing the offered advancement with her friends for a second opinion. However, unless they brought up something critical that she had missed, she was certain she wanted this.

“Wow, a denial attack!” Calen said, looking surprisingly excited. “Situationally useful, but extremely powerful when used well. That would give our team some great new strategic options.”

Well, that’s a very Calen way to put it, Malika thought, grinning widely at him. He suddenly found his toes incredibly interesting; Mato’s gruff chuckle of realization made their friend blush richly.

“What’s denial?” Ali asked.

“If a monster consumes all your mana, you’re not dead, but you can’t do much,” Calen explained. “I would be nearly worthless in combat without any mana. It’s even worse if the monster steals the mana because then they can use it against you.”

“It’s worse even than not being able to cast anything. These brawlers leeched the mana I had reserved to keep my Perfect Body and Soul Armor running. The enhancement skills dropped as soon as the reserved mana was less than the required amount.” Malika had gotten quite a big scare in the middle of the fight because of it.

“How do you even defend against that?” Ali looked horrified.

“Magic resistance, high regeneration, mana potions, stuff like that,” Calen suggested.

“Or just don’t get hit,” Mato added.

“I used Relentless to swap my skills over to using stamina instead,” Malika said, “and Second Wind to transfer any mana to stamina instead of letting the monsters have it. I spent most of that fight on zero mana. I think I’m going to take this one, it sounds good.”

“It is good,” Calen said, nodding.

“Hey, Mato, can I test it out on you?” Malika said, accepting the advancement.

“Sure,” he said, grinning broadly, and swapped to his Bear Form.

It didn’t take long to figure it out. When she used Soul Strike, she had to choose between Mana Strike or Health Strike – there seemed to be no way to choose both simultaneously. At least it was intuitive. With just a few quick punches, she verified that her magic damage was attacking his mana pool instead of his health, and she received a slow trickle of stolen mana instead of the usual stolen health.

“That’s nasty,” Mato said after the test. “I wouldn’t want to duel you.”

“Can you do it without punching?” Ali asked.

“Yes, why?”

“I want to see how much resistance helps,” Ali answered.

