Ali stared in amazement at a smithy transformed. She and her friends had stopped by Thuli’s smithy to get some repair work done on Mato's armor, and Ali had wanted to check in to see how Kavé was doing in her new apprenticeship, but as soon as they entered, Ali had to stop and stare. She had thought it transformed the last time she had stopped by to introduce Kavé and Thuli, but what she found was on another level.

The entire smithy was clean. It sparkled. And there was a distinct energy, a productivity, a deep sense of purpose to the room, seen in everything from the carefully stacked iron ingots to the organized displays of swords and daggers on the walls. Even the ringing of the hammer striking the anvil in the back felt like the sounds of something important being crafted. She wrinkled her nose at the fresh tangs of molten metal and almost summoned a barrier as a great arc of green sparks shot across the floor. How did it even smell healthier? Someone was whistling.

As Ali gazed through the arched opening into the back, she saw Kavé striking at a piece of red-hot steel with a heavy hammer while Thuli stood beside her offering instruction and pointers. Kavé pursed her mouth and whistled again, raising the hammer with a cheerful yet focused air.

Blacksmith – Dragonkin – level 6 (Steel)Blacksmith – Dwarf – level ?? (Ember)

She’s growing fast! Either she was working very hard, or Thuli was a gifted teacher. Or both, she corrected herself hastily.

“See how the mana is all snarled up here? We can line it up better.”

“Like this?”

“Aye, and now use your steel shaping to straighten it out a little more.”

“Ok, this one can see it now…”

“Just remember to put ya back into the strike, otherwise it won’t do anything. Snarls like this can be stubborn.”

Kavé belted the visibly glowing piece with a powerful strike that sent sparks skittering across the stone floor, and Ali saw the mana bending from the skill-assisted hammer blow.

“Aye, that’s it right there. Why don’t ya finish up this sword and I’ll go greet our guests?”

“Yes, Thuli,” she said, turning to glance back through the archway and then grinning and waving as she caught sight of Ali and Mato.

“Hi Aliandra,” Thuli said, a beaming grin on his face as he emerged from the sweltering room, waves of shimmering heat slowly fading from his body as his magic slowly ebbed away. He nodded a greeting to the others as he caught sight of them.

Of all the things that had changed, the smile on the previously grumpy Dwarf’s face was the greatest. Ali was stunned at how much more vigorous and healthy he looked, and the spring in his step as he walked over was unmistakable. She couldn’t help grinning in response.

“What happened to you?” Ali asked, returning Kavé’s wave before she returned to her project.

“I paid off my debt today!” Thuli declared. “And it’s all thanks to yer generosity.”

“I didn’t think we gave you enough steel to pay it off completely.”

“I made a breakthrough studying those pieces. It’s not Eimuuran steel yet, but it was enough to land a commission from the Garrison Commander’s office for a large order of swords. And I got a couple of levels from discovering the process.”

He retrieved a sword from his storage and showed her.

Fireforged Sword – level 28 (Fire)Damage: Slashing, Physical, FireAdded Fire damage on hit.+24 Strength.Requirements: Strength 98Created by Thuli.One Handed – Sword – Fireforged Steel

The sword blade was silver with the unmistakable reddish glow of fire mana. Ali was no expert, but it looked quite impressive.

“You made a magic-grade sword for the garrison guards?” Ali asked. She was guessing the grade by the number of enchantments, but it seemed a fairly reliable one to make. “You’re going to be popular. Well done!”

“Aye.” Thuli wrinkled his large nose, making his beard shake. “It’s a little too good, perhaps.”

“What do you mean?” Mato asked.

“The other blacksmiths are convinced I have an out-of-town sponsor. They’re even trying to get Hadrik Goldbeard to force me to give up your identity. Fortunately, we Dwarves are stubborn by nature, and he hasn’t caved to their demands.”

“I see,” Ali said, handing the blade back to him. “Yes, I’d prefer to remain anonymous if possible.” She was just happy to see his success had secured his forge and smithy for the foreseeable future.

“Of course, lassie.”

“How is Kavé doing?” Ali asked, watching the fascinating flow of silvery strands of steel mana she was working in the background.

“That girl is amazing! She is such a hard worker, she learns fast, and her class is incredible. She will easily surpass me one day, mark my words. She camped in the back room, she never complains, and she polished the entire smithy on her first day. I mean just look at this place!”

Ali smiled at Thuli’s proud boasting about his apprentice, happy to see that the two of them were getting along well.

“Don’t tell the lass, I want it to be a surprise, but she will get her first paycheck at the end of the week,” Thuli finished, with a happy smile. “Anyways, I’m sure ya didn’t come by for a spot of idle chitchat – what can I do for ya?”

“I was wondering if these might be useful for your studies?” Ali asked, pulling out two newly created Eimuuran Darksteel daggers – copies of the ones she had learned in the armory yesterday. She also laid out some plate armor pieces, a sword, and a shield.

Thuli’s eyes widened at the sight of all the Eimuuran steel on his table. Carefully he inspected each piece, stopping in surprise at the daggers. “I didn’t know the techniques could be applied to Darksteel. This is really something.” He looked over at Ali. “Yes, I can definitely use this, and I can even pay ya this time.”

“Bonus,” Mato deadpanned.

Thuli shot him a filthy look. “Maybe I’ll test your head with my hammer, lad!”

“A jest, a jest,” Mato chuckled, holding out his hands peaceably. “I’m just glad to see this forge bubbling and clanging again.”

“Not like hitting him in the head would do anything anyway,” Malika muttered, just loud enough for everyone to hear.

“Hah!” the Dwarf snorted.

“Can you include the cost of repairs for Mato’s armor?” Ali asked. They haggled over the price for a little, but Ali trusted him, and so they came to a rather quick agreement, after which Thuli took Mato aside to begin working on his armor.

The din of hammering ceased, and Kavé appeared from the back room, laying the finished sword on the table before she came over to Ali.

“This one has a gift for you,” she said using Draconic, and then immediately vanished through a side door, emerging a few moments later with a wooden tray with several pots on it, each one growing a small jasmine plant. Ali instantly recognized it by the beautiful scent of the tiny white flowers.

“What is this for?” Ali asked, surprised by the unexpected gesture.

“This one has a class, and a teacher, thanks to you. The herbalist boy, Basil, said this would be a gift you might like.” Kavé spoke quickly with a fidgeting that betrayed her anxiety at offering the gift. “Do you like it? This one loves the scent of jasmine, and Basil said you would learn to grow it.”

“I love it, Kavé, thank you!”

The dragonkin girl smiled with a few too many sharp pointy teeth showing, but Ali was already used to her Kobolds, and she simply smiled back.

“This one would like to see it… your magic?” Kavé asked eagerly.

“Of course,” Ali answered, manifesting her Grimoire at once and deconstructing each of the plants.

Imprint: Ivy updated to Imprint: Creeper.Variant: Jasmine added to Imprint: Creeper.

With a thought, she poured mana into the new variant and created a new jasmine plant in one of the now empty pots.

“Your magic is beautiful,” Kavé exclaimed.

“Thank you,” Ali answered.

“Aliandra, why does your Draconic sound like a Kobold?” Kavé asked, glancing back and forth as if someone might overhear.

Blunt and direct. Ali didn’t feel threatened though, it was more that the girl was simply extremely straightforward. Ali answered in kind, “I learned it from a Kobold.”

“This one can give you lessons, it is not good to speak like a Kobold.”

“Ok,” Ali smiled. Language lessons sounded fun.

“Kavé, let’s see your sword,” Thuli said, his booming voice interrupting their conversation, and Kavé rushed back to the table to retrieve her work and show it to him, standing anxiously by while he inspected the weapon.

“Good job,” he finally declared. “Next time I will show you how to forge it a little stronger by using more heat in the final step. Now, why don’t you put these Eimuuran pieces in the safe and I’ll show you how to study them later.”

Kavé bowed and collected the items, barely able to conceal her excitement as she touched the steel, a flicker of her silvery mana caressing it as she rushed off to pack them away.

Mieriel glanced up from her work at the sounds of footsteps approaching. It was late, and the guild was quiet – the perfect time for catching up on her administrative chores. She smiled at the sight of Vivian striding across the hall, but the instant she stepped onto the carpet, a roiling, gloomy sense of despair mingled with fury crashed up against her Empathy skill and her smile shriveled up and blew away.

Oh no. Not again. “Who?”

“Kelvin,” Vivian said, her face stony and eyes hard. She dropped herself into the seat in front of Mieriel’s desk with a grunt, not bothering to keep up the façade of the leader in the quiet of the empty guild hall. “Killed in his bed.”

“So, the Silent Assassin is real?” Mieriel asked, but she knew her question was redundant. This was the third victim now.

“The same calling card and same method of death,” Vivian said. “And they’re targeting us.”

“Why?” While Vivian looked angry, the chaotic emotions rolling off of her told a far more personal story, the despair tinged with frustration and hurt.

“This has Hawkhurst’s stench all over it,” Vivian said curtly. “It must be retaliation for changing my vote to Brand for the council’s defense budget.”

“Should I…” Mieriel began, and then she swallowed. In a town like Myrin’s Keep, it would be suicide to get caught digging around with her skills. She and Vivian had agreed she should keep a low profile after the last time. But… Aliandra… What she and Vivian had done to that girl still gnawed at her. It was one thing to take a stand for dangerous classes, but if she became the very nightmare people feared…

“I don’t want you to risk yourself…” Vivian said, but the surge of hope that blossomed within her heart was as clear as a lighthouse in the night.

“I’ll do some scouting at the usual haunts,” Mieriel said softly, catching her breath.

“Please be very, very careful,” Vivian said.

She just nodded, packing away her papers. Am I looking for redemption? She shuddered; not entirely sure she deserved it.

***

Mieriel crossed the street and entered the alleyway. It was dark, and most certainly not a safe neighborhood. She lifted the hem of her dress – her favorite of Lydia’s creations – to avoid dragging it through the filth that covered the cobblestones. She had not been here in ages, but her nose wrinkled at the unforgettable stench which had not improved one bit since the last time.

A shadowy figure moved in the darkness up ahead, turning suspicious eyes her way. She fed just a little more mana to her Inconspicuous Presence and felt the man’s eyes slide across her as if she was no more than another battered trashcan littering the dark recesses of the alley before he moved on to whatever nefarious purpose brought him out at this hour.

She paused in a dark alcove across from the entrance to the Crooked Crown, waiting for the sounds of his footsteps to fade away. This was her third stop for the night. I hope I find some clues about who’s behind this Silent Assassin.

She hated that her class was most useful for situations like this – where risky covert work was the last line before disaster or death. Vivian regularly ran interference for her with the Town Council – there were several people with high enough levels to resist her magic and identify her class. By vouching for her, Vivian kept them from turning her over to the crown. In return, she would ferret out information for Vivian wherever it lay – from the extravagant parties of the nobles to the seediest dens of thieves and assassins.

This bar is a little more of the latter than the former, she thought, having grown progressively more jaded over the years as her activities had taught her that the worst of the crime in this town happened not in the slums, but in the fancy parties, perpetrated by those with wealth and power, and few morals.

Her awareness slipped briefly into her storage enchantment, finding the items she required, and then with a deft trick – one honed over many hours of deliberate practice, a trick that had saved her life several times – she instantly switched her elegant gown with the outfit of a barmaid and walked across the street to the bar. By the time she scaled the three short stairs, she had settled into her practiced barmaid disguise, including readying the substituted notifications she would broadcast to any minds that used Identify.

She paused at the rickety wooden door with its garish yellow paint. From prior visits, she knew this fine establishment to be bankrolled by Kieran Mori, a front that served as a meeting place for the more illicit circles of the Myrin’s Keep underworld. Taking a sharp breath to steady herself, she pulled open the door and stepped in, colliding with the acidic stench of vomit and ale. The raucous noise of drunk patrons and the chaotic storm of emotional energy washed over her Empathy skill as she plunged through the feelings of the room.

Reflexively, she reached out with Misdirect Attention, directing the lecherous intent of several drunk patrons back to the buxom waitress at the back, and feeding her Inconspicuous Presence a bit more mana to make it stick. Then she walked over to the bar and picked up a rag and a tray with several mugs of ale on it.

A room full of drunk people was scarcely a challenge for her – only the bartender required her full attention before he too forgot she existed. But this was not her target – the real action in the Crooked Crown took place downstairs. She strode confidently – and entirely unnoticed – across the filthy wooden floor of the bar and took the stairwell leading downward.

