The door was guarded, but as usual, it was a rogue with a pitifully low wisdom attribute and too much faith in his mediocre stealth skill. Mieriel could easily pick him out by the sound of his breathing and the stench of alcohol on his breath. Sometimes Heightened Perception was more of a bane than a boon, forcing her to endure the man’s foul reek. Even without her enhanced senses, his emotions bubbled over like a pulsing beacon, revealed to her via Empathy.

She simply walked forward and opened the door, running Inconspicuous Presence continuously while convincing his mind that he was vastly more interested in the noise from above than her, and he might as well just forget she had been there with a deft application of her Misdirect Attention and Memory Coercion.

Low class level, and worse, low wisdom. Pshh.

She slipped through the door and emerged into the basement area, alert for any signs that someone had noticed her. A few patrons huddled over half-filled tankards, but it was a quieter, broody atmosphere, a dark place where semi-legal – or often downright illegal – deals might go down in an alcove over an untouched ale. She had been here many times over the years, and she knew her way around.

The sudden sense of surprise caught her attention, but she controlled her reaction. Slowly, she turned, holding her tray of ales up, and caught the eyes of a black-cloaked man staring in her direction.

Rogue – Human – level ?? (Surprised)

She pulsed her mana into Misdirect Attention, while simultaneously walking over and placing an ale in front of someone and retrieving the empty mug. She had discovered very early on that her magic worked even on those much higher level than her own, provided she looked, and acted, the way they expected. She was dressed as a barmaid, acting as a barmaid, and now her Misdirect Attention reached out to instruct his mind to notice she was only a barmaid, and to forget what he had just seen with his Identify skill. She smiled demurely in his direction and wiped down the table perfunctorily before he shook his head and returned to scanning the rest of the crowd suspiciously.

Inwardly, Mieriel breathed a sigh of relief before she continued on her way, passing the jobs board which was the purpose of her visit. While a barmaid studying jobs suitable for thugs, thieves, and assassins would break character, she simply glanced at the board and memorized it by using her mind magic on herself – the simple trick of reversing her Memory Coercion skill to force her mind to remember. The picture of the entire job board appeared in her mind and would remain there, available for her to look at for several days if she wished.

Carefully, she continued to make her way around the room, keeping up her act and straining her senses.

“What do you think of this Silent Assassin business?” someone murmured.

Mieriel’s ears pricked up instantly, and she slowed her feet. In a dark alcove, two hooded figures were hunched over, spilling tension into the air.

“Shh! Do you want to get us killed?”

“What are you talking about?”

“Do you remember Jorgen was going to find out about the Silent Assassin?”

“Yes.”

“He turned up in an alleyway with a spear through the heart like fresh meat on a skewer.”

“Mori…”

“Shut up, you fool! Do you want to get impaled?”

The argument was beginning to draw attention, so Mieriel sidled off, slipping out the door and returning up the stairs. She dropped the tray off at the bar and left, beginning to walk home while carefully examining her haul in her mind.

The board had contained the typical mishmash of illegal activities, announcements for gambling events, trade of illicit goods and slaves, bounties for assassinations, or goods to be ‘acquired’ by any means. There was nothing explicit about the Silent Assassin or…

Suddenly she stopped, an entirely unexpected job posting catching her attention.

Bounty Notice.

Quest Giver: Undisclosed.Rank: Bronze.Category: Assassination.Reward: 1 gold per mark (escrow).

Mark: Aliandra Amariel – Female Mage, Fae, green hair, amber eyes.Mark: Malika – Female Monk, Human, Torian descent, dark hair and skin, blue eyes.

Both marks are members of the Adventurers Guild, wanted for the killing of Adrik and Edrik.

Aliandra and Malika. Putting out a hit or a contract on someone was still illegal even in Myrin’s Keep. But the undisclosed name did not fool her in the slightest. This is Kieran Mori’s establishment. And it was his style, too – she had not the slightest doubt about that.

Shit.

It was just about the worst time for this. Vivian was still uncertain about Aliandra, and now there was a contract out on her life by none other than Kieran Mori – the captain of the Town Watch.

I must tell Vivian immediately. And we need to warn Aliandra and Malika – their lives are in grave danger. She frowned momentarily. It was just that Mieriel had no idea how Vivian would react. What if she won’t tell them? Vivian had good reason to fear dungeons, and Aliandra was that. But a horrid, twisting queasiness gripped her gut at the thought of hurting Aliandra again. No, she thought, firming her lips as if framing the statement she would make to the stubborn Guildmaster. I will tell them, no matter what.

Ali and Mato returned to their new camp in the library, arriving before Malika and Calen who seemed to be taking much longer with their errands. Mato busied himself with the cookfire, leaving Ali to her own devices.

The library still felt desolate and dark, her domain mana penetrating only a little past the doorway where she had grown some moss. The rest of the space still lay much as they had found it when it was guarded by the Skeletal Wyvern – bone shards and layers of ridges and spines coated most of the available surfaces, and whatever wasn’t covered lay shattered and decayed in the cloying darkness.

Only one thing seemed to have improved – there had been no bone worms or bone skitterers ever since she had severed part of the dungeon’s mana by deconstructing the spire.

I’ve got some time, she thought, staring up at the soaring shelves, walkways, and broken ladders along the walls. And I have a new plant imprint to try out. This place could certainly do with being spruced up and smelling a whole lot better.

With a sense of purpose, she set to her task. Hopping up on a conjured barrier disk, she summoned her Grimoire and flew off to the soaring inner wall and the thousands of ancient shelves carved into the stone. Levitating on her barrier, she began growing her new jasmine up the walls, trailing wherever the ladders and walkways had been. Every time she ran out of mana, she simply deconstructed several shelves worth of encrusted bone and decayed books and then continued. After a while, she alternated with ivy before returning to the beautiful flowers and scent of the jasmine.

By the time she had finished with the outer wall of the upper level, most of the first sections had already established her domain mana. She hovered near one, deciding to try her new Domain Mastery skill. Reaching out with her will, she found she could target quite a substantial area of the encrusted bone. She simply visualized changing its structure to a whole lot of unconnected tiny particles and the entire broad section of encrusted bone collapsed, falling as dust to the ground below.

Much faster than deconstruction, she thought marveling at how little mana it had taken. She flew back and forth repeating the process to quickly reveal the wall and the shelves beneath the bone. I can just deconstruct the piles of bone dust later.

Ali repeated the process, growing her ivy and jasmine up the inner walls and pillars surrounding the atrium. She even included the spiral stair. As soon as her domain mana infused that space, she turned all the bone into dust, watching it fall away into the darkness at the bottom of the atrium.

I can’t really see much, she thought. But she had a skill now that could solve that problem. Once again flying around on her barrier she created a ring of barrier panels suspended in the air around the rim of the atrium. It was a simple matter to extend her barriers to be large enough and anchor them to the mana of her domain, so she didn’t have to maintain them. She tilted them to provide better lighting for the space. Aah, so much more tasteful, she thought as the golden glow illuminated the upper library level. I wish I could create real books to fill the shelves.

Hmm, I think I want more plants. She selected the chapter for her stone imprint and began to summon granite. Her imprint did not allow enough customization, but when combined with Domain Mastery, she was able to quickly sculpt the stone into large planters filled with powdered rock. After that, it was a simple matter to fill them with Blue Mana Grass, Common Glowcap mushrooms, and Verdant Moss – all her affinity plants that generated her domain.

Inspired by her success with the stone and Domain Mastery, Ali began experimenting with her green marble stone variant and her Sculpting skill. Digging through her memories, she began to create statues of various creatures she had seen her father summon, using the green marble as her medium and Domain Mastery as her chisel to sculpt. The green marble was a gorgeous stone for sculpting, and particularly suited for the nature-themed creatures she was making.

“Oh, I love it!” Malika’s voice broke her concentration, and she glanced over to find her friend had returned and was smelling the jasmine flowers adorning the walls.

“I like the lights,” Calen added, nodding appreciatively.

“The statues are the coolest,” Mato declared. “Also, lunch is ready. A Beastkin cannot live on sweet aromas alone.”

“Wow, is there a girlfriend we need to know about?” Malika needled at once.

Mato turned a fine shade of tomato-red. “No – right, Calen?”

“You just need the right girl to smell your cooking,” he said, making a swooning gesture with his fingers.

“Ali, how about you start? These jokers obviously aren’t hungry,” Mato suggested.

Ali realized she was starving. Using lots of mana seems to make me very hungry. As she sat to wait for Mato to dish up food, she remembered something. Oh, hold on, didn’t I get a notification a few minutes back?

Curious, she sent her awareness inward, calling up the notifications.

Grove Warden has reached level 32.+10 attribute points.

Arcane Insight has reached level 19.Arcane Bolt has reached level 16.Barrier has reached level 25.Runic Script has reached level 15 (+3).Domain Mastery has reached level 4 (+3).

What the… when did those levels sneak up on me? Ali realized that her work in the library must have paid off handsomely, giving three levels in her newest Domain Mastery skill. The long hours of re-inscribing her cure poison circle while they exterminated the undead wherever they could root them out in the ruined city provided a substantial boost to her Runic Script, and one more very welcome class level. Without waiting, she spent five points on wisdom to grow her mana pool, and then three on intelligence. The final two points went to perception, noticeably improving the clarity of her mana sight.

And with that, time to eat!
