I hope they like it. Only after she was done with their new accommodations, did she find the courage to face her own. It took her maybe twenty minutes, but when she was done, her apartment looked as close to what she used to have as she could make it. Obviously, there were some differences – she couldn’t make carpet, so her floors were wood. And she didn’t have exactly the same plant imprints for her pot plants, but sometimes life had to move on. After witnessing Ciradyl, that fact had been burned into her soul.

Finally, Ali stepped outside and inscribed a pair of teleportation circles to link this new neighborhood to the library and then she returned.

***

“Oh, there you are,” Mato said as Ali flew into the library and dismissed her barrier, dropping herself onto the couch beside Malika rather than face climbing up onto it, which would be far beyond her right now. “You were out there for ages.”

“We saved a lot of elves,” Ali said, drooping wearily. “Do you have any idea how hard it is to make that many houses?” In all, they’d rescued a little fewer than six thousand elves from the destruction of Ciradyl before Nathaniel had grown too powerful – a pitifully small number, considering it had been the largest Wood Elf city on the continent. While Myrin’s Keep had enough empty lots and broken buildings to eventually house all the refugees, they most certainly did not have the crafters and builders to make them habitable on short notice, and so Aiden had begged her to help out. Although, calling what she had been able to whip up with Domain Mastery and the left-over ruined buildings from Dal’mohra ‘livable’ was being generous in her opinion.

At least they won’t get rained on and freeze to death.

“Thank you for doing that,” Calen said.

“You’re welcome,” Ali said, managing a small, tired smile for him. Of the four of them, he had taken the loss of Ciradyl the hardest. He had been so proud of his Pathfinder membership, and he always looked forward to his archery training with Nendir.

“Here you go,” Mato said, offering a steaming plate of stew that made her mouth water just looking at it. “If you’re going to do so much work, then you need to eat.”

“Thanks, Mato,” Ali said, placing the plate on her lap and accepting a spoon. “I made a house for each of you, too. There’s a new teleportation circle to get to them.”

“You did?” Malika asked, raising her eyebrows in surprise.

“Yes, although it will probably be quite a while before we can buy things like proper beds with all the refugees in town,” she admitted. While making a house using the ruins was no big deal for her, Malika had not known a true home since she had been forced to flee the burning of Bakahn.

Of course, it hadn’t been just one house – she had had to rebuild almost the entire first residential ring to accommodate so many people – and most of them probably would not enjoy living underground in the dark after having grown up in the boughs of Ciradyl.

“Can we go look?” Malika asked, her eyes locked on Ali. The monk’s normally calm demeanor was gone, replaced by an unfamiliar energy, like she was itching to rush off at this very instant.

“Dinner first!” Mato declared.

“Ok, after dinner,” Ali said. She shoveled a spoonful of stew into her mouth and moaned at the explosion of unusually spicy flavor. “Mmm, Mato, what is this?” she asked, trying a little more.

“Armored Drake stew,” he answered with a grin.

I must be ravenous, she decided. Armored Drake meat was not the most sought-after of delicacies, other than when it was dungeon… Her chime interrupted her thoughts.

You have become Well-fed.+12 to Vitality.Duration: 6 hours.

“Oh wow, that’s a nice buff,” she exclaimed. “Does everyone get that?”

“It’s only full strength if you’re above level sixty, but still it’s better than my previous cooking,” he answered.

“Oh, shit,” Ali said.

“What? That’s pretty normal, I thought,” Mato complained, frowning as he stared at her.

“No, it’s not you,” Ali reassured him. “I just realized that those six thousand Elves are probably going to be hungry soon.”

“And Myrin’s Keep probably can’t handle that on short notice,” Calen said, catching on quickly.

“A dungeon’s work is never done?” Malika asked.

“Ugh,” Ali said, groaning at the thought of how much more work that would be. “I’ll take care of it after I finish eating.”

Everyone fell silent and Ali’s thoughts returned to the fateful battle at Ciradyl, wondering what, if anything, she could have done to turn the tide. The Blind Lich had returned with a new Avatar, the likes of which Lyeneru insisted had not been seen in an age. Perhaps there were accounts of him appearing with such power in the Pathfinder Guild records, but those had been lost along with the rest of the city. Despite his unfathomable power, the Elven city had stood for thousands of years, resisting the schemes and encroachment of the dead, yet even Ciradyl had fallen, and Lyeneru was blaming herself for not being prescient enough to see it, for being too weak to defend it, and, most of all, for ignoring Ali’s warnings.

But it was not the Blind Lich that had defeated the ancient wards of the Well of Souls. Without Nathaniel Sunstrider’s betrayal, Nevyn Eld would have been denied his prize, Ciradyl would still be standing, and all those Elves would still be breathing the fresh forest air.

Nathaniel Sunstrider. Why the Archmage had done something so awful Ali would never understand. Immortality? Ali twisted her mouth at the sour flavor. The signs had all been there – his arrogance and superiority, the strange binding magic visible from the spirit realm, and his obsessive desire to take Ali’s copy of Nevyn Eld’s manual on dungeons.

Why couldn’t I see it? She had asked herself this same question a thousand times as she went through the menial drudgery of building housing for six thousand elves. She should have put it together; all the clues were plain for anyone with eyes to see. How could I have missed it? Even Clarence didn’t like the Archmage, and yet she had allowed herself to be swayed by the opinions of Lyeneru and Calen who respected him, and his gestures of help, such as his assistance in concealing her class from being published to the guild registry and access to the advanced magic in Ciradyl’s library. She had questioned her own feelings and the strange dark magic that she had observed.

I should have done something. I should have pushed harder. But she had. She had shared her misgivings with Lira, and her aunt had taken her seriously, traveling to Ciradyl to study the Archmage herself and consult with Tol’zerath, The Seer of Divergent Paths. When Lira returned, she confirmed that the Troll sage had observed the same phenomenon – the hungry, leech-like tentacles of magic, apparently only visible in the Spirit Realm, but he had asked for time to study it and track it to its shrouded source. Unfortunately, Nathaniel’s craving for immortality had pushed him to act sooner than anyone could have predicted, and even Tol’zerath had barely escaped with his life.

It's not that I missed it. I saw it. I just never imagined he’d go that far.

“What should we do?” Ali finally asked, voicing the question in her heart. “What can we do?” Once unleashed, Nevyn Eld had been devastating and unstoppable, even against two of the most powerful Pathfinders in the world.

Ali had believed the Blind Lich’s death at Aman Rak to be a victory, but he had already secured Meere Kada and Telim Gor, and presumably summoned his army of Death Knights, and then he had subverted Nathaniel Sunstrider himself, gaining entrance to the heart of the elven city, and corrupted the Well of Souls. In the space of a scant few weeks, he had gained full control over the entire Dol Kerriadh peninsula. Whatever he had planned couldn’t be good for anyone.

“We recover, and then we get stronger,” Malika said firmly.

“And then we go kick his ass,” Mato finished, but his attempt at levity fell flat – they had all seen the incredible power he wielded. In a single stroke, he had poisoned the Well of Souls, wiped out Ciradyl, and installed an incredibly powerful arcane and death affinity dungeon in its place, slave to his will. Against such might, they were nothing more than bugs under the steel boots of his Death Knights.

Taking the fight to him was far down their priority list – they needed to get stronger immediately if they were to even make it through whatever came next, alive. Trying to distract herself from the maudlin spiral her thoughts were taking, she opened her notifications.

Dungeon of Knowledge has reached level 105 (+3).+30 attribute points.

Ali frowned as she considered her points, but it didn’t distract her for long. Ten points went to wisdom and eight each to intelligence and perception. The final four she added to vitality and then glanced over the rest of her notifications. Thirty points was not the kind of power that could crush a Lich, but it was growth.

Arcane Insight has reached level 60 (+4).Arcane Recall has reached level 20.Barrier has reached level 65 (+3).Grimoire of Summoning has reached level 43.Sage of Learning has reached level 47 (+2).Domain Mastery has reached level 36 (+4)Identify has reached level 23 (+2).Sculpting has reached level 8 (+2).Inspiration has reached level 19.Your Blood Shaman has reached level 86.Your Ice Mage has reached level 88.Variant: Ciradyl Tree added to Imprint: Tree.Variant: Magicite (Arcane) added to Imprint: Stone.

Ali winced. The two notifications at the end served as a woefully inadequate summary of the events at Ciradyl. She had no idea if any of the original majestic trees had survived, and if not, her Grimoire imprint was probably the last remnant of the powerfully magical trees she had been admiring not more than a few hours ago.

She had learned Nathaniel’s magicite. Arcane magicite, often simply referred to as Arcanite, was quite possibly the most useful magicite in existence. The arcane affinity was replete with metamagic spells, teleportation, and various other incredibly useful tools – many of which would vastly enhance other classes and magic affinities were they accessible. Through the means of a wand, she would likely be able to make such tools available to the guild for purchase.

But even that didn’t hold her attention for long. Instead, her mind continued to dwell on the horrific events, and the power of the magic animating the arcane elementals she had seen Nathaniel create. It had never occurred to her that Amplify Skill applied to Runic Script would turn out to be so enormously powerful – but certainly, when it was backed up by the mind of an Archmage of his experience, it had been overwhelming. She had been forced to take a reactively defensive role, unable to gain any meaningful advantage.

Then there was the horrific magic of the Blind Lich himself. Now that she had learned to Disrupt his gruesome Sacrifice skill, and with the aid of her vastly enhanced perceptions, she had realized something even more disturbing. The Lich’s Sacrifice was derived from a domain magic; of this, she was now certain. If she didn’t know any better, she would have said it was a domain spell. He didn’t appear to have a domain, and yet somehow, he was able to cast the exact same magic formation that Tol’brekk had used – the very same skill she had learned on deconstructing his corpse. Only Nevyn’s version was much more powerful.

How is he able to do that?

This, and many of her other questions, would have to go unanswered for now.

“Ali?” Malika said, breaking her train of thought.

“Hmm?”

“Can we go look?”

“Huh? Oh… yes,” she said, smiling at the evident excitement on her friend’s face. It took just a few minutes for her to lead the way to the new circle in the library and moments later they were out in the middle of the residential district, standing before the apartments Ali had renovated. “This one is yours, Malika.”

Ali opened the door and invited them all in. “Sorry, I don’t have much in the way of furnishings yet,” she said, but she took them all on a tour. “This is the kitchen area. The bedroom is in here.”

“What’s through there?” Malika asked, her eyes resting on the archway into the dojo, Ali had made for her.

“Why don’t you go take a look?”

Malika stepped into the room and gasped. “Ali! This… this is perfect!”

The obvious joy on Malika’s face as she danced through the room to explore was a bright shining light in the otherwise unremitting darkness of the last couple of days.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledgehttps://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledgehttps://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg
