Calen slumped to the floor as the magnitude of what he had just survived bore down on him with a weight that made his heart wrench and stutter. While there had been monsters in his sights, in the thick of things, he had been able to ignore it all and maintain a clear focus and purpose. Still, as soon as Ali’s teleportation conduit to Ciradyl had collapsed and the last of the banshees and wraiths had been dealt with, there had been nothing else to distract him. The full import of what had just happened slammed into him at the sound of Coria’s grief-stricken wail, sending his emotions into a tailspin.

Nendir… how… He had been holding off the Blind Lich, allowing them all to escape, but he had not appeared through the teleportation locus after Ali and Malika arrived. Calen couldn’t believe it – his eyes kept returning to the wreckage of the locus, desperately hoping…

In the short time Calen had known him, the master archer had become so much more to him than merely an instructor. He was someone who believed in him and his skills, who supported him when very few others would, and was a fantastic role model. He gritted his teeth, struggling to hold back the tears as Coria cried.

And now he was gone.

Taken from this realm by someone who Calen had considered a role model, too. Nathaniel Sunstrider, Archmage and Guildmaster of the Pathfinders Guild; his betrayal twisted in Calen’s gut like a poisoned dagger.

Dimly, he was aware of Mato sitting slumped against the wall beside him, but his friend simply sat, keeping him company in silence as he struggled with his feelings. Even though he didn’t say a thing, Calen took a small measure of comfort in his presence and the soft, ambient vitality of Mato’s aura washing over him.

Ciradyl. It’s gone.

His eyes had seen, but his mind couldn’t even begin to grasp the scale of the tragedy that had unfolded before him. He had gone from admiring the pristine Well of Souls to watching the last Ciradyl tree succumbing to the corrupting influence of the Blind Lich’s spell. He had witnessed the death and profane raising of Nathaniel Sunstrider. He had witnessed the birth of a dungeon in the heart of the Elves’ most sacred domain and the summoning of wraiths and elementals to brutally slay the innocent in numbers he couldn’t even begin to comprehend.

All gone. It may not have been his home, but the wanton destruction of life beggared belief.

He sat there wrestling with his grief for an unknown amount of time with Mato beside him, patiently offering the support of his silent presence. The receiving room quieted down, and when he finally looked up to behold the slag and still-smoking remains of the Myrin’s Keep teleportation locus, he found it mostly empty.

His eyes met with those of Ali and Malika, still here, trying to help the remaining elves. And then he found Lyeneru, holding an inconsolable Coria, with tears running down her normally stoic face.

There were no words, just pain and sorrow.

***

It was with a profound sense of dazed numbness that he got up to follow his friends out, heading toward the guild, but the mundane action offered a sense of energy and purpose. Following the force of habit, he pulled up the notifications from the fight, using the muscle memory to distract his mind once more.

Realm Hunter has reached level 103 (+3).+30 attribute points.Radiant Archery has reached level 57.Arrows of Brilliance has reached level 59 (+3).Motes of Light has reached level 37.Blessing of the Dawn has reached level 43 (+2).Eyes of the Archon has reached level 37 (+2).Righteous Fury has reached level 37 (+3).Azrael's Wings has reached level 26 (+2).Mirage Armor has reached level 37 (+2).Howling Hellfire Bow has reached level 78 (+3).

For the first time since he had earned his class, he felt that the skill and level growth was a cheap and tarnished reward, not worth what he had lost to earn it. It was with a sour taste in his mouth that he distributed his points, spending ten on intelligence and six each on dexterity and perception. The strength requirement for his bow had grown to one hundred and nine, so he distributed the rest of his free points evenly, allocating two to each of the remaining attributes.

His notification chime made a hollow ding in his mind.

Requirements met for skill advancement.Mentor: Lyeneru Silverleaf.Chosen path: Follow the Light.Mirage Armor has reached at least level 35.Received master instruction on advanced ranged combat.Faced a being of pure magic in combat.Mirage Armor gains Illusory Decoys.(You can create illusory images of yourself which last until dispelled)Accept this advancement?

He stared at the requirements for his advancement with two conflicting emotions warring within his heart. On the one hand, the advancement was incredible, the result of his chosen path, combat skills, his mentor, and the advanced instruction he had enjoyed. On the other hand… his eyes dwelt on the ‘master level instruction’ requirement, knowing full well this would likely be the last time his advancement was influenced by Nendir’s inspired teaching and the wealth of his experience.

Slowly, deliberately, he accepted the advancement and pulled up the skill descriptions, his eyes lingering on the changes.

Mirage Armor – level 37Mana: Bending light around you, your body creates afterimages as it moves, making it significantly harder to hit you. Evasion is increased by +2198 [skill x 7 + intelligence + dexterity]. You are significantly harder to see, and your mana is cloaked from the perceptions of your enemies, granting an additional +37% [skill] to Resistance. Reserve: 10%Mana: Conjure up to 4 [1 + skill / 10] illusory images of yourself. The images can be directed to mimic your typical movements, skills, and attacks, and last for the full duration, or until dispelled or damaged. Duration: 3.7 [skill / 10] minutes.Light, Defense, Illusion, Stealth, Intelligence, Dexterity

Nendir, I will put your teaching to good use, he vowed, clenching his fist by his side as he lengthened his stride to keep up with his friends.

Mato glanced over at Calen as they walked, his heart filled with worry for his friend. The events in Ciradyl had been horrific, a tragedy of immense proportions that seemed to have hit the half-elf with all the force of a collapsing mountain.

For Mato, he had felt the death and struggles of every Elf within his aura, but he had been mercifully blind to everything that occurred beyond, shielded by the nature of his Elder Tree senses. Even the trauma of all that death and destruction had been muted, blurring together as they had fought for survival and safety. One thing was certain, the strange meditative calm he experienced while shifted into a tree had shielded him, blunting the sharp blade of trauma.

Blunting, but not blocking…

In the end, the several thousand people they had saved had been a small fraction of the once-vibrant and bustling capital of the Wood Elf nation, and he was certain all the unnecessary death and destruction would haunt him for a long time.

Mato straightened up, and for the first time in a long time forced his stride to slow down and match his friend’s. Calen had been personally invested in Ciradyl; both Lyeneru and Nendir had been beloved mentors and teachers for him. In the elven city, he had found a place to grow, a direction. He had begun to blossom at the Elven Pathfinder Guild under the guidance of its Guildmaster, Nathaniel Sunstrider.

Now, Nendir was dead, and the Archmage had betrayed everyone, turning to the side of the evil Blind Lich with disastrous consequences. Mato couldn’t even begin to imagine the impact this would have on the world.

They headed down the street toward the guild in silence, everyone deep in their own struggles. He had no idea what to even say to comfort his friend, but he could feel the hurt and grief deep within him.

But as he was struggling to figure out what to say, Calen finally broke the silence.

“Mato, do you mind sharing your skill levels?”

He had his notebook out already, and while such a request seemed overly trivial and mundane in the face of what had just happened, Mato knew his friend was trying to reconnect to something familiar. And this he could easily do.

“Sure,” he said, opening his notifications and sharing them.

Elemental Shapeshifter has reached level 103 (+3).+30 attribute points.

“How are you going to spend them?” Calen asked. It was a level of detail he often skipped, but Mato didn’t mind.

“Nine for vitality, and eight each for strength and endurance,” Mato said.

Calen scribbled the numbers down and then asked, “What about wisdom?”

“Two,” Mato said. It was low for one of his primary attributes, but he would see how it worked and adjust next time. “One each for all the others.”

“Even intelligence?” Calen asked, no hint of his usual joking present in his voice.

“Yeah,” Mato said. “I was struggling a little with the number of targets in my aura. I think intelligence is a little more important in Tree Form.”

“Makes sense,” Calen said. “What about skills?”

“Here,” Mato said, sharing them.

Arboreal Sanctuary has reached level 47.Swipe has reached level 57.Brutal Restoration has reached level 57.Bear Form has reached level 54 (+2).Rampant Growth has reached level 25 (+2).Bestial Combat has reached level 45.Natural Prowess has reached level 43 (+2).Survival Instinct has reached level 53 (+3).Battle Trance has reached level 37.Last Stand has reached level 19.Identify has reached level 18.

“Not bad,” Calen offered.

“We’re all growing,” he said, pushing the door to the guild open and letting his friends enter. One thing was certain, the ripples from today would take a long time to process. For all of them.

“Ok, let’s get to it,” Ali said, floating beside the enormous shoulder of her berserker troll and surveying the ruins of Dal’mohra. Her eyes took in the dark, slowly crumbling stone that had once been the finest of dwarven crafting, but her memories overlaid her vision with the recollection of what the bustling city had once been. I can’t even hope to give them that glory, she thought, but she had the feeling that the ancient city would approve of her resurrecting it from the ancient crypt it had become to house the Elven refugees.

“What do you require of me, Seeker?” Tol’brekk asked, his rumbling voice so close to her body sending a palpable vibration through her bones.

“Keep watch, and keep me safe from any intruders,” she said.

“Of course,” he said, bowing his massive, tusked head. Then he took his axes and barked a few orders, organizing the other trolls in Ali’s bodyguard and whipping them into a serviceable defensive formation.

Right. Ali rolled up her sleeves and her domain all around her surged to do her bidding. The first thing she did was unleash a slowly widening pulse of deconstruction that washed across the ruins as she slowly floated down the remains of the main thoroughfare, erasing the dirt and buildup of millennia. Rubble, remnants of bone encrustations, ancient kobold eggshells and nests, all yielded to her mana, evaporating in a strangely beautiful ring of mana motes that slowly drifted up over the ruined buildings.

Summoning her Grimoire to her left-hand side, she let her stone imprint flow through the entire district, filling in potholes and erasing the scored grooves of forgotten battles. Walls rebuilt themselves under her attentive ministrations, roofs regrew as she fashioned slate tiles to replace the ones that were missing. Entire buildings sprang anew from the empty lots, while sidewalks and staircases were fashioned from fresh combinations of marble and granite. She had the original stone imprint for all that had once been, but she put her own touches on the domain-induced urban renewal – it was too dark and depressing for her. Retaining walls and walkways snapped into existence, made out of golden barrier magic instead of stone, and yet still mirroring the ancient recollection that lingered now only in her mind.

She was unable to duplicate the immense feat of magic that had once lit this city with an artificial sun, but she left large open spaces, parks in which she sprouted light-affinity mushrooms and trees to illuminate the new refugee town.

In this way, Ali slowly swept her way through the residential district, block by block until she felt a sudden unusual pinch of mixed nostalgia and melancholy. Her memories flickered, overlaying the dark husk of an apartment before her with a familiar picture.

This is… my apartment? There was no mistaking it. It was the right location; she had long memorized the layout of the streets. The delightful coffee shop had been on the back corner, and up ahead was the bakery her mother had asked her to stop by and pick up a cake.

Ali stopped, staring at the dark hole where her door had once been, overcome and struggling with a lump in her throat. She had always known she could easily find it among the ruins, but there had always been something more important to do. Always an excuse to avoid this feeling.

She wiped her eyes with the back of her hand, annoyed that she still had these feelings, and she was about to sweep through the area and rebuild it when she paused and really looked. She had loved this neighborhood and her cozy apartment.

Why do I have to keep living in a tent or a sleeping bag? Mato and Calen are still living with their parents, and Malika has probably not had a home in the entirety of her adult life. Firming her resolve now with fresh purpose and new energy, she wielded her mana.

For Malika, she chose a three-bedroom townhouse opposite her apartment. First, she expanded one of the rooms, replacing the floor with rich cherry wood. She will like a dojo. She fashioned racks against the walls, new windows, and raised the roof higher to accommodate her friend’s martial acrobatics. She swept through the rest of the house, outlining a small kitchen, bedroom and a spacious living room.

For Calen she fashioned something a little smaller, given that he would likely still spend time at his mother’s home. With his range, his skills would be best trained at the arenas, so instead she made him a neat drawing room.

Mato’s house was, of course, built entirely around a giant kitchen and she furnished a dining room that could seat twelve for dinner. Outside the front of his house, she opened a wide circular planter that he could use for his Tree Form.

