“Yes, ma'am.” Channing Tatum Ren said and Sugar slammed the door shut.

“Well, I guess we won't have trouble deciding who's going first.” Caramel said, and they all laughed. “Who's next?”

They exchanged glances with each other and Gina, Jennifer and Candy stood up.

“Have fun trying to decide.” Jennifer said with a grin, and the three of them left the others by the stage.

“How about by how horny we are?” Paprika said. “Obviously Sugar was the horniest.”

“I think I'm next.” Spice said and stood up, and her chair was soaked.

“Damn, girl! Why didn't you say anything?” Caramel asked and looked over at Sugar's chair. It only had a small puddle. “You have Sugar beat, hands down.”

“I... well...” Spice stored the chair and equipped different clothing, then equipped her working outfit again. “She's more... well...”

“Sugar's more outgoing.” Paprika said. “Spice is a lot quieter.” She smiled. “How many did you...”

“Three.” Spice said. “God, that whole routine was so hot!”

“It's unanimous, then. Spice is next.” Caramel said. “Do you think Sugar is going to...”

Sugar's work room door opened and Channing Tatum Ren stepped out wearing his underwear.

“Sugar said she wants to save the other 20 minutes of her time for later.” Channing Tatum Ren said with a smile and walked over to Spice. “Ma'am, I'd appreciate your company for a while.”

“T-take... take me.” Spice mumbled.

Channing Tatum Ren gently picked her up in a princess carry and walked with her over to her work room. He didn't come back out until the full 30 minutes was up. He had barely closed the door when Caramel took his hand.

“You know what I want.” Caramel said.

“Yes, ma'am.” Channing Tatum Ren said as they entered her work room. He cast Full Illusion on himself and became a half-giant for her, because she really loved big men. He stayed for the full half hour and then went to each of the other dancers and gave them all who and what they wanted. Sugar even used up the last of her time with him as well. Surprisingly enough, Apple was the one who was right behind Gina for being the most satisfied and for enjoying him the most.

Ren made sure that each of the dancers were well sated and a platinum coin richer, then he left the Pleasure Palace after he had changed into Ugly Ren once more and gave Gina a kiss goodbye.

“See ya next time.” Ugly Ren growled for her to make her smile, then the door shut behind him.
