Merit smirked, saying, “We have crazy powerful adventurers come through Spur all the time. If we couldn’t defend against these minor threats, then we don’t deserve to call ourselves guards.” She lost her smile. “Those spiders, though. That was rough. I’d like to say that there was some inadequacies we could fix, but the simple truth is that they entered and exited Spur in less than 10 minutes. It’s hard to defend against attacks like that and the Shades have been working against us for hundreds of years. All the people you see on that list, though? The only one that almost got through was the assassin, but Jane saw the strangeness in your foods and that whole situation sort of gained momentum very fast. We had that guy's head in under twenty minutes.”

“… Jane saw...” Erick’s voice failed him.

“Have you tried learning a solid [Ward] yet?” Merit asked. “Anti-teleporation [Ward]s are a double edged sword, but something you might consider researching. Defense of people or places is such a dense topic; we could spend months discussing all the necessary spells or enchantments to secure a home. You can never have enough defenses.” She said, “As far as personal defenses: I’ve heard about your Handy Aura; that’s rather good of a start. Someone could shut you down with a large and powerful enough [Dispelling Aura], though they’d have to eat through all the magical effects on you, too, so with a large enough [Personal Ward] on yourself, dispelling your Handy Aura would be kinda difficult. That’s a whole other conversation, though. We’d have to talk about direct layering of magic and a whole host of other topics. An edge case, for sure. Most assassins would just try to kill you when you were unaware and unprepared; some 2500 point critical attack. No need to bother with dispelling.”

Erick went silent.

Merit smiled. “Am I going too fast for you?”

Erick went back to the paper. “What’s this coercion about? From Portal and Kendry?”

“Bribes with money and status and blah blah blah blah.” Merit said, “All rather standard business stuff. Rather boring. They want you to move to their cities, to either destroy Spur’s new prosperity, or to make themselves prosperous. Probably a mix of both.”

“And all this theft?”

“You don’t write anything down!” Merit laughed. “That’s the best part. They try to steal stuff that isn’t there. It’s hilarious, really.” She added, “Oh. But some clippings of your plants are missing. We’re good at defending a target, but not that good. Fast attacks on a non-primary target, and all that. And your plants are right out there in the open. And you give them away, too. So. We stopped trying to defend those days ago. Usually we wouldn’t stop; the principle of the thing, you know? But resources and patience are not unlimited. We just try to catch them after they’re done, now, which is easy enough. Then we beat ‘em up a bit or whatever the situation warrants.”

“… and the executions?”

“The Northern Wasteland Kingdoms Warriors. They’re the most violent of the bunch, too. They were going to kidnap you and torture you for information. So yeah. Execution for two. Dismemberment and banishment for the other three. They cooould talk to a priest back home to grow those arms back. But!” She sarcastically said, “Oh wait! They can’t because they don’t like the Script! Sucks to be those assholes.” She laughed.

“… and this Tower Academy… stuff? Unresolved?”

Merit exclaimed, “As far as we could tell, your sparring friend, Kiri Flamecrash, is not a real spy. Color me surprised! I lost a bet, with that one.” She explained, “But Kiri does have ties to Tower Academy, and somehow, some way, Tower Academy got notice that Kiri, one of their failed graduates, was sparring with the creator of Particle Magic. Long story to relevant information: Tower Academy wants Kiri to grill you for all the information you have; she doesn’t want to. They never graduated her for some reason, politics, as far as I could gather, but they’re willing to graduate her with top honors if she performs to their specifications.”

“… Is she in trouble?”

“And you still think of others before yourself.” Merit smiled. “It’s a great attitude to have and I would applaud you for it, if you weren’t the focus of everyone’s attention. Shouldn’t you be concentrating more on the fact that aaaall these people want something that you cannot, or should not, give them?”

“Can you give me a basic run down of the situation, and tell me where Kiri is right now? I’d like to solve this problem, both from my end, and her end.”

Merit leaned back in her chair, smiling. She said, “It’s like this…”

- - - -

Erick stood in front of an apartment building on the lower east side of Spur, several streets removed from the main thoroughfares of the city. Erick wasn’t alone on the street —Poi was there, as always— but Erick was the only one standing in the middle of the mostly-empty road, looking at the apartment building, deciding how he wanted to do this. The four-story multi-apartment buildings here were built in the solid stone style prevalent throughout most of Spur, meant to support people who were staying in Spur for months or more, as opposed to the day and weekly rentals of the hotels that surrounded most of the Adventurer’s District. There were also quite a few eateries and restaurants around here, and though Erick smelled fries nearby, he didn’t come here to explore a new part of Spur. He came here to talk to Kiri.

He didn’t know where to start, though, and there was the problem of the ambush waiting for him on the second floor.

So it was very convenient that Kiri walked out of the front archway of her apartment building.

Probably too convenient, but it jived with what Merit had told Erick.

Kiri stopped. She stared at Erick. She was wearing her normal adventuring gear, with most of it cloth and some of it leather, tied over that cloth. She looked nervous, like someone was after her. According to Merit, Erick’s guess was not far from the truth.

Erick said, “Hello, Kiri Flamecrash. It’s my understanding that you’re in some trouble right now. I would like to offer my assistance.”

Kiri almost broke into a smile and started to say something, but her words cut. She seemed to curl in on herself. Tears edged her vision. She turned away. She rushed back into her the apartment building.

“Well I’m not following her, so that’s that,” Erick turned to the various [Scry] eyes on the street. He pointed over to the eatery that smelled like fries. “I am going in there, for about an hour. Come talk to me. I don’t bite.” He walked over to the eatery and went inside.

He had brunch. It was pretty good. The place sliced their fries into discs and served them topped with meat, gravy, and cheese; almost like poutine. Several [Scry] orbs flitted about here and there during the meal, but no people walked in; no one joined Erick for brunch. Erick was the only patron in the restaurant, which seemed to be more than enough for the proprietors of the establishment. The husband and wife, the Cook and the Face, fussed over Erick’s dining experience, making sure he had plenty of water and large portions and even a few of their dessert items that they’d been working on, for free. Erick was still going to pay for the meal and extras, of course, but they insisted on showing off their potato items, and Erick let them. Poi even had some food, too, which was nice.

At the end of an hour and a half, Erick paid 15 gold for the meal and the service, which was 3 times the actual cost of his dining experience. He even fixed up some of their stone tables and wooden chairs, then leveled the stone floor at their request.

And then he was back out on the street, in front of Kiri’s apartment.

He started popping [Scry] orbs, and then completely avoided the front door to the apartments by flying up to the third floor balcony of Kiri’s apartment building. Poi followed. Erick landed on the balcony, and knocked on the glass sliding door. Kiri was on her bed, crying, but at Erick’s knock and sudden appearance, she launched to her feet, prepared for anything. Erick smiled. He had seen Kiri with this sudden determination in her eyes many times before; whenever he managed to knock her to the arena sands, in fact. He didn't win their spars often, but it did happen.

Kiri walked over to the glass door and opened it up, saying, “So you know.”

“Not all, but most. Is your family safe?”

Kiri cry-laughed, “Not all, but most!”

“Where are they?”

This time, Kiri laughed without crying. “They’re not going to show now that you’ve avoided their main trap downstairs. You’re the only archmage I’ve ever seen so willing to put yourself out there. I suppose that makes sense, since you’re not really an archmage.”

Erick smiled. “But the title does help.”

The air glittered teal—

Kiri looked toward the glitter, disbelieving. “Or maybe they will show. Huh.”

Erick knew this spell. He had seen it before when the Headmaster spoke to him.

—teal light resolved into a viewing pane. On the other side was an older man with long, dark hair and pale white skin, wearing a grey robe and holding a straight wooden staff, standing in a grey stone room. A clear, two foot diameter orb was at the bottom of the viewing pane, hiding some of the man.

Utter disgust and contempt filled Kiri’s greenscale visage. She didn’t look like she could speak without saying something angry and hateful. She kept her mouth shut.

Erick said, “Hello, stranger.”

“I am Archmage Quel, Master of the Tower. Simply put, we need you to give another lecture at the Tower, regarding any topics at all you chose to discuss. For your time, we will provide ample monetary compensation, as well as the best accommodations in the world. The Tower does not lack for money, or power, Archmage Flatt.”

Erick instantly answered, "Thank you for your generosity, but I will have to pass. I will not be doing any more lectures, for you, or anyone else. Not only do I already have responsibilities here, but you have your hints; the rest will come with exploration and experimentation.”

“Is this offer the same for everyone?”

“Yes.”

“Is there a way to change your mind?”

“No peaceful ways, and I would prefer to remain peaceful.”

“We would prefer this to remain peaceful as well.” Quel said, “But we do have agents with which to dispense violence. What if we were to provide assistance against a mutual enemy? Would this change your mind?”

Erick almost flew off the handle, but he reoriented. Quel seemed desperate, and trying not to show that desperation. He spoke eloquently, and calmly, but exceedingly direct. Kiri was better at sussing out secrets than this man, and this man was the one who was talking to him? Either he really was high up, and truly desperate. Or… Erick didn’t know what the other options would be. Too many to even guess at, for sure.

Erick was probably way out of his depth; all this man did was a calculated act. But of the names Merit had given Erick of the people in town who were forcing Kiri’s hand, none of them were Archmage Quel, Master of the Tower.

Erick asked, “Aren’t the Shades your enemies, too?”

“No.” Quel said, “Simply put, your monsters are in the middle of a distant part of the world, surrounded by uninhabitable land, where adventurers play enough games of life and death with the Dark Dragon’s head priests that they have no reason to seek out more entertainment.” Quel seemed to break a bit, like his patience was gone. He said, “And we have enough problems in our own over here. It’s wyrm season and the Dead Lords are using new Particle spells to annihilate villages and animate armies from the fallen. They have rolled across Odaali as of two hours ago and now threaten the Central Kingdoms.”

Erick was completely out of his depth. He usually was, and he usually knew that he was, but this was something else entirely. Dead Lords? Worm season? Particle magics turned upon people?

Quel spoke, “Archmage Flatt. This is not me asking for power for power’s sake, but to overcome new spells that we have seen on the battlefield. New spells which have just killed a Kingdom City in a matter of hours.”

He looked to Kiri.

Kiri’s green scaled face was a shade lighter; sea foam green. She spat, “Odaali could never fall!”

“Shut up, girl. This is a conversation between Archmages.”

Kiri went silent, anger writ large across her face.

Erick looked to Poi.

Poi said, “Sources say this could be true. We already knew about some new trouble with the Dead Lords, but for one of their major cities to fall since this morning seems a bit of a stretch. Wait…” Poi blanched. “It might be true— Yes. Odaali has fallen. People are still evacuating. The dead are rising and killing those who still remain.”

Kiri gasped.

Quel declared, “I would not lie about the deaths of three hundred thousand people.”

Erick succeeded in holding himself together, mainly because he had never heard of Odaali or the Dead Lords and their undead hordes; this was like hearing about war crimes in another part of the world. Heartbreaking, but hard to fathom, hard to consider real.

Erick turned to Quel. “I would like to help in this specific scenario. Please explain what you were trying to accomplish with Kiri, and then explain your problem with these Dead Lords. And if you’re lying and this is some sort of elaborate ruse—”

“I am not lying. The original plan was for Kiri to coerce information however she could, and then we would grant her her diploma and Tower Certification. There were threats made about her family, but they were false; the only damage done would have been financial.”

Quel waited. He was looking at Kiri.

Erick turned to Kiri.

Kiri said, “Yes. I… I was a spy. I’m sorry, Erick.”

“That’s not what I’m looking at you for. Do you believe him?”

Kiri paused. She looked up at Quel. Quel, for his part, didn’t look mollified or chastised or anything; he was secure in the fact that he believed he was working for the greater good. Which, if what he was saying was true, then he was working for the greater good.

Kiri said, “I believe him about Odaali.”

Erick turned to Quel. “So about these Lords and their new spell?”

