It made no sense, and she didn’t understand how such could be the case, or what that meant, but for the first time, she felt like she’d been able to truly see behind the veil that separated god-beasts, Sovereigns, and—in theory—Transcendents from everyone and everything else.

Tala felt like she came back to herself, laying on the ground, with Rane sitting beside her, close at hand without interfering with whatever she was going through.

Force was laid across his legs, and his eyes constantly scanned their surroundings.

Alat had likely informed him that she was fine, and so he was simply standing vigil.

Terry was sitting on her sternum, watching in the other direction, awaiting her movement. When she sat up, he flickered to her shoulder. From there, he headbutted her cheek and let out a trilling squawk.

Rane cleared his throat. “So… that was… something.”

Tala huffed a laugh, then coughed and called a drink of water to her to cleanse her dry throat.

-Oh! Mistress Ingrit saw my messages…. Oh…-

What? What’s happening?

-She’s mildly panicked that you’ve encountered another god-beast…-

Well, I suppose that’s kind of her. Is she reviewing our memories?

-Yes, she apparently pulled up my summary and was… displeased with how I started it.-

Oh?

-If this is the last entry, the Forest Spirit got me.-

…That’s a little dark.

-Well, I was a bit stressed.-

So it seems.

-...I’ve apologized. I won’t do it again.-

Thank you.

When that was sorted, she smiled at her husband. “Yeah, I suppose it was. That sort of puts a crimp in my plans…”

“Oh?” Rane cocked an eyebrow at her, a small smile dancing across his lips. “How so?”

“Well, I can’t practice fusing spirit and body, now.” She sighed in frustration.

His eyebrow lifted. “Is that the only thing that you can learn from the experiments?”

Tala contemplated for a moment, a slow smile spreading across her lips.

She looked to Terry, who started dancing from foot to foot on her shoulder. Finally, he let out a triumphant trill.

She chuckled. “No, I suppose it isn’t.”

Rane helped Tala to her feet and gave her a kiss. “So, shall we go hunting then? I think the Leshkin might be a bit harder to find now, but that just makes the pursuit more interesting.”

Tala chuckled again. “Well, nothing worth doing is easy.” After a moment’s hesitation, she amended, “But let’s try to avoid that happening again.”

Rane nodded his affirmation, and Terry squawked in agreement.

With that settled, the three set out to use their remaining time in the southern forest wisely.
