<Alex, Real - Victory, Adventurer College Quad>

Alex scrolled past kill notifications—both direct and assist—hunting for one in particular, stopping to stare when he finally reached it.

You killedPlague Lord, Epic, Level 15Boss-Variant

Reward:Death of all boss-linked followersExperience to be granted when in a safe location.

Epic but only level 15. Really?

Alex gave a slow nod of understanding. With the diminishing returns, this would ensure that even with the wealth of experience from such a kill, no one could use it to get over the assumed level 20 cap.

It was interesting to note it being a ‘Boss-Variant,’ which likely referred to how ridiculously resilient it had been… he hoped. Otherwise, if all level fifteen epic enemies were like that…

Alex frowned. What would he look like at level 15? Assuming he was able to get a second epic class, he might actually have been able to kick this Plague Lord’s teeth in with relative ease.

I genuinely don’t understand how the leveling works between Initiates and monsters. For all he knew it was entirely different. It could be that they only had the equivalent of race levels, and he should be able to match creatures with levels two or three times higher than his own. He just didn’t know enough yet… Though, he doubted if it was that extreme.

It could even be that the tutorial monsters were somehow handicapped…

That was a horrid thought given how much they’d struggled.

With a sigh, he pushed all the kill and kill assist notices aside and pulled up the first notification that seemed to need his interaction, unsure if it was the last one he’d received or just the one judged most important by the System.

Safety Confirmed;Accept Experience?

Y/N

After a quick confirmation, he felt his mouth spread in a wide grin, so much so that his cheeks almost immediately began to hurt in the best way.

Ben chuckled, clearly having noticed from where the six had sat in the grass a little ways away. “I knew it.”

Jacob rolled his eyes, but pulled out some sort of candy bar and passed it over.

Alex tuned out their antics as his experience rolled in, and just like that, he had enough to level both his Race and Class.

Accept Level Ups?

Y/N

He saw no reason to wait. “Yes.”

Level-Up:Life-Aspected Human (Epic), ELevel 9 → Level 10Stats allocated as appropriate

Life-Aspected Great-Bladesman (Epic), ELevel 9 → Level 10Stats allocated as appropriate

He felt power flow through him, his body tingling at the upgrades, his recovery bumping up a bit, and continuing to help him refill his vastly expended Life energy.

He now, of course, had some stat points to distribute, but he felt like he should hold onto those for the moment. If he was right, he had some choices coming up, and he might want to choose where his stats went differently depending on those. As such, he didn’t fully review his status sheet either, not yet.

He also didn’t review his available skills or spells. He didn’t want to even look until he knew what the next scenario would be, as there were just too many unknowns. He was likely to wait on selecting his next class, too, but he was going to look at those options. He was just too curious to wait.

Class Acquisition Requirements Met:You are in a safe locationYou have met the requirements of one or more classes.Would you like to see your current options?

Y/N

Tutorial AddendumIt is common beneath the System to work toward the Class you desire rather than simply accepting what you initially qualify for. Specifically, it is common practice to only accept a second—or later—class upon unlocking an option that piques your interest or takes you in the direction you wish to go. Many do not accept any class, if none appeal or fit the desired archetype.

Some consider this as leaving power on the table, but it can benefit you in the long run, if you survive.

Act as you see fit.

The addendum was quite interesting. No one else had mentioned that, but he supposed that, given the earlier circumstances, everyone was in a position where they needed all the power they could claim. It was even possible that the addendum hadn’t been given to them due to their circumstances.

He briefly conveyed it to the six, and they said they’d seen something similar when they got their second classes. Since everyone seemed to get it, the information hadn’t really been specifically passed around.

That was… fair, Alex supposed.

Even with the addendum in mind, it seemed wisest to see what options there might be for him at the moment.

“Yes, show me my current options for my second class.”

Available Classes:[Displayed selection reduced for convenience. Request a full list if you so desire.]

Class Qualifications Met:Runic Kindergartener (Uncommon)You have unlocked your Magical StatsYou already possess at least one classYou have a Race of at least Rare rarityYou have played with magical symbologyYou have a Magical Symbol skill of at least Common rarity

That… that was actually really insulting, when he considered it. Though, it was Uncommon? That seemed… rarer than it should be by the requirements? Maybe it was a ‘growth’ class or something silly. Still, he wasn’t excited by the idea as once again, it seemed a bit pejorative.

Next.

Class Qualifications Met:Novice Force Mage (Uncommon)You have unlocked your Magical StatsYou already possess at least one classYou have a Race of at least Rare rarityYou have a Force Magic spell of at least Uncommon rarityYou have defeated an Uncommon enemy of your level or higher, using Force magic as the main source of damage (90% or more of the total damage)

What the blue blazes is this? Last time, he had been offered ‘Force Mage’ now it was ‘Novice Force Mage’? It also stated that he had to have another class… did that mean second classes were weaker in some way? Or they could be trained up easier or was it some nod to the Dunning-Kruger effect, where he now was more aware of all he didn’t know, so the class name reflected that? He just didn’t know.

Next…

Class Qualifications Met:Hoarder Extraordinaire (Rare)You have unlocked your Magical StatsYou have spent more than two dozen hours training an Inventory type SkillYou have an Inventory type Skill of at least Common rarity, which has been upgraded at least twiceYou have unlocked the ability to conceptualize that which is within your InventoryYou have, more than once, chosen to keep something within your Inventory that you had no known need for, present or futureYou have, more than once, completely forgotten you had something in your Inventory which could have been of great useYou have used your Inventory Skill in active defense of your life

That… was interesting, actually. Unfortunately, it didn’t mention anything about combat… but would that be so bad? Maybe it would be good to get a class that didn’t have that explicit overlap…

He didn’t like that it was only Rare, but he didn’t know if he should expect to have any Epic options to choose from.

He would consider this one, but he also wanted to see what else there was on offer.

Class Qualifications Met:Stolen content alert: this content belongs on Royal Road. Report any occurrences.Life of the Party (Rare)You have unlocked your Magical StatsYou have the ability to heal others through the use of LifeYou have consistently given of your Life to save others

Alex once again felt conflicted. This seemed to be a class focused on healing but specifically with Life?

It was only Rare again, and it wouldn’t help directly in combat… Still, it was worth consideration.

He might come back to it.

Final one, eh? Hopefully it’s good.

Class Qualifications Met:Undead Obliterator (Epic)You have unlocked your Magical StatsYou have a Race of at least Epic rarityYou have defeated more than two hundred undead opponents with at least double your highest level, doing 90% or more of the total damageYou have defeated at least one undead opponent with at least triple your highest level, doing 90% or more of the total damageYou have resisted being turned into an undead at least three hundred timesYou showed no hesitation when expunging those who had been corrupted, even when others might have hesitated

He quickly checked the more detailed information for this one, and unfortunately, despite the increase in rarity from when it had been offered as ‘Undead Bane,’ the restriction against gaining experience from anything but killing undead remained. From what he’d learned, that would apply across all his classes and Race as well, if he chose this class. “So, not that one either…”

Thus, he was left with really only two options, but while they were both interesting, they were not exciting. He wasn’t in a rush to choose a second class at the moment, but he pulled up the more detailed information regardless.

Class Benefits:Hoarder Extraordinaire (Rare)

Stat Gains per LevelPhysical Power +0Physical Agility +0Physical Fortitude +0Mental Power +8Mental Agility+ 8Mental Fortitude +8Magical Power +8Magical Agility +8Magical Fortitude +8Free Points +2Total Points: 50

All Inventory Skills are 25% faster to use.You can store items that you own within your Inventory, even if they are bound up or contested, so long as you are in contact with them.

Alex grimaced. The stats weren’t badly distributed—not great but not bad—but the benefits seemed… lackluster? Sure, there was likely more to it, but as he considered, did he really want a lot of class skills revolving around his Inventory?

Maybe… He might even be fairly interested if it were Epic… I could upgrade it, though… right?

Regardless, he decided to look at the next one.

Class Benefits:Life of the Party (Rare)

Stat Gains per LevelPhysical Power +0Physical Agility +20Physical Fortitude +30Mental Power +0Mental Agility +0Mental Fortitude +0Magical Power +0Magical Agility +0Magical Fortitude +0Free Points +0Total Points: 50

All Life granted to another has 25% greater effect when healingAll Life granted to another has 25% lesser effect when doing harm

That was… awful. The stats alone were atrocious in their distribution, apparently consigning him to rushing to the injured and dumping life into them. It also weakened his use of Life in attacking… That shouldn’t be as much of an issue since they weren’t going to be fighting undead in the next scenario, but still…

It wasn’t terrible because it wouldn’t be his only class, but it just gave him a bad taste in his mouth.

He could help people without this…

Maybe his other notifications, his other gains, would open up more class options?

He hoped so, because at the moment he wasn’t keen on any.

The next notifications did make him smile.

Attribute Level-Up:Basic Resistance - MagicLevel 5 → Level 6

Basic Resistance - ExaminationLevel 5 → Level 7

The improvement to his examination resistance was amazing, and likely directly attributable both to the near constant pings he was getting during the fight, and the fact that they’d found a way to utilize it in combat direction.

His gains in magical resistance weren’t quite as good. While he was grateful for the improvement, it felt a bit underwhelming. Though, as he considered it further, he supposed that higher levels were harder to advance? He’d also only been facing one creature instead of a whole chorus, so maybe it made sense, and he should even be grateful for the single level up. Either way, he wasn’t sure.

He moved to the next in the queue.

Congratulations!An Impressive feat has been accomplished.

You have completed your Apology Tutorial Scenario ahead of schedule and through unexpected means.

Well done!

The System is always interested in overachievers.

Rewards:Tutorial merit multiplierYour remaining time will be translated into Specialist Training for one of your skills or spells, including time dilation as appropriate, assuming you qualify for training programs which include this.

Final Tutorial Merit Multiplier to be applied:1.5x(This will be applied to your total while within the final tutorial store, upon your request.)

Note:This Scenario will be ended in 9hrs 11min

Grab anything you want to take with you.Only that which you are holding, wearing, or have within your Inventory will come along.

Nothing living will be brought from the scenario aside from the Initiates themselves or living equipment.

Alex’s eyes widened. That was… that was incredible. He was excited to see what the skill training actually meant, and the fact that he could apply the multiplier when he wished? Can I sell things to the store first?

That did seem to be the implication…

And that was the bulk of the notifications. He still wasn’t really happy with his class options, and wondered what he could do or change about himself to earn something better, and that reminded him that he’d dumped a lot of Life into the Plague Lord.

It was a longshot, but… “Natasha?”

“Yeah?” She looked up from the quiet conversation she had been having.

“Did you happen to gather up the Plague Lord’s remains?”

She grinned. “I did.”

A minute later, a pile of ashes rested beside Alex. He took a couple of deep breaths, then pulled his Life back from the remains that Natasha had given him, all that was left of the Plague Lord.

Surprisingly, the sum total was near to three thousand Life, and he immediately got a ping in his mind.

He was initially disappointed by what he read, even if he hadn’t really expected anything different, but then the message morphed, more being added as he watched.

System Notice:Your Life is not advanced enough to glean attributes from this life form.

Considering…

Calculating…

Decision Reached:Due to the unusual circumstances of this Life acquisition, and the fact that it was carried out at the same time that an impressive feat was accomplished, the System has decided to step in and facilitate this acquisition.

System Notice:New Attribute Available

Basic Skeletal Structural Remodeling (Level 1)

Do you wish to Learn Basic Skeletal Structural Remodeling?

Y/N

Alex was in shock. He had no idea what it would do, even if he had a guess, and he was rather hesitant to accept… except the System seemed to have bent the standard procedure a bit to allow him to acquire the attribute.

Did that mean it was really good?

Did it mean that the System would be irritated or less willing to work with him in the future if he said no?

I imagine a better version of this was how the Plague Lord made his bones into weapons and used them against me, but that is likely much higher rarity and level than what I’m being offered here.

Still, the idea had a sort of appeal, especially given the Flesh Golem of the Plague Guard bones still in his Inventory… He quickly checked and let loose a modified expletive.

They were not, in fact, in his Inventory.

He’d left them back at the base, and he needed to go get at least some before the scenario ended.

He really wasn’t sure what to think. So, as he considered, he was reminded of another attribute awaiting his decision. He pulled up what was, finally, the last notification, one which had been waiting since before his fight with the Plague Lord.

System Notice:New Attribute Available

Basic Dissonance of Tonality (Level 1)

Do you wish to Learn Basic Dissonance of Tonality?

Y/N

These are both… interesting. I think I’ll take them both, but I should prepare first.

He stood, and Natasha came and took the ashes back in.

“Do you think those will actually be useful?” Alex was genuinely curious.

She shrugged. “If they aren’t, it’s not hard to dispose of them.”

“That’s… fair, I suppose.” He sighed. As he came to his feet, he reflexively checked for his dadao… and found it missing. His eyes widened, suddenly remembering the sound of breaking metal from the end of the fight. “Did my weapon…?”

Natasha gave a slow nod before pulling out the heavy sword and offering it to him.

There was a massive chip missing from the edge about a third of the way down and cracks spiderwebbed across the blade from there.

“I thought you might be able to fix it, but didn’t want to burden you with it too soon after you woke.” She glanced toward the missing piece. “I looked, but couldn’t find the chunk.”

Alex sighed, grimacing before giving a forced smile and nod of thanks. “I appreciate the effort. Thank you, Natasha.”

“Of course. The knife in the creature’s… chest, was entirely ruined, and if there was ever magic in it, it had been expended.”

“Ahh… yeah. That was James’ knife… Thank you for checking on that too.

She just smiled this time before reaching up and clasped his shoulder for a moment, then turning back to the others, looking over the other sleeping Initiates to verify their status hadn’t changed.

He put the weapon into his Inventory and nodded once more. “I need to go grab some things from the base…”

Leanne and Jacob hopped up almost as one. “Our turn.”

It was Leanne who’d spoken, but Jacob chipped in. “We haven’t gotten to do a round of the grounds yet, and I want to stretch my legs. So this works out.”

Natasha sighed and nodded. “Alright. Try to be fast. It’s already afternoon… Try to be back by sunset? Otherwise, we’ll have to go hunt for you.”

The three agreed, and without further adieu, the three were off at a quick walk.

The movement did Alex some good, and despite his greatly reduced Life—still less than four thousand of his usual eleven—he was able to walk reasonably well.

I guess my body is getting a bit more used to having reduced Life… That was probably good, but he still wouldn’t want to fight anyone or anything in this state.

He huffed a laugh at that, drawing brief glances but no comments.

It was funny to realize that he actually wanted to fight under any circumstances at all. That was quite the change.

It still took them more than an hour to make the trip back to the school and the remains of their base.

The high school was positively abuzz with activity. Even so, it was easy for Alex to find where he’d stashed his things.

He also found a note from Mr. Weston, clearly left for him before the teacher's departure from the school.