

“Nice work, Ren.” Aimus said and pat Ren on the shoulder. “I wasn't sure what you were doing at first, but once I caught on we handled them rather quickly.”

“I realized that if I could get the stone and mortar hot enough, the stones would expand and the mortar would loosen. If it was then doused with water, the stones would shrink too quickly for the mortar to adjust. I'd hoped it would become brittle and make the golems easier to fight.” Ren explained as he put his bow away.

Aimus lifted the last enchanted arrow that he had. “And these?”

“Ice can seep into the smallest cracks and weaken the stone. When you hit the mortar instead... well, then I knew it was going to be much easier to beat them.”

Aimus nodded and thought about stepping into the water to gather up as many arrows as he could. He could always make more, but it was better to recover the used ones first. There was no need to make extra work for himself if he didn't have to. The only problem was Ren's enchanted stones were still shooting water from the river. Aimus looked up at the fire that had engulfed a good portion of the forest and then at Ren.

“Are you thinking what I'm thinking?” Aimus said.

“Nope.” Ren said, deadpan. Aimus looked at him with raised eyebrows.

“Ha! Just kidding.” Ren chuckled and bent down to pick up 2 of his enchanted rocks. Once out of the water, the flow of the water became smaller. It went from about the size of a fire hose to that of a garden hose. Ren thought about what to do... and then he smiled. Ren crossed the river, avoiding the remains of the rock golems, just in case they might flip over on him or something, and placed one enchanted rock in the river on the other side. He braced it so the stream of water coming out of the river would arc through the air and over towards the trees. The water stream ended about 3/4 of the way to the forest.

Ren absorbed all the trap enchantments he'd placed along that side of the river and climbed out of the water. He walked over to where the arc of water hit the ground and put the second rock he held at the end of that. Ren angled the rock to send an arc of water to spray into the trees and the water stream leaped along the path he'd made.

Aimus saw what Ren was doing and gathered up the other enchanted rocks. He brought them to Ren who took one and held it inside the arc. Ren turned the stone around and soaked a tree. The fire died down momentarily, just enough for Ren to use his Absorb Enchantment on the 'Breath of Fire' glyph he had placed there. It worked like a charm!  Ren thought and then laughed. He had made a pun. Aimus ran back to the water and carefully picked up the arrows he could get safely.

It took a while for them to move into the forest and for Ren to absorb the enchantments he'd placed. Ren had to enchant more rocks the further into the forest they went, so he could maintain the stream of water. They got back to the lookout and saw that it, and the surrounding trees, were spared the brunt of the fire. They kept going and eventually got to the spot where the terror causing trees had been. It was still burning high so Ren decided to just let it burn. He cast the 'Blast of Water' glyph on nearby trees to stop the fire from spreading back into the places they'd already saved. A constant flow of water, even such a small amount, should keep the place wet enough. Ren would have to come back and destroy them later. Too much water can cause just as much destruction as the fire would. They made their way around the rest of the fire damaged forest and spread water wherever they went.

Exhaused and drained, Ren sat down under the lookout. “Whew! I'm glad that's over.”

Aimus sat down next to him. “That was fun.”

Ren raised a single eyebrow and looked at Aimus.

“The last time I had to handle a forest fire, it had to be done the old fashioned way. Use buckets to wet down everything you owned and hoped the fire passed you by.”

“Really?” Ren said.

“Yeah. It was hard. The feeling to get out there and do something about it was quite strong... but I knew there wasn't anything that I could do, except to wait for it to be over.” Aimus said and shrugged. “Why else do you think I live in the middle of three open fields? It's not because I like the view.” Aimus said and laughed.

“I was going to ask why you named your place Blackmeadow Homestead, but I think I just figured it out.” Ren said.

Aimus nodded and didn't say anything further. Ren took out some of the food he had in his inventory, including the buns he'd taken from the table at lunch, and shared it with Aimus. They ate in silence and listened to the sound of trickling water.
