"Ah." That was worrying. Akkau had been keeping an eye on the other magic academies of Utelia, and while some of them were more private than others—including, for instance, Haelforge Academy—they'd heard nothing about the dark lord actually sending agents into any of the other ones.

Did that mean the dark lord was targeting specific academies already? The ones he knew wouldn't report the matter, perhaps? Or was there something he wanted from Haelforge specifically? He'd have to talk to Akkau about upgrading the wards at each of the other academies; it would be a tough sell, but if they could get a little more information...

"Like I said," Delia said firmly. "Nothing you need to concern yourself with."

Cale sighed. "It's something we could probably help with, you know," he said. "But we'll talk about that some other time. Can you get us to the library and tell us a bit more about the protective seals you have on the gate?"

Delia nodded, seemingly relieved to be off the topic of the dark lord—Cale wouldn't have been surprised if she'd been instructed specifically not to reveal anything about the attacks. He followed along with Leo, admiring the Haelforge Academy's architecture along the way.

He hadn't quite been in the right mood to appreciate it, the last time he was here. But Haelforge was built into the side of an elemental mountain range, with the mana flows from the various different mountains all feeding into the main academy building. He had no doubt that each of the mountains hosted training grounds of their own, too, probably to perfect each elemental magic.

No wonder these guys were famous for their combat magic. Elemental magic was rather famously the basis for most powerful combat spells, which meant Haelforge had nearly the perfect training grounds for it. Perhaps that was why the dark lord was so interested in Haelforge? After all, if he took it over, he'd have the perfect place to train all his troops...

That was all idle speculation, though. It would be hard to know for certain until he met the dark lord or any of his forces personally—

Cale glanced up. He hadn't sensed anything yet, but Leo was already sniffing at the air, a strange look on his face. "Leo?" he asked.

"I'm not sure," Leo said. "It feels like we're already in the library."

"What?" Delia turned back to him. "You must be mistaken. The Haelforge Library is in the deepest depths of the Earth Wing. We're still several floors too high."

Leo shrugged. "I don't know what to tell you," he said. "That's what it feels like."

"Huh," Cale said. "Fascinating. Leo, I want you to periodically try to make palewater while we're investigating."

Leo frowned at him. "I'm not going to get better at doing that just because I'm in a library, you know."

Cale shook his head. "Just humor me," he said. "Mana exercises are a good way to test if a place is trying to screw with you via mana manipulation. Use each of the ones Akkau gave us and tell me if there are any changes."

Leo gave him a slightly suspicious stare, but Cale kept his expression deliberately mild, and after a moment, the minotaur grunted and began circulating his mana in the patterns they'd been given, one after another.

Excellent. Cale couldn't do anything nearly as delicate, but he kept his senses more carefully extended, trying to sense whatever it was Leo had noticed. Delia's letter had indicated that the library was becoming more labyrinthine, and what Leo was noticing now indicated that it was potentially spreading...

Whatever was happening here, Cale wasn't sure he liked it.

It was fascinating, though. He did love new things.
