The pair of them shared a laugh. It was weird that this was becoming Markus’ new normal. Go out and fight something to the death, make plans for after if you were still breathing. It took the concept of ‘each day as it comes’ to a whole new level.

Lexi forwent the chains, choosing to simply guide Markus to the arena after he’d grabbed his glaive.

“I’m meant to use your contract to bind you,” she said, “but I don’t think you’re gonna try and skip out or run off on me.” She stopped and faced him. “Don’t, okay? I’ll be in trouble otherwise.”

“Don’t worry,” Markus said, nodding at her. “No plans of bailing. I’m gonna see this through no matter what.”

He wasn’t just talking about this fight. But if anything, Markus wasn’t entirely fearful for what came next. There was a part of him that felt scared, definitely, and fear of the unknown and of impending combat definitely got his blood pumping, but the prospect that he could see how far he’d come outweighed that in some capacity.

It was strange to feel any kind of anticipation for something like this, but Markus couldn’t deny the feeling either. It’d been there each time he’d narrowly survived a conflict, it’d been there as he’d taken charge and begun to train his body, and it was there now as he strode towards the arena, aware that these gods were still waiting and watching over him, eager to see the full extent of what he could do.

Markus already had a good idea of what kind of show he was planning to give them. He only hoped he had his assumptions about the coming fight correct.

If not, he was playing a dangerous game, but Markus trusted in his own hunches. He believed that even if there was much about this world and this setting he hadn’t quite figured out, he at least knew what the purpose of these fights was, and furthermore, knew exactly what he needed to do if he wanted to maintain leverage in a situation like this.

Markus levelled his glaive as he walked, more points in Sharpness and some in Durability. He still had a fair few left over, and while he considered pushing further into the Affinity stat, he decided to hold off for now. Covering the basics was good enough for him at the moment. Having plenty of options ready and prepared for him to dip into was paramount to being able to adapt on the fly.

And if there was one thing that’d kept Markus alive so far, it was his ability to adapt to whatever bullshit this world threw at him.

He’d continue trusting in that trait he exemplified. It could take him even further than it already had.

Even bigger audience this time. He could hear them long before he even reached the tunnel out.

“Good luck!” Lexi said once he reached the tunnel, teleporting away as soon as Markus stepped forwards.

He remembered how he’d felt when he’d first walked this path, armed with a weapon he’d just learned the name of, confused and disoriented, cursing god for his fate and hoping to all fuck that he’d manage to be able to get through the coming horrors and emerge out on the other side still breathing. He remembered that fear, that desperation.

In a way, he still felt it. He leant into it. It gave him strength.

Hunger was what would keep him alive in this place. Complacency bred death, and no matter how much Markus felt he might’ve progressed, there was always the possibility that he was overestimating himself. He needed to not be careless if he could help it. If he wanted to do this right, to get his plan off without a hitch, then he needed the best balance of care and control he could possibly manage.

He wasn’t only fighting for himself, after all. It didn’t matter what Abrah had said, what anyone said. They didn’t know his true aspiration, what mattered most to him.

He took in all the smiling, watching faces. More gods had turned out today than ever before, he was sure. The box seats were absolutely packed.

The crowd’s cheers and jeers and shouts and boos, they all meshed together as Markus took centre stage, his image projected for all to witness.

He’d seen himself up there before and been horrified by the implication, by what was to come. Now, he hardly recongised himself, but through all the dirt and grime and blood, he saw a solid, still jaw and a fiercely set pair of green eyes, ready and waiting, scouting the dark space from the opposite gate, eager to determine what his next target was.

He was a different person now than he’d been only days ago, but he hadn’t changed. Even through all of the screaming and adoration and hatred, even through the twenty times he’d approached death, he was still the same person.

A stubborn motherfucker hellbent on crushing this place and walking his way out of here, head held high, as this shitty institution burnt to the fucking ground.

Markus tuned out the announcer, tapping his foot against the sand.

Blah blah blah, get on with it.

He watched as the gate finally moved. Felt the anticipation crawling along his spine.

Whatever came out of that gate, whatever fresh challenge laid in wait, whatever ghastly horror they’d thought to pit him against next?

He only felt sorry for it.
