The barrier broke as the Faeblade blasted the containment spell apart. The Archmage had made it well—yet Ryoka annihilated it. Paxere stuttered.
“That’s not an artifact—how did—?”
“We have to go. I just killed Eldavin.”
Ryoka rasped. The Lucifen girl looked at her.
“Huh? You…but I thought he was your patron.”
Ryoka didn’t answer. She just grabbed Paxere, and the Lucifen felt her connection with the outside world returning. Instantly, someone realized it.
“Paxere, report.”
“Is that you? Where’s that damned Archmage? He just stopped talking to me!”
Two simultaneous commands, from Visophecin and Rhisveri respectively. Paxere stumbled after Ryoka, stopped, and murmured a reply.
“Ryoka Griffin just killed him. I’m…I’m staring at his headless corpse.”
Visophecin went silent, but Rhisveri’s exclamation was deafening in Paxere’s head. Ryoka was peeking outside. Paxere backed away from both the Wind Runner and the body.
“We have to go. Can you get us back to Ailendamus? Tell Rhisveri to free Sammial. Or do it.”
“I…I can do that. I can open a gateway. The Lucifen’s way. Is that okay?”
Paxere looked at Ryoka. The Wind Runner turned, half blind. Was she crying? She still held the Faeblade.
“Yes. Do it.”
Paxere had the gateway open and was looking around the tent. Both Rhisveri and Visophecin were demanding clarification, and the Wyrm was also telling her to grab anything she could. One look at Ryoka’s expression, and Paxere was disinclined to.
“Should we just…?”
Paxere saw Ryoka hesitate. She swept around the room.
“No. Just go!”
“Rhisveri wants me to erase any recordings. If we can—”
“Fucking go! You can do it later!”
Ryoka shouted at Paxere, and the Lucifen went pale. With fright? The Wind Runner controlled herself and then realized—
Paxere wasn’t staring at her. Slowly, Ryoka Griffin’s head turned.
 
——
 
For a second, a sleeping Dragon drew breath. His eyes fluttered and his heart beat. Just once. Then—
Ryoka Griffin had made a terrible mistake. She had taken Eldavin at his word. He had trusted her in that moment enough with the truth. But she had made a single mistake, and it was this:
She had assumed a Dragon would create a simulacra that could die from something like being beheaded.
“Ryoka…?”
A severed head’s eyes moved. Unfocused. The blood began moving back into the body. The body jerked, flailed around, and then Eldavin’s torso rose. The head drifted back into place, but facing the wrong way. The blood pooling in the eyes had turned the whites red. Two unfocused pupils slowly drifted together.
And looked at her. Eldavin’s body swiveled around as Paxere froze, and Ryoka just stared in horror at him. She saw the line of blood slowly closing, and then Eldavin focused. On her.
His look of betrayal was complete.
“What did they do to you? Why—”
He looked up, lifted an arm, and the Faeblade shattered on contact. Ryoka had hit the wrong button, and the blade broke on his robes.
“Ryoka—”
The Archmage was stumbling, disoriented, and retreating. Ryoka whirled the blade at his head again as it reappeared. Eldavin, stumbling, blood on his robes, backed out of the tent as she lunged and missed his head.
That was the scene that played out on the scrying orb for Tyrion Veltras. The waiting Wistram television crew saw the Archmage of Memory fall down, hands raised, as the Wind Runner of Reizmelt stabbed down and missed his head. He shouted.
“Ryoka—”
 
——
 
Then the Archmage’s camp and the Terras faction exploded into fighting. Flynn was in the enchanted lavatories when he heard the first spell coming down.
“Someone’s throwing spells at the camp! Get to safety!”
As he raced outside, Pokey barking, Flynn heard a mix of voices.
“It’s the Wind Runner! She tried to assassinate the Archmage!”
“Kill her!”
“No, capture her!”
Ryoka? Flynn couldn’t believe his ears, but then he saw a fiery meteor hit the barrier spells above his head and detonate. Regardless, he was getting into his armor.
“Pokey! Hide!”
He pointed her to the safest place he could think of, and the Needlehound dog ran. Flynn took minutes getting into the armor and into the sky.
When he did get up there, he thought he’d made a mistake. Eldavin’s barriers were dueling with spells that punched through, some obliterating his summoned creatures or targeting the camp.
Yet the Archmage of Memory himself was up there. And—was he fighting or fleeing the Wind Runner?
None of the spells were tracking her. If anything, they were shielding her from the [Mages]. One punched down, a black bolt, and Flynn twisted to avoid it. He saw someone falling, and his heart froze as he saw a hole in a breastplate.
I thought the armor was—
Flynn dove for cover. But then he saw Ryoka fighting.
She was chasing Eldavin, the glowing sword in her hands swinging at his neck. He thought he heard her screaming and Eldavin shouting at her.
Net spells, capture spells flew around the two, but neither one was caught. They dodged and chased across the field past Telim, who flew like a rock. Ryoka curved around an armored figure, and the wind slammed one of them into the ground. She tried to behead Eldavin twice. Both times he twisted or blocked her with magic.
“Ryoka!”
Flynn heard the Archmage howling as the Wind Runner seemed to realize she would never kill him. The [Mages] of the Terras faction were regrouping, and the Order of Seasons had galloped into the camp. They couldn’t fight the bombardments, but their combined auras were blocking spells.
She turned to flee, and Eldavin followed her. Flynn witnessed the last moments, as Ryoka turned, screaming something at him. Why did he slow? He was furious, face white, eyes wide. They shouted confusing things at each other.
“What did they do to you?”
That came from Eldavin, and Flynn understood something of that. The betrayed Archmage of Memory dove with wings of fire, shaking. He almost had Ryoka when she shouted, and then the air twisted around her.
Did he see a clawed hand grab her out of the sky? She vanished in a distortion, and Eldavin howled his fury.
“Rhisveri!”
But he had hesitated. Throughout the rest of it, Flynn wondered what it had meant. That one thing Ryoka had shouted at Eldavin.
“Wake up.”
 
——
 
There was more to this than just one Human girl’s relationship with a Dragon. It was about a war…the Dragon just happened to be a very big, pivotal part of the war. The Human had done everything she had thought was for the best, and it had backfired in her face in the most monumental way.
The fallout was just beginning. But of note was, perhaps, the Wyrm’s look of bafflement and almost-respect when Visophecin pulled Ryoka back into Ailendamus’ palace.
“Did you do that for me?”
She just began to laugh, hysterically, in his face. But the immortals certainly looked at her differently. Especially Paxere.
So…why? The immortals stood in curious judgment. They had to know. Ryoka looked at them, and gave them the same answer she would give Cara if…when she explained. To Magnolia. Of all of them, Magnolia might understand.
“Why did you do it? I thought you liked him. Did someone…did Rhisveri make you?”
Everyone turned to the Wyrm as Paxere spoke, still shaky from her rescue, but Ryoka shook her head. She turned to the gathered immortals looking at her.
Lucifen and Agelum, Fithea, Sophridel, Rhisveri, and more. They understood something of betrayal. She croaked as she tried to tell them why.
“Eldavin was not…the person I came here to find. He’s just a fragment. Part of the person I know. The person I respected. A hero.”
The only hero she knew. A true hero, who never spoke of what he had done, but who showed it in every weary line, every scar, and hid from a world he had fought too long for. Paxere glanced behind Ryoka uncertainly.
“But then why—he seemed like he was making the [Mages] stronger, but he did nothing to merit—that.”
Azemith herself was uncertain.
Ryoka shook her head. She realized…she had gone there knowing it would end this way. That was why she had looked up the Faeblade’s controls. She had known. But she had to explain.
“He was. It wasn’t for that. Not for the weapons or the magic…it was because of what he did to you. He’s killed before. But all of that?”
She looked around blindly. Terras, great magics of old. Her voice cracked.
“…Do you believe you can die of guilt? The longer he…he’d weep for what he did. When he came to his senses.”
Now he never would. The immortals didn’t understand. Perhaps save Rhisveri or a few who suspected something. Yet even the Archmage was now less threatening.
“He can be slain. We will do it.”
Fithea murmured. Fithea! Everyone else nodded. They were so contemptuous. They talked about Eldavin as if he had captured Paxere as a fluke, as if he’d gotten lucky. Ryoka shouted at all of them present.
“Don’t—don’t look like that! You think this was an accident? You think Visophecin or the others could have beaten him? If they tried, they would die. Even Rhisveri.”
She pointed a shaking finger at the Wyrm, who looked affronted. Yet Ryoka kept going, looking at each one in turn.
“You have no idea what Eldavin could do. You think you do. You think you’re the greatest beings to ever walk this world. But he could bring you all to ruin. He was preparing for war, and if any one person can end your dream of Ailendamus, it will be him. He would have woken you with fire and blood, and the more he tried, the longer he stood against you, the worse it would have been. I did not want to see him stride through the palace and leave only ash behind.”
That silenced them. Because Ryoka had seen them, knew them, and she still claimed it. Rhisveri’s eyes flickered, but the Lucifen stood in silent judgment. Paxere sounded like Igolze, her voice distant and cold as she turned to Ryoka.
“Yet you could have reasoned with him. Did you try to change his mind? Did you ask or did you execute him in cold blood?”
Ryoka spat phlegm and bile and guilt onto the floor.
“No. No, I didn’t. I couldn’t change his mind. He fears death more than anything else. So I betrayed him. I thought…I hoped it would save his soul. He should never have gone to Wistram. He was right. There is one last great war that I could have ever asked of him. I hope he’ll forgive me. I hope someday…he’ll tell me I did the right thing. Perhaps he never will.”
She had known Teriarch, the Dragonlord of Flame. Respected him, hated his inaction, but looked up to him. She did not know Eldavin, the Archmage of Memory. To Ryoka, one was just a shadow parroting the body of the other. Hurting him without even knowing why. Ryoka sat down.
Eldavin was different than Teriarch. The two were linked, but one was a stranger and the other hostage to the first’s life. Eldavin had done nothing wrong other than exist. Still, she looked up. When she met Rhisveri’s eyes, she spoke to him, and only him, and all of them…but to him.
“In another time, in another world and another if, he would have been right here. Among you all. He would have protected you without a second thought and sacrificed everything to keep you alive. For hope. I couldn’t let him destroy his own kind. If he ever wakes, that knowledge will never leave him.”
A gasp ran around the room. Rhisveri just looked at her and sighed. He already knew, but Ryoka gazed at him and then the others.
“Please. Kill him.”
 
——
 
It was all about Rhisveri. But it wasn’t about him. Ryoka had just made her attack on Eldavin a worldwide event, dramatic, and Tyrion Veltras had seen it.
So had Magnolia Reinhart. And she took the worst of the worst from what she saw. She could only speculate what it meant until she spoke to either…but she knew.
As for Tyrion? He kept watching as Drassi discussed the fallout with whomever she could find—not Eldavin—and then the news cycle cut to a horrible, discordant view of…
Ailendamus.
It should not have, but Eldavin had ordered them to stop broadcasting now. And…well…Ailendamus had paid for the time slot. Promises had to be kept. So the audience, who had just witnessed a rather upsetting battle, were treated to the magnificent vistas of Ailendamus.
“The Kingdom of Glass and Glory’s capital seems far away from the front. But here I am in a rare tour of the palace. I believe that’s a real Pegasus in the background being groomed; Ailendamus does not lack for magical animals of any kind, as we’ll see, and they incorporate culture and knowledge from around the world…”
A [Presenter] was reading from a script, blissfully ignorant of the drama in the world. At the very least, the tour of Ailendamus was tone-deaf, but it had layers of horribility.
Like, for instance, the possibility of capturing an Agelum or Lucifen on screen. Or Gilaw doing something. Or Ryoka Griffin just walking out of a hallway talking to Rhisveri, or…
The sheer possibilities were endless. However, interestingly, the camera did not capture Ryoka Griffin and a Wyrm. Mainly because the recording crew were not allowed anywhere near the royal wing.
They did just happen to run across a [Princess] and young [Lord] racing about in a real display of youth, athleticism, and friendliness between cultures. Oesca had been briefed and stopped to give a charming smile and bow to the camera—but Sammial had not.
“Where’s Ryoka? She’s always running off! Who are you?”
He was kicking around, furious at being left alone—and the Singer of Terandria hadn’t even been entertaining! The camera focused on him as he was shown to the Five Families, and his father, to be well—and, well, Sammial.
“Wistram? I’m on the news?”
When the [Lord] heard this he was agog. He peered at the camera.
“Eh. This is boring. It’s just a scrying orb.”
He lost interest at once, shoved a finger up his nose, and the [Mages] were treated to a real close up of—
“Er…did you say Ryoka Griffin, young man?”
One of the Wistram [Mages] wanted to be a reporter for the Terandrian broadcast of Wistram News Network, and he could read [Message] spells.
The aspiring [Reporter] saw Sammial glance up, and everyone traded glances as Sammial wiped his hand on his coat.
“Yep. She has a room here. Want to see? I wonder if she’s back. Maybe she is. Sometimes there are all kinds of weird people in there. Naked people, Viscounts…she’s never boring. Oesca, let’s go check!”
The…implications of what he was saying aside, the [Lord] ran, and Oesca ran too, hiking up her dress and trying to run in heels.
Another proof that trousers were the more efficient mode of transportation! She quite liked Sammial, and even if her mother hadn’t asked for the moment, she would have followed the [Lord] around.
