If there was ever a way to tell someone where you were from…she looked at him. Flynn waited for a shout or exclamation, but she had met people like him before. How else could she contain herself, blink a few times, then take his hand and shake it firmly.
“That’s me. But you can call me a yankee if you want.”
He laughed, then blinked as he realized the hand that shook his was firm—and missing two fingers. Ryoka noticed the gaze.
“Sorry—”
“No, sorry. Fuck. I’m making a fool out of myself.”
He felt instantly embarrassed by drawing attention to it, but the Wind Runner smiled.
“Drawbacks of the work. And you’re…with Archmage Eldavin’s Terras faction? I just landed. Er—High Magus. Is he expecting…?”
She looked around and found the Archmage’s tent. Well, tent was a strong word.
It was more like the concept of a tent transmogrified into an actual building via light-magic. It glowed with solid light construction, even actual stone—smooth as glass—that Eldavin had raised. Unlike a lesser construct, Eldavin had informed Flynn that it would ‘fold up’ and be able to be redeployed wherever he wanted.
This camp was still mobile since they were advancing into Ailendamus, but Eldavin was making something permanent. A powerful fortress unto itself.
Walls of light magic. Even guard-towers that [Mages] were practicing spells in, practically bunkers they could rain death down from.
Oh—and Golems and soldiers. Not the Order of Seasons. The [Knights] had agreed to attack on their own front.
Animated Earth Golems and spectral, summoned warriors. Eldavin was a peerless [Summoner] along with everything else he wanted, and so he had conjured a small army of defensive constructs. Once those [Mages] learning his magic mastered their spells, Eldavin had said that Terras might send up to two thousand soldiers into battle without so much as meeting the enemy.
‘Sip Sage’s Tea and win wars.’
That was one facet of this camp. It hurt Flynn’s head to take it all in. He had no idea how the Wind Runner wasn’t freaking out.
Because he thought that, he clearly didn’t know Ryoka Griffin. But her poker face was good, so she faced him and High Mage Telim as the man caught his breath.
“Archmage Eldavin will see you shortly, Miss Ryoka. Just give me a second—he doubtless knows you’re here. And don’t worry about, ah, covertacy. We all know you’re from Earth.”
She jumped as if someone had goosed her, and Flynn reassured her.
“Everyone at Wistram knows. At least, everyone in Eldavin’s faction who’s [High Mage] or higher. There were lots of us—recently. This is a whole story. Let me try again. I’m Flynn, from Australia. Melbourne, most recently. And this is Pokey. Don’t pet her; she’s got needle fur.”
Ryoka looked at the dog sniffing her, at Flynn, and blinked a few times. She saw two more Earthers hurrying over, the [Mages], all the magic in camp, and said…
Very little. She just drank it in. Telim flew off, still trying to master the [Levitation] spell he’d been taught. Ryoka Griffin watched him go. Faintly, she spoke.
“I’m a bit overwhelmed too, Flynn. Hi, Pokey, is it? That [High Mage] is using [Levitation]? Not [Flight], he said.”
“Yep. That’s Telim. A good sort.”
Ryoka nodded and glanced at Flynn.
“He seems that way. You know, [Personal Levitation] is considered a Tier 5 spell. It’s also complex enough—especially if you get it wrong—that virtually no [Mages] in the modern era use it. Only [Grand Mages] would be expected to know the spell. Archmage Valeterisa is the only [Mage] I have ever personally met capable of casting that.”
Flynn blinked at her rather in-depth knowledge of magic.
“I dunno about the specifics, but all that’s changed with magic. Archmage Eldavin’s been revolutionizing spellcasting for everyone. Even I’m thinking of picking it up—but I like the armor. Do you…know about that?”
He nodded to the gleaming stand of armor that he’d been working on, customizing elements to his liking. Ryoka gazed at the suit of plate armor, magically enhanced to let the wearers fly, cast lower-tier spells, and perform other magical feats. They had weaknesses; you could run out of casting power, and you weren’t invincible…but it turned any volunteer into someone on-par with a Level 30 [Warrior], if not in powerful Skills, then in utility.
She nodded briefly and looked at Flynn.
“The entire world saw it. I cannot believe my eyes. Oh—hi.”
“Are you from Earth? Oh my god!”
Someone ran forwards, and Ryoka Griffin was caught in a desperate hug. Flynn lost the chance to talk to her as more people came to introduce themselves. He wanted to catch her and insist they sit down and talk. Something about the way she’d looked when he mentioned Melbourne…
High Magus Telim came back for Ryoka, puffing and saying the Archmage would see her now. Not just him; the Summer’s Champion, Greysten, had spotted a Courier coming in and had requested a spot—after Eldavin.
“I have to go. I’m sorry. It’s great to meet you all…I want to chat. I really do. If possible, I’ll definitely stay and talk.”
Ryoka had to pry herself free of the others. She turned to Flynn, and he nodded reasonably as Pokey begged for scraps from Telim, the infinite bounty of food.
“No problem. I understand—a girl’s gotta fly, right?”
For the first time, she actually blinked and grinned at that. Ryoka gave Flynn an honest smile, breaking out of the blank look as she saw all of the magic and Eldavin’s faction around her. Just for a second.
“Absolutely. Melbourne was where you came from?”
“Yep. Have you ever been there?”
“Uh…some airport in Australia. I was young. Tell me—Flynn, right?”
He nodded. Ryoka pointed at him.
“Do you know a ‘Daly Sullivan’?”
The mention of his best friend’s name struck Flynn speechless. Everyone else looked at Ryoka as he surged forwards.
“Do you know Daly? Where is he? Have you met…?”
Ryoka shook her head and kept shaking it as Flynn realized he had to let her speak. She looked him in the eye.
“All I know is that he got grabbed too. People noticed you were missing. He might be somewhere in this world. If…”
If he’s not dead. Flynn stood there and felt a mix of hope and dread. Ryoka pointed at him.
“We’ll talk once I get out of there.”
“Yeah. Definitely. Thank you—thank you for telling me.”
He watched her go. Ryoka trotted into the Archmage’s tent, and he wondered who the heck she was. She had gazed at this amazing display of magic without losing her mind. As if she had been stunned—but not surprised.
Flynn had seen monsters, survived in Chandrar, and befriended Pokey in the time he’d been here. He’d gone through some very rough patches and seen a lot of good and ill.
He wondered what she’d seen if she didn’t blink at this. Then Flynn thought of his friend. And wondered if Daly were still out there. If he were—Flynn would find him. After all, he had magical armor.
 
——
 
Ryoka Griffin had seen a brass Dragon, scales gleaming like a different kind of gold, in a cave too small to truly encompass him, surrounded by wonders.
Multiple times, mind you. There was no experience she could ever equate to her first meeting with a true immortal, even as he was.
She would never forget that. As she trotted through Archmage Eldavin’s camp, though, Ryoka realized something.
She had seen a majesty of old, a legend hidden away and napping.
This was like seeing it all in its fullness. Like a flower that had closed as it slept—in full bloom, Eldavin’s power was all around her.
The Wind Runner was shaking so bad she was surprised no one saw, especially Flynn. Was it right to tell…?
Don’t think about it. Do what you believe is right. She believed telling him about Daly was right. Maybe tell him about Cara?
…No. She looked at the person in armor practicing flying over her head.
“Gravity magic. Nothing as adept as using wind currents to fly. Grand Magus—excuse me, Archmage Eldavin did point you out as a lesson in proper flight. He is a superb flier—the Garuda can’t match him, you know. We rely on telekinetic and gravitational magic. We fly like Drakes, in short.”
Telim was showing her up the hill to Eldavin’s…tent. It looked more like a magical fort, and Ryoka was sure the inside had dimensional magic.
The wind told her that; it was far larger on the inside than outside. She turned to Telim.
“And Eldavin made that?”
“In his spare time. Hah! It took him a single day to design the armor, and we were prototyping it within that span. Not that he didn’t have something to work off of. A young man from Earth—Aaron?”
“I know him. He made it?”
“He designed the concept. But I think it’s based on some concepts from your world?”
“Superheroes. Yes. Iron Man?”
Telim chuckled, and Ryoka felt so incredibly odd speaking to someone who got any reference from Earth.
“Wonderful movie.”
“You’ve…seen it?”
“Yes! We have multiple devices from your world. The Archmage has even speculated about using memory magic to let people share more stories. Safely, of course. But that’s just the man, isn’t it? What you can think of—he can do. It’s the Archmages of old, coming to the present. I must tell you, I’m a fan. But I take it you know each other, so look at me blathering. Do excuse me.”
“Not at all.”
Ryoka was surprised at how cool she was. Even inside. It was like someone had taken their hand off the Ryoka-panic valve. Or it had overloaded and she was just…looking at it all.
Magic unleashed. She compared this with the scope of magic she knew. It was not hard.
Let’s take…Ceria. Or no, Falene. A proper, Wistram-trained Gold-rank. Practically at the highest-level of [Mage] you could expect to find. A semi-renowned name.
Or Grimalkin, even. Capable of fighting a Frost Wyvern Lord. The Strongest Mage in Pallass.
Neither one could fly. Maybe Grimalkin could cast the spell—but Ryoka suspected he considered it a waste of mana when he could run and too slow.
But could he create Golems? No. And these were new. Neither one could permanently just…create a building when they wanted to.
The thing that struck her the most was the armor. Flying armor that could let you shoot lightning bolts.
“Eldavin made that. How hard is it for him to make…any of this?”
Telim scratched at his beard.
“Well, if he needed to, I imagine he could make a suit of armor like that within an hour. Less, but he’d spend time adjusting it and experimenting. The man has more mana than I can blink at—he must have been holding back in Wistram! The only limit on him is time. Why, he’s promised to help Sa’la do a semi-permanent shapechanging spell into a Naga’s body. Pardon me, she’s a Selphid. She won’t be able to reverse it until she masters magic, but it would be a huge incentive for all Selphids.”
“So—he’s going to polymorph a Selphid into another species? A Naga?”
The plump [Mage] was a nice man. Indeed, he’d offered Ryoka a puff pastry, which she’d declined. He’d even cast [Stonehand] to pet the Needlehound dog and fed it some jerky.
“Yes, indeed. I know what you must be thinking. A Naga. Why not a Lamia or half-Elf? If I were to try it, maybe I’d become a Minotaur. But then—ah, no accounting for taste, eh?”
His wink let Ryoka know that he knew how ridiculous and amazing all this was. Ryoka smiled back.
Permanent shape changing. Armies of summoned warriors. Flying people. And Eldavin had just mass-teleported them all from Wistram and annihilated an army himself.
Oh—and he’d just outfought eight Lucifen and taken one prisoner. Ryoka Griffin had wondered, in her spare time, as she begged him to deal with the Goblin Lord or Az’kerash, lambasted him for staying put and not doing anything, what it would look like if a Dragon truly brought himself to care and intercede in the world once more.
This was her answer.
It was too much to believe, even seeing it up-close. Polymorphing? Ironically, if Eldavin had only done one of these things, she’d be in full freakout-mode.
But she was here, and he was so close…Telim moved the flap aside, the only part of the tent that actually remained.
“He should be just inside. He told me to send you right in—no one else can even step into his tent. I understand there was some kind of incident, so he’s rather touchy. But he wanted to see you. I hope we’ll be able to talk later, Miss Ryoka. Perhaps you can teach me how to fly.”
“Yes, thank you.”
Then she entered Eldavin’s tent.
 
——
 
If this were a cliché, Eldavin would have been talking on a phone or something analogous when Ryoka entered his tent, and she would have been left waiting.
She was not. The Archmage of Memory sat at a wide table that looked rather expensive, perhaps a gift, writing on a scroll of pristine paper. He glanced up, saw her, and let the quill hang there, mid-word.
“Ryoka. There you are.”
The Wind Runner, predictably, froze. But the first thing that happened in that moment of shock, of seeing him, the tall, impossibly perfect half-Elf with mismatched eyes, so familiar, was that Eldavin stepped forwards and hugged her.
It was a tight, quick squeeze, then he stepped back and regarded her, hands resting on her shoulders, looking her up and down with keen insight.
And they knew.
Ryoka glanced at the scroll Eldavin was working on, around the room. It had all of the paraphernalia of a true [Mage], but he hadn’t had time yet to let it devolve; there were multiple rooms adjoining this one. Dimensional magic indeed. What might have been a bedroom to the right and more workstations and so on to the left.
She didn’t see Paxere. Eldavin just stepped back.
“I confess, Ryoka, I am surprised to see you. Sit. Will you take food, drink?”
That brief pause was so fast that neither one spoke on it, but Ryoka had seen his eyes change. She had seen it at once.
This was not Teriarch. And he knew that she knew…something. But what?
“No, thank you. I haven’t seen you in a long time, Eldavin. This—this is wild.”
That was the understatement of everything. Eldavin sat and gestured, and two teacups appeared and filled with some lightly-scented tea anyways. Ryoka pulled out a high-backed chair and sat. The Archmage steepled his fingers and shrugged.
“Yes, well. I took you at your word. Half-assing it, I believe? After I saw the mess Wistram was in, I confess, I lost patience.”
A slow blink was all she gave him. So he remembered that? Eldavin went on.
