Ryoka was interesting? Sammial was interesting! He was unrestrained, and to Oesca, that was great.
Sammial yanked the doors open to Ryoka’s room—an unwise move—having the magical passkey, but found neither [Knights] nor anyone else inside.
The Wistram team was just running down the hallway—which was right next to the royal section where Rhisveri was—clutching at their sides. They were not in great shape, and the flustered [Presenter] had lost the footrace to Oesca and Sammial, who ran like children. Eternally quick until they dropped.
“Fecking idiot! That cunt isn’t here!”
Sammial happily bellowed, using some of Cara’s adjectives about Ryoka Griffin. The TV crew were debating whether they should stay on this topic or go back to the tour and the [Presenter] was dragging them back to a safe place when Sammial’s voice drifted out of the room.
“Oh hey. She’s gotten a present. I wonder what this is?”
A brief pause, and then Oesca’s voice was suddenly high-pitched, terrified.
“Sammial! My rings! Don’t t—”
Then—on live television—the entire screen flashed. Sound was lost. When, after ten heart-pounding moments, the vision was restored, someone was screaming.
Two bodies were lying there—Wistram’s crew. A dizzy face of a Human came into focus, and the [Reporter], looking dazed, reached for the scrying orb.
“What happened. What…was that a spell?”
His voice was the only audible thing. Someone began blowing a horn next, and then there was shouting.
“Attack! Magical—”
A roaring voice came out of nowhere, and then there were [Knights], rushing around. Servants screaming and panic.
But through it all, the [Reporter] pressed forwards, one thought in his mind. And indeed—everyone’s mind.
The two children. What had…?
The blast had taken out most of Ryoka’s room and part of the palace. It left only open air, and the dust and debris was such that nothing was visible at first. [Bodyguards] rushed around, but it was the [Reporter] who followed a [Nursemaid] who leapt into the dust and began digging, heedless of the dust and cuts on her hands from the shards.
“She’s here! She’s right—”
The [Knights] joined her and furiously began digging. As the shaky camera watched, a figure appeared out of the dust. No…
Two?
Lord Sammial Veltras and Princess Oesca of Ailendamus lay there, unconscious, Oesca bleeding from her nose.
But unharmed. The [Princess] had clasped her arms around Sammial Veltras, and her tiara was cracked down the stem. The protective magics had shielded them both.
They were alive. More than that was unclear, as a [Knight] noticed the scrying orb, grabbed for it—and everything went dark. Queen Oiena’s first royal broadcast of Ailendamus and Sammial Veltras’ clear and unequivocal wellbeing turned off as Tyrion Veltras watched.
The wine cup rolled around on the floor as the [Lord] of House Veltras inhaled once. A shuddering breath of someone who realized his son was still alive. His heart was still intact. Then the quiet [Lord]’s head rose, and a sword rasped in its sheath as he drew it. There was no foe in front of him, nothing but the shocked exhalations, the gasps and choked sounds of his family.
But Tyrion Veltras swore that the blade that he held under the grip that ground his bones against flesh and metal would not be sheathed until he was holding his son.
As for Queen Oiena? She took one look at her daughter, dazed but alive, bleeding in her home, and made a simpler oath:
For this, someone would die.
