“Then you got yourself kidnapped. By a second powerful magic user. My entry into Ailendamus’ war was motivated by that and my personal distaste for the nation when I studied them…but it is an odd thing to see you here. I have countless questions as to how you left. But I am sure you can explain. And as I note—it is not truly an escape, is it?”
He had noticed the restraining bangle on her arm the instant he looked over. Eldavin reached out, and Ryoka stopped him.
“I think it will literally liquidate me if I try to remove it.”
The half-Elf nodded.
“Sensible. So I will deactivate the magic and remove it—or you may return, inert, depending on how you feel. It is perfectly safe; the magic is made well, but it is not superior to mine.”
Ryoka hesitated, then nodded. So he began to work on the bangle; she lost track of the magic he was using in the first minute. It was so complex, yet he kept up the light banter with her.
“Magnolia Reinhart did speak to me as well. She was rather odd. Or found me odd, I suspect. I must imagine after our last conversations you felt the same way.”
“You…did refuse to do anything, even stop a Goblin Lord. Now you’re handing out Tier 5+ spells like they’re candy.”
The half-Elf laughed softly.
“Thank you for being direct. I—dislike admitting it, but I may have been wrong.”
That sounded so much like him that Ryoka lifted her head.
“May have been?”
Eldavin exhaled and glowered at her. She imagined a Dragon huffily blowing smoke in her direction.
“I was wrong. In part! I stand by my statements, but it is a disgraceful situation that Wistram is in. Morally and magically bankrupt. They treated the children of another world like toys and frankly—their own number as well. Did you hear about Archmage Amerys escaping?”
“Nope.”
Ryoka bookmarked this for later, and Eldavin gave her the briefest of rundowns.
“Another issue. The King of Destruction, other people discovering Earthers—just this morning, someone finally deigned to mention how many were in the Blighted Kingdom. Too many to be coincidental or even accidentally discovered. Well, Silvenia, the Death of Magic, might well be behind your appearances. I noticed the magic twisting towards Rhir, but I thought it might have something to do with your meeting the fae.”
Ryoka frowned deeply as she took a sip of tea despite herself. Eldavin kept poking the solid crystal bracelet. He looked up, though, and spoke slowly.
“…Did you find what you wanted? Your friend? Ivolethe?”
“I did. But I didn’t save Erin. Actually, trying to find a cure landed me in this mess.”
His gaze softened.
“Ah. Fae rules and logic. Nothing without a cost. I told you that—but perhaps it’s all part of one of their little games. You were there. You heard that all the pieces are in place. Your friend will live.”
The Wind Runner looked up and talked to him earnestly. At least about this.
“Do you think that [Doctor] is right? It’s not grand magic.”
The Archmage harrumphed.
“It is intelligent, a collection of many high-level parts, and I saw no flaw in it. Not everything need be solved by the highest-leveled spell, my dear.”
My dear. Ryoka stopped…and nodded. Eldavin watched her and took his hands away from the bangle.
“I’m done.”
Ryoka eyed Rhisveri’s bracelet, still hovering around her arm. It still glowed and looked the same as before.
“What? Just like that?”
For answer, Eldavin tugged at it, and it floated off Ryoka’s arm. She jerked, and he handed it to her.
“Adeptly made. I will own, superior spellcasting. But hasty. You understand? Whomever made it—Duke Rhisveri, I presume—assumed no one was capable of matching his expertise. So he spent little actual effort.”
Ryoka shook her head, almost smiling.
“He is going to hate that.”
“So you are speaking to him. He is not—forcing you to be here. Or rather, you are more messenger than prisoner I hope? Has he done anything?”
Eldavin sat back, and Ryoka looked at him. The Archmage of Memory’s gaze was sharp on her face. Ryoka hesitated.
“That is a hugely complicated problem. I hope you can appreciate that?”
Eldavin snorted, but softly.
“My girl, I am used to any mess you could envision. Including this one. Even the cadence of your voice is so familiar…”
He trailed off. Before Ryoka could go on, he held up a finger.
“Let me first say a few things. Firstly, no one is listening to us. No one can. Not ghost nor powerful spellcaster. Not even the Death of Magic. If anything does watch us, it is so unimaginable to me as to be beyond even him. The Faerie King himself.”
“That’s a bold claim.”
Ryoka sat up, heart beating faster. Eldavin just nodded at her.
“It is, but I recognize fae-gaze as well as the eyes of the dead. You can see them, you know. Not just ghosts.”
“I…did not know that.”
Eldavin waved it off.
“They keep trying to spy. Or others do. Actually, I could write a list of observers, ones I recognize and those too powerful to trace. But nothing is here. Not even the dead. There was a particularly ornery ghost in Wistram. I only realized it later. But I’ll just turn the academy into a null spot where it can’t inhabit. Cruel—but ghosts are like that.”
Ryoka blinked at him. No fucking way. Eldavin went on, flicking another finger up.
“Second, I appreciate how dangerous this Rhisveri character is. Not just him—you must know I ran into eight exceptionally dangerous…people. People that I do not know. Perhaps I’ve forgotten them, but they were truly, amazingly deadly, if not as powerful as Rhisveri. I nearly died.”
A tiny flutter in his voice, and he took a breath.
“I nearly died, and believe me, that was a terrifying moment. I underestimated my foes, and I will not do so again. Hence the paranoia.”
He waved a hand around the entire camp. Ryoka just listened as Eldavin looked at her.
“You’ve come because of that young woman. If you are being coerced—if that [Lord], Sammial Veltras, is in danger, I urge you to tell me whatever you need. Because, Ryoka, I can protect you here. I can lean, diplomatically, on Ailendamus, perhaps even exchange prisoners. But I cannot protect you outside of my immediate location. I would like to talk and be honest. Can we do that, or have you more reservations?”
He looked at her with genuine concern. She believed it, in every line of the way he looked at her, the way he sat, a bit too far forwards, the tone of his voice.
Yet she just looked at him.
“You’ve changed, Eldavin. You wouldn’t do this—teach all the [Mages] this magic. Never, you told me. Never.”
His lips parted, and he sighed so faintly she only sensed the air leaving his lungs.
“Yes. I suppose I have, haven’t I?”
He gave her a long look.
“…Am I that much worse than you remember me?”
Ryoka’s eyes stung. She looked at him, half-shook her head, and stared out the tent at the camp.
“No. I see what you’re doing and why. But the consequences, the risk—giving people magic? What’s your reason?”
Eldavin scratched a finger over the saucer, levitated up the teacup, and took a sip. He thought for a long time, then looked at her.
“Outrage.”
Ryoka’s head rose. Eldavin clarified.
“Outrage over petty people, wasting lives. Outrage over tyrants, or those who stand still and say nothing but shout loud when lives can be saved. If I hide away, I am culpable of doing nothing. If I do something, anything—I must do all I can. I hid until you dared me to try. When I did, I was ashamed.”
She opened her mouth, but Eldavin put a finger to her lips—or would have if she hadn’t recoiled. He went on.
“The second part is—fear. When these…House Shoel children attacked me, I feared I would die. I realized there was some group with power equivalent to mine—and they had longer to prepare. I am giving magic away because I need to combat them. See here.”
He showed her the scroll he was working on.
“Plans to improve the power of enchanting. To layer multiple effects or simply make what would be beyond Gold-rank enchantments today.”
“For who?”
“House Wellfar. They’ll be able to build better boats. Ships. Those giant tugboats. Nothing on the level of The Pride of the Wellfar—yet, but perhaps in time? I am giving them hints. It was part of their fee to enter the war, you see.”
“Why? Why are you pitting yourself against Ailendamus? For me? They’re not your enemies.”
Eldavin’s head rose and gave Ryoka a sardonic look.
“My dear Ryoka Griffin. Not even for you would I risk that much. I am a practical person. I would be less overtly aggressive after seeing the odds—and I confess, I thought it would be far easier yesterday. No. They offend me. That is it. Pure and simple.”
He rose, and Ryoka saw him gesture to the left rooms.
“No doubt you wish to meet Paxere. I hope you will tell me what you can. You are not prohibited from doing so by spell or Skill. As I said…”
“You would know. I’m aware.”
He half-turned, saw Ryoka standing, and hesitated. They locked gazes, and Eldavin strode forwards.
“Well then. Let me tell you what I have intuited and see.”
Ryoka followed slowly. She felt like she was in that dream-like state of almost believing this was fake. But knowing it was real. A sense of surreality, but she followed Eldavin, hanging on his words.
“I see a cabal of powerful individuals. Perhaps…no. I will not speculate, but a true power behind Ailendamus. So magically powerful that they put the Archmages of today to shame. Not, perhaps, this Paxere, but she casts magic as strongly, and if she is a child, I shudder to imagine how many and how powerful they are. What I see, then, Ryoka, are tyrants. Who manipulate their people into wars for their gain.”
Eldavin’s voice floated down the corridor as she followed him. He turned once, eyes flashing.
“I have fought that kind of injustice. I—remember—fighting, risking my life to end it. Once. Once, I killed my own people to end it.”
The Dragonlord of Flame. She saw him there, battling other Dragons. When? When the Walled Cities stood tall, and when Dragons ruled other species?
Crossing the skies of Chandrar, standing shoulder-to-shoulder with Humans like the Quarass? Eldavin’s voice was harsh, his gaze wrathful.
“They threaten me with death if I expose them. But if I expose them—that is a risky move. Other nations are already watching Ailendamus. Perhaps we fight in the shadows, things unsaid, but I oppose them. I suffer tyrants, and I have seen and left evil unopposed like the Necromancer. But evil that does not end—do you know Nerrhavia? The immortal tyrant?”
“I’ve heard of her.”
Ryoka whispered, though she didn’t know the Chandrarian tales. Eldavin hesitated as they came to a door.
“…I see how dangerous it could be. But forgive me. I have taken drastic measures, arming children with weapons and ideas from your world. I will not condone that which will change this world for the worse. But sometimes we must unveil all we have to combat evil.”
She just looked at him. The door was plain, and probably enchanted, but Ryoka reached out and turned the handle. Eldavin watched her as she hesitated, then opened the door himself and stepped inside.
Paxere’s cell was no dingy dungeon with moss and cracked stones. There were no implements of torture. The room was actually pure white.
A void. Nothing to grab or see or use. She sat in a circle of magic, without chains or other restraining objects besides…spells.
But she was a prisoner. The instant the door opened, Ryoka heard Paxere’s voice. The young, arrogant Lucifen was speaking. She stopped and heard Paxere, not precisely enunciating words, but speaking so fast she tripped over herself, a string of nonsense, of phrases of…
“—not qualified to judge, Mother? Igolze was younger. You said yourself you don’t agree with all the decisions. How am I to prove myself with stifling—Sariant Lambs are so pretty, Razia. I love them. Yes, that is irony—the value of sugar because of the Baleros monopoly—Menorkel, just tell Rhisveri you don’t want to train—”
She was switching from topic to topic without pause, and her head was lolling. The Lucifen girl’s gaze was unfocused, and Ryoka saw a healed stump where her pointer-finger was missing on her left hand.
Her horns were visible, and her Devil’s tail. The grey-skinned young woman neither saw nor noticed Ryoka and Eldavin as Ryoka came to a standstill.
The only other objects in the room were a sheet of parchment and a quill, which took down her entire confusing dictation like a blur. Eldavin lifted a hand, and Paxere’s voice muted, though her mouth kept moving.
Ryoka stared at the Lucifen, and her skin crawled. Now she felt sick. Now the shoe dropped.
“What have you—”
Eldavin was watching her. Carefully.
“[Babble]. A superior version of—it doesn’t matter. She has a death spell on her if she reveals anything important, but she refused to answer any questions, and I did not wish to…torture her. But I did have to know. I know there are more—that Rhisveri and this ‘Visophecin’ are among the best. I have a list of names, and I understand how dangerous she is.”
Ryoka just looked at Paxere. Then at the Dragon.
“Dangerous.”
He nodded, almost blocking her vision of Paxere. He looked…guilty.
Afraid.
And wary. Of her.
“Yes. She is actually immune to Tier 1-2 spells. Which is not astonishing in and of itself, but her resistance to magic is one thing. I believe she is strong, innately talented with darkness and fire magic, and capable of using some kinds of abilities or shared powers I don’t know. She is weak to light. And a certain…chaotic subset of magic.”
“How do you know that?”
Eldavin folded his hands in his robes.
“I did not hurt her, Ryoka. But there are dozens of her kind, aren’t there? How old does she grow? How dangerous would they be? They rule one of the largest powers in Terandria. They must be stopped. She eats people.”
“I know. Criminals.”
Eldavin’s brows snapped together.
“You know…? Criminals by whose standards? No—no, there is nuance here.”
He paced back and forth, then turned to her.
“It matters not. These are the rulers of Ailendamus, aren’t they? I had cause enough to oppose them—now I see. Do you know…Vampires? They are extinct, although I truly doubt that. But they once ruled with such terror that the world barely stopped them. Vampire Humans were bad enough. They could become Vampire Lords or Kings—those, though, had different names for them. A stupid system. Wyvern Lords. Goblin Lords. Vampire Lords. It comes from our notion of how to categorize threats.”
“Eldavin.”
He went on, ignoring her, speaking too fast, speaking over her. Like a lecturing old man, regardless of species. Ryoka looked at Paxere. She looked at Eldavin.
