“Let me finish. Regular species becoming Vampires were bad enough, but have you ever conceived of a Vampire Kraken? Vampiric Selphids? Vampires of any species. And believe me—they only did a Vampire Kraken once. Even their own kind realized how disastrous that was when it ate its own kind, ate every fleet it could find, and—”
“Eldavin. You are a Dragon!”
There was a better way to say that. A better time. Ryoka didn’t care. Now was the moment. It had been bubbling in her chest the very moment she had walked into his tent, and she had been weighing the dangers. Trying to see him.
It came out now, as she stared at an immortal, a dangerous one who had tried to kill him…but a child, babbling under magic. At Eldavin’s paranoid gifts of magic.
At his morality and nobility changed by his forgetfulness.
The half-Elf stopped speaking. At first, it seemed like he was going to snap at Ryoka to not interrupt—then he heard her.
He staggered back. Eldavin clutched at his chest, and his eyes went wide. Ryoka thought he was having a heart-attack.
He just stood there. Frozen, panting, looking at her without words in his mouth. Stunned…and she felt her own heart beating painfully.
“You are a Dragon. You are better than this, Eldavin. Teriarch. What happened?”
The Archmage of Memory looked at Ryoka, and then his lips moved.
“I…forgot. I still cannot remember. I am trapped, Ryoka.”
He reached out to her and then stared at his hand. The half-Elf…the Dragon…Eldavin looked at the fragment of Teriarch and how Ryoka saw him.
At last, he knew.
 
——
 
Paxere sat, head in her hands. No longer babbling in her cell. She could not hear what the Wind Runner and Archmage were saying, but the magic was gone.
Ryoka and Eldavin sat back at his table. The half-Elf kept starting and stopping. When he did manage something coherent, he just said…
“Vampires. There were Vampire Dragons too, you know.”
Of all the things to bring up—Ryoka just shook her head. She felt like he was giving her another lecture, like he did in his cave, but it was Eldavin still. He was not Teriarch.
“What happened?”
“They were slain. Believe me. That kind of power mixed with vampiric nature? They were slain. I know it. I think I…killed some. I was not tempted. I saw the rot and obsession, the need for blood. You see, I can remember these things. Some of my memory is here. The rest is gone. Such as my true nature.”
She nodded. He was explaining how it came to be.
“How did it happen?”
The Archmage was shamefaced.
“…Would you believe I was struck in the head?”
Ryoka lifted her teacup to throw it at him, and he raised his hands.
“I was struck by a Truestone Golem, the most potentially magically-disruptive entity in the world. In battle. Cognita of Wistram hit me while I was unguarded, trying to undo the magics binding her to loyalty to that poor excuse for an Archmage, Zelkyr. It is still a poor excuse—but in context, it is what happened.”
Ryoka lowered the teacup.
“Cognita of Wistram? Why were you trying to free her?”
Eldavin sighed.
“I don’t recall. No, stop threatening me with porcelain! I don’t recall everything. Some of it is gone, but I can only assume I found her slavery abhorrent. She was compelled to love her creator, you see. Do you understand…?”
Ryoka did and felt sick. Yes, if there were ever something to motivate Teriarch to risk it all—it would be that. She looked at Eldavin.
“Can you reestablish the link? Fix it?”
“No. Not without going to my body. It’s like fixing something within a bottle. The link is severed so I, that is…Teriarch…would have to do it from the outside. Now I know. So that’s who I drew mana from.”
Ryoka was instantly alarmed. Eldavin clarified.
“I needed it to survive my battle with the Lucifen! I will be exceedingly careful. But I’m a Dragon. I thought I’d die.”
“And if you died in this body…”
He nodded.
“The potential for a simulacra spell, which is what I was sure I used, to kill the host is not impossible. Mind you, it’s rare. I am a Dragon. Well, thank goodness! I was worried I was something else!”
He laughed in genuine relief, and Ryoka started.
“What? You knew?”
Eldavin raised a brow.
“Ryoka, I am not blind. I noticed there were problems to begin with, but I didn’t know—a Dragon. It suits me. I thought I was a Unicorn or worse, some kind of magical plant or object that gained sentience! They can do that, you know.”
“I know.”
Eldavin eyed Ryoka, and she realized he’d picked up on that. Lady Patergost was a suit of armor that had come to life. She closed her mouth, but Eldavin leaned forwards.
“Ryoka, I understand now why Magnolia and you were so alarmed. Believe me—I can well imagine how nervous you might have been. Fear not. I swear I will head back to Izril, wake up my body, and the Teriarch you know will be back.”
Ryoka exhaled. She didn’t know what she’d feared, to be honest. It was still Eldavin.
“Good! Can you go now? Or do you not have the ability to teleport that far? I could…I have to go back, but if you can take me, I’ll go with you. And then can we see Erin?”
Eldavin drummed his fingers on the table.
“That’s a continent-wide jump. I’d need a ritual site. Which I can build. But I might as well use the Order of Seasons’. They have an inefficient version, but I can do it. You do know [Greater Teleport] is the most obnoxiously mana-intensive spell, don’t you? Scrolls are valuable, even to me.”
“Well, how long to get there?”
Ryoka rose and put her hands on the table. She was trying to think. Tyrion needed to stop his advance. She realized that they had to get Sammial to him or at least stop this impending battle, or Veltras’ part in it. Return Paxere, then—but how to tell them about Eldavin?
The Archmage was frowning.
“I think Valeterisa set up a teleportation network. I just ask her for the coordinates to the nearest one to my…cave? Did you say I lived in a cave?”
“It’s better on the inside.”
Eldavin shuddered.
“I should hope so! The High Passes. Why would I settle there? It’s dangerous—even for a Dragon! By the way—which color am I?”
“Er—brass.”
“Brass. Hm. Well, that’s good. I couldn’t stand to be gold. Snooty. Is that instinct or just bias in my current stage? So I ask Valeterisa for coordinates. That expedites the matter. I’ll head back as soon as I’m prepared. After this war is over.”
Ryoka’s head turned. She stopped grinning like a loon and focused on Eldavin.
“Huh? What?”
The Archmage looked at Ryoka, calmly, eyes alight with relief and confidence. He knew who he was. That just made the words coming out of his mouth all the more surreal.
“After the war. I cannot abandon the forces here. And these cabal members are far too dangerous, even if I don’t expose them. Now that I know I am a Dragon, I can rely on that knowledge. I wonder if I can access my memory? Either way, I can be more daring in my attacks.”
“Wh—what are you saying? No! Go back to your cave and wake up! Now!”
“I must prepare first, Ryoka—”
“What’s stopping you? You know who you are! Go and become you again!”
She surged upright, but Eldavin caught her hands as she went to shake him. He was effortlessly strong and hesitated. Ryoka drew breath to scream, and the Archmage whispered the final clue in the dread that was returning tenfold.
“I…do not wish to die, Ryoka.”
Die? What was he talking ab—then Ryoka looked at him.
Him. Eldavin. And the Archmage’s eyes were terribly afraid.
“You won’t die. You’re a Dragon.”
“I know. I know Teriarch is. But I am a distinct entity, Ryoka. I’ve heard of it happening. Simulacra that experience distortion. Eldavin has no longer synced with Teriarch. Therefore, when I wake him—Eldavin will vanish. Unless I separate the two via magic. If I wake him now, I vanish. I am sure it is painless. Welcome, perhaps. Perhaps he would remember who I am. But I…”
She saw it. The very core of the Teriarch she knew. Nothing changed, just him—in Eldavin’s body. Fear. Old fear, the greatest survivor, beyond even Rhisveri, who had seen his kind perish.
Teriarch, Eldavin, whispered it in a cracked voice, as if asking her to understand and forgive.
“I do not want to die. Please, understand that.”
Her hands and legs were so weak, Ryoka sagged. Eldavin patted them and let go. He looked at Ryoka.
“I…fear death, Ryoka. I fear it so much I cannot explain it. I must be old.”
“Ancient of days. Dragonlord of Flame.”
He twitched at that.
“I? How old…no. Teriarch. I know that name. He is not just ten thousand years old. He is so old…! Khelt is a child that was never born when he flew the skies. I am him? No wonder he hides. No wonder I—do I know Ailendamus?”
“Go back. Please?”
She begged him like a girl, but Eldavin was shaking his head.
“After the war. It won’t take long, Ryoka. And if I die—well, I can be more daring. There is no risk to me. Or little. Listen—I will return this Paxere if you wish, but I would rather exchange her for Sammial Veltras. It can be done within the hour. Less! I will tell this Rhisveri. Oh damn, I have those gnats bothering me for an interview on House Wellfar.”
There was a faint clamor outside his tent, of Telim arguing with [Mages] and…Drassi’s voice? Eldavin glanced at Ryoka.
“Let’s resolve this first. They won’t get in unless I will it. I swear, Ryoka, Teriarch is not in danger. Neither am I, unless I take a truly dangerous wound and die.”
He was distracting, deflecting. Ryoka mumbled as Eldavin turned.
“What do you mean? A simulacra…”
“…Can influence the host. The trauma of the death or injury matters, Ryoka. But I’m a Dragon, not a giant, ten-thousand year-old Sage’s Grass plant. Why, I can imagine Cognita might have killed me badly enough if I really just stood there, but a mundane wound?”
Eldavin grinned and brushed down his robes.
“Not that I am likely to take it. But they would have had to hit me as hard as they hit Lesegoth!”
“Where’s that?”
Ryoka’s head was low. Eldavin was chattering on, relieved, even energized.
“Another fragment of memory. You know, I have all this useless information about Warmage Thresk? I must have added it to my memory here so I could tell you. A mysterious fellow—Albez was wiped out by some horrific beastial creature, and Thresk I think was eaten along with a nearby tribe before a Gnoll slew it. One of those old stories. But, ah, the other great [Mages] of Albez didn’t all die. In fact, his closest companion, I think his lover, the [Temporal Mage]…Udatron? He vanished in the last battle. [Time Mages] do that sort of thing. Useless. Where was I? Lesegoth?”
“How hard did they get hit? Why does this matter, Eldavin?”
The problem was, Eldavin had true stories. Fascinating stories. All he had to do was turn and say…
“The City of Shields. The most defensive city of the Drakes ever built. Dragons like me failed to take it. You know Manus? Still around? It had nothing on the City of Shields.”
“But someone still destroyed it?”
Eldavin scoffed at Ryoka’s raised brow.
“Just listen. Every city can simply be overwhelmed by too many high-level foes. Yes, countless armies had besieged it for over three decades when the final blow came. After all that fighting, the highest-levelled individuals—and immortal beings—dealt the final blow. They launched a volcano at it.”
“…A what?”
“An entire volcano. Ash, lava—”
“They threw a volcano at the City of Shields.”
Eldavin chuckled. But there was a note of sadness in his tone, and he and Ryoka stopped and heard it. The Archmage of Memory grew somber.
“No. No, that was not how Lesegoth fell. It survived. So then the greatest [Alchemist] of that time used a grand experiment with devastating effects. It turned every ordinary bit of metal into something that exploded when it reached contact with the air. Or maybe it was just…unstable. Every scrap of metal in the City of Shields. Including the elements in the body.”
Ryoka’s blood chilled at the notion. Now, Eldavin was caught in the memory.
“Yet still the City of Shields stood, in wreckage, defiant. Still they held. Then—and only then—the combined armies cast a Tier 9 spell. And Lesegoth fell.”
“They cast a Tier 9 spell? None of that was…?”
Ryoka’s head rose. Eldavin shuddered, shaking his head and turning away from the vivid memory he must have seen.
“Yes. They offered the Drakes every chance to surrender and leave without retribution. They refused.”
“So someone would have to hit you as hard as that to kill you?”
Ryoka’s voice was incredibly sarcastic, and Eldavin turned his head to glare at her. He searched around for the [Message] scroll he had been talking to Duke Rhisveri with. Was he…? He’d have to get it out of Ryoka.
“I’m sure you know hyperbole, my dear. It’s an analogy. I can’t survive that kind of trauma, but Dragons survived fistfights with Giants. I will be careful not to give myself that kind of shock. Short of that? Tsing. I won’t fear—”
Eldavin stopped talking abruptly. His eyes unfocused. He didn’t see, as his eyes stared vacantly ahead, the brilliantly pink blade made out of light protruding from his neck.
Then the blade moved and severed the Archmage of Memory’s head from his body.
There was so little blood. It was the cleanest cut imaginable.
She still felt it. Ryoka Griffin stood, arms shaking out of control as the body collapsed and blood began to run. His head lay there, lips still parted.
“I’m sorry. Please wake up.”
She hadn’t been able to cut him anywhere else. The Faeblade would have snapped like cheap glass on his enchanted robes.
Ryoka stared at her hands. She nearly dropped the Faeblade—but then turned to retch. He had to wake up. She had to—
No one had expected it. Not her, when she entered this place. Not Eldavin.
 
——
 
Not Emerrhain. The ___ of secrets, hovering in frustration at the edges of Terandria’s shores and trying to see past the wary defenders, frowned. His mouth opened as he sensed it.
“Did she just—what did she just do?”
 
——
 
Ryoka Griffin appeared in front of Paxere, looking violently ill. The Lucifen rose.
“You can tell that Archmage—what’s wrong?”
She could hear nothing, but she saw Ryoka checking the magical barrier around Paxere. She swung her Faeblade, yet it broke into a million pieces of dissolving light.
“Well, that did nothing. What…what are you doing? Where did the Archmage go?”
Paxere’s voice was uncertain. She had just felt his magical signature vanish. But that couldn’t mean what she thought it did? Then she saw Ryoka fumbling with the Faeblade. Ryoka motioned to Paxere.
Get back. The Lucifen backed up, and her eyes widened.
“What is that?”
