Ryoka Griffin took one moment to reflect upon her failings on her journey to meet the Archmage of Memory.
Just one. Perhaps it wasn’t even a true failing. The thing was—
She didn’t kill people. She was neither good at it nor did she have the ability to look at someone and do it.
Even Persua.
No, seriously. Even Persua. Even that wretched girl who had broken Ryoka’s leg, tried to kill her by switching her healing potions for mana potions, and threatened Ivolethe.
Even her.
Ryoka felt that was a normal thing. People fantasized about murder all the time, often in mundane office or workplace settings. But the number of people who would actually act on that impulse were low.
Infidelity, drunken fights, accidents—that was one thing. But if there was one thing this world had a monopoly on, it was a different mentality when it came to death. There were soldiers on Earth, or people who saw death far too often.
Killing—be it monsters or people or ‘monsters’ like Goblins—was more common here. Ryoka didn’t want to do it. And she thought that was fine.
Yet there was a lot of blood implicitly on Ryoka’s hands if she could not stop Tyrion’s advance. He had not gone to war just for her, but Sammial, the very real threat Ailendamus posed, and the kidnapping. Ryoka was culpable in that from trying to steal from Rhisveri, but the greatest good she could do was get him to turn back.
Rhisveri was open to the idea. That was the role Ryoka was willing, wanted to play. However…she came to a rest on one of the flat plateaus of Kaliv.
The mountain range bordered not only the north, but parts of Pheislant and Gaiil-Drome’s south. Ryoka could see some very tall trees to the south.
Ironically, there was actually different elevation in the forest nation too. Some trees were distinctly larger; a different species that occupied one corner? It must be fascinating, but Ryoka doubted she’d find three friendly kings and a magic sword in there. Or a Nama.
Maybe? If there were anywhere to go, it was further west of Gaiil-Drome, but not to Pheislant on the western coast. Ryoka might stop, if she had the time, and look over the land that even Terandrians had not yet reclaimed.
The blasted kingdom of Silvaria, still filled with death magic, where the Necromancer had once been.
The wind blew a cool breeze over the flat ground, filled with sparse and rather unpleasant weeds. But Ryoka’s wrapped feet felt none of the pricker-thorns from the long, flat weeds bursting through the rocky soil. Their long needle-spines on dark green leaves kept trying to lacerate the soles of her feet. It wasn’t mean; just self defense to keep her from stepping on them or eating them.
It didn’t work, of course. From her toes to her ankles, Ryoka’s feet were covered by the fae-wraps. Ryoka could literally hop up and down on glass and not feel a thing.
A gift from the lands of the fae. Even the giant goat-herd native to Kaliv grazing nearby gave Ryoka a look of grudging respect.
For her part, she eyed the massive goats who would make a bull think twice about rushing them. They weren’t as large as bulls, but they would outnumber one angry bovine, and they had huge horns.
“What do you eat to get this big?”
The goats chewed down on the tough weeds. None of your business. She felt that was fair. There was a point at which Ryoka had to just…understand that Ailendamus was Ailendamus. Events were happening.
“I just have to do my part so I don’t regret it later. I can’t save everyone.”
Right on, sister. A possibly-female Goat gave her a bowel movement of approval. Ryoka sighed. It beat talking to herself.
She pulled something out—well, two things—and the wind obligingly died down a bit to let her take a look at them.
Even in Ailendamus, even her private rooms, Ryoka had been very careful not to fiddle with either object that much. Especially not around anyone intelligent like Visophecin or the Agelum.
Rhisveri was an odd case; he was too reliant on his magic. Plus, he’d seen the strange technological blade break on his scales, so he didn’t see it as a threat. But Ryoka had asked for a [Translation] spell, and Visophecin had obligingly scribed it and asked why she needed it.
Well. Ryoka stared down at the alien writing as it made sense before her eyes. She had already read a bit of it, but now was the time for some quick studying.
Honestly—it was a bit embarrassing. If Ryoka had had even a week without someone trying to kill her, she felt she could have figured it out. The thing was—aliens weren’t stupid.
Oh, sure, give them some context. This was definitely a rush job. Ryoka didn’t know how long the Faerie King had given them, but they had clearly printed this off, and their technicians had rushed to figure out how to explain a modern, state-of-the-art weapon and all its functions to what was essentially a hairless monkey with rounded toenails.
It was like if she had to try to teach a monkey how to use a smartphone.
…Monkeys could use smartphones. Literally, they could use some apps and they could swipe, a skill older Humans failed to master. So it was definitely possible. But Ryoka still appreciated the logical way the aliens had done it.
First—images. Pictograms, but they had clearly realized that their concepts of even basic ideas were different from Ryoka’s. For instance, now she saw the basic instruction to squeeze the grip. How would Humans tell you to do that?
Well, with a diagram of squeezing the handle, maybe with arrows. The aliens took the opposite approach, highlighting the area and adding a symbol that Ryoka now realized meant ‘weight’. To her, it looked like a series of dots, increasing in size.
“Some kind of universal symbol for mass? Mass generates gravity…analogous to weight. They had multiple species in their federation. I mean—we have a weird one-ton block to symbolize weight.”
Maybe it just meant ‘force’. An increase in magnitude.
The point was, the engineers had tried to approximate symbols that even an…alien…would understand. But they’d done it on the fly. Probably with, what, hours or less to work this up?
So the pictograms and illustrations were part of the instructions, but then they’d run into the issue that modern technology had. Yes, you could tell the monkey to swipe left to get another picture or reject someone on Tinder or a dating app. But how did you tell the Ryoka that in order to repair a possibly damaged screen, you had to get a specialized screwdriver, open the casing, apply a gravitron solvent, etc. etc?
There were functions on this simple sword sidearm that were advanced. Ryoka supposed this was akin to an omnitool; it certainly seemed like it had a lot of functions.
She’d seen actual blueprints for buildings that had less space than this. At least the alien paper neither creased nor got dirty nor damaged.
Now—in order to solve the issue of having to just write their instructions, the aliens had given her a cipher. They had written their entire alphabet and generated all the codewords and syntax in the upper right-hand corner. But…uh…
It was still hard. Ryoka flushed with embarrassment. She was sure she could have gotten it! Just give her a few months of study. The problem was, they were trying to teach someone an entire language with no context, so they had filled the entire upper right corner with sample phrases. Some amusing ones—at least with [Translation] on.
The Federation is made up of equal peoples. Do not attack each other or we will punish you.
But they had broken it down, so it looked like
 
(The Federation)-is-(made up)-of-(equal)-(people).
 
Each word was clearly denoted, such that Ryoka could have inferred ‘The Federation’ was a proper noun, and ‘is’ was a connecting word. She took (made up) as a single word and wondered if the [Translation] spell was faulty.
“Wait. Does this just mean ‘comprised’?”
She tapped ‘made up’, and the word changed before her eyes to ‘comprised’. Instantly, the manual shifted slightly, and Ryoka saw more complicated words appearing. Her mouth worked silently.
“Motherf—I still have to be intelligent?”
Maybe this spell wasn’t as good as a Tier 6 [Translation] spell or something. What would that even look like? More nuance? Translating things without words?
Talking to goats?
One of the goats had plodded over, and Ryoka shooed it away.
“Go. Go. You really don’t want to get near this. Okay…”
She was studying the advanced functions, her ruminations on the nature of communication aside. Ryoka had gotten very little from gingerly experimenting with the handle. Squeeze it, bop it, throw it at the wall—it didn’t seem to let her do much other than turn it off and on and a few other functions.
Because no alien soldier wanted to pull up the help file during combat. The goat watched, possibly eying Ryoka’s hair as a nutritious meal as she cursed.
“So that’s why nothing works. Alright. Damnit. They did underline that. But they don’t underline the same way—”
She sighed, stopped making excuses, and placed a finger in the center of the hilt. This was definitely not meant for rapid configuration, although she could hotkey some functions by the looks of it.
“I’m not touching that. Okay. Finger here…tap here…and now I give it three squeezes?”
She got absolutely zero response from the sword hilt, which made her feel like an idiot. But then she saw a flicker, and the Kaliv goat and Ryoka saw a glowing interface rise out of the Faeblade where the sword would normally be. The bleating goat fled as Ryoka stared at what was probably a well-designed interface…covered with more translated words and options.
There were, on this first screen alone, about sixty-eight options, each in their own sub-menus. Ryoka covered her face. Then she eyed one button.
“No way.”
It had to be a translation approximating the word to her understanding of it. But Ryoka still…eyed ‘Communications’ and gingerly tapped it.
Instantly, the menu changed, and she saw ‘Battle Group’, ‘Victory Commander’, and ‘Ship’. Oh—and ‘Emergency Broadcast’.
It looked like these were not regular options, and ‘Emergency Broadcast’ had a number of warning symbols attached to it. Ryoka hesitated for a long time, but tapped ‘Battle Group’, then tried the other frequencies.
She learned that aliens had a dial tone too. Also—there was no one in range. Ryoka wasn’t sure if she was relieved or disappointed. Then again, she didn’t know if she wanted to meet aliens in this world.
She went back to inspecting the functions. There were some cool things she wanted to try, but she had a purpose. And…she looked at the Faeblade.
She named it that, the Windsword, because it was good cover and it had come from the lands of the fae as much as space-faring aliens. But she never forgot what Oberon had said.
The time has come for you to do more than run.
The goats were getting tired of Ryoka’s crap—or lack thereof—by now, and the bright light she kept generating was hurting their eyes. It was getting dark. She was an uninvited guest.
They were just getting ready to eject her by literally ramming her off the plateau when she activated a different setting on what she now knew was a Hetshal-knife. The goats nearly went blind—took one look at what Ryoka had just created, and ran for it. Ryoka gulped.
“Okay. Okay. I’ve got it, Faerie King, aliens. But…who am I fighting?”
She had a feeling this sword wasn’t going to kill the enemies of Oberon himself. So. So…Ryoka stood up and, prepared, holstered the Faeblade. She took a breath, then leapt into the air to reach her destination by evening.
She had wanted to meet him. Feared the strange answers she’d gotten. Come to one terrible conclusion. But still.
When she found the Archmage of Memory, Ryoka Griffin was not prepared.
 
——
 
The Wind Runner landed in the Archmage of Memory’s camp and looked around, almost as wide-eyed as Flynn.
“Fuck me. Is that her?”
The Australian man breathed as he straightened. Pokey, his Needlehound dog, raced forwards, and Flynn called out.
“Pokey! No! Back!”
Heads rose at his shout, but Ryoka had already been seen. A [Mage] had escorted her into camp, and they’d nearly stopped her before Eldavin had told them to let her in.
He had spotted her. By now, there wasn’t a grasshopper on a leaf ten miles away he couldn’t spot.
The magic hummed in this camp, such that the Order of Seasons were complaining that some of their [Knights] who could see magic were nearly blind. Eldavin had told them to adjust their vision. Flynn was not used to this world, but he had the exact same look as the [Knights] and even Wistram’s [Mages].
He understood—
This was the age of legends come to life. He was one of the Earthers who had come with Eldavin to Terandria. In fact, one of the last Earthers in Wistram’s custody since so many had fled.
Flynn had a lot of feelings on that, including Trey never telling him what he was planning. But he had gone with Eldavin, and his reward was superhero armor. He didn’t feel like he’d lost out, but he wished he had gone with Trey or talked with the guy more.
Pokey sniffed the Wind Runner and raced back. As the dog with aggressively-pointy fur did, the [Mage] landed somewhat unsteadily next to Ryoka.
He had robes and was far, far less graceful than Ryoka Griffin. She touched down, one foot wrapped in some pale linen, coming to rest on the ground as lightly as a feather.
High Mage Telim landed like a frog in a squat and groaned.
“My back! I do not know how you do that, Courier Griffin. It’s clearly practice. And I get fairly disoriented in the sky. Well—just as well the spell keeps me upright. Someone tried to do a loop-de-loop and threw up. But since they were doing a circle, they hit themselves.”
Clearly, Flynn had missed some banter. The young man hurried over as he heard a female voice, not accented as he’d presumed, but American, replying.
“I—yes. Lots of practice. Be very careful at high speeds. Thank you, [High Magus], was it?”
Telim smiled.
“High Magus Telim, at your service. Terras faction.”
He even had the symbol on his robes. Eldavin had just decided on the design—it looked from afar like a Venn diagram. And it would probably be reduced to that for the sake of secrecy. But if you looked closer…you’d realize they weren’t two circles, but two worlds, overlapping.
A message for the future. Flynn thought it was subtle enough. But Ryoka noticed it. And she noticed him in a moment. Well, Flynn couldn’t resist being cheeky about it.
“G’day, Miss Courier. Are you Ryoka Griffin? The Wind Runner?”
