He slammed into the final archer, wrapping a Smoke Lash around its neck and swinging around its back to face his next target even as he fired a point blank Firebolt into the eye slot of its helmet.  Only the glowing zweihanders remained.

Reckless Charge reset.

Reckless Charge reset.

Reckless Charge reset.

Edmund collapsed alongside the final crusader, falling to his knees as his body caught up with him.  Takedowns may have reset his newest ability’s cooldown, but its stamina cost remained, each activation draining him of energy.  He’d need a chance to rest and take in nutrients before he could fight again.

The Dragon’s Claws gaped, either impressed at his overwhelming victory or surprised to see the mad stranger finally break a sweat.  Edmund didn’t care which.  Even panting on his knees with a long gash along his chest, the wondrous relief of victory washed over him.

Until the Claws started talking.

“Okay,” Christopher said, “our turn.”

“I don’t know, Chris,” Leah replied.  “That last one was too close for comfort.  Maybe we should call it.”

“We’re not calling shit,” Christopher snapped back.  “He struggled with that as much as we did, and he doesn’t have a healer.  The loot is ours to take.”

“She’s right,” Ron said.  “It’s not worth the risk.”

“Of course you take her side,” the mage grumbled.

Leah stepped in.  “What’s that supposed to mean?”

Christopher rounded on her.  “It means now you’ve fucked him he’s thinking with his prick instead of his gods damned brain.”

The room went silent.

Leah spoke at the bottom of her voice, a scant whisper that nonetheless echoed through the bloody arena.  “I’m not yours to keep, Christopher.”

“And I’m not yours to boss around.”  His gaze fell upon Ron.  “Not anymore.”

Thrax, she’s slept with them both, Edmund realized, the idiot.  He wondered if Liam had set this up to sow dissent in the ranks.  It seemed likely.

Christopher spun to face Elya and Myra.  “You’re not backing out, are you?”

Neither answered.

“Good,” Christopher said.  “That’s three to two.  We’re doing this.”

“I really don’t think this is a good ide—”  The words died on Leah’s lips as Christopher pulled the lever.

The Claws scrambled into place as fifteen dawnsworn crusaders descended from their false heavens, far and away the greatest force they’d thus seen.

True to the depth of their experience as a team, the party snapped into action, launching their opening salvo in perfect sync despite any bad blood between them.

Christopher downed a vial of purple liquid immediately after his first casting, replenishing his mana or refreshing his cooldowns or something Edmund couldn’t quite figure out that allowed him to fire a second barrage of frost bolts.  Myra pulled a glass bolt that ran deep with red cracks from the quiver at her back and loaded it into her crossbow.  Unlike her others, it fractured as it flew, crimson lightning arcing along its fragments as it struck two of the dawnsworn archers.

Elya bellowed at the charging force drawing their attention as Leah knocked back a potion of her own and disappeared from sight.  Ron broke a talisman in his offhand as three great swords bore down on him, grunting with exertion as his silver barrier held the crusaders at bay.

One by one the Claws spent their most valuable resources on the eleventh wave.  One by one the crusaders fell.  One by one the delvers’ consumables ran dry.

Leah flickered back into view.  Christopher’s barrage of ice thawed out.  Myra fell back to her normal bolts.

Ron’s light faded.

Elya stepped in front of him, bashing back a crusader with her shield.  The crusader bashed back, lunging with the starlit tip of its great sword right for the center of her shield.  A blinding flash of gold filled the room.

Elya’s tower shield split in two.  She caught the blow on her arm, her bone holding up where her silver-trimmed shield and plate bracer had failed.  Blood flowed from the wound as the arm went limp, forcing the tank to back up and cover herself with her remaining shield.

Exposing Ron to the golden arrow that pierced his left eye.

He collapsed.  Blood and gray matter oozed from the back of his skull.  Nobody rushed to his side.  Nobody bothered attempting in vain to revive the dead, not while the dawnsworn still came.

Leah wailed in a pitch of rage and sorrow that seemed to pierce the very smoke in Edmund’s eyes.  She shot across the room, vaulting up and onto the dawnsworn archer that had fired the deadly shot.  She plunged her knife into its face.

It crumpled to the floor.  She fell upon it, stabbing through the slot in its helmet over and over again in a frenzy.  Twice did one of the remaining melee crusaders turn to her, and twice did she dispatch them with a single thrown knife before returning to her carnage.

Only when the dungeon reclaimed the archer’s corpse did Leah finally stop, her knife plunging one final time into the stone floor, upon which it snapped in two.  She left it there.

She turned to face Myra, Elya, and Christopher, tears and blood streaming down her face.  She spoke but two words to her surviving party members, the people she’d fought alongside for years.

“We’re done.”

Her broken blade in pieces upon the ground, her fallen love still bleeding into the sand, Leah turned and strode not for the exit, but for the entrance.  She stepped for one last time into the darkness between levels, and emerged to the open sky of Dungeon Square.

Edmund watched as the three remaining Dragon’s Claws stood in silence over their lost comrade.  He hadn’t known Ron, not like they had, yet still a tear found its way down his cheek.  To the only one he knew would listen, Edmund muttered the words, “You broke them.  A few weeks ago they were laughing and drinking and now… you broke them.”

“Everyone breaks, Edmund.”  Liam appeared at his side.  “Sometimes it takes a while to open the cracks, but everyone breaks.”

“I don’t,” Edmund said under his breath.  He set his jaw.  “You won’t break me.”

“Of course not.”  A sense of smug satisfaction filled Liam’s voice.  “You were broken long before you met me.  Probably something your parents did.”

“My parents loved me.”

“Loved,” Liam said.  “Interesting choice of tense.”

“You thought someone with living parents would do what I’m doing?”

“Okay, maybe not that interesting,” Liam replied.  “Adoptive parents?”

“Not the ones you killed.”

Liam paused and stared at Edmund, squinting with curious disbelief.  “You really are an intriguing specimen.”

“Isn’t that why you keep following me around?”

Liam snapped his fingers, said “Right you are,” and disappeared.

Edmund exhaled and looked up to realize the Dragon’s Claws were staring at him, Ron’s corpse and belongings long gone to feed the dungeon, a reminder of precisely what Liam got from all this suffering.  Christopher in particular scowled through the invisible wall.

“Well?  It’s your turn.”

Edmund blinked.  He wasn’t wrong.  For all they’d lost, the Dragon’s Claws had cleared their wave.  “You’re going to keep going?”

“If we didn’t, then Ron died for nothing.”

Edmund looked back and forth between Elya and Myra.  “And you two are okay with this?”

Elya stepped forward.  “It was my idea.”

Edmund sighed.  He knew he could handle another wave.  Thrax, he practically itched to know just how many more he could clear before they became a problem.  He’d wager more than five.

The Claws, on the other hand, wouldn’t survive another.  Edmund had seen it often enough wandering the streets of Harrowed’s Hearth.  They were angry.  They were mourning.  They wanted to prove it all mattered.  They’d push and they’d push until the dungeon pushed back hard enough.

“You should go home,” he told them.  “Grieve.  You’ve lost two members.  You can’t keep fighting at the same level.”

“The Depths will scale down for a group of three,” Christopher argued.  “The accords require it.”

“You’re not a group of three.  You’re a group of five down two members.  You’re used to fighting with Leah there to take out key targets, with Ron to patch up your wounds.  Go home.”

“And let you win?” Elya’s voice turned hostile.  “Yeah, don’t think we’ll take your advice on it.”

“Idiots,” Edmund muttered low enough to escape their notice.  “You’re all idiots.”  He shook his head.  With two of their number gone, the loot pool had shrunk.  The accords were clear: dead men and cowards won no loot.

“Well?” Elya pressed him.  “You going to take your turn or what?”

Edmund swallowed.  He looked for one final time between the three of them.  He knew exactly what would happen if he cleared one more wave, exactly how many more lives Liam would claim.

But could he afford to give it up?  If they wanted to suicidally keep pushing, was it his responsibility to stop them?  What if the extra loot made the difference in his mission to eliminate the Eternal Depths once and for all?  Edmund supposed he shouldn’t take that latter into account.  Willing as he was to throw his own life away for his ideals, he couldn’t justify bringing others to do the same.

Given the opportunity to save three lives here and now, did he have the obligation to do so?

The only thing Edmund knew for sure was that Liam could go fuck himself for putting him in this situation.  He decided if nothing else, he could choose to take no more part in it.

“Congratulations,” he finally said, his voice flat and devoid of joy or sincerity.  “You win.  Now go home.”

Christopher and Elya both opened their mouths to protest.  Myra flashed angry hand signals Edmund didn’t know how to interpret.  He ignored it all.

With one Dragon’s Claw dead, one gone, and three still alive to yell at him as he walked away, Edmund turned, left the competition behind, and stepped into the darkness.

Hivemaster Edmund Montgomery Ahab, The Crimson Hand

Aspects Unlocked: 23

Tier 1 Aspect: Wrath - Red Resonance

Level 2 - Provides access to the Brutalize active ability.

Tier 1 Aspect: War - Gray+ Resonance

Level 10 - Provides a lesser increase to all damage dealt.  Provides a lesser decrease to all damage taken.

Tier 1 Aspect: Elements - Gray Resonance

Level 9 - Provides access to the Firebolt spell.

Tier 1 Aspect: Solitude - Red Resonance

Level 10 - Provides a greater increase to constitution while fighting alone.  Provides a lesser increase to celerity while fighting alone.

Tier 1 Aspect: Perseverance - Gray Resonance

Level 11 - Gain health regeneration.  Gain greater health regeneration outside of combat.

Tier 1 Aspect: Madness - Prismatic Resonance

Level 17 - They’re watching you.

Tier 2 Aspect: Fervor (Madness and War) - Gold+ Resonance

Level 1 - Empowers the effects of Madness and War for each consecutive second spent in battle.

Tier 2 Aspect: Sorcery (Madness and Elements) - Gold Resonance

Level 2 - Provides access to the Smoke Lash spell.

Tier 2 Aspect: Obsession (Madness and Perseverance) - Gold Resonance.

Level 4 - Gain strength and agility for each consecutive day spent pursuing your obsession.  Gain mana for each consecutive month spent pursuing your obsession.

Tier 2 Aspect: The Recluse (Madness and Elements) - Gold Resonance

Level 4 - Empower the effects of Madness while alone.  Lessen the effects of Madness while accompanied.

Tier 2 Aspect: The Island (Solitude and Perseverance) - Gray Resonance

Level 6 - Grants greater resistance to over-time effects while in groups of two or fewer.

Tier 3 Aspect: Focus (Elements and Obsession) - Silver Resonance

Level 2 - Doubles spell damage when attacking a single target.

Tier 3 Aspect: The Challenger (War and The Recluse) - Silver+ Resonance

Level 1 - Provides access to the Challenge active ability.

Tier 3 Aspect: Artillery (War and Sorcery) - Silver+ Resonance

Level 1 - Provides access to the Firestorm spell.

Tier 3 Aspect: The Warmonger (War and Obsession) - Silver+ Resonance

Level 1 - Provides a greater increase to all damage dealt and a greater decrease to all damage taken while engaged in combat you initiated.

Tier 3 Aspect: The Philosopher (Elements and The Recluse) - Silver+ Resonance

Level 2 - Question the concept of truth.

Tier 3 Aspect: The Rift (Madness and The Island) - Gold Resonance

Level 5 - Provides access to the Rend active ability.

Tier 4 Aspect: The Tactician (War and The Philosopher) - Bronze+ Resonance

Level 1 - Deal double damage when executing a pre-crafted battle plan.

Tier 4 Aspect: The Target (War and Focus) - Bronze+ Resonance

Level 1 - Allows the marking of a single enemy as the target.  The target takes increased damage from all sources.

Tier 4 Aspect: The Fissure (Elements and The Rift) - Silver Resonance

Level 3 - Provides access to the Magma Fissure spell.

Tier 4 Aspect: Rebellion (War and The Rift) - Gold+ Resonance

Level 1 - Grants resistance to mind controlling effects.  Deal bonus damage to enemies above your level.

Tier 5 Aspect: The Breach (War and The Fissure) - Bronze+ Resonance

Level 1 - Provides access to the Break Through active ability.

Tier 6 Aspect: The Reckless (Wrath and The Breach) - Tin+ Resonance

Level 1 - Provides access to the Reckless Charge active ability.

Delver’s Mark of the Challenger

Empowers nearby dungeon monsters.  Significantly increases the value of loot chests you open.  Slightly increases the resonance of Aspects you unlock.

The Crimson Hand

Grants minor resistance to piercing damage.  Bestows ownership of the Dread Gauntlet of Kor’Ilinesh.

Hivemaster

Grants lesser tremor sense.  Bestows the right to challenge other hivemasters for control of their hives.

Trailblazer’s Sigil of the Azure Journeyman

The fourth step on the Path of the Azure Fox.  Increases agility.  Grants two windsteps.  Increases positional awareness.

Trailblazer bonus: Sharpens hearing.

Trailblazer’s Sigil of the Rootmother

Non-intelligent Strethian lifeforms will treat you as an ally.  Gain the ability to draw water and nutrients from fertile soil.

Trailblazer bonus: draw water and nutrients from all soil.

Sigil of the Slumbering Deep

Gain greater health regeneration.  Gain immense health regeneration while sleeping.  Gain water breathing.  Gain lesser dark vision.  Gain lesser subaquatic sonar.
