A chime rang out the moment Edmund left the darkness between levels.  No loot chest appeared, no new Aspect became available, but the wooden door across the empty room swung open.

Coarse sand crunched beneath his boots, a layer of the stuff coating every inch of the stone floor just thick enough to reduce traction and inflict a nasty scrape should he fall on bare skin.  At least it wouldn’t grow slick once blood began to spill.

The level itself—and Edmund took it to be the level in its entirety—contained only the single, square room, fifty feet across.  No traps, no monsters, no obstacles cluttered the space.  No decorations beyond the sparse torches spitting their black smoke hung upon the walls.

The first curiosity to draw Edmund’s interest was the entrance itself.  Rather than at the middle, Edmund found himself at the far right side of the room, nearly within arm’s length of the side wall.  The exit similarly sat to the side, leaving the entire chamber to stretch out to the left of the straightest path through.

Built into the cobblestone wall just next to the exit, Edmund spotted a vertical lever in the up position.  It begged to be pulled, but itself offered no explanation as to its purpose.  For that, he’d need to look at the wall.

Massive letters lay scrawled in black ink upon the right wall, large and many enough that Edmund couldn’t read them from the corner in which he stood.  He grumbled at the idea, wondering if Liam had purposefully placed the entrance so close to the wall in order to force delvers away from the safety of the entryway.

The theory made sense until Edmund remembered the chime.  By the accords, Liam couldn’t fake that.  Legally, the level was clear.  No new threats could present themselves.

Edmund still raised his shield and grasped his spear as he progressed with caution across the empty floor.  He found no pressure plates, no shifting shadows, no movement in the hanging smoke.  The further he stepped, the more the level appeared to be exactly what it seemed.  The very thought raised the hairs on the back of Edmund’s neck.

It took twenty minutes at his glacially cautious pace to make it the dozen steps into the room he needed to get a good look at the message on the wall.  The further he read, the more his immediate paranoia shrank and the more his long term trepidation grew.

Welcome, Delvers!

This floor works a bit differently than those you’ve conquered previously.  You may have already noticed that no monsters stand between you and the open exit.  Neither does any loot.  You’ll have to earn that.

The rules are simple.  Pull the lever by the exit to summon a wave of monsters.  You’ll have to clear at least one to satisfy the universe’s requirements for a new Aspect.  You’ll have to clear more than your opponents to satisfy this floor’s requirements for loot.

The value of the loot doesn’t increase with the total number of waves cleared, but the total value remains equal to what would’ve dropped for your teams combined.  The only difference is in who gets it.

Each wave will be stronger than the last, balanced, as per the accords, for differences in party size.  The team to clear the fewest waves forfeits their loot.  The winner takes it all.  To stop you from trying to stall each other out, all loot will be delivered to the winning team wherever they may be.

Before your little scheming minds get ahead of themselves, assume whatever you’re plotting won’t work out the way you want it to.  No agreeing to split the loot.  No flipping a coin.  No ties.  Bribery, blackmail, and extortion are all, of course, encouraged.

May the best team win.

Edmund thumbed the silver ring on his finger, ready to send his one daily message to Amelia then and there on the assumption she’d be his opponent.  Liam had forced them to work together enough times already.  It made sense he’d force them to oppose next.

Instead, the right wall faded away, leaving the painted text hanging in midair as it revealed the mirror to Edmund’s room behind it.  Staring in from the other side was no lone princess, but a full group of five armed and armored adventurers.

“Edmund!” a four-foot-six blonde with a bandolier of knives cheered at him.  “You look terrifying as always!”

A bespectacled man in blue robes rubbed at the bridge of his nose.  “Great.  Call him frightening.  Excellent way to start negotiations.”

“Oh, come off it, Chris,” a thin man with a mace argued.  “She’s being nice.”

“And being nice isn’t…”  Chris—Christopher to Edmund’s memory—sighed.  “Forget it.”

Edmund opted not to dig into whatever conflict had just bubbled up.  “Dragon’s Claws!” he greeted the team he’d shared a drink with back on the fifteenth floor.  “I was wondering when we’d run into each other again.”

“I wasn’t!” Elya, their bulky tank chimed.  “Don’t need the kind of attention you’ve got.”

Christopher nodded.  “The whole kingdom’s after you for kidnapping the princess.  Better we’re not seen together.”

“I won’t tell if you won’t,” Edmund offered.

The short knife-wielder—Edmund was pretty sure her name was Leah but didn’t want to risk using it in case it wasn’t—grinned.  “So how’d you escape the guards so long?  They’re down here in force looking for you.  And where’s that princess anyway?”

“Amelia and I work better alone.”

“I know the feeling,” Christopher muttered.

Edmund scowled at the comment under his helmet, but didn’t reply.  “As for the guards…”  He shrugged.  “Haven’t seen any.”  The thought rang alarm bells in his head, but he didn’t want to alert the Dragon’s Claws.  Why hadn’t he seen any guards?  The Claws would assume luck, but Edmund knew there could only be one real answer.

Liam was protecting him, probably both him and Amelia.

Edmund sighed.  He didn’t have time to unravel Liam’s machinations, not with the Dragon’s Claws looking on.

Their fifth and final member, a tall, mute woman with a crossbow that seemed to be made of glass, waved at him.

Edmund waved back.

“So,” the cleric, Ron, began, “how do we want to do this?”

“We’re going to split the loot,” Leah, the roguish pipsqueak, declared.

Elya gestured up to the wall between them, clearly reading text facing them rather than that Edmund saw.  “It says right there we can’t do that.”

“And you’re going to do what some words on the wall tell you?”

“Down here?” Elya asked.  “Yes.”

“It won’t work,” Edmund said, raising his voice to get a word in.  “If we agree to split the loot we’ll never see each other again.  The dungeon will make sure of that.  We need to follow those rules to the letter.”

“It’d make the most sense to agree beforehand who should win,” Christopher reasoned.  “That way we fight at most two waves, minimizing risk all around.”

“It should be us,” Elya said with no uncertainty.  “More fair to split six peoples’ loot five ways rather than one.  Wall says we can’t share the loot, but it endorses bribery.  We’ll pay you one share’s worth at the next hub.”

“Assuming I can take your word for it,” Edmund countered, “I’m not one sixth of the completion here.  I count two rooms.”

“But there’s six of—”

“He’s right,” Christopher interrupted her.  “If we assume he’s got a fifty percent chance of winning, his expected value is half the loot.”

Leah scowled.  “Expected value my ass.  Elya’s right.  He’s one sixth of our total, his share is one sixth of the loot.”

Edmund didn’t exactly know what expected value was, but he placed his odds of winning well above fifty percent.  The more the Dragon’s Claws bickered, the higher his estimation went.  “I’m going to fight more than two waves,” he stated plainly.  “Competition aside, I want the practice.  I want to test myself.  You clearly aren’t interested in bribing me high enough to walk, and blackmail or extortion will hardly work.  I’ve already got the entire kingdom after me.”

Elya reached for her weapon.  “You’d rather the entire kingdom and the Dragon’s Claws?”

Edmund shrugged.  “Are you interested in making an enemy of me after I’ve won six times my usual loot?  If I beat you here, doesn’t that prove I’m the deadlier foe?”

The massive tank scowled but didn’t reply.

Myra grunted and flashed a series of hand signals at Christopher.

The mage sighed.  “She’s right; we’re talking in circles.”  He looked up at Edmund.  “Is there any way we could convince you to let us win?”

Edmund shook his head.  The opportunity for such a massive influx of loot was too good to pass up, and even without it he’d go for several waves.  It’d been far too long since he’d had a good training session, and he had a lot of abilities to work into his fighting style.  Thrax, he still didn’t know what Brutalize did.

Christopher let out a breath and turned to his party.  “And I take it none of you are interested in  giving six peoples’ worth of loot to one person?”

Nobody answered.

He sighed again.  “That’s what I thought.  I guess we might as well fight the first wave and see what we’re up against.”

“Don’t assume different waves will include the same monster,” Ron warned.

“I wasn’t, I was—”  Christopher let out an exasperated breath.  “Nevermind.  We have to fight the first wave anyway, so let’s get it over with.”

Edmund collected his own thoughts as the Dragon’s Claws decided on their battle plan.  He wondered if the opposing team actually were on the other side of that wall, or stood somewhere else entirely.  The wall had originally been stone, and the painted text remained there.  When he placed a hand on it, it felt solid as ever.

His smoke made the most compelling argument, coating his room in a deep haze while leaving theirs free and clear.  That it remained meant The Recluse still considered him alone, good news for Edmund’s ability to win the floor.  On the other hand, he had no real way to confirm the Dragon’s Claws were even on the same floor.  For all he knew, he was talking to a bit of illusion magic.

Edmund dismissed that possibility within seconds.  Liam would never give up the opportunity to turn delvers against each other, and he’d picked the perfect set.  Edmund would never pass up the opportunity for good practice, and a full group of five prone to infighting would never concede outright.

There lay the danger.  Liam was counting on their stubbornness to get them to take risks they wouldn’t otherwise take.  Edmund thought it just might work.

He’d have to end it quickly.  Maybe, with a great enough show of force, he could demoralize the Dragon’s Claws enough to elicit a concession.  It was a long shot, but the best idea Edmund had to get the Claws out without getting hurt.

“We go one at a time,” Edmund said.  “Watch each other fight while we rest up between waves.”  A show of force would accomplish little if nobody saw it.

“We’ll go first,” Elya declared.  Edmund didn’t argue.

The group arranged themselves the corner closest to the lever, with Elya front and center flanked by Ron and Leah.  On the Elya’s signal, Myra pulled the lever.

The entrance and exit on their side slammed shut.  A circle of yellow light appeared at the center of the ceiling, shining down in a brilliant pillar onto the sand-coated floor.  Through it descended six humanoid figures covered head to toe in resplendent plate with gold trim.

Three bore kite shields and great hammers with a glimmering diamond at their center.  Two carried massive longbows that seemed to be crafted from sunlight itself.  The last held a scepter, gilded and topped with a jeweled crown.  Each of them stood nearly ten feet tall, and from their backs sprouted wings of golden light, none broad enough to physically support flight, but Edmund imagined they magically supported flight quite well.

Just as he began to consider that these beings didn’t seem particularly monstrous, the shield bearer closest to the Dragon’s Claws shouted, “The unholy shall be purged!”

“Fire!” Elya shouted.

A flurry of stiletto sharp icicles eerily similar to Edmund’s Blood Bolt rocketed through the air for the leftmost archer.  A clear glass bolt grew to the size of a javelin as it shot for the rightmost.  Both strikes blew clean through their targets’ solid plate cuirass, flesh, bone, organ, and cuirass again.

Only as the scepter wielder collapsed alongside the archers did Edmund notice the knife sticking through the slot in its helmet.  He hadn’t even seen Leah throw the thing, hadn’t noticed its flight through the air.  It’d simply… appeared embedded in the paladin’s eye.

The three shield bearers charged, hammers raised.

Elya met them with Ron at her side.

The former raised two shields, one a great tower with intricate silver trimming, the other a simple buckler with a small central spike that seemed to set the air around it aglow.  Each caught the swing of a war hammer.  Each knocked their attacker back.

Ron caught the final foe with an empty palm from which sprang a dome of silver light to match his opponents’ gold.  Rather than bouncing off, the hammer strike stuck to the cleric’s barrier, offering him the chance to counter with a swing of his mace.  The blow didn’t strike true, but it diverted the zealot’s shield long enough for Myra to get a shot through.

The monster hit the sand.

Neither Christopher nor Leah rested on their laurels, both finding opportunity in the foes Elya had recoiled.  The former summoned a block of ice around the leftmost paladin’s foot, forcing it to stumble awkwardly to the side.  The sudden shift in motion saved it from a knife that appeared in the air where its throat would’ve otherwise been.

“Damnit Chris!” Leah cursed.  “I had him!”

“I had him,” Christopher growled back.

“Leah left, Chris right,” Elya barked, raising her shields to catch another round of hammer swings.  She grunted with the effort.

Leah darted in, slipping under the left paladin’s guard as he tore free from the ice around his foot.  She buried a knife in the seam between its cuirass and chausses, but rather than stopping there, she used the hilt of the blade as an anchor point to spin around and up the thing’s back to plant a second blade in its throat.  The entire attack came in a single, practiced motion that she completed in under two seconds.

