Christopher needed four.  With whatever spell he’d opened with still on cooldown, he needed two castings to down the final foe.  The first supercooled the air around its left elbow, freezing the moisture in its flesh sufficiently to kill the thing’s shield arm.  He didn’t bother waiting for the shield to lower or the limb to fail, simply taking advantage of its immediate paralysis to sneak a wire-thin spike of clear ice through the eye hole of his foe’s helmet.  Its arm broke off as it hit the ground.

Edmund applauded politely.  Even with the moment’s miscommunication, they’d won the fight quickly and safely.  Half the enemies never even managed to get an attack off, and those that had were easily deflected.  Though the cracks may’ve shown in the Dragon’s Claws’ cohesion, said cracks were thin and harmless thus far.

“Alright, mister scary loner,” Leah shouted at him as she recovered her knives from the sandy floor.  “Your turn!”

Edmund pulled his own lever.

Of all his myriad tricks, Edmund knew well which would seem the most impressive.  It was a technique he’d used once and only once, back on the fourteenth floor against a man who’d tried to rob him.  His Madness then had fed upon the paranoia enchantment that’d pervaded that floor, but it had grown in the levels since, enough so that Edmund dared wield it again.

Only a single foe descended through the pillar of light, one bearing the same hammer and shield as those the others had fought.  Now in the same room, the smoke finally offered a name.

Dawnsworn Crusader

For a moment, Edmund wondered about his challenger’s mark.  It didn’t seem fair that he should fight more powerful opponents than his competitors, especially when they competed for the same pool of loot.  Edmund thought it right that his mark didn’t activate.

It didn’t.

Edmund let that concern fall away in favor of the next.  He focused his attention on the smoke that hung in the air, on how odd it was that it so dried his eyes and parched his throat without affecting those around him.  He envisioned Madness as its prismatic star at the center of his constellation, shining its every-color light through the dark behind his eyelids.

Edmund called, and the smoke answered.

“The unholy shall be pu—”

The crusader coughed.

It coughed again.

And again.

Its breath came slower, raspier as it gasped for air.  It found only smoke.

The crusader never finished its battle cry, never raised its war hammer, never even took a step.  Edmund looked on as it clawed at its throat, as the golden portal closed behind it and the pillar of light faded away to leave it in the same shadows as he.  Once it fell to its knees, he turned.

Edmund clasped his hands behind his back as he faced the Dragon’s Claws, standing in silent stillness as he gazed into the opposite room, not even bothering to watch as his foe choked to death on smoke only he and it could see.  To their eyes, he’d done nothing.  To their eyes, the crusader had simply died.

The Dragon’s Claws didn’t applaud.  Most just stood and stared, seemingly mute as Myra.  Leah covered her hanging jaw with a hand.  Christopher squinted.  Ron paled.

The dungeon had long reclaimed the crusader’s corpse before Elya broke the silence.

“What the fuck was that?”

Edmund gestured with an upturned palm.  “I believe it’s your turn.”

The Claws didn’t move.

Edmund’s eyes glinted with pride beneath his helmet.  Message received.  He realized as he flit his gaze about the room that he wouldn’t be repeating that trick any time soon.  The smoky haze had diminished considerably, clearing the air and weakening his most important Aspect.

It would need time to return.

Still, his show of force seemed to have landed as the Claws whispered sharp words of confusion and concern.  It didn’t stop them, but perhaps it’d give them pause when pause was needed.

On Elya’s signal, Myra pulled the lever again.  Seven foes descended this time.  The Claws dispatched them with ease.

Rather than two crusaders, Edmund’s next wave confronted him with a single one that stood yet a foot taller and wielded a massive greatsword that shone like a star from a point on its tip.  He slipped past its superior reach by wrapping a Smoke Lash around its wrist and yanking its guard open.

Its life-force fed the fingers of the Crimson Hand.

Back and forth and back and forth the parties went, trading waves and showing off with lethal efficiency.  By the third round, Edmund noticed the Dragon’s Claws were having fun.  By the fifth, he realized he was too.

“Pow!  Right in the face!”

“Show ‘em who’s boss!”

“Brutalize the fucker!”

They traded jabs and cheers in friendly rivalry as they blazed through wave after wave.  Edmund reveled in the exercise.

Brutalize, a favorite of Elya’s judging by her exclamations, proved remarkably effective for a Tier one ability.  The skill offered no damage outright, but when activated just prior to a killing blow, it evoked enough carnage to bring all surviving enemies to flinch, buying precious seconds to reposition or follow-up.  For that, it earned a spot in Edmund’s opening salvo.

By the ninth round he’d stopped experimenting and fallen into a routine.  The six crusaders it presented him represented the same party make up as the Claws’ first wave, a significantly greater challenge for a lone delver.  Edmund had yet to quite find himself in danger, but he found himself working harder and harder to keep up his dominant victories.

He’d long crafted his battle plan by the time the six crusaders made landfall.

Edmund Challenged the lone scepter wielder, singling out the dawnsworn he’d learned—to his earlier annoyance—to be a healer.  The ability only bought him a dozen seconds, but that was enough for a Smoke Lash to knock aside the healer’s guard to let through his next attack.

A single Firebolt, enhanced with Brutalize, its damage doubled by Focus for its single target and again by The Tactician for Edmund’s strategizing, melted the crusader’s helmet into the flesh of its face.  Foul-smelling smoke rose into the air as skin singed, hair burned, and eyes boiled.  The crusader went down screaming horrific agony.

Two of its fellows retched.

Edmund didn’t hesitate.  He marked one of the archers his next Target and dashed towards it, spending both windsteps to vault over the dazed shield bearers and slam the right of the two tips of his disassembled hyper-magnetic spear into its eye.

He kicked off the archer’s corpse before it had a chance to fall, directing the shift in momentum to launch himself into the second archer.  He swung his other spear tip at it.  The strike flew less accurately thanks to the chaotic movement, but Rend scored deep into the crusader’s chest all the same.

By the time they recovered from the shock of his Brutalize, only the three shield bearers still lived.

Edmund danced back, building distance the melee crusaders would have to cross.  As was their nature, they charged in with a fury, eager to purge the nonbeliever and avenge their fallen allies.

Edmund was ready.

The near-identical crusaders ran in lockstep towards him, a vulnerability he’d seen Christopher punish three waves ago before copying the strategy himself.

With a great boom the earth opened its maw, a jagged crack appearing perpendicular to the shield bearers’ charge at the perfect time and place.  Three wails of agonized rage echoed through the chamber as three front feet landed not on solid ground, but into the hungry jaws of the Magma Fissure.  As one the crusaders stumbled forward, catching themselves on the base of their shields as they frantically scrambled to escape the molten rock.

Edmund ran in.

His mana all but expended, he forewent his area of effect Firestorm to instead dispatch the zealots in melee range.  With his shield arm he batted limply held hammers aside and jammed the pointed fingers of the Crimson Hand into the eye slots of golden helms and drank of the life force within.  He only managed two such executions before the final crusader managed to escape the Magma Fissure and stabilize himself on one knee, flapping mightily with its golden wings and righting its shield to defend itself from Edmund’s advance.

Edmund Broke Through.

The force of the Tier five ability bowled the injured crusader over, leaving the gap between its helmet and its cuirass an open target for the Crimson Hand.  For lack of injuries to be healed, Edmund took the opportunity to further charge his Blood bolt.

“Woo!  Let’s go Edmund!” Leah jumped and cheered as Edmund caught his breath.

Myra applauded enthusiastically.  Ron clapped politely.  Christopher let out an annoyed sigh.

Edmund waved at them sheepishly.

“Alright.”  Elya clapped her hands together.  “Round ten?”

“Shouldn’t we take a break?” Ron asked, scratching the back of his head.  “That last wave was pretty rough.”

“We can handle it,” Christopher assured him.  “No way I’m letting some underleveled kid outfight us.”

Edmund grit his teeth at that.  The mage wasn’t entirely wrong, Edmund was by all counts a bit young and certainly underleveled for the Eternal Depths, especially as a solo delver, but he was far from just some kid.

The insult bothered him less than the emotions behind it.  Christopher clearly felt like he needed to prove something for some reason, both to Edmund and to Ron.  Edmund couldn’t quite fathom why, but reasoning aside, that kind of comment didn’t lead towards well-considered decisions.

Worse yet, none among the Dragon’s Claws argued the point.  One by one they nodded their assent, their jaws set with determination as they raised their weapons and repositioned for battle.  Myra pulled the lever.

Thirteen crusaders descended through the pillar of light, two healers, four archers, four shield bearers, and three of the giants wielding zweihanders.

The Claws set to work, successfully weaving their ranged attacks past the frontlines to take out the healers first.  By virtue of their numbers, Christopher, Myra, and Leah combined could only eliminate a single archer before the crusaders fired back.  Elya caught a golden arrow on each of her shields.

She caught the third arrow in her left thigh.

Elya grunted in pain and stumbled slightly but kept her footing, well accustomed to such injuries.  The Claws’ second volley took out the archers as the seven melee zealots made their approach.

No longer able to rest comfortably behind her frontline, Leah darted out, dodging around a great sword and a warhammer at once.  She didn’t bother attempting to strike, simply distracting those melees Elya and Ron couldn’t handle while Myra and Christopher did their work.

By the time the last of the tenth wave had fallen, Elya had two broken bones in her right arm and an arrow through her thigh.  Ron had a shattered wrist.  Leah’s left pinky lay bloody on the ground, the victim of a narrowly dodged great sword swing.  Ron reattached it with healing silver light.

“Okay,” Leah said as she rubbed at her new scar, “that might be it for us.”

“Don’t be a quitter,” Christopher snapped.

Ron rounded on him.  “She almost lost her hand!”

“But she didn’t,” Christopher growled.  “We’ve taken wounds before and we’ve kept fighting before.  We’ve had closer calls.  We can handle one more wave.”

Myra nodded.

“I’m with Chris,” Elya said.  “But let’s not get ahead of ourselves.”  She turned to Edmund.  “Your turn.”

Edmund scowled.  Christopher was going to get them all killed.  He contemplated giving up then and there, allowing the Claws to win just to stop them from taking on a fight they couldn’t handle, but his competitive tendencies rebelled against the idea.  He could really use the extra loot, and surrendering it because he didn’t trust Christopher’s judgment irked him.

The Dragon’s Claws would have to take care of themselves.

Edmund nodded his head and stepped towards his lever, crafting a new battle plan to at last make use of the Aspect he’d earned for clearing the first wave, the confluence of Wrath and The Breach.

Tier 6 Aspect: The Reckless - Tin+ Resonance

Level 1 - Provides access to the Reckless Charge active ability.

Even if Edmund discounted the vast slew of upgrades his other Aspects had undergone thanks to the new confluence, from his limited testing thus far, he knew The Reckless to be a force unto itself.  Reckless Charge required he expose himself to counterattack, but its cooldown reset and its damage increased whenever he downed an opponent as long as he used it again within a few seconds.

As a strategy it encouraged him to keep up the attack rather than backing off to reevaluate the battlefield, a risky endeavor but one that could snowball out of control under the right circumstances.

He’d find time to fully review his other level-ups later, but one particular change pulled at his attention.

Tier 1 Aspect: Madness - Prismatic Resonance

Level 17 - They’re watching you.

Edmund wasn’t entirely sure what that meant.  Of course they were watching him.  They’d always been watching him.

He pulled the lever.

Rather than directly matching the Claws’ second wave, Edmund’s tenth included no shield bearers at all, the three defensive melees replaced with three imposing great sword wielders.  He’d have a field of blades between him and the all-important healers, but he’d survived a field of blades before.

Edmund assembled his hyper-magnetic spear, lowered its tip, and Charged.

The Reckless propelled him forward, weakening his shield arm to further expose him as he rocketed across the sandy floor for the seven zealots.  He marked the healer as his Target, readied his Brutalize, and Broke Through the frontlines, taking a great sword across the chest as he passed.  It sliced clean through his cuirass, but only managed a shallow cut beneath.

It didn’t stop him.

With overwhelming force he bore down upon the cleric, smashing through its breastplate like paper and exploding its chest from within.  Blood and muscle and chunks of bone burst out in a cone behind it.  The six remaining crusaders flinched.

Reckless Charge reset.

Edmund didn’t bother yanking his spear free, sending it the mental command to disassemble before turning and Charging again.  He sunk his fragments of the Dread Gauntlet of Kor’Ilinesh into an archer’s neck and drained it dry.

Reckless Charge reset.

The segments of his spear caught up to him, latching on to his arms and legs in time for him to Charge again.  Bending his right wrist to expose the spear tip past his forearm, Edmund let his momentum deliver the point to the next archer’s face and Rent it in two.

Reckless Charge reset.

