Crap, crap, crap. This is bullshit.

His brain felt like floor potatoes.

He wanted the sauna. And a bed somewhere. And he was still pretending this was training for bokabv demons, so the loss hurt a little extra.

“All right,” he said. “Sorry about that, guys.”

[Alden:  Sorry, guys. I didn’t think about what might happen if there wasn’t another group trying to move forward at all. I think they would have had to attack us anyway in that situation, so I called for the run hoping we could make it. I’ll keep that in mind next run. We’ve still got time to do this! :) ]

That smiley face looks pissed off. Why is there a pissed off smiley?

“You’re so upbeat, Alden,” Everly said tiredly.

The wind had just quit again. He let his head flop over to the side so that he could see her face. They were both lying on the floor. Kon had let go of their legs, and he was sitting up with a sigh.

Everly’s silver braid was draped over the high neck of her gym suit. Her face was sweaty. Her glitter eye makeup had smeared sideways on one eye. “Honestly,” she said. “I’m going to keep at it, but I’m not in a nice mood anymore.”

“Oh,” said Alden. The floor felt pretty good against his face. “I’m faking it. I’m actually tired as shit and having unkind thoughts about our teachers.”

“I’m bright-eyed and happy as a Ground Shaper in mud,” said Kon. “I could eat a Brute for breakfast. Duper Supers and by my powers, I am amazing!”

Everly snorted.

“Galecourse is almost finished with her lap of the gym,” said Kon. “And you’re napping on our shield.” He slapped the bottom of Alden’s sneaker on the leg that was now officially broken and subject to movement restriction. “Stop lying around. Rabbits are supposed to be all bouncy.”

“I’m getting up. I’m getting up.”

Alden picked himself and his shield up in time to meet the gust.

“All right!” Kon said brightly. “Now we’ll grab those pieces of bicycle Writher made for us and go back to collect our people. We’ve got four functional legs to get there on!”

“Four is plenty for three people,” Alden said.

“Wanting more would be selfish of us,” Kon agreed.

******

Alden couldn’t figure out how the team ahead of them had failed to win, but shortly after he and Kon staggered over the starting line and got their legs unstiffened, Max’s group was right behind them. Lucille was now carrying Finlay and Astrid, who were both either dead or unconscious judging by their total immobility.

“What happened?” Alden asked.

Max glared at him.

“I was just making conversation.”

The Adjuster grimaced and rubbed a hand over his eyes. “I apologize. I’m…mentally drained and very disappointed in myself for missing something obvious. I’m going to get my water bottle.”

Alden watched him go, then looked curiously at Astrid.

“We’re telling you nothing!” she said brightly.

“Well, there’s a bold red line on the floor at the far end of the gym now,” said Lexi. “So I’m guessing there’s a surprise right before we get to the finish line.”

“Yes, but you don’t know what the surprise is,” said Astrid.

“It kills you. Like most gym surprises. So fun!” said Konstantin. “I can still make this work.”

He was waving two pieces of bicycle around like a madman.

“Let’s do it. Let’s go. My turn!”

Alden stared at him. “I feel like I’ve missed something you want to do. What’s the plan with the bicycle?”

Kon beckoned him closer like he was going to whisper a secret, then spoke in a normal volume:  “I can use my skill on the bicycle to envision it back in Big Snake’s ammo collection, then I use my spell on it. We all hold onto part of it and fly across the gym faster than we could run. Right to the finish line.”

Alden studied the bicycle. It was one of the rental ones available all over Anesidora that he’d used so often while he was in intake. Red, a frame that had probably been warped before Big Snake even threw it, now in two pieces thanks to Writher…

“That doesn’t look like an airplane. I do understand what you’re saying, but aren’t there some serious problem with this idea?”

“No! It’ll work.”

Did he get the hang of moving stuff with his powers when I was absent on Monday? Alden wondered.

From the last he’d seen of Kon’s private practices in the gym, the Adjuster had been great at making whatever he was casting on relocate, but the speed of the relocation ranged from pretty fast to nearly instantaneous. And what happened if the bicycle tried to repair itself while it dragged them across the gym?

Alden wasn’t sure whether he should be picturing a trip toward Instructor Waker that was like an amusement park ride with no seatbelts or some kind of horror show where his arms got yanked out of their sockets, and a bicycle brake cable pierced through him on its way to reconnect itself.

“I want to make sure everyone gets to try whatever they want to…”

“Kon flipped a one-ton weight on top of himself on Monday,” Lexi said.

“The bicycle might just drag us across the floor into a trap. Or rip itself out of our hands as soon as he starts to cast,” said Haoyu. “I guess we could tie ourselves to it, but I’d rather not bet on it until we have to.”

Kon looked at Everly.

She smiled at him and her shoulders drew up toward her ears. “Kon…have you figured out how to control the speed yet?”

He gasped. “Alden, do you see this? ! My brother, my girlfriend, and my dear friend of many years have no faith in me. But you believe, right?”

He had such an expectant look on his face. If he’d still been missing his front teeth, Alden might have had to agree to try out his scheme on the spot.

“Can we save that until after the next run when we’re a little more desperate?” he asked.

Kon groaned.

“Just one more run,” Alden said apologetically. “Maybe we can use your spell as a surprise move at the end?”

Kon groaned even louder.

“All right,” said Everly, “let’s—”

“Let’s kill instructor Klein,” said a voice from behind them.

Alden turned to see Max tapping a finger against the side of his water bottle while he watched what was happening on the floor.

“If there’s one less enemy, I think we can reach the end.”

******

******

“Olive is doing fine. By the time she graduates from the program, she should have the talents she needs to make her illusions realistic enough to trick some of us, as well as most dangerous Avowed she might encounter during the course of her career. For now, she can’t mimic scent. The sounds her illusions make tend to be slightly off. Those combined with other beginner insufficiencies should make it very easy for you all to tell which one is real.”

Torsten rubbed at the back of his neck. “I think it’s fair, as her instructor, to occasionally take her bait when she creates particularly exceptional illusions. I’m sending you all examples of her best work in class so far. When she matches or exceeds it, rewarding that with a false error on your part is an option.”

“There’s no replacement for the instant feedback a class like this provides,” Aparna said approvingly. “Helping them notice their own successes is as important as showing them how far they still have left to go.”

Torsten brought up the next wanted poster. In it, a tall, dark-skinned boy was holding his arms out to conspicuously cast a spell; his brown eyes were focused on a point in front of him while an athletic brunette girl with an eager smile on her face leaped toward him from the side. She slowed as if caught suddenly in a pool of water, her feet off the floor as she drifted.

“This is Max,” said Torsten. “He’s very good at persuading his classmates to run headlong into his zones, as you can see with Heloísa here.”

“I like him” Aparna said at once. What’s he doing here at Celena North? Send him to me at Naya Din.”

“I thought you might approve of an Adjuster with trapping spells up his sleeves. Max is exceptionally driven and intelligent. His spell impressions have been well chosen for providing him with utility while inconveniencing his enemies. Frankly, at his age and with his mindset, we might have been fast-tracking him through to uni if he were an S…as it is, facing some of his less mature classmates and accepting their strengths and advantages over him may be what he needs at this point in his life.”

“The rank gap is too wide for some B’s.” Melanie Carrison looked up from the personal notes she’d been taking on each student. “We had significant percentages drop out when I was a student here.”

“Drop-outs aren’t much of an issue these days among the B’s. We accept so few now. The ones who make it through are up to the challenge of classes full of more powerful competition. Usually.”

“I’m a few years younger than you, Melanie, so it must have been different,” said Hale, “but I remember the B’s in my classes being unusually ambitious and creative. They often outperformed higher ranked students, and most of them have become quite successful in whatever jobs they’ve found. Though they’re not as famous for their work as they should be.”

“People find solid performers who do their jobs without stunning successes or failures unworthy of attention,” said Klein. “Regardless of rank. It’s a shame that everyday effort and competence don’t get the appreciation they deserve in the current environment. That’s something I hope we prepare these young people for as well.”

Behind him, Heloísa had escaped from the first trap only to be caught on an invisible treadmill.

Torsten said, “Max took criticism he was given during his first application attempt seriously—too seriously, to be honest—and came back to us looking like a very different candidate six months later. That’s the kind of bold decision-making and stubbornness I look forward to watching develop into something special.”

******

******

“Let’s kill him,” Max repeated. “We’ll need at least eight people—one member of each team—so that nobody worries about another team stealing first while the rest of us are distracted. They kill Klein while everyone else draws the attention of Omega Scorpii Zhang, Omega Scorpii Demir, and Instructor Waker. When Klein’s down, even if he doesn’t stay down, his own personal restrictions mean…you know about his restriction.”

He was looking at Alden.

“Yes.”

[Alden: He means if a member of every team attacks Klein, then even if he has the option of coming back here to have his suit unfrozen like the rest of us, his own rules should make him leave us alone for a minute or two.]

The reward for a successful attack was a reprieve from the instructor’s own attacks. Surely him dying was successful enough for everyone involved to get credit.

Max nodded. “So we drop him, and then it’s every team for themselves as we make a break for the finish.”

******
