Erick smiled; an exhausted, happy expression. “I’m sure Killzone has started working out something. I’m going to have an Ophiel put an Imaging up near the Center Lane… Done.” He looked to his daughter, and said, “I missed you in there, but I’m glad you didn’t come. They would have murdered you right in front of me just to get a reaction.”

“Yeah…” Jane suddenly seemed to realize, all over again, the gravity of her father’s recent journey. “You’re right.” She looked on the bright side, saying, “But now they’re all dead, and they can’t threaten us ever again!” She chuckled, then joked, “Only the monsters are left.”

Erick let loose a large secret, like it was nothing, “There’s an entire people in the Brightwater. Hundreds of thousands, maybe. They’re going to be hard to deal with, but try not to interact with them too much, for now.”

Kiri, Teressa, and even Justine, all flinched.

Jane blinked. She was the first to recover. “… What?”

Poi interrupted the revelation, “Killzone is calling in all hands. Guardmaster Merit is doing the same. Jane, since you are asking to be involved, you’re needed. Report to Reform Point Three.” He looked to Erick, and asked a useless question because he had just been ordered to ask, “Can you exclude the Brightwater from your Imaging?”

“Uh.” Erick said, “Yes. Probably. But I’m not going to do that. To exclude that part of the Imaging would likely exclude all the people between the Imaging and the Brightwater. And that’s gotta be at least…” He glanced away. “Looks like 2 people. Well. I’m still not doing that.”

“Understood.” Poi said, “We’ll just put blackouts on parts of your Imaging.”

“Ugh. Poi.” Erick said, “The entire world will find out soon enough.”

“This is true. But not tonight. Those people are dangerous, Erick. They’re a society raised in the dark of the Shades. They make the monsters, and they would kill us all if they could.”

Jane turned to Justine, asking, “Who are these Brightwater people?”

All eyes turned to the former shadeling in the room.

“What are you looking at me for!” Justine honestly said, “I don’t know about people in Brightwater! All I ever knew was that it was off limits.”

“And this is true,” Poi said, “The Shades kept the people in the Brightwater out of the light for good reasons. Those people are the monster makers, and the plague spreaders. The arcanaeum there lives up to its name very well; Truedark.” He said, “And now they have no masters. They’re free to escape into the world to integrate into other societies and harm whoever they wish to harm.”

Erick said, “Everyone seems so worried about them but they didn’t seem that bad.”

Poi frowned directly at Erick, and Erick noticed. Poi said, “And what about when that guy threatened all of us if you didn’t give him what he wanted?”

Erick turned stern, as everyone else waited for the answer.

Erick said, “It only took me a single hour to track him and his organization down, and then I chopped the head off of that couatl myself. That plot died with him.”

Poi said, “And what about the people who are not you? What will happen to those normal people, the non-archmages, when the Brightwater does that to others?”

Silence filled the room.

Erick said, “Then they will be dealt with accordingly.”

Jane softened, as she saw what Erick had been forced to do. She said nothing, but she put a warm hand on his shoulder, and held him for a moment.

“I’m fine, Jane.” Erick sat back in his recliner. “But I’m really tired.”

Poi said to Jane, “You’re needed at Reform Point Three.”

“I can spend a little more time here.”

“Yeah. But…” Erick tensed, as though his muscles ached, then he relaxed. “I’m fine. I set up a good dozen layered [Ward]s across the house with Ophiels just now, when no one was looking.” He smiled, as though he had made something simple out of a complex problem. “I layered the house with defensive [Ward]s, of all kinds. A single [Ward Destruction] won’t break these walls.” He frowned, realizing he had still not done enough. “But a [Chaining Ward Destruction] would still get through… Blast.”

“It’s okay, sir.” Poi said, “You’re not the only one defending yourself anymore.”

Erick smiled wide and laughed, though his eyes remained shut. “Right! That’s the better solution, anyway!”

Jane nodded, then said, “Okay. Then I’m off. I’ll be back later.” She leaned down and hugged her father, saying, “I love you, dad.”

Erick hugged her back, saying, “I love you, Jane. I softened the place up for you, so swing for the fences.”

Jane laughed.

- - - -

The night was long, but the terrors were already mostly dead.

Mostly.

An attack of Dark Reachers managed to breach three streets into Spur, along the western edge, before they were discovered. Their major differences from the normal Moon Reachers were their downfall. They disintegrated magical defenses with a touch. If it weren’t for that, they would have gotten much, much further into the city. Their incursion still managed to get through four buildings and leave behind forty-eight dead before it was stopped.

Two Dark Reachers were killed by the Guard. The Guard reported them speaking to each other, coordinating efforts and supporting each other, though their reports could not be considered wholly reliable, as the guards were thoroughly beset with [Thought Fog]s. Three Reachers escaped, but that number might have been low. Even a [Witness] conducted on the spot failed to uncover the full truth of the incursion.

Ophiels displayed the power of orchestrated light-based attacks to an awestruck Spur, when Erick easily dispatched a double-size Toxic Hydra with wings that had flown out of Ar’Kendrithyst, spotted Spur, and decided to fly north. That 7-headed, mansion-sized monster now laid halfway between here and there, its body spilling green and grey goo out into the dark night. Eventually, Erick cleaned the corpse, though it took a good twenty minutes to get through all that radiation.

Killzone and the Army rescued dozens of adventurers who were found inside the abandoned hallways of the Shades, looting as much as they could but failing to understand that even though the masters were away, the dangers were still active.

Most adventurers, as soon as the itch of the anti-[Teleport] Blessing had vanished, vacated the city all on their own. On any other night, they would have likely gone right to the bustling taverns and started drinking and telling stories. But this was still Shadow’s Feast. Every bar or otherwise was still closed. The wardlights all over the city were still dimmer than they had any right to be.

A few illegal parties did start in a few illegal gathering sites, anyway. The Guard broke those parties, and sent those people over to the one place that would take them: The Adventurer’s Guildhouse.

The Guildhouses had both been packed with people who started their nights there, in preparation for something to happen, since something always did happen on Shadow’s Feast. When that ‘something’ turned out to be the destruction of almost every Shade of Ar’Kendrithyst, the people remained calm, as though someone was playing a trick on them. Some instantly moved to verify.

Some had been staring at the Dead City since the night began. They had already verified the truth everyone else was just now hearing. They had already [Teleport]ed directly into the Dead City, directly where they wanted to be. They began looting. Some of them were wildly successful, having gathered enough wealth for themselves in a few uninterrupted minutes that others would take centuries to amass in any other way. Some only found a quick death, as the entire city had shifted and changed in the wake of this year's Shadow’s Feast. Sometimes literally. Some [Teleport]ed onto walkways that were no longer there, or into the maws of monsters that should not have been there.

Sirocco Zago sent her best team into the undefended city the second she saw the Barrier come down and she connected enough dots to understand what she was seeing. She acted well before any official notices came down from on high. That team managed to make it into the Library with little incident. They made it out with similar grace, carrying the knowledge of both the Old and the New Cosmologies. But some texts were missing from their divined locations. Instead, they found almost all of those tomes stacked in a bundle just past the main doors to the place, on the right-hand side, on the floor, beside a shelf full of nothing-literature; mostly self-help books. (Those self-help books had to be a joke. They were right inside the entrance to a Shade’s domain, after all. They were a taunt, right? They had to be a taunt.)

Hours after his arrival back in Spur, a little bit before midnight, Erick and Silverite shared a tense, tactical conversation, inside of a [Sealed Privacy Ward], inside his library. She asked fast questions. Erick answered quickly. Five fast minutes, and the talk was over. She said that she’d be back later—

Erick didn’t let her get away that fast. He asked, “Who does the Black Star go to when the user crosses it?”

Silverite regarded Erick, sitting on his recliner, half-awake and yet fully cognizant.

She told the truth, “Me.”

“Because you’re the Head Priest of the Black Order, and that’s to whom the Black Star always returns.” Erick expected as much, but it was nice to hear her confirm. “But then that means you give it to Quilatalap. Somehow. For some reason. Why did no one tell me about him? Why didn’t you tell me about him?”

Silverite breathed, then said, “I almost did. Once. Back when I asked if you wanted to learn more about necromancy, back when you encountered that Flare Couatl for the first time. I told you that some necromancers are good. I almost offered again, when you asked after Blessings and Curses.

“Quilatalap is one of the very few good necromancers.”

Erick needed more than that. Silverite saw, and she obliged.

“After many years of reparations and then settling into Ar’Kendrithyst well before my time, Quilatalap regained his title as the Most Holy Necromancer of Koyabez’s Peacekeepers. That is why I give him the Black Star whenever it comes my way, for that is my duty under Koyabez.” Silverite frowned. “But that man has an inevitable desire to teach, and those he teaches are not who anyone should accept as students. That man’s view of life, and thus the perspective of his students, is much too fluid. It is here that he and I have always had our major disagreements.

“About half the time, Quilatalap’s students always end up viewing life as something less than holy. Almost every dangerous necromancer to ever threaten this city or any other place in this world has had a connection to Quilatalap, and yes, that includes Messalina. I thought she was one of the good ones, too, but...” Silverite went silent for a self-hateful moment. She continued, “Almost every single one of those misguided students of his that show up in Spur, causing trouble, I kill, myself.” She glanced at the Silver Prism on Erick’s chest. The metal of the object had become more like metallic glass, and partially transparent. She looked up at Erick’s face, and said, “But, as always, it appears that Quilatalap is still useful to My God. Quilatalap helped you learn how to make that Silver Prism, and that means a lot, Erick. It means a lot, but not everything.

“So I will give you some advice, and I hope you will take it: Do not seek the archlich. Don’t talk about him to whoever might come after today. I could do without that man in my life for a while. We all could.”

Erick asked no more questions. Silverite gave no more answers. She blipped out of Erick’s house without saying another word.

- - - -

Erick rested, lightly. Poi woke him up a few times to kill more monsters that had come over the walls of Ar’Kendrithyst. There were a few giant centipedes. One more flying Toxic Hydra. Several Umbral Wyrms. But that was it. Other people took care of the other threats. Erick even had a chance to see the other archmages of Spur in action.

Obsidian, the one with the dark-spike orb [Familiar], copied Erick’s [Luminous Beam] attacks against a flying squid. Both things were odd to see, but that guy was good at figuring out other magics. Maybe he was a Copy Mage, too? Perhaps.

Wave, the one with the swirling water [Familiar], turned kilometers and kilometers of the sands outside Spur into an ocean of vibrating sand and glass and hard-edged stone, swallowing a horde of shadowolves and giants made of shadows. When Wave was done, even the corpses were gone.

Opal did not make an appearance, though. That was kind of disappointing. She was probably busy elsewhere.

And then the battles were over. It neared 6 am.

And though the morning was minutes away, the world outside was still only lit with starlight and bonfires, and lightwards too dim to truly push back the darkness. The entire sky was still dark, as though the sun was not just over the horizon.

And, yet, it was.

Erick stood outside of his house, with his family, and his friends, and Justine. Erick wondered about Justine for a moment, about her future. If she was to be a spokesperson for bridging the gap between what had been, and what will come, then she was certainly poised to do just that. But how would all of that happen, exactly?

The sky shifted.

Erick turned his attention to the East, and all around.

The Triumph of Light came upon the world all at once.

