The sun broke the horizon, literally, as the first rays of True Sunlight reached the upper walls of Ar’Kendrithyst. Cracks spread through the dark firmament above. The firmament broke. Darkness scattered, becoming shattered fragments to fall from the Edge of the Script, into the clouds, becoming nothing but mana well before it touched the sands of the Crystal Forest below.

Like someone turning on the lights in a dark room, shadows rustled away, back under cover.

Light took hold of the world. Lightwards brightened. Fires turned radiant. Starlight vanished under the power of the sun, as the endless blue sky returned.

Teressa gazed upon the Dead City with the Kill Notification for the Witch hovering to the side of her sight. Tiny tears flowed, and she did not care. She was full of joy, and sorrow, and memories, and hope.

Kiri cheered, as was customary. Erick heard many people cheering all across the city, some with voices, others with firecrackers, or spells shot into the sky, or the striking of drums. Erick cheered with his Ophiel, who took up a cheer of their own, booming with the sounds of something that was similar to a violin on steroids, or maybe a klaxon, and mixed with their own ineffable voices.

Poi pressed his hands to the sides of his head, not wishing to hear so much cheer when there was so much work to do. He still had a good twenty lines of thought radiating from his head.

Justine just watched the Dead City in the far distance, her eyes dry, full of pain, but also with a gaze toward the future.

Jane was still out there, somewhere, still helping to sort out the mess Erick had just come from, but she’d be back soon enough. In the meanwhile, Erick would make breakfast, and he’d save her some for when she came back. And then she’d likely go right back out, into the crush and danger, to come out again with glory and victory.

Erick almost turned to go back inside, but then...

He looked to the Dead City, far to the south. Something glittered on the wall. Erick knew what it was from here, but he lightstepped an Ophiel closer to get a better look.

He had been right. A Kendrithyst mimic had alighted on the walls of the Dead City. It was fifty meters tall and yet still it was dwarfed by the size of the walls of Ar’Kendrithyst. As Erick watched, the great beast settled down on the wall. It had moved up there to better soak up the morning’s light, glowing brighter with each passing second. More red. More purple. More radiant. A second Kendrithyst mimic stepped up into the light, onto the walls not a kilometer from the first.

Justine saw. Everyone saw. But Justine was the first to give voice to what she was seeing. She exclaimed, “Oh my gods.”

Erick asked Poi, “Those things are level 75. Do I have to kill them?”

“Ah. Shit. Uh. No.” Poi’s eyes went wide. “Okay. It seems that the real looting of Ar’Kendrithyst is going to happen in three… two…”

Erick watched, as someone blipped into the sky near the first Kendrithyst Mimic. They blasted the beast with a [Fireball] derivative. The beast’s natural [Reflection Aura] bounced the spell right back at the caster, knocking him out of the sky, and into the waiting arms of another flier.

Soon, hundreds of people were in the air.

Ah. Some of them would likely die.

But those Kendrithyst Mimics surely died faster. Or… maybe not. One of the beasts released a concentrated beam of light, similar in shape to Erick’s [Luminous Beam], but colored red and purple. That line of light lanced out across the attacking horde of adventurers, bouncing off of a few, clipping a few others, but missing most. Most adventurers retreated. Some remained.

Ah. That was some drama over there. Well. They got into it themselves, right? Erick did not intervene.

Erick turned his attention to other matters, “Are the minotaurs out yet? What about the adventurers stuck in there?”

Poi answered, “Yes, and yes, for those who wanted out. The minotaurs are actually at Candlepoint, now.”

“Uh… Okay?” Erick did not want to deal with Candlepoint right now. He said, “Uh. I’m still going to bed after breakfast.” He looked to Poi, “Uh. If I can?”

Poi, smug as a bug in a rug, smiled, and said, “Nope!” He added, “But hey! I’m wide awake and well rested, so that’s good enough.”

- - - -

Yggdrasil grew at the bottom of two different lakes. It had been unnaturally dark at the bottom of one for a while, but at the other, it was always dark, and monsters prowled in those depths. They tried to bother Yggdrasil, but well-placed, spiky [Prismatic Ward]s were more than enough to dissuade them.

At the return of the light, he relaxed.

At the return of his creator’s voice, he perked up.

‘Hello little gu— Oh! You grew some, didn’t you! Very nice.’ Erick said, ‘Okay. So. Let’s get this worked out better… You have [Scry], yes? Go ahead and use it, or. Here. Let me help you. Oh! There you go. Yes! Just like that. Now try using this over here. Yes! Just like that. Hello.’

Yggdrasil gazed upon his creator.

His creator was small.

And then the feathered-one burst into view, singing such nice songs as he alighted upon the creator’s shoulder. Erick patted Ophiel, saying small niceties, as both he and the [Familiar] waved to Yggdrasil’s [Scry] orb.

Erick sent, ‘Hello. This is me. And now you can watch me and see where I am! You can participate in daily activities to a certain degree, if you want. Your main body is a bit far from here, but that’s not a problem for you.’

This was true. His body might be far, but distance didn’t really matter to [Scry].

Distance didn’t really matter to Yggdrasil, either.

… It helped that his secondary body was only a few kilometers from his Creator. Yggdrasil took great solace in this fact, as he watched Erick go about his day.
