If you need to train specifically for Physicality or Reflexes or Toughness your ass is as good as fucked from the get-go. There are too many Pathbearers who don't want to, uh, path… bear…

Too many of these fucking cunts want to be renowned warriors. They want the glory without the bloodshed, but the thing about being a warrior is that it's mostly bloodshed. Shoving dried shit back up your ass and clenching it until it turns into a diamond. Do you get my point?

Huh? You don't? You know what, never mind.

Look, girl, I'm saying that you don't get to train. You have a lifestyle now. When you wake up, you're going to be fighting, preparing, and training your Physicality, Reflexes, and Toughness. You're going to do this every single day!

What bothers other people is going to be routine for you if you want to be any good at all. If you want to be here in 100 years, you need to be worth a damn!

“Oh, civilization is gonna keep me protected,” some stupid motherfuckers might say.

Let me tell you something, girl. I remember the Dust King. Yeah, I remember this place before the Republic popped up. I remember all of it. I knew some of the Ascendants before they were the Ascendants. I know things about them that they wouldn't tell you in a million years. Things that should get me thrown into a pit.

And the reason I've not been thrown into any pit is the same fucking reason why I'm still here after 700 years! It's because I'm the Unseen Fucking Draw!

Ah, shit, I'm sorry for yelling. Look, I'm gonna be straight with you. You put up with a lot of my shit. I whore, I drink, I steal, I've murdered people just because I felt like murdering people. I'm not gonna be entering any kind of holy kingdom for the faithful of some god or another.

You're the best thing I've ever done, Jessica, so I'm telling you this straight. You're a swordswoman. You've done everything I've asked, dealt with all my unreasonable bullshit, so I'm going to be very, very honest with you: You don't get to have another life, even if you find some dumb cunt you want to have kids with someday and actually become a mother. You're going to continue living this life, even if you're in love or you never fall in love, but you get really addicted to drugs or whatever.

Because guess what? You're gonna be the most dedicated fucking junkie in the world.

You're gonna get up, and you're gonna swing that sword, and you're gonna do your godsdamn weight training. You're gonna dodge, and you're going to take the beating, and you're gonna work your skills every day. It's a lifestyle.

There is no other life. None. You've decided to be a martial Pathbearer, so this is the way it's gonna be, this way, and that's it. It doesn't turn any other way. You want to live an easier life? Well, you shouldn't have picked up the sword. The moment you did, you were damned and blessed, because all those clowns who think that their so-called civilization is going to keep them protected are just gonna suffer and die.

There is no one else. There is no one else. There is no one else. Get that through your thick skull: You are all you got, so you start training all the time now, now, now, never tomorrow, now.

Remember what I told you: Physicality, Reflexes, Toughness. All three must stay balanced. All three must advance at the same time. All three must keep growing forever. They're the foundation of your existence.

Sword Proficiency doesn't work if you're a cripple, now, is it? I've met some pretty good swordsmen. I've killed some pretty good swordsmen. Swordsmen who made me look like a drunk child. I had no right to beat him, but they had no right to let their skill go to waste like that with garbage Physicality and Toughness.

You only get to move on to other skills once these foundations are stable.

Your Sword Proficiency comes second. No conditioning and no stamina means that you swing two beautiful swings, and then you gas out and you get murdered. That'd be a real tragedy. I didn't train you to be a tragedy. I trained you to be a fucking Legend, and you're gonna make it there! You hear me? No other way. There's going to be a lot of people telling you how technique is king or speed is king or whatever bullshit mystical skill or art that they pulled out of their ass is king. No, nothing is king without your basic attributes. Your foundation is that which decides all other factors. It doesn't matter if you're smart or strong or a genius or whatever. You have no capability to do anything with that until you have an unbreakable foundation.

So this is it. Where everyone else is gonna be treating themselves like an athlete or a swordsman or whatever goofy bullshit they call it, you're gonna treat yourself like you're a monster. You're gonna treat yourself like you own the world, and you intend to eat every unworthy motherfucker who gets in your way. And after you can do that, you can start getting clever, because every part of you, including your intelligence, including all the investigating you do, including all that creative bullshit you can pull in the middle of a fight, is contingent on you not choking on your own lungs because you didn't have the stamina to last.

Now, you'll train that stamina by grabbing me a drink from that tavern we were at a while ago, the one with the topless goblin waitresses. Yeah, that's right, make a run for it. I don't give a shit if it's a day away by airship, Jessica. You got, like, I don't know, an hour.

—Varghan the Unseen Draw to Jessica Hawgrave

385

Contender [II]

Shiv knew that suffering from kidney stones was a special kind of hell. Powerful Slayers in the Guild had to bow out for entire days from it if they'd spent too much of their mith on gambling to pay a Biomancer to remove them. Beyond their absence also came the screams, prayers for death, and howling shrieks that shook the otherwise serene nights in Blackedge. Even when Shiv was digging through trash in an alley, he still felt a measure of near sympathy for the poor bastards.

Just what kind of agony could make a warrior scream like that?

On this day, he had gained an answer, and it was an answer he never wanted to experience again.

“Endure!” Valor bellowed. “Endure, Shiv!”

But Shiv was in no condition to respond. It took all his fortitude not to throw up on himself, for so great was his suffering that every body he controlled was also curled in like a dying bug. His Pillar of Orichalcum was still active, growing ever brighter and ever tougher, but doing nothing to spare him from the pain. For his face was a chasm of gore; his lower jaw had been cleaved free from his body by a latching hook. The one responsible had since traveled down his throat into his stomach, carving a bloody warpath until she finally gashed through his digestive system and into his kidneys.

From there, he experienced true hell.

“The monkey pulls the peaches upstream!” Jessica shouted from inside his body. Her words were muffled and then drowned out as Shiv began spasming like a fish on land. There was little else he could do to express his pain, for she had just wrenched the entirety of his reproductive system up and into his bladder. “The dragon treads the river!”

An explosion of shrapnel tore through his insides, and Shiv blacked out and died for the fourth time—or at least his physical body stuck inside Jessica's dimensional coliseum did. As the sweet nothing took him, Shiv's other bodies were freed from the shackles of pain, and once more he could command himself, at least for a while. It wouldn't take long for Jessica and Valor to demand another resurrected body for his next Toughness training session.

“Holy… shit…” Shiv shuddered, taking a moment to recompose himself. “Why did I ever go looking for help from this bitch? That was a mistake… I'm a felling idiot. They’re just torturing me to death over and over.”

Pillar of Orichalcum 470 > 472

A grievous groan escaped from him as he stared at the notification in disbelief: All that suffering for two meager levels. He missed being easier to kill. At least at some point, he would just drop dead from a nicked artery. Now Jessica could keep going and going, working him like a butcher carving meat from a carcass, and his body would just keep taking it.

“And it hasn't even been an hour yet. Not even an hour.” A humorless, near-mad laugh slipped out of Shiv. He had little issue with pain. In fact, he was more closely acquainted with suffering than practically anyone else he knew, but there was something very unique about having a shrunken Legend terrorize your insides. “Alright, Shiv, get your shit together. You wanted this. Maybe not her doing a kidney stone routine inside me, but enough Toughness that we can shrug off whatever Roland throws our way.”

He gave himself a moment to recover—but even that respite was denied him as someone tapped him on the shoulder. As he looked behind, he realized he was focusing on the wrong body. His Severed Shadow was still with Marikos and the others. As the Descenders and Brokers commingled, Shiv saw only Tall Ben looking in his direction. The Hydra slithered one of his many armored heads closer to Shiv, regarding him with a wary stare.

“You alright there, Deathless? Saw you shaking and twisting earlier.”

At the same time, Shiv figured out which of his bodies actually got a tap on the shoulder. Back in the capital, Marcus had collapsed against the library table and started shaking like a leaf. Somewhere in the throes of his torment, he knocked over the small mountain of textbooks he had accumulated and caused them to crash against the ground. All around him were students here to study.

“Hey, are you okay?” a tall elven girl in a mage's robe asked, looking down at him.

Convenient, Shiv thought. I can provide the same reply to both.

“Yeah, just fine. Had a little bit of a kidney episode, but it’s passed now.”

Tall Ben's snake-like eyes narrowed. “Kidney problem, eh? That's strange, seeing as this body of yours doesn't even have a kidney.”

The elf just winced. “Oh, I'm very sorry to hear that. Do you need to see a Biomancer? I can bring you to the local hospital.”

Both of Shiv's bodies shook their heads.

“That's because it isn't this body having a kidney problem. One of my resurrections is… training.”

“Trainin’?” Tall Ben asked.

“No need,” Marcus slurred, giving the fellow student a smile. Shiv caught a slight swelling of warmth in her core. “I’m better now. Very kind of you to notice, Adept…”

She grinned. “Not Adept. Just Initiate. Are you sure you don’t need to see a Biomancer? It really isn’t far, and I’m training to be a Jump Mage. It can be good practice for me.”

Marcus just shook his head, but kept his demeanor pleasant. “Ask me again in a couple of hours, and I might take you up on that. Right now, I got some more cramming. Always more cramming.”

And as he bent down to start picking his books back up, he saw the elf brush a lock of raven hair away from the front of her face as her eyes lingered for a while longer.

Holy shit, Shiv muttered internally, once again flabbergasted at Marcus Unblood’s natural charm. I can’t believe it. I know I was cursed and stuff, but not a single girl on Blackedge ever looked at me half as nicely, even foreigners on visit. What is it about this guy? He doesn't look that good. He's physically crippled. Does he provoke some kind of wounded puppy thing in girls?

“Deathless?” Tall Ben said. “Was talking with you. Ya didn’t reply.”

“Yeah, sorry, I'm trying to wrangle multiple bodies at once again, and my Multitasking is pretty tired out. You know how it is. Wait, do you? I assumed so, since you have twelve heads.”

Tall Ben nodded once. “Strange skill. Makes you forget who you are sometimes. But it gets better with more practice. But if you want some advice to make it easy for you to tell which body is which, I'd say that you want to make them feel different first.”

“Feel different?” Shiv asked.

“Yeah, make a few bodies bigger, make a few bodies smaller, make one have more arms, another have multiple eyes, things like that. Make them separate in some way. If all your bodies are generally alike, of course, it's gonna take some time to tell which is which. They all feel the same, don't they? They all shape the same, they all look the same. Difference helps. Really does.”

And just like that, some useful advice fell straight into Shiv's lap. “You know something, Legend Ben? That’s good advice. Thanks.”

Tall Ben managed a very snake-like smile, and one of his other heads came by to nudge the visor of his helmet in a gesture mimicking someone tipping their hat. “Every guest wishes to make their host a happy man. Fact you make a mean potsticker is plenty motivating for me too.”

Shiv grinned. “Every host wishes to see their guest fed.”

The Hydra and the Deathless both hummed a laugh—and continued to take each other’s measure.

Tall Ben spoke slowly and tried to sound simple, but he might be the sharpest among the Descenders' contingent, and he clearly suspected something of Shiv, for the Hydra's core resonated with suspicion more than any other emotion. The Descenders were still watching him, and Tall Ben, for one, wasn’t anywhere near as charmed by Shiv as Marikos was.

Which, paradoxically, made Shiv appreciate the Hydra.

“A tyrant despises a good adversary, but a good warrior cannot do without,” the Harbinger commented. “Should we overstep, he will act. He, or Tallowine. The Descenders are warriors, but social warfare carries as much shed blood as steel on Integrated Earth.”

As Tall Ben returned to commingling with the other dragons, Shiv departed from his cooking zone near the Abyssal gateway and set about recruiting everyone he could to prepare him for the coming duel.

