A horrific snapping noise Roland understood to be the pancreas and the gallbladder getting smeared together made him almost spit out his tea. Beside him, Rose winced and face-palmed, while their daughter-in-law gripped a pillow with white-knuckled horror.

“W-why are they doing that to him?” Isabella whimpered. “Should—should we help him?”

“No.” Roland sighed. “I’m not the kind to disrupt another Pathbearer’s training. He should face me at his best.”

The Young Lady of House Stormhalt looked at Roland aghast. “Training?”

“Toughness,” Roland replied. He squinted at the Culturist in particular—who was also sneaking glimpses back at Roland. “He’s trying to make himself more durable. A reasonable thing to improve, since he will be taking the majority of the hits in our bout.”

“A lack of mobility and spatial magic superiority will do that to you,” Rose commented. Roland smiled at his wife; even if she'd had lost most of her skills and levels, all that experience she possessed was still there. “Poor fucker might be able to move fast, but he’s only got time magic and physical acceleration on the table.”

And Roland had many, many more options.

But there was something to be said about Shiv's staggering Toughness. Jessica Hawgrave was known as a butcher of Frost Giants, and her might and Sword Proficiency were a nightmare—so much so that Roland’s main thought when it came to fighting her up close was to align his neck with her sword to speed up the inevitable beheading. Even with all his Unique Skills, that woman was as close to death with a blade as any could be.

Said woman was also hammering away at Shiv like he was a raw piece of iron—and hitting him with actual strikes as well. She could still hit him harder, but not without destroying more of the Gate.

“Hm,” Roland said. “Rose. I’m going down into the vault for a moment.”

His beloved shot a brief look at him, and her mouth opened. “You’re getting the Regret, aren’t you?”

“I’m half-considering risking a day-Delve with how much of a beating he’s shrugging off,” Roland replied, half-jokingly. And it was only half because he could hear the Deathless laughing in between the cries of pain and playful mercy.

“That worried, huh?” Rose said. “You know, you never took Harlon this seriously when you sparred.”

That comment brought a swell of pain, lament, and pure, ineffable rage to Roland. “He’s not him. Not even close. Harlon… I…” Roland shook his head. “Harlon would look at that boy now, and something in him would break. Because a part of him always pretended to be harder than he was, even when things hurt him bad.”

“And Shiv just is,” Rose finished.

“And Shiv just is,” Roland agreed.

Because beyond the training, the instinct, the experience, and the skills, some people were just made for violence and struggle.

The Starhawk saw it in Roland.

And now Roland saw it in Shiv—more than anyone else he knew, even Adam.

This was why Udraal wanted me to… Roland closed his eyes. Damn it. Damn it all.
