He barely made it a few meters before one of Uva's strands latched onto him. “I see you and Roland have picked a most opportune time to address your grievances,” she said with a hint of judgment.

“Oh, hey, I was just about to come looking for you. Guess you saw the poster?”

“I was aware the moment you two started slamming your proverbial privates into each other like two jousting jockeys.” She hummed a near laugh. “Now I see where Adam gets it from—and what he would be like if he was less easy to rile.”

Shiv used his formidable mental discipline to not imagine crashing cocks together with Roland Arrow. “Yeah, well, Roland’s his dad, and this will be good for the both of us. Takes our minds off things and gets some of the pent-up misery out.”

“Also, you want to know if you’re strong enough to beat him.”

“Also that. Come on, don’t tell me you don’t wonder that about people.”

“All the time,” Uva admitted without hesitation. “Mostly privately, because I have little interest in fighting a threat twice.”

“Well, we’re talking about sparring, Uva, not killing each other.” Her mind gave off a pitched note of doubt. “I’m serious. I don’t plan on killing Roland. I’ll only break his jaw, tear off his limbs, shove a frying pan up his ass, and then emotionally destroy him at most.”

“Considering your Harbinger, that might see him slain all the same. But I also suspect it will be difficult for you to get close enough to execute your usual strategy of brute force and attrition.”

“I know. Which is why I need—”

“I’m aiding the Gate’s immigration and security efforts, and so I will not be able to devote much of my mana to this matter, but I’ve already contacted everyone capable and willing to help you with this training. I’ll also have an instance of my ego in attendance for your training, of course, but I fear my only benefit will be to your morale.”

“That’s a pretty big benefit,” Shiv noted. “No one else can do what you can. I guess that makes you a Unique-Tier Skill in my heart.”

Uva cringed and laughed at the same time, her mind sounding like a squealing automaton tire rapidly losing air. “If only this were a duel of wits and inexplicable confidence. You and Roland would be a closer match there.”

“Ouch. Closer?” Shiv shook his head in pretend despair. “It’s like no one believes in me.”

She granted him a snort. “Everyone believes that you are a monstrous, terrifying force, Shiv. Your will and capabilities are not in doubt. And I do hope you win. I would be most pleased if you could best Roland, if only for what that might do for your inner conflict, but I care for you too much to lie about your odds, and you are not so soft as to scorn me for my honesty. Or at least I hope not.”

“Nah.” Shiv shrugged. A tiny part of him was sour she couldn’t lie about that, but it was such a small aspect of his ego that it barely inflicted a pinch on his flesh, even amplified by the Harbinger. “I know. Everyone keeps reminding me, and I’ve seen what Roland can do. Which is why I’m actually looking forward to this. I do love me some horrible odds.”

“Yes. Mainly so that you can die over and over and over until you derive depraved catharsis from your final victory.”

“Of course, that’s the way things should be! Imagine stomping on Adepts over and over. It sucks. There’s no rush or meaning in that.” At the mention of meaning, the flames inside Shiv crackled with delight. “You can’t grow without strain, and if there’s no one that can challenge you, then you’re probably in the wrong place. What kind of asshole would I be if I just kept bullying the weak?”

The two of them paused before offering the same answer in sync. “A vampire.”

Another beat followed as a shared realization circled between them.

“I have been thinking,” Uva began, her voice and mind awkward, “though the First Blood is vile and deserving of nothing but the most horrid of deaths, that perhaps we should be more calculated in our thoughts, actions, and language, and judge people based on their individual character before we consider their factional or racial affiliation. I spent some time with the gnomes in the Fairwoods, and…”

“Uh, yeah,” Shiv coughed in agreement. “Not a great habit, judging everyone the same. Ends up getting you surprised when you find yourself facing someone outside the norm. So. Tulveg, huh?”

She sighed. “I am… trying to smooth the difficulties between us to ascertain how well he knew my mother, if his words are true. If nothing else, he has more than convinced me of how much he hates his own kind by all the various slurs he has accumulated and created for the various Bloodlines.”

“Broken Moon… His hatred toward the vampires was so strong that it broke your racism? Fuck, just what tier is his racism?”

“Shiv,” Uva growled.

“But if he were to have a Tier—”

“Heroic,” she answered, humoring him.

“That’s it?”

“He wishes to see his entire kind aligned to his own bloodline ideals—he claims that he does not deserve to be held in any regard until he does.”

Shiv barely had the words. “Man, his racism Delve is going to be wild.”

Uva let out a beat of slightly awkward laughter. “Truly. If only your jesting skill were more evolved, maybe you could mock Roland into submission from a distance.”

Comedy 28 > 31

“Well, might not be as impossible as you think,” Shiv replied, narrowing his eyes at the skill notification. “With a bit more time and—holy shit.”

“Shiv?” Uva’s strand tightened with alarm. “Shiv? What’s wrong? Where’s the threat?”

“No. Not a threat.” Shiv swallowed as he saw a looming silhouette hovering before the mana core as Roland had done an hour prior.

The Culturist’s owl-like regalia was in full bloom, and a moonlit plumage that gleamed with the texture of chainmail pierced Shiv’s eyes. “He’s felling up. He finished his Delve.”

“So soon?” Uva replied, doubly surprised that she had failed to notice him—her and everyone else. “It’s been a week.”

“Only a week,” Shiv agreed. His own Delve had been faster, but from what everyone said, being trapped in the depths of a burgeoning Legendary Skill for weeks to months was the norm in the best of cases. The unprepared never emerged from that evolutionary coma at all. But here the Culturist was, with arms folded and his eyes gleaming—azure blue?

“Something smells positively delightful,” the Culturist declared, his voice echoing from afar. The orc drew in a long breath. “Potsticker. It has been some time since I enjoyed such an eastern delicacy.”

Despite everything, Shiv couldn’t help but laugh. “You godsdamned monster. You just don’t stay down, do you?”

“Orc,” the Culturist answered. “Trying again is what we do. Something you know better than us by this point, I suspect.”

Shiv rose higher, his body bobbing in place as all his Shapeless Tides speared up as one. “Adam—”

“I know. I am aware. I heard the Challenger. I know what he did. Even in my Delve, I felt it.” The Culturist’s mouth was drawn back with a snarl of fury, his chiseled face displaying the purest malice Shiv had ever seen in another Pathbearer. Then, the orc wrestled his emotions into submission. His rage broke like the ending of rain, and his emotional core was stabilized in an instant as an eerie and perfect calmness took hold, causing his mind and heart to enter a state of perfect equilibrium. “You took his arm?”

Shiv saw that the Culturist was looking at the Red Rider’s Hand looming nearby. “Yeah. Well, some version of me did. Challenger reached a little too far into my Chronomancy and got cut for it.”

The Culturist exposed his pointed teeth again. “Good. Now. I would like to see my savior, if it is possible. But before that—” His stomach made a violent, gurgling noise that told Shiv what the next topic was.

“There are more potstickers in the surface district,” Shiv said. “We can go get you one.”

“Yes. But… what is that smell?” The Culturist sniffed. “There is a distinct flavor I can’t recognize.”

“Oh, I got a new Skill Evolution.” Shiv summoned his Pyromancy, and his nihilistic flames sparked into being atop his palm.

“Wait,” the Nihilist said, the gray embers lurching hard toward the Culturist like he was a singularity. “This one is different. This one is a sea of constructed meaning. Cast me upon him. Let me feed on his supply.”

“Another speaking skill,” the Culturist noted. “Fitting for someone who likes to use their tongue so violently. And why do you want to burn me, little flame?”

“It’s only little now,” Shiv said. “The moment it sinks into someone’s philosophy, it spreads fast.”

“Ah. An intellectually-derived mana skill. Quite the potent combination. But why does it glitter?”

“Because it has a Cooking Skill in it too. Meaning I can turn anything I fry into food. So. If you want to enjoy some cooked wall, I’m your guy.”

The Culturist grinned. “Did you fuse Comedy as well?”

“I’m not joking.”

The orc’s grin faded somewhat. “Well. My Philosophy is Legendary…”

Shiv whistled. “Really? Well, that explains why the Nihilist is straining to unlatch itself from me and hug you to death.” Shiv drew the flame back as it was starting to bend like a deformed hook. “So. Potsticker.”

“Potsticker first indeed. All other woes and trials can follow thereafter—”

“Endure!” Valor and Jessica cried as one.

Shiv’s insides plunged into a bottomless pit. “Oh, shit, oh fuc—”

The Giantsbane magnified her size out of nowhere, going from something smaller than a grain of dust to a giant twice Shiv’s size as she slammed Rusty’s pommel between his legs. The good thing was that the Severed Shadow lacked actual genitalia or any other fleshy elements and thus didn't suffer exact organ damage. The sad thing was how he kept it solid instead of clinging to the safety of being a full Revenant. The worst thing was how the pain felt no different from getting his balls collapsed into his guts.

Shiv released a feral hiss of anguish as he was launched up—straight into Valor’s descending palm. “Defend!” Valor shouted, spiking Shiv groin-first on Jessica’s sword-end once more.

“Defend!” Jessica echoed, hopping on the flat of her blade like it was a seesaw, launching Shiv back up—into Valor’s mana-charged stomp.

“Endure!”

Shiv activated his pillar, but he was getting bounced between two ass-kickings with no relief in sight.

“I’ll summon the others,” Uva said flatly, slithering out of his mind and leaving him to this damnable fate.

Shiv tried calling out to her, but Jessica proceeded to hit him on the underside of his armpit, causing him to black out from the same sensation that had resulted in involuntary agony shits earlier. Again, it was good that the Severed Shadow lacked an asshole, but not great how the pain was simulated the same way.

“Legend Valor,” the Culturist called out, his head rising and falling as he watched Shiv “train” his Toughness. “Has your pupil displeased you?”

“Not anymore,” Valor replied casually. He barely cast a glance at the orc as he sent Shiv back toward Jessica with a burst of Dynamancy. As Shiv grew tougher, the ancient Legend’s blows began to bounce off, leaving Jessica the main inflicter of true damage. Then he finally looked toward the Culturist properly. “Ah, you emerge from your Delve.”

“I do. And I see. So. Training, you call this?” The Culturist tilted his head.

Valor gestured at Shiv—and created a pitch-black hand of mana to hold him in place as Jessica began unleashing a chain of rapid punches that had Shiv jerking like a limp doll with every blow. “The Deathless intends to duel Roland Arrow. The Dread Horizon has a challenger.”

“Does he now?” The Culturist nodded at Shiv, who was gagging on choked gasps. “Brave of you, Deathless. Commendable. But too soon. I see now why your training must be accelerated to such a brutal extent.”

And with that said, the orc rolled his shoulders and slowly rose up.

Shiv’s asshole screamed a warning pulse of pain. “Wait! Wait! Wait! Culturist! Adam took your itch! You don’t need to do this!”

“Oh, it is not out of cruelty, but service.” The Culturist hummed, tracing katas in the air as his hand formed flickering shadows behind him, and the visage of an over-muscled, midnight-maned horse standing on two legs manifested as an aura. “After all, you deserve to be paid for the potsticker you are offering and its most unique taste, and what more do I have to give aside from levels? Now. Resurrect a spare body. I do not wish to kill you for good. Legend Hawgrave, may I request that you expose his midsection to me—I am going to make his skull and intestines change places, and require an essential meridian to see the process completed.”

“Jessica!” Shiv gagged. “Culturist! You fucks!”

“Oh, this I gotta see!” Jessica laughed as she began collaborating with the gray-skinned fuck without question.

Skill Gained: Hypocrisy (Initiate) 1

What? Why, System? Shiv asked.

Skill Gained: Racism (Initiate) 1

Oh, you motherfuck—

***

Shiv’s deafening howls of pain were louder than a thousand mana bombs going off as one. Part of that was due to Roland’s currently Heroic-Tier Awareness, but another part was how the boy was suffering what Roland could only describe as a Legendary gang initiation right above Starhawk’s Perch.

