Jane readily immersed herself into the idea of false identities, coming up with false backgrounds for everyone, and false names, too. Teressa happily joined in, though Poi remained on the periphery of the whole ‘false identity’ thing happening all around him.

From what he saw, Erick suspected that Poi had some issue with him pretending to be demi, but Erick didn’t poke too hard at that revelation, and Poi didn’t seem too put out about the discussion happening all around him. As the discussion slowed down, Poi agreed that the ideas paraded around were good ideas. Being a demi was a good cover story. Erick would need to put a lightward over his Silver Star to make it look less like silver crystal and more like plain silver, though, but that was just a detail; one of hundreds that would need to be accounted for, and that would likely fail fast enough. This was Erick’s first time out pretending to be something besides an archmage, after all.

Night fell. Eventually, everyone slept.

While they slept, Ophiel patrolled, flickering his magenta eyes across the world, looking for trouble.

When Erick awoke, Ophiel reported on the many events that had happened while he slept. There was lightning on the horizon! Some bugs ate some other bugs in the dunes! Fish swam in the ocean! There were crabs on the beach!

In other words, nothing had happened. Erick patted Ophiel, told him he was a good boy, then waved to Yggdrasil’s [Scry] orb. He got up and recast his [Personal Ward] as magenta, and went about the normal business of being the first awake.

The sun rose across the dunes, heralding the start of another bright day, as Erick made a stir fry breakfast out of leftover fish and rice and sweetsauce.

As they got ready to move on, Erick remembered something. He went to his bag and found what he was looking for. A small container of potion dyes, meant for the eyes. Cyan, magenta, yellow, black, and white. They would last for 26 hours, and one drop per eye was all you needed. Erick used his lightform to quickly mix a drop of magenta and a drop of white, and then poked himself in the eyes with the new color. He blinked several times. He looked at his own eyes with an extension of his lightform. Bright pink irises looked rather fetching, actually.

Jane looked at his eyes, too. “Looking chuuni, dad.”

“… Middle School Syndrome?” Erick asked, “Did I remember that right?”

Jane snickered and waved it off, saying, “Looks good. Very pink. Your disguise is complete.”

Erick smiled. “And it won’t come off in a [Cleanse], either!”
