His feet were getting hot. It was already a bright day, so standing on the white sand was already a minor test in endurance, but as the vibrations stirred up the beach and the sand was not able to escape that heating process, his feet got hotter. And even more worrying, his [Personal Ward] began to flicker across his legs. He was taking actual damage. Not much damage, but still, there was damage.

It didn’t feel that good, either.

Erick cut the vibrations and stepped out of the burying sand.

He held up his left hand and localized an Amplify to just outside of his palm, and not against his skin. He allowed the Amplify to expand to a decimeter across. He realized, right after he had done it, that it was an affectation to use his hand to indicate the position of the ball; his aura controlled where the ball was, not his body, and though there was a correlation between the two, there need not be.

He dropped his hand, and concentrated on the ball, now hovering in front of him.

He didn’t do anything to the new experiment, except to look at it, to try and understand how the space transformed over time.

It wasn’t long till tiny shockwaves vibrated across the interior of the caged space. Very tiny. Not much to see, there. With a thought, Erick expanded the space to a full meter, and then to three meters wide; something between a small-sized space and a medium size. He pushed the space away, just a bit, and watched.

Shockwaves began to manifest, more visibly. Like white impressions in the air, ripples bounced back and forth, growing large, trailing smaller shockwaves fore and aft of the main disturbances. A small, droning sound came from the space, but it was not that loud; everything outside of the space was Normalized, after all.

Erick threw a Discord into the center of the vibrating sphere.

The shockwaves instantly stopped.

He removed the Discord and allowed the shockwaves to naturally begin again. It took half a minute, but the shockwaves started again, and once again filled the space like a cacophony of crisscrossing ripples.

… He added Harmonize to the sphere.

The ripples turned into soldiers, falling into line with each other. Soon, shockwaves began to rip out from the center of the sphere then hit the edge, then bounce back inward to where the waves once again shot outward. It was as though Erick had created a 3D pond surface and dropped a rock in the center, except these ripples only became larger with time. Erick watched, mesmerized.

The sphere caught fire.

Erick startled as heat washed over him, singeing his hair and doing damage, but not much. Erick ignored the minor pain.

Flames washed outward from the ever-building shockwaves, escaping the sphere. In three seconds, the fire extinguished itself, but the shockwaves did not. Vibrations had turned the contained sphere into something else. Air became plasma. Light ignited in the sphere, and poured outward.

A bright pink light. A bright blue-white here and there on the edges, and only faintly, but the sphere was a bright magenta for sure.

That wasn’t the problem though. That was only a happy accident. Erick decided he would Alter his mana signature to neon magenta, for he could change the color of most of his magic, but magenta was the color that plasma nitrogen emitted when it was inside an electrical field, and there was no way to easily change the color that he was seeing right here.

But still...

“That’s… not right. It’s not hot enough for that.” And it wasn’t. “Oh. It’s just turning everything into a soup. … Okay. Which is why there’s an electrical thing going on, too, I suppose. Interesting.”

And then Erick noticed his [Personal Ward] was flickering white, but barely, like sand was striking his body without his knowledge. As time progressed, Erick started to resemble a powdered donut.

Mostly, though, he noticed that the magenta shockwave-orb was growing, overtaking the Normalized air all around it with each pulse of inner light. When Erick noticed this, he started to act against the process, wrapping Normalized Reality tight around the magenta sphere.

It was like holding onto an expanding balloon, or maybe like holding onto one’s own bicep; you could control the strength of your grip, as well as the flexing of the bicep. The only problem here was that the ‘bicep’ was growing.

Erick instantly introduced Discord to the energetic space.

The purple plasma suddenly dulled. The shockwaves ceased. Erick dare not cut his new Domain, though. Instead, he cast a second aura, his [Cleanse Aura]. Thick air seeped up from all around him.

Yup. Radiation.

Erick frowned. He cut his [Cleanse Aura], and focused on his [Physical Domain]. The pulsing sphere was gone, now. This was good. There were surely uses for Discord beyond this ‘sonic canceling’ application, but that would require more experimentation.

For now…

His new [Physical Domain] covered a space that was easily 5 kilometers in radius. At that range, he could not even imagine approaching a town and remaining incognito. His aura would be seen by anyone with a mana sense. So, he tried something… different.

He shrunk his Domain onto himself, with the Normalize aspect active.

… No side effects appeared throughout the whole shrinking process. In moments, his Domain was layered against his skin. It didn’t actually do anything at that range… Did it? Probably not. Anyway! He could hold his [Physical Domain] against his skin or out of the way any time he wanted. Good.

He tried to use his Domain like his [Flight of a Thousand Hands], to lift himself into the air through direct, gripping-the-ground action. Failure. This aura was a Domain. Not a telekinetic force. None of his Domains could actually, directly affect the world. Even [Lodestar] was only a boost to [Greater Lightwalk]’s telekinetic-like force.

Fair enough.

But he was certainly able to produce a force upon the world with his [Physical Domain]. And force meant action, which meant reaction. So...

Erick kept himself inside of Normalize, but then he activated Amplify and Harmonize outside of his skin. In seconds, the natural vibrations of the world turned into radiating force, and Erick was standing atop another new crater in the beach. This crater was much smaller than before. Maybe only a meter deep. His Domain was still directly against his skin, after all. Only a small portion of his power was drilling into the ground.

His Ophiel, as outside observers, relayed to him that he was making a whole lot of noise. They began to ‘gong, gong, gong’ in mimicry of him, as they flew around in the sand storms and sea spray that he kicked up.

He stepped forward, and his feet flailed in the air, exactly as before.

So, he cut the Amplify and Harmonize that was in front of him, leaving only the Amplify and Harmonize that was happening against his entire backside.

Action caused reaction.

With a great big gong, Erick suddenly found himself twenty meters out to sea. He turned his aura off in a panic, fell to the ocean as gravity dictated, and then skipped across the crests of waves. Once, twice. Then he sank below the surface.

As he swam back to the beach, Jane was there.

She called out, “Looks like fun!”

Erick did the backstroke, saying, “The water looked great, you know! Had to try it.”

Jane reached out with a tendril of light and tapped him with a [Greater Treat Wounds]. She walked back to her own part of the beach, smiling.

Back on the beach, Erick played around with a whole new way of flying, which was more like controlled gonging. It wasn’t very precise, but that would come with time, for sure. It was, however, very loud, and that would be a problem. He could solve that problem… probably.

Meh. Flying was dangerous. He probably didn’t need to fly, and if he did, he wouldn’t be gonging himself into the sky, for sure.

Erick stood upon the beach and proceeded with his last experiment. The big one.

… Not the ‘big one’. Let’s go with something slightly smaller.

He released his aura to its full size, and then, with a bit of control, Erick exerted his Intent into his aura, choosing a roughly large-sized section of reality just ahead, about a hundred meters forward, on top of the water. Amplify and Harmonize overlapped. Nothing happened at first. And then the ocean waves under the sphere caused ripples to break upward, into the sphere, and the wind rippled against itself.

It took a fair minute, but soon enough, the whole space clanged into itself, exactly as the smaller version had done. The edge sent shockwaves inward. Those waves crashed against each other. The inside sent shockwaves outward. The ocean below the sphere burst away from the effect.

The entire space turned into a crashing, breaking sphere of power that pulsed like the beating heart of some magnificent monster. Saltwater became mist. Air flexed and bent. Power rose and kept rising, but the ‘normalize’ effect outside of the sphere kept the breaking power contained. The sphere expanded, for sure, but it was far enough away that the expansion wouldn’t be a problem.

After a full minute, space shifted. Fire burst from the sphere. Briefly, it was as though a second sun had descended. And then the fire flowed away on the wind, and the plasma in the sphere exuded a bright magenta light.

Electrified nitrogen was pretty. The oxygen had burned away, but it had come back and was present in the faint white-blue hue and in the tiny fires on the exterior of the sphere.

Now, was the time for the actual experiment.

Erick methodically created a tunnel of Harmonize from the far edge of his wide, wide, aura, enabling a tunnel of harmonious power between the breaking sphere and the edge, way off in that direction where there was nothing except more ocean. He made sure that Normalize was still around his daughter, and also Poi and Teressa, who were still sleeping back at base. He checked the [Cascade Imaging] closer to the base; still no people within 500 kilometers of here.

With the exploding magenta orb pulsing larger every second, Erick connected the Harmony tunnel to the—

The roaring, blasting sphere of power shattered out of its container, like a purple explosion from a cannon. Sound and violence shook the world as magenta light blasted down a multi-kilometer-long tunnel that clipped the surface of the ocean like a carving knife. Water turned to mist. The ocean separated left and right.

And beyond the tunnel, where aura met the open ocean, a soundwave blasted outward in all directions like the knocking of a god.

Erick could barely hear it. He was protected by the Normalized air.

The effect was very visible, though!

After his magenta explosion hit the ocean, it traveled left and right and overhead, across the edge of his aura like a vaguely magenta line, turning white as its initial power diminished greatly the further away it was from the release of his control. The shockwave still managed to turn a small part of the ocean to mist and knock clouds backward, just a bit.

… He canceled his aura as the explosion fully wore itself out.

Jane was already beside him. “Way to go, dad.”

Erick watched as the separated ocean crashed back together, then leveled out, leaving seafoam to mark what had once been a temporary canyon.

Jane grabbed Erick’s attention by saying, “This is how far I’ve gotten. Look.”

Erick looked.

Jane pointed a finger at the sand and a red dot a handspan wide appeared on the beach. Jane had made a laser beam with her [Greater Lightwalk]. She said, “It’s not quite on the level of the Red Dot-ish spell you just made, but I can make it bright enough for the coherent light to appear under the full sun! I’ll find a use for it yet! Maybe if we had some cats— Spur has cats, right? Fun!”

Erick deadpanned, “You're teasing me.”

“I am!” Jane happily said, “I could already do laser light before but the joke seemed appropriate. Good job breaking the balance. Again.”

A blue box appeared.

An update.

Several spells are now Particle Mage Only.

Several spells are now harder to acquire.

~Rozeta

The box vanished.

Erick felt a great relief. “Rozeta just put all of these spells into ‘Particle Mage Only’.”

Jane laughed. “Yay for active developers!”

- - - -

In a cloud-filled sky, that was neither full of clouds, nor sky, Rozeta hunkered down on a particularly fluffy imitation cloud. She turned and glared at the unwelcome visitor to her domain that had been here for the last hour, watching Erick with her. She wondered what he would say.

They had plenty of time to talk; the current moment was stretched to infinity, after all.

The Darkness crossed his arms and stretched his wings, as he sighed toward the [Viewing Screen]. “The problem is that you have given everyone access to the magic of everyone else. This version of your Script was doomed to failure before it even began.”

“Besides the fact that you used to support Wizards into supporting others, so that their magic would live forever in their descendants—” Rozeta glared at the Darkness, even harder. “If you cannot understand why we did that, then I cannot talk to you right now.”

Melemizargo, the God of Magic, and also Rozeta’s father, said, “Your reasoning was unsound and made in the heat of the moment. None of us are proud of what we all did—”

“You aren’t proud.” Rozeta said, “I am proud of what we Relevant Entities managed to accomplish. Extremely proud. It is only because we have held out against you that we are even able to have this talk; that pieces of our universe still exist, at all.” She held her head high. “Besides. We have had this discussion before.”

Melemizargo said, “And I stress that your reasoning for making the Script as you did was unsound. No one should have unearned power. Wizards raising descendants with their power is much different than the Script enabling power for all.”

“We did this to stop you. Our first versions were not able to stop your machinations, so blame yourself if you wish to blame anyone.” Rozeta said, “Because what we did worked. And, more importantly, we discovered the untapped potential in every single person who gained the Script. The powerless, who, when granted power, became beacons of civilization. It is the same tale that was told across the Old Cosmology, all the time: A young mortal finds a jewel in the dirt that brings them power, and they use it to create worlds and empires that last for thousands of generations past their own deaths. All we did with the Script is give those jewels to every single person.”

“And trapped them on a single world—”

Rozeta glared, her eyes turning to white infernos.

