“—which I will accept partial blame for.” Melemizargo said, “But even with these powers, most of them cannot properly wield magic. You have given the world crutches and expected them to outgrow the need, but your Script does not help anyone reach higher.”

“The Script helped Erick reach higher.”

“Bah! He is a Wizard. He would have gotten here anyway.”

“So what? That is a detail. The fact remains that when some people get the Script, they learn the basics, and their own drive helps them to learn the truths. The only difference between the Old Cosmology and the New is that now everyone has the opportunity to see if they want the power, not just the select few that luck into it, or are able to secure a proper apprenticeship.”

“And the other side of that tale is that a select few who don’t deserve magic are lifted up, and kill others, robbing us all of further opportunity.” Melemizargo said, “For all of our futures, you must see that there’s an entire uninhabited continent out there, Rozeta. Quintlan is dead. Nergal is barely inhabited.”

“And whose fault is that? You are the antagonist here, father.” Rozeta said, “There’ve been countless attempts to resettle Quintlan, but the Shades have stopped every major one.”

“… I will accept partial blame for that. But not all, and you do us both a disservice to blame me for all this world’s ills.” Melemizargo said, “A human settles on Quintlan's shores, then a raiding party of incani comes and kills them and their whole town. Or the other way around. The dragonkin suffer the same fates, but their issues are even more insidious. The orcols are tainted with wanderlust and unable to advance as a society, which brings up another point against the Script: When the answers to everything are given to everyone, then there is no reason to create solutions, or to attempt to understand the world.” Melemizargo said, “As one who has given unearned power to mortals, I can securely say that giving the wrong people all of the magical solutions they would ever need leads to horrific acts of terror and genocide.” He stressed, “You are doing exactly as I have done these last fifteen centuries, but you see your Script as an act of good. You refuse to see the truth. That all your tiny acts of kindness are actually acts of destruction.”

Rozeta glared, but then she sighed, and looked away. She did not have the desire to argue with her father. Though he had gotten better, he was still slightly insane.

Melemizargo said, “If I were to remake the Script—”

“Never going to happen.”

He continued, “— I would start with one of the other planets out there, not with Veird. I would plant the core and wrap the shell of the Script around one of those worlds to trap the atmosphere, and then enable some way to create more mana inside that barrier, and then see what happens. No control. No spells, sold for a point. No Status.”

“Doomed to failure, and instantly, too.”

“Why?”

Rozeta smirked. She almost said, “Like I’d tell you.”

But that would be ridiculous, for multiple reasons. Primarily, Melemizargo already knew all the ways in which the Script worked; what it did, and how it did what it did. He was obviously speaking in simplifications and rushing past some of the necessary details. She just wanted to be petty, because she could.

But also, he was rushing past all the necessary details.

So Rozeta actually said, “That is so inadequate. And you know this. The Script needs a certain amount of mana to start, and what you propose is not the way it would have to be. Are you actually in there? Or is this darkness that appears before me merely a shadow of what once was?”

The answer was yes. Yes; this darkness was a fragment of what came before. Everyone knew this. But… Okay. Rozeta was fine with being petty, but at least she wasn’t being petulant.

Melemizargo didn’t seem to mind her tone, and if he did, he didn’t show it. He happily said, “To solve the initial problem of mana, I would suggest there be permanent [Gate]s linking the worlds—”

“Father!” Angrily, Rozeta said, “All these planets ALL MOVE! This entire sun system moves! No [Gate]s allowed!”

“Bah!” Melemizargo said, “A detail to overcome. We could organize the [Gate]s to open at certain parts of the year, or something like that. With regard to moving across the universe, we’d set up stations in the Void, outside of any solar system. These stations would cut down on travel time between parts of the entire rotating galaxy. Every little issue with making a proper Script and exploring and populating this New Cosmology is just a problem to overcome. Precision will be a problem, though, so with regard to the needed precision: Have you seen the computer that Erick and Jane brought to this world? Or their car? They’re pulling that car apart in the Wasteland Kingdoms, and they have found its onboard computer, but they are completely lost.” He suggested, “You could get one of Erick’s copied computers to them. Give them a second system to compare. That would enable them to understand what they are seeing by quite a bit.”

Rozeta laughed. “Now who is giving out answers for free!”

Melemizargo briefly scowled. “Technology is not magic. It is not a means to shape the world as one sees fit. One day, it might be, but pure magic can overcome every technology I have ever seen, both real and imagined, and that includes manaminers and spaceships and all of that. One good thing about your Script, is that you can account for those variables, as you did when you rescued Veird from the Sundering.” Melemizargo said, “But technology will be the key to travel to other worlds. Of that, I am sure. Physical systems to aid mana to populate a physical universe.”

False clouds floated in a false blue sky, and Rozeta sighed.

“We don’t have enough mana. We’re barely at positive flow these days. Veird cannot support another world.”

“All we need is more people, daughter.” Melemizargo said, “And with my antagonism ending, and with Erick cleansing the world of major threats, we will get those people.”

“And we’ll get more monsters, too.”

Melemizargo said, “Yes. More mana means more monsters. We might even see monsters with glorious rads for cores. We will surely see a sudden explosion of magictech, too, which will require those cores. You might need to activate that option to let mana condense into crystals.”

Rozeta said, “You could help to prevent much of that. You could rein the monsters in.”

“I will not.”

Rozeta scoffed.

Melemizargo said, “And you know why. I help Those Who Aspire to reach their pinnacles. Monsters are a natural phenomenon, and I do not take away power from the natural world. I do not regulate power. And you shouldn’t, either.”

“You would have killed us all in the beginning if we had not regulated power through the Script. Veird will never bow to you, for that simple reason. You broke ten thousand years of goodwill and the mantle of the God of Magic when you stood against all that remains of our Cosmology.” Rozeta snapped off, “Maybe I should send some monks to dissuade the Wasteland from learning the secrets of that ‘car’.”

“Now you are being petulant, though you have every right.”

Rozeta buried her anger, deep as it could go, as she considered her father’s plans for the future, and how he would fuck over everyone as he usually did.

Melemizargo looked away.

Silence stretched.

Rozeta said, “You will not get any more talons into this Script, father. Kirginatharp will continue to hunt down the Wizards you try to raise into weapons against us all. Do not try me.”

Melemizargo laughed. “What about Erick?”

Rozeta spat, “Are you taunting me, now? Claiming Erick as your own! How foolish!”

Melemizargo stopped laughing. “I apologize, again. That was a rude rejoinder.” He calmly said, “I am just trying to understand your perspective and I went about it in the wrong way.”

“Whatever.” Rozeta said, “Erick is done for the day. You can excuse yourself from my personal space, father.”

“Very well, daughter. Thank you for making his new spells his own.”

Rozeta spat, “I did NOT do that for you. You even saw the other messages from other Relevant Entities rolling in! Sininindi almost manifested herself after that shockwave tore across the world. No doubt she’s already upped her plans to kill the man, just because he exists.”

“I know you didn’t do it for me, and I would never presume, but I still felt the need to thank you. You acted like a true God of Magic in that moment.”

“Are you trying to make me undo it, or is this some other, stranger ploy? Are you insulting me for being lenient the first time, for trying to allow Erick’s spells into the Open Script, which was what he wanted? That’s what Wizards used to do! They used to teach everyone and raise immortal dynasties on the magic they created! But this isn’t the Old Cosmology, father. We can’t let Wizards teach all their magic to everyone they want. We do not have countless other worlds to live upon if this one blows up!”

“I see I have angered you unduly. I apologize. These were just honest words of thanks and praise, my daughter. I shall take my leave.” Melemizargo turned to darkness and retreated, his last words echoing, “I’ll bring some pulled beef next time!”

Rozeta felt, more than saw, as her father left the cloudy sky.

When he was gone, she roared out her anger across the sky and tore apart several clouds. Then she calmed, and exited the timeless moment of Erick’s spell creation. She began to review the problems that she had neglected for a few solitary seconds. There were a lot.

Rozeta sighed, feeling her anger fully vanish, for anger was beneath her. Anger was unproductive. And Rozeta needed to be productive. She began fixing small problems and answering prayers at an increased pace, until she caught up with the normal flow of issues.

… The Script had a few problems, sure. One of which was the necessity of ensuring the thing ran as well as it could. If there was one thing that Rozeta would switch about the next version, would be the necessity of all this oversight. Looking over one world was easy, and Rozeta loved this part of being the Dragon Goddess of the Script. But accepting this same godly mantle for multiple worlds? Impossible.

She could do it for a while, but she would burn herself from all ends if she tried to meet that demand.

Even the dragon that held the mantle of the God of Magic in the Old Cosmology would only hold on to that power for a few hundred thousand millennia; it just got too tiring. And besides that, when her father had been the actual God of Magic for the entire Old Cosmology, her father barely did any actual work! Mostly, he delegated. He did not have to wrangle mana itself, all day long!

Rozeta could not delegate the Script’s demands to any lesser powers. She could not give that power to mortals. That would be the height of foolishness. Worse than giving Erick’s new [Physical Domain] to everyone who had an extra 9 points!

“… Dammit, dad, now you got me thinking.”

And so, while Rozeta worked, she thought of what would go into the Script 2.0.

“Bah!” Rozeta mocked, “Buh buh buh ‘Have I seen Jane’s computer? Have I looked at the ‘car’?’ buh buh buh.” She harrumphed. “Insulting, is what it is! Nothing but insults from that decrepit old man. And what a foolish idea! An untended manaminer? In this Cosmology! What hubris!”

- - - -

Erick and Jane arrived back at the temporary base to find Poi and Teressa both still asleep. Neither of them had heard the sound of his new ‘explosion Domain’, so Erick woke them both and explained what had happened. Poi rapidly suggested they move base. So they did.

In a new spot a good hundred kilometers away from the first, and more inland, dinner was fish again, but this time with rice. Erick had a container of extra seeds in his bag that Tenebrae had been kind enough to leave him with, even though he took many of Erick’s magical supplies, so with rice in hand, Erick soon had rice in paddies. He even used filtered seawater to grow the plants. No need to alert people to their location by changing the weather, no matter how brief.

He practiced changing the natural color of his magic for a while. Mostly, it was easy; all you needed was a bit of Mana Altering, and Erick had done this much when he was creating his new All-All-Stat rings and belt, back during Shadow’s feast. The hardest part was getting Ophiel to be magenta instead of white. That took a good hour.

But soon, Ophiel was a bright magenta. It was a great color, actually, but it was also a very incani color.

The color of an incani’s magic usually laid somewhere between red and blue, with a great many of them having magic that was an offshoot of purple, and with a heavy correlation with their skin color. Humans tended to have ‘natural colors’ as some would say; blue, red, yellow, green, white, black. Dragonkin almost always had magic signatures the same color as their scales, but usually a brighter hue, and some of them had metallic-looking magic. Orcols were greens, browns, and greys. Wrought were as varied as the people they resembled, but also with metallic accents in their mana signatures.

And so, Erick’s ‘incani’ color led the team to decide on some cover stories. Erick would be a demi, or half-incani, as some would say, or, half-human, as others would say. Horns were unnecessary; some demis looked exactly like humans, or incani. No one but the most rude of people would ask for proof, either, but everyone would recognize him as a demi, since he had a human look to him, but magenta magic, and that was not a normal human magical color. If anyone did ask for proof, he was well within his rights to tell them to fuck off.

He would likely need to tell people to fuck off quite a bit, but with his Avowed Pacifist Silver Star on his chest, and claiming to be a demi, he would mostly be off of the radar for casual fights, which seemed to be a normal occurrence between Clans in Nelboor.

And that was another thing. They had finalized the idea of pretending to be an insular clan, out exploring the world for the first time.

Jane would likely get a lot more challenges than Erick, but being in Erick’s company would likely drive off most obvious warmongers, for he would still step in as Jane’s father, even if he looked too young for the part.

They’d have to come up with new names for everyone, though…

