With a contented sigh, Rain set his bowl down and leaned back against a large rock. Jamus had made potato soup again, and it had been creamy and delicious. He had no idea how the man was able to make such a wonderful dish with just a few ingredients and a campfire. Maybe his sense of perspective was skewed from all the rations he’d been eating.

He closed his eyes, intending to rest for a few minutes. Val hadn’t forced him to spar, but the endless repetitions of strikes, blocks, and other movements that the man had put him through had left his muscles feeling like wrung-out dishrags. He was looking forward to an afternoon resting on the cart.

The others soon finished, so Rain readied Purify to clean up the mess. He used his nova technique, releasing a single, second-long pulse with Aura Focus, Extend Aura, Amplify Aura, and Channel Mastery all active. He opened his eyes to see an expanding shell of white light surrounding him, growing quickly to a truly massive size before abruptly vanishing. Purify normally appeared as a luminescent fog, but the more he boosted the power, the more quickly it traveled. At this intensity, the smoke-like quality of the aura was hard to discern as the wave of pale light blasted outwards.

He looked forward to trying this in the city, after clearing it with the Watch, of course. Out here in nature, there really wasn’t that much for purify to clean. In the cramped confines of Fel Sadanis, he expected that watching the purifying wave strip grime from the streets and the buildings would be extremely satisfying. Like watching power-washing videos on the internet.

“Wow,” Ameliah said. “I don’t think I’ve ever seen purify behave like that.”

“I call it a Nova,” Rain said, using the English word. He was pretty sure that common had no term for the explosion of a dying star. In his mind, he capitalized it, as he’d started to do with skill names in general. It just felt better to him that way. There was a difference between a ‘strong blow’ and a ‘Strong Blow’.

“How do you do it?” Ameliah asked, bringing his attention back from where it had wandered.

“I use a bunch of mods to really boost the aura, but I just do it for a second. That way, I can deal with the loss of senses from Aura Focus. Like this.” Rain repeated his Purifying Nova to demonstrate, naming it on the spot.

I invented it, so I can call it whatever I want. Maybe I can even convince the system to come up with a skill description for the combo. Another thing to try later.

Ameliah and Rain watched as the sphere of light expanded. It didn’t diffuse as it grew, staying the same intensity despite the rapidly increasing volume contained in the shell of light. Apparently magic didn’t give two shits about 4/3πr3.

Abruptly, another shell of light followed his own, almost identical in intensity and size. Ameliah smiled.

“Effective. For small messes, anyway.”

“You have Channel Mastery?” Rain asked. Judging from what he’d just seen, she either had it or something else that provided a 2x multiplier to aura intensity.

“Yup.”

“Cool. What other channeled skills-”

“Ok, kids, time to move,” Carten said loudly, tossing his shields into the back of the cart with a resounding clatter.

“Kids?” Rain said, incredulous. He glanced at Ameliah, then back at Carten. “Carten, we’re the same age as you!” Carten ignored him, clucking to the horse and guiding it towards the bridge.

“Come on,” Ameliah said, “walk with me. It will be good for you to stay loose after all that training. What is Val’s class, anyway? He seems good with that staff, but he said he was a light mage? I’ve never heard of that.”

“He’s…definitely a mage.” Rain said evasively, mindful of his promise to Val. “I think hitting things with sticks is just a hobby of his. He’s got Lunar Orb, Hard Light, and Solar Ray. I looked them all up, but you’re right, there isn’t a ‘Light Magic’ tree. They’re from all over the place.”

“I know what Solar Ray and Lunar Orb do. What is Hard Light?”

“It’s a shield. It’s movable, but it only lasts a limited time.”

“Anything else?”

“Not that I know of. Nothing flashy, anyway. He might have Intrinsic Clarity or something, I’m not sure.”

“Ha,” Ameliah chuckled softly.

“What?”

“Nothing flashy,” she said. “Good pun. It’s almost like you’re a native speaker now.”

“Completely unintentional, I swear. Thanks for saying so. I’ve been working on my pronunciation.”

“It really is amazing.”

“I know, right? I’m kinda worried about what all this mana is going to do to you guys, not to mention the horse. Jamus said something about too much healing putting stress on the soul? Does overmana do the same thing?”

“Humm. If it’s Winter, it should be fine. That’s regeneration, so it comes from within the soul. I’d be careful with Essence Well, though.”

“Makes sense I suppose. External versus internal effects.”

Ameliah nodded. Rain let the conversation drop, not wanting to bother her with a constant litany of questions. She and Tallheart weren’t antisocial by any means, but they weren’t nearly as outgoing as the others.

Tallheart eventually joined them. The three walked along silently, listening to the ongoing argument about the Imperial Auras that had reignited amongst the more energetic members of their party. After a while, Val and Carten broke off from where Jamus was leading the horse, walking to the side of the road and facing each other.

Rain mentally played back the last few seconds of the argument, but he hadn’t been paying enough attention. All he knew was that Carten was going to ‘demonstrate’ something. Jamus brought the cart to a halt and turned to watch, but Ameliah and Tallheart just kept walking. Rain shrugged and continued along with them. Their behavior wasn’t enough to pique his curiosity at this point, given the antics that the three had been up to all morning.

They’ll catch up. Wouldn’t want to split the party this far out in the wilderness, after all. Oh, hang on...

“Hey Ameliah, I’ve been wondering, how is it that parties—”

Rain was interrupted by an inhumanly loud roar from the direction of the cart. He turned just in time to see Carten smash one of his shields through a panel of white light with a vicious backhand. His shield was barely slowed by the barrier, slamming into a very surprised looking Val and sending him flying several meters through the air to crash into the side of the cart. Rain started to rush over to his aid, but he relaxed as he saw the black-haired man climb unsteadily to his feet. Jamus was laughing as he tried to soothe the startled horse.

Tallheart sighed and shook his antlered head. “Children.”
