“But the others, Tallheart,” Stoneriver persisted. “There are so many of them.”

Tallheart rumbled in acknowledgment. “That is but one reason I asked you to join me here, within the safety of this ship. Hold while I activate the runes.” Lifting a hand, he touched a spot on the wall, willing mana into a copper plate hanging there. The Muffler Plates were Romer’s doing, the man showing remarkable adaptability in translating what he had done in cloth to metal. His work with linking runes, though, left much to be desired, and Tallheart had to activate four more plates before the sound of the workers completely vanished.

“There,” Tallheart rumbled. “Now we may speak.” He looked at Ander, then down at the box he held. “Do you have them?”

Ander nodded solemnly. Stoneriver’s expression tightened, but she stepped aside, making way as the white-haired man knelt, setting down his burden. Reverently, he lifted the lid and moved it aside, revealing a pair of antlers.

Camaya looked away, covering her son’s eyes.

“I feel your pain,” Tallheart rumbled to her, kneeling and carefully reaching into the box. “However, your brother would not wish you to weep.”

“What are you doing?” Stoneriver hissed sharply as the compartment was flooded with light. Tallheart had turned, antler in hand, then opened the door to the firebox below the burner. The pool of alchemical fuel flared greedily as oxygen rushed in.

“What must be done,” Tallheart replied.

“Stop!” she yelled, grabbing his elbow as he negotiated the tip of one of the antlers inside, but she might as well have tried to stop an avalanche.

“I will now reveal a secret,” Tallheart said, carefully watching the unnaturally hot fire as it began to char the antler’s tip. “It is something even I did not know until it was revealed to me by the Warden. Something our ancestors seemingly chose to forget.”

Greenbriar had begun to cry, but Tallheart was already removing the charred antler, holding it over a shallow bowl of clear liquid he had gotten from Myth. It was an alchemical precursor, equal parts alcohol and liquefied Tel, and he had passed off his need for it by implying it was for his experiments with titanium.

With his free hand, Tallheart grasped the tip of the antler and squeezed, making the brittle material crack from the pressure. “You must speak of this to no one,” he said, feeding the dust and broken chips into the bowl. He found himself holding his breath, only allowing himself to exhale as the liquid started faintly to glow.

Good. It has not been too long.

Rumbling deeply, he returned the antler to the fire. “The transfer will not work for humans, nor for those stronger than the one who has fallen. This is no path to godhood. For you, though, it is power. The strength of our people need not wither, should one of us perish.”

“This is why?” Skymoon hissed angrily, looking at Stoneriver. “This is why they kill us?”

“Hmm,” Tallheart rumbled, then shook his head. “A thousand years ago, when the Empire of old slaughtered our people and drove us from our lands, perhaps envy for this power was the reason. Today, greed is enough. Those that hunt us do so for the bounty alone.”

“Fecht must have known,” Stoneriver spat.

“Mmm,” Tallheart rumbled. “May his bones be burned to ash to spare the earth their poison.” Crumbling away the last of the first antler, he reached for the second. Despite all the material he had added to the cup, the level of the liquid had barely risen, glowing fiercely red. Somehow, though he could not say why, the color reminded him of his fallen friend.

He turned to look over his shoulder. “Did any of you tell Ameliah the level of the essence monster that was forced upon you?”

“No,” Ander said. “She asked once, but we did not say, and she did not ask again.”

“Good,” Tallheart replied, already feeding the second antler into the fire. “You must all drink evenly, or we risk revealing more than we can afford. The humans must not suspect. Not even Ameliah or Rain.”

“I thought you said you trusted them,” Camaya said softly.

“With my life,” Tallheart rumbled, staring into the flames. “However, they do not need to know.”
