“I really want to finish the outer wall of the barricade.” Ren said. “If I take my time with it and make each section complete, I might have it done in 4 days; but, rather than do each section like I did before, I can try to run faster and only do a little bit at a time on each pass.” He smiled. “If I'm concentrating on a small area using the Staff of Earth, it shifts really fast.”

“What are you talking about?” Patty asked, and Ren chuckled.

“It's nothing you have to worry about.” Ren said. “I'll figure it out.”

“But...”

“Do you want the official job that you're already doing anyways?” Ren asked her.

“I... you...” Patty said. “Dammit, yes.”

“Excellent!” Ren said and took her hand. He shook it, and he saw her face twitch when he didn't bend over to kiss it. “If you can wait for just a second? I'll add you to the roster.”

“The what?”

Ren opened the land owner menu and looked at Goagan Village. He chose the 'make new village' option and selected a large area around the Main House. He entered the new name of Goagan City, and picked the option for expansion. He wasn't sure if that meant new people could come in, or if the villagers could have more kids; that is, until the next window asked if people needed approval to move there.

Ren chose yes, because he was pretty sure that Patty didn't want just anyone moving there. He added Patty as the Mayor, gave her access to the administration part of the Main House and assigned her the office there, then added everyone he knew would be living with him as residents.

*

Patty felt the key form around her neck, and she looked down at it. It was gold in color and had an 'M' etched on it. She didn't say anything, because she could still see Ren was working on something.

*

Ren had a pretty good idea where Elerlyth's cottage was, and marked a 1 mile circle around the spot and made it a restricted zone. He'd ask her where it actually was later, and could make sure to cover her place with it. He knew she wanted to be left alone, and that was the best way to give her that privacy.

“What's this?” Patty asked when Ren stopped typing in the air and looked at her. “It looks like my farm house key, but...”

“You're the Mayor.” Ren said. “You can enter any building within the city limits.”

“But...”

“Your office is on the ground floor of the Main House.” Ren said. “There's also a meeting room and a workshop upstairs. My apartment is there, too; but, your key won't open that part.”

Patty stared at him.

“You should have a Mayor menu available now.” Ren said. “If there's an option for it, you should add the town council as your advisors and counterparts.” He smiled. “I think I'll take your advice and head out now.” He said and took her hand. “I've got to get back for supper.”

Patty was too surprised by everything to react when Ren bent over her hand and kissed it.

“I'll see you tomorrow.” Ren said. He let her hand go, ran over to and up the ramp, then went outside. More people greeted him and he greeted them back; then he cast Haste on himself and left the village at a run.
