“Clearly, that isn’t what the system wants to happen,” Jake shook his head, wanting to redirect any dissatisfaction that may be aimed at him towards the omnipotent system.

“Evidently not,” the Oracle sighed.

“I do believe I warned you,” Jake said with a serious look. “From my prior dealings with the system, and based on my knowledge of how it operates, this was a very predictable outcome. Don’t worry, though; in due time, you will all be able to leave. Not that I can give any set deadline.”

“We discussed this already and acknowledge that’s the case,” the Oracle nodded, and momentarily, he saw a conflicted look on her face, but she quickly hid it and followed up. “Which brings us to what comes next. What the plan will be.”

“Yeah,” Jake said, carefully trying to get a read on the situation, as things started feeling weirder and weirder. To the level where Jake considered that maybe he shouldn’t remain for too much longer. “If you want to, I can bring an eligible group outside, who can serve as political frontrunners? They will be able to freely travel back and forth once brought through the Boundary just once.”

Jake wasn’t super keen on actually doing that, but he wanted a good excuse to leave Venus.

“That does sound like a good proposal,” the Nestmother spoke with a smile. “But... I do have a question.”

She looked at Jake, and he felt the mental magic affect him immediately, triggering Pride, which was now available compared to last time.

“Where are your comrades?” the Arachnec A-grade asked, Jake too focused on locking down his mind and resisting the magic to answer. The Nestmother noticed this and frowned, and after Jake had held on for a few seconds, the Horned Slayer finally spoke.

“Bah, useless wench,” he spat out as he released his aura, pushing back the mental magic and appearing right in front of Jake. The frog towered over Jake as he looked down at him as he spoke.

“You’re all alone, aren’t you?” he said with a smile.

Jake did not like where this was going as he answered, making sure the truth-telling frog was evaluating him.

“I’m not. I’m blessed by the Malefic Viper, a Primordial god, who commands a faction that-“

“Yeah, yeah,” the Horned Slayer cut him off. “But they can’t come here, now can they?”

He didn’t immediately answer, which the Horned Slayer definitely took as confirmation as the frog smiled.

“See, we questioned why there would even be any kind of limitation on who could leave beyond the Boundary in the first place, and why this limit would be dependent on the outside world. After hearing your explanation, it’s clear this entire world is nothing more than a space not unlike a dungeon, though I dare venture this place is actually persistent,” the Horned Slayer continued, still looking down at Jake.

“That’s when we realized... this limitation is there to protect you. To protect your universe from us. There may be powerful beings in this multiverse, but none of them can come to this universe of yours, now can they?”

Jake had fully realized by now that he’d lost all momentum in this conversation, as the Horned Slayer didn’t let up.

“That’s a yes or no question. So answer. Your universe is also under tight limitations by the system, isn’t it?”

Under the watchful gaze of a truth-telling Venusian and an army of A-grades, Jake’s mind was working at high speeds as he tried to find an answer or a way out of this, and right now... he was coming up blank.
