“It’s less impressive than you think. Anyone stepping past the first gate of a world triggers the automated process. Well, besides me who doesn’t have the regular System anymore,” Orodan replied. “And your fun’s being spoiled by another assault group up ahead. Looks like Balastion and Malzim have reached first. As have Ozgaric and Destartes with theirs opposite us.”

The alliance’s army was rather enormous. Having that many allied soldiers, mages, engineers and war machines take one route would have been unfeasible. And it seemed that two other assault groups had reached the first gate before they had, blunting the possible response since it was tied up dealing with those already.

Their war party advanced further, scything down barrow wights, but now… also formations of werewolves and vampires.

Werewolves were good.

Orodan was an outlier. A freak and an anomaly. Through endless loops and the grit of his own blade he had become one of the cosmos’s deadliest warriors who neither man nor beast could match. He had slain demonic berserkers unarmed, fought the worst things no human was meant to fight and did it in melee, toe-to-toe. But he was not at all the standard for what an Alastaian warrior was.

The Alastaian infantry had reaved right through the wight legions but now heavily struggled against the monstrous werewolves. Orodan, having Zaessythra squeeze his shoulder reassuringly to stop him, could only watch as human and elf warriors were torn apart and savaged by the feral fury of Narictus’s heavily armored werewolf infantry wielding giant two-handed weapons backed by their seven and eight-foot tall frames. Only the numerically smaller half-dragon infantry could compete, and they handily won duels against the werewolves, but their numbers were smaller.

Thankfully, the backline corps of soul mages and chronomancers got to work in resurrecting combat casualties. And it was then that the decision to remain uninvolved proved to be the right one.

Alastaian warriors came back to life, rewound in time, and they came back having acquired new skills and having made significant gains due to the extreme stress of life-and-death combat. It wasn’t pretty, and not everyone was a battle-lusted maniac like him who cared little for getting savaged and then returning to fight right after.

Plenty of Alastaian warriors quailed upon their return, rotating to the back and wanting no further piece of combat. But that had been accounted for too, for as soon as they did, a supply-master handed them a Blackworth rifle and ordered them to shooting.

Those who valorously remained through multiple combat deaths and resurrections grew strong. Very strong.

Varadian Rockwood returned as allied chronomancers restored him from having his head crunched by the jaws of a Grandmaster werewolf alpha. However it was his killer’s turn to feel the sting as the Alastaian commander’s shield crunched the werewolf’s snout inwards.

It was… not pleasant. But those who remained made profound gains. Their valor and guts rewarded as they came back over and over within the span of this single battle within this single loop.

Perhaps those who had been shaken would rethink their careers as warriors, but those who stood and returned… they would be forged into something greater.

And most importantly… melee was not the alliance’s only recourse. Something which became brutally apparent as the crack of gunfire had giant, ferocious werewolves dropping like flies with each shot.

A Grandmaster-level shooter, a graying woman in the gunline, was positively glowing as she gained skill levels with each kill. As did other gunners around her in the formation. What did centuries of training and enhancement by their vampiric masters matter when the crack of a Blackworth Collective riflewoman’s weapon could silence all that with no fanciful duel?

It was not Orodan’s way of fighting, but he could respect the craft, the weapon and most importantly, the shooter’s discipline and mastery of their implement. Battle was battle, no matter the tool.

The press of battle was vicious, but with Adeltaj engaging an enemy Transcendent werewolf who came out, and another Collective Transcendent rifleman at the back engaging a Narictus necromancer—popping the head before a single spell could be cast—their assault group made it through.

Just like the scenery past Alastaia’s first gate, here too, civilization was present. That civilization coming in the form of the barrow legions they had dismantled on the way in. It was interesting to see how a world’s depths formed its defenses when under an actual World Ruler.

Unlike Alastaia where the civilization past the gates was composed of monsters who had no contact with the surface world, here it was different. The barrow legions looked as though they had been placed there by the Lord of Night. They were used to fighting alongside and coordinating with the werewolves, necromancers and true vampires which had doubtlessly been sent from the surface to stop the world core’s takeover.

He understood now, why long ago the denizens past the first gate of Alastaia had so nervously asked what he would do with them when he became World King for the first time. This was the endstate. A depths where civilization was curated by the world’s ruler themselves. Likely at the expense of servitude for the former inhabitants, or at worst… death.

This all culminated and was confirmed as Orodan overheard the shouts of battle as their assault group approached a giant barrow-wight fortress. Behind it, his Vision of Purity told him, was the second gate and the world core.

“Wicked mortals! Foul machines! I, High-Lord Ulthaam Adhaaran do not brook your presence without challenge! I am Lord Vakan’s first appointed Gate Guardian! Your cheap magics will not work against one who has developed the ability to resist the Divine and Mana!”

What? The divine and mana?

Orodan quirked an eyebrow at seeing that the wight lord was not wrong. Virtually every spell hurled his way was nullified with prejudice, as though it was water splashing upon a rock. Destartes and the High-Orast, cataclysmic as their magic was, were struggling to make purchase. And Malzim, stronger as the death God had grown, was doing absolutely nothing against it.

Destartes’s Eternal Soul Reactor then came on and the Transcendent mage began flinging spells empowered by soul energy, but these too weren’t enough to overcome the wight-lord’s clever evasion and martial skill.

To the side, Ozgaric and Balastion fought a giant golden-furred werewolf God materialized directly in the physical plane, their assault group doing its own work. However, the duel against the Gate Guardian, even three against one, wasn’t faring as well.

Which was when a singular warrior stepped up. Smaller than any Alastaian human or elf, and definitely smaller than the half-dragon warriors of the army. If stature was what it took to beat this wight-lord, then the comer did not measure up.

But it was a good thing stature did not decide battles. Not when the warrior was a Grandmaster as strong as Zukelmux.

“High-Lord Ulthaam Adhaaran. If magic and divinity fail to stop you, then let a warrior born and raised upon Alastaia itself face you! I, Zukelmux of the Rising Spear tribe, Grandmaster of many skills, and first disciple of Orodan Wainwright, challenge you to personal combat!”

If someone had told him that the hottest pride he would ever have burning through his heart would be from his first disciple representing him in combat, he would’ve told them to pound rocks. Yet there was no escaping the sheer satisfaction. But also the concern.

Never before had any of his disciples been armed and sent off to their possible deaths in a loop while he wasn’t fighting. But now he was expected to just stand by and watch while Zukelmux, a Grandmaster, fought a powerful Transcendent?

Yes, the loops would bring the goblin back. Yes, even within a loop he could be resurrected.

But that didn’t mean Orodan liked it. He found himself uneasy in a way he hadn’t been in a long time.

Life was far easier when only he was the one at risk of being killed.

It was far from an ideal matchup too. Zukelmux had grown a lot stronger, but this was no early Transcendent, but a decent one, just near the mid 130s from what Orodan sensed.

He was contemplating stepping in when a shout interrupted him.

“Mister Wainwright come! Zukelmux does his part and that is all we can ask of him!” Tegin Carrotfoot exclaimed, directing Alastaian forces past the duel between the goblin and the wight-lord. “The world core awaits and we would feel a lot better if you were present when we took it!”

Zaessythra saw the hesitation in him. However her meaningful look was enough to get him moving.

It would be… dishonorable to interrupt a warrior’s own chosen duel.

If magic and divine power were useless. And mages like Destartes and the High-Orast were failing due to the wight-lord’s skill at evasion… then perhaps a warrior was the best way. And he could only hope that the sharpness and confidence he saw in his first disciple’s eyes and posture were not empty things. And perhaps his other disciples nearby would not be so quick to allow their ‘big brother Zukelmux’ to fall today.

Orodan and Zaessythra carried on. They were joined by Ozgaric and Balastion who had successfully slain the enemy God, a werewolf Orodan himself recalled fighting long ago. Alagameth—who remained non-participatory—and the rest of the Transcendent inner circle of loopers also convened.

“There is no better time for Vakan Almante to face us than when we are in the chamber of the world core,” Balastion said. “Grandmasters and below will be pointless for that battle. Let them fight their battles out here. We however, must head inside and confront the Lord of Night.”

Adeltaj grimly nodded, grip tightening on his halberd; he was the best warrior among the alliance’s Transcendents and would be needed to occupy the foe. Balastion, Destartes and Eldarion were present too. As were a number of the Collective’s Transcendents, including a rather powerful rifleman wielding an oversized but thin weapon. Orodan roughly gauged this man as being near the 140s in his chosen skill.

Thus, as the army fought in the area past the first gate, even as the wight-lord roared furiously at the fact that a group of Transcendents were simply bypassing it, they did so and moved past the second gate.

Nobody reported any quest subject warnings, but the area past the gate was suspiciously empty in a way which screamed, trap.

Vision of Purity scanned the area closely, but nothing came. Odd.

Similar to Alastaia’s world core, reaching Narictus’s wasn’t difficult. A grand hallway, followed by a final turn before entering a truly gargantuan chamber.

The world core of Narictus was gigantic. At least four times the size of Alastaia’s. And it was entirely calm with only one individual in the room.

Vakan Almante, the Lord of Night, the very first vampire. Orodan had cleansed him of the taint once, long ago.

“Villain. You have caused enough hurt,” Adeltaj declared. “Now, you face the combined force of-”

“Trespassers. Interlopers,” the progenitor of all vampires slowly spoke, not at all worried. “Think you that I am unaware of your time looping natures? That I will call my overlord and his petty and distant Embodier to help? No… I have heard it. You have that which has no limit alongside you, do you not?”

Destartes frowned.

“How do you know of these things, vampire? Who has been speaking to you?”

“Speaking to me? No one. Not yet. But speaking to Narictus? One? Many? I cannot say. But they tell me of you… they tell me that I will attain vengeance for my kind, for our lot in this wicked cage built around us if I but… see.”

“See? How does that make any sense? What do you see?”

“Many things. The shell we have cruelly been bound within, all my kind, us lords of blood who cannot help our natures, demonized as wicked blood suckers, fiends, tyrants… when all we do is wish to live. And then… recently… a hole leading out. To… friends. Yes… friends.”

Orodan clocked that something was very wrong from the start. But the vampire’s words only confirmed it. His sword came to hand and he was about to order everyone off of Narictus immediately when two things happened.

The Transcendent rifleman of the Collective put an alchemical bullet in Vakan Almante’s head…

…and the first vampire turned around.

However there were a few problems with this.

First being that the vampire’s head had turned around while the body remained faced away. His limbs had become pitch black too, as though one moment it was a vampire, and the next… a complete absence of light in the form of a man.

And second…

…the face was not at all the foe Orodan recalled cleansing during his last visit here.

It was instead what he’d seen recently.

“What is that thing?” Zaessythra asked, frowning.

A smile too wide. Eyes filled with far too much false joy. A face stretched over a skull too tight. And pale; pale in a way that made the white light of the sun look dark.

Nobody else could react, for they had already seen it.

Adeltaj was the first to break the silence. With words in a language the System could not translate and nobody had ever heard.

Adeltaj spoke of things he shouldn’t have known. Destartes was caught in a perpetual smile. Balastion’s limbs were twisting the wrong way and Eldarion kept mumbling the word friend. And all of this was in-between random bouts of languages that Orodan had never heard within System space.

Narictus was no longer worth consideration.

As Orodan lunged, he used Identify.

