“N-nothin’ and nobody at all ser!” the boy suddenly jumped, snatching the orb back with vigor. “You don’t need to look too closely at it. I-in fact I might need to tinker on it some more ‘fore I hand it over!”

Orodan was confused; even more when he saw Zukelmux sighing with a fond smile and Edrosic laughing loudly.

“You’re the one who made it Fenton. Nobody has more right than you to decide who gets a slot,” Orodan clarified. The alliance could hem and haw, but he would not see his disciple’s work co-opted without the go-ahead of the crafter himself. “Though, I suppose Griok and the High-Orast should also get priority given their contributions to its making.”

Fenton, now a little less red—which still confused Orodan as to why that might be—nodded in agreement.

“Right! Mister Griok just wants certain important non-looping members of the Rising Spear in on the orb. About eleven if I recall. And the High-Orast wanted two-hundred spots reserved for skilled non-looping personnel and mages,” Fenton explained. “Not all that much if you think about it. A thousand are bein’ withheld and the others are goin’ to everyone else who’s got somethin’ useful to contribute.”

Which still left billions upon billions of people across all the worlds who would not be getting a spot on the orb anytime soon. How badly would they fight for one? What things would they offer in exchange? Orodan did not know, but the limited availability of such a thing would surely cause problems of its own.

This loop he’d primarily spent his time upon Alastaia, and to a lesser extent Vylrystia. He hadn’t gotten to see how the widespread news that tens of thousands of people were in a time loop was being received on all the worlds of Lonvoron or upon Thazrivin. He had confidence in the department of looper affairs’ ability to handle issues, but a potential problem was still a potential problem.

And speaking of said department, a most surly-looking halfling entered the grand hall of Vylrystia’s citadel, a book in his hands as he refused to look up at all.

“You’ve looked better.”

The halfling replied with a grumbly grunt before speaking.

“His Majesty Balastion has seen fit to grant me a manor in the countryside.”

“Which… should be a good thing, yes?” Orodan asked.

“It would be… if it wasn’t a constant reminder of my desire to retire in a manor and do nothing but read books all day. A desire-” Tegin snapped the book shut and glared at him. “-which I shall not be fulfilling anytime soon.”

To that, Orodan could say nothing besides adding a nod of sympathy. The poor halfling truly had been conscripted from leading an important city of the Republic to now being organizer for a department which oversaw tens of thousands of loopers. Though, grumpy as the halfling General looked, it was not a surliness born of dissatisfaction.

“My apologies then. I hope you’ve formed a book club at least.”

“I have in fact. One nice thing about all this is the existence of thousands who share my fondness for introspective and at times, indulgent literature,” Tegin replied. “I overheard your conversation as I came in. The orb is ready then, Mister Penny?”

“Right you are ser, just needs a bit more tinkerin’, but it’s got close to five thousand spots ready to go,” Fenton repeated, then frowned. “But I could do without the badgerin’ from everyone wantin’ in.”

“Forgive me. It has been a trying time for I and the department as well. We shall have to step up your detail if they got through despite our screening,” Tegin said. “I have had to make several public examples via enchanted stocks and in two cases, execution. Spots on the orb are not for sale, nor can they be traded through bribery, politics and the like.”

“Execution? That sounds serious…” Orodan muttered.

“An unfortunate necessity when a non-looping mage-lord attempted to blackmail the High-Orast for a spot on the orb. Ruthless, but such things cannot be ignored if we are to have stability and fairness in our usage of this powerful artifact. The last thing the non-looping common folk need to see is that we can be forced to cave under political pressure and give slots through backroom deals. The effect on morale would be worse for those in the loops too when they see some undeserving politician get a slot on the orb when their non-looping loved ones do not,” Tegin explained. “As it stands, I have declared any attempt to influence decisions on the orb through blackmail or force, illegal. Punishable by capital punishment for non-loopers, and a period of torture by mind and soul mages for loopers. Aside from the privilege granted to Mister Penny, Chief Griok and the High-Orast who made the orb possible at all, each and every individual upon it is carefully reviewed and a reading of their Status and resume made entirely public so that there are no questions of why they were included. Thus far, I have yet to see anyone more qualified show their face and demonstrably prove they deserve a slot more than an existing holder.”

That sounded quite fair. The punishments would seem harsh to some, but Orodan had grown up seeing the House Argon guards of his time openly kill thieves on the spot. Given all he’d been through in the loops, it was a distant memory for him, but to him harsh justice was the standard he was used to.

Though, if any crime needed lethal and painful deterrent for the sake of stability among loopers, it would be anything involving the orb. Wise of Tegin and his department to think of these things early.

“Hmm, speaking of punishment… perhaps our approach to dealing with certain… divinities can be looked at further?”

Tegin frowned a moment before the halfling’s eyes narrowed with understanding.

“You wish for them to be killed, Mister Wainwright? Say the word and it shall be done, but the tyrant three have remained in the divine dimension and their followers been stripped of Blessings not long after the loops started thanks to you.”

“No, I do not wish them killed. The opposite in fact,” Orodan spoke, and with some difficulty too as it involved him swallowing a bitter grudge he’d held for so long. “From next loop… perhaps a word with them before we act might be best.”

“That is… surprising to hear from you. In truth, the department had considered such a thing but then immediately discarded it upon consultation with the chroniclers. Their misdeeds towards you run deep and we had not wanted to broach the topic at all, but…”

“They have followers aplenty who have done no wrong, I know. I see that now, and I realize that not every problem need be approached with sword and shield.”

Tegin’s eyebrows raised in surprise, and then he sighed and grumbled yet again.

“Ugh… Lord Eldarion will be exceptionally smug about this. I owe him a few rare books now,” Tegin grumbled. “Thank you for losing me a bet, Mister Wainwright. The lord of Aldenil had high hopes that you would suggest such a thing in less than twenty loops. Might I ask what inspired the change of heart? You have always hated the tyrant three among the Prime Five. The chroniclers note this quite fastidiously. What changed?”

“I will not bandy some silly tripe about how anyone can change and that everyone deserves a second chance. I have no obligation to care about their potential changes of character nor them. I hate those three, and that will not change,” Orodan declared. “But those people who relied on them, who held faith in them… perhaps they deserve to have their Gods returned to them.”

“And if they betray you yet again?”

Orodan smiled.

“Strength solves all problems,” he spoke.

Not only could Zukelmux likely kill someone like Ilyatana, but if his disciple couldn’t, then Ozgaric certainly could. In fact, the northern God could slay all three himself now if he so needed to. There was no need to fear snakes in the grass when one’s feet were made of steel. Under the shade of the alliance’s strength—and if needed, Orodan’s own—perhaps the wicked three could be given a chance to act rightly. Not because he cared about them in the slightest, but for the sake of those who righteously followed them and did good in their names.

“Now, what’s this about chroniclers?”

The grand hall was still somewhat empty, and Orodan and his disciples had arrived somewhat earlier than most. Still, there were agents of the Intelligence Service, guards, military figures and siege engineers, and some Blackworth captains in the hall early too. And there were also some people taking extensive notes.

Orodan had seen them before. One of them was often among the crew arrayed whenever he had his training sessions where the alliance’s combined resources funneled towards him. Another, Kalemar would periodically pass a copy of his notes to whenever they met.

Edrosic’s palm met his face and the artist groaned.

“Don’t worry about it, Orodan. The less you hear about that, the more your sanity will remain preserved.”

“It’s hardly as nefarious as Mister Edrosic makes it sound. They are simply the chroniclers and record-keepers of your journey so far, alongside all your skill level gains, decisions and stated views,” Tegin said with an all-too-happy smile. “They watch you at every moment they can, gather eyewitness accounts, testimony and keep all records of you safe within their minds.”

“…what?”

“Oh look! The chief record-keeper and his assistants are coming this way. A good opportunity to be introduced! Lord Halledin, please come right this way that we might finally introduce you to the man himself.”

Orodan was still too shocked by the fact that an entire department was devoted to tracking his every action and recording it closely. Tegin dragged him along before the record-keeping men and women, and the first thing he noticed was how their eyes widened.

One even shamelessly flared her nose, as though attempting to smell him closely at conversational distance.

“To finally meet the time looper himself. My lord, I am Halledin Alvatel, my family name is associated with warriors and a Quest-bearing hero, but is primarily a long line of storied lore-masters and archivists who have maintained the written and oral lineage of the East since time immemorial. Please allow me to humbly profess that I am ever your most devoted record-keeper and witness. This meeting shall be written of with particular honor,” the man professed.

While Orodan normally didn’t like the reverence people spoke to him with, this old man had a level of professionalism to him as well. As though he wasn’t just some fanatical devotee, but also a record-keeper ready to write about both good and ill in equal measure. Though how much of that was made publicly available would likely depend on Tegin and the alliance leaders.

The man had a certain warrior-like bearing too. Master-level, as per Orodan’s instincts.

“I was not aware I had an entire chronicling team working to document everything. The stance and hands tell me you can fight too, are you a looper as well then?”

“Yes, my lord. House Alvatel of the East has ever been a line of warrior-scholars. It was my honor to personally fight in and witness the liberation of Lonvoron in your last loop before we all awoke in this one, anointed by your hand as part of the sacred cycle itself.”

“Sacred cycle? It’s just a time loop… though I admit even I don’t know who the hells made that mechanism it relies upon.”

“Forgive me, my lord. Not only do the chronicles state it, but I have personally witnessed your humility. Of course you would downplay the significance… truly we could all learn from you,” the man spoke, laying it on a little thick and veering into the territory which made him uncomfortable. “This humble record-keeper would not dare to influence your thoughts or actions… but I shall simply say that more people than you know consider the time loops to be a very sacred and significant thing. Especially since your enacting of the First Great Raising yesterday.”

The First Great Raising? Did he mean the resurrections?

Tegin’s face was red, as though the halfling was struggling to hold back a laugh. This diminutive troublemaker was having entirely too much fun at Orodan’s expense.

“Lord Wainwright!” one of the assistant record-keepers spoke up, holding a book labelled ‘Bets and Odds’. “Would you care to comment on your confidence in acquiring another Celestial skill in this loop?”

And before he could even respond, the master record-keeper slapped the man upside the head to silence him.

Of course, another assistant spoke up, this one from the Collective by the looks of it and a more bookish sort with a monocle on his eye.

“Lord Wainwright. Could you tell us your honest thoughts on Agathor’s battle power and how much trouble he’s posed you throughout the loops?”

“How much trouble? Well, he did mentally subsume my mentor and then try to possess-”

“Apologies, my lord. I mean, when measured against those who actually caused you trouble as your loops progressed, how would you rank him? Such as against the Eldritch Avatar, or the Devil King who came by after the acquisition of your Celestial skill in the loop right after the Novarria cycle?”

Now that Orodan thought about it… hadn’t Agathor been a little… underwhelming? Perhaps it was his natural grudge against the God of War coloring his thoughts, but for a war God the deity hadn’t done anything overly impressive. Nor had he even forced Orodan to loop too many times.

And then the scum had even fled and doomed the Hasmathorian Empire and the ancient civilizations of Inuan to their end when stepping past the first gate.

