“My heart is in agreement with Almyra… but to interfere in their decision would have been naught but tyranny,” Orodan himself spoke, his voice heavy with concern and reluctance.

The three Embodiers and the resurrected half-dragon with dubious status stood on a cliff above, the assembled armies of the alliance beneath them. They were not commanding, but simply watching as the delegated commanders barked orders and organized the troops for the landfall and assault which would occur soon.

The grand array of Alastaia, a device perfected and tinkered with by Fenton and Clyburn Anderthorn, with field-specific guidance provided by Talricto and Alagameth, stood proud. It was roiling with power. Destartes—who was the alliance’s second best space mage after the spatial spider—stood at the ready to prime it on the marked hour.

The decision to continue with the invasion regardless of Alovardo’s warning was not one made lightly.

A sizeable minority of those present had whispered undercurrents of whether the invasion should be postponed while they prepared for defensive measures. W78 had been among them, warning the alliance not to take that anomaly lightly even if they were within System space.

And to the surprise of many at that meeting, Orodan had also been among that group.

Not because he feared that thing which had seen him and he it, but for the safety of everyone else who was looping alongside him. He had almost insisted he be allowed to sally to the boundaries of System space, wait for it and then face it in battle himself.

Of course, that suggestion had been shot right down by Balastion and King Alstatyn with the reminder that he wasn’t the only time looper anymore. But he was the central one. If he died, everyone else reset as the loop brought it all back in time to his midnight wakeup in Ogdenborough.

They had, not incorrectly, argued that the tens of thousands of people he brought into the loop now had their own trainining plans, their own desires, and the goal of proving themselves more than just carry-along baggage. Balastion had even used his own line of reasoning against him, reminding him of the fact that he had carried out the grand alteration of the loops themselves so that everyone had the chance to take control of their own destiny.

It would be hypocritical of him to deny the majority decision now.

Worst of all, the minority who initially protested had then been drawn into an impassioned speech by an Alastaian Grandmaster about how Orodan had done so much for them, and it was now their turn to show him that they too could rise and stand beside him. They owed it to him to work hard and acquire more strength, or so the man had said.

Orodan remembered the man as being the same one who had venomously lashed out at Ilydia Arestos, whose daughter had been killed by a vampire in Scarmorrow.

The man’s emotional and rousing speech had then convinced the remaining minority that they should continue. Thus, with nine-tenths of the looping alliance in agreement that the world invasion needed to happen, Orodan had been outvoted.

He had not stopped Vespidia from sacrificing herself. He had not stopped Fenton from joining him in battle and then giving his own life. So he could not in good conscience deny any warrior their opportunity for glory.

Almyra, at W78’s insistence, had even tried to pull rank… but Orodan had to reluctantly step in and stop her, no matter how much he had wanted to agree.

He could only remain as their guardian, and watch carefully for any signs of that thing’s entrance while the alliance battled upon Narictus.

“Orodan Wainwright,” Alagameth spoke up. “You have slain an Administrator, clashed against Boundless Ones and given your all for us to bring everyone into the time loops. I have faith that you will let no harm befall us.”

The spatial spider, the Embodiment of Space, sounded far too trusting with such words. A tone which had Orodan’s shoulders feeling even heavier.

“I am not all-powerful. And the way W78 speaks of this thing, it reigns in a field of battle which is difficult to affect,” Orodan cautioned. “It’s not myself I worry for, it is anyone who might see this creature. A broken mind will still loop over.”

The spatial spider seemed to straighten a bit at those words, taking them seriously.

“You are correct. Forgive my casual demeanor towards such a threat… perhaps we have grown too used to your strength shielding us. Even then, they have made their decision. There is a certain… devotion, a zeal to how these soldiers act. And it is not one so easily doused when its originator continues to perform one absurd feat after another,” Alagameth elaborated, then his voice slowed. “Can you expect them to suddenly cease the invasion at such a warning? Look at them, they venerate you. When the decision is based upon a consensus who among them would want to be seen as the coward when the time looper who has brought their loved ones back has never taken a step back in the face of the enemy?”

Orodan could not discount that point. His very behaviour itself was rubbing off on these other loopers and influencing their decisions. He would never retreat, he would never surrender. Before no foe would he balk or show anything less than pure battle zeal.

And when he had personally liberated Lonvoron and then resurrected so many? It was a powerful incentive to emulate his natural manner of doing things.

“Perhaps I should act more of a craven then.”

“Too little too late for that. The subject of one of your grudges, Agathor, already bears that moniker. If you hear how those chroniclers and those who read their tripe go on about it, you might even blush,” Zaessythra added with a dry smirk.

“I barely understood half of what they were asking me when I met them…” Orodan muttered. “But enough of that. I sense the soldiers down below aren’t too happy with the wait.”

The assault was due in fifteen minutes now.

Narictus had no idea of what was coming. The broader Hegemony likely knew by now that there was a Celestial skill bearer on Alastaia. the Lord of Night would have been stupid not to say something when his retrievers had been met with such organized and deadly force when trying to come get Old Man Hannegan. But that didn’t mean the broader Hegemony as a whole was prepared.

According to Almyra and in particular, Zaessythra, the report of a random planet with a Celestial suddenly being a hotbed for armies of Grandmasters and Transcendents would alarm Agrimon, but acting suddenly would be reckless. In fact, the Collective brought report of various scouting voidcraft peering as closely at their and Thazrivin’s star systems as they could get away with.

There was likely to be some manner of diplomatic contact to figure out what the alliance wanted, and hostilities from there if compromise couldn’t be reached. After all, if Narictus’s reports to the Hegemony were accurate, then it was plain to see that the arrayed worlds of the time looping group were a force equal to the Hegemony, if not greater.

Of course, the point was moot when the alliance’s majority opinion was to skip all the steps of diplomacy and give their answer in the form of war.

Soldiers, mages, engineers and captains all waited impatiently as the timer ticked down. Finally, at five minutes left to go, Destartes broke the silence.

“Are there any who remain unprepared?”

A silent field and quiet skies greeted that question.

The portal frame began glowing as Orodan’s mentor in magic activated the specific spatiomantic sequence required to attune it directly to Narictus.

And the arrayed forces of the time looping alliance roared their approval, rushing right towards the grand array.

Orodan’s Vision of Purity shot through the instant the grand array connected its mighty spatial rift to the surface of Narictus. His sight ensuring that there were no nasty surprises or ambushes waiting for the invading force on the other side.

There weren’t.

Designing a spatial array capable of making direct landfall onto the surface of a heavily guarded planet with its own Transcendents and armies of Grandmasters was no easy feat. Amplified by the fact that Narictus’s retrieval party sent out to nab Old Man Hannegan had failed recently, the forces of the night lords were doubtlessly on high alert.

However, the primary defense for preventing such landfall were wards. Particularly anti-spatiomancy wards; those powered by the defending world core. A world core which was now being suppressed as Orodan felt the world crown around his arm glow hot, the connection between him and Alastaia letting him feel how strained it was.

But the world spirit of his homeworld was not alone.

It should have been an impossible feat. For three world cores to coordinate and be capable of diverting energy towards a target one for invasion. It was not something which happened in the galactic scheme of things.

But when one had twelve newly empowered divinities who were their own dimension alongside a spider with prodigious ability to manipulate said forces, it was a different matter.

Said dimensional phase spider was sitting atop a rock, a few dozen meters away, and in a state of absolute focus. Orodan was supposed to have gone on a trip with it someplace, but Talricto had not said when or where, so that likely meant after the battle. The dimensional phase spider was still as a statue as it carefully manipulated the dimensional boundaries and pathways to allow for Alastaia’s twelve empowered divinities to accept world energy from three separate world cores.

Energy which was then harmonized and brought together to enter the opening through the grand array.

Zaessythra’s world crown was glowing. As was the High-Orast Valmarra Malvorra’s staff. Orodan hadn’t even known that the implement was the world crown. Then again, if Zaessythra had used a world crown in the shape of a sword a long time ago, it seemed there was little limitation.

Vylrystia and Thazrivin were lending their energies to this joust between world cores.

And as Orodan, Zaessythra, Almyra and Alagameth stepped through the grand array after the army, the sudden and abrupt shift from Alastaian greenery gave way to a view of shadows, mist and dark forest.

The teleportation was seamless; the allied world cores had done their job in interfering with Narictus’s own. Orodan could practically feel the world of night and shadow roiling with indignant rage. Not whoever was controlling it, but the world itself, unhappy that its dominion over itself had been so thwarted.

They were upon the world of the vampire lords now, with the three moons—red, white and yellow—illuminating the tops of gloomy forest canopies and brief pockets of open ground in-between.

Orodan and his fellow Embodiers had stepped in behind the looping alliance’s army, so by the time they set foot onto the enemy world, battle was already occurring.

The native flora and fauna upon the enemy world wasn’t nice. And they’d landed quite near where Orodan himself had entered Narictus a long time ago, which meant they were in the sole clearing pocket exposed to moonlight in the middle of a deep, dark forest. The grass was blood-sucking, the trees haunted and full of spiders and even some of the flowers had dangerous attributes which affected the mind and soul.

A forest of death which Orodan hadn’t quite been concerned with when he’d entered and had much battle power to field. But for the average soldier of the Collective and mage of Thazrivin? Not so pleasant.

“Accursed grass tryin’ to nip at my heels!”

“Demonic ground! Quick! Cast a fire spell!”

“No nitwit! This is why you remain a mage-apprentice! Ice! Not fire!”

The physically frailer members of the alliance army weren’t having a good time. But this was where the alliance showed itself strong. This was no flailing bunch of amateurs. This was a planned operation with various groups involved.

Alastaian warriors and Vylrystian half-dragons strode to the front, ushering their softer allies back as they fearlessly walked through the blood-sucking grass which found no purchase. Metal boots and skin hardened by physical skills underneath was a poor target for vampiric grass And a Blackworth engineer sitting atop the shoulders of a half-dragon threw a large flask out.

“Alkahest out! Pardon the smell!”

The bubbling substance when it landed, caused the field of grass to wither and die on contact.

Small combat units and drones of the Unity came in too, their metallic frames and inorganic bodies entirely immune to being drained of blood or being a meal for some of the hungry fauna. They systematically burned haunted trees, scanned surroundings and catalogued data.

And finally, using this clear patch, mage-lords and half-dragon mages came in. One cast a spell which froze the ground dead. A half-dragon war mage cast a mighty gale which stripped the fog for a few miles and then Silestor Lumenarin came through with his corps of light mages, beginning sanctification rituals which seemed to be utterly anathema to anything of Narictus.

A safe zone was now cleared. And it was here that Orodan saw the arrayed Transcendents and empowered divines of the alliance convened, watching but not interfering yet.

“I’m surprised you didn’t eradicate the surrounding hundred miles as a heroic afterthought,” Orodan remarked, looking at the old halberdier among them.

“And deny the young their chance at glory? No. Just as you remain an observer, stepping in only to face those foes who are beyond us, so too will we do the same for our juniors,” Adeltaj replied. “A frightening world I must say. Three moons shining their eerie light upon a canvas of eerie death among which I have seen nothing bright and good.”

