But he had to wonder why the cup was supposedly so appealing? He found himself thinking about drinking from it, and yes, right away he could see why the rat had fallen victim to it. The automatic thought process in his head was markedly different. A pull far stronger than any social skill he’d ever encountered. If he allowed it, he would be sipping from it too.

It was a smart rat too. Used to dwelling among people it seemed. When it saw cups, it naturally knew that people drank from them, and so the thought process of it taking a sip was only inevitable. Yet, it was this natural completion of the dangerous thought which led to disaster.

But why? How?

Orodan put the mug down and instead looked at one of the many other random cups strewn throughout this control room. Some of them even had still steaming drink within them, courtesy of the time stasis over the entire dwelling.

He thought of drinking from them…

…and felt nothing.

Yet when he turned to look at the anomalous mug and did the same, that erratic thought spawned in his mind before his natural willpower rendered it as harmless as any of the other things coursing through his head.

And yet, despite the thought being turned harmless…

…he chose to embrace it.

“Warning: anomaly # 8 dangerous. Time looper at risk of… at risk of…”

W78’s lights beeped erratically, as though his metallic friend was in disbelief at the sight of Orodan choosing to pour a nice mug of obsidian shards down his throat.

His teeth crunched the shards, and they tickled his mouth. Naturally, against the inhuman resilience of Orodan’s body, sharp obsidian grains were nothing. Furthermore, with no organs, the substance had nowhere to go so was dissolved quickly by the natural soul energy running through his body at all times at a low level.

Oddly enough, a decent flavor to it.

[Gourmand 36 → Gourmand 37]

A bit crunchy, although the numerous sharp edges on each grain added to the flavor and helped disperse it among his taste buds.

“This is rather good… can I borrow this?”

With a bit of work, the nicely flavored obsidian powder would make for a good spice.

Hells, Zukelmux and his mother would love to add it to their cooking!

Perhaps he could even train the mug to become stronger? Would that make the obsidian shards more flavorful?

Why did it seem like the mug was trembling? And why were W78’s lights blinking as though they were malfunctioning?

#

The rest of the training session had been quite informative, but Orodan had left without having acquired Memetic Hazard Mastery. He had to concede that he just wasn’t naturally talented at certain things and that this would take time. According to W78, Infinity was a natural memetic hazard itself whenever he decided to willfully expose anyone to it. But that didn’t mean he was any good at understanding memetics, self-completing thought patterns or how to structure a thought so that the natural perception of it would become infectious.

Orodan would need time and more loops before he could truly master the skill. Some time with the parlor tricksters and hypnotists, or with certain specialists of the Blackworth Collective who worked with illusions.

And given the subject of illusions… perhaps Ozgaric would be a good instructor?

In any case, these thoughts could wait. Especially when the vastly changed Ogdenborough lay before him.

His hovel really hadn’t changed; it was an older part of town and among the first neighbourhoods to be built when the town was being founded. His home and the surrounding few houses remained in their relatively worn down state simply because the gold investment to bring them up to par wasn’t worth it.

As a result, when Orodan had teleported right out of Ogdenborough at the start of the loop he hadn’t had the time to notice how things had changed. How the most of the town looked distinctly less poor and poverty-stricken than he ever remembered it being.

In particular as he walked towards Eversong Plaza through the north side of town, a neighborhood that should have been full of desperation and street rats. Instead the formerly dilapidated dwellings and abandoned storefronts were now lively and full of traffic and commerce. It was most surreal.

There were no street rats. Oh, there were orphans alright, but not one of them was out on the streets alone and trying to find something more to supplement what little the orphanage gave them. These orphans were accompanied by a happy-looking matron of the orphanage who was leading them on a day trip to see what things they might like or would need.

Toys, books, and even some very basic and cheap enchanted items were in the shopping basket the woman carried. The matron seemed to recognize him too, not just from his fame, but something on a more personal level. And Orodan had to do a double take as he realized that this was Uldrine. Far healthier and not nearly as bony as the overworked and poor matron he remembered from his timeline.

In his time, the woman had left and returned to the Cathedral in Trumbetton, glad to be away from the punitive duty that manning the orphanage was seen as.

“Miss Uldrine, look! Is that him? Is that Orodan? He looks so big!” one of the orphans clamored, looking far healthier and happier than any of them from his time had ever been.

Uldrine turned around, and her eyes widened as she noticed him too.

“Is that you… Orodan Wainwright?” her voice soft, questioning as she stepped away from the group of orphans, leaving them with another matron. “Oh my… it really is you, my dear boy. I could scarcely believe all the things people were saying, that you’re some time looper, that you’ve become some mighty King… but I see my eyes were not deceiving me. You really do match the likeness of all those posters of you they have up across town.”

Orodan for his part was more than a little confused, but then things really began to click together.

Of course things would now be different in Ogdenborough. He had changed the timeline itself to ensure that House Argon had never suffered to the extent that they had in the original timeline. Baron Viglas Argon’s parents and siblings were alive; House Argon had not suffered the injustice of being forgotten either. They had been rewarded and recognized for their risky defection from Novarria to the Republic.

Why would Baron Viglas or his house ever defect to the Novarrians? Why would Ogdenborough remain poor if there was no shady noble carefully curating what businesses and trade was allowed within? The people seemed happy and not struggling to survive day-to-day, and it seemed that had bled over to the orphanage as well. Uldrine, in a far nicer town, had never left her position as head matron.

A woman who previously had been thankless, surly and resentful of the fact that she had to look after the orphans was now happy, content and looking at Orodan as though he was a lost son.

“Dear boy? I don’t recall you ever calling me that before…” he muttered.

“Do you… you not remember?”

“Remember what?”

The woman’s face sunk, and Orodan had the distinct feeling as though he had just kicked a happy puppy. Uldrine looked genuinely hurt too, as though a dagger had pierced the chest.

“I see… it is true then. I wanted to think it a lie, to hope it was some mad rumor, but it seems the truth is as dark as I’d feared,” the head matron quietly said. “You time loopers are from a different time, aren’t you?”

“I am. As are all of us who have returned in time since I have changed things. I’m not the only one.”

“Then… you may be Orodan Wainwright, but you are not my Orodan. The boy I would read to, the one whose eyes would eagerly gleam whenever I read him the ballad of the pegasus knights,” she solemnly spoke and then looked him up and down closely. “Hmm… you’re a bit bigger than I remember.”

“I was working with Old Man Hannegan by the age of fourteen. Consistent labor and free work site lunches tend to help with that.”

“Rougher too… the Orodan I know would play fight with the others, but he does not look as… dangerous, as you do.”

Before the last loop, he might’ve opened his mouth and said something rather straightforward. But… he had learned from the Orodan Wainwright who had gently chosen not to reveal anything to his family from that alternate time.

He had learned, that sometimes not revealing it all could be a kindness.

“I have been in a fair few fights,” he answered truthfully while leaving out much.

Better to leave the details of his upbringing unsaid. If only so he could avoid hurting this woman when he had so obviously hurt enough and broken enough things already.

Uldrine frowned.

“I can tell when you are lying, Orodan Wainwright. It seems even being from another time has not erased your miserable proficiency at Deceit.”

Of course she would notice. This was the woman who would often catch him in his poor attempts to lie about what he was doing during his very early days at the orphanage. Some things never changed. And it seemed the Orodan of this altered timeline was as bad a liar as the real him.

“I did not lie. I simply did not speak the full truth,” he countered. “What good would it do you? To know what life was originally like for me growing up? Many things have changed in this time due to my alterations, what use is it to dwell on a time that no longer is?”

“Because, I want to know what made you into who you are today,” she softly asked. “And how the young man I knew became the hardened killer with far too much weight on his shoulders.”

So she knew even though he had said nothing?

Perhaps the Orodan of this time which he was now part of had not taken a life at all. Not unreasonable when the militia mainly dealt with local crime and kept public order while forays into the wilds were rarer. And the fact was that killing a wild monster with no sapient thought was a far cry from having to kill another person.

“I did not wish to darken your mind with such things, but since you have asked know that I was less than seven winters old when taking a life for the first time. House Argon was crooked, the result of a broken, grieving and vengeful man conspiring with foreign actors. And the orphanage was poor,” he revealed, showing no reaction as her eyes slightly widened. “I was an orphan, yes, but also a street rat. A necessity when our dwelling was underfunded and there simply wasn’t enough food to go around. And you had left the orphanage quite a while ago; hard to blame you for it when this place was seen as a punitive duty.”

Perhaps Uldrine truly had cared for children at one point. But that woman had been smothered by the harsh reality of running an underfunded shelter for the needy in a corrupt town in Orodan’s original timeline. But here? It brought a lightness to his heart to see the woman happy.

A lightness weighed down by the truth he had just spoken.

““I-I see… then this time looping business is not all bad now, is it? Especially if the old time was as bad as you say under my lady,” the woman shakily replied. “Though… I suppose I cannot openly state such things when the newly formed Cathedral of Life & Death has outlawed any praise of my la- Ilyatana. Not when they say you personally smote her. Is it… is any of that true?”

And there was the other dimension to Orodan’s vendetta against Ilyatana and his other two enemies within the Prime Five. Wicked as the divinity was, it could not be said that she was miserly or uncaring of her faithful. The orphanages whose overarching management now fell under Halor’s purview were originally built and crewed by faithful of the Goddess of Fate.

And given how much he had been breaking recently with his power… perhaps vengeance could hurt more than it could heal?

Orodan would not forgive, nor would he forget… but he wondered if his answer to his old grudges needed be so lethal every time?

“It… is. I slew Ilyatana in the divine realm many a time,” Orodan answered. Though he had not yet done so in this loop, mainly because she was a trifling thing who any of Alastaia’s Transcendents and perhaps even Zukelmux could slay in direct battle if they encountered her true form.

“You lie!”

Her response was immediate, venomous and full of denial.

“A mortal cannot slay a God! Not my lady Ilyatana! Not… not-”

“They can. And though this will come as no consolation to you, a death in honest battle is better than what the Eldritch can do to a divine,” Orodan said, sharply gesturing with his hand to stop his two shadowing Intelligence Service agents from apprehending the woman. “But I understand that I have caused you harm. My enmity is with your Goddess, but one cannot have conflict with a tree without also offending the birds which nest within it or the animals which shelter beneath it. This, I take responsibility for.”

And as usual, a crowd had gathered, and Orodan was beginning to grow quite weary of having fanatical supporters among the general populace. People, loopers and non-loopers even, who were swept along by the momentum of all he had done.

But the problem was…

…that he could err just as any human could. And that momentum could be directed the wrong way.

“Sir druid!” a man sharply called to a nearby priest of Halor. “We’ve caught an illegal worshiper of the wicked Goddess!”

“You dare put guilt upon the man who fights so hard for us?! He’s been training non-stop since the loop started!”

“Disgraceful! A worshiper of the wicked Goddess watching over children? Put her to the sword right now!”

“A duel! I’ll duel her in your stead Lord Wainwright, allow me the honor!” a militia man called out, drawing his weapon.

