“Hmm… I suppose if I look at it in the grand scheme of things, he wasn’t so bad. I can’t say I recall him doing anything particularly impressive besides wrestling time once. Though he did fight me upon Narictus and-”

“See! I told you! That Gods-forsaken craven is a fake! An imposter! A… a fraud!” another record-keeping assistant piped up, cutting him off.

Orodan recognized him too, from the Inter-Academy tournament.

“Oratius Mendax! You cannot simply declare one of Lord Wainwright’s sworn adversaries a fraud!” the master chronicler scolded. “Forgive me, my lord. He is not anointed to the cycle, yet we keep him around for his ability to word things… creatively, in our narrative.”

“But sir!” the monocle-wearing assistant clamored. “Even Lord Wainwright himself has now concurred that the wicked Agathor is naught but a pitiful plebeian, a bum of the streets garbed in dregs who goes around bullying those weaker than he! Should this not be added to the chronicles of his saga?”

“As I thought…! This changes all the betting odds!” the bet-master assistant exclaimed, furiously scribbling notes down.

Zukelmux, who had had quite enough of this spectacle, stepped in and strongarmed the group of record-keepers away. And while Orodan wasn’t normally the sort to avoid things, for once he found himself grateful.

Fraud? Betting odds? What in the seven hells?

The last thing a zealous assistant clamored about before Zukelmux deposited them all on the entire other side of the hall was whether he thought he could beat the Reject now. And Mendax loudly declared that it would be an easy victory while the monocle-wearing assistant began furiously debating about the scale and making odd arguments about limits and fallacies.

Orodan put those odd folk out of his mind.

“You enjoyed every second of that, didn’t you?” he asked, and Tegin gave him an innocent but joyful smile in response.

Still, his grumbling came to an end as more people filed in.

The various leaders of the alliance, the Transcendents, Alagameth and Almyra, and finally the half-dragon who never failed to make his non-existent heart act in funny ways.

She met his eyes and gave him a light smile which had him feeling as though the sun itself had warmed his being.

More filed in. Military captains of the Blackworth, commanders of Alastaia and Vylrystia, mage-lords of Thazrivin and combat units of the Unity. But critically, was an alliance corps of light mages, and following that, an important tactical asset who was no longer in the shape of a True Vampire.

“You are proof that the recipient’s mentality matters just as much as my own when I’m using the Domain of Perfect Cleaning,” Orodan spoke up, looking at Aherozam’s new human form which was tall and slender. More so than any man he’d seen. Perhaps a moon-elf and human hybrid? “The new form treats you well I hope?”

“It does, my lord,” the cleansed human said while giving him a deep bow. “The chains of the blood-hunger no longer bind me. I am my own being now. And I stand ready to aid your alliance however I can.”

“Good, then I suppose we should begin since we have everyone gathered here,” Tegin spoke, though Orodan wondered why the halfling was starting when the leader of Novarria wasn’t present. Where was the man for that matter? “My lords, ladies, majesties and other beings of power, the preparations are complete and in approximately four hours we shall be assaulting Narictus from here. Our alliance’s engineers, with the help of Mister Penny and the Collective’s brilliant Lord Anderthorn, have finished attuning the grand array in such a way that we can make landfall upon the enemy world in an instant.”

The halfling then gestured towards Orodan’s arm, where the world crown of Alastaia glowed.

“We and our sister shall prevent the world of the three moons from calling upon its own core power. But be warned… Narictus is far larger than we and Vylrystia combined. The window of opportunity for this… shall be limited,” the world-will of Alastaia spoke, adding its support.

“A powerful tactical advantage,” Zaessythra added. “Without a connection to their world core, the enemy command will be left vulnerable to many things. A chink in their armor which allows us to exploit the vampires’ prime weakness… light.”

“To all gathered, if you have not seen them before, allow me to introduce Lord Silestor Lumenarin of Alastaia and mage-lord Ilera Dawnsight of Thazrivin. The two heads of our alliance’s arrayed corps of light mages,” Tegin announced. “From what our recently converted friend tells us, the world core of Narictus is used to oppressively shield all the blood lords from hostile light magic.”

“It is not a tool the Lord of Night can utilize on foreign soil, but under the eternal night of the three moons none may invade Narictus easily,” Aherozam spoke, and then the former vampire looked between Orodan, Almyra, Alagameth and Zaessythra. “But… if I may be so bold… with power such as yours… Narictus should be no hindrance at all.”

“You speak true, honored friend,” Zaessythra replied. “However this meeting of strategy is not for us, but the alliance’s armies. Neither of the four of us shall be participating in any combat save ensuring no higher powers intervene.”

There were no shocked mutters, no gasps, nor any protests. It was something that had been discussed and the alliance had known about for a while.

The entire reason Orodan had brought all these people into the time loops was so that they could gain the strength to stand upon their own two feet and seize the reins of their own destiny. This invasion of Narictus was but the first step in doing so proactively.

Sure, he and the other two Embodiers—and Zaessythra who sat in a strange place power-wise—could destroy the Hegemony and probably every faction of their galaxy with ease if they so chose. But that wasn’t the point.

Honing the alliance’s might from the ground up was. This would be a test of Alastaian, Vylrystian, Thazrivinian, Unity and Collective strength, techniques and technology against that of Narictus’s. It was as much a field test as it was a battle.

And only in honing the abilities of the alliance’s lower tier could the higher tiers truly ascend. After all, a stronger alliance meant more resources, techniques and newly pioneered skills to throw towards the four strongest beings in it. Furthermore, though Narictus was trivial for him, given that he’d erased hundreds of star systems before, it wasn’t so casual for the alliance’s army of Transcendents, Grandmasters and below. This would be a true test of their development.

This was the very first loop where everyone had been brought into the time loops. Many of these tens of thousands of warriors, soldiers and mages were still reeling from the reality that Orodan had pulled them into the time loops as well. Yet now, he was expecting them to take the reins of their own development and launch a world invasion of a land of vampires, werewolves, haunted spirits and necromancers.

Orodan, who had for so long trained in the loops through mad methods… could only see this as good training.

In fact, by the look of it, most of those present in this grand hall were looking forward to it, a quiet pride and the desire to prove themselves apparent on their faces. Death was no hindrance for them now. And even if they died in this loop, Orodan was the lynchpin of the time loops and only his death would cause an actual reset. Which meant that these members of the alliance could die and then be resurrected by the Alastaian chronomancy and soul mage corps all in the midst of this loop to then resume combat.

Most importantly, such a harsh invasion of a world would temper them more than the liberation of Lonvoron from the Eldritch had. It would give almost all of them skill levels, new insights and perhaps even new skills of higher-rarities. Who knew how many hidden talents from among the army would arise as a result? Who knew what spoils and secret techniques of the vampires they would loot and use to better their own advancement?

This was a world invasion, yes, but the unique context of them all being part of the time loops meant that this was really a critical opportunity for growth. This invasion would be repeated again in the next loop, and the one after, until Narictus itself was scoured clean of secrets, techniques, artifacts and critical assets.

And the department of looper affairs which oversaw all time loopers, within the context of the loops, had the opportunity to retry this invasion over and over until the invasion went perfectly. Orodan had run loops over and over until he got things right, but now something even he hadn’t seen would have the chance to occur.

It would be the first time an organization had the opportunity to repeatedly hone itself over and over on the same situation until it got things right.

“I have also taken the liberty of notifying certain juniors of mine within the Conclave that a significant battle will occur near Narictus,” Alagameth, the spatial spider Embodier spoke up. “We of the light do not take kindly to the Hegemony’s lords of night. They will have observers watching, ready to send report. While I could simply use my authority to ask they join the alliance, a display of your capabilities would make the transition even smoother.”

“Which means Narictus is not just a training opportunity, but the chance to make a good first impression on further allies,” Tegin spoke. “The recent, if rushed, modifications Mister Gregory Hannegan has made to our fleets and armaments give us a critical edge.”

“I’d have thought it an exaggerated rumor if not witnessed with my own eyes, but General Tegin speaks true. Guns fire faster and stronger, armor’s far tougher, enchantments flow smoother… everything is just better when directed by Lord Hannegan’s hand. Our void fleet and military’s capabilities have increased by an entire fifty percent. An utterly absurd figure, and that’s a very conservative estimate too.”

King Alstatyn’s declaration was met with some murmurs and impressed whispers. Though the subject of that, a surly old man who looked irritated at the fact that he was in a meeting and not directing work, didn’t seem to care in the slightest. Typical Old Man Hannegan, Orodan thought as a smile came to his face.

Even if the loop ended for some reason, or something horrific occurred, he now had an odd confidence that Alastaia wasn’t entirely defenseless without him. Even if their combat power without this alliance was lacking, they at least had a Celestial foreman who could direct labor to absurd heights. And the old supervisor would only continue to grow better and better at it as he gained skill levels.

There were more discussions on strategy, what their tactics should be, and the exact approach of things. For a lot of these discussions, Zaessythra delegated command and tactics to a trusted cadre of Transcendent and Grandmaster-level individuals from each world. She simply said that it would be improper of her to take direct command when she would not be doing any of the fighting.

And from what Orodan had seen of her ability to hurt the Prophet… he entirely agreed.

They hadn’t sparred, not yet. But he recalled a certain absurd strength and an eerie and esoteric aura to her which he had briefly felt when their lips had touched during more private moments.

That half-dragon was dangerous. He held faith in nobody else as much as he did her, the trust being implicit and absolute. But that didn’t erase the instinctual recognition that she, even if not as powerful in the raw sense… could likely hurt him badly if she got the chance.

He hadn’t even had the chance to ask about her Status, but knew that there were going to be some surprises waiting in there for him.

Whatever the collision zone between the Eldritch Boundless One and its sadistic sibling had done, it had given rise to and assisted in the reforging of a being who was deadlier than any he’d seen within System space. And the addition of that strange and ephemeral being who had helped at the very end had only added to that.

The strategic discussion continued for a while, longer.

Aerial formations, ground tactics, artillery arrangements, spatiomantic maneuvers and all other things related to combat and warfare were discussed.

A discussion which came to a halt as the grand doors, shut when the meeting had begun, swung open.

“Balastion?” Orodan asked. “I was wondering where you were.”

If anyone else bristled at the fact that the first emperor simply barged in while being late, they didn’t voice it when Orodan acknowledged him.

But social mores were the least of their concerns. Especially when accompanying the ruler of Novarria was a certain madman.

Alovardo Balmento.

Orodan’s eyes narrowed as he gave the nutcase a questioning look. Most thought the ancient Balmento of Arkwall to be utterly deranged, but that was far from the truth. The man had simply seen the truth of the Eldritch and accepted it wholly and fully. Some way, somehow, Alovardo could speak to System numbers the same way Orodan could. And the man could perceive things about the grander state of the System.

So when the man’s words came, he listened.

“The numbers speak clear. They say there have been quite a few… external breaches.”

It was a singular proclamation. And none came after.

The meeting erupted into chaos.

#

“The timing is simply too coincidental for it to not be related. You should not have stopped me, Orodan Wainwright,” Almyra coldly said.

“I concur,” Zaessythra added in agreement.

“I disagree,” Alagameth spoke.

