Ozgaric suddenly winked into non-existence, a perk of the God’s new form. Indicating that the northern God had sensed the return of his family from back in his mortal days. And shockingly, Malzim too suddenly departed as Orodan brought a woman back from seventy-thousand years in Alastaia’s past.

More were pulled back by his power, as half-dragons and mage-lords began leaving in droves, almost fighting for the teleporter or simply using their own means of travel to depart as swiftly as possible.

However it was when he had to start looking into the river of time for the Unity and the Collective that Orodan ran into the unexpected difficulty of this seemingly simple task.

Distance.

The Blackworth Collective was in another galaxy, the Unity was many star systems away. To access the fallen souls in their river of time while upon Alastaia… it was difficult. Not for the chronomancy part, but for his actual vision of the river.

Yes, he could simply stop, physically travel there and then get those, but that would cause the faces of those hopefuls who wanted their loved ones back to falter, even if it would be momentarily. And Orodan didn’t want to see that.

And because this would be good training.

Alstatyn who was nearby seemed to recognize the mad thought process in his eyes and had a frown on his face as he was ready to intervene, only for Almyra to hold the King of the Collective back.

Orodan took a deep and entirely unnecessary breath…

…and then threw Infinity and Violence into his sight.

His eyes bled, and his cells died. Infinity wanted to overwhelm him, but Violence, or rather him, simply brutalized the concept into behaving. He had never pushed this much into just his actual sight before, but it came with benefits.

[Vision of Purity 99 → Vision of Purity 100]

Orodan’s vision was grand and all-encompassing as he looked at the timeline for not just Alastaia, Vylrystia and Thazrivin… but the Collective and Unity too. A star system and an entire galaxy away.

When not interacting with the time loop mechanism which had an easy tether to everywhere that he had taken for granted, expanding his sight across truly vast distances was incredibly difficult.

But his Grandmastery in Vision of Purity allowed it. A critical skill which he knew he would have to train into Transcendence if he intended to enact his grand ambition.

With the newly pushed boundaries, even as his cells were suffering from the sheer strain of it, he looked through the river of time for these extremely distant worlds…

…and pulled back the deceased from the list.

Alstatyn who was more concerned for Orodan than about the spectacle, stumbled as Almyra suddenly vanished. The King too, then reluctantly left after shooting him a grateful look.

Soldiers, captains and Transcendents of the Blackworth Collective began leaving in droves as their fallen were brought back from across the vast gap of time, and finally, the Unity’s machine beings began leaving too.

Unlike his other resurrections, this spectacle was more distant and impersonal if only because he didn’t get to meet the people he brought back. The resurrections continued, one after another as Orodan plucked each one back, yanking them along the river of time and to their last known safe position, trusting in the alliance’s logistics and crews to handle recovering them physically.

Each person whispered thanks, or even a prayer as they swiftly departed to meet their returned friends and family. Worst of all… some of those prayers were directed towards him. Something he would have liked to protest on the spot, but was a bit too preoccupied to do.

At last, the list began to grow smaller and smaller. The divinities had all left now too, each of them having had people or beings of their own who they cared for. Only the soul mage and chronomancer crew helping direct things remained.

Alongside one person in the audience, and a final name on the list.

“Lord Wainwright… this final name… the signatory has stated that they will not mind if you are unable,” the leading chronomancer spoke before giving him a respectful bow and departing alongside the rest of his crew.

“I’m not a lord…” he grumbled. Since when had everyone defaulted to calling him that? He couldn’t even correct them constantly either when so many were doing it and it would waste time.

“Information: anomaly is designated bearer of world crown for planet - Alastaia. Correction: subject correct designation - your majesty.”

“You…!” Orodan exclaimed and then stopped himself. Perhaps ‘my lord’ didn’t sound quite so bad after all. He looked closely at W78. “You want to see it tried, don’t you?”

“Proto-unit will not experience organic sensation of dissatisfaction. This unit accepts reality.”

But his friend should not have had to. And yet W78 had.

Now the question remained as to whether Orodan could reverse that state of affairs. Not for someone deceased upon Alastaia, or Vylrystia or even the Collective…

…but for an entire extinct race outside of System space altogether.

By all accounts this should have been impossible, yet Orodan did not want to leave without at least scouting out the terrain of the endeavor.

“W78… you may want to step back or shield yourself… in fact I don’t know if even the tower can take the amount of energy I’m about to emanate.”

“Proto-unit has made preparations,” W78 intoned as it brought out multiple shielding devices, not just for itself but the entire tower structure. “Planetary grade barrier pylon deploying.”

The shield which crackled out and formed all around the tower from that odd device was sturdy too. It truly could survive at least enough energy to destroy a star system. Still nowhere near what was needed to weather Orodan’s full power, but perhaps his full power wouldn’t be needed for a mere scouting task.

Orodan’s cells began dying in droves once more and at a far greater pace too as he threw colossal amounts of power into Vision of Purity and his chronomancy. His sight into the river of time extended all the way towards the very boundaries of System space, and then…

…it abruptly stopped.

Immediately, he saw the real problem which W78 had warned him about.

The river of time of System space was not connected to the timeline of the greater universe. It was as though there was no river of time outside at all.

But there had to be something… it couldn’t just be hopeless!

Even as his cells died and the power he emitted was beginning to seriously strain the shields W78 had put up, he pondered and sought an answer.

What was time? It had to be more than just some strange and metaphysical river into which someone could peer and convenient drag things backwards in.

The Prophet had mentioned that it wasn’t bound by the non-existence of a tapestry of fate when facing foreign champions from outside System space. Then… why should time face any such limitation either?

It wasn’t some alien dimension out there. Orodan had gone out once, he had fought, killed and died and then returned.

Events still occurred. One thing led to another. If he punched something, the cause, his fist, led to the effect, its death. The wicked Boundless One outside still moved. W78’s creator race had all been slaughtered by something predatory. And System space itself had been created at one point, hadn’t it?

With that understanding in mind, he threw his all, as much power as he could without breaking the shields, into Vision of Purity.

[Vision of Purity 100 → Vision of Purity 101]

And he saw.

Not a river of time. But a chain of events. One causing another, one leading back to the other.

He followed the chain of causality from W78’s wound, and from there, beyond the bounds of System space, he saw a scene most horrid.

Of eternal and endless agony, of souls caught in the web of something truly cruel and capricious.

And in turn…

…something saw him.

And it smiled.

Time was frozen and it gazed into him. Information patterns of horrible power began attempting to automatically complete within his mind, as though something was seeking purchase. As though it had found prey to leap towards, the door open for it to enter now that he’d seen.

It was an unnaturally pale being whose uncanny smile looked as though a mask was stretched over a head too tight. It was eerie, and the human part of Orodan quivered as though under the gaze of something old, hungry and cruel for cruelty’s sake alone.

And then…

…its smile turned upside down, and for the smallest instant of time… it quivered.

Its gaze landing upon his eyes, where it saw Infinity and the gleeful desire to engage in mad battle.

It shrieked, time and causality trembled, and Orodan was forced to finally abandon his sight outside of System space just in time for W78’s shield around the tower to break and the tower itself to utterly shatter.

Orodan managed to revert the tower to pristine condition just before it wreaked horrid destruction upon Ogdenborough below.

“Subject… anomaly # 9 has… seen anomaly # 3?” W78 asked.

“Aye, and it saw me too…

…I look forward to meeting it.”

#

“Everyone’s saying you bled for them…”

“I always bleed when channeling a lot of power, Aliya.”

“They said you became a God…”

“You can beat a weaker divine in combat now, Zukelmux.”

“My mother started praying to you, Orodan!”

“Damn it, Edrosic! I didn’t want that either!”

Wainroach wiggled her antennae at him as though laughing.

“No, I did not break the tower just because I thought it was gaudy.”

Frankly, it had been a spur of the moment try from both him and W78 which they’d been lucky hadn’t resulted in worse. After all, while Orodan was more than happy to face that thing in honest battle, he wasn’t sure how well Alastaia and everyone else in the surrounding star systems would fare if the fight started in Ogdenborough with no defensive preparations to avoid collateral.

It also confirmed that since the billions of years since the System’s inception, while W78 was a Transcendent, that thing had grown. And it had grown very powerful.

W78 had not been happy to learn of the fate of its creator race, but Orodan simply vowed that he would deal with it when the time came. Though how a fight between him and that thing would go was up in the air. A simple look from a great distance between the two of them didn’t tell him too much about its battle power.

Still, it couldn’t have been stronger than the Administrators if it hadn’t breached System space yet. Talasgan, the Warrior, likely remained Orodan’s strongest non-Boundless opponent yet.

And the gains he’d made in this loop, while good, yet remained insufficient to tackle the power gap between him and the System’s mightiest Administrator.

What really had his mood soured however…

…was the fact that W78 hadn’t allowed him to take the mug home. Something about the anomaly’s parameters being permanently altered until the next loop due to him. Though, at least the proto-unit had conditionally agreed to allow him to train with it, under strict guidelines and supervision.

Still, things were proceeding at a good pace with his training, even if he hadn’t acquired Memetic Hazard Mastery. The alliance’s progress continued independent of his own gains. And a critical milestone had been reached since Fenton had finally completed his work.

They were within the grand hall of Vylrystia’s citadel, a space now regularly used as the convention point for the alliance. The half-dragon guards above looked far more used to the presence of all these foreign allies now than they had at the start of the loop. And Fenton had a satisfied look on his face, am orb in hand.

It was the most well-crafted thing Orodan had seen in a long time. Perhaps just a step below the ancient machine.

“Alright ser, here it is. Now you’ll get to hear every bleedin’ non-looper whine even more than they already do,” the enchanting prodigy spoke, tossing him a slightly larger orb which would still fit in his soul space, but one which qualitatively looked superior in every way. “Got tired of them badgerin’ me the entire time. Five-thousand slots, primed and ready.”

“Five thousand? I was under the impression that it would be a one-thousand slot orb.”

Fenton beamed a bit, the lad’s pride showing.

“You’re not the only one who can impress from time to time, Mister Orodan,” he replied with a toothy grin and then ducked away grumpily as Orodan gave his head a ruffle.

“This is some exquisite work, Fenton. Who helped?”

“Zukelmux’s tribe chief did, Mister Griok. That old codger’s a real hand with polishin’ gems and crystals he is. Never seen anythin’ like it in all me life. Hard to even talk to the old goblin when he’s got a line out the town full of people tryin’ to buy his services.”

“From what the elder told me, he specifically commissioned the purest and most mana-saturated stone he could find from across the worlds of the alliance,” Zukelmux added. “That orb in your hands comes from the World Core of Thazrivin, teacher. A treasure worth more than a kingdom, bolstered by the alliance’s greatest Jewelcrafter and then finished by our very own enchanting prodigy. Young Fenton has surpassed all expectations, though I shall say the number of slots is more accurately four-thousand nine-hundred and ninety-nine.”

“An oddly particular number,” Orodan spoke, looking closer and noticing that one of the banks was indeed filled. “It couldn’t be you, Fenton. Nor any of you. You all are part of the loops already, so who could-”

