“We ought to put her on a black list, deny this she-devil any chance at ascending when the Second Pass comes!”

Orodan…

…was disgusted.

Partially by the behavior of the mob braying for blood, but also with himself. Had his vendettas echoed so far?

A simple stomp, one foot. And the crowd went silent as the air suddenly became tense.

“Enough. I am not some deity whose words and actions are to be obsessively followed. My hands are covered in blood, not all of it righteously spilled,” he sternly uttered. “This woman’s entire worldview was upended no more than a few days ago, her Goddess exiled from Alastaia and an entire new order imposed. You lot would condemn her for this? I see it in many of you here, your lives changed due to the disappearance of three of the Prime Five. The only difference being none of you are bold enough to voice it as she has.”

The priest of Halor who one of the crowd had called, stepped forward.

“But my lord… the Goddess of Fate is an old enemy of yours. She has done much ill, her personality, her very character is wicked!”

“And this woman who held faith in her while living a life of virtue and compassion has done no such ills, nor is her character wicked. Why do you and this mob eye her viciously?” Orodan asked. “Are you not a druid of the God of Life? What act of life is this?”

Perhaps the man might had counterarguments or further beliefs of his own, but they were unfairly difficult to get out when Orodan was leveling a baleful glare right at him. His temper had been roused enough that the glare was just short of activating Incipience of Infinity.

“Now, I have business to attend to. This woman is under my protection, that is all.”

His words were final. If anyone threatened her, he would answer them himself.

None in the crowd contested this, and the druid of Halor seemed more contemplative of his words than defiant.

Which left Orodan free to take his leave for his business. Business which would take place at the peak of the giant tower constructed atop Mount Castarian.

Ogdenborough, despite being a prosperous town in this timeline, wasn’t normally anywhere near as packed as it was now. The northern portion of the city was still relatively normal, but the nearer he got to Eversong Plaza the denser the crowds became, and it wasn’t difficult for people to notice a man his size. Not when flyers and banners bearing his likeness were flying about town.

Kalemar Cosanox was waiting near the start of the crowd perimeter alongside Demosthenos Albathrax and a group of heavily armored alliance infantry.

“Mister Wainwright! There you are!” the Vice-Director called out.

The shame in the man’s eyes was apparent as he did not want to directly meet Orodan’s, so he simply clapped a hand upon his liaison’s shoulder.

“No need to look so glum. You were right to leave,” Orodan spoke, addressing the source of the man’s shame. “The things in there weren’t exactly safe.”

For those besides himself that was.

“I still feel as though I let you down… to think simple fear could-”

“There was nothing simple about that fear. Not when it can travel through simple information and perception of it, or can steal the reins of your own thoughts without any mind magic or external tampering,” Orodan spoke.

He then turned to the soldiers.

“I can just Dimensional Step to the peak of that tower…”

“Forgive me, my lord, but His Majesty Balastion and the other faction leaders have agreed that having you be visible is for the best. Far too many people from across the worlds of our alliance have gathered here today. This spectacle is as much function as it is a morale piece,” Demosthenos explained apologetically.

The man was not wrong. The sight of half-dragons, metallic beings of the Unity, mage-lords of Thazrivin and people from the Collective all in Ogdenborough was an utterly novel sight. It spoke to the bizareness of the scene that the many goblins in the crowd were seen as a comforting and familiar presence by the locals.

The heavily armored escort, though entirely unnecessary, cleared him a path to Eversong Plaza where the base of the tower was. If anything, being escorted let him see clearer how he was being gawked at like some spectacle, and how so many people in the crowds had painful and desperate hope in their eyes.

They couldn’t be blamed for that, not given what he was about to do.

It was no teleporter, but a giant lift which took him to the peak of the tower. Symbolic, very visible and entirely too gaudy for his tastes. He had been in battles in the void outside of worlds before, but seeing so many people slowly grow smaller as their reverential gazes upon him never broke was an odd sight. An uncomfortable one.

The lift brought him up top, and he noticed an extensive seating arrangement containing thousands. All of them loopers.

“Orodan Wainwright. You have come.”

Malzim’s words echoed, soft but filled with divine power. Yet even that power seemed almost subservient now.

“I have. Is this… list ready?”

The echoing boom of a loud horn tore through the air. It was no clarinet or trumpet, but a true explosion of noise meant to mark an event of cosmic significance. He was fairly certain the sound echoed out to the stars and beyond too.

Following this, an entire procession of chronomancers and soul mages came out, priests of Malzim, the Guzuharan death divine and even the Collective’s two death divinities accompanying, and at the center of said procession were all the death Gods of the alliance, carrying a gigantic parchment between them as they somberly walked up.

It was almost ceremonial, and Orodan found himself uncomfortable as he stood at the center of what was quickly becoming some sort of pseudo-religious ceremony.

For too long he had been cursed with the burden of being the only one who remembered. But now, with so many people as part of the loops, brought in by his hand… he had to accept that they would ascribe significance to things which he saw as routine.

If this was what everyone needed to see, then so be it.

Each death divinity bore the portion of the absurdly long parchment which corresponded to their faction and area of faith.

“How many?”

“Just under eighty-nine-thousand.”

Malzim’s reply was soft, yet filled with gravity. Orodan felt the ceremonial weight of each reply and the expectant gazes to be excessive. He had resurrected millions before, from five-hundred thousand years ago by pulling Vylrystia back! Why did less than a hundred-thousand matter?

The answer… lay in the audience, all of whom were loopers Orodan had brought in.

Their gazes were hopeful, expectant… revering.

The names on that list had been carefully gathered from each looper who had loved ones, friends, family or comrades who had fallen too early. Taken too soon. Wounds which had never truly healed by virtue of their tragic and untimely nature. Each name had been personally signed by the person to whom said deceased was important.

In fact, at the very top of the list, he could see an elven name. He had an inkling as to who the signatory was, as his eyes flitted to meet those of Vespidia.

Good.

This was the right move then. Orodan had always known it, never one to shirk the responsibility of righting a wrong, but this only confirmed it.

Vespidia was now willing to live in this new world. And the name of the elven reincarnator’s deceased wife at the top of the list was the glaring sign of that.

There were more too.

He looked at Adeltaj, who was off to the side as one of the ceremonial guards for this spectacle.

“When?”

“Long ago… having to outlive one’s wife is never easy. Worse still when it is your own daughter,” the old halberdier quietly replied. “Taken from me through violence, even if the line continued via my grandchild and House Simarji went on.”

“Balastion?” Orodan asked.

“My elder brother… he died so that I might succeed and found Novarria.”

And it shouldn’t have surprised him at all… but of all the hopeful faces, the most desperate of them all was the young boy who had become a God far too soon in his life.

“Ozgaric…? Loss does not spare even the protector God of the north it seems…”

“I had a mother and father once. Chaotic as it may be for my followers to witness… I would dearly like them back.”

And a small part of Orodan truly wished he could have his own back too. But not yet. Not when the Custodian and Boundless One itself had ways of knowing when that was tampered with. Not when he had so much left to do before he could allow himself such a thing.

Only once everyone else’s dream was realized could the pillar itself be allowed to indulge.

All around in the audience were beings from across the alliance. Half-dragons, goblins, Blackworth captains, mage-lords and even some metallic beings of the Unity. Those in the audience had people they wanted brought back.

These weren’t just forty or fifty-year-old middling folk… the youngest present here had lived for centuries at minimum. The tragedies suffered by these people were ancient, far beyond just a simple year back in time. Untimely demises of those they cared for which Orodan’s small alterations to certain parts of the timeline hadn’t effected.

And they were, all of them, gathered today with hopeful looks upon their faces. Perhaps they were waiting for him to say something?

“I am not some divine figure.”

His first words, softly spoken, yet carried through the air like a hurricane.

Many of the people spectating looked as though they disagreed. It was apparent too in how some looked at the deities present and then looked back at him, the elevation of him on a pedestal above even these divines being apparent in their eyes.

The eyes of some others softened, as though previously apprehensive of what his character might have been like.

“I will not act the watchman over anyone’s thoughts… but know that you may be thoroughly disillusioned when you learn that I am more bloody-handed warrior than benevolent hero. All of this, this ceremony, this ritual significance… it is unnecessary.”

“And yet, Orodan, your actions affect more than just yourself,” Almyra spoke from the side. “This has less to do with you than you think. Will you not allow people their rituals and significance that they might come to terms with their new situation easier?”

That… made sense.

Perhaps he was just the central figurehead all of these newly inducted time loopers were basing their radically shifted worldview around. Even for Grandmasters and Transcendents, a sudden induction into a time loop would be jarring. It challenged their entire worldview and was new and uncomfortable territory.

So who was he to deny them their rituals, ceremonies and moments of significance to ease their own transition? For Orodan, this was just another resurrection. But for them? It was the first of many loops moving forward where their lost loved ones and comrades would be reunited with them.

The department of looper affairs must have arranged things this way for a reason. It wasn’t just the resurrection itself, but the promise, that these time loops would be okay. That Orodan would look after them and they were safe under the shade of his strength.

And it was time to show them that. For he had kept the spectating hopefuls waiting long enough.

His focus was upon the gigantic list in front of him. And the absolute swarm of people surrounding him on all sides while he was at the center of a raised tower.

He began to glow white, a faint thing as the labor wasn’t nearly as intensive as his grandest feats of Time Reversal. But the gasps and reverential mutters of awe erupted all the same.

It was ridiculous to see Grandmasters and Transcendents act as though they were Initiates and Apprentices seeing something flashy for the first time, but he had to remind himself that he was the lynchpin of this. The driving force of an event which meant so very much to them personally.

And as his eyes glowed and the tower lit up with the luminosity of his blazing soul…

…he threw it towards Time Mastery and Time Reversal. Diving right into the river of this newly altered timeline.

“My lord! Please do not worry about bringing any of the resurrected here! We have teams waiting to retrieve them and arrangements for every single one!” a Grandmaster chronomancer of Thazrivin who was part of the resurrection crew called out.

A well-organized operation. Not that it made much difference at the scale of power he operated at, but it did make an already easy task even easier.

The organization showed too in that each name had been personally written by the signatory who had been closely tied to the deceased. This allowed Orodan to trace the threads of time on the ink to said individual, and from there… to the deceased.

Who began coming back.

Vespidia was the first to gasp and suddenly clutch an unassuming bracelet around her wrist which turned from gray to silver-leafy green like the forests of Eldiron. Orodan smiled as she immediately ran through the teleporter set up for spectators to leave through.

And he continued.

Balastion and Adeltaj were the next two to leave as they received communication pulses from distant sources. The old halberdier had tears in his eyes as he gave Orodan a long look before bolting. And the first emperor simply looked as though an extreme weight had come off his shoulders and his soul lightened. Balastion gave Orodan a nod, eyes filled with gratitude, before departing.

More were returned.

