[Name: Name? Friend (Species: Friend!)Title 1: Your Bestest FriendTitle 2: Somebody You Can TrustTitle 3: Just Look At My SmileTitle 4: Now Look At That DoorTitle 5: Won’t You Let Me Come Through?Title 6: Look! I’M HERE NOW!]

Something in the Identify skill, meant to categorize things within the System, souls which had that framework themselves… found itself quivering and wanting to break. Orodan forced it to stay together, but he knew then and there…

…this was dangerous, and there could be no more delays.

He saw it now. And it saw him.

A wail left its throat, the sound coming before its freakish mouth moved.

The human part of his soul wanted to smile forever, to trust the friend.

Yet the warrior within steeled. And Eidolon of Violence shot out to target its weird and non-physical form.

[Eidolon of Violence 97 → Eidolon of Violence 98]

It shrieked in horror, as though Orodan was some monster.

His sword reached the strange corrupt knowledge it was spreading, and savagely butchered it.

Immediately, he regretted his decision.

Adeltaj, Balastion, Eldarion, the High-Orast…

…they all died.

The memory of its face within their minds and souls had wormed in. Slicing it had killed them on the spot.

His blood ran cold at this insidious and monstrous sort of warfare.

“Coward! Face me toe-to-toe!” he howled in rage. “You did this!”

“Friend did! Friend did! Friend hurt friends!”

Despite its weird taunts, it was actively attempting to run from him already. But the damage had been done. For now, all Orodan could seek, was vengeance.

It fled along a most strange dimensional pathway. Not another plane entirely, but almost like a… wave.

Orodan pursued immediately. He reached out with the Eidolon of Violence and even grasped the wave tightly with his fist, horrifying it further, but even then it was wriggly, like a weird snake-thing not physical at all.

Both hands wrapped around it, his teeth were on the verge of coming down upon it, to bite, tear and feast so that it would be no more…

…when two fingers entered his mouth.

He tried to bite down harder, but it was as though his teeth were entering another formless plane altogether. And the two fingers belonged to something that was supposed to look like a human woman, yet was anything but.

The proportions were disturbingly off. Eyes far too big. Mouth far too small. No nose. And one hand which was the size of a gold coin, and the other the size of a tower. It was the gold coin sized hand whose fingers were preventing him from murdering its compatriot on the spot.

[Incipience of Infinity 175 → Incipience of Infinity 176]

It too shrieked and wiggled through space, backwards, as though wanting to remain at the very edge of his perception and not in it.

“Infinite causality. Where does it begin? It smells so nice… let me smell you…”

“I’m afraid. That one is mine.”

That was no freakish anomaly’s voice.

“I would ask how you got here, but your abilities ever since your resurrection have been strange,” Orodan remarked, looking at Zaessythra who had somehow torn into this strange wave of dimensional substance they were in. “These two are dangerous. And the others… I-”

“You did nothing. These things did everything,” she sternly clarified.

“Things? Sibling-sister of our mother-father talks unfamiliarly with? No. No sibling-sister… stranger-prey. Wearing skin of sibling-sister like-”

“Like you wicked things wear smiles. How ironic,” Orodan spat, his rage climbing now. “Let us see if you enjoy being prey as much as you do the predator.”

Anomaly # 3, W78 had called it. It had a sense of self-preservation, so when Orodan had thought it horrified or afraid, really, it was just moving away from him for its own sake. But it was also deathly curious and reached out with a long talon to touch him.

He felt it.

Its impression coming through, seeking purchase in his ribs, through his heart. To pierce mind, soul and body in a way no physical skill would help against.

And it ran headfirst into the wall that was Infinity and did so hard.

It recoiled, and Orodan took the opportunity to try and finish it off, only for it to become non-physical entirely and turn into some sort of… idea.

Zaessythra was clashing against that other anomalous creature, but surprisingly enough to Orodan… she was winning. Handily.

In fact, how even had she withstood it when everyone else went mad?

Still, the problem remained that the creature, anomaly # 3, was fleeing. His three empowered divines were unreachable in time to create clones; chronomancy didn’t seem to work here for some odd reason, dimensionalism too was weirdly sluggish and it was swiftly gaining ground.

It was on the verge of fleeing from the very edge of his perception outright despite his dogged pursuit…

…when a greatsword intercepted it.

Orodan had seen this greatsword.

He had tested himself against it and found himself wanting. He had died against it.

And its bearer was the single most monstrous individual he had ever seen within System space, short of the Boundless One itself.

So he readied his all. Smite of Abrupt Deliverance and Eidolon of Violence together alongside Domain of Perfect Cleaning and Incipience of Infinity.

And as Talasgan’s greatsword intercepted anomaly # 3 and was at risk of sending it flying in another direction, like paper swatted by a stick… Orodan’s own sword met it simultaneously, slamming it between both attacks.

[Eidolon of Violence 98 → Eidolon of Violence 100]

[New Title → Violence Grandmaster]

[New Title → Shield Grandmaster]

[New Title → Wrestling Grandmaster]

[New Title → Woodworking Grandmaster]

[New Title → Stonecutting Grandmaster]

[New Title → Halberd Grandmaster]

[New Title → Mining Grandmaster]

[New Title → Spear Grandmaster]

[New Title → Club Grandmaster]

He had little time to dwell on the fact that he had gained two levels in a single clash. The Warrior was strong. Yet it was a cooperative clash meant to slay a mutual foe.

Yet even then it wriggled and wished to flee!

Orodan did not understand how to truly slay it in a single exchange, so wily was it. Yet then, in that moment, as his and Talasgan’s blades were bound together, knowledge, understanding, wisdom and… teaching came across that bind.

A method through which only two warriors could communicate.

And through the blade of Talasgan, the Warrior, the strongest of the System’s Administrators…

…Orodan Wainwright had the very first step of the answer.

[New Skill → Memetic Hazard Mastery 1 (Mythical)]

[New Title → Invader Slayer]

Anomaly # 3 died as Orodan struck not just what he could see of its being, but the very idea it was. The insidious thought that allowed for it to continually replicate and flee and cause utter mayhem.

And the sheer collision between his weapon and Talasgan’s greatsword caused the entire dimensional wave they were in to utterly rupture.

Zaessythra had successfully killed that other one. How? He had no idea. But she’d done it.

And now, it was just him and the Warrior, face to face, floating in the void in an entirely separate section of the cosmos of System space.

And Talasgan did not look happy.

“What… have you done?”

“I slew it, what else?” Orodan answered.

“Not that! This!” the Administrator said, pointing right at him. “The time loops. What have you done with them. I can sense the causality of all System space heading right towards you now. My compatriots were searching, desperate to find what has riled the Boundless One so, but they sought to no avail. And you appear here, slaying an invader in the process? What have you done, Orodan Wainwright?”

“I added them to the loops. Tens of thousands. Why should they languish in stagnation while I alone grow?”

“Then you have doomed us all. They smell it… the increased power, the draw, the invaders smell it and create even more openings. I have been under the greatest pressure I have ever felt in all my billions of years of duty… and it is because of you,” the Warrior spoke calmly. “And when those things begin to enter en masse… you will realize that having tens of thousands of other time loopers is more curse than boon. I do not know how you have done it, or what you even are… but this is a problem beyond even my understanding now.”

The Warrior faced greater pressure in defending the System’s borders… because of him? And with all these loopers going back…?

His eyes widened. Of course. The souls of those slain must have still been corrupted! He needed to get to them and purify them before the loop restarted.

He needed to regroup and account for casualties. To see how the minds and souls of those affected could be salvaged.

Unfortunately for Orodan, as Zaessythra approached, as Talasgan simply stood vigil silently and almost fatalistically as though he knew what was coming…

…a horrid horizon-encompassing gathering of wicked pink energy began coming through the cracks of reality. And an Eldritch power broke free of its cage to meet it.

As the power of two Boundless collided, the darkness took him.

#

A keening wail ringing in the night sky awoke him.

Zaessythra was with him, though there was no joy in this return. None at all.

Already, Vision of Purity could sense thought patterns and hazardous things carried over from the last loop in the minds of some of the loopers.

Orodan got up, sword and broom in hand.

This loop was a true mess. He needed to figure out who was corrupted and how far that extended. He needed to swiftly work with W78 to develop countermeasures, and once the immediate fires were put out…

…he needed to develop a regular plan to help Talasgan, the Warrior, in defending the sanctity of System space from external predators.

For there would be no grand ambition and no development of Alastaia and the alliance’s peoples if these wicked predators were allowed to run amok every loop.

After all… it was all thanks to him and his alteration of the time loops that had allowed it in the first place.

Which meant it was his responsibility.
