“The very nature of death has been perverted in this place. So many lost and unguided souls… so many bound to necromancers and blood lords. It is… heretical in the extreme,” Malzim spoke, a frigid determination to him. Orodan had always known the death God to care about the sanctity of the fallen, so for him to see this? The Inuanan divine was understandably unhappy.

Their tactical asset, the informant Aherozam, was nervously looking around too.

“This forest used to be green and full of life in my time. Back before the Lord of Night truly won and cast out all the divines affiliated with light and dominated our world with undeath and a regime of blood. But I still remember… the hidden paths… there! An entrance to the warren network of the ghoul chiefs! We might use it to advance easier, but be warned, the way shall be treacherous and filled with barrow wights as well.”

“Ghouls? Barrow wights? That sounds dreadful!” Edrosic complained, sitting upon a rock as he was casually sketching new spell scrolls for upcoming fights without even looking. “I vote we stay above ground. Not that my vote counts…”

“Unfortunately, Mister Edrosic, as miserable as I too find the prospect, we must brave the underground for that is the only way to the depths and eventually, the world core. We will remain stuck fighting a war of attrition against Narictus for a long time if we do not aim right for the heart of it. This way, it forces Vakan Almante, the Lord of Night… to respond to us,” Tegin Carrotfoot spoke.

Left unsaid was the fact that Orodan had roused the ire of something from beyond System space and Alovardo madly spoke of more external breaches. This daring plan to directly march underground was as much a result of strategy as it was the desire to get something out of Narictus before whatever it was reached.

He had no idea when it would arrive, but the quicker they moved, the better. That way, even if Orodan died this loop would have produced some tangible benefits for all the other loopers.

Almyra nodded and stepped away.

“Very well. The main force will brave the tunnels, while Alstatyn and I shall direct the Collective’s fleets to encircle the planet and harry the vampires from above. Be well, Orodan Wainwright, Zaessythra. And… keep your senses sharp for that thing… your description of it does little to reassure me.”

Almyra and a few members of the Collective departed.

The grand array had deposited the ground army onto Narictus’s surface, but another one in the void had allowed the Blackworth Collective’s fleets to enter voidspace right in planetary orbit. A two-pronged assault to distract the vampires with bombardment and orbital landings in key cities and settlements while the underground assault army proceeded deeper and deeper.

In fact, this aid from above the atmosphere came in soon as a gigantic swarm of bats, gargoyles and harpies in the distance—likely sent as a reactionary harrassment force to pin them until Narictus’s main armies arrived—was utterly scythed down by cannon fire and guns from up high beyond the clouds.

“Huzzah! The skies belong to us, blood suckers!” an Alastain captain declared, causing much cheer.

However, this world had more than just swarms of chaff to throw at them.

The warren entrance, which was their way into the underground networks of Narictus and eventually its depths and world core, was a door which went both ways.

And the massive horde of ghouls and skeletal undead pouring out didn’t look too happy with the fact that invaders were on their soil.

This would be a long and bloody invasion.

#

“Incredible… the flames of Captain Argon are almost peerless! Ain’t seen a pyromancer more talented in me life…! Er… besides yerself that is, Wainroach!”

Fenton’s swiftly amended words came in response to the jealous wriggles of Wainroach’s antennae. She was competitive, and Orodan’s youngest disciple. But while he had trained her and she was a true prodigy, this campaign against Narictus was showing exactly what he’d theorized.

That aside from himself, the Embodiers and his inner circle… the time loop could produce monsters of talent who he hadn’t really noticed before.

After all, if Orodan and his disciples could learn and get better throughout the loops, so too could the now tens of thousands of other people he’d added to the time loops.

Among them was one Captain Argon. A man, who even in this timeline clung very stubbornly to his honor and had immediately stepped down as Baron of his house. He still bore the name Argon, but the nominal house head was now the young Surena, his daughter.

The man had… changed.

In his early loops when it had just been him in the time loops, Orodan had not thought twice a single time when ending the man’s life beneath Mount Castarian. Why should he have? The former Baron Viglas Argon was a traitor to the Republic, assisting Novarria with taking control of the ancient machine and then turning it against all the innocents of Volarbury County. An event that killed hundreds of thousands at minimum.

Orodan was a warrior. To him, killing was no poet’s subject of angst and hand-wring. Baron Viglas Argon was a man who, every loop, had chosen to aid Novarria and intentionally turn the machine against the innocent people of an entire county. Not out of tactical consideration… but revenge.

There would be no regret for all the times, all the loops, he had slain the man.

But here and now, since he’d been added to the loops, and even before that… the man had changed.

Orodan now knew that Baron Viglas was a vengeful man who was bitter at the Republic and the world for giving his house nothing even when the man’s parents and siblings had defected to the Republic and died in the process. Orodan had then learned that there was a soft spot still in the Baron, for his daughter Surena Argon. And against all odds, gave him the choice, to no longer remain Baron Viglas Argon… or to die then and there as he had in hundreds of loops before.

The Baron had taken it.

And now, being a part of the time loops, even when Orodan had altered the very timeline itself to ensure that the man’s parents and siblings had never died, Captain Argon remained.

Stubborn. Much like him.

Though Orodan did not find himself disliking that in the slightest.

A freakishly talented pyromancer too. Neck-and-neck with Wainroach in terms of raw talent and speed of advancement. And a particularly handy asset to have when the alliance’s army was delving the ghoul warrens and fighting swarm after swarm of the hungry beasts.

Orodan, remaining the observer alongside the other Embodiers and Transcendents, could only watch. Yet, even then he was surprised at how hostile to traversal these ghoul warrens were. He had been expecting the gigantic tunnels which the depths of Alastaia had. Instead, these warrens were narrow, barely man-high and not wide enough to fit more than two standing side-by-side. This forced their assault to slow significantly as Collective Engineers and Thazrivin mage-lords worked to properly expand them so that the Blackworth’s steam-powered vehicles and the half-dragons of Vylrystia could properly carry through.

There had been some talk of leaving the vehicles and half-dragons behind, but Orodan had recommended that it would be good training to stubbornly push through and make it work regardless. Given how the engineers and mage-lords frequently smiled as their levels increased, that hadn’t been the wrong idea.

Still, even with tunnels being cleared, they often had to deal with ghoul swarms pouring out of side tunnels. Captain Argon dealt with large portions of them, Wainroach the other half. And it became a competitive joust between the two of them to see who could kill more. The ghouls, terrifying as they would have been to an unprepared force, were little match for two high-level pyromancers flooding their network of narrow side tunnels with lethal flame. It even had Clyburn muttering that perhaps they could build devices which flooded tunnels with the Collective’s trademark magically hot steam for future invasions, thereby sparing their two best pyromancers such drudgery.

Still, the advance proceeded without a single casualty, even if the assault force had split up and taken various routes, each of them leading to the world core, and each group with a Transcendent. Normally a bad idea, but with Orodan able to Dimensional Step in if things went wrong, they felt confident.

The ghouls were just too weak before the organized forces of the alliance. Hells, even if the entirety of Narictus’s ghoul population stood before them, Orodan had confidence that just the Alastaian heavy infantry could weather that storm and eventually win.

That confidence in the soldiers of his home world was tested however, as the miserably narrow tunnels suddenly turned to constructed ones. Tiles of beautiful stone, wondrous architecture and majestic murals depicting ancient civilizations.

Yet all of that was secondary to the hurled javelin which would have pulped the skull of Warden Varadian Rockwood who was leading the formation if not for Orodan batting the javelin away. The collateral caused the tunnel to collapse until he rewound time to restore it.

“Contact! Shields up! Mages! Warding and defensive spells!” the Warden roared, clearly embarrassed at needing to be saved at all.

He couldn’t be blamed for it when the javelin came from a Transcendent.

“Embodier…!” a shrill voice hissed. “You defy cosmic order by meddling upon a world! These are the barrows of High-Lord Ulthaam Adhaaran! I declare you all trespassers! The Hegemony is not without allies of its own!”

The speaker was a gaunt, armored… skeleton. An actual skeleton in heavy armor, but with glowing eye sockets which were connected to its soul which inhabited the bony frame.

Orodan knew that skeleton warriors existed on Alastaia. Particularly in monster infestation sites. He’d even died to a skeleton monk a few times during his very early loops at Eversong Plaza. But he’d never seen a Transcendent skeleton warrior at all, neither had he seen one who wasn’t under some necromancer’s binding. This, from what Vision of Purity confirmed, really was an independent being which had somehow kept its soul bound to a skeletal frame.

“I will not fight, save to keep me and mine alive and oversee them as they invade your world,” Orodan clarified, though that did not make the skeletal Transcendent ease up in the slightest.

“A good throw,” Adeltaj spoke, stepping forward to meet his Transcendent counterpart as the skeleton also wielded a halberd. “But you shall not get the chance to repeat it. Narictus’s tyranny of blood and shadow comes to an end today. Come, let me show you that remaining a bony husk is not the advantage you think it is.”

An honest duel between warriors as the barrow wight clashed against Adeltaj while the front line of the Alastaian army fought the barrow wights toe-to-toe. The soldiers of the Collective were about to intervene when a Vylrystian commander stopped them, declaring the confrontation an important one for training.

And ten minutes of battle showed that there were yet some distinct advantages to remaining living.

For starters, the half-dragon units of heavy infantry were just overwhelming. Their numbers were fewer, but no barrow wight of the same level ever stood a chance. Even ten-to-one the species itself was just monstrous.

However, it was the Alastaian infantry who truly proved their worth. Barrow wights? Outmuscled by warriors who had Physical Fitness and even a handful who had higher rarity body skills.

Bone against muscle which also had bone underneath tended to go the way of the latter. Especially when a living human also had adrenaline and a certain zeal for fighting for their life which the undead couldn’t match one-to-one. These wights, all of them, had a phylactery they were bound to. Upon death, each one’s soul flew back in the direction of it…

…until the alliance’s backline of soul mages stepped in to ruin their day.

Needless to say, once the wight armies came to the realization that their souls were being snatched out of the air upon death, they fought with far greater desperation. But it was too little too late. Even if a wight had more lifespan and theoretically greater technique than a living soldier of the same level, it just wasn’t enough to bridge the physical gap and the gulf in mindset. Especially when stagnation led to the undeads’ combat instincts getting duller and their desire to fight each battle like the last diminishing.

When Adeltaj’s halberd came down upon the Transcendent wight warrior, the battle took a sharp turn towards disaster for the barrow legions. They fell shortly after, with the alliance free to continue their journey towards the deeper depths of Narictus and towards its world core.

An hour later, they crossed the first gate, and predictably Adeltaj received a message as being a Quest Subject. Not every soldier had been designated, but as the strongest warrior of this particular assault group the old halberdier had been singled out, with the wording demanding that all able-bodied warriors of Narictus slay the invader and his minions.

More barrow legions came, though they were far fewer in number than expected.

“Not as heavy a welcome as I’d have expected for being the subject of a Quest,” Adeltaj said, and then smiled. “How ironic that I helped complete a Quest long ago and now am the Subject of one.”

