It takes just a few seconds for everything to slip out of my control. The black orb becomes too powerful for me to manage. The mana arms, which have been gathering the items all around me until this point, begin to flicker and nearly vanish. I am forced to reduce them to a single arm, woven with Ley Lines, strong enough to endure the overwhelming pull of the black mana.

Three seconds remain.

I fight against the pull and watch intently as the black orb continues its struggle against the core of the Ancient Armory.

Two seconds.

Come on. You can do it, you hungry little thing you.

One second.

The mana inside the pillar flickers. My mana arm shoots forward with incredible speed, coils itself around the red mana stone, and pulls it back into my arms.

The sixty second countdown ends, and I wait for teleportation.

Nothing happens.

I blink a few times and stare at the black orb, which continues growing in size. Only a small trace of that massive mana from the pillar remains, and now even my own mana has begun to disappear.

Huh. I’m sure I haven’t been counting wrong.

“Ehm, Ruler of Diligence, mister, could you… you know, get my ass out of here quickly… of course, only if you aren’t too busy,” I call towards the ceiling.

The black orb now hums, just barely audible. I take a few steps back, pulling everything I’ve collected from this dark place with me. I press Nyssa’s clothes and the red mana stone tightly against my chest.

“Greed, stop messing with me!” I shout.

I can’t take my eyes off the black orb. I watch as it, out of nowhere, further shrinks in size. For some reason, that scares me more than if it had grown larger. As terrifying as it feels, it’s just as fascinating. I keep staring at it, taking mental notes for the future.

Finally, I feel a pull on my body and appear somewhere else. It’s not back at the headquarters of the Primordial Knights, and it isn’t that endless place with the night sky full of nebulae either.

Instead, I find myself in a comfortable looking room made of smooth white stone and filled with nice furniture. A floor to ceiling window opens up to a view of Megacity. All the items I had stored fall onto the stone floor in a long series of thuds and clangs.

To my right stands an old wooden table, and behind it is the Ruler of Greed, sitting there calmly, watching the pile of items spread around me. She is now in the form she first showed me when she was assigned to me as my Handler. Looking just a bit older than me, her hair black with a bit of red mixed in, and her eyes a deep shade of brown.

“Congratulations on destroying a good chunk of the Ancient Armory. And by a good chunk, I mean most of it.”

“Must have been a different Nathaniel.”
