Leaving Liu Xuande to make his way over by carriage, Luo-Luo rode sweet Mafu back to their borrowed manor, where Lord Husband was already resting after having been carried in under the cover of Concealment hours before the army returned. His carriage was still out on the plains and under heavy guard, but only because Mother-in-Law Sarnai wanted blood and was using the carriage as bait. She was still out there even now, to better sell the story that Lord Husband was resting inside the vehicle, but Sister-in-Law Alsantset, Mila, Yan, Li-Li, and Lin-Lin were all asleep in the manor. Thankfully, Mother-in-Law Akanai was still awake, but unfortunately, Sorya informed Luo-Luo that the steely woman was not in the manor, but rather out and about settling some problem or another. There were many military matters Luo-Luo was still unfamiliar with, though she imagined that even the hardiest of soldiers and bravest of warriors would need watching after an arduous battle like the one they’d just experienced, so she left word for Liu Xuande to wait here and rode Mafu out once more.

Luckily, her Death Corps guards were aware of Mother-in-Law Akanai’s whereabouts so she dropped off Noodle and followed their lead as they jogged alongside sweet Mafu’s steady gait. In no time whatsoever, Luo-Luo found the formidable woman in one of the poorer districts, barking orders at hordes of Irregulars standing in queue and impatiently waiting their turn to speak with the Khishigs taking notes up front. Seeing her arrive, Mother-in-Law Akanai’s beautiful blue eyes lit up in appreciation, the most overt show of emotion Luo-Luo had ever received from the icy woman. “Good, good,” she said, bodily helping Luo-Luo off of Mafu before absently patting both quin and rider on the head. “Your help would be much appreciated. These Warriors will require new billets befitting their status, and I know not where to find it.”

Billets? Warriors? Double checking to make sure her eyes weren’t deceiving her, she saw every last person in queue was wearing the bright blue tabards that marked them as Irregulars. Many of their outfits were torn and stained beyond recognition, but when gathered together, it was clear these were all commoners, not Warriors as Mother-in-Law stated.

...Unless she too had been stricken by Lord Husband’s over-generous tendencies.

“Calm yourself girl.” Lips pursed in wry amusement, Mother-in-Law Akanai said, “No need to clutch your purse-strings so tight. These Warriors will fight beneath little Rain’s banner, but the Khishigs will bear the burden of these costs for him. It is only right, after I made him pay for his first retinue’s wages. I do not believe he ever forgave me for that.” Seeing Luo-Luo’s confusion, Mother-in-Law tilted her head and added, “A story for another time, perhaps. There is much to be done if we are to sign and settle all these Warriors before the vultures swoop in to pick at the stragglers.”

“These... Warriors?”

“Indeed.” Switching to Sending, Mother-in-Law explained what happened after the storm broke overhead, and Luo-Luo was filled with wonder at the miracles of Heaven. “I can not claim to understand it,” Mother-in-Law concluded, turning to gaze off in the distance, “But these men and women are Warriors newly forged, and devoted to the boy, one and all, so I would be a fool to let others profit in our stead.” Switching back to speaking out loud, she added, “So, about those lodgings?”

“The military barracks in the heart of the Citadel sit empty,” Luo-Luo supplied, signalling for Gunan to get the process started. “Not the most lavish of settings, but better than what they have here.” Being commoners, the Irregulars had been billeted wherever they might fit, including warehouses, stables, and buildings next to midden heaps where no one else cared to sleep.

“It will have to do for now then,” Mother-in-Law said, and Luo-Luo wasn’t sure if she was imagining the relief in her tone, likely because it wouldn’t cost her a single copper to set these newfangled Warriors up in the barracks. “At least they will be close to the training grounds, an added benefit to this arrangement. Now, is there a reason why you have come out to see me?”

“Yes, Mother-in-Law, but...” Catching on immediately, Mother-in-Law put up a Sound Barrier, or at least Luo-Luo presumed she did since she paused before nodding. “This one seeks Mother-in-Law’s guidance with respect to Liu Xuande’s concerns regarding the second line.”

“Mhm.” Jaw set in an unreadable expression, Mother-in-Law Akanai studied Luo-Luo closely. “You believe his arguments hold merit?”

By the Heavens this woman was intimidating, her casual gaze stripping Luo-Luo bare and leaving her vulnerable and exposed. What would Lord Husband do here? Oh how she wished she had the benefit of his guidance...

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

A buzz stirs me from my blank stupor, and I find a cell phone sitting on the cubicle desk, all lit up with alerts and messages. Weird. I don’t remember making that. Picking it up without thinking, I find a familiar text messaging app with a white and green UI, which opens up to Luo-Luo’s internalized distress laid bare. Silly girl. She is more competent than almost anyone I know, yet still she can’t find the confidence to believe in herself. I should help her out, not only because she deserves a farewell too, but also because I’ll never be able to sever all ties with the mortal world if I don’t, since I’ll regret treating her so poorly.

I can feel how she feels from reading her texts, delivered to me in the form of hopes and prayers. She admires me, but it’s not truly love, just infatuation still. She doesn’t know love well enough to love someone else just yet, and still has a way to go before she learns to love herself. I admire her as a person, and despite my attempts to ignore it, am more than a little infatuated with her as well, because she is a brilliant, talented, and competent woman in ways utterly unlike anyone else I know. Perhaps in time, this mutual admiration might even have blossomed into love...

Yea right. That’s wistful thinking for sure. Why would someone as beautiful and brilliant as Luo-Luo fall in love with a scrub like me? Noodle is looking really unhealthy though, so I should send a Natal Soul to do something about that...

Tapping the phone screen brings up a keyboard, and I type in the three, simple words she needs to hear. Once that is done, I hesitate and wonder if I should say anymore, but I can’t find the words just yet. Backing out of the chat, I find a list of other messages from various different people and floofs, all neatly arranged by order of last message received and constantly updating with new ones. Fighting the urge to rekindle hope and reconnect, I put the phone to sleep and place it back on the table. In the seconds before the screen flickers off and plunges me back into darkness, I divest myself of all emotion and struggle to find the peace and tranquility of empty nothingness.

Soon enough, I will figure this out and sever all hope, all regret, all desire, and more. Then, and only then, will I finally find the oblivion I so desperately desire.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Believe in yourself.

“Yes,” Luo-Luo declared, before repeating herself with more certainty. “Yes. The time and manpower spent reinforcing and resupplying the second line could be much better spent repairing the harbour and putting up a seawall to ensure the next naval attack is not so successful.”

“What will you tell the people of the Empire? We have won a great victory today, but to withdraw might send the message that even this was not enough to hold back the Defiled tide.”

“We spin it as our original goal all along, to relieve pressure on the second line so we can safely withdraw.” The more Luo-Luo thought about it, the more it made sense. “The Wall was designed from the ground up to facilitate the speedy delivery of soldiers and supplies, especially with Lord Husband’s grand thoroughfare in the works. This is the optimal decision, and abandoning the castles now means we only risk Castle JiangHu and Castle Wulin falling into the Enemy’s grasp.”

Mother-in-Law Akanai stayed silent for several minutes before letting out a small sigh. “I understand battle,” she began, catching Luo-Luo off-guard with the seemingly nonsensical declaration. “I understand the flow of combat and tracking one’s quarry. I understand supply lines and scouting patterns, tallying the costs of equipment and maintenance, but what you and Liu Xuande speak of, this cost benefit of time, this accounting for percentage spoilage and loss, the effective hours spent on duty and its correlation to decreased morale... I am unable to comprehend how it all ties together, but I believe if you are concerned, then it is worth acting on. Even Sarnai does not wholly understand, but she too shares my faith in your abilities. The boy picked you as his voice for good reason, so we would be foolish to ignore your suggestions.” Nodding slowly, she added, “If you believe this is the best course of action, then I will back you, and woe befall anyone who dares stand against us.”

Relief flooded through Luo-Luo as she pressed her hands together and bowed. “Thank you, Mother-in-Law.”

“Bah.” Clapping Luo-Luo on the shoulder, Mother-in-Law Akanai offered a frightening smile and said, “What thanks are needed between family? The billets are settled?” Again, Luo-Luo was caught off-guard, this time by the sudden shift in topic. After relaying her query through a Death Corps Guard and receiving a confirmation from Gunan, Luo-Luo nodded in reply to Mother-in-Law Akanai’s query. “Good, good,” she said, gently directing Luo-Luo back onto Mafu. “Then off with you now, girl. Go collect the boy’s War Council, and send word if you need me. There is much to do before I am able to rest, and I grow cantankerous when denied my bed for too long.”

As she rode away, Luo-Luo was still awed by how easily Mother-in-Law Akanai had been swayed, all because she believed in Luo-Luo’s abilities. Glancing towards the manor where Lord Husband was resting, she realized it was the same direction Mother-in-Law Akanai had turned when speaking of the miracle regarding the Irregulars. Thousands of common men and women had marched out to war, and almost a third returned as Martial Warriors. Granted, even more didn’t return, but such was the way of battle and bloodshed, and she could hardly even imagine how the people would react once word of this miracle spread.

The Irregulars, the commoners who fought for their Legate Falling Rain, had been Blessed and baptized by the falling rain and transformed into holy Warriors. Whatever the truth of the matter might be, Luo-Luo would use this version of events to her advantage, and with a little luck, this might give her all the influence she needed to keep the outer provinces from tearing themselves apart through infighting. No, she should believe in herself and aim higher, seek to direct them as Lord Husband would and carry out his vision. There was so much she could still do, both with regards to the war, to improve the economic welfare of the Empire as a whole, and so much more, so it was high time she put her talents to good use.

Hopefully, she wouldn’t have to hold out on her own for long, because once Lord Husband awakened, she wholeheartedly believed he would work another miracle and perhaps even lead the Empire to victory against the Defiled. High expectations, but deservedly so, for he was Legate Falling Rain, her Lord Husband and the man who would father her future children. This was the truth, for she would make it so, no matter the cost or obstacle.

Chapter Meme
