The Central Citadel came alive with celebration as the triumphant army streamed through the Western gates, but Luo-Luo’s heart was not in it.

The people of the Empire cheered because they only knew a great victory had been won out on the fields of Central, but Luo-Luo was privy to all the disheartening details which were kept out of the public eye. Almost every soldier serving on the Western border had been dispatched to help secure the second line, and of those, at least one tenth would not return. A third of the remaining were injured enough to require medical leave, and the final numbers had yet to be tallied, so they could only go up from here. So many lives lost in a single day, the Empire would be mourning them for weeks to come as news trickled back to their families and loved ones. A great victory had indeed been won, but one which came at great cost.

Regardless of her inner turmoil, she let none of it show as she stood on stage to welcome the returning heroes. Colonel Generals Mitsue Juichi and Shuai Jiao entered first, flanking the titular star of the hour, Brigadier Chen Hongji. Soon to be Major General Chen Hongji, judging by the reports and how chummy Colonel General Shuai Jiao was behaving, no doubt seeking to take the rising star under his wing. With Ryo Dae Jung busy leading the charge to retake Castle Jianghu, the former was attempting to steal a march, but Luo-Luo was confident the good Brigadier’s allegiance lay firmly with Lord Husband first, who was sure to reward his loyalty handsomely.

A minor political struggle in the grand scheme of things, for though Chen Hongji’s star was on the rise, his political power and influence had yet to catch up, nor would it so long as he continued to serve on the front lines. The love of the masses was a marked advantage for anyone to have, but they were a fickle bunch with memories measured in weeks, if not days. Worse, those in power could easily ignore popular opinion so long as they had enough strength, for the Empire was a world in which might makes right, regardless of what Lord Husband might claim otherwise. Thus, as the ceremonial welcoming party ushered the returning delegation on stage, Luo-Luo’s attention was largely focused upon the most troublesome of the bunch, the oldest Colonel General in the Empire, Mitsue Juichi.

Luo-Luo always thought it strange that a man so fond of white face powder would be called ‘The Obsidian Shadow”, but today, she learned that mocking titles were not reserved for the likes of Mother-in-Law Akanai alone. Bereft of makeup and accessories, Mitsue Juichi appeared to have aged three decades since she last laid eyes upon him, though part of it was due to his slack expression and slumped posture. He rode poorly for a military man, only marginally better than Father-in-Law Baatar who just recently started learning, and his cold-shouldered reaction to the warm reception did him no favours either, making him seem grumpy and cantankerous to the extreme. The defining factor for his startling appearance however, was the dark, patchy birthmark which covered a good third of his face, one which usually went unnoticed underneath his cosmetics. For good reason too, since the blemish began just below his right eye, passed over half his nose and covered his lips before ending well south of his chin somewhere inside his lapel, giving his features a frightening cast as if a third of his face had been consigned to darkness.

The Obsidian Shadow indeed.

How cruel and hateful of Central’s people to disparage their greatest warriors based on appearance alone, but Luo-Luo understood the reasoning behind the logic. Martial Warriors were held in the highest regards not solely based on strength alone, but also appearance. To the common man and woman, Martial Warriors were demi-gods of a sort. Though their stature and physiques might differ, beauty was a defining trait of Martial Warriors, at least in comparison to anything less than a mortal paragon of good looks, whereas ugliness was a Defiled trait. The Mother marked those with ill-intent so that all could see their true villainous self, or so it was believed, which led Luo-Luo to wonder how much prejudice and discrimination Mitsue Juichi had to overcome in order to reach the lofty heights he stood upon today. Though aged and weary, he was still a handsome older gentleman, but seeing the great lengths he went to in order to hide his blemish showed the depths of his self-contempt. This from a man who began with less than nothing, the son of a brick-maker who lost his entire family in a disastrous fire and went on to become one of the most powerful and influential Warriors of the outer provinces, and still he felt the need to hide his face from the world.

Had circumstances not conspired against them, Luo-Luo wholeheartedly believed Lord Husband and Mitsue Juichi would have gotten along like two peas in a pod, but alas, fate was not kind to the Living Legend.

Despite her best efforts to stifle the rumours, word of Mitsue Hideo’s defection had spread like wildfire throughout the Citadel, and there was likely not a single person currently living within the walls who hadn’t heard the news. Some reacted with sympathy, and others with anger and disdain, but for Luo-Luo, this presented a most troublesome tribulation for which she was not equipped to handle. Imperial Law dictated Mitsue Hideo be openly denounced as Defiled, the crime for which was Nine Familial Extermination. Were this anyone else, she would not hesitate to do so, but going through with it meant executing every single one of Hideo’s cousins, uncles, and aunts, yet leaving Mitsue Juichi untouched. A grand-uncle was not within nine degrees of relations, but it would have been easier if he also shared in their punishment, because she could not imagine a world in which the Living Legend stood idly by and watched as his beloved children and grand-children were gathered up and beheaded.

To further complicate matters, during his brief trip to Castle JiangHu, Lord Husband set a troublesome precedent for the exoneration of Defiled traitors. By publicly absolving Yomen Hoon, a common-born Warrior without fame or power, of treason, Lord Husband showed exceptional mercy to a man who admitted to not only murdering and torturing Imperial soldiers in wartime, but had also taken up arms in the Enemy’s name. There was no doubt in anyone’s mind that Yomen Hoon had succumbed to the Father’s foul lies, and while the circumstances were extraordinary to be sure, showing mercy to the Enemy was the same as being cruel to the Empire. The only upside to all this was Lord Husband had Yomen Hoon executed for other crimes on the spot, meaning his mercy only extended to the traitor’s still living relatives, who by and large would still have to start new lives in new locations where no one knew their names.

Which shouldn’t be all too difficult since Lord Husband expressly insisted Yomen Hoon’s widow receive her full benefits, a substantial amount of coin that would serve her and her family well.

Unfortunately, this made Luo-Luo’s dilemma all the more prickly, and she had no idea what to do. Seeing how Mitsue Hideo evaded capture, she was unable to execute him out of hand, but she also couldn’t absolve him of treason since he had yet to repent for his crimes. How would it look if she pardoned a known traitor, one who was still fighting for the Enemy and killing Imperial soldiers, all because his Mentor and Grand-Uncle was the famed Mitsue Juichi? Condemning him sight unseen was not an option either, since it would be equally foolish to carry out Nine Familial Execution without the culprit responsible for bringing this calamity down upon them. A moot gesture, one which would be doubly foolish considering Mitsue Juichi’s record of doting upon his children and relatives, and triply so when the Mitsue family’s military contributions were taken into account. Though the main family lacked talents of note, Juichi’s daughters had married good, strong husbands, and his grandchildren helped him make even more connections with the outside world. At the latest count, there were no less than thirty-thousand soldiers serving under the Mitsue Family banner, and more than twice that number serving with closely allied forces.

All of whom might well choose loyalty to the famed Living Legend over fealty to a far-off Emperor.

That was one thing Luo-Luo kept forgetting, that these citizens of the outer provinces had never seen the Emperor in person, or any Emperor at all. They’d never felt His majestic presence standing on stage and known they were looking at the Son of Heaven Himself. Instead, they paid lip service to a man they’d never met and would happily rebel if given half a reason, for out here, the Emperor was merely a distant figurehead, rather than a man ordained by the Heavens to lead them.

Though Mitsue Juichi’s ninety-thousand theoretical troops were merely a drop in the bucket when taking the entire Empire into account, they still constituted a sizable force which could not be ignored outright. Not that she expected him to rebel unless pushed, or for all of his allies and soldiers to stand with him if he should, but desperate people had done crazier things. The Empire could ill-afford a rebellion at this critical juncture, no matter how minor or ineffective. It might seem like an overreaction to worry so much about one man, but most men were unable to bring down entire fortified buildings with a single stomp, which made it all the more likely for Juichi to lash out and plunge the Empire into chaos if she should choose poorly.

Luo-Luo hoped to avoid such a disastrous outcome, but if only she knew how...

Putting her woes aside for the moment, she joined Lord Husband’s War Council in welcoming the returning delegation. Never letting her smile slip, she covertly studied the crowd’s reaction while Brigadier Yari Hagane gave an unscheduled, unprompted, long-winded, and frankly uninspiring speech, one which no one cared to listen to, not even the recipients of his flowery praise. Amidst the thunderous applause, deafening cheers, and a never-ending trickle of coloured paper confetti fluttering through the air, Luo-Luo spotted more than one confused expression or wandering gaze, no doubt belonging to an individual wondering why their beloved Legate wasn’t leading the delegation, or at least a part of it. Herein lay the crux of her misfortunes, for Lord Husband had been injured in the chaos of battle and had yet to regain consciousness. Hardly unheard of considering Lord Husband’s history, and she harboured an inkling suspicion his deep sleep might have something to do with the unnatural storm which drove the Defiled army to retreat, only shortly after plunging the entire Western border into temporary darkness not seven hours ago.

Luo-Luo was sorely lacking in proof, but she knew it had to be so. Lord Husband was a man blessed by the Mother Above, a brilliant man capable of making miracles happen.

Whether she was right or not, only time would tell, but Luo-Luo had faith Lord Husband would make a full recovery. The problem was, his prolonged slumber came at a most inopportune time, when his guiding hand was sorely needed to direct the Empire’s efforts. Even the three Colonel Generals of Central couldn’t work out their differences and join hands in harmony, so how could the three provinces be expected to do the same? Without Lord Husband standing above them, the regional Marshals and Colonel Generals would each go their own way. A grand victory had been won today, and the Colonel Generals of Central wasted no time playing politics, with Shuai Jiao and Ryo Dae Jung fighting over the scraps of glory yet to be claimed. The only reason Mitsue Juichi wasn’t taking part in their rivalry was because he was too preoccupied with his grief and misfortune, which only encouraged the other two to contest even harder since there was no need to guard against a third.

Theoretically, Luo-Luo herself could put a stop to their squabbling, and perhaps even retain control of the outer provinces as a whole. Prior to leaving for Castle JiangHu and lapsing into insensibility, Lord Husband had bestowed upon her his personal token of office, one which represented his word in all official documentation and effectively made her Minister of Finance and Legate of the outer provinces in all but name. The problem was, as both a woman and an Imperial Servant, the officials of the Empire had already shown a reluctance to heed her orders, and only followed through due to the threat of what Lord Husband might do upon his return. Now that he’d fallen unconscious, and more importantly, had been seen passed out on the battlefield, his political rivals would suspect something amiss if she continued ruling over the outer provinces in his name. She was no king or emperor, not even a queen or empress, merely the Legate’s concubine whom he indulged too much, or so the leaders of the outer provinces would believe.

