Worst of all? Even if they did respect her authority and heed her orders, Luo-Luo wasn’t sure if she was capable of leading the outer provinces through these trying times without the benefit of Lord Husband’s guidance. Already, his War Council was urging her not to make decisions, but to give them unfettered authority to do as they pleased. Mere minutes after word of Lord Husband’s victory arrived, Major General Han BoHai, Major General Inthavong, and the long winded Brigadier Yari Hagane all waylaid her in her office to discuss their own agendas. Once Father-in-Law Baatar’s army finished cleaning up the Defiled forces at Castle Youxia, Colonel General Nian Zu wanted to drive the remaining Defiled back into the Western Province, a dangerous proposition with so many Defiled forces still in the field. The South was demanding assistance to fend off the Defiled army laying siege to Castle Wulin, an army led by Mataram YuChun of the Ten-Thousand Spears. Yet another misnomer, considering the reports estimated his reinforcing army contained more than two-hundred and fifty thousand Defiled soldiers in total, a force which outnumbered the southern reinforcing army which had been dispatched to aid Lord Husband. The fighting was still going on down in Castle Wulin, and while she was more than happy to authorize aid, she had no fresh troops to spare. All three Citadels had been emptied of soldiers in order to achieve this victory, and while North and Central had emerged victorious, their soldiers were either too tired or too poorly positioned to reinforce Castle Wulin in the south. With Colonel General Ryo Dae Jung busy retaking Castle JiangHu and Brigadier Hongji’s army dog tired from a long day of marching and fighting, the only force available was Father-in-Law’s mobile army. However, even if they took the most direct route along the second line, it would take a day and a half of hard riding to reach Castle Wulin, and Major General Han BoHai rightly pointed out that this route ran the risk of being intercepted by Gongsun Qi’s retreating forces.

It wasn’t all bleak news, as Lord Husband’s initial plans meant that the Southern Citadel still had yet another sizable army in the field, one led by Colonel General Tran Hoang, the Tiger Slayer of the South. His army had set out early this morning and was scheduled to arrive at Castle Wulin in fifteen hours, and half that if they ran. However, if YuChun’s forces were to take the castle before they arrived, then the South would have no soldiers positioned to defend their Citadel, and a tired army out in the field with no walls to defend. This had all the markings of a disaster in the making, but what was she to do? Until now, she’d muddled her way through command by following the guidelines Lord Husband laid down, but despite making plans for any and all disasters, he never planned out what to do in the event of a victory. Judging by the subtle questioning glances directed towards her by Colonel General Shuai Jiao and Brigadier Chen Hongji, she suspected Major General Inthavong was using Brigadier Yari Hagane’s long-winded speech to Send word to the returning heroes and inform them that the Legate’s stand-in was not doing her job, since she had yet to make a decision regarding Castle Wulin.

She was sorely out of her depth and she knew it, but she couldn’t go to just anyone for help. Mother-in-Law Akanai would be the best candidate, considering she was a Warrior of renown and a commander of note, but she was also about as subtle as a sledgehammer hidden inside a sleeve. It wouldn’t be proper to be seen taking advice from a Lieutenant General, then turn around and tell a group of Colonel Generals what to do, but what other choice did she have?

Surprisingly enough, it wasn’t either of the Colonel Generals who put a stop to Brigadier Yari Hagane’s jabbering, but Brigadier Hongji himself, jumping in while the blowhard drew breath to suggest that his troops (and by extension, himself) might be tired after a long day’s march and would appreciate if they made it through the gates before midnight. Technically, the gates were to be kept closed after nightfall, but the Citadel was awake and well lit despite the late hour, as citizen and soldier alike waited up to welcome back their victorious heroes. Their motives weren’t entirely unselfish since many of them would’ve had to stay up regardless, since the returning troops would require their services. Food had to be cooked, clothes laundered, alcohol served, and flesh peddled, all the customary businesses a battle-worn soldier might indulge in. All of which had recently seen a marked increase in price, with unscrupulous merchants taking advantage of Lord Husband’s luxury tax to pass the costs onto their customers alongside a significantly increased profit margin. No doubt he had an idea as to how to counter this, but Luo-Luo herself was at a loss on how to proceed here as well, especially since the merchants were more than happy to tell anyone with ears how the increased costs were the Legate’s fault and speculate on how much coin his taxes were earning him.

As Luo-Luo said earlier, the love of the masses was easily lost, and she could see many a disgruntled soldier revising their opinion of Lord Husband in the coming hours.

Feeling incompetent and incapable, Luo-Luo continued to smile and greet the soldiers as they streamed through the brightly lit gates, with paper lanterns a plenty to guide their way through the winding Central Citadel streets. Lord Husband had shared his opinion regarding the city layout many a time, and suffice to say it wasn’t complimentary. In his opinion, the outer walls were largely for show, with the true defensive focus on the heart of the Citadel itself. Lord Husband had been disgusted by the thought process which went into designing the Citadel, one which made use of the inefficient design to delay and distract the Defiled invaders long enough for the Central army to gather all their soldiers into the fortified centre, leaving millions of working citizens undefended if the Defiled should ever breach the outer walls. Though she hadn’t been present at the meeting when he brought it up, it’d led to the removal of Brigadier Yari Hagane’s predecessor, supposedly because the man had the audacity to shrug and ask, “Why all this fuss over dead commoners? There will always be more to take their place.”

Not an uncommon mindset among the Martial Elite, much to Lord Husband’s chagrin. He was a good man with noble ideals, albeit unrealistic ones, but Luo-Luo would do what she could to help him achieve his goals.

Which lately proved to not be much.

Her smile slipped as the harsh but stinging truth settled in, but only for an instant. There were still soldiers to welcome and it would not do for the Legate’s concubine and stand-in to be seen frowning at these victorious heroes. Thankfully, Lord Husband’s War Council had given up on harassing her and instead had turned their attentions to Colonel General Shuai Jiao and possibly Mother-in-Law Akanai. While she welcomed the quiet reprieve with grateful relief, the apparent disdain for her authority boded poorly for the future. She would need to do something to keep the outer provinces in line, but short of relying on her in-laws to help or auctioning off favours to the Colonel Generals in return for support, she had few options available.

About an hour into the victory march, Liu Xuande made his way over to her side. The Imperial Scion looked none the worse for wear despite the hard-fought battle, and in fact looked as neat and proper as ever, his silken beard groomed to perfection and travel clothes almost entirely untouched by dust. “Imperial Consort,” he began, offering her a salute and a bow so respectful she suspected he knew how highly sought after she’d been back home in the Eastern Province. “This one begs an audience, so that we might strike while the iron is still hot. With your permission?”

At least he had the manners to ask before deploying a Sound Barrier, and miracle of miracles, he actually waited for permission. Quietly signalling Gunan with a seemingly random flutter of her fingers, she nodded at Liu Xuande and asked, “What is the problem?”

Ever since MuYang revealed himself against the Confessor, he’d removed himself as her aide and installed Gunan at her side instead, a man whose fervent devotion to Lord Husband was second only to MuYang himself. Despite playing the part of scribe and clerical assistant perfectly, Liu Xuande was not fooled by Gunan’s disguise and subtly indicated she should bring him into their conversation. Once he was inside the Sound Barrier, Xuande began, “This one implores you, Imperial Consort, to order a full withdrawal from the second lines using the Legate’s authority.

Despite all her training, she was unable to hide her shock. “What? Why?”

“It is of the utmost importance.” Head still bowed, he moved closer to Gunan’s side to whisper in the man’s ear without risk of his lips being read, while her loyal aide subsequently Sent everything he said to Luo-Luo.

“He says we cannot hold the second line. It’s a matter of logistics, in that we have everything set up to supply and redeploy soldiers on the border, but the second line enjoys no such benefits as the defences there were never meant to be permanent.” Though his tone indicated he couldn’t follow what Xuande was saying, Gunan repeated the man’s explanation word for word and number for number, a language which spoke volumes to Luo-Luo’s ears. Mathematically, the nine castles of the second line were too costly with regards to time and manpower to defend, especially now that SuiHua harbour had gone up in flames. What’s more, the withdrawal from the first line of defence showed that it was too risky to retreat with a full army while facing Defiled pressure, not to mention how retaking Castle JiangHu might cost the Empire everything it had just gained. In short, there was no better time than now to withdraw safely from the second line, and he believed they would be remiss to let this chance pass.

The Imperial Scion’s words made sense, but Luo-Luo feared there was something they both were missing, because if they could figure this out, surely any of the five Colonel Generals could do the same. “Have you spoken to Lieutenant General Akanai?” she asked, using her Mother-in-Law’s rank to keep matters professional. “What did she say?”

“She claimed she was unable to grasp the danger involved,” Liu Xuande said, speaking for himself once again, and she sensed a hint of sullen reproach in his tone. “She also threatened to hang this one by his ankles and dunk him into a barrel of water if he kept pestering her with ‘nonsensical’ numbers.”

Offering the man a sympathetic smile, Luo-Luo did her best not to sigh. The Bekhai were an educated bunch, perfectly capable of reading, writing, and basic arithmetic, but advanced mathematical concepts were beyond most of them. Then again, the same could be said for most nobles of the Empire too, so the Bekhai were hardly alone in this matter. “I will speak to her myself, and if she agrees, then we can bring our concerns to the rest of the War Council in the morning.”

Liu Xuande was not yet ready to give up. “Tomorrow will be twelve hours too late. The Legate’s forces drove back Gongsun Qi’s army and Major General Baatar has found much success at Castle Youxia, meaning this might well be the best chance we have to withdraw without having to fend off Defiled the whole way back.”

“What of Castle Wulin?”

“Empty Castles Zhong and Chou to reinforce them. If we send word now, they will arrive within six hours, long before the Southern Citadel reinforcements, and their combined forces should be enough to blunt Yuchun’s spears and send him running. From there, they can retreat together in strength while the reinforcements settle in to rest and wait, giving them the advantage should Yuchun choose to pursue and fight.”

There were already plans in place to burn all nine castles to the ground, and if it should come to this, then Ryo Dae Jung could even set Castle JiangHu ablaze from outside the walls, but... this was too weighty a decision for her to make on her own. Making excuses about her need to retire early, she scurried off the stage before realizing her mistake, one she’d made all too often of late. Professing weakness as an Imperial Servant or Consort was all fine and well, but as the stand-in Legate of the Outer Provinces, she needed to present a position of strength. Worse, no one had insisted she stay, or even done much more than wave her concerns aside, as if her presence, the interim Legate’s presence, wasn’t even necessary.

Less than a week had passed since Lord Husband set out for Castle JiangHu. How had she managed to fritter away so much of his power base in such a short time?

