"That isn't a turn of phrase; it is the absolute truth. I've created fully assimilated strains and removed them from my creations. It kills both the strain and the undead creation as well. It is safe to assume that what kills the dead shall also kill the living."

The hummingbird flew over to me, landing on my shoulder. I scratched its head.

"Elthara, can you use any psionics?"

One of her strains itched her side while she tilted her head.

"I can use rudimentary kinds. It is clumsy, at best."

"That's fine. I want to feel its effects. Just attack me."

She tucked her head closer to her chest.

"It will not anger or harm you?"

I smiled.

"It won't. Go ahead."

She took a breath before rushing at my mind and tackling it. It wasn't anything to write home about, but after a few minutes, she'd done some damage. I observed an Omega Strain-ed mind in action by letting her go off. It acted like a boost to her mind magic, something like 30% extra oomph.

I'd compare it to a vicious familiar, one with some sentience. It gave her offense a notable edge. Testing the other side of the spectrum, I pressed against her mind with a light tap, and she winced. I stayed well outside her limits, only testing about half of her abilities. After a few minutes, sweat dripped down her face as I stopped the exercise.

Elthara heaved for breath.

"You...Are strong."

I nodded.

"You too. The strain seems to give your psionic offenses an edge, but it does little for defenses. Does it raise your level cap?"

Elthara spread her wings.

"By a 1,000. With Karm, I shall be able to get to level 7,000 before accepting a class."

I put my arm into my dimensional storage before lopping the limb off. Within my domain, I melted and molded the metal into another ring and chain. Pulling it out of my dimension along with my grimoire, I leaned against the edge of the room. I peered at the book and carved.

"Keep talking, guys."

Plazia generated a steel ingot before pulling it up. His hummingbird landed on his arm before it heated the steel and pecked at it. Like a woodpecker, it stabbed at the block, notching tiny pieces off at a time. Plazia helped it along.

"Strained entities must devour metal to sate their strain's hunger. Your dimensional fabric is delicious to them, and we have fed pieces of your golems to the viral entities. The strains revel in it, becoming greater."

Torix waved a hand.

"I believe they enjoy the more crystalline structure of your metal. Crystallized mana, gemstones, and other ores are also effective feeds."

I kept carving.

"Are there any other downsides?"

Plazia sighed.

"There are many. One of them is the further eldritchification of their users. In Eltari, the effect is containable as there is physical separation during assimilation. Within the body of an eldritch, it is different."

The hummingbird squawked an unnatural call.

"And you have seen it in person."

Elthara pointed above her head with a wing.

"This as well."

Her titles popped up.

Elthara, the Bearer of Blights | Guild: Harbinger's Legion | Level: 6,000 | Status: Unknown

I frowned.

"Ah, Schema doesn't approve."

Elthara drooped.

"It...It is so. They have given me so much, and why the Schema wishes to take parts away, I do not know. But-"

Elthara peered up at me.

"I would give more for my wings. I would give anything."

Finishing my carving, I charged my grimoire.

"Well, you won't have to give anymore. I'm hooking you up with more than you'll probably need."

Elthra took a step back as I pulled out a blue dungeon core. It radiated in the room like a violent storm, its aura palpable. A minute passed, and I floated the charged runes from my book to the ring. After etching it, I put the core into the ringlet. It snapped into place with a pulse before I planted a final smaller circle atop it.

Once welded together, I connected the chain through the upper ring, connecting it to the core. The necklace was made. I finalized the chain runes a few minutes later, making it weightless until it bonded to its wearer. I tossed it to her.

"Here, catch."

Her Omega Strains caught it. Elthara winced, worried about its weight. Her fear passed, and she marveled.

"It...It is lighter than my old necklace."

She reached out to me.

"I cannot accept this."

I frowned.

"That one is yours for leading the Omega Strain program and teaching us so much about them. Your efforts haven't gone unnoticed, and they've added enormous strides to our war efforts. If you think about it, your actions are to blame."

I stepped forward, pushing it back to her.

"So this is the result of what you've done. Bear your consequences."

I smiled as she gawked at the necklace, the dark metal oozing mana. Torix coughed into a hand.

"Are you certain she can contain the mana?"

I nodded.

"Yes. The core guarantees it."

She pulled off her previous garment and put on her new one. It bonded to her instantly, weighing on her neck like a magnetic paperweight holding files to a desk. The core hummed with energy, and she blinked a few times.

"I...What is this?"

She fell backward, collapsing against the concrete. Torix peered at me.

"Perhaps you'd answer her question for all of us?"

I raised a hand.

"Wait a second."

She twitched on the ground before snapping back into consciousness. She took a breath.

"I...I have never experienced such a rush. What has happened to me?"

She stood up, becoming a foot taller. She toned, becoming dense and durable. She gawked with clearer eyes than before, and she stared down. Her turquoise talons shaped into symmetrical pieces and had helped her upright.

Elthara shook her shoulders, and a ripple crossed through both strains without worry or struggle. She let out a sigh.

"It is done. Karm is a part of me now. This is a joyous day."

Torix and Plazia clapped. I followed right after but started late, so I barely even got a clap in before they stopped. I kept clapping, trying to show support, but I was the only one now. Feeling awkward, I stopped, knowing no one else gave this a second thought while I was having a whole ass conversation with myself about it.

Elthara turned to me and grabbed my right hand with a strain.

"Thank you, Harbinger. Thank you."

I scratched the back of my head.

"Heh, no problem."

She turned, heading to the main room.

"I shall find my next strain, and Karm  and Jaquetta shall have more family."

Elthara disappeared before Plazia cackled.

"You have given her much for little."

I frowned.

"The Eltari have a lot of potential with these strains. She'll be the forerunner for all others, and by giving her that position now, she will grow a following under her. That strength will be my own."

Torix's eyes turned green.

"Ahem, might I ask what the necklace did precisely?"

I turned to where Elthara ran.

"It carries a psionic presence using the dungeon heart as the catalyst. I also made the dungeon heart quintessant, so it is motivated to help Elthara and her growth. That should let her handle further strains if she wants them."

Plazia's hummingbird flew out of the room. The Hivemind spoke from the walls.

"And she may tread into territory yet unseen, giving us sight into dark waters."

I blinked.

"Huh. Yeah, I guess."

Torix waved a hand.

"My issue is the level cap. It shouldn't be able to assist her, yet it is. How was that done?"

I pulled out a blue core.

"I created a mind out of the blue core, and that received the benefits from the item. It then gives those benefits to a bonded person while amplifying the effects."

Torix shook his head.

"That is a straightforward solution to a difficult problem...Well done."

I smiled.

"Thanks. Schema will find a way to stop her from unlocking insane trees, but it still boosts her. Now, who's going to get an Omega Strain?"

Manifesting outside the room, Shalahora walked in.

"Am I interrupting?"

Torix waved his hands.

"Not enough for it to matter. We were discussing who will receive the Omega Strains."

Shalahora murmured with force.

"It shall be Althea and Hod. Amara isn't ready."

I raised a brow.

"Hod? Aren't you worried he'll be eroded?"

Shalahora wavered.

"It is the eldritch half that we must strengthen and quickly."

Torix's eyes flared.

"Not that I disagree with you, but I'd estimate that to be his dominant half."

Shalahora's form wavered.

"It is no longer."

He tapped the side of his head.

"I have unlocked a piece of who Hod was."
