The other three had long known Lea, and so her presence wasn’t an imposition in the least, even while she wasn’t a primary participant. Still, the girl showed her acumen, drawing forth stories from the older Refined that even Tala and Rane hadn’t heard before.

There were tales of fights, missions, camaraderie, and celebration. There were also stories of loss, difficulty, sorrow, and overcoming adversity.

In truth, it exposed just how much was still unknown to Tala and Rane about even some of their longest-running colleagues.

You never know everything about anyone else, do you?

-It is unlikely, yeah.- Alat sent a feeling that reminded Tala of Rane and Enar, causing Tala to smile. They did try to get to know their husband as well as possible, but he still surprised them every so often.

Master Clevnis asked after Sole’s sword, acquired from the cell so long before, and Tala presented it to him for his renewed inspection.

Lea was quite obviously taken with the weapon, seeming to feel a call to the blade. She’d heard of it in stories in the past, but Tala had never bothered to show it to the girl.

Regardless of her interest, Lea was told in no uncertain terms that she was not ready for such a weapon, not yet.

She clearly wanted to argue, but she demurred, simply asking what she would need to do to be allowed to call that blade her own.

Rane and Tala had actually discussed such before, so the answer came easily, Tala allowing Rane to be the bearer of good news. “Show yourself capable of fighting strong opponents effectively, without collateral damage. Once you can do that? Then, you’ll be ready for a force amplifier, for a tool of war, a weapon.”

Lea opened her mouth, clearly excited and feeling that she’d already done that, but she paused when Rane continued.

“Real combat, Lea, and not in the sanctum.”

She hesitated, closed her mouth, and nodded. “Understood. Thank you.”

And that was that; the meal went on.

In the course of the evening, Master Clevnis and Mistress Cerna did surprise them all by expressing that they were considering having another batch of children.

Apparently, even the intentional contact that Mistress Cerna had been maintaining with their remaining kin and descendants was becoming less fruitful, and with the final waning of this city, most of the remaining ties had dropped away.

“Maybe this time we’ll get one who reaches Refined.” She was smiling as she said it, but there was sorrow and trepidation in her eyes as well.

Master Clevnis interjected. “If. We’ve been talking with Master Grediv about his methods. He still has the greatest success rate of any Archon we know of.”

She scrunched up her face. “Unfortunately, he’s stated quite openly that the pupil is more important than the method. Most of his advice was around choosing a pupil, rather than helping any pupil rise.”

Master Clevnis sighed and nodded. “Yes, yes. He’s quite open about his own failings as a father. He did point us to others who have had many children advance.”

She leaned back. “Still, unless the couple has very few children, the percentage success rate is… abysmal across the board.”

Lea was paying rapt attention. She knew of the various ranks of advancement—it would be hard not to have learned that much while living with her parents—but she didn’t know how they were achieved or any other classically forbidden details.

The topic moved on from there, ranging across topics both happy and sad, past and future as the group were just together.

Together at the waning.
