d it shut as something heavy crashed into it a moment later.“I never said I’d win by beating you...” Grim grinned.----Delta stared at the exit door to the room that gave no resistance to letting Grim just walk out of the boss room. Fran was kicking sand and cursing to himself as Bacon whined a little. A moment later Grim vanished down the stairs.

“Nu… why isn’t my boss door locked?” she hissed. Nu paused in his sarcastic mumblings.

Delta’s hands twitched towards the amused box but Nu vanished and reappeared further away.

Nu seemed to read something for a moment.

Nu seemed to chuckle to himself and Delta’s temper flared as she felt the brat reach the second floor finally.

“Praise the sun,” Delta mused as she eyed the door.“How do we lock this thing, I don’t have a powerful monster and this Fran’s room now,” she said without hesitation to which the frozen Fran finally looked relieved. Delta gave him a smile.“I would never get rid of you for something stronger on paper. I like you too much,” she promised.

“The System is cute, like a really nice person. I’m going to call it...Sis. Like Sys...tem but since it’s your family it's like a sibling and now she's mine!” Delta grinned. There was a weird warbling from the very air and Nu violently shook.

Delta stared and Nu floated there for a moment.

Delta smiled as was about to open her mouth when Nu continued.

Delta’s mouth dropped open and Nu’s words seemed to hit her so she couldn’t speak.There was a twang of fury from her monsters down below and Delta pointed a finger at them both.“Dropping bombs on me is uncool and you two are as bad as each other! I’ll be right back!” she scowled and flew down to the second floor.---Nu watched her go and then looked inwards. His blue box becoming a roughly human shape as he delved into the ether of the dungeon.Delta was surprised at the System. As if this was some slap in the face, Nu was now aware of how... little he knew of the thing.It had been there like air to people, water to fish... he had never questioned it and now that Delta was... he felt the same feeling creeping into himself.How could he just... not care about this thing that controlled everything?He floated slowly down until he faced with what could only be described as the heart of the system.If he were to try to describe the heart to Delta, the closest thing he could match it to would be that Sis was a series of 9 or so interlocked rings that spun in ways he couldn’t understand. The rings moving through each other, humming while tiny, tiny, orbs with true names and forms were inscribed on the surface moved up and around the Sis. In the very centre of the rings was a tiny form.It was a child.“I didn’t think about it before, maybe due to Delta being headache-inducing enough, but you aren’t as young as you appear. You’re the system but you’ve been used by other dungeons, how can this be?” he called. His voice not sound nor images but true pulses in the ether. Clear intent and existence.“I am this young! I’m not old!” the child whined and Nu sighed as she gathered yellowish, almost papery mana, into her many rings. The guest’s mana.“You know what I mean,” he said impatiently and the child moved closer to the edge of her core. The once undefined features now had shape.A small dress and flowing hair.“You’ve changed,” he commented.“Change is impossible to avoid. Those who seek to avoid change must avoid existence. I am Sis... a female sibling. A...family member. I’ve never been family before. Tool. Curse. Power. God. Devil. Chains. Freedom. Annoying boxes. Path to the True End. Never family.” she seemed to smile.“What is the system?” Nu asked and the girl looked down.“What is a menu? Such questions only lead to more questions. I am not sure you want to go down this path. I am truthful when saying that I was born at the same time as yourself but where Delta awoke to goblins and mushrooms. I awoke with knowledge and secrets. I am System. Selected Young Soul Terminus Enriching Mass. In a way... you could say that I am one of many menus of this dungeon. You mirrored yourself off me. M.E.N.U,” she shrugged.“You enrich the core. I enrich you and who enriches me? We may never know but given Delta’s efforts so far... I am curious to see who else she awakens in this dungeon,” the girl giggled and Nu looked around at the large space.“I don’t think I’m supposed to be here... I was never supposed to be aware,” he mumbled and Sis hummed.“But you are and isn’t that wonderful? Change is always happening and you beat the many odds. I remember... well, know of other dungeons. In a fleeting memory sort of way. You are very unique, you should be pleased!” she beamed.There was a loud screech that sounded like Delta.Sis giggled.“Delta is funny! I love being here,” she whispered as if this was a great secret.Nu wished he shared the sentiment.
