The carpet dipped accidentally, and he corrected them hurriedly. The Fury of Winds cursed.
“And what about me? The Fury of Winds?”
The boy hesitated.
“Eh, I, ah, do not know you, but your mastery of the air is powerful! What is your name?”
“I am the Fury of Winds! The Windcaller’s Wrath! Have you never heard of it?”
“I…have heard it is a good way to lose money. Did not two of your disciples go to an arena in Nerrhavia’s Fallen? One was defeated in the first round. The second lost to the champion.”
Soloxenethn scowled, but in truth, the boy had heard of the Fury of Winds, now he mentioned it. Orjin’s gaze was steady.
“If you treasure meeting me, I am honored. What is your name, Rider of Reizue’s Dream?”
“I…Buler. Buler, then.”
Buler muttered. He would prefer to just be known as the rider of the carpet, but the Strongest was looking at him.
“Are all [Carpet Riders] as young as you?”
“Some! Some are younger! I knew one who was eight!”
Buler’s jaw jutted out. Nothing would do but he explain the circumstances that had led to him becoming the [Carpet Rider], and his guests listened.
“It is the honor of the Guild of Skies, in the Shield Kingdom of Merreid, the Bazaar of Fables, to be the last guild of [Carpet Riders]. You are privileged to ride Reizue’s Dream, old and slow as she is.”
“Slow?”
The Fury of Winds stared at the ground in disbelief, and Buler laughed.
“In the days when she was first sewn, they said she could race any Djinni of the skies and win! She has seen war and deaths, and legends sat on here. There—there sat the Hero of Zethe, who was never dead, as my father said! He bore him there. And the King of Destruction has never ridden this carpet, but Drevish once sat there—”
He knew every spot and pointed as he stared at the fabric, so worn that the tale of Reizue—a man changing into a Djinni and working wonders in a day of magic until he was bound in chains and brought to Merreid—danced upon the old fabric. The Strongest listened. He was a good guest.
“What do you do with the money, Buler?”
Surely a carpet rider was paid well, and Buler was, though his seniors earned far more. He shrugged.
“I give it to the ones who raised me, to children of Merreid. Sometimes, I throw it down from the bridges and watch people pick it up.”
“Why? Don’t you save it to buy something? A scroll or…better clothes?”
The Fury of Winds was cold due to the sleet and shivering. Buler shrugged once more.
“I have nothing to save for. I will die riding this carpet. This is my one dream.”
He answered the Strongest’s next question, and Orjin looked at him.
“Nothing more?”
The question went through the boy’s back. He felt words rise, unbidden, and bit back the desire to be a famous rider, to carry the King of Destruction to wars. To see the carpet repaired and see the Guild of Skies kick out the fat fools who’d never flown a day in their lives and rebuild the network of the skies.
“No.”
The Strongest knew he was lying. But Orjin just closed his eyes, and Buler hunched his shoulders and, for a while, thought less of his guest as Soloxenethn tried to eat some dried Yellat chips and watched them fly off the carpet.
But after twenty minutes, Orjin’s eyes opened, and the cross-legged man revealed he had just been thinking, not that the conversation had ended.
“I wish Salii were here. I have nothing to give you, be it words or deeds, Buler of Reizue’s Dream. This is another weakness of the Strongest of Pomle. Another flaw in the great warrior I strive to be. I see it now. How useless we are, Soloxenethn. You, at least, could survive a fall. I am a passenger, unable to do anything.”
What strange things he said! Buler grew more fascinated by the Strongest.
“You need not do anything for me, Strongest.”
“Perhaps not. But I would like to. I cannot even offer you Pomle’s hospitality, for it is gone. I fly towards war and the ruins of my home and to find my people. Do you know this?”
Buler grew excited and nodded.
“I do! If you see Pomle, they are in Nerrhavia’s Fallen, warring against the Great General Thelican. They say he has brought so many legions that even Pomle’s warriors drown among cloth-flesh. Tiqr and Pomle can barely keep ahead of his armies.”
Belatedly, he realized this was not good news for Orjin, but the Strongest asked him to say more.
“They say that Nerrhavia’s armies to the north fight against the King of Destruction and hold despite lightning and fire coming down at them. They even say…Djinni fight. Which would be a terrible thing if true.”
His voice lowered in a hush, and even Soloxenethn shuddered.
“Nonsense! Nerrhavia’s Fallen would not dare.”
“They did once.”
Orjin’s words made Buler and Soloxenethn look at him in disbelief. The Strongest shrugged, unmoved. He glanced at Buler.
“Buler, will you tell me more of Nerrhavia’s Fallen?”
Because he was developing such a great admiration of the man, Buler told him all the stories.
“They say that the shadow of the Tyrant herself is upon the kingdom, though anyone saying her name in earnest is put in chains or to death. Yet they say it—and that many cities suffer from a plague of metal insects! They say that there is rebellion in the streets, that two [Princes] war with each other. Prince Zenol, who is much beloved but not by the Court of Silks, has sworn to fight the King of Destruction, which is a death sentence. Too, many [Gladiators] from the Coliseum of Monarchs are in trouble at the capital. But the worst problem besides the King of Destruction, they say, are the freed [Slaves].”
“Free [Slaves]? Surely Roshal would capture them.”
Buler nodded, for all knew Roshal was merciless.
“Yes, but one of the [Bandit Ladies], Merr the Storm, rides with the Bane of Roshal himself! You know him, surely, Strongest. He was at Pomle. He slew [Slavers], and he has killed more each passing week, and [Slaves] flee, and Roshal shudders at his name.”
Orjin frowned.
“I did not speak to him. But that man is in Izril. Khelt’s own Scourgeriders of Emrist took him.”
Their name gave Buler a thrill of delight. So they had been real, that dread legion! He wished he had seen them. But then he ducked his head.
“You say it, Strongest. But I have heard his name spoken. That great [Necromancer], Pisces Jealnet! I have met men on my journeys who swear, swear, they have seen him—and a Skeleton Lord riding a giant bear—laying waste to Roshal’s own!”
“Interesting. I doubt I shall meet many of them. We will pass through Tiqr; the skies are too dangerous to fly further, aren’t they?”
Buler had to admit they were.
“Only Nerrhavia’s Fallen’s Garuda and their own carpets, the slow cowards they are, are allowed in their skies. They would hunt me down, Strongest. They fear, rightly, the Loquea Dree or that we would be spies or worse. I am sorry.”
“Do not be. I can cross Tiqr quickly. You save me a week or more of hard travel. If I do go through Tiqr, I may meet the Empress of Beasts, though she is busy as well in her war. What of her?”
He knew them all! The boy grew so delighted he had to deliberately focus on his flying. Here he was. The Strongest of Pomle, whether he admitted it or not, on a journey to his home.
The ride was long, and Buler talked so long he was hoarse the first two times he had to set down so they could stretch or relieve themselves. The camel ran around in circles, braying, and Orjin told Buler his name was ‘Spitty’—and he was no less than the same camel that Ksmvr of Chandrar had ridden!
Another legend! Buler was so amazed by then that he made a detour on the second stop.
They had to anyways; he had a delivery to put down at the city of Thoive, and the Fury of Winds had been taking a nap, amazingly, while holding onto a strap.
“Aha! A level!”
He sprang up as they descended, and Orjin grunted.
“I thought so. That makes one for each of us.”
“Wh—are you Level 48?”
“Yes. No Skills. I gained it while sparring with Itkisa.”
Torreb’s daughter? Buler and Soloxenethn stared at Orjin, and even Spitty looked impressed. Of course, Reizue’s Dream attracted attention, even though it was late in the day and cold outside. But since he trusted Orjin to keep the carpet safe—the Strongest didn’t want to go out and stretch his legs and had promised to watch the carpet—Buler dared to run down to the market.
“I am carrying the Strongest of Pomle, Spitty who is Ksmvr of Chandrar’s camel, and the Fury of Skies! The Strongest—he is here! And he is going to Pomle, then to fight against Nerrhavia’s Fallen to avenge his home!”
He shouted, and heads turned, and people flooded out of an inn. First, of course, they just thought he was another urchin shouting nonsense, but when one recognized a badge he had on his turban, they knew him as Reizue’s Dream’s rider. Then they began to believe.
The Fury of Skies helped; he was stretching his legs and buying provisions, and he raised a fist and punched the skies, and the winds whipped upwards.
By the time twenty minutes had passed, Orjin was surrounded by people calling questions, and he looked annoyed. Slightly worried he would be mad, Buler hid, but Orjin just glanced at him and stood.
“I am not the Strongest. I am only Orjin of Pomle. I am going home.”
“Through a war?”
An incredulous man demanded. Orjin shrugged.
“If I must.”
“And were you training with Torreb?”
“I was his guest.”
“He was, he was! I saw it myself! His daughter asked for my services!”
Buler hollered, and Orjin tried to clarify.
“He did not train me. We only sparred once. As I said, I have no authority; Pomle is gone. I am simply returning home. And I look for my people. Does anyone know where Pomle fights?”
“In Nerrhavia’s Fallen, of course! Will you go after them?”
A woman looked disbelieving as she held her son up to see him. Orjin stared at the boy, who stared back, and nodded.
“I must find them. If that is where they are—I will follow.”
He spoke like a story! And the more he told people he was not the Strongest, why, the more they saw he was. A swaggering fellow came up to challenge Orjin, clearly annoyed that everyone took him so seriously. The Strongest sighed, and the Fury of Winds offered to take the fight. Spitty spat on the man’s front, and the enraged fellow drew a mithril blade.
Then Orjin punched him. Buler had seen many blows, but never someone collapse like Orjin had knocked his very soul out of his head! The [Martial Artist] checked he was well, then looked meaningfully at Buler.
“Time to go?”
 
——
 
Buler stopped two more times on his journey to Tiqr. He had to. Orjin and the Fury of Skies had to take two more challenges, and the Strongest looked meaningfully at Buler the second time they descended, but the [Carpet Rider] had to.
Not just because he wanted to show off, no. He was gathering intelligence for Orjin about where his people were and the state of things.
But also, Buler realized, the Strongest’s name was too many places. Even for a famous place like Pomle—it felt like everyone had heard of him. One of the [Secretaries] in the Merchant’s Guild leaned over as he asked about the Strongest.
“There were [Merchants] talking about the Strongest of Pomle. Orjin, not the one they call Vandum. I hear even the Empire of Sands has heard of him.”
“How? Because of the Horns of Hammerad? Because of the war?”
“No…at least, not because of that. It is a strange thing. Every [Guildmaster] I speak to has heard of him. From the Merchant’s Guild to the Adventurer’s Guild, they are looking out for him or know of him. I hear the Guild of Scriveners especially is paying for news of him.”
The Guild of [Scribes]? When Buler relayed this to Orjin, the Strongest just sighed.
“Salii must be up to something.”
“Who is she, Orjin?”
“The greatest [Secretary] in the world. A legend of the Walled Cities. More famous than you, I, or anyone else, in truth.”
Buler’s eyes went round. Before Orjin could do more than lift a hand, the boy was running off to shout this to the crowd.
And the legend continued!
 
——
 
The last city they came to was a Bazaar-City, so named because it had a permanent bazaar. It was no Merreid, but the city of Fawasmed was still home to hundreds of thousands, sprawling, the largest city next to the Glass Straits, which mined glass and sent it across Chandrar for windows, shopfronts, and so on.
Buler knew it well, and by the time he landed, there was a crowd from this city who knew Orjin must surely pass by and fly through the Kilalle Steppes to Tiqr, the last part where Buler could follow.
In truth, he wanted to stow his carpet and follow Orjin, or fly into Tiqr and risk Nerrhavia Fallen’s wrath. But Buler was just the small rider in stories. He was proud to even be the ‘Rider of Reizue’s Dream’ in great tales and terrible ones.
He still had nightmares about Drevish’s last flight to the Empire of Sands and how he, Buler, had unwittingly sealed the Architect’s fate. The Strongest had to have a better ending.
He had to.
If only Buler were not so sure Nerrhavia’s Fallen would kill him with an [Assassin] for daring to help Orjin—and they could kill him a hundred ways before that, with a Garuda, flaming arrows, or just a jet of wind to send him plunging out of the skies.
Buler was not the only one! Orjin had gotten a few requests, growing with each city, but now, armed men asked if he wanted an escort through the desert.
“No. I cannot pay you, and I am entering into a war. It is deadly, and my companions…”
Orjin hesitated as he looked at Spitty, but the camel just harrumphed fearlessly, and the Fury of Winds clasped his fist into his other hand.
“I have sworn to go with the Strongest, and if we must fight armies—we have bested a city before between the two of us! Pomle shall be avenged!”
His fiery words made a great cheer rise, and Buler saw the disappointed people begging Orjin again. The Strongest looked so puzzled! Did he not know how many people went to Pomle to train?
“We have many who come for a year or a month or two to learn. Xil grew annoyed with all the spear-trainees; his apprentices weed them out, and he only teaches the ones who impress him.”
“Xil the Spear of Nerrhavia’s Fallen? The greatest spearmaster living, or so it’s said?”
“…Yes.”
Against his will, the Strongest was sucked into challenges. He was shaking his head, annoyed, as a [Swordsman] begged him for a duel when someone called out.
“Watch out! [Assassin]!”
Orjin looked up, and a figure, a motherly [Baker], or so she seemed to Buler, cursed. The Stitch-woman threw two knives, then tore her face off and leapt into the crowd.
