The Fury of Winds tried to pursue, then spun to Orjin. The Strongest didn’t move; Spitty would have been hit, or someone else. He had caught two bladed discs of metal perfectly in the center and was eying the dripping tips. Soloxenethn kept running, and Buler shouted.
“Now Nerrhavia’s Fallen sends assassins after him! The Strongest must go, soon! Back, back! No one on the carpet!”
The boy produced a knife and swung it as the crowd moved back. Orjin called after Soloxenethn.
“Solo—Fury of Winds, give up! It’s a trap. Argh. Stay here, Buler. Spitty, you too. Be careful—I thought I saw someone familiar in the crowd.”
His eyes had narrowed, but whomever he saw—he was gone and running after the Fury of Winds before Buler could ask. Spitty stayed back, looking around, ready to spit or kick, and Buler danced from foot to foot. What a story to tell!
“If only I could be part of it. Hey, you—away from my carpet!”
He spotted someone meandering near his carpet, inspecting it, and ran forwards, dagger raised. The young woman backed up.
“Oh, I’m sorry! I was just admiring it.”
She’d been sitting on it! Outraged, Buler produced a little brush and swiped at it before spitting at her.
“Hey.”
“You do not have the right to touch this carpet! It is Reizue’s Dream. And you—”
He realized she was the one who’d shouted the warning and shook his finger at her.
“I will forgive you since you helped the Strongest.”
She smiled at him, and her eyes lit up. She was older than him, maybe even twice as old, which said little because he was young, but she walked over and sat on a stone railing leading up to the place where flying carpets came to rest.
“Sorry. Again. It sounds like everyone’s talking about the Strongest of Pomle. Orjin, I mean.”
“He is the Strongest. You…you’re interested in him too?”
Spitty was eying the young woman, and Buler wondered if she were another [Assassin]. It would be just the thing! While Orjin was distracted—he grew nervous, and the dagger in his hand was unenchanted, and his palm was sweaty.
She had scary eyes. They flashed at him with too much knowledge of things, and they were a killer’s eyes; he saw that serious light in them, too, that he had observed from his many guests.
“I’ve been watching him for a while. I don’t think he’s noticed. I feel partly responsible. Though I’ve never met him in person. Oop!”
The young woman backed up as he waved the dagger. Buler gritted his teeth.
“He is my passenger, and if you harm him—”
“I wouldn’t do that. Even if I could. I want him to succeed. Really. What’s your name?”
“I am the Rider of Reizue’s Dream. I’ll defend this carpet with my life. Back!”
She eyed him, then put her hands on her hips.
“What’s your name?”
In that moment, she sounded like Orjin. So Buler hesitated.
“B-Buler.”
If she was some famous [Assassin], he would do well not to make a foe of her. She walked around him, admiring the carpet.
“You’re awfully young to be flying this thing by yourself. I was told [Carpet Riders] didn’t have long lives. Why are you doing this?”
He jutted out his chin.
“Because only I can fly Reizue’s Dream! If I die in the air, I will follow my family, and my legend will be part of this carpet. Do you not see my guests, woman? Don’t touch it!”
She had put her hand on the carpet. The figure straightened and looked at Buler thoughtfully, and her eyes…seemed to shine. She shook her head, and her brown hair did not blow with the winds gusting through the city. He realized her skin was far paler than most people of Chandrar. And…here he grew disconcerted.
He could see through her. Just slightly, but she was semi-transparent! The woman raised a hand and inspected it.
“I wish I could. Don’t worry, Buler. I don’t mean Orjin any harm. He knows me, as I said. I don’t know if I should be here, but I caught one of my little guests spying on him. Well, two. Nanette and Mrsha. They’re fans of him. And then I started watching. Now? I’ve seen what lies ahead. I don’t have much time—but I feel partly responsible, as I said. My friends owe him a debt. So I’d like to help.”
“Who—who are you?”
Buler licked his lips, unnerved. Was this a ghost? Then he saw her smile, and she reached up.
The people of the city of Fawasmed turned and saw the [Innkeeper] tip her hat to Buler. It had not been there before, but her hat blazed with glorious fires a second, like the very color of Djinni. Then his mouth opened, and he realized the Strongest’s journey was being watched by more than even he had known!
“I am Erin Solstice. [Innkeeper] of The Wandering Inn. I suppose I’m fascinated by people like Orjin. He reminds me of the best of people I’ve met. I can’t be here except in image. But if I can help, I will. I think…his journey and mine are at the same place. I want to see what he does.”
Her eyes shone with wonder. They were a killer’s. They had magic in them. She looked ordinary, only for a second, until you saw her magical hat and caught the depths of that smile.
When Orjin and Soloxenethn came back, fresh from escaping the [Assassin]’s trap, Erin Solstice waved at Orjin.
“Erin Solstice. What brings you here?”
“A [Secretary] asked me to check on you. Well, that and a nosy little Gnoll and witch were spying on you. But I’m here because I want to help, Orjin. In any way I can. Is that alright?”
The Strongest looked uncertain as he glanced at Erin, then Buler.
“I would not turn it down, but this is not your battle. I would not want you to sacrifice anything for me.”
He meant Buler as well, and the [Carpet Rider] hung his head. But Erin? She raised one eyebrow.
“Sacrifice anything? What about what you’re giving us?”
Orjin looked puzzled and stared at his hands and spread them.
“I have nothing to give. My journey has shown me that, Erin Solstice. Just as I gave you nothing for your Christmas. My martial arts, my very existence, is empty except in what it can take, the damage I do. I am trying to find an answer to that.”
She nodded and looked him in the eyes.
“Want to talk about it? I may not have any good answers, but I am good at listening and giving my opinion. I think you have something to give, anyways. It’s just not something you can see. The best things never are.”
Buler held his breath as the [Innkeeper], friend of Khelt, who they said spoke to the Quarass and made the King of Destruction laugh—who had poked out Gazi’s eye, they said, and these were the legends Chandrar respected—waited for a response from the Strongest of Pomle. He closed his eyes in thought, then nodded.
“If it helps me find my answer, I am grateful, Erin Solstice.”
The [Innkeeper] nodded, and Buler thought she chose her own words carefully. For she was not some [Innkeeper] of Izril, not here. She was in Chandrar and came to the continent of old empires and stories properly.
And like that, Buler found his carpet had a new passenger. The wind touched her not, and she rose into the sky with them, speaking to the Strongest. Then—Buler saw her eyes flick to him, and he realized he was no longer the unnamed [Carpet Rider] in the story.
 
——
 
“Do you have any other family?”
“No.”
“Who took care of you?”
“A [Dancer].”
“Is she still alive?”
“Yes. I give her gold.”
“If you bought this thing called a ‘seatbelt’, or a [Featherfall] scroll, would you—”
The awe and wonder of Erin Solstice seemed to have worn off fast on Buler. He was hunched in the driver’s seat as Erin sat in front of him in the air. No matter how fast or erratically he flew the gigantic carpet, she didn’t move, and Buler stopped—if only for his passengers’ sake.
Orjin was getting airsick. Spitty already was. Yet he didn’t stop Erin Solstice, because she was saying the things he thought Salii would ask.
The things…he wanted to ask. But he looked at Buler and didn’t see a world where Erin Solstice talked him out of flying. Yet she tried.
“What if you had some rooms and didn’t always live on the road? How long do you work? What did you say the Guild was? The Guild of Skies?”
“I am a [Carpet Rider], and the Guild of Skies is powerful! No one can stop me from flying; no one would dare! I have no home, and I will die flying. What could you offer me?”
He snapped at her. Erin Solstice paused.
“I just don’t want you to die.”
“You’ve met me for five minutes.”
“Yes. And I can’t ask you to come to Izril.”
“Hah! A land of Drakes and cities and too much green? Or the north, which has arrogant nobles and poisonous [Ladies] and assassins?”
Buler spat over the edge of his carpet, showing what he thought about that. Erin shrugged.
“Is there any city you like?”
He gave her a gap-toothed smile full of young defiance, enjoying his argument with her now that he thought he was winning.
“None more than Reizue’s Dream. You could offer me a room in a palace, and I would not take it, woman. My purpose is to fly—there is no greater calling!”
“Yes…but what if you had a good purpose? Better than just doing deliveries for your guild? And a nice room. Palaces suck.”
“You could not offer me a better home than Merreid! Even the humblest room—even the streets are better than anywhere else!”
He shouted at her, and the [Innkeeper] gave him a sunny smile.
“Not even a house in Khelt?”
He hesitated, and before Erin could press him…Orjin was watching it all with fascination. If she was a [Martial Artist], she was one who did with words and emotions what he did with his fists. She had swept a leg and was preparing to mount and beat Buler to death; or perhaps she’d just strangle him or take him down with a single incredible blow from a surprise attack?
Orjin put nothing past her. Yet someone else was listening and grabbed Erin Solstice making Buler nearly take them into a nosedive in shock. The sight of a disembodied hand reaching out like that…
“Psst. Erin. Erin—”
A stranger’s face popped into view, and she looked odd. Drathian? Orjin stared as Ryoka Griffin tugged Erin to the side, but their conversation was audible to his ears, even over the howl of the wind.
“Ryoka. What are you doing? I promised to talk to Orjin, and he’s not got long. But I have to also talk to Buler. Maybe I’ll follow him if I can’t convince him now.”
Buler had the haunted look of a [Carpet Rider] realizing an annoying [Innkeeper] could pop out of the air no matter where he flew. Ryoka Griffin, who Orjin vaguely recalled being the Wind Runner of Reizmelt, whatever that was, was whispering back.
“Erin. You can’t just walk into someone’s life a continent away and start giving them a pep talk and telling them what to do.”
“The heck I can’t. Are you saying to just leave him alone after hearing all that? The Guild of Skies is full of jerks, too—”
“Erin. Let me talk.”
An arm pushed the [Innkeeper] gently aside, and someone else walked into frame. Orjin recognized her.
“Sorry about that. She cares too much, too quickly. What she should have asked was something else. I’m sure no one wants to tell you what to do—Buler, right? I’m Ryoka Griffin. A Courier.”
Buler’s mouth opened wide. If he had been annoyed by Erin, he was taken off-guard by Ryoka and blurted out.
“You’re the woman who tried to murder Archmage Eldavin! I saw your magic sword! The one who defied the [Assassins]!”
Ryoka turned red. If Erin was just an [Innkeeper]—she was a Courier. But he grew defensive.
“I am like unto Couriers of Chandrar! The Guild of Skies is older than most Runner’s Guilds. So you would not tell me what to do, right, Courier? That woman does not respect me.”
He gave her a challenging look, and Ryoka didn’t blink.
“Don’t call her ‘woman’. Erin Solstice has spoken to the Quarass of Ger and Fetohep of Khelt. She stabbed Gazi’s eye out with her finger; that isn’t a rumor because I was there. If she cares or says unbelievable things, it’s because, annoyingly, she makes them happen. Or haven’t you heard her stories?”
She squatted down, and the boy’s mouth fell open. Ryoka had dancing eyes, and she spoke like a storyteller that Orjin had once heard come to Pomle.
If Erin Solstice had the air of one who could speak to anyone normally, Ryoka was even more fitting to Chandrar. She sat, cross-legged, and the boy warily ducked his head.
“Then she is an important woman, but she still lectures me.”
“Oh, and you know everything and have all the wisdom of a [Sage] at your age?”
Ryoka looked amused, and the boy flushed. But she knew more about how to speak to children.
“You know, Erin Solstice knows some of the mysteries of the Sage of a Hundred Thousand Secrets. It would do well to listen to her.”
“She does? I suppose…but I am fine! I am fine, and I am happy each day, whereas the sweating man digging fields or hawking his wares is miserable. I dance with the winds. Even if it is dangerous, no one will stop me.”
Buler thrust his chest out, and Ryoka’s eyes revealed her sadness—but her tone was gentle, and Orjin admired the way in which she subtly disarmed the boy.
“Of course. A Courier has to recognize her kin. You fly. But how will you ever fly that carpet to Izril, or go on a great journey or quest if you don’t live to be older.”
“To Izril? No [Carpet Rider] has survived a sea journey in—the Guild of Skies would never allow it!”
“The [Innkeeper] of The Wandering Inn—would. She’s called on Couriers before, or do you not know Seve-Alrelious, the Hundredfriends Courier? He’s staying at this inn now. Tell me more about yourself, Buler. And perhaps I’ll put in a good word for Erin. One only gets one chance to speak with her, you know.”
Now the boy was completely confused, and he hesitated. Ryoka turned her head, and Orjin caught the edge of a subtle wink. Erin came back, looking amused, slightly annoyed, and impressed all at once.
They got to talking as Erin gave Orjin an apologetic wave, but the Wind Runner interested Orjin, too. Besides, her company yielded an unexpected boon within moments, not just how she spoke to Buler.
This journey they were on wasn’t just Orjin’s. The Fury of Winds, Soloxenethn, had never spoken about what he’d seen in the mists, but it weighed on him. Yet that was his own quest for redemption that he had finally realized he was on.
His journey to complete his training? Ryoka Griffin was part of that. When he told her he was the Fury of Winds and she allowed she knew a tiny bit of martial arts, they got to talking.
The argument started about five minutes later.
“Talk to the wind? Why would I do that? Observe! [Windcaller’s Fist: Howl of the Vortex]!”
He demonstrated, and a huge gust of wind blew off the side of Reizue’s Dream. Buler screamed insults as he steadied the carpet. Ryoka was red-faced.
