Why would she say that? Orjin had reason to know that there were many owners of the [Garden of Sanctuary]; Salii had done digging when they’d first gotten that question, and many, many people had owned it. Not hundreds, but still.
Why would Erin Solstice, the current owner, believe Collos of all people had squandered it in some way? The former Strongest of Pomle considered this and then bowed his head.
“I thank you for that. At least some part of Pomle remains in memory. I am on a journey to discover what was missing. What I lack. I regret that I cannot answer you in turn with ideas for your party.”
“I, um…please forget it.”
The [Martial Artist] stretched out his feet slowly as Torreb kept laughing, clearly enjoying Erin’s look of actual pain. He bowed to Erin, and Torreb began squabbling with a Drake he recognized. The image winked out, and Orjin looked at Torreb.
“Who was that Drake?”
“Someone who is as real as you or I—though they are no warrior in the sense we are. An [Alchemist]. I heard a funny tale about them. He—or she?—found the company of Stitch-folk more agreeable. Although even my own people don’t change every aspect about themselves. We used to, but Nerrhavia’s Fallen banned…politics.”
Torreb indicated his worn thread, and Orjin didn’t know what that meant. He bowed his head as Itkisa disapprovingly came over with gingerbread cookies.
“That [Innkeeper] is powerful, isn’t she, Father?”
“Orjin’s level. They’re both on the cusp of something. She may never be better. I met Larracel the Haven, and she stank of complacency.”
“Like you, Father?”
“Just like me!”
He laughed and began drinking, which he did when they brought up the fact that Torreb was Level 69 and claimed he could not grow any more. Orjin felt like he was onto something with Erin. If Collos’ garden was just a copy of Pomle…
Maybe it was forgotten. If he had a [Garden of Sanctuary]—I knew him when I was a boy. Why did he never let us train in there? Was the water real? I think I have seen the other ones Erin Solstice has. Why did he not turn it into an orchard or somewhere with grass?
Perhaps he thought Pomle should be harsh, to make us stronger. But Collos…at the very least, it could have housed twice as many of us. Did you think it was a crutch?
Orjin could see that, actually. If Pomle was a dream and Collos had one day made that dream into reality, the [Garden of Sanctuary] lost its meaning. But Orjin would have given it to Salii and asked her to do something with it. Collect water, house the refugees…
Collos had never accepted refugees or anyone else to Pomle. Only those willing to train. Orjin…wasn’t like Collos, he realized. Vandum was.
Perhaps Collos was wrong. If Orjin and Collos had been alive and Collos had refused the Earthers like Raul’s company, or ignored the [Slaves], or refused the refugees, he, Orjin, would have challenged the Strongest. Even knowing he would lose.
In that realization was something that Orjin realized was at the heart of his journey. He reached for it—and nearly punched the air as Erin reappeared.
“Hey, sorry—”
Torreb’s club scythed through her face, and she recoiled.
“Whoa!”
“Oops. What is it, girl?”
“I, uh—I am so sorry, again, and I don’t want to take up any of your Christmas time. But if I could just ask one teensy favor?”
Erin put her hands together. She looked at Orjin, and he nodded, cursing internally.
“What…is it, Miss Solstice?”
She was exactly like Salii after all. He sighed, and she nervously edged to the side.
“You’re on, you two. Don’t get cold feet! This is, um—she’s written to you before, but she’s shy—this is Garia Strongheart, a [Martial Artist]! She’d love some tips, and here’s Touma the Great! They’re huge fans of yours.”
Erin pushed two people into view, and Orjin blinked. He saw a young woman with another fairly unorthodox body—she was quite thin and muscular, aside from her chest and hips, perhaps overly so—and an Antinium Soldier.
They looked stunned as he half-rose.
“Um! I’m Garia, a City Runner, and it’s an honor to meet you, Mister—Master Orjin! I am so sorry to interrupt, but I had to ask Erin—could you critique me? I’ve been self-training with Ryoka, a Courier, but she doesn’t know more than a certain level, and I—I—”
Touma was waving two hands and clasping his fist with the last one in a [Martial Artist]’s greeting. Orjin stared.
An Antinium who is a [Martial Artist]? How can he use all four fists? He must have a completely different set of balance. His shell is round on the back! Can he even grapple?
And a City Runner?
“You—gained the class by yourself? Who taught you? Is this Courier a [Martial Artist] as well?”
He had no idea so many were in Izril. Garia shook her head.
“Ryoka? No. I just practiced, and—I got the class. I was doing this punch, for fun, every day, a thousand times at first, and then—”
And then she got the class. Something about that was so stupid, yet quintessentially Pomle that it made Orjin smile.
The smile made Touma and Garia relax.
“That is the spirit of Pomle—the Pomle that I knew. I am not the Strongest, but I have trained with many [Martial Artists]. Are you two strikers? Do you follow any particular school? If you show me, I will tell you what I can.”
That was all he could do, but Garia bowed and, red-faced, showed him a few punches. Once she warmed up and forgot her nerves, he saw her form was good—if slightly alien to him. It looked like Raul’s form, too, but he quickly saw her footwork and transitions into more complex blows were completely mismatched.
Apparently, she’d learned from Grimalkin, who understood fighting, but it meant she was chaining together footwork and different styles. She had tried to make it fluid, but Orjin’s tips on how to hold her shoulders and adjust her stance made Garia instantly look far more dangerous.
As for Touma, he was trying to copy Ryoka and Garia, but he was using a Human’s balance, and when he began to pivot and use his body—he couldn’t really twist his hips like a Human—Orjin saw a fearsome form emerge.
Like a relentless boulder punching forwards. For some reason, it made Orjin think Touma could be even larger, some kind of massive Antinium who relentlessly advanced, using all four arms to block and beat down a foe at the same time.
He’d make the entire Ironbody School nervous. Once Touma integrated the punching with his observations of the Crimson Soldier, Orjin saw it.
Something new. Beyond the martial arts he knew, a fusion between Antinium combat and the notions of Pomle’s fighting.
“These are only tips. You must improve now that I have shown you how. Self-critique. Use glass mirrors. Test everything, and discard what is not practical. That is Pomle’s way.”
They bowed, and Orjin bowed too. Unlike his conversation with Erin, this left a deep joy in his heart that he didn’t realize until that evening when Itkisa smiled.
“You haven’t stopped beaming since you met the two young [Martial Artists].”
Orjin reached up, felt at his face, and blinked.
“I haven’t? It’s…good to see. So long as new [Martial Artists] emerge from the wild, it makes me believe what Pomle is will never truly die.”
“So perhaps my daughter is right and there are people who choose sub-optimal classes. Two of them, no less! Then again, a City Runner can’t wield a blade, and that Antinium’s fists can’t be delicate. So it was made for them.”
Orjin’s head turned as Torreb, in a good mood, called out. His family was around him, trading gifts, but the real gift to Orjin was that moment of insight.
Yes. Touma’s fists couldn’t hold a quill, and Garia had said she bore no sword—nor considered herself a warrior who wished to kill.
They had come to martial arts for that. One, because it was not a killing art. Yet Pomle…
Salthorn would approve. There is something here! Something…it is not suboptimal. Or if it is? 
Orjin’s mind hurt, and he couldn’t figure it out throughout the dinner. Then, afterwards, he was pacing around, trying to figure it out, when he nearly ran into Itkisa.
She was holding a sprig of mistletoe she was taking down, another Christmas thing she’d put up because the instructions had said it was a tradition. He blinked at her, and she hesitated.
“Oh. The tradition.”
He nodded thoughtfully.
“I wonder when it began.”
“Perhaps it was a silly excuse? Some take it far too seriously.”
Itkisa commented as Orjin tapped the red, spiky plant and wondered what in it engendered the power of kisses. He nodded, then he looked down and smiled. It did not mean it was wrong to exist. Itkisa held the mistletoe up as Orjin bent over.
 
——
 
The next day, Orjin had his dream. He awoke, the day after Christmas, and knew it was the time to go.
Whether it was chance or something else, he took it as a sign. Torreb watched as Orjin found Itkisa, and she rubbed at her eyes.
“I don’t suppose it was me?”
“No. Why would it be?”
He looked at her so blankly she smiled, and he realized her eyes were glistening. He hadn’t seen her cry once, and she didn’t, not really. But her head lowered.
“Then the same destiny that my father believes in is calling to you.”
“Maybe. I don’t know. I wish to speak with him one last time. All I know is…”
Orjin hesitated, and his head turned east.
“I must find Pomle’s people before they are gone. I am told the war wears at them. I must go. I do not know what the answer Collos and I searched for is. But I know—I believe I know—that I disagree with what his vision was. I need to speak to Torreb once. I am sorry. I wish I could have stayed.”
She just shook her head, her face closing off a second, then she strode over, beckoning him.
“No. Your instinct isn’t wrong, Orjin. Pomle is facing General Thelican, and I have heard his armies are a sandstorm. No matter how many times they break through…you will need to move fast to get back.”
“I will run. I can make the journey from the Lantern Lands to Tiqr in less than a week.”
If he ran without slowing like last time, it’d only take four days. But he had barely slept, and Orjin doubted he wanted to do that to himself. At this, Itkisa snorted.
“You sound like my father, but he only talks like that. He is a Named-rank adventurer. Take a flying carpet or a Djinni. If we need to catch up to you, we could do it in a single day. I will have one ready in two hours. Talk to Torreb. And Orjin?”
She caught his arm gently and pulled him back. Orjin had never asked, nor did he think the Fury of Winds or even Itkisa’s family knew, but she was strong.
“…I think it might be the last time you speak to him.”
“I understand.”
She gave him a slight smile and turned, but this time, Orjin caught her arm. His feet skidded on the ground, and he stopped.
“Itkisa. May I ask you a personal question?”
“What?”
The woman turned, and Orjin didn’t ask about her class. Or anything else so banal, though he was tempted. He looked her in the eyes.
“…Why did you take care of him all these years instead of pursuing your dreams, whatever they were?”
She met his eyes for a long time, and when she replied, he felt his skin tingle and the hairs on his head rise.
“He asked me to. When Father passes—he swore to give me Torreb’s Fist. Otherwise, he said he’d toss it into the sea. And besides.”
She gave him a rueful smile.
“I do love him for all his failings.”
“I see. Thank you.”
Orjin stepped back, and she looked at him. Then she raised her hand and made a gentle fist. She struck his shoulder lightly, and he saw her gaze sharpen. Her eyes were a cloudy orange most times, but it felt like the skies were parting.
A strange dawn rose in them, and he was reminded of his dream. A storm of snow and sand was passing across the Lantern Lands, yet the doors and windows of Torreb’s mansion were closed.
However, a breeze still blew, and it lifted her housekeeper’s shawl off her hair and blew it away. She made no move to pick it up, and, Orjin knew, she never would again.
Gently, Itkisa undid a braid of her hair, then another. She looked around as her hair fell loose, and she realized she didn’t care for that.
Orjin pulled a band he used to keep his own hair tied back without a word and offered it to her. She used it to tie her hair back and then nodded to him. A smile like the land he stood on, from a strange beast’s eyes. Then she looked around the mansion, as if it were suddenly confining, too small to contain her. Her roaming eyes found his, and his skin developed goosebumps as Itkisa struck his shoulder harder.
“We will see each other again, Orjin. So long as the Strongest of Pomle survives. Go find your answer.”
 
——
 
They met one final time, after breakfast, and Torreb sat cross-legged in the falling snow, staring over the Light-City of Meneretorre. He looked wistful, his white hair blowing in wisps.
Yet the axe-club shone with ancient magic, and he smelled like old blood and sweat and metal. The battlefield had taken the shape of a Stitch-man and decided to rest here.
Below, Orjin saw the lanterns of the city glowing, unwinking dots, like the eyes of a creature upon the sands, tall and hunched together, tall buildings of stone rising like some artificial strand of trees, streets and houses sheltering and growing.
Yet it seemed tiny against the vast landscape beyond. A whirling mass of sand and snow blew across the Lantern Lands, roiling, limbs writhing around, swirls of shadow—illuminated by the sun’s faint rays.
Light and dark.
“The very continent seems to wish to make your journey difficult, Strongest. Take a carpet or Djinni.”
“Your daughter said the same.”
“Did she? Good.”
That was all the two said for a while. Orjin sat facing Torreb, but the Named-rank adventurer was distracted. He was looking at the sandstorm as if it were a foe, a hand gripping the handle of his weapon so hard Orjin saw it was white.
Then he relaxed, blinked, and laughed, as if he hadn’t known what had scared him. He turned his head and gave Orjin that half-mocking look he had had from the very start.
“So did you ever find what the ‘strongest warrior’ was, Strongest?”
“Perhaps. At the very least—I know who the strongest warrior is not. It occurred to me, Torreb, to think of it like that.”
“Oh? Then who is the strongest warrior not?”
Orjin’s answer was certain, yet he hesitated—because it was hard to say. He bowed his head as he rested his hands on his knees.
“The strongest warrior is not…Vandum.”
Torreb the Undefeated began laughing. His mouth opened wide, and a guffaw burst from the red depths of his throat and his remaining yellow teeth. He cackled, and his laughter drifted down to the city below, wild and loud as the storm.
