Someone had a lantern. The two nearly attacked the figure on the road, but the woman looked as shocked as they were.
“What are you two doing? I have never met fools who walked into the mists and lived. Come here, now!”
Her voice snapped, and Orjin hesitated—then strode forwards. He saw the mists parting, and a woman waved to him.
“With me, warriors. Ah—”
She noticed they were wounded and hesitated. Orjin saw her eye him, then Soloxenethn. She lifted the lantern higher, a simple one with the faint glint of magic; nothing more.
“You are fortunate my eyes were upon you. The mists might be weaker tonight, but they grow and feed off of what you believe and what others believe of you.”
“Oh.”
The two looked at each other, and Orjin saw the woman tsk as she noticed Soloxenethn clutching his side. She handed the lantern to Orjin.
“Your friend will bleed out. Hurry to safety. That way.”
“Thank you. But what are you doing out so late?”
Orjin took the lantern and saw she was pointing up to Torreb’s mansion. But when he raised his gaze—Soloxenethn hissed.
“Gone!”
She had vanished between the time both glanced away. Orjin felt his skin crawl. He debated dropping the lantern, but the mists did part from them, and without the light…
“Back to the mansion. Now.”
Soloxenethn did not argue, and by the time they made it through the garden gates, the light from the giant lanterns provided safety. The Fury of Winds collapsed, and Orjin hurled the lantern back the way he’d come without a word. Thus, they survived.
 
——
 
The trials of the mists left the Fury of Winds bedridden for two days. When they got back, Itkisa had already had a poultice ready.
“It’s still just mist. If Spitty went in there, wolves would try to eat him. You know Children, the monsters that look like people? I’m told they came from these very mists; they join the apparitions, but they eat the poor souls who can’t bring themselves to defend against them.”
“Oh. So that’s why I ran into myself. I was told it was a reflection of my guilt and how others saw me.”
Orjin was cleaning one wound with a cloth, grimacing as he tended to the wounds his copy had given him. He wished he wasn’t so good at piercing skin; a thumb had dug straight into his wrist and bruised tendons.
Itkisa paused as she sewed closed the cut in the Fury’s leg.
“…That might be so. Was it a strong copy? Father can’t be killed by the apparitions; he claims that they can’t get beyond high Level 30s.”
“It wasn’t as strong. But it was me. I wonder why.”
“Perhaps the mists think you let yourself down more than anyone else? That is strange. Who told you that?”
“The woman on the road.”
Itkisa’s sewing slowed, and she gave Orjin a troubled look. When he related the encounter to her, she shook her head.
“You shouldn’t have taken the lantern. That sounds like a mistwraith, a trick. No one would regularly venture out like that. What did she look like?”
“…I don’t recall.”
Orjin couldn’t deny he was shaken by that encounter knowing it wasn’t accidental. Soloxenethn was obviously far worse off, but Orjin wondered what that had meant. Torreb put it down to the mists looking for an opponent that could kill the Strongest, but the [Martial Artist] wondered.
Had he died, in a sense, when Pomle fell? The Orjin who had come at him was a pure reflection of what Orjin knew: how to strike a body hard enough to kill. How to turn a palm into a stabbing spear or tear flesh and break bones.
Was that who Itkisa, Torreb, Soloxenethn, and others thought he had the most guilt for? Surely it was for others, yet…the mists may have just chosen the only person they thought could kill Orjin. Himself.
Perhaps that was his strongest warrior. Why, then, did Orjin think that reflection of his was so hollow? Just battle. Just war.
…Was that what Pomle was?
 
——
 
When he grabbed her arm, it felt like it was the trunk of Nsiia’s Grand Elephant, Thef. Orjin had been allowed to greet the mighty beast once.
He had been saddened when he heard it died. But now he remembered it and felt her arm flex.
His feet left the ground. She tried to throw him, but he tumbled across the mats, redirecting the force—yet still skidded. Again, he came forwards, trying to bring her down like Salthorn would. Her hand tried to grab one sweat-soaked arm and slid free.
The [Martial Artist] saw it make a fist, and he stopped. He stepped backwards, arms raised in a guard, and Itkisa halted.
She looked exasperated as she lowered her hand.
“Again! I’m sorry, Orjin. I don’t care for these throws and joint locks.”
She had agreed not to punch. Without a word, the [Martial Artist] nodded.
“You are your father’s daughter.”
That was his comment, and her raised brows made her smile rueful.
“I should be. I was the eldest daughter, perhaps not the first he had, but the first one he took an interest in. He taught most of his oldest children how to fight. And they would fight, to get his attention.”
She sighed; she was in undergarments, and it was late. They were practicing in a far-off room in the mansion so as not to wake the others.
“I am sorry, Orjin.”
He was surprised.
“Why? You learn faster than most students of Pomle.”
“That makes me feel better. It doesn’t come naturally to me. It feels like it did when I first tried to cook, as a girl, or how anything else I try without practice does. I suppose that is normal, but I thought I would pick it up quicker.”
Her frustration was an echo of so many voices he had ever heard, including his own. Orjin corrected her stance.
“Salthorn’s style is rarely practiced, even in Pomle. But Raul told me it is hugely admired in his homeland. She may lack for the showy strength of other schools, but I have seen her defeat every single [Ironbody Martial Artist]. When she has you in a lock, you are helpless as you would be in Torreb’s grip.”
She snorted at this praise of her father.
“He’s not the King of Destruction. Sometimes, I wonder who is the stronger of the two. Did you see Flos Reimarch freeing that Djinni? I doubt Torreb could. Plus, my father is ticklish.”
Only she would mock the Named-rank adventurer so. But then, for all her willingness to mock others, she rarely spoke of herself as talented.
Despite the fact that she had still managed to copy one of the throws within two hours’ practice. Orjin took hold of her arm again and felt the memory.
Comparing her arm to an elephant’s trunk was probably not appropriate, but he wanted to make it as the highest compliment. When she twisted or forgot herself and made ready to strike, he messed up the exercise by stepping back to dodge or block.
“Have you fought before?”
They collided in the center of the room, and his feet slipped until he overbalanced her, shifting their positions by lifting her and rotating her, using the momentum to try and throw her. She landed hard—
“Only a bit.”
After trying to escape a pin and then ending up doing it Torreb’s way, she helped him to his feet. And he asked again.
“Were you ever an adventurer?”
Her eyes danced as she caught his fist, then remembered she was trying to deflect them. He tried to do the same, and she called out to him as he got back up and stepped forwards.
“For a year or two. I am my father’s daughter.”
She spoke like that. With the great reserve that told him there was a secret behind each word. Perhaps he should ask—but he saw a guard like a wall up. Not hostile. Just—she did not want to tell him yet.
He asked one final question as he finally knocked her down and locked her arm. As they struggled, panting, and she finally had to give and admit Salthorn’s techniques would have taken her arm.
“Why don’t you ask for respect from Torreb’s friends? From Soloxenethn or anyone else? Including me?”
She rose, massaging her arm, looking slightly frustrated and amused. At length, Itkisa flicked sweat from her brow.
“Because, Strongest. I inherited a Skill from my father. My mother gave it to me, but it was his. I never earned that, never worked for it. Surely you understand how that feels? Every other thing I have made mine, but for that, I will always be his child, and I remember it. Isn’t all this fair? Look at his lovely home. I want for little, and he—he’s happy. Especially since you came along.”
She gestured around. Orjin looked at the rich mansion that had so many old trophies and so many empty rooms. All the riches Torreb ate or played with or broke, the legacy of Chandrar’s greatest [Warrior]. Then at Itkisa.
He bowed slowly, hand clasped in his fist, and she smiled. Orjin had met an ancient beast of Chandrar when the Empress of Beasts came, in her splendor, before her nation turned to rubble, an abundance of knowledge no person could ever unearth in those huge Grand Elephant’s eyes.
The second beast stood there, donning clothing, hiding the sinew under her skin with simple, bright cloth. If he closed his eyes, it felt like the roots of a vast tree shifting, or unbreakable metal like Adamantium leaving striations in the world from its inexorable passage. Then he opened his eyes, and she smiled at him, like some prowling creature with gleaming fangs hiding them and curving her lips up.
And Soloxenethn wondered why Orjin liked her.
 
——
 
On the day of Christmas, Orjin celebrated with Torreb, though the Named-rank really didn’t make a big fuss.
“I buy what I want. Itkisa was the one going about giving presents. I have a pile from my family meant to impress me. I gave gold out like water. The [Merchants] will love this holiday. But this is for you, Strongest.”
He presented Orjin with six potions, all healing, all of a high grade. Orjin thanked him and handed Torreb something that made the old man laugh.
“And what’s this?”
“A brownie…thing. It’s sweet. Itkisa found the recipe in a [Mage]’s guild, and I helped her make it.”
It had been mostly her, but the old man tried the crusted sweet and demanded the entire pan. Getting a gift for Torreb was easy if you knew he just wanted to eat or drink something novel. No trinket would do, no magic.
Spitty had been given a full treatment by a high-level [Handler], and he was groomed and looked sharp. The Fury of Winds, looking quiet and pensive, traded some fistwraps with Orjin for a travelling set with gels for his hair and a comb and toothbrush and so on.
It was a decent day made stranger when Erin Solstice appeared. She was very flustered as Orjin sat there, and he had to admit, he was maudlin.
He had been following the war in Pomle and heard another fortress had fallen to them. Wonders of Nerrhavia’s Fallen was the new channel that covered the war, but they never had anything bad to say; only glorious victories and repositioning of armies for strategy’s sake. If Wistram News Network covered it, or another continent’s television, it was rare. There was also the Empire of Sands’ news network, but Torreb didn’t have it as he didn’t care for the news that much.
The Chandrarian journalist, who wrote Chandrar International, painted a very different image of the war. He had published an image that he claimed was a Mage Picture of the aftermath of the battle.
It showed a lot of dead Stitch-folk…but Orjin had seen the cloth of [Martial Artists]’ robes and improvised armor among the bodies. He felt his home calling to him, even though…
Even though Pomle was gone. What would he do? He could not rebuild it, not with the oasis ruined. That single Tier-whatever spell had obliterated it, and he had been too weak to stop it. In a way, Pomle deserved to end if it was too weak to protect itself.
And yet…Orjin could not help but think that wasn’t his fault. And he knew that was running away from reality. How dare he refuse to take full responsibility? Yet that destruction…even if I had thrown myself in the way of that spell, I couldn’t stop it.
So that was how Erin Solstice found him.
 
——
 
“I am lost. If you come here seeking knowledge of the previous Strongest, or wisdom for this holiday—I have no right to speak any.”
What a strange person. Erin Solstice looked, to Orjin, like Salii did. At first, she seemed weak as a kitten and audacious as Xil. She appeared in front of Torreb to ask a question about Christmas.
Yet, as he had observed with Salii, her power was just not in a way he could openly see. It was in her magical theater.
Pomle would never respect her. Just like Salii. Yet she has the power to create a holiday and appear in front of me in person. How is this not a strength to match or exceed my own?
Still, to her question, he could not help her and explained who he was. She looked incredibly embarrassed and shuffled her feet, almost like she was dancing. She was light on her toes, and he thought she would have made a good [Martial Artist]; she had an excellent sense of balance, and her footwork wasn’t random but shifting smoothly between forms.
“Right. I am so sorry. I’ll just, um—be going. Sorry again. For bothering you. And Mrsha and Nanette calling you.”
“Don’t bring us into it!”
Orjin stared at the little girl with pigtails and the white Gnoll he vaguely recognized, who were giving him guilty looks. Children, too. He remembered the Fury’s opponents and saw Soloxenethn had been forced to excuse himself.
Pomle has few children, too. Is that a weakness? Why am I asking?
The Cult of Windcaller’s Wrath and Pomle both had little use for children; until the refugees, children were a liability. They could not survive.
Then we are both locusts who need outsiders to come in and support us, no matter what Itkisa says. This place…is a far better home than Pomle ever was.
For proof, look no further than behind Erin! In the image of her, he saw men and women who were clearly strong. A Goblin no less! Torreb was eying a Goblin with a crimson crystal sword that was glaring at him, and Orjin saw a massive Drake with incredible, perhaps overly abundant muscles. How could anyone move like that? Let alone how much you’d have to eat to support that body…
He was curious, so he recalled Erin’s other contacts with Pomle.
“You are the one who asked about the previous Strongest’s garden, aren’t you? Salii mentioned it. May I ask what you saw in his garden? Collos. What did he make of it?”
He had to know and listened intently as Erin replied.
“It was—it was a lot like Pomle, actually. Identical, really. It had this room where you could spar with people who’d been warriors of Pomle, but it—”
She hesitated. Orjin’s mind flashed to the mists. Of course. That’s what he’d want. A way to test himself earnestly against his foes! It made sense, and yet…the [Innkeeper]’s next words crystalized something in his head.
“—I think he forgot why he needed it.”
