“That’s not real mastery of the winds! You’re just creating a giant gust! You’ll never fly if you don’t respect the wind!”
“And you will never do anything under your own power, Courier. You beg the winds to ferry you around; that is as much mastery as a leaf claims to have over the breeze.”
His sneer made Ryoka turn redder, and she whirled to a hovering blob of green, which turned out to be…Orjin squinted.
“Shaestrel! Back me up!”
 
“Yer not a master of the winds, ye daft cunt. I never said you was. Did Ivolethe say it? Because she was lying if that’s what you thought. You’re a friend of the wind. Nothing more. Yon fool might not be smarter than you are…but you’re no better than he. You’re both about as connected to the winds as a fart of mine.”
 
Ryoka and the Fury of Winds looked incredibly insulted by this. Yet Orjin had to agree.
“Soloxenethn. You command it. Ryoka, you speak to the air itself. Yet it seems to me neither one of you understands the powers you control. I understand the ground I stand on, how a rock falls, and my own body. The wind and air seem complex and deep, and I have talked to Garuda and felt it and observed the movement of clouds and leaves. The Ironbody School of Pomle seeks to become like metal. Neither of you embody the dancing breeze in your way.”
They turned to him, speechless, and the green blob laughed.
 
“He has the right of it! He’s closer to understanding the wind than the two of you!”
 
Orjin felt an approving look, and Ryoka walked off. Soloxenethn would have done likewise if it didn’t mean falling off the carpet, but he looked back at the Wind Runner, and she traded a glance with him. And perhaps Buler learned the most of all of them.
“Sorry, Orjin. Where were we?”
Erin sat back down, and the Strongest of Pomle spoke.
“I told you I was on a quest to understand what the strongest warrior of Pomle was. The vision Collos never attained. I understood—more of it. Or at least, what it’s not.”
“Not Torreb. I understand. So you want to make a school of martial arts that can lead to this? That is versatile and adaptable?”
Orjin hesitated.
“…No. That is too vague. Rather, I understood what I liked about [Martial Artists]. The class. Anyone can become one. It has something to offer everyone. Perhaps it is not optimal. But anyone can practice it. In the same way, anyone can become the greatest warrior. That is the promise of Pomle that I always knew, though I could not give it voice until now.”
He was proud of that, and yet, the [Magical Innkeeper] wore a troubled frown. She sat there, and he spoke to her as he had spoken to Torreb. She might be far lower level than Torreb, but in a way, she was counterpart to his mastery as a [Warrior].
And she challenged him.
“No. I don’t think this is true, Orjin.”
The Strongest of Pomle paused.
“How so?”
Erin was giving him a troubled look, but something had clearly occurred to her, and she bowed her head in thought. Then she looked up.
“—I don’t think it’s true everyone can become the ‘greatest warrior’, Orjin. If you think a [Martial Artist] class can come to anyone and they’ll be the best, isn’t that a lie? Anyone can get it, maybe, but if I trained every single day as hard as you, and had the best teachers, I don’t think I’d be a better puncher than you.”
“Striker. I…see.”
Erin indicated her body and Orjin’s, and he might weigh twice what she did and had height and reach on her. Which mattered. The [Innkeeper] gave Orjin a sympathetic look, knowing she was poking holes in his theory.
“Maybe I could get Skills, but without them—the claim doesn’t work. Can a Centaur even learn some of the techniques you have? What if a Selphid just jumps into a powerful body?”
He sat there, not denying any of it. Yet Orjin didn’t feel like he was defeated. Just that he needed to restate his beliefs.
“Then…I believe that martial arts has something for everyone. Even if you were missing an arm—even if you could only blink and breathe, I want to believe what I practice has something for you. Yes. That is it. The great warrior of Pomle must offer more than the ability to kill.”
Her eyes brightened, and Erin Solstice offered him a smile.
“I believe that.”
This was better. This was…Orjin confessed something to Erin as they flew downwards, into the Kilalle Steppes. Their journey would continue on foot, and they were close to Tiqr, Pomle, and wherever his people had gone. But this was important.
“Erin Solstice. I have always taken pride in my ability to fight. Which all of Pomle’s warriors do. But I felt something different when the refugees came to Pomle and Salii offered them a place. That—was something I, as Orjin, could never do. But it was right. When I freed those [Slaves], I drew Pomle into war.”
He closed his eyes, and some part of him regretted it. But another part could not.
“…I think I did it, knowing what would happen. But I wanted them to have what all who come to Pomle have: a chance to improve. A chance to be free. That is what Pomle was. It was what I was proud of! The Peace of Pomle!”
How could he forget? First, they had come to Pomle to negotiate, the leaders of nations! That had been his pride to officiate, even though he pretended it was just work. It meant something.
Erin’s eyes were bright and understanding.
“Your great warrior has to give them something. But all the martial artists and warriors do is…”
“Kill. Vandum is good at it. Even if not killing…is this all my class is?”
Orjin stared at his fists. If he was a [Warrior] like Torreb, he could accept it. He looked at Erin and asked her a question because he was lost.
“Erin Solstice. What is a [Witch]?”
He knew she was one. The [Witch of Second Chances] thought about it and came back with an answer in a few seconds.
“A [Witch] is…a vibe.”
“A what?”
Spitty stared at Erin, and the young woman tipped her hat up.
“A vibe. A look. It’s a pointed hat, a dress, a bubbling cauldron. A witch is what you look like.”
Orjin’s heart sank. Was this another joke? Yet Erin seemed to be taking his question as seriously as could be. Her eyes flashed, and the hat flared orange a second, then jet black. Then she did look like a [Witch].
“It is how you look, Orjin. It’s not a joke. A [Witch] is a woman in a crowd. A [Witch] is a word: no. She is an outsider. She is a question. She is not what makes you comfortable or happy or keeps everything the same. She is…trouble. It’s all of that and more. Do you understand? A witch is a [Witch]. She is an idea.”
She gave Orjin an embarrassed smile, and the [Martial Artist] nodded. Erin took a breath.
“So I guess when you asked me that…what’s a [Martial Artist] to you, Orjin?”
He found the answer was easy. Perhaps Salthorn, Vandum, Xil, all had their own answers, but Orjin’s was this:
“[Martial Artists] are…not [Warriors]. We are part of that class, but we are more than the artful swing of a sword or even the perfection of a strike. These are the qualities of our class. Not the nature. To me, martial arts are about control. Knowing yourself. Mastering your body. Understanding…”
He looked up suddenly.
“Understanding. That is what we are. My foes, myself. How I breathe. How stepping matters. I want to understand the world and then change it deliberately. The gift of martial arts is a kind of mastery. Not control. And the mastery will never be perfect. But it is the tool by which the world moves for me.”
And then the [Witch] and [Magical Innkeeper] gave Orjin a huge smile. She looked at him, with appreciation, and nodded.
“I envy that. That sounds—when you say it like that, it sounds good.”
He bowed his head to her.
“I understand it more, now. Thanks to you.”
She nodded and rose.
“One last question, Orjin? Where’s the magic in it?”
The [Martial Artist] paused.
“Magic? We have none.”
He thought she meant in the class, but Erin meant…
“Wonder. The excitement. Is it in when you hit something or pull off a move? My own magic—not a [Witch]’s, but an [Innkeeper]’s—is when my friends come together. When I witness their triumph or I do something for them that matters. Where is it in Pomle?”
“I don’t…know.”
He was troubled by her words. If she meant the adrenaline, the victory like when he sparred—no.
Magic? The joy of perfecting a move, the feeling of accomplishment, these were all good answers. Yet he felt like he knew the answer and it eluded him.
“Magic. Coolness, I guess. I know that’s a silly word, but—”
The [Innkeeper] laughed self-consciously.
“That’s what I think you should look for, Orjin. The ability to kill people?”
She paused, shook her head.
“I know a lot of people like that. That’s not cool. It might be impressive or terrifying or—even needed. I might respect someone who has the power to do that, and mastered it, but many classes have that ability. But that’s not the point. If you’re looking for that—”
Erin held Orjin’s gaze.
“I think there’s part of your answer.”
 
——
 
Then they landed. Erin talked more with Orjin, but he felt like his conversation with her had already yielded another clue.
When did being a warrior of Pomle matter? Never more than when he had defended Pomle or the people within. When he had declared the Peace of Pomle.
That was when he was truly Strongest.
Orjin realized something as Buler stood by the carpet and bowed.
“I am sorry, Strongest, Fury of Winds, Spitty. I cannot fly further.”
“You have done us a great service, Buler. Please. Take this.”
Orjin handed him all the coins he could spare, but the boy refused them.
“I have been paid by Torreb himself, Strongest. I could ask for nothing more.”
Slowly, the Strongest knelt. He looked in the boy’s eyes, and he had not quite dared. Erin had. But if Orjin did dare, he would look at this boy courting death and feel…helpless.
“You should. If I could give you anything, I would, Buler. But I have nothing. Erin Solstice is right. In her way, she exceeds me with kindness, no matter how misplaced. I have never envied my [Secretary], Salii, more than now. I would help you if I could, to repay you.”
The [Carpet Rider] looked away shyly.
“I don’t wish to be saved or given a place for free, Strongest. This matters. Reizue’s Dream is more important than me.”
“Then—I wish I could give you something that let you achieve those dreams.”
The Strongest made a fist. And those words were true. Yes. This is…he looked in Buler’s eyes, then held the fist out.
“You will always be welcome in Pomle, Buler. So long as the spirit of it endures. I am going, now. I could not have come here without Buler of Reizue’s Dream. Nor will I forget his name.”
Slowly, the boy held out a fist, and they tapped them together. Buler had tears in his eyes, and he wiped at them. But Orjin just clasped his fist to his palm and bowed. It was the only expression he had.
Now they were so close to Tiqr, he saw the last oasis in the Kilalle steps. Deserted, small; it was a watering hole with water that the others could drink from, but only Spitty would truly find potable.
Beyond there lay Tiqr, at war with Nerrhavia’s Fallen and other nations for independence. Buler had heard Nsiia’s forces were roaming the borders. Beyond there—and Nerrhavia Fallen’s armies were in force.
Orjin would have to cross all of it to get to Pomle and enter into the great empire itself to find his people. He was ready, or so he thought he was.
“Soloxenethn. Are you truly prepared to come with me? You do not have to.”
The Fury of Winds was sitting, cross-legged, and he opened his eyes slowly.
“Orjin. I have understood now that my Windcaller’s Wrath was always corrupt. It deserved to be destroyed. I have…perhaps I have let down my disciples, myself, and everyone I have met.”
For a second, it seemed like Soloxenethn did not believe his own words. His eyes flashed with that arrogance Orjin knew was in him. Then—the Fury of Winds turned and looked at Buler. And his gaze was uncertain.
“—I have always thought I made their lives better. But I only looked at my disciples. How many…?”
He didn’t finish the sentence and stood there until the [Carpet Rider] shifted and looked uncomfortable. When Soloxenethn’s head turned, he looked at Orjin as if seeing a landmark while lost, and his eyes firmed. Then he nodded.
“Pomle offered me its peace even in war. I am going. You may leave me, but I will follow. If the Fury of Winds perishes to let the Strongest of Pomle find his answer, so be it. That is the spirit of Pomle and martial arts. And that is still where my heart blows true.”
He struck a pose, but his eyes were as serious as his antics were not. Orjin looked at him and held out a fist. Soloxenethn hesitated—then they struck their fists together.
Two [Martial Artists], now, locked eyes, and Buler saw them bow. Orjin felt like his back was no longer unguarded. Armies?
He did not fear them. But his mind strayed to one last person in his company that he had taken for granted. Orjin looked at Soloxenethn, at Buler, and then turned.
“I speak so much about Pomle, which I let down. About [Martial Artists]—whose teachings should be for all. I want Pomle, the Pomle I seek, to give. Yet I have never thought of you. You, who came here of your own will. I can give you nothing either. But I can at least spare you this fate.”
He turned, and Spitty the Camel stared behind him, then realized Orjin was undoing the bridle on his face. The [Martial Artist] removed the reins and pointed.
“You are free, Spitty. Go. There are armies, and I cannot protect you.”
The camel stared at Orjin. Then sidled around in an ungainly manner. He looked around, then at the oasis, where enough grew for him to eat. When he turned to Orjin, his mouth was pursed.
Orjin waited, and Spitty, true to his nature, spat. But the glob of foul camel spit didn’t hit the man, nor did Orjin move to avoid it.
Spitty spat to one side, out of the corner of his mouth, and glared at Orjin. As if angered by Orjin’s words. Slowly, deliberately, he lifted a hoof, and Orjin stared at it.
Gently, the [Martial Artist] touched his fist to it, and when he bowed, the camel bowed back. Somehow, that was the most strange and touching gesture of all.
“We camp tonight. Then—we leave at morning. Buler, you are welcome to sleep here until we wake.”
The boy agreed. Spitty, Soloxenethn, and Buler were preparing a dinner out of the rations the Fury of Winds had bought when the winds picked up.
Orjin was standing at the edge of the oasis, staring into the heart of Tiqr. He turned his head once as he began to trot forwards to get a look in silence.
