The third thing Orjin did, after breakfast, was to sit and talk with Torreb. The day varied after that, but they would retire to an open room or the sun, as Torreb liked, sometimes with drinks and snacks, and discuss. The topic was inevitably the same.
“The strongest warrior. You have said it cannot be one person. It may be a [Mage]. Or a spear-user. Or someone with a bow. How better to kill a foe than with a weapon that does all the work?”
“That is not a warrior, then. But someone wielding a weapon.”
Orjin objected, and Torreb shrugged.
“If there is an art to the weapon? I agree, though. There is merit to this. I train my arm. I swing a sword. I learn to cut the sky, and the sword grows in my hands. But that may be a future of warriors. Men, women, even things spitting arrows.”
“How do you know?”
The Strongest was curious. He recalled the Earthers who had been at Pomle and wondered where they were. Salii assured him she was doing her best, but Pomle’s warriors had gone to war, following Vandum. He had heard the refugees had fled to Tiqr, who continued to fight from the steppes to liberate their home. They were gaining momentum, and they had seized parts of their nation, but Nerrhavia’s armies came endlessly.
But for the King of Destruction, Pomle and Tiqr would have been buried. He had invaded from the north, and it was said this war was truly harkening back to Flos Reimarch’s days of war. His Seven, from Amerys to Gazi, and Orthenon, now numbered among them, were fighting in unison.
Raul had told Orjin, quietly, that he had come from a land of great weapons and his friends were lost. Orjin had promised him he was welcome to stay; he could make no decisions on another place like that. It was not his duty. They needed help. Pomle was open to them.
Yet it seemed Torreb had heard of the same, if strangely.
“The question was posed to me a month before you came, Strongest. A sly, yet flattering [Slave] came to me asking about an army of soldiers armed with a weapon like a crossbow, but more fearsome. Their master wished to know how I would battle them.”
“What did you say?”
Torreb shrugged.
“I speculated. It was an enjoyable day. If such armies plague Chandrar, they will not kill me. My skin is proof against mundane arrows. But is that your strongest warrior?”
Orjin shook his head.
“No.”
The topic of the ‘strongest warrior’ was slightly reductive with how Torreb looked at it. Orjin just meant…
“Salii wished to practice martial arts, once.”
“Your [Secretary]?”
Orjin nodded.
“Yes. And she asked which style she should learn. My own is made up of many others and self-taught. But Xil is the [Peerless Spearmaster]; no greater exists in all of Nerrhavia’s Fallen. Perhaps all Chandrar. With a spear, he claims, a warrior can do anything, be anything. And Salthorn is a grappler.”
“One is better than the other. A spear can take down a charging warrior. What can her hands do?”
Torreb sneered at the idea of using the submission arts in combat. Orjin raised his brows.
“She can pin a man in armor, even enchanted armor. She can subdue a foe without killing them.”
“And that is power?”
Torreb’s braying laugh was accompanied by him tossing an empty saucer into his garden, where it smashed to bits. He turned his head, and Orjin met his eyes with his blue eyes, like the waters of Pomle. Now, the color was in his stare alone.
“It is.”
The Undefeated held Orjin’s gaze.
“—Then the ‘strongest warrior’ has no form. And he looks like you. He is endlessly adaptive, and each weapon he holds—or a lack thereof!—is for the situation he finds himself in.”
“That is what Vandum believes. I…dislike the theory.”
“Really?”
This interested Torreb. Orjin nodded. He rested his hands on his knees and frowned.
“It is an easy answer. I dislike it.”
A smile crossed Torreb’s lips, and he leaned forwards.
“Collos thought his bare hands could defeat any foe. He was right…save for time and disease. You enjoy using your fists and feet to break enchanted metal, don’t you? To shatter artifacts and prove your body is superior to all their bought blades?”
“…I would not put it like that. But I do think that [Martial Artists] practice something that matters. I must. Or I would not devote my life to mastering this class. If a spear, no, that weapon that you spoke of is better, why does my class exist?”
The two men mused until Itkisa came by to sweep up the pottery shards.
“Anyone can become a [Beggar]. Or a [Warrior] might fight with a stick instead of an enchanted artifact. Is it so wrong to have a class that is not perfect and superior?”
“Yes.”
Torreb snapped. Orjin was about to say the same thing and hesitated, the word on his tongue. Itkisa rolled her eyes. Torreb explained, overly-patient.
“It is fine if it is difficult to master some weapons, hence their rarity. But if a class is inherently lesser, it will fade away. That is what Orjin wishes to know, Itkisa. He is asking me if Pomle deserves to exist. Do you understand, girl? He asks with words what Vandum, the current Strongest, asks with battle and the lives of his followers.”
Itkisa sighed.
“I understood that, Father. But that seems like it is a debate that you can talk over eternally, like whether you or Mars would triumph in battle. And the answer will be easy to tell afterwards.”
Torreb fell silent, angry. Orjin shook his head slowly.
“But I want to find it. And return it to Pomle. My class, and our practice must matter. If we become superior warriors to [Soldiers] but drown amidst their numbers, that is Torreb’s answer: each thing matters differently.”
[Soldiers] could slay [Martial Artists] who devoted years to superiority, but the balance was there. Yet he was dissatisfied with that conclusion. Torreb tilted his head.
“Then what, Orjin?”
“There must be something more. More to [Martial Artists] that separates them from [Warriors]. That is the nature of the strongest warrior that I seek. That is why I am here.”
He stood, and Itkisa leaned on her broom as Torreb tired of the talk and rose to do something else. But that was indeed Orjin’s question, and it helped to learn it.
 
——
 
“Soloxenethn. What is the strongest warrior to you?”
The Fury of Winds and Orjin were touring the Lantern Lands with Itkisa one day—her father didn’t have the same appetite for the sights that attracted tourists, so she had volunteered to guide them.
They were walking along, admiring the streets where lanterns were being made. Less powerful than the ones of old, but an entire industry and culture demanded the carefully-made frames of cloth and wire, wicker, or other materials be light and sturdy.
The light of the candles within was also subject to many variations. They burned tallow, waxes, woods—Itkisa was haggling over a lantern she liked shaped like a cat with two flames in the eyes.
“The greatest warrior can split the skies with a single punch and call a hurricane where he walks. He can fly into the air and have no storm of arrows touch him. He can dodge lightning and land like a whisper.”
The Fury of Skies answered instantly. Orjin sighed.
“I wonder what you base that on?”
The former leader of the Cult of Windcaller’s Wrath, who had lost his followers after the People of Zeikhal had bested him, sniffed.
“One day, I will become that great warrior.”
“And then?”
“And then what? I will rebuild my flock of followers and teach them how to reach my greatness.”
Orjin tried to imagine it. Even if Soloxenethn got to that level…
“Let us assume that power exceeds Torreb. What can you do with it?”
The Fury of Winds gave Orjin a searching look.
“…Best any foe? Right any wrong?”
“Can you?”
Orjin was watching Itkisa test the lantern. He pointed to it.
“That [Lantern Crafter] can make a lantern. Few in Pomle could do it a tenth as well. But I have seen Xil use his spear to carry water, carve his name into stone, and countless things. Pomle has always been poor. Your cult—”
“My following.”
“Your cult. Was it profitable? Did your teachings help anyone?”
The Fury of Winds got angry at the suggestion.
“My followers could punch with the wind’s fury! Even if they lost to Pomle, they were better than your average warrior! I taught them discipline, and my following made a living.”
“You told your supporters to give you their possessions. They gave up all they had and often worked to support you. Families paid for your disciples to live and be clothed. That is not your teaching. That is someone working for you.”
“And Pomle is better? Until Salii, I heard tell that it was impoverished. She made you money by showcasing your fights. Is that the true doing of Pomle or the clever Drake?”
Orjin had to admit the truth.
“The Drake. She and the Earthers did that.”
He thought long and hard as Itkisa came back to him. She stowed the lantern on Spitty’s back, and the camel made to spit until she tapped it on the nose. Then it glumly trotted after her as she joined them.
“…Perhaps we are too much alike, your Windcaller’s Wrath and Pomle.”
Orjin spoke after a long moment. Soloxenethn smiled widely, and the Strongest touched his chest.
“That is a terrible thing.”
The comparison left him more rattled than any punch he had taken in months. Itkisa chortled along with Spitty at the Fury of Winds’ expression. She took his arm and pointed him down the street.
“You are far better than Soloxenethn’s cult, Orjin. Do not mistake the similarities. That one is closer to a locust. The Cult of Windcaller’s Wrath always moved from place to place, or so I understand, because new disciples would come and enrich it…but it would always need more and more. Pomle? More like a lonely Needlehound or coyote or something. It might be skinny, but it took nothing, foraged for what it needed. Not a coyote, then; an ox. Hungry, but self-sufficient.”
Orjin appreciated that perspective. Soloxenethn was still spluttering, but Orjin spoke to himself.
“Yet we gave little. To those who came, training.”
Itkisa gave him a sharp look.
“Didn’t I hear you took in Tiqr’s refugees? Didn’t the war in Pomle begin because you freed [Slaves]?”
Orjin’s head bowed.
“Yes, but we did the first with Salii’s help. The second was because I felt it was right. Nothing in my training taught me to do that. We gave the refugees nothing; many warriors of Pomle would have turned them away.”
Itkisa’s grip tightened on his arm.
“Was it wrong?”
The [Martial Artist] felt her let go and rubbed at his arm as he thought. Spitty halted, getting in Soloxenethn’s way, and the Fury of Winds walked into his behind. Orjin shook his head after a long moment.
“No. I think it was right.”
“Then that is part of your question. Don’t look to my father for more than knowledge on how to fight; he has never wondered.”
Itkisa advised Orjin, and he nodded. The Fury of Skies strode forwards, the winds whistling around him.
“And you will give my followers more respect, woman! We were not Pomle, but it was built in my lifetime.”
“You might have been more dangerous than your average [Bandits], but my father only heard of you as a nuisance and braggart. I will not respect that.”
“You will.”
“No.”
They strode forward, arguing. Orjin trailed after them, lost in thought. He felt like the answer was still there. After a while, Itkisa turned her head.
“Spitty, come!”
The camel had stopped in its tracks. He started and began to gallop ungainly after the others. But Spitty’s eyes alone had been focused on Orjin’s arms, and the groove that Itkisa’s fingers had left in his flesh.
 
——
 
Orjin did not spend his time at Torreb’s mansion idle. He also sparred. Sometimes, it was against a [Warrior] that Torreb summoned, other times, learning from an adventurer or even dodging spells a [Mage] tossed at him.
Torreb didn’t care if he damaged the garden, so Orjin would throw punches, dodge a swinging sword that could cut him to the bone, and practice with his body on the line.
He found his opponents were a mix. Some would challenge him, push him to his limits; others would have some trick he couldn’t defeat.
Most went down with one punch.
Why? Itkisa leaned on a broom as she watched a big Gold-rank adventurer charging at Orjin with two axes raised. A [Berserker], a Stitch-man who roared without ceasing for a minute, swinging ever-faster as he lashed across the lawn.
A strike at Orjin’s head, which the [Martial Artist] dodged; Spitty was gulping. A single blow from the enchanted axes might sever his head from his neck! The second axe swung down in a vertical chop, and Orjin wasn’t able to move out of the way, but a fist struck the flat of the axe, knocking it away.
The former Strongest’s leg entangled with the [Berserker]; Orjin grabbed a shoulder, and the adventurer bit his arm. He tried to toss the [Berserker] but couldn’t.
Stabilization Skill. It felt like the man was four times too heavy. So, Orjin pivoted, swinging the [Berserker] around before letting go and stepping back, establishing distance.
Another charge, and the scream continued. The Gold-ranker was Abrichej the Unhinged: a Silk-caste noble’s son who had taken to adventuring. Despite all his riches, he had thrown it away and proven himself a great warrior who feared nothing for his safety.
Torreb liked him. But Orjin treated him like a novice. The other adventurers were shouting encouragement as Orjin ducked away from the swings, deflected another axe strike, then hit Abrichej with a palm that barely slowed him.
“One strike, Abrichej!”
“He’s not doing any damage!”
They were calling for their teammate, but Soloxenethn sneered.
“Fools. He’s—”
“He’s testing how hard he needs to hit him.”
Itkisa finished his sentence, and the Fury of Winds looked annoyed. Orjin hadn’t been hit once, but it wasn’t because the [Berserker] was a fool. His seemingly overly-careful defense was both practical and difficult to achieve.
How many warriors could dodge a [Berserker] like that in close-quarters combat? Many could boast they’d slay Abrichej quickly, but few had that courage or mastery. More than that—Orjin’s breathing was steady.
He was ahead of many of his opponents in more ways than mere technique. The [Berserker]’s scream was a mistake. He might terrify a monster or another opponent, but he was gasping for air even as he roared; Orjin had yet to sweat.
Concentration. Then—Itkisa saw Orjin take his moment. As the axes rose and parted, to swing at Orjin from both sides, the [Martial Artist] stepped forwards.
It seemed like Orjin’s entire body exploded forwards in a single step. His weight shifted forwards from one foot, swinging as he twisted his body, throwing his weight and momentum behind a single fist.
