It was snowing over Chandrar, but the snowflakes melted before they touched the ground as the Strongest—no, Orjin—dreamed.
He dreamed, at first, he was a young man staring from one of the stone spires of the oasis of Pomle. Later, when he had become Strongest, other [Martial Artists] had knocked down the ancient pillars by practicing their Skills on the weathered, red rock.
But that was not the younger man who stood, tall and gangly, arms and chest scratched by the tough stone, scraped bloody on one arm. He had barely made it. He had climbed with only the strength of his hands to the top, and now, he was watching the sun rise. And someone else.
Collos, the First Strongest, was waiting on the cliffs surrounding Pomle as Orjin caught his breath.
Collos was looking into the horizon, coughing every few minutes, his magnificent body ruined by the sickness that had consumed him.
Yet it felt like Pomle breathed as he did. Orjin could feel the air moving as the Strongest inhaled and exhaled, and when he lifted his hands, the air stilled as if afraid to lie between him and his target.
First, it was memory. The memory turned into a dream as Orjin looked down and realized he was older now. A man stood on the pillars, and they fell to dust, and he leapt, arms reaching. He shouldn’t have made it—but he caught the hand of someone reaching down for him.
Collos pulled him up without a word. Orjin caught his breath and turned to thank…no one. Collos was gone. But instead of the familiar landscape, Orjin saw it was Pomle again.
A corrupted, blackened crater of land. A hissing, bubbling tar that had been the waters. But he also saw the buildings, the refugees’ huts, had multiplied. A sprawling, dirty city infested Pomle with no [Martial Artists] in sight.
Only the bodies of dead [Soldiers] littering the ground. Corpses bloodied by war, and vultures feasting on the dead. He tried to look away, but Collos was there.
Then he seemed like the Strongest that a child had seen, the hero who had beaten Nerrhavia’s Fallen on his own. He stood facing Orjin, and the former Strongest’s hands shook. He tried to make them into fists, but there was no strength in them.
He took a stance, and Collos looked at him, and Orjin’s arms fell as he bowed his head.
One last time, the dream changed. Then, Collos was standing in the desert, and a ring of steel surrounded him. Legions of Nerrhavia’s warriors in their burnished gold armor. The sky was filled with fire and smoke. Arrows fell, and the Strongest spread his arms. He was the emaciated figure that Orjin remembered last. A sickly, wasted body held together only by will and strength that no longer had an outlet.
Orjin walked over the ashes of Pomle, passing by bodies as he moved. Salthorn, Xil, Yesq, Salii—all of them. From Raul to Mendi, and at last, he saw Vandum.
Vandum was raising his fists, as Orjin had done, armor covered in blood, facing down Collos without fear. The [Strongest of the Martial Age] faced Collos, and the withered man ignored Vandum. He looked Orjin in his eyes, and Orjin’s heart pounded wildly. Fire fell from the skies, and a wave of ash rose, covering Orjin and the world.
Then he was buried under it, trying to dig up to the sun. When he emerged, he found himself in the Great Desert, surrounded by ash and a bare, bleak sky. There was nothing in sight any longer. Just Vandum’s shattered gauntlets. Salii’s broken clipboard. A palm leaf. Broken metal.
Nothing. Orjin inhaled and tasted nothing but dry oblivion. He looked around, and the horizon was endless. A child’s hands picked up some sand. He knelt there.
Then he woke and knew his time in the Lantern Lands had come to its end.
 
——
 
The mansion that Torreb the Undefeated so carelessly called his home lay in the Light-City of Meneretorre within the Lantern Lands of Chandrar, a region on the southwestern coast where the mists contained horrors and the only safety lay in the ancient posts that shed magical light.
A strange place. It felt quiet to Orjin. There was great power here, but it was not that it was unwielded; the lanterns were everywhere. But the ambition was gone.
Perhaps it was the company of Torreb, the greatest Named Adventurer of Chandrar and the highest-level [Warrior] in the world according to many.
It was here he had come to die. Like Collos, he looked like a withered shell of an old man, bare chested, ribs showing, naked except a single loincloth even in the cold winter winds that Winter Sprites had brought. His hair was wispy and white, and liver spots coated his dark, tanned skin that looked tough as leather, cracked by years of journeying under the sun.
Pale scars covered his body; even from the teeth of a Jaw of Zeikhal, massive marks that showed his triumphs. He still carried the great axe-club nicknamed ‘Torreb’s Fist’, and he was still mighty.
He was drinking from a bottle that was already three quarters empty at dawn, when Orjin woke. Liquid carelessly ran down his chin and onto his chest, and his eyes were pale and grey, like slate. He didn’t even look at Orjin. The Strongest, likewise, just had a simple, colorful skirt on, gifted to him by Itkisa, Torreb’s eldest daughter and caretaker.
“You smell like a man going to war, Strongest. I can taste death on your shoulder. Battle clings to you.”
“I have not begun to fight, Torreb.”
Torreb’s voice was as cracked as his body, but his hand was steady as he offered Orjin the bottle. The Strongest made no move to it, so Torreb threw it.
It flashed out of the garden, into the air, over the city that lay below, glittering with the lanterns, and farther still. Orjin shaded his eyes, and it was a long time before it began to drop.
“Then you are preparing to. You’re leaving.”
It wasn’t a question. Orjin nodded. Torreb exhaled once.
“Collos’ last successor will die or take up his mantle by the turning of the year.”
Once more, Orjin shook his head, frowning, and looked at Torreb.
“I am not the Strongest of Pomle anymore. Pomle is gone. Vandum leads the remnants of Pomle to war.”
Torreb took the handle of his weapon and thumped it against the mats of his home. The sound was light, but the tremor ran through the ground and woke the city below.
“I have spoken. Are you ready?”
The Strongest bowed his head. His hair was tied back, black braids caked with sand and dirt after days of sparring with the Fury of Winds, Soloxenethn, in the grounds outside the city.
“No.”
“Then say goodbye to Itkisa before you go. When you die, Strongest? Do it so they remember you.”
In silence, Orjin bowed as Torreb stared past him. He walked, barefoot, through the mansion, and an hour later, he was gone. Returning back the way he had come. But he sensed Torreb’s eyes on his back for days thereafter.
 
——
 
Before.
 
The days he spent in the company of Torreb, the Named-rank adventurer, were pleasant in ways that Orjin had never dreamed they could be.
Each day, Orjin woke on the ground, not on the silk mattresses or in the gigantic beds that Torreb had bought, in the vast mansion open to the elements that was his resting place in the Light-City.
“Strongest. You truly cannot abide by an inch of comfort, can you?”
And each morning, Itkisa, the woman who was both housekeeper and minder to Torreb, his eldest daughter, would scold him with a laugh, and Orjin would be embarrassed.
“I cannot rest on the mattress.”
“No. Torreb sometimes sleeps on the ground to remember what it was like. Of course, he comes in the day after grumpy and tired. I won’t have the servants change the sheets, then. The Fury of Skies is already eating with Spitty and Father.”
Only Torreb would think it funny to have breakfast with a camel. But he claimed Spitty had the mark of true intelligence on him, having the blessing of the Empress of Tiqr, Nsiia. Orjin began to walk to the dining room when he turned.
“I am not the Strongest of Pomle, Itkisa.”
The stout, plump woman with faintly orange eyes and hair tied back, looking more like a [Maidservant] than the daughter of a legend, would smile at him, and those eyes would glint.
“Of course. Orjin. I forgot.”
 
——
 
Those days had lasted longer than Orjin thought. At first, he had meant to go travelling and meet and challenge a hundred different experts, circumnavigate Chandrar.
But he had stopped with Torreb because he had realized how few would welcome the former Strongest’s challenge. And also because, in Torreb, Orjin had both opportunity and an answer already.
At least, so he felt. Torreb was so famed he could call upon other adventurers, even Named-rank ones, and he had no care for money; he would call for a carriage or demand whatever he wanted, and it would come.
After all, he was the legendary warrior who had fought everyone and everything, the last living story before the King of Destruction’s tale. He was a safeguard for the city of Meneretorre too.
Not only did he attract adventurers and visitors, his presence meant that the few times he swung his club-axe per year, it was to kill monsters. Frankly, his very aura kept most far away.
Orjin, Soloxenethn, and Spitty’s presences were hardly intrusions. Each day, Torreb would have old friends, his many sons and daughters and their families, people trying to ingratiate themselves to him, [Merchants] looking to use his name, aspiring warriors, and more paying him visit.
Itkisa managed it all, and Torreb’s cantankerous personality meant that it was more like a gamble, anyways. Even his sons would hurry off if Torreb showed signs of anger.
He was no carefully controlled [Monk]; once, Orjin had seen him seize a [Merchant] in anger and break the man’s arm in a single second. He had thrown a doll of himself at one of the [Bodyguards] so hard that it broke the man’s ribs as it exploded everywhere, and he would have done worse had Orjin not grabbed him.
Well, the next thing Orjin remembered was hitting a building in the city below. Torreb’s strength exceeded any being Orjin had ever met; he’d thrown Orjin over a thousand feet, and the Strongest had returned to see Torreb punching holes in the walls of his mansion until he tired and the servants dared clean up.
Only Itkisa didn’t fear her father’s wrath. He never harmed her, and she, like Orjin, seemed to be an exception to his whims.
“You remind me of Collos. I would tire of your ‘Fury of Skies’ and the camel. But you? I will be bored next year, but you and I know you will be gone by then. I want to see whether you can discover what Collos could not.”
He was the most…professional? No, relaxed, at ease, even thoughtful around Orjin. Torreb’s temper came out when he dealt with people lower-level than he. With Orjin, he would get angry, but only throw something at the force of someone regularly tossing an object, snap, argue, but not rage.
 
——
 
Orjin asked Torreb about it, once. Each morning, he and the Fury of Winds would travel out of the mansion, descend down the slope past the guards of the large estate, and practice outside the city in the sand.
Soloxenethn would spend the first ten minutes ‘centering himself’, which involved standing on one foot and making various poses as he shifted the wind currents.
Orjin just sat cross-legged and thought about what he needed to improve on. Invariably, he would rise first and begin his own workout routine, which was less showy than the Fury of Winds’ kicks and chops.
Sometimes, they had an audience. Often, the two would spar or incorporate the other’s workout routine into their attempts to improve. Even Spitty would do some pushups next to Orjin, or go for a long run and come back tongue lolling, trotting over to lap up water. What was amazing was that Orjin wasn’t convinced any other camel in the world had ever had the muscular strength or will to do pushups. The spirit of Pomle had infected even Spitty.
After that, they had breakfast. Torreb didn’t exercise and would greet them and talk of his dreams, or what he intended to do. After sixteen days of staying there, Orjin asked about his bad moods.
“Why do you rage around your sons, Torreb? Have they displeased you?”
Each one of Torreb’s sons was highly placed in some way or another. One was a civic leader, a mayor of a city. Another was a Gold-rank adventurer. A third, retired from war, but a former [Soldier] who had risen to high rank and was old enough to rest on his laurels. Torreb had so many children he lost track of them all; he had never been discreet. Ironically that meant most of his children were not Stitch-folk; because Stitch-folk had to share lifestring to reproduce, his children were Human and other species that sometimes resulted in Stitch-folk. Regardless, he gave them all gifts lavishly.
His grandchildren were seldom the targets of his ire, Orjin was pleased to note. But his family treated him like a wild beast, prone to tempers.
“My sons? None of them are like you, Strongest.”
“I am not the Strongest, T—”
The old man flicked some pickled radishes at Orjin, and the Fury of Winds caught them with his chopsticks, looking pleased. Torreb glared, and Orjin dropped the eternal refrain. Torreb chewed some radishes on the side of his mouth with his remaining teeth and grunted.
“More radishes, Itkisa.”
“Stop throwing them then, Father.”
He glared at her until she handed him a bowl. Then he greedily added as many as he wanted to some rice, one of the softer things that he enjoyed, and took a massive bite before responding.
“My sons aren’t real. If I strike them, they’ll die. These [Diplomats], people sent to entreat me—my grandchildren, as of yet, are young, and while some have promise, no one is real. Don’t you tire of a world of people and things made of cobwebs? If I raise my hand and wave it around, they vanish.”
He did just that, and the Fury of Skies shuddered, turning pale. Itkisa just stared at her father, her eyes bleak and slightly exasperated.
Orjin…thought about it.
“They are real, though, Torreb. Just not strong as you are with all your Skills.”
“No. They are a dream I had.”
“Even your grandchildren?”
The old adventurer munched on, thinking, and nodded.
“The most pleasant of dreams. You are real. You could never kill me, but if I strike you and you strike me, we bleed. That is why I suffer your presence and I enjoy my old friends so much. My words matter to you. If I give any wisdom I have to my sons—and I have none!—what would they do with it?”
He laughed hugely, and Orjin asked no more questions. So that was how Torreb viewed his family. And the world, Orjin supposed.
No wonder he was so lonely as to put up with the others.
 
——
 
