Abrichej saw it coming. He was gritting his teeth, and Itkisa saw, in the flashes of time in the milliseconds it took for the blow to come, how his jaw was closing.
His teeth hadn’t even come together when the fist struck him. His face distorted; she saw all the flesh pull as his jaw depressed and clicked, and his bones moved back. But his skin forgot to keep up.
His armored boots left the ground, and the fist kept going, refusing to let the [Berserker]’s body slip away. Then the head was snapping back, and Itkisa saw a string on the man’s neck snap with the force, and his frame slanted back.
Amazingly, his arms kept moving. There was nothing in his eyes but oblivion, yet his muscles still obeyed their last commands. Orjin blocked one axe, and Abrichej’s body flailed wildly before the axes dropped from his hands.
Abrichej hit the ground. Bounced, rolled over twice, kicking up dust as the cheering stopped. He lay on his face, and Orjin bent over him. He made sure the man was alright by checking his jaw; it was cracked, but a Stitch-man could replace bones.
His mind…well. Itkisa was sure he had taken worse blows. She watched as a swearing adventurer leapt over, thrusting Orjin aside to cradle Abrichej in his arms and give the downed adventurer a healing potion.
Soon, the [Berserker] was up and swearing and admiringly bowing to Orjin. But that blow…that was why Torreb laughed and mocked Abrichej for challenging Orjin at all.
You think you were going to best him? 
Strongest of Pomle. Orjin hadn’t even been punching as hard as he could. If he had, Abrichej would be dead.
That was why it took one punch. [Mages]. Gold-ranks. It was actually easier for Orjin to fight [Mages]; once he punched through a barrier spell, he didn’t hit them and called it his victory by just tapping them.
 
——
 
Orjin lost more often than he liked, though. After one particularly long match, he was sitting, pulling magical needles from his skin. He’d been told they would vanish, but he wanted to inspect them. Itkisa identified the magic.
“[Venomous Needles]. A phantom spell. Do you need an antidote?”
“No. I shouldn’t have been as wary of that. I am immune to most venoms.”
“You had to shield your face. That [Battlemage] is Groithe; Torreb calls him one of the more deadly [Mercenaries] on the continent.”
Orjin nodded slowly. He hurt all over.
Normally, he won by getting close to a [Mage], but after setting up, Groithe had invited him into a dance against magic to show Orjin the difference between a [Mage] that was unprepared and one that was.
Orjin had beaten him almost instantly the first time; the second, he had run into that needle spray from fifty feet away.
 
——
 
A stinging hail of needles, each one long as his thumb, that made him cover his face. They sank into his skin, if not as deadly as they would be to a regular person, and he regretted asking for a true battle.
But that was just a distraction; he didn’t see the landmine spells until a blast of fire kicked him in the chest. Burning flesh, a [Mage]’s laughter—and a lance of ice.
Orjin was shielding his eyes, and only the change in air and a glimpse of it as it was mere feet away from him told him it was coming. He leaned under it, grasping the ice with his fingertips and swinging himself around the projectile, faster than he could remember moving, eyes closed as a needle stung one eyebrow.
He leapt, dodging more spells arcing after him, punched through a jet of darkness that the alarmed [Battlemage] threw at him. Circling, closing in like he had on the Siren of Savere.
Then he ran into a [Water Sphere] spell that enveloped him. Orjin made to punch through it just like last time—and a bolt of lightning crackled past the orb.
A [Mage]’s taunting smile.
 
——
 
“I cannot see magic coming.”
It wasn’t a complaint or excuse, just an observation. Itkisa put the tray down, and he saw she had a potion; he didn’t want to use it. They were expensive, even if Torreb could get them, and the injuries were a reminder of his losses.
“Torreb hates [Mages] too. If it helps, he claims that pure strength makes a mockery of all their spells. They can teleport and make walls and hide, but one blow kills them all.”
“Mm. But I lost before I had that one blow.”
“You’d suffer the same with an [Archer]. Why does it look so personal with you and Father when you lose to a [Mage]?”
Envy, probably. The way they stood there, staffs raised, casting spells and yawning, speaking a word and undoing all the training you had gone through with that single word. Orjin knew this was not fair; they practiced with their minds and magic. But it seemed so simple.
“I understand a fist and how it strikes hard. I don’t understand how the electricity appears and lightning, even weaker lightning, comes into being. If it defeats me, though—I should learn.”
That was what mystified Torreb; Orjin would go and speak to everyone he beat or lost to, invariably. He was tending to his injuries first, but he’d go and ask the [Battlemage] about his spells, just like he’d swung axes and tried to emulate the [Berserker]’s style.
He learned everything, or wanted to. Torreb did not. Itkisa sat behind Orjin and began to pluck needles out of his back with some tweezers she’d found.
“Father claims he never thinks about his foes aside from what they might do. He’s fascinated by your wanting to copy them. Especially the ones you beat.”
“Have they nothing to teach me?”
She added a balm to his injuries that soothed the prickle of the venom giving him a rash. Itkisa chuckled.
“No, I agree they do. I’ve seen Torreb swinging blindly against a Gold-bell [Duelist] until he wins on his own terms. But he gave up trying to copy their footwork long ago.”
“That is his right. Torreb is a victorious style that has proven himself in the eyes of the world. But I…my martial arts is made up of every person I have met. If I find something new, I try to master it. Pomle is about learning and improving.”
Orjin hesitated and felt awkward. He half-twisted to meet Itkisa’s gaze.
“Not to say Torreb does not, but—”
“I understand. Hold still. You know, I would like to know that odd way of walking you have. The way you circle someone so effortlessly?”
She meant the way his feet would cross and how he could pivot so quickly in a fight. You had to learn to walk sideways such that you could reposition on the balls of your feet, like a cat or how Xil struck from all angles. Anyone could walk left to right, but Orjin made it look simple.
“I could teach you. Though Soloxenethn does it better.”
It was, annoyingly, one of the few things the Fury of Winds did better than Orjin; he was a mobile strike-and-away specialist who disliked being hit or giving his opponents time to strike him. In the few matches he’d taken, he’d done very well, though he’d sidestep a charging foe, then shower them with wind slashes and punches while mocking them.
Itkisa rolled her eyes.
“I would rather learn from you.”
“Later, then. Thank you, Itkisa.”
Her smile deepened, and Orjin looked at her and saw she had a pile of needles that were already starting to vanish next to her. She was practiced at cleaning wounds and tending to warriors. She had journeyed with her father many years, and still…Orjin went to greet the [Battlemage], who was enamored of Torreb, respectful of him, and yet.
Did no one notice Itkisa but Orjin? Not even Soloxenethn seemed to. But then again—that was hardly surprising.
 
——
 
The Fury of Winds and Itkisa did not like each other. To be fair, you could flip a coin on whether Orjin would tolerate the man that day. And Spitty clearly had a one in five chance of liking Soloxenethn.
The problem was, the man was tenacious. Even after Orjin had ‘sparred’ with him every day, he’d kept up. He was also, annoyingly, sometimes brave, as his fight against the city guards to defend the Fox Beastkin proved.
He might have a flashy style of martial arts that lacked for practicality, but he had refined his attacks after training with Orjin, and he was Level 41, or even higher these days.
True…some of that was probably because he had been a [Cult Leader] as well as a [Windtouched Martial Fist], but he still stood head-and-shoulders above most warriors.
Yet Itkisa barely gave him the time of day. Orjin supposed Torreb’s daughter feared no one, but she had a special disdain for the Fury of Skies.
One day, he saw why.
 
——
 
“The mists are deadly. Never go into them when they cover everything. Stay indoors; even a strong [Martial Artist] like you will likely die.”
When he had first come to the Lantern Lands, Orjin had been told much the same. Itkisa showed him an emergency lantern along with the huge ones that Torreb had, all of which had special effects.
But while he understood the mists had magical effects, some quite deadly, he had never seen what they did. He’d run down the roads in relative safety, but the Light-City was deeper into the mists and therefore, at night, anywhere not in a lantern’s aegis was deadly. You couldn’t hop between lanterns if the mists were bad.
On a particularly misty night, Itkisa challenged the Fury of Skies to walk into them. This was after a long debate where he had needled her with Torreb’s help over dinner.
For all he doted on his daughter, Itkisa’s role as caretaker and the only person who could tell Torreb ‘no’ meant that he got grumpy with her, especially because he couldn’t bully her physically.
Soloxenethn found the perfect way to get back at her, which indicated his social abilities…even if he had all the caution and morality of a termite.
“What will Itkisa do in the future if you pass, Torreb?”
He had gotten Torreb drinking, and often, the old Named-rank [Warrior] would muse about death, his glories, or his oath that if he should ever lose a battle, he would die. At this rate, he was looking to die from old age, and Torreb stopped.
“I told her to make her own fortune after that. She’ll get most of my possessions; she can divide them up amongst my sons and daughters. She’s wasted too many decades looking after me!”
He laughed nasally into his drink and then sighed.
“Nor married! When I was younger, each daughter was a fortune in dowries, and my sons gave me back some of the time spent raising them.”
“So…something for nothing?”
Itkisa was looking exasperated, and Torreb laughed and then glared at her along with Soloxenethn. Orjin didn’t like the drinks and the clouding of his judgment or effect on his body; he had many [Monk] Skills and had inherited their approach to libations.
“At least they’re self-sufficient! I would do without you.”
“You’d live in squalor, and no one would be able to suffer your company. Every [Servant] would run away after three days.”
“You see what my daughter is like?”
Torreb complained to the Fury, and the other man nodded. Then Torreb looked suddenly at Orjin.
“If the Strongest forgets his quest to succeed Collos, he could stay here and marry Itkisa. The two wouldn’t be a bad pairing. She’s not the most beautiful, but she would be rich, and they get along. That would make me happier.”
“Do you hear this, Orjin? Do it! Then we shall truly know Torreb’s hospitality!”
A drunk Fury of Winds egged Torreb on. Itkisa did not react except to sigh and say one word.
“Father.”
“No, do you hear this, Itkisa? This is Torreb and I in agreement! One should not live for another. Or else it’d be like my cult, eh?”
Soloxenethn had the same smile that made Orjin want to practice his Skills on the man’s face. Yet, Torreb had gone quiet.
“He should do it. If you’re not already sleeping together, go ahead. Give her a child. That’s the only way you slow a woman down. Otherwise, they want more and more…a man can be satisfied by one thing! A woman, never.”
“Hear, hear!”
The Fury of Winds chimed in. Soloxenethn, Torreb, and Spitty all began drinking and comparing past—and definitely ex—loves.
Orjin was surprised to hear Torreb speak so about his daughter. He had heard the same sort of thing, far more rarely, in Pomle, but there were those who saw it as a daughter or wife’s place to be with children.
Yet Torreb? The Named-rank adventurer was staring at Itkisa, who returned the gaze steadily.
“Father, I don’t want children, and whatever I do is my choice. Leave Orjin be.”
Orjin glanced at her, and she smiled at him politely. Yet Torreb seemed riled by her response. He was drinking hard, enough for even his constitution to be affected. Maybe it was the black liquid he claimed he’d had imported from Izril—exclusively on the black market and dangerous as could be.
The old man snarled back at his daughter as he looked at Orjin.
“You see? Look at how she sits there. If she had a son or daughter, she’d be caring for them. Instead, she cares for me…waiting. I should have married her off and had her give me grandchildren. Slow her down. I must, or they’ll take everything from you.”
“Women.”
Soloxenethn had tried the Rxlvn tipple and was unsteady already. But Orjin didn’t think Torreb meant women, now. He was looking at Itkisa, and she met his gaze.
Orjin had limited experience with his aura, but even he felt two things clash. The weight of Torreb…and something invisible which refused to yield. Torreb drank and drank—until he threw a cup away and rose without a word to use the restrooms. The party lulled until he returned, and Itkisa apologized as Torreb silently sat back down and began to eat.
“My father gets overinvested in my future when he drinks. I apologize for that. As for you, Fury of Skies…do you know why I call your cult so inferior to Pomle and dislike you? It’s because you’re not my father, who did raise me a bit. I tolerate him only because of that. You? I don’t need to. I would rather have Spitty as a lifelong guest than you.”
Torreb laughed and fell over as Soloxenethn turned red.
“Then explain to me how I am that much lesser—no, your father is.”
He wagged a finger at her, and she pointed. The moon was out, and it was so cold they’d started a fire, though Torreb had kept one of the screens open so he could see the outside. It was wasting heat, but he didn’t care. The mists hung low over the city, obscuring almost everything as if they sat above clouds.
“If you want to find out, go walk in the mists without a lantern, Fury of Skies. Your guilt will come for you.”
“Ah. An assassination attempt. I won’t fall for that.”
Soloxenethn tapped at his nose a few times, and Itkisa’s smile was so calm it made Orjin remember a dagger he’d once tested that had nearly cut off his thumb. It had been like that. So sharp he hadn’t felt the cut at first.
