“My father survived. He could walk down there, and I imagine Orjin would also survive. You could level.”
“Yes, the mists don’t really scare me, at least the ones that judge. They just annoy. She’s right. You could level up tonight! You too, Orjin.”
Torreb was highly amused by his daughter’s comments and looked up, a twisted grin on his face. Drunk on arrogance and himself, Soloxenethn fell for it.
“I shall, then! Perhaps not tonight since my aim is off, but upon my class, I will! And then I shall see these…sins? What sins have I?”
His question went unanswered, and Soloxenethn looked around and then into those mists as the fires guttered out in a breeze. Orjin stared deep into those mists and saw not the outlines of cities nor anything else. But he wondered if something moved in them.
Then, Orjin wondered whether he was right in thinking that Torreb feared his daughter more than anyone else. Who was being shackled to whom, exactly, here?
 
——
 
The next night, a far more sober Fury of Winds had cause to regret his boasts. The mists were as thick as ever, and he hesitated at the edge of the three great lanterns on Torreb’s property. Where the lights ended, mists began. Ten feet in and you’d lose your way.
“The road is still there. If you can walk down, you’ll soon reach the Lantern Lands’ roads. Make it there and I have no doubt you’ll see your sins. The mists around here show you what you have done; there are harsh lanterns, like a Lantern of Sin, but this will do. Orjin, you needn’t go with him. I doubt you’ll see much.”
“But it is dangerous?”
Itkisa shrugged.
“The danger grows with you—to a point. My father won’t ever die. Children will wander in and survive. But there’s a reason why the Lantern Lands are so close to Roshal and yet so few [Slavers] linger. They dislike this place and stick to the roads.”
Her smile was aimed at Soloxenethn, and the [Martial Artist] hesitated.
“I…I assume I’m allowed to cut the mists with my fists?”
He punched, and a gust followed. Itkisa nodded.
“If you’d like, here’s a lantern you may light to keep you safe. Without magic, the effect is weaker. We love lanterns here. Only Menorome in Noelictus is said to have anywhere near as many flames, though they love candles. I’ve heard the Lantern Lands kingdoms and Noelictus have both asked to buy flames from that [Innkeeper] in Liscor. The one who asked Orjin about the [Garden of Sanctuary]?”
“Salii researched her for me. She is a fascinating person, or so I am told. She is the one putting on Christmas, soon.”
Orjin shrugged, mostly intent on the lantern.
It was the cute cat lantern, and Soloxenethn eyed Itkisa’s teasing smile. He refused it.
“I shall make it to the main road and see what threats there are. You needn’t come, Strongest.”
“I know.”
Orjin sighed, but he couldn’t just let the idiot go. Actually, he could, and Itkisa looked slightly disappointed he was going with.
“We could have tea together, Orjin.”
She suggested as the Fury of Winds stomped into the mists, on-guard, pivoting every few paces, hands raised for combat. He vanished, and Orjin heard nothing of him aside from his loud footfalls. He turned to Itkisa and shook his head.
“Soloxenethn is not a pleasant man to deal with. But he can change. He is also not a coward. Lastly…I wish to see what his guilt looks like. And witness my own.”
She pursed her lips.
“Oh, very well. Remember. It is real enough.”
She grabbed Spitty before the camel could follow the two, and Orjin followed Soloxenethn into the mists.
Instantly, Orjin got lost. The air turned into a white haze, and he felt like the world lightened a bit, despite the darkness. He was walking through fog, carefully making sure he knew where he was stepping, and he called out.
“Soloxenethn. Fury of Skies. Where are you?”
His voice echoed slightly, and Orjin heard what might have been a voice in the distance.
“…hah!”
That was definitely him. It seemed like the Fury of Winds had found something because Orjin felt the slightest gust on his skin. He moved faster, but slowed instantly as he felt a pricking on his shoulders.
There was some magic around him. Orjin slowed and turned.
One great weakness of all [Martial Artists] was that they were unable to counter many spells. Vandum had, apparently, gained a fist that could break Skills. Orjin had turned down one that would kill magic. If you had both, would that make you…complete? Perfect?
Was he what a [Martial Artist] was? He was walking Collos’ path; he could equalize all battles until it was just the logic of fist meeting body. Yet Orjin rejected his conclusion.
Even so, he would have liked that [Magicbreaker’s Fist] right about now. Orjin pivoted as he sensed something behind him—thrust out with his palm, a probing thrust. He passed through the air, but sensed it to the side next.
He whirled—and a gust of wind blew apart the mists. Orjin saw something vanish, and as the air cleared, he heard the Fury of Winds’ voice.
“This is my guilt? None of this is my fault. They were weak! I defy it!”
It seemed like he was under attack. Orjin strode forwards, alert for more tricks, but he found none in the time it took to find the Fury of Winds.
It took five minutes, and the Fury’s confidence became a rage of blows that Orjin felt from afar. Whatever he was fighting—there were a lot of his guilts. And his anger grew audibly less certain.
“It wasn’t—stop it. This is a pathetic trick—[Windcaller’s Fist: Howl of the Vortex]!”
He activated his Level 40 Skill, and the mists actually vanished for a second. He was growing desperate, and Orjin quickened his steps.
Then he ran into one of Soloxenethn’s guilts and stopped.
A man wearing tattered, old clothing in the style of the Cult of Windcaller’s Wrath leapt out from the mists, and Orjin punched him. At first, he held the blow, thinking it was a person, and the figure landed, twisted around, and his legs torqued—then propelled himself back onto his feet. Showy, but still difficult. Orjin grunted, recognizing the style instantly.
“Wonderful. One of you.”
The showy style and ineffectual jabs of wind blades meant it had to be one of the disciples. Yet Orjin knew it wasn’t a real person; there was blood all over the man’s chest.
It looked like he had been gored by something. Maybe a monster or wild animal? Either way, he wasn’t an undead either; he attacked with decent speed, thrusting light blows that cut the air, and the gashes tried to tear Orjin’s skin—but the [Martial Artist] was too tough. The apparition leapt at Orjin, and he pivoted and threw an elbow.
The blow snapped its neck, and Orjin sighed with relief as he saw the apparition fade to mists. So it was that, was it?
Guilt. He guessed the [Disciple] had died in some way due to the Fury of Winds’ actions. Maybe he’d challenged a rhinoceros.
Given how much fighting the Fury of Winds had been doing—Orjin bet he had a lot of deaths on his conscience.
“…But where are mine?”
He’d killed enough people to have a small army, but the mists were either concentrated on Soloxenethn or Orjin didn’t meet some criteria. Yet even though it seemed like the Fury should be able to beat his foes if this was the criteria…his voice was growing panicked.
“Stop! Not—that is not my fault. Enough! Enough tr—”
“Fury of Winds!”
Orjin picked up the pace. Another [Disciple] came at him, and he ducked a swinging sword and struck through their chest with a palm like a dagger. He spun past two more, clipping them with blows that sent them down—but since they were apparitions, they couldn’t be rendered unconscious, and he dispatched each one.
This was actually excellent training. Foes you could fight at all your might? Why hadn’t Itkisa told them before? They could train every night! Maybe in Torreb’s case he might run into Collos’ shade, which was a threat, but this?
Then Orjin found Soloxenethn, bloody, backing away from more apparitions, a stricken look on his face. He was shaking his head, a hand raised, and the tattered clothing of lesser disciples, the poorest members of his cult, had been on most of the fighters Orjin had met.
Each one had a death-wound; a few had looked poisoned or sickly. Corpses seldom looked good, but they had made sense.
One had looked cut to death by wind blows, and Orjin had wondered who had done that. Perhaps…challenging Soloxenethn for leadership?
Guilt indeed. But then he halted and saw why Soloxenethn had ceased fighting.
Children were clawing at him. One, which he weaved away from, looked emaciated. A woman swung a dagger, her face purple and swollen. The Fury of Winds backed up.
“It wasn’t I. Stop—”
Soloxenethn made to snap-kick one of them and hesitated. Orjin himself hesitated as some of them swung towards him. There were…too many.
“Soloxenethn.”
“Orjin! Look at these apparitions! They’re—none of them are my fault. Do you hear me? I cast out my disciples! I didn’t—you’re not dead.”
He was staring at a girl grabbing at him. Staring and stumbling until one planted a dagger in his leg, and he shouted.
“Enough!”
He scythed around him, and they vanished, but more were coming. The hanged woman—Orjin saw the Fury of Skies turn.
“She could have come with her husband into my cult! It isn’t my doing that she refused to change! Stop! These are not my sins. I don’t even know them!”
On and on they came, dozens, hundreds of people that he knew. Now, Orjin saw what Itkisa meant. How many lives had the Cult of Windcaller’s Wrath ruined? How many families?
The Fury had never counted them. Now? He was drowning, and there were so many his flustered moves were failing to erase them. He was bleeding, being pulled down as they dragged at him, biting, stabbing—
“I thought I saved them.”
Blood was running down his face, and he stared at Orjin with the most uncomprehending look of horror on his face. He stared as a young man he had cast out stumbled at him, cheeks hollow with hunger, a rock raised to cave in his head. Orjin stared at the Fury of Skies.
[Aeriform Shockwave].
The punch blew the apparitions and mist apart. It tossed the Fury of Winds, at the center of it, across the ground, and he lay there, stunned, as Orjin saw the rest of the apparitions fade. Sure enough, the mists enabled their creation. Orjin turned, raised his voice.
“What about me?”
Now, he wanted to know. He waited, and the mists drew around him as the Fury slowly got up. At last, Orjin saw someone walk forwards, staff spinning, and nodded.
“You.”
The [Martial Artist] he had killed as a boy looked as strong as ever. A Stitch-girl, light on her feet, using a staff—though they had fought with fists at the end.
She had hit him so many times before he’d given into rage that his eyes had been covered with blood. Then—
Orjin blocked the staff as it tried to dance the same tempo, striking, whirling up, down, a promising potential in each steady blow. His heart ached.
“Yes. Who else?”
He deflected one strike hard, saw the figure stagger, and his palm shot out and struck her throat. The figure vanished, and Orjin turned.
Now came soldiers. He saw each one racing at him. Frightened Nerrhavian [Soldiers]; the Strongest remembered each blow he had killed them with. He was panting harder by the end.
“Where are the [Rogues] of Savere? Where’s…send them at me. Now!”
He called out, and the mists whirled. Orjin waited. There were so few for him—it seemed like those pale waves of fog hesitated. Then the mists parted—and Orjin had a second before an arm like steel locked around his throat and a hand tried to wrench his neck and break it.
Behind—he threw his head back, but whoever had him had anticipated that. Orjin’s desperate move didn’t free himself, and the arm was twisting—
[Full-Body Throw]! He used a Skill he’d learned from Salthorn—on himself, and the two went tumbling apart. Orjin received a dizzying strike to the face from an elbow, and he struck back, trying to secure a hold, then a kick knocked him backwards. He rolled onto his feet, set his guard, and saw his opponent feint.
Orjin hesitated as he saw his opponent at last—and then the giant man with braided, black hair and blue eyes grabbed Orjin’s arm and tried to break it.
Orjin had one second before a second Orjin twisted it, and he grabbed the arm.
[Delayed Blow]!
He used it on the copy of himself and kicked—the other Orjin dodged backwards, an arm deflecting the kick, and Orjin jumped back. Then he twisted his body, grunting as he felt his arm spin—but it didn’t break thanks to moving his arm with the twist.
“Me? Is th—”
He had no time to ask what was going on. The second Orjin came at him, moving from a cautionary jab at his eyes to attempt to bring him to the ground in a grappling fight.
He was…just as fast as me. Maybe a hair slower? And, Orjin realized, perhaps less strong.
Maybe Level 40 was too hard a bar for the mists to conjure, but the other Orjin was still skillful—and he was trying to blind Orjin, take out an eye, sever a tendon, break a bone—
The two fought in dead silence as the Fury of Winds stepped back, looking around. The difference between the two didn’t come down to luck or help, but rather a simple factor.
[Quake Palm].
Orjin’s palm struck a shoulder. He took a blow to the cheek, but the thumb was knocked down. [Automatic Deflection]. He grabbed the other Orjin’s stomach, and his fingers dug into the fake flesh, tearing open a bloodless wound. He felt a moment of surprise, seeing his stomach laid open, and wondered how accurate it was. Then—they stepped together, and Orjin’s fists pierced through dissipating mists.
His capstone Skill blew apart the other Orjin. In the end, one had Skills and the other was a copy. Orjin stood, panting, bloodied slightly, but mostly bewildered.
“Me?”
Why…why had the mists chosen himself? He whirled, looking for another version of himself, before bending over Soloxenethn.
The Fury of Winds was on his knees, bleeding bad. When he looked up, his face was confused.
“I thought I helped them. It lied. It…”
His lips were as bloodless as the liquid running down his side. Orjin knelt.
“No. It showed me what I thought when I met you.”
The look of betrayal turned to confusion and then a flash of regret, and Soloxenethn closed his eyes—then slowly pushed himself up. His eyes were angry, but his stance was firm as he turned.
“We are leaving.”
Orjin would not disagree with that. The two walked backwards the way they’d come, ready for any foe, but either they had exhausted the magic of the fog or…Orjin raised his palm, ready to use [Aeriform Shockwave] rather than fight another foe as he saw a shape, then grabbed the Fury of Winds’ arm.
“Wait! Light!”
