The winds rose—and then went silent. The Fury of Winds rose slowly to his feet; a great gale had been blowing across the steppes. Now, it swirled to silence, and a barefoot Courier stood there.
Even if it was only her projection—she bowed and lifted a hand. Orjin felt the air whirl around her, and his eyes widened. He turned as Ryoka Griffin looked at the Fury of Winds.
Slowly, the [Martial Fury of Skies] lifted his hand and took a stance. He made a slow gesture, his striking pose, and Ryoka copied it.
The air was moving again. Orjin looked at them, and part of him wanted to copy the two—but this was for those who sought the wind alone. Buler was imitating them, and Spitty was sitting on his haunches, watching.
A great storm of wind blew behind Orjin as he walked forwards. And he had part of Erin’s answer already.
That was Soloxenethn’s magic. Soon, Orjin would find his.
 
——
 
The steppes ended at last, and Tiqr began with that final oasis. Accordingly…Orjin could pick out distant outposts by the night’s darkness.
Too many burning lights to be a city, and the smell that came to him on Tiqr’s border was of steel. Metal.
The land felt both empty and overworked. Filled with strife. Here, Orjin knew, would be Nerrhavia’s Fallen’s armies.
Salii might have given him a reputation, but she had not made his journey back to Pomle easier. Well. So be it.
He touched his chest, wishing he could feel some of the things Erin Solstice ascribed to him. But there was no…goodness or justice there.
Just anger.
“Pomle.”
He was going, and if the armies got in his way, the [Soldiers] might be innocent of General Thelican’s deed. They might love their country—but Orjin would not stop.
This was in him. A duality of what he wanted to do for others like Spitty or Buler or…anyone, and the death in his soul.
It was much like Erin Solstice herself, he realized. But the peace, the balance of the two? No. He didn’t feel that.
Yet he admitted, as he stood on the edge of the border, that while he might not deserve the name, he was one of Pomle’s masters. He would come back to Pomle as one. He did not intend to hide or walk quietly home, either.
That was surely why Erin Solstice had come to talk with him. She expected great things of Orjin of Pomle, and in truth, so did he.
“I will find my answer in the coming days or die. I will not come back the way I have gone until I have found Pomle once more, no matter where they lie. This, I vow.”
He spoke in the way of the Monks of Sottheim and the ones who had taught him, though he did not swear it upon a Skill; there was no need.
The promise was in his heart. He refused to let it be a mere Skill or thing of levels. Orjin stood outside the oasis and realized he had walked miles past the border. The sandstorms that had been blowing cold sand and snow all throughout his long carpet ride eastwards had not abated, yet.
They obscured the skies and clouds as one blew across him, but he ignored the stinging particles on his skin. He was about to turn back when he realized he was not alone.
First had come the [Innkeeper] with what wisdom she had and the kindness and whatever courage and aid she could lend. But Orjin was not being watched alone by her.
A woman stood in the middle of the sands, a veil across her face. She had not been there before a storm covered the air. Nor, in truth, did Orjin know if she was really there now.
It was in the way she walked forwards, an odd jerkiness to her movements, and the sand her feet displaced suggested she was far lighter than a person should be. When he looked at her, he smelled a medicinal balm, and he detected no breath.
The [Martial Artist] thought she was dead. Yet something spoke through her, and it was that presence that gave her life and made him think she was beautiful, that suggested the keen eyes that pierced him, or the high, lilting voice that had all the arrogance in the world behind it.
“So you are the heir to Pomle. A tiny oasis that dared challenge the bloated empire of Nerrhavia’s Fallen. When you were a boy, I was told Pomle won its freedom. That it is a tiny nation of simple warriors whose legacy is but one generation long. You are Orjin of Pomle.”
“Yes. I am not the Strongest.”
He said it unconsciously, reflexively, because everyone else had said it. And the woman’s cold smile pierced him like a blade.
“I know. It is good you understand what you are. Yet Erin Solstice sees what I taught her to find; what she has always known. Worth. You are one man among these sands which bleed lives into them. Yet I have found you worthy enough to set foot upon my homeland once more.”
Orjin had heard that voice before. His eyes narrowed, then he blinked.
“You were the one who gave me the lantern when I entered the mists. Now you are here. I saw you in the crowds, before. You have been following me. Who are you? An agent of Khelt? A spirit?”
She threw back her head and laughed at this—then stepped forwards and slapped him. Orjin raised an arm to block—and the slap went through his arm. His head jerked around, and he stumbled. Blood in his mouth.
What was that? 
“Khelt? Do not insult me. These lands were mine. When I stood here, everything you could see was mine. That pitiful empire that you see is a shattered remnant of my glory. Yet it is still a remnant, and you challenge it with your bare fists. A man without legacy or deed, without even a great class or the title of ‘Strongest’. You have no army. Nor are you that sort of leader.”
She studied him as Orjin stepped back, warily, and thought. After a long moment, he spoke.
“I think I know who you are. What do you want? I am indeed only Orjin, without a home or any importance. Others seem to believe I am, but I am not anything special.”
The woman tossed her head back, and her smile widened.
“That’s right. You know you have no greatness to your name. No history behind you. But that is always how legends of Chandrar arose. Erin Solstice sees it. I see it. You may fail, and if you do, your bones will be covered in sands within a day, your name forgotten.”
“I know.”
He met those eyes, though it was hard, and her smile widened.
“Good. I expect to be entertained. I came to judge you; if you were unworthy of even the attempt, you would not have taken a step further.”
His hands rose at this, and he prepared to leap backwards, but she just waved his arms down, and he felt a great force pressing on him. Her aura? Orjin relaxed his guard, though he kept ready to move.
“I allow it.”
That was all the great Tyrant of Chandrar said. Orjin blinked.
“You allow…me to return home?”
“Yes. You, and the rest of this continent, have forgotten to beg. I will give you no succor, nor aid. But I permit this. Whether or not they lay the blame of it at Erin’s feet—you will remember this, Orjin of Pomle. They will know. Go on your journey and remember me. One day, if you triumph, if you rise ever higher, I will permit you the chance to kneel.”
The emaciated hand of her puppet rose, and the [Tyrant], Nerrhavia, grasped at the air. Then—Orjin felt a trembling in his bones. He realized the very land was shaking.
What are you—he didn’t say it, just sprang away. Her laughter followed him, delighted and carefree as she pulled at the very firmament of the continent and demanded it to move.
So it did. And Orjin saw a flash, which baked into his retinas, and saw her pull something out of the skies. Much like Erin Solstice could pull wonders out of her hat.
But the [Innkeeper]’s counterpart…no. Was Erin the bright reflection of the Tyrant of Chandrar? If so. She could not match this. The words flashed across the skies, and every citizen of Nerrhavia’s Fallen woke from a nightmare. Orjin stared upwards and knew…
She had truly prepared his way. When he looked down, the figure was gone. But the sky still held the glowing words.
 
 
<Mythical Quest – The Fate of Pomle>
Limits: The warriors of Pomle, the forces of Nerrhavia’s Fallen.
Turn your eyes across the Great Desert and see his return. Listen, for I command you. Orjin of Pomle returns to his home, seeking the answer to his question.
A pretender bears the title of ‘Strongest of Pomle’. Neither is worthy of it. Armies assail Pomle, and the warriors bleed out upon the sands. 
Only greatness shall endure. Let it come to the worthy. Either the Strongest of Pomle shall emerge and remake it, or the name shall die. Chandrar has always been made of deeds. Let the worthiest rise.
Conditions: The Strongest of Pomle shall receive this reward—or the ones who end Pomle forever.
Posted Reward: My favor and attention upon you.
Quest Reward: One <Class> or <Skill> worthy of Pomle.
Rise, warriors of the sands, and remind the world of Chandrar’s stories. For so long as they whisper your names in glory or infamy, you shall never die.
 
——
 
‘Worthy of Pomle’. Even the great legend paused afterwards.
Because Nerrhavia had not written that. Yet it was spoken, and the words made even her soul thrill with delight. For it meant something.
Yet thence it was done, and she relinquished control of the puppet her ally had made and let its bones fall into the sand.
Then she waited. She knew it would make Orjin’s journey no easier; but it should not be. This last part was his, and his alone.
The Strongest of Pomle would arise or die. A man called Orjin stood on the borders of Tiqr and felt his class flicker in his mind. But not even the will of the world knew how it would change.
Then—he began walking forwards, unable to sleep or wait another second. Followed by the bravest of camels, the Fury of Skies, and the eyes of so many people for and against him.
At last, then.
Orjin of Pomle went home.
