Then Orjin said the next part.
“It is not Collos either.”
And the laughter faded. Torreb sat back upright, and his head swung slowly to Orjin.
“Collos was the Strongest of Pomle. You—all of you have followed in his great shadow from the moment he won Pomle’s freedom. He was not the strongest warrior?”
“No. That is what I feel, Torreb. And I…feel…one more thing. The strongest warrior, the greatest ideal I follow, is not you, either. The strongest warrior is not Torreb the Undefeated.”
“So you said. You seek the path to them.”
Torreb looked amused, and Orjin nodded.
“Yes. But now I understand this, Torreb: my greatest warrior will never appear if they follow your path, or Vandum’s. This, I believe.”
A silence fell over the veranda, and Torreb’s eyes flashed. Orjin saw a spark out of the corner of his eyes, and a bolt of dry lightning flashed through the sandstorm.
“So you claim this strongest warrior will arise and defeat me? And prove that all I have done is inferior?”
Torreb did not take a hold of his club, but his aura swirled like a second hurricane around the two, and Orjin felt a great weight on him. The Strongest didn’t avert his gaze.
“It is not that your path is flawed, Torreb. Whether they challenge you or not, they cannot be you. The way you became the greatest warrior of Chandrar is not the path I seek. That is what I have realized, Torreb. You see. We have spoken wrongly this entire time. You and I speak of the strongest warrior as if they might be you or I, or appear out of the sands like the Hero of Zethe. From potential and luck.”
“And this is wrong…how?”
Torreb’s head curved sideways, and he frowned. Now puzzled. Orjin’s breath was steady, but his heart was beating faster.
“This is wrong because I understood the truth, or part of it: the strongest warrior is not one among millions. They are not the one who has the talent and ability to become the greatest warrior Chandrar and the world have ever known. The strongest warrior can be, must be, anyone.”
Each word rang true. Torreb slowly let go of his weapon and leaned forward.
“Without talent?”
“Without talent. Regardless of who they are. That is martial arts. It must not be one emerging from millions. Instead, it is my belief the millions may all become that one. That is what I seek to create.”
“An ultimate style, then. What a simple conclusion.”
Orjin ducked his head, admitting it.
“Perhaps. Yet it took me a long time to come to this simple conclusion. I thank you for your hospitality, Torreb.”
The Undefeated looked so puzzled as Orjin made to stand. He turned again towards the storm blowing across the desert, pale beige-red grounds turned frosty, touched by the shadows of the clouds come down and the light ascendant.
“Surely there was more you understood, Strongest. Just that?”
Orjin hesitated. He levered himself up and stood there as Torreb looked at him.
“Perhaps. I understand, now, that if all Pomle can do is kill, my practice has little meaning. Vandum believes the victor of every battle is the one who survives at the end. But Salthorn is a master of Pomle. She does not believe in killing.”
“So your ideal warrior is bloodless.”
Torreb’s lips made to spit, and Orjin shook his head.
“No. But they understand when to kill. The act of it is something they weigh, like a stone in my palm. It is not a conclusion, but a choice. So long during my war with Nerrhavia, I thought of it as an inevitable outcome. A necessity.”
He showed Torreb his palms.
“These hands have done nothing for Pomle but cover themselves in blood. Until my oasis was destroyed, I did not realize how much I took from it and gave nothing back. Salii has done more for Pomle than I ever could. Many call her changes for the worse, but in a way—she was a truer master than many of us. The strongest warrior, Torreb, knows more than war.”
The Named-rank adventurer sat there, looking at Orjin with his weary gaze. A strength in their depths, weary, and a fire banked, smoldering down to a single core of embers. A cornered monster, waiting, perhaps, for Orjin or someone else to try and end it and ready to snarl at the land.
Now—confused. Torreb shook his head at Orjin.
“I do not understand you, Orjin of Pomle. You are not Collos. The first Strongest was…no.”
He passed a hand across his face, wiping time away from his eyes. Torreb looked up at Orjin, and the Strongest saw a younger man staring out at him.
“When we last met, he and I were the same sort of person. But he was never stronger than when he fought for Pomle. Maybe…he lost sight of your path.”
Restlessly, Torreb got up, levering himself to his feet. He leaned on his club, then turned abruptly.
“Go. Go, Strongest. You won’t find what you’re looking for. Not here. War has swept through your beloved lands. To get to Pomle, you’ll have to fight through Nerrhavia’s Fallen and Tiqr. If you can hold onto that vision—I want to see if you find your strongest warrior.”
Again, Orjin bowed. Then he turned and looked across the desert, through the sandstorm, across the horizon, his gaze tracing ever eastwards, towards the sun still rising. He felt it calling him back.
Home.
 
——
 
The air smelled like acrid smoke and dust, as it always did. It smelled like damp rain and spice. The cloth shifted under Orjin’s crossed legs, and he felt a dizzying nothingness below him. Every piece of him felt the ripple pass through the carpet as it shifted, and he knew that if they turned the wrong way, if the [Carpet Rider] so much as twitched wrong, they would fall.
His eyes were closed, but when he opened them, the ground below was passing so slowly…yet he knew they were flying faster than he could dream of running.
It was no small carpet either; this was a huge one, enchanted to let trade goods and even passengers—and even Spitty—safely sit in the center.
One of the few remaining, this one chartered by the will of Torreb to take only three passengers to the borders of Tiqr.
The [Carpet Rider] was fourteen years old. He was just a boy, and he smiled with all the fearlessness in the world. His father had died flying this carpet. So had his mother and older sister.
Yet the boy sat, half-looking at the silent man with his hair tied back in a ponytail with a band of gold given to him by Torreb’s daughter. Of the many passengers he’d had, the Strongest looked calmer than them all.
Many tried to look tough. Many were fools. Yet this man was afraid. You could see it in the way he forced himself to untense, his bare chest chilled by the winds, sleet pelting him.
But he mastered his fear, and when he returned the gaze, his blue eyes were steady. If they fell, he would have his eyes open on the long drop.
That made the [Carpet Rider] faintly ashamed. The boy turned to the camel sitting dead-center in the carpet, shivering. A brave animal; many had bolted and fallen, even ones lashed in place.
The craziest, like himself, was the laughing, long-legged man. He had been silent and sad at the start of the trip, and guilt was written over his face. But he sat with the winds howling, tugging at his long clothing, and bent over the edge of the carpet.
The [Carpet Rider] was having to account for how far Soloxenethn leaned over the edge. The Fury of Winds had never flown a carpet, for all he had been rich.
His eyes were wide, and he was holding a hand out, only a single hand anchoring himself to the fabric. As if he were trying to catch a cloud. He exulted in the sky.
One day, the air would claim both of them. The boy didn’t blame the carpet; they were not meant for the sky. The wind would one day dash them out of the air as it had his family. Perhaps this very storm would be it.
But the boy flew because of that. Because when he looked down over Chandrar, he had a right to this vision that only Djinni and Garuda possessed.
He could have steered this carpet in his sleep, storm or not. They were well above the winds, flying to Tiqr, and the boy knew it would be seven more hours still. So he glanced back once at that silent man, wind whipping at his face, his breathing controlled.
The boy realized he had met so few who breathed normally this high up. Even the bravest had been excited, yet if he went over and touched the man’s wrist, he was sure he would find the pulse steady. However.
The man that they had whispered was the ‘Strongest of Pomle’ in the Light-City was afraid. You could see it in his eyes.
Gold-rank adventurers had become children and wet themselves a hundred feet from the ground. When Torreb’s daughter had come and demanded he take them, the [Carpet Rider] had wondered if he’d have to turn back or they would become a speck on the ground, losing control of their mind.
The Guild of Skies would not be happy that the [Carpet Rider] who flew Reizue’s Dream—that was the name of the carpet and far more important than the boy’s name, based on the tapestry of a man who had dreamed he was a Djinni, woven millenia ago—was diverting from their course.
But so what? Who cared? They would not take this carpet from him; few were brave enough to fly, and the fools who thought they could died.
One in a hundred carpet fliers lived a year. With training, and if they were from a family or had had mentors, like the boy, it was one in seven who lived a year.
Few lived a decade. Even so, he would be in trouble, and they could take gold from him or just hit him or make trouble for his work.
Yet he had to do it. For they said this was the Strongest of Pomle. They said there was another one who had made great war against Nerrhavia’s Fallen, for Pomle was dead and gone. Sometimes, ‘they’ got it wrong and the Strongest had died, another had arisen—but then who was Torreb’s guest?
Rumors were confusing, gossip often wrong. The truth the boy knew was that this was the Strongest of Pomle. That was how he would say it.
The carpet wobbled as they hit a pocket of air and dropped fifteen feet. The boy heard a cry—and clung to the carpet.
“No!”
He turned—and the Fury of Winds was gone. The boy closed his eyes and looked wretchedly at Orjin. He hadn’t sensed it; they were invisible pockets. The camel was sliding and beginning to scream, but the carpet righted. The boy stared at Orjin, but the Strongest’s head just turned, and he pointed.
“There.”
Then the boy turned and saw, instead of a screaming figure plummeting—a man with spread arms flying slower to the ground. He was—whirling.
His arms were whirling like some strange turning mechanism from the Flying Gnoll of Pallass’ silly contraption the [Carpet Rider] loved so much. Soloxenethn’s face was taut with concentration—yet he was still smiling.
And the wind! Disbelieving, Reizue’s Dream turned, and they felt the wind that was howling against them change as they drew near. It was buoying him up!
He was controlling it! As they dove towards him, the Fury of Winds looked over—then kicked downwards. The boy let the carpet’s velocity slow—and Soloxenethn landed light as a feather.
He was panting, sweat rolling down his face as the boy stared at him—even the camel looked impressed. But the Fury of Winds just fell to his knees, then spoke to the Strongest of Pomle.
“I…thought I would fall to earth.”
“If you had, you would have hit Level 50 when you landed.”
“Perhaps. Perhaps you should have let me fall!”
He threw his head back and laughed. Then he looked seriously at the boy.
“You—rider! Are there no [Featherfall] scrolls for us?”
The boy ducked his head, expecting a blow, but called back.
“I am sorry, honored sirs. But this carpet does not carry any! You may buy your own, but it matters little.”
The Fury of Winds was incredulous; the Strongest just tilted his head, thinking.
Why?
Well, because [Featherfall] only made you fall slow. If the carpet went down, the boy would hit the ground trying to save it from destruction. And if lightning struck them or they ran into a sandstorm or a Roc savaged them, falling slow didn’t matter.
If they hit anything at this speed or altitude, they died. They were flying faster than any ordinary horse in the world could gallop. A bird had hit a [Carpet Rider] the owner of Reizue’s Dream knew, and the beak had gone through their skull.
The Fury of Winds was panting, and the boy apologized as he corrected their course.
“Hold on, honored sirs. Cling to the carpet or use the straps if you wish to be safe. Like the camel does!”
The camel was using pieces of rope sewn into the carpet to anchor itself, even holding one in its mouth. They were terrible things, sewn into holes cut into Reizue’s Dream, ruining the art.
Neither Orjin nor the Fury of Winds moved. This truly was a worthless ride. The boy patted the carpet lovingly. It was faster than a wagon, but less reliable. It was deadly. It would kill him, and there was a reason [Carpet Riders] were rare and this wasn’t the conveyance of the modern age.
But it was a thing of legends, and he would ride it and never have children. If the last flyer was him, that was well.
“What is your name, rider?”
The Strongest spoke to the boy as they levelled out again, wary of more pockets, and the boy jumped.
“Me? I am the Rider of Reizue’s Dream. If you speak of me or need my services, say it like that. The rider changes. The carpet will not.”
“I see. So that is how it is done.”
“Yes, Strongest.”
“I am not the Strongest of Pomle. I have relinquished that title. I am simply Orjin.”
“And I am the Rider of Reizue’s Dream. We are what we are, Strongest. They spoke of you all this month. It is why I flew so many times to Meneretorre! I wished to see the Strongest of Pomle, who is Torreb the Undefeated’s guest. He has ridden this carpet, you know! To the side of where you sat.”
Again, the boy hunched his shoulders, waiting for a blow, but the [Martial Artist] just looked at him appraisingly.
“Is the Strongest of Pomle known to others in Chandrar?”
He sounded surprised, and the boy almost laughed.
“Pomle? The place of the greatest [Martial Artists] in the world? Pomle, who was destroyed? You tell funny jokes, Strongest. I have bet money on the fighting ring—before Pomle was destroyed. They say you bested the Siren of Savere and a Great General of Nerrhavia’s Fallen in combat.”
“This is true, but there are far greater warriors in Chandrar than I. What of the King of Destruction? His Seven? Mars? Torreb himself?”
“Aye, each one I would be honored to meet, Strongest. And when I say their names, I say yours, above even the greatest [Gladiators] of the Coliseum of Monarchs! Except maybe the Silver Killer, who they say killed ten thousand guards with her bare hands.”
“Yvlon Byres? She claims she killed no one.”
The Strongest looked hugely amused by this, and the [Carpet Rider] twisted.
“You’ve met—”
