Not gradually. Not with the elastic resistance of friction or weight. It stopped the way a word stops when someone holds their breath — mid-syllable, suspended, glowing yellow. The boulder was there, physical, solid, but time had released its grip. It hung in its trajectory like a caught thought.

He walked past it. Three seconds later, the yellow faded. The boulder resumed rolling as though nothing had happened. It didn't know it had been paused. Time didn't know there was a gap.

---

Three rooms. Three problems. The rhythm was the same, but the rune bent it in new directions.

The first: the rolling boulder, blocking a corridor. He froze it, walked past, watched the yellow glow from the other side. When the freeze released, the boulder resumed its roll — mid-revolution, mid-trajectory, as though the intervening seconds had been removed from its experience. Everything else in this world moved, broke, burned, dissolved. This was the first thing he could make stop. The boulder didn't know it had been paused. The gap in its timeline was invisible to it. He thought about the place where he'd woken — the basin, the blue water, the voice — and wondered how long his own gap had been.

The second: a seesaw platform. A boulder on one end, a metal cube on the other. He froze the cube with Stasis. Hit it. Once, twice, three times, five — each strike storing energy, visible as an arrow growing longer and brighter with each blow, pointing in the direction of accumulated force. The colour shifted: yellow to orange to red. He stepped back. Released.

The cube launched.

It flew — actually flew, a solid metal object rocketing across the chamber, trailing yellow light, and slammed into the far wall with a sound that shook the floor. The boulder-end of the seesaw dropped. The platform on Link's side catapulted upward. He rode the momentum, grabbed the ledge above, and pulled himself onto the next level.

Physics bent to will. The satisfaction was enormous and specific — the feeling of having discovered something the world could do that the world didn't know it could do.

The third: moving platforms, cycling between positions on a track. Never in the right place when he needed to cross. He timed the freeze — caught a platform at the apex of its swing, locked it in place for three seconds, and sprinted across. The platform resumed its cycle the moment he stepped off. The world didn't care about his convenience. Stasis forced it to care, briefly.

Then the final chamber. No Guardian Scout. No combat. Just the monk, waiting on its platform, the way monks had been waiting since before he was born.

---

He stood before the fourth monk and paused.

Not because he didn't know what would come — he knew precisely. The words, the glow, the dissolution, the orb. He paused because this was the last one on the Plateau, and the last one felt like it deserved a moment before it began.

He waited in the silence of the completed trial. The shrine hummed. The blue-gold light pulsed. The monk sat in its ancient stillness, patient beyond anything Link could comprehend, and he stood before it and let the silence hold.

The words came.

*Your resourcefulness in overcoming this trial speaks to the promise of a hero.*

He had heard them four times now. They had not changed. But he had changed enough to hear what they were actually saying. Not *you passed a test*. Something older. *I waited for you.* The promise was not his — it was theirs. Made ten thousand years ago. Kept in the dark. Fulfilled now, in this room, with this dissolution and this gift.

The gold light spread through the monk's hands. The body softened, came apart, dissolved into radiance. The sphere formed. It drifted to his slate.

```stat-screen
    SHRINE OF TRIALS
    ---
    Owa Daim Shrine
    Trial: Stasis Trial
    ---
    Spirit Orb acquired.
    Spirit Orbs: 4/4
    ---
```

Four of four.

The counter was full. The warmth in his slate was heavy — four gifts, four dissolutions, four people who had spent ten thousand years preparing to end. He carried them all. He didn't know what the orbs were for. He knew they cost everything the monks had.

---

On the path toward the summit, he passed a lone creature picking through a ruin. He tried the new rune — pointed the slate, activated Stasis. The slate pulsed once, a flat tone. Nothing happened. The creature kept picking at the rubble, oblivious. The rune didn't work on living things. Only objects. He filed this away and kept walking.

---

The Traveler's Sword broke on the way to the summit.

He was clearing rocks from a path — prying loose a stone that had wedged between two boulders — when the crack he'd noticed earlier finished its work. The blade separated from the hilt along the stress line, a clean fracture, the two pieces falling away from each other with a metallic clarity that sounded nothing like the branch snapping in his first fight. The branch had been a dry pop, comic in its finality. The bone club had been a dull split. This was a surrender — the metal giving its best and reaching its limit.

He looked at the hilt in his hand. Empty. The blade in the snow.

He picked it up. Turned it over. The fracture was clean — a stress line that had been building since the first hard impact, invisible until the swing that made it visible. His grip had worn the leather wrapping smooth in exactly the shape of his hand. No other hand would have fit. The sword had given him everything it had.

Everything here had a shelf life. Even the things he trusted.

He tucked the hilt into his belt — he didn't know why, it was useless now — and drew the Guardian Sword. Twenty attack. Blue-white Sheikah metal. It hummed in his hand, alive with the shrine's own energy. A better weapon in every way. It would also break. He was learning to hold things without believing they would stay.

The summit was above him. He climbed.

Mount Hylia's peak was a narrow ridge of exposed rock, scoured clean by wind that never stopped. The cold was sharper here than anywhere on the mountain — a thin, high cold that cut through the doublet and the pepper-warmth beneath it and reached the bones. His breath came in white plumes that the wind tore apart before they'd finished forming.

He stood on the ridge and looked.

His legs shook from the climb. His forearms ached from the places where he'd gripped rock and pulled. The cold had found every gap in the doublet — the collar, the cuffs, the place where the fabric met his trousers — and set up permanent residence. His fingers were numb. His face was raw. The effort of standing upright against the wind was continuous and nontrivial.

The world opened below him like a book.

He could see everything from here — every landmark, every direction, every mile of the kingdom he was about to enter. The fire mountain to the northeast, its smoke a constant column against the sky. The dark castle to the north, its tendrils coiling upward, patient and wrong. The twin peaks to the southeast — two mountains leaning toward each other across a river valley, their symmetry too precise for accident. Forests. Plains. Lakes catching the afternoon light like scattered mirrors. A world built to scale that exceeded his experience.

But this time the view was different from the one that had overwhelmed him on his first day. He could name things now. The broken temple below — the one with the statue, where the old man's face had gone raw with grief. The eastern abbey — the dome, the dark eye, the machine he had measured and deferred. The old man's cabin, trailing smoke. The four shrine entrances, their amber glows dimmed now, their trials completed, their monks dissolved.

The Plateau beneath him looked small. Curated. A garden he'd outgrown in four days. Four shrines, evenly spaced. One guide who knew everything. One sealed perimeter. Someone had built this place as a curriculum for one student, and the student had finished the coursework, and the edge of the garden was no longer a wall but a door.

Beyond it: everything.

He stood on the summit until the wind made his eyes water. Then he descended.

---

The old man's fire was burning when he arrived.

Of course it was. Perfectly tended, the logs arranged with geometric precision, the coals banked exactly right. The old man was standing — not sitting, standing — near the fire, and when he saw Link coming through the grass his face did something Link hadn't seen before. A tightening around the eyes. A breath, held and released. His hands, normally so steady, pressed flat against his thighs as though anchoring themselves.

"You have what I asked for," the old man said. It was not a question. His voice was steady but the steadiness was work — a thing he was choosing, not a thing that came naturally. Something underneath the words was shaking.

Link stopped at the edge of the firelight. Four Spirit Orbs in the slate. Four runes. The Guardian Sword on his hip, humming. The Traveler's Sword hilt tucked into his belt, useless, kept for reasons he couldn't explain.

"Come to the Temple of Time at dawn," the old man said. "We'll make the trade."

He turned away. Tended the fire — moving one log a quarter-turn, exactly, opening the draw. The same precise movements as always. But his hands were trembling. Very slightly. In the fingers.

Link sat by the fire. The warmth after the mountain cold was its own kind of mercy — the heat spreading through his doublet and his skin and into the deep cold that the summit had planted in his bones. He ate food the old man had prepared. He didn't ask why the old man's hands were shaking. He didn't have the language for the question, and the old man didn't have the composure for the answer.

They sat in the firelight, the two of them, the way they had every night since Link had woken. Four nights. It felt longer. It felt like a life — the only life he had, built from fires and shrines and the old man's careful, measured company. Tomorrow the trade. Tomorrow the paraglider. Tomorrow the sealed edge of the Plateau would become a launching point instead of a wall, and everything beyond it — the fire mountain, the dark castle, the twin peaks, the forests and plains and lakes he'd seen from the summit — would become reachable. The old man tended the fire. Link watched the flames. The Plateau was quiet around them — the birds settled, the wind calm, the shrine glows dimmed to nothing. Everything was finished. Everything was about to begin.

The old man's back was to him, hooded, firelit. His hands were still trembling. He had waited a hundred years for this moment — the hero returning with proof that he could be trusted with the truth. Tomorrow he would reveal everything. Tonight, he tended the fire, and the boy who didn't remember him sat across the flames, alive and growing, and the trembling in the old man's hands was not weakness.

It was a century of patience, finally allowed to end.

Link closed his eyes. The fire cracked. The stars turned.

Tomorrow.
