This wormhole specialization enables Seekers to travel between worlds with unmatched ease. This in conjunction with their resilience makes them natural explorers. Kregowa is a notable Seeker, having used his class to the absolute limits of its effectiveness. He's discovered thousands of worlds for the Golemites, allowing the atronach species to harvest minerals and natural clusters of mana along the way. As their species is a treasure hunting congregation, this grants him respect among his peers.

While not a direct threat, Kregowa will be very difficult to pin down and kill, even for you.

I shoved his hand off my shoulder,

"You're assuming a lot about me. Not exactly fair."

The golemite took a step towards me, "Mana creation overloaded. Stealing from Giess's natural reserves inevitable. I come to cease rapid corruption of natural resources."

"It's my own mana. I'm not stealing from Giess."

Kregowa raised his other hand, mana welling into it, "Compliance is denied. Backup measures activated."

Without time to think about the situation, I snapped my hand around its neck, lifting it into the air. At the same time, I grabbed the hand pooling the mana. Before the situation escalated further, the feminine blob walked up and to us. The shiny surface of its body hardened, congealing into a dense skin. A blade ruptured out of its arm, sending a ripple through its gelatinous body. The creature raised its bladed arm and spoke as a matriarch,

"Warp him, and I'll kill you."

I turned to the slime chick, "I'm not about to warp him."

She pointed her blade at the golemite, "I'm talking to Kregowa."

It bewildered me that someone was actually defending me for once. Adding to the pleasant surprise, the mana in the golemite's hand scattered. The creature's humanoid alignment shifted back into a collection of steel squares. It assembled back into its humanoid form but several feet from us both. Before anything else happened, I analyzed the slime chick.

Wrath, Queen of Svia(lvl 12,432 | Class: Fringe Walker | Race: Ahcorus(Otherwise known as slimes)) - Wrath is the queen of the Svia sector of the slime's home planet, Slus. She earned her name by conquering several of the nests that surrounded her before Schema assimilated her planet. Since then, she's proven very effective at cleansing worlds of eldritch infestation.

Her entire species excels at tearing down many enemies, as slimes rapidly reproduce when food is available. This enables them to clear out weaker hordes with an ease that is uncanny. Unfortunately, lower level slimes aren't added into the system to their lower level thinking. They can't creatively gain skills or use them outside of very basic combat patterns.

They slaughter lower level eldritch, however, and their queens are more than worthy of assimilation into Schema's system. These ancient, powerful beings can be thousands of years old, often times remembering times before their planet was assimilated. This age combined with a remarkable intelligence turns the slime queens into potent threats to the eldritch.

Though they lack the communication skills to excel at trade or diplomacy, their raw might more than makes up for these drawbacks. Wrath is one of these queens, and she has proven effective at clearing worlds, having torn through two planets over the last two decades.

She also maintains a thriving colony of slimes on her home planet, giving her economic resources unavailable to most. She would prove a worthy foe in battle, and it is recommended you try to gain allyship with her.

Her status dwarfed most, so it took me a few seconds to read it all the way through. As I did read, she and the golemite argued.

"His interference with natural order is to be terminated."

An apex predator by nature, Wrath walked up to the golemite, "Harm him, and you will become my next meal."

"I am not harming him. I am warping him off planet to ensure continued planetary stability. Mana pollution critical. Immediate action is necessary," the golemite said.

I finished reading, reaching out a hand to the golem and aiming to prove my mana was my own. Under most circumstances, all my excess mana flowed into my runes at all times. I kept the flow clean and contained, otherwise it would leak out and waste energy. I allowed some of it to do so while taking a few steps back. I didn't want another mana poisoning incident.

As I released the crimson aura, the golemite's shifting body shivered. After a few seconds of showing my mana's creation, the golemite stated,

"No mana pollution detected. False assumption made. Apologies rendered."

The steel squares formed into the rough approximation of a humanoid before bowing to me. To say it was odd would be an understatement.

"You're alright man, but don't make those kinds of assumptions again without proof, alright?"

"Affirmative. Gift requested for apology," the golemite said while reaching out an arm. As he did, a dimensional storage portal opened, the starry circle recognizable anywhere. The golemite pulled out a glowing grain of sand. Before getting near it, I analyzed the tiny stone.

Crystalized Mana Signature - Peaceful(lvl Req: 1,000) - This crystalized mana creates a distinct signature recognizable to golemites. This particular mana wavelength transmits feelings of peace to other golemites and will prevent future misunderstandings before they arise.

I left him waiting, not taking the crystal from him. The golemite shook the mana,

"Signature shows through your personalized dimensional pocket. Inconvenience is a minimum."

I pointed at him with the crystal in hand, "I don't trust you."

Wrath paced up to me, "You shouldn't. You shouldn't trust anyone, as you're hunted."

"So slime queens keep up with the news?"

"We do, when necessary. I came here to use your talents. An intelligent eldritch has hidden deep in the bowels of our planet. Its hordes rise to the surface, and they cull my children. Would you be willing to help us?"

"For the right price."

"The Speakers on our planet are willing to grant you numerous contracts upon the completion of the task. We can offer a city upon the completion of the task as well, along with a favorable alliance between our species," she said while pulling out a business card from her dimensional storage.

I took the paper, surprised by a slime queen using such a standard business tactic. I inspected the lettering, "Alright. I'll check this out once I get some time. It might take a while."

"That is no problem for us. We've fought this eldritch for decades. If this hiatus doesn't stretch into many years, than we shall wait for you. However, someone may complete the task before you come should you wait too long," her words hissed like a snake as she said them.

I crossed my arms, "It won't take a year most likely. No promises though."

She gave me a bow, "I anticipated far more grueling negotiations than this. You've been kind to me. I will return the favor in time."

I shrugged, "Eh, we'll see once I can access whatever's going on. I'll play hardball then."

"Then good luck with your battle, Gray Giant."

After finishing the chat, the golemite kept buzzing in my ear about mana pollution. Since I already understood the problem and was working to solve it, I mentioned that I was fixing it. I kept the details sparse, but he got the picture and left me alone after a while.

The only reason I didn't immediately tell him to fuck off was his unique class. I'd never seen someone with one, so understanding how he obtained it left me curious. Turns out, the Seeker was a class specific to the golemites that synergized with their racial traits. After a bit of research before the interview, I learned most unique classes were like that.

It left me with a little hope for my own breakthrough. Humans hadn't discovered a unique class, and someone had to do it. Hell, I might be that someone.

While I daydreamed about it, my opponent arrived. A small, slender gialgathen with white skin landed beside us. She looked down at the camera crew and rolled her eyes. A few seconds later, she walked up to me, two trails of black spots running down her neck. With white irises, her skin shined with radiant health. She communicated with telepathy,

"So you're the Gray Giant?"

I nodded. She tilted her head to me,

"Hmmm. You're far more impressive than I imagined you'd be."

"I don't know if that's a compliment."

"What is it with earthwalker's need to sort everything? Must my statements by categorized to assist your ease of understanding?" she hissed out.

At least she didn't call me dirtwalker.

"Eh, I asked for you, not for me. I didn't want to misunderstand, but you can be an asshole about it. Doesn't matter to me."

She blinked, "Hmm, I might've gotten off on the wrong wing with you. Listen, I'm not good at talking with others. I'm a fighter at heart. That's why I'm here, not for this...publicity. I will keep my answers short and to the point. I ask you to refrain from painting me and my species as evil. Please, and thank you."

"What? Of course not. Don't be a jackass and we'll be fine. I can't promise anything from the interviewer though."

She let out a gruff sigh, "Ah, Grotokia. He interviewed me last year. It was awful, as it will no doubt be this year as well."

"What made it so bad the first time?"

"Grotokia is a starter of fires. He's been in Thisbey's pocket for years now. This year will be no different."

I raised a palm to her, "Say no more. I'm no fan of Thisbey either. He's just a pawn to his ego."

"Precisely my point! I've hated that spineless coward for years now. Someone should rip out his spine and feed it to the birds."

I pointed up at her, "I prefer feeding the spines of my foes to wolves. More gnawing that way."

"Hah. Clever...Well then, I should be off. It's good to see a like-minded fighter who's an earthwalker as well. Rare these days. Your kind used to admire us. Now there's a tremendous disdain I find offputting."

I shrugged, "I'll be honest, I find it offputting too. I'm not big in the whole fame game. I prefer to lay low for the most part."

"You could've fooled me."

"People pay attention when you make a splash regardless. I haven't done anything to become more famous after all outside of my fights."

Chrona glanced off in the distance, "Rare these days to find anyone who proves their worth with actions."

"How was it different back then?" I said while crossing my arms.

"In my glory days, Emagrotha and Lehesion dictated the world's outcome. They did so through dominance and achievement. Now, this world is moved by the machinations of shadow drawn cravens."

"Were you there when Emagrotha and Lehesion duked it out?"

She gave me a nod. I quelled an eruption of excitement.

"Where was it?"

Chrona glanced up, "I couldn't say. It was long ago, and my memory fades with time. However, I do remember this - Emagrotha should have won. You think I say so out of bitterness. You would think wrong. Emagrotha was the superior battler. She honed her strengths endlessly, toiling away in the pursuit of perfection. Lehesion was the opposite."

She swiped a clawed hand in disgust, "He believed himself born a god. He was right in many ways. Lehesion could tap into the mana of Giess better than anyone before him or anyone since. He neglected his training, however, and he never mastered the forms or techniques of combat as Emagrotha did."

She leaned down towards me, her eyes slits, "Lehesion stole from Giess's mana to win that bout. It was not his own strength. It was the strength of millions of life forms, all of them culled in an instant. Emagrotha deflected the blast masterfully, but the aftershocks left her mind shaken. She could not stand nor fly as she once had. She was a shell of her former self."

I turned a palm to her, "So she was shellshocked?"

"I don't understand what you mean, but it left her a bumbling fool. Lehesion made an example of her and infested Emagrotha with Yana worms before throwing her out into silver territory. She likely died many years ago, turned into food for those filthy vermin. It stings to this day. She should have won the battle, and if she had, she'd have shown mercy on Lehesion."

She growled, "He did not do the same."

I grabbed the side of my facemask, "Damn...That's, well, awful."

"It is simply the reality before us," Chrona murmured, "We cannot change it. We must accept it for what it was."

"Thanks for sharing though. It's different hearing about the event first hand."

"I welcome the chance to change someone's mind about Emagrotha and her cataclysmic battle with Lehesion. Tell others this story, and spread her name with glory on your lips."

I smiled, "Eh, I might do that. We'll see."

Grotokia walked up to us, looking back and forth, "Hey, if it isn't my two favorite fighters? You guys ready for an easy interview and to build some hype for your bouts?"

Chrona's eyes narrowed, "No."

I shrugged, "Same."

Grotokia raised his hands, bubbles rising up from his pressurized suit, "Aye, I don't want to be here either if I'm honest with you guys, but we gotta do what we gotta do. Come one. It'll be over before you know it."

Chrona and I paced behind the set, lights set up in front of us. I sat down in a chair too small for me. Grotokia sat behind a desk set up on the stone slab while Chrona just stood beside us. After getting mics setup beside us, Grotokia sifted his papers before staring at the front camera. He looked to us both,

"You guys ready?"

I sighed, "Yup."

Chrona blasted out with a telepathic wave, "Let's be done with this."

An espen voice actor spoke out into a microphone offset. His voice matched hers to an eerie extent. I pointed at him, "Wait, how is he doing that?"

Grotokia waved his arm, "Combat classes aren't the only people that hone their skills. He's got his impressions down, I promise you that."

Chrona nodded, "He's acceptable for representing my voice."

