Time and tide wait for no man, but I could really use a few minutes to get my shit together.

Or years really. Decades, if we’re being honest, because the logical, scientific part of my brain is having a real conniption about how none of this makes sense. Currently, I am running away from Zhen Shi but I’m not just Cloud-Stepping away, I’m also being carried along by the currents of my Natal Sea. This body of water was once a fixture in my Natal Palace which disappeared along with everything else inside it after I sort of Shattered the Void, but somehow, I’ve Materialized them both into reality by way of my Domain. Not my entire Natal Palace, nor even most of my Natal Sea, and it’s not even really ‘here’, if we’re going by the classic definition. There’s no cool water to soak in or flowing currents swirling around me, because even though I’ve Manifested my Natal Sea, that is not the same thing as creating a bunch of water. That being said, I can feel my Natal Sea all the same as the currents push me along and send me flying faster than I’ve ever Cloud-Stepped before.

So I’m not swimming through my Natal Sea in reality, I’m Cloud-Stepping across the Western Province, keeping low and close to the ground because it’s safer than taking to the skies where I have less control. The scorching sun sears my skin from on high as the sand gives way beneath my boots, with more carried upon the sweltering wind to make its way into every crack and crevice of my body. I can taste the coarse granules in my too-dry mouth, which sits open as I heave and pant for precious breath, but I dare not stop to rest.

Because my foe draws ever closer behind me, and if captured, I’m certain he will never allow me another chance for escape.

I can hear him on my heels, but more than that, I can sense him there as well, seeing without seeing, feeling without feeling, all thanks to information provided to me by my Spiritual Senses which are all too new and unfamiliar. Unlike the five senses I was born with, it’s taking some time to familiarize and parse through these newfangled impressions, time and focus I cannot spare as I struggle to stay ahead of my pursuer with dog in arm, rabbit in tow, and turtle riding shotgun atop my head. My Manifested Natal Sea is here around me, but I’ve no idea how to utilize it, save to go with the ebb and flow of invisible tides which feel as real as the sand getting everywhere in my everything.

I hate the sand. If only my Natal Sea could do something about it.

And just like that, a wave crashes into me and washes all the sand away, yet my skin and clothes remain as dry as ever, save for the errant patches of blood and sweat staining all the expected places. Water, yet not water, Chi, yet not Chi, both more and less at the same time. My brain is overheating just trying to logic it out while drawing blanks on any actual explanation, but the Warrior in me is all like, “Nice”, and doesn’t care about the how. No longer do I need to worry about getting rubbed raw by sand in all the wrong places, and now I can focus on the second most pressing matter, keeping my head and hide intact and escaping from Zhen Shi’s clutches.

Okay, so my priorities are a little out of wack, but if I’m gonna die, I’d like to die comfortably.

Gotta say, Zhen Shi moves pretty fast for a guy with only one foot, and I wish I could see him hopping along behind me, but I dare not slow down long enough to turn my head and look, so I must make do with the picture painted in my mind by my Spiritual Senses. It’s difficult to process just how I’m using them, because even though the information appears in my head that Zhen Shi’s hand is mere millimetres away from grabbing me by the hair, I’m unable to establish exactly how I know this without delving deeper into my Spiritual Senses. The answer is obvious enough once I put my mind to it and trace the impressions in reverse, which tells me that I’m picking up the disturbance his physical presence is causing to the swirling currents of my metaphysical Natal Sea, which again is here, yet not here at the same time. I don’t suppose Zhen Shi can feel those currents parting around his arm, but only because I have yet to Will it so, and even as the thought occurs to me, his grasping hand is swept away as my Natal Sea exerts itself upon reality and lets the current drag him away.

Or in other terms, I utilize Deflection in combination with a myriad of other compound forces which I have no name for in order to turn aside Zhen Shi’s attack. Why can’t I just Deflect him normally though? I could, but it wouldn’t be as effective. This sort of Deflection is… more forceful. Heavier, I suppose, or denser. I dunno. What I’m trying to get at is I can apply more force with this Water-based Deflection than I can with just basic Deflection alone. How is it different? Difficult to say. It’s all Chi, but Water Chi can do things that regular Chi can’t. No, that’s not right. It’s more like… Water Chi does certain things better, but other things worse. No, that’s not entirely right either. Water Chi… is different. It’s Chi, but not Chi, water, but not water, which means it adheres to a different set of rules from both Chi and Water. I don’t understand it, but it just makes sense, which is becoming something of a common theme that I both love and hate.

Knowing without knowing, understanding without comprehending, similar to how Roc just knows how to come in for the perfect landing or Aurie tilts his head at the optimal angle to achieve the perfect cute-derp ratio. It just works. Until it doesn’t, as my inner memester is all too quick to remind me, but the humourous take on inevitable total system failure really helps minimize the panic and apprehension. It’s still there, but in the background, like a, “haha, hope nothing goes wrong right now because then I’m totally gonna die,” sort of way.

So going with the flow, I cede control over to my instincts while my logical mind plots out a course to victory, which is easily accomplished with help from a Natal Soul. Tapping into my lizard brain, my Natal Soul takes over the defenses while leaving my Prime self to control my movements, because Cloud-Stepping is easy as turning a hand now. Taking a moment to acknowledge the obvious wisdom of moving Mama Bun in front of me, I smile as Buddy greets her with a sniffing and gets a good tongue-grooming in return. More interesting is the fact that Mama Bun’s speed is relative to my own, rather than the speed of the world passing us by. Even though she’s floating upon a raft made of Domain in a Natal Sea comprised of the same, her relative speed is almost completely stationary, as opposed to moving at the same speed as the raft. The raft is a vehicle in every sense of the word, even though it doesn’t really exist in reality, so to her, she only feels the movement when we accelerate or decelerate. This is significant because it tells me that my Domain is not exerting force upon Mama Bun to accelerate her until she matches my speed, but rather an actual physical entity which she can interact with and is carrying her along. I suppose I’ve known all along, but never really clicked in my mind, or rather I never really thought to consider the implication.

The Warrior in me doesn’t care, because the end result is all that matters, but the scientist is rather intrigued. Though it seems like a minor and insignificant detail, but it’s the difference between sitting in a boat going 100 km/p/h and getting launched from a cannon at the same speed. So far, every time I try to use Water Chi or Domain, I’ve tried to do the latter, exert a force upon another object, but if I can make a boat for Mama Bun to sit on, why can’t I make other objects for people to interact with too?

My lizard brain picks up on all this immediately puts it to good use, creating a frictionless layer of Domain laid out overtop the sands which Zhen Shi promptly slips on. Though back on his feet in the blink of an eye to take up the pursuit again, this single blunder has bought me enough breathing room to prepare for his next move. The next time he tries to set foot in the sands, he encounters yet another puddle of frictionless Domain, but he’s learned his lesson and merely skates across it before Cloud-Stepping once again when he reaches the puddle’s edge. When he lands again, another frictionless puddle awaits him and he tries to skate over it a second time, but the puddle turns into a whirlpool that carries him around and away, stretching out under his foot to keep him caught even longer. A net-gain measured in mere milliseconds before he recovers once more, but significant enough for me to plan two moves in advance and set up a contingency plan in case things don’t pan out as expected.

It might not seem like much, but it’s a significant load off my back, because no longer am I struggling just to stay alive and can now consider how to strike back. No matter how fast or often I Cloud-Step, Zhen Shi is never far behind, meaning he knows something about Cloud-Stepping that I don’t and is able to move faster than I can. Keeping him on his toes won’t work for long, as I’ve already figured out how to counter my own shenanigans, and Zhen Shi isn’t far behind as he simply avoids the sands and Cloud-Steps before making contact with the ground. Expecting as much, my lizard brain is ready and waiting with a dense wall of Water Chi, one which Zhen Shi crashes headlong into. If he’d dove in head or feet first, he would’ve plunged through without too much resistance, but the impact snaps like a landwhale doing a bellyflop and disperses most of the momentum he’d built up, buying a whole second of reprieve as I slip ever further from his grasp.

Again, small gains, but I’m learning more and more about my Water Chi with each and every clash. Of course, most of it just makes enough sense for me to accept, as it doesn’t surprise me to learn that Water Chi behaves similarly to water, but what I’m interested in is not the results themselves, but the mechanisms Water Chi uses to derive them. Water flows, water clings, water soaks, and water slicks, but this is not water I’m working with, but Chi behaving like water. So what is it about this Chi in particular that makes it so water-like? Why is it able to divert his attacks away, make him slip on coarse sand, and slow his advance? Water can do all that, but again, this is not water, and the details are astounding to behold. It’s all forces, a give and take, an ebb and flow, action and reaction both, but you can say the same about everything in the physical realm. Opposing forces make the world go round, a constant push and pull, contraction and expansion, attraction and repulsion, all of it existing in a perfect yet ever-changing balance of enthalpy and entropy.

Translation? It’s not water, but it might as well be water, except better because I can control it.

Not perfectly, as my lizard brain soon discovers when I attempt to drag Zhen Shi down to the sands, an effort he shakes as easily as turning a hand. His own Domain coming into play now, fending off my intrusive attacks, but it’s not as simple as putting up a barrier and negating all my efforts. As I noted before with Mama Bun, the Domain acts like a real, physical object affixed to the user’s position, which means even though it is invisible and intangible, it still obeys the laws of physics, for the most part. I can’t grab hold of Zhen Shi’s Domain and use it to pin him in place like I would with an arm or a leg, but I can shunt it aside with my own Domain to allow my Water Chi to affect him. Even though a Domain naturally billows out in all directions, it’s not so much as a solid sphere of matter as it is a constant projection of force, one which exists in the Void and only selectively makes its presence felt in reality.

The more I use the Water Chi of my Materialized Domain, the more I understand how it should be used, with my methods improving by leaps and bounds within a matter of seconds. Rather than a single foothold for him to slip on, I render the entire area behind me frictionless upon his approach which buys me just enough time to Cloud-Step away while he’s still struggling to control his momentum. His next attempt sees him crash into a corridor of Water Chi, one in which he flails and flounders as he pushes forward in search of an exit, only to eventually realize he can just side-step out of it and continue on his merry way. A roar of inhuman rage sounds out from behind me, wavering as it grows ever closer with Zhen Shi in hot pursuit, but his grasping hands are unable to grab hold of my robes for my defensive swirling currents of Water Chi will not allow it. In terms of defensive durability, my efforts pale in comparison to Pong Pong’s, because he merely needs to set and forget his Water Domain Deflection which protects him from any and all physical attacks. Me? My defenses are more proactive, predicated on anticipating Zhen Shi’s actions and dealing with them in the optimum manner, which is a lot of effort if I’m being honest. It’s the difference between an armoured knight who sits there and takes all the hits and some shirtless sword-master who’s just really good at dodging and parrying attacks. While the latter might seem more impressive, everyone and their mother would prefer to be the first guy, because no matter how good you are, you’re bound to slip up eventually.

