Sucking air through my teeth in muted disappointment, I set the currents to flowing behind me beneath Mama Bun’s raft, circling in a back-and-forth motion to build up power for yet another attack, one that will hopefully go unnoticed as I let loose with a flurry of jabs. It’s all I can do to keep Zhen Shi away, dancing on his toes as he strives to push past my Sword Force infused glaive and pummel me into a pulp, but I’m wise to his ways and have gotten more used to my Spiritual Senses which do wonders to keep my head in the game. The Movements flow out like lyrical poetry made flesh, driving Zhen Shi left, then right, then back, but always denying him a way forward. Add in the threat of Peace plunging towards him from behind, as well as the possibility of Tranquility hurtling towards him from behind my back, and my foe has no choice but to proceed with caution, which only serves to fuel his fury and drive him to new heights of rage and infuriation both.

Eighteen exchanges pass by in the first second, then twenty-three in the next, giving me plenty of chances to test my skills and comprehension both. As I delve into the nitty gritty details of my actions, I realize that it’s as simple or as complex as I want it to be, the Water Chi of my Natal Sea responding to my needs, thoughts, Visualization, Intent, and at times even impressions so long as its strong enough. Take the principle behind the Mountain Collapsing Stomp, something that has always seemed all too simple to me, but is hit and miss with others I’ve tried to teach. In my mind, it’s just like standing at the side of the pool and waving your hand back and forth to build up a series of increasingly larger waves, not by putting more strength into the effort but by carefully timing your movements with the natural ebb and flow of the water. The attack I’ve been building up behind me is based upon this simple principle, with my Water Chi moving back and forth in a rhythmic give and take building up to a crescendo, but despite reaching staggering heights which I can barely control, I’ve barely had to do anything to make this happen. The flow feels so natural to follow, like swaying to a familiar melody that I’ve heard a million times before, meaning all I’ve put into this most massive of metaphysical waves is a little timing and patience.

This is the most powerful Mountain Collapsing Strike I have ever built up, an Island Sinking Wave unlike anything I’ve ever used before, but brute force alone will not be enough to kill Zhen Shi. His Plated Domain and Natal Robes are more than capable of blunting maybe ninety-nine percent of my strikes. The only weapon I have that can pierce through his Defenses is my Sword Force, another Chi Skill that comes easily to me, even though I know in my head that it’s a massively complex arrangements of various basic forces working in tandem to create a new type of destructive energy. Seeing how Water Chi is just Chi by a different name, I don’t see any reason why I can’t combine the two into an Island Sinking Wave of Sword Force. While that is a mouthful of a name, it’s also much easier said than done, because I haven’t been crafting Sword Force from scratch by putting together the basic forces one at a time. No, I’ve been cheating and using my Spiritual Weapons as Keystones to automate the process. I figured out the general gist of it in a moment of Insight, and I’ve been pretty much copy-pasting the answer ever since. The problem is, if I want to infuse Sword Force into my Island Sinking Wave, I’d have to do it manually since I have no sword and water related Keystone to work with.

Or do I? I am the Sword, but I am also the Water, so mathematically speaking, I should be interchangeable with Sword and Water both, or more to the point, the Water is my Sword. I wouldn’t want to try it the other way around, and we’re not exactly working with numbers here, but I dunno. The logic makes some sort of sense, right? Then again, I’ve only known how to use Sword Force for a few hours and haven’t really had time to think about it, which honestly, might well be why it even works.

You know what? I have long since been my own worst enemy, getting in my own way because I don’t understand something. Comprehension is useful and superior to mere Insight, but a lack of comprehension shouldn’t keep me from doing what feels natural, what feels right, so it’s high time I learned to stop worrying and love the sword.

While I am distracted by my musings, Zhen Shi seizes an opportunity to advance and moves into range to attack, leaving me no choice but to unleash the Island Sinking Wave I’ve been building up all this time. Infusing the Water Chi with Sword Force is as easy as willing it, but the cost is staggering to behold as I feel the Energy of the Heavens surging through me and taking what it demands in exchange. The torrent of Sword-Force infused Water Chi shoots out on a collision course with Zhen Shi, whose Domain rises up to Deflect it away, but this is not the same wave of force he’s experienced before. Rather than be shunted aside, my Water Chi crashes into his Domain whereupon the Sword Force shreds it to pieces without losing a single iota of momentum. Surging ahead to slam home into my unsuspecting foe, his expression goes from fury, to shock, and then horror all in the blink of an eye. The water runs red with blood as the flowing current of Sword Force rips away at his flesh, grinding his left arm and shoulder into a pulp and only stopping there because he was too quick to retreat, but I am not yet done. Still in control of the torrent of Water Chi, I Guide it unerringly towards Zhen Shi as I pursue him across the sands, our roles reversed for the first time since coming face to face in Shi Bei.

And I’d be lying if I didn’t say it feels fucking great.

“Why are you running?!” I bellow, cackling inwardly with glee and delight as I watch Zhen Shi duck, dip, dodge and weave to avoid certain death. There is no answer, but I wasn’t expecting one, and I use every trick in the book to catch up. Puddles of frictionless Domain Materialize beneath his feet while tendrils of Water Chi wrap around his ankles and waist, but even with multiple Cloud-Steps a second and the powerful currents of my Natal Sea pushing me along from behind, I’m unable to bring my swirling torrent of Sword Force and Water Chi to bear. The Energy of the Heavens surge through me as I feed power into the attack, but the expenditure is too much for my strained Spiritual System to bear, the flow too strong and wild to keep this up for any longer. The attack dissipates without warning and I draw back from my foe, who effortlessly sidesteps Peace as it plunges towards him from behind. My trusty sword stops short before me and flips about to threaten Zhen Shi once more, but the once proud Uniter has seen better days.

The mangled flesh and exposed bone of his left shoulder is horrific to behold, his injuries so deep I can see his lungs inflate and deflate as he heaves and pants in place. There is no Healing to be seen save to stem the blood, which combined with his pale flesh and missing foot makes him look like a half-eaten corpse that somehow still draws breath. If looks could kill, I’d be dead a thousand times over from his blood-shot eyes, but Zhen Shi can only glare as he struggles to make sense of this reversal of fortunes. His tattered robes hang loosely from his slim, pale frame, no longer mending on their own like before, but whether this has to do with his debilitated body, frazzled mind, or even lack of available Heavenly Energy, I cannot say. Of course, any sign of weakness is a good one, especially since I’m not sure if I have another one of those… um… what should I call it?

Island Sinking Wave of Sword Force is on point, but too many words.

Water Dragon’s Bite, maybe? Sounds cool, but a little pretentious, and lacking any and all useful information at all.

Oh, I have the perfect name, and a great idea on how to use it.

Showing no weakness in spite of my fatigue, I set the currents to swirling around me in hopes that Zhen Shi can sense it, and from the looks of his alarm, he can. “Impressive,” I begin, grinning from ear to ear at my own clever ways. “I didn’t expect you to survive the first Movement of the Water Dragon Form, the Sea Serpent’s Snap.” Gah, I got too hung up on alliteration, which doesn’t even translate over to common, so it doesn’t sound as cool as it could, but whatever. Still awesome. Somehow, I am both proud and ashamed of myself at the same time, but this is who I am, and I wholeheartedly embrace it as I continue, “I’m kinda glad to be honest, because now I get to try out the second Movement.”

Ha. The look on his face. Such dread, much horror. I love it. Do you see what you get Zhen Shi? Do you see what you get when you mess with the Warrior?!

As expected, my confident declaration sends my opponent spiralling into a panic as he lunges forward to stop me, but I am more than ready for him. Sword Force surges out from Unity as it takes him through the chest, plunging clean through until his ribs ram into the haft. Keeping well out of his reach, I hold him back with all my strength while scouring away at his Domain Plated Defenses with swirling currents of Sword Force. Less powerful ones, but still strong enough to strip flesh from bone, or at least it would be if it could get through his powerful passive defense. Rage and desperation both pour out from Zhen Shi’s eyes as he stretches his one remaining arm in a desperate bid to grab me, a man at the end of his rope yet still unwilling to give up. Were he not a mass-murderer and torturer both, I could almost respect him for his willpower and determination, because I never would’ve expected any human to escape from under the weight of so many Spectres, much less make it this far with such horrific injuries. This man withstood my weaponized despair and went on to face his own fears, a tribulation from which he emerged unscathed, and for that, he has my admiration.

That won’t stop me from killing him though, because this is no man, but a monster in human flesh. A part of me wonders if things might’ve turned out different if we’d met eight-hundred years earlier. I see much of myself in him, and how I could’ve turned out if not for a fortuitous encounter with Blobby, but thankfully, I avoided the worst pitfalls and have come out on top. “Go in peace,” I declare, taking control of my sword that shares the same name, “A better end than you deserve, but one I offer without regret.”

The sword plunges down to pierce Zhen Shi clean through the top of the head.

Only to stop in mid-air with a metallic hum as an unfamiliar man in flowing golden robes appears out of nowhere, complete with stupid hair ornament that doubles as a tiny hat. “Stay your hand,” the stranger declares, his voice booming with authority as he holds my sword in place with two fingers, seemingly immune to the destructive torrent of Sword Force contained within. There is no doubt in his mind that I will obey, no expectation of disobedience at all, which I suppose is due to his sculpted cheeks and chiselled jawline that makes him look like the Mother Herself moulded him with Her own two hands. Unfortunately for him however, I have problems with authority and a tendency to act before I think, so even I’m surprised as Tranquility flies out and separates Zhen Shi’s head from his shoulders in a flash of Sword Force.

The stranger’s shock is muted and subdued, more surprised at my disobedience than disappointed by Zhen Shi’s death, and his gaze turns to meet my eyes. It pierces clean through me, looking not at my features, but deep into my heart and soul, and I cannot bring myself to look away. “You dare disobey this Sovereign?” he asks, lacking the heat and fury that usually makes the statement seem so ridiculous, yet it sounds so appropriate coming from him. “Courage, ignorance, or a blend of both? It matters not, for you will reap what you have sown.”

Hearing Zhen Shi’s third-person stylings come out of someone else’s mouth is enough to throw me for a loop, and my eyes dart down to study the stranger’s robes. They’re also golden, and festooned with so much embroidery it’s difficult to pinpoint one thing to look at, but the giant character emblazoned in the centre of his chest is certainly eye-catching to behold. 皇, stitched in gold thread as well, but bordered in thick black lines to make it easy to read, and for a moment, my mind blanks. Usually, these sort of robes bear a family or faction name, but this character is one I’ve only seen a handful of times before. On the invitation to the First Imperial Grand Conference and on Shen ZhenWu’s fan are the first places that come to mind, but I’ve seen it elsewhere too, just never on anyone’s robes, clothes, or banners.

Because no one would dare use the character ‘Emperor’ as their sigil, not unless they were the actual Emperor himself.

