And slip I most certainly do as Zhen Shi kicks the back of my knee, the impact dulled and softened by Pong Pong’s Domain Deflection only to explode at the last moment with enough force to snap tendons and shatter bones. The impact sends me tumbling headfirst into the sands with Buddy cradled to my chest, and I have time enough to tuck and roll before coming back to a single foot and wrenching my shoulder free from Zhen Shi’s steely grasp which has yet to fully close around me. All pure instinct and reaction, courtesy of my Natal Lizard Brain’s quick thinking and use of Domain Deflection, so really, it could’ve gone much worse. Cold sweat drips down my spine as I Cloud-Step away to safety and Zhen Shi lets loose with another scream of frustrated fury, but I can hear the hunger and confidence oozing from of him. It’s only a matter of time before he captures me again, because he’s adjusting faster than I can progress, doubly so because I’m flying by the seat of my pants and have no real idea what I’m doing.

Par for the course really, but again, I would like to reiterate that this is totally unfair. Give me another century and I could probably curb-stomp Zhen Shi without blinking, but as things stand now, I am sorely out matched.

Sneezing twice in adorable chagrin, my doggo shoots me an aggrieved look while emanating a general sense of resentment. I think he wants to know why I’m not moving faster, because this is no longer fun and he would like to stop being chased. I’m sorry puppy, but this is as fast as I can go, which I do my best to emote while still fleeing for my life, having lost all the ground that I’d gained and then some as Zhen Shi draws ever closer behind me. Grumbling in dissent as if I just refused to share my dinner, Buddy squirms in my grasp until I’m no longer cradling him against my chest. Instead, I’m forced to hold him with his chest resting on my palm and his belly laid out flat over my outstretched arm, while his butt is tucked into my armpit like he’s a giant, furry football and I’m the worst running back there ever lived. In my panic to keep from dropping him, I almost let Zhen Shi grab hold of me no less than three times, but my doggo is adamant we switch over to this new position, because for some strange, inexplicable reason, he’s telling me he needs his head held high and front paws free.

So he can paddle limply at the air like a tired swimmer just fighting to stay afloat.

The second paw goes out, then he tries again, only to shoot me a doggy frown to inquire why it isn’t working, except I have no idea what he’s trying to accomplish and what exactly went wrong. Rather than communicate his ideas through emotions and actions however, Buddy grows frustrated by my lack of understanding and goes back to paddling at the air in the same lazy, limp-wristed manner, alternating between one paw and the next with a significant delay in between each attempt. It’s clear he’s trying to swim, but even if he could swim through the air, he’d need to move his paws faster, except he seems to think this lacklustre effort is more than enough. Probably because he’s used to swimming like this in my Natal Sea, but he’s not even using his back paws, which are tucked between my arm and his belly like the lazy loaf he is. So adorably stupid, and I love him to bits even more. This isn’t my Natal Palace, Buddy. You can’t just zip away through the water using a single paw, because…

Because…

Well… because that was my Natal Sea, not reality, except right now, we’re sorta in my Natal Sea which has sorta been Manifested into reality, right?

Man… I hate having to figure out everything for myself. Why can’t I just google the META tactics for Water-Blessed Warriors and go from there?

Seeing no reason why it shouldn’t work, I give Buddy’s idea a shot, with a few modifications to improve upon it. I can’t swim faster than I can Cloud-Step, not even in my Natal Palace, but conservation of energy still applies, so I conjure up a massive wave of Water Chi which launches me to new and thrilling heights. Buddy and Pong both emanate a sense of satisfied glee as we hurtle through the air and leave my pursuer behind, with my Manifested Domain Deflecting the air before me to not only minimize drag but also protect me from what I assume are gale force winds. It’s not the speed of sound, but it’s faster than I’ve ever moved before as the world blurs into an indistinct haze. Belatedly wondering how hard the landing is gonna be, I find myself pleasantly surprised as my lizard brain deploys a stream of Water Chi to absorb all the impact without slowing me down in the slightest, like a parasailer touching down on the water with water-skis strapped to his feet. As I launch myself a second time, the gap between me and Zhen Shi opens up significantly, with the furious torturer trailing dozens of metres behind, but that doesn’t mean I’m safe just yet. It would take less than a second to cross that distance, which means even my new and improved top speed isn’t enough to leave Zhen Shi in my dust, so I take another hint from Buddy’s actions and stop running in a straight line.

A short Cloud-Step to the North followed by a longer one to the East North East opens up the gap significantly as Zhen Shi overshoots his initial follow up and goes too far North to keep up. Though still only a Cloud-Step away, I’ve opened up enough distance to have to squint to see him, which is a load of pressure off my back. Finally with some time to think, I let my lizard brain continue to watch for danger while I Cloud-Step away with all haste and review the cards in my hand. Thus far, Peace, Tranquility, and Unity have been useless because they can’t keep up with my speed, because I’m propelling them in a different manner from Mama Bun’s raft. The weapons move independently from my Domain, which works because I can Materialize a separate Domain around them, since we are one. This lets them do their own thing for the most part, but they’re unable to keep up with even my normal Cloud-Stepping speed, and now they’re trailing far behind, but my lizard brain picks up on my distress and offers me a pleasant surprise as he guides me to reach out with my left hand and pluck Peace from the Void. I don’t know how I did it, because I could sense that Peace was far away, then it was in my hand, not shooting into my grasp as it did before, but just appearing there out of thin air. That’s not all though, because now that I know I can anchor Peace the same way I’ve anchored Mama Bun’s raft, I’ve subconsciously done just that and now Peace’s speed will always be relative to me until I send it off once again. Before, I was cruising along and expected my sword to keep up, but now I’ve got it fixed to my Domain like a sidecar on a motorcycle, which will stay there until I decide it’s more useful as a weapon once more.

Barely able to believe how easy this is, I pluck Tranquility from the Void as well, but this time, I anchor it behind me more like a kite on a string, one that can swoop around of its own volition and keep Zhen Shi from kicking my knees in a second time. Unity I keep in hand, and I realize I’ve been overcomplicating things from the start, because I just need to behave as if my Materialized Domain is an extension of me, one that is sometimes here in reality and other times there in the Void. The same goes for my Spiritual Weapons, because they are part and parcel of who I am, reforged not just from my blood and bones, but from the very essence of my soul.

I am One with the Weapon. I am One with the Water. Now, it’s time to become One with the World.

Reality ripples as my Domain Manifests even further, and my eyes spot a scintillating shimmer that might well be the reflection of sunlight upon the water, though I suspect this is only visible to me. There are degrees to this Materialization business, and I’ve taken it a step further, for I can now feel the water flowing around me and drinking in the sun’s heat. The sand no longer can touch me, while Buddy and Mama Bun are similarly protected as we all surf along the surface of my Natal Sea while Cloud-Stepping faster and faster away from my foe. All the while I sink deeper into the water in both body and mind as the mysteries of my Blessing unfold before my eyes, with waves of Insight and comprehension washing over me without so much as a conscious effort. The Laws of Water, one might say, the secrets behind one of the four fundamental forces of Creation and Destruction laid bare, and for the first time in my life, I am finally willing to accept them.

Before, I rejected these truths because I was unwilling, unable, and unworthy, so dependent on my identity and origins as Rayne that I refused to accept anything that might jeopardize my fragile state of mind. Rayne came from a world of science, so I had to adhere to science above all else in order to suppress my memories of this life and everything Amigui went through. Thus, anything that didn’t fit within my limited understanding of science was simply impossible and discarded as stupid. The problem is, there are many things science can’t explain just yet, and even more that I’m too stupid to grasp, meaning I ended up rejecting a lot of valid information for no reason other than I couldn’t understand it. That hasn’t changed, as there are many things I still don’t understand, but I’ve come to accept that I can’t explain everything. Not because there is no explanation out there, but rather because I am not yet smart or knowledgeable enough to understand the explanation. Sure, there are some vague analogues to science within the Dao that a smarter man might be able to link together, but while I understand the general concept of quantum physics and how something can be in two places at once, knowing this doesn’t really help me explain how I was able to reach out and grab my sword from several hundred metres away. That’s okay though, because there’s no rule that says faith and science cannot co-exist. Perhaps there will come a time when I possess knowledge and understanding enough to better explain all this, but for now, I am happy to take it all on faith that it’s possible, and move on from there.

In short, logic can help deepen my understanding of the Dao, and I will continue my endeavours to science the shit out of everything, but when I come across something my limited understanding of science can’t explain, I will no longer allow this lack of understanding to freeze me in my tracks.

This empowering realization arrives not a moment too soon as Zhen Shi’s punch lands squarely on the back of my head. Or it would have if not for Pong Pong’s Domain and Tranquility getting in the way, but even then, it’s enough to send me stumbling forward. Rather than scramble to run again, I lash out with Unity and clip Zhen Shi in the ribs thanks to my Spiritual Senses guiding my hand, and his scream of pain and alarm is oh so delicious to hear. Sending Buddy all my love, I let go and leave him to swim on his own with my lizard brain to protect him and Mama Bun both. Freed of all other concerns, I let loose with a scream of my own and go on the offensive once more, because I am sick and tired of running scared.

A wave of Water Chi crashes into my foe, keeping him off-balance long enough for my glaive to hammer home, but Zhen Shi backhands the blade aside and sends my Sword Force scything through the sands. A jab lances towards my face, but my feet skate over the sands as I surge away upon a tide of Water Chi, which combined with the physical act of dodging aside is enough to move me out of reach. Bringing the butt of my glaive up to strike, I connect with Zhen Shi’s wrist and am rewarded with the crack of bone, but it doesn’t slow him one bit as he pounces forward with deadly intent. His punch flies wide as the current brings me away while simultaneously pushing him off target, a push-pull effect brought about by two parallel streams moving in opposite directions. This is the way, I realize this now, the basic concept so familiar and ingrained that finding new ways to apply it is as easy as turning a hand.

It's one of the first lessons I learned, to push and pull. It matters not what weapon you use, so long as you mean to swing it, but you simply push down on the upper end of your grip and pull up on the lower end to maximize the force of your attack. Now however, I am no longer limited to my body alone, for I have a Domain to utilize as well, but the push-pull is not the only tool in my arsenal.

Hit hard and fade away, the force of a tidal wave followed by the calm of the storm. This is not only appropriate, but also the only way I can contend with Zhen Shi and keep him at arm’s length. Freeing Peace from my side now that I’ve decided to stand and fight, I send it hurtling through the air towards my opponent’s face, but he catches it between two fingers once more. Unwilling to give up, Peace violently twists in his grasp and moves a single centimetre forward before Zhen Shi gets it under control, just in time for my boot to slam into Peace’s hilt and drive it even further along. Tilting his head to avoid death, Zhen Shi lets go of my sword to grab at my ankle instead, only to leap away as Unity cuts through the space his neck previously occupied.

