Below in the Green Zone, it only feels as though minutes have gone by during our month in the Ravine.

Yet, with no way of contacting or viewing the two humans that have jumped through zones, it is impossible to know this fact.

Following the initial shock of the Realm Wave, far more than just these first few minutes begin to pass.

–

Ava, with the help of many stronger 1st and 2nd Class Elemental-wielding Lords, builds the base of a new Grand Citadel floating in the sky. At first, they have to rely on the leftover ether commands, divine energy, and mana from the viewing stands and protection layers that Ren preserved.

However, after about an hour, most of the Green Zone's dense clouds of energy in the zone have all flowed back in to fill the gaps where the massive battles took place and drained the energy from the environment.

A very unique-looking structure floats above the green clouds where the old black dome used to sit.

This one is roughly the same size, over 1 million kilometers in diameter, but its base is an open-air disk.

There is no solid covering over its top, only white translucent protective ether commands.

This is the bottom layer of the New Grand Citadel.

It has been terraformed to create many zones filled with all kinds of elemental environments.

The freed Demonic Servants that used to maintain the old Wilderness help to organize and recreate habitats for the hundreds of millions of Lords that have instinctually sworn loyalty to the rising emperor, but are still beasts, and are not intelligent enough to fit into a society.

Ava uses large amounts of complex data from the Lower Realm, sorting the organized information sent up from Alveron and Bri; telling her what races will most likely be able to live in harmony together and which ones will often fight. This is all taken into account while forming these new biomes.

The massive citadel takes shape to have a second floating disk, about half the size of the first, a few hundred thousand kilometers above the Wilderness.

This is where many of the civilized Lords, 5th to 1st Class, all begin to claim plots and build districts and towers; mimicking the designs of the old inner city, but far larger and including many of the newer intelligent Lords that lived their whole lives on the edge of death, adventuring in the Wilderness as ether-refining slaves before.

There is a final disk that floats above even this city that is slowly built up, and it is the highest and smallest of them all. Yet, it is still almost double the size of the Ellipsia Citadel.

This is where Ava stands, giving mental commands, surrounded by a few hundred Elites.

The griffon from the battle earlier has finished its main job of holding up the portions of the Citadel with its wind magic at each stage of construction, and now stands beside this goblin queen in awe, watching her work.

Strong vibrations ripple through this top disk, as everyone still tests the strengths of each other and creates a mental hierarchy, with Ava far above at the top.

Zashen stands behind all of them, peering down and out into the Green Zone—a proud Berserker Giant that has completed his life's goal five times over, killing Noble Demons with his own raw power.

Now, his aura is concealed, so as not to frighten the entire Citadel. But Ava knows the strength of the demons he killed, and he has taken the role as this Citadel's protector while Ava works the logistics.

–

Arie and Raven arrive at the Mensa Citadel, and the sight they find is not exactly expected.

It is a floating city, a similar size to the Ellipsia Citadel, yet the streets are filled with chaos.

There are a large number of avatar corpses lining the roads, and it's simple to discern that they are Demonic Servants, and even some Demonic Beasts...

When the two humans, carrying long swords and a bow, descend to the edge of their home, they're met with suspicious glares.

However, the leaders of a few large groups that seem to have led the attacks on these servants and beasts are Berserker Giants.

They are not Elites, nor have they awakened any path, but a resonance in their souls gives off readings of familiarity with the two humans that stare down at them.

"Lower your weapons! These are generals of the Rising Emperor! Can't you see!" A yell comes out from the crowd, and many check their systems.

Raven sends an alert to all of them to prove it, but Arie's gaze still dissects the crowds and the city far beyond the group that came to meet them. He eyes the demonic beasts that have been slain and wonders where they came from.

This is the home base for the High Noble Demon that was conducting all of these tests with his transfusion skill in the first place.

Arie's aura grows in intensity as he activates his greater spirit form to multiply the borrowed stats' power, and stares deeper into the Citadel.

It feels dark, and the countless years of oppression in these streets can be felt. It is quite ominous, even after their leader has died.

He nods and sends Raven a mental message: "See what Ava has begun to do? I think this place needs to be reconstructed too. Make sure all the citizens know what is about to happen... I need to take care of that Demon's leftover projects. It seems not all the Beasts have been killed."

He flies over the crowds, straight to the central tower of the Citadel, and opens up its locked ether commands to let himself inside easily.

The archer flies down to the lowest floor of this tower, that is thousands of kilometers below the street level of the Citadel, to open up the massive chamber blocked off by High Noble Grade barriers.

Inside, there are thousands of Demonic Beasts.

Arie can sense dozens of other smaller structures like this with weaker barriers in other parts of the city, which is where the strays must have escaped out to be slaughtered before.

"You're not enemies..." he whispers, scanning the massive pit.

While thousands of Demonic Beasts look up at him, there are tens of thousands of corpses beneath them.

The wave of Royal Vibrations from the Rising Emperor's fight before managed to even seep through these walls, tens of millions of kilometers away. Those that did not submit were killed; those that did are here.

They were just mistaken for enemies.

Arie smirks and closes the ether commands of the door behind him, making sure not to let any aura escape to the citizens above.

Then, he lets his Vibrations, and thousands of light purple spirit hands, burst through the room.

All of the Demonic Beasts' mad animalistic reactions to an intruder cease the moment they realize this being above them is related to the one that they swore their loyalty to, in order to survive.

–

Abby rides on Seraphel's head as they fly above the green clouds.

The fortress Citadel appears, revealing many strange ancient cubic-shaped structures all over the sky.

It is the storage citadel that has stood in this zone, even here when this Blue Wyvern first arrived himself; and it doesn't look like it's changed at all.

When they arrive at one of the entry points, the thick layers of ether commands send notifications into their consciousnesses as if this is just a normal arrival at the Fortress.

However, once they arrive at one of the contact points where thousands of guards are lined up at the front-facing wall on small platforms, a few hundred kilometers apart, it is clear that this is no normal arrival.

Information streams through both the healer and Wyvern's mind, pinpointing each of the guards' names, home world, and all of their vital information. They too were affected by the massive burst of Royal Vibrations in the battle today.

When they touch down in front of a straight-faced High Orc, Seraphel returns to his lowest energy-cost form, and reverts to the blue-eyed human form he acquired after soul bonding with Abby.

The two of them walk forward, and the guard nods.

This is the same guard that welcomed the two red Ogres into the fortress to receive Asic and Torvak's items from long-term storage, and allowed them to drop off Ember's package without any issue.

The corner of his mouth curls up as he speaks.

"Seraphel, it's been a few wars since I've seen you, hasn't it?"

He nods back.

"It has. Hopefully, that was the last."

Then looks up at the Citadel.

"Well... the last in this zone at least. I need access to my old vault. Can you bring us to it?"

The guard enters a few commands into his system, and the door behind him begins to open.

"Of course."

The green- and blue-haired humans walk into the maze-like passageways of the Ancient Fortress Citadel.

–

Beneath the Grand Citadel, while progress is being made all over the Green Zone, Ren and Ember are still in the same position.

The red-haired human form of this dragon sleeps on his back, gently smiling.

There are countless stacked glyphs and runic arrays glowing beneath him.

The white-haired elf is on the verge of leaving their conscious state to return to a dormant life-saving mode; yet it can't until it knows that this being is safe.

A full 1% of borrowed stats from the new Administrator role is being used to its full potential, and waves of warm vibrations fill the air, vibrating through the bottom of the Zone.

Despite the clouds all closing back in to cover the sky where the Grand Citadel is rebuilt, the white glow is strong enough to become visible through them after a while.

It gets hotter and more intense as over an hour passes.

The elf drains all of the ambient energy from the surroundings, and finally the growing number of arrays stops stacking on top of each other. They all pulse and spin in unison, then a bright white pillar of light bursts up from them.

The most intense portion of the hot white vibrating light focuses on Ember's chest, but the excess waves of energy surge upward and through the bottom of the new Grand Citadel.

It doesn't affect the structure at all, but does surge through a few hundred thousand Lords that happen to be in its path.

All of their eyes widen in awe as their bodies are filled with energy. All of their fatigue, mental fog, and avatar damage that has ever been accrued in their lives is instantly healed. Many of them yell out from the blissful experience, and a large amount of the Lower Class Lords even instantly have their potential forcefully increased.

There are 5th Class Lords that instantly become as strong as 3rd or even 2nd Class monsters, and many 3rd and 2nd Class Lords that instantly become near 1st Class powerhouses.

Furthest away at the top of the Citadel, all of the Elites that stand in tight circles are enveloped in this light, and feel their Vibrations resonate on a warm and soothing wavelength. All of them fall into a daze, as if they're all sharing a group enlightenment.

This is merely the result of the excess energy, Ember is receiving the bulk of this technique's power.

The years of hibernation his body and mind were prepared to be subjected to are being internally fast-forwarded, as he allows this familiar white aura into his soul.

The maximum output of this burst lasts less than 30 seconds, and it expands outward as it's released; spreading weaker waves of white light all throughout the Citadel, and even far out into the Green Zone.

All of the arrays shatter at once, and Ember's eyelids begin to move while his fingers twitch.

A wave of silver threads ripples through his body, and information about his soul bond begins to echo into his consciousness.

The Dragon's crimson eyes open wide, and he stares upward without moving at all. The center of his pupils shimmer with golden and silver threads as he stares deep into empty space for a few seconds.

When he blinks again, his eyes return to a plain crimson, and he sits up to catch a small white-haired elf's limp body before it hits the floor.

He stands up with Ren in his arms, and slowly walks toward the Reactor at the bottom of the Green Zone.

"So that is how it's going to go. Maria has finally begun to embrace her path, and started to interfere with the system too... Maybe it really will be the last reset this time."
