They started bombarding Jake as he was back to living in a bullet hell, but she had evidently gotten weaker as he managed to avoid them relatively easily. They did make it harder to attack, and since there were fewer orbs to control, Yrelstromoz could still defend while attacking.

The fight entered a relatively uneventful phase as they shot low-stakes attacks at one another, both just waiting for an opportunity where the other one fucked up. Jake found several minor openings, courtesy of her lack of combat experience, that allowed him to land solid arrows, turning the tide of battle more in his favor by the second.

Realizing this, Yrelstromoz unleashed even more magic as the land around them came alive. She manipulated the earth and wind to stop Jake’s offense, but he’d seen her tricks before and dodged everything she threw at him as he kept landing arrow after arrow.

Seemingly desperate, Yrelstromoz roared, summoning a magic circle in the sky that exploded a moment later, sending out a shockwave of physical light that forced Jake toward the ground. At the same time, all the beams that had been floating in the sky shot towards her at once, using up the rest of their energy in the process.

Jake was forced to dodge backward and away as he felt the atmosphere change once more. He felt the light of the world dim, the environmental mana move, and as he looked toward the True Dragon, he saw her take a deep breath yet again.

Fucking-

Before he could even finish his thought, the planet was lit up for the second time in quick succession. Jake felt this one was weaker than the last, but that didn’t mean it was weak. Jake considered his options for a moment and quickly decided on his course of action. All the orbs shot in straight lines, forming a tunnel around him that stopped his use of One Step, and with the scope and speed of the breath, dodging out of the way seemed improbable.

That’s why he didn’t even try, as he stopped and drew his bow. Right before he started charging, he released a blast of arcane energy to shoot himself upwards through the many beams of light, at a speed that wouldn’t allow him to get away from the breath at all.

As he drew his bow, Jake’s perception of time slowed down as always, and he’d barely managed to start charging his Arcane Powershot when the second Dragon’s Breath was upon him. This time around, he had no defenses up, instantly triggering Moment of the Primal Hunter.

Time slowed to a crawl before stopping entirely. Jake was unmoving, the world still as he made quick mental calculations to ensure he would avoid the Dragon’s Breath once he allowed time to slowly start moving again.

After confirming, he continued channeling his energy, making the world move as he did. He continued flying upwards, through several beams, as he simply tanked the damage and fought through the pain as his Arcane Powershot channeled.

Time fully resumed as Jake had barely gotten out of the Dragon’s Breath, still feeling its energy shear away at his lower body despite not getting struck directly as it flew past right beneath him. Yrelstromoz stopped the Dragon’s Breath as quickly as she could after realizing she’d missed, but it was already too late.

Jake loosed the Arcane Powershot, and having just used her breath, Yrelstromoz was in no state to defend as she was struck directly and sent reeling back with a new hole in her chest. Jake shot another arrow quickly after that, standing completely still as he did so to take full advantage of this opening where she couldn’t muster a response.

After shooting the second arrow without moving, Jake activated a skill he’d not found the opportunity to fully use before now. Timeless Focus activated as Jake entered a state of rapid fire, shooting a constant barrage of arrows that rained down on Yrelstromoz as she was still recovering.

She was struck by nearly thirty arrows in quick succession before Yrelstromoz had the chance to activate her magic again. However, before she could even do anything, Jake landed a Primal Gaze, allowing him to keep rapid firing, increasing the number of arrows sticking out of her to over fifty.

Jake ignored the splitting headache as he continued shooting, but as Primal Gaze’s effect expired, Yrelstromoz finally managed to make him move, stopping Jake’s Timeless Focus.

With a powerful release of mana, the True Dragon roared as her wings spread, the ground erupting once more as the entire land rose beneath her. At the same time, she released a powerful shockwave of light with physical properties, striking Jake, knocking him back, and blinding him for the umpteenth time this fight.

Quickly recovering, Jake was ready for the follow-up as he released a Pulse to see what Yrelstromoz was up to... her course of action something that shouldn’t really have come as a surprise.

Yrelstromoz shot into the air with impressive speed, flapping her wings quickly as she flew. Jake instantly realized what she was doing, and the second physical shockwave of light that sought only to push him away confirmed it.

She was running.

Jake wasn’t sure if that was even an option for her anymore, considering the poison running through her body and her existing wounds, but Jake wasn’t going to risk anything. He’d known this was a possibility, which was why he’d kept one final card hidden in case this happened.

Based on her speed as a True Dragon specialized in the light affinity, she was far faster than Jake and was rapidly approaching the upper atmosphere already. Jake wasn’t concerned, though, as he stared calmly up towards her, knowing that no matter how fast she flew or how far away she got, she had no escape. He’d locked in on her already, and with his Hunter’s Mark as a guide, he activated his capstone class skill as reality shifted.

“Event Horizon.”
