“Well, I was thinking we could explore Serindell,” she said. The ghost immediately nodded, and Pyre snorted in amusement at his obvious eagerness.

“It’s a lovely city,” Llyr agreed. “I haven’t found another place quite like it.”

“You’re not from here?”

The healer shook his head. “I moved to Serindell about a year ago,” he explained. “The people here have been incredibly kind.”

“Probably helps that you heal people for free,” Pyre drawled, shoving another leaf into her mouth. Callan kicked her under the table, but Llyr just chuckled.

“That is true,” he said. He glanced out the window at the rolling waves. It was still bright out, the temperature reaching its peak before it would cool down after the sun began to set. Llyr turned back to the table, expression becoming serious.

“If you’re visiting the city,” he began, “I do recommend you return before nightfall.”

Daphne and Callan exchanged looks. “Is this about the disappearances?” Callan asked tentatively, thinking back to the driver’s words. “So it’s not just rumors?”

Llyr’s eyes darkened. He set his fork down and rose from his chair, stepping over to a small dresser sitting in the corner and sliding open the drawer. There were some rummaging sounds, then he returned to the dining table, a stack of papers in hand. He set them down.

They were newspapers, Pyre saw, all of them containing similar headlines to the one she’d seen in the store. “Local X gone missing.” “Person mysteriously vanished.” A quick scan of the articles revealed that the dates went back to a few months ago.

That made the demon pause. Her eyes narrowed, eyeing the dates again consideringly.

Daphne, meanwhile, was staring intently at the newspapers, memorizing the faces of all the missing people. It was a lot, considering how relatively recently the disappearances had begun. “No one has any idea what’s going on?” she asked.

The healer shook his head. “No. None of the victims have been found, and there are no leads. The only real connection is that all of the people missing are from the Outer Ring.” He frowned, gaze shifting to the three of them. “Considering how little is known right now, I’d advise you to be cautious.”

Daphne and Callan both nodded seriously while Pyre continued scanning the articles.

Maybe it was the revelation of the ward around her soul still being at the front of her mind, but she couldn’t help but notice that the dates on the newspapers would put the disappearances as beginning around when construction first started on Magrath’s sanctum.

It wasn’t a 1:1 timeline, and both dates were before she’d woken up in Fred’s stomach, but they were all in close enough succession to give her pause.

Pyre didn’t actually know when her soul had been shattered, after all. It could’ve happened a while before she’d woken up. It could’ve happened right after.

The demon picked up the earliest newspaper. The article on this one was much smaller than the others, the writer not yet knowing what that single disappearance would turn into. Her eyes narrowed.

Well, she thought. Since they were going to be staying here for a bit anyway, she supposed it wouldn’t hurt to look into things.
