Moving on, Ron was hardly the only reborn to attend, either. Most were Talons—many of whom Lea had sparred with before her long seclusion—but some few were not—essentially those who were the martially dis-inclined spouses of the Talons. Then, there were the few reborn children like Talax. When they joined the cousins, the games shifted, much to Lea’s obvious uncertainty, but when Talax challenged her directly, they broke into teams, with those two as the ‘heads’, picking people for the game.

That… made Tala nervous. Letting Lea interact with others in a tame series of interactions was one thing. In a highly competitive one? That was something else.

Talax’s involvement was another factor, as the boy seemed to bring out both the best and worst in Lea.

The ra-ball game was both surprisingly vicious, in that it seemed that all the kids involved gave it their all—when magic wasn’t factored in—and surprisingly sporting, in that the reborn children—and Lea—were obviously pulling their use of magic so as to keep the mundane children interested.

The fact that the reborn were sweating and breathing hard was evidence enough of that.

Kedva joined Tala on the sidelines, watching their children compete, and they both enjoyed the camaraderie of competition, just as they hoped their children did.

The younger woman whispered in a conspiratorial tone, fully aware that both of their children were likely able to hear anyway. “It's cute how they’re holding back around the other children.”

Tala quirked a smile at the comment. “Though, they don’t hold back as much when it's just the two of them, head to head.”

“Regardless, both of them are showing impressive control. They haven’t broken even a single stick yet.”

“True, though I was more concerned about the leather ball popping under a too-strong strike. Though, you’re right, they are both showing impressive restraint.”

Kedva’s smile turned full of pride. “I fully agree.”

Lea’s frequent glances toward where Tala watched showed that the girl was, indeed, keeping her needed restraint and control solidly in mind.

The adults mainly stood around and chatted, though some participated in other games, and as the majority of the guests arrived, it turned into a true celebratory event.

Rather than having a single, large sit down, various groups of guests were flagged and set down for mini-meals for short periods, to encourage mixing and mingling.

Each guest was involved in three or four such mini-meals over the course of the fun-filled afternoon and evening, ensuring they had plenty to eat and got some ‘forced’ interaction with a wide spread of the other guests.

They also made sure that every guest had at least one such meal with Lea, Tala, and Rane.

All told, Lea had an absolutely fantastic day greeting guests, playing games, chatting, and eating her favorite foods, and she was incredibly excited. She hadn’t had a single slip up that day, and if she did just as well the next?

She’d be exiting the sanctum once again, at long last.

Now, that is sure to feel like a birthday treat.

-Yes, indeed. But let’s not get ahead of ourselves. I do wonder what tomorrow will bring.-

Me too, Alat. Me too.
