With that failure, Shiv looked back to his Last Morsel. A bitter feeling welled up inside him once more, but there was a tinge of hope as well. He could, of course, still make meals. But it wouldn't be done by his hands. No, it needed to be consecrated through the System’s sadistic bestowal, something that was as much a weapon designed for murder as it was a cooking instrument.

Shiv looked up at the mold-choked ceiling, narrowing his eyes. Is that why you gave it to me? Is that why I got this as a reward from the mana core?

The System, as always, remained silent.

It was always silent, unless it was trying to expose him to new kinds of conflict or rewarding him with a level gained, a piece of equipment, a new Feat, Skill, or Blessing.

The System took, gave, and provoked, but it never soothed, it never consoled, it never cared.

Shiv cared. Shiv struggled. Shiv needed to cook. But he couldn’t. There was no easy choice—no simple way for him to overcome this Curse. His heart broke as he realized he would likely need to use the Last Morsel to make up for what he lacked. But he also vowed that after this was done, he would rip this fucking Curse out of himself and shove it up Maiden’s ass.

Shiv immediately began rooting through himself using his soul, desperately trying to find where Maiden had left her foul touch imprinted upon his soul. If he could discover it, then maybe he could break it. But Curses and Blessings weren’t like skills. They were far more nebulous—borderline untraceable, much like his Unique Skills.

“Godsdammit!” Shiv hissed to himself when he couldn't find the Curse anywhere within his being. "Later… Later. I'll find a way. I swear on all the fucking gods I know and the System itself, I'll find a way."

For now, he wanted to try maintaining his pieces of flesh one more time. If he was forced to use his Last Morsel, he would at least do all he could to prepare the ingredients before letting his Legendary item take over.

He threw a new series of meat strips on the grill, and he bade his mana hydra to converge on it. The meat burned and bubbled, searing and crackling on the grill, then cracking and vomiting rivers of blood like a dying animal. His vision doubled as his rage worsened. His Psycho-Cartography screamed inside him as his skills went to war with each other.

Psycho-Cartography 98 > 100 (Skill Evolution Imminent)

Berserk 40 > 47
