“It means strong enough to turn you and everything around you into meat paste with a flick of his finger.” Which meant Rain had a point about trusting the Monk, except at the time, he had yet to learn the Monk was a Divinity. Her poor, sweet, trusting Rain, so stupid and naive. Imperial Consort or not, he would need more help than Yan could provide to survive the world of cut-throat politics he’d been thrust into. “Do you know how conceited you sound? Taking responsibility for the death of a Divinity? The Monk died because the Defiled killed him. A room full of Divinities couldn’t save the Monk either, so why blame yourself?”

“Because he was there to protect me, and because I could have saved him if -”

“If what? If you weren’t you? If you’d made a different choice years ago? If you’d known in advance what you know now? What if Taduk were a thousand times better at Healing? What if the Azure Ascendant had gone with the Monk instead of doing Heavens knows what around Nan Ping? What if the Monk hadn’t forced the Immortal’s hand? What use is there in playing this game?” Blowing out a sigh, Yan shook her head and continued, “What I don’t understand is how you could trust the Monk after only knowing him for a week, but couldn’t talk to Mila or Lin, Alsantset or Charok, any one in your family or circle of friends?”

Yan wasn’t angry at him, but herself for leaving and at everyone else for not seeing how much he was suffering. So full of pain and self-condemnation, the look in his eyes made her heart ache with misery as he answered, “Because I’m afraid. I’m afraid of looking into your eyes, or Mila’s, or Lin’s, and seeing horror and disgust. I’m afraid of giving my family more reasons to regret saving me, of proving them wrong for standing by me. I’m afraid of being abandoned by my family and friends, left alone to face this world without their love and support, the only reasons I’ve made it as far as I have...”

“It’ll never happen. We love you too much.”

“You say it and I want to believe it, but my fear has long since left the realm of rationality.” Smiling weakly as he hugged her close, he added, “I’m trying my best to work through it. This was progress, but believe it or not, there’s still a lot to cover. Take a break and pick up where we left off in the morning?”

Ignoring his vulgar leer which filled her with burning desire, Yan kissed him and said, “I want to, but I can’t stay the night. I haven’t told Grandpa about us and I want him to hear it from me.” Grabbing him by the chin, she forced him to look her in the eyes and said, “Don’t you dare think even for a second I’m leaving because you’ve scared me off. Du Min Yan is not so easily dissuaded. You are mine and I love you, faults and all. Understand?”

“...Understood. I love you too. And I’ll talk to Mom and Dad about marrying you soon as I can.”

How adorable, he was calling them Mom and Dad now. “You better. Now close your eyes.” Still not ready to leave his embrace, Yan rested her chin on his chest and added, “I’ll stay until you’re asleep.”

“Then I won’t sleep.” Contrary to his declaration, Rain’s eyes were barely still open, ready to nod off at a moment’s notice. “Don’t want you to go.”

“Nor do I want to leave, my sweet Rain.”

“Gotta say, I’m loving how possessive you are. Are you gonna start a fight with Mila? A sexy fight, with hair pulling and shirt ripping...” And with that, Rain fell asleep before Yan could inform him she knew better than to start a fight with Mila, but if he wanted to see her slap one of his wives around, then Yan would happily oblige if pitted against his new concubine, the oh-so-perfect Zheng Luo.

Hmph. Mila and Lin were one thing, but for this complete stranger to swoop in and try to steal Yan’s lover?

Unforgivable. The big-breasted hussy would have to learn her place, and Yan looked forward to teaching her.

Chapter Meme
