However, all Jake saw was his new Event Horizon, and as the glimpse stopped and only the ring of light surrounding his target remained, Jake raised his bow and took aim. Desperately, the Formation Master tried to make her newly summoned golem go for Jake instead of Casper, but the Risen was quick to realize Jake was up to something and detonated the magic circle behind himself.

It released a torrent of ghosts who all looked slightly similar to Lyra, and they instantly swarmed the golem as Casper also placed several traps surrounding it, all of them exploding and releasing chains to bind and stop the summon.

Jake kept charging his Arcane Powershot, even as the Formation Master pointed a finger up towards him and shot out several small spears of magical scripts. They struck him in his stomach and chest, piercing into his body, but Jake didn’t move an inch.

Clearly desperate, the Formation Master yelled and made the surrounding floor of the ziggurat erupt, all the formations she’d been slowly working on instantly dismantled to create a single massive spear that she didn’t hesitate to launch towards the hunter.

Once more, Jake showed no reaction, though in this instance, he wasn’t actually planning on taking the hit. The spear was aimed straight for his chest, and rather than dodging or trying to block it, Jake did the exact opposite: he lowered his own defenses.

Just enough to ensure that when the spear got close enough, his danger sense reacted strongly, just as he'd wanted it to. With death seemingly imminent, time slowed as Jake claimed the moment. Despite the difficulty of moving while using Arcane Powershot, Jake slowly floated to the side, out of the way of the spear, all while continuing to channel his attack.

When time returned to normal, the spear shot past Jake harmlessly, its speed too fast for the Formation Master to stop it before the thing smashed into the Grand Labyrinth wall.

The Formation Master stared, more confused than ever, as Jake felt the attack was ready. He let go of the string as the Protean Arrow exploded forward, carrying every bit of Hunting Momentum Jake had built up so far.

It was then that the Formation Master made her final gambit. With one more ritual, she somehow summoned back the Guardian Golem to her side despite it being incapacitated by Casper. The golem didn’t hesitate to transform both its weapons into one massive tower shield that it placed between itself, the Formation Master, and the incoming arrow.

However... nothing would stop that arrow from reaching the horizon. Despite its massive speed, the Protean Arrow curved perfectly around the golem and struck the surprised Formation Master, who couldn’t even try to react due to a well-timed Primal Gaze.

She was struck right in the chest and blasted off the ziggurat and into the distance. The barrier protecting her body proved far more powerful than Jake and Casper could have possibly expected, proving capable of stopping the arrow... for a moment, anyway.

When she impacted the wall, the sudden stop of momentum forced the arrow through her barrier, shattering it like glass. The arrowhead made from Eternal Hunger pierced into her body and even slightly into the metal wall of the Grand Labyrinth, impaling her.

The Formation Master raised a hand and summoned a small magic circle, making Jake instantly react by nocking another arrow. However, before he could even shoot it, the boss's raised arm fell limply back down, her gaze grew vacant, and all energy drained from her body as the summoned golem also fell apart, becoming nothing more than a pile of broken metal.

You have slain [Aginian Formation Master – lvl 368] – Bonus experience earned for killing an enemy above your level

’DING!’ Class: [Arcane Hunter of Horizon’s Edge] has reached level 345 - Stat points allocated, +50 Free Points

’DING!’ Race: [Human (C)] has reached level 345 - Stat points allocated, +45 Free Points
