“Such a working is within the abilities of the Alaniar’s craftsmasters,” Jaromila observed. “The expense would be significant if it is meant for more than one use.”

“My Honored Mother does not wish matters of distance to ruin relations,” Cai Renxiang said in response. “We need but a location which the transportation anchor may be placed in.”

“If I may offer a suggestion,” Ling Qi offered. She had discussed this with Cai Renxiang already, and they had decided it was the best choice. “There is a valley less than two weeks’ journey from here which contains some ruins which might be refurbished for our purposes.”

The Hui ruin was a useful midpoint particular since the Sect was occupying the territory north of it. It was also far enough away to avoid spooking either side.

“I would need more details on the location,” Jaromila said thoughtfully. “Where is this valley?”

Having anticipated this, Ling Qi dipped her head and allowed Cai Renxiang to take the lead. Her liege was better at laying out exacting details. They took the opportunity to unroll the map they were given, depicting the Emerald Seas and the Wall, and their hosts in turn called for a map that they had on hand. It lacked the luxurious illumination and color of their gift map, but their map was still useful.

Ling Qi drank in the details as Cai Renxiang and the emissaries spoke on the placement of the valley and its geography. It didn’t show much of their lands. She saw the mark for this redoubt and a dozen similar marks dotted throughout the southern Wall. The furthest east was well south of the Grave, and the furthest west looked to be south of the Western Territories. Most were clustered in the area directly south of the Luo lands. It also showed the delineation of territory between the Sibiar and the Alaniar. This region was apparently a neutral strip with the Alaniar’s lands being further to the south and west.

Soon, the matter was hashed out, and the valley was carefully marked on the other side’s map.

“Workable,” Emissary Khadne grunted as they all sat back down, the maps left open on the table.

“We can have a small delegation provide the blood price to the site as soon as we return,” Cai Renxiang said. “It should not take more than a month to arrive.”

“I can have outriders available to watch the location,” Khadne said. “They can be in place in a matter of weeks.”

Ling Qi wasn’t sure if the woman was being competitive or not.

“Such a simple transaction will be good for mutual trust,” Jaromila said. “But I think it would be best to think about future interactions more. We will need further time to speak with our leaders and make adequate preparations for the site.”

“And we will need time to collect the materials for our sharing agreement,” Cai Renxiang agreed. “Do you wish to establish a timeframe for the next major meeting?”

“Being exact would just lead to problems,” Jaromila worried. “We will no doubt both run into troubles and obstructions. Shall we tentatively set it for the midsummer of the next year?”

Quickly counting in her head, Ling Qi clarified, “Midsummer being about eight months from now?”

“That is roughly correct,” Jaromila said. “We would agree to a wide span of availability at that time to avoid confusion until our scholars have determined how our calendars match.”

“That seems agreeable,” Ling Qi said.

“Now if only we all had proper oaths we could agree upon,” Khadne muttered. “This is enough for an initial meeting though.”

“Indeed. I am sure that in the future, we will find commonalities which both of our peoples may swear upon. Until then, you have my word and the honor of the Cai.”

“And my word with the honor of the White Sky,” Jaromila said pleasantly. “I hope we will see one another again, Cai Renxiang, Ling Qi. Will you be sharing our hospitality much longer?”

Her pronunciation of their names was still stretched by the accent of her speech, but she was clearly improving already.

“I think it would be best if we carried word back quickly,” Ling Qi said. “But we still need to present the rest of our gifts and it would be rude not to allow you to share a meal with us before we take our leave.”

“Indeed,” Cai Renxiang agreed, placing the silver ring containing their gifts on the table, “Please allow us to share the works of the Emerald Seas.”

***​

All too soon, it was time to go back out under the cold winter sun. The trip would be short this time. They were only traveling to the edge of the snowfield before using their escape talisman, and from there, it would be a week from the small fortress in the mountains back to the sect lands. Whatever came in the future though, this expedition had been a success.
