A massive ghostly version of the fusion of Casper and Lyra appeared, only to immediately fly down towards the B-grade dungeon boss. The golem stood still as its core started glowing with a blinding light, and the B-grade purposefully made its core reach critical failure as that annoying female voice spoke again.

“Self-destruct sequence initialized.”

Jake quickly reacted by erecting barriers and wrapping his wings around himself, and just as the golem reached and enveloped the B-grade’s body, it exploded. A shockwave washed over Jake, its energy a mixture of lightning and cursed blight. Jake was pushed back, and as he was, the world around him also became undone.

Casper’s domain shattered alongside the golem’s self-destruction as the ghost and boss were both destroyed alongside one another. The world within the domain and the real world bled together as the ground returned to being tiled floors, and the massive walls of the Grand Labyrinth appeared in the distance.

And then... all was silent. Jake stood back in the dungeon, and the next sound he heard was that of notifications from the system.

You have slain [Aginian Crisis Protocol Golem – lvl 375] – Bonus experience earned for killing an enemy above your level

’DING!’ Class: [Arcane Hunter of Horizon’s Edge] has reached level 349 - Stat points allocated, +50 Free Points

Despite confirming the kill, Jake didn’t relax. Through his sphere, he saw the scattered metal fragments of the golem’s body, but he also saw Casper, kneeling on the ground listlessly with both his hands lying powerlessly on the ground. What’s more, he had a wooden stake impaling his chest, making Jake quickly rush over.

“Hey...” Jake said, full of concern.

Casper moved his eyes to look at Jake, but all he could do was blink, telling Jake enough. In his current state, the Risen couldn’t even move.

“Should I take out the stake?” Jake asked.

Casper’s look told Jake no, making him nod. “Alright... I’ll just stand guard then.”

In about an hour, he could pour a spirit potion down Casper’s throat, but he couldn’t really do more to help than that. However, just as Jake considered sitting down to recover a bit himself, he realized something.

The dungeon isn’t completed yet.

That’s when Jake remembered... the objective wasn’t to kill any boss but to uncover the true purpose of the Grand Labyrinth. Right then, he vaguely felt the presence of something else as the robotic female voice that had activated the Crisis Protocol Golem appeared once more, this time far more noticeably than before. Jake was ready to fight if Minaga had actually gone as far as to implement yet another phase.

Jake felt the entire Labyrinth rumble, and in the sky, a head projection appeared, looking down at the two of them and speaking.

“Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consecrator adipiscing elit...”

All sense of danger immediately disappeared as Jake facepalmed and chuckled to himself. Still smiling, he watched as the face disappeared, only to be replaced with the face of the familiar Unique Lifeform that had created the dungeon.

“Right... right, I should actually put something here to complete the dungeon in case those two actually get here and beat the boss, well, both bosses...” Minaga spoke as he suddenly seemed to have a realization. “Wait! That means I can do a full-on lore-dump and they can’t even escape! Oh, man, in case you two ever hear this, let me tell you, the story of this place is actually really great and partly based on a true story, so even if you don’t have a choice either way, you really wanna hear this! You see, this Labyrinth was made to... no, no, I’ll save that for last. Let’s first cover the early historic periods of the Aginian empire so you can truly appreciate how we got here!”

Jake’s smile quickly faded as he had a feeling Casper would have plenty of time to recover before the dungeon officially ended.
