Mistress Jenna’s hand stopped, before she gave Tala a flat look. Her next utterance was more accusation than question. “Really.”

Tala smiled. “So long as you keep it within your aura while you touch it, it should be fine for transport, but if you want to put it in a contained space, so much the better.”

The older Reforged sighed, gesturing to an Archon who’d been waiting in the wings.

The man pulled out a small box, practically glowing with enough power as to be visible to mundane sight. Tala cocked her head to the side. “A containment cube? You had one on hand?”

Mistress Jenna smiled even as she closed the construct around the sphere of iron and reality. “I hoped that you’d give us one, and luck favors the prepared.”

Tala decided not to press the issue any further. “Fair enough.” She stretched back and groaned. “Alright, I need to bathe and sleep. It seems that tomorrow’s going to be a big day.”

Rane nodded. “Indeed it is. I’ll coordinate for us, get yourself a bit of rest.”

Tala leaned over and gave him a quick kiss. “Thank you, love.”

He smiled back. “Of course. You’ve had a harder day than I.”

Tala blinked a few times then sighed. “It has only been a day… hasn’t it…”

Rane nodded in clear sympathy.  “Indeed.” After a moment’s thought, he held out his hand, willing a mug of coffee into it even as he stretched it out toward her. “To tide you over.”

A smile blossomed across her features as she accepted, immediately taking a long pull from the dark liquid. “Thank you.”

He watched her with obvious care for a long moment before turning to the two older women. “Is there anything that I can do to assist before we depart tomorrow?”

Mistress Holly gestured toward Mistress Jenna. “I’ve no idea. Ask her, or better yet, find Mistress Elnea.”

Tala yawned again before taking another long drink. “I think I really do need the rest.”

He turned back and gave her a quick kiss in goodbye. “Go. I’ll be fine.”

She nodded once and willed herself into the sanctum.

Tala appeared in her bedroom, feeling the sudden weight of silence, the weight of all that had happened… the weight of loss.

So many had died that day, yet it didn’t feel real.

She snorted at that.

Real was exactly the right word for it, as it was things twisted by reality that had brought this about.

She stripped and slipped into a perfectly luxuriant bath, summoned by her will.

Tala let out an almost involuntary groan and sigh of contentment as the heat permeated through her.

As a Reforged, she could manually relax all her muscles, and soothe away most aches and pains, but there was just something about the natural methods that was superior.

She sat up only briefly to drink more coffee every once in a while, otherwise, taking the time to just be.

After all, tomorrow was another day, and tomorrow would host at least one more battle, and likely, there would be many more who fell.

Some casualties were unavoidable.

She shouldn’t feel too distraught.

Such was the reality of war.
