“The spell is nearly complete. I would warn you to gear yourself better, but you clearly have some ability to have survived this far. What happened to your fingers?”
Only now does he notice? I glance at my right hand.
“I lost them on the delivery.”
“Ah.”
The Dragon goes still above me. He stares at my hand, mid-way through his spell. I shrug, trying to ignore the feeling in my stomach.
“It was my fault. I—made a pact with the faeries. To save a life, I gave that up and a Gnoll tribe gave up their lives.”
“I see. I am sorry.”
Teriarch hesitates. He opens his massive maw a few times and closes his mouth, as if he wants to say something. His eyes flick left towards something, but he eventually remains silent. I half-grin.
“You know, I was prepared to give up my arm to save my friend, Erin. I didn’t know what I’d have to give up for your help.”
The Dragon shakes his head at me, utterly confused.
“An arm? What would I do with an arm?”
“I don’t know. I just thought—the faeries always demanded a sacrifice for their help, a big one. It never occurred to me to just ask for help or—trade.”
Teriarch snorts in derision, and waves one claw in front of his face. Why would a Dragon have such Human qualities? Maybe he learned it from observation? Or maybe—Humans learned it from him?
“You have been speaking too much with those pests. Their sense of duty and obligation—indeed, their price for intervention is far different from yours or even mine. I would advise avoiding their help unless completely necessary.”
See, this is why I shouldn’t go. I shift and stare up at Teriarch.
“Really? They’re that different? I thought since you and they were immortals you’d be the same.”
The Dragon goes for the bait. He snorts at me, and this time smoke makes me cough.
“Ah. My apologies. But your comparison is as humorous as it is insulting. I am a Dragon, not a being of nature. We are both immortal, true, but our roles are vastly different, as our capabilities. I take it that you are aware the faeries are not from this plane of existence?”
“I am.”
“They travel between worlds, and so they have different perceptions. In some places, or so I am told, the will of the world and fate can conspire against interference and punish those who would dare such folly. In the same way, Gods guard their demesnes jealously. Even the fae would not tempt the wrath of such beings lightly. Hence, their rules are kept and enforced among their kind.”
Oh. That makes a ton of sense. I try to give Teriarch my most engaged-student look. I’m bad at it. I never paid a lot of attention in class if I knew the material, but if Teriarch were my lecturer, I’d go to every class.
“Their superstitions and internal laws are meant to protect, but sometimes become redundant. In this world, for instance. The Gods are dead. They have more authority here, hence their control over the weather. But I suspect the fae dislike attachments and debt in any case, which is why they would refuse to help. Too, they love tradition, and would demand a gift for any great aid freely given.”
Gift? Was that my fingers? Or—no, that was an exchange. But could I get them a gift? An iPhone?
“But that is enough of faeries. Stay away from them, or not, but take my gift to the Gnolls. Tell them it is…for their future.”
I look back at Teriarch. Suddenly he looks tired again. He touches the teleportation circle at my feet and the symbols glow bright.
“I wish you the best of luck Ryoka Griffin, for the riddles as well as your device. It has been long since I have found this much enjoyment in mortal contact.”
Oh. It’s really over. I look up into those two magnificent eyes and feel a pang in my heart.
“Do I really have to go? So soon?”
“I am afraid so. I do not entertain mortal visitors for long. And this is too dangerous a place for casual visits in any case.”
I blink. Teriarch smiles at me. He’s right, of course, but even then, I disagree. I’d risk any peril to come back just to look at him. But can I return? Do I have permission to return? Did I have only this one chance?
“Do you think you’ll need a Runner in the future? For another delivery, perhaps?”
He laughs softly; the breeze ruffles my hair as he stares around his cavern, vast for me but barely adequate for him.
“I do not receive letters as you Humans do. If Reinhart has business with me, she will use mage spells. No; I am done with you. Rejoice, Ryoka Griffin. You have seen a Dragon and lived.”
He smiles at me, exposing rows of teeth that make me wonder what could ever challenge his kind. Not armies, not tanks—hell, a Tyrannosaurus Rex would roll over at the sight of those jaws. But he still looks far kinder than the mage I first met.
“Go. And tell no one of what you have seen. Hmm. Perhaps you will. But I would like to believe…yes, I would like to believe you can be trusted.”
“I swore I would not tell. You are only a…mage I met, once. I keep my promises, Teriarch.”
“Perhaps you do.”
He bows his head. And then he speaks a few last words as the light begins to shimmer around my feet.
“Huma—Ryoka. Even if it was mere flattery, I was glad to hear that your people still tell tales of my kind.”
I look him in the eye. Magic swirls around me. Do I have to go? I felt safe here. Safe and—
“I meant every word.”
One last smile. I have seen a Dragon smile.
“Farewell, Ryoka Griffin. We will not meet again.”
No. But before I open my mouth, I’m gone. The last thing I see is Teriarch’s smile. And then—
 
—-
 
Octavia hurled a potion bottle at Erin. It was empty and so Erin only dodged splintering glass. But the other girl was searching for more ammunition, and Erin had already dodged a chair and a set of scales.
“Get out!”
“I’m sorry! I didn’t know it would do that!”
Erin danced and dodged as Octavia raised a log of firewood like a club. The stitch-girl was trying to hit Erin as they danced around the shop counter when they heard a sound like rushing wind.
Both young women looked around just in time to see Ryoka appear two feet off the ground. The girl was frozen in place for a second until the swirling magic light around her vanished. Then Ryoka blinked, tried to take a step, smacked her head on the ceiling and fell to earth.
“Fu—”
She landed on the ground and crouched to distribute her weight. She did not fall over or stumble. Erin and Octavia looked impressed, before they remembered to gasp in shock.
“Ryoka!?”
“How did you—?”
Ryoka got up slowly. Her head was dizzy, and she felt vaguely like throwing up. She stared around the wrecked shop, with smoke clinging in the air and the smell of a thousand horrible things adding to the suffocating miasma. She stared at Erin, sheepish, wide-eyed, and Octavia, uncharacteristically upset. She nodded to herself and then pointed to the melted pot she’d seen earlier. The liquid was still bubbling in the ruined metal..
“Uh, try cooling down the carrots with something before you add in the Corusdeer horns. And use some flour as well.”
Both girls looked at each other, and then at Ryoka. Then Erin raised a hand.
“What kind of flour?”
