An undefinable pain twisted within his heart. Lira, his mentor, who had been so kind to him and helped guide him toward the path of balance, now lay trapped and decaying in a cursed acorn. He spent every night in Tree Form with her acorn nestled in his branches, trying to stave off the inevitable with his purifying aura, but she had been trapped in there so long that he despaired of ever saving her. It was a deep upwelling of helplessness that threatened to drown him – an emotion he hardly understood. How could anyone fight something like that?

Slowly, Ali walked back, looking more than a little haggard, and sat down beside him. Without words, she leaned against his arm.

“Thank you, Ali,” he said.

She glanced up at him, her eyes betraying a moment of confusion. “For what?”

“Getting the vials,” he said, wrestling with the tricky feelings that bubbled up inside.

“Of course,” Ali said, and then fell silent once again.

“I feel so useless,” he started, the words stumbling awkwardly from his lips as she turned to look at him again. “I mean, you found the wells and retrieved both vials. You had to get hurt by that eldritch monster to get the first one. Now you fought the Archmage and defeated him, mostly by yourself as far as I can tell. I care about saving Lira, too, but I feel like I’m dumping all the hard work on you. I just don’t know how to help.”

Ali gazed at him for a long time. Long enough that he wanted to ask her if she was ok. But then she just leaned over and rested her head against his arm again and murmured, “You have done far more than you think.”

And somehow, it was enough.

It would take some time for the tiny kernel of a smile inside his heart to make its way up to his face, but for now, he could concentrate on more mundane things. Like how much he’d grown over the course of the fight. It didn’t even hurt his pride that, although he was at a lower level, his gain was the same as Ali’s. She had given everything for the fight, and so had he, in his own way.

Elemental Shapeshifter has reached level 222 (+14).+140 attribute points.Arboreal Sanctuary has reached level 89 (+5).Swipe has reached level 116 (+5).Brutal Restoration has reached level 111 (+6).Bear Form has reached level 104 (+4).Rampant Growth has reached level 61 (+3).Bestial Combat has reached level 102 (+4).Natural Prowess has reached level 88 (+5).Survival Instinct has reached level 100 (+3).Battle Trance has reached level 81 (+4).Last Stand has reached level 45 (+3).Cooking has reached level 31.Herb Gathering has reached level 34.Survival Instinct has reached a base skill level of 100.Survival Instinct has advanced to tier two.

Excellent. Most excellent. Survival Instinct had reached the second tier, and it explained the sudden sharpening of his senses, both mundane and extraordinary. It felt like an ancient forest spirit sat upon his shoulders, watching his back.

Mato smiled to himself. If I keep this up, sooner or later, I’m going to be strong. It had been Calen who’d teased him with that line once.

This time, he spent thirty-seven points on wisdom immediately. It was a potent attribute for him, and he needed the boost for his healing and his Natural Prowess skill. Next, he allocated twenty-nine points to vitality and twenty-eight to both strength and endurance. He added ten points to perception, eager to see what his newest second-tier skill might have for him. The final eight points, he split evenly among intelligence and dexterity.

There, I’m stronger now. What do I have to hit to shake out the last Well?

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledgehttps://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledgehttps://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpghttps://topwebfiction.com/listings/dungeon-of-knowledge/
