Erin was fascinated. Yvlon nodded, smiling a bit.
“They’re rare enough on Terandria, never mind the other parts of the world. Ylawes said it was pure luck he ran into him in a tavern.”
“He’s your brother, right? He came all this way to look for you?”
That sounded like a great brother to Erin, who’d never had siblings. Yvlon grimaced, though. She spoke reluctantly.
“He’s…overprotective. And a far better adventurer than I.”
That was clearly all she wanted to say on the topic. After a second Yvlon changed the subject. She glanced behind Erin at the [Actors].
“I thought they came here to learn a new play.”
“They did. I just don’t know what I should teach them.”
Erin confessed to her friends. Ceria just shrugged. She liked the play she’d seen, but she couldn’t imagine practicing with the enthusiasm the others seemed to have.
“Let us know if we can help. I’m not going to memorize any lines, but I could always do a few spells if the performance needs more action.”
She flicked a few sparks of electricity from her fingers, making Yvlon swear. Ceria looked abashed—Erin saw the electricity trying to jump onto the metal on Yvlon’s arms.
“You can do that? Well of course!”
Erin slapped her forehead as she realized how stupid she’d been. Special effects! Any [Mage] could add so much to a performance! Especially someone like Ceria. At the very least, she could help cool down the inn when it was so full of people. Even on a winter night, so many bodies were stiflingly hot. But Ceria could probably lower the temperature enough to…
Erin’s thoughts slowed down. She stared at Ceria. The half-Elf just blinked at her.
“Erin?”
She had lovely blonde hair. Well—in point of fact Ceria had dirty blonde hair. But Yvlon, now, she looked beautiful, and blonde as could be. Both women made Erin jealous—she didn’t think she had a bad face or hair, but compared to Yvlon’s beauty and Ceria’s otherworldly appearance, she felt plain. And Ceria could use frost magic.
And it was winter…
“Erin? Are you okay?”
Winter plus frost magic equaled…what? It had to do with plays, and it was on the tip of her tongue! Erin screwed up her face as Ceria looked at her.
“Erin, do you need to sit—”
“Frozen!”
The word exploded out of Erin’s mouth. Ceria blinked, wiped a bit of spit off her face, and stared at Yvlon. The other woman looked just as confused.
“You want Ceria to freeze the actors? The audience?”
“No, no!”
The young woman waved excitedly at the other two, mind suddenly ablaze with ideas. She looked at Ceria, and then began waving at the [Actors]. They were already congregating around her, sensing the impending drama.
“Hey you guys, come on over! I just had the greatest idea for the next performance we can do! It has singing!”
“Singing?”
Ceria raised her eyebrows, intrigued. She looked at Erin as the girl beamed at her.
“I like songs. Are there any good ones?”
 
—-
 
There was no piano accompaniment. Pianos did exist in this world, but no one was going to lug one over to the Frenzied Hare. Instead, a few [Musicians] with string instruments provided a decent melody. That had been the hardest part.
The singing was not. On stage, Jasi, playing as the [Ice Queen] named Elsa sang a song so famous that it needed no introduction. Nor, it seemed, any plot. The play was over, but the song was being sung once more to a crowd who cheered as Jasi raised her hand to raise her castle of ice out of the wooden stage.
From behind the curtains backstage, Ceria cast weak frost spells, making snow and cold winds blow across the cheering audience. Concentrating hard, she made snow appear and fall over the fake little castle that they’d built. The snow melted almost instantly in the sweltering room, but the crowd didn’t care. They cheered wildly as the song reached its thrilling conclusion.
Again. The [Mage] scowled at Yvlon and whispered to her as the song finished.
“This is the third encore performance!”
The other woman was sitting on a stool behind the stage, smiling as she ate tonight’s meal, fish and chips, which was to say, fish and fried pieces of potato that Erin insisted were in some way ‘french’.
“Bear with it. It’s cheering Erin up.”
Indeed, the other girl was clearly enjoying herself. Even though she was in the kitchen, Ceria could see her poking her head out every now and then to beam at the audience.
“Catchy song, though.”
Ceria shrugged.
“It loses its charm fast, especially when you’ve got to do the effects.”
“At least we’re being paid.”
“What’s with ‘we’?”
The half-Elf groused, but she had to smile. They were indeed being paid, and quite handsomely because the entire acting cast took a cut of the profits. And judging by the way the bag Grev carried around had to be emptied now and then, even a small cut would be a lot.
“You have to wonder though…where does Erin get all these stories from?”
Yvlon frowned as Jasi bowed and declined another performance. The audience called out in disappointment, but then rushed forwards to shake hands with the bowing [Actors] and buy them drinks.
Carefully, the half-Elf sat back on her haunches and didn’t quite look at Yvlon.
“They come from her nation, I guess. She’s from far off.”
“Really? What continent?”
“Erin’s never said. I think it’s private. Ryoka’s from the same place, though.”
“Really? That makes sense.”
The two sat behind the curtains, looking through it at the room full of life and a different kind of magic. After a while, Ceria sighed.
“It really is better than adventuring, isn’t it?”
Yvlon nodded, seeing Wesle surrounded by admiring young women—and older women—and males, come to it, but mostly young women—and the other [Actors], just as adored. It was like how they’d been treated in Remendia, but somehow more intimate and even more reverential at the same time. The citizens had hailed the Horns of Hammerad as people, but these [Actors] had brought another world to life in front of the people here.
“No monsters to fight, good food if you’ve got the right inn…”
“Admiring crowds, if you like sweaty Humans. Lots of coin…”
The two sat in silence. After a while, Yvlon shook her head.
“Not for me.”
Ceria smiled.
“Me neither. I guess we’re doomed fools, aren’t we?”
The woman laughed.
“Maybe not if Pisces gets back with that invincible artifact of his.”
“Oh? You figured it out?”
“It wasn’t hard, and he’s right. It might be useful. Do you think he’ll be back tomorrow?”
“Early, hopefully. They’ll camp out in a safe place, or maybe just stay in Ocre. He says with a wagon driver who has a movement Skill they can be back very soon.”
“Good.”
 
—-
 
The next day, Erin woke up feeling better. A lot better. She was still sad though, when she remembered why she should be. But she was better.
And now she knew what to do. She greeted Ceria and Yvlon cheerfully over breakfast—spiced porridge—and didn’t beat about the bush.
“It’s time to go back to Liscor.”
Yvlon only raised her eyebrows and Ceria smiled, but Miss Agnes, who’d joined them for breakfast, choked.
“What? But Miss Erin, surely you should wait. There are Goblins on the road and I don’t know what we’ll do without you. Why, there are all these fine [Actors] depending on you now…”
Sitting at a table next to theirs, Jasi, Wesle, and Grev looked up and gave Miss Agnes a flat look the woman failed to notice. It was their custom to eat together each day, especially since Jasi and Grev were staying at the inn.
“I really don’t know what we’ll do without you, Miss Erin. I’m sure we could tour other cities doing the plays you taught us. But I’d love to learn the rest…”
“I know. I know, and I’m sorry.”
Erin smiled ruefully at Jasi and ruffled Grev’s hair. He looked upset. But Erin’s mind was made up.
“I need to go back. Liscor is my…home. Mrsha’s there and she’s all by herself. And Lyon’s there too—I nearly forgot about her, but Selys say she’s managing the inn. Somehow. But I need to get back before it falls apart or burns down or something.”
The others had objections of course. Sensible ones, selfish ones…Erin ignored them all. She looked at Ceria and Yvlon.
“When Pisces and Ksmvr get back, how long until we can go?”
“Within the hour, if we get transport set up. We’ll have to take a wagon, but we can get good horses and maybe even a driver.”
Ceria nodded to Yvlon, already thinking of their route. The older woman nodded, biting her lip.
“Esthelm being retaken works for us. We can plan to stop there if we can avoid Goblin raiding parties. I’m not sure how safe it is—it’s reportedly still a ruin, but better that than camping by ourselves. And if we run into my brother’s group…”
“You think we can get them to help us escort Erin?”
Yvlon nodded slowly.
“My brother will help anyone in need. The real problem might be afterwards. He’ll try to take me north. But we’ll cross that bridge if we get to it.”
Ceria nodded silently. She didn’t want to pry too much, but perhaps she should ask Yvlon why she didn’t want to go home so badly. Erin thought of what she had to do.
“I should say goodbye to Octavia.”
 
—-
 
All things considered, Erin thought Octavia took the news well. There weren’t even any tears. Or hugs. Or even a trace of sadness, really.
The dark-skinned [Alchemist] grinned happily and practically leapt off her stool in delight.
“You’re going? Well, I won’t say I’m not relieved—I’ve never met anyone so insane as you. When I count the times I nearly died—of course, I’m glad you came by before you left. I’d hate to have to charge interest on what you owe me when Ryoka gets back.”
“Hold on. What fees? Ryoka paid you already.”
Erin frowned at Octavia. The stitch-girl’s dreadlocks swung as she shook her head condescendingly.
“That was for a few days. You’ve been here far longer—I’ll admit she paid interest now and then, but if you factor in the number of discoveries you’ve made under my watchful supervision—not to mention hazard pay and having me participate in that play—”
“I’m gonna hit you.”
In the end, Erin didn’t hit Octavia and the girl didn’t get any more money, much to both girls’ disappointment. But to her surprise, Octavia hugged Erin before she left.
“You take care, alright? If you ever need a potion, I’m sure Ryoka can run it down to Liscor for me. Who knows? We might meet again! And if we do, you’re banned from ever mixing potions in my shop again.”
Erin laughed and hugged Octavia back. She’d miss her, she was surprised to realize. She’d miss Octavia’s fast-talking ways. She’d miss the horrible smells in her shop—
She’d miss the entire city, if it came to that. Celum was…it wasn’t as nice as Liscor, in some ways. It wasn’t as exciting, and the people were just people. But it had its own charm, and it had taken Erin in when she was lost.
She’d miss it. But she had to go. So Erin went back to the Frenzied Hare and caught up with Ceria who’d found someone willing to make the relatively dangerous journey to Liscor, provided a Silver-rank team was going with him. Yvlon had brought provisions for the journey and asked about the roads—no Goblin armies had been sighted close to any cities, although raiding groups had torched a few villages.
All they had to do was wait for Pisces and Ksmvr. And as it happened, the two were already close to the city. And they had the artifact in tow.
 
—-
 
Earlier that day, Pisces had been willing to fight an entire Goblin army if it meant shutting Ksmvr up.
“What is the artifact? I still do not understand. Please enlighten me, comrade Pisces.”
It was the 38th time the Antinium had asked Pisces the question. Pisces knew that because he’d counted. Each time. They were sitting on a bumping wagon as it drove towards the Ruins of Albez. The mage blinked wearily as the dawn’s light hit his face.
It was far too early for this. But they had to move quickly, if they wanted to be back in Celum before evening. Ksmvr poked Pisces and the [Mage] snarled at him.
“Stop that!”
“I will if you answer my question. What is the artifact?”
“I told you to figure it out yourself!”
Part of Pisces dearly wanted to tell Ksmvr just to get it over with, but the young [Mage] was too stubborn for that.
“All the clues should be obvious. You were there! Just…think!”
“I have thought. I do not know what it could be. I wish for you to tell me.”
“Dead gods. It’s the door, the door. Okay!?”
That didn’t come from Pisces. It came from the wagon driver. She turned around, glaring, her eyes red and bloodshot. She was the same wagon driver who’d taken them from Remendia. She was the only one willing to risk her neck going so close to Albez, and clearly, she was unhappy with her decision.
Both [Mage] and Antinium stared at her. The wagon driver glared at them. After a moment, Pisces spoke.
“How did you come to that conclusion?”
“You explained it to the Ant about a half-dozen times. It was obvious. The door’s the only thing you lot didn’t take, apart from the ashes and the dungeon itself!”
The woman snapped at the two of them. Pisces turned to Ksmvr.
“You see?”
The Antinium only cocked his head sideways.
“Why is the door important? I do not understand. Please explain it to me, comrade Pisces.”
“First, call me comrade one more time and I will blast your mandibles off your face. Second—”
Pisces hesitated. But now that the secret was revealed, he had a deep urge to explain everything.
“The door is important because it cannot be destroyed. And it has a potent teleportation spell worked into its makeup.”
“Oh?”
Pisces nodded. He sat back in the wagon and stared up at the grey sky. It was far too cold, he felt, even with the warming spells that allowed him to wander around in nothing but his dirty robes. He gestured at Ksmvr to relax; the Antinium stayed sitting perfectly upright. Pisces made a face, but began to explain.
“Do consider it, dear Ksmvr. In our haste to acquire our spoils and flee the area, we had neglected to consider the magnitude of enchantment that must have been laid on this door. Not only did it survive a magical fire that damaged every artifact it touched—but it actually destroyed part of the fire construct when we used it as an impromptu weapon.”
“Ah yes. It was quite useful.”
“And yet, we, in our rush to escape, completely neglected to remember it. A vast oversight. Then again, I do not believe we could have carried it away as exhausted as we were. Fortuitously, my adept memory seized upon our neglect and led me to—”
“Yeah, yeah. Shut up and go get it already, would you?”
