The wagon jerked to a halt, making Pisces bite his tongue. He glared at the woman driving the wagon, but she just stared back.
“Hurry up. If you want to be back in Celum, get moving. I’m not waiting around in this place forever. Even if it’s winter, monsters could still be about.”
That was true, and so Pisces and Ksmvr cautiously descended into Albez. They were quite willing to retreat at the first sight of any monsters, door or no door, but it seemed the ruins were still quite deserted.
“Let us go then, Ksmvr. Your strength should be invaluable in carrying the door.”
“Yes, Pisces. I shall lead the way in case monsters have retaken the dungeon.”
“Good point. I’ll stay…this far behind you. Lead on!”
There were no monsters, although there was a good deal of ash. Pisces and Ksmvr found the door lying in a pile of it. The [Mage] sneezed when Ksmvr pulled the door out. The Antinium nodded as he lifted it upright with all three of his arms.
“I can carry my end of it quite easily. If you will assist me—”
“Not so fast. We must descend into the pit.”
The Antinium paused and turned to Pisces in surprise.
“Why?”
Pisces nodded at the door.
“The door is only half of the spell. The other half, if you recall, teleports us to a set location. Into the pit in this case. A small object—usually a stone, perhaps some other mundane object—acts as the anchor for the teleportation spell. We must recover it or I’ll be teleported here if I should make a mistake with the door.”
“But is it not extremely dangerous? Captain Ceria covered the [Insanity] spell with mud, but it may have been removed in the time since we were gone.”
Pisces smiled confidently.
“Have no fear, Ksmvr. I am well-prepared for this eventuality.”
As it turned out, his solution was much the same as Ceria’s. After Pisces built a staircase out of bone, he cast a spell which filled the pit with billowing yellow smoke. Coughing and swearing, the mage descended into the pit and shot clinging mud in every direction. After he’d released the spell and Ksmvr had come down, the Antinium saw the pit was covered, with no sign of the [Insanity] symbols on the walls.
“That was quite admirable, Pisces.”
He complimented the wheezing mage. Pisces coughed, and waved a hand.
“Think nothing of it. This is a simple trap to bypass, if the correct precautions are taken.”
Ksmvr nodded at the plain truth of that statement. He looked around.
“And where is this anchoring stone?”
“It shouldn’t be too big. It could even be the size of my hand—smaller. I can find it ah…if I trace the magic link…here!”
Pisces frowned and then pointed to a spot directly in the center of the pit. It turned out what he was looking for was a round stone small enough to fit into his palm, embedded into the stone bottom of the pit. This proved to be very difficult to extract. Ksmvr still had the Goblin’s enchanted short sword, but even with all his strength he could barely chip at the stone floor of the pit.
“Of course it is designed to be a trap.”
Pisces groused as he began blasting the area around the stone with flames. Both he and Ksmvr knew that stone when heated was far more vulnerable to cracking. After about ten minutes of sustained fire blasting the ground, it was weakened enough for Ksmvr’s blade to crack the stone.
“It is very hot, Pisces.”
So saying, Ksmvr handed the magical stone—which showed no damage despite the heat—to Pisces. The [Mage] swore and dropped it the moment he touched the black rock.
“It’s burning!”
“That is what I said.”
“Then don’t—allow me to choose a far more sensible solution.”
The wagon driver, whose name was Adelynn, although no one had bothered to ask it, was dozing in her driver’s seat when her horses took fright. She looked up and blanched as she saw the six skeletons carrying the enchanted door and anchoring stone over their heads. Pisces and Ksmvr sat on the door like a seat. They waved at the wagon driver. Only when they got close did she throw a bit of snow at them.
“Call your damn undead away, [Necromancer]! You’ll spook my horses! I swear, if they wrench an ankle you’ll all walk home!”
“Calm down, good Mis—”
A bit of snow hit Pisces it the face.
“Get them away, I said!”
A few minutes later, the cart rumbled back towards the road and Celum, bereft of any skeletons. But it did have one new passenger: the door lay between Pisces and Ksmvr as the [Mage] pored over it and Ksmvr stared at the small stone in his hands. To the Antinium the rock appeared totally ordinary, which he supposed was the point.
“Now that we have the door, what do you propose we do with it, Pisces?”
“That my friend…is a very good question. I have no idea.”
Pisces looked up for a moment before he went back to staring at the door. Ksmvr noticed the mage’s eyes unfocused as he stared at what the Antinium could only assume was the magic enchantment making up the door. Pisces seemed to be tracing the spell while simultaneously attempting to avoid triggering the door’s automatic teleportation effect.
Every now and then he failed, and would appear on Ksmvr’s lap. The Antinium watched as this happened now. Pisces yelped, popped out of existence on his side of the wagon, and appeared a little bit above Ksmvr. In the ensuing tangle, Pisces fought his way clear.
“Dead gods—give me that!”
He snatched the stone back from the Antinium and placed it on his side of the wagon. A bit of snow flew from the front and hit him on the head.
“Stop doing that! You’re scaring the horses!”
“Shall I reanimate them for you? I’m sure undead horses would be a lot faster than these slow nags.”
Pisces smiled nastily. His reply came in another bit of snow which struck him on the shoulder. Grumbling, Pisces went back to the door.
After a few moments, Ksmvr nodded and spoke up.
“We could make a shield out of it. I could hold it up with comrade Yvlon when fighting spellcasters.”
The young man’s head rose and he stared at Ksmvr.
“Really? That’s your idea?”
Ksmvr nodded, appreciating Pisces’ enthusiasm.
“A shield seems to be the most appropriate use of the door. We could make a harness so Comrade Yvlon could use it in place of her armor. It would protect her back so she would have no need of armor. If an enemy attacked all she would have to do would be to turn around.”
The Antinium paused, waiting for feedback. Pisces just stared at him. After a moment, he cleared his throat.
“I should like to see that. But I believe using the door as any form of personal armament should be employed only as a matter of last resort. Even if you were to block a spell with this door, [Fireball], for instance, the explosion would still affect those hiding behind the door. Any neophyte mage could easily burn you with a low-Tier flame spell were you to use it as cover.”
“Oh. I see.”
Ksmvr felt disappointed. Seeing this, Pisces felt moved to offer him a bone.
“The true value in the door might not be in its practical use at all, but rather as a tool of study for me. I can learn a lot from the enchantments woven into it.”
The Antinium perked up. What helped Pisces was a boon for The Horns of Hammerad.
“Really? Can you copy the spells on the door?”
“Copy?”
Pisces coughed, and then laughed. He shook his head.
“That is far beyond my capabilities.”
“Why? Is it not simply a matter of reproducing the spell? That should be doable with time, should it not?”
“Yeah, [Mage]. What’s wrong? Is it too complex for you?”
Pisces ignored that comment from the front. Sniffing archly, he sat back. He took on the tone Ksmvr had associated with a lecture as he spoke out loud.
“The issue, Ksmvr, is that the nature of magic is not so linear as the philistines might have you think.”
“Hah!”
Again, Pisces ignored the wagon driver’s comment. Ksmvr nodded at him encouragingly. Magic was fascinating to him.
“Indeed?”
“Oh yes. You see, if this door—or should I say, this impressively enchanted self-activating portal device—were simply one enchantment, I dare say even Springwalker would be able to ascertain its nature quite quickly. But it is clearly not one enchantment. And the true exponential difficulty of a spell occurs when multiple layers exist.”
Ksmvr considered Pisces’ explanation and nodded.
“I see. So multiple spells cast on the same object increase the difficulty of analyzing and copying it?”
Pisces deflated somewhat at the Antinium’s calm response.
“…Yes.”
He turned back to the door, frowning at it.
“If it were just something like reinforcement, well, I could do that to a piece of wood, although not with the finesse or force of a true [Enchanter]. They could turn a piece of parchment into something as strong as steel…but as I’ve said magic changes when you layer another spell on top. It truly is quite incredible how many spells are worked into this wood.”
“That is why mages study so continuously?”
“To master the nuance of each spell and understand how magic can change, broadly speaking, yes. Even memorizing spells takes time, and comprehending concepts like spatial travel, well…”
“Can you [Teleport]?”
Pisces ignored that question. He gestured grandly at the door sitting on the back of the wagon.
“This wonder of magical engineering is clearly the work of a master [Mage]. Perhaps even an [Archmage]? Ah, probably not.”
He coughed.
“But studying it will surely raise my level, and it will be a far greater challenge than simply reading from a book of spells. When Springwalker sees this…”
“So you cannot copy the spell?”
Pisces paused, but then he nodded with a rueful smile.
“I wouldn’t even dare try. The spells are so tangled up that reproduction is impossible. I’d have to unravel each layer of spells and if that didn’t destroy the entire weaving…no, no, I only intend to study what parts are visible.”
He sighed, losing some of his posturing. Ksmvr nodded.
“I see. Are there some parts which are easier?”
Pisces shrugged, irritated by his moment of genuine expression. He scowled as he bent back over the door, poking at the brass handle.
“The entire thing is a mess. Let me concentrate. It’s hard enough to sit on this bumpy wagon—”
“Watch it, [Mage].”
The wagon driver snapped back at Pisces. He made a face. Ksmvr sat forwards too. The door was just plain, solid wood of course, but now he was very invested in Pisces’ discoveries.
“Surely there are some aspects which are simplest to understand. The triggering mechanism for the spell was analyzing it, was it not?”
“Relatively simple, yes. Of course the part of the spell that detects people investigating it is fiendishly complex. But the trigger component I identified straight off.”
Pisces dismissed that with a wave of the hand. Ksmvr nodded eagerly.
“In that case, would it not be easiest to focus on that part of the spell, knowing the method to activation and outcome?”
In his multi-faceted eyes, the Antinium saw the young man pause. Pisces stared at Ksmvr, and then down at the door. He cleared his throat.
“Uh. Yes. That would be…well, it’s a good place to start as any, I suppose.”
“It is a shame you cannot reverse the effect. That would have been very convenient in the pit.”
Ksmvr meant this only as a segue into asking whether Pisces could teleport him a few times, just so Ksmvr could see what it was like when he wasn’t about to die. But Pisces’ face froze and after a second he burst into a huge and uncharacteristic grin.
Somewhat unnerved, Ksmvr paused as Pisces turned to him. The [Mage] gingerly clapped a hand on Ksmvr’s shoulder. The Antinium stared at the hand. After a moment Pisces let go.
“You, Ksmvr, are clearly a natural-born scholar, as perhaps befits your advanced standing among the Antinium.”
“Thank you.”
“Reversing the spell. What a novel idea! And of course the actual binding spell on the stone is ludicrously simple compared to the door. Why, it wouldn’t be hard to reverse—that is to say, to create a trigger to activate the teleportation spell and bring whomever was there to the door! In fact…”
“Does this mean you can teleport me?”
“More than that, my dear Ksmvr. If this means what I think it does—here…you hold this and I shall…”
The Antinium and Human excitedly rocked back and forth on the wagon, jabbering on about ‘possible sequential instances of anchorage’ and ‘activation mechanisms’ and so on. At the head of the wagon, the Adelynn tried not to listen. After a while, she tried to plug her ears with both fingers, but it was hard to do that and guide the wagon. She sighed.
 
—-
 
“You’re late.”
Ceria scowled at Pisces as he and Ksmvr lugged the door over to the front of the Frenzied Hare. The two had attracted quite a lot of attention as they’d dragged and carried it down the street. Now Ksmvr laid the door against the wall of the inn as Pisces panted for breath.
“Don’t blame me. If I could have conjured a few undead we wouldn’t have taken so long! Why no one appreciates the untapped potential of such labor—”
“Yes, yes.”
Ceria sighed, but she stared at the door, mildly impressed Pisces had managed to support his end of it. It was as heavy as it looked, she knew, and it looked heavy.
“Is that the door? The magic door?”
Erin stared dubiously at the heavy wood door. It looked as plain as plain could be. She wondered if Pisces and Ceria were playing a prank on everyone else, but Yvlon nodded.
“That’s the door. It doesn’t look like much but—if you could make armor out of it I’d wear it. I saw it take damage that would have shredded my plate armor.”
“Wow.”
No matter how hard Erin stared at it, she just couldn’t see it. But Pisces was clearly excited by the door. He waved his hands at Ceria, talking quickly.
“You won’t believe what I—and Ksmvr I suppose—have discovered! It’s a revolutionary—nay, unprecedented loophole in the spell matrix! I can’t believe it wasn’t covered!”
“Oh yeah? What’s so incredible?”
Ceria looked skeptical. Pisces pointed to the door, grinning broadly, one of the few times Erin had ever seen him happy.
“I managed to isolate the location aspect of the spell. Not only that—I figured out how to trigger it independently of the detection trap.”
Erin’s head swiveled with Yvlon’s towards Ceria. The half-Elf gasped.
“You don’t mean—seriously? And you did it on the ride back? Impossible!”
“Not.”
Pisces was smug. He gestured to the door.
“It all came down to a loophole. If you look around the doorknob—perhaps they didn’t have an adept mastery of enchantments? Or maybe the handle was added too late—either way I forced my way into the bindings from there and…”
