Now came the hardest moment. More difficult than besting the Archmage of Lightning. Far more frightening than facing Shifthold. Emotionally harder than beating a child half-to-death with your bare h—
Okay, maybe not that last one. Probably equal, which meant she had the advantage.
Nevertheless, Jelaqua Ivirith hesitated. She didn’t write in advance to anyone else to meet, even if one of them were in a position to do so of their own accord.
She just…listened to the news. Saw a small article in the morning’s newspaper below the bigger story about the Terandrian magical storm. About Shifthold being repulsed from Treant’s Farewell. Had a contact send her a [Message] about some seaport scuttlebutt floating around that she might want to look into.
It was today then. Jelaqua Ivirith saw a huge crowd at the checkpoint to the 8th Floor into Liscor. People wanting to confirm what they had seen on the scrying orb.
Archmage versus Archmage. Half were regular citizens, looky-loos. The other half?
[Mages] who understood what Valeterisa had done. Pilgrims to a holy place. Aspiring students, truthseekers.
—Jelaqua didn’t go to the inn right away.
 
——
 
It was Maughin who broached the subject. Her supportive [Smith] was making a lunchbox for once. Chopping up some rather handsome steak into fine, fine slices. Jelaqua knew the beef—it was from the north. [Cattle Ranchers] raised Moonmellow-breed cows, who never so much as chipped a hoof in their lives let alone did something as controversial as forage for their own food. They were stuffed with magical fodder, given specialized massages, and the end result was a beef so tasty, so magically pure that you could eat it raw without ever fearing disease.
She’d bought it for herself eighteen times in her entire life. The Selphid wasn’t quite drooling over it, but she was curious.
“Maughy, Maughy…we could eat that tonight! You paid a fortune for that, and what’s the cheese?”
“Ludicrously Sharp Veltrasian.”
“Nagas, you bought an LSV? Maughy, what is this for? A sandwich? I’d have to stab you if you wasted it on a sandwich!”
He’d also bought fine Chandrarian dates and Drathian fruits that claimed to have ‘trace cultivation’ on the stamped receipt from an official trader—that meant they tasted great. Maughin was arranging all of it, sliced meat, cheese, fruit, into a lacquered box. It was less of a ‘meal’ and more of a snack tray, really.
She didn’t get it until he turned to her.
“This isn’t lunch. I assume you’ll have something fine. This is a bribe.”
“Who’m I bribing?”
“Mrsha, I suspect. It probably works on Goblins and Antinium. Or [Princesses]. I have yet to hear of one refusing Moonmellow beef.”
Her mouth opened, and Maughin, like the logical [Smith] he was, finished preparing the tools he thought she needed.
“I’m—I mean, I might go today. I just thought that it was a weekend and here I was with my favorite husband, and we could—”
“Jelaqua, Lord Moore fought the Archmage of Lightning to a standstill yesterday. I will keep.”
He was folding a cloth over the box, tying a knot to keep it secure and to hold onto. Jelaqua licked her lips.
“D-don’t you want to come with me?”
“I think there will be quite a lot of crying, so no. Nor is it my team. I will be visiting my family since I have time. And bragging about knowing the half-Giant who broke half of Archmage Amerys’ ribs. My wife’s teammate’s uncle…very prestigious. Here.”
He handed her the box, and she tried to protest. But if she sometimes rushed about taking care of him, when Maughin actually got pushy…
He ejected her from their home and locked the door. And there went most of Jelaqua’s excuses. She still spent half a minute blowing kisses at him through the window and shouting at him not to waste the rest of the beef; that was dinner!
Then…well…
 
——
 
Landlord Jelaqua was currently Wall Lady Melika’s biggest enemy. It wasn’t violence in the proverbial streets, because the Garuda was pretty sure she knew how that would go against Jelaqua Ivirith, but she was doing her best to fast-track paperwork to get another [Landlord] to take care of her charity’s young people.
…Paperwork that was being held up in the Assembly of Crafts! However! During this legal problem, she’d talked to all the tenants and warned them in no uncertain terms about associating with the Selphid.
No matter what she offered them, like toilets with plumbing, magical security stones, or a hotpot night they could come to eat communally…she was a dangerous, unpredictable, violent person!
Exactly the sort that all good teenagers stayed away from, right? Melika Blackwing was no idiot, and she had actually caught herself at one point and imagined how likely Salkis was to listen in their shoes. But the orphans liked her. What else could she do? At the very least, she was sure Anama would be a vivid proponent against trusting the Selphid until something could be done.
 
——
 
“My eyelids fluttered in noxious sleep
Our city stumbling through mundane days
The half-known promise I had yet to keep—
Until all was bathed in magic’s rays.
Then she carried the silent wishes high
T’was then I saw the Archmage fly!”
 
The voices echoing in the chamber that the Drake girl stepped into made her start, and her beating heart stopped a second in fear. Even the Selphid she was following blinked, and her orange gaze lifted.
The crowd of visitors entering the Room of Portals halted until the grinning Gnoll waved them through the magic door. Anama stepped behind Jelaqua Ivirith for a moment, then tried to act cool.
It just wasn’t just any day you saw a sixteen-person choir serenading you. They began the second verse when someone tapped a conductor’s wand on the lectern.
“No, no! We’re not high enough on the final line. When it says ‘piercing melody’, it doesn’t mean anything less than haunting! From the top.”
[Singing Instructor] Calla, the Drake musical teacher and sometimes conductor, was a harsh taskmistress when she was being paid to perform. She pointed at the front row.
“Sopranos, you’re the two leads! Give me those notes and project, project! [Heed My Instructions], and from the top!”
An Antinium and a Human with red hair? Those were the sopranos? Anama was open-mouthed in horror at her first sight of the dreadful Antinium up close, but Jelaqua just motioned the rest of the young people through the door.
“C’mon, kids, you’re holding up the line. You want to see the you-know-what or not? Hey, Liska, I have some temporary guests for the place.”
“Ooh, you need blindfolds. That’s our newest thing. Here. What’s wrong with her scales?”
“Regrowing. She’s a Scorchling. What’s wrong with your face?”
“Ooh, good one. Wait, is there something on it?”
Anama barely heard the conversation behind her. She was watching the red-haired Human sip some tonic, then growl with a scratchy voice at the Drake.
“We volunteered for this, Miss Calla!”
She gestured at Colfa, Singy, and all the [Singers], half of whom were being paid to perform, the other half of whom were volunteers. Including Elia Arcsinger and Bird, who stood in the altos. Calla was unmoved as she swished her conductor’s wand.
“Volunteer or not, I am being paid to perform Valmira’s Flight for an audience. If you want to be more than amateurs singing in the kitchen, I expect you to earn your levels. Now, once more, and remember, higher—”
The choir began again, and Jelaqua Ivirith turned her head.
“What’s this then, Liska?”
“Oh, just a commemoration of Archmage Valeterisa kicking Amerys’ ass. Lord Mireden is paying for it.”
“Really? You don’t say.”
Jelaqua narrowed her eyes slightly and glanced at the choir serenading people in line. Liska rubbed at her ears, and pointed; the young people following Jelaqua realized she’d stuffed them with wax.
“Yeah, it’s pretty good, but after the fifteenth time, I nearly hopped through the door. Anyways! There’s all kinds of stuff in Liscor. Dolls of all three [Mages], a street-long party. They’re making confections themed after the fight. Like little lightning bolts filled with syrup.”
“Lord Mireden’s paying for it again?”
“Well, him and Liscor’s Council. The you-know-what is pretty quiet, actually. You sure you want to go through to it?”
Jelaqua gestured at Anama.
“I promised them a look around. Just a look—they’ll probably run screaming when Asgra appears. Mind sending them to Liscor or Pallass after they calm down? I’ll pay for the floorboards if they wet themselves.”
Anama flushed and felt the scales on her cheeks actually heating up; a surreal experience. She self-consciously felt at the patchy scales no longer burning away and opened her mouth to object, but she couldn’t quite find the energy to speak.
Liska eyed Jelaqua, then sniffed the box the Selphid was holding.
“I dunno, that’s a lot of work…what’ve you got there, Jelaqua? Smells…pretty good.”
The Selphid opened the box, and Liska was given a square filled with Maughin’s expensive treats. She began to gobble them as Jelaqua winked at Anama.
“C’mon, brats. Remember, I’m paying for one thing. I’m not made of money. Don’t say something stupid around the Goblins or Antinium. They’re allowed to fight, and any one of them could take you to the ground, even the short ones.”
Apprehensively, the mixed group of young folk, including Ophala and Merry—Consillir had work—put on the blindfolds and had to link arms to visit The Wandering Inn. Despite all of Melika’s warnings, the reputational value of saying they could see that inn and visit Liscor on Jelaqua’s coins was far more appealing than their nervousness around the Selphid.
—How long they walked, and where they went, Anama couldn’t say. Only that when they were in the inn, it felt like a completely different place. She gasped as the blindfolds came off, and they were in a long hallway filled with warning signs.
Ominous ones, some of which seemed hand-painted, others which were highly professional.
 
‘Warning: Death ahead. Steal at your own risk.’
‘The Wandering Inn is not responsible for loss of limbs, insanity, or bodily fluids if you come in wrath or malice.’
‘Beware of Goblin. Also no killing them.’
‘You were warned.’
 
“Don’t worry, that’s just in case you were a [Thief] or [Spy] or raiders. The entire hallway flips and turns into a huge insanity-trap. Ooh, and there’s one of the kill-spots. They pour acid through there.”
Jelaqua Ivirith was not being a supportive, nurturing figure reassuring them it was all safe. Which, conversely again, made her the bad influence to Melika. Anama stepped around the concealed hole in the ceiling. She licked her lips.
“J-Jelaqua. What do we do when we meet the, uh, owner?”
“Erin? She’s gone.”
“I know that! I mean the other one. Doesn’t a [Princess] run this place? She’s the one who killed a Gnoll Daemon. And she’s a [Blademaster]. Are we supposed to bow or something?”
Everyone knew that. Jelaqua’s lips twitched. She glanced over her shoulder.
“Nah, just be normal. Besides, if you were looking for her, you already saw her. She was the red-haired Human singing in the choir.”
“What?”
Jelaqua pushed the door open to The Wandering Inn, and a crackle of lightning made Anama flinch backwards into Ophala. The young [Informant] to the Eyes of Pallass was trying to act cooler than Anama, but Ophala took one peek at the plate a Gnoll had just thrown across the room and froze up, beak open.
“[Lightning’s Delivery]. Pizza.”
Ishkr had just tossed a plate across the room from the kitchen window. One of the guests, a Drake, the Drake from the news, poked at his plate a few times with a fork.
It was him! The Spearmaster, the Gecko of Liscor! Ophala and Anama grabbed each other, then sprang apart, glaring. They needed an autograph, but who—?
“Hey, Relc, does it taste shocking?”
The Drake was cautiously biting the pizza. When he heard Jelaqua, he turned.
“Jelaqua! Nah, it’s just normal. Fast as heck th—Ishkr!”
He nearly leapt out of his chair as a blue-fruit drink zapped onto his table. The Gnoll [Head Server] was grinning until he turned.
“Oh? New guests. Battle stations, staff.”
The relatively empty common room suddenly turned and focused on Jelaqua’s guests. Barely a dozen tables had any guests given how the inn was impossible to find…but the staff were there.
Just not working. But when the Gnoll turned his head, he blew away the young Drakes, Gnolls, Dullahans, and Garuda behind Jelaqua. He had the same presence as Jelaqua when she was being intense. The force of his appraisal made Anama start heating up inside.
That wasn’t even the scariest part; the scary part were Goblins popping their heads out of the kitchens, crimson eyes shining. An Antinium Soldier uncrossed his arms from where he’d seemed to be a statue, unnoticed against the walls with his brown carapace.
Then a trio of Humans wearing traditional servant’s outfits swept out a side room. All of it made Anama nearly turn around and run, but Jelaqua slung an arm around her shoulder.
“Hey, Ishkr, I’m paying for this lot. Lord Raithland in yet? I might need to borrow the theater. It’s time for a chat. Is Mrsha the Great and Terrible in? I also might need to bribe her for some help with logistics. I can’t get the damn thing to work.”
The who? The what? Jelaqua was leaving them behind! A dozen pairs of eyes were pleading at her to stay, but she was grinning—and the staff were clearly feeling like they were a big deal today. Getting to fire at the Archmage of Lightning and the Lord of the Skies—and knowing Relc and Valeterisa had a way of making you feel like the inn was back.
Asgra was, in fact, so busy trying to out-aura the newcomers that she forgot to check for obstacles as she headed over with menus and a pitcher of water. She tripped, and the wave of water made Merry duck behind Ophala.
Ishkr sighed. He was suddenly there, between the guests and the floating…droplets of water? They whirled around him as he lifted one glowing paw.
[Gravity Paw]. He swept them a bow in his suit.
“Hello, friends of Jelaqua. Miss Anama, I believe? And Ophala, Merry…may I take you to your seats? Please pardon our waitress. Asgra, blue fruit juice would be appropriate for guests. Or some other fruit juice of their choice.”
“You got it, Boss Guy Ishkr.”
He extended an arm to the table, and Relc peered out the window.
“You think I’ll get a party for hitting my new capstone, Ishkr? Huh? Just asking.”
“You’ve been waiting on Level 40 for years, Relc. Give us a day or two. Some things have to be done right.”
The younger Gnoll grinned at the [Spearmaster], and Relc glanced out the window.
