That was how Gilam’s wardrobe ended up being divided between Irrel and Tissl, though she needed to adjust some of his clothing. Seborn ended up stitching clothing with her on the deck, and that was also how they renamed the ship.
It was considered ill-luck to rename a ship at sea, of course. But after some discussion, the crew all decided that it was probably worse luck to be in a ship named after anything to do with Lord Gilam Quellae.
Plus, as Irrel pointed out, they had counter-tradition on their side; the Bloodtear Pirates didn’t have a problem with renaming ships at sea once taken in the heat of battle, and they had shed blood for this ship.
So that was how Seborn found himself clambering over the side of the ship with a fresh wine bottle to slam it on the hull while Tissl tried to paint the new name over the old one.
The Drowned Man was listening to her giggling as Irrel held the rope steady. Wine was blowing back in his face as he stared at the sloshing green-blue waves below.
“Steady. Careful.”
“Quit yer bellyachin’, landlubber! Avast and haul to or I’ll keelhaul you like there’s three sheets to th’ wind!”
“Stop it. Pirates don’t talk like that.”
He thought they were both smiling, and he was wondering how he’d keep these two safe. Seborn was clinging to the railing, so they couldn’t see his worried face when something passed him on the waves.
A little white Gnoll girl sat under a breaking wave. She looked up as the waters crashed down over her and reappeared, a ghost amidst the seas.
When he saw her…he knew. The Drowned Man lifted a slow hand, and the laughter from above stopped.
“Captain? Is that…?”
Irrel had gone still, eyes wide, as he recognized something the Bloodtear Pirates had seen before their ill-fated battle. Seborn whispered.
“Yes. Weigh anchor or…no, she’ll come to us. I need a moment with her, sorry.”
 
——
 
When Mrsha appeared on the deck, she wasn’t smiling or even pretending to it. She was…changed.
So much so he felt like the thin Gnoll girl standing before him was a stranger. She didn’t appear—hurt—but she seemed starved. However, it was her demeanor that seemed aged.
Something truly terrible had happened. Yet when she saw him, she did fake that smile. The girl held up a card.
Hey.
“Hey.”
He remembered how he’d shouted at her the last time he’d seen her and her ominous words before vanishing. The Drowned Man sat down on his deck as Irrel and Tissl peeked at the two of them.
Need a room?
The girl glanced at Tissl, and Seborn shook his head.
“It’s done. There was a battle—the [Driver] was eaten by some kind of insect. We think it snuck onto his carriage in Treant’s Farewell and then…we’re fine. We stole a ship.”
Mrsha glanced around. She wrote briefly without any of the excitement or questions she would normally ask.
That’s good. Did your [Dangersense] go off?
“…If it did, we were fighting. We saw a strange Antinium appear.”
Her paw slowed as she wrote.
What kind of strange?
“Glowing. With many, many eyes. It attacked Irurx and then exploded.”
Oh. That. Is it gone? Did it help?
“Yes and yes.”
Good.
They sat, Seborn not knowing what to say, Mrsha with a thousand-yard stare. After a while, he murmured.
“The moon. Tissl says she saw something pink zooming around the High Passes.”
That was part of it.
“What was it?”
Goblin King.
When she saw him staring, she wrote—
Fighting him. It’s done. He’s gone. Everything’s okay. There’s a hole in the inn, but no one…
Her eyes searched his face and stared at something else.
No one you’d miss is dead.
“Liar.”
That was all he could tell her. The girl just gazed at his face. She traced the next words in the air.
Yes. Seborn? I’m sorry. When you find out the truth, you can blame me. I did my best. I really did.
Unconsciously, he reached out to her. Trying to gather her up into his arms as he knew a half-Giant would. But his clawed hand just passed through her, and she…it was over.
“If it’s something terrible, I’ll live. Jelaqua’s alive?”
Oh, yes. She wasn’t part of it.
The Gnoll girl couldn’t meet his eyes. Seborn Sailwinds didn’t know what to say, so he just said:
“You did your best. I know what that’s like. Failing. Do you have time to meet my crew?”
She turned, and her eyes did focus on Irrel with surprise—but not shock. Tissl—she swept her gaze to him, and he felt as though she had seen this sight before, somehow. Eyes swimming with secrets and a burden kids shouldn’t have. He knelt and spoke to her.
“Mrsha. You’re coming back tomorrow, right? Or in a few days?”
She blinked and gazed at him. Then the girl did manage a tiny smile.
I’ll come back tomorrow. You know you’re sailing away from Izril, right?
“We’ll head a bit south. Thanks for telling us.”
They spoke a little more, and she vanished.
 
——
 
It took them about three weeks to make landfall at the next port. Three long, long weeks of realizing that if there was a current, they weren’t about to find it here.
Even enchanted, Gilam’s sails were only useful if the wind was with them, and several days of being becalmed off Izril’s coast were only lightened by Mrsha returning.
They talked. Sometimes only for a little bit before she had to go. She brought news, ran messages for Tissl; Seborn had nothing to say, and no one had anything to say to him…yet.
You’ll have someone here soon.
Just who…he didn’t know, but she avoided the subject. Nor did she spot this ‘magical storm’ Irrel kept claiming was northwards.
“It’s there. I know.”
The Dorhmin boy was so insistent that Mrsha promised to keep an eye on the weather, and she gave them running updates on how close they were and was very…helpful.
The day they actually saw the half-Elven port-city in the New Lands, she had a list of information she was reading from.
Okay, you’re meeting a ‘Zedalien’ in the ports. Weird name, but he worked for Maviola El.
“Ah. Good. Does he know about Irrel?”
He knows there’s a Dorhmin aboard and has told the half-Elves to chill out. I’d keep aboard, Irrel. There are lots of Terandrians in the city.
“Yep.”
Mrsha flipped pages and glanced at Tissl.
As far as the half-Elves are concerned, you’re in a nice ship—The Halfseeker’s Promise, which is registered and the paperwork’s done. You’ll need to get a [Scribe] to print the documents out somewhere else, Seborn. I don’t think they’ve got room for anything but essentials. Frankly, they wouldn’t let you dock except for hearing you’re out of provisions.
“And the poop deck is bad. Can we get cleaning?”
Three weeks, uh, had tested the new accommodations. They had plenty of space, but Seborn could use a bath and fresh everything. Mrsha nodded.
They’ll sell you supplies, which we’ve pre-paid for. It’d be expensive otherwise.
“Thanks, Mrsha. You did great. How’d you get all this done? And how did you pay them? By Courier?”
The girl scratched at her head with a quill and the ink ran off her [Inkless Fur].
Nah. They accept credit at Merchant’s Guilds because they can use that money to buy stuff themselves. The real trick is talking to the half-Elves and getting permission and stuff from anyone who’s actually in their colony. Some of it was Zedalien. He was really understanding. But mostly? It wasn’t even me, it was Tissl. The moment they heard a ‘sister’ was in trouble, they decided to help. The only non-trade ships they even allow to dock are Minotaurs, apparently.
“Good old-fashioned half-Elven solidarity. I’ll take it. We could have mentioned we ran into Shifthold. That might have earned us goodwill.”
Eh, better not. Lord Gilam has a bounty on a ship roughly like yours but a stupid name. And on Seborn Sailwinds. He’s reactivated your old bounty.
“Good to have a bounty at sea. Just not in a lawman’s port. We’ll rest there for a while. Thanks again, Mrsha. How is everything?”
She hesitated and glanced over her shoulder.
Better. I still don’t have that meeting for you, Seborn. Sorry.
And there was that thing between them. Seborn Sailwinds just focused on guiding Tissl into port without running into the half-Elves’ dock, then making sure Irrel wasn’t scrutinized too closely. Shaking hands with the half-Elf who asked him how Maviola El had looked in Liscor…watching Tissl staring around at her people and seeming the most off-kilter he’d ever seen her.
 
——
 
They spent a week in the port, and even Irrel managed to show his face with fewer problems than Seborn thought. No half-Elves noticed the Relic-class sword they hid in the ship, and a Dorhmin might horrify some, but the Balerosians and Chandrarians—and anyone who’d been to enough ports—just asked questions rather than go for blades.
The New Lands were hard. Seborn got an eyeful of the attempts at gardening and was, in fact, summoned to a few meetings with half-Elven leaders as a ‘seafaring expert’ about the salt problem.
He spent most of the time speaking to the half-Elven [Sailors], trying to get an understanding of the new currents and where the power was at sea. But the land was calling to him—the New Lands were an appetizing treasure.
Only two things stopped him from taking Tissl and Irrel and doing a bit of exploring on foot. The knowledge that they weren’t ready, and his own sense that their anonymity was a thin disguise that would be jeopardized if anything went wrong.
As it so happened…the jeopardy came in pairs at the same time.
 
——
 
“Whoa. Look at that. That’s the biggest guy I’ve ever seen!”
Tissl was spellbound as everyone else watching the throwdown between Archmage Valeterisa and Archmage Amerys. Someone had just leapt into the fray, and Amerys was zipping around a lone figure standing on a hilltop as the scrying spell zoomed in on his face.
They were sitting in a pub in the new city, which a lot of half-Elves objected to—but everyone needed to drink, so there was as much fancy wine as imported swill. She was drinking the latter as Irrel watched with a hood on his face, his lips open in wonder.
However, Seborn Sailwinds had frozen in his seat, staring at the man raising his staff. Tissl turned.
“Captain?”
“It can’t be. It’s him.”
Seborn stood up. He didn’t know where he was. He walked forward, towards the image being projected onto the wall, and his fingers reached out. It was…him.
There was no one else like him. But his height was off. Or the image was. And he looked older. But that face.
His Human hand was trembling when someone shouted.
“Oi, Drowned Man! Move your head, we can’t see!”
Seborn didn’t move, but when he turned his head, he seemed so shaken that the half-Elves exchanged a look.
“What is he, sick?”
“No, he’s our Captain. Seborn, what’s wrong? Seborn—”
“It’s Moore.”
Seborn didn’t know what was going on. The image shifted, and he sat down; he vaguely heard voices and felt someone helping him up. They were asking him questions, but he was just watching the scrying orb, now. Trying to see that man…
“Does he know that half-Giant? He’s fighting the Archmage of Lightning on equal footing! Tree rot, he must be Level 50!”
“What was his name? Seborn? I know that name…”
“The Halfseekers of Izril! Are you telling me that’s your teammate, sir?”
Tissl was trying to explain to the crowd of people, some of whom knew the name or had placed Seborn in conjunction with the inn. There was a Balerosian [Blademaster], Zedalien, whose eyes were sharp and focused on Seborn, and even a Minotaur [Captain] who had brought his ship from the north to get it properly repaired by higher-level [Shipwrights].
The latter narrowed his eyes at the Drowned Man as Seborn whispered.
“It’s him. But it’s not. It’s…what did she do?”
Resurrection? Or had he not…?
We buried him.
Did we bury him alive?
No one had any answers in the moment, and the wonder of Archmage Valeterisa defeating Amerys and Relc’s mastery of the spear was barely able to move Seborn’s eyes away from searching for the half-Giant.
He did not know, of course. But he knew. A meeting. Mrsha’s apology.
He should have been filled with rage. Or betrayal. Or shock. But all Seborn could think, suddenly, was…
I have to go back.
He had to, but he was thousands of miles out of place, and a figure stood, abruptly, in the pub as the cheering stopped.
“Excuse me, everyone! I am Honor Captain Hilyed of The Unbroken Vow. I wish to direct everyone’s attention to a matter of importance, if you will forgive my effrontery.”
He and a crew of Minotaurs were drinking at some tables, and Seborn glanced at the Minotaur…and felt like he’d seen him before. They were not all alike, and this Minotaur with his dreadlocks and voice—
Wait a second. Treant’s Landing. A Minotaur ship that had fought a Kraken off.
Seborn broke out of his shock and saw the Minotaur was gazing at him. He kicked Tissl under the table.
“Ow. Who the hell did that?”
Seborn kicked Irrel. The Dorhmin boy glanced up, then suddenly had to go to the bathroom. He pulled Tissl with him for…help? The Minotaur peered at them, then went on speaking.
“Did I hear correctly? That was your teammate, Captain…”
“Seborn Sailwinds.”
Captain Hilyed nodded and produced a pair of too-small spectacles. He read from something his ship’s [Mage] had handed him.
“Ah. And your ship would be—?”
“The Halfseeker’s Promise.”
Every head swung to Seborn, and Zedalien rose with a sudden, hefty sigh. But the Minotaur was speaking in that too-loud voice of a man who had a straightforwards decision ahead of him. No real choice.
Seborn had never met Calruz, but the Minotaur had always seemed vaguely annoying, for all his heroics.
“I see. So not ‘The Sword of Gilam’, a vessel stolen by yourself, currently under bounty for return to Lord Gilam of House Quellae? And not the ship rumored to have fought off Shifthold and have a Bloodtear Pirate aboard?”
Dead silence. Seborn put his hands on the table as Captain Hilyed and his crew stood.
“If we could have a word, Captain Sailwinds? We are not the law of the seas, but we do acknowledge it. Given the circumstances, I believe a reasonable s—”
Seborn flipped the table, or tried to. He heaved and slammed against the table.
Damn half-Elves and their genuine solid oak tables! He tossed his drink at the Minotaur [Captain] and [Shadowleapt] for the doors.
“Stop him!”
The Minotaurs were already at the doors. One leaned out from behind the exit and clotheslined him with an arm. They might be as big as oxen, but they were clever! One grabbed him, and Seborn cursed, grabbing for his daggers—
