No bellowed order came from Hilyed’s mouth. He exhaled slowly and then knelt.
“This Minotaur would be…?”
Calruz of Hammerad. He would have been judged by Venaz of Somewhere (sorry, I don’t remember where he’s from), but it wasn’t conclusive. He was sentenced under Liscorian law as an oathbreaker, team-murderer, and worse. He’s still alive paying off his debt he’ll never fulfil. And maybe that would be justice…if it were all his fault. If he wasn’t being manipulated.
The crew was eying each other, murmuring, trying to see if anyone knew that name…
“He was part of the Horns of Hammerad. The disgraced Captain. His family, his home, mourned the news. He was indeed a traitor—what possible knowledge could undo his actions?”
The girl gazed sadly up at the Captain, and he wondered if this were a lie until he read her words.
Never his actions, Captain. But if someone manipulated him…
Then perhaps he was helpless, too weak, or too ill of judgement to notice or fight it. But that changes everything. The [Captain] glanced at the distant ship, and then his lips quirked, but he was as serious as could be.
“I would hope that knowledge is reaching the city that judged him. Liscor. And if you had such knowledge, child, surely you would approach the King of Minos herself with your wonderful abilities.”
The next card flicked up fast, and he realized they were pre-written.
To that point, Captain—
Mrsha checked the cards, held up a finger, and then sorted them. She flipped to another one.
Sadly, the King of Minos is warded, and I can’t visit her. So is most of Minos. Very sadly. This is a matter of extreme honor. And Liscor will be told. But would you like to hear the story of a brave Minotaur? It’s sad and tragic, but maybe it has a happy ending.
She sat on the railings, and the [Captain] glanced around. He received nods from the crew and lifted a hand.
“In time. First, we have a storm to evade. Helm, to the south! We have been from the House of Minos with cargo too long!”
Then he was striding across the deck, roaring orders, and the Minotaur ship was turning. The girl sat on the prow of the ship, giggling to herself. She waved at the ship carrying the Drowned Man and his crew onwards.
Waved and waved. Hoping to see them again soon.
