Typhenous dodged one of Lord Mireden’s feet nimbly, but he grimaced and rubbed at one leg.
“You see? Fast enough. Fast for an old man. Fast for a [Mage]. Slow for a man who could have once given an accounting of himself in the Trial of Blades beyond a fitting start.”
Everything about him rang with a kind of annoyed grievance for the body that had let him down, but he wasn’t bitter. Just wistfully annoyed. Mireden envied him. They stood there, and the half-Giant sighed.
“I have to go speak to Seborn.”
“You haven’t? Well, well. After Shifthold, no less. A fine Drowned Man. In the company of a Bloodtear Pirate’s son no less. No; a full member. A dangerous Dorhmin, I have no doubt. The most dangerous in the world.”
“That nose for information you have is one of the reasons I wanted to speak to you, Typhenous. I have no doubt it served Griffon Hunt better than they knew—”
The genuine compliment seemed to irritate Typhenous out of everything, and he waved a gnarled hand at Mireden.
“—And landed them in trouble. I often ask myself, ‘was I more help than hindrance to them’? To Ulrien? Halrac? Let alone the entire team. I am the reason why they split. Those two were too good to ever bring it up. Did…did they ever count how many died in the Griffin Plague in the future?”
“I don’t recall any statistics. There were far worse incidents, sadly.”
Mireden lied. Typhenous glanced at him and then spoke, tamping the pipe out abruptly.
“This is my confession I have never needed to give, because I was never held to true account for this out of all my many sins. This is the truth I never uttered because it was known by those that mattered. One act killed more people than I ever did with my knives or spells. One act sullied the name of one of Izril’s finest Gold-rank teams. I regret it, but it was necessary.”
Mireden listened. Typhenous raised his hands, and he was not the most gifted illusionist, but he still conjured faint dots which multiplied, the images of beaks, the faint screech of a hunting Griffin.
“There were too many. Far too many. We were at our strongest, then, with every member a seasoned Gold-rank and Revi the most junior. We slew as many as ten Griffins a day—ten, sometimes as many as four at a time. Beyond unacceptable risk for how our team operated, which was no-nonsense, no-risk. And it was not working. The Wyvern Weyr that hit Pallass was a fraction of the numbers, and the Griffins were breeding and hunting nonstop. Ulrien knew what he was asking of me. Too weak and it would do nothing or spread across many species. Too strong and they wouldn’t live to spread it. I didn’t think it would change species so fast.”
He never looked at Mireden. Just stared at the lights winking out.
“There. It is a weight off my chest to tell someone. Ulrien and Halrac took the blame when they could have disavowed me. Our journeys led Ulrien to his death and Halrac to his. Both in service to saving lives and protecting the innocent. Qualities I was unfamiliar with until becoming an adventurer. If anything motivates me, it is a sense of a debt I cannot repay to the living. I shall count the balance of it when I am dead. It pleases me that the Typhenous you knew sounded like he knew the score and the tally owed. And you have sought me out because you require the Plague Mage to ensure she dies?”
His eyes glittered, and Lord Mireden felt a chill go down his spine, because there was no fear there. If they marched down into the dungeon now…
“No. The two of us would have no chance. It was a miracle we won. A miracle…and Halrac. In every world, he was that marksman we knew. I was the one who emerged, but not the killing blow.”
Typhenous understood. He turned.
“Then what?”
“I seek a man much like the one Arrema accused me of being: a hard man. A bastard. Someone who knows what is at stake and is both intelligent and resourceful enough to adapt. More importantly, someone who will not hesitate to curtail future tragedy.”
“Oh, you’d have me commit a second Griffin Plague?”
“Nothing so…generalized.”
“Blades in the dark, then. You are a different Moore than the one I remember. Or not. The difference is, perhaps, he didn’t know what was coming.”
Mireden wasn’t sure he liked the comparison for himself or for Moore, but he held his tongue. Typhenous stroked his beard, thinking.
“I am sworn to Riverfarm and the lovely [Witch] who saved me from myself in some small part. But then…Griffon Hunt is no more. Revi is the last who can truly claim to be active. I have little to do other than persuade new gangs that the Blind Man is no easy mark and to fight the occasional thrilling battle. That is no agreement. I need to understand the consequences.”
“Naturally. And I need more than one man with a blade. Or one [Mage] of your level, with apologies.”
“No offense given. After seeing who you marked, I don’t think anyone’d call you all flash. Funny; I never thought someone’d tell me I didn’t have the stones for the job.”
Typhenous slipped partially into street cant, and Lord Mireden checked his magical watch.
“I have to be going. Would you care for me to come calling?”
“I live at a very intelligent [Witch]’s cottage…so no. I’ll come by. We can have a drink in Invrisil. What kind of crew do I need?”
Mireden lifted a finger.
“Upstanding. Faces are acceptable, but I prefer no…affiliations. Able to move far and fast. Adventurers, in short. Gold-rankers.”
“But ones who don’t ask questions and can do a knife’s work? That’s hard.”
Again, the Plague Mage grimaced and pulled at his beard before having an idea.
“…Hold on, I’ve got one. Riz. She’s a Face. And a Knife. Unlike me, she’s young and respects my name. She was egging me on to put in a good word for her. She wanted to be part of Griffon Hunt. Perhaps if we had—no. I didn’t trust her. Her team dropped her once they knew how she really smiled. I’ll reach out.”
“I don’t remember a ‘Riz’, but plenty of events took capable people before their times. I may have a few names myself. Most I’d prefer to succeed as I hope they will, but for the rest…?”
Typhenous was nodding, eyes focused now.
“That’d make me Captain unless you’re planning on leading us. Strange, of all the jobs, I never wanted this one. Gangs and adventuring teams—too much work. But if the reason’s right, I’ll toss a hat on the streets. Swear to me you won’t waste me on anything less than my other death.”
He looked up, eyes glinting. It was a hard stare to match, but Mireden did.
“I swear.”
“Got a name? Just so I have an image to sell Riz, even if it’s in the back of my head? Something to give an old fellow a bit of zest for life and his lady something to chuckle about?”
Typhenous was smiling now, like an old, innocent man, but he spoke with that edge that reassured Mireden. The half-Giant thought for but a moment. Then he leaned over and murmured very quietly.
“We are just two thinking men on the side of the [Innkeeper]. There are a lot of thinking folk on the other side, some men. It will be difficult to even those odds, but until we’re caught, we have that. And I know most of the names. This is not the first nor the easiest. She’s my biggest quarry, but if you need for a vision yourself…Regis Reinhart intends to paint the garden of Izril’s flowers red.”
Typhenous’ eyes opened wide, then blazed as he gently looked around. Mireden dropped the spells, and the old man massaged his back. He spoke in a cheery voice.
“My. One hears stories, but I think I’d better go to a library. Wonderful things, those. They have all the history. Good luck on your day, Lord half-Giant, sir! I have some reading to do on the stuff of legends!”
He raised a hand to tip a cap he didn’t have, then looked befuddled before wandering off. Lord Mireden exhaled slowly and tapped his pipe onto the grass.
After a moment, he turned as a red glare shone on the side of his face.
Traffy the Law Elemental was glaring at Lord Mireden, who was in violation of the No Littering ordinance. The half-Giant regarded the Law Elemental. He cast around…then tapped the ground with his staff.
Traffy sank half a foot, then wiggled around before blurting furious sounds as the traffic light creature tried to free itself.
Lord Mireden walked off, and then…well, then it was time.
 
——
 
Ship #23 — The Sword of Gilam The Halfseeker’s Promise
 
It was only after the last dregs of surreal disbelief in his survival faded away that Seborn Sailwinds gazed once more at the green moon and understood…
Understood that, again, the world had changed and something terrible had happened. Something great, perhaps, but he had never found a true gift without a cost in his life.
He sailed westwards, towards the first stars he saw, with Tissl, his [Helmswoman], and Irrel, his First Mate, and his new ship.
Waiting.
Just waiting. He was fine with waiting; he knew they must be so busy. The living had to bury the dead each time.
He did not want to know, but he knew he would, if he kept alive. So, onwards the Drowned Man sailed. He had to teach the new crew the job, anyways. Irrel didn’t need the same lessons as Tissl, but he was a different kind of problem.
“Alright, try again. Just remember, port is left. Port. Left. Same number of letters. Stern is to the back. Aft is too. Bow is front…and when we give navigation orders, we don’t head towards other ships like that. It makes them think we’re going on the attack, Irrel.”
“Sorry.”
“Why d’you have such stupid names for ‘left’ and ‘right’ anyways?”
Irrel and Seborn glowered at Tissl, and the half-Elf protested.
“What? Why invent more words?”
“They’re not relative terms. Port is always left while facing the bow of the ship.”
“Okay…but why ‘port’? We’re already using that word. [Sailors] don’t have room for another in their heads? Oh, hey, look. A dragonfly. Anyone want to eat it?”
“All yours.”
“Thanks, Irrel. But I’m not that kind of half-Elf. Mom said Ceria was weird. D’you think Irurx and she really…y’know?”
“Probably. He talked a lot about her.”
“Third rule. Stop talking about friends of ours behind their backs. Unless they’ve done something stupid in recent memory.”
“Right, so about Captain Ceria…”
 
——
 
The hardest part was them telling jokes and trying not to smile. He managed it for half a day before remembering Jelaqua was the most irreverent happy-go-lucky member amongst them. It didn’t mean he fell over laughing, but he gave them a snort now and then.
Nor did he expect the two to be, well, so competent. He thought he had two Bronze-rank greenhorns on his hands, and in some ways, he did. But Irrel’s abilities in combat were Silver-rank…or frankly better, and that was despite him lacking Skills. With that sword? He was Gold-rank, but he wisely kept it hidden at all times.
As for Tissl, she had the gear of a Named-rank and all the fighting experience of a Sariant Lamb, but she was pretty competent in the non-combat areas he’d have expected deficiencies in.
Like knowing how to clean a deck, repair things with thread and needle, cook food, even how to just…work without slacking or getting distracted.
“I’m a [Farmer], aren’t I? You can’t slack when you’re doing important chores. Ma put me in charge of the sheep or the kids lots. Plus, steering this ship isn’t too hard.”
She did have a tendency to crash into some waves, but that was apparently ‘for fun’, and Irrel had an instinct about what waves were coming. Between that and Seborn’s seafaring knowledge, they managed to keep The Sword of Gilam afloat those first two days.
The two men had to clamber over the sails and attend to the rigging by hand, but Seborn was a [Rogue], and the ship was enchanted and stocked with a generous larder with Runes of Preservation. Tissl had already introduced the wonders of Izrilian cuisine to Irrel, who dug into the hearty fare with a kind of wonder.
He was used to all kinds of foods worldwide, but port-foods for all that. And after he’d dived into the water to catch fish, Seborn was less worried about having to enter a port.
Which was good, because he had a feeling they were being pursued. He’d been heading southwards at first, towards the New Lands, before he had feared the ship would suffer damage—and the Hivelands were due south of the High Passes. No safe port, even if he could talk themselves out of being swarmed for being too near the coast.
Then Seborn had debated going north, but Terandria would kill Irrel. So westwards Seborn had taken them, a bit wider of the Hivelands. Away from the coast, it was true, but there was a strong current that would take them south or north; a trading route that would actually speed progress to any harbor and make it harder for someone to catch them.
…Or there should have been. Two days in, Seborn was checking Gilam’s maps and realizing the young man’s mistake and his.
“Out of date. The changing currents. Damn. That’s my fault.”
He expected some blowback, but Irrel just glanced down from the crow’s nest, and Tissl peered up from the wheel.
“Not your fault you haven’t been at sea for a decade or more, Captain. Whaddya reckon we do?”
“Keep heading west a bit, but give us a more southern tack. There has to be a current even if they’ve shifted. The worst that happens is we swing wide before reaching the half-Elven settlement. Or Nombernaught. We could go back north…but Lord Etril’s probably hunting us by now, or someone is.”
“We’ve got plenty of food. Don’t see why we need to land in northern Izril. Whaddya think, Irrel?”
This wasn’t a group decision…was what Seborn was going to snap at Tissl, but he held his tongue. Irrel called down.
“Not north. Storm coming.”
Seborn and Tissl turned their heads northwards, but they didn’t see anything. The Dorhmin boy clarified as he nimbly slid down the crow’s news.
“Far. Magic. Can tell.”
“A magical storm? You’re sure? We swing well wide of that. It’ll throw us around, no matter if we’re in this enchanted ship or not.”
So they bent southwards, and after a while, Tissl called out.
“Captain, are you sleeping in Lord Gilam’s quarters still?”
“Yes. Captain’s privilege. Also don’t ever remind me that idiot exists. You wouldn’t like it anyways. He had some…off items.”
“No fear, Captain! Irrel and me have our own cabins; it’s great! I just have one request, sir?”
“What?”
“Can I have his pants? Me’n Irrel don’t have as much clothing.”
 
——
 
