“Fuck you two. You had to have two kids bail you out because you couldn’t escape a ship, Seborn. And you’re so bad at being a [Captain] the only two people you could get to crew your ship are a wanted [Pirate] and Ceria’s younger sister.”
“Hey!”
Tissl and Irrel were glaring at the other two Halfseekers, but Seborn held up a hand. He spoke calmly to Jelaqua.
“At least I’m still an adventurer who works for a living, not a has-been wife who pushes around children a fourth of her age to make herself feel relevant. Or a half-Giant with all the morals of a Creler. Neither of you two have any edge left. You’re soft, spineless as a shellfish, and didn’t even have the guts to tell me Moore was alive for a month!”
There was a cheer from behind Seborn, and Tissl leapt up.
“You tell ‘em, Captain!”
“Yep. Burned.”
Jelaqua’s face darkened as Lord Mireden cricked his neck. The three stepped closer, as if ready to throw hands—which would mostly hurt the other two as Seborn was just an illusion. Jelaqua poked a finger at Seborn and hissed.
“I knew you didn’t want to get back to sea. The only reason you even got a ship is because of luck. You’re just making it all up, and the day you sail a crew to your dad and he gives you what you’re due is the day I sprout wings and fly! Those two kids have more treasure than you ever stole or found!”
“Says the Captain who led us to the not-glory.”
“Speaking as someone who actually made a difference—”
Jelaqua turned and punched his shoulder, and Seborn stabbed a knife through Mireden’s chin. The half-Giant went on without missing a beat.
“—I knew Jelaqua couldn’t settle down with Maughin and play the good wife without snapping. She didn’t even last a year. And you…”
He hesitated and tried to think of something Jelaqua hadn’t added. He pointed at Seborn.
“Father issues.”
Oh, it was ugly. Mrsha and Nanette were hovering, and Tissl and Irrel had stopped cheering Seborn on. This was his team. But his fists were clenched, and Jelaqua was vibrating with rage. Someone had to stop them.
This wasn’t how it should be. Not the Halfseekers. Nanette was staring from face to face, and Seborn’s voice broke a bit.
“You—you have a lot of gall to say that to my face. You’re not the Moore who fought with us. The Halfseekers died there. Do you know who deserved that chance, that choice? Ulinde.”
Mireden recoiled a step and stood back as Seborn swung his eyes to Jelaqua. She’d frozen.
“She, out of the four of us, should have gotten back up. She was just a kid, and we walked her into her grave. If there was a miracle, it should have been to her. Instead, it’s just him and the two of us. We’ve buried every member of our team. How’s it feel, Ivirith?”
The Selphid didn’t recoil from the blow of his words. She stood there, and her hands unclenched. Her orange eyes fixed on Seborn’s face. Then turned to Lord Mireden. She went still, as they had seen her a million times. A Selphid who could explode into unchecked violence. Then the Selphid spoke, her voice suddenly…
Lost.
“It feels like I’m back in the snow except I always make the same choice, every time. Every single time, Seborn. I want you to know that. Even in my dreams, we go. I can’t believe you’d do it all over again. It would break me.”
Her eyes focused on Irrel and Tissl, and she whispered, tilting her head to gaze at him.
“It’s not a passing fancy, is it, Drowned Man? Because if it is, I’d swim to you and break your neck.”
“No. It’s not. It’s just what you’d do if you were still an adventurer.”
He never blinked. His voice was flat as he locked eyes with her, then turned to Moore. Seborn whispered.
“It’s what Moore would do.”
Breathless with horror, the audience watched as the Halfseeker from ten years in the future drew himself up to his full height. The weight of a [Lord]. The disapproval of a man who had watched his world burn and found this one unready, wanting…vanished from that face as a gentler expression replaced it.
“Yes. It’s what he would want, but you always had the courage to do it before I opened my mouth. I just fear for them, Seborn.”
Seborn Sailwinds glanced over his shoulder, and the Halfseekers saw his Human hand clench tight, so tight he nearly tore his glove. But he didn’t let the half-Elf girl and Dorhmin boy see it.
“I’ll keep them alive. Unhurt, I can’t promise. What was I supposed to do, quit?”
He turned to Jelaqua, and the Selphid wiped at one eye, but there wasn’t much moisture.
“Turns out I didn’t. Not really. I just went back even further. Not an adventurer, but like…a company. That’s what I think I’m doing.”
They stared at her. Lord Mireden exhaled in sudden understanding. Seborn raised an eyebrow.
“A company? What, they’re going to be fighting in ranks?”
“No, dumbass. Supporting each other. Working together. I look at everything Izril’s got, and even if the Drakes can form a shieldwall, they don’t stand together. Here Melika—this Garuda woman who runs the orphanage, she’s great, a fan of ours—here she’s got these kids who’re brave enough to survive, and she just…lets them live.”
“What, with free will and everything?”
Mireden received a fast elbow but didn’t grunt as Jelaqua went on.
“They should be on each other’s side. Instead, they beat each other down.”
“Ah, the old crab bucket trick.”
Jelaqua pointed at the Drowned Man as he commented. She smiled.
“Exactly! They hurt each other when they should beat up everyone else. What’m I supposed to do, just ignore that? I even bought an apartment because someone has to do something. But I’m not gonna just be Miss Nice Selphid. That never works.”
Something was…wrong. The watching children on both sides of the discussion were confused. The Halfseekers had been at each other’s throats a moment ago. But they were talking, suddenly, voices far more level, and it was like the fight hadn’t happened. The wind blew at Seborn’s hair as he nodded, listening to Jelaqua, and all were utterly flummoxed…
Aside from two people. Nanette, who had been reading the emotions of the Halfseekers and not seen the same anger their words suggested. Anger, yes, but something else building.
And Irrel—Irrel, who had seen more duels and blood shed between the Bloodtear Pirates than any other crew. Yet the Bloodtear Pirates, the real crews who sailed together, would die back-to-back without a moment’s hesitation. He blinked and saw something similar as Jelaqua struck her chest.
“I’m just doing a bit of meddling. Nothing like Lord Mireden. Oh, and there’s Raskghar and Troydel. I’m just—poking things.”
“Whacking the beehive with a stick, more like. I’d rather take the Raskghar than Troydel.”
Lord Mireden was tugging at his beard.
“It’s been so long…who’s Troydel?”
“The annoying one?”
“Doesn’t narrow it down. Most of the Earthers are annoying. Giants rest, you haven’t even run into the bad ones yet.”
“Wonderful.”
Both Jelaqua and Seborn groaned, and Mireden lifted his hands.
“There’s one called the [Hero of Turns]—no, the odds are he won’t be the first. There’s this [Clown] that I hope none of you ever meet. Nevermind that. Seborn, the storm is getting larger. Your crew is headed into it. Are you sure you won’t turn back? The Dorhmin boy—”
“Irrel. His name’s Irrel.”
“—he could find his people. Neither Minotaurs nor Terandrians can follow you into the sea.”
Seborn Sailwinds turned and met Irrel’s eyes. Then raised an eyebrow.
“His people? What are they supposed to look like, Mireden? Tell me.”
The other two adventurers exhaled. Mireden with a gentle sigh of nostalgia, Jelaqua with confirmation. They nodded, and she nudged him gently, now.
“He got you there.”
“I let him walk me into it. Well…I’d let you stab me a few times, Seborn, old friend. If I can call you that.”
“I suppose. Though I’ll wait to see how much of you I remember.”
Mrsha was peeking at the three of them. They weren’t—they weren’t killing each other?
Of course not. The Halfseekers stood together, and the anger, the insults, and the very hurtful personal remarks were how a team fought. Close, vicious—
It was how a family fought. But now they were closer, and each one was peering at the other. Jelaqua muttered.
“You crazy idiot, Seborn. How’d you get to the one place where the inn and Mireden can’t help you?”
“It just sort of happened. So…you’re back, Mireden? Anyone else I’d know?”
“Just Kevin. And it’s really him. Not even a stranger.”
“Hah. Kevin. I like him.”
Then Seborn smiled, truly, and Lord Mireden bent his head and rubbed at his eyes, and Jelaqua laughed. They turned to the storm, and Seborn’s body was like static now, blowing in the air as magical fragments whirled away. He seemed to see the same thing in them and raised a hand.
“I think it’s time. Find me after this storm. I’m not done shouting at you two.”
“I’ll be around. Now that this big lug is in Liscor, I’ll be back, to entertain the little kids if nothing else. Oi, Irrel, kill anyone else who’s not a bad guy and I’ll hit you.”
Jelaqua drew a finger across her neck, and Irrel nodded. Then…she stepped back. Lord Mireden put his palms together.
“I’ll pray for you, Seborn. Something else we have in common.”
“I did it first. Don’t copy me.”
“Oh, for the love of—”
The half-Giant sighed and almost snapped back when there was a crash. One of the sails had snapped open, and Seborn whirled. Tissl leapt, and Irrel groaned. All three said the same thing at once.
“Damn it, Erin—”
Jelaqua and Mireden blinked as Irrel and Tissl jumped for the ropes. Seborn nodded at her, then stood there. He gazed at the other two. And the pain on his face was now visible. He took a breath, looked at the storm, then raised his Human hand.
“Hey, Jelaqua…Moore?”
“Yes?”
They gazed back, and for a moment, it was just them. Beyond time, beyond worlds…
Seborn Sailwinds picked himself up out of the snow and gazed at them. His lips moved, with the faintest trace of a smile. Blood and water running from his eyes.
“I can’t believe we made it, huh?”
“Yeah.”
Jelaqua closed her eyes. Mireden reached out for Seborn, a gaze of anguish on his features. Seborn tried to clasp their hands. Then he turned.
“See you later, Halfseekers.”
He vanished into the storm, and the Selphid broke down and wept, and the half-Giant stood there, gathering his resolve.
 
——
 
Thus, they went on their ways. Not to never see each other again. Far from it. If Jelaqua didn’t contact him after the storm was over, Seborn was going to tear strips off her.
But for a moment, he let the rain wash over his face, and the howl of the storm was welcome. A pleasant balm to his soul compared to what lay within.
“Captain. Was it good?”
Irrel asked him that question, once, and Seborn wiped at his face.
“No. It was horrible.”
He stopped and turned to them.
“Don’t ever let your teammates die.”
Tissl nodded, and she linked arms with Irrel as the storm’s waves plunged them down. Seborn grabbed the wheel as Irrel seized hold of his jacket. And then…
 
——
 
Then the Selphid hugged the half-Giant and the cutest little girl she could find—and a Sariant Lamb—and ran, blubbering, to the kids she was supposed to impress. He stood there, eyes closed.
Like a man savoring a dream he had forgotten and clung to, which was now before his eyes once more. Like an ambition you had failed to catch, but which you could see once more, burning with all the intensity you had first felt for it.
The most painful thing held in his hands.
He refused to let go.
 
——
 
What then? What note could be given to continue the Halfseekers on their way, to put paid to their adventures which had brought them together again, on their paths?
And truly, even if you had not heard this conversation meant only for their ears, if you searched them up, if you believed even a tenth of what they had done, what they’d seen and lost, did you really…
Did you really want to sail into that storm after them?
Captain Hilyed of The Unbroken Vow knew what honor meant. He knew what the law was and how perilous things could be if it was bent and abused for personal reasons.
But he also had an idea of what Shifthold meant and what sacrifice meant. He had a list of deeds unsung for a Gold-rank team, a tale of a tiny crew who had defied Shifthold, and, on the other hand, a bounty written in a vindictive screed by a [Lord] who hadn’t even registered his ship.
He had a tale of the sea versus the writ of the law for a Bloodtear Pirate.
He had a half-Elf’s words and the evidence of his eyes.
Hilyed knew what honor meant. He fancied he could hear it and even see it at times. So he leaned on the bow of the ship, thinking. Watching that ship plunge into the magical storm.
“Captain?”
“I know. But I am conflicted. We stand at a crossroads, and our honor is at stake as much as the ship.”
He addressed the crew, hoping they were locked in the same decision he was. For it was not, should not be easy. As it turned out, though…they were not engaged in a philosophical crisis. One of the [Sailors] tapped the Honor Captain on the shoulder.
“Captain, er, before you…”
Then the Minotaur blinked and gazed down. Down at the little Gnoll girl with white fur.
“Horns of Hammerad—”
He nearly leapt off his own ship. Mrsha held up a card innocently.
Hello, Captain. Did you really fight a Kraken?
He stared at her. The girl peered at the shocked crew, then cleared her throat. She switched cards.
I hate to bother you important Minotaurs in this very important moment! However, may I ask if you’re really from the House of Minos?
Hilyed had yet to find his voice, so one of the [Sailors] coughed, rubbing at the hoofmarks on her chest.
“Yes. We are. We crew The Unbroken Vow, ironically. Are you—did you have business with that Drowned Man? He’s left.”
Oh, he’s busy. It’s okay. So…you’re going back home?
The [Sailor] peered over Mrsha’s shoulder at the rapidly-departing ship. In a minute or two, they’d be hard to catch. Near impossible with the storm. She was glancing at the oars and the weighed anchor. They were not, in fact, stupid.
“Yes, child. Did you have a question beyond that or are you just trying to distract us?”
Captain Hilyed inhaled. He set himself, ready to bellow an order, and not even he knew which it would be in that moment. Every eye fell on Mrsha as she innocently switched cards.
I just needed to be really sure you were important. Important enough to petition an Arbiter of Law or the King of Minos herself on behalf of an improperly judged Minotaur. It would not do for him to die dishonored when I have evidence he’s innocent.
