The Minotaur [Sailor] holding Seborn knew the [Rogue] wanted to escape. She tightened her grip, determined not to let go even if he cut her down to the bone. Even so, when the horse kicked her, she did fall over.
“Ow.”
It was a real damn kick too. Two hooves planted, two hooves flying with a double-blow that even a Minotaur would respect. Only a really pissed horse went for that. Or one being ridden by a half-Elf who slung Seborn onto the saddle as he trotted past the surprised crew.
Despite the angry horse trying to buck him, Zedalien rode the stolen creature like he were sitting at a table.
“When one works for Lady Maviola El…worked, rather, they learned how to make a fast getaway. Always have a horse ready.”
He galloped Seborn towards his ship as the Drowned Man blinked at him. He glanced over his shoulder; the Minotaurs poured out of the bar, shouting, but no half-Elves, and they seemed slower than he expected. Zedalien winked at him.
“A member of the Bloodtear Pirates won’t earn any sympathy here, but for a sister in the crew and someone who beat Irurx, you won’t have any pursuit. The Minotaurs, sadly, won’t relent. We’ll stall them as long as we can.”
“Thanks.”
“Your inn sounds like it would have made Maviola happy. I hope that was your friend. Best of luck.”
The half-Elf with silver hair tilted his head back, then swung Seborn with a good deal of force. Almost like he had experience throwing people—Seborn flipped through the air over the docks, [Shadowleaping] onto the deck of his ship.
“We’re getting out of here!”
He turned and lifted a hand as Irrel hauled the anchor up. Zedalien nodded to him as the Minotaurs raced towards their own ship…which had a bunch of ivy clinging to the railings!
“Those are criminals wanted by law! Stop obstructing us!”
A [Sailor] was trying to turn a ballista their way, but a half-Elven [Druid] was conferring with a [Lady], and both shook their heads at him. The [Lady] bowed to the outraged Minotaurs.
“I’m terribly sorry, horn-friend. However, it appears your ship has miraculously sprouted Instavine, a very rare, very endangered species of vine. We must remove it by hand while singing to it.”
“Very rare. Very sensitive to loud voices. Please stop shouting, sir. It must be bathed in a milkweed mixture under moonlight. Oh, what a fecund blessing. We should all give thanks to Mother Tree for this bounty!”
The Minotaur stared down at the half-Elves with that open mouth. The [Sailor] leaned off his artillery piece.
“I am not—we are not blind. But a Bloodtear Pirate is a [Pirate], even if they did best Shifthold! Is theft not theft?”
The two half-Elves exchanged a look, and the [Lady] folded her arms.
“Who said anything about theft? Or [Pirates]? But this brings up a fascinating debate. If one steals an apple from a tree in the middle of a forest where no one is around to hear it, is it not theft?”
“Or cradlerobbing? Sister, I think this is a fine point. We must adjourn to our Debate Parlors and sip, uh, honeydew as we consider this point.”
The Minotaur covered his face, then realized they were actually walking off. He roared at them to get rid of the damn vines as Seborn’s ship sailed away.
 
——
 
They had a fine head start on the Minotaurs. Not only did a mysterious wind spring up to fill their sails, but the Minotaurs were probably delayed at least an hour. Plenty of time…or so Seborn would have said.
But a newly-minted [Captain] was not equipped with Skills like a veteran Minotaur Honor Captain. Nor, for all of this ship’s enchantments, was it a match for a ship from the House of Minos.
It took them a while, but that red sail bearing the House of Minos’ horned crest never actually left the horizon…and it gained hour by hour as Seborn tried to take them northwards, hoping to lose the Minotaurs around the coast.
But the damn Minotaurs didn’t just have a superior vessel made by nautical geniuses. They had what Seborn suspected was a Jar of Winds spell, [Mages] on board to fill their sails…
And oars.
Seeing any ship that wasn’t a longboat deploy oars sounded stupid, but if there was any group that could row and catch you even with the wind at their back, it would be them. The thum-thum of their drums beating the rhythm was so loud that by the next day, Seborn was red-eyed and sleepless.
And they were less than two thousand feet away.
“Halfseeker’s Promise, haul to or we will begin striking your keel! You will be fairly judged in the House of Minos, my word on it!”
Captain Hilyed was bellowing from the prow of his ship. Tissl and Irrel looked to Seborn. He had his eyes on the northern horizon. They had only one chance…
Irrel’s storm. The one that the weather channel had finally spotted coming off Terandria’s northern coast. The magical storm named Thiborkilj was coming down across the ocean fast. Picking up speed along Izril’s western coast, and anything in its path looked to be hurled astray.
Even the House of Minos weren’t stupid enough to follow them into that, were they? Seborn roared at Irrel and Tissl.
“Irrel, they’ll kill you for a [Pirate] no matter what! Or put you in a work camp for ten years—if they don’t hang me for the same, I’m not wasting my time getting another ship! Tissl, you can abandon ship! There’s a way for us to breathe water, but you—”
“Nuts to that, Captain! I’m part of the crew! Hey, you Minotaurs! I’m an innocent half-Elven girl! Are you going to chase us to our deaths?”
Tissl waved at the Minotaurs with a huge smile, and the pace of their oars slackened slightly. Seborn was impressed.
She’s got a mouth on her. I’m supposed to be the one who does that. But they kept coming, so he exhaled. Seborn stared at the green cloud flickering along the familiar spiral of death that changed colors, and he swore he saw the rain changing color too.
Magical storm. It wasn’t as bad as the hurricane that Seve-Alrelious had sailed through, but…he spun the wheel slightly.
“Tissl. I’m taking first shift. Get some rest. Once we’re in the storm, no one sleeps until we see sunlight.”
She saluted. The Minotaurs were hesitating.
Was this really worth risking their entire ship and crew over? They saw the ship heading into the storm. Seborn Sailwinds was gazing at Irrel, and the Dorhmin boy said:
“Sorry.”
“Not your fault. I should have been more careful with my name. We’re a crew. A team. No one abandons the other. Ever.”
Seborn lashed the wheel into place; it was straight into the storm. He stepped back, then reached out; he and Irrel clasped hands as Tissl stuck her head out of the cabin.
“You can’t say stuff like that without me, Captain!”
He was grinning ruefully as Irrel smiled, and they turned into the storm that might kill them all. It was approaching, and the wind was beginning to suck them forwards, but they had time to turn; so did the Minotaurs, who’d slowed. The storm would take minutes, even perhaps as much as an hour to be on them.
But the point of no return was faster approaching. Perhaps…already reached. Then it would be the storm until the ship broke or it did.
That was, of course, how they found him. Seborn was looking around for the ghosts, who he hadn’t seen since he’d drawn his daggers in Irrel’s defense. He almost thought they’d found him again before he saw the telltale shimmer and saw their faces.
He never recognized Jelaqua’s bodies…but he knew her behind those eyes. The orange glow and the unsure smile—the way she stood ready to move.
And him. The half-Giant leaned on his staff just like the Moore that Seborn knew. His expression of guilt, his hunched shoulders, like he was trying to hide…oh, it was familiar.
Seborn Sailwinds turned, and the three Halfseekers who had known each other a lifetime were together again. His feet slipped on the deck as he turned from the two shocked children.
“Ah.”
A little Gnoll girl gazed guiltily at him and pointed at her face. Seborn focused on Mrsha, then—nodded to her once. He closed his eyes. Inhaled, exhaled, and then glared at them.
“What took you two so long? Cowards.”
 
——
 
The wind was whipping at the image of Seborn Sailwinds, and occasionally, it would drag a fragment or particle of his image and send it spinning away.
Magic on the breeze.
He sat with a greater peace than the other two had expected of him. But then, he had been shown the truth a day before they had; this was not the first moments of terrible knowledge. He had known…from Mrsha.
It was also who they were. Where they were. They did not have forever to talk, and that was the irony; the Selphid and half-Giant had left it too long. Jelaqua and Mireden were, of course, appalled.
“You’re taking children into a magical storm? Are you mad, Seborn? Turn the ship, now! I’ll speak to these Minotaurs!”
The half-Giant spoke with authority, weight, the duties he had accepted in his voice, and Jelaqua blinked up at him. Her first reaction was to think—‘who are you to give orders?’
But then she glanced at the storm, the two kids, and agreed. Not for the same reasons as Lord Mireden either.
“This is a bad idea, Seborn. That’s not someone you should have on your crew.”
“You mean Irrel? He saved an entire village’s life. He’s a Dorhmin, Ivirith.”
The Drowned Man was angry. His arms were folded, and he was stubborn, and the Selphid’s cheeks turned orange.
“Not that! I meant a Bloodtear Pirate. There’s some lines you don’t uncross. Those bastards slaughtered everyone in cold blood.”
“Not him. He swears he killed one person.”
“Yeah, the [Prince]! Listen to me, Seborn, this isn’t smart. And you’ve got to be smarter than stealing a ship from a [Lord] and—and challenging Shifthold? Are you mad?”
Lord Moore eyed Jelaqua and hesitated, not quite agreeing. He leaned forwards.
“Do you have a plan, Seborn? Some way out of that storm or this situation beyond sailing this ship?”
“No.”
The Drowned Man seemed rather pleased by their reactions. He shifted as he sat cross-legged, the surf now battering the deck of the ship.
“Look at you two. How long have you known, Jelaqua?”
“All of two days! And I was so beaten up about it I nearly came back and tried to kill him!”
Lord Mireden eyed Jelaqua as she waved her hands at him.
“Huh. That’s extreme, but fair. And you’ve been here since the moon cracked. You…but not our Moore. He’s somewhere else, with Ulinde. Safe.”
The Drowned Man addressed the half-Giant, trying to piece together what they’d told him, and Mireden nodded heavily.
“He…that was not your Moore, just a version that was close. He chose happiness, safety of a kind. I let him go. The world needed me more.”
“Good for him.”
The Drowned Man’s tense shoulders seemed to give a tiny bit at this, but Jelaqua clenched a fist.
“He could have come back…! I know it’s not him. But does he think it’s all gonna be fixed and safe wherever he goes? Why didn’t they all come back? They could have—!”
She avoided Mireden’s eyes. She hadn’t said that to his face when she’d heard about the [Palace of Fates]. Guiltily, Jelaqua cast around for Mrsha, but the girl was just sitting in a corner of the [World’s Eye Theatre], arguing with Nanette and scribbling on some flashcards.
Seborn’s eyes were upon the storm, and he spoke distantly.
“They had a choice. He made his. Seems like you two made yours. Mireden, if you want. I’m not going to call you Moore unless you want it. What the hell was up with summoning Amerys to fight Valeterisa?”
This time, it was he and Jelaqua who fixed the half-Giant with a stare, and Mireden was unapologetic.
“That was a planned action. Not perfect, but what should have been done long ago! By Erin if no one else!”
Everyone, including the two girls and the other listeners, blinked at the half-Giant. Jelaqua raised a finger.
“I agree there’s got to be some planning, but that’s too much. I’ve got some, well, little brats I’m taking care of, but you risked lives, Mireden.”
“I took a calculated risk. Liscor, the inn, we must be respected. How many times has Erin done something miraculous, or one of the other teams, and reaped no benefit from loot and gratitude from a few? The world doesn’t need more Silver Swords, half-forgotten by everyone despite all the statues. It needs change. And risk comes with that. I did it for a purpose. Seborn’s twice as insane as I am to throw himself into danger for a [Pirate].”
Irrel and Tissl were in the background, half-tending to the ship, but listening. It made Jelaqua’s heart hurt to see the Dorhmin kid glance down, but she stuck to her assertion this was too reckless, even for, especially for Seborn. The Drowned Man glanced at his crew and shot back.
“Eat seaweed, Mireden. I don’t stab my friends in the back even in other worlds. I did what looked right.”
“And here you are sailing into a storm.”
Okay, this wasn’t how she’d pictured this at all. She’d expected Seborn to be raging, to be in tears apologizing…not to be fighting. Jelaqua raised her voice.
“Lads, lads. Can we all agree that Seborn’s in trouble?”
“Yes.”
“No.”
Mireden and Jelaqua glowered at Seborn. He stood with his back to the storm, innocently lacing his fingers into his claw-hand.
“I’m doing great. Never felt better. I’ve got a ship, a crew, and at least four Relic-class items. Five minutes out of your lot’s hair and I’ve done it.”
Jelaqua’s eye twitched. She knew he was doing this on purpose because he was upset, but she was still having a hard time keeping her cool. She took a breath.
“Well, I’m helping some orphaned kids. Running an apartment for them, giving them some basic lessons, you know? ‘S good work in my retirement. Which is what a responsible adult would do instead of taking two kids on a stolen ship! Or throwing down with Amerys!”
She glared at the half-Giant, who stroked his beard with that arch expression the two could remember Moore having only when he felt like he was utterly, unassailably correct. It really…really annoyed them.
“I’m going to be a Councilmember of Liscor. And I’m above Level 50.”
“So what? You had ten years and that’s all you got?”
“I don’t recall you chasing Amerys off! I just recall her kicking the stones off you!”
The other two leapt on the half-Giant, and he jabbed a finger at Jelaqua.
“It’s better than beating a child half to death and becoming a [Landlord]! That’s what she’s doing, Seborn. And she was doing the ‘forced levelup’ training. She didn’t even warn the Scorchling.”
“You’re doing that again? And what, renting to people? That’s dirty work even for a Selphid, Ivirith.”
Jelaqua raised two fingers.
