“Valley’s not getting tired of playing in the rain, huh? Can I get a soup for when she and Montressa get in? My bet is she’s got forty minutes more, tops.”
Who? Did he mean…? As they walked towards the table, the Pallassians saw, out the window, the Archmage flying. She was shooting balls of light skywards as her [Apprentice] flew after her, and the Sinew Magus of Pallass, Courier Salamani, and more [Mages] were standing on the water.
Watching the Archmage of Izril practicing magic.
Well, so much for Melika keeping the youths away from the bad Selphid. Jelaqua Ivirith smiled faintly at the stunned guests and then turned. She checked her lunchbox as a Gnoll girl poked her head down the stairs, sniffing loudly.
Mrsha the Easily Bribable was still, sometimes, just the little kid that Jelaqua Ivirith missed. The Selphid winked, then glanced around.
Ah, it was a fine day to tell Seborn that Moore was back from the dead. A shame Amerys didn’t come back for round two.
That would be easier.
 
——
 
Lord Mireden Raithland was settling into his new name. He had to; Lord Moore was too revealing. The hard part wasn’t that or even necessarily all the fame and attention he was getting.
The hard part was…other people realizing he was used to all of this. Of the people of this world, and his own, realizing that half-Giant he might be, sworn protector of Liscor he was still.
Nice and upstanding gentle giant who never hit below the belt he was not. He never had been. Younger Moore had just been too afraid to hit people as hard as he knew how.
“I was almost positive she would not come to Liscor to murder Valeterisa. She would have fought differently, and I had a Skill and two bound spells on backup for that contingency.”
“You nearly got her killed even then! And she stole Valeterisa’s stuff!”
“And Valeterisa counterlevelled. So did Relc. He never got [Spearmaster] to Level 40 in our time, Arrema.”
“Don’t—don’t call me that. You know my name.”
The young Gnoll woman haranguing him, or trying to, was upset. Perhaps rightly so, but the half-Giant was having a conversation between adults. She seemed to think he was still treating her like a child.
“That is your name, Arrema. Privacy spells or not, you had better get used to thinking of yourself as Arrema.”
“What if I don’t like it?”
“Then I expected you to choose another in all the time you’ve had. I debated calling myself Lord Leesse. But that would be too silly and actually endanger me. The situation was under control. I erred in trying to capture Amerys. I suppose I was arrogant in that, but not as greatly as you seem to fear. You notice I don’t exactly appear worse-for-wear today.”
They were walking and talking, and the furious young Gnoll woman had chosen today to talk to him; she had been avoiding their conversation, but her fury at his perceived foolishness had brought them to it. Arrema pointed a finger at Mireden’s face.
“It was still low, faking Valeterisa badmouthing Amerys. And just—sneaky! I’d be okay if it was to level Valeterisa and Relc, but that’s not why you did it! You did it just to win the election!”
He frowned at her as they walked through Riverfarm. The spying [Emperor]’s eyes or not, it was a good place for this conversation; he’d never get a word in edgewise in Liscor or Pallass with all the people who wanted to speak to him. The half-Giant sighed.
“Arrema, ‘just’ the elections? I have one shot to become a Councilmember; it’s pure luck they had a snap election. Rest assured, the Council will be locked in for two years after this unless Liscor suffers a true calamity. Which it will not, because I am here. Everything I do is in service of my greatest task. The task you are leaving to me.”
He reminded her with a tap of his staff on her arm. She glared.
“You don’t have to be a bastard about it though.”
“I am being exceptionally upstanding by any standard of politics, which I grant you, is not a bar higher than your toes.”
“If Mom and the others from home could see you—you’re acting like Pawn. Our Pawn!”
Again, the comment made Mireden angrier than he should have been. He glowered as he cast a glance towards an old man playing with a little boy. Typhenous was chasing Cade around, but he tired often, and the shrieking boy would race up to him to badger Typhenous to ‘chase better’ until Briganda took over. She seemed happy, Lord Moore thought. In this world, she’d changed classes to [Shield Maid]; in his, she’d kept her [Shieldmaiden] class.
One change for the better without his involvement. He focused on Arrema.
“Arrema, I’m surprised at you. For the young woman who was prepared to sink into the dangerous world of Gold-rankers—or more!—you speak like a child. Your mother was highly politically savvy within Liscor.”
She opened her mouth, flushing under her fur, and he pointed a finger at her sternly.
“For all that she ‘retired’, she still managed one of Izril’s great cities and wielded considerable power! Keeping the inn out of harm’s way no less! I considered her a valuable ally and enemy when we were set against each other. She would do the exact same thing in my shoes—well, nothing so combat-intensive—but you would do well to observe the Lyonette of this place. She is showing those same sparks of true leadership, and it is not a kind one. Or have you not observed her preparing to dismantle the Healer?”
Arrema’s lips compressed.
“That’s different. That’s a good thing.”
“Oh, and so you just want her and me to be like Erin? If it is for a good cause, we can stab any number of [Princes]?”
Lord Mireden shook his head in mild despair. He knew Jelaqua was not going to be happy with him; he hadn’t exactly told her the full scope of his plans to win the election. And Seborn…Mireden felt his stomach twist with genuine nerves. After the battle with Shifthold, it was time to talk to him. But were they friends or…strangers?
Arrema, the one person from his world who remained, was giving him that gaze, so he was unkind, a bit. The half-Giant snapped at her as Typhenous looked around.
“I’ve often heard you complaining about our Pawn and how he terrified even Lyonette with his ability to lay nations to waste. Who, exactly, was the manipulated one? The [Prophet] with the power to summon angels, or the woman who had his antennae and could tell him to do so much? Your Lyonette never believed in Erin the way he did. You and I both know that; she was willing to go further than I would!”
Not that seducing anyone had exactly been in his deck of cards, but the point was made. He turned, embarrassed by her stricken expression.
“—That was harsh. I apologize. Just…I will make mistakes, Arrema. So long as they are not ones that cost Liscor everything, I will consider them the cost of this effort. Remember that, if we should come to odds. You know the stakes, and you have left this to me.”
He didn’t hear anything for a while, and the Gnoll girl didn’t speak when he glanced at her. She brushed at her dyed brown hair and then muttered.
“Did you treat the wells yet?”
“No. She’d notice that many dying. I think she’s unleashing the Legions of the Everservants. I hope we can beat them if they come to battle. I will, very slowly, add a formula to the water sources, but it requires me to be a Councilmember. That idiot, Ylawes, put Watch Captain Zevara’s guard up, and she monitors the damn wells. My formula will be far slower. First, it will neutralize their ability to reproduce. Then kill them off over repeated doses.”
“There’s more places where they could have spread the infection. The Goblins—”
“I know. Do you want to stay?”
Arrema was gazing across the sunny city where the [Emperor] of Riverfarm and the surrounding region held court. Her eyes rose to a flock of ravens flying overhead and then a [Witch], who wasn’t Alevica, unsteadily flying over a field. Arrema shook her head.
“Not with Emperor Blind doing his thing. Or at the inn. Sometimes it’s just like what I always wanted, and that’s worse than…I’m going.”
“Say goodbye, at least, before you do. If not to me, then to Mrsha and Lyonette.”
“Yeah, sure.”
 
——
 
It was bitterer than the medicine he was brewing, which was actually quite tasteless. Lord Mireden grimaced as he saw Arrema walking off, hands in her pockets. This upset him more than yesterday by far.
He was thinking of things to tell her and realized that she had never paid attention to the things he’d done, good or bad. She’d always just been stuck in time with Erin…
Such heavy thoughts. Whenever he thought of his world, he felt a rage that could crack the continent in two. A despair and burning vengeance against the Mother of Graves that could reforge his skin harder than mithril.
No, that was what would be hard. Seborn would see it, and Jelaqua already had. He was no good man.
No Giant of old with their simple morality. They had died because they were such uncomplicated beings for all their intelligence and sophistication in their own way. Unlike Dragons or other immortals, Giants had never suffered wrongs to make a right. They had not, he had been told, taken the lesser of two evils.
Small wonder they’d been pursued until the last ones had fled to Rhir. Moore rubbed at his face. It was not a fun thing to feel so damn small.
But the duty of a bastard is to do what children and saints cannot. It was hard and easy. After all…when he turned his head, he saw a dead man standing before him.
Typhenous’ face was just old. Not…the triumphant smile of the Plague Mage’s final spell. Lord Moore could still hear the hissing, the sudden silence of Flesh Worms dying. Plague in the dungeon of Liscor. A dissolving hand falling; robes dropping to the ground, emptied of organic matter and life.
“A squabble with young folk? You look like you’ve celebrated too hard, milord. What could be upsetting you after such a fine yesterday? Have I introduced myself? Typhenous.”
They knew who each other were, of course, but Typhenous hadn’t been there when the [Palace of Fates] opened. And he was acting. Always acting.
Mireden gently shook the old man’s hand.
“Typhenous the Plague Mage? My nephew was a friend of your team. I am Lord Mireden Raithland; forgive my altercation. I knew the girl’s mother, but I fear I’ve fallen in her esteem.”
“Such a sad thing to see. Being old is so…well, it makes me miss Revi. I fear I let her down so many times, but I just never found that oft-vaunted wisdom in my age. Just grey hairs.”
Typhenous tsked, shaking his head as he and Lord Mireden fell into step. They stopped by a tree where Nanette had once sat in isolation. The tree remained, but it was no longer as solitary; a suburb was being built where only empty grasslands had been last year.
It did not make Mireden sad; he was no [Druid], just a [Mage] of the earth. He gazed instead at the laughing boy and his mother.
“Briganda’s doing well. I think she actually is retired. I’d have never believed it, but she likes training the new [Warriors], and losing her [Shieldmaiden] class…it was a fine excuse. There was a moment where I thought I was finished myself.”
Typhenous leaned on his staff as he and Mireden activated privacy spells again, and the half-Giant pulled something out from his pocket.
“It’s a tradition. I did the same dance myself for half a decade in my time. Pipe?”
“What do you have?”
“Silpher grass, dried. Smoked with a pinch of Dreamleaf, a Centaur variety grown by a common friend of ours in the future. The last pouch you or I will ever smoke, much to my regret.”
“How excellent. Could I trouble you for a pinch or two for Witch Eloise? She would be fascinated by the stuff and might be able to resurrect the plant from the components…ah, it tastes like nostalgia for something that is lost forever. Quintessential Wandering Inn, really.”
The old sneak took a huge handful from Lord Mireden’s bag, and the half-Giant glowered, but getting Typhenous to give it back would probably be like trying to get a raccoon to regurgitate its breakfast. Possible, but the end result would not be worth it.
They stood, smoking, as Lord Mireden spoke, surveying a young woman sitting with a book under the tree. Nanette Weishart seemed to be dozing off.
“Forgive me if I retread painful memories. It’s just that I never quite knew you until after…your passing. And the ‘you’ of now is not the one I knew either. You didn’t go with Revi, because…?”
Typhenous stretched out his wrinkled and veiny hands with a true grimace as he clenched his pipe between his teeth.
“Too slow. Too old. Valeterisa could send only a few, and Revi is an army. Was it foolish? Yes, but it was her choice. If I were in Baleros, footslogging away from Dullahans or whatever she’s doing…I am old. I feel that age, and it irks me. I know better than to play the hero I’m not.”
A lesson learned several times, probably. Painfully. Mireden nodded shortly and rubbed at his ribs.
“I learned the very same lesson just now. I’ve gotten soft for all my achievements. The future is not so much an advantage as you think. They still fight like Demons, even if you know how they died.”
Nanette was glancing at Typhenous and Mireden. They waved, and Typhenous pointed at his pipe. Would you like some, young woman? Mireden tried to bat at him, but she came over to collect a pinch of the powder and a spare pipe.
“Lyonette is going to hang both of us for that.”
“If she finds out. A young woman of her age, in my experience, is no different from young men. Just sneakier about exploring the world. Being the old fellow they can trust is sometimes important.”
He winked at Nanette as she hurried off, possibly to find Hethon and a private spot. Lord Mireden puffed. This was not how he’d thought this conversation would go. The past surprised him. But Typhenous…he glanced left and down.
“Typhenous the Plague. One of the Knives of Invrisil. Face of Faces.”
The old man’s face had gone blank. Not angry nor sad, just—unreadable.
“In my youth, maybe I clung to such names. Right now, that would land me in more trouble with young bucks looking to get a bit of glory.”
“Simply confirmation on my part. You died harder than most I have ever seen. Harder and worthier. But for you, we would never have slain our foe.”
That pleased Typhenous.
“A hard death? Better than slipping into the end. Eloise was right. This isn’t making me dreamy at all, incidentally.”
“What? No. It sharpens your focus and concentration. Gives you interesting ideas, but if that’s what Nanette thinks it is, she and Hethon will just end up debating policy.”
“Bah, she’s too young for that if that’s what the children call it these days.”
