Zeph stumbled to a halt, unable to see anything, even his own hands. He pulled on his Talent, but while Howl was eager to respond, his throat Lock was clenched tighter than a merchant’s purse. He diverted the Water instead, sending it rushing through the heels of his boots. A ring of dirt kicked up around them, a gust that did little to banish the inky shadows that drenched them all.

Saam cursed, his armor jangling in an unmistakable, heavy impact. “My legs! It’s got my legs!”

Zeph spun toward his friend, only a few steps ahead of where he stood. “What is it? Tell me!”

“Trap!”

The air shifted and Zeph poured his Talent outward, coiling it around his swinging sword. Sound rang from its metal edge like a bell, a crash that grew immensely when he encountered opposition steel. Zeph pressed forward, hurling the enemy’s weapon back.

Sound filtered back, rebounding off the cavern walls in strange ways. To Zeph, the world became a sea of vibrating surfaces. He could almost see Saam where he struggled, knee deep in a foul, toothed jaw. He could also make out the faintest of wires further in. A tripline.

“Fool,” he called into the dark. He needed the enemy to stop thinking. “You think you can capture the Grim Company with some second rate shadows and cheap triplines?”

“No.”

Zeph jerked back, sword slashing toward the sound. He hit nothing but air.

“I have no intention of capturing you.”

Zeph cried out, a boot driven into his chest. It didn’t hurt—his armor prevented that—but rage spiked his veins like a drug. “You arrogant—!”

Click.

Zeph looked down but needn’t have bothered. He saw nothing—and felt everything.

A spike launched out of the earth where it had been buried, hurled upward by the tension of a massive spring. It sheared across his tunic, cutting it free the same as the rings of chainmail that went pinging across the cavern.

These bandits…! Zeph struggled forward, only to have two more spikes tear up ward, the second one lodging into Zeph’s gut.

The dark shrouded them all. He couldn’t see. He could barely stand.

Yet for a moment, he thought he caught a glimpse of a toothy maw and glowing yellow eyes.

“Goodbye, human.”
