She hummed. It might be a long shot, and she didn’t have any real proof that the horn was there besides a vague feeling, but she figured it was worth checking out before they resorted to telling Daphne about the curse.

“Before we do that,” the demon began, “there’s another place I want to check first.”

When the sun rose the next morning, they had their plan hashed out.

“I don’t like this,” Callan muttered. “I know telling her about the curse is suspicious, but this is also pretty suspicious.”

“Eh, it’ll be fine.” Pyre yanked open the curtains just enough to peer outside. The sun had risen, and she could see a few guards wandering around the garden. She pulled the curtains shut again and strode over to where Callan was hovering by the desk.

“Just let me do the talking. No offence, kid, but you’re pretty bad at lying.”

The ghost’s lips thinned, but he didn’t try to argue the point. “I can’t help having a guilty conscience,” he muttered.

Pyre chuckled. “Maybe not, but you could be less obvious about it.”

Callan grumbled something under his breath while the demon plopped down on the edge of the bed. She didn’t feel drowsy at all, so she was assuming “sleep” was only possible in extenuating circumstances a la life-draining curse mark.

Pyre focused, dulling her other sensations so she could concentrate on the vibrations moving around the building. There was a set of tremors moving closer that had a noticeably different rhythm from the heavy footsteps of the guards or the hurried ones of the servants. They were brisk, smooth, and confident.

“She’s coming.”

The demon rose and strode over to the door. The moment she reached it, a knock rang out around the room. Pyre promptly grabbed the doorknob and swung it open.

“Morning, Lady Daphne,” she drawled. The noble blinked up at her.

“…You’re up early.”

Pyre raised an eyebrow. “So are you.” She opened the door wider to let Daphne inside, then shut and locked it. Despite her words, she’d fully expected the noble to show up bright and early today too. Probably to check and make sure they hadn’t destroyed the room and Callan hadn’t disappeared.

Speaking of Callan, the ghost had flitted behind the dresser when the door opened and now slowly floated back out. He mumbled a “morning” to Daphne, who returned it with a slow nod.

The human’s eyes darted around the room, and Pyre noted her gaze slowing a little when it landed on the demon’s bag and the new set of books laid out on the desk. Perceptive indeed. She cleared her throat.

“Since it’s been a day,” Daphne began, “I thought I’d check how you two are settling in.” Her voice had taken on that proper “noble tone,” as Pyre called it. She glanced back at a nervous-looking Callan, then faced Daphne again.

“Pretty good. Nice beds you’ve got here—very soft.” She cocked her head. “We did have a question, though.”

Daphne stilled for a fraction of a second, but quickly collected herself. “What is it?”

“We want to visit the sanctum.”

The noble frowned. Clearly, that hadn’t been what she’d expected. “The sanctum? You can go there whenever you want.”

“It’s closed to the public right now,” Callan said. He coughed. “Construction.”

“So just wait for it to be done. They’re bound to open it up again at some point.”

Pyre made her best attempt at sending a purposeful look to Callan. This was the part they’d discussed.

Based on what Pyre and Callan had seen of the sanctum previously, breaking in would be, in a word, a pain. There were guards outside all night and just as many wards as there were on the manor walls. Pyre could deal with the guards pretty easily, but the spells were more tricky. They could probably figure something out, but it would take time and a lot of finnangling. The longer they spent outside, the higher the risk of getting caught.

On the other hand, Pyre still distinctly remembered how Daphne had bent the walls two nights ago. She hadn’t even thought Callan getting into the manor was a possibility up until that point. If the Bellheins were paranoid enough to put up weird spells that let them open walls and shit, she was willing to bet they had special sanctum access, too. Special access that let them enter without needing to go through the front door. They just had to convince Daphne to help them inside.

“So, you know how you said Callan didn’t need food or water yesterday?”

Daphne nodded slowly, glancing at the ghost in question. “Was I wrong?” Her eyes narrowed. “You didn’t drain someone, did you?” she asked, voice low and threatening.

“No!” Callan said hurriedly. “I’d never.”

“Yeah, he doesn’t drain people. But ghosts still need sustenance and shit.”

Daphne frowned. She looked like she was still considering that fireball. “So…?”

“So we figured out he can drain raw ichor instead of people,” the demon continued without missing a beat. She cocked her head. “Ghosts drain life, right? Well, technically ichor’s just life energy, so it works out pretty well. No one gets hurt this way.”

There was actually some truth to the statement, according to Callan. The main difference was that Callan didn’t seem to need to drain things to stay alive. He wouldn’t level if he didn’t, but he wouldn’t fade away, either. Monsters were, apparently, pretty good at surviving.

“I tried to visit the sanctum,” Callan added in a rush, “but it was closed.” He shifted uncomfortably. “And I don’t know when it’ll reopen, so…” His voice trailed, and he gave Pyre a helpless look. The demon just shrugged. She did say to leave the talking to her, but to be fair, the ghost wasn’t actually doing too bad. He looked nervous as fuck, but he looked like that half the time anyway, so it didn’t seem to ping on Daphne’s deception radar.

The noble nodded slowly, brows furrowed as she took in the information. “Could you use the fountain? That has ichor running around the base.”

“It’s not enough,” Pyre said. She cocked her head. “We’ve tried it with smaller pools before. It needs to be a pretty big source, and it has to be pure.” She nodded at the noble. “We were hoping you knew a way in. It wouldn’t take long. We’d be in and out in half an hour.”

The demon could practically see the gears in Daphne’s head turning. The unspoken implication of their little lie was that if Callan didn’t get access to the sanctum to “eat,” he’d either ghost-die or have to drain people, and the noble clearly knew that. Pyre was banking on it, in fact. Daphne seemed to care a lot about the safety of Magrath’s people, and her actions suggested that she wouldn’t let Callan die either unless she knew for a fact that he was doing something wrong. If she ignored them, she’d be going against her own values.

The noble bit her lip.

“…I might be able to help you,” she began. Callan’s eyes lit up, but Daphne continued just as he was opening his mouth to thank her.

“But,” she emphasized, “I’m going with you.”
