While his world was at the lower limits of what they might find useful, its location made it a prime target, as even with Rah’s worst estimation, they should have six months of a head start before others could enter behind them.

Lura, on the other hand, found something much closer.

She had no indication of its Tier, but her keywords were uniformly positive, and that tempted all of them.

Rah, with his higher sensitivity through sky bridges, had been building a map of the worlds they passed through, along with the neighboring worlds. With each day that passed, the oldest portions of the map became more unreliable, but it allowed them to plan rough routes, saving them the time of backtracking.

Eventually, thanks to Katya abstaining on the final vote, they chose to deviate in Lura’s world’s direction while keeping on a general course to the center of the bubble, where they wanted to go anyway.

Sadly, Lura’s world turned out to be a dud. At Tier 20 with no strange realm and only one ruin, they found nothing of interest.

To be thorough, they had both Seekers check twice more, but when they wound up empty handed they didn’t linger.

Two planets later, while they were waiting for Arden to replace a vein of Tier 17 enriched titanium, everyone’s attention was pulled to the distance where a sky bridge they hadn’t intended to travel down thrummed.

Their neighboring planet had just formed a connection with a new Tier world, and even two planets away, they felt it.

Trying to probe through, Matt thought it was a Tier 15 world, but Rah’s senses were more accurate.

“A Tier 10 world. A tad low, but high enough if we are lucky with the Natural Treasures.” Pausing, Rah’s eyes unfocused for a moment before he added, “Though the world feels unusual.”

Matt tried to feel what Rah mentioned, but failed.

“I think I feel something. Something is weird with the world. Almost like there is a lot of only a few mana types.”

When Liz finished, Rah grinned, “It almost feels like an aspected world, but not quite.”

The mention of a possibly aspected world quickly got them into the adjoining sky bridge as they temporarily abandoned their earlier route.

Being on the neighboring planet and then on its sky bridge, Matt finally started to feel the discrepancy; but before he could truly puzzle through the feeling, they exited the sky bridge and were deposited into a battlefield.

Tier 10 ground exploded in a shower of molten rock as the surface underneath the thin crust boiled from the magma worm's slithering passage.

Sensing their arrival, the creature dove deeper, leaving its smaller and weaker prey. As it turned, more of the ground liquefied as the creature's inherent heat transformed its surroundings.

Instead of running away, the worm swam upward like a fish trying to ambush a bird floating on the surface.

Except they were the bird.

They only needed to move slightly for the creature’s telegraphed attack to miss, but Matt didn’t miss the opportunity. Reaching out with [Telekinesis], he grabbed the worm mid-air, letting them inspect it properly.

Matt almost wanted to call the creature an elemental, but that was clearly wrong, as the creature wasn’t a rift monster or some phenomenon of magic given the semblance of life. Despite being incredibly magical, it was a mundane creature.

To further prove that, a quick scan showed a thriving population of the magma worms roaming beneath the world's crust, along with several other subterranean lifeforms.

A tidally locked planet, it didn’t have what he would call a normal environment.

With half of the world being baked by the local star while the other half was forever banished to the darkness, the planet never should have developed life; but it clearly had.

The life was really strange.

He would have expected a duality between fire and ice, given the temperature extremes, but instead, the world was better described as one of opposites. More than simply hot and cold, the world was one of duality, and life was equally ferocious.

The hyper massive magma worms were far from apex predators and h—

Matt was pulled out of his introspection by Aster and Liz’s reactions.

All of them were excited at this strange world, but he got hit by the duo’s exuberance in rapid succession.

Aster’s excitement in finding such a strange world filled with so many cold-based, odd life forms was like an adrenaline dump that bypassed most of his usual defenses.

Liz’s reaction was less emotionally jarring and more physical, as she started shaking him as if his non-reaction was an insult. “Do you see the liquid fire tree? Do you think we can transplant one back on Palustris? Can you picture my sibling's faces when they see it?”

Being so much stronger than the world's inhabitants, they didn’t fear the local wildlife. Not that they indiscriminately killed the native wildlife because of that. They were careful not to disturb it any more than they needed to, as they inspected the area where they arrived.

Near the borderline of ‘day’ and ‘night’, they were in a perpetual twilight, with the ecosystems of both extremes interacting and creating a plethora of strange lifeforms, as well as strange rifts.

The rifts, at least based on the monsters surrounding them, were far from what he considered standard for a planet.

The mana types in the border zone churned like a convection oven bouncing off each other as they were swirled around. As mana collided randomly, some inevitably merged. Most were unstable, but others formed new, more complex mana types.

Thermal mana, the raw combination of fire and ice mana was in abundance, but it was far from alone.

The cycle had been going on long enough that pockets of every possible mana type had already gathered in a segmented rotating tunnel of mana circling the entire world. None of the mana types were new to them, but the way they undulated along the planet's solar equator resulted in a near-unique mana environment.

Zack and Matt spent a significant amount of time recording the patterns for later study, though they did it for vastly different reasons, even if they would undoubtedly end up helping each other.

What was almost stranger was the natives’ reactions to the rifts.

Most worlds’ rifts and their corresponding monsters turned their surroundings into no man’s land for similar Tier animals, but lower-Tier wildlife used the monsters’ usual nonaggression as protection. It was far from a uniform rule, but it was rarely turned upon its head like they saw in this world.

Higher-Tier animals led their weaker brethren to recently broken rifts and they feasted.

Rift monsters, once attacked, were always aggressive, but even with a Tier disadvantage most of the wildlife easily killed the rift monsters. Their unique energy rich bodies combined with their connections to esoteric mana types let them punch well above their weight, despite not being any more sapient than a typical animal.

Like monsters, their advancement through the Tiers was entirely automatic with zero variation, only requiring the accumulation of essence. Essence the animals easily got thanks to the higher-Tier members of their species acting as semi-protectors, and intervening before the lower-Tier members could be wiped out.

Watching a Tier 6, six limbed, obsidian bear-like animal that leaked shadows like a smokey furnace wade into a small group of miniature quartz centaurs two Tiers higher than it was a new experience.

The centaurs tried to drive spears through the thick hide, but the bear’s fur wasn’t entirely composed of physical matter. Its smoky outer shell wasn’t shadow at all, but rather its larger outer coat of fur, which seemed to primarily exist in the fourth dimension.

Unable to easily bypass the bear's outer defense, the rift monster's own aggression turned their undoing as the bear calmly ate the centaurs one by one until it was full.

Only then did the bear lumbered back into the dark half of the planet as she started to enter her not quite entirely biological estrus cycle’s most fertile period. Entire portions of the creature's biology were infused with so much magic the creature never should have been fertile but they watched it happen nonetheless.

Absorbing mana to power biological functions wasn’t unheard of, but it was normally a rare mutation that made an apex predator king of a world. However, on this world, every animal seemed to have some biological function assisted or enhanced by magic.

The unusual mana types and wildlife combined to make an incredibly strange and unique world.

There was one strange realm, but it was Tier 8 and far too weak for them. Not that they minded too much, given the samples and scans they collected of everything else.

Liz and Aster each split off to go and investigate their sides of the world while Matt inspected the rifts in the span between the two.

A being of Ichor, Liz could almost be mistaken for a native flying around in phoenix form.

The side of the world constantly baked with the star's energy was far more active than the dark side of the planet, but that also made it the less populated side.

Fights for territory broke out constantly as the wildlife fought with the various rifts’ monsters or each other as their roaming paths crossed.

That was one of the largest differences between sides.

On the light side everything was in motion.

Mushroom-like tree structures roasted happily as their umbrella caps absorbed the heat creating small, cool patches that were quickly overrun by prey creatures seeking a moment of respite from the relentless sun.

Their gathering inevitably attracted the predators, who restarted the cycle as all of the animals who survived fled back into the direct light.

The dark half of the world was the opposite. Predators and prey could sit dozens of feet apart for weeks at a time before one or the other bothered to move. That led to far more creatures on the other side of the planet but without magical senses a mortal wouldn’t recognize half of the things it saw for the Tiered creatures they were.

Sadly none of the ice based creatures could survive in Aster’s spirit space but they took samples of everything intending to start her own breeding programs back in settled space. Matt wasn’t entirely sure how he got roped into doing all of the necessary enchantment work but he didn’t mind knowing how much Aster wanted to populate her spirit space.

It took them nearly a week to fully catalog everything, but no one minded the delay and the sights gave them things to talk about for weeks as everyone debated and speculated.

They intended to return one day which was why Aster recorded the place's location with [Home].

With no one else in the breach, their moods were high as they headed deeper.

***

Tim wasn’t entirely sure how he ended up on a pleasure world, but as he came out of his drug-induced haze, he couldn’t help but question how he had arrived.

Since achieving his vaunted biological immortality and having his Concept shattered, he had struggled to remain truly conscious. He had tried locking himself into a room, but upon reviewing his AI log, he himself dismantled his own safety measures before sauntering away.

At first, he had simply walked.

If he encountered a city with a teleporter, he took the next transfer and he continued to do that for what felt like years between his clarity going in and out.

Even having the logs to review, Tim wasn’t entirely sure how he made it through the pleasure world’s security protocols, but he assumed his immortality must have been enough to get through the gate.

Almost a month into the process, Tim tried to cling to his glimmer of awareness, knowing it would slip away before too long.

Standing, he looked through the notebook he never seemed to lose despite having lost everything else.

Flipping through his recent notes to himself, Tim couldn’t help but hate how much his ramblings sounded like his mother when she was in a bad cycle.

T—

***

Tim came back to full awareness only to choke on the stupid spicy fajita he had been in the process of eating. Unexpected spices hit even worse and he gagged, resisting the urge to vomit.

Finding himself in a park, Tim relaxed and reviewed his previous actions through his AI to find he had spent nearly two days in this park, keeping himself busy by eating increasingly spicy food despite his low tolerance to such foods.

Physically, his body ached and demanded sleep. Come to think of it… he couldn’t remember the last time he actually slept.

Finding the nearest hotel, Tim almost couldn’t believe it when he both made it inside the building and through a shower all without falling into his fugue-like state again.

Laying under the blankets feeling confused and afraid about what was going on, Tim probed his Concept.

It was the root of his problem, but also the solution.

Having been incredibly careful not to disturb his shattered Domain, Tim finally unclenched, letting the dust that once made up his Concept start moving again.

The near human form his unconscious self had tried to create immediately started to sluff down like dry sand when its container was removed.

It didn’t hurt nearly as much as he thought it would, but seeing the outline, Tim felt something click into place.

His ‘unconscious’ self was trying to rebuild his Concept.

Like trying to recreate a lost loved one with clay, his efforts could take on the semblance of a form, but they lacked that core spark that made a person themselves.

Why bother?

Looking at the booklet, he saw variations of the same general idea about being himself but he didn’t see the point.

Why should he be himself when he didn’t like the person he was.

What reason was there to try for? He’d only take the easy way out.

It was an inevitable part of him.

Broken from a young age. Destiny—

