Tim rejected the idea of giving him up.

He hated the idea.

Not a single part of him liked the idea. Not the superficial facets of his personalities, the ones he brought out when he thought it was what others expected of him, rather the very core of his person rejected the idea.

The part of Tim that he had thought he had forgotten.

The real Tim.

The Tim who could exist without all of the pressures and expectations placed upon him by society and himself.

Taking hold of his Concept, Tim tried to force it together. Tried to force the dust into the shape of the person he wanted to be.

He wanted—

He wanted a break.

Sluggishness crept up his spine.

Trying to change his thoughts, Tim quickly did the only thing he could think of as he saw the small booklet sitting on the room's nightstand.

The pen he picked up didn’t have any ink, and he never saw the page he wrote on, but his words for his future self were left behind nonetheless.

“I am who I am.”

Like a drowning man who had given up clawing for the surface but sure he’d pass out before he reached it, Tim felt the sweet relief of air as he earned a moment of respite.

Immediately he felt the weights start to drag him back down, but the moment of lucidity remained even as the edges of his mind became blurry.

How can I find who I want to be if I don’t know who I really am?

Unbeknownst to him, two pieces of dust snapped together, then a third as he tried to put himself back together.

Tim didn’t have an answer for his own internal question, and his conscious mind fully faded.

***

Luna watched from above as the boy once more triggered his Concept’s mental protection, restarting the cycle all over again.

Watching the boy accidentally memory wipe himself was mildly amusing at first but by now she had long since grown accustomed to such sights.

Luna hadn’t even known a Concept shattered in such a way could reestablish its natal protections, but he had clearly done so. Even after her careful analysis, she wasn’t sure if that was a side effect of his Talent, his Concept, or something else entirely. The only thing she knew for certain was that it was very strange.

It was also delaying the inevitable quite a bit, buying Tim extra time.

Tim’s Concept should have lost its energy and died months ago, but every time the energy started to fade, he would be driven to rebuild part of the Concept until he failed and triggered the mechanism. That would, for reasons she couldn’t quite comprehend, revitalize the boy's Concept and give him more time.

Seeing half of a human form take shape in Tim’s Concept, Luna watched as the boy’s mind shattered and he started moving on autopilot.

As much as she was tempted to steer the child where she thought he needed to go, out of this pleasure world, she let his feet and instincts lead him.

She was only here to ensure his journey didn’t kill him, and there were plenty of places that were worse than simple death.
