Off in the distance, an enormous, writhing mass of dark-grey shapes draws closer towards us, like a ball of nightmarish critters skittering all over each other. Shooting towards us like a bullet, the mass engulfs everything in its path as it grows ever larger in my sight. Every now and then, a small burst of movement and colour inside the mass draws my attention, though I’m at a loss to explain why my eyes are so drawn to it. After seeing it a few more times, my brain finally recognizes the tiny bursts of colour as blood and the movement as a feeding frenzy.

Holy shit. That’s a whole lot of carnivorous fishies.

Panic takes over as I race for the surface, aiming for the boat’s dark bottom to warn my teacher while cursing my stupidity for leaving both weapons with the cowardly Mafu. My ears pop and muscles ache as I make my way closer, painfully slow compared to the encroaching horde of gnashing teeth and flailing fins. Close enough now to make out individual creatures, I calmly note the massive discrepancies in size among them, with the smallest about half the size of a quin and the largest easily exceeding Ping Ping in girth and length. Despite this, they all share the same basic physical characteristics, long, sleek bodies with forward facing eyes and sharp, cutting fins on three sides. Moving in an undulating side to side motion which lets them swim at ridiculous speeds, their distinctive dorsal fin is like the sail on a ship, a warning to those in their path. Combine this with their giant mouths filled with rows of razor-sharp teeth, and what I presume to be thick, bite-resistant skin, I easily identify the creatures despite never having seen one in this life, but my mind refuses to accept the obvious conclusion.

I mean... In what hell-hole of a world do dozens of giant fucking sharks have to work together? C’mon! That’s not even fair!

The dark mass stretches out as the forerunners race towards their next meal. Still long seconds from the boat and relative safety, I might as well be kilometres away as my vision fills with the sight of a gaping, cavernous maw and glittering teeth. A powerful spray of water blinds me and my harness digs into my skin, forcing the remaining air out of my lungs. When my vision clears I see a rapidly shrinking shark as I’m pulled to safety, its tail firmly clamped between Ping Ping’s beak. With a twist of her neck, the turtle rips the shark in half and sends the upper half into a spinning frenzy of motion. A mist of impossibly bright-red blood billows out from the dead shark as Ping Ping rockets backwards, her arms and legs tucked as best she can to guard against her toothy foes, the last sight I see of her before bursting out of the water.

Landing neatly in the skiff, a hand reaches out to steady me as I gasp for air and choke out, “Ping Ping. Trouble.”

Stepping off of the skiff, Guan Suo immediately sinks out of sight. Wrapping an arm around my midriff, Taduk pays no mind to my sopping wet body and leaps tens of meters away, carrying me to safety even as a second shark rips the skiff to pieces. Impressive and herculean as the jump was, I fear for our safety as we soar through the air and back down to the water’s surface, knowing a frenzied school of starving sharks lays ready to tear us apart the moment we land.

“Stop wiggling about, Rain my boy,” Taduk says, his voice tinged with amusement as he steps on empty air and leaps back towards the scattered remains of our skiff. “I’m not as young as I once was and you’re much heavier than you used to be. Spare your aging teacher’s back and Lighten yourself a little, would you?”

Gaping like a fish on land, my eyes threaten to pop out of their sockets as Taduk hopscotches about in the air, carrying me under one arm and Mama Bun in the other. His words finally register and I reach for Balance on instinct, Lightening myself to less than half my orignal weight. “Good,” Taduk says while adjusting his grip around my hips. “Now, keep your hands and feet close my boy, I need to land for bit.”

Land? Where? We’re in the middle of the bay!

Before I can point out the obvious, Taduk descends upon a stray piece of wood which used to be part of our ship. In my downward-facing position, I’m treated to yet another front-row view of the insides of a shark's mouth as it surges up to devour the driftwood we’re standing on, but we’re already well and away when the jaws snap shut. Leaping even higher than before, we reach an astounding height of four or five stories high, and I pray we‘re high enough that the sharks can’t reach. Heart pumping with a mix of fear and adrenaline, I scream wordlessly at the ferocious predators lurking below us, revelling in my two near-death escapes in just as many minutes.

Nerves sufficiently calmed after a bout of wordless release, I ask, “How?”

Double-jumping in the air like it’s nothing, Taduk scoffs and replies, “Don’t you remember? Your illustrious teacher’s lineage belongs to that of the regal king of the skies, a Cloud Chaser Hare. For one such as I, this is no different from taking a stroll along the beach.”

Well... now I know how he made it to Yo Ling’s island and back so quickly. “Teacher,” I ask, trying my best not to hyperventilate or squirm, “Are you secretly strong?”

“Rain my boy, I am a Medical Saint. You think the title so easy to get? If it were, then why doesn’t that good-for-nothing Tokta have the title?” Even though I can’t see his face, I can hear the sneer in his voice, which fades as he sheepishly adds, “It’s not like I kept my skills hidden, you just never asked.”

Shelving the unimportant questions like why was I walking everywhere instead of taking the CCH express, I watch the battle unfold below us. Standing atop two broken wooden boards, Guard Leader proves herself a peak expert of the Bekhai as she skates across the surface in a less impressive yet still gravity-defying feat. Though unable to see how she attacks, clouds of shark blood bloom in her wake as she moves across the water, keeping to the outer perimeter as best she can. One particularly clever and enormous shark leaps into the air on a head-on collision course with Guard Leader, but the enigmatic warrior woman shows no fear as she charges headfirst into the abyss. My heart skips a beat as she disappears into the gaping maw, only to resume once more after she emerges out the other end in an explosion of blood and cartilage.

Holy hell... I can’t believe I once tried to fight her...

The darkening smog of blood obscures my vision as I desperately search for Ping Ping. The sweet turtle could have gotten away with the quins but she stayed behind to keep me safe. I’m sorry Ping Ping, I’ll never judge another animal by its looks again, you affectionate, radiant creature. Just shrink back into your shell and hide away until Guard Leader cleans things up. Fat lot of good Guan Suo is, the dude swims like a rock. He didn’t even have a weapon, what the fuck did he think he was gonna-

Without warning, a massive geyser of water and white clouds shoots out into the air and forces Taduk to leap away. Airborne bodies of sharks both dead and living fly out in all directions as the booming explosion literally shakes the earth around us. Blood and water rain down and once the ringing in my ears stills, so too does the surface of Nan Ping’s bay, calm and tranquil as can be. The muddled waters clear and all I can see are dozens of dead or dying creatures, be they sharks or fish, floating belly up to the water’s surface. Bringing me off to one side, Taduk exclaims, “Look my boy, no need to fret. Safe and sound as can be.”

At the bottom of the sea floor, Ping Ping’s shell sits flush against the dirt, protecting her exposed belly from the sharks' powerful jaws as she does her best impression of a rock. After peering about to make sure all is fine, Ping Ping shoots to the water’s surface and squeaks in delight, craning her neck to watch me as Taduk brings us down on her shell. Standing to one side with a disgruntled frown, Guan Suo repeatedly taps his pipe against his boot, grumbling the whole time about a clog and ruined leaves. Idly picking shark remains out of her clothes, Guard Leader barely looks any worse for wear as she joins us in silence while my teacher lays down on Ping Ping’s shell for a quick nap. Unperturbed as always, Mama Bun wanders around on her own to explore these new surroundings like a curious little child.

Traumatized and overwhelmed by recent events, I plop down on Ping Ping’s shell and stroke the closest spike as she brings us back to shore. “Good girl,” I mutter, unable to find any other words as Mama Bun hops into my lap. “Good girl.”

Judging by the strength displayed by the other three passengers with me, it appears like I have a long way to go before my life becomes unfettered and free.

Hmm... which would be easier: creating an explosive powerful enough to destroy an entire province, or reaching the peak of Martial Strength?

Chapter Meme
