“Talricto… cease provoking captives and let us depart. We have a soul nexus and afterlife to assault.”

Their plan was a simple one. To impress upon their potential allies of the magocracy how strong they were, and to goad the Hegemony into acting with as much force as possible, the forces of Alastaia and the Collective intended to strike not at their local soul nexus, but directly at the afterlife under the control of the Hegemony itself.

The central location where all souls within the Hegemony’s territory flowed was heavily guarded and obscured behind many defenses and dimensional tricks. Furthermore, souls only periodically went from the local soul nexus and towards the overarching tributary of the Hegemony. Which meant that actually narrowing down its location in a timely manner would have been difficult. Doable for Talricto or Orodan with some time, but not when they were on a tight schedule already and could take care of two problems at once by abducting Astalavar and using the God’s connection to said afterlife to track it down.

The divine of the Hegemony realized what they were doing too.

“We are not entirely alone, Embodier. Your brazen act of causing such ruckus within the bounds of a galaxy will not go ignored. Know that we too can call upon an Embodier if needed. Your act of war shall not go unanswered.”

Perhaps the divine was bluffing, perhaps it wasn’t. But what Orodan did know was that he’d never lived long enough after causing trouble for the Hegemony to see what their response was to an Embodier running amok in their territory. The Embodiers pursuing him reached first.

Perhaps it was something to watch out for as this plan progressed.

“Enough of this one’s prattling. Come, Orodan Wainwright. We have our path to the enemy-controlled dimension and we must strike against it with haste before they entrench themselves,” Almyra spoke, and Orodan nodded.

Soon enough, the voidfleet of the Collective were traveling through a parting of the dimensional boundary, with them on-board. Upon crossing the partition, the sights of an ethereal plane similar to the divine dimension could be seen.

Impossible geometry, a lack of solid ground, and various gigantic vortexes within which he could sense separate spaces where souls were frolicking and undergoing a period of rest… or in some cases, punishment. A closer look at these spires revealed that each soul was subject to its own version of the afterlife, dwelling within their memories, the moments played over and over until they lost meaning.

The good, those who had lived lives of virtue and had performed good deeds, had their cherished memories replayed and dwelt in beautiful reconstructions of what they loved. The wicked though, were the opposite. The screams and pleas of mercy or forgiveness coming from those were better left unsaid. They had brought it upon themselves through their actions.

Strong souls with a powerful mind and sense of self would be capable of holding on. These it seemed, were marked by the various death divinities and their minor God and Goddess underlings for reincarnation into one of the Hegemony’s prime worlds. Others though, had their memories, cherished moments and connections to those they loved worn down and washed away over time.

It was… sad. It only reinforced to Orodan the need to conquer death at some point. If anyone would be capable of it, it would be him.

Still, despite Orodan considering the Hegemony his enemy, he had to admit that they were not unfair or tyrannical in the afterlife. After getting cycled through a soul nexus, a deceased individual was judged by an attending divinity of death and their deeds and misdeeds in life fairly assessed. There was no bias, no requirement that the individual profess their faith to the Hegemony or help them in any way, just impartial judgement which wasn’t even that harsh.

In most cases, people with minor or even moderate misdeeds were simply given a stern lecture followed by a brief period of time where the guilt and negative feelings associated with those memories were played repeatedly. But after that, they were allowed to enjoy the rest of their time in the afterlife peacefully. And for the good, they were simply granted happiness and contentment right away. But for the few wicked evildoers, they were locked in a cycle of true torment until their old selves were completely washed clean and a blank soul emerged.

It explained why, historically, no reincarnator he’d seen had ever been evil. For by necessity, the wicked would never retain themselves under the Hegemony’s afterlife. And it also explained why nobody of true talent ended up reincarnating. The Hegemony designated those people to reincarnate upon their prime worlds instead.

Gods, Transcendents and Embodiers though, did not join the local afterlife upon death. Instead, their souls would drift someplace different.

For his first time entering the afterlife, he had to admit, it was as beautiful as it was sad. And the death divinities maintaining careful vigil over the fallen were more than a little alarmed at the sight of all these voidships of the Blackworth Collective entering the place.

“Interlopers! Call Lord Agrimon, send word to honored Avraxas! We are under attack!” hissed a divine serpent God of the dead, its body curling around a gigantic structure containing trillions of souls protectively. Not out of malice, but genuine care and the intent to guard the souls of the dead in their afterlife.

“This domain belongs to them no longer,” Orodan declared, holding his soul energy as still as he possibly could, causing it to utterly roil with the desperate need to move. “And the trespass of the Hegemony upon this domain ends today. Let the dead be free of these cosmic politics.”

[Burst Casting 64 → Burst Casting 66]

[Dimensionalism 96 → Dimensionalism 97]

Over the past loops, his Burst Casting had grown frighteningly strong.

What he had done once, sealing all Alastaia’s dimensional boundaries perfectly, could now be applied to a larger scale and in a more controlled manner. His titanic reserves of soul energy, held still all this time, erupted with absolute violence.

Even Talricto looked on in awe, more skilled but nowhere near as capable of the feats of raw might that Orodan was. His soul energy, channeled into affecting the dimensional boundary, wrapped all-around the entirety of this strange realm of the deceased they were in…

…and sealed it off against intrusion entirely save for the souls of the deceased and the domains of the death divinities that tended to them. Now… there was no way into the afterlife of the worlds under the Hegemony save for one entrance point within the material plane.

Alastaia itself.

“You have sealed off the afterlife…” the serpent God of death muttered, though it did not sound displeased.

“Aye. The politics of the Hegemony and their desire to strengthen their worlds have no place here. Nor will ours,” Orodan firmly said. “This is a place of rest and finality, not a ground for recruiting the talented. If they wish to reincarnate in their original world or someplace else, that is their business and not the Hegemony’s.”

Malzim nodded approvingly at this. For the Inuanan God of Death, the sanctity of the afterlife was an important thing.

“Yet a singular passage leading to your world within the material plane remains,” the serpent divine spoke, still protectively curled around the gigantic structure it tended to. Other divinities of death were now starting to approach as well. Some livid at what had occurred, some cautious and others afraid.

“That, would be because we require our foes to come to us with something they possess. I assure you, we have no designs upon strengthening our world by recruiting the dead or worse.”

“Your words… are not intolerable,” the serpent allowed. “If it is simple non-interference you enforce, then that I can abide by.”

Of course, there were a minority among the death divinities who looked quite angered at this.

“No we shall not. Our interests lay firmly with the Hegemony and these intruders shall soon face Lord Agrimon’s wrath.”

Well, a good first step to clearing the afterlife of the Hegemony’s influence would be dealing with these divines.

Orodan’s hand gripped the hilt of his sword.

#

“Anyhow, you made it, so it should stay with you until we’re approaching the end.”

“Oh bloody hell no, Mister Orodan. What in the bleedin’ damnation are you thinkin’ giving something like that to me?” Fenton demanded, repulsed by the orb as though he was a vampire having light shone upon him. “That’s far too much responsibility for me to shoulder ser. No, I think a world-breakin’ hero like yerself ought to keep that close at hand. Whoever gave it to you did so for good reason.”

“…you were the one who gave it to me,” Orodan replied, deadpan.

“Precisely. I reckon the Fenton of that loop had a good idea why,” the boy replied. “Besides, I got somethin’ else for you. An upgraded model.”

“An upgraded… model?”

His question was answered as Fenton brought out something a fair bit larger than the orb he currently possessed.

It was a far larger orb, just near the limit of what the space within his soul could accommodate. And instead of twelve slots, it had a hundred. Far more than the old orb Fenton had tossed out after transferring the memory banks from that one to the new one. It would make a substantial difference in his ability to empower Alastaia.

What if he brought more divinities along? The dragon flights and spider dragons? What about high-level crafters like Griok and Varnok Grimbreaker?

It was an excellent addition and backup, but this time Orodan genuinely felt that he would not need it, even if he did keep it tucked away in his soul.

“Just in case ser.”

“Thank you Fenton. Although I shall keep it with me, this time I feel I won’t be needing it.”

But for now, those concerns were alittle distant. After all, he was preparing for a victory celebration. Specifically, as one of the cooks.

“Teacher! Hand me that light-devouring squid!”

Orodan quickly tossed it.

“And help me chop that mana-infused serpent?”

His knife descended, slicing it into even portions even as raw energy wafted off of it.

“We should perhaps try boiling its scales and bones down for a broth Zukelmux? I could add the death roach carapace to it in ground down form as well,” Orodan suggested and his first disciple nodded.

“That sounds quite delectable!”

[Cooking 53 → Cooking 54]

Just as he grew over the loops, so too did Zukelmux. The goblin was the far better cook, Elite in fact. One of his student’s hobbies was to cook and eat whatever Orodan sent him to kill in their regular forays into the depths. As a result, the spear-and-shield wielding warrior had a rather culinary side to him that one might not expect at first glance.

And as he’d learned long ago, not everyone’s skill levels reflected their actual amount of skill. Orodan, while a normal cook at the Adept-level, was nowhere near Zukelmux who was an Elite but had the skills of a Master. Furthermore, although Alastaia had no Grandmaster of Cooking, the goblin was honestly poised to become the first one. A fact that had seen him chosen to prepare the meal for tonight’s celebration.

Of course, Zukelmux needed an assistant chef, and who better than Orodan himself who he often worked alongside? If anything, the goblin was his teacher when it came to the culinary arts.

“Damn… that smells bloody good sers…” Fenton muttered.

“Fenton, what have I told you about calling me ser? Just Zukelmux!” the goblin chided rapping an empty wooden ladle over the lad’s head in a gentle manner, followed by getting another ladle and holding up to the boy’s face. “Taste that and tell me how it is.”

The lad had little need to think about it given how good it smelled.

[Cooking 54 → Cooking 55]

“Mm! This is amazin’!” the boy exclaimed, desperate for a second sip already. “How’re you makin’ it like this Mister Zukelmux?”

A gentle but chiding smack of the goblin’s apron unto Fenton’s face was delivered for again referring to him as Mister.

“R-right… sorry…”

Over the few days they had been together, Fenton had practically been adopted by the rest of his disciples. Zukelmux, the big brother, Aliya and Wainroach his little sisters and Edrosic the lazy sibling he didn’t quite know whether to be awed by or miserably disappointed of.

The boy… he was happy. His mother was present upon Alastaia now, healed and happily living in Anthus alongside her son. And more importantly, he didn’t have the shadow of the Eldritch looming over his head the way it had. He was an indentured servant no longer, but a free boy. Free to wander and go wherever he pleased. Free to live a life of his own. Free to try and sneak more spoons of the stew into his mouth.

“Fenton Penny!” Zukelmux scolded. “You shall not ruin your appetite before dinner!”

“Uwah! Alright, alright! I was just about to get goin’ anyhow. Every prissy blue-blood and fancy mage is in the banquet hall waitin’ for the two of you,” the lad said and then noticed Orodan’s look. “Eh? Ser? Why’re you starin’ at me like that? Got somethin’ on me face?”

“Nothing more than the silly quirks of youth,” he replied and reached out to ruffle the boy’s hair. “Now off you go. I don’t think your mother would approve of the mess you’ve made of your mouth.”

“Oy! I don’t have nothin’ on me… oh damn… er, right you are ser,” the boy replied catching sight of himself in a mirror.

Fenton fled quickly after that, making sure to get himself presentable again before heading towards the hall.

