His walk took him to the balcony where he saw Alstatyn and Almyra looking out towards the stars. He was halfway between turning around and leaving the two lovers to their devices when the King of the Collective’s voice stopped him.

“Ser Wainwright! We aren’t participating in anything illicit so you needn’t worry!” Alstatyn declared and then turned towards Almyra with a roguish smile. “Though the striking countenance of the woman near me does rouse my passions quite a bit.”

“You…!” the previous looper said, turning distinctly red. “Do not say such uncouth things so freely!”

“But I do love seeing color on your face once more, especially since the noble ser has seen fit to give you back to me,” the King spoke. The man looked happier than he had ever been before.

“I was always yours…”

“Not when the stress of survival and the question of what had happened to the time loops weighed upon your mind,” the King calmly replied, though non-judgementally before turning to Orodan. “As you can see, she’s a lot tamer when not pursued by an Administrator.”

“Well, technically the Prophet remains a problem still,” Orodan spoke.

“But not one which you lack faith in dealing with,” the King spoke, meeting his eye. “I see it… you have something don’t you? You needn’t say a word. But the look in your eyes when you speak of that wretched thing speaks for itself. I believe you shall prevail this time, ser Wainwright.”

The King was a perceptive one. He supposed one had to be in order to guide and lead an entire faction to prosperity. The previous time looper hadn’t installed the man upon the Blackworth Collective’s throne just because of the pretty face.

“And I am not some mangy alley cat which is either feral or pacified. Nor am I a damsel-in-distress who cannot fend for herself. Orodan Wainwright and I shall face the Prophet together, and we shall slay it, ridding us of its hounding chase,” Almyra said giving the King an irritated sideways glance. “I apologize for silly antics today, Orodan Wainwright. The festivities today have gotten Alstatyn a little loose-lipped. Perhaps it is the drink.”

“I’m not even drunk!” the King protested. “This is the first goblet I’ve touched all day…”

Orodan spoke, cutting the bickering couple off.

“Well, it is good to see you two in happy spirits.”

“And it is good to see you as well, though I did not take you for the star gazing type, though I suppose you must not like large social gatherings either,” the King said. “Want me to cover for you? Say you were busy with some affair which came up?”

“I’d rather be clashing steel against the foe or working upon a craft, but no. Such excuses might have worked when it was just me in the loops, but Adeltaj and Destartes know me too well by now. They’ll see through the excuse in a second,” Orodan spoke. “Besides, I came here to meet with our newest allies.”

“And we are honored to make the acquaintance of one as mighty as yourself, World Conqueror. Lord Orodan Wainwright, it is a pleasure,” an older woman spoke from behind. Her voice thrummed with magical power, as though the mere utterance of a word besides regular language could herald destruction at any moment. “High-Orast Valmarra Malvorra the Eighty-Fourth, at your service.”

Orodan’s eyes narrowed in a frown as he took the mage in. She was old, exceedingly so. And while Orodan had seen quadruple-Grandmasters before, he had never seen a Grandmaster of six skills who just remained at that threshold. Like a coiled spring, the glyphs of the System within her soul looked ready to explode upwards and into Transcendence. Still, despite all that, Destartes who was beside her didn’t feel any weaker in terms of battle power. Hells, even the old Destartes just before he achieved Transcendence, would have been just a half-step better than this High-Orast.

No wonder these mage-lords had been so impressed by the old wizard. Even in terms of magical talent, Alastaia was not lacking in comparison to the magocracy of another world.

“See how he frowns? I did warn you against calling him a lord,” Destartes spoke, his tone light and overly familiar. He was also rather close in proximity to the woman. Not anything inappropriate, but closer than the old wizard had ever allowed himself to stand next to anyone else. “Instead you must simply refer to him by name. Orodan, I hope the festivities have not overly irked you? Once this inroduction has passed I doubt Tegin or Balastion will mind if you vanish.”

“I wasn’t even thinking about the ‘lord’ part. You,” Orodan said, looking at the High-Orast. “You’re a sextuple Grandmaster. I can tell you’re close to Transcendence too. Why have you held back?”

“The same reason why Lord Eldarion told me he held back long ago,” the woman spoke. “While we of the Orastian Magocracy do not know precisely what occurs when one ascends past the 100th level of a skill, we do know that none of them have been seen again. Much of the wider cosmos was unknown to us… until our meeting with the wizard lord Destartes himself who came from another world, bearing news, knowledge and the offer of an alliance. We… apologize for our inability to aid you during the assault upon the Hegemony’s afterlife, but we had no way of reaching as deeply as you did, and no way of capturing an enemy divine in such a manner either.”

“It is fine. I hope that proves our strength,” Orodan spoke and the High-Orast nodded immediately. “We can help one another. Destartes here has ever been a student of magic. And I have other disciples of mine who require magical training as well, and in comparison to your world, I do not think Alastaia is nearly as advanced in the ways of magic.”

“And it shall not just be I and your disciples, but you as well Orodan,” Destartes added. “Your Elemental Living Enchanting is powerful, but as we have seen it functions far better when used alongside a Mastery skill which draws from the soul and not just a Magic Mastery skill which pulls from the mana pool.”

“That, I believe we can help you with. I have heard tell that our world often acts as a brighter beacon for elementals than yours, which causes Alastaia to lose out on potentially powerful contracts. This would be because a significant portion of our mages possess direct Mastery skills instead of Magic Mastery skills like those upon your world do,” the High-Orast explained. “Our martial development might be rather inferior to yours, but in the pursuit of the elements, we have no equal.”

It didn’t take him any deliberation to conclude that having Fire Mastery would be far more beneficial than having just Fire Magic Mastery. Even better if he could utilize both his mana and soul energy in tandem. Combining that with Elemental Living Enchantment and Burst Casting would make him truly ferocious in combat.

“Of all the elements, you’re quite practiced in fire, and even possess the Fire Resistance skill,” Destartes said. “Valmarra assures me that having the Resistance skill for an element will make you a quick study on acquiring the Mastery. Their world of Thazrivin has many techniques for using the insights from Fire Resistance to help acquire Fire Mastery.”

“Your student Wainroach has done it naturally and of her own instinct already,” Valmarra Malvorra added, further convincing him. “You possess Elite-level Fire Resistance, yes? Even better.”

“And what do you get out of all this?” Orodan frankly asked. “I would be grateful for such aid in my training. It might well make the difference when the time comes for battle. But this feels lopsided.”

“Of course… I have heard recently about how you aided a Grandmaster of this Blackworth Collective in ascending past the 100th level. You then dealt with the descending enforcer from the Hegemony,” the High-Orast spoke. “I would like that service as well. Alongside the natural terms of having the memories of a few key members of our Magocracy ferried along with you.”

That was easy enough, especially with the new hundred-slot orb Fenton had given him. In fact, helping one more Grandmaster ascend to the rank of a Transcendent worked in their favor. For Orodan fully intended to shine their ascension across the tapestry of fate like a beacon for the Hegemony to find and be drawn to.

He, Destartes and the High-Orast discussed a few more things before separating. With Almyra and Alstatyn also pitching in and formulating battle strategies which made use of the Magocracy’s magical prowess. The Collective was a far more powerful faction than the Magoracy, but their numbers of Transcendents and superiority came from having an exceptionally long time to develop, and the aid of the previous looper which organized their society and spread many of the methods of magic across it.

Even Almyra admitted that the specialized world of Thazrivin had certain nuances and insights about the elements that she did not.

Training plans were established where pyromancers, hydromancers and steam mages from Lonvoron would go study with the Magocracy, and engineers and gunsmiths from the Collective would aid both Thazrivin and Alastaia in developing new weaponry in tandem with elemental magic knowledge.

Orodan wasn’t much of planner, but Zaessythra who dwelt in the shade of his soul, was. She was used to commanding armies across global engagements, not just from her liberation and conquest of Vylrystia, but also from the long loop where he’d traversed the cosmos. She often spoke up and gave some surprising suggestions which nobody else, not even Almyra or Alstatyn thought of.

Orodan relayed these suggestions to everyone present, making sure to give her full credit each time. At some point, Tegin, Balastion and Eldarion also came in and the balcony became the site of an impromptu strategy meeting where Zaessythra, using Orodan as her mouthpiece, relayed some rather excellent strategies for inter-planetary troop movements, tactics and logistics.

The entire thing lasted for two hours, and by the end of it he felt as though his own understanding of cosmic warfare and strategy had improved, just by virtue of having to repeat Zaessythra’s points.

Everyone left with a smile on their face or a noticeable slackness to their shoulders.

Orodan saw how Destartes looked at the High-Orast. He saw how happy Adeltaj and Balastion seemed, how easy the stress upon Eldarion’s shoulders was, and how Almyra and Alstatyn looked as though they’d found a new reason for living and had real hope for once.

This, he decided, could not end. Not this time.

“Isn’t that what you say every time?” Zaessythra asked.

“I’ve been getting better about actually winning when I say such things nowadays,” Orodan replied.

“That you have. Everyone seems… happy. You once said you would be the pillar upon which dreams could become reality… I suppose you’ve been keeping to that aspiration rather well.”

But not for her. She, who had been with him the longest, had suffered in silence enough. She was not just some quirky advisor popping up at convenient times to help, or someone who existed to make remarks at funny moments.

She… was his. She had sacrificed so much for him.

And he had not forgotten that.

He was so very close to getting everything he needed to bring her back together.

For while the conditions of life were the easy part, and technically he could resurrect Zaessythra right away.

She seemed to be under the impression that it would be a rather mundane thing he performed upon the moon.

His true mad plan, he kept secret even from her. For if anyone deserved the most extravagant soul genesis in all System space, it was the half-dragon who had given up everything for him.

#

“I don’t think I’ve ever seen this much magic in the air before… it’s enough to render someone blind.”

“Right you are ser… what business has a city got bein’ so bloody bright? Me eyes are already hurtin’ and I got them closed!”

“Apologies. It seems the on-duty mage has neglected to cast the Fortified Sight spell upon you. Not that I think it would affect you, Lord Wainwright,” Valmarra, the High-Orast, spoke. “Perhaps they felt a little nervous about casting magic upon you when you have Mana Resistance.”

He saw power gather in the old woman’s throat, and she uttered a singular word.

“Darken.”

The overwhelmingly bright surroundings suddenly dimmed, the city itself becoming more manageable for the eyes of all lookng upon it. If there was one thing Valmarra Malvorra the High-Orast had over Destartes it was the sheer strength of her soul. Yes, the old wizard had the Eternal Soul Reactor skill, but Orodan aside, for everyone else it simply meant a steady if perpetual generation of soul energy and potentially endless power. But even without that her reserves of natural soul energy was quite high, more so than even a Grandmaster soul mage of Alastaia.

And despite that, the word had cost a full third of her reserves. And as a particular skill warned him of the rewriting of the fabric of existence, he knew why.

“You’re rewriting reality,” Orodan immediately commented. “My Reality Alteration skill can tell when someone else does the same. What manner of speech is that?”

