“You have a soft spot for the boy, teacher,” Zukelmux said while chopping some exotic herbs and mushrooms sourced from the abyssal depths of Alastaia.

“Do not speak as though you do not, Zukelmux,” Orodan reminded, putting the finishing touches on his portion. “I have seen how you are with all of the others. Like the big brother they never had. Even the lazy Edrosic subconsciously looks to you for a kind word when dispirited or wise counsel when unsure.”

“You think too highly of me…”

“I state mere fact. Now come, we have a meal to serve do we not?”

Zukelmux balanced the giant room-sized platter of food upon a singular finger, with Orodan simply walking alongside. The weight was negligible for either of them at their respective levels of Physical Fitness.

His first disciple was not wrong. Orodan had a soft spot for Fenton, for all of them really. He had come to care much for his students, for everyone in these group loops. Perhaps a little too much.

It evoked the same dreadful feelings of happiness he had desperately been burnt by near the end of every long loop. That feeling of attachment followed by the horrid pain and hollowness within after it was all wrenched away from him.

But… he had to remind himself that this wasn’t just any other long loop. He had Fenton’s new orb, holding a hundred slots; more than he ever saw himself needing to use. And for once, he had a mad desire in his mind that he’d been carefully planning out. Something, which if done would solve the problem once and for all.

These thoughts came to an end as he and Zukelmux moved down the hallways of Anthus’s central fort and into the grand hall which was meant to host politicians and visiting dignitaries. The city built around an energy well didn’t often get many visitors besides the occasional noble looking to secure a trade deal or politicians and high-ranking military officers who wanted to check in on the state of its defenses.

So for the grand hall to be packed so full of people that it looked like a noble’s ballroom was quite out of the ordinary.

Not only were military officers, leaders and even divinities present directly from all the nations of Inuan, but so too were the officers and leaders of the Blackworth Collective. Alongside their new allies from a neighboring star system, the Magocracy.

From what Destartes had said, there were other worlds too, farther out, which might be amenable to allying with their own. The Orastian Magocracy of Thazrivin was but the first step in an ambitious plan to secure more allies and create a network of worlds and factions which could mutually defend one another against aggressors. Certainly, it was important that Alastaia stand on its own two feet, and for that reason Orodan had avoided getting himself too involved in these talks of alliance.

If he held his world’s hand at every turn then that would make its world spirit and the people upon it soft, weak and dependent upon him for everything. Instead, if he helped them rise into their own strength and encouraged self-reliance, then not only would Alastaia and its peoples become stronger, but they would also be far more capable of helping him when it came time to learn new skills, develop further fields of magic or just funnel copious amounts of exotic resources towards his training and development. After all, the stronger the world, the more it could devote to helping raise Orodan’s srength.

Already, the forces of Alastaia had gained over a hundred new Grandmasters after the battle against the Eldritch upon Lonvoron. The combat against the plague in a foreign world had done wonders for pushing many peak-Masters into the Grandmaster-level. And even on the domestic side dozens of new Grandmasters of crafting had emerged, their final push acquired from helping rebuild the ancient machine or from helping build the grand array which allowed the forces of Alastaia to teleport onto Lonvoron in the first place.

Still, not every moment would be filled with thoughts of growth and training. He was an anomaly, but not everyone had the single-minded dedication to perpetual advancement. Alastaia was made up of its people, and people needed rest, companionship, love and merry. All of which was occurring within the grand hall of Anthus.

It was quite the raucous gathering too. Which spoke well of the demeanor of these allies of theirs from a neighboring world. Already, various people from disparate backgrounds were getting along quite well.

“And then, I let the rogue have a kiss from my twelve-shooter and that was the end of it!” a Transcendent gunslinger, Madam Lawson barked, causing the nearby elves to hysterically laugh as they were quite smitten with her.

“And this is a humble device from my guild. The aurameter, we call it,” Clyburn explained, fascinating a group of mage-lords who were specialized in spellcraft but not anywhere near as proficient at regular Engineering as Clyburn and the Collective were.

“You must show us how you fight without magic, esteemed Adeltaj,” a pointy-hat wearing wizard of the Orastian Magocracy spoke. “Our warriors simply cannot compare to the level of strength you display!”

“Unbelievable… an actual cockroach! This world of Alastaia is truly advanced if they have insect pyromancers of such size… why the possibilities in combat…” another spellcaster of the magocracy muttered, in awe of Wainroach who was preening like a prize horse under the attention.

“O-oh! My blood flows quick and my mana roils at the sight of such beauty…! My lord, esteemed ascendant of the brush… master Parthus Edrosic, please… I would be most honored if you would allow me to purchase this profound painting from you! I shall offer up ten-thousand golden marks. Nay! Twenty-thousand! Equivalent to twenty-three-thousand of your gold coins from Alastaia!” a Grandmaster mage-lord of power begged, causing the lazy militia man to lower his head in embarrassment.

Hells, even folk he’d not interacted with overmuch since truly sinking into his training were present. Brought along and involved for their expertise by the other members of his looping group who helped Orodan manage things far better than he could if it was just him alone.

“Why’ve you got that look on your face mage-lord? It’s a good deal which we both profit from! Why, let me tell you all about the particulars…” Esgarius of Trumbetton conspiratorially whispered as he leaned forward with a contract in his hands as though he was revealing the secrets of the cosmos. The mage-lord on the receiving end looked skeptical, but even if the merchant drove a hard bargain, nobody could claim he was a con artist.

“Master Hannegan, we humbly request you lend us this Bodil Bistrid. The woman will not even look at us when we offer her many marks for the position of geometry instruction for our premier academy. I did not even know that simply organizing the mana within a spell in such a manner could improve its efficiency so!”

“Might we have leave to borrow-”

“Unfortunately, that cannot be allowed, mage-lord,” Balastion denied politely. “Alovardo Balmento is a critical asset of Alastaia’s. Although perhaps we can work on arranging visits between yourself and him at Arkwall?”

And of course, Fenton was sitting at his assigned table next to his mother. Which consequently was where Orodan had insisted he be seated, alongside his disciples. Balastion, Eldarion and Tegin had argued against that decision, but Adeltaj had backed him up saying that in the Eastern Kingdoms, the royalty often sat at random tables and ate with the humblest of their subjects. Though Orodan hadn’t appreciated the insinuation that he was some sort of king.

The boy’s mother, Fanny Penny, was deep in conversation with an Alastaian enchanter over how her Weaving techniques might be turned towards the arts of inscribing magic effects onto items.

“Mister Orodan! Mist- er… Zukelmux! There you lot are!” Fenton cried. “Been waitin’ to have a taste of that platter again!”

The halfling commander of Anthus, the Lieutenant-General who was hosting this entire gathering, noticed them too. Hard not to when Zukelmux was carrying a platter the size of a small room.

“Ah! There’s the food! Mister Wainwright! Mister Zukelmux! I thank you from the bottom of my heart for preparing the feast we shall enjoy today!” Tegin Carrotfoot declared as he marched up to them, happiness in his stride. “Please, right here upon the grand table. And my, oh my… does that smell heavenly!”

The food was set down, Orodan and the goblin took their seats, and after a short speech from Tegin and a toast to the health and prosperity of their new magocracy allies and the longevity of their alliance, the festivities were on.

Wainroach, looking a little ridiculous with her own seat, happily began scarfing down a thick portion.

All across the room people really enjoyed the food, and Orodan received more than a few levels as a result of successfully helping cook such a good meal for so many people.

[Cooking 55 → Cooking 59]

A quick look at Zukelmux told him that the goblin had received even more levels for being the one who had a leading role in the platter’s preparation.

And when Orodan took his first bite of the food himself…

[Gourmand 29 → Gourmand 31]

…pure bliss hit his cells.

As though life was truly worth living, the food made him feel… deeper as a person. The gains were not insignificant either.

Crossing a threshold, he felt his body grow stronger. Not the typical small trickle of strength acquired from a singular level gain in Gourmand, but a far larger one which had his arms feeling as though they could break a star in their grasp. Yes, he had gotten quite strong over the course of five loops of battle against Embodiers, one of whom was a true physical juggernaut. But to feel his physical strength grow by a tenth? Not a mere addition, but a multiplication? It was ridiculous.

His mind, his soul and all his abilities felt a tenth better too. As though the quality of his very being was amplified.

“What a ridiculous thing…” he muttered to himself.

No wonder Wainroach had also gotten stronger by just experiencing arts, culture and occasionally meditating on a drawing from Edrosic. The soul had a quality to it which only grew with life experience. And Orodan had to wonder if he was neglecting an entirely different sort of training by not engaging more deeply with the arts and cultural practices of his world.

He would never regret his pure fixation upon combat and advancement… but perhaps there was even more he could be doing to enrich the quality of his soul? Especially if Gourmand benefitted him in such a way.

“You’re lost in thought,” Edrosic said, always observant of the things which nobody else cared to see.

“And you’re far too perceptive. But I suppose that’s not a bad thing. Helped us drive the Prophet away in fact,” Orodan said.

The militia man looked embarrassed, but Tegin Carrotfoot, at a nearby table had overheard.

“Everyone! While we recently participated in destroying the foul Eldritch plague from the territories of our honored Collective allies, I’d like to raise my goblet in recognition of someone who truly rose above and beyond during that conflict!” Tegin declared. “Three cheers for Parthus Edrosic! A humble private of the Volarbury County militia!”

“Incredible! A mere militia man of such quality…” a Collective officer muttered.

“Alastaia is truly profound, raising such a talent from so little. Worthy allies we have!” a mage-lord loudly declared to cheers from both side.

Edrosic himself kept his head low even as Orodan and the others laughed at him.

“Why did he have to introduce me as the militia man…?” the prodigious artist groaned.

“Because you are. In fact, you might be the most famous person to come out of the county militia now, even more so than me,” Orodan said with a grin as he clapped Edrosic on the shoulder and rose to go for a walk.

It was true too. While Balastion and Destartes had wanted Orodan to take a more central stage in leading, he’d instead gone with Eldarion and Adeltaj’s plan to have him remain relatively inconspicuous when it came to politics and having a face to put forward. Sure, his looping group, the Collective’s top leaders and the Magocracy’s mightiest knew who he was and that he was the central time looper. But them aside it wasn’t exactly public knowledge that he was an Embodier or that he was a mighty breaker of star systems who was the entire reason a number of Embodiers and an Administrator were coming for Alastaia.

He was known as being the teacher of his five disciples, and plenty of the public speculated about him and his true identity, but nobody actually believed he was really Orodan Wainwright, the humble militia man from Ogdenborough. This, they saw as an alias or false identity.

His disciples were more famous than he, with Zukelmux being known as a prodigy among prodigies, Edrosic’s artwork being world-renowned and Aliya and Wainroach being prodigious for their unprecedented talents despite their ages and species. Even Fenton, over the few days he was here, had utterly upended what Alastaian, Blackworth and even the enchanters of this Magocracy knew.

All this was perfectly fine with Orodan, as he had grown to realize that excess attention was more of a waste of time than anything useful. A certain amount of renown and recognition was good, especially if it was from the powerful. But he had grown past the days where he told anyone who listened that he was in a time loop. The people close to him had gotten inconvenienced or hurt enough by that sort of behavior.

And he had too much training on his plate to be bothered by the Claridin Rockwoods and Eluian Arslans of the world.

