Orodan wasn’t exactly a fate-reader, but he had felt that familiar thrum of System energy pulse outwards before. He heard the mutters in the chamber behind him among the diviners present, and he could practically feel the eyes searching for something, or someone.

That someone was of course, where he always stood. Upon the raised platform from where he coordinated the building of the ancient machine.

“Of course… not the most prodigious enchanter I’ve ever seen or an artist with talent enough to cause an Administrator to retreat. It had to be you instead,” Orodan said, disbelief in his voice. “Right at the most convenient moment too. Well, old man…”

“…how does that Celestial skill feel?”

All eyes were upon him, and following his final words, all eyes were upon Old Man Hannegan.

“T-this is…” the old foreman muttered, in shock himself. “All these warnings…! Quest Subject?”

“None of whom will be laying a hand upon you if I have anything to say about it,” Orodan spoke and then shook his head. “Unbelievable… of course it’s you. The very first person who has been alongside me in every loop I’ve started, even before you knew about them yourself. What’s the name of your Celestial skill?”

“Overseer of the Grand Design…”

Overseer of the Grand Design? It certainly sounded as fanciful as a Celestial-rarity skill should have. Frankly, it finally all made sense. Why the old man had been going off to so many places in order to hone his skills. Why even the elementals of the plane of lightning had asked the old foreman for help. How he somehow knew where everything was to the point where even the Lieutenant-General of Anthus and then Eldarion had noticed and solicited his help.

It finally all connected in Orodan’s mind.

The man had the potential, the seeds of a Celestial-rarity skill within him all along. It was natural talent at its finest.

He had seen the old foreman from an early age and had thus never questioned why the old man kept getting handpicked to be foreman across multiple projects. If he had ever bothered to look at how other construction sites and works of labor ran things he would have noticed that foremen were expendable, to be hired and paid and that was the extent of it. For one to consistently be hired and re-hired across multiple projects… the man had to be doing something very different than the others.

The man… Old Man Hannegan… was made for this.

And the pulse of System energy that had gone off of him and into the tapestry of fate and void had almost certainly been noticed.

It was Almyra who immediately asked the relevant question.

“Where are they coming from? To secure you?”

“Two worlds. Narictus and X2,” the old foreman immediately answered.

“Then we shall face the bloodsuckers and their furry pets, and potentially the machine-beings of X2,” Orodan spoke. “It seems this defense of Alastaia may involve a few more parties than expected. At least the hells and cultivators have not decided to pay a visit just yet.”

It made sense. The more powerful someone’s Celestial skill was, the farther it would emanate. Orodan was a monster who had alerted all factions of the galaxy with his awakening of a Celestial skill. Old Man Hannegan in contrast, didn’t seem to provoke nearly as much of a response.

Furthermore, if the metallic folk of X2 were en route, there was the possibility that his old friend W78 would be sent for the mission. Which meant that combat need not be necessary and they might potentially have another ally.

“If the capture of one of their divinities was concerning to them, then the raising of a Celestial will be even more so,” Almyra explained. “We can only hope this forces their hand in attacking us.”

“Let’s give them another thing to worry about then. High-Orast,” Orodan said, looking at the old woman. “Are you ready?”

“I see… add more fuel to the flame, why not? This shall be a battle for the milennia which the Magocracy has never seen before,” she said. “But we shall be glad to aid our Alastaian allies in securing our independence and living freely.”

Everyone backed away as the old woman prepared a fire, an ice and a wind spell in tandem with one another. That was a little odd, but Orodan didn’t question it as he allowed the High-Orast to bombard him with all three.

And to his surprise, he closely watched as three separate glyphs in her soul ascended past the Grandmaster-level at once.

The roiling of System energy came forth, the golem of the System appeared within the grand control chamber of Mount Castarian, and as always it failed to freeze him but bound everyone else in a time stasis.

And then he watched as the old woman was presented a choice of which of the three trials she would like to take.

Valmarra Malvorra chose ice, the element familiar to her. And within minutes the leading mage-lord of the Orastian Magocracy was locked in a contest of Ice Mastery against the golem of the System.

And after a few more minutes…

…she prevailed. The golem giving her a respectful nod as it departed.

Time resumed, and the first person to regard her was Destartes.

“As expected, High-Orast,” the old wizard muttered, a fond smile on his face. “I see Orodan did not even need to revert time.”

“Did you expect anything less of my talents?” the old woman fired back. “I’m offended.”

“And so too are the Hegemony,” Alstatyn warned as a communications ring on his hand glowed blue. “I’m getting reports of space tearing in the void outside Alastaia’s atmosphere. They tried direct spatial entry planetside but our voidfleet rebuffed the attempted intrusion.”

“I sense something big… strong,” Talricto warned. “Pushing through the dimensional layer and accompanied by several warships and divines.”

The assembled forces of Alastaia, the Magocracy and the Collective quickly teleported out and to the command ships of the Blackworth’s fleet. There, it was clear to see that the Hegemony’s forces had arrived as space was still warping under the arrival of the enemy’s voidships.

Dwarven voidcraft too, and accompanying them… an Embodier he had seen facing off against an Administrator directly in the last long loop.

It was the King of Kings. The dwarven Embodier who had conquered his own black hole and fortified it to the point that even Administrators dared not assail it directly. This was one of the strongest Embodiers in the entirety of the cosmos, and it had forced the Prophet to go all-out and only barely been pushed backwards.

And just like last time, its crown was missing.

“As always Talricto, your chronically sticky forelegs bring us more enemies than we should be dealing with,” Orodan said, though there was no accusation in his tone. In fact, he had asked the spider to do just that.

The mighty dwarf, far bulkier and wider than any of its kind he’d seen upon Alastaia, floated out from its voidcraft, which was a planet-sized mountain-hold floating in the void and powered by gigantic continent-sized rune-etched crystals which propelled it through the vast distances of the cosmos. He also had a dangerous-looking battleaxe in his hands.

Last time he’d seen this dwarf, it fought the Prophet. And Orodan was too weak to really understand the danger. But now, having grown in power, quantitatively and qualititatively, he could immediately tell that the axe was utterly deadly and none of his defenses would really be capable of stopping it.

Still, this was necessary and at least somewhat predicted. Given the giant pink crystal he saw in the dwarf’s hands, he had no doubt what payment this Embodier had accepted in return for aiding the Hegemony.

“My Lord, these are the time looper who have tyrannized us. They hold one of our fellow divinities captive and flagrantly violate System law by interfering in the internal matters of a galaxy,” Agrimon, ruler of the Hegemony, announced.

“Time loopers… it’s been long since my axe has bit into the necks of your kind. The last looper that tried antagonizing me… her screams still echo throughout my fortress. Locked away and tortured into madness, the loops left her soon after,” the dwarven Embodier threatened, menacingly dragging his gauntlet along the edge of his axe, causing brilliant white sparks to shower out. “Shall I do the same to you?”

Orodan felt a sort of pressure he hadn’t in a while. That of a social skill meant to cause fear.

Laughable. He brushed it off with not a change in expression, something which caused the dwarf’s eyes to narrow as his foe considered him with a more serious expression. Almyra however, shuddered. Her lack of experience with direct combat situations showing.

“Well don’t expect me to fight him. Kharadun Voidfortress is among the ten mightiest known beings. I would rank him as sixth, just below the Reject. One does not get to conquer a black hole without having a requisite level of might,” Almyra spoke, her mettle waning. “I’ve never been good at direct combat, and while the Mantle I have is good for countering an Administrator’s Mantle, that dwarf is far too fast for me to use it in combat against him.”

Orodan simply laid a hand on her shoulder, gesturing her to remain back. The Alastaian alliance had armies, Transcendents and Embodiers. But two out of the three Embodiers of their alliance were unsuited to direct combat, especially against a foe as brutally straightforward and threatening as this. Alastaia needed its mightiest warrior.

So it was with three raps of his sword upon the boss of his shield that Orodan stepped forward and out into the void, his floating form drifting slowly in the direction of the enemy voidfleet.

They had not attacked yet, which meant they wanted something.

“Hmmph. You’re strong. You are one of these time loopers as well? Do not think that I am unaware of the fact that there can only be one at a time. I do not know who the current one is, but one of you is playing the other for a fool with your little alliance,” Kharadun spoke. “But I suppose it is rare to see a martial looper rise so high. The successful among your kind usually prefer to scheme and act wisely. Facing me head-on has gone poorly for even the Administrators, especially when assailing my abode.”

“And yet, a sneaky little eight-legged wanderer managed to steal your crown,” Orodan taunted. “That black hole isn’t as impregnable as you thought.”

“That thief you harbor shall have its legs pried off one by one. But… such trifles don’t need to stand between us and civility. Let me be direct. Hand over my crown, return the divine you have kidnapped and join me in alliance,” Kharadun offered, the dwarf’s eye gleaming with greed, but also sincerity. “If you’ve heard my name then you’ll know what they all say about me. I’m a dwarf of my word, honor’s important in this shit cosmos we’re limited by and nobody’s got more of it than me. So I make you an offer of partnership, something entire factions would go to war for. Join me, time looper, and we shall stand against the tyrant Administrators together. You’re strong, and your eyes tell me you’re unreasonably young for an Embodier. Join me, and we can stand against the approaching Embodiers who are after you together.”

Agrimon whos gigantic eye was peering into the material plane from the divine realm protested in outrage.

“This is not what we agreed upon! The time looper must fall! We provided you our shards permanently for that purpose!”

“Incorrect. We agreed that I would get your divine back and reclaim your little gathering of deceased. If you paid any attention, you would realize that outright killing the time looper was never one of those agreements,” the dwarf corrected. “So, Orodan Wainwright. What shall it be?”

Orodan’s answer was a simple one. He laughed and drew his sword and shield, pointing the blade at the dwarf.

“Your offer sounds reasonable… but I’m afraid it contradicts with one particular thing…” he uttered. “I want to fight you.”

The dwarf’s eyes narrowed into a glare of death.

As did Orodan’s.

“A poor decision. You are strong, warrior, but nowhere near the power necessary to best me.”

“Let us cross blades and test the truth of that.”
