There too, upon Thazrivin, was the same principle used. Fire Mastery could either be acquired through extreme natural talent combined with hard work as Wainroach had done it. Or… the aspirant could allow fire elementals to descend unto their body and aid them in understanding how to produce and control fire with soul energy. It was a method Alastaians had theorized about for a while but every attempt of theirs had ended with death and failure. It was also purported to be how certain Bloodlines originated.

The Orastian Magocracy however had perfected and proven both these theories. Their methods were advanced, the results of tens of thousands of years of work. And so they had set up a grand ritual to summon the most powerful elementals of fire they could, and it came as no surprise when Orodan’s overcharged flames—a requirement to attract the elementals—brought forth a living star.

Needless to say, vacating the university and the world of the Magocracy itself had become necessary at that point lest the two of them turn everything to ash. So they left to the void.

It was a peak-Transcendent and had acted more like an overly excited puppy than a Transcendent elemental overlord should, but it had successfully delved into his very cells, existing within the flames of his Elemental Living Enchantment while guiding him towards understanding what the true nature of fire was.

And while Orodan was no natural pyromancer who knew what flames themselves were, he was good at using soul energy, and he had a lot of it. This allowed him to practice perpetually until, through sheer brute force, he had finally acquired the understanding of how to generate fire and guide it with the light of his very soul.

Little wonder Valmarra had stated that only someone with Fire Resistance could use such a method. Anyone else allowing an elemental to directly enter their very cells would have died a miserable death which even a group of Grandmaster-level healers could not outpace. He’d also acquired the Fire Mastery skill in record time, faster than anyone else in the Magocracy’s history had done. But that, he chalked up to his ridiculous self-healing abilities and absurd Fire Resistance which let him survive a peak-Transcendent practically fusing with his inner flames.

He and the elemental had parted on good terms with Orodan promising to ‘feed’ the elemental overlord some overcharged Draconic Fireballs from time to time, and their group had needed to leave not too long after.

He would have liked to work on acquiring Mastery skills for his other elements, but that wasn’t to be on the limited timeframe they had. Still, he vowed to visit the world of Thazrivin again from next loop. Not only did Destartes like the place, but Alastaia had much to learn from these mage-lords. At the same time, so too did his home world have much to offer to their new allies. Not just in the realm of martial talents, but also in the realm of the crafts where their lack of manual labor meant that while magic did a great job of patching things up and gluing them together, it didn’t build a truly solid foundation. Alastaian buildings, items and weaponry were just sturdier and more reliable, even if the Magocracy’s items had unique effects and esoteric powers that no mage on Alastaia had seen.

He suspected the world core itself influenced the peoples’ skills to develop a certain way, that or the abundant mana and world energy everywhere made the reliance on magic almost mandatory lest the mortal races be torn apart by magically enhanced monsters.

Still, it had been a good time and now, the final leg of the loop was approaching.

The clanging ring of hammer on metal echoed through the control chamber of the ancient machine.

The enhanced forge had been put to work earlier in the day, much to Orodan’s protests that his sword and shield were perfectly fine. Now, instead of his familiar sword and shield of the county militia, on his belt were two weapons which were the pinnacle of Alastaian blacksmithing. The same make, weight and style as his old ones, but composed of different materials.

Orodan tried his best to push down the irritation at having his weapons reforged and simply took in the control chamber.

A room in which he’d fought Ovuru, Baron Viglas Argon and Duke Arestos many a time before. It was the chamber where, long ago, he had thought the loops would end once he won and stopped the machine.

Yet now, this would be where a new chapter of the journey started.

In the deepest man-made chamber of Mount Castarian, everyone of significance was gathered. The greatest blacksmiths, stoneworkers and jewelcrafters of Alastaia. The top engineers of the Blackworth Collective, and from their neighbors the greatest mage-lords of the Orastian Magocracy.

Experts of every single craft evaluated and worked upon the ancient machine carefully.

Griok, the now Grandmaster-level Jewelcrafter of the Rising Spear tribe and possibly the finest of his craft in all Alastaia, carved the central energy battery for the machine with incredible care. Varnok Grimbreaker, the Grandmaster-level Stonecutter and Mason responsible for building a majority of humanity’s fortifications on Inuan, worked with large groups of stonecutters from the Eastern Kingdoms to very carefully sculpt and etch runes into Mount Castarian itself. Blacksmiths from the High Forges of Karilsgard and the Novarrian armories worked the metal, elemental contractors from the Magocracy helped direct high-level elementals who ensured that the fanciful forge machines of the Collective were working at overcharged prime efficiency, and Clyburn Anderthorn worked alongside Fenton Penny to carefully modify and improve the device’s engineering and enchantments.

All while Edrosic’s hands blurred, sketching out drawings, diagrams and models, one after the other, in seconds. Assistants were continually refilling sheafs of paper next to him so that he didn’t run out, and the militia man had a sketch for each and every part of the process down to the smallest task, which dramatically helped the experts with their work with how clearly they visualized their part.

And of course, directing it all like a legendary commander of labor, was old Gregory Hannegan.

“Good work! Keep it up!” the old man encouraged, for once not finding anything to yell about since his core group now knew better how to work under him. “Remember to enchant counter-clockwise and not clockwise young man! You’ll run too close to your other enchantment due to your right-hand dominant method!”

“Aye Mister Gregory! Right you are ser!” Fenton shouted back, quickly amending the organizational inefficiency which even a skilled enchanter might overlook. By now, the boy had grown used to Old Man Hannegan. Hard not to when one’s work inexplicably improved under the old man’s hastily yelled instructions.

“Clyburn! Do not secure those extra joints and load-bearing portions until after Fenton finished that section of the arm!”

“R-right! I see now how that makes sense, Mister Hannegan,” Clyburn stammered, quickly correcting. The lead engineer was unused to following orders, but after seeing the results of them, even the most proud and stubborn Grandmasters could only fall in line while being awestruck.

These gathered experts could ply their trades with skill, but could they correctly identify the workflow and what could be altered to prevent waste, inefficiencies and errors when working alongside other people?

Even the greatest Enchanter in the cosmos might be blind to how they worked in a group. This was where the old foreman truly excelled, directing labor to efficient outcomes and making sure that the project’s deadlines were met on time. The man had been doing so all his life, well before Orodan was born too.

Sometimes, he wondered just how old the man was. Certainly not the age of even a new Grandmaster… but he idly imagined that it wasn’t outrageous for him to be older than even an older Master. Orodan had simply never cared to really see it until now.

“We’re almost done, keep at it! Keep at it! Stoneworkers, focus on carving section ninety-four in tandem with the smiths of group twenty-three! Double time!” Old Man Hannegan shouted. “Orodan! Bodil! Bring out the crystals, the final touches need to be applied soon. And get your broom ready.”

That last bit was meant for him. He and Bodil Bistrid quickly rushed under the old foreman’s directions, scrambling to gather and carry out the last things needed for the re-tuning of the machine. Although there was still one more ingredient left, but that couldn’t be acquired until the Hegemony arrived.

[Logistics 32 → Logistics 33]

He could think faster than sound but the pressure of assisting with such a device which demanded exact measurements and movements was harder than he thought. It caused his Logistics to level once more.

Finally, Fenton was now putting the final touches upon the device. The lad’s natural talent for Enchanting alongside Talricto’s keen sense for Dimensionalism, Clyburn’s Engineering and the Magocracy’s precise control over mana, allowed him to inscribe precise and never-before-seen enchantments onto the ancient machine.

As he was coming to learn, Orodan wasn’t the only one who grew exponentially under the conditions of a time loop.

Previously, he had tried enchanting it himself, but even with Talricto’s help he wasn’t quite up to the task. It had been a humbling reminder that he couldn’t be the best at everything, and even though he was the stubborn skill-grinder and would never stop advancing, that didn’t mean others couldn’t perform certain roles better.

Still, even with Alastaia’s Grandmaster enchanters, the machine had come up just short.

But now, with the single greatest enchanter the cosmos had ever seen, that was looking to be a different story.

Fenton Penny was just about to etch the final enchantment upon the ancient device which had been the center of Orodan’s early loops when Old Man Hannegan’s voice sharply stopped him.

“Hold it! Everyone else finish first. Fenton, yours will be the second-to-last step. And Orodan… raise that broom. You’ll be cleaning it soon as he’s done. Eyes sharp and reflexes ready. You need to get it at the exact instant he puts that last bit down.”

Orodan had to do a double-take upon hearing this. Was it that serious that it needed to be at the exact instant? He had never done it quite like that before when building the ancient machine.

Soon, the work ended and Fenton was the only one left, and Orodan’s broom was raised in the air, right next to the lad, ready to descend the moment he finished.

“I changed it up the way you asked ser… but these are some strange coordinates you got,” Fenton spoke, focusing. “That’s so far out into the material plane… I thought we was goin’ to aim for the System’s bowels, right?”

“We are. But let’s just say that I have a plan.”

“And er… does anyone else know ‘bout this plan of yours? I’ve seen your mad plans Mister Orodan… can’t say I trust you very much,” the lad complained, but making sure nobody else nearby heard it since only the two of them were within earshot of the words.

“After all this time together? I’m wounded,” Orodan said with a manic smile.

“Hmm… let me take that back. I trust you very much to be a bleedin’ madman like you always are. I won’t even question what mad nuttery you’re plannin’. The less of it I know, the better.”

“Alright, we’re just about done! Fenton, now!”

“Aye Mister Gregory! Puttin’ down the last etching!”

Orodan was ready. Whatever skills he had for empowering himself he brought to the fore. He even brought Elemental Living Enchantment forward, holding his mana and soul energy pools still so that the moment Fenton finished he could explode outwards.

Destartes, Almyra and the High-Orast Valmarra were present too, waiting with bated breath as they cast layers upon layers of barriers over Fenton, something which allowed Orodan to truly explode with as much speed and force as he could muster when the moment came.

Orodan watched closely as Fenton etched the final bit. Like a warrior ready to draw his sword, his hand was upon his broom, not nervous or tense at all, simply coiled like a dangerous spring.

But surprisingly, before he thought it was done, he heard the voice of the old foreman.

“Now, Orodan! Start now!”

The early command surprised him, but Orodan did exactly as asked, starting then and there. And it was good that he’d trusted the old man and listened, for Fenton finished a lot faster than expected.

Just in time for Orodan’s broom to hit with the explosive power and violent energy he’d been keeping coiled up.

[Domain of Perfect Cleaning 178 → Domain of Perfect Cleaning 179]

[Burst Casting 66 → Burst Casting 68]

The words had likely left the old foreman’s lips earlier, but they hit just now as his broom touched the machine.

“Rockhead! Be sure to get the joints clean first!”

Powerful. He felt the currents of a powerful energy usher his body, mind and very soul along into the action. He trusted the source of it and allowed it to guide him along the vision of the source. And Orodan had to admit…

[Domain of Perfect Cleaning 179 → Domain of Perfect Cleaning 180]

…he had never cleaned this well before.

The machine was utterly purged starting from the joints, and the strange force then guided him along to its skeletal frame. From there, the rocks of Mount Castarian itself, carefully cut by the greatest stone carvers of Alastaia. And following that, the crystal powder lining the joints and the energy battery itself.

The mysterious force finally ended after guiding him towards the enchantments last, ending right at Fenton’s last etching.

