“My Mythical skill. Existential Speech,” the High-Orast spoke. “Something earned from the skill combination of Power Word Speech and Reality Whispering. Won me the duel for the position of High-Orast. But you, Lord Wainwright, are full of surprises. We searched for ages, to find anyone possessing the Reality Alteration skill spoken of in the ancient civilizations of our world… but to no avail. It seems this alliance between our peoples will bear more fruit than expected. Would you be against demonstrating that skill once we reach the magical university?”

“Not at all. Though I can only use it in tandem with my Celestial skill. Thus it will have to be a controlled demonstration,” Orodan said, establishing his limits. He had big plans involving it this loop, and the last thing he wanted was another incident where he wiped a whole number of people out of existence. “But this Power Word Speech sounds intriguing. There are limits to it?”

“As there are limits to everything I’m afraid,” the woman spoke. “Would you believe I tried using the power word for killing upon Destartes here when he first descended unto our world?”

The old wizard coughed in embarrassment.

“You gave me quite the fright… who greets visitors in such a manner?”

“I do when they are the first recorded otherworlders aside from elementals and demons to visit our planet,” the High-Orast spoke. “But needless to say the power word failed, his mana pool being far too large and his soul roiling with a bit too much power for me to overcome. Yours, Lord Wainwright, I suspect would fare the same. As we speak I am receiving multiple complaints about how the city’s soul sensing devices are breaking or our soul mages are unable to work or are outright fainting.”

He closed his eyes and consciously toned the roiling energy within down a bit. Burst Casting and its principles of fully stilling his energy pools helped quite a bit in that regard.

They were upon the newly contacted world of Thazrivin, under the rule of their now-allies, the Orastian Magocracy.

Unlike Alastaia which could be considered a small world, theirs was a medium-sized one. At least double the size of his home world and with a far larger and more sprawling civilization upon it.

Where his world had the three continents with their own nations, clan and enclaves, this one had just one, the Magocracy. And although small groups and the occasional clan of magic practitioners outside of the Orastian sphere of influence existed, these were akin to nomads and independent practitioners of magic who simply wished to remain outside of the settlements. Not rebels.

It was a world of mage-lords where almost everyone knew magic. However, unlike the elitism and class-disparity he expected it might cause, these people instead used magic to try and elevate the common folk as much as they could.

The streets of the Magocracy’s capital city of Thazmylion were packed full of people either walking, flying or teleporting around via the abundant amount of teleportation arrays, elementals or tamed flying magical beasts. Not only did mage lords in their opulent robes rub shoulders with the common man or woman, but everyone had a demeanor of respect in their interactions with one another.

It took Orodan a few moments to truly understand why.

There was no real scarcity here. Yes, it was an utterly foreign feeling for him, coming from Ogdenborough where everyone had to work in order to get by and make ends meet. Hells, even in the capital city of Karilsgard or Novar’s Peak in Novarria, the people had to work for a living and had something or the other that weighed upon their minds.

But in the absence of such worries, when everyone went about their days and had their basic needs provided for through magic… what a sight it was. There was no undercurrent of resentment or wariness towards the mage lords either. If anything, the commoners looked at them as though they were heroes. And given how he saw these folk stop on multiple separate occasions to help a commoner or listen to one of their concerns he could see why.

On Alastaia, thirty-thousand years ago a horrid cataclysm had occurred when the Void Horror ascended and destroyed the continent of Inuan. His world had always faced Eldritch incursions or wars among nations. But here and now, upon Thazrivin, these people were in the midst of a golden age just one star system away from his home world.

Almost everyone was a magic caster, with even the most mundane-looking grandmotherly figure using basic spells. And for more complex tasks they could utilize enchanted devices if they themselves weren’t capable of something. Even the children here knew magic, evidenced by the number of them he saw playing around with small-scale elemental magic. Their mischief and play was of course accounted for thanks to the wards lining the city and the overwatching mage guards who kept an eye to ensure that no spell of excessive power was launched.

“I will not lie… seeing children sling spells as though they are playing with sticks is a novel sight,” Orodan remarked.

These were combat-capable spells too. Mana Bolts, Flame Spray, Lightning Sparks, Galewinds and many more elemental spells he didn’t think Alastaia’s libraries even knew of. The only equivalent he could think of would be if the street rats were given live steel and allowed to go wild.

The streets of Ogdenborough would have turned bloody within the hour and the orphanage’s occupancy would have sharply dropped.

But life was different here. There were no starving children, no street rats, no orphans who were unhoused and desperate to make a better life for themselves. The children had no desire to truly harm one another aside from the occasional bit of mischief and mean streaks that little ones everywhere had. These too were swiftly handled by interceding mage golems, directed by the mage guards who watched closely from their towers.

Orodan had been to Swordpeak city in Xian, and Storven upon Lonvoron, yet despite the utterly foreign nature of those two cities, one in a different part of the galaxy and the other in another galaxy altogether, it was this place in the neighboring star system which truly felt foreign.

“Who knew that the orphaned street rat who grew up knowing nothing but violence would be shocked to see children happily play fighting with magic?” Zaessythra reminded.

That certainly made sense.

“It is not so shocking a sight when you consider that such early childhood play reinforces the skills and provides them with a good foundation of skill levels that will only help once they enter school,” Valmarra explained. “Naturally, even the earliest schools we have here are magical. Right from the age of two years old.”

Orodan tried to imagine a two-year old child slinging spells, he did. But it just didn’t compute in his mind. Destartes must’ve noticed the look on his face for the old wizard laughed.

“It’s nothing so jarring, Orodan. I have seen some of these schools. The children are exposed to magic and undergo exercises which develop their mana pools, yes, but two-year-old children are not casting Fireballs at one another. They are still just as human as we are on Alastaia.”

Of course, there were some differences not immediately apparent but became so upon closer examination.

Orodan was big. But he wasn’t three heads taller than most people back home. Here though, that was the case. And as he and all his students walked along the streets of Thazmylion even Aliya looked far taller and sturdily-built compared to the other eight-year-old girls her age.

“Teacher… why do they look at me like the people back home look at big brother Zuk?” Aliya asked. The girl had been excited at the opportunity to travel to another world for the second time.

Furthermore it was quite funny to consider that Aliya of all people would draw more attention than the goblin Zukelmux. On Alastaia that wasn’t the case at all, but here on Thazrivin where goblins were a common race and some of them were even among the mage lords, it wasn’t at all out of place. Instead, her size set her apart from the rest.

Valmarra could only cough at the girl’s innocent question.

“That is… let us just say that our people’s have different specialties,” the High-Orast tried to brush off. “An over-reliance upon magic can leave us vulnerable in other areas. But that is why our alliance is so critical. We strengthen Alastaia’s mages, and warriors such as yourself help to strengthen us, Lord Wainwright.”

She had refused to drop that honorific despite his insistence, claiming it would be disrespectful to refer to herself and her fellows as mage lords while not calling him a lord in the same vein. He had given up on trying to get the old woman to stop. Perhaps it was a cultural practice and the title of lord was more important than he thought it back home?

Their discussions en route to their destination continued for a while longer. Orodan happily agreed to not only display his Reality Alteration skill but to also help train Thazrivin’s spellblades and those attempting to master the martial pursuits. He didn’t think it an unreasonable request, but from the look on the High-Orast’s face she didn’t hold much faith in her people going very far in the ways of the warrior.

Throughout the duration of their walk, Destartes and Valmarra practically hung off one another’s very words. Not in an overly sappy sense, but in the way where one would treat every syllable leaving the other’s mouth as being of utmost significance. As an impartial observer Orodan could see why. Both of them were studious academics, scholars of magic who thirsted for its innermost secrets. They had found a kindred mind in one another. Whenever they weren’t speaking to him or his students, they were bringing up some esoteric area of arcane study, or the particulars of a spell.

Orodan, knowing a thing or two about magic by now, tried his best to follow along with the conversation, but he gradually fell behind. Each cell being capable of thought and his speed of mind being far faster than sound didn’t help when the topic of discussion was alien to him.

Who even discussed the seasonal migration patterns of wind-element empowered birds and cross-referenced those with that of wind elementals to project peak population numbers? He had studied at Bluefire but none of it had prepared him for that. It seemed there were levels to academia beyond just the basic education one could receive.

Edrosic was openly yawning, Aliya dozing off mid-walk and Fenton busy tinkering with an enchanted gun in his hand. Even the normally studious Zukelmux looked to have lost the topic. Oddly enough, Wainroach was paying rapt attention to their every word.

Her antennae wiggled.

“You… you wish to study this topic of discussion?” Valmarra asked and her forelegs shook with excitement as she relayed her own experiences. “Oh? I hadn’t even considered that the ancillary food sources of migratory birds would factor in. I suppose that would change my projections a fair bit. You have some experience with them attempting to make a meal of you, do you not? Yes… a forest cockroach’s insight on the matter would be quite valuable…”

His disciples were dragged along as Wainroach and the High-Orast began conversing, leaving him and Destartes to lag behnd for a moment.

“So…” he began.

“I can see where this is going, Mister Wainwright,” Destartes spoke, suddenly not very talkative and sounding very formal given the way he referred to Orodan.

“If you don’t want me to pry, I will not,” he assuaged.

“It’s hardly anything so severe. We simply appreciate one another’s intellectual company,” the old wizard spoke.

“Just intellectual?” Orodan asked in turn and he saw the briefest twitch upon the old mage’s features.

“It will not interfere with the performance of my duties if that is what concerns you,” the wizard said, looking slightly defensive.

“Destartes. I’m not your lord or master who you need to be in shape to render duties unto. I didn’t bring you along on the loops just so you could be useful to me. I did it to repay the debt I owe you,” Orodan clarified. “If anything, it is good to see you happy. I didn’t think you had it in you at your advanced age…”

Destarte’s face went through a range of emotions at that. Relief, appreciation, fondness and finally… irritation. That last one brought a smile to Orodan’s face of course.

“I can see why Gregory finds you most troublesome, Orodan. Let us catch up before you cause me any more headaches today.”

Both their moods lifted, the two of them caught up to the others.

The magical university of Thazmylion, with no specific name besides that, was oddly similar to the university Orodan had seen in Storven. Universities were places of even higher learning beyond academies. They were places where higher academics such as Destartes and Valmarra—having already acquired their education at a regular school—could gather to discuss specialized topics and research.

Inuan at least, didn’t have anything like that. Guzuhar had no academies whatsoever instead relying upon military service or an apprenticeship system where knowledge was passed down orally and rarely in written format, and only Eldiron had a separate department for Grandmasters to gather in the Goldleaf Academy in Aldenil. Yet that paled when compared to these universities where the greatest minds among Elites, Masters and Grandmasters gathered, funded by the magocracy itself, to drive magic research and development forward.

