Hells, even Initiates, Apprentices and Adepts with good theories could come forward with them, and if verified and noted to be of use, would receive a generous stipend and be taken care of by the governing power. It was a system which promoted merit of thought and helped drive society forward.

On Inuan, Adeltaj Simarji and Arvayne Firesword, though Grandmasters, did not regularly come down to Bluefire to share their insights and help aid the collective development of society’s martial talents. The only one who did that was old Destartes, and it seemed the wizard had finally found his people for here was a world which valued exactly that.

The campus grounds were wide, expansive and magical. The magic in the air was immense, the grounds were saturated with mana from all the spellcasting occurring at this place of learning, even more so than the casual magic use occurring at every moment in the city itself. And all that mana meant that elementals loved hanging around the area. At least three separate times Aliya got distracted by something shiny or by a mischievous elemental who played pranks on her.

Still, with some redirection the girl was eventually guided onto the right path and they entered the largest building on the campus grounds. It was heavily enchanted and gave off a mystical aura. The very stairs were moving, and at times the doors changed, leading to rooms other than the one initially visible. Occasionally, a student walking through a doorway would be sent someplace out in the city, and sometimes a doorway would appear and a student would walk into the building from another part of the city entirely. Still, everyone they passed in the halls, be they student, teaching assistant or professor, seemed quite used to the antics of this quirky and magical building with a mind of its own.

“Oy… you’ve got some errors with these enchantments… the stairs ain’t supposed to be movin’ like that… and if a poor sod falls into one of those false walls at the bottom they’ll be gone for a whole week,” Fenton remarked, immediately taking note of the pecualiarities. “And is that… oh… whole bloody building’s got a soul, don’t it?”

Orodan’s eyes confirmed it too. Although the paintings were moving and seemed as though they had minds of their own, in truth it was the building itself which was living. It expressed itself and let its thoughts be known through the paintings and its conversations be held via changing doorways. He had heard fables and tales of supposedly haunted houses and even ones where the Cathedral had been forced to send exorcists and diviners back home in the Republic, but he’d never actually seen one.

Though, perhaps the difference between a haunted house and a quirky magical building was the fact that one had young and impressionable students in it and the other did not.

“You are correct, Lord Penny. The… erm… faults in the enchanting are in fact intentional… or they were when this was built over sixty-thousand years ago. Perhaps even longer, but we have no records from farther back,” the High-Orast spoke while casually avoiding a slimeball hurled from a painting by a mischievous knight within. “Some of the faults have been introduced by the building itself, and other flaws formerly existing were fixed by its own hand.”

“Oh? It’s an enchanter then? Maybe we could work together to spruce the place up?” Fenton asked, and in response a set of magical lights lit up, repeatedly blinking as though signaling its assent.

As they made for the magical training halls the building continued to interact with them, excited to have otherworldly visitors for the first time. Aliya was pranked, Wainroach was given treats, Zukelmux had paintings change to do comical expressions of him and Edrosic had plenty of the paintings hand him a brush and palette asking that he give them a touch up.

Even Orodan had a doorway attempt to shift on him as he was midway through it, only for him to muscle the dimensional shift out of the way through the raw might of his arms. The building left him very clearly alone after that.

“Right. Here we are,” Valmarra said. “Mister Wainwright, I present to you the Thazmylion University Department of Elemental Studies. Perhaps we can make a proper battlemage of you yet and get you using soul energy instead of mana.”

They had a few more days until the Embodiers would come for them. Enough time to hopefully get at least some work done with the aid of Time Compression.

And Orodan had a gut feeling that the Hegemony was not stupid. Not when he had intentionally let slip to Astalavar that he and Almyra were time loopers. Not when the imprisoned many-armed divine had sent out a communications pulse.

Still, he would not be surprised.

For they had explicitly allowed the divine to send its messages.

All so the enemy would hopefully bring the shards along.

#

Like that, the final days until the end of the loop and the coming battle passed.

The Magocracy, Alastaia and the Blackworth Collective worked well together. And so did he and his students work hard towards making as many gains as they could under the tutelage of the magical university’s professors and teaching assistants.

Orodan’s time spent training the spellblades and aspiring martial hybrid combatants of the Magocracy was unfortunately shorter than he would have liked. For while he had used Time Compression to expand what he and his disciples were able to learn, he could not do the same for the aspiring martials.

Certainly, they could enter the bubble of compressed time and train. But the problem was that these aspiring spellblades were primarily mages. Mages who had never grown up even playfighting or engaging in manual labor a day in their lives. The first time Edrosic punched one of them square in the face, the poor woman had crumpled to the ground as though she’d never gotten her nose broken in her life.

The following outrage that there was no talk of it being a full-contact spar had him scratching his head. Supposedly, on Thazrivin the melee spars were performed while both participants had magical barriers laid upon them. Barriers which flashed red whenever a fatal or grievous hit was landed. Which, while he could understand the rationale of, made for some very poor warriors if none of them knew how to take a hit.

Even the county militia could beat some of these coddled fighters if magic was nullified.

In any case, Valmarra had looked quite ashamed and embarrassed at the display from her spellblade and had asked Orodan to start off slow with conditioning drills and hopefully commit to a full training program from the next loop. That much, he agreed with. If the Orastian Magocracy was to stand beside them moving forward, then they would need to shore up their weaknesses, just as their mage-lords were also upon Alastaia helping the mages of Orodan’s world shore up their magical training.

His disciples had advanced quite splendidly too.

Zukelmux’s ability to self-heal, under the tutelage of these mage-lords and professors, grew. The goblin was beginning to approach a point where he might even receive a high-rarity self-healing skill. It made the spear-and-shield wielding warrior a truly unstoppable bulwark in combat. On Lonvoron he had dueled early Transcendent plague forms, held his ground and even won after a protracted struggle. Capable of now fighting a tier above thanks to the extreme training Orodan had been putting him through. In fact, it was interesting to note that the goblin could potentially stand against even the Eldritch Avatar as long as the Incorruptible Being aspect of Orodan’s Celestial skill was laid upon him.

The goblin however was not a mage, thus, didn’t benefit as spectacularly from the training on Thavrivin as some of his other students had. Among them being Aliya.

The girl was a martial specialist and polearms prodigy, but she had also taken a liking to wind. And it was this element that the mage-lords of the Magocracy were especially well-suited to helping develop. Her natural speed, agility and ability to lance in and out of attacking range was amplified as she learned skills such as Wind Step for rapid movement, Gale Piercer for adding wind-based damage to her thrusts and allowing the weapon to move even faster, and the Exquisite-rarity Wind Aura which caused winds to buffet around her in combat creating a deadly zone where the passive winds kept enemies lacking in strength or mass in a constant state of imbalance and allowing her to use those winds to sense the area all around her and target enemy weak spots with greater efficiency.

Monstrous as the goblin was, Orodan had a feeling that she would be catching up to Zukelmux sooner rather than later. And from there their development might well be neck-and-neck for these two were prodigious warriors.

Wainroach’s development had also progressed spectacularly. Perhaps not as explosive as Aliya’s since the cockroach already knew Fire Mastery, but her variety and diversity of fire spells had greatly increased. Multiple professors and teaching assistants of the Department of Fire had sat her down and forced her to learn spell after spell. The end result was a cockroach who now likely knew even more fire-based spells than Destartes did.

Flight? Sprinting? Blocking? Armor? Wainroach now had some manner of flame-related skill for all of those facets of combat and movement. He even saw her learning how to manipulate flames directly, which should have been something only a pyromancer past the threshold of an Elite could do. And while he had been too busy with his own training to really focus upon her, he could’ve sworn that she was staring at him fixatedly while doing so.

Putting that weird pyromaniac aside, Edrosic had a hard time leaving the grounds. Particularly since the main building of the Thazmylion University refused to allow him exit once the man re-painted a number of its paintings. The ancient structure had a soul, and it had never been happier in all its years of existence than when the militia man had so exquisitely re-worked the paintings it expressed itself through.

Pranks stopped, treats became far more frequent for everyone and Edrosic loudly complained to him that a haunted building was in love with him and he felt uncomfortable about it. Still, despite the man’s whining he had reached the level of a Drawing Master, which pushed his profound abilities closer and closer to Grandmastery.

Of the three candidates he strongly suspected to be capable of attaining a Celestial skill, Edrosic was one of them. Though Orodan would not stifle the lazy man’s development by ever letting him know that. Better he worked quietly and kept improving himself without any distractions or weight upon his shoulders.

The other candidate for that possibility, Fenton Penny, faced the same problem but from a different source. The High-Orast and every single mage-lord familiar with Enchanting had come by and practically pleaded with Orodan to let the boy stay upon Thazrivin. They had offered immediate elevation to lordship, practically limitless wealth and entire personal armies at his beck and call if he stayed with the Magocracy. His activities with Orodan and Alastaia would not even be hindered, they had insisted. The only condition being that the lad come by and aid the ongoing research and certain critical development projects at the university.

Fenton had of course, declined most of that. The boy had agreed to come by and look at some of their projects but did not want to be tied down to another world when, in his words, he already had a new home for himself and his mother upon Alastaia. If anything, Orodan felt a little bad for dragging the prodigious enchanter along to this world of magic. None of the enchanters here or upon Alastaia were at all in comparable to Fenton. Neither the Collective, nor Alastaia nor the Magocracy had any Transcendent-level enchanters, but even if they did the lad would have enchanted circles around them all with how far ahead of the curve his abilities, insights and techniques were.

The only thing that had helped Fenton somewhat was Orodan showing the lad working examples of the devils’ four-dimensional enchanting language alongside spider dragon silk and its properties. And of course, Orodan’s System within his soul.

And as for Orodan himself?

These were the two messages he received near the end of that training session.

[New Skill → Fire Mastery 34 (Rare)]

[New Title → Fire Apprentice]

The product of a compressing time so that four hours of work in the real world was equivalent to almost a month on Thazrivin. Any longer and his students wouldn’t have been able to tolerate it, their souls already strained from the Time Compression he’d performed when training them on Alastaia in this loop.

The High-Orast had not lied. Their methods of magical training were truly exquisite and miles ahead of Alastaia’s. Slightly dangerous too, but that was no issue when Orodan had the willpower and sturdiness of body that he did.

Long ago, he had learned the Draconic Fireball by immersing himself into a magical ritual where he partially became a dragon and allowed that state of being another species to grant him insights. He had pulled back at the end, unwilling to forgo his own form; his pride refusing to let him accept that the draconic form was better than what he forged himself into through hard work, sweat and blood.

