Excusing herself from the crowd, Song brought Princess away to follow Buddy out of the sparring grounds and over to the bamboo grove, trailed by Aurie and Sarankho who were always eager to explore. The grove concealed Medical Saint Taduk’s Spiritual Plant garden, from which the hound was barred, but Buddy kept his distance and circled around to a thicket which Rakky had claimed as his own. The horse-sized tiger appeared fast asleep, but Song saw the tell-tale flick of his ears which told her he was awake and aware of their presence. The wildcats didn’t spot it however, or perhaps they did and it was all part of the game, but either way, they hunkered down to stalk their sleeping ‘prey’ alongside Buddy. The amount of noise the hound made was considerable to say the least, making no effort to quiet his steps or avoid smacking his strange stick against the bamboo poles. Even then, Rakky laid still as could be until Sarankho pounced upon his shoulders, at which point the tiger feigned surprise and leaped high up into the air.

This was how Rakky showed his affection, by teaching the wildcats how to hunt, but even after ten years of lessons, Aurie and Sarankho were utterly helpless on their own. Still, it warmed her heart to see the smaller wildcats play with the massive tiger, like a father and his tiny kittens and their strange dog of a friend. Of course, Buddy was more interested in stealing Rakky’s food and water, lapping up every last drop in the tiger’s bowl before curling up next to Song for a nap. His fitful snores were a delight to behold, and doubly so due to how he cradled his odd vine between his dirt-covered paws, but he did not sleep for long. Coming to a half-hour later, he stretched, yawned, and shook himself awake before taking up his prize in his jaws and setting out without so much as a second glance.

Or at least he would have had Song not grabbed a hold of the vine. “You should give this back,” she said, having recognized it for the Spiritual Heart that it was. “Whoever you stole this from will be looking for it.”

Though wholly capable of simply leaving with his prize, Buddy pawed at the grass and whined. His heartbreak was palpable to behold, and not solely due to his Aura. There was need in his eyes, real need, untainted by greed or desire yet suffused with desperation. Fear even, which was odd, because while Buddy was wary of a great many things, rarely was he genuinely afraid of something. Using her own Aura to convey her questions, Song tried to understand what the dog was going on about, but all she could glean from his pantomimed actions was that he needed the Spiritual Heart for some dire reason. It wasn’t for him, but for someone else, and though she wanted to follow him, Buddy thought it best if he went about this alone. Something to do with hiding, which Song suspected meant the dog wanted to bury the vine without anyone knowing where it would be, as he often did with his most prized possessions.

Either way, Song couldn’t bring herself to deny Buddy anything, not when his need was so genuine and pure, so she sent him off with a pat on the head and his vine in hand. If someone came looking for the Spiritual Heart, then Rain could retrieve it, as he always knew where Buddy was at all times. Or so she believed right up until a half hour later, when Rain found her pulling a feather on a string all about for Rakky, Aurie, and Sarankho to chase while Princess and Jimjam wrestled. His arrival set off a minor stampede as the wildcats pounced upon him from all sides, an aggressive greeting he met head on with open arms. “Hello my kittens,” he said, chortling from underneath a mountain of fur as if he couldn’t support the weight of a dozen wildcats, much less one. “Yes, I missed you too. I missed you so much.”

Anyone unfamiliar with the wildcats might think this a long-awaited reunion after a lengthy separation, but they went through this process at least twice daily. Still, Song found it heartwarming to watch as Rain showered Aurie and Sarankho with kisses before giving Rakky’s nose a big boop, to which the tiger responded by flopping over onto his back much like Jimjam had for Jini. This earned Rakky an enthusiastic belly rub which had him chuffing in pure contentment, a sight Song never would have expected to see from the fearsome, man-eating predator, but had become commonplace in the years since Rain had stolen him away from the Abbot on the grounds of ‘negligence’. As if leaving an apex predator to roam wild and free was negligence, but Rakky seemed happier without the mischievous Kukku to fixate on, to say nothing of how Kharuul kept the tiger in check.

Song could hardly blame Rakky for kowtowing before the fearsome Spiritual Roosequin, especially not when he had a veritable horde of chittering quins to back him.

“I can never get over these big ol’ murder mitts,” Rain exclaimed, seated on the ground with Rakky’s head in his lap and paw in hand. “Just look at the size of this thing.” They were impressively large, the hind pad almost as big as her whole hand, to say nothing of his toe beans, but Song merely smiled as she took a seat beside Rain. Craning his neck to watch her move, Rakky gave her a long, slow blink, which was his way of showing love and trust. In response, Song closed her eyes and leaned forward to press her forehead to his nose, and only opened her eyes again when she was upright. Settling in with a long and contented sigh, Rakky laid still as Aurie and Sarankho curled up beside him while Rain and Song stroked his chest and chin respectively. They sat in silence for long minutes to enjoy the company before she felt relaxed enough to rest her head on his shoulder, but he continued petting Rakky and the wildcats as if nothing had changed.

There was a time when this was part of the rules she’d laid out with regards to their courtship some seven years ago, rules he continued to abide by even two years after their marriage. There were a whole slew of them to remember, many of which she’d thrown in solely to dissuade him from pursuing her romantically, but his unyielding persistence and genuine affection had won her in the end. Still, some rules were necessary, and chief among them was the precedent that she always be the one to initiate any affectionate actions. A rule he found difficult to adhere to, yet still did all the same, keeping his hands busy by petting Rakky when he would much rather slip his arm around Song’s waist. Theirs was a difficult relationship, but one well worth it in her eyes as she fell into a relaxed trance and watched her husband play with their cats.

Her husband. The word still felt strange in her mind, much less when spoken out loud, but despite only having been married for two years, she recognized the ring of truth in the title, and even took comfort from it. Lifting her head to turn towards him, she kissed his cheek and nuzzled him gently while using her Aura to convey her love, and he responded in kind. Rather than lean in and kiss her, he turned to face her instead, and waited for her lips to meet his. The physical sensation was delightful as always, but even more intoxicating was how their Auras and emotions intermingled around them. While he kept his hands to himself, his passion and devotion wrapped around her like the warmth of a blazing fire on a cold winter’s day, both inviting and intimidating at the same time. When she broke off the kiss, she could still sense his hunger in his Aura and his gaze, but she denied him with hers with the addendum of a promise.

Not here, not now. Later, when they were home together in the safety and comfort of their bed.

An answer he accepted without complaint as he transitioned to asking about her day, but neither one of them cared much for idle conversation. They simply enjoyed each other’s company, the same way Rakky enjoyed spending time with the wildcats, solitary creatures who’d found comfort in being solitary around each other. Most people didn’t understand their relationship, and truth be told, Song didn’t entirely understand it either, but she loved him and he loved her, which was all she needed to know, so she settled in against his shoulder and listened as he idly narrated his day spent following in the wake of Buddy’s antics.

“He was here earlier, covered from head to toe in dirt,” Song said, in response to Rain’s long and lengthy prelude which culminated in asking if she’d seen Buddy. “He had the Spiritual Heart he stole from sister Mila, but no basket. Likely because he ate it all, the little glutton.” They shared a look between them that was halfway between resigned and amused, both silently hoping the silly dog regurgitated the leaves before retiring for the night, so that he might spare them the effort of cleaning his vomit from the carpets yet again. “We played tug of war for a time, and then he left to bury it.”

“Makes sense,” Rain replied. “Seems he’s finally found a chew toy he can’t destroy so easily, so I’ll see if I can talk Mila into giving it up.” Heaving a sigh, he added, “Guess I should hit up his favourite digging grounds and hope I get lucky. It’ll be easier to convince her if we show everyone how much he loves it. Bye Princess. Bye Li-Li.” He shared a small smile in farewell, and she returned one in kind, and they sat there for a few minutes more just lost in each others eyes. This was what the others didn’t understand, that even though she could go days without exchanging a word with Rain, they shared much more than mere words in these little moments of silence.

After carefully extricated himself from under Rakky’s head, Rain brushed the fur and dirt off of his pants before turning to leave, only to turn back and ask, “You have any idea why he showed up covered in dirt? When he left Mila’s, he was clean as a whistle, and he never buries his food. Only digging he does when it comes to food is – ”

Rain’s words broke off as Song arrived at the same conclusion, but her first instinct was to deny it. “He would not do such a thing,” she declared, even as she stood up and headed deeper into the bamboo grove to verify. “He knows better.” The tiger and wildcats followed close on her heels, while Princess snored fitfully in her arms, having grown lazy in her years of idle indulgence and all the happier for it. Rain kept pace with her, though he could easily overtake them and arrive in the blink of an eye, save for the fact that he was fearful of what they might find.

And right to be, for as the dim bamboo forest gave way to open fields under sunny skies, they were greeted by a scene of utter chaos and devastation unlike anything they’d ever seen. Large furrows had been dug throughout the Spiritual Garden, leaving empty scars where Spiritual Plants once thrived. The destruction had been carried out without rhyme or reason, the uprooted plants seemingly picked at random given how most were inedible and unenticing to Buddy’s palate. “He is a good dog,” Song stated, in contrast to the evidence before her. “He knows how important this garden is and never sneaks in to steal from it.”

“He’s never stolen a basket of berries from Tali either,” Rain said, sounding just as devastated as she. “Oh Buddy… What have you done?” After a long pause to let it all sink in, his voice took on a woeful tone as he added, “Taddy is going to be soooo upset.”

Which, in spite of the circumstances, warmed Song’s heart. There he stood, Falling Rain, the peerless and unmatched Savage Divinity, and yet even after ten years of standing at the pinnacle of strength, he was still the same man he’d always been, a kind and compassionate fool who always put others ahead of himself. That, more than anything was why she’d fallen in love with him. Here was a man who could have anything he wanted, take anything his heart desired and have more delivered to his feet, yet still he restrained himself for so many years just to win her affection, and never once pushed her for anything she was not ready to give. How could she not love him after all that? Reaching out to stroke his cheek and offer some comfort, Song met his amber eyes and smiled. There was no need to speak, but he knew her thoughts as well as she, if not better.

For he was her husband, and she his wife, and theirs a bond which transcended words.

“Love you,” he whispered, and though the words need not be said, Song warmed to hear them all the same.

“I love you too,” she replied, punctuating the statement with a kiss before he set off to find his hound and shelter him from the Medical Saint’s wrath. Turning to the upturned garden once more, Song sighed as she set Princess aside and Sent word to Hua Lie for help. The Ancestral Rabbit had been charged with keeping the garden safe and would not want her husband to return home to this mess, so she also had a vested interest in restoring order to this chaos before them.

Love made fools of them all it was said, but it was a foolishness Song cherished even as she rolled up her sleeves and set to work cleaning up Buddy’s latest and greatest mess.
