With a flick of her tail, she Guided the hiltless blade hurtling out from between her legs and through her opponent’s knee. He stumbled as the Honed and Amplified weapon punched through skin, muscle, and bone before exiting out the back, but the small size of the incision allowed him to recover almost immediately as he stopped the bleeding and set to Healing with Panacea. It was almost as afterthought, as the lion’s share of his attention was fixed on Song as she resumed her offensive to rain a series of blows upon him. Sacrificing power and precision for speed once more, she knew she had little chance of breaking through his defense, but she wasn’t counting on her sabre or sheath to win the day. No, her third and most unimposing Spiritual Weapon was the key to victory, which was why she devoted most of her attention to it, rather than her offensive. Her tail curled and made a come-hither gesture, and the flying dagger, as Rain titled it, arrested its flight to flip end over end and point at her foe once more. A second, slower flick of her tail Guided the flying dagger down to rest on her opponent’s shoulder and threaten his exposed neck. The unexpected chill of steel caused him to stop in place, his hands and feet falling still as he turned his green-eyed gaze upon the tiny blade with a pursed lipped scowl, one she recognized as twin to her own.

“When did you bind a third Spiritual Weapon?” Kyung asked, sounding almost petulant as he lowered his sabre and reluctantly accepted his first defeat at her hands.

One of many to come, Song hoped, though she would’ve been happier if she’d secured victory through strength and skill rather than trickery and deceit. “More than a year ago,” she replied, sheathing her sabre and re-clipping her sheath to her belt before reaching out to retrieve her flying dagger. While capable of moving the weapon with Chi alone, her finer control was still lacking, and she had no desire to see her brother bleed any more than necessary. Giving the flying dagger a tiny flourish to send it twirling around her fingers like a pen, she added, “This was my first time using it in a spar.”

“An effective weapon when used from ambush,” he grumbled, wiping his much larger sabre with a cloth so as to have an excuse to avoid eye contact, though she felt his efforts would be better spent wiping the blood from his knee before it all soaked into his pants. “Take care to not rely on it too often. It can prove to be a powerful, life-saving move, but overuse could render you ineffective against an otherwise equally matched foe who is prepared for it.”

Song knew as much, having heard the same from Mama, Papa, Rain, and several others, but she nodded and accepted her older brother’s concern all the same. “Understood.”

“Weaklings, the both of you.” Though whispered, the disgruntled statement cut Song and her brother deeply as they turned to face the Speaker. A decade of good food and comfortable living had yet to repair the damage done over centuries of captivity, yet the gaunt woman’s gaze still striking to behold as she sat with knees raised, back hunched, and head tucked. “Scared prey thinking a fang or horn enough to keep them safe.” There was a ferocity in her piercing emerald eyes which struck a chord in Song, a mixture of anger, fear, and melancholy hidden deep within the woman’s feral gaze. This was the Ancestral Wildcat, Jini by name and their mother by blood, though she cared little for any of her children, if at all. Hardly surprising considering the circumstances of their births, as Jini had spent her entire life in captivity being treated as little more than a plaything and brood mare. Captured by a wealthy Central Family shortly after her Ascension to an Ancestral Beast, they crippled her physically and Spiritually using a process called acupuncture, wherein they jabbed her with silver needles coated in various toxins and left them embedded within her body and for months at a time. To hear her tell it, the needles pressed on her nerves at all times and left her in a muted haze of pain and torment, on top of robbing her of all strength until even sitting upright seemed a formidable task, much less standing up on two feet to walk about. Every half year, they’d use pliers to extract the old needles and insert new ones in different areas, supposedly so that the old wounds would have time to heal. This meant she had precious little time to get used to the pain before being assailed by a new set of torments and agonies, a cycle she endured for some two-hundred and fifty some odd years before Rain, Teacher Du, Madam Gam, and a number of other powerful political parties were able to secure Jini’s freedom.

A most horrific tale indeed, one Song struggled to even read about, but it was merely one of many to be found. Jini wasn’t the only Ancestral Beast freed from such captivity, and most bore scars from similar such stories. A practice Rain suspected started with the Eternal Emperor, to ensure free Divinities understood the price of disobedience and also empower certain families or factions in the outer provinces so that their continued existence would impart stability upon the region. It made sense in retrospect, seeing how the Society of Heaven and Earth had fifteen such prisoners, and they’d operated in one form or another for thousands of years in the Northern Province. This was merely one such faction of course, and there were hundreds scattered across the Outer Provinces, many of whom were loathe to give up their prisoners, but Rain had sworn to personally destroy any faction found in defiance of the Emperor’s Decree, one which outlawed the capture and torture of any and all Divinities.

More importantly, the Savage Divinity acted swiftly and decisively the moment he received word of an enslaved Ancestral Beast, and few dared to face the wrath of the sole True Human Divinity in existence.

As for the freed captives, the vast majority had come here to the Saint’s Tribulation Mountains to recover from their ordeals, though few had any choice about it. Leaving traumatized Ancestral Beasts to their own devices was a recipe for disaster, so while Jini and the others like her were not technically free to come and go as they pleased, they were not treated as prisoners, but patients. Rain even discovered a method to suppress their Spiritual strength without pain, leaving them physically capable of tearing steel with their bare hands, but unable to destroy entire cities in a fit of pique. He kept the specifics vague for good reason, as he didn’t want it used against his people, but suffice it to say that this added yet another reason as to why the Emperor, Supreme Families, and various factions of the Outer Provinces all kowtowed to his demands.

Sitting beside Jini on the grass and looking all too captivating without her veil, Auntie Hua Lie reached out to stroke the Ancestral Wildcat’s ears. “Do you remember what we spoke of regarding unkind thoughts?” Jini’s ears flicked side to side in a display of joy that didn’t reach her face, but she said nothing, and a few seconds later, Auntie Hua Lie continued, “Even if true, they need not be shared.”

Jini said nothing in response, only looked away. Not in shame or disgrace, as she was simply breaking eye contact to end the conversation, but Kyung would have none of it. “True though it might be,” he began, speaking without making eye contact which Jini would see as a challenge, “My sister and I are committed to our pursuit of the Peak. There will come a day when our Paths bring us to such heights where you will no longer consider us weak.” That was all he said, and he made no promises of what would come next, but Song saw Jini raise her head ever so slightly in what she believed was hope. Kyung was a good son, and as the man who set all this in motion with a request to Teacher Du, he knew what Jini needed was hope more than anything. Though her instincts and experiences warned against familial connection, it seemed she still yearned for one all the same, which was promising to say the least.

Because even though Mama often said that where there is life, there is hope, Song knew the reverse was also true. Without hope, there is no life, not one worth living at least, and she hoped to one day welcome Jini into her growing family.

Utterly oblivious to the somber mood, Jimjam hopped down from his perch within the bamboo grove and butted his head against Jini’s before letting loose with a plaintive and dispirited mewl. Flopping over to show his belly, he wiggled about in the grass, and though no smile graced her lips, Jini set to rubbing the wildcat’s chest to elicit a happy rumbling growl. The animals were a core tenet of what Rain called the rehabilitation process, because he believed having a pet to love and be loved by was all the healing one could need. Seeing Aurie and Sarankho join their brother in ardent demand of affection, Song couldn’t agree more, though she also harbored some grievance over having to share the wildcats’ affections. It couldn’t be helped, as Rain had far too many pets, and animals were a practical sort. If they couldn’t secure enough attention from one person, they would happily move on to the next, and as the wildcats set to rubbing shoulders with Jini while their chests rumbled in delight, Song couldn’t blame them for it.

As if on cue, Princess ambled over with a hearty grunt and stood up on her hind legs to paw at Song’s leg, so she picked up the weasel-bear to cradle close while Auntie Hua Lie offered them a few words of guidance regarding their spar. Once dismissed, they strode off the sparring grounds together while Huushal and Wu Gam took their place and began trading blows without preamble. As the two titans of muscle and fury went head-to-head, Sister Da’in leaned in to elbow Song gently. “A clever adaptation, linking your tiny sword’s flight to the movements of your tail. I’ve still yet to master controlling my sword without waving my hands about, but with a tail, you could set up some highly effective combinations, especially if you were to mix feints in.”

Which was the idea, and Song nodded as she discussed her plans with the formidable Sword Queen of Central. Her marriage had done nothing to slow her progress, and she was poised to become the premier Peak Expert in existence once the oldest current generation retired. Assuming they ever would. Following the death of the Eternal Emperor, Shuai Jiao stepped down to join the Penitent Brotherhood as an initiate, but the various Peak Experts of the Empire had redoubled their efforts to progress after seeing the heights humanity could reach. Their endeavours were not without success, with many newly Ascended Human Divinities attributing their success to Rain’s personal Insights regarding the Path, which he shared freely in book form written by Bo Shui. The man had become something of a Martial Scholar, and even now was scribbling notes as he watched the spar unfolding before them. There was a time when he was considered one of the weakest talents in his generation, but now stood fourth among the younger generation gathered here today, after Song, Da’in, and Gerel.

And Rain of course, but he didn’t count, no more than Aunty Hua Lie.

A muffled woof caught her attention a split second before a furry mass impacted against her calf, and she looked down to see Buddy looking mighty pleased as he held a thorny vine between his clenched teeth and rubbed dirt all over her trousers. The silly little hound was covered in it, from the top of his head to the tips of his paws, but Song merely smiled and leaned over to pet his flanks. Looking up with a little doggie grin, he threw his head side to side in silent invitation to play, so she grabbed a hold of the vine and pulled. Gently, because even though Buddy was a Divine Beast, his physical abilities were abysmal the vast majority of the time. Though capable of shattering steel with a single bite, Buddy seemed content to go about his days as a regular hound, one no stronger or faster than necessary. Case in point, Song was certain Buddy could drag her clear across the field with little effort if he so desired to, but instead, he hunkered down and pulled as if she weighed more than a mountain. His big brown eyes opened wide as he growled in fake aggression, his paws slipping on the grass he tugged and jerked until Song ‘lost’ her grip on the vine. He then proceeded to fling his head from side to side as if he were killing a snake, though she suspected Buddy had never killed anything in this life, not even a fly. Once satisfied that his ‘foe’ was ‘subdued’, the hound trotted back over to begin the game anew, a cycle which continued for a good fifteen minutes before Buddy lost interest and turned to leave.

But not before glancing back to make sure Song followed him away, the strange, coiled stick still clenched between his teeth and his eyes bright and hopeful as ever.

