“I don’t think I’ve ever heard of the Stalkers before,” Erick said.

“Then we’re glad that we can be your introduction to our organization, Archmage Flatt,” said Ruddy, the redscale.

“We try to keep out of everyone’s business,” said Favia, the orangescale. “We have one goal, and one goal only: to make the world safe for non-dragons. This line helps us to operate the world over, and sometimes on both sides of various conflicts, for no one likes dragons.”

“Very true!” Ruddy said.

“We don’t get involved unless there are dragons or a dragon fight,” Favia said. “We hardly ever get involved in the affairs of Songli, either, for around here, there’s a peculiar red dragon that shows up whenever there’s a draconic incident. Red is rather dominant and relatively decent, for a dragon, but for whatever reason, this green dragon’s reveal did not demand a visit from her.”

Erick asked Ruddy, “Does the Headmaster send you out to find targets for him to eat?”

Ruddy said, “Not at all. The Stalkers are an independent organization that has offices all over the world. One of those offices is at Oceanside; I am here because of the green dragon, because of his unusual presentation. We will not work with dragons of any sort, and that includes Kirginatharp. All dragons should die.”

Erick was briefly taken aback. Ruddy had used the Headmaster’s real name. To openly speak of the Second to Rozeta was a clear breach of propriety, as understood by everyone else on Veird. But apparently the ire of Dragon Stalkers went rather deep. Deep enough to break cultural norms.

Favia spoke up, “Dragons get their claws in everything. If it were up to them, they’d rule the world. All dragons must die.” She added, “Though, with Rozeta as Goddess of the Script and Kirginatharp positioned as next in line… That statement is a bit too simplistic for real world applications. It is still mostly true, though.”

Erick understood something more, in that moment.

The first half of the meeting between Devouring Nightmare and the Dragon Stalkers had been about stuff which Erick was not privy to and that he didn’t need to know; probably defensive stuff, probably understanding of the attack. With Erick here, the agenda had gone simpler. Hangzi would probably ask for something specific. They would likely give him something in return. There would be a bargaining.

And from the Stalker’s shared enthusiasm, Ruddy and Favia wanted to make a good impression of their organization to Erick. They probably had something they wanted, too.

That last ship had sailed, though.

Erick tried not to let his simmering anger show. Poi was doing a much better job at this than he was. The only consolation Erick had was that Ruddy and Favia were in their thirties, and probably had nothing to do with the murder of Poi’s mother or sister.

Ruddy said, “There are several dragons across the world that operate semi-openly. We have—”

Elder Varo got them back on track. “Let us discuss the green serpent. It was overlarge and had Illusion-based magics. I doubt it was what it appeared to be, at all.”

Ruddy’s mouth slammed shut; he was angry he had been interrupted, but he controlled himself well.

Favia nodded, saying, “Elder Varo is correct that illusions were widely employed in this latest attack.” She turned to Erick. “Archmage Flatt. You got the best view of the creature. What did it look like to you?”

Erick decided to be helpful, for at least a little while. He rattled off, “Three to four times the size of a wyrm. To Blood, Mana, Soul, True, and heat Sight spells, it all appeared real. Green scales. Ridgeline back. No identifiable markings as far as I know. Its attack appeared real. It was obviously not. Illusion Breath is what I heard the attack called.” On a whim, Erick held up his hand and began conjuring a lightward, saying, “It looked like this.”

Light coalesced above the meeting table. The green dragon appeared out of conjured clouds at a fraction of its true scale, with as much detail as Erick could carve into the conjuring.

The Stalkers’ eyes went wide as they took in the spellwork, perhaps because it was a perfect recollection, or perhaps because some switch had been flipped and they now knew the target. Erick suspected it was the second one. Elder Varo had a calmer reaction; one of inspection and contemplation. Or perhaps he was only pretending to know what he was looking at.

Erick might have been the only one to notice that Hangzi had gone fractionally paler.

Hangzi had survived the dragon’s Illusion Breath, but random chance put the disintegrating-like effects of the dragon’s attack straight through the room Hangzi had been in, at that time. Spots of disintegrating Illusion had chopped off one of his arms and half a foot, and sent him tumbling down to the floor below. Hangzi was better now, obviously, but he was one among many who could have died. Everyone had been very, very lucky in the attack.

Erick hadn’t experimented much with Illusion, but the little Illusion magics he had done informed him that Illusion was like that; it carved and harmed randomly. It seemed to him, though, that the Illusion Breath had carved and harmed a bit too precisely. No one who could have died from being hit, had been hit. And no one had died.

Ruddy said, “It’s the Mirage Dragon. It has to be.” He smiled, showing fangs.

“Certain factors point that way.” Favia said, “But who is she mimicking? Someone she wants retribution against, obviously.”

They knew the target.

Hangzi spoke up, “You postulated it was the Green Fire.”

“Oh, yes. But it’s not. As I said, there was too much mana used up top for a proper [Witness], but I trust that Archmage Flatt’s lightsculpture is perfect, for he has a history of being able to do this, and because of that trust, I can infer a few things about what we are seeing. Look to the horns. You can tell it’s her based on the way her horns have those floating bits around them. All dragon horns are different, and based upon elemental powers. Even if she mimics whoever this green dragon is, her horns give her away as Elemental Illusion, for dragons are highly egotistical and they would be fine with laymen not knowing who they are, but they want everyone else to know who they are.” Ruddy said, “This is the Mirage Dragon, for sure, your grace.”

Elder Varo instantly, and slightly imperiously, said, “That is a Glaquin term. We do not use it here.”

“Apologies,” Ruddy said, not meaning it at all.

Erick could almost respect Ruddy’s dismissal of authority, if only he was from a different organization.

Varo almost said something else to the red dragonkin, but Hangzi silenced his man’s rejoinder with the casual flip of a hand.

Ruddy didn’t care. Ruddy continued, “The Mirage Dragon. She —we think it's a she— she goes around the world hiring herself out for assassinations and theft. She operates like a Shade op—” With a sudden joy on his face, he continued, “Like how the Shades used to operate.” He continued, “She stirs up trouble. She reveals other dragons in the area. When those other dragons move out into the open, and people like we Stalkers or other organizations come in to kill the beast, the Mirage Dragon tries to come in at the last moment and kill the revealed dragon. She rarely succeeds. She’s been active for the last thousand years, and though we have killed her four times over, it never takes. This right here, though? This massive dragon that uses Illusion Breath? It’s not confirmed, obviously, but it is as close to confirmation as we can get. I believe this is the Mirage Dragon. This recent action fits her style, perfectly.”

Erick frowned. Ruddy was glossing over a lot of facts in his excitement to be around Erick; truths about how the Mirage Dragon interacted with other dragons, and truths about her activities, to name a few.

Erick said, “But you get a Kill Notification.”

“Yes, we do!” Ruddy said, “The four times the Stalkers have managed to kill the Mirage Dragon, we have gotten Notifications. We’re not sure how she does it. Each kill had the Mirage Dragon at a different level, too. Sometimes higher. Sometimes lower. We think she is actually a lich, and—”

Favia interrupted, “That is an unsubstantiated rumor. A theory, and nothing more. It could be that she has some control over the Script itself, and is able to create fake Kill Notifications.”

Erick almost scoffed, but then he felt a supreme weight as the implications of ‘control over the Script’ sunk into his mind. Ah. This was more Melemizargo shit, wasn’t it?

… Or maybe it was something else?

Erick hoped it was something else.

Hangzi probably hoped it was something else, too, based on the look on his face.

“I can see this has caused some distress, but this does not necessarily mean the Darkness is involved.” Favia said, “I do not wish to accidentally insult anyone, so if you will allow, I will speak from the beginning.”

Hangzi answered for the non-Stalkers in the room, saying, “Proceed.”

“Wizardry is the easiest answer as to how something is shifted in the Script, but ‘A Wizard did it’ offers nothing substantive. This is an answer that is not an answer.

“So, in order to grant a true answer, I will start from the beginning.

“Dragons are elemental beasts. This is widely known, but the depths of that truth are often never fully grasped. When we Stalkers say ‘Dragons are Elemental beasts’, we mean that they are their Element, wholly and fervently. A Fire dragon might rage like an inferno or warm a room like a hearth. But they are never aloof and cold. A Shadow dragon might hide and sneak, but they are never open and honest with anyone. To know a dragon’s primary Element is to know the dragon.

“Individual personalities create variation on themes, cultures play a large part in personality, and then there’s the business with the Curse, but the primary Element is what forms the basis of the dragon.”

Ruddy almost spoke up when Favia mentioned ‘Curse’, but he refrained.

Favia continued, “In this case, the Mirage Dragon is Elemental Illusion. She is never what she appears to be. If she is outwardly happy, she is sad, or mad, or raging. If she is raging, she is perhaps actually happy. There are, of course, instances where everything is as it appears to be, but only when an outside observer believes that they are seeing something that is not the truth. This makes understanding and fighting and defending from her little more than a [Force Shrapnel] shot. This is especially true because the Mirage Dragon is exceedingly skilled in her Element of Illusion.

“It is in this exceptional skill over Illusion where we begin to see small Wizardries.

“But I do stress that they are small Wizardries.

“Things that the Script specifically disallows, such as the creation of a Kill Notification that isn’t an illusion; one that the receiver can pull in and out of their history to see again and again, to show others what they have killed. Blue boxes for spellwork that she doesn’t have. Status fakery. Sin Seeker avoidance. The ability to use spells even when she has no mana.” Favia said, “As far as we know, she cannot do true Wizardry. She cannot instantly empty someone of their mana. She cannot [Strike] a warrior as though they have no Health. She cannot steal the spells someone else has, thus depriving that other person of their magic. She cannot cast faster than the Script Second, except in the cases of manual spellcasting.”

Favia was lying.

Not about everything; not about Wizardry.

But she was lying about enough that Erick could tell. Specifically, about the ability of skilled dragons to cast Wizardry. After all, the dragons of the Green Labyrinth wanted Wizards. If they already had Wizard dragons, then why would they want more? Erick believed this much from Tenebrae much more than he believed the second half of whatever Favia was saying. But should he call her out?

Yes.

“If every single skilled dragon was a Wizard then this world would be dead a million times over.” Erick said, “There is a simpler explanation for all of these small Wizardries. It is much more likely that there is a family of Illusion dragons, and that they operate all across the world however they are wont.”

Hangzi sat up a bit straighter; his regal mien turning fractionally angrier as he looked to Favia.

Favia defended herself well, turning slightly indignant but remaining professional. “I do not feel that I have lied. The small Wizardries of dragons are well known to us, but not to much of the outside world, and I know our organization has not contacted you before now. Do you have reason to feel that our long history of combating dragons is somehow based on lies?”

Ah.

He had walked right into an interrogation, hadn’t he.

Somehow, Erick did not expect this to be an interrogation of his own history.

Erick said, “I have reasons to believe what I believe. The Dragon Curse affects anyone three generations removed from the primary, meaning that there is room for family.”

Ruddy spoke up, “Dragons do not have families, actually! This is one of the reasons that they attempt to hide among the mortal races, and why they sometimes grow up not even knowing that they are dragons until they or their wife pops out a dragonkin baby.”

Erick frowned, but he listened.

