So Erick flew an Ophiel into the dragon’s mouth, into the gathering spell, armed with a sunform and [Animadversion]. Ophiel flew right into the spellwork, not even triggering a shift in the light of what Erick now saw was an illusion of impeccable quality.

Erick came back to himself, saying, “The dragon is an illusion diversion. Look for the true attack.”

It was a very well made illusion. Ophiel was already loaded with Sight spells, and Erick still didn’t notice the dragon was fake. Now that he had interacted with the spell, though…

The dragon charging its attack still seemed real.

Poi was already talking to a dozen people on the other end of thought tendrils. Teressa stood a step into the dining room, wearing full armor and with her eyes closed in concentration. Jane stood in the doorway wearing her own conjured armor, ready for anything.

A few defensive spells went up around the clan mountain, but nothing large enough. There was no City Shield here, for some bizarre reason. Why wasn’t there a city shield? The dragon might be fake, but something was going down.

“What do you see?” Erick asked Teressa.

Teressa said, “Something is still comin… No?” She frowned, and opened her eyes. “Something was coming. I saw it! I know I did. It was a massive shadow in the manasphere, occluding all forward paths. Explosions? No. It wasn’t. You have to believe me!” Her voice was strained, with Teressa trying to keep it as level as possible.

“Of course I believe you,” Erick said, wondering why she sounded half-desperate. “This is likely a case of counter-Prognostication. Redarrow’s notes said—”

The dragon released its spell and a beam of power the width of Erick’s house lanced down through three intervening Ophiels, each with their own active [Animadversion]s, each poised to reflect whatever came their way.

The dragon’s spell went through the Ophiels without doing anything at all.

Then the illusionary magic struck against Erick’s [Prismatic Lullaby], and Erick felt, as much as saw, a terribleness turn real. The dragon wasn’t an illusion. It was Illusion. Elemental Illusion.

Light and shadow spilled in every direction, fountaining up and out of Erick’s [Prismatic Lullaby], but also punching through that barrier and reaching the [Domain of Light] underneath. Erick felt the attack against his Domain like someone was stabbing into his heart.

But he was prepared for it. The small pressures of the other small Domains of High Clan Devouring Nightmare were like tiny tests. This was the true exam.

Erick pushed back with the light that covered the clan mountain, straining against the power of the dragon’s Illusionary beam. Light and shadows burrowed into his power like an unceasing drill, like splattering acid. Like fakery made real.

Erick held.

The beam stopped after ten full seconds.

As the attack ended, the dragon vanished into the clouds like fading imagination.

It was then that Erick saw that he had not fully defended the mountain.

It was as though veils of obfuscation were lifted from every surface of every building, revealing exposed rooms and missing walls and blood and harm. The dragon’s Illusion Magic had not punched far into Erick’s Domain, but of the twenty one pagodas that reached up from the top of the white plateau, every single one had lost something. Some upper floors were simply gone. The lower floors were wholly intact, though. Most of the damage had been done to that which was close to the edge of Erick’s power.

It was as though droplets of Illusion had turned to acid across much of the rest of the mountain, eating away at gold decor and floors and gardens and—

Erick said, “Teressa. Tell me if you see anything else. I’m going to help people.”

He was already reestablishing his Domain of Light, and recasting the Lullaby.

Erick went into emergency healing and helping mode. The entire rest of the hornet’s nest that was Devouring Nightmare responded almost as fast. Before he knew what was happening, Poi stepped into Erick’s mind and helped him to coordinate with everyone else.

After five minutes, nothing else happened.

After ten, Devouring Nightmare was prepared for war, with defensive spells blossoming all across the mountain. A few nearby mountains had responded in kind.

After thirty minutes of nothing, people started to relax.

An hour later, with the mountain looking like a cake of various colored icing and gold decorations, everyone who needed to be healed had been healed. Casualties were counted.

Zero deaths.

Erick had to hear that a second time to believe it.

Zero deaths.

A good hundred and twenty close calls, but no deaths. Even the old ladies who watched Erick make magic had been perfectly fine, even though they spent a lot of their time on that porch, watching the world. They had been exposed to the dragon’s breath, which was what everyone was calling the attack, but they knew what it meant when Erick’s spells spread across the mountain. Everyone got to ground as fast as they could, as soon as they saw the air fill with power.

Most people were gracious and polite enough to thank him for his warning. Not a single person told him off for casting such large scale magics across everyone around him, though he could tell some of them wanted to yell at him. Erick had been prepared to apologize, and he had done so at first, but everyone was quick to tell him that he needn't worry about that. He was obviously working for the good of them all. What need have he to apologize to those below him, and especially because he saved their lives with his actions?

It rubbed Erick the wrong way.

- - - -

In a caravan to the north, a man sat in a yurt on a chair, waiting in the green darkness, waiting for good news, waiting for his contact to get back to him. Suddenly, the flap to the yurt opened, spilling light into the darkness, haloing a woman in sunlight and illuminating the green furniture of the room. The man smiled.

The woman came inside, and shut the flap. Shadows swarmed, but held back from the woman.

The woman was not smiling.

The man’s demeanor crashed. He tried to reevaluate the path forward, but this woman had been his primary source of hope. And now she came to him, reeking of problems added to his hoard.

The woman sat down, saying, “Failure.”

“How?”

“Some anti-magic shield and his own [Domain of Light].”

“You assured me that you could get through the [Domain of Light] and his reflections.”

“What we actually said was that we could carve through a [Domain of Light] unless there are other tricks. There were other tricks. New tricks, too. We did get through his reflective magic, though, so that was nice to know.” The woman said, “There are counters to every magic out there. This is what it means to live under the Script. You knew that assaulting Erick would only ever be a chanced affair.”

“Fine. New plan. Let’s—”

“No.”

“… No?”

“No. We’re done. You liquidated your bargain of trade for an assassination attempt on Flatt. You’re on your own, now. If you wish to continue, then we will be discussing a new bargain of trade.”

The man stared hate at the woman, calmly saying, “The bargain was for a favor owed. Any favor at all. The favor demanded was an assassination. Not an attempt. We agreed that you would do whatever it took.”

“According to what we’ve seen you’re not going to be alive much longer when Erick gets here, so what do we care about upholding bargains with you?”

“You care, because if we survive, then we will bring papers against you in Ar’Cosmos.”

“So it is in our interest to help Erick, and to have him kill you, then? We are glad that we used your illusion in the attack, then, just as we knew we would need to do.”

The man reeled in his anger. “… Do not give in to our Cursed nature. We shall work together, for that is what we have always done. You merely need to uphold your end of our bargain, as we have always done. As we will always do.”

“Times are changing. Everything is changing.” The woman said, “Even bargains of trade are no longer as inviolable as they once were, especially when it comes to World Trees and new worlds.”

“The Storm Woman has a World Tree, too.” The man said, “Even if that man walks the Path, he will never last the hundred years it would take for Yggdrasil to become real.”

The woman smiled. “And so, we come to an option; the creation of another bargain. One much more conducive to our needs. Both of our needs.”

“… We had thought we were of one mind, but then you failed to uphold your bargain and now you come at us with this new demand.” The man deadpanned, “What do you want?”

“We want the World Tree in mortal hands. It will be much easier to use this way. We know this. You know this. Let us not argue this point.” The woman stared at the man, her red eyes glinting in the light. “Instead, help us to understand your true problem. It is in the fact that Erick is coming this way, and you want him to not?” She needled, “Is there some true reason why you don’t want him coming here and clearing away the Hunters and the face stealers? He’s not even targeting our kind, though with how we enacted your bargain, that might change.”

“Why did you even do it that wa—! Unimportant.” The man frowned. “Flatt’s magic will eventually find us. He is culling the world of threats, and Kirginatharp already has him in his claws, and so, Flatt will come for us, sooner or later. Now that he is coming my way, his existence has become a problem we cannot overlook.” The man explained, “Our bargain was for a solution to Flatt’s longstanding, major threat against all of our kind. This is how we presented it when we requested the assassination. It was under these understandings that you agreed with our reasoning. What changed your mind?”

“We see we are talking across each other and not actually conversing.” The woman said, “Shift your stance to come at us directly, and honestly, or this conversation ends now. Why not clear out the rats and trash inhabiting your lands? Were 9 kills too close to home? Or was it the fervor with which those 9 were judged that made you uncomfortable?”

“This conversation is over unless you can see that you have wronged us, and that you have failed in the enactment of our bargain.” He spat, “Shift your own stance, and talk plainly.”

The woman laughed. “We will talk plainly for you, and only you. Erick needs to walk the Path, and then he needs to be hidden from the world for a hundred years. Defended, ideally. Sequestered, less ideally. If you want to talk about actual solutions then bring the man to Ar’Cosmos of his own volition, and let us work at single purposes upon him. In the worst possible case, we can lock him into a time-shift, and ensure that he survives long enough to ensure Yggdrasil becomes what he is meant to be.”

“This would be a fine solution if we were not having a problem with him right now.”

“Learn to live in a city, and your ‘problem’ will go away.”

The man huffed. “If you will not assist us in how our bargain demands, then get out of our home. We will be bringing charges against you in Ar’Cosmos.”

“If you survive!”

“Remove yourself.”

The woman got up and left, shoving wide the flap of the domicile, briefly illuminating the shadows, revealing green scales and claws that were not truly there. And then the flap shut again.

The man was alone in the green darkness of his yurt.

The man blinked. His green eyes turned brown, and the shadows turned black. The man shook his head and blinked his eyes, and got up. What time was it? Had he really had another daydream about the dragon he met when he was three? That hadn’t happened in a while. The man was having too many of those dreams lately. There was work to be done. He got up and went outside. He wasn’t highly ranked in his clan, but he was a warrior, and it was important he was there for the talks happening in the gatherings of Ooloraptoor.

The lake filled half the horizon. The parade grounds and the people filled the other half.

Companions called out to him. The man went to join the discussion.

They spoke of face stealers.

- - - -

In a comfortable but large meeting room in one of the main structures of First Devouring Nightmare Mountain, where the table could support ten people, and the opulence was just shy of ‘too much’, Erick sat down for a quick meeting with Patriarch Hangzi, and Elder Varo. Both of the clansmen seemed vaguely unhappy, about what, Erick had no idea, but they were easily able to hide that surface emotion behind training and experience.

And then there were the Dragon Stalkers in the room; a redscale and an orangescale.

The Dragon Stalkers was an organization of people that pursued and killed known dragons, for dragons went to war with each other whenever they recognized each other as dragons, and the collateral damage was always massive. No one liked dragons for that reason, and more besides. Dragons had a habit of hiding who they were through true uses of [Polymorph], though some went the face stealer route when it came to getting new Familiar Forms. Dragons were monsters. Dragons were the height of selfish evilness. Dragons ate their own in cannibalistic rages. Because of this, Dragon Stalkers had tendrils in every society the world over, but Erick had never heard of them before Poi had mentioned them the other day, and that was the first thing Erick mentioned.

Erick sat down as Elder Varo introduced him to the Stalkers.

And then Elder Varo introduced the Stalkers to him, “Mister Ruddy is an archivist on loan from Oceanside, but Miss Favia is an enforcer of a local branch of Stalkers. They are both here because of the unusual nature of the green serpent.”

