Dabbing her eyes with a handkerchief, Luo-Luo nodded without answering, too choked up to speak. Ever the sweetheart, Lin-Lin hugged her tight and whispered, “Don’t worry, ya? Hubby’s been really grumps lately, he isn’t always like this. Give him some time to warm up to you. Lin-Lin will help.”

Feigning a smile, Luo-Luo nodded and wiped her tears. Her spirits low and future grim, she followed her sister-wives in silence as they discussed matters with Falling Rain, but she didn’t care anymore. Let him have all her possessions, Luo-Luo would not be long for this world regardless. As soon as she had some privacy, Luo-Luo would write out her grievance and find some way to send it to a Justicar before taking her own life. Hanging perhaps, though it seemed a painful way to go. Cutting herself was out of the question, she lacked the stomach and nerves to end things so messily. The how wasn’t important, but what mattered was getting word of grievance to a Justicar. She only hoped it would reach the Emperor’s ears and he would care enough to demand justice for poor Luo-Luo, the Servant who once moved him with a song.

Oh, who was she kidding. If she had the courage to face death, Luo-Luo would have thrown caution to the wind and chosen a patron instead of wallowing away in obscurity for six long years...

Once they arrived at the beach, Falling Rain plopped down in the sand without so much as a blanket. Inwardly grumbling at having to dirty her best dress, Luo-Luo posed herself so not as to reveal too much to anyone who turned away from the stage. Curling up next to Lin-Lin, Luo-Luo yelped as the Divine Guardian settled in around them, her beak a mere arm’s length behind them and eyes blinking in lazy satisfaction. With a head larger than Luo-Luo was tall, the Divine Guardian was an awesome sight to behold, a powerful, fearsome creature which filled her with admiration and reverence.

Which begged the question: Why was the Divine Guardian so attached to Falling Rain?

For that matter, what about all the other animals? Bears, wildcats, rabbits, and even the birds settled around Falling Rain, seeking him out for delicious treats and soft pats. From the interaction with her Honour Guard, he didn’t seem all that charismatic, so why do animals love him so? It defied common sense. Truth be told, animal taming skills aside, Luo-Luo wasn’t impressed with the number one talent in the Empire. The title wasn’t even apt, there were probably dozens of young warriors under twenty five in the homeland who could defeat him and his ‘brilliance’ was undoubtedly untrue. It took three explanations from three different people for him to understand the significance of his rank as Imperial Consort and despite it all, he still seemed annoyed by the honour. Falling Rain might be a talented warrior, but a genius mind? Not so much.

In short, Falling Rain was a shameless, uncivilized bully, disdainful of Luo-Luo’s charms and all too happy to take everything she owned and leave her with nothing. He even denied her the right to play her part as dutiful concubine and forbade her from calling him Lord Husband. Was she really so horrible to be around? He wouldn’t even give her the chance to prove herself, his mind made up within seconds of their meeting. At least he still kept her around, even if only to keep up appearances. Otherwise, how was she, a beautiful, destitute, and unguarded woman, to survive on her own? She’d heard the stories of rebels sharpening their blades and Defiled hiding in the wilderness of the vast, untamed outer provinces, where a fate worse than death awaited her.

“Hi big sister.” Hugging a sheaf of documents to her chest, sweet Tali ran over and crashed down beside Luo-Luo, making herself comfortable as children were inclined to do. “Lin-Lin said you wanted to see Rainy’s book, ya? I like the pictures, but it’s not a good story book. Do you know any good stories?”

“Hmm, have you heard the story about the greedy little dog?” Launching into a silly children’s tale, Luo-Luo smiled and silently greeted Tali’s parents and brother as they sat down beside her. Carrying the adorable, chubby-cheeked Tate in her arms, Tali’s mother Alsantset was a stunning brunette half-tiger, her every movement brimming with grace and confidence. With a cursory nod, Alsantset acknowledged Luo-Luo’s existence while keeping careful watch on her precious daughter, ready to act should this stranger prove a threat. Further away, Rain’s older brother Charok patted the Guardian Turtle before offering Luo-Luo a polite smile. Aside from his amber eyes, he shared few similarities with Falling Rain, with a stronger jaw, more prominent cheekbones, and a taller frame. Perhaps Charok would be more receptive to the idea of a concubine and treat Luo-Luo better. He only had the one wife and it wouldn’t be strange for a successful younger brother to pass on a gift to his older brother...

To this end, Luo-Luo tested the waters once she finished telling her story, treating Alsantset with her warmest smile. “Your sweet Tali is such a delight, she has the most impeccable manners. You must be so proud of her.”

“Thank you,” Alsantset replied, baring her teeth in what seemed like an icy smile but felt more like an open threat. “But proper manners are not much to be proud of, or are you so surprised because she hails from a tribe of savages?”

Shrinking back from the fearsome tigress, Luo-Luo abandoned all thoughts of seducing Charok. At least Falling Rain’s wives were kind to her, even Mila who so obviously felt threatened by Luo-Luo’s existence. The temperamental redhead had immediately switched tack when she learned about the Privilege, a gentle, affectionate soul willing to share the man she loved so Luo-Luo wouldn’t take her own life. Well, Mila had nothing to worry about. Falling Rain clearly had no warm feelings for Luo-Luo, sitting there with Lin-Lin on one side and Mila on the other, both women nestled in his warm embrace. They looked so happy together it made Luo-Luo bristle with jealousy.

Well, Falling Rain would have no choice but to pretend to like her during the party in her honour. At least that was something to look forward to...

In an effort to distract herself, Luo-Luo opened Falling Rain’s book and marvelled at how smooth and thin the parchment was, making a mental note to beg her sister-wives to procure some for her use. Ignoring the hubbub around her, Luo-Luo immersed herself into reading as she so often did, scoffing at the author’s so called ‘mission statement’, declaring his goal of bringing about a new age of knowledge and prosperity to the Azure Empire. Such hubris, as if such a feat could be accomplished by one man.

Despite her skepticism, Luo-Luo cared nothing for all the warriors’ pageantry occurring on stage, so she continued her reading. With each page turned, her doubts lessened as she absorbed the knowledge contained within them, her mind working at full force as she came up with alternative uses for each technology. The most impressive thing she found was cast iron, a cheap, low-effort alternative to smelted iron. It was noted as brittle and inflexible, but so long as the tensile and compressive strength didn’t suffer, then it could easily be used in all manner of items which were deemed too uneconomical for regular iron, things like durable wagons with iron axles and wheels which could carry more goods in a more reliable manner, or reinforcing walls and doors to better defend against the Empire’s enemies, or even something as simple as cheaper farming implements or different musical instruments.

And that was just one item in the book. Written on these pages was so much potential and so many more uncompleted projects yet to complete. Using sand and high heat to create a transparent ceramic, or mixing water with volcanic ash to form a liquid stone which hardened after settling, producing a stable, non-flammable yet destructive explosive made from a yellow dye or an invisible, scentless gas which was lethal even to Martial Warriors, each one of these unfinished inventions seemed more impactful than the last. Although the writer had yet to work out the specifics, the possibilities left her trembling in both fear and excitement. Closing the book, she half-heartedly applauded along with the rest of her new people, mind reeling as she absorbed the information while absently smiling at Tali cheering for her ‘great-granma’ on stage.

Falling Rain put his name on the work and only his, though the book mentioned several nameless collaborators. Whoever the real brilliant minds behind this book was, Luo-Luo was determined to meet them, to speak with them, and gauge the calibre of their soul, for they were a group destined to bring about great change to the Azure Empire.

Or one destined to commit unspeakable horrors.

Chapter Meme
