“Quick!” Esmeralda urged before jumping back into the Shrine of Kanba.

The memory was about to collapse, so Zac dove headfirst into the darkness. His hands touched hard stone, and Zac briefly saw a resplendent tower before the world flickered. The next moment, Zac sat in a ruined square in front of scorched ruins. He could still make out the shared details. They’d actually found the Scripture Tower on their first outing.

Only the first few floors of the tower remained, and there was no sign of the higher floors. It looked like the buildings in this area had been specifically targeted during a battle. Had the floors holding the more valuable scriptures been stolen, or were they taken away before the building was hit?

Zac turned his gaze to the area just beyond, seeing a vast corruption zone. The damage was ancient, so the tower’s state was more likely related to the real attack on the Outer Courts than the invasion from the alternative timelines. However, the powerful attack that destroyed this area might have created the opening from which the Lost Plane’s Dead Dao could seep out.

“Interesting,” Esmeralda hummed.

“Did you figure out something?” Zac asked as he got to his feet.

“It became much easier to sense spatial connections when the memory was about to collapse,” she explained. “With some luck, we might find a bridge right to a treasury next time. For now, let’s see if there’s anything valuable left inside.”

Zac knew he shouldn’t hold out too much hope, but his heart still beat with anticipation as he squeezed through the massive gates. This close, he could feel an intense, resentful heat sealed in the depths of the materials, just like the lingering intent in the Centurion Lighthouse.

The tower itself was safe thanks to a set of arrays still working against all odds, and Zac felt hair-raising energies gather. His Outer Court Disciple token flickered before Zac could panic, and a brief message appeared in his mind.

“It works!” Zac exclaimed. “The tower said I can bring out one manual from the first floor.”

“Good luck with that,” Esmeralda laughed, and Zac swore with realization.

The interiors were free from resentment, but anything of value had been incinerated beyond salvation. Only ash and dust remained, kicking up swirls as Zac walked inside. Unwilling to give up just like that, Zac started focusing on corners and crevices that might have protected an Information Crystal from destruction.

Esmeralda went her own way to investigate the building, and it didn’t take long before a call made Zac come running. Esmeralda was sitting in the middle of a circle cleared of ash, observing the stone floor.

“There’s a hidden hatch!” Esmeralda exclaimed. “Whatever’s below might have survived the fire. Come, help me open it.”

Zac walked over, suddenly bursting into action when he reached Esmeralda’s side. [Death’s Duality] tore through the air as chains sought to tie Esmeralda down. Both missed their mark. Esmeralda moved like a ghost, nimbly avoiding both axe and fetters. She reappeared a few dozen meters away, looking at Zac with curiosity and malice.

Esmeralda’s mouth curved upward until it almost formed a circle on her head, and tumorous pustules appeared across her body. Adding to the corrupted aura she exuded, she looked more like a devil than a thief.

“How did you know?”

“You think I wouldn’t notice stepping into an Illusion?” Zac snorted as a wave of Miasma exploded from his body, ripping apart the hidden illusion.

“What! How dare you!” An infuriated shriek shook the room as the real Esmeralda flashed over with blinding speed. Only at the last moment did she stop herself from barreling into her doppelganger, instead hiding behind Zac. “Kill it! How dare she tarnish my beautiful features?!”

Zac knew it wasn’t the time to argue about the relativity of beauty. He had a Peak D-grade Qriz’Ul to kill.
