“I can’t do anything but row. I have trained my entire life before coming to this world to be the best. The best. Not just good, but the best there ever was. The best living. Every hour I spent training rather than having fun—that made me different. Then I came here and you could gain a Skill that put you ahead just by going to sleep. I hate it. No, I love it. It makes life wondrous. Unexpected. But I don’t know. If I were Level 40…what could I do?”
Noa was wiping at her face.
“What?”
Luan stared into the mirrors. Then up at the wake he was leaving.
“I don’t understand where my class is going. I am leveling fast as a [Rower], as an [Athlete], but what comes next? Something more than rowing? At Level 40, Noa…I will be the fastest man in the world.”
She opened her mouth to point out the obvious, but Luan shook his head.
“The fastest man, Noa. In this method, in this craft. There is no one else who has a scull like this. No one who understands rowing, who trains for it. At Level 40, with all the Skills, no one on Earth will ever catch me again. So what comes after that? Something that breaks the laws of physics? What…what’s the point of a Level 60 [Rower]? What Skills do they get?”
Noa had no clue. But Luan did. He panted as he kept going, pushing for another hour. One last day.
“It has to be something that matters. Something else. Something that allows me to use my great talent, my one talent, to make a difference. If all I can do is row…my class is meaningless on land.”
He was panting for air, as if oxygen could replace rest. Trying to draw energy from the firmament overhead. From need alone. In his world, that was an impossibility that every single athlete still reached for. Here?
“I was happy to be an athlete because that was the one thing I could do well. Back home. On Earth. Anything I could do within my powers—I would have. Given money, rowed for charity…but I’m not helpless here. I have superpowers. I have magic, and someone is rewarding my work with Skills. So why can I only row? My class must do more. When I reach Level 50, it has to do something else! I will accept nothing less. I promise you, Noa. I may not get there tonight. But some day, I will reach that level.”
The Fraerling looked up at him, and she saw the Courier’s confidence. I will get there. Noa just nodded. She turned to look behind them, which was ahead because they were on a scull.
“When you do, take me for another ride? As fast as you can, all the way to Izril? To Terandria? To the edge of the world?”
He smiled, never breaking his pace.
“It’s a promise, yeah?”
She nodded, and he blurred for a second. But Noa just wiped at her face one more time and pointed.
“Go faster, Luan.”
He rowed, trying to catch the future ahead of time. Luan couldn’t see anyone ahead of him. So he raced himself, as he always did. His shoulders quietly popped with each rotation.
One more person.
One more night.
After eight days of rowing, Luan Khumalo’s total level ups would consist of the following:
 
[Conditions Met: Expert Rower → Peerless Marathon Sculler Class.]
[Class Consolidation: Athlete removed.]
 
[Level 36 Peerless Marathon Sculler obtained!]
 
[Skill – Contest of Champions (Vigor) obtained!]
[Skill – Only my Challengers Shall Advance obtained!]
[Skill – Razorblade Oars obtained!]
[Skill – The Messenger’s Shortcut obtained!]
[Skill – Ship: Kayak Roll obtained!]
 
He hated that last one.
 
——
 
Eight days. Eight days, and now Fezimet of the Featherfolk Brigade probably saw perfectly how Peclir Im had tricked him.
He had lost more soldiers in the last eight days than all but the worst engagements of his life. And he suspected that if he charted how many casualties he’d inflicted…
Peclir Im didn’t care. That Human had blood colder than any Naga. Even Tasgiel, the cold serpents who slithered through the tundras of the north, weren’t as ruthless as him.
“You knew that they were a Fraerling city, Fezimet. Your losses will be counted as a contribution to the Jungle Tails forces. Remember—you are under their authority now.”
The Quexal was in no mood to think of his new status. He rested his head against the glass.
“I know those [Soldiers], Peclir Im. Those are my people dying like…like flies. Niers’ students are raiding me. And Gravetender’s Fist…”
…Had neither agreed nor disagreed, only backed the United Nations’ claim on their right to stay in Talenqual. Peclir frowned down at their headquarters from Fezimet’s tower.
“Have you not investigated them for working with the Fraerlings? If they are working with Paeth—remove them.”
The Quexal spun and roared.
“With what forces? I have delivered them all—all to the forest! We are surrounding this Paeth, and I would normally celebrate, because I could restore order—but I somehow do not think I will be able to do that. Somehow—I now think that even though we know which tree this city is in—it will not be an easy victory!”
The Human had the gall to blink at him.
“I never claimed it would be.”
The Quexal slithered over to his chair and sat down hard.
“No. No…now I realize you did not mention why that other company did not continue after this Oierdressql fell. Answer me truthfully, Peclir Im. How many soldiers died to raze Oierdressql?”
“I don’t have the exact numbers—”
“Answer me!”
That blank-faced Human just stood there, as if weighing the benefits of telling Fezimet. Perfectly unafraid.
“…I believe the Fraerlings fought amidst the ruins of their city, and their…Tallguard fought in force to cover their retreat. A fuller count of the entire campaign, including the final spells loosed that destroyed most of Oierdressql, created about seven thousand casualties.”
“Seven thousand—and they did not line up and die! What final spell?”
“It erased about a hundred feet of space. Naturally, this time precautions will be taken to prevent such spellcasting. I have secured twenty Lamia [Mages] to neutralize magic when we sense the buildup. Failing that, we will offer the Fraerlings enforced surrender. Your job is to crack the city open. Seize their libraries; even if the city is entirely destroyed, their spellbooks should do. Or capture enough survivors.”
The Quexal couldn’t believe Peclir.
“You tell me this…now. Now, you tell me that any forces surrounding this city might perish.”
“You will need to be quick. And do not inform any but your most trusted officers.”
Fezimet looked blankly at Peclir, then he rose and saluted the Human with all the irony he could muster.
“I serve Jungle Tails. I hope—from now on, you will never give me orders, Chamberlain Im. Because I believe you are no commander.”
The Human let him have that. Fezimet slithered down his tower and joined the last muster of [Soldiers].
His best officers were ready to finish the job. They were…upset was putting it mildly, but Fezimet knew his soldiers were ready to charge into the final death-zone and attack Paeth.
[Fireball] spells. Enchanted arrows—or just hitting it with rocks. Break the enchantments and then begin taking the city down with sledgehammers.
Fezimet slithered down the street to jeers and even someone nearly throwing some mud—until one of the Medusae paralyzed the fool. Talenqual was still covered in smoke. But this was it. This was it, and after this, he’d report to Jungle Tails and leave it all behind. Fezimet, the [Mercenary], still considered it worth the price he’d paid.
He stopped before he left the city. Someone had decided to bar his way.
“Move aside, Human!”
One of the Quexals with Fezimet snapped, but some of the others glanced around, suddenly…wary. Another looked ahead and gasped.
“Commander Fezimet. I see some of the enemy!”
Fezimet’s head snapped up, and he looked past the annoying yet familiar face of Daly Sullivan to someone behind him. He snarled, and his soldiers drew their blades.
Because there, standing behind Daly and one of his Bushrangers…was a Drake. A line of [Soldiers] in their stupid formations was shielding him; Kissilt stood well behind them. And there…
“Commander. Movement in the woods. I see Dullahan armor. Centaurs.”
Fezimet’s gaze shot over, and he saw more forces hiding there. But the real cincher was Quallet Marshhand.
He was just…watching. With about a thousand [Soldiers]. Fezimet slithered forwards.
“What is this? Treachery? Commander Marshhand, I hope you’re not reconsidering my offer?”
He would rather send Gravetender’s Fist or the War Walker to take out Paeth. However—Quallet didn’t immediately reply.
Not good. Gravetender’s Fist was camped farther north, and this was only a token force, but Fezimet did not want to fight them—even if it could be a victory. After all, he still had twice as many…one point five times as many soldiers in the forest.
Yet it seemed Daly Sullivan was the one in charge. Someone else stood by him. There was…a familiar young man. Drathian?
“Kenjiro Murata. The [Diplomat] who’s been going around, slandering my company’s name. Well, well, enemies all.”
“Commander Fezimet. I have a signed document I would like to offer you. It is a declaration signed by nineteen companies in this region. From Grasgil Blockade to Stormhooves.”
Some of Fezimet’s people glanced up at that. Those were…big companies. Fezimet knew what that stupid treaty was. He snatched it as Ken offered it to him.
“And why should I bother reading it? I suppose I’ll peruse it at my discretion.”
His ploy didn’t work. Ken let him have the treaty—and stepped back and bowed. Fezimet had the impression it was an extremely insulting gesture; the Dullahans present certainly seemed to think so. Was that Captain Eldima and the Rustless Guard?
Damn adventurers. Damn Humans and damn—Ken spoke.
“Unfortunately, Commander, [I Made a Copy]. Please, officers of the Featherfolk Brigade, read the declaration.”
Fezimet twisted and saw no less than eight copies of the treaty! He snarled.
“Put that down—”
Too late. His officers read the declaration, and Fezimet looked at the signed letter too. It was a simple one, really.
 
We, the underlined signatories, condemn the attack on a neutral Fraerling city, Paeth on the Coast, in no uncertain terms. We refute the right of the Featherfolk Brigade under any authority to commit acts of war on an innocent species that has offered no provocation. These are war crimes under Baleros’ codes, and if the Featherfolk Brigade under Commander Fezimet pursues his attempt to slaughter hundreds of thousands of innocents…
 
Fezimet’s blood alternately boiled and froze as he read. War crimes? This…Ken was speaking.
“I have also sent and posted it to the Mage’s Guild, and it will be spread from Runner’s Guilds as well if you launch an attack, Commander. I urge you to reconsider—there is still time to make peace.”
“Peace.”
The Quexal was done skimming the treaty. His officers were worried, but Fezimet had noticed something. Nowhere in this magically-ratified document did any of the other companies threaten actual action. It was a war of words, and he sneered at the [Diplomat].
Daly Sullivan watched, face blank. He had a crossbow in his hands, pointed at the ground, but only one of those small, hand ones. Fezimet looked at Ken.
“You must have some idea of whom I serve, Diplomat Ken. Tell me—do you suggest I quit now? Now that I’ve made an enemy of everyone?”
He glanced towards the tower.
“…For nothing?”
Kenjiro smiled at Fezimet. A [Diplomat] fighting to his end, he leaned forwards, and despite himself, Fezimet leaned over and listened. He was fairly certain Ken had a secrecy Skill. The Human whispered to him.
“It is not beyond you to turn back, Great Fezimet. It would be costly—but the Forgotten Wing will never forget this. Fraerlings will not either. Paeth is not alone.”
“Oh, so you think to threaten me?”
The Quexal bared his teeth, and Ken lifted a finger. Like Peclir, he put stick before carrot.
“Just so you know that this will not end with Paeth, Commander. But if you are willing to halt the attack—I am authorized to promise you a number of relics. Eighteen Fraerling-enchanted relics, from Potions of Polymorph fit for a Quexal to gear a Named-Adventurer might envy. All you have to do is agree to a magically binding contract. You will get nothing from ash and ruin, but if you just…leave, you can live the rest of your life with great treasures.”
It was the most tempting thing the [Diplomat] could have said, and both knew it. Fezimet wavered.
Leave? I’d never be able to keep my company. Peclir would see to that. But for eighteen relics…
Just take all the money he’d stored and run. Live, start over somewhere else? Or hold onto his company, recant Jungle Tails, and rebuild with Fraerling magic. He was sure he could get more—the Human would offer anything.
But Jungle Tails would never let me go. And…Fezimet stared at the burned forest, a huge swath of it gone, irrevocably altering Talenqual. The soldiers who had died as well—he’d be in so much trouble.
Whereas he was now a [Nagatine Scion], and one day he would lead a million Lizardfolk into battle.
It was no longer all or nothing. But now it was all or…less. Fezimet hesitated, and Ken clasped his hands behind his back.
The [Diplomat] had his one shot that Daly had given him. He watched as Fezimet slowly lifted the treaty…and shredded it. Not with his arms; he held it in one wing, then bit it, ripped it, and spat out the pieces with his teeth.
“If I refuse, [Diplomat], what then? I’ll make an enemy of a bunch of companies too afraid to take the field? I see the Titan’s little students have brought a thousand soldiers. As for Marshhand—”
He eyed the [Mercenary Commander] and gave him a smile and dip of the head Quallet didn’t return.
Bastard. But a sensible one.
“—He knows better than to take on a force four times his size. We rule this region. So the only enemies I see here are a single tree that I will chop down, a thousand mercenaries led by four unproven [Strategists], and the mighty Bushrangers and their Silver-rank friends.”
He sneered at Daly and Eldima, who shifted nervously, shield at the ready. Tofte, the lone Bushranger standing behind Daly with another loaded crossbow, didn’t flinch. He stared past Fezimet into the middle-distance.
It was Daly who spoke. Ken stepped back, head bowed, and retreated to the Drake’s lines. By now, Lizardfolk were listening. Talenqual’s people.
This was what Daly did. He pointed at Fezimet.
