They’d stopped traffic, though, because of how many ships were coming up. It wasn’t a traffic jam, just an inconvenience, but Luan heard only grumbling—mainly because it was a fleet of ships armed for war.
Armed and armored. Luan eyed the enchanted runes on the ships. One had metal scales, like it was armored in scale-mail, each one with glowing sigils of magic. He couldn’t guess how expensive it was, but Kissilt leaned over and whistled.
“Ancestors! That thing could duel one of Zeres’ biggest warships! What’s going on here? Why’s a Drathian Border Fleet stopped at Moxy?”
Some of the captains on the ships heard him and looked down. They recognized the Drake and Luan, and after introductions, one leaned over. She was a Garuda with a huge hat—ironically, one that looked like it was accented with reptile skin, rather than with a feather.
“You bound for Moxy too? It’ll be only twenty minutes or so. They should have been gone already, but their lead ship is anchored. Some kind of problem? Bastards won’t even tell us what’s going on. No one knows. It’s a Drathian Border Fleet, alright. The Iron Vanguard was keeping pace with them all the way up the coast, but they stopped at Moxy for provision—and to hire [Mercenaries].”
“[Mercenaries]? In a Border Fleet?”
Luan looked from the [Captain] to Kissilt. He raised a hand.
“What’s a Border Fleet?”
Both Kissilt and the [Captain] had the knowing look of seafolk willing to tell the landlubbers what was what.
“It’s only one of Drath’s peacekeeping fleets. I say peacekeeping—only because they have actual armadas they’ll send out too. But this one will trade, fight—Border Fleet, get it? They’ll go from the edges of The Last Tide to Baleros or even the House of Minos, Chandrar, Terandria, and rarely, Izril.”
Drath was farthest from Izril, being closest to Rhir and Baleros. The Drathian Archipelago was one Luan had heard about—but never seen. And by the looks of it…he peered out and narrowed his eyes.
He recognized those ships. Oh, not any of the particulars. Not the magic plating, or the beautiful vessels, some hulls fashioned of dark wood with bright red railings, painted without a single sign of flaking, but he recognized the design.
Most ships like the schooner he’d passed were western designs. But the ribbed sails on these vessels? That reminded him of sailing vessels from China, or, where he’d once visited, Hong Kong. Not that these were junks—a kind of vessel—no indeed.
These were warships from a fantasy version, a powerful nation, and Luan saw a snarling—but distinctly non-Western—tiger staring at him from one of the prows.
Although…it would be wrong to say it was one country Drath was based on. Ken had thought it was Japan—especially because some Dullahans had known Japanese. However…Luan heard voices from the Border Fleet, and as they carried over the conversations around him, he realized they weren’t all Japanese.
Luan was a self-described weeaboo, a word that made Aiko wince every time he used it on himself. He was a fan of Japanese culture…specifically manga, anime, what was analogous to comics and so on for Americans, he supposed.
He knew a little bit of Japanese, often from television, so usually very stylized. However, you got an ear for it, and he knew the alphabet. So Luan knew what he was hearing was…not all Japanese. There were just some things that didn’t occur in the Japanese language. The ‘L’ and ‘V’ sounds were not in the alphabet, so native Japanese speakers sometimes had problems saying ‘V’ sounds in English.
The more you knew. Luan, as someone from South Africa, who’d traveled because of his profession, had picked up a smattering. He couldn’t see the [Sailors] well…but he definitely thought they were speaking some other language as well as what might be Japanese now and then.
Interesting? Most definitely. This encounter began to take up more significance in Luan’s head—especially because he saw this Border Fleet was enough to make even a Great Company sweat.
The Whitewash Channel was large enough to let even The Pride of the Wellfar sail down it; one of the warships was so vast Luan saw hundreds of [Soldiers] marching down the decks or standing at the railings. A woman in robes was stalking ahead with slips of paper floating in front of her. She was speaking to someone with a bushy…tail?
“Who’s that? That’s not a Gnoll. Nor a Beastkin.”
Kissilt frowned at the person Luan was pointing at.
“Must be a peculiarity of Drath. That’s…one of their biggest warships. Are they answering some kind of insult? They could sack Moxy with how many ships they sent! I’m amazed the city let them in.”
The Garuda [Captain] nodded.
“Apparently they’re heading north. But like I said—that big warship? It was heading up, no problem, and stopped dead for the last twenty minutes.”
Indeed, the rest of the Border Fleet was edging around it—or stopping to confer. There was definitely agitation on board, but the soldiers and high deck were screening what was going on from view. Perhaps that was why they were there.
Luan eyed lamellar armor and the distinctly dangerous striped bows. Drath used different fighting styles than Baleros—to judge by the odd weapons which were more common.
He spotted katanas, glaives—but most noticeably, a number of staff users and barehanded experts. What was the most notable though?
The…young men and women were sitting or standing with giant, outrageously large weapons made of what looked like crystal. Or glass.
A master smith like Pelt could have identified them as Dragonblood crystal or similar weapons. They were magical and sometimes longer than the wielder.
Luan Khumalo had mixed feelings as he stared at a distinctly…foxy leader conferring with a Drathian magic user. He didn’t want to put words on it, but the weapons of the strange fighters standing apart from the regular warriors? The amazing vessels, the magic that even Noa was slightly impressed by?
This is the most anime thing I have ever seen in my entire life. Or possibly xianxia. And I can’t even investigate.
…Or could he? The rest of the captains at sea were friendly, and some had even invited Luan to dock his scull and just socialize the rest of the way over. True, it was a Border Fleet, but Kissilt made it sound like half trading fleet, half security force. They even fished! Not all the ships were purely for war; some had clear cargo bays, and they were peaceful enough for Moxy to let them in.
And they were a big damn fleet. Luan had…about six gold coins plus whatever Kissilt was going to pay him, because they’d spent it all on Paeth’s supplies.
Damn.
But he did have Noa and Fraerling magic. Even Drath might be interested? Besides—he was a Courier.
So Luan began to row forwards, and Kissilt squeaked.
“What are you doing?”
“I’m going to see if I can get a word. Or do you not see a giant mercenary fleet in front of us?”
The Drake opened and closed his mouth a few times.
“Yes, but—they’re Drath! Do you know how distant they are? They don’t let people visit—you think the House of Minos has closed ports? Watch it. Even if you’re a Courier and I’m a [Strategist]—hey, they’re unpredictable! Hey! Hey!”
The shouting, as well as Luan’s scull, attracted attention. Everyone behind Luan ducked as down the entire warship’s side, bows went up. Someone shouted something distinctly cautious in a foreign language, and Luan saw a slat on the side of the warship open.
He and Kissilt stared up into the glowing barrel of a very magical device. Luan almost smiled. Almost.
Yep. They definitely have different weapons.
It looked so much like something modeled after a cannon he was almost relieved to see something that fit his sense of danger. Then again—he respected pointy arrows too.
Kissilt certainly froze and raised his hands.
“I’m a representative of Manus! A [Strategist]! We’re not here to—back the boat up, Luan. Back it up now.”
“You. Leave.”
Someone shouted down at Luan in clearly-accented English. Kissilt waved his claws as a sentry or someone heard a shout.
“He’s a Courier! Don’t shoot! Hey! You hear us?”
The [Captains] were calling out worriedly. Someone, a man in armor with a glaive who was commanding this side of the vessel, grimaced. He lifted a hand.
“Peaceful voyages on the Whitewash Channel! This Drathian Fleet brooks no trespass by will of the Emperor of Drath! Begone!”
He said that, and it was a pretty good warning and eloquent statement. And yet…Luan’s instincts buzzed because he was fairly certain this [Sentry Commander] or whatever his class was…
Had no idea what he was saying.
Or rather, he had a look that Kissilt and the others weren’t used to, and that was of someone who didn’t get all the words he’d been told to speak. In short…someone who spoke another language.
It was nearly impossible for Luan or any of the non-English speaking Earthers to find someone who had a different language. Frustrating—confusing—and nonsensical because Earth had such a variety. Yet Drath was the only place that actually made sense to Luan; of course it had another language and there was a language barrier.
But all the Balerosians and seafarers, including Kissilt, just kept shouting as if the Drathian man were an idiot. Because all of them spoke one language.
Luan, on the other hand? He waved at the man who was scowling down.
“Leave. Lea-ve. No trading!”
The [Soldier] was a military officer who could probably fight [Pirates] to the death, but he had the slight desperation of someone who was using all of his limited vocabulary to try and get a point across to some foreign idiots.
Luan knew how he felt. Because he’d visited Hong Kong, loved Japanese culture, and so on, he raised a hand.
“Excuse me—may we speak to a translator? Good morning to you! Ohayo gozaimasu! Ni hao? Er…annyeonghaseyo!”
He tried three kinds of greetings, each in a different language, Japanese, Mandarin, and Korean. Ironically, Luan was pretty sure he messed up the Japanese greeting the most because he just said ‘good morning’ rather than ‘hello’.
However, the reaction it provoked among the soldiers and the officer was dramatic. Almost all of them did a double-take, and a short murmur broke out.
Dead gods, this idiot isn’t so stupid! He actually knows there’s things like other languages!
That was what the officer’s face said. He hesitated—then rattled off a reply in what sounded like…Korean? It was clearly not a response in Japanese. He saw Luan’s blank look.
“You speak…”
Then he tried again, and Luan lost him. Desperately, Luan raised his hands.
“I don’t speak…do not speak…nihongo ga chotto hanasemasu? I. Speak. Little bit—of that! Talk?”
There was a reason why Luan was a fan of Japan. Indeed—his pronunciation and fluency were on a level that would make Aiko cry. If Aiko were here…
Even so, he had willingness, and the words made enough sense to the officer. Even Luan’s reduced English and his hand-gestures helped.
Kissilt didn’t get it.
“Why are you speaking to him like an imbecile?‘
The Drake hissed. Luan rolled his eyes. He was reducing the language and hoping the officer got the words without the annoyance of complete sentences. There was a way to talk to people if you had a language barrier.
The officer’s eyes widened. But—he looked at the others.
“Nihongo?”
He said something else, but Luan caught that. The other soldiers turned to each other.
“Something something nihongo? Something nihongo…”
Then they got really excited and began waving over more people. Luan’s heart sank, and he thought he was in trouble. Because he knew enough to understand one thing.
Nihongo, 日本語, was one of the most basic words you’d ever learn. It was ‘nihon’ for Japan, plus go, for language, meaning…well, Japanese, the language.
And it was very clear that the officer had gotten that Luan spoke it. But he was very interested in the word Japanese. Because that…that was not what Drathians called their own language.
Someone wearing robes strode down the deck. Luan’s skipping heart, the confused Kissilt, and Noa finally got some clarity. All at once, a…semi-translucent bubble appeared from a glowing hand and some object the woman was holding.
A stone with writing? Then—as the bubble passed over Kissilt, who nearly went off the boat trying to avoid it, and Luan, his ears popped, and the babble of words from the soldiers and officers suddenly became English.
“—saying ‘Japanese’ to us. He appears to be a Courier, and that Drake invoked the Walled City of Manus. His Excellency should not be bothered at this crucial moment, but…”
The officer broke off as the [Mage] who’d cast the [Translation Field] called down. Luan heard her actual words, in another language, before the louder English overrode them in her voice.
“You there, Human! What do you…want?”
He stood up on his scull slightly.
“I am Luan Khumalo, a Courier! I beg your forgiveness—I was trying to communicate, but I don’t know much of—Drathian!”
“Intriguing. Someone knows any?”
She flicked her gaze up and down him. Now that Luan saw her, he saw the [Mage] had pale white robes with an odd pattern of cut cloth. Red on the sleeves—and he thought this was the same person with a tail. A bushy one—only she looked almost completely Human.
Except for maybe the eyes and the way she called him Human. She moved with a strange grace, and now that Luan saw more people coming to the railings, he saw a definite change in their appearance.
They might be Humans—mostly—but some of them had flawless skin or looked too handsome or beautiful. Others didn’t sweat despite wearing heavy armor under the sun. Kissilt took one look at someone and muttered.
“Oh, right. Drathians and their tonics and pills. Damn [Cultivators].”
The woman heard that and narrowed her eyes, but spoke to Luan.
“What do you want, Courier? We respect your kind, but Drath is not expecting any deliveries, and our Border Fleet is on a mission of urgency.”
“I…was hoping to hire your vessel, if I could. Or some force? Or just speak—”
Some laughter started and went silent as the woman gave Luan a highly amused look. She turned, covered her mouth to whisper something, and called back.
“I do not believe…his Walled City could hire this vessel, Courier. Nor are our blades for sale.”
She nodded at Kissilt, and he opened his mouth, nearly falling out of the boat as Luan rocked it deliberately. However, the strange woman hesitated. She eyed Luan’s scull.
“Then again, you have very powerful artifacts, Courier. And…other surprises.”
