“Commander Fezimet, I am Daly Sullivan of the United Nations Company. You may have Talenqual, and the Jungle Tails might be backing you, but the Forgotten Wing Company has placed Paeth under its protection. That city is full of children and innocent people. This is your warning: attack that city, and we will kill you.”
The Quexal slowly reared back and opened his magnificent wings. He could rise to almost nine feet in length if he tried, and he rose up, flapping his wings and regarding Daly with incredulity.
And almost respect.
“What, you intend to fight us all? That’s…”
He trailed off. His soldiers were behind him, and more were coming, but the [Strategists] had surrounded the gates well. He could retreat, obviously, but Quallet was still undecided.
If they fought, it would be a bloodbath that Fezimet was sure he’d win. But like Paeth, if they fought, the Featherfolk Brigade might never recover.
You had to have a reason to die like that. The Human looked Fezimet in the eyes, and the Quexal refused to look away. He would not be shamed.
His tail twitched a few times, in a subtle signal. Like the Liscorian army, Lizardfolk used tail-signs, and so Fezimet sighed dramatically.
“If I don’t attack—how long do you think your forces can stand here, Commander Daly? Those Drakes look tense. An hour? A day?”
“We have discipline, you inbred Quexal. Come out and see what real strategy looks like!”
Kissilt hollered as he lifted his ring menacingly. Daly didn’t answer. He just stood there, watching Fezimet.
“Your choice. Ken means it. We can make you a rich man, Fezimet.”
“You can’t make me one of the most important people in Baleros.”
The Quexal retorted, almost sadly. Daly shook his head.
“Power only matters if you and Jungle Tails survive. Do you really want to kill a bunch of innocent Fraerlings, Fezimet? Really?”
He looked into Fezimet’s eyes, and the Quexal avoided his gaze.
“We bleed and die…Fraerlings live on Baleros, whose jungles run with blood. They surely know, more than you, that their turn would come some day.”
He glanced over his shoulder and frowned. Was that a ship entering harbor? Fezimet craned his neck, suddenly uneasy. One of his officers had seen it too. But before Fezimet could check, he decided to motivate the crowd.
“People of Talenqual! Do you see why we had to burn the forest? We have saboteurs of a Great Company fighting our Featherfolk Brigade—who are now in service of the mighty Jungle Tails! They threaten us on our own land! Foreign species working for a Great Company! Even your beloved United Nations company!”
He turned and exhorted the people around him. The Lizardfolk peeking over the walls or at the gates looked…dubious. Especially because Ken replied almost instantly.
“We are not standing here because of the Forgotten Wing Company! A Fraerling city is under attack by Commander Fezimet, who has violated the rules of war and is attempting to slaughter children and innocents!”
The truth. The [Diplomat]’s words caused shock in Talenqual’s people. A Fraerling city? and Fezimet?
That damn signed letter. It must have been spreading already. One of Fezimet’s Quexals repeated his trick, opening her wing and shouting.
“Lies! Those are lies! Who will you believe? We, the Naga, or—ulp—!”
She bit her tongue. No—she tried to speak, and not a word came out. Ken pointed at her.
“[Only Truth Between Us]. Commander Fezimet. Tell your people the truth. If you can.”
[Diplomats]! Fezimet’s clamped lips and glare were bad enough. The Quexal turned his head as he saw himself losing the last of his popular support. But he still had his army. Eighteen…fifteen thousand soldiers in the forest and more he could pull from their garrisons. Fezimet still had the last laugh.
Daly was eying his face with terrible suspicion. Yet he only got confirmation after five minutes, as Fezimet waited to find out what that ship was about. His head snapped up as someone came tearing out of the forest.
“Daly! Daly! They’re attacking!”
Marian rode out of the forest, face pale. Fezimet saw Daly’s head rise, and Ken closed his eyes.
“What do you mean? I’m right here. I haven’t crossed your precious little line, Human.”
The Centaur slowed to a canter and Fezimet looked at Marian, Niers’ student, fully for the first time. He…felt bad. He would have really liked an autograph and to impress the Centauress. Of all Niers’ students, he liked her tactics best. Daquin had been…
 
——
 
Fezimet stood in the burning hell of Talenqual and didn’t seem to understand how he’d gotten here. He looked so damn smug. Daly Sullivan’s chest rose and fell.
“Paeth is under attack! Your Commander has attacked a Fraerling city! He is doing it now!”
Ken was shouting at Talenqual’s citizens, who were confused, upset…but even if they believed him, Paeth was so far from here. Even if they believed him, what could they do aside from protest, throw stones, and run from [Soldiers]?
“Those are objectionable lies, [Diplomat]. Do you see me burning a city?”
The Quexal looked so smug at this basic, childish lie. If you don’t see me doing it, am I doing it? The worst part, it was a lie that worked. A good excuse if you weren’t willing to throw down.
Daly was wearing the cheap leather armor that Resk had enchanted, piece-by-piece. He had Luan’s crossbow, and behind him, he knew, Marian, Cameral, and Kissilt had their forces. Quallet stood to one side, and Umina was at the docks in disguise, waiting for her ship to come in.
The rest of the United Nations Company was gone. The Bushrangers and those willing to fight had stayed. The rest…
 
——
 
Kirana had volunteered to take them. She was surprised Aiko had remained, but the [Nurse] had said there would be a need for healers.
So the Indian girl led the gaggle of young men and women, some barely teens, into the safe space. It wasn’t a long journey. Just a half-day of travel.
They could have gone anywhere, really. The Featherfolk Brigade might pursue…but Kirana suspected they’d be too busy.
As for protection? The United Nations could probably afford an inn or two, but were inns safe? What next, with half their number in Talenqual, drawing that line in the sand?
The answer…was that she walked into the Mage’s Guild in the city of Looxe, and the [Scribe] called out as he saw the huge gaggle of Humans and groaned inwardly.
“Hey! Stay in the lines, please! Hey—”
Kirana walked up to the front desk. She stopped there, and the upset Lizardman looked at her.
“You have to stay in line.”
“I know. I’m not here to send a [Message]. I’d like to speak to your Guildmaster, please. They’re from Wistram, aren’t they?”
As it happened, Looxe had a proper Wistram [Mage], who came out of an office looking fairly irate. The Dullahan frowned at this terrible display of decorum. Then he hesitated, eying all the Humans.
“Can I help you, Miss…”
The [House Manager] was crying a bit. Neither [Scribe] nor [Mage] knew why. She answered simply.
“Kirana. I am from, um, America. From…Earth. Can you please help us?”
The [Guildmaster]’s eyes popped, and all of the staff looked up at the sudden, familiar keywords. He hesitated—then motioned for someone to send a [Message] to Wistram now.
“Absolutely, Miss. Do you all need food? Help?”
“We need somewhere to stay. And food…later. You can’t help us any more, thank you.”
The Dullahan hastened to assure Kirana that he could, indeed, help her. He failed to realize that it wasn’t her he needed to help.
 
——
 
Daly stared past Fezimet’s smug face and the little monster looking out of the Quexal’s eyes. He thought he could see Siri. Marian was tensed, her hand on her enchanted bow, but Fezimet just stood there with his forces.
Somewhere, Paeth was under attack. The first Tallfolk were trying to surround the city as magic blazed from every inch of the tree. Tallguard and Fraerlings fighting on the ground.
“Prove it. Well…I can’t transfer us all to Paeth. We’re all damn grown ups. We know you’re attacking Paeth. Now. So it’s too late to debate it. You have committed an act of war against Paeth on the Coast.”
Fezimet’s smile faded slightly as Daly’s voice rose. The young man was shaking slightly, but he still reached for his belt pouch.
“I know other people need proof. I don’t. But if you want proof…here. Here’s someone whose word you can believe.”
Slowly, Daly lifted something out of his pouch. Every eye focused on him…but the Human was so far away most people didn’t see what he was holding at first.
Then…even the Drake [Soldiers] murmured. Lizardfolk gasped, and more ran to spread the rumor. It was all true. It wasn’t rumor anymore. After all…there was a lot you could doubt, even with a [Diplomat]’s words. Even with The Last Light’s company vouching for the truth.
However, the little man with pink hair standing on Daly’s palm? Tears running into his beard, and some snot too if you were being honest?
Alchimagus Resk stood there, and his voice was loud enough to be heard by all, magnified by a spell.
“I am Alchimagus Resk of Paeth. The Featherfolk Brigade is attacking my city. Is that enough proof, you wretched salamander with wings?”
His voice trembled as Fezimet’s jaw fell open and he stared at the Fraerling. Daly said nothing more.
“Well…that’s…”
The Human handed Resk to Ken, who backed up. Daly turned to the spluttering Fezimet. He stood there blankly for a second.
He had drawn his line in the sand, let Ken fill the world with words and condemnation. Someday, though…there was always a bastard who stepped over every line. Drawing that line was only good if you had what came next. So he looked up, met Siri’s eyes, and nodded.
Daly Sullivan raised the Fraerling-made crossbow and shot Fezimet straight through the chest. He admired the way it automatically drew the contraption back, almost automatically reloading it—you just had to put a crossbow bolt in place.
He did so in the silence. Then he turned and shot a Medusa through the face. He almost got a third Quexal, but Fezimet began screaming.
He’d dodged at point-blank range. So the bolt hadn’t gone straight through his heart. The Quexal tried to recoil, and Daly saw Tofte raise his crossbow.
“At—attack!”
Kissilt screamed behind them, but Daly had already loosed a third bolt. Three Nagas crumpled as the world burst into screams. Fezimet was backing up, eyes wide.
“Kill them a—”
A Lamia shouted right before another crossbow bolt hit her in the back of the head. Suddenly—the Featherfolk Brigade were being attacked from all sides.
Bushrangers. Bushrangers, Earthers, and more [Soldiers] taking shots at them from buildings and even roofs.
“Fall back to the city! Fall back t—”
Fezimet leapt, and another of Daly’s bolts passed through his tail. Marian shot through two Lizardfolk.
“Charge! Kill the commander!”
The [Strategists] and their forces surged forwards as Daly reloaded again. Kissilt was shouting a hundred different commands into his speaking stone. Daly kept firing; he wasn’t going to go hand-to-hand. Not yet.
He looked around and saw the lynchpin of the plan. Quallet Marshhand was still looking at Resk. His gaze rose, and he met Daly’s eyes.
Then…the [Mercenary Commander] nodded. He did not make his choice in that moment. Daly was not that dramatic, and the [Strategists] not that stupid. But he still sighed.
“Gravetender’s Fist! To arms!”
 
——
 
Umina Caxical heard the fighting begin at the gates as she hopped from one foot to the other. Cotm told her to shut up and keep still, and she did.
This was incredibly dangerous. The Fraerling Tallguard’s face was blank.
He was here to protect her in case she was discovered—although the Featherfolk Brigade were busy. And the docks were understaffed. Kessice was with Siri, coordinating the people in the city.
So the United Nations were going to war against the Featherfolk Brigade. The last ploys had failed. Umina’s blood raced.
They’d all die, surely? Fezimet was so confident he could win. He was all about his forty-thousand soldiers. Such a large army. But every [Strategist] knew a victory was more than numbers.
Umina looked around the docks. So deserted. Not enough guards and security, and Talenqual burning the forests had made most [Merchants] decide this was not a place for future trading. They could smell war.
However, the Featherfolk Brigade had also taken from their garrisons too. Barracks, security detail—but mostly Talenqual where they were headquartered.
15,000 [Soldiers] besieging Paeth. Combined with Gravetender’s Fist, if Quallet were willing to take that kind of terrible battle with the inevitability of Fezimet’s reinforcements, everyone combined could barely come close to that number.
Bad fight. So, when Daly had proposed his line in the sand, it was Umina and Cameral who’d figured out the solution that the Titan would have at least passed them for. Umina turned slightly and grinned under her hood as she heard horns—a lot of horns—and drums begin to sound in the distance.
Gravetender’s Fist was on the move. They were a bit closer than Fezimet thought, and Bastiom would be coming through those gates in the vanguard.
But not to destroy them. Oh no. Quallet had ten thousand troops along with the [Strategists] and Humans. Not enough to take Fezimet’s full company in the field.
…But how many troops did he have in Talenqual right now? Umina would just bet that number was less than Quallet’s forces.
Cities were lovely places. If laid out right, and most Balerosian cities were, they were easy to defend and hard to take. But when fighting got to a city, no one liked having to fight with the enemy in your home.
I wonder how it feels, Fezimet? He could try to take Paeth, and Umina hoped the Fraerlings could hold out long enough. This plan hinged on that. Because while Paeth fought—Fezimet lost his home.
Hopefully he was dead. Umina assumed not. And her scales were tingling with nerves.
They had to win here, and it was not a sure thing. If the citizens went after them—if Fezimet countered them—
Whumph. Umina looked up sharply.
“What was that? Who’s got that kind of magic? Did Kissilt hit an alchemy shop?”
That was the only thing she could think up that would make that kind of an impact on their side. Or the Featherfolk Brigade’s [Mages], but Cotm just grunted.
“That’s our side. Don’t lose focus. Our ship’s coming in. You had better be right, [Strategist].”
Umina whirled away from the smokestack coming from one of the Featherfolk Brigade’s barracks. She turned and saw it.
A ship with armor, coming into port. Flying that famous flag of helm, armor, and gauntlet, all disembodied, of course.
