The Iron Vanguard. She smiled in relief. Then…as she took in the much, much smaller ship than she wanted, Umina froze.
“That’s not Tulm’s ship. He’s not aboard. I th—wait. Wait!”
The Dullahan [Captain] was definitely no idiot. The instant he saw smoke and heard the fighting and horn calls, his entire crew was on alert. He strode down the gangplank.
“Umina Caxical, Tulm the Mithril has invited you to join him.”
“No, no, no—I told him to send a warship! And come himself! I have the answer to his question!”
Umina clutched at her neck frills. The Iron Vanguard! That was her big plan; the thing Tulm wanted so badly! Niers’ secret she’d paid for!
Yet the Dullahan [Captain] was already signaling for a [Mage] to talk to the Iron Vanguard’s command. He turned to her, grim-faced.
“We will escort you to Tulm the Mithril. Or, it seems, participate in this fighting if Strategist Tulm deems it worth the cost. He himself was unavailable.”
“To hear the Titan’s secret?”
Umina knew he was close enough to have come! What could have…what could have been more pressing than that?
There was no time to think. The Featherfolk Brigade had seen the ship and had already sent their own to investigate. Upon seeing Umina and hearing both her name and recognizing her, a Medusa snarled and pointed, and [Soldiers] streamed down the docks. Cotm swore, blew a Lizardperson’s foot off, and caused a pileup as Umina did a running leap and flipped onto the deck of the Dullahan ship with her Belt of Dexterity.
However, she refused to let the Dullahan set sail. Umina called in the news as she heard Marian, Cameral, and Kissilt shouting orders. Paeth was under siege—and the battle for Talenqual had begun. Whichever city fell first…or would both?
Time…had run out.
 
——
 
There were some things more important than even the Titan’s answer. Tulm the Mithril had been seeking another answer to another question.
He found it—but wished he hadn’t.
“All halt. Inform The Authority of Metal to find our position. Now.”
The Dullahan strode down the warship as the [Captain] sent word for the Krakenbane Destroyer combing the waters and all other elements of the fleet to regroup here.
They had found their quarry at last. Xol of Ingrilt watched, shield raised as they closed in. He had been nervous when they realized they had found the Border Fleet already…the closer they got?
Xol was nervous. And if a War Walker was nervous…
“Strategist. Should we hold for the Authority’s return?”
Tulm was tempted to himself. He had taken some of his finest warriors on the warship, but the Dullahan wearing his famed Mithril armor was still…he scanned the waves, but shook his head.
“We must risk it. That ship won’t last ten minutes. Prepare to board! Search for survivors! Watch for enemies!”
The Dullahan stared ahead as chills ran up and down his body. Ship?
Ship was a generous term. Tulm only recognized it as the Drathian’s lead warship because he knew what he should be seeing.
That vessel could trade blows with this ship or any warship in existence. Could…because all he saw was a sinking piece of ruined wood, painted splinters.
So few bodies.
The Iron Vanguard had been following the Drathians when the Border Fleet abruptly turned and went shooting up Whitewash Channel. That they had hired [Mercenaries], their odd actions, all alarmed the Iron Vanguard, who were friendly with the reclusive Drathians. But they had received no word, and fearing a possible move that would help the Forgotten Wing Company or…
Tulm had followed them. Then—just as fast as the Border Fleet was moving, they had vanished. For two whole days, Tulm’s armada had searched the waters.
There was nothing here. Either the Drathians had cloaked themselves, sunk like a Drowned Fleet, or simply…gone over the edge. All that remained in this area were scattered islands like the one that produced Eir Gel—a few remote landmasses, some landmarks over empty water at the edge of the world.
Well. After two days, Tulm had found the Border Fleet.
He watched as Dullahans boarded the vessel fast, spreading out, searching. They had waterproof, floating armor, but everyone was so tense their voices were the only thing on the water.
What had happened here? All the sentries and [Mages] were scanning in every direction, but they had not seen any battle. Nor foes.
That just made Tulm even more…nervous. Afraid. His mentor, the Titan, had taught him not to push fear away.
He was afraid. What had happened here?
“Survivor! Survivor!”
At last, one of the Dullahans found something. The woman dove into the water as the sinking vessel kept falling lower. Instantly, the others converged and dragged a body towards the ship.
“[Healers]! Get ready for—”
The [Captain] hesitated, and Tulm cursed because the figure that the Dullahans were dragging from the water wasn’t a survivor. He stared at the upper torso of a Drathian [Mage], one of their experts who used their brand of magic.
Clearly dead. No one survived getting…Xol muttered.
“That’s not a cut wound. Something tore that [Mage] in half.”
“Find survivors! Now!”
Tulm roared in a rare display of emotion, and the Dullahans kept porting the dead body to the ship. He was about to shout at them when he realized something.
That wasn’t a Drathian Human. Nor…was she dead.
Somehow, the female fox was alive. One of the rare species from Drath—the illusion magic was completely shattered, and however many tails she had were gone. Her magic or nature must have kept her alive.
“Dead gods.”
Water sloshed onto the deck, wet, mixed with blood and other dark substances that stained the wood. Tulm strode over, pushing aside [Mages] and [Healers].
“Strategist, the toxins—other elements—”
“Silence. Let her speak.”
A blank stare from the Kitsune woman. Tulm, standing over her, heard a voice, garbled with water in her lungs. Then he realized the truth.
She was dead. No one could survive her wounds. So the magic-user had enchanted her body. He was speaking to a dead woman.
“—tell his Imperial Majesty. Tell them. Hello? Hello?”
“I am Tulm the Mithril. Can you hear me, servant of Drath?”
The sightless head actually turned, and all shuddered, but the relief in the voice was evident.
“Good. I know you, Dullahan. I have—I must tell you our last report. Our fleet has been wiped out. Drath must know.”
“What happened?”
Tulm knelt there, staring around for the other ships. The [Captain] had access to Dullahans who could dive into the water, fearless of the depths—only monsters. Yet he was whispering to Xol.
“Our [Mages] are scanning the water, but we can’t find other ships, War Walker Xol.”
“They may have fought a running battle—”
“No, War Walker. You do not understand. We cannot even find the rest of this ship. Even deep. We have searched for forty miles in every direction and are expanding. It is as if the rest of the fleet vanished.”
The dead woman was speaking. Tulm listened to her as he grew more uneasy still.
“Please carry my message as I speak it.”
“It will be done.”
He was recording, having this transcribed—the Kitsune hesitated. Even now, clinging to…something, she was still of Drath.
“To his Imperial Majesty. I am Kitsune Sharetsu. I beg leave to report the destruction of Border Fleet Haes-sal. All our [Abyssal Hunters]…slain. I am sending our report via Dullahans of the Iron Vanguard to my shame as I am unable to…”
She wasn’t speaking in Drathian, but under [Translation] spells. Tulm was watching her face. She was fading. Whatever magic was keeping her intact wouldn’t last, and he didn’t have [Necromancers].
“Kitsune—”
She seemed to realize formalities wouldn’t work either. The Kitsune coughed out more dark water.
“Very well. It is my honor to report each servant of Drath fought to the end without wavering. To the last, with naught but courage. Each one I commend as heroes.”
Why was she so set on reporting it like…? Tulm’s head rose, and he looked at the ship. He saw no bodies, but if this was what happened, he could guess what the end of the battle looked like. Ah—the Dullahan had a sudden, deep respect for the woman.
“What a beautiful lie. I will carry that to Drath myself. But what destroyed your fleet?”
The dead woman relaxed, and a smile passed her lips. A terrible one.
“He will know.”
Drath’s [Emperor] might know, but Tulm bent over and actually grabbed a shoulder. He shook her.
“We must know. What is it? Seamwalkers?”
It had to be. The Kitsune just stared blankly above.
“Even in death we died. We knew when he took his own eyes. But we followed. We had to see. There was…they are trying to open a door.”
A door? Something was happening. Her eyes were already rotting, but the sightless gaze of the dead [Mage] was…moving. At first, Tulm thought she saw him, but then he saw something that made him most afraid of all.
The eyes were locked on something past Tulm. Every few seconds they would…twitch. Flick a bit, sideways. Every few seconds of his juddering heartbeat.
She was watching something. Her eyes traced a path through the sky, and Tulm turned his head. He saw nothing but darkness, but he almost…felt it. In time with her eyes. Something moving.
Step.
Step.
Step.
“How many? Where?”
The ghost whispered.
“They are eating everything. I see a great, final stand. They are trying to open a door, but they will devour this land—then yours. I see hundreds of thousands. So many. Cousins of A’ctelios Salash. Tell His Majesty of our glorious demise. He knows the rest.”
Then she looked up, and her voice was faint. Eyes wide with horror as she stared up, and one arm rose as if shielding her from something.
“My death, but not my soul! I—”
The body jerked—went lifeless. Had the ghost abandoned the magic? Or had something…
Tulm backed away. He hesitated one second—then shouted.
“Toss the body overboard and then disintegrate it! Now!”
The Dullahan audience didn’t hesitate. The sea exploded, and the body was vaporized by the spells before it had sunk a foot. Tulm pointed at the deck.
“Tear it up, burn anything that was touched by her blood. Take Seamwalker precautions. Get me the Seer of Steel. No—issue an order across the entire company. All fleet elements are to return to their ports but stay…two miles off-shore. Anchored. Sound the alarms.”
Dullahans ran as Xol lowered himself.
“Tulm. What are you thinking?”
The [Strategist] was still giving orders. He was sending the last words of the Drathian to the [Emperor] and asking for more information—the Seer of Steel wanted to know what he’d found.
“Strategist, the Lizardgirl, Umina, who claims to—”
“Don’t bother me with that! Sound a full alert! Prepare for enemies, Seamwalkers, from anywhere at any time! I will tell our officers when we know more.”
His subordinates stared at him. The most incomprehensible orders that Tulm had ever issued—the Dullahan shouted.
“Move!”
He stood there, looking around, gazing at the sky with Xol, searching for foes. But there was nothing there. If not for the terror in his heart, the warning of a dead woman—Tulm could believe this was just another quiet night.
That made it worse. He was forewarned, but what could be done? This…this was it.
They had weathered six thousand years since the last great calamity. Crelers. Had they spent their time well enough? Was this worse? Better? Tulm whispered.
“I’m not ready. I need more time.”
He thought he could hear Niers laughing at him. One of those sardonic, bitter laughs that included himself. Then Tulm was striding for a scrying orb to communicate. He needed to know what, exactly, was coming. He could delay up to twenty minutes if the Drathians still refused to tell all.
Then he would tell Wistram to sound the alarm and warn—
Everyone.
