But fail to do that and they had very little to show for it. Jungle Tails were running into the very same forces they had expected Perorn to hold onto, which would have made a siege a long affair of starving or wearing the defenders down. Instead?
They ran into Marshwalkers, Gloriam, General Diomedes, and others of the Forgotten Wing’s finest. Including the Titan’s Chesstowers.
 
——
 
They were short towers. Nothing like the gigantic ones that Drevish the Architect built, sometimes just to see how tall he could make them.
Short—and oddly wide. They looked like they were made of stone, but it was actually a mix of stone, wood, and lighter materials.
But enchanted. Fireproof, mostly catapult-proof, certainly arrow-proof, and there were twenty-seven currently made. Each one was extremely expensive to build, but they had all the hallmarks of good towers.
Good towers had superior crenellations and places for happy people—in this case, Lizardfolk—to shoot arrows down at really unhappy besiegers. Murder holes, a variety of liquids and solids to toss through them, and enchantments on the walls like ‘set the entire tower aflame so that anyone climbing a ladder regrets it’.
Even anti-siege engine spells that could blow apart a siege tower. Of course, the Chesstowers, as they were named, were still vulnerable to being overwhelmed, which was why Niers never left them alone.
Oh…and one more thing?
They walked.
Eight towers slowly crept over the hill as Jungle Tails’ forces realized they’d reached a fortified space.
A moving fortification. The Chesstowers slowly inched forwards. And, to the horror of the disbelieving [Soldiers] who’d never seen it before—they saw the towers rise up slightly and hundreds of feet start shuffling towards them.
Niers Astoragon, a Fraerling, was familiar with how light you could make even stone with magic. Thusly, he had an idea:
Why not make a tower that you can haul around? It meant you could redeploy them, bunch them up—and push an enemy back.
It was a strange idea he’d gotten a long time ago, when he’d run into a Hollowstone Deceiver for the first time. The concept was the same; hundreds of Lizardfolk lifted the tower from below and walked it forwards.
They also laughed at you as they did, and the ones on top jeered as their foes retreated.
Naturally, the Titan’s foes called them his Chesstowers, a name Niers adopted and even began to commission some to look like rooks, bishops, and so on. Jungle Tails milled around—right until a catapult mounted on one of the towers began hurling rocks down the now-fortified hills. The cheery Lizardfolk waved at the retreating enemy.
No getting through this way. I mean…go ahead and try. We totally don’t have an army behind us or anything.
They had an army behind them.
 
——
 
Take Elvallian. Take the city.
With Gloriam gone and the Chesstowers on deployment elsewhere…they could take the city! They had to take the city.
If this were a classroom example of a war, it would be here that Niers would have stopped his class and asked what mistake Jungle Tails had made. He would expect any student to understand—
The mistake they’d made was needing to win in one spot. They had lost a game of wits—not with him or Perorn—but by thinking they knew who was conducting their strategy.
Smart strategy like Perorn used, would have been to give up some holdings, retreat and solidify a core of land, and let Jungle Tails take the outlying zones and push out. But as Foliana had said—she was unpredictable. A gambler.
They walked into her trap as Jungle Tails encircled Elvallian. The commanders had a problem.
They were already under attack by Fleethoof herself. She didn’t have the forces to take to a full battle—but she could still strike and away, wearing them down, sometimes taking out valuable officers and forcing the [Generals] to stay off the front. However, Perorn wasn’t only attacking with her personal vanguard. She had dozens, maybe many hundreds of [Soldiers] who were trained to make the Jungle Tails’ advance miserable. They were hidden in the forests and struck in countless spots.
Perorn’s harassing style was equally efficient. It consisted, much like the tactics her best students like Marian adopted, of lightning-fast, Centaur-based raids.
This was how it went. At night, or at random, during a distraction, a lull, a small band would attack a patrol, camp, or any other target, galloping out of cover. A handful of Centaurs and their riders would loose a guaranteed [Homing Arrow], [Pinpoint Shot], or other Skill. Once. Then they would bravely run away while daring someone to chase and be ambushed.
One arrow. One enchanted arrow did a lot of damage. More than that, it created terror in [Soldiers], and if one small group could do it, a larger force could raid enemy lines.
Hence the Jungle Tails’ problem. Sound strategy dictated they had to encircle Elvallian and set up a perimeter in the healthy forest. It wasn’t even a jungle. So they spread out and began to encircle Elvallian, creating camps, felling trees, but mainly securing the entire area around the city.
Jungle Tails couldn’t burn the forest because they wanted the capital more or less intact—and because the Forgotten Wing Company might well fan the blaze onto any army with their [Mages]. There was no time to spend really getting one moving, either. And frankly, burning everything down was a move even most [Strategists] considered extreme. Paeth, this was not.
They entered the forest and ran into traps set by Three-Color Stalker herself.
Thus began Foliana’s war.
 
——
 
The first traps that the [Scouts] ran into were clear signs that Three-Color Stalker had been preparing for this day. Naturally—that scared the hell out of anyone who knew her reputation.
Three-Color Stalker, one of the greatest [Rogues] living…had set a trap.
Did you want to try to defuse it? Go ahead. We’ll just stand…over here.
Thusly, some very unhappy [Trackers], [Scouts], [Rogues], and other anti-trap specialists were given the task of covering ground and removing the traps for the regular [Soldiers]. However, what these experts feared was what they didn’t exactly say.
“…We’re going to miss traps. She’s a Level—what, Level 60 [Rogue]? Higher? We can’t find these traps. This is madness.”
A Centaur [Trapfinder] was hissing at the others. A Lamia with multiple sensor stones kept flinching every time someone stepped on a branch.
“Shut up. We’ll level up! Do you know how many levels you’d get for countering a trap?”
“Sure. And how many of us will get to sleep and level up by nightfall?”
“Shutupshutupshutup—don’t jinx us!”
A group of [Soldiers] was waiting in a clearing about five hundred feet back, waiting for the scouts to find a trap—or explode. Either way, you knew where the trap was.
This slow advance was made more pants-wetting because they were still ten miles out from Elvallian. Yet traps had been discovered this far out. This particular group found one of Foliana’s first traps and realized—they were still Three-Color Stalker-style traps.
The Centaur grabbed a Lizardwoman who almost climbed a tree in terror.
“Don’t do that! I nearly—oh, Nagas. Is that the trap?”
All of the scouts stopped and stared at the…trap. They could identify it as a trap. Yep. Definitely.
Mostly because the glowing rune literally etched onto the forest floor was bright red…and had a bag of gold on top of it. Gold coins spilling from the top as it sat on the cherry red rune.
Oh—and there was something else. A wooden sign. It had big letters on it, visible from a distance. It read:
 
This is a trap by me. Foliana. Do not approach.
 
“She’s messing with us.”
The scouts realized this was a clear provocation of their abilities. It still worked.
“You defuse it.”
“No, you. You have [Perfect Attempt: Remove Trap].”
“Yes, attempt. You do it!”
“I can only remove Level 15 traps or lower for free! You have four hooves!”
“So?”
“So, maybe the trap only blows off two of them. There’s more of you lengthwise—and if you die, maybe your body blocks some of the blowback.”
After some arguing, the Centaur was ordered forwards. Shaking like a leaf, he trotted closer to the rune and began countermeasures as the other [Scouts] took cover behind the trees.
Traps came in many forms: mechanical, magical, alchemical…this one looked like it was a trigger spell. So you figured out how to break or dispel the magic while not activating it. The Centaur had some powder he could apply to a weak spot in the rune.
…The problem was, he couldn’t find it. Twenty minutes later, the commander of the soldiers demanded he hurry up. The Centaur closed his eyes, prayed he’d found the right spot—and tried to neutralize the gold coins, which he thought would deactivate the rune’s magical binding without activating it.
The powder struck the coins—which vanished, since they were illusory—touched the rune, and the Centaur screamed.
“Oh no!”
Everyone dove for cover as he reared up. He realized the rune was designed to go off no matter what—if you defused it, you set it off!
However, the horrible scream or explosion never came. The Centaur, galloping away, looked back as the glowing red rune fizzled out. He stared at what was left…
A single copper coin, lying there. One of the Lamias poked her head out of cover.
“That…that damn Squirrel! Was this here just to waste our time?”
Shaky laughter broke out. Wait a second. Why would Foliana waste all her tricks on the outer layer of traps? An illusion spell had just held up an entire advancing force for twenty minutes! And the Centaur was clearly unharmed. Everyone checked for invisible gas, hexes, delayed poison, needles, and found nothing, and they could cover a wide spot.
“Well, what do you know? I guess Three-Color Stalker isn’t p—”
Whumph.
Everyone dove. When the Centaur finally raised his head, he heard something pattering down around him. It was…dirt. When he raised his head, he knew the trap had activated.
It had just taken a while for the signal to bounce down to the clearing and three other spots where soldiers might camp and trigger the hidden [Fireball] spells there. When the [Scouts] returned to the spot where the Jungle Tails forces had been, they found only a giant crater.
That was the kind of trap Three-Color Stalker set. The kind that terrified everyone, from the [Scouts] who realized they’d been spared because they couldn’t find her traps to the [Soldiers] who weren’t safe even with the trapfinders in front.
Some of Foliana’s traps were mundane and just—killed you. Trees that exploded with alchemical gel, pit traps that only activated when ten or more people were standing on them.
Others? Others were just—inventive.
One group of [Jungle Riders] learned that the hard way. They were returning from trying to catch Perorn’s ambushers and riding back to camp when someone began screaming.
“Enemy attack! Enemy attack! Kill them!”
Instantly, the camp came alive with panic. The Lizardfolk took one look at the riders coming their way and thought they might be fakes! They began loosing arrows and attacked their comrades in a blind frenzy.
Afterwards, they only realized their mistake when they found it was their own people they’d killed. But who…had been shouting the alarm? Someone—no, a number of people had cried out the attack!
In fact…the voices were sort of familiar. And they kept screaming as the [Soldiers] found eight speaking stones buried around their camp.
They were programmed to go off only when someone moved above a certain speed. Then—Venaz, Marian, Umina, and a number of other students’ voices would begin screaming that the enemy was attacking and they were imposters! The recordings ended with them laughing about it and greeting whomever had gotten got.
No one in Jungle Tails was laughing. Their progress, already abysmal, slowed even further as Foliana’s traps passed through hundreds of deaths in the first day into over a thousand.
Then Foliana appeared herself.
 
——
 
Three-Color Stalker nibbled at something before she hopped over the wall and into the forest. She was always invisible, but right now she wore the armor that had given her that name. She made no sound as she hopped over leaves, and she slid through the world towards Jungle Tails’ forces.
She faded…into…the shadows.
Foliana had known it would come to this. Even if Niers were here—it was always her role to play.
[Rogue]. He led armies—she killed people in the dark. Jungle Tails would not break because of a great battle won—they would break because they didn’t want to die.
Terror in the ranks. She nibbled as she bounded from tree to tree, eyes scanning ahead. She knew, roughly, where the enemy was. She had the ability to sense where her traps activated, so she knew their progress.
Keeping hidden was easy too—at least when it came to low-level [Soldiers]. There would be experts ready to face her. However…she outlevelled them all.
And she had tricks.
One of them, everyone knew. Everyone who knew Three-Color Stalker and would one day run up against her knew that secret about why she ate some foods like muffins or oysters to the exclusion of all. It was her calling card. She ate the food of her targets to get into their heads.
Not just psychologically. Foliana could literally see through their eyes. Naturally, everyone then tried to be clever about it. They would advertise their favorite food, which turned out to be a lie, or extremely improbable, like Salamander Peppers. Or, if they were being really ‘clever’, they’d list the favorite food of some enemy.
So smart. So clever. Everyone did that. Foliana rolled her eyes as she nibbled on her snack. They thought they knew her Skill…but the truth was, its utility was far more than finding one mark or seeing through an enemy [Spy]’s eyes.
She was eating a stick of pale, white super-sugarcane. A Nali-stick. It was sugar incarnate, and Foliana’s tongue went a bit numb from eating it. 
However, she didn’t know who—but there was always someone, especially in Balerosian armies, who loved Nali-sticks. As she approached a camp, Foliana began to taste color. 
Synesthesia. She found a perspective—slipped into it.
 
——
 
Yawning, the Lizardgirl ambled out of her tent where everyone was playing magic cards. She looked around, bladder overfull, and began trotting to the latrines. She had a terrible sore on her foot, but she was afraid to ask the Nagas about healing it. They were on-edge after all the traps, and no one wanted to be in the forest, but they had to be there. This was Jungle Tails’ time!
