She stared for a second, and Luan felt a chill. She was glancing straight at Noa. But she made it look like she was staring at the tattoo on Luan’s arm. Kissilt instantly went to look, and Luan gently pushed him into the water.
Amid the spluttering, Luan looked up. The amused Drathian was smiling, but there was a tenseness in her features.
“Can I hire any of you? Or can I at least ask why you’ve stopped? Is something…wrong?”
Something was clearly wrong. The woman glanced over her shoulder, and Luan saw the group of strange weapon-holders stirring.
Young men and women. Carrying giant swords, axes, and weapons larger than they were. They were apart from the soldiers and perhaps—superior?
Or just apart. They were all rising to their feet as someone staggered across the deck. The woman turned.
“You cannot come aboard. We are bound away from Baleros. Now. Something is…what is he doing? Stop him! Stop—”
She turned, and suddenly every [Soldier] was turning to something on-deck. The translation spell cut off, and Luan saw a giant, furry tail explode into view as the woman turned, suddenly—abruptly—worried.
Kissilt, swearing and climbing back on board the scull, nearly went into the water again as he saw that. However, all the soldiers were pointing now—and might have run forwards but for the discipline of their officers.
The [Mage] certainly ran, and Luan paddled back to see. What was going on?
Something was happening on the decks, and the [Captains] on the ships had a better view. One called down to Luan.
“What did you say to them? One of their crazies is…going more crazy! See?”
He was pointing to the people with giant weapons. They were all surrounding someone on deck. One of their own? The [Admiral] or whoever was in charge of the entire Border Fleet was surrounding them with an entourage the [Mage] joined—the high command of the Border Fleet.
Luan saw it all without needing explanations, which was just as well, because the babble of voices was incomprehensible even without a language barrier. They were shouting in alarm.
“Who are they?”
The Garuda [Captain] was flapping up for a view. She pointed at the Border Fleet and the strange weapon-holders, who, Luan noticed, were present on all the Drathian ships, including the main one. They were all staring. And all…known.
“Those? I’ve never seen so many. They’re the Drathian’s insane hunters. You know, like the Hunter’s Guild of Terandria? They don’t have adventurers like we do—but that lot goes with Border Fleets. Something…bad might be coming from the west. We should check in port. Though if they’re going it’s safe, eh?”
She laughed nervously, and Kissilt himself was alarmed. Luan felt the hair on his arms rising. All of the strange people wore very expensive looking armor, and they had been looking unfocused, not paying attention to Luan or the other vessels.
Now—they were alarmed.
“Exactly what are they?”
Kissilt was the one who answered. The Garuda had seen the figure everyone was surrounding, and she was circling higher for a better view. It was one of the older ones—but they didn’t tend to get that old. Mainly because of their occupation and class.
“Those, Luan, are the kind of Drathians no one stops on their business. Not even Rhir. If they’re about—something bad is coming. You know Border Fleets patrol the waters around The Last Tide? Those are the ones who kill…whatever comes back from the edge of the world.”
A chill ran all the water down Luan’s body. Kissilt eyed them.
“I’ve heard a few classes for them. [Doomkillers]. [Edgeworld Hunters]. [Abyssal Slayers]. Drathian suicide corps. See those weapons? You don’t hunt normal-sized foes with them.”
The only reason you needed a ten-foot-long blade…was if something a lot bigger needed cutting. Luan Khumalo saw the strange guard of the Drath and recognized the look.
Veterans like Gold-rank adventurers who had seen something that needed killing. Scary fighters who didn’t kill you because there was no point. Unshakable horror-killers who lurked around the edge of the world with the strangest civilization of the Drath Archipelago.
All that was a fine encounter. A memorable little stop on Luan’s journey to help Paeth on the Coast. Except for one thing.
“What’s that one doing, then? The old one? Looks like their leader?”
All the watchers had gone silent. Uncertainty filled the air—and a kind of terrible trepidation. Someone made a sound—Kissilt’s eyes went round, and Luan…Luan didn’t know what he was seeing at first.
His eyes weren’t good enough. It was the Garuda Captain who answered, her voice hoarse. She stared at the oldest [Abyssal Slayer] as the Drathian warship broke into the loudest shouting yet, and then terrible, terrible silence.
“He’s…clawing out his eyes.”
No one said a word. The entire warship was deathly still—then their [Admiral] turned. He stared across at the watchers—and gave an order.
A bloody-faced person was surrounded by his people, who hauled him below-decks. The warship began to move up the channel westwards, so fast that it surprised everyone. Luan rowed forwards and looked up at the decks.
They were shouting something, a few of the people on the railings, as the Border Fleet sped off. He kept pace with them as the [Mage] strode down the deck. There was blood on her white robes.
“Courier! We must go to investigate—cannot answer you! What did…‘Japanese’…? What do you…?”
The [Translation] spell was failing, and the wake the warship was leaving was threatening to capsize the scull. The woman gave up and just began shouting in her native tongue. Kissilt shook his head.
“I need to file a report. That’s…that’s really concerning.”
Even his bravado was gone. Luan just cupped his hands to his ears. Kissilt looked at him.
“I don’t suppose you know what she’s saying?”
Luan…did not. He wished Ken and Aiko were here, because the woman was clearly speaking in their native tongue. She—like Luan—knew how to speak to non-native speakers, so she was shouting only a few words.
He recognized one because it was so easy.
“She’s saying…abunai. Abunai.”
“What’s that mean?”
Luan looked at Kissilt, then began rowing towards Moxy without another word. They wouldn’t find aid from Drath. He answered Kissilt as he wondered what it meant. What was…coming.
“It means—‘danger’. Watch out.”
 
——
 
After so long of waiting, after so much—when Jungle Tails struck, they came fast. Perorn Fleethoof walked into Foliana’s quarters and found the Squirrel Woman sitting on her tree-home, nibbling on…
An acorn.
It was the strangest meal Perorn had ever seen Foliana eat. The Squirrel Woman was nibbling on the giant acorn, her teeth wearing down the tough, tough exterior, then she’d slap the acorn on the branch to exploit the cracks and get at the insides. She ate three nuts and then turned to Perorn.
“Mm. I feel stupid.”
“Why are you eating acorns? Didn’t you hear? Jungle Tails—”
“Is attacking. Yes. Mm. I was checking.”
“Checking what? Do some of Jungle Tails eat giant acorns as a favorite food?”
Foliana could, of course, use the favorite foods of her enemies against them, literally seeing through their eyes. However—she just shook her head.
“Nope. Just checking to see if I could live in the wild. Can’t. Acorns are stupid. I don’t see why anyone would bother with the effort.”
An army was coming down the road, and somehow…Perorn exhaled.
“I’m preparing to lead our mobile units on harassing missions. I’m afraid we might not get to Paeth or other Fraerlings—I’ve sent our forces, but we are going to be encircled. They’ll have to march through the wild to get there—but this is it. I hope you’re ready?”
Foliana hopped down and stood next to Perorn. She was shorter than the Centauress; few could ever be as tall as a Centaur, but she patted Perorn on the back as if she were a horse.
“Yes, I am. It’s time. Niers is gone, so they come for us. It’s time. Get me a scrying orb.”
“To see something?‘
Foliana looked at Perorn, and the [Rogue]’s gaze was clear as she sighed. Foliana adjusted her belt, and Perorn saw she’d put on some armor.
Three-Color Stalker’s armor. Foliana shook her head.
“Nope. So I can give…a speech. Then it’s time for war.”
Foliana’s war. Perorn wasn’t sure what proved this was a crisis more. The armor of Three-Color Stalker, a dusty, black hide of a monster that Foliana refused to name, that had lived in the Labyrinth of Souls, the last great dungeon that she and Niers had conquered with their famous team, which let her fade against the world like a shadow and protected all but her head—
Or the speech.
 
——
 
The sight of Three-Color Stalker on the scrying orbs was surprising to everyone. Especially her company’s commanders and officers.
She didn’t give speeches.
Foliana infamously gave one speech ever, and that was during the fundraiser. Niers Astoragon sometimes addressed the entire company or spread recordings around, but this?
This meant it was bad. Jungle Tails had reappeared, and this speech was being circulated on news channels—but it went through the Forgotten Wing Company first.
A speech. They all had their orders, but all the officers felt this might be…a bad move. Foliana was no speaker, and the average soldier, when told by the supreme leader of their company that all was well and ‘do not panic’—tended to do the opposite.
Although it was classic Foliana. The image of her reflected her giant eye, blinking at them at first, then she drew back and peered as curiously at them as her audience saw her. She blinked a few times, and someone murmured.
“Commander, you’re live.”
“Oh. I am? Do I begin now? Mm. Okay.”
A bit of whispering in the background. Foliana faced the camera, and Three-Color Stalker began to speak in a level, carrying voice. She looked past the viewers, into the middle distance, and her voice was composed and solemn.
“Mm. Two decades ago, the King of Destruction launched an invasion from Chandrar. He sent his armies sailing to each continent in the world, conquering, claiming lands and overthrowing kingdoms. He sought to conquer the world.”
Everyone heard the familiar…very familiar words. Jaws dropped. Behind the Squirrel Woman, a Centauress covered her face.
“His Seven were legendary. Each one could defeat an army, and his great [Strategist], the Gambler of Fates, Queravia, he sent to Baleros. Here. He sent his other vassals across the seas, to Izril, establishing footholds, battling his foes. But the world was turned against him, and the seas themselves sought to stop—wait a second. This is the wrong speech.”
Perorn had kicked Foliana, and the [Rogue] blinked. She tapped the side of her head as the Centauress hissed at her and then turned. She stared at her audience and muttered.
“[Memorize Speech]. I forgot to memorize the new one.”
She, Three-Color Stalker, had memorized one speech for over eight years straight? And forgotten a new one? It spoke to Foliana that people were not certain if this was her being…Foliana or a serious mistake.
The [Rogue] stared blankly at the camera and stopped someone from turning it off. She hopped forwards and stood there, staring into the camera.
“Okay. New speech. I am Foliana. Comm—Supreme Muffin Commander of the Forgotten Wing Company. The Titan’s boss. He reports to me. You don’t know me. I don’t like speeches. I don’t like having to lead.”
She looked straight into the camera, unblinking now, and her voice was conversational, placid—she seldom sounded angry or upset, and she didn’t now.
“We’re under attack. Mm. By Jungle Tails. You know it, I know it. Little rats know it. They laid a trap. Niers is on Izril. So it’s just us. And I’m not a [Strategist]. They’re coming to the capital with a big army. Really big.”
As motivational speeches went—this was shaping up to be one for the history books. However, Foliana wasn’t done. She looked ahead, up and past the camera, and then nodded a few times.
“I wanted to talk to you because you need to understand. Understand this: you have orders. Go follow them. I don’t know what they are. I don’t know who you are or where you are, but Perorn probably does. If you’re in my company, listen to me: Jungle Tails is a stupid name.”
Not one sound. She just said it, deadpan, and narrowed her eyes slightly. That brilliant, three-color gaze looked right into the camera, the only beautiful, unique thing on her plain face, grey fur, and nondescript armor.
Three-Color Stalker.
“They have a stupid-sounding name. Yes, they played us. Yes, they have an army. But they are not a Great Company. We beat them like a cluster of bananas being kicked around by Hydras. Now they’re back, and you know what? Mm. They’re not impressive.”
She turned her head and took a sip of water from a cup someone offered her off-screen. Foliana went on conversationally.
“They hid and waited for our highest-level [Strategist] to leave. Why? Because they can’t match him. Jungle Tails hid and had to scheme because they don’t have high-level people. Not like me. Not like Niers. Right now, they’re trying to win footholds. Other Great Companies are standing by, and lesser companies like everyone else are backing away and watching what they do because they’re inferior. Mm, but you know what? Their plan only works if they get enough land.”
She shook her head slightly.
“If they prove they’re now the next Great Company, everyone believes them. But guess what? They don’t have that. They want to kill me, take Elvallian, and make everyone believe they’re back. But they won’t. And when Niers returns, when the dust settles or something—they will have nothing if we hold onto what we earned. So. That’s my order.”
She stood back and stared into the camera for a good ten seconds. Then someone prompted her, and Foliana spoke.
“Hold the line. From the largest to the smallest member of the Forgotten Wing Company—every person who’s pledged to us. Give them not one inch of my ground. Not one mine. Not one city or village or latrine. Hold the line. Follow orders, but don’t rush to Elvallian. They’re coming here, and we’ll stop them or abandon the city. It doesn’t matter. Stop them where you are. We are the Great Company of Baleros, the Forgotten Wing Company. Not Jungle Tails.”
Foliana stood there another moment, looking straight into her audience’s eyes. Then she nodded and turned.
The image winked out before she finished turning. And that…that was a fairly decent speech. Even the Titan, watching his oldest comrade from afar, could admit that.
For Foliana, at least.
 
——
 
