She was going to probably get promoted once they survived this. If…the Lizardgirl hurried to the latrine and began smelling it. She put a claw over her nose-holes. She wished she had the private quarters. Still, she found a spot, squatted down—
 
——
 
—And that was quite enough of that. Foliana had put herself in worse perspectives, and she would have lingered, but she didn’t need to.
She had just seen the entire interior of the enemy camp, gotten a good look at their patrols and sentries—and learned the commanding officers had a separate latrine.
So Foliana headed straight for the camp. She eyed the sentries, and her eyes of three colors…began to see. 
Three-Color Stalker was not just a name. It was her class. It was…almost perfectly her class. Except for one part that she’d learned in that Named-rank dungeon, in order to fight down there.
Her eyes were a gift, three parts of magic. Foliana saw three layers of the world when she chose to.
[Three-Color Soulstalker].
The first of what Foliana saw was…intention. It wasn’t true mind-reading, like Selphids could do, but more like seeing what you were about to do. Like—were you about to turn your head? She saw that. Was something itching? She noticed it.
It could allow you, if you were used to it, to notice someone favoring their left side or about to pull a dagger. It also let her see who was going where—a limited foresight that could be tricked by the unexpected.
But very helpful in picking a route. 
The second layer made the world simply…glow. Different shades of cold and hot. Heat-vision was not the most impressive sight, but Foliana employed it now; it was still useful, especially because Lizardfolk and Nagas had different temperatures, like Drakes and Humans and so on. She marked a few Nagas in the distance.
Finally? Her eyes saw a Level 13 [Watcher] on-guard on her left, and two [Soldiers], Level 18 and 14 respectively, on a patrol.
[Watcher] was an interesting class. That was definitely to guard against ambushes and so on, so she slipped towards the [Soldiers]. She could see levels and classes—only an artifact or Skill could guard against her.
Foliana hopped into the Jungle Tails’ camp. Twenty minutes later, she hopped out and rubbed her blades in the dirt.
Then she moved on. She was alert, wary—but their leader had been a Level 31 Naga [Commander]. Nothing special.
Level 30 was not special when she had over twice that many levels. That was the truth of it. Foliana was sure some of them were brave or smart, and everyone had a talent.
She was just Three-Color Stalker. She visited three camps before the alarms began to sound, and people found the dead Nagas and high-level [Soldiers] with their throats cut, or in one case, lying in the bottom of the officer’s latrine. 
Terror.
 
——
 
Foliana was privately a bit miffed by everyone calling her Three-Color Stalker, which was synonymous with assassins. True…it was her class. But she had started out as a [Rogue], and that was how she thought of herself.
She was a true rogue. Not a mere assassin or thief…she had variance in her abilities and filled a role between the two. Traps and tricks.
But she had to admit—she’d gotten good at assassinations.
Moreover? Her kills were meant to terrify. Again—it wasn’t a numbers game. She could literally stab an entire camp to death. But she wanted to break their morale, and which was scarier? Hearing an entire camp was wiped out or waking up to find someone sleeping next to you had been killed and you’d never noticed?
And that was basic. Foliana was even more famous than other [Assassins] of guilds and organizations around the world because she was…inventive.
For instance, one slightly drunk Gorgon slithered out of his tent the first morning of her attacks and freaked out when he realized someone had covered him with liquid in his sleep! He shot out of his tent, screaming.
“Three-Color Stalker’s poisoned me!”
In front of his entire camp, he tore at the doodled muffin on his chest-scales. What had she done? Planted speaking stones, trap spells on him? His commanders surrounded him.
“Check your bag of holding! What’s that liquid?”
It wasn’t poison? If so, the Gorgon would have died when he slept, surely. It didn’t…smell that bad, so that ruled out humiliation. The Gorgon found an unfamiliar pair of objects in the bag of holding and tore them out. He tossed them down, and everyone dove for cover, but it was not an explosive alchemical potion or hostile spell.
It was an artifact, though. A small object, wrapped around a note. One of the braver Lizardfolk picked it up as the Gorgon began to make a faint sound. The Lizardperson read the note, looked up, and then screamed in horror.
 
Shouldn’t have removed the Resist Acid Charm.
—Foliana
 
The Gorgon, covered in acid, began to smoke and melt even as [Mages] and those surrounding him tried to wash it off with water spells.
Desertion began to become a factor after the first day of Three-Color Stalker’s raids. She went, mostly, after high-level targets, but there was a finite number of those, and the rank-and-file, faced with raids, traps, and an unkillable specter, began to revolt.
Hunter-killer teams were dispatched to find and slay Three-Color Stalker. She began leaving their heads outside of Jungle Tails’ camps in the mornings.
 
——
 
Five days was all it took for the Featherfolk Brigade to find Paeth. They abandoned burning the forest and closed in on a region of trees around the infested river by the coast. Then, they began felling the trees one-by-one.
No burning—fires vanished the instant they tried to light them. And the Lizardfolk didn’t know where Paeth was.
Not exactly. Their [Mages] only knew it was nearby; the magical signature was difficult to get a hold on. It was then, and only then, that the Fraerlings began to appear in person.
Tiny Tallguard swung out of the trees, firing crossbows. Mithril wire cut anyone walking into it at head-height. The Featherfolk Brigade found themselves fighting nigh-invisible foes with advanced magic.
…But the Fraerlings died if you caught them. One blow, even stepping on them—and they died.
Daly Sullivan heard Kessice reporting the fighting and made his choice. Luan, some of the Bushrangers, and Ken were absent from the United Nations company, but he gathered everyone else into one meeting.
“Folks. You know by now what’s going on. A Fraerling city is in danger of getting wiped out. Those bastards—Fezimet, Jungle Tails, his company—are about to commit an act of genocide. Wipe out an entire city to the last. They already destroyed one city.”
Everyone looked at Daly as he gave a short speech. The Australian felt…cold. His limbs felt devoid of temperature, but his chest, his head, and heart felt overly hot.
“Bastards. Why?”
Dawson looked at Daly, and Paige answered for him.
“Fraerling tech. They’re more advanced than any civilization in the world. And they’re not willing to surrender it.”
“What if they just gave some…?”
Someone began, and Daly snapped back.
“Not a question. Another city—Oierdressql—got razed by Tallfolk. Us. I don’t know how many died…”
“Hundreds of thousands.”
Paige murmured, and everyone fell silent. Daly nodded.
“They wouldn’t trust us and I wouldn’t either. Listen, that’s what’s happening. Luan, Ken, all of the company’s leaders decided we’d help Paeth keep hidden if we could. Since that’s out of the question—it’s time to make a choice. Ken’s trying to lean on the Featherfolk Brigade, and Quallet Marshhand is here. Maybe he’ll help end the fighting, but the Featherfolk Brigade are a huge company. And…”
And we don’t know where Quallet’ll go. He was sympathetic. When he heard the rumor about Fraerlings getting wiped out, he had what was a normal reaction.
That wasn’t right. That wasn’t good. Of course—that was wrong. A mythical Fraerling city of innocents being killed and looted? It was bad—
But were you willing to die for a people you’d never met? That was the rub. Ken had a treaty of names that was growing in length condemning what Fezimet was doing, but the only groups who were harrying the Featherfolk Brigade were the [Strategists], and they didn’t have the numbers to do more than harass.
Even the United Nations company wasn’t doing more than supplying Paeth. And yet…
Daly had had a talk with Umina. The Lizardfolk [Strategist] had claimed she had one last card to play. Paeth was still fighting to keep itself from being found. When it was?
She, Marian, Cameral, and Kissilt would attack them from the rear. Hopefully it would do something, but all told, they had mustered just over one thousand and two hundred fighters. More would arrive in a week or less, but they were outnumbered about forty-to-one.
Not all of that forty was here, though. The Featherfolk Brigade was spread out. Still—they had eighteen thousand soldiers in the forest.
Eighteen. Thousand. Quallet had half that. Fezimet had drawn from Talenqual’s garrisons to march on Paeth.
Daly had the Bushrangers, a few adventurer groups…and his fellow Earthers here. He took a breath.
“It’s not right. I know the Fraerlings aren’t our people, but they helped save Luan when he washed up on shore. They have done nothing wrong except that the Titan’s a Fraerling. So that’s why I’m saying that if Paeth comes under attack…it’s my intention to take the Bushrangers and join the [Strategists]. Get Quallet’s company and anyone who’s willing to fight—and draw a line in the sand.”
At first, they didn’t get it. After a second, Dawson coughed.
“Daly. You’re talking about challenging the Featherfolk Brigade?”
“Yep.”
Daly saw disbelieving looks. He clarified.
“We don’t attack them. But Ken’ll have his declaration, and…it’s the line in the sand. If they attack Paeth proper—it’s a battle.”
“That’s suicide.”
Blake looked at Daly, and the Australian man nodded.
“Yep. Unless we figure out some kind of pivotal strategy—and I’m hoping the [Strategists] do. But—hell, maybe there’s a chance. I’m telling you all this because you’ve got a day, maybe as much as a week, but I doubt it. You have to decide whether you want to stay, fighting or not, or leave.”
Luan had given Daly the crossbow the Fraerlings had made. It was a Gold-rank—maybe a Named-Adventurer’s weapon. The Bushrangers had Resk’s enchanted gear. They could punch at a Gold-rank level, maybe, with positioning and tactics.
Even so.
“You’re mad. This is crazy!”
It was Lorenzo who spoke. He’d had to have some of what was happening translated, but the Italian was clear about the numbers.
“You will die, Daly. There are too many [Soldiers]. You don’t have guns, only that.”
He pointed at the crossbows. Paige silently looked at Daly, and he folded his arms.
“A bit more than that, Lorenzo. We’ve also got bombs.”
Everyone fell silent—the Bushrangers knew, of course, then half of the company was asking how and why. However, Daly only wanted to know one thing.
Were they staying or leaving?
Most of the Earthers weren’t fighters. Ken and Luan weren’t. They were sympathetic to the Fraerlings. If it were a question of hiding them, of trying to help evacuate them, Daly thought…he hoped every single Earther would have agreed to risk it.
This? This was a war, and they had all seen enough to know what it meant.
“Geneva would never do this.”
It was Aiko who was one of the most vocally against Daly’s stand. The Bushranger’s Captain looked at Aiko, the [Nurse], and shook his head.
“I think Geneva’d be right here, Aiko. Just not in favor of us fighting.”
“You must be bloody mad. Geneva’s been against bloodshed from—”
Daly cut whomever had spoken off.
“Geneva Scala is a brave woman! She’s a pacifist. That doesn’t mean she’s a coward. I bet you that if she were here, she’d walk in front of Fezimet and his entire damn company and make them kill her before they laid a finger on Paeth. Well, she’s not here. And sometimes…”
He looked blankly past them all.
“Sometimes you have to figure out where it is. We left the fighting with the other companies because it was a pointless fucking battle. If it were just Fezimet running us off, I’d say let’s get out of here and try again, no matter how many times. It’s not worth dying for. But this is a city full of people that are in danger of being wiped out, and we can run…or stay. I’m staying. After this, I’m going to introduce you to some of them. Kessice, Noa, and Resk. And then I need you to think hard and fast. Because if you stay—the odds are you will get hurt or die. So anyone who wants to go, we’ll give you anything we can.”
Daly pointed at the ground.
“But I’m not leaving anymore.”
Then he went to introduce the Fraerlings to the Earthers and then meet with Umina, Marian, Cameral, and Kissilt. Daly began thinking of terrible ways to make his contribution to a battle…matter.
They had ideas too. By the end of the fifth day, the Tallguard were reporting casualties and combat with the Featherfolk Brigade ten miles outside of Paeth.
By the end of the sixth day, the Architects authorized the Crelerbane forces to take the field as the Featherfolk Brigade reached the five mile perimeter.
 
——
 
Foliana was growing tired of killing Jungle Tails’ forces. She kept doing it and heard from Perorn that they were deserting.
But there were so many. Day by day, more arrived, and they had already begun a siege of Elvallian. They were waiting for siege towers, but Perorn had been forced to withdraw into the city, and she’d tossed back their ladders twice.
When they took the walls, it would be a war in the streets. The academy would be last to fall.
Unless they broke and ran. Foliana grew more daring. She killed two [Generals].
The first in his sleep, though she had to clash with his bodyguard who noticed her—but couldn’t see her properly. Two blows on her armor—both stopped by the magical hide. 
The second she just hit with a Wand of [Disintegration] and ran for it before using [Lesser Teleport]. Fraerlings had given her that wand.
The third [General] was the toughest yet. Foliana sensed a trap the instant she realized that someone had deployed a formal compound—walls, buildings, and everything—some Skill.
She pondered entering it. However, Foliana was getting desperate. She weighed that knowledge against the odds of her…
Entering and killing everything. Short of one of the Jungle Tails’ highest commanders, she had levels on them. And she had yet to activate all her capstone Skills.
“Gamble, gamble.”
Foliana entered the compound after knifing both guards. She prepared thoroughly. 
