Even so—Luan passed by one of the Featherfolk Brigade’s barracks and saw someone had tossed yellow paint all over the walls. [Soldiers] were watching a jeering crowd of young Lizardfolk, ready to bolt at any moment. It looked like there had been more than just protests.
“Hey, Courier.”
Someone nodded to Luan as he came up the United Nation’s street. Luan did a double-take as he saw a Lizardgirl with a peg-leg.
“Quexa? What are you doing here?”
She and a squad of Gravetender’s Fist were casually loitering around. A patrol of Talenqual’s Watch passed by, giving them vaguely uneasy looks, but Gravetender’s Fist was not an enemy. If anything—Fezimet was courting them. The Lizardgirl grinned at Luan.
“Just playing a bit of guard-duty. You looking for your company? Quallet’s been talking with them all day. Ken just got back!”
“Do you need to be on guard-duty?”
Luan felt that this was a bad sign, but Quexa just waved it off.
“Actually—Gravetender’s Fist is filling in a bit for the Featherfolk Brigade. Quallet’s mulling over this big contract, but Fezimet needs someone to fill in for all the [Soldiers] he’s pulled to burn the forest. Bad stuff. We’re here because the [Druids] attacked.”
“What?”
Again, the Lizardgirl reassured Luan all was well. Much to his disappointment, actually.
“It wasn’t much. Not the Sea Shepherds—they’d have been scary. Some wild ones. A few hundred took shots at the walls and started conjuring some nasty spells. Swarms of insects. Some real ones. Yuck.”
She shuddered. The plague of attacking insects had lasted all of three hours while the [Druids] harassed the Featherfolk Brigade in short battles—then withdrew. Quallet had the unenviable task of making sure they didn’t return.
Luan wished the Sea Shepherds had sailed into port, but it seemed they were unwilling to—or the Iron Vanguard’s defensive positioning around Baleros to stymie the Titan’s return was getting in their way.
It was all connected. Luan just hated that the connections failed to help Paeth.
Quexa bid farewell to Luan and saw him drag the scull towards the United Nations’ buildings. A Lizardfolk under her command poked her head around Quexa.
“That’s Luan the Rower?”
“Yep. Told you we’d see him. I knew him when he was just some [Soldier] and we were a suppression company. Disappointed?”
The other Lizardgirl gave Quexa a big shake of the head. She and Quexa both watched Luan’s back. He was shirtless and still covered in sweat.
“Look at those back muscles! Skin is so cool. And weird. You don’t see that with scales. See how they keep moving?”
Quexa swatted at the other Lizardgirl.
“Get back on duty!”
Luan paid no notice to the conversation behind him. Luan, Luan’s back muscles, and Noa all entered the United Nations headquarters just in time to see a fight.
For once—it wasn’t who you expected.
Daly and Ken were arguing fiercely in the center of a small crowd, and it was exceptionally rare to see Ken red-faced. Daly was pale, but Ken was holding his ground.
“I am sorry if you are upset, Daly.”
“Upset? This is a disaster! You should have asked—”
“I couldn’t! Couldn’t—not—I made a choice. It had to be done or no one would help us!”
Ken was so upset he was having trouble expressing himself in English—both turned as Luan put down his scull.
“What’s going on?”
“Luan!”
Ken and Daly looked at each other, then began to hustle Luan into the back. Right up until Dawson barred their way.
“Hold on. You lot can’t drag Luan to the back. What’s going on? Ken came back, told you we get some Dullahans to agree to oppose the Featherfolk Brigade, and you started going off on him, Daly. Are we really all joining, uh…what’s that weird organization from home?”
“Greenpeace?”
“Sea Shepherds? The other ones, I mean?”
Dawson snapped his fingers.
“No—PETA. What’s going on, you two? Why do we care about a forest so damn much? Why not just leave with Quallet? Geneva’s not here, and we can rebuild. It’s better than staying here while everything burns down.”
Luan, Ken, and Daly exchanged glances. Kirana looked out from tending to bug-bites, and Luan glanced at Daly.
“Time to tell them?”
Daly was still white-faced. He eyed Ken and then shrugged at Luan.
“Why not?”
Noa murmured urgently to Luan.
“Wait! Paeth is—”
Daly glanced at Luan’s belt pouch and spoke, still eying Ken.
“It’s not like people don’t know. Guess what Ken just did? He told the other companies about Paeth.”
Dawson looked from Luan to Ken, confused, and the Courier turned to Ken. The [Diplomat] looked around levelly.
 
——
 
Kenjiro Murata had won an audience with the Commander of the Grasgil Blockade. Sure enough—they had metal from the far north that kept everything cold indoors and made up some of their arms and weapons.
A fairly powerful company, and another one that saw Fezimet as going too far. But since they didn’t share any actual borders with Talenqual, the burning was only bad in a broader sense for them. If anything, the Dullahans might privately think that if a Lizardfolk company wanted to ruin their future—all the better.
Then again, the Dullahans might not like watching part of their continent burn. Either way though—they had refused to see Ken.
Yellow Rivers vaccine or not, he himself was not permissible. If they sent Geneva Scala, she might get a highly unorthodox, sudden meeting with their [Frozen Commander]. However, Dullahans were highly rigid in their structures, and Ken had known his request for a meeting—even filed three days in advance—was unlikely to get him an audience.
He had still won it, relying on his own knowledge of Dullahans’ appreciation of humility, willpower, and…dedication. They had refused to let Ken into their inner keep, of course, and so he had knelt outside in front of the gates on the paving stones all night and into the day.
Nine hours, unmoving. Ken hadn’t come up with it himself, but he had thought it could work.
If…if you had the willpower to let your body slowly start to scream in the cold as he began to shiver, and then in real danger of dehydration as he refused to drink anything that Siri or the other Bushrangers escorting him offered.
If he collapsed, Ken thought the Dullahans watching him would respect it more.
It hadn’t come to that. Nine hours on the dot, he won his audience, and it was delayed another thirty minutes. Ken needed a healing and stamina potion, and was able to wash, drink, and eat a little.
After all that, even the [Frozen Commander], who actually had Everburning Candles to keep the room warm—such was the cold of his armor—gave Ken a respectful look and offered him a blanket. Ken knew he had one chance…but the [Frozen Commander], like the Medusa and Centaur, was not willing to throw down with the Featherfolk Brigade over a forest.
“It is a terrible decision. However. Fezimet has the authority as commander to do what he wishes. To side with [Druids] would be, I believe, plainly motivated by more selfish reasons.”
Commander Vitor was still very hospitable. And sympathetic to Ken’s cause. The [Diplomat] knew this because Vitor refused to call Fezimet ‘Commander Fezimet’, a clear insult. He used ‘I’, and his invitation to formality and offering Ken refreshments and the welcome blanket all said that Ken had his attention.
Yet…Ken realized the real issue.
“There is no practical reason to oppose the Featherfolk Brigade, Commander Vitor?”
“Not for a forest. If your company could offer sufficient recompense…I will not insult you. I have already received two offers from an unpleasant Drake and Strategist Cameral for sums that might be sufficient. Even the Forgotten Wing’s famous Fleethoof has made an offer. Were it Featherfolk alone, the Grasgil Blockade would take action. Not for Jungle Tails. Perhaps a coalition of companies…but we do not know why we must combat them.”
No company leader—well, okay. Most weren’t fools. They knew Fezimet was doing this for a reason. Ken looked at the Dullahan and saw Vitor’s head, resting on a pillow, watching him. So Ken slowly bowed.
“Commander Vitor. There are many things I may not speak of as a point of extreme honor and obligation, you understand?”
“You are a [Diplomat] of great integrity, I believe. This I understand—go on.”
“Thank you. Then—I may only say that Fezimet’s burning of the jungle is a terrible thing in itself. However, what if I were to say that it was not the only terrible deed being done? I cannot speak of it. Only hypo…um…hypoth…”
“Hypotheticals?”
“Yes!”
Ken flushed, and Vitor nodded. His body adjusted his head and sat up a bit more, with sudden, extreme interest.
“What would those be, exactly?”
Ken thought fast. Then he did what he had promised not to do, and what would lead Daly, Siri, and everyone else to explode with worry.
“Commander Vitor. Would you be willing to…sign a treaty? I regret that I do not have the wording, but perhaps it can be written here.”
“A treaty to battle? As I have said, the Grasgil Blockade is not willing to go to battle.”
“No, I would not go that far. Perhaps—a treaty that condemns and opposes the destruction—in hypothetical—of a sovereign nation? A city of people, innocent children. A species in hiding. Commander Vitor. Would the Grasgil Blockade support a Fraerling city in jeopardy from attack? Hypothetically?”
The Dullahan stirred. He actually put his head back on his shoulders and leaned forwards.
“Hypothetically…you must tell me more.”
 
——
 
Ken told Vitor. Then he went back and told the Centaurs. He had returned to Talenqual on the way south with four signatures from four companies, all condemning the attack on a Fraerling city. He’d even named it.
“Paeth! You sold them out!”
“I did not.”
Ken grabbed Daly, and the [Diplomat] shouted back. It was so surprising that everyone stopped. Dawson was just staring at Noa, who was staring back. Kenjiro stormed around and spoke to everyone.
“They must know! There was no reason to do anything—but a Fraerling city is different. They are not—not all without hearts. You see?”
A company would never move to save a forest—at least, most companies. However, innocent people? Children?
Fraerlings? Ken had realized it in that moment—he turned to Luan pleadingly.
“I had to tell them. And it is better to.”
“Why?”
Luan was shaking, but Ken just looked past him out one of the windows to the burning air.
“Because it will never be unknown again.”
It took Luan a moment to realize what Ken meant, then Paige, carrying Resk and Kessice on her shoulders, sighed.
“Oh. Of course.”
The Featherfolk Brigade knew where Paeth was. Not just Fezimet. Not just their superiors. The officers had to know what they were searching for. The soldiers would know too—or guess. A tree with little people?
Paeth wasn’t in hiding. It was already found. And Ken…Ken was using that information rather than waiting until it was well and truly useless. Even Daly calmed down as everyone realized Ken was right.
He was, in some ways, the opposite of people like the Wind Runner of Reizmelt. Knowledge was a weapon that worked only when you employed it. Nothing was secret forever and so Ken had his treaty.
“Condemnation of an attack on a Fraerling city. No pledges of defense or anything.”
“They would not agree. I…I will get more and find as much support as I can.”
Ken looked at Luan, waiting for censure, but the [Rower] just clapped Ken on the shoulders.
“Do it. I need to get back to sea.”
“You barely just got here. At least sleep or take a nap!”
Daly protested, but Luan was striding back out the door.
 
——
 
Jungle Tails began to engage the Forgotten Wing company in earnest after three days. And their forces reached Elvallian.
The contrast was stark. Lizardfolk armies were some of the rowdiest, most chaotic in the world. They were active, jeering, hooting at their enemies…right up until they met the Marshwalkers in battle.
Marshwalkers. One of Niers’ combat groups with a name. Ironically—they were mostly Lizardfolk.
No Nagas—just Lizardfolk. The difference between the two armies was stark, though.
Jungle Tails’ forces were a riot of sound and colors as Lizardfolk opened neck frills, cheered, chanted insults…and fell into an uneasy silence.
Mainly because their counterparts marched in ranks. They were not a gaggle of formations, but aligned themselves in order with minimal talking. They stared across the battlefield, and their opponents, fellow Lizardfolk, began to get uneasy.
The Titan had given Lizardfolk formations and discipline. Dead gods. The Marshwalkers were a three hundred thousand-strong force—split up across the entire company in the armies in which they served. Lizardfolk who fought like Drakes. And these ones were famous because they were all Lizardfolk.
They were experts at killing Nagas.
 
——
 
Perorn Fleethoof engaged the first of Jungle Tails’ forces in a three-minute skirmish as they came down the trade roads to Elvallian. She galloped out of a forest where it had seemed no one—let alone Centaurs—could have hidden behind the thin, young trees, and Lizardfolk and Selphids riding Centaurs loosed arrows as Centaur [Lancers] charged into a brutal melee.
Three minutes. It was so fast that by the time some of the officers heard of the battle, Perorn was racing off. She was engaging Jungle Tails with a far smaller force as Elvallian garrisoned its walls. However—Perorn Fleethoof wasn’t just the one who taught [Strategists] how to conduct hit-and-run operations. She was the textbook example. In her youth, before she had taken an injury facing Tulm the Mithril, she had outrun some Couriers.
Even now, her forces were almost as quick. Hit and away. Jungle Tails’ advance slowed as they came within reach of Elvallian’s walls.
Walled City, it was not. But Niers had still paid for the best and most deadly enchantments, and they were prepared for a battle. Aside from five trade-roads, the forest dominated the space around the former half-Elven city.
Perorn’s lightning strikes would have usually forced a far slower advance—so as to minimize casualties. However, Jungle Tails still pressed on. Faster, actually.
Mainly because…the campaign across the continent wasn’t going half as well as they wanted. Foliana’s orders and their strategy of diversifying their best forces meant that Jungle Tails’ reclamation of their holdings and stealing the Forgotten Wing’s had literally ground to a stop in some areas. The capital was weak, and if they took that, the Forgotten Wing was dealt a critical blow. Maybe even collapsed if the Three-Color Stalker and Fleethoof both died.
