The first thing she did was plant eight traps…at the entrances. To dissuade reinforcements. Then she activated an [Ivory Wall] spell—a higher-level [Bone Wall] spell—and entered the compound.
If it’s a trap, it’s for you, not me. No one was getting out via any entrance.
Foliana could get in through more ways than just a stupid vent or window or door. She stood at one wall, studying the inside. She spotted one of the interior guards rushing around as they noticed the wall spells—the alarm was already blaring behind her.
Level 32 [Stealthguard]. Huh. Niers would have headhunted this Gorgon. He hated being ambushed. There had to be at least three dozen people in this compound. Take them out and…
Foliana whispered her Skill. The same one she’d used to sneak up on the Fraerlings in Niers’ rooms.
“[I Stepped Through the Mundane World].”
Poetry. Why did the Skills want to make everything seem so beautiful? Maybe it just made sense to however Skills worked. An endless combination of meaning and abilities. Foliana felt nothing beautiful in it.
The [Stealthguard] noticed her phase through the world, despite her Skills. But she was fast—it wasn’t some slow transfer. Foliana leapt through, and the Gorgon whirled.
He had full-body armor over his huge, sinuous body, even covering all parts of his lower serpent-half. Tail armor…all to protect him from poisoned darts and dagger-thrusts.
A true [Stealthguard]. Foliana had one move, and it was to take the poisoned daggers that were enchanted with [Evercut] and [Blood Drain] and stab one at the Gorgon’s throat. He’d choke on his own blood or bleed out within less than a minute, and no potion he carried was likely to stop the bleeding or save him.
However, he had a gorget. A collar of metal to stop just such thrusts, and it was enchanted. The Gorgon was aiming to strike at her, trusting to the armor. But Foliana kept whispering.
“[My Blade Pierced All But Dragonhide].”
The knife rammed through metal and bone and flesh, and she twisted it out and leapt away. He fell, lashing, trying to remove the gorget, shout, attack her…and she ran.
That Skill didn’t work on Dragons or anything as tough as Dragonhide. And there were a number of materials that counted, much to her displeasure. But it was a Skill for Three-Color Stalker. Anyone lower-level than her could block nothing.
One more capstone Skill. Foliana knew that she was setting off sensors; the compound’s defenders reacted to her fast. Even so…she stopped and buried another spell in the ground. Then she charged ahead, rounded a corner, and began hurling poisoned needles. Dodged back—leapt over her trap—passed through a wall.
“No explosion. Damn.”
Whomever was inside had prepared—just not for her ability to maneuver inside the compound. Foliana [Shadowleapt] to another group—and ran into a trap.
“[Shadowcatcher]! She’s here! She’s—”
Foliana activated a talisman pasted to the front of her armor, and a [Directed Fireball] went off. It still kicked her like Perorn and compressed her ribs, but she used that to roll to safety.
Stalker! She saw the guards’ terror before she stabbed them. Then Foliana lay down. She used a Skill and pretended to be one of the dead Medusae as more guards passed by her. Then she got up and followed them.
Dangerous. Dangerous…Foliana was panting after that. Her ribs hurt, so she took another sip of potion. That was close. She was getting old. There was a time she could leap six stories, do a backflip, and run a thousand paces and not feel a thing.
Ah well. She got meaner the older she got. Foliana took a Fraerling-made tool from her belt and slapped it on a wall.
“[Insanity]. Have fun.”
She thought she’d gotten half of them. Half…but the rest were rallying in a larger room. Foliana squinted, but even her magical eyes weren’t seeing their exact levels. Was that damn [General] even…oh. Wait.
Oho.
 
——
 
The last defenders of the keep were waiting for their [General] to get here now. They knew the drill. They were specialists sent to murder Three-Color Stalker. Very…special specialists that even Dragontouched had claimed would be able to do the job.
The [General] knew how dangerous Foliana was and should have run to this spot instantly. However—sometimes you were just indisposed. There was no accounting for chance, and he just had to wipe.
Foliana’s mission was done, but she was going for broke. Everyone in their trap-compound died. She wiped her blades on the Gorgon’s cape and snuck into the final room.
“I think General Korht’s dead. I just felt his Skills deactivate.”
“Damn. This is a disaster!”
Foliana was just behind one of the doors, and she saw a few folding screens in the compound. Had they bought a Drathian deployable building and brought it for her? Or was this a Skill? Or did someone just really like the decor?
All things were very valid, but it meant she had an even easier time hiding herself. Although…
Five [Stealthguard] variants? No…Foliana had to focus to [Appraise] them. 
“[Assassin]. And an [Immortal Avenger]. Uh oh.”
Level 40, both. She was about to sneak off rather than risk fighting two when something caught her eye.
Two of the people in this room had classes she’d never seen before. They were a Naga—an ordinary Naga, not any other form—and a Lizardfolk respectively. They had odd weapons too. Foliana waited a second too long; the [Avenger] spoke.
“She’s here. I sense the killer. Haste potions, now!”
They reacted fast. Foliana sighed and unveiled the rest of her traps. She had three seconds before the first [Stealthguard] trio moved around the folding screen and saw her, stealth or not.
An eternity. The room exploded as someone saw her, and a billowing smokescreen swept the room. Then a summoned Griffin appeared.
“Summons! Kill—”
What was that sound? Foliana was in the midst of fighting. She didn’t tangle with the Stealthguard, she went for the only Level 40 foes. The Stealthguard were Level 30—and the two mysterious ones were Level 24 and Level 18.
The [Assassin] and [Avenger] found her in the smokescreen. Foliana pointed the wand at the [Avenger].
[Disintegrate].
The beam hit the [Immortal Avenger], and he survived it. But he screamed, and the Quexal writhed as his Skills protected him. However—[Immortal Avenger] was still hyperbole. And the [Assassin] was left alone for six seconds as the Griffin bought Foliana a moment.
The two tangled with each other in a blur of blades. They could have dodged, but Foliana would have closed to this anyways, and so they were just a flurry of stabs, point-blank dodges, and cutting Skills.
Foliana’s armor was better than her opponent’s. She took two deep cuts, but the poison didn’t work. [Greater Resistance: Poison] was a standard [Rogue] Skill, and Foliana had a few immunities.
He leapt away, the hired Garuda cursing. Bleeding out. He realized his potions didn’t work and fled with a wail.
He might survive if she didn’t track him down. The [Assassin] just bolted down the compound, frantically trying to deal with the [Evercut] spell. Sensible.
The [Avenger] was less so. He rose, screaming, empowered by his class—and Foliana [Sticky Webbed] him. The [Disintegration] spell had destroyed some of his gear, and so the webs anchored the furious Quexal to the floor.
He still was strong enough to rise, but it stopped him for what, two seconds?
Stabstabstabstabstabstabstab—
No Skills. No spells. She just stabbed him as fast as she could, head, shoulders, back—she thought she stabbed him sixty times before his Skills failed him.
The [Immortal Avenger] lay in a pool of blood. Tough. Very…very tough. And he had distracted Foliana for five seconds.
Five seconds—long enough for the [Stealthguard] to kill a Griffin? Not in what was less than twenty seconds of fighting. Not for Level 30 [Stealthguard].
Yet…Foliana never had time to drink her healing potion. She looked up and the Griffin was dead, and the last two, the Naga and Lizardfolk, turned their weapons on her. She saw their classes again.
Level 24 [Hailfire Gunner]. Level 18 [Treacherous Gunslinger].
She could even see the Skills as they activated on the Naga.
[Ammunition: Doubled Velocity]. [Homing Shots]. [Automatic Aiming].
Then the Naga holding the rifle opened fire. Foliana dodged left and felt impacts on her armor. Heavy, sharp—
What was that thing? She wasn’t an idiot. She saw the barrel swiveling towards her and connected it with the sharp cracks and assumed it was deadly. But she wasn’t prepared for the speed of the rounds that hit her armor.
They didn’t penetrate the magical hide, but they hurt. Foliana’s armor wasn’t enchanted plate; it could still transmit the force of an impact like the [Fireball]—and whatever was hitting her had way too much force behind it.
Arrows didn’t hurt nearly as much as—Foliana continued rolling, and whatever it was tracked her. It had a lot of projectiles! What is that thing? What is—
She was an adventurer. When in doubt—run or kill it. But then the Lizardwoman opened fire with a smaller version of the thing.
Strange weapons. The two called out to the [Stealthguard] to reveal and stop Foliana, but the Nagas were just as afraid of the weapons’ deadly fire as Foliana. For good reason, too; neither Lizardfolk knew how to use them.
Strange gear. Foliana deployed a [Forcewall], and it ate one round—she saw the projectiles stop, and the Naga cursed.
“Reloading!”
He pulled something out of a pouch. In fact, he had an odd vest on. Foliana had never seen that kind of cloth armor…she narrowed her eyes as she threw knives at the [Stealthguard] with shields.
Huh. It was patched on the side. With distinctly different thread. This wasn’t the Naga’s. Someone else had been wearing it.
But the two still had figured out the weapons. The [Forcewall] exploded as a single round from the Lizardfolk’s pistol blew it apart.
“[Magic-Piercing Round]! Loose, loose! [Prime Gren—”
Then the Naga squeezed the trigger and screamed.
“[Splintershot Volley]! [Ricochet Shots]!”
And everyone was hit. Foliana shielded her face with her armored hands and felt a dozen, two dozen impacts. The entire burst of gunfire was bad enough, but on full-auto it sprayed the room in truly astonishing bad marksmanship.
But those Skill made each bullet splinter as it hit a target and ricochet wildly around the room. To Foliana, it was like being hit by dozens and dozens of impacts. Her armor took it all, but it bruised her where she was lucky—cracked bones where she was not.
She had put her back to a wall and shielded her vitals. The deadly spray ricocheted upwards and tore through the [Stealthguard] and the [Gunslinger]—even the Naga screamed.
“Argh—”
That idiot had hit himself! And to judge by his desperate fumbling, he was out of ammunition.
“O-one cartridge left. Get the other things. Kill her—”
He turned to the Lizardwoman and saw her staring, glassy-eyed, up at the ceiling. Everyone was dead. Except for Foliana.
The bleeding [Rogue] lowered her arms as the Naga muttered a Skill.
“[Instantaneous Reload]—”
He lifted the rifle. he had lost his [Splintershot Volley], but she was across the room from him. The wild-eyed Three-Color stalker had no idea what tricks he had left. So she activated her Skill.
“[I Stabbed Everything I Saw]!”
There was no poetry or fanciness in Foliana’s Skill. Nor did she need to aim. The Naga jerked as a blur of dagger-wounds raced up his body. His weapon exploded in a rain of stabs, which was too bad, but Foliana took no chances.
She’d pick up the pieces and show Perorn later. The Skill stabbed the dead [Stealthguard], the Avenger’s body, the walls, the floor, the other dead [Gunner] just in case the Lizardwoman was playing dead…
And hit something else. She had an odd set of pants on, to match the Naga’s gear. And she had been carrying a smaller version of the weapon he had. A sidearm, looted from a dead Human who had appeared on Baleros. Among the things that the Jungle Tails company had looted, figured out how to use, and gotten classes around was an object that had killed more than a few.
Foliana’s dagger hit a grenade, and the entire cluster detonated. There was a reason she hadn’t used her Skill at the start. Sometimes you hit—
 
——
 
When the last surviving [Assassin] led an army back through the compound designed to kill Three-Color Stalker, they found mostly destruction. The two new weapons that no [Smith] had dared try to replicate—which had been [Repaired] and had no ammunition refills aside from Skills—were in pieces.
Everyone was dead. However, the [Assassin], tracing the carnage around the room, found a lot of blood that didn’t belong to any Lizardfolk. Quickly, he collected as much as he could. He pressed his palm into the bloodstain with some vindictive relish, then snapped at the commanding officer.
“Get me every [Hexer], curse specialist, and so on that you can. This is Three-Color Stalker’s blood. Don’t let her heal. [My Quarry Bleeds Out]. Your turn, you damn monster!”
Jungle Tails quickly spread word that their [General] had heroically—at the cost of his life—slain Three-Color Stalker. A rumor which Perorn instantly denied.
However—Foliana didn’t reappear on the battlefield. Perorn herself found Foliana collapsed against a wall, unable to heal as mages hexed her, clutching a piece of jagged metal. No potions or magic—they had to put her under a [Healer]’s treatment, bereft of Skills.
Then the siege resumed, and Perorn braced herself for the final battle. Only—without Three-Color Stalker. And the Titan?
He was still missing.
 
——
 
Crelerbane. Fraerlings in Adamantium armor, from head-to-toe.
They took to the field, led by Crelerguard Poire. Not all hundred; forty were now pledged to guard the evacuating citizens.
After much argument, Crelerguard Poire convinced the Architects to let her forces sortie. They had to. It was that or fight under the shadows of Paeth’s branches. And the Crelerbane forces had never been designed to defend, but attack.
They were meant to march into Creler nests and slay them. A match even for Juvenile Crelers. During the Creler wars, thousands had been sent to fight even Adult Crelers.
However, their armor did not make them invincible. The Fraerlings within were sitting in nigh-indestructible armor…but they were fragile. They were not Tallguard and could not maneuver. Signim did not work with their armor.
If they went out…they’d have to fight their way back. Even so, Poire demanded to try and slow their advance. So the Tallguard of Feiland supported their advance as fifty Fraerlings took to the field.
