The Forgotten Wing Company took up arms. It was more than one academy, obviously. More than Perorn Fleethoof or Three-Color Stalker. They were the ones in the capital, bracing for the siege.
Yet to the rest of their lands across Baleros, Perorn had sent every force that they could muster. Some met Jungle Tails in the field. Others faced the Iron Vanguard or Maelstrom’s Howling, daring the Great Companies to take advantage of the moment and make war.
 
——
 
“General Diomedes has abandoned the border with the Eyes of Baleros and is taking to the front! Make way!”
One of the Forgotten Wing’s most rarely-seen Generals was stationed on their border with the vast, deep heart of Baleros where the Eyes of Baleros, the Gazer-led company, existed. Thanks to his presence, the Gazers respected the border.
The Jungle Tails army had a high complement of Nagas of the Medusa and Gorgon persuasion—perhaps because they too existed near the Eyes of Baleros and picked up on the eye-based attacks.
Medusae, slithering forwards with their gazes of stone, Gorgons likewise. They could paralyze foes by themselves. With Skills and en-masse? They could almost turn entire detachments of soldiers to stone with their eyes alone, like the legends!
Well, at least lock them down and petrify the epidermis. Their confidence lasted as they marched towards the smaller garrison of the Forgotten Wing company occupying a city along the jungle, right until they saw the half-Elves with bows, sturdy walls…but mostly Diomedes himself.
Medusa and Gorgons slowly looked…up…as a figure parted the tops of the tree canopies, pushing aside branches. Birds flew screaming into the sky as a calm figure strode out of the wild heart of Baleros.
Of course—he had armor. Niers Astoragon had hired thirty-two [Smiths] to work on it. Armor for the General. He bore a single weapon; a greataxe, the edge so long it could cleave a Gorgon apart lengthwise and have room for more.
What scared the Nagas was the stare. A single eye set in a face. No—the eye was most of the face. One vast eye as the Cyclops waited. The General stopped…and leaned on his weapon. For the first times in their lives, the Gorgons and Medusae found themselves locked in a staring contest they had no confidence in.
Diomedes had outstared Gazers. One vast pupil on his face contracted to a point as the pure, sandstone iris glowed faintly. He waited.
 
——
 
A line in the sand.
As Luan rowed for Moxy, Kenjiro Murata sought an audience first with the Medusa Yuise, then the leader of the Sandskim Company. Daly and Paige met Quallet Marshhand.
That was the first day. The burgeoning blazes being fed by the Featherfolk Brigade suddenly came under threat as a squall blew in from the coast. Heavy rains.
In response, Fezimet hired his own [Mages] and forced his Lamias to counter the weather spells. It was difficult; the spells were practically impossible to ‘cut’, or so his [Mages] claimed. But by sheer, overwhelming magical potential they forced the rains to abate.
Luan dropped Kissilt off at Moxy. The city was buzzing with talk about the Drathian fleet, not least because they had hired [Mercenaries]—everyone they could. Drath didn’t need [Mercenaries].
There were enough, Kissilt assured Luan, good Drakes and so on to justify their visit. Luan rowed on, heading north. Noa’s lodestone bracelet reported Sentry Leader Ekrn and Guidance Heish would not be coming back to Paeth.
Every bird, creature, and possible Fraerling conveyance was being shot down by members of Jungle Tails.
 
——
 
The next day dawned with smoke in the air of Talenqual. The protests were getting violent. Lizardfolk almost never clashed with Nagas, their leaders, but Fezimet had begun chopping down trees—so he could pile them on the blaze.
Amidst it all, his soldiers were casually watching the United Nations company headquarters. They didn’t see much. Daly and Paige mostly met with Quallet Marshhand, who was essentially loitering outside of Talenqual by a good margin. He had accepted an offer for an as-yet unknown attack contract.
Not to participate, but to consider it. He was considering…a lot of things.
So were the other company leaders that Ken met. He was thirty-eight miles north by now, and a Centaur [Tribal Chieftain], a fan of the old ways, had a ‘Centaur city’. A flat, sprawling compound that was semi-nomadic.
She was not happy about the fires either. However…
“What exactly are you asking, ah, Diplomat Ken? For us to halt the flames with words? It seems to me—you are asking us to press this fool, Fezimet. It is my experience that words only work if something else is guaranteed when they fail. And my company is not as large as his. Nor do we wish to make an enemy of Jungle Tails, you see? Even the [Druids] are using only words.”
Kenjiro bowed again, but he kept his voice strident, chin up. Centaurs didn’t respect a lack of authority. And Ken…
“I must insist someone tries. My company refuses to let the worst happen.”
“The worst. Burning down a forest is a terrible thing. My people did it, and it changed the north forever.”
The Centauress mused. She glanced at Ken’s face.
“…Still, you’re no [Druid]. You were bold enough to come here, invoking the name of The Last Light. Yes, yes. She’s in your company. For a forest? My company will cut ties with the Featherfolk Brigade. There may be some unpleasantness afterwards or even during—but why must we act now? You’d have to be more specific than that, [Diplomat].”
Her eyes were very sharp as they focused on Ken, but his face gave nothing but polite regrets away. She let him go with sympathies, and he headed onwards. But as he wrote back to Daly—he was experiencing problems rallying support.
By the second day, the Iron Vanguard withdrew from one of their fronts with the Forgotten Wing company. The Dullahans had wanted one of the most valuable mines—which produced mithril, the very same mines that had supplied most of Tulm’s armor. Their siege only lasted one day.
 
——
 
“Cease fire.”
Xol of Ingrilt himself walked the battlefield. The War Walker, often the champion of Tulm himself, had been sent to take this mine. The Iron Vanguard only wanted one spot—and they were hardly inclined to join Jungle Tails’ assault. However, the Seer of Steel and Tulm had decided that if any one place were worth taking…
It was a mithril mine. However, it was not to be. Perorn Fleethoof had sent someone to halt the Dullahan’s takeover—and by the looks of it, stop the Jungle Tails’ advance in the entire region.
And in doing so, she lost one of their most valuable leaders in the capital.
Risky. Xol understood exactly how dangerous it was. However—it worked.
Dullahan siege weapons were designed in two varieties: against armored and unarmored foes. They had created modified catapults that hurled what was essentially grapeshot, small rocks and even nets to fight Centaurs. Nets, incidentally, were not kinder when they hit a four-legged person and tangled them, sometimes breaking all four legs.
And they had also incorporated huge, crushing rocks to fight fellow Dullahans. Xol saw one last Wingbreaker Catapult fire. A huge sledgehammer of rock rose into the air, found its target as it slowly rotated downwards, downwards…
It looked like a piece of stone about as large as a Lizardfolk hut curving through the air via a Skill. Wall-smashing weapons. It fell, and Xol saw a strange, vermillion light filling the air.
Then the quarried stone shattered in midair. Even the pieces seemed to fly away, harmlessly leaving a small dust-cloud—and a radius of debris, broken arrows, scorched earth, and melting ice for about a hundred feet.
A single Selphid stood in the Iron Vanguard’s path. A Centaur, in fact—and it was rare a Selphid had enough control to move a larger body like that by themselves.
But this one?
“Gloriam the Invincible. Cease fire. Their aura will take anything you can loose.”
Shamefaced Dullahans in charge of their siege weapons stepped back. Xol lifted his shield as he saw the Selphid looking his way. He struck it once and raised his blade up. A salute.
Behind the Selphid, the keep’s walls stood, not a scratch on them. So long as they were there—no one was going to scratch them. Same for the army.
Gloriam the Selphid, one of the most famous Selphids in existence. Gloriam wasn’t their original name, of course. They’d changed it to sound better.
Indeed, there was a lot that even the Iron Vanguard and Tulm didn’t know about one of the Forgotten Wing’s champions. If Xol could have shrunk down to a microcosm and squeezed into the dead Centaur’s body, he might have seen and heard something shocking.
For instance…the fact that there were two Selphids in the Centaur’s body. But Gloriam could move a Centaur by themself! They were famously large for a Selphid—not that most non-Selphids had any reference or could tell.
…Or had been. The interior conversation between Gloriam and the second Selphid was private. They could communicate, of course, but they didn’t…touch. Gloriam’s ‘voice’ was a thought in your mind.
“Xol of Ingrilt will face me, if any other. Keep us standing here.”
They were reassuring the second, nervous Selphid. He was a helper. And Level 21. What was notable here—was that he was maneuvering a few things. The legs, even arms and torso of Gloriam’s ‘body’ were under his control. Even most of the nervous system in the spine, in fact.
Gloriam’s true body was only around the chest and head. Enough to qualify as them piloting the body, albeit in tandem. Gloriam’s true form kept well away from their helper.
In fact, there was even a layer of gel at certain points that blocked either Selphid from touching.
“If—if we fight, Gloriam, what do I do?”
The younger Selphid was very nervous, but Gloriam reassured him.
“Just stick to our practice routines. But don’t…you’re intruding along the shoulder. Don’t touch me.”
A tendril withdrew. Gloriam the Invincible watched Tulm, keeping the Centaur’s face bland. They did not fear Xol—not any more than any other warrior. If the Iron Vanguard attacked, it would be a battle. Otherwise? Jungle Tails.
The Selphid had no fear of a War Walker or Naga. Spells, stones, arrows, and steel held little danger for the Selphid, even if they ejected themselves from their body and just lay there. However…they were still dying.
Piece by piece. So much so they’d lost over a third of their original mass, and that included memory and thought because Selphids had no central brain.
It was the Wasting, and only the necessity of keeping up appearances had convinced Gloriam to let another Selphid pilot the body. The Minds had once requested Gloriam join them—until they learned of the Wasting. Now? Gloriam waited.
They say a cure for the Wasting is being developed. But they’ve said that for a long, long time.
Until then, the Invincible stood there, daring the Iron Vanguard to attack. Xol of Ingrilt stared at the Selphid—then received orders from Tulm.
“Fall back.”
The Iron Vanguard withdrew immediately, and Gloriam turned to pivot against Jungle Tails and push back their forces in the region. The Selphid assumed Tulm had done the math and hadn’t liked the odds of Xol being injured or just the cost of victory.
However, the same applied for Gloriam; they had no idea what Xol knew and heard. The War Walker checked Tulm’s missive himself.
Tulm to Xol. Abandon the assault immediately and report to the port city of Vaunth at all speed. You are to board and join me at once.
At sea? The War Walker was on the march as soon as he read that. Something was afoot. More than the two companies fighting? He’d heard one of the Krackenbane Destroyers had been deployed. The Iron Vanguard had two. In the old days—they had been a match for The Pride of the Wellfar and similar ships.
Low, metal fortresses that could sink beneath the waves. Nothing like a ship at all; more like a tiny, floating island that moved using currents and gravity magic. Yet, as far as Xol knew, they were terrible at catching Couriers, and Niers coming via sea was the only threat he could name—if the Iron Vanguard even wanted to do more than catch him.
Was there something else out there at the moment? The Archmage of Chandrar? He hoped not. Lightning magic scared him.
 
——
 
Luan Khumalo had rowed—rowed over a hundred and thirty miles in three days. Not in open sea, either. Along the coast, up rivers—and he had secured a total of eight.
Eight people. That was to say, eight people directly, physically at Talenqual. He pulled into the harbor, and someone hopped out of the scull.
“Your speed, Courier. Impressive. Please. Accept this.”
The Dullahan bowed and offered Luan a bag of coins. Luan shook his head. He saw Lizardfolk eying him and nearly growled. He’d have to drag the scull to somewhere safe; they’d steal it in a heartbeat or take it for a joyride.
“I…I appreciate all you’re doing. No need for a tip. Cameral has paid it all.”
The Dullahan hesitated and proffered the bag a second time.
“It would be discourteous not to.”
So Luan took the small pouch of silver and gold and bowed. The Dullahan inclined her head, holding it between her hands—then strode off to meet Cameral.
The Featherfolk Brigade was watching them both. However, they weren’t certain of Luan, and Cameral’s rally point was outside of the city.
Luan had to lean on his scull for a second before he got out. His arms and legs hurt so badly that even a healing potion only began to heal it.
Moreover, he didn’t think a [Battlefield Master]—[Battlefield Mistress]? He didn’t know if the classes differentiated—would care. Clarell was one member of a Dullahan company marching by land to Talenqual.
But it would take a week for them to get here if the trade roads cleared. Cameral had demanded a high-level specialist, and Luan had carried one.
Eight. Not one under Level 30, but only eight. He’d get back to rowing…but Luan carried the dripping scull out of the water as Noa anxiously kept an eye out.
He needed to rest. The Fraerling spoke into Luan’s tiny earpiece.
“There’s so much smoke. I didn’t see Paeth burning—but the fires—”
The fires had begun to advance. The burning of the forest around Paeth was no longer a hypothetical. Strong winds were fanning the blaze forwards, and while strange things kept happening—fires going out, sudden showers—it was like tossing tiny buckets of water on a house fire.
Paeth’s magic was fighting back, but it could only extinguish one section of the fires. Hindering the Tallfolk.
