There they made their stand. At first, the Tallfolk barely noticed someone at ankle-height walking up to them. It was comical when they did see—a Fraerling in armor? What was the point? Then they saw a Fraerling raise an enchanted axe—and de-ankle a Lizardfolk. Then the [Soldiers] attacked.
A Lizardwoman did a run-up and kicked Poire as hard as she could. The Fraerling in her suit felt the impact—but she mostly heard the Lizardwoman break every toe. She whirled her axe, and the enchanted edge slashed the foot. Crelerbane weapons were designed to maximize a Fraerling’s reach.
“Crelerbane, give them Rhir’s hell! For Paeth and Oierdressql! Charge!”
The first few minutes, the first contact, was a relief. The Tallfolk had never conceived of Adamantium-wielding Fraerlings. They couldn’t use their arrows; the tips just shattered on the armor. Hit them? The Fraerlings were so small, and they used the Tallfolk’s fallen for cover. They advanced fast, as the enchanted armor added to their strength, and hacked at the Tallfolk from below. Eventually you’d reach their heads.
Brave Fraerlings. They were fighting Giants. Poire looked up as a Naga swung a spear, trying to jab at her. She felt the impact as the Naga tried to hold Poire down. The Fraerling just severed the tip of the spear.
If only they were truly invincible. The Crelerguard kept shouting.
“Crelerbane, you will fall back if your armor is compromised! You are not allowed to die! Tallguard—Signim free! Cover our backs!”
The Featherfolk Brigade could have retreated, though they couldn’t harm the Crelerbane forces from afar. Even a [Fireball] that gouged the earth out just revealed an angry Fraerling in armor climbing out of the pit.
So the Lizardfolk came at them. And a Fraerling could die when they dashed them against the ground, rattling them around in their armor. Or tore their weapons from their hands and ripped off an arm. Literally unscrewed the helmets and bit the heads off.
Poire saw that as a Medusa, missing a hand, screaming, killed the first Crelerbane guard. Poire charged into her side and hacked her way straight through the Medusa’s tail.
She had heard they had Tallfolk friends. She didn’t see any. She…understood.
So many Tallfolk. How had Feiland and Oierdressql fought, at the end? Thousands. Thousands of them could overwhelm even Paeth’s magic.
Enchanter Ilekrome had asked Poire if the Crelerbane armor sortie was necessary. She had looked him in the eyes and told him—
Someone lifted Poire up, and she hacked into a wrist. But they were trying to wrest her axe—! She let it go rather than lose an arm in the tug-of-war with a Lizardman.
“I’ve got one! I’ve g—”
Poire aimed a gauntlet up, and the Lizardman’s head imploded. She fell, looking for her axe. She found another weapon lodged in the ground.
“Requesting teleportation of weapons to the front.”
“We hear you, Commander Poire. Status?”
“One Crelerbane unit fallen. Count of the fallen?”
“Sixty…sixty-eight.”
“Crelerbane! Each one of you will take down at least a hundred Tallfolk before you expire! Watch out for grabs! Advance! Call in weapon replacements! Paeth—the Tallfolk have a leader. Requesting magical support!”
What had she said to Ilekrome? Poire ran with a longsword into battle. Ah, yes.
Someone had to die. It might as well be them. At some point…someone had to bleed. Maybe the Tallfolk would give up.
She didn’t really believe that. But each second she bought here—Paeth stood a little longer. Maybe help came, maybe they evacuated more people.
Crelerbane forces had signed up to kill Crelers. They didn’t fear Tallfolk.
…But there were so many.
A hundred per Crelerbane that fell. That was five thousand. Still not close to the entire Featherfolk Brigade’s numbers. But it would do. That was the number Poire demanded of her troops.
She even included the magical support they received. One of Fezimet’s Quexals, who were also his highest-command, was pushing the Lizardfolk forwards from a safe vantage point on a cleared hill of tree stumps. He blinked as she saw a strange flash from the trees. Was th—
The laser of light fired once, straight through his forehead. Poire shouted into her gauntlet.
“Nice shot, Paeth. Keep—keep taking out targets.”
“Commander, you are losing forces.”
Poire knew that. She could see it. But the Lizardfolk had to cluster up to surround the Fraerlings—targets for spells.
“Hold this ground. Casualty report. How many Tallfolk down? How—”
Someone opened a [Pitfall Trap] under her and the ground snapped closed. Poire survived by digging her way up through the earth.
They were waiting for her when she reemerged. She could have run. Or hid until they gave up. Or retreated. But—here was where she was making a difference.
 
——
 
The Tallguard had to abandon the field. Poire didn’t know how many hours it was. But she was proud…
It took the Tallfolk hours to kill them all. They were learning to fear Fraerlings again. [Soldiers] stumbled away, staring at severed hands, screaming as they clutched at severed feet.
Poire was…bleeding. She had internal potions built into her armor. The Alchimagi had calculated how many potions a Fraerling could ingest before it became poison, and then given her a third more.
She was out. Her insides were mush. The creators of Crelerbane Armor had designed it to soften impacts, but once the magic failed, the padding…
She had already gone blind in one eye. The Fraerling lay on her back.
“Crelerbane, retreat. Paeth? Are you there?”
She thought that her communication spells had gone offline, but someone replied.
“Commander? We cannot pull you out of your armor. The wards…”
“I have a report. I regret…I regret to inform Paeth on the Coast that the Crelerbane forces were unable to effect our kill-to-death ratio.”
“What? Don’t—”
Someone shut up the speaker on the other end. Poire felt someone picking her up, trying to tear off her helmet. She stared at a snarling Gorgon and grinned bloodily.
“We…have only achieved forty-six kills per unit deployed. I don’t think I’m making it back. Good luck.”
“Thank you, Commander.”
Someone was choking up on the other end. The last Fraerling on the field saw daylight as the Gorgon twisted her helmet off.
“Any last words, Fraerling?”
She spat some blood out of her mouth.
“Sure, you idiotic Tallfolk. Amend it, Paeth. Forty-seven per—”
The jaws closed over her head as she triggered the spell in her gauntlet. Too late. Poire’s armor lit up—then a hole opened in the world. Everything around it vanished, including the Gorgon’s head.
The Crelerbane left the field with three survivors. The Featherfolk Brigade bled. But they found Paeth at last.
 
——
 
On the night of the seventh day, Luan snapped a muscle in his shoulder.
Noa heard it, sitting on the scull and watching as he crossed the safer flat waters where saltwater met fresh; a rippling lake of two currents meeting and mixing.
As flat as the coastline got. Two moons, faintly blue and green, and the myriad stars shone down. Amidst all that beauty she’d never seen before, the horrible sound of muscle tearing, his immediate swearing, and groan of pain fit perfectly.
Perfectly, to Noa. Her great adventure into the world of the tall felt like that. Wonder, amazing and kind new people—and the knowledge that her home was about to fall in the background.
Even the injury didn’t surprise her. This was not the eighteenth time she’d told Luan to take a break, or the fortieth.
Seven days of rowing, sometimes replacing sleep with stamina potions. Not all delivering people; he took two contracts just to earn gold so he could hire another [Mercenary].
“Luan?”
She looked up and saw him grabbing one-handed for a healing potion. She saw his brown eyes glittering with pain in a face filled with sweat.
“I’m fine. I’ll…give me a moment. Just give me—”
He drank half the potion and splashed the rest on his shoulder. Noa didn’t think it would work as well as it would on some injuries. Torn muscle wasn’t something the body necessarily healed perfectly from with time. But she hoped it was one of Alchimagus Resk’s potions—they were restoratives, not accelerants.
I told you this would happen. Neither Fraerling nor [Rower] had to hear it. Besides…that implied Noa thought Luan should slow down. She couldn’t bring herself to. If she told him to take a break, it was only so he wouldn’t injure himself, so he could go even faster later on.
His callused hands had blisters despite all his practice, and they’d developed cuts from the stinging salt wind and being wet and dry. Luan stared down at his hands as they rested in his lap. Blisters fading, skin closing.
He took a sip of stamina potion next and gagged, spitting it out. Noa cautioned him.
“You’re past your limit. Don’t drink any more.”
“Got it.”
A shaky breath. Luan reached for the oars—and hesitated. She saw him working his shoulder, stretching it out, pain almost gone. But the shadows under his eyes didn’t vanish. He looked…worn down.
Olympian. She quite liked the name. An old name from the history of Earth. A championship of the greatest athletes across a world. It spoke to a place where there weren’t enough wars, calamities, or monsters to cancel such events.
Luan was the best sculler from his nation. He had on a skintight suit against the cold and water, but the Fraerling had seen him shirtless. She didn’t admire him like some of his fans.
Rather, he had the kind of muscles that some of the Fraerlings in Paeth had been drooling over. Again—not just fans, but [Combat Trainers], [Martial Artists], and a rare class: a [Master of All]. Someone who dedicated themselves to trying to reach a level like that.
Tallguard didn’t bother with Luan’s kind of conditioning. He had developed his entire body around one motion—pulling the oars of the scull. Most Tallguard were good at running, jumping, climbing, fighting—but Luan did one thing really well.
He had rowed across Baleros’ east coast for seven days. Right now, he was just tired. He kept nearly-reaching for the oars, but then resting. Another second…his hands were shaking with fatigue.
“Noa. Any word from Paeth?”
“They’ve found us. But they’re not attacking yet. They’re out of the radius of our spells. Camped for the night. Are we going back?”
“No. I’ve got someone willing to fight—I’ll try and hire them. It’s only…twelve miles from here. Only twelve. I’ll go there. Just give me a second.”
“Okay. When the attack comes…I need to go back.”
Luan looked at Noa, and his mouth moved—then he just nodded.
“Alright. I wish I could say I’ll be helpful. But this is all I can do, Noa. I will take you back when it begins. If I can, I’ll help. But I cannot fight.”
“I know you’re not a warrior.”
The man took a shuddering breath, then another. There was a catch in his lungs. He gripped the handles of the oars again, then relaxed.
“No. I’m not. I told you, I left the fighting in the suppression company I was in?”
“Yes…but you did help after that. You tried to save people.”
The [Rower] looked past Noa, across the beautiful waters. It would be tempting to just…row off and leave bloody Baleros behind. If only they could.
“Yes, Noa. I did. But that was because I forgot something. Now? I’ll never forget. I cannot die. Not yet. Not until I go home.”
She looked, twisting sideways, and saw the golden lettering, the tattoo on his skin. Two names. Luan stared down at them.
“No one else is married. Some have sweethearts. But not one of the United Nations company has children. Geneva’s the only one who’s my age, and she’s still in university. Forgive me. Even for Paeth…when we go, I will do all I can. I don’t want to die, Noa.”
No one did. The Tallguard turned back without a word.
“You did more than I could.”
“Thank you for saying that. I’ll…”
The oars lifted and splashed into the water again. Luan exhaled. He was fighting his body, which wanted nothing more than to stop. So he turned to Noa.
“How…tell me how many children are in Paeth.”
“What?”
Luan hunched over, squeezing his eyes shut.
“Motivate me. Tell me how beautiful Paeth is. Tell me you’ll take me to visit again. Shrink me down so I can fly about. Show me your beautiful buildings and things to do inside. Turn me into a giant chipmunk or something.”
Noa smiled faintly.
“I promise we’ll do that. You can play our sports. Yours are funny. I bet the Architects will make all your games. Football, basketball…we have games like that. Paeth has so many amazing things. I just got bored of all of them because it was so small.”
She gazed out across the waters.
“When this is over, Luan. Maybe you’ll drop me off near Elvallian? Or I’ll go to another city. Or…somewhere else.”
“You still love the rest of the world? After this?”
Noa just pointed across the waters where fish were jumping, catching dragonflies and other bugs that skimmed across the water, naively thinking they’d found something bright while it was just the reflection from the sky.
“I like it all. Just not the Tallfolk.”
“Fair.”
Noa shook her head. She wiped at her eyes and got saltwater in them. She kept blinking as she went on.
“It’s like Resk said. You don’t have much. Your cities don’t have any magic. Not even clean water.”
She’d seen villages and cities like Talenqual on their long trip. Even the biggest ones weren’t Paeth. Yet that wasn’t the Tallfolk’s fault, was it?
“We have the Plans and the Architects and our Last Boxes. You don’t. I asked Ekrn once, why we never did anything, and he said…‘we don’t help the Tallfolk because they have problems too large for us.’ But we could have helped. We could have given magic.”
Luan watched the younger Fraerling turn to look up to him.
“Resk told me you did. It backfired. I don’t blame Paeth for acting like they do. Look at what’s happening.”
“Right. But sometimes…I think we’re just selfish. Selfish, afraid Fraerlings. We act as small as we look. Then—then they come and our Crelerguard fight them and…”
Noa’s shoulders shook. They’d gotten the news as dusk fell. Luan clenched his hands on his oars. Without a word, he began to row. Slowly—long sweeps carrying them forwards. Only after a few minutes, as the rhythm began, did he say anything.
