“Easily.” Bacci said, “But there’s a chain of events that happens when a place like the sewerhouse is attacked.” She turned to Savral. “What would your father want us to do?”

“Preserve the secrecy of the trap. We go out and chase away any guards that might be snooping.”

“Right. Okay.” Bacci rolled her shoulders, then raised her arms towards the river. “Follow the path, walk up the stairs. I’ll go last.” Purple glitter extended into the water, pushing it aside as the [Ward] made a path to the left. She lowered her arms and stepped into the tunnel through the water. “Should be good.”

Savral took point. He was weaponless, just as he had been at the start of all this, but he had his claws and his armor. Bacci waved Erick and Jane forward into the tunnel with her. Jane walked forward. Erick almost had to be pulled inside, but a pointed glare from Jane set him to rights.

They walked in the darkness, forward through the river. The [Ward] tunnel ended in an upward path. Most of the river rushed to the side, but a lot of it rushed up that path, until Bacci created another [Ward], completely encapsulating the space. Up they went, hands slightly out so they didn’t slip on the stone and fall back down.

The upward path took them through winding tunnels, up, down, then through another twist, finally ending in a great opening with a familiar light on the other side. A huge vault door hung open at the end of the tunnel, into a familiar space beyond. Bacci had to reapply her [Ward] a few times for them to get here, the river hugging the back of the last [Ward] all the way to this point; the main room of the four settling pools. The four smaller metal doors in the room were also open, but two of them had been battered inward hard enough to twist the metal into the frame.

Savral hopped into the main room and cast those five drops of light again before moving off to the side, to the nearest settling room. He looked in the room. He cast some sort of spell, blinking black light into the air that rolled outward, touching walls and continuing to bounce, but seeming to do nothing.

“I don’t see or sense anyone.” Savral frowned. “The Mage Guild isn’t going to be happy.”

“Check the other rooms, Savral.” Bacci stepped into the main room and threw a massive [Cleanse] into the center. She smiled as the air cleared. “That’s a bit better.” She turned around and gestured for Jane and Erick to come forward. “Pop a damage absorbing ward if it looks like we have trouble, Jane.”

Both of them stepped down into the room. The three of them, together, watched Savral move from room to room, closing the doors as he went. When he came to a broken door, he cast [Mend]. Metal untwisted, popping the metal door back into a proper configuration. Savral then closed those doors, too. When all four settling room doors were closed, he moved back to the large vault door. Bacci made a smaller, more localized purple ward over the space that the vault door would occupy when closed. Savral closed the vault door, locking it tight, then [Mended] the whole thing three times. The vault metal moved slighty after the first [Mend], then slightly again after the second. The third [Mend] did nothing.

Bacci dismissed the tunnel [Ward], waited a second, then dismissed the [Ward] over the vault door.

A tap of water hit the other side of the vault door. There were no leaks.

The rest of the night passed in a slowly unwinding terror as no other dangers appeared. The city guards appeared, of course, but Savral was the one charged with giving the official report. Erick and Jane, as they were both guests and new in town, were side-eyed by the guards, but they were not officially questioned. Savral even stepped in when two guards tried to ask unofficial questions, on two different occasions. Bacci resumed her guise of a scared girl.

The city guard took it upon itself to guard the Sewerhouse for the remainder of the night, but they were not allowed inside. Apparently, Jane and Erick’s jaunt into the inner workings of the Sewerhouse was quite an anomaly, and both Savral and Bacci told them so on multiple occasions.

Besides the guards doing their guarding duty, Bacci asked Erick to help her [Cleanse] and [Mend] the various broken parts of the Sewerhouse. The river had gone all the way up out onto the street, though the guards took care of that specific cleanup. During the interior cleanup, it became apparent that Al’s office and the three Rest rooms were ruined by more than just the river. Burn marks decorated a lot of the space. Why the intruders would have bothered fireballing this space, no one had any idea.

While Erick and Bacci cleaned and repaired, Jane and Savral made dinner. When they finished, it was a late dinner, but it was good. They were all alive, and the danger had passed.

The investigators would be out tomorrow to [Scry] and [Witness] Savral’s story for themselves, but for now, it was over.

Al showed up at midnight, angry as a rabid dragon when he saw the city guards standing guard, but his anger quickly dwindled as Savral stepped into view, safe. Al broke into tears, rushing his son and almost crushing the large dragonkin in his orcol arms. It was good that Bacci, Erick, and Jane were alive, too, but none of them mattered to Al as much as Savral mattered.

Al’s anger at seeing what remained of his office, though, that would stick around for a while.

- - - -
