It was his custom, before he left, to survey his city. Not if he just stepped out the door for a quick daytrip, but when he left on a journey. It had been a while since Saliss did it last, but he stood on the roof of the alchemist’s workshop, gazing down.
The inner rings of Pallass sank below his eyes as tiny elevators rose and gears whirred endlessly; a children’s box, an engineer’s fancy, all the way from the inverted pyramid to everything else in his City of Inventions.
It was a strange Walled City, you had to admit. Saliss knew history, real history, and the other Walled Cities hadn’t been like this. Heck, Pallass hadn’t even been a Walled City at the start, just a quirky village of [Engineers].
It hadn’t set out to be some grand edifice, like Salazsar’s lofty towers, floating Fissival, or Mershi, that city that declared itself to have mastered the stars. Pallass had always been noisesome, chaotic, and in a way, unpretentious. It was just the people inside who forgot.
The Drake spread his arms as he let the rising sunlight bathe his orange scales. He stood naked above the city as it woke and wondered how he would return. With head held high or quietly, ashamed of what he’d done? Would he return at all? It was always a chance, even if this wasn’t a deadly mission on the outset.
“I’m going for a while. Take care of yourself for me, would you?”
He wasn’t sure if he spoke to Mirn and those like him, the city itself, or the people down there. There would be no Saliss of Lights if Wyverns attacked. But they had Grimalkin and themselves, and that had to be enough, right?
He wasn’t sure if he loved this city or hated it. If it lifted him up to this 9th floor or was the weight around his ankles. Saliss knew how he felt about people…but the city? He liked the ambiguity, sometimes. Because he couldn’t say his decades of service, his time here, his grief, and his triumphs had been in vain. Not to Pallass itself.
“Time to go.”
Saliss inhaled the fumes of alchemy, that acidic tang filling the air from the alchemists already at work in the morning. He smiled as someone slapped a broom on the roof tiles.
“Saliss! Saliss, get off my roof!”
Xif was howling below, waving a broom as two of his [Alchemist] apprentices stared up at Saliss. Which was not his best side; Saliss dodged an empty potion bottle with a flick of the leg and pirouetted.
“Goodbye, Xif! I’m off to the New Lands! I’ll miss you!”
He blew a kiss at the Gnoll, who shouted back.
“You always do this! Shoo, shoo! Someone give me something to throw at him—”
The apprentices were too scared to huck things. They must have been new. Saliss didn’t move his feet, but swayed at the hips, dodging a collection of objects. Stained beakers, pieces of cobblestone, an empty alchemical bin…he snagged a piece of glass out of the air.
“Ooh. 50 mL graduated cylinder? I needed one of these. Thank you, Xif! Don’t cry. I’ll bring you some dirt as a souvenir.”
So saying, he pocketed the glassware, and Xif shook his fist as Saliss leapt down to the railings and walked along the edge of the 9th floor, a sheer drop down to the 8th below him. An elevator attendant waiting for passengers turned and glanced at Saliss, but he was so normalized that the Dullahan barely gave him a second glance.
“Don’t hurry back on my account! And you’d better get me whatever’s interesting there! Don’t you dare send me monster dung like last time! Farewell, Saliss! No one likes you!”
More [Alchemists] were poking their heads out their windows, disgorging colored smoke, to see what the fuss was about. They too called out to Saliss as he waved, rolling his eyes.
Silly old Gnoll. If only Saliss could view this as a true adventure and not…work. Work for people he hated at that. He sighed. Tomorrow morning, bright and early, he had to be on the 10th Floor for his ride with General Idiot and crew.
The New Lands were calling. Not just Edellein, it seemed.
Saliss could hear them. Like a voice singing, calling him southwest like the legendary ‘Sirens’, a long-dead monster species. An alluring, charming voice that spoke death and adventure.
He loved it. He hadn’t felt that draw for a lifetime, but he had resisted it, because here was where he was needed, and he’d been right.
The Goblin King. Saliss clenched one clawed hand and wondered, again, how he was alive. He had run into a battle he was unprepared for, and only the miracles of The Wandering Inn had allowed him to survive. He was grateful, of course, but still…
This was why he had stayed. For moments like that. Saliss had been expecting to have to murder his way through hundreds of would-be [Assassins] from Roshal, Erribathe, the Blighted Kingdom, and so on to defend Erin’s home in her absence.
He’d only had to kill three. And after the Goblin King, maybe, just maybe…the inn would be safer? He could only hope, because his orders were taking him south, and he could not easily refuse them nor that call.
Still. As the Drake descended the 9th Floor, he walked with a certain lightness, waving at people, smiling, but in a way that even Pallass’ citizens could tell was off. So they slowed and gave the annoying orange Drake a second look. Called out to him, because there was something in the air. Like the scent of alchemy—a mysterious feeling that drew the eyes.
He truly did say goodbye each and every time before he left on an adventure. A true adventure. You might not come back from those.
 
——
 
Oops. Saliss was on the 4th Floor when he noticed the eyes and realized his aura was leaking. He pulled it back under his skin, shaking his head.
“What am I, an Erin?”
That reduced the staring somewhat. But the Drake decided it was okay and let just a tinge of who he was, the abundance of his soul, permeate his scales.
Auras were a funny thing. Everyone had them. Everyone could train them. But like classes, they were weighted towards the ‘important’ people. A [King] had one exponentially stronger than anyone else of their level.
Saliss could manifest his because, well, he was over Level 50. Because his class was sort of cool. He liked to think he’d surprise another aura-expert with his tricks, but he wasn’t about to aura-slap a Titan like Magnolia Reinhart.
Your aura was just like your class. In time, it defined who you were. The signature of your being, more complete than any mark or stamp. He had stood in Torishi Weatherfur’s presence, and hers could conjure the very sun.
Dead, now. Saliss thought of her. He thought of fallen comrades. So he said his goodbyes seriously enough. For him, it was all he could do. Honesty and Saliss didn’t mix.
“Hey, Watch Captain Qissa! I’m off for the New Lands! I know, I know. What will you do without me?”
He shouted as he kicked the door to her office open, swarming into the 4th Floor’s Watch House so fast that the Desk Sergeant didn’t have time to stop him. The groan from the desk was of resignation, anyways.
Watch Captain Qissa was his favorite Watch Captain to annoy and just in general. The Drake with her scars from fighting gangs and monsters and her ink-black scales under both eyes complimented her rust-red scales wonderfully. Saliss loved beautiful things, be it alchemy or otherwise—but he loved beautiful things that were beautiful because they had been crafted, improved.
Natural beauty was easy; it was luck. Qissa was a former [Gangster]; she told people those ink-black scales were hereditary. There had used to be the Inktear Gang who dyed their scales like that. She’d quit, turned a new leaf over, and become a Watch Captain.
Saliss liked that story because Qissa never told it. He doubted other Watch Captains knew it unless they’d been around when the Inktear Gang was terrorizing westward cities in Pallass’ aegis.
Now, Qissa was a Watch Captain, and she’d be a good Watch Commander when the time came. He was glad that Liscor had got Venim. If they’d stolen Qissa, he’d actually have gotten annoyed.
The Watch Captain’s reaction to Saliss was to jump at her desk.
“Saliss! What now—?”
Her look of frank alarm was his fault. First he’d put the Turnscale business on her, then he’d been a bit more annoying than usual of late. She registered his comment and relaxed.
“The New Lands? Oh.”
Saliss grinned.
“Less work for you, right? No, don’t cry. Here.”
He offered her a box of tissues, and she swatted at it. Held his eyes for a second, and he felt bad. She believed in the law, and he was one of those things that existed outside of it. Too powerful to control, too well-connected to censure. Needed.
He was the Watch Captain of Pallass for the rules only he decided, only he could enforce. Zevara disliked Erin for good reasons. Qissa should hate him too. She’d seen more than enough of what he could do when he wanted to. Of late especially.
 
——
 
“Saliss. What—?”
The Drake had made too much noise in the last encounter. He was patiently waiting over the dead body as the squad of [Guards] surrounded him.
“Hey, Qissa. Sorry, this is the third one this week. Tell your kids to turn around, would you?”
He had a vial of strong acid in one hand, and he’d already looted the would-be [Assassin]. Qissa didn’t see black clothing, though. Just a dead Drake. Who wore the midnight black of a killer except when they were already in position? Saliss had to explain that, of course.
“A hired killer? You’re sure?”
“My eyes don’t lie.”
“Do they have any identification? Do you have any proof?”
“None on ‘em. But I do have proof.”
“I need to see it.”
“Here.”
He handed her a few documents she couldn’t read. The magical cipher made the words swim on the page, and she stared at the mark on the upper right corner.
“The Eyes of Pallass?”
“Good luck on getting them to share the cipher, but yeah.”
Saliss knew they were watching. Qissa’s head swung around, and maybe she spotted a few of them, but they were shy. Especially around him.
“Did they authorize this? Saliss, this looks like…”
Some of the new [Guards] were giving him the side-eye. They had never seen their funny Named-rank doing anything serious like this save for the Wyvern attack. Qissa would probably have to swear them to silence. Work for her. Saliss felt bad.
“This one put up a fight. Took a few minutes.”
“We don’t have a kill-on-sight policy for any foreign agents except Taimaguros or Jungle Tails or…”
“I know, and I know. This one was heading to Liscor.”
For the inn. No one had told him to do this. Chaldion might have if he were still able to lead, but he also might have okayed all this. It had been Saliss demanding reports from the Eyes, Saliss who’d operated alone.
Qissa stood there as the Named-rank Adventurer began to pour the liquid over the body. He saw her piecing the clues together.
“Saliss…”
“Yes, Qissa?”
He gazed up at her from where he squatted. Pallass’ protector. She knew that too. He had warded his City of Inventions from everything he didn’t like. Roshal’s [Slavers] disappeared here. Adventurers with less-than-sterling reputations found other places to live. Even Named-ranks.
No [Assassins] passed through here on missions he didn’t like. The Guild in the south had long since abandoned putting contracts on Saliss.
This killer had been high-level. Sent by Roshal as far as the Eyes could tell. Even they had limits on how many they were willing to send to die. If Lord Xitegen and his surprisingly sneaky Golems held the north passages and the Unseen Emperor his lands, then it was just Invrisil’s door that the Thronebearers had to hold.
The Watch Captain watched Saliss dissolving the evidence.
 
——
 
The Thronebearers of Calanfer had done well, and they had an [Assassin] of their own at the inn. They should be fine.
He had to trust that. Saliss glanced at Qissa as she sat there, then turned.
“Right! See you!”
“Saliss.”
She rose from her desk, and when he glanced back, she held out a claw. He came over and shook it, smiling, that clown annoying a dignified Watch Captain. But Qissa’s touch was just firm and gentle.
“The New Lands? I heard a huge expeditionary force was heading south under General Edellein.”
“Yep. Too large, probably. But what do I know?”
Her eyes flickered, and she frowned. But then she nodded.
“So you’ve been called in. The city will miss your protection.”
“Aw, what do they need me for?”
She shook her head slightly. Glanced down at the floor, where the [Guards] were probably listening in; the door was ajar. To his surprise, Qissa gazed up at Saliss and studied him a long time. He’d wondered if she’d balk when he threatened her over Turnscales. Or if seeing him kill more [Assassins] was the bridge too far.
That would have hurt. He’d have found another Watch Captain to annoy, though. But Captain Qissa just remarked in a level, carrying voice—
“Sometimes I think that Pallass and its cities don’t realize what you do for us, Alchemist. We will have a harder time without you. Did you know Liscor offered me the job of Watch Commander?”
“I know Venim took it. Not interested?”
He didn’t understand this line of conversation, but Qissa just smiled at him. It was so unlike her usual glower that he wondered if she was sick.
“I thought Watch Captain Zevara would take the job, honestly. And I was worried that if I took the post—how would I replace her? I did some digging into her background, and she went up against the Soot gang, I heard. For ten whole years she fought a war on Liscor’s underworld, alone. How do you replace that?”
“The Soot gang? Never heard of them. Must be small fries. How could a Watch Captain of Liscor be more important than a Pallassian [Guardsman]?”
Saliss lied. The Soot gang had run deliveries across the border. Not big, but not unimportant. Qissa snorted. She folded her claws and turned to a map of their holdings, a huge splotch that reached just south of the Bloodfields and spread out across the trade routes. Not all-encompassing, but Pallass ‘held’ a huge amount of territory.
“She held them alone. She got backup in the form of the Gecko and the Antinium, but that was her fight. Where would Pallass be if we didn’t have our Named-rank [Alchemist]? Even when I was a teenager, you were there.”
“Uh, don’t mention my age. I’m sensitive about that.”
She grinned, then studied the far wall.
“How many gangs have you taken apart when the Watch couldn’t? The Redknives, the Hands of Gold, Inktear…”
He felt a little shock as she mentioned the gang she used to be part of. He’d never told her…she brushed at her eyes.
“Imagine how many cells the Watch would have filled if it could even catch those gangs, Saliss. Then again, you tend to miss the small fries.”
He leaned on the desk, smiling out the window.
