She tried to poke holes in his logic. For something in her said it must be flawed, but he had picked up a move or two from the Relc or Menolit book of flirting. Because he had a pawed hand under her chin and tried to get her to meet his eyes. He was bending down for a kiss when he stopped.
Found something alarming. Something to break him out of his damned course of romance. Onieva Oliwing was saved from a disastrous kiss and closed her eyes in relief.
Finally, he’d come to his s—
Ishkr pushed his fingers into the side of her throat and jumped.
“Your heart is racing! Onieva, are you well?”
He’d felt her heartbeat going insanely fast. The Drake saw him reaching for a healing potion, and then she had to laugh. Throw her head back and laugh and admit…she wanted to love and be loved.
That she could have it without it being a disaster or hiding who she was.
What a thought.
 
——
 
When Onieva returned to Mirn’s place, he was pacing up and down the bar. This was far too long. He almost grabbed a club and went out to find her when the doors swung open and Onieva came back.
“Did he—”
Ishkr appeared next to Onieva, and the question froze on Mirn’s tongue. He saw the two had linked arms. And that Onieva was practically pulling Ishkr along, unwilling to let go of him, and glancing at a magical timepiece she’d put on her wrist.
Suddenly counting every second she had left until she had to sleep and leave. The Gnoll was peering around with interest and a wariness—not for himself, but for something he had to keep secret, but he kept glancing at Onieva as if she were something fascinating, a bit confusing or disturbing, but alluring.
Mirn drank all this in in one moment, and his next sentence exploded out of his mouth before he could stop himself.
“You lucky bitch. How dare you?”
He half-meant it as Onieva grinned at him, but she had the grace to appear a bit embarrassed as she untangled herself from Ishkr and came over.
“Okay, maybe you were right and it was a tiny bit self-sabotaging.”
“A tiny bit? You kept telling me to hit you!”
Mirn closed his eyes. He put a claw over Onieva’s mouth, then tried to get her in a headlock.
“You are going to tell me everything. Or maybe I should have—Ishkr, hello. We meet at last, properly. Welcome to my bar, such as it is. We’re opening in an hour or two. You two are welcome to stay, and you’re going to tell me how this didn’t become another tragedy, Onieva.”
He needed to hear it all and take notes. But just to hear it. He was so jealous and happy for her…Ishkr glanced up.
“I heard you serve terrible drinks.”
“Is that all you told him?”
Mirn was vaguely outraged, but Ishkr eyed the bar and limited selection of alcohols.
“I could help serve.”
“Ishkr! There’s no need for that. You and I have a date, anyways. The full works. We’ll tell Mirn everything, and Ishkr needs to be caught up to date on, well, everything…”
You told him? Mirn raised his brows, and Onieva’s shrug and smile said it all. He was more impressed.
A non-Turnscale who didn’t flinch or blink? No wonder it had worked. But then Ishkr’s sister…Mirn smiled at the Gnoll, though he’d be watching for warning signs. He nodded as Onieva went on.
“—So only for a bit! He does make better drinks than the piss you swill, Mirn. You were in the Alchecorps. How the hell did you never learn to mix…well, that’s the problem. He can mix an alchemical flask even in battle, but he just stirs everything up fast, even if he follows the recipe. Nothing fancy. It’s like second-nature to him.”
Mirn scowled as she made fun of his old habits from the army. Then he saw her tail snake around the Gnoll’s somewhat damaged left boot and sighed.
Oh, this was so much worse than a bad breakup. Now she realized this actually might work…he hoped it didn’t affect her focus.
But for the moment, the [Protector] did what he did to all couples who came here, whether together or by chance. He pulled every trick he had to make his dingy bar a place for magic and wonder. Even for a night.
“She’s one-of-a-kind, you know.”
He told Ishkr that when Onieva went to use the restroom. The Gnoll nodded, and Mirn continued, polishing a mug.
“Hurt her and I’ll hurt you. But you knew that. And if you two ever split on reasonable terms—I’m free as a [Jailbreaker].”
He blew a kiss at the Gnoll and saw Ishkr jump and stammer, but he didn’t flinch away. Mirn grinned to himself.
Well, just maybe, this might work.
 
——
 
Onieva had had nights that she wanted to last forever before. But this one…she treasured this one.
She had never wished more for one of Erin’s [Immortal Moments]. From start to finish, she wished she could have lingered there an eternity. Because it was not just realizing she was allowed to continue being attracted to this Gnoll.
Not just him wanting to give her, even with Saliss, a chance. It was…showing him around the Turnscale bar. Seeing him speaking respectfully to Mirn, even a few older Turnscales the [Protector] introduced him to, and Ishkr listening politely.
A look of determination she recognized settling over his face. Of realizing that they might have more than a lover on their hands, someone who mattered.
A friend to more than just Mirn and Onieva.
That…was almost as heady as the romance, and there was plenty of that. Hope and relief crushed against the knowledge that tomorrow, life was going to suck.
There was nothing so powerful as a moment that could not last. So she refused to let go of it. Even when it was past midnight, she refused to even consider the possibility of sleep. And Ishkr, responsible Ishkr, was right there with her, just as unwilling to part.
Well, she didn’t have to tell anyone all the things they did or got up to, some of which would have written new chapters in the Antinium’s Book of Carnal Intercourse. But they were also running across two cities as she pointed out things only Saliss was supposed to know and laughed with him. Running through her potions to keep Onieva breathing just a moment more.
Happiness, ever-fleeting, was a kiss stolen on a flight of stairs as passersby whistled or laughed at the couple—the ordinary couple allowed to love in the open like anyone else.
A moment’s normality. A word of acceptance.
…And a bit of poo from a jar lobbed into someone’s food from over fifty feet away, through a window off of a roof. Onieva was a throwing-expert beyond even Erin, after all. And then…
And then…
 
——
 
Saliss of Lights awoke, and he had gotten all of fifteen minutes of sleep. He uncurled himself from his desk, where he’d lain down, and was glad.
Glad—he’d seen Ishkr off at the inn. For waking up next to the Gnoll would have been unbearable. Both for Saliss and perhaps for Ishkr. Either way, he feared it.
Back to hating himself.
Back to wrongness.
And back to sleep-deprivation. A dark mood threatened to wash over Saliss as he counted the three vials he had left. As he faced the New Lands and his journey, because all of him ached to stay.
However, like the purple flame he still kept burning in his personal study, the Drake touched his chest and felt a spark of it.
Happiness. Despite all the challenges he had. His weariness, his fears, his neverending battles, he had taken a piece of it, and it remained.
That put a smile on his face.
It lasted until he had to depart, and even then, it wasn’t the flying that dragged him down. Nor the journey unto death, the great distance, or the certainty the world would change if he found what he was looking for.
No, the thing that got Saliss down was just the company.
