Saliss raised a sixth finger and stared at it. Octavia gazed at him, and he hugged her, one-armed.
“Don’t look at me like that. Larracel the Haven, that desperately sad woman who’s shielded her friends with her body from everything—she can’t do more than two hand’s worth of true friends. And she’s devoted most of her life to keeping them alive. That’s who we are. You…you’re my experiment.”
Maybe, if you raised a young apprentice with nothing but respect and taught them without any burdens, they’d be a great [Alchemist]. Part of him didn’t believe his experiment. Suffering made you level, and his masters had been geniuses at levelling him by that standard.
But he treasured the smile. She hugged him again, and the [Alchemist] sighed. He stared at the sixth finger he’d raised, then went to find his fifth friend.
 
——
 
Mirn was Saliss’ oldest friend. His truest friend of any of them. The only one in Pallass who could truly claim that name. He had known Saliss longer than anyone but Chaldion. He was the only one who knew Saliss’ secret and supported his friend unconditionally.
He was the greatest ally, [Protector], and friend that Saliss could ask for.
He saw that sixth digit trembling, and that scared Mirn, because he so seldom saw Onieva shaking. So the failed bartender put down the mugs he was cleaning for tonight and leaned over the new bar he’d rented for Turnscales and snapped.
“Don’t tell him squat. Just let him know you’re going, leave it at a quick kiss, and come back to it when you return.”
Mirn wasn’t for telling Ishkr. He had that furrowed-brow look when he was worried about Onieva, but she wore that blissful smile of someone pouring salamander scales into the solution on purpose.
(Salamander scales and hope they exploded. She was all self-sabotaging.)
“I’ve got to, Mirn.”
He pulled her neck-spines as she tried to leave, the only person in Pallass who could or would dare to do it.
“No…you’re stabbing yourself in the tail, and you know it, you stupid hatchling. You like him.”
She grew defensive instantly.
“Sure. Why? He’s high-level, so he doesn’t break; he’s talented; he’s from The Wandering Inn—I’m messing with him.”
“Messing with him. By doing what, obsessively jumping into his pants every time you meet? He’s not violent, insane, against Turnscales, or anything else, is he?”
Mirn wore an expression saying that if any of the above were actually true, Ishkr would be soon dealing with broken kneecaps, but Onieva defended him.
“No! He’s fine. You’ve met him! We know about his sister! I’m just lying to him about—me. Saliss.”
She indicated her body, violet scales gleaming, her mismatched eyes shining, so beautiful and eyecatching that other Turnscales stared at Onieva. No one knew who she was, not exactly, but she was a known figure in Pallass. Perfect. The soul in your heart made manifest. If only she could last…Mirn tore his eyes away from her.
Dead gods, she hurt his heart. They’d been friends for almost four decades, ever since Mirn was a street kid who wanted to be a [Soldier] and the as yet unformed Onieva had been a shy, bookish [Prodigy Junior Tactician], the grandchild of Chaldion who needed a friend. How far they’d come.
“You’re not lying about anything. You’re Onieva.”
“A Turnscale. Saliss in disguise.”
“That’s not even something worth bringing up!”
Mirn slammed a fist down. He was so angry at Onieva. After meeting Rose, after all this talk and all they’d seen, she carried the guilt of who she was.
All he felt was rage—for anyone that couldn’t accept the honest truth. There was no guilt to be had. Not for Mirn. He didn’t accept that kind of talk at his bar anymore. Not even the old debates—whether this could be mitigated, whether they all needed help or if there were ‘acceptable’ ways they could be Turnscales.
No more. Rose had cemented the truth he had come to over a lifetime of acting as a Sentry in the Turnscale community in Pallass. What they were wasn’t wrong. It wasn’t even new.
Nor was the world wrong, even. Just this corner of it. Just this particular time they were living through. And it would change. He had to believe that.
They stood, Onieva and Mirn, in the most comfortable place in Pallass. Mirn’s bar. The location changed, and the drinks were terrible. So was the food, mostly, but to the young and old who came here, it was the most comfortable place they knew. More than even their own homes.
Not safe. If someone asked the wrong questions, if there was a pounding at the doors, then you’d feel that adrenaline-fueled terror in your veins. But this was a comfortable place, despite it all.
Because here, you were yourself. No one would judge you or lie and tell you that you were wrong, deviant, sick. And Mirn…Mirn was there. He’d rather die than let you get hurt in his presence.
Onieva would miss this place most of all, Mirn knew. How would she live as Saliss for months, possibly, on campaign?
She’d survived worse, but even if she could become Onieva for a while, she’d have no one to talk to. He wanted to tell her not to go, but he’d lost that argument long ago. Pallass needed its Named-rank adventurer.
This was an argument he had a shot at, so the [Protector] furiously stacked mugs on a tray as Onieva gave him that worrying smile.
Honesty. She framed telling Ishkr as honesty, something she had to do. As if their entire relationship were based on a lie.
Mirn had met Ishkr. The Gnoll lad was cute. Handsome when he dressed up, young, high-level. So respectable compared to Mirn and Onieva that it hurt, like a bright statue that had yet to tarnish. Oh, and he got high-level people. He was competent; he’d been Erin Solstice’s best employee and had stuck around through disasters. Small wonder he’d swept Onieva off her feet.
She was a sucker for anyone who polished up like that. Mirn had always thought that if Qissa had been a handsome male Drake, Onieva might have gotten to chatting with him, and what a disaster that might have been. Ishkr, as far as Mirn could tell, was a genuinely good [Head Server]. He hadn’t seen the real shit that Mirn had, let alone Onieva. War, sure. Monsters, of course.
Heartbreaking shit—the kind you couldn’t solve with a sword—that was what he hadn’t experienced. Not yet, even with all his dead [Innkeepers] and children. But he seemed like he actually had a good heart. So he might be as rare as a Dragon.
So what?
Onieva was as rare as a Unicorn. She didn’t need to tell Ishkr, but she wanted to. Because she hated herself.
To be clear—Mirn had a bunch of terminology from Rose about this and that, all words from her world, but he hadn’t needed more than the vocabulary. Onieva was a bit of a puzzle that Rose admitted she couldn’t quite understand at a glance because of the powers of alchemy. This was how Mirn understood it.
Saliss and Onieva were the same person. The Faerie Flower potions had made them two different people—for a while. But it had always been the same person, just with memory loss.
The problem was that Saliss wanted Onieva to be separate. He had constructed his persona of Saliss of Lights, the annoying naked Drake, the Named-adventurer who did hard things for Pallass, deliberately. He’d sheltered Onieva from all the things he did. He treated her like a separate entity, the Drake he wished he could be at all times.
Saliss hated Saliss. But Onieva was Saliss. So when Saliss was Saliss, he was all-business, only the Named-rank. He seldom met with Mirn out of caution, because the two were only supposed to be distant friends.
However, when Onieva was Onieva, she didn’t stop disliking Saliss. She’d be the first to say that Saliss was needed, but it was like a weight around her neck. She seemed to view Saliss’ existence like a scar, a mark of shame. The fact that she’d eventually have to become Saliss was a sin she kept from her lovers and friends.
Now, Mirn thought all of this was wrongheaded. Onieva/Saliss, whichever form they wore, were heroes. They’d fought the Antinium Wars, fought Drakes, fought monsters, fought for everything Pallass had. Ancestors, Onieva had fought the Goblin King twice. Who the hell could claim that?
How could you be ashamed of…? Mirn had to stop polishing another tankard before he cracked it.
“Dragonshit, Onieva. That’s all this is. Self-sabotaging Dragonshit. Ishkr is lucky to be able to lick your toe-claws.”
“He hasn’t done that.”
She tried to make a joke of it, and Mirn slapped the counter with a dustrag.
“You’re beautiful. You’re the highest-levelled Drake in all of Pallass. You’re too good for him!”
“I’m way too old for him.”
She was trying to call her age into the argument, and Mirn pointed a finger-claw at her.
“I know for a fact you’ve probably got a thirty-year old body. Don’t even play that card, girl. Besides, in our community age gaps like that are normal.”
A function of not having that many people who could meet each other. Onieva brushed at her cheeks.
“Even if it’s—artificial?”
What, her appearance? This time, Mirn nearly tossed the mug at her. Because she had to know how stupid an argument that was. It came purely from insecurity, not reality.
He was so jealous of her, he had to admit. Mirn was a bit younger than Onieva, and sometimes he wished she could make those Potions of Youth for him. Just for a bit. Mirn looked good because he was over Level 40 and kept in shape, but…Ancestors.
Ancestors witness. Their many times great-granddaughter had continued their work. Her scales captured the light, which played over her form forged out of alchemy’s genius. The odor of dried berries clung to her with that faint metallic tang, which only intensified when she was sweating or exerting herself.
Beneath the layers of scales and flesh moved the same muscles that Dragons shared. Her lungs contained the same tempest, a Dragonfire so unique that only sixteen other beings had ever breathed the same. Something new.
If they could have seen her, in their days of old, she would have been a child the Dragons would have flown around. Someone new, who had drawn her body out of base components and paved a way forwards. They should have celebrated her. Hailed her and carried her on their shoulders, begging her to lead them forwards.
Just for this. Mirn turned his head away, unable to articulate what he saw, sometimes. He rubbed at his eyes. Then spoke huskily.
“There’s no reason to tell him about your switching forms. None. The only reason is in your head. You’re not lying to anyone. You’re just temporarily wrongformed until you can brew the right potion. Like someone who has uncontrollable sneezing.”
The way he described her problems made her smile, but guiltily.
“It’s not that and you know it. Saliss is an entirely different person. He has baggage and problems, and it’s a lie, Mirn. If he’d known he was sleeping with Saliss—”
She shuddered, and Mirn got angry again.
“There’s nothing wrong with Saliss.”
“Pft. You can’t even say that with a straight face.”
Onieva turned, annoyed, and was caught flat-footed by Mirn’s glower. She was shocked, and he capitalized on that.
“You know something, Onieva? Remember when you were drinking the Faerie Flower potion and couldn’t remember you were Saliss?”
She flinched, and he felt bad, because that miraculous, easy-to-brew potion had been hope. Not just for her, but other Turnscales. Now it was gone, and he understood why she was so damn unhappy.
He was unhappy. Turnscale raids had tripled for a while under Edellein. They’d come back down, but Mirn was thinking of paying for a door guard…it reminded him of the bad old days. Raids every night. All Onieva had worked for was reversing without Chaldion.
Nevermind that. Rose and I can work on Pallass. I’d better not tell Onieva about Rose’s infiltration mission or she’ll probably pull Rose’s tail off. Mirn went on.
“Do you remember what Fae-Onieva said?”
“Vaguely. It was just the happiest time of my entire life. Why?”
Wow. Okay. Mirn went on, determined not to engage with that.
“I recall she was worried about her ‘Cousin Saliss’. You went on and on about how much he worked and how much of a loner he was.”
“Well, it makes sense. Saliss does suck.”
Onieva sipped from a mug she’d filled with water, self-consciously grinning. Mirn sprang the trap. She could dodge any trap in the world but a verbal one.
“Ah, but Fae-Onieva didn’t hate Saliss. You liked him. You thought he was overworked, had as shitty a relationship with Chaldion as you do—but you thought of him as Pallass’ protector. Just like you saw yourself. When you take your own preconceptions out of your head, you like Saliss, and there’s nothing to be ashamed of.”
That caught her off-guard. He saw the [Alchemist] waver, and her heterochromic eyes flickered as she tried to figure a way out of his argument. Heterochromia. One eye blue, the other yellow. Of all the things that Onieva had chosen for her true self, that made him think she was still just a girl at heart. Mixed-color eyes. Ancestors, he was so jealous.
But a shallow jealousy. In a perfect world, Mirn would find someone to love and settle down with. Keep running his bar, but without the fear, and just…relax. Raise some kids, if he wasn’t too old to start. All he wanted was to be a bit younger, a bit better-looking, and to have a bit more spending gold. Oh, and for Turnscales not to have to fear for their existence.
He was happy with himself. She was not, but Onieva denied it once more.
“Aha! That might have been true, but that was only because I didn’t know that I was actually Saliss. If I, as Fae-Onieva, had realized all of the dirt on Saliss’ claws was my own, then I’d be ashamed. It’s one thing to admire a bastard who’s doing what he has to. Another to be that bastard. It’d be like if I found out I transformed back into Chaldion.”
You cunning bitch. Also, was that how she saw herself? Saliss was like Chaldion for sins? Mirn threw his rag at her, and she dodged. He pulled at his cheeks. Despairing.
So confusing. So complex. The alchemy didn’t make things better, it just made it more confusing. Mirn spoke into his hands.
“Walled Cities break. Okay, fine. I know you’re on a time limit and you have a date with him. So lay it out for me like an alchemy recipe. Possible outcomes. Best case solution? He accepts you, everything’s great. Worst case? You’re going to tell him, and he blows up or rejects you. That’s why you’re doing it now, so you can cry your heart out, then run off to fight and get hurt in the New Lands. So you don’t have to face the outcomes. Because you expect it to go bad.”
“That’s not true.”
