Level 36 [Alchemist] versus a Centenium who could resist every potion, with the battle experience of thousands of years and Rhir, against him. The [Alchemist] was a good adventurer. He’d made a living in Nerrhavia’s Fallen as one. But if he—
This situation is untenable. Your own chances of survival are marginal. You WILL withdraw, now!
The voice in his head was the pure, logical analysis from Chaldion. Saliss’ head snapped up. He knew it was correct. Kill your heart and retreat, that’s an order. He avoided the girl’s gaze. Did what was best for Drakes. His voice wobbled as he shook his head. Listen to his grandfather.
“I’m sorry, kid. I’ve got to get this information back to High Command. Stay hidden. I’ll lure him away.”
He whirled—then turned and fumbled. Tossed a few healing potions and his rations down. The girl beamed at him and exposed melting teeth.
“Good luck, Mister Adventurer! Tell High Command to kill that monster, please?”
Please? That one last word was all the true emotions she was hiding behind shock, fear, and trauma. Saliss recognized that. He half-turned…but death was coming.
He had to run. He had to run, even if it meant doing the unthinkable. He was an adventurer. He couldn’t die before he…she…had even lived.
So Saliss was running, leaping towards the village entrance, invisible, using a Potion of Speed, when he heard a voice sing-songing at his back.
“Goodbye! Goodbye forever, Mister Alchemist!”
Goodbye forever. Children were so good about not lying. The [Alchemist] turned, and Wrymvr must have heard the faint voice, because he was screaming now, diving.
The Drake girl waved both arms, beaming at him, sending him on his way with all the grudges and regrets of her village. Staring up at the falling Antinium. Then she did something he’d never forget.
The little girl sat down, tucked her knees to her chest, and covered her eyes with her claws. As if she were pretending the shrieking terror didn’t exist. If she just pretended hard enough, it would go away. Or she wouldn’t see it before the end.
So the Drake came to a halt in the ruined street.
He was no true heir of the Cyclops. He couldn’t kill his heart. He spoke.
“Ancestors damn it—”
Saliss drew two glowing vials from his belt and shouted a challenge up at the Centenium, who adjusted its course and spotted him. He drank the first potion, which had no effect except to let her appear.
The Centenium hesitated, surprised, as Onieva appeared. Then Onieva threw the other potion, and an explosion made the little girl covering her eyes jerk.
“M-mister adventurer?”
She didn’t hear a reply. Just another shriek and then a deafening bang. Sure she was about to die, waiting, the girl sat there, rocking back and forth, flinching as the screaming roar filled the air.
Thunder around her.
An [Alchemist]’s war with Wrymvr the Deathless. She never saw who fought the Deathless to a stalemate long enough to pluck her from the rubble and carry her away. Shirka had passed out as the shockwaves of the fighting collapsed the house she sat in. And when the Drake reappeared, it was as Saliss again.
Sixteen minutes. That was as long as the potion lasted. And three minutes longer than his supply of potions had lasted. The wheezing [Alchemist] had burst a lung. He was staggering, wounded, and acid ate at his scales as he picked up the girl from a side not coated in venom or acid.
The [Alchemist] ran. He couldn’t kill that Centenium; he could hear the stones grinding, and the deafening scream was slightly muffled—he’d collapsed the entire hillside on the Centenium, and it was digging its way out.
So, Saliss of Lights just grabbed the girl and ran. Ran as the skies turned black and the Deathless pursued him.
That day, Saliss of Lights the Gold-rank Adventurer hit Level 40. Four levels, and he escaped the damned village with a Drake child in his arms, who he remanded to Pallass’ care. She was sent to an orphanage. And he…would later become Saliss of Lights, the Named-rank of Pallass.
It was the greatest levelling moment of any Drake since Zel Shivertail had fought in his besieged city. Four Levels at Level 36. A hero’s tale—but he never told it. It was why a Drake [General] of Pallass would do anything for her hero, and he had so many tales like that, all untold. He had only ever told two people the tale until today: Mirn, and Erin. And not even the [Innkeeper] had heard the full tale.
But that story, if you heard it—it explained who they were. The Alchemist of Lights who was no noble hero. Just a Drake who would turn, a vial of glowing magic in hand, and face down a monster for shame.
Whose greatest trick, whose ultimate weapon, was a face no one would ever see. Was allowed to see. Her strongest battleform, her true self. An Oldblood Drake breathing alchemical fire.
Onieva.
 
——
 
Wow, what a wobbly voice. It probably took something away from the tale. And the hook, the important part was buried in the genuinely important historical context of…
It didn’t matter. Unless you were a fool, you got it.
Saliss and Onieva were the same person.
Onieva was the one who wanted to exist, who cost money and effort to bring to life, and Saliss was the hero that was needed, the one who longed to give way and step back, but who persisted until she could live.
It made her so miserable.
And it was her. Saliss would pretend all was well and do what he must, but every part of him that walked under the sun, even in his finest moments, even when the world was at peace…knew that he was in the wrong form.
Sometimes, it didn’t even hurt. That wasn’t as often as would be bearable, but it didn’t feel like…agony. Or wanting to tear off your skin and reveal the true self you knew was down there. Like a mask you were trapped in, suffocating you. Eyes seeing the wrong thing, an illusion you couldn’t dispel—
Sometimes it wasn’t like that. You were happy, laughing, and you were okay. It was just an awareness—‘this isn’t right’, ‘I’d prefer if it were otherwise’. And you could continue.
Other times, it went the other way, and those moments were the dissonance. Imagine if someone swapped you into someone else’s body. That desperation, that sense of wrongness—that was the feeling that could build up, and Saliss had a way to become Onieva!
Saliss didn’t want to imagine a lifetime without the power alchemy had, especially if you were a Drake trapped in Drake society. If you didn’t even know what was wrong, if you didn’t have the words to explain it, what then?
He heard his own voice now, shaky, joking, and his eyes slid across the little room, admiring the wood, the copper nails, everything but his audience of one. But he had to explain, so he tried.
“At first, you think you’re just sick. Mirn thought he was, but he and I were smart. Smart enough not to talk about it openly, especially in the army. The old man found out—”
“Chaldion?”
The question made him flinch. Saliss stared at a wall. Pretend he was talking to himself. He paused, swallowed, then went on.
“Yeah. I’ve been to more [Thought Healers]—in disguise, under the condition of anonymity—than I can count. They say all kinds of things. If they even admit this isn’t me being crazy, most think I have Splitmind Syndrome. That’s where someone has multiple personalities. They might not see reality like it is. Bad stuff. The Minds of Selphids can apparently cause it in people, or you’re just unlucky…but that’s not it.”
She knew who she was, but everyone told her that she was wrong. At least, in Drake culture.
“Ancestors, I even talked to the Healer of Tenbault before I realized she was all hot air. Pretty embarrassing. So many mistakes. Shameful, really. That’s what Mirn and I were. Ashamed of being such problems. And then you tell someone…”
“Who?”
The question threw the [Alchemist] back in time again. Let’s say you figured out who you were. You fixed the problem you were given. That was simple. Someone hands you the wrong body?
Fix it.
Saliss had poured all his money, his time, his Skills into making a potion that could bring forth the true being in his heart. Let her live: the madness of Saliss of Lights was just that he was an imposter.
And yet, the irony was that even when Onieva breathed and held up her arms and felt whole and right, as if she had been born into the correct body after decades of screaming and weeping at the world around her for not fitting in—
She was still a Named-rank adventurer. Still prone to all the mistakes and idiocies of who she was; worse because she was new to everything again, and it was so easy to hurt yourself.
Easy to trust.
Easy to think ‘maybe this person will get me’. Easy to slip, to reveal who you were in a moment of passion, vulnerability, hope, and have them look at you like a monster. And that was if you even told them.
Take Zeter for instance. Swordsman of Six, ‘Sixdicks’—that was Saliss’ nickname for him. He only had one, and it wasn’t that great. But Onieva was ashamed of knowing it. There had been an encounter, just the one.
Six. But only one had gone all the way to—
She couldn’t meet his wife’s eyes. Saliss couldn’t. It happened.
Saliss of Lights, an adventurer, went places. Wherever he went, Onieva popped up. She couldn’t live long. Hours at a time in the beginning. Then days when the potions got better. She only knew who Saliss knew, and she was the weird cousin of Saliss, grandniece of Chaldion. No one was familiar with her.
So of course, whomever Saliss liked or got to know, she’d introduce herself to. She was like a shadow following him around, and Zeter—
They’d once been friends. Never the best with him being all for Manus and loyalty, no subtlety, and Saliss had been the wise-cracking asshole even back then, but dead gods. He was still a Named-rank adventurer, broad-shouldered, the only sturdy being in that terrible world of Named-ranks where everyone was fragile and hadn’t seen horror or battle. She’d…given way to the same temptations he had. A married man.
Of course, she’d called it off. Refused to go anywhere near him or Manus again in horror, and the fallout had led to Saliss and Zeter’s own fight and Zeter’s alienation with other Named-ranks. Mivifa and a lot of good, honest Named-ranks had taken Saliss’ side, but the truth was that Saliss—Onieva—had been just as much to blame.
That was one.
One. There were so many more.
 
——
 
The first lover Saliss had ever had was an [Alchemist] in Pallass, a Drake girl working up the ranks at the same time as he was. It had been sweet, impossible, and mostly Saliss trying to believe he was in love. For all it had ended as it always would have, it had been sweetly done. No fighting, no betrayal, just a wistful parting of ways as they both realized something wasn’t working. Respectfully, even.
That was the best relationship he’d had for…well, top two, even now. Onieva hadn’t been so lucky when she first appeared.
Her first partner had been her Alchemy Master, who had been quite, quite delighted to find she existed. It had been exploitative, horrific in ways the Drake would only later realize as an adult, and that set the bar for everything.
Take that bar and realize Zeter might be above-average for a life fifty years long. Then understand that Saliss was just as bad. He was all guilt and trauma and duty, fulfilling Chaldion’s expectations of him. Become the hero the Walled Cities deserve. Fight and fight—and replace me.
But for his journey in Chandrar and Saliss didn’t know what he would have become. Another casualty of the Antinium Wars, maybe. A neurotic mess like Zeter. A monster. Who knows?
“Nerrhavia’s Fallen saved me. That’s the truth. It’s a mess of a place, more empire than they want to admit despite what they’re famous for doing. Poor Stitch-folk who can’t get ahead because they have a certain cloth. [Slavers] and misery, for all their gold, and so many political intrigues and assassinations…I still love it. I always will. Because it was there I found out who I was.”
A half-mad Drake pursuing a class his grandfather disagreed with. Searching for answers in this dry kingdom, working through the stupid ranks of [Alchemists] and their petty rivalries and feuds…
Saliss glanced at a scar on one arm.
“This scar? I got it in my first [Alchemist] honor-duel. I never thought being good with a blade would help, but Nerrhavia’s Fallen—it took me ages of poking through recipe tomes behind my Master’s back. Looking around and making friends. When I met the first Stitch-man who told me that he’d switched his cloth up because he didn’t like being a Stitch-girl growing up, I freaked out. I nearly sailed back home then and there. Because it was everything. All at once.”
The anger. The shock. And the way the Stitch-man had laughed like it shouldn’t be a surprise. Saliss had never found him again. The Drake spread his claws, and they were calm, now. Now he was in it, damned or not.
“They understood. Not just…understood. They had the answers. Every Drake [Thought Healer] told me I had a second personality, it was stress, that I had a Blood Class and I needed to fix it—and the Stitch-folk just looked at me and wondered why I was freaking out. Change your nose. Change your genitals. Change who you are. It’s easy for them. They don’t care.”
That was the offensive part. That was what burned. Mirn didn’t get it because he had never gone abroad, but there was something incredibly painful about finding an entire culture and species who couldn’t care less if you wanted to be someone else.
“It’s not like loving other men is that open, but it’s not going to get anything more than a rude comment. Drakes will shun you, exile you or kill you—in Nerrhavia’s Fallen, you’ll get a snide remark from the girl who you beat to the kiss. That’s when I realized I wasn’t crazy, or mistaken—I just didn’t have all the facts.”
And so began a journey that had taken over a decade of work. Focusing his [Alchemist] class around transformation—battle alchemy was just a side-project, a way to earn money as a Silver-rank adventurer. Making a potion so Onieva could appear.
The rest was easy enough to figure out, Saliss thought. Certainly, the Gnoll sitting on the bed understood.
Saliss finished telling the story and clasped his hands together as he smiled at his scales. There were no scars on Onieva’s arms. She was younger, stronger than he was—and he was strong.
Right, he was doing it again. Thinking of Onieva as someone else. It was the only way to talk about such things that worked for Saliss. Saying ‘me’ just hurt too much. And besides, no one could know.
