The Gnoll [Server] was trying to think about what someone else would do. Lyonette? Well, if she wasn’t horrified, she’d probably scold Onieva for the deception. But the female Drake was glancing at the window, and Ishkr had the feeling that she was one sneeze away from leaping out of it and he’d never see her again.
What do I do? He had no answers. What would…Ishkr ran through his mental library of people he knew.
Mrsha would say something like: ‘That’s so cool! Can you turn me into a boy Gnoll? I don’t care about sex anyways because it’s all gross.’
Bird would probably say something about birds being birds regardless of gender and that he’d shoot them.
Not reassuring. Don’t make a joke out of this. Think. Do something to show her you’re not angry. Hug her? No, that’s stupid.
A voice spoke in Ishkr’s head, in the words of an enlightened [Sage]. None other than Captain Todi spoke in Ishkr’s moment of crisis.
“Lad, the answer is simple. What you do to this fine lady is you push her onto the bed and show her you don’t care if she’s an Adult Creler in disguise. You fuck those doubts out of her.”
Ishkr discarded the vote for ‘have sex’ and put that below making a Bird-based analogy. That would be a Todi-thing to do, and thus it was the worst option he could take.
He waited for Erin’s wisdom. The thoughtful, kind statements that held a glimmer of wonder from his [Innkeeper] that would be the magic balm Onieva needed.
…They never came. The [Head Server], who could sometimes read Erin’s will, got no enlightenment from her. And he wondered if she would know what to do or say in this situation.
So he was alone, and Onieva was beginning to get antsy. She leaned forwards, growled, and then tried to smile. Failed at all three.
“I know it’s a lot. I’m sorry. I’m leaving tomorrow, so I can—why don’t I go?”
She stood up, and he panicked, but so did she. Onieva turned to the door and swung around.
“Just don’t tell anyone! You can’t. Or I’ll—you cannot. Understand?”
“I understand.”
That was the first thing he said, and she nodded. Then she hesitated, fumbled with the lock, and gave up and turned back.
“Would you like to hit me?”
“What? No!”
“I think you’re in shock. Look, we can get you into it. Here, what if you just choke me in a non-fun way? That’s a good entry point. Here—”
She picked up his paws, put them around her neck, and he dropped them. Ishkr was shaking his head. The time to figure out the perfect words had ended.
“I’m not going to hit you! Who—who does that?”
“Oh, just—it happens. I’ve had a few experiences with past, um, lovers.”
She was avoiding looking at him. Window again. And now Ishkr did get mad. Because he was suddenly jealous.
Talking about past lovers—wait, they’d tried to hit her? Because she was a Turnscale? Shock was becoming a horrible curiosity.
“What was that you said about Zeter? You and he—?”
“Just once. Six times.”
Dead gods. Wasn’t he married? Onieva squirmed under Ishkr’s stare.
“See? Monstrous. I could never have long relationships anyways. I can only be ‘me’ for six hours. At first, it was only a few minutes. Barely enough time for anything…my Alchemy Master hated that.”
“Your what? Wait. Did you sleep with…?”
Onieva shrugged as if it were normal.
“Well, that’s how it works in Nerrhavia’s Fallen. After the first two potions, he put a condition on helping me research them. And I was so grateful to him that—”
“You slept with your master?”
Ishkr nearly shouted that, but she covered his mouth. Her hand leapt back.
“Um. Yes. It was one of the better relationships, actually. I’ve had a lot of flings. I’m a pretty loose woman. Sorry, you should have expected that when I said I was an adventurer. No staying chaste until marriage. All mistakes.”
Now he was pretty sure she was egging him on. However, it worked. Ishkr got up and adjusted his tie. She flinched, but he was muttering as he paced back and forth.
“How far is Nerrhavia’s Fallen? I heard the Horns of Hammerad were headed that way, and they were lost at sea for ages.”
The question genuinely threw Onieva.
“It’s probably still a month of travel unless you hire a Courier-class ship. Why?”
Ishkr sighed.
“I need to sail there and beat up an [Alchemist]. Then, hopefully, my Skill will let me teleport back. I don’t actually know if it has a limit. What was your Alchemy Master’s name?”
She blinked at him. Then she seemed to realize it was a joke. Well, Ishkr would have considered a trip if it was only as far as Zeres.
“Hah. No, but it’s fine—”
“It’s not. Stop saying that. And stop insinuating I’m about to hit you! Are you telling me every relationship you’ve had has ended with you jumping out a window after someone tries to punch you?”
He growled back. She wavered, licked her lips. Her tail uncurled slightly.
“W-well, sometimes they just tried to call the Watch or were in denial.”
“But in general yes to the violence part? Like in Pallass? Have you seen anyone here?”
Onieva hesitated.
“I’m careful…I’ve had a few relationships, but I didn’t tell them I was Saliss, of course. Just the other bits about being a Turnscale. That was enough.”
“Right, so someone in the City of Inventions hit you after you told them who you were?”
“Maaaybe? Why are you asking?”
“What’s their name? I’m just going to throw them off a roof.”
He’d never committed a crime like that, but Ishkr reckoned that if Erin could get away with it…Onieva laughed incredulously.
“What? No. Don’t be stupid, Ishkr. It’s fine. I erased their memories anyways.”
“You can do that?”
“Um…”
She grew shifty again, and Ishkr wondered if her contingency plans had involved erasing his memories. He reminded himself that she was a Level 50+ [Alchemist] who could probably snap his neck like a twig.
…She was really attractive.
He slapped his cheeks to get Sage Todi out of his head. Focus.
“Okay, what are their names?”
“They don’t even remember.”
“It’s the same person. I won’t throw them off a rooftop. I’ll just slip poop into their next meal.”
One trip into the outhouses before it was acid-jarred and with gloves, obviously. Onieva giggled, then cocked her head. She was peering at him, frowning.
“Wait, it sounds like you’re not going to start slapping—”
He put his paws over his ears.
“Please stop telling me how many times you were abused.”
He couldn’t take it. He was getting upset, and Ishkr didn’t often get upset. He sat down; his pacing was making her nervous.
“Onieva…I’m shocked. I won’t lie. Especially about you being—”
She flinched, and he didn’t say ‘Saliss’.
“That makes me uncomfortable. A bit.”
“Totally understandable. Like I said, even Mirn freaked out and ran off, and I wasn’t sleeping with him! You’re taking this really well, did I say that? Only Stitch-folk have never cared, and…what can I do to make this easier? I-I don’t know.”
He looked at her, and then he did know what to say. It wasn’t an Erin-comment. Just an Ishkr original. The [Wandering Server of Stories] cleared his throat and mumbled.
“Um…can you tell me more about what people have done to you?”
She blinked, and her mouth opened.
“If this is something you’re into—”
“No! Not the partners after they found out. What…what’s it like being a Turnscale?”
The [Alchemist] couldn’t see where he was going with this and frowned, folding her arms, and he explained, blushing under his fur.
“Please. I want to know. Because…of Liska. I never thought—I knew you got in trouble. But you talk about it like—far worse than I thought.”
When she remembered his younger sister, Onieva blinked. Then a shadow passed over her face. Her tail uncurled, though, and she glanced down at the floor.
“I forgot your sister’s…Mirn and I don’t have many ties to Liscor. Oh, you don’t know. He’s a [Protector]. Of Turnscales.”
“Really?”
“Mhm. Technically he’s…let’s not get into terms. What’s it like being a Turnscale? What a question. I don’t know. Hard. Mostly, it’s just finding people like you, not saying the obvious. We live like anyone else—we just have a special place we go to relax and be ourselves. It’s nothing special. 95% of how we act is probably exactly like anyone else. 5% of it is sneaking to a bar or get-together or trying to find a place where we don’t feel crazy. And one hundred percent of the time you’re afraid someone’s going to find out or that you’ll reveal yourselves, but that’s all internal.”
Oh. That sounded better than he feared, actually. Ishkr relaxed slightly.
“Liska always got in trouble with the Watch, but it wasn’t huge.”
Onieva felt at her neck-spines, playing with them.
“Huh. Normally if you get outed as a Turnscale the Watch is the least of it. But then, she’s young. Liscor could also just be less…Drake than most cities. They were cut off till now. Plus, she’s a Gnoll.”
More and more positive. Ishkr was downgrading the level of his apology to Liska. He smiled.
“So being a Turnscale’s not that unique?”
“Not as much as being a different species in Pallass.”
Onieva smiled back. Then added.
“—until someone catches you.”
“What happens then?”
The [Alchemist] looked past him, not at a window, but a wall this time, and her face went blank. Her voice quivered with a different intensity.
“Oh, then if you’re lucky, you’re just called disgusting, and you have time to pack up before someone finds you. You can even write it off. Until the first time someone tries to bash your skull in. Or they throw so many stones they cave your friend’s head in and toss you into the sewers.”
The Gnoll froze up. Onieva continued, blinking a few times.
“If you’re lucky, it’s one person. Someone who thought you were a girl beats you up because he made a mistake. Easy for a friend to get you out of sight. Not if word spreads. Then, if enough people hear about it, and they’re outraged enough, they move fast. In Pallass it’s probably the Watch who comes to exile or imprison you. In a smaller city, they’ll just throw you off the walls. If you make it that far.”
“What, that’s not all Turnscales. Liska never had that happen. Now and then she’d have bruises from getting in a fight. Or someone hurled something at…”
Ishkr was denying it now, but his mind flashed back to times he had to call on Liska and he’d find an empty healing potion bottle and she’d be particularly upset. She had scars he assumed were from scraps…and now Onieva was getting mad at him. Her tone lowered several degrees.
“I’m sure Liska has never had anything bad happen to her. I’m sure Liscor is different from any other Izrilian city, north or south.”
“But she’s never told me she was in danger.”
“Yeah. I wonder why.”
The [Alchemist]’s expression said that Ishkr was being a fool, but now he was annoyed himself. Angrily, the Gnoll jabbed a thumb at his chest.
“I’m her older brother! She’d tell me something like that, Onieva.”
“Sure. Unless she wasn’t sure you’d be the one who’d beat her to death with your paws.”
Ishkr stood.
“I’d never—”
Now he was ready to fight her despite knowing how well that would go. That was too far. But Ishkr saw Onieva studying him, and her own ire had been replaced by sadness. Something like a smile returned to her face, though.
“No. You wouldn’t, would you? How’s she supposed to know that, though? If anyone who was older ever talked to her, they’d tell her never to tell family. It happens, Ishkr.”
He sat down hard. He wanted to say, ‘no, that’s an exaggeration’. But now he was scrutinizing his memories. And worse…he didn’t even have to search far for an example to believe this might happen.
He lived on the same floor of the inn as Mrsha, and he had seen what they had tried to do to Doombringers. Ishkr stared at his paws.
“Have you ever found out what happened and wanted to hit them?”
“Yes. But usually, it’s too risky to go around attacking people. That’s not how the community operates. Vengeance just draws attention. Mirn is a [Protector]. It’s hard, but it keeps more people safe.”
And if you start taking revenge, maybe it draws attention to you. Ishkr looked up. He saw her watching him, still guarded, but curious.
“This is bigger than I thought, isn’t it? I thought Rose was just being silly. But this…how many Turnscales are there?”
“In Pallass? I don’t count or do lists. It’s a bad idea. Mirn’s bar serves hundreds, and he’s a fraction of a fraction…and who’d ever admit to it? Who realizes they’re Turnscale?”
“How did I not know of this? I knew about the Antinium. I knew about the Doombearers…but those were just stories.”
He felt like he was a first-time visitor to the inn. Onieva cleared her throat gently.
“Look, unless you are one, it’s not something that comes up often. Some Turnscales don’t even know they are one. You’re a young Gnoll who likes kissing girls. No problems. People would look at you more askance for kissing a Drake or Human—and that’s it. It’s just not your problem. I appreciate you caring so much…you’re not going to throw things at me, are you?”
“No. No, Onieva. I’m not.”
He met her mismatched eyes, and the [Alchemist] sighed. She seemed to stretch for an age, un-tensing just a tiny bit. Then she lay on the floor, spread-eagled.
“Well, rats. This is the worst possible outcome. Mirn was right. What the heck do I do now?”
 
——
 
Now, Onieva was spiraling. She was desperate, damned, and rudderless. Because Ishkr wasn’t committing bodily harm on her, and she was panicking.
She was actually wondering if hitting him with memory dust and jumping out the window was an option. This was terrifying.
She lay there as Ishkr got up and left the room for a second. When he came back, he had a pitcher of goat’s milk in hand. He poured her a cup and held it out.
“That’s so [Head Server] of you.”
“Hey. If you don’t want some…”
She took a glass, drank it down, and grimaced.
“I need something stiffer.”
“I could get you—”
“Nope, that’s a joke. I have to fly out with General Edellein tomorrow, and I’d rather not start drinking.”
I won’t stop after this. Ishkr sat on the floor next to her.
“So you are Saliss.”
She knew that this was big, but it did smart a bit.
Less than getting punched; let it go. She raised one brow at him.
“Still having trouble with it?”
“There’s a non-zero chance this is all still some prank by Saliss. Not a funny one.”
She filled her cup, licking the liquid moodily.
“No. Not funny at all. I’m afraid it’s the truth. Weirded out?”
“…Yes.”
