Don’t punch him, he’s being honest. Who could love Saliss, anyways? Onieva hunched her shoulders. Then Ishkr added.
“It is weird. But I respect Saliss of Lights. Aside from Erin, he’s one of the few people I think the world needs more of. He’s probably one of the few people in the world I think is heroic. Fetohep of Khelt, Mrsha…he’s near the top of that list.”
She jumped and actually tossed her cup at him. He caught it and managed to catch the liquid with some stupid serving Skill.
“Don’t do that. I don’t need you to make me feel better about myself.”
“Why? I mean it—”
She writhed at the compliment, scratching herself all over.
“Stop it!”
“Is—is this you having the dissonance problem? Or is this just you being unable to take a genuine compliment?”
Ishkr stood over the [Alchemist] as she wriggled around on the floor. She kicked him in the leg.
“Shut up. You’re not supposed to be taking this well.”
He shrugged and took a gulp of her milk.
“You live in Erin’s inn long enough and nothing surprises you that much. If Nalthaliarstrelous popped out of the ground while I was picking blue fruits, it’d feel normal. But knowing about Turnscales…”
It bothered him. And she refused to like him for it. Onieva glared and snatched her cup back.
“You’re an outsider. This is our problem, our fight. I appreciate you figuring out how much your sister’s dealt with. Be nicer to her. But focus: this is about me and you. I’ve told you, you lost your beating chance, so now…I’m off tomorrow. When Saliss gets back, I’ll come say hi. But that’s it.”
“Are you—are you breaking up with me?”
His eyes widened, and he seemed shocked, then hurt. Onieva snapped, and her claw was shaking again.
“Yes! Because this doesn’t work, idiot!”
“I don’t get it. Why am I the idiot? You told me your secret, and you just assumed—it’s because you didn’t intend this to be permanent? I get that. I knew you’d get bored of me or find someone better.”
Ancestors, what was he on about? He appeared so resigned and sad she grabbed his tie and yanked him down to eye-level.
“No, you sulfur-sniffing idiot. You’re breaking up with me because I’m a Turnscale. I’m Saliss! I’m all wrong and leaving, and you can’t imagine what it’s like to try a relationship after this.”
“But I haven’t freaked out. Nor do those things mean I want to just never speak to you again.”
“Well…I…don’t be unreasonable.”
“Me? Unreasonable? You’re the one assuming we were going to break up the moment we had a chat! Did you even think I’d have a reaction that didn’t include violence?”
His ears flattened as he got genuinely angry, and Onieva whirled.
“Look, you’re a nice kid. But I’m literally twice your age. The age gap is horrendous, and I lied to you. Add in all the other things and it’s red flags.”
“Right, and you could never think of me as a long-term partner.”
She turned back to stomp on his foot.
“Not what I said.”
“Ow.”
He massaged his ankle as she hesitated.
“I—you—we wouldn’t work. You haven’t hit your high levels yet. I know you’ve hit Level 40, but when you finally class-consolidate, find that thing that defines you, you’re going to become some kind of crazy or a monster. Then who knows who you’ll be.”
“And I was just good for a moment. I know I’m boring.”
“Stop. Saying. That. That’s not what I meant!”
He was reframing this around him. Ishkr dodged her stomping foot. He glanced at her.
“That’s why my last girlfriend broke up with me. I liked you. But I thought you’d break up with me eventually. I didn’t know you were Saliss. I did think you might be an [Assassin].”
She was so astonished she stopped trying to crush a toe and blinked at him.
“You thought I was one of those idiots? I told you I was an [Alchemist].”
He sniffed.
“Well, you never practiced it that I could see. And you were high-level, vanished often…I was really hoping you weren’t going to tell me that. Then I’d have had to think about breaking up with you. All things considered, this is better. Look, I understand you’re a Named-rank adventurer. You don’t settle down. And you’re headed into the New Lands. I won’t tell anyone. I get it.”
She glared at him.
“You’re acting like this is somehow about you not being good enough. It’s about me. I’m the Turnscale.”
Ishkr scowled back, tugging one boot off to stare at his foot.
“Well, why are you dumping me? Also, stop stomping. You nearly broke my foot!”
“I’m not dumping—I’m saving you from yourself! You’re great! I loved our time together! I’m bringing you to the logical conclusion you can’t come to!”
“Why are you yelling at me? Why are we fighting?”
“We’re not fighting. Stop being dense…”
She tried to stomp a few more times. Ishkr escorted his other foot to safety around the room as Onieva chased him. Then he whirled.
“What if I still liked you? What if I dared to still want to try and get to know you, the real you? What then?”
He caught her off-guard, and she dodged backwards reflexively. And that simple motion, backstepping and twisting on a heel, looked natural. Flawless, as she was. Ishkr had grown up, like most people, wishing he could move his body like how his mind wanted to.
Onieva was that dream, and she was enthralling because of that. Not just because of her appearance…and she still had the gall to shake her head and demur.
“Don’t be stupid. I’m all kinds of problems.”
“I live at The Wandering Inn.”
“I can only exist in six-hour chunks. I’m crazy.”
“I served a dead man breakfast this morning. Kevin. Erin is my employer.”
“I…you’re not thinking this through. You’ll live. You just have low self-esteem because you haven’t realized you’re attractive and high-level. There’s plenty of fish in the sea. You can do better.”
He stared at her, looking amused, holding his boot defensively for protection.
“I know you can do better. But can I? You’re Saliss—”
“Stop saying that so normally!”
Stomp. Stomp. Stomp. She went for his foot, and he ran to avoid the stomp of wrath.
“Stop trying to break my foot! Why are we fighting?”
“We’re not fighting! Shut up! Stop being stupid! What the hell is wrong with you?”
“I work at The Wandering Inn!”
 
——
 
After a few minutes, Calescent had to stop working on his prepped dinners. He came out into the common room in a lull between any crazy happenings and just…took a break with the other members of staff.
Captain Todi, Peggy, Captain Earlia, and Elia! She smiled at him, but then saw his flushed face and turned a bit red herself.
“Damn. They still at it, Calescent?”
Captain Todi grinned as he played cards with Earlia and Peggy. He was teaching them to gamble, and Calescent fanned his face with a hat.
“We need more silencing spells.”
Normally, he didn’t pay attention to what was going on in the inn, but he’d seen Onieva and Ishkr going upstairs, and they just happened to be right above his kitchen. Again, not a problem, but—
He couldn’t imagine what was going on to generate that level of thumping. Okay, he had a perfect idea of what was going on. Elia turned redder as Peggy cackled.
“Is high-level people problems. You should have heard what happened when Chieftain Garen had company.”
“Must be nice to have someone like that. Anyone know Onieva well?”
Earlia glanced at the stairs, and Todi shrugged.
“She’s Saliss’ cousin or something. I can say this: Ishkr’s got good taste. But maybe he’s the catch?”
Calescent shook his head. He’d give them thirty more minutes, then he’d have to knock or put in earplugs. He joined the card table as Elia decided to join in as well.
“At least the inn’s sturdy thanks to Miss Solstice’s Skills.”
They looked at her, and she elaborated.
“If you’re too…vigorous…at high levels, you could go through the floorboards if you’re not careful.”
Everyone stared at her, and Elia Arcsinger decided that she shouldn’t speak ever again. After a while Peggy nodded.
“Is good for Ishkr.”
Everyone nodded. Calescent sighed wistfully as he glanced at the ceiling.
Lucky Gnoll.
 
——
 
Onieva finally stopped trying to stomp Ishkr’s foot in when she put her foot through one of the floorboards. The crack and Ishkr’s exclamation made her halt guiltily.
“My floor!”
“Oh, sorry—I can fix that. Let me just—”
She could glue the floorboards together with some solvent, but that would look bad, and she’d splintered straight through it. Onieva felt at her belt pouches. Then regarded Ishkr.
“You, ah, wouldn’t happen to have a [Repair] scroll, would you?”
“Erin used to repair everything with her Skill. How’d you even break it with her [Reinforced Structure] Skills? What would have happened to my foot if you’d hit it?”
He was so genuinely upset over his floorboards she got less angry. Then more angry, again, as she realized his damaged flooring was actually upsetting him more than her being a Turnscale.
What is wrong with—?
However, it distracted them enough to leave the rooms. When they came down and Ishkr asked if there was a Scroll of [Repair] around, the staff took one look at him, then Todi wolf-whistled and everyone began applauding.
“Damn, just like Elia said! Take it easy on the old inn, would ya? We need it intact before the new one’s built!”
What was he…? Onieva blushed, and Ishkr folded his arms and glared. Peggy got up, laughing.
“I can send Asgra to buy one. No problem!”
She winked at them, and Calescent stood up. Onieva was trying to think of an excuse when the [Chef] put his hat in his hands.
“Um. Ishkr. Onieva. This is hard to say. But maybe…maybe we buy [Silence] spells after today? And be a little…gentler? Is very loud. In the kitchen. Below your rooms.”
The Gnoll and Drake exchanged glances, and now Onieva knew she was blushing.
“No, we weren’t—”
What did she say? She was trying to stomp Ishkr’s foot in because he wouldn’t break up with her for reasons of being a Turnscale? Onieva stopped and gazed at her reflection in the scrying mirror television on the walls. It was inactive so she caught sight of herself and wondered…
What am I doing? He doesn’t hate me. He wants to continue. This is a miracle. I can’t throw it away. But is it real? Do I believe it’s real?
Even in The Wandering Inn, this might be too much of a miracle for…she gave Calescent an apologetic smile.
“Sorry. But don’t worry—I’m going away tomorrow. I’m, uh, actually working with Pallass’ army. Saliss and I are both heading to the New Lands. It’ll be months before we’re back unless one of us catches a Pegasus Ride. We are setting up supply lines, so it could happen.”
The [Spice Chef] stared at her, and the rest of the staff stirred. Calescent un-scrunched his hat.
“Oh. Oh. In that case…I get my food from the kitchen. I’ll go to Barehoof Kitchens. You two have fun.”
“No, that’s not—”
He patted both solemnly on the shoulders.
“Is very important to say goodbyes. Peggy, make Asgra get [Silence] spells before Mrsha comes home from school.”
He gave them both such a dignified nod that Ishkr and Onieva didn’t have the heart to correct him. Todi lifted his cup.
“Here’s to long-distance relationships! Don’t you go cheating on this Drake, Ishkr! She’s a keeper!”
“Thanks, Sage Todi.”
Ishkr muttered, and Onieva blushed again. Todi was an obsequious rat. She would not like him for complimenting her and…
When Ishkr turned to her, she almost leapt away again. He spoke to Calescent and the others.
“We were actually just arguing. Onieva wants to break up because she’s going away for a while. I don’t want to break up because of that. Someone help me.”
“What?”
Peggy was horrified. She shook her head.
“It work! You make charm bracelets and swear to be good! You two cute! Who Ishkr going to love if not you? Some weirdo like Salkis? Stay together! Give him a shot, Onieva! We dress him better and level him up a few times and he be great when you return!”
She dashed over and took Ishkr’s other arm, and the flustered Drake tried to laugh it off. And she could laugh, she realized.
“No, I know he’s great. This is the best breakup I’ve ever…I’ve been trying this entire time, and he’s too damn understanding! It’s me! I’m not the catch! I’m actually fifty years old, almost.”
Todi and Earlia spat out their drinks. He stared at her.
“What? Dead gods, where do you buy those illusion spells? And you’re right. You’re too old for Ishkr. What are you doing tonight?”
He smoothed his hair back, and Onieva turned to someone for support. But Earlia just grinned.
“Aren’t you Saliss of Light’s cousin? Ishkr said you do alchemy too. Are you half as good as he is?”
Half as—Onieva bristled.
“You could say I’m even better than Saliss—in a fight.”
That might have been a mistake. Everyone was shocked, despite having seen her at the Trial of Blades, but Elia Arcsinger half-nodded slowly. Hard to hide from another Named-rank’s eyes, even Elia. Earlia blinked, then she glanced at Ishkr.
“In that case, Ishkr, do your charm thing and I’ll bless this union. And then get Onieva to hang around the next time the Goblin King shows up.”
Madness. They were all mad. Onieva wanted to laugh and cry, and she had the craziest urge to tell them who she was on her bad days. Maybe they’d act like Ishkr…?
She was too afraid. Her tail drooped slightly, and Ishkr saw it. He eyed his audience, then put an arm around Onieva. She blinked up at him as he spoke.
“I think she’s the most beautiful Drake I’ve ever met. The highest-levelled, the most dangerous—I’d like to get to know her. But she’s trying to run away. Respectfully, I’d like to chase her and try to win her over. You can’t court her, Todi.”
The Gnoll grinned around the inn as Onieva felt the oddest thing happen to her. For the first time in…she turned bright red. She said not a word as she blushed from head to toe, and Captain Todi laughed as Peggy cheered with Earlia, and some of the Antinium clapped.
“Oh, fine. But just for you, Ishkr.”
The Gold-rank adventurer bowed from his table, and Ishkr turned to Onieva. A question was in his eyes. A true…what a terrifying expression. Earnesty, a hurt for her, for his sister, and a true longing. Maybe he was serious.
What a fool.
“You’ll regret this, Ishkr Silverfang.”
“Why? If everything you told me is true, how are you any worse than any other crazy, high-level person? If you believe in what you said, and I believe you, then there’s nothing to fear but you not liking me.”
