Her innocent expression was exactly like Saliss’, but she was avoiding his gaze. Mirn folded his arms.
“So you didn’t tell him until you knew you were shipping out tomorrow because…? If things go well, you’d want to spend more time together. There’s no good reason to put it off till now. An explanation serves no reason now, except if it’s going to go bad, so you can run away.”
She avoided his gaze.
“I’ve been sleeping with him for months now. He deserves to know. If he wants to spit in my face—”
For a second, she was fragile, not invincible, and Mirn bit his tongue. The [Protector] thought that if Ishkr did that, it wouldn’t break Onieva. She’d fought armies and lived. But it would make her bleed.
One more time, again and again and ever again, she was putting her heart out there. This time, Mirn wanted someone to not kick it off the walls. If he could get to Ishkr first, maybe, see how the Gnoll would react…
As if she read his mind, the [Alchemist] turned to Mirn and smiled.
“If you tell Ishkr ahead of time and try to ‘brief’ him, I’ll blow up your bar, Mirn. Then you can see what it’s like being Mirna.”
“Pass.”
Only Onieva could threaten to change your body—a threat that was only annoying for Mirn, but would probably have most Drakes shitting themselves in terror. Mirn could only watch as Onieva smiled in that way she did before planning on detonating a pile of potions.
He couldn’t stop her, he realized. He never could. He wasn’t strong enough. So the [Protector] came around the bar and just hugged her. He clung to her, and she laughed.
“Mirn, you can’t keep me here. I do have a date.”
Her eyes shone with a fire like Erin Solstice’s, but it had no color Mirn could name. A deep pain and beautiful, transcendent light. If she could have brought it to life like the [Innkeeper], he could have burned down Pallass with it.
“You idiot. I’m hugging my friend. Come back from the New Lands. And come back here. They love you, this community. If you could be here more…”
They looked up to him, old Mirn, as their hero. They should know she was their heroine. Not him. Onieva never told anyone who she was, let alone their level. The Turnscales of Pallass—the Turnscales of every city should claim her and love her like he did. Just like Zel Shivertail. Or Sserys.
Why are all our heroes dead and we only find out who they were afterwards? If we could only count ourselves and see how many of us are amazing and beautiful…
Mirn clung to that idea. He had to keep building, more than this bar. He had to expand it and, with Rose’s help, make a place that would last, that no one would break into. The Turnscales were weakest when they were scattered, hidden in each city.
Light, that terrifying thing, would save or damn them. They feared it—but they were no insects to wilt under the sun. They were all beautiful blooms, and they had been hidden in the dark too long.
Onieva’s eyes softened, and she hugged Mirn with a fraction of that terrible strength. He felt her trembling and thought this date scared her more than the Goblin King in some ways.
“Dragons guide you, Onieva.”
“I’ve followed them. If only they’d accept me. No…”
Her eyes brightened with unshed tears.
“One did.”
So she turned. [Alchemiaform Oldblood, Grand Alchemist of War]. A class only Mirn knew. Even Chaldion knew only the second half. But that first part…
The Drake who had changed her very species, who had not been born an Oldblood, turned and walked out of his doors. Taking huge breaths, like a girl going on her first date. Mirn watched, waving.
If Ishkr broke her heart, Mirn was going to break his knees tomorrow.
 
——
 
That was how Onieva said her goodbyes.
Before she tried to tell Ishkr, of course. And a certain skeleton interrupted them. All things considered, beating down a stranger in Relic-class armor was infinitely preferable to the truth.
Onieva blinked as the strange [Knight] who’d tried to go after Ishkr ran for it.
“Who was that?”
“I don’t know. Someone from Erribathe? Another Terandrian kingdom? Maybe, uh…what’s the name of that one with the highest-level [Knights]? Kaaz?”
“Can’t be. The Thousand Lances all have sigils on their armor, and they shout really loud who they are. Plus, he’d be higher-level if he was one of them abroad. That idiot wasn’t bad, but he was all Relics.”
She could have taken him apart if she wanted to get serious; it might have been nice loot. Arguably, she should have to mitigate a potential threat to the inn. However, Onieva was distracted. She put her claws on Ishkr’s shoulders, trying to be casual.
“So…where were we? Hot date? Want to visit a fun attraction or—or something?”
He frowned at her.
“You’re shaking. Are you okay? Did he hurt you?”
That was her line. Onieva’s arms sprang off Ishkr.
“Me? Great. Absolutely! Finger guns and stuff!”
Ancestors, stop talking like Saliss! She tried to make a joke of things, but she felt her stomach tying itself into knots.
“Why—why don’t we head back to the inn, huh? Maybe we could get cozy and uh—uh—talk?”
She wanted nothing more than to get back to the inn, kiss and cuddle, or do something more intimate. Anything so he’d like her and not…this.
“I wouldn’t mind that. Um, but if you’re really leaving tomorrow—I could help you pack. Where are you going? Is it related to Saliss leaving for the New Lands? Lyonette was talking about making a care package. Just food. Do you know what he’d like?”
“Funny you should mention that…how about we go back, talk, and it’ll all be clear.”
She was going to vomit. Handily, Liscor had installed a few public trashcans…that opened up directly into the sewers. That meant the rains didn’t fill them up. Onieva excused herself as Ishkr went to talk to the [Guards] about the incident. She wiped her mouth after puking and locked eyes with an Antinium.
“Are you alright, Miss Drake? This one will call for a [Healer]—”
He began, and she held up a hand to stop the worried Worker.
“Hey. Don’t mind me. Just nerves.”
“One pukes when nervous?”
“All the time. Mammal thing.”
The horrified Worker watched as Onieva gargled a breath tonic, then dashed back over to Ishkr. He was giving her worried looks.
“Onieva, you seem fr—did you just throw up?”
Damn Gnolls and their noses! She laughed it off.
“I must have eaten something bad for breakfast. C’mon! Let’s go to the inn!”
By pushing and shoving and cajoling, she got him back to The Wandering Inn. A few of the staff waved at Onieva, and Asgra whistled at the couple, but they were largely ignored. Onieva was just one of those faces around the inn, not someone to pay attention to. Someone hollered as Onieva pushed Ishkr upstairs. Her heart was racing. It had gone from thirty-eight beats-per-minute to about…two hundred. So she was only slightly panicked—she’d once hit three hundred in the middle of combat.
“Ishkr, you back from your date? Nanette doing something weird in the gardens with her magic stone stuff.”
She hustled him up to her rooms as Ishkr called out.
“I won’t be working, Peggy. Whatever Nanette is doing—just do your best! I’m, um, on break.”
He gestured at Onieva, who waved at the Hob, and Peggy whistled.
“Ooh, fun times! You is have fun! Use lots of lubrication! Calescent kitchen has lots of free oil!”
The [Chef] stuck his head out of the kitchen with a mix of outrage and horror. Elia Arcsinger nearly spat out her spicy salad. Onieva wanted to laugh or hug Peggy. Strange how she could remember killing so many Goblins but she was so grateful for this supportive Hob.
Tell her who you are and watch how she treats you. Antinium too. She didn’t deserve a Worker’s sympathy. She’d killed so many of them. So many Goblins. So many Gnolls and Drakes and…
Blood. Enough blood to fill this inn was on her hands. How would Ishkr ever embrace or kiss her once he knew…
Be done with it. Ishkr was glancing back at her.
“Onieva is something…?”
She shoved him into his rooms and realized she was visibly shaking now. It took her two tries to lock the doors. Ishkr was worried.
“I think you’ve been poisoned or something’s wrong. Onieva, you’re shaking!”
“Just excitement, Ishkr. Take a seat on the bed. I’ve got a fun thing to tell you. Exciting.”
She gave him a glassy smile. He sat on the bed, and she admired his window for a second. Unlatched it with her back covering it. She’d bail out the window; simplest exit path. If he started hitting her, she could take two swings and be out of it and get to the door in seconds.
Not that she was self-sabotaging. Mirn was just blowing smoke. Just anticipating things based on prior encounters.
“Is it about where you’re going? Saliss?”
Damnit, he was too perceptive. Onieva turned and found a chair and placed it to face him.
“Yes and yes. In a way. It’s…a story. You love stories, don’t you?”
The [Wandering Server of Stories] stirred, because that was his entire thing.
“A bit, but, if you’re unw—”
“Ishkr, please. Just let me tell the story, and it’ll all be clear. You’ll love it. Well, everything but the ending.”
She began to speak as he sat there, alert, worried, but drawn by her words. She almost stopped several times and gave up, would have thrown herself at him and kissed him to distract him or pretend everything was fine.
But she wasn’t. She couldn’t lie to him any longer. So she told him a story.
Not the same one she’d told other lovers. She’d done this many times, and just once…Onieva repeated the same formula she’d tried, an alchemist’s sorry recipe, with a new twist. Waiting to see how it blew up in her face this time.
There was that story that Saliss or Onieva never told. It explained a lot of things. Saliss’ relationship with General Shirka. Who he was. Who she was.
This was the story.
 
——
 
He was Level 36, a [Battle Alchemist of Transformations], and the 1st Antinium Wars were raging. General Sserys had yet to appear and rally all of Izril and begin to push the Black Tide back.
This was the bad times—well, it had been bad throughout the entire damn war—when the Antinium had seemed to be everywhere. When any area past their front lines moving south around Oteslia or through the Dragonspine Mountains might be attacked.
No one knew which settlements were holding their ground or were razed with no survivors. Someone had to check, to run messages from place to place.
A heroine was doing just that: Mihaela Godfrey. In these dark times, the woman who would be known as the Courier of Izril ran lifelines across Izril nonstop. She was the network of [Messages] and deliveries of food and confidential information between Drake settlements. She and so many brave Runners who died, hunted down by the Antinium forces.
But there had been other operatives active during that period. Adventurers. Special agents sent to check on ‘dark’ settlements and either liberate them or just assess the situation. One such operative was Saliss.
Saliss, the Gold-rank Adventurer, was fresh off the boat from Nerrhavia’s Fallen where he’d spent over a decade apprenticing to masters of alchemy there.
This mission was a hard one. A village near the place that would become the Hivelands was no longer responding to [Messages]. Someone had to find out if they were all dead. [Scrying] spells weren’t working; that blue Antinium was blocking them in the entire damn region.
It was a dangerous mission that had cost two Gold-rankers their lives already. Chaldion had wanted to forbid Saliss from going, but he’d told the Grand Strategist that someone had to do the job, and the old man hadn’t stopped him. He understood how bad things were.
He’d told Saliss to find the [Village Head]’s reports; they might have information on what the Antinium were doing from their relatively high position in the hills. If they could find a Hive’s location…
That was the time and scene.
You don’t need to know the details about the village. Not that the melted houses of pale brick and stucco had twisted until they resembled screaming faces, fallen doors revealing black openings from which a miasma spread, filling the village.
Nor the bodies—the broken rubble and bodies, killed by the toxins. Or the lone Drake wearing a mask over his face, vials in hand, leaping from shadow to shadow, eyes on the sky.
Wrymvr the Deathless flew, shrieking, hunting for the Gold-rank team that had been moving with Saliss. What no one knew at the time was that this was almost on the doorstep of what would become the Twisted Hive. Hence the Deathless’ vigilance.
The very same report that the Drakes and Gnolls were dying for would later pinpoint the Twisted Queen’s location. Bombardment spells wouldn’t kill her, but they’d do more damage to an Antinium Queen than at any other point in the war till they drowned a Hive with water spells.
So this moment mattered in the strategic sense of the war. But the dead Drakes who’d been living here wouldn’t know that.
The people didn’t deserve this. Not Antinium scavenging their remains, stripping the village for supplies, the toxins that Wrymvr had unleashed—any of it.
The [Alchemist] was afraid, hiding, trying to escape the Centenium hunting him. He was no hero. He just wanted to live. He was, in fact, lifting up a cellar door to try to hide in a basement until Wrymvr stopped pursuing him when someone spoke in a sing-song voice.
“Not there. He left poison down there. Everyone who went down died.”
The [Alchemist] sprang back just in time from the near-odorless, invisible acid cloud that the Centenium had sprayed into the cellar. He saw melted flesh oozing from the dim stones below before he whirled.
There he saw the Drake girl, kicking her legs as she sat on a broken 2nd floor of a house. She was thin. And like him, she had a mask over her face. Cloth—not a Jar of Air like he was using. He had to take it off to speak.
“Who are you?”
“No one. Hello, Mister Adventurer. The bad bug is coming.”
Wrymvr screamed again, and Saliss peered up, flinching. The damn thing was honing on their position, and the Twisted Antinium were all around them. If Saliss fought one, Wrymvr would know.
I have to run. This girl…he thought she was a ghost at first. She was smiling, so relaxed he didn’t realize how her eyes had locked on him. How badly she was burned from acid and the clouds.
“You should run, Mister Adventurer.”
“How did you survive?”
“I hid. Over there.”
She pointed vaguely, and Saliss turned to see a small fortress of scavenged bedding and what he took to be supplies. The older Drake hesitated.
She’s a witness. I should get her out of here.
I’ll never make it. Not carrying a child. Not against that.
