“Eh, too much paperwork. And I’m lazy.”
“Of course you are. We’ll do our best in your absence, Alchemist. And I’ll bear in mind what you said about your cousin.”
She turned, and he blinked at her. Then she threw him a salute. That was too much. Saliss threw up his hands.
“Now it sounds like you’re going to enlist me! Flee! I’ll bring you back some Wyverns! Alive! All kinds of new ones for you to have fun with!”
He fled down the stairs, but not before that damn Watch Captain shouted from her office.
“[Guards], salute!”
The whip-crack of the [Voice of Command] had every single damn [Guard] in 4th Floor’s Watch House on their feet and saluting the Drake as he strode past them. Their surprised gazes followed the Alchemist of Lights as he flipped two middle fingers up at the window.
“You win this one, Qissa! I’ll be back!”
He tried, oh, how he tried to make it silly and stupid. But she just cracked open the windows and called out.
“Inventions speed your journey, Alchemist Saliss!”
As if she respected him or something. In front of all these people? The Alchemist ran away, shaking his head. She was crazy.
His Watch Captain.
His city.
 
——
 
He hated goodbyes.
He didn’t know why he did them.
Saliss of Lights balanced another grape on Chaldion’s nose until a twitch made the little tower shift. The [Healer] was scolding him.
Not Demerra, just a [Healer] attending a Drake who no longer mattered. Same with his assistant and bodyguards…how they vanished.
Saliss caught the grapes and put them back on the plate. Apparently, the Drake could eat sometimes.
“Hey, old man. I’m off for the New Lands. Not got anything to say? Cat got your tongue?”
“Adventurer Saliss—please! Your grandfather—”
The [Healer] hesitated when Saliss glanced at her.
“We’ve done this for years, Miss Ulla. We can’t stop now. Though it does feel like bullying now that he can’t fight back. Still, you deserve it, old man, don’t you?”
Chaldion said not a word as Saliss nudged him, which took all the fun out of it. Saliss still remembered the bloody bandages on the Drake who should have been dead, healing for weeks, alive when he was begging to die…
He deserved far worse. So why couldn’t he look like the bastard who deserved it? Saliss gave up trying to get a word, a rise out of the grey Drake sitting in his wheelchair.
“I’m off. I hope you were wrong about Edellein. Time to find out if what’s in the New Lands is worth it.”
He thought that, if anything, would get Chaldion to look up. Seith, old man. The fortune that Chaldion had waited for, the decisive weapon that would break the Antinium Wars stalemate. Put Pallass back on the maps. Or Edellein, that popinjay, leading your city.
Nothing.
Nothing. Saliss wanted to shake Chaldion.
“Your city’s not doing so hot, old man. All your plans can’t deal with people being people. How’s it feel, hm? First me, then…how’s it feel? Hey, c’mon, answer. Answer—”
“Saliss, stop!”
Healer Ulla grabbed him, and the Named-rank Drake realized he’d been shaking Chaldion so hard the chair was rattling around. The gasping old Drake fell back in his chair as Saliss let go.
“You have to go. Now.”
It was amazing the [Healer] had even managed to halt him. She must have had—[Protect the Patient: Emergency Strength]. He read her class and Skills. Saliss turned away.
“I’m—I’m sorry. Here.”
He handed her a healing potion in case…the Drake walked towards the door.
“I’ll keep the army safe, old man. Even if I have to grow Edellein a brain first. Esor’s there too.”
Still nothing. The Drake took the doorknob to Chaldion’s study in hand, turned it, and walked out. He walked through the old sitting room filled with cigar smoke, the hallway of medals and curios from war, old weapons that Chaldion had used to be able to swing…
He was nearly at the doors to the mansion when he heard a whisper. A voice so low that only an [Alchemist]’s enhanced hearing could catch it.
A whisper forced out of lungs, soft as a falling leaf, but with all the effort of a man moving a boulder up a mountain. As if it took all the will in the world to find the words in the sea the mind was lost in.
“Luck, Saliss.”
The [Alchemist] stopped in the hallway. He heard a faint gasp. Waited a beat as his heart thundered—but nothing more came.
He did not turn back. Silently, the Drake’s hand made a fist and touched his chest, just over his heart. He thrust the fist skywards and let his aura speak for him for a moment.
Then he strode out the door.
Only a few left. Two, really. Just two more in this wide city who he needed to talk to.
 
——
 
It was on the way up to the 9th Floor again when Saliss finally caught his breath and his heart rate slowed to its normal beats-per-minute. Thirty-eight, if he was just walking or moving around.
That normally would have had a [Healer] coming for him, but Saliss’ body was…high-level. Everyone thought he was a [Battle Alchemist], but his specialty was transformations. Age, body…none were permanent, but you tended to improve what could be improved. That was the secret of high levels.
Anyone could be Level 40 or higher. Zeter was half of what he needed; he had his magical swords. But you had to be competitive even at your level. Keep improving and refining yourself.
Non-combat classes didn’t have galas-muscle, for instance, in most cases. But Saliss, and at least one other Level 50+ [Alchemist] did. Irurx, that bastard, got it. If you could give yourself that advantage, why not?
Those frantic thoughts and self-introspection helped. When he slowed, his elation faded. A few words would not reverse what was going on in Pallass. The Old Man was still out. And that left Saliss…that left Turnscales in Pallass in a bad place.
Saliss’ head bowed low, and the black feeling swept him. It had been easier a few months ago. Things had been, if not positive, then better.
The hard part had been when Chaldion left the command post. Having all of his progress reverted under General Edellein, who wanted to renegotiate the contract. One step forwards and an avalanche backwards.
He’d pushed to reverse the problems. Telling Qissa he was making a stand. Having Rose, annoying as she was, on the side. Thinking of the future…but sometimes he was just exhausted.
Why the hell did he do it? Someone had to. But dead gods, he was tired of seeing progress reverse. Only a few things made him happy, really happy. The inn had been fun. But Erin had fallen into the same traps. Enemies, fighting battles against people she wasn’t ready for. A good woman in a shit world.
He believed in her, would support her, loved her in the way he could never love his reflection. But he could not be happy around her as often anymore.
He was only happy, perfectly happy, about one thing in this world without some kind of regret, insecurity, or worry.
And that was, unexpectedly, his cute little apprentice. Saliss hummed as he skipped up the steps to his workshop. Of all the things, he’d miss her most in a way.
 
——
 
Octavia was sitting in Saliss’ workshop, staring at the neat rows of pre-measured powders and liquids she was about to combine. That was how Saliss did it. If you knew the recipe, all the ingredients were there and sorted, ready to go. No forgetting to measure out mandrake root and having to grind it while keeping your mixture from bubbling over.
The Stitch-girl had taken to his system well, and at a glance, he could tell she was making a Potion of Fire Blast, one of the common go-to potions in his arsenal. He had her making a lot of the things he wanted these days. Replenishing his stores. She got time to pursue her own projects, but an apprentice got gruntwork. In return, he mentored her, gave her tips, let her use his workshop if not his best ingredients, and when she was ready, she’d start her own practice.
That Octavia had been independent before meeting Saliss was just a quirk of their relationship, but she didn’t seem to be jumping to leave. Well, then again…when he coughed, she jumped.
“Master Saliss, I was just, um—”
She began making the Potion of Blast hurriedly, and Saliss leaned on the counter. He had a kind grin on his face. He didn’t scold her or hit her for not working, and in that, he was unlike any master she’d ever had.
He was always kind. It made her feel guilty.
“Zoning out? Better doing that before you start mixing. I’m heading out.”
“To the New Lands? Already? Are you packed?”
Her eyes widened, and she looked Saliss up and down; he was naked except for his belt, but the Drake just patted his bag of holding.
“Amazing things, bags of holding. They fit everything. It’s almost like you can put anything you want in there…”
He was teasing her. But gently. Octavia bounced on her toes, missing the joke completely.
“I’m, uh, I’ll be working hard, Master Saliss! I promise. If I need to, I’ll just send a Courier with a delivery of anything you need restocked, and you’ll write back to me? Only Couriers on the list…”
She fumbled for his instructions, and Saliss forestalled her with a wave of the claw.
“You know what to do. I was just saying goodbye, Octavia. You hanging in there?”
“Me? Yes, of course! Everything’s great! I levelled again last month and…why?”
For a Cotton Stitch-girl working for Pallass’ best [Alchemist], Octavia seemed distracted. Saliss, as an old Drake, knew why. He’d…been her. He sat on the workbench and didn’t actually know what to say.
He wasn’t the type of person who gave this kind of pep talk. Saliss was a jokester. He got along with people like Erin, who were like him. He aggravated idiots, and some people respected him despite his best efforts, but he didn’t…mentor. Yet he had to, right? Damn, this is why he never took apprentices. Saliss cleared his throat.
“Listen, kid. You and I both know Numbtongue’s been weird. I blame his class. Actually, I blame sex. There’s such a thing as too much of it.”
She colored.
“I…we’re not seeing each other.”
“Sure, sure. But that’s not much fun either, is it? Here’s my advice: you’re not going to stop thinking about it, and it’s not going to stop smarting. So just don’t do alchemy. Take a break; unless I’m screaming at you that I’m out of Blast Potions and up to my earholes in Crelers, it’s fine. Go hug that cat. Be a person in The Wandering Inn. Even if you run into our Goblin friend. You can’t out-alchemy a hurt heart. Believe me, people have tried.”
He avoided looking straight at her, smiling past Octavia. He didn’t want to see if this was working or not; she was silent. Saliss chanced a glance at her eyes and then away.
Ah, poor kid. Saliss coughed into one fist.
“…By ‘people’, I mean Alchemist Irurx. Among others. Worst case of someone going Mad Alchemist I’ve ever seen. If you snap like that, next thing you know you’ll be biogrowing gigantic bugs and sailing a ship at people.”
That made Octavia laugh and shudder. She ducked her head.
“I think the case was more complex than that, Master Saliss. He was burned at the stake.”
“Oh, sure, but I bet you there was a love component to that too. Did you hear about Ceria’s date with him?”
“Ceria did mention that…”
Saliss nodded wisely.
“The man hates half-Elves, led an entire [Pirate] armada just to kill more of them, and the first half-Elf he meets, he tries to lick her toes and show her what he’s got belowdecks. That’s telling. Even [Alchemists] can’t beat love and heartsickness, Octavia. Look at old Xif. Time was, he’d get his heart broken and then lock himself in his laboratory working on a ‘Potion of Love’. I can’t tell you how many times that happened.”
She giggled, scandalized by the thought of Xif doing that. Then she peered at him.
“And you, Master Saliss?”
Oh, this is why I hate having people who get to know me. Saliss’ face froze, and his mind flashed to the many, many mistakes of his…Onieva’s life. Ah, it stung. It hurt. Instantly, Saliss began to lie, to deflect. But his honest apprentice was looking at him. Expectantly, as if his words mattered or something.
The stiff smile on his face relaxed. Saliss, to his amazement, didn’t tell a joke. He just gave Octavia a shrug of the shoulders.
“More times than I can count. I’ve been an idiot, Octavia. I’ll tell you about it sometime, but it’s bad. Embarrassingly horrendous. You’ll never look at me the same again. And you’ve gotten used to me being naked!”
“I would never, Master Saliss.”
She assured him, and he almost believed her, but Saliss wondered what Octavia would say about Onieva. She was a Stitch-woman; they tended to understand. But even then…he winked.
“Someday, maybe. For now, I’ve got to go.”
He could have left it at that, but he hesitated. Then ruffled her dreadlocks.
“I’ll miss you, kid. You keep levelling, you hear? And take breaks to work on your own stuff. You’re like the purest experiment I have. Some goofy little Stitch-girl without anyone tainting her recipe with shit. That’s a fun experiment.”
It was…everything. He’d said too much. Octavia gazed up at him like a puppy, but a knowing one. Her eyes filled with all those questions he couldn’t answer because they were too painful. Then she got misty-eyed.
“Master Saliss, you did all this for me and I—! You’re going to be okay, aren’t you?”
She wanted to hug him. With a sigh, Saliss let her do it. He patted her head.
“I’ll be fine. I just had to say goodbye to a few people. The old man even managed to croak at me.”
“He did? Who’re you saying goodbye to?”
“Oh, you know. All my friends. Xif, Qissa, the Old Man, you…and maybe Mirn.”
Five people. How had he gotten so many? Saliss waggled his clawed hand, and Octavia gazed up at him as she let go.
“What about—no, Erin’s gone and—anyone in the inn? What about, um, other [Alchemists] or…?”
The innocent question stung a bit. Saliss turned.
“Nope! No one else.”
He thought of someone. But he, Saliss, couldn’t say goodbye to…that Gnoll. But surely—
A fear overtook him, then. It would be a long trip. He’d be worried, but the truth might have to come out. Otherwise, how else did you explain both Saliss and Onieva vanishing?
The truth.
Oh. It felt like Octavia’s potion was about to explode. Not literally, just a sudden sense the [Alchemist] had of a failed experiment, only that was his life and every relationship he’d ever had.
Octavia noticed the tensing up and fumbled for words.
“I didn’t mean—I was only asking—”
“No, you’re fine, kid. I told you, you and I just have to love alchemy. This is just me reflecting upon all my mistakes. Yeah, there is someone else. Seven. Two hand’s worth of people.”
