Only Mirn knew. Mirn, that Dragon, Rose, and now…Ishkr. And a host of ex-lovers knew Onieva or Saliss were something, a Turnscale, or that Onieva turned into someone else. But he wasn’t sure if even old Zeter quite understood he was more than a Drake who liked kissing other male Drakes.
Far more than that, Sixswords. I’d fit right into your little view of the world if only I could be in the right body all the time. Mirn’s the one who’ll never look right, who can never love in front of your eyes without being wrong.
Saliss stared at his claws, because it was infinitely preferable to peering up—especially to seeing what Ishkr’s reaction was. Saliss was sitting on the Drake-friendly chair across from Ishkr, his tail curled up in a spiral as he looked down at the floorboards. The Gnoll was sitting crosslegged on the bed.
And now he knew. Saliss, Onieva, Onieva, Saliss. She’d changed back to Saliss’ body to prove it. Since seeing was believing, but it was still her. Just as Saliss.
She didn’t, uh—uh—remember what she’d said. She’d done it enough times that she had gotten it most right.
‘Hey, you know how Turnscales exist? Well, that’s me. Surprised? You shouldn’t be. I’m a Named-rank, and you know, heh, how we are. I’m Saliss. Yep. Saliss. Guess who made a potion to transform into a far more attractive female Drake? This [Alchemist]. Sorry for lying about it, but this is who I am. I—hey, you want something to throw? I’ve got some throwing knives someone tossed at me one of the times I did this. Here. That’s me. As for why? It’s not just for fun. I’m sort of like someone trapped in the wrong body. I’ve always wanted to be a woman. It’s who I am. Sorry I tricked you and all. Please don’t be sick. I’m sorry. Forgive me. Tada.’
That was—more or less—how the conversation went. She’d gotten it down to a science, though the voice wobble never vanished. And this was a good revelation; she’d started with the Shirka story, gotten more details out, and he wasn’t shouting yet.
She had an exit window, it wasn’t after—or during—sex, and she wasn’t crying uncontrollably.
Nor had he started hitting her. So Top 5 already. She couldn’t wait to tell Mirn.
He. Saliss rubbed at the scar on his arm as his perception changed and he just felt like Saliss. Wrong body. If he thought like Onieva, then he’d vomit twice because his scales itched. He wanted to rip his scales off, but there was only blood and flesh under there, not Onieva’s arms. He’d tried it more than once, and the result never changed.
He was grinning as he spread his hands, but almost more relaxed than Onieva had been. Only one person had ever asked to see him transform back. Saliss didn’t mind a few hits. It hurt less.
In fact, this entire conversation had gone differently than he’d expected. Onieva had said her bit, then delivered the proof. Cue taking the potion, and Ishkr’s hair had stood up with shock.
Classic Gnoll behavior. Drakes would do the same with their neck spines, or their tails would give away agitation. Humans did it with hair and goosebumps. Ishkr was genuinely unsettled, but he hadn’t gone straight to shouting for her to get out or screaming for the Watch. Instead, he said something funny.
“You—this could be a prank. If you’re really Saliss, tell me, uh, something only Saliss would know. Where did you and Erin first meet?”
“Jail cell in Pallass. She gave me a bit of her happy flames.”
“When the Goblin King was coming, what did you say to me?”
“That you and everyone else was there. That we were all damned because we weren’t just Named-ranks, but heroes. The people who have to do this again and again.”
“Oh.”
That soft ‘oh’ made Saliss twitch. That was the moment when Ishkr believed. The [Alchemist] glanced up and saw the Gnoll sitting there.
He was wearing that handsome suit that he’d found when Erin had given him the [Boon of the Guest] with Ulvama in it. He generally only had good work clothing; it was speckled with rain, but he’d combed his hair.
Ready for his date with the mysterious Drake who’d met him before the Winter Solstice, Onieva. The quick-witted, nimble woman with high levels and mystery who’d flirted back with him and then agreed to go on a date because…she was lonely.
Possibly, he’d been hoping this date would have a happy ending. It had been quite pleasant any number of times, though Onieva never stayed long. She could do up to nine hours depending on the quality of the potion, Faerie Flower potions being an exception, and…and this had been one of the longest relationships she’d had. Not a one-night stand or a short visit to a city.
She’d even woken up in his arms once or twice. Before fleeing. So, yes, Ishkr had probably been hoping to hear about why Onieva was leaving, get in one last night to remember. Kiss a beautiful Drake and create a memory.
Instead, he got a fifty-year old male Drake in his rooms telling him about how he’d been tricked. Wonderful gift, that.
Just get mad already. Saliss waited. And waited. And when the silence dragged on, when he could bear it no longer, he grinned and coughed theatrically.
“Hey, Ishkr, buddy, I’ve got to get packing for tomorrow. So if we could speed up on the throwing things and throwing up? I’ve got a bag of holding. Here. The trick with throwing knives is you flick them—”
Saliss got up and handed Ishkr his bag of holding and actually grabbed the Gnoll’s paws to demonstrate correct posture. He was a handsy Drake as Saliss. Touching Ishkr felt all wrong.
Intimate. He could remember the Gnoll’s paws on Onieva, all their encounters as she’d approached him and he’d realized she was high-level and they’d—
Wrong. Wrong body. Saliss jerked his claws back, feeling that terrible, painful sense of wrongness, like stepping on the wrong side of the street but magnified a million times. He checked himself, almost reached for a vial on his waist, and stopped.
I’ve only got six left, and that’s because the Faerie Flowers versions were so easy to make. I’ve lost them all. Back to making these Draughts of True Self. Six left. On the other hand, it’s not like I’ll need them in the New Lands. It’ll be Saliss all the way down with the Pallassian army unless I find a city or something.
Depression sank over him. That would be hell. He’d handle it well for a month or two, then start itching all over. Going crazy. Well, crazier than usual.
Saliss was actually getting impatient and mad now. Come on, call me Creler spawn, throw something at me, and let me get back to work.
Jump out the window, douse Ishkr in memory draught, do a second dose come nightfall and some post-hypnotic murmuring in his sleep, and pack up in an hour. It’d be such a relief to get it over with.
…But the Gnoll didn’t say, ‘get out’ or ‘you sick freak’ or anything else. Instead, he gazed up, and he was shocked. Confused. His eyes lingered on Saliss, then he spoke.
“Can I…if I’m talking to you, is Onieva listening? No, wait. You’re one and the same.”
“Yep. We remember—well, I didn’t when I had the Faerie Flower version of the potion, but that’s a different story. I mean, I remember. I’m…Onieva. Want to speak to her? She’s easier on the eyes. I—I only have a few potions, so that’s all you’ll get for a while.”
Ishkr was blinking, staring at Saliss, clearly still wondering if this was a prank.
I wish, Ishkr.
“I think—Onieva might be best. Sorry, Saliss, but it’s so—”
“No problem! One second—”
Saliss cast around, then slung himself under the bed before drinking the tonic. Ishkr almost glanced underneath before a voice shouted at him.
“Don’t look!”
That made Ishkr recoil. The changing Drake shifted underneath the bed, and seeing Saliss was one thing, knowing Onieva and Saliss was another. But—seeing the change—she didn’t even let Mirn see that.
When Onieva pulled herself out sheepishly, she was naked. Clothing tended to get torn during the transformation, and Saliss was always naked anyways. So, she grabbed Ishkr’s sheets and pulled them around her.
“Well, now it looks like you and I were doing something. If you chase me out, give me a second to put on clothes, okay? I can say I was a faithless harlot—no problem.”
She joked, and Ishkr stared at her. His eyes traced the differences in her facial structure, her body, still slim, but differently built, her rose-pink and cobalt patterning along her snout, even the youth that Saliss had lost.
Now get angry. Come on, please. I can’t take it any longer. Just let me have it.
Let me…have what I know is coming.
Each and every time. Even Mirn had freaked out the first time Saliss had come back from Chandrar and explained who he was. Only Stitchfolk had seen her. Sometimes seen her despite Saliss’ face. Stitchfolk, and the Dragon.
He saw me for who I am. That means something. That means I’m not crazy.
Sometimes that alone calmed her down at night. A proof from an Ancestor that could banish the doubts that plagued her, even now. The voice whispering in her ear like Chaldion’s.
Onieva waited, getting angrier and angrier. Trembling, now. Longing to get it over with. Spring the trap, unleash the hate.
What was taking him so long?
 
——
 
Ishkr Silverfang didn’t know what to say.
He was genuinely, totally unsure what to tell Onieva. Saliss. His mind was grappling with what she’d told him, but he got the important bits.
Saliss was actually Onieva. And he was actually she—that wasn’t that hard. Ishkr had long suspected that if Xesci wanted, the [Courtesan of Change] could transform to be anyone, not just a variety of female faces.
What was surprising was to hear that Saliss’ transformation wasn’t some prank, which was what Ishkr had thought, at first, this was. And he’d been so hurt and angry…until he saw her trembling like a leaf and realized she was afraid.
No, Onieva was the true Drake, and the cracking voice, the desperation in Saliss’ eyes, all the jokes and bravado masked someone trying to exist. A Turnscale in Drake society.
Just like Zel Shivertail.
That was easy to understand. Hadn’t Ishkr eavesdropped on Rose and the other Earthers time and again? Erin had told him—well, he suspected she wasn’t much of an expert on this particular subject, but Ryoka and Fierre talked, and they weren’t as covert as they thought.
More importantly, Ishkr knew this tale, a variation of it, firsthand. After all…he was Liska’s older brother.
Turnscales were a thing you heard about as a kid, called each other until someone gave you a punch or an adult shouted at you for, and you realized it was actually a bad thing. Just what it was depended on how many questions you asked.
Ishkr had grown up with a vaguely Drake understanding of the word since he’d come to Liscor with the Silverfangs. He didn’t know how the tribes handled it; he had a vague sense it wasn’t as much of an issue, but he was no expert.
What he did know, firsthand, was how much trouble you could get into if your sister was a Turnscale and had grown up running with other girls her age and developing a real hatred of the Watch or anyone who told her not to do things.
The amount of times Ishkr had needed to go to the Watch House to bail her out of jail, or her mother had—he’d tried everything from shouting at Liska to taking her to a [Healer] to…
All the things you did or were supposed to do. Then he’d just given up and tried to make a living working jobs that bored him while dealing with his problem-sister, until Krshia Silverfang had asked if he wanted a job working at a strange inn for a Human she could vouch for.
The rest was Ishkr’s history. It wasn’t interesting. He wasn’t interesting. If he had become interesting, it was purely because he had stayed close to the locus, the heart of wonders herself, and stolen a bit of it to coat his own fur. Everything that came after was something that was, to Ishkr, a gift. Something he had chased in his own quiet way, clung to.
It was why he could survive the [Palace of Fates], face the Goblin King or Facestealer, and despite his terror, continue onwards. Because it was worth it. Because this mattered. He’d never quit the inn. He’d die first and think it was worth it. His fear was that he wouldn’t be able to keep up—that he’d not be able to follow Erin. He was fine with not being the best employee. Just afraid that there wouldn’t be a spot for him.
All this to say that when Ishkr sat here, realizing that he’d been sleeping with Saliss of Lights—Onieva—his first reaction wasn’t disgust or betrayal like she suspected. Rather, the first thing the younger Gnoll was thinking was…he owed his younger sister an apology.
Ishkr had already had a sense that whatever he understood about Turnscales had been wrong. When he had brought up Liska’s…problem…to Erin, she hadn’t so much as blinked. No one cared if Lady Ieka came in and ogled every lady in sight. So he’d stopped badgering Liska about her girlfriend—the [Doorgnoll] was working so much anyways he suspected they hadn’t met as much.
But he hadn’t ever thought to himself that maybe he’d been the one who was wrong, and it was uncomfortable. He felt hot, sweaty under his fur. Embarrassed, and he didn’t want to apologize to Liska. Because she would lord it over him, be a child about it…
Then he saw Saliss’ hands shaking. Then he saw the Drake offer him some throwing daggers and joke about throwing them at him, and Ishkr realized…oh.
Oh no. That’s not a joke. Someone’s actually thrown these very daggers at him.
The Gnoll went from hot to cold. From embarrassed and vaguely resentful to wondering how much more he didn’t know. He still felt shocked. Intensely!
Onieva is Saliss? I’ve been kissing Saliss of Lights? Me?
Ishkr had been making love to a Named-rank adventurer? The top of the Gnoll’s head would have exploded, and there was some discomfort at the thought. Hence him asking to talk to Onieva. But the more Ishkr gazed at her, the more he couldn’t shake that moment out of his head.
Saliss of Lights, standing in the hallway, speaking about what made a hero. Saliss facing the Guild of Assassins. A Drake standing on the walls of Pallass and fighting an entire Weyr alone.
So the question became—that Drake? Why would he—she—settle for me? That hero of Pallass? Me?
That made it easier, the immense respect that Ishkr had for Saliss. So, his problem:
He had no idea what to say. Genuinely and truly…what in Rhir’s Hells were you supposed to say here?
He couldn’t imagine what Erin would say. It felt like Ishkr could speak something trite and vaguely accepting, but the weight of what Onieva had confessed…he was no Erin. He wouldn’t get away with it.
