Chapter Five Hundred and Twenty-Five - Time to Hit the Books"So... what do we do now?" I asked as I leafed through the fairy tale book. There were a few illustrations here and there that caught my eye. Monsters sometimes, and then knights in all-black armour that were usually depicted helping people.Amaryllis frowned. She was staring at the book as well, but I had the impression she wasn't actually seeing it. "I don't know," she admitted slowly. "I feel like we need to take some sort of action against Rannewt, before he carries out whatever plan he has, but ... that feels like playing into his hand.""I feel similarly," Caprica said. "Rainnewt would only give us hints and clues if doing so serves his interests. He doesn't seem like he's had a change of heart, so we can't ascribe any altruism to any of his actions.""Indeed, I have no doubt that this villain still bears a heart as black as coal, and therefore his hints are undoubtedly laced with poison," Desiree said. "But surely he must know that we will deduce as such, so what is he hoping to accomplish?""As a distraction?" Amaryllis proposed. "Or to waste our time with needless speculation.""I guess," I said. "It feels like we should be doing something though. We flew most of the way around the entire continent only to come back here, and now... well, now I'm not sure what our next step even is. We were here to help Booksie, but I don't think she needs it anymore, right?" That last was aimed at Booksie herself.She smiled kindly. "I think I'll be good for a while, yes," she said. "As for what you should do next... is there any harm in actually investigating this myth? It might involve some amount of travel, but I don't recall you being averse to that.""I suppose," I said. "I guess we could train up a little too. I feel like I'm pretty close to hitting the next big tier, and that's supposed to be a big deal, right?""You levelled up with the wedding?" Amaryllis asked, and I realized that we hadn't really talked about it. "Good. And yes, pushing into a third class would be a big deal. There are more feathers in my wings than there are triple-classed people in a city the size of Port Royal. If all of us could climb up to that distinctive height, it would earn us significant respect and influence.""Well, I was thinking less about respect and more about how cool it would be," I said. "But I guess there's that too.""Why not train and try to solve Rainnewt's riddle at the same time, then?" Booksie asked. "Becoming stronger seems like a lofty enough goal, and discovering whatever Rainnewt was pointing at might be a trap, but I feel like there might still be something to it.""It could be fun!" I said."We don't even have a direction to start in," Amaryllis gripped.Booksie tapped her shin, then glanced out the window. "Ah, I'll have to head out soon, but I don't quite think you're right, Amaryllis," she said. "If you're looking into the Black Avatars, then there's a library in Port Royal.""Awa, there are some pretty big archives in Mattergrove," Awen said. "In the capital, I mean. The country is kind of small, but we have old roots."I couldn't help but grin. That sounded like an excuse to travel a bit to me! Training and travel, smushed together! I was starting to get excited."Alright," I said. "Then we'll start here first, since this is where we are, and then we can expand our search to the archives. We haven't been to Amaryllis' home in forever, and I never visited the capitals of Deepmarsh or Mattergrove before.""Getting permission to access Deepmarsh's records might be complicated," Caprica said. "But we do have contacts in the Exploration Guild who might be able to help."Calamity raised a hand. "Yeah, I overheard some folk in the guild complaining about poking around in old papers ... that's probably the place to start. If nya need to find out where some long lost dungeon's tucked away, the best spot to learn it might be some dusty old archive."That was three large archives we could delve into, then. Deepmarsh, the Nesting Kingdom, and Mattergrove. I considered it for a bit. Deepmarsh was closest and--with the guild's help--probably the easiest to get into. I was sure some of our grenoil friends would lend us a hand in looking.This novel is published on a different platform. Support the original author by finding the official source.The Nesting Kingdom was a little further out, but not that much so. And Amaryllis was a noble from there. I wasn't sure if that would help her get permission or not, but I was willing to bet it wouldn't hurt.And then Mattergrove. Awen's family was from there, and she was a noble too, but I don't think she had quite as much sway as Amaryllis did. I also had the impression that her family ties might not be worth as much as we might hope."There's the Trenten Flats too," I said. "But I bet they wouldn't like us snooping around. And Caprica's home too. Can't princesses ask for someone to check the records?""Oh, certainly," Caprica said. "When said princess isn't currently on the run. I think if they send any reply to my request it might be delivered with a battalion of worrywarts and a few royal paladins besides.""You'd get to see Bastion again," I said sweetly.Caprica shot me a glare, but it didn't have very much heat in it. What did have some heat were her cheeks, which warmed up with a pretty blush. "As... enjoyable as that may be, I've come to also enjoy the peace of not being beholden to my royal title so much.""Being on the run means you lose most of the advantages of rank in exchange for freeing yourself from all the responsibility," Amaryllis said. It made Caprica sniff, but I think she might have been a little bit right. "In any case, all of that aside, I think we'll have to start aiming for something. Sitting here and looking pretty will get us nowhere. There's a real danger in hitting a plateau and then just remaining there.""I believe that there might also be some danger present in striving eternally onwards," Desiree said. "Among my people, there are many cautionary tales of clever foxes who sought after one-too-many tails in an effort to have greater numbers than others."Booksie giggled. "I really have to sit down with you one evening and just chat about your homeland, Desiree," she said. "It sounds fascinating. Ah, but that will have to wait for another time. I was meant to only stop by for a few minutes, and it's been well over an hour."I laughed too. "Yeah, that happens when you stop to chat with a friend sometimes," I said. "Time slips by. Lets escort you to your guards?" I stood up and patted down the front of my skirts and Booksie did the same.Of course, letting her go wasn't as easy as just saying goodbye. A proper send-off took a while, and it required lots of hugs.Who knew, I might not be able to see Booksie for a long while! This would be my last chance to give her a proper hug for weeks! I wasn't about to let her just leave without getting my fill and then some."Stay safe out there," I said."I feel like I ought to be the one telling that to you," she said. "Aren't you the ones usually flying into trouble?""Yeah," I agreed. "How about we both agree to stay safe, then?""Deal!" Booksie said. "If you're staying in Port Royal for a few more days, then keep an eye on Cholondee for me, would you? For as much as she and Rhawr bicker, I think she'll be a little lonely without him to bully.""I'll pay her a visit," I promised. "And you fly safely, okay? That means lots of blankets to keep warm in the air, and good, sturdy straps. Don't forget to check them for chafing. And maybe invest in a parachute."Booksie raised her arms for a seventh goodbye hug, and I squeezed her for all she was worth. "I'll miss you," I said in a low voice.Her ears collapsed onto my head, like a warm pat. "I'll miss you too," Booksie said. "But I'll be back soon enough, promise! And when you stop by Port Royal again, I'll be right here to say hello.""Okay," I said. It was a promise!Booksie made the rounds, saying goodbye to everyone, and as a group we escorted her out to the main deck and then off the gangplank of the Beaver.I was going to miss her, but there were more adventures to be had!***
