Erick smiled, saying, “Thank you for helping her.”

Liquid nodded. “If she’s already in the convalescence stage then she’s cleared for Oceanside’s hospitals. I have done this routine with dozens of other people well before Jane came along. They’re always so headstrong after they get some accidental dragon essence so I usually have to seek them out, and Jane was certainly no exception in that regard.” She added, “But since she is Jane Flatt and you’re you, you’re going to want to provide something to Oceanside before they squeeze a favor out of you.”

Erick smiled again. He said, “I am aware. Thank you. I already have a plan for that.”

“Good.” Liquid asked, “So? Is she okay? Aside from the bodily functions, I mean.”

Liquid looked at Erick with worried eyes. There was a lot of actual worry, there, too. This woman deeply cared for her charges, and Erick was glad for that.

Erick said, “She’s upstairs. She should be empty, but she keeps finding something else to disgorge.”

Liquid said, “You need to get her to Oceanside. If she’s on the internal bleeding stage, then she needs real care. And lots of liquids.”

“I am. As soon as she can move.” Erick felt a deep need to get going, right then and there, but a sudden set of questions nagged at him. He asked, “Did Jane talk to you about her time in Killtree? She talked about something being really rotten over there. We talked, but… Not about everything, apparently.”

Liquid said, “The Sovereign Cities are slag pits and worse. Killtree is marginally better than the rest, but not by much and only because they do truly stand against the monsters. There’s definitely something rotten over there, but I doubt there’s a conspiracy. The place is just full of terrible people.” She added, “I’m glad Jane made it out alive.”

That didn’t feel like Liquid’s full feelings on Killtree, but Felair walked out of the hallway, back into the foyer, interrupting the conversation. Kiri trailed behind him.

Felair said, “I can’t get shit inside this [Ward]. I don’t know what this spell really is, but it’s one of the brightest ones I’ve ever had to work around, and I just couldn’t do it. No answers today.” He added, “And I’m not touching that empty space around that pillow.” He turned to Liquid, saying, “Onto the next one.”

Felair walked out of the house without another word.

Liquid followed Felair, but looked back to Erick, saying, “Get her out of here.” She called out, “I know you can hear me, Jane. Go away for a while. Come back when you’re better.”

Jane yelled from upstairs, “FuuuuUUckin FINE. I’m gooOOOughk.”

Liquid said, “And there she goes again.” She spoke to Erick, “Best move her when it’s coming out the front end.”

Kiri bubbled out a laugh, then quickly schooled her face, saying, “Sorry. I shouldn’t laugh.”

- - - -

After Liquid and Felair left, Erick’s chain of Ophiels managed to reach Oceanside.

‘Hey, Rats. You busy?’

After a minute, Rats said, ‘Not so much, boss. What’s up? Did something happen in Spur?’

‘A lot of things. I’ll keep it short. There was a fight with the Flare Couatl. It’s a great big mess up here. Messalina is apparently dream worming people. She got to the two soldiers stationed in the house; Turock and Veel. They were blasted away in the first seconds of the battle with the Flare Couatl because they were wormed. Felair said they [Defend]ed themselves to death.’

Rats listened silently, but Erick felt a deep resolve through their telepathic connection.

Erick continued, ‘A long black dragon came through in the last seconds of the fight with the Flare Couatl and took the kill. Somehow that made Jane lose her essence. She’s puking out her guts upstairs right now, but Liquid said we should bring her to Oceanside. Liquid has pointed dozens of convalescing people like Jane toward Oceanside, so we’re going to do that as soon as she’s good enough to move.’ He sent, ‘I need you to make arrangements, however they need to be made.’

Rats sent, ‘I know just who to talk to. I’ll have it ready in half an hour.’

Relief flooded through Erick. He said, ‘Good. Thank you, Rats.’

‘I’ll see you all soon?’

‘Yes. In an hour. We’re spending the night there or whatever, and I’m going to try and get the Headmaster to help with this Messalina problem.’

‘Then we’re all going back to Spur, right?’

‘Yes.’

‘Good. See you soon.’

- - - -

Erick stood at the open front door of his house, still inside the dense air of the house, looking out onto the orange stone and sand of the front yard. He was not happy. The guard had come through and repaired enough of the Human District that it looked like the battle with the Flare Couatl had never happened, but they couldn’t repair his garden.

The lush green trees and vines and cornstalks of the garden to the right of the door were gone, completely. Erick’s stores of seeds and such, still in his house, were untrustworthy. A thorough check through the house for other areas of non-dense air revealed nine more spots like Turock and Veel’s pillows. The house was fully compromised. He had to abandon this place, for now. After Messalina was dealt with, then he could go about remaking his garden, and the house.

Mostly, Erick focused on his garden, which was a problem he could fix, because if he thought about the people Messalina had put in danger or outright killed...

Ophiel trilled on Erick’s left shoulder, and on his right shoulder, and in the air around him. Five of them held around Erick; he wasn’t about to dismiss any of them while they were still in danger, and a target. They picked up on Erick’s growing unease and anger at the whole situation and played a tiny, whispered concert of unhappy flutes and melancholy cellos.

At least Ophiel was doing okay, mana-wise. The [Prismatic Ward]'s ability to put everything inside at Rest applied to Ophiel, too. Normally, the little guy was completely unable to rest, but the forced Rest effect apparently applied to Ophiel, too, turning his 20k regen per day, into per hour; exactly as though Ophiel was using Meditation. The five Ophiel who floated around Erick were each at Erick’s 5100 mana cap.

Erick took control of one of the floating Ophiel to cast a bubble of [Prismatic Ward] into the front yard. Dense air filled a space fifteen meters across, and that Ophiel disintegrated. Erick summoned another.

Kiri came down the stairs in the center of the house, saying, “She’s ready. Don’t know how long it will last.”

Erick said, “Just come on down. It’ll be ready in a second.”

Kiri rushed back upstairs as Poi walked into the foyer. Poi stayed silent, but several lines of thought radiated from his bluescaled head. He was talking to a lot of people right now.

Erick turned back to the front yard. He summoned his [Teleporting Platform] inside the dense air. Stone floated up from the orange ground, solidifying into a disk five meters across. White runes circled the center of the floating, five-inch thick disk.

Poi suddenly said, “Okay. There’s lots to talk about.”

Erick looked back toward Poi. “Anything urgent?”

Poi said, “Nothing too urgent, just stuff to know. Plans being made. Silverite wants us gone and back as soon as possible.”

Erick said, “Understood,” as he watched the stairs, waiting for—

Kiri came down the stairs, supporting Jane on her shoulder. Jane did not look good. She looked skinny. Erick felt a pang of rage at the world that anything would ever put his daughter in danger like this, but he kept it quiet, like he usually did. He wasn’t even sure who he should be mad at, except for Messalina, and she hadn’t done this to Jane. There was plenty to be mad at Messalina for, but Erick couldn’t be mad at her for this.

Erick led the way out of the door, into the dense air in the front lawn, followed closely by Poi. Jane suddenly let go of Kiri and rushed out of the house, past Poi, past Erick. She fell to her knees on the orange stone. Bile and blood came out of her mouth, turning the stone a darker shade. Erick rushed to—

Jane said, “I’m good. I’m good.”

Erick helped her back up to her feet, anyway. She mumbled something small, impossible to hear. Erick helped her to the [Teleporting Platform]. She crashed onto the stone, sprawling out onto her side. Erick almost panicked again, but Jane meekly held up a hand; thumbs up. She breathed, and was okay, for now.

Kiri went to Jane and sat down beside her, on the platform. Poi stepped onto the floating stone and nodded. Erick turned back to the house.

He dismissed the dense air around the structure with a thought. With another thought, Ophiel scattered into the air around the house; a [Stoneshape] aura pinging off from every single one.

The two mage towers, each three stories tall, on the north and south sides of the house, turned crumbly. They crashed downward, like sandcastles drying in the sun. Nothing held them together as stone became rubble, became dirt, became dust. Diamond lathes and bottles and [Permanent Special Ward] lights appeared briefly in the fall, only to be piled high with more dirt, or they held in the air where they had been cast. The globes Erick had made of Earth’s Solar System fell down into the orange sand, becoming sand themselves.

The three stories of the main house came down in a crash. Furniture and clothes and bedding and glass; all of it broke under tons of crashing stone. Soon, the only things that remained of the whole house were all the lightwards that stood revealed in the sun, and the front and rear stone door; Erick had left the doors intact, as a starter location for a future [Mend]ing. Everything else that made his house a home was gone and buried under tons of dirt.

In one more display of magical ability, Erick dismissed most of the glowing, floating [Permanent Special Wards] that had once illuminated the house, but not all of them. He put up most of those lights, but not all. He couldn’t bear to look at his ‘house’ any longer. Someone else could [Dispel] what remained, if it bothered them. He stepped onto the platform as Jane began to moan in pain.

He said to whoever might be listening, “This was the wrong move, Messalina.”

Blip. Blip. Blip.

- - - -

Erick might have left Spur, for now, but he left a trail of Ophiel behind. One of them floated over to the farms. Soon enough, while Erick was busy getting Jane into the hospital, under the care of the nurses and doctors and Rats, platinum rain began to fall on the farms, right on time.
