“This regeneration aura is fucking dope,” Kaitlyn exclaimed, as she unleashed a hail of lightning-enchanted arrows into the crush of undead.

“I’m healing non-stop, and I haven’t had to use a mana potion yet,” Teagan said, sounding awestruck.

If he could have, he would have chuckled, instead, he just redirected the bulk of the steady stream of damage from Havok to himself while controlling his roots and brambles.

“Ok, area damage spells, one at a time,” Calen announced, picking people out by name to make an impromptu rotation.

Mato focused his senses on the melee, knowing he would need to pull damage from several more people now, but Calen did not participate, and the damage was therefore not extreme.

Notification chimes sounded in his mind like corn popping in a skillet as the lesser undead monsters fell in droves. Finally, the area damage faded as the whole group refocused on the two remaining abominations, burning down both steadily, one at a time.

Your group has defeated Blighted Patchwork Horror – Undead Abomination – level 39 x2Your group has defeated Warrior – Zombie – level 1-4 x16Your group has defeated Warrior – Skeleton – level 3-7 x8

Mato left himself in Tree Form for a little while longer until Calen stored the two Blighted Patchwork Horror corpses, and then he shifted back to his Beastkin form, happy to breathe the blight-free air that his aura had created.

“Holy shit, that thing was level thirty-nine!” Aiden exclaimed in surprise.

“Havok strong!” the intrepid Goblin announced, flexing his sword arm.

“I leveled up!”

“Me too!”

The group gathered around, exclaiming in excitement and wondering aloud if there might not be a few more Abominations lurking in the forest. Calen didn’t have the heart to puncture their enthusiasm. Instead, he let himself pat a few backs and shoulders, and soaked in the enjoyment of the moment. This is proper training, and decent gains for these guys. We should do this more often.

Wow, so that’s what a raid is supposed to feel like, Seth thought, ignoring his notifications and the level he had just earned for the moment. Calen and Mato were both much higher level than their groups, but he hadn’t realized just how much more effective they could be. In seconds, they had adjusted the strategy to maximize the group’s experience, and Calen had pivoted the entire group like a conductor when a second dangerous abomination had joined in.

We have much to learn. And he’s running strategy workshops at the guild, Seth recalled, glancing over to find Calen bent over by the corpses of the abomination with the dark miasma still billowing up around him. The putrid clouds subsided the moment he stored them.

“Would it be possible to study those?” Seth asked, strolling over to join the high-level archer. He wasn’t certain his class would allow him to make something like them, or even if he wanted to, but studying the undead might give him some interesting future unlocks or advancements.

“Sure, but let’s wait till we can unload them in Ali’s dungeon,” Calen answered.

“Why there?”

“They don’t stop emitting the miasma and infecting things with the undead blight even long after they’re killed. Short of totally incinerating every shred of their bodies, Ali’s magic is the only thing we know of that can effectively dispose of them.”

“Oh, I guess I’ll need some potions to even study it then?” Seth asked. That seemed remarkably inconvenient. Expensive, too. The guild certainly wouldn’t fund potions for that, even though they were covering the cost to decontaminate the blighted forest.

“That, or you can ask Mato to borrow his tree for a while,” Calen smiled.

“Ok,” Seth answered, not exactly encouraged by the suggestion. It was nothing he could put his finger on, but it seemed that he made Mato uncomfortable. The huge Beastkin really disliked the undead.

“Seth,” Calen interrupted his thoughts. “While you’re here, do you have a moment to look at something for me?”

“Me? Sure.” He followed as Calen led him deeper into the dead forest, Willow and Devan following somewhere behind, dodging the skeletons he brought with him.

“What can you tell me about those tracks?” Calen asked, pointing to something on the ground.

There were some vague depressions, but Seth had no tracking skills. That can’t be what he’s asking, which means…

He summoned a Volatile Wraith and set it to circling the tracks while he spent its full fifteen seconds of life studying the ground through its strangely dislocated spirit vision. What he saw sent a chill down his spine. The tracks positively glowed with dense death mana that wafted up from the ground, slowly dissipating into the surroundings. It was hard to tell exactly what had made them, but it had to be some species of Greater Undead. That much was certain. Something far more ominous than anything they had faced so far in this blighted forest.

“Greater undead,” Seth said, earning a gasp from Willow who had drawn closer to examine the tracks. “I’m not certain, but if I had to guess, I’d say it might be a Wight.”

“I was afraid of that,” Calen said, a deep frown furrowing his brow. “The tracks are a couple of days old, so it’s long gone now.”

“What does this mean for the blight cleanup job?” Willow asked.

“Definitely nothing good,” Calen said. “We need to let the Guildmaster know immediately.”

Despite Calen’s assurance that it wasn’t nearby, Seth glanced anxiously at the dark shadows lurking deeper in the forest, unable to shake the sense wrongness.

“Here you go, Ryn,” Ali said, depositing the last original book onto the top of the pile, taking care to not disturb Malika studying a martial arts book beside her. It was getting more difficult to tell the originals apart from her copies – as her skill levels and attributes grew, her customization offered progressively finer control of every detail of her creations.

“Perfect,” Ryn said, and then her eyes suddenly opened in a flicker of surprise.

“Level?” Ali asked.

“Yes!” Ryn grinned. “What are you planning to do today?”

Ali glanced at Malika for a moment. Mato and Calen were out helping the bronze-ranked guild members today, so she had a little free time. “I think I need to clean up a little, and maybe do some maintenance on the dungeon today.” There was a whole long list of things she had been putting off due to lack of time.

“In that case, I think I’ll return this stack and get a new batch,” Ryn said, placing a hand on top of the pile of books that was nearly as tall as Ali.

“Ok. Do you want to come with me, Malika?” Ali asked. “Or stay here?”

“I have a martial arts class for the new recruits in half an hour,” Malika said, looking up from her studies.

“See you both later then? Maybe around dinner time?” Ali asked.

“Mhm,” Malika nodded.

“Sure thing,” Ryn said with a wave. Then the pile of books under her hand vanished into her storage, and she vanished immediately after, presumably to the library.

Ok, now where to start? Ali thought, heading out into the forest cavern.

***

The first thing Ali did was to substantially expand her crop of Flame Lashers and Fire Grass. With the amount of time they were spending in the mines, they were using them up at a phenomenal rate. Perhaps I should just try learning to make the elixirs…

It was not the first time she had thought that, but each time she worried that she would be putting Morwynne or Eliyen out of business. Not that she was planning on flooding the market or anything. More critical, though, was the fact that she had always struggled to find space in her Grimoire – in this case, being able to have them made from ingredients and components she could create was simply a minor inconvenience in time.

She flew up to the grove and set to the task of deconstructing the zombie and skeleton corpses her minions had piled up for her. Interspersed in the pile were the occasional assorted Kobold or Slime – either her own monsters killed in defense of her domain, or some interlopers that managed to sneak in from somewhere. She quickly discarded the imprints for the undead, but she wasn’t quite satisfied until she grew a bunch of jasmine and peacebloom to mask the odor of rotting flesh.

Perhaps I should have them collect the corpses somewhere else? She flew across the cavern, heading toward the sewer, but on the way, she stopped to check in on her newest wolf pack boss. It hadn’t been tested by the adventurers from the guild yet, but just by the undead corpses strewn about she could tell her boss was a resounding success. Enough that it took more than twenty minutes to clean up the mess.

Leaving the steady trickle of skeleton incursions to her wolves, Ali headed on up, shifting her awareness through her various monsters to survey her domain. Not much needed fixing in the sewer level, except the enormous piles of trash collected at the bottom of some of the entrance tunnels. It seemed that it was not just her minions collecting trash now – some of the townsfolk must have decided her sewer was a decent garbage disposal.

Ali gazed up at the towering pile, amazed at the sheer amount of junk her Kobolds had collected. It would take a while, but she hoped that buried in there somewhere was a gem of some kind that she might find useful. Malika was right all along. I’m becoming the town janitor. Emergency! There’s too much trash! Call for the cleaner!

She was about halfway through the giant stack when something clinked and her eyes caught sight of a small leather pouch. A money pouch? Ali picked it up and carefully tried to untie the string, but the stitching had rotted, and the entire thing crumbled, spilling a handful of tarnished copper and bronze coins across the ground. But among the dull coins, something gleamed brightly. She flew down to investigate and there, nestled on the moss, she found several small coins with the stamped image of a regal Sun Elf on one side and Elvish writing on the other. They gleamed with a shining silvery-yellow as they lay on the palm of her hand.

Elven Royal Quarter Mark. x5

Is this electrum? Ali turned them over several times, studying the pretty gleaming coins. They were not a denomination or mint she recognized, but there were enough of them to learn, so she quickly committed the Elven Royal Quarters to her coin imprint. Where did they come from? she wondered. Elven currency – Elves in general – were not unheard of in Myrin’s Keep, but they were certainly not frequent visitors.

Ali continued her chore, laboriously deconstructing her way through the entire pile, but nothing else seemed useful until she finally reached the bottom of the pile. The Kobolds had made a round past some of the smithies – several dozen chunks of metal lay on the ground, offcuts and discards from failed projects. Ali shrugged and fed them to her deconstruction skill.

Imprint: Mild Steel completed.

She moved automatically to dismiss the imprint like so many other worthless ones she earned disposing of the endless trash piles, but then she paused. Her Grimoire had only wood and stone that she could use as materials with Domain Mastery, having discarded bone, water, and even fire silk as lower value or easily replaceable.

What about steel? If it worked like stone or wood, she would be able to use it with Sculpting and give her alternatives to her barrier magic for blocking off passages or making walls in her domain. She could even see uses for it to repair railings, ladders, and walkways in the Grand Library.

I have a free chapter, she thought. She had been hoping to use it for a good monster imprint that might help out in the mines, but there had been little opportunity to find one recently. I may as well use it for now, she decided.

As soon as she committed the imprint to her remaining chapter, her Grimoire shone with brilliance. Pages flickered and shuffled around in a gigantic flurry, startling her with the suddenly energetic reaction. And then her notification chime went crazy. What was that? Quickly, she caught up on the notifications.

Imprint: Mild Steel updated to Imprint: Metal.Variant: Copper added to Imprint: Metal.Variant: Brass added to Imprint: Metal.Variant: Bronze added to Imprint: Metal.Variant: Silver added to Imprint: Metal.Variant: Gold added to Imprint: Metal.Variant: Electrum added to Imprint: Metal.Variant: Darksteel added to Imprint: Metal.

What the heck? Ali stared at her Grimoire, baffled at the dramatic activity. It was just a steel imprint? Something similar had happened when she had committed the wood imprint, but this time she didn’t have a whole bunch of metal trees to explain it. Wait… She looked a little closer, and suddenly the chapter changes made sense. It’s like the Bamboo Crawler! Her crawler had inserted itself into both the grass and the elemental imprints, but it didn’t take up any extra pages – whenever she opened one of those chapters, her Grimoire simply moved the relevant pages for the Bamboo Crawler into the currently open chapter. The same thing seemed to be happening here, chunks of pages were rearranged from her coin, weapons, and armor variants, indicating that her customization had found subsets of those that it could categorize as metals.

Not every type, though, she realized, noticing the conspicuous absence of Eimuuran Steel and Thuli’s new Fireforged Steel. She puzzled over that for a while, tentatively concluding that perhaps there was some special magical structure or technique that set those apart from the other more normal metals. It didn’t explain why Darksteel had been included, though. Argh, this thing makes no sense!

Still, she now had access to a sudden wealth of metals she could use. Obviously, she tried it out immediately, summoning a chunk of Electrum and twisting it in her hands with Domain Mastery to form the shape of a small diadem. She warped it again, turning it into a small tree, finding the metal satisfyingly easy to work with and stunningly beautiful in sculpture. Then she turned the brick walls in the entrance shaft to gold before shifting them to a more practical granite. She did find a practical use for her newest imprint almost immediately, replacing the rusted iron hoops stapled into the wall that served as a treacherous ladder with a far safer set of steel steps.

***

“So, what do you think?” Ali asked, pointing at the lake.

“You want some better protection for the lake, but you want it to still be accessible to the guild?” Calen asked. He hovered beside her on his slowly undulating, shimmery wings.

