“Yup,” Ali nodded. “The Timber Wolves are probably a stretch for the bronze-ranked adventurers, so I want something a little easier to ramp them up – but not too difficult that they can’t kill them – I still want them to be able to collect water for Morwynne and Eliyen.”

“You don’t make it easy, do you?” Calen chuckled.

“Hey… I have more requirements than those uncultured dungeons. I have standards, you know?” Ali quipped.

Calen chuckled. “The bronze-ranks gained a couple of levels on our excursion, so they might not be that far off. What abilities haven’t you tested out yet? The Domain Skills.”

“Well…” Ali said, consulting her notes and her skill descriptions. “I think Twin Binding sounds very cool.”

“Do you have much that works in the water?” Calen asked.

“Oozes – maybe the Scalding Slime? Or a Brine Ooze could be good,” Ali said, recalling her adventures in Naia’s dungeon. “I have the Stinging Jellies, but they’re a low-level swarm monster.”

“What level are you thinking?”

“Something close to twenty,” Ali said. This much she was certain of. At twenty-six, her Timber Wolves were likely to be a big challenge. Once some of the bronze-ranked adventurers unlocked their level twenty skill, it might be more accessible.

“Ok, that seems doable – but Twin Binding requires another monster, right?” Calen asked.

“It does,” Ali answered, sharing the skill with him one more time.

Twin BindingRequirements: Raid Enhancement. Two minions.Source: Twin WightsChoose a second minion as the twin target, binding both together with the bonds of magic. Each minion of the pair can be assigned a single Domain Magic skill. When one of the pair dies, the other is restored to full health and gains the Domain Magic skill of its partnerSkill – Domain Magic

“Another ooze?” Calen said, frowning.

“Wait, I know!” Ali exclaimed, “Shamans!” Her Storm Shamans’ lightning skills had worked surprisingly well underwater, and she could split the boss between the land and water.

“That could work,” Calen said. “You just need to decide what to give each of them, considering that the other will inherit the ability once one dies.”

“I was thinking Clone for the Shamans, that would make three of them,” Ali said.

“Well, that sounds devious.”

“Too dangerous?”

“No, it will encourage skillful planning,” Calen said, pursing his lips.

“Ok, I just don’t know what to do for the water part. I like the Brine Ooze…” Calen’s assessment of difficulty was what Ali had needed the most – he was the one who worked with the guild team leaders on strategy and planning, and so he had a far better handle on what they were capable of tackling. On her own, Ali had gotten carried away a few times already and created bosses that might be far too difficult.

“What about that Nova Strike you got from the Piercer Scorpion boss? The Brine Ooze could live in the water and act as ranged area damage from there.”

“That’s a good idea,” Ali said, working through the combinations in her head. “Let me try it.” She pulled out her Grimoire and summoned two monsters.

Brine Ooze – Ooze – level 19 (Water)Storm Shaman – Goblin – level 19 (Lightning)

Ali examined her Goblin’s armor critically, making a few minor adjustments until she was happy with what he was wearing. Then she turned them both into a raid boss.

Domain Respawn applied to Brine Ooze.Raid Domain Enhancement applied to Brine Ooze.Twin Binding applied to Brine Ooze.Storm Shaman selected.Domain Respawn applied to Storm Shaman.Raid Domain Enhancement applied to Storm Shaman.Nova Strike (Waterbolt) applied to Brine Ooze.Clone applied to Storm Shaman.Domain Enhancement complete.Your reserved mana has increased by +225.

Ali winced reflexively at the sudden notification of her reservation cost, but then she reminded herself that it was no longer an issue. What should have been a cost of over four hundred mana for this raid boss had been reduced by her newest Mana Efficiency advancement for Domain Mastery by a little more than half. In fact, the reason she had considered making a new boss at all was the huge reduction in reservation cost she had earned across all her defenders.

“Cost?” Calen asked.

“Two hundred and twenty-five,” Ali said. “I could afford to make a few more.”

“Not bad,” he said, eyeing the two monsters. Domain mana surged through them, and suddenly the shaman duplicated himself using the Clone skill. A few seconds later, they duplicated again, making three. The much larger Brine Ooze slithered into the water and vanished from sight.

“So, three lightning bolt shamans, and a bonus surprise,” Calen said, nodding his approval.

“Show us your Waterbolt,” Ali instructed. Immediately, water-affinity mana surged from the lake and a ring of Waterbolts sluiced through the surface of the lake, firing in all directions. Another volley followed, and then another. “Ok, that’s good.”

“That’s pretty awesome, Ali,” Calen said. “If they kill the shamans first, then the Ooze gets Clone, right?”

“Yup,” Ali said. “And if they kill the Ooze first, the Shamans get Nova Strike.”

“So, lightning apocalypse,” Calen said.

“Yes, something like that.”

“Wait, didn’t you say the Death Wight also transferred his affinity to the Bone Wight when we killed him?” Calen asked.

“Oh, yes,” Ali said. “Wait, shit, did I make this thing too strong again? What will happen if the ooze gets lightning?”

“Uh, fuck,” Calen groused, but he was grinning at the same time. “We’re going to have to test this…”

It turned out it was not that difficult to test. When she and Calen killed the Ooze, the Shamans gained water affinity and took to the lake in an instant, suddenly able to breathe underwater, swim like fish, and perform minor feats of water manipulation. After Ali forced the boss to respawn, they killed them in the opposite order, turning the lake into a trio of Brine Oozes simultaneously firing ring volleys of Waterbolts and acting like mobile Lightning Nova totems.

“Well, that’s going to be a real challenge,” Calen observed.

“Nice for defending my domain,” Ali said.

“Well, not much is going to get this far,” Calen said. “Not with that Timber Wolf boss guarding the lower entrance.”

“I have an idea for that,” Ali grinned. It was something she had thought of while reviewing her Runic Script, and it was high time she tried it out. Ignoring Calen’s raised eyebrow, she summoned a large golden disk of barrier magic, supported by her domain. Then she spent several minutes inscribing her runic circle into the golden surface, tying it off and attaching it to the domain mana also.

Teleportation Locus – level 42 (Arcane)A magical locus that serves as an enhanced teleport destination.Runic Circle

“Teleportation locus,” she said, answering Calen’s increasingly curious stares.

“What are you going…” he asked, but then trailed off as she waved the barrier disk up into the air till it was hovering right over the center of the lake, and then flipped it upside down. “Oh… Ali, that’s evil.”

“I know,” she grinned, “Come on!”

It didn’t take long for her to inscribe several domain-attached Static Teleport runic circles around the cavern entrances near the path down to the ruins through which undead and kobolds still trespassed into her domain.

A few minutes later, a slightly tougher zombie managed to avoid her regular defenses and stumbled across one of her new teleportation rings. There was a brief flash of arcane mana, synchronized with another off over the distant lake. The zombie appeared right below her barrier disk and fell flailing into the water. Distant lightning flickered, followed a few seconds later by the sound of thunder and Ali’s chime sounded.

Your minions have defeated Warrior – Zombie – level 5.

“Evil,” Calen muttered, but there was a big grin on his face.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledge

https://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledge

https://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg
