Calen skirted the stagnant pond and the wisps of violet mist that seeped from its waters, scanning the decayed trunks for signs of undead. He did not have Mato’s attachment to nature, but even he felt sick at the sight of the creeping miasma and death that hung over the rotting remains of the vibrant forest he had spent so much of his youth exploring.

Fucking necromancers. He glanced backward guiltily, catching sight of Seth bringing up the rear with his skeletons. I guess not all of them are bad, he quickly corrected himself. Alexander Gray, however… he deserved every bit of Calen’s ire. If they hadn’t already killed him, he would do it again just because of this devastation.

He darted up the side of a low rise, weaving around the rot and decay, and paused as he reached the crest, studying the landscape up ahead. Both Teagan and Aiden’s groups had jumped at the opportunity to join him and Mato on this hunt, so he was escorting an entire raid group of bronze-ranked adventurers through the decrepit fallen boughs of the once beautiful forest to the south of Myrin’s Keep. Can’t even call this a forest anymore. No. It’s a graveyard. A grave for trees.

“Show me,” he said. His shadows, Willow and Devan, approached, demonstrating the results of their training with the guild – both moved across the soggy ground with respectable silence and stealth. Calen nodded to himself. They were well on their way to becoming skilled scouts.

“Here,” Willow said. “Cami can smell them.”

The Adventurers Guild had been contracted to decontaminate the blight with a priority to focus on opening the South Road. This was the same road the Kel’darran slaver caravan had taken when they had captured Malika and him. Most of the trade with Southport and the southern half of the continent remained blocked and the town had had to tighten their collective belts to make ends meet. However, even the Guildmaster balked at the magnitude of the task before them.

One bit at a time, he thought. As Ali always says.

Cami sniffed at the dirt, wandering about in random circles for a while. Suddenly the imposing Timber Wolf stiffened, her hackles rising to expand her already impressive bulk, and then glanced at Willow as if encouraging her to follow and padded off down the hill in a direct line.

“She found something,” Willow said, unnecessarily.

Calen examined the trail carefully. His Explorer skill quickly identified what Cami had found, traces of unnatural scrapes and prints. “That looks like the abomination,” he said.

“Definitely,” Devan said. “Here, look at this.” Her sharp eyes had picked out some scrapes along the bole of a dead tree – marks that were anything but natural.

Calen nodded. His companions had invested well, their perception skills were excellent. He glanced up at the sight of a pair of zombies shambling along, following the tracks with unerring accuracy.

“Abomination,” Seth said, quietly.

And then, of course, there was Seth. The necromancer could see undeath through the eyes of his minions.

With the trail finally found, they made quick progress, winding their way across hills, past ponds, and through valleys. Behind him, the occasional sounds of combat drifted across the dead landscape as the remainder of the raid group tackled the wandering undead, but Calen remained focused on his primary prey, his unease growing as they drew closer. The area they traveled through was already unnatural enough, filled with shambling undead, blighted trees, and even miasma seeping from the ground itself – but despite all that, something even more unnatural lurked nearby, just below the threshold of his ability to clearly identify what it might be.

But then, as he passed a dense pile of decaying wood where several trees had collapsed, he caught sight of the twitching, shambling mass of stitched and animated undead flesh, spewing clouds of dark gas into its surrounds. It shuffled about unhurriedly, multiple eyes swiveling back and forth independently as if searching for something.

Calen ducked back behind a tree trunk, fading into the shadows. “There it is,” he whispered. “Devan, stealth. Seth, hide! Willow, go get the others.”

They all leapt to follow his orders.

Mato had hoped that the outing to hunt undead with the bronze-ranked adventurers would be a nice change of pace, but the longer they trekked through the desolate blighted forest, the more depressed he grew. It wasn’t just that the dead forest had once been a lush and vibrant expanse, filled with life. Death was part of the cycle of life, as Lira had been teaching him. This was not part of the balance of nature. It was the cloying weight of the unnatural miasma – the legacy of the necromancer – that infused everything around him. Nothing lived. Everything that moved was the spawn of undeath – he felt like an interloper here. An intruder for the crime of living.

“Good armor,” Havok declared, rapping a grubby knuckle against one of the banded plates protecting his left hip and jolting him out of his dark funk. “Where get?”

Mato glanced down at the enthusiastic Goblin and couldn’t help the smile that snuck onto his lips. “Thuli made it.” Havok had an abysmal command of the Common language, but Mato had already seen enough during the skirmishes against the unending trickle of skeletons and zombies that he respected his instincts when it came to his role in the group.

“What is… Thuli?” Havok asked, his Goblin lips struggling over the first syllable of the Dwarf’s name. It came out more like a spitting noise.

“He’s an excellent blacksmith,” Mato said, glancing over Havok’s shabby leather armor and the shield that had seen better days. Is he still using the same bone sword Ali gave him? “Did nobody tell you about plate armor?”

“Plate?”

“Yes, heavy steel armor, like this,” Mato flicked a finger against the interlocking section across his shoulder, making it ring. “If you’re going to take tanking seriously, we need to get you better armor. Where did you get your stuff?”

“One-eye Gnome,” Havok declared, brushing a bit of dirt off his jerkin with the edge of his battered buckler.

“Aah,” Mato said. Weldin was convenient for the new adventurers in the guild, but his selection of tanking armor was limited at best. “Thuli also makes excellent shields.”

“Oh! Havok like shield!”

“Dude, you’re going to love Thuli, then,” Mato grinned. At level seventeen, the Goblin should really be investing in better gear, but he couldn’t fault him – after all, Mato had been around twenty when he had got his first armor set made. On the other hand, they had already introduced Sabri to the smith. What the heck is the Guildmaster teaching these guys? Proper gearing – particularly for the tanks – needed to be part of their education or preparation. Did he miss the memo because of his difficulties in understanding Common? Or can he just not afford better equipment? Either way, allowing the tank to fall behind was a problem for the entire group, not just the individual. On their team, he regularly discussed his gear choices with Calen, Malika, and Ali to make sure the team could afford the right resistances or defensive enchantments.

“Hey, Aiden…” Mato called out, catching the eye of Havok’s team leader. But right then he caught the sounds of running footsteps and the distinctive loping rhythm of heavy canine paws splatting against the mud of decaying leaves.

“We found it!” Willow shouted as she and Cami rounded the massive bole of a snapped oak. “Just up ahead.”

Mato grunted at her, and then shuddered at the image of the horror Cami dumped into his mind with the surprisingly articulate thought, “Hunt! Wrong… kill.”

“Yes,” he answered, reassuring the wolf that they were going to hunt the evil monster – and then aloud, he added, “Take us there.”

“This way,” Willow said, and spun about, darting back the way she had come. The entire raid group sprang into action following her. The path meandered around the dead trees and blighted ground, all of which made the hair on the nape of his neck stand on end, but no more than ten minutes later, he spied the monster lurking in a small gully with a tainted stream of water flowing through it.

Blighted Patchwork Horror – Undead Abomination – level 39

He snarled at the unnatural undead monster. Beside Willow, Cami’s hackles were raised, and a low rumbling growl came from deep within the upset wolf’s broad chest. Catching Calen’s scent, Mato turned and asked, “What’s the plan?”

“You can just tank it, and everyone kills it,” Calen answered, his form shimmering briefly as he appeared beside the tree trunk.

“Hmm… yawn,” Mato said, glancing down at the eager Goblin holding his buckler and bone sword at the ready. “They won’t get much experience that way.”

“What do you suggest?” Calen asked as the two team leaders gathered up, both of their attention riveted on the abomination shuffling about below.

“Why don’t we have Havok tank it?” Mato suggested. “I can tree up and take care of the blight issue.” He left it unsaid that he would be able to look after Havok with his damage redirection – Calen would know to take that into account – especially seeing as a level thirty-nine abomination was probably out of Havok’s league. But he had faced these before, and by far the most dangerous aspect of the fight would be the undead blight that seeped into everything, progressively weakening the living – and could turn people into zombies if they died.

“Can he handle that?” Aiden asked.

“Mato can help him,” Calen said.

“That miasma looks dangerous,” Teagan observed.

“It is,” Calen said. “But Mato’s tree form is our best antidote. I think it’s a good plan. Havok, tank it over there in that clear spot by the stream. Everyone else, wait a little until Havok has secured it, and then wipe it out. Don’t hold back, Havok’s holy damage will hold the undead like glue.”

“Got it,” Teagan nodded.

“Ok,” Aiden said. “My team, group up this side, get ready. Check your recall potions, just in case!”

“Havok smash!” Havok declared, taking his spot up front.

Calen shifted awkwardly, clearly still uncomfortable with assuming the mantle of leadership so easily. It was something he would need to get used to. Logically, he was the highest-level and most experienced adventurer in the group, besides himself, and Mato would be shapeshifted and unable to speak with anyone besides the wolf.

“Get ready, Havok,” Mato said. “My aura might piss it off.” As soon as the Goblin nodded, Mato picked a spot on the hilltop and shifted, pushing his roots deep into the blighted soil and thrusting his branches out across the bleak landscape. His bark crawled at the sense of the miasma, blight, and death, but as his form took, his aura burst outward, to exclamations of surprise from the adventurers, and the blight began to dissolve in an enormous radius around him.

Down in the gully, the abomination froze, a half dozen eyes springing open from within mismatched dead flesh.

“Havok, go!” Calen commanded.

The valiant Goblin did not need to be told twice. His shield flared with the brilliant light of holy magic. A similar enchantment infused his bone sword, and his compact green form blurred into motion, tearing across the rotting ground to shield-slam the abomination.

Mato watched as he skillfully maneuvered the bigger monster across the terrain to the designated tanking spot with deft strikes of both his glowing sword and shield. Not bad. The Goblin’s instincts for tanking were superb – even better against the stronger foe than the rabble earlier. Then he dropped a ring of white flickering holy fire on the ground – a fire that seemed to annoy the monster tremendously, which made Mato a big fan.

“Ok, kill it,” Calen said, and the entire raid group engaged with determined shouts and a hail of magic and arrows.

Mato reached out through his aura, sensing everything within. He pulled half the damage of a powerful strike away from Havok, taking it upon himself. The Goblin struggled to block all the attacks from the various claws and appendages, but Mato could see the strikes and took the bulk of another, as a vicious claw bit into Havok’s leg from below the monster. It wouldn’t have killed him outright, but it was obvious that Havok was tanking way above his class level, and his weak gear was not helping much.

You have been infected with Undead Blight.

Mato ignored the notification as the blight rapidly eroded under the force of his aura, fading away.

“What?” the shaman girl, Teagan, exclaimed. “He just got hit, but there’s nothing to heal!”

“Damage redirection,” Calen said, his voice clipped and quick in the heat of battle. “Heal the tree.” Mato felt Teagan’s eyes widening in surprise, but moments later he felt the familiar sense of nature magic healing his wounds as a green beam shot out from her hand and connected to his trunk briefly.

Something rustled and scrabbled in along the edge of his awareness, setting his bark to prickling.

“Cami, adds,” he said, reaching out to the only mind that could hear him.

As always, he chafed at the inability to communicate efficiently. He searched down deep, below even the reach of the miasma, finding seeds and the remnants of roots, some still with life in them. Rampant Growth surged and briars and vines exploded forth from the ground, reaching and grasping at the legs of skeletons and zombies as they were drawn in by the mana and the sounds of combat.

“Adds,” Willow shouted, echoing Mato’s warning to her companion.

“Adds,” Calen announced at the same moment, noticing the action of his roots instantly. “Kaitlyn and Willow, kite them to the center.” The two archers responded promptly, firing arrows and sprinting into position. As he felt the undead focus on them, he released them one at a time and watched as they shambled into the holy fire of Havok’s consecrated ground, getting stuck there by the taunt, forced to fight the Goblin instead.

More and more undead joined the fray, until Mato found himself struggling to pin one down.

Another abomination.

But Calen shot that one dead center, and quickly kited it to the growing horde of undead smacking the tiny figure of the Goblin defending himself with his glowing holy shield. “Another abom – keep an eye on him, Mato!” Calen shouted urgently, spinning in place as he searched their surrounds.

Got it, Mato thought, again unable to confirm that he had it covered. He allowed all the weaker undead to strike Havok directly, taking only the most powerful of the abomination’s attacks, and relying on his aura to constantly cleanse the miasma and blight from the entire group.

