“My darling, you don’t seem to realize what you’ve done! A person who was not supposed to know how to find me has tracked me to my hideout. I’m going to spend the rest of the evening relocating myself and all my men.”

“But I told you I came alone.”

“I know, but you also strike me as a generally law-abiding woman, and I know that you’re in contact with the police. Unless…” He stopped at the door and turned. “I don’t suppose you’d be willing to give me some advice on how to pick a better hiding place?”

Eleanor pressed her lips together.

He pointed at her. “And that’s why I’ll be vacating.” He picked up the lamp.

She lowered her eyes to the white-dusted floor. “I understand.”

“If you need to reach me, there’s always the Quotidian Journal. I’m a regular reader. But I will have to ask you not to look for me again. You’re entirely too good at finding me.” He opened the door partway but halted when he heard her come up behind him. “Where do you think you’re going?”

Her brows furrowed with confusion. “Home?”

Penn chuckled. “Oh no. I’m sorry, Eleanor, but you’re staying right here.”

“What? Why?”

“I need time to make good my escape, and the only way to guarantee that is to keep the one person who knows where I am safely tucked away.”

Now those brows knit down, and Penn guessed, rightly, that she was annoyed with him.

“So much for all those endearing names,” she said.

His hand swept out in a grand gesture. “My hertis rote!” Then he motioned to her with the same hand. “I seem to remember you saying something about risk.”

“How long do you intend to keep me here?”

“Hours.” He nodded to the sacks of flour. “You might as well get some sleep. I’ll be taking the light with me.”

“So I can’t signal anyone?”

“This is a mill’s storage room. It has to keep out mice. There are no windows, no space between the boards, and the door shuts tight in its frame. You can break your nails and waste your time trying to escape, or you can take my word for it.”

“If it’s so secure, why can’t you leave me the light?”

“Because you’re clever, and I, for one, won’t underestimate you.”

“Then you’ll come and get me when you’re done moving?”

He laughed. “Not a chance. But if you’re a good girl, I’ll send someone to get you.”

He was halfway out the door when he caught sight of her angry face. It was almost as attractive as her smile.

With puckish joy he called out, “Good night, my beloved!”

He shut and locked the door. Since she was alone, Eleanor could indulge her temper by stamping her foot at Penn’s phantom. Then she felt her way back to her dusty bench.
