Surfacing for air, Baledagh paddled about and set to work finding Brother. This was where he’d been before vanishing from their shared mind and body, but how was Baledagh supposed to find something imperceptible and ineffable like a soul? He tried channelling Heavenly Energy, circulating his Chi, Sending into the water, and even screaming while submerged, but nothing worked. Brother was gone and Blobby with him, which meant Baledagh was all alone and stuck with a life which wasn’t his.

Mother’s sagging tits, what happened to Brother? Did Blobby eat him? It wasn’t too far a stretch, the Heavenly Tear’s motives had always been a mystery, and it did try to eat Baledagh at one point. Maybe Blobby was here to devour Spectres and Demons but grew unhappy because they hadn’t fed it enough in recent times, so it ate Brother’s soul instead. No, that couldn’t be possible, there’s no way Brother would have gone down without a fight, unable to even alert Baledagh to his troubles. No, Brother was still alive, he had to be, and given time, he would make his way back from whatever adventure he was on. Until then, it was Baledagh’s job to hold down the fort and carry on as if nothing were out of the ordinary.

Everything would work out eventually. It had to.

Diving back under, he took a break to watch Ping Ping scour the sea floor for food, snapping up a hidden squid here or a large crab there. The quins did what they could to help by driving schools of fish towards her, but Ping Ping had a prodigious appetite and these were but bite-sized morsels. The only way she’d truly be sated is if she caught a kraken swimming about, but the poor turtle had no such luck, likely having scared off all the larger prey in the area. Reluctant to stray too far from his side, Ping Ping quickly cleared out the surroundings of food and not even the quins could corral fish from afar. Feeling bad for the big girl, he surfaced to tell Taduk his plan and after getting the okay, he called Ping Ping to his side.

“Hello sweetling,” he said, patting her neck as he grabbed hold of her shell. “All right then. Now you go swim wherever you please, I’ll be right here with you.”

Squeaking in delight, Ping Ping swam away from the skiff, slowly at first as she made sure he wouldn’t abandon her, but gradually picking up speed as her anxiety lessened. Whooping in sheer delight, Baledagh urged her onward as they cut through the waves, faster than any boat could ever travel. Tucking one leg against her chest, she held him close and dove down into the watery depths, setting Baledagh’s ears to popping from the pressure. He felt no fear or apprehension, only unbridled glee as he watched Ping Ping snap up all manner of sea life before bringing it back up to the surface to consume in peace.

They did this many times more and made a wide loop around the skiff with Ping Ping successfully catching something to eat each time, a marvellously efficient and effective hunter. Delighted to see her so happy, Baledagh patted her neck and wondered how long she’d stick around without Brother here to feed her the special water. Baledagh didn’t understand what Brother did to make it so alluring to Ping Ping, but if she loved it enough to go hungry for several days in a row, then it must be important.

How difficult would it be to replicate Brother’s efforts?

Cupping his free hand, he lifted it out of the bay and concentrated on the water left in his palm. It was supposedly like binding a weapon, but Baledagh hadn’t been conscious when Brother bound Peace and Tranquility. He understood the theory well enough, to accept the Spiritual Weapon as a part of you, let your Chi flow through it and bind it, but saying it was much easier than doing it. How was he supposed to make this water a part of him?

Well... there’s one easy way...

Maybe Ping Ping wasn’t here to drink Brother’s chi-water, but trying to show him the way. Lowering his lips, he drank a mouthful of water and felt the cold, refreshing liquid settle into his empty belly. Closing his eyes, he slipped into Balance and directed his Chi to his belly and the water within. The water churned a bit but settled soon after, unresponsive to his efforts. Why? The water was technically a part of his body, right? Or maybe not. Only after digestion would it truly become a part of him, entering his bloodstream to nourish his muscles and organs, but then it would no longer be water. When was the proper time to bind it then? Before or after it turned into piss?

Eww.

No, his line of thinking was wrong. Peace and Tranquility weren’t physically a part of him, but rather metaphysically. So too must the water be a metaphysical part of him. Stepping out of his body and into the void, Baledagh gazed upon Brother’s creation, the small room sitting atop a high cliff and overlooking the beautiful replica of the village. He always found the village a little sad, if truth be told. It was an exquisite work of art, but that’s all it was. No one would ever mistake it for reality. The shadows never shifted because the sun never moved, the grass didn’t blow because the wind didn’t exist, the clouds never drifted and the rivers never flowed. It was nothing more than a peaceful moment pulled from memory and preserved in their Natal Palace as something to remind Brother of better times.

Turning to the void around him, he gazed into the darkness and shivered. It was better when Blobby was here, better when Brother was around, but without them, Baledagh would have to make do. Summoning Peace and Tranquility into existence, he studied both Spiritual Weapons with all his senses, feeling his Chi flow through them like they were a part of his flesh and blood. Holding onto this sensation, he reached for the water sitting inside his belly, inviting it not just into his body, but into his Core and into his Natal Palace. Only then could it truly be considered a part of him, bonded to him as he was bonded to Peace and Tranquility.

Upon opening his eyes, Baledagh found the afternoon had come and gone, with early evening in full effect. Under Ping Ping’s curious gaze, he grinned and winked back. “Thank you Ping Ping. Now let’s see how you like it,” he said, teasing the sweet animal. Drawing a deep breath, he displayed his new skill for her to see, spitting a small stream of chi-water into the bay.

Cackling in euphoric glee, Baledagh leaned back and floated in the bay, basking in his success. True, this skill couldn’t really be called useful. The tiny stream had immediately dissipated, couldn’t be reused, and took three or four hours of hard work to bind. It wasn’t much, but this was Baledagh’s first real achievement, something he’d accomplished all on his own, without aid from Spectres, Brother, or anyone else.

Now if only he had someone to celebrate this milestone with...

Chapter Meme
