The dwarves had fallen victim to the shimagu’s main strategy: isolating a group and drawing them deeper and deeper into the vast shimagu forces. Most of those that the shimagu managed to close ranks on were worn down until the damned parasites could seize them—after which, they had to pray that artillery from the walls could end their plight before they were carried out of range. Rescue was next to impossible if anyone got too deep, thanks to the sheer numbers the shimagu possessed.

Unfortunately, even if everyone knew about the shimagu’s strategy, it was more difficult in practice to avoid getting caught up in it than it sounded. Things changed too quickly in conflict, especially at such a massive scale, and for all the Legions derided shimagu troop movements, their enemies were shockingly proficient at maneuvering through a battlefield.

With Ranthia’s help, it only took a few (less than twenty-four, surely) minutes to open a route back to the safety of allies. The dwarves moved, led by their dual-shielder as he punched the smaller (just twice the size of most Reman shields) of his shields forward. The front-facing spikes tore through enemies mercilessly as they moved.

“Oi, Sentinel woman! I ‘eard one of them [Leader] types thataways!” The last dwarf, a fleet-footed man that was armed with one of their people’s massive crossbows, urgently whispered when he passed her by.

Ranthia nodded her thanks while she remained to cover the dwarves’ escape, joined by five images once the dwarves got clear. The moment she was convinced the dwarves would make it to the ‘safety’ of the greater melee, Ranthia’s dance carried her deeper into the shimagu ranks, in the direction that the scout had indicated. Even for her, it was dangerous to go too deep, but she sorely doubted the scout was trying to lead her into a trap—to the best of her knowledge, she was on good terms with the dwarves.

Besides, the potential quarry was worth the risk. Killing shimagu [Leaders] usually resulted in the nearby forces falling into disarray, at least until the shimagu could get another [Leader] into the area. Besides, all logic—and the bulk of the [Analysts], including Gailla—agreed that there had to be a shimagu field commander, someone like a legate, somewhere amongst the enemy. If she could kill such a key commander, there was a real chance that the damned parasites would be forced to withdraw.

The shimagu were slow to respond to a lone bringer of death so deep within their ranks. Most of the parasites were relaxed or focused on their anticipation of the next movement that would bring them to Remera’s defenders. Ranthia strove to move faster than the cry of alarm could spread, dancing through their ranks as swiftly as she could manage. She culled where she could, but it wasn’t her goal—she refused to lose momentum for unimportant kills.

A running shimagu broke through the ranks right in front of her. Ranthia pivoted to avoid the expected attack, but the ogre was obviously surprised to see her. The ogre threw herself to the side, with a face masked with horror, and made no move to pursue once Ranthia passed her. It was weird, but Ranthia didn’t have time to worry about it.

She was finally close enough to hear the [Leader]. A human male, given the voice. He wasn’t shouting, instead he spoke at a conversational volume while he moved with the press of infested flesh, as if he were just another unimportant soldier. It explained a lot about why they struggled to find [Leaders] of meaning amidst the shimagu—the fuckers were cleverer than the Legions were, at least in that respect.

Ranthia pulled from her arcanite to bring herself back to full mana as she closed the remaining distance. Xaoc willing, her opponents would be unable to properly try to box her in once she killed her target, but she needed to focus on her kill first. Exfiltration could—

A brilliant orange light flared behind her. And the shimagu began to cheer.

“<Good done! Those who kill your you now have home burns!>” The [Leader] shouted in the shimagu tongue.

Had Ranthia been less distracted, it would have been a great bit of dialogue to chew on to help her own understanding of the language. But she understood enough—her heart thundered in her chest.

The cheering shimagu were no obstacle; they barely paid attention to the woman shoving past them. And there the [Leader] was, a middle-aged man, wearing filthy hides just like any number of unimportant nobodies.

He opened his mouth to shout something over the cheers, likely to egg the shimagu on.

The angle wasn’t perfect, but the combination of fear and rage that burned through Ranthia refused to just run back to Remera. Her knife absorbed her Skills, then she tied them off with [Sustained Chaos] and hurled the fully imbued knife with everything she had, driving it with [Adamant Commander].

The man tilted to the side absurdly with his profile revealing a vapid expression as the knife slammed into the side of his neck.

[*ding!* You have slain a human [Undaunted Navigator] (Storm, level 482), [Survivor of Shipwrecks] (Ocean, level 503) //a shimagu [Charming Words, Brutal Commander] (Ooze, level 589), [Barrier Adept] (Brilliance, level 517), [Always Heard] (Sound, level 443)!]

[*ding!* [Sustained Chaos] has reached level 590!]

[*ding!* [Ranthia’s Covenant with Xaoc] has leveled from 175 to level 177!]

As though heralded by that final notification, the shimagu in the vicinity fell into pandemonium. A Mirage [Mage] painted the form of the deceased commander across every last infested in the immediate vicinity, most of which promptly ran. Several of them were gathered in clusters, as though they were protecting someone in their midst. Other enemies raced for her, out for blood.

But her role was done—the System notification was beyond unlikely to have been faked. She had done what she needed to do, which meant that she needed to withdraw. [Adamant Commander] called her knife back to her while she parried a nearby shimagu’s stolen sword with its twin.

Moments later, she caught her blade even as she hopped onto the back of an ogre that sought to catch her with a body slam. His bulk bought her a precious moment to survey the situation, since it forced the other shimagu back. She wasn’t as deep into the enemy lines as she had expected, but she had stirred them up and she was too deep for her allies to readily come to her aid.

An arrow that she narrowly evaded made up her mind. Ranthia danced into the midst of the enemies and sent out a new image—into the sky, midway between Remera’s walls and her current position. She would have preferred to get it closer to the walls than that, but her range for [Reflections of Reality] was less than two-thirds her range for [Scattered Reflections], which narrowed her options.

As Ranthia carved her way through the press of infested flesh, doing her best to evade Skills that punched through their own allies in their fervor to see her dead, Ranthia waited for [Reflections of Reality] to conclude. Precious heartbeats, mere moments that were transformed into an eternity by her level and by her situation.

Shimagu and their hosts died.

And then she was mid-air.

The defensive [Mages] and a legitimately impressive archer were trying to help cover her—it was the only reason her image was still there. More and more shimagu arrows and conjured attacks came her way as an increasing number of the enemies noticed the falling woman that presented such an obvious target. They were met by panes of Brilliance and conjured Mirror, alongside arrows and other Skills that intercepted incoming attacks. A bolt of Fire was doused by a tendril of Water, an arrow shattered the shaft of a cruder shimagu-made arrow, a small slug of Metal punched through and shattered a bolt of sharpened Ice, and Gale met Gale.

But they couldn’t counter everything the shimagu threw at her.

A thick, oversized arrow punched through her armor and pierced her intestines. It was too large for [Void Edge] to erase, so she was forced to take it. Several other attacks stripped away her unimbued armor and took their toll of blood, before Ranthia could even get an image onto the wall.

Godsdamned observant bastards. [Reflection of Reality]’s glacial activation speed was costing her dearly.

A chain wrapped around her—she nearly attempted to sever it, but it came from the wall. Ranthia found herself yanked, with enough force that it felt like her organs were dislocated, but it pulled her clear of the incoming attacks.

It bought her enough time to shift onto the wall.

“Oh, gods and goddesses! Thank you.” Ranthia managed to wheeze out before she took a deep breath.

The dwarf, a Mantle [Mage], nodded at her with a bright grin, before his chain struck downward into an enemy that dared get too close to Remera’s walls, splitting the ogre in twain.

“‘Nytime, lass!” He replied, not even watching his Skill’s blood-thirsty antics.

With the situation in hand, Ranthia turned to face Remera.

Flames burned across the base as the legionaries fought the flames with lines bearing water and sand. Angry and desperate shouts for [Mages] that could help rang across the base. Two of the command tents were outright gone, though neither of them was the one in use (…she hoped). Throughout the base, other tents had been reduced to charred remnants, while legionaries worked to deconstruct tents near the larger blazes to try to keep them contained.

But more important than anything else, Ranthia’s prominent home stood unblemished. It was a beautiful sight that lifted the weight of fear from her shoulders. Avyna’s shop was a single gap away from one of the spreading fires, but Ranthia wasn’t too worried—Avyna’s fire resistance enchantments were solid. Plus, it wasn’t like Avyna would be there in the middle of the night…

…Ranthia glanced upwards. At the sun.

“Fuck!” Ranthia cursed aloud while she tried—and failed—to convince herself that there was no way that Avyna’d be in her shop during such an overt crisis. Gratingly, she needed to make sure the situation was handled before she could check on Avyna. With the risk of shimagu agents inside Remera’s walls in mind, Ranthia raced down the wall toward her Sound [Mage] handler.

“What happened?” Ranthia demanded on arrival, not caring that the woman was in midsentence with someone else.

“Hold please. Sentinel! It was the herbivores! As soon as our scouts were out of sight, they rushed the walls and unleashed Fire, Inferno, or Lava attacks over the walls. The defense [Mages] on that grid block were understaffed and got overwhelmed. They directly targeted the command tents that were in range, one of our food growth tents, three [Analyst] tents, and one storage tent. We thankfully were able to save the storage tent, but we’re still waiting for a full body count!” The woman reported, before she went back to speaking to whomever was on the other side of that bracelet.

The shimagu forces were fragmenting and losing what passed for their limited concept of cohesion. Remera’s other defenders and weaponry could bleed them for their sins, and they could do it without her.

Ranthia abandoned her duty and instead threw an image deep into Remera. Shifting was faster than running, and she was desperate to confirm that the woman she loved was safe!

Inside, Remera was worse than it had seemed from the walls. The base was hot between the day’s heat and the uncontrolled blazes. Smoke hung thick in the air. And both legionaries and civilians ran around like insects revealed after removing a rotting log. The sounds of wailing men and women joined the cries of infants, as if they took a hard look at the situation and decided that just having everyone’s senses of sight, touch, smell, and taste overwhelmed wasn’t quite sufficient.

Ranthia danced through, snuffing flying embers as she went. It wasn’t much, but she could offer that limited assistance while she rushed for Avyna’s shop—it was closer to her current position than their home was.

Ranthia burst dramatically through the entrance and found… one ash-covered legionary—one of the familiar ones that tended to hang around Avyna—buying refills of cold juice as fast as he could drain the cup, while Avyna tried to block his hand from the transfer sheet.

“Sertius, your throat—and possibly more—has been damaged by the smoke. You must see a [Healer], go!” Avyna insisted, unamused by the man’s antics.

“<Gemheart>! Are you okay?!” Ranthia shouted over the situation, as she rushed for her beloved.

Avyna turned to Ranthia and smiled with relief. But even as she opened her arms, her face lost a hint of color. Instead, she drew back, which stopped Ranthia short.

“My love! Your armor is burning!” The elf all but shrieked.

Ranthia glanced about at her damaged armor and found the charred section that had Pallos’ tiniest tongue of flames still working at the leather. Annoyed, Ranthia beat at the small fire, while the ash-covered legionary stepped over and splashed his half-drained cup of juice across another section near the center of her back.

Once she was extinguished, Ranthia spared a moment to wonder how in Xaoc’s eternal glory she had managed to catch herself on fire again. Any flames left from the various attacks the shimagu failed to kill her with should have been extinguished when she shifted. Which meant she had to have managed to reignite her armor while she was dancing through Remera—it was worse out there than she had even known.

Ranthia shook the question off.

“You’re okay, <Gemheart>?” Ranthia asked.

“Of course I am! You are the one being reckless and not even noticing that you were aflame!” Avyna scolded her in return, a scowl on her face.

Ranthia bowed her head, but she also smiled with relief.

“Ran—Sentinel Grace, ma’am!” A haggard and wide-eyed Glorine charged into the shop, shouting at the top of her lungs.

Avyna rolled her eyes and muttered something about noise fines in High Elvish.

“What now?” Ranthia asked, with a half-hearted salute.

The messenger ignored it and rushed over, grabbing desperately at Ranthia’s armor.

“Where is Gailla?! Please, help me find my fiancée!” Glorine pleaded.

Gods and goddesses, she was trembling.

Ranthia accelerated her perception and realized the problem immediately. Gailla was one of Remera’s [Analysts], and several of their tents had been targeted.

Ranthia nodded and set her hands on her friend’s shoulders, trying to project an air of confidence.

“I’m sure she’s okay. But come on, follow me! We’ll find her together, I promise. <Gemheart>, stay here!” Ranthia did her best to reassure Glorine without wasting undue amounts of time.

