Ranthia took a deep breath, suddenly nervous. It was time to see if the woman she fell in love with could tolerate her deepest secret. At the very least, she was dead certain that Avyna would have never guessed that she had been reborn by the benevolence of Xaoc.

“First… I’ve never seen you pray, how do you feel about the gods?” Ranthia finally asked a question that she had silently fretted about.

“This is quite a detour, my love! Hm, I think it is better phrased as I do not give undue focus to them? I am not closely related to any god or goddess that has ascended, to the best of my knowledge, and thus I have limited interest in my future peers. But I am aware that you pray to one of the original five, and this does not bother me. Is this what you wish to tell me? Because I am afraid I must inform you that you are not subtle with your beliefs—you invoke the name of the chaos god quite often.” Avyna grinned at her.

Ranthia shook her head.

“It’s not, but it’s related. This… isn’t my first life.” Ranthia whispered.

“My love, elves are quite familiar with the great cycle of Samsara. We likely know even more about it than humans do—there are many elves that commune with their ascended kin and there are those that serve the gods that created us too.” Avyna explained with a note of amusement.

Ranthia sighed—she was getting frustrated with herself—she was explaining this badly. She needed to just get it out, explanations could wait.

“No, I mean… Would you believe me if I told you that I died and stood before Xaoc after He personally plucked my soul before I could reach Samsara, before He thrust me into another body to try to bring greater chaos into the world?” Ranthia’s words were hesitant, but she had to say them.

“No.” Avyna answered. More words followed it, but try as she might, Ranthia couldn’t capture any of them in her mind.

The first word hurt too much. Even before the other words came, Ranthia had already recoiled away from the elf. Her eyes stung with hot tears.

Not that she was surprised, not truly. Why would anyone believe something so unusual—so godsdamned absurd? Why would anyone believe that she was special? Avyna loved her, but that didn’t obligate the well-experienced woman to believe every single little ridiculous thing that came out of Ranthia’s mouth! She knew it was too much to expect.

And yet…

Moments into her spiral, Avyna grabbed her chin and tried to turn her back. Ranthia resisted—she still needed a moment to work through it before she could try to explain! Heartbeats later, Avyna was on her feet—and out of the blanket—and bumped her forehead gently against Ranthia’s.

Ranthia wasn’t the only one that could experience and act within the tiny moments.

“My love, let me finish! No, I do not believe that any worldly being—soul or body—has ever set foot in the realm of the gods. I understand that your beliefs are very important to you, and I respect that. I accepted that as part of you, even before I decided that I wanted to be with you. Which is why I am willing to hear your story, even if I am inclined to disbelieve.” Avyna explained.

“[Divine-Touched Identify].” Ranthia whispered in response.

“What?” Avyna’s confusion was probably understandable—it wasn’t exactly a coherent explanation.

Not that Ranthia was quite rational enough to be understanding. She didn’t even try and wipe away her still-flowing tears, she just lifted her head and looked imploringly at the woman she loved through the blur.

“That is the name of my first General Skill! When I—in this lifetime—unlocked the System, the predecessor to this Skill was already set. The System not only acknowledged the divine aspect of it, but… The Skill is how I see all three of your class archetypes and elements. This is rare, even by your understanding, isn’t it?

“Oh, and its predecessor outright stated I had used it to gaze at the divine.” Ranthia had no idea what tone she had used while she spoke. She just focused on the words and put everything her fraught mind had left into trying to make them coherent. The words needed to be shared—they were important.

Avyna fell silent and gently bumped her forehead against Ranthia’s one last time before she stood and rejoined Ranthia on the probably-not-a-bench and got under the blanket again. At length, she scooted closer and leaned against Ranthia.

“I… am sorry, my love. I had never heard of such a thing, but I never meant to accuse you of lying. Blessings from those that have ascended are not unheard of, but I have never heard of one from the five creators. I had not believed they were so… involved in our world still. If you would tell me your story, I would like to know it.”

Avyna’s words were gentle and warm—and, even better, they were what Ranthia needed to hear. She immersed herself in those words and consciously willed them to balm her pain. A short time later, she nodded and wiped at her face with her hands—she didn’t want to get the blanket gross.

“Okay. I would love to tell you.” Ranthia finally answered.

She turned to face the elf and embraced her. Things had gotten scary for a moment there, but they were fine—their relationship was strong enough to endure. She really should have known that. Avyna was wonderful, and she was ready to listen. Of course she was. So long as they continued to sincerely listen to one another, they could overcome anything.

“My last—and only—memory from… whoever I used to be wasn’t a good one, of course. I was a Paladin, in service to Xaoc. I was engaged in battle against… something, I don’t even know if it was a man or a beast. I lost. My weapon—a precious partner, I think—was knocked out of my grasp, I then hit the ground and then felt a blow tear through me. I remember what it was like to die—not that I remembered that Black Crow and White Dove were literally real beings until White Dove appeared to curse me. Seriously.” Ranthia smiled wryly.

Avyna was silent and hanging onto Ranthia’s every word with a serious—yet warm—expression writ throughout her features.

“Then I suddenly was in an 8-year-old body, with my System unlocking. I know nothing about… Ranthia’s childhood, nor do I remember anything else from my prior life. But, between those two moments, I have another set of somewhat hazy memories. I met Xaoc. I stood before Him. And He found me wanting. My prior self had been seduced by order by the time …I died.

“Like I said, I had [Identify] already taken from the instant of my unlock. I had numerous other General Skills on offer that no 8-year-old should have unlocked. Plus, a head full of knowledge that… I assume to be fragments from my former life. But there’s no context to it, I’ll just sometimes realize that I know things that I shouldn’t—and it can be pretty unreliable. It’s even been outright wrong more than once, but more often it’s just… incomplete.

“Still, I used that knowledge to plan out my first class. Something to survive. I was barred from becoming a [Paladin] in this life, but I could serve Xaoc and bring chaos into the world through other means. Of course, like I said, I had no idea how absurd a requirement I was truly pursuing with single-minded obsession.” Ranthia felt vulnerable—so few people ever got to know the truth about her.

Yet the warmth of the slender elf in her arms bolstered her—she knew that she could trust that Avyna was raptly listening to every word she shared, no matter how badly she stumbled.

“My second General Skill is more important to me than any other… [Ranthia’s Covenant with Xaoc]. My solemn, sacred vow to my deity. I…”

Ranthia hesitated.

“Would you be mad if I request to keep the words between me and Xaoc?” She finally asked.

Avyna smiled and squeezed her gently.

“If that is what you prefer, I shall accept it. Since it is a Restriction Skill, perhaps you can instead describe the restrictions?” The elf offered.

“Thank you. I really do love you…” Ranthia gave voice to what was meant to be a thought.

So much for waiting a month! Amusingly, it didn’t bother her as much as she expected the slip-up to—she was sharing everything with Avyna and withholding a single word just felt… petty. She was in love, why would she ever deny sharing that with the woman who received her love?

Instead, she sought the elf’s lips for an emotional kiss. It wasn’t their longest kiss, but it meant everything. Every kiss meant everything to her—just as the woman she shared them with did.

“Basically, I am bound to defy excessive order and do what I can to spare those that engage in chaos. It’s not the most restrictive oath—I don’t have to set out to ruin any semblance of order that I see, obviously. But it’s important. It’s so important. …It’s also still only at level 151, because I struggle to truly live up to Xaoc’s expectations. The Skill grants me a decreased need for mana for my Mirror-aspected Skills, which… admittedly is starting to fall off in utility as I level. Not that I took the Skill for anything as mundane as utility.” Ranthia explained once their lips separated.

“Thank you for telling me.” Avyna whispered with a broad smile.

Ranthia kissed her again, unable to resist with her heart dancing within her breast. Avyna had accepted every secret Ranthia had to share! The elf wasn’t judging her or truly doubting her, she had just been surprised by Ranthia’s greatest secret—which was more than just fair.

“This leads into my third class because it’s… special. I mentioned broadly how I lost my true body, but there was more to that story. I reached level 512 during the battle with the ogress twin—the one I took my adamantium from—and her forces. The battle was still ongoing when I finally limped back to base so a [Healer] could get me back into the fight. She needed a bit of time, so I decided to grab a third class while she worked.

“Moments into the class up, one of the short swords that represent my class options launched out of nowhere and slammed into me. It couldn’t force me to take it, but it was a divine-sent class. I accepted it immediately and went back to the real world. …And I had just enough time to shift outside of the command center, right before it was destroyed by a massive rock.

“Xaoc intervened on my behalf, without a doubt. Had He not, I would have died then and there. The class has upgraded since, though it isn’t yet 256. Currently, it’s just called [Harbinger]. Magic Metal-aspected, though it seems focused only on adamantium.

“[Magic Metal Authority], not entirely surprising for a high quality third class to have that already.

“The first skill is [Adamant Commander]—which has absorbed several other Skills. In a nutshell, it lets me manipulate adamantium. I can apply force to it, call it to my hand, shape it, and more. The effect is far greater with the adamantium that I have bonded with, which I will discuss soon. But this is how I break my attuned adamantium down into sand and reshape it.

“[Unbreakable] increases the resilience of my adamantium with my vitality—and my Void has ensured the Skill stays capped.

“[Mine!], embarrassingly enough, is the name of the next Skill. It lets me sense nearby adamantium and allows me to seize the metal so long as it is unaffected by anyone’s vitality. But this is only the first step for my next Skill…

“[Adamantium Symbiosis] allows me to form a proper attuned bond with the metal, bringing it further under my control. The Skill honestly seems to be the only way that I can even affect the metal, but I can’t unattune it afterwards—which means I’m in trouble if I ever lose any of the metal I’ve attuned so far.

“[One With Chaos] is probably my least favorite Skill in my kit, which is funny… I mean, it saved my life at least once. Basically, I get a randomized stat boost when I attack in ‘the service of chaos’—and no, I don’t know what that restriction truly means either. The Skill sounds great, but it throws off the rhythm of my movements. That said, it is how I succeeded in killing the troll twin—my attack surged my strength to the extent that my arms outright broke, which stopped him before he could escape the sun.

“[Higher Power] is easily my favorite Skill name. It just insulates me from some of the recoil when I strike or when my adamantium is struck, but it’s proven its value to me more than once.

“And that concludes my third class.” Ranthia announced.

Avyna blinked and frowned at her for a moment. Ranthia just grinned and kissed her lover again and let it linger while she vented her relief and reaffirmed her love for the gorgeous elf.

“Thank you for listening to me. I won’t ask what you think.” Ranthia whispered once the kiss broke.

Avyna offered Ranthia a wry grin.

“Back when I was young—after I decided to become a [Merchant]—I worked under an experienced man instead of studying at the Academy. He was very set in his ways after over two thousand years of life. He liked to say he had seen and knew everything about the world that he needed to. And when I first arrived at his place, he promised me that if I ever shook his worldview, he would bake a special pie for me. A pie that his mother—one of the initial elves to walk Pallos, those created directly by the creators—used to make when he was young.

“Of course, I was obsessed with achieving it! My love, can you imagine a recipe from one of the progenitors of my people? I tried and tried. And eventually, I managed to source him some raw materials at a cost lower than he thought possible. Of course, I realize that such a thing would never truly shake a worldview, but I was eager. I demanded my pie.

