Ranthia struggled to catch her breath. She had one arm wrapped around Avyna—who was watching her recover with open amusement—while she tried to regain her focus. Normally, Ranthia would have preferred to luxuriate for a while alongside her lover, but…

They had to be near evening.

“So… are the privacy wards good enough now?” Ranthia went with a safe lead-in.

Unfortunately, the flat look Avyna was giving her seemed to suggest that it wasn’t as safe of a lead-in as she had hoped.

“It’s just, you mentioned something about them being incomplete!” Ranthia almost tripped over her words as she rushed to clarify that she wasn’t doubting her lover’s prowess as an [Enchanter].

“And you worry about this now?” Thank Xaoc, Avyna’s tone was firmly teasing. “They are unfinished because at the moment they are too good. The base could be in full alarm, and we would never know until someone pulled the rope. I need to hear the emergency signal to create a bypass for it, which is why I left room in the enchantment. Your people use… drums, no? No, too primal. Horns—that was it.”

Ranthia just smiled as she watched the subtle, adorable changes that crossed Avyna’s face while the beautiful elf followed her thoughts.

“If you’re sure the wards are good, we do have a… conversation we promised.” Ranthia could already feel her heart quickening once again as her nerves threatened to best her. But it was time, and she was out of excuses—there would be no more delays.

She had left so much unsaid… hidden important things for so long…

“The privacy ward is better than any you have ever seen—of that, I have no doubt. The outside of our home could be swarming with near-divine [Spies] and they would be unable to hear a word we said. But this is not a conversation for lounging in bed, why now?” Avyna spoke of her enchantments with obvious pride, though a bit of annoyance crept into her voice with the question.

From what she had seen of the level curve during her life, Ranthia had her doubts about just how effective anything a level 768 could muster would prove against those around level 4000, but that was also wildly irrelevant. A threat of that magnitude didn’t need to know the secrets to Ranthia’s techniques to kill her.

Not that Ranthia let herself linger on those thoughts—the conversation she was having was too important. And well, she was in this for the long haul, she had promised herself to tell Avyna everything. She decided to lead with one of the biggest reveals, rather than dancing around it like a coward. Avyna deserved better than that.

She just needed to take one deep breath to steady her nerves and harden her resolve. Or perhaps three.

“Because when the sun sets, I’ll be stricken blind for the night, and I needed to tell you first.” Ranthia finally forced the words out in a rush, as she looked nervously at the woman she loved.

“Oh! Is that what your curse is, my love? Come, discussions like this are best with tea.” Avyna slipped out of Ranthia’s embrace and got to her feet.

Wait…

“Physical im… impairment curses seem to be uncommon, I have only seen three from the seized immortals that I have met. And one of them touched on more poetic meanings as well. Have you found non-literal effects with your own curse yet?” Avyna continued—aside from one obviously frustrating struggle with an unfamiliar word—even as she tugged the curtains open and walked into the cooking area.

The elf was still delightfully nude, but Ranthia wasn’t quite appreciating that like she normally would have.

WHAT!?

“You knew?!” Ranthia finally shouted.

Avyna just started to laugh in answer.

Tea had been prepared, and Ranthia and Avyna were bundled under a soft, thin blanket while seated on their… fancy bench thing. Avyna’s giggles had already settled, and the elf was trying to find the words for what she wanted to say while Ranthia tried not to fret over what they might contain.

She couldn’t even steady her nerves enough to take a sip from the crystal mug gripped in her hand.

“My love, I have spent the bulk of my life travelling among mortals. I will confess to being less well-versed in your own people, but I have seen numerous humans during my time in Coalition City. When we first began to speak, you shared numerous stories, including referring to one of your tales with the descriptor ‘twenty years ago.’

“I admit that physical age is often somewhat challenging to gauge, but with my experience, it was obvious that you spoke of more years than your body had been affected by. The only alternative would be a vitality-heavy build, and you started rapidly leveling from the age of unlocking—which I understand to be the same as that of elves, namely after exactly eight years. Seized immortality is uncommon, but the alternative is far more unlikely.” Avyna’s words came out smoothly after she finally finished assembling them. The language barrier really was unkind sometimes.

“Actually, my days as an Adventurer did begin scant days after I unlocked. And vitality is still my highest stat…” Ranthia couldn’t resist the opportunity to tease the elf.

“Yet you are immortal, so my assessment was not in error.” Avyna replied readily before she took a sip from her own tea.

Ranthia sulked momentarily over Avyna’s non-reaction before she finally nodded.

“It happened while I was stationed at the Unbreakable Image—back before we had the name. I lost my original body and was suddenly several years younger. White Dove showed up almost immediately.” The words still tasted bitter, even after the intervening years.

“…You were trying to avoid immortality?” Avyna asked in an unreadable—almost flat—tone.

“I had no godsdamned idea! We’ll go over them in a moment, but none of my Skills by themselves should be an immortality Skill. It’s something of a side-effect of how I used them, as best as I can figure. But seriously, until White Dove showed up, I thought I was going to die!” The memories were still painful.

She hated reliving most of her time in that base, forgotten and ignored by the coalition—by their own empire—while they struggled, suffered, and sacrificed to survive. Far too few of them succeeded. And White Dove saw fit to make Ranthia’s time worse—to try and kill her.

In truth, Ranthia’s thoughts about the sacred bird were outright blasphemous. Black Crow // White Dove might not be a divine entity themselves, but they were, at most, a half-step removed as agents of Thanatos. Ranthia never truly expected a god to bail her out of a situation of her own making—especially not one she seldom prayed to—but to have a divine force make a thin hope for survival harder…

Well, at least Xaoc helped to keep her alive, in spite of White Dove’s efforts. Some holy entities were worth more than others, in her estimate.

Ranthia exhaled her dark thoughts with a long sigh once Avyna leaned against her. The woman had a gift for knowing what sort of support worked best for Ranthia’s moods. It was hard to imagine any words would mean more than just light, reassuring contact. A reminder that she was still there, and that her life had immeasurably improved since those days.

“I would never engage in a formal relationship with a mortal, my love. I am sorry that your gift is tied to painful memories, but I am grateful that you received it. Because you are here, with me.” Avyna finally spoke almost the very moment that Ranthia’s darker thoughts and emotions were finally gone.

A brief kiss helped to seal them away in the recesses of Ranthia’s mind once again. Avyna really was too good for her—Ranthia could scarcely imagine a better partner to share her life with.

“You’re right, of course. The wisdom of Pallos’ most perfect elf never disappoints.” Ranthia shamelessly flirted.

“Mmm, keep that up and we might not actually share our Skills this day.” Avyna teasingly warned in a low, husky tone that promised that she was just fine with that.

Ranthia hurriedly took a deep drink from her tea. Gods and goddesses…!

“I want to share a part of me that few will ever know—well, beyond guesswork—and, just as importantly, I want to learn more about you. I’ve kept too much from you for too long. This is too important to put off any longer.” Ranthia finally decided.

“That is a good answer, my love. I agree.” Avyna replied with a broad smile, after which she laid a kiss on the bridge of Ranthia’s nose.

Ranthia smiled. She was still nervous—she had another major revelation to get through—but she was in love with Avyna. Their current time together might be limited, but they were both immortal. And, beyond her affection, she also just… trusted the elf. She was optimistic that they would share far more than a paltry eighty years together—she would do everything in her power to make it a certainty.

Which meant that she could be as brave as she needed to be to make things work out between them.

“Alright, let’s get started. I’ll go first, because… well, you’ll see. For stats I’m… actually, let’s not bother with specific values for this—our builds’ focus is fine. I want to favor dexterity, then speed, then vitality… but currently I’m at vitality, then dexterity, then speed—I’m working on that as I get free stats. Followed by mana regeneration, then magic power, mana, and magic control. Strength is currently my lowest stat.”

For all her internal promises of bravery, she completely fumbled her opening thoughts, but as she progressed, she drew strength from Avyna (not that the added strength of will made her any more interested in wasting time spouting long series of semi-meaningless numbers). She had the elf’s undivided attention, and as she stared into those magnificently faceted green eyes, her fears and uncertainty drifted away.

In a lot of ways, this was one of the most intimate things they had ever done, and it was important. She was done hiding secrets, she wanted—no, needed—to be completely open with Avyna. The woman was too important to her for Ranthia to accept anything less.

“My first class is actually my Mirror-aspected [Mage] class, [Diffuse Reflectance]. A mentor of mine… heavily advised that I needed to keep my second class at a higher level at pretty much any cost, for obvious reasons.

“[Mirror Spirit] is my first skill, it…” …Ranthia probably should have known that Avyna—given her surprised expression—would actually know what the Skill was, unlike almost everyone else she had ever met. “Well, I guess you already know the foundation of what it does. This was my biggest goal to achieve—not that I had any idea how outlandish it was as a goal—and I definitely owe it to Xaoc that I already have it. Not that I’d even be alive if I hadn’t—it’s the foundation for my entire class.

“[Scattered Reflections] lets me create images of myself in any pose or position. The main limitation is that I have to be able to see where I want to place it. Every other Skill in this class is tied into these images, as you might have guessed.

“[Echoes Reflected] lets me speak through another image. I don’t get a ton of use out of the Skill, but it’s let me surprise opponents I struggled to match otherwise. Honestly, I probably need to work on adding it to my combat style more; I tend to not even think about it in a pinch…

“[Pure Reflections] allows me to move and control my images. Like when I had the image of me act as if it were on guard while we talked during the convoy. Super useful in battle to keep enemies from guessing which me is, er, me—at least so long as they don’t use [Identify]. And it ties into another Skill I’ll address after the next…

“[Persistent Imagery] makes the images more durable. Normally they crumble at the slightest provocation, but with this they can take… a certain level of abuse. Unfortunately, the Skill really underperforms compared to the power curve for attacks as I level. Though, to be fair, it’s not intended as a barrier Skill—and I didn’t take the class offering that would have made it more of one. Either way, it helps when paired with [Pure Reflections]. It also, oddly, makes my images feel more realistic to touch.

“[Ideal Reflectance] is closely tied to [Pure Reflections] and I expect the two to merge sooner or later. This lets me use my images to attack using my offensive Skills, though only at 1% power. I still have to pay the standard mana costs—but thankfully even my Void [Warrior] attacks are treated as Mirror-aspected Skills for this, and you’ll see why when I get to my General Skills. I’ll admit that 1% of my attack power isn’t very useful when I’m fighting against opponents at or above my level, but the Skill is great for crowd control and can be used to bait my opponents into giving me opportunities to land an actual attack.

“Then there is the Skill that I struggled with but can never replace: [Distorted Likeness]. I went through a… dark period when I first gained it. It made creating images super complicated, I need to have a perfect mental image of the ‘me’ I want to create. I still hate to think much about one of my failures in particular: I got trapped in a body with no senses. But I finally got a General Skill that helped, even if Hunting—my mentor I mentioned before—thinks I shouldn’t have needed it. He always seemed to believe that I should have been able to just… know myself perfectly, without thinking about it. My current appearance was the last image I had created from scratch—back when I was twenty-four. No matter what Hunting says, I still can’t just make another image out of the blue, I need to spend a lot of time studying myself as I build my image and…”

