Ranthia trailed off when she finally realized that Avyna was giving her a dark look.

“…Babe?” Ranthia queried nervously.

“…So, what do you really look like?” Avyna asked in a surprisingly cold tone.

“What? I mean… like this? I’m just eight years older, but I don’t have images of my older self, I hadn’t kept up with—” Ranthia hurried to explain, but the elf cut her off.

“No! You just said that you can change any part of your appearance—I know I understood you correctly! Is any of what I see even real?” Avyna demanded.

Ranthia winced. So that was it, Avyna was assuming that she was being dishonest about who she truly was on some level.

“I’ve never done anything like that! I actually really like my body—I believe that Xaoc picked it just for me! And, once I got old enough, I’ve always believed that I was attractive! I’ve never altered my own appearance. …Well, aside from an appearance Skill—[Sexy]. Oh, and whatever effect [True Grace] might have on me, but it’s more subtle and… well, I’ll get to it soon. But I’m always me.” Ranthia assured her lover.

“Wait, so you say that you can freely sculpt your appearance in any way… and you just… never use it?” The elf asked after taking a moment to blink incredulously.

“Pretty much.” Ranthia admitted, before she tried to clarify why. “I know it can’t take my images too far out of baseline and still have full use of them—an alternative class option I didn’t take would have broadened that further. But honestly, I’d be tempted to drop the Skill if I weren’t sure what would happen to me. I know this Skill is part of the reason I’m immortal now. And yes, I’ve used some of my older images before, but… I just don’t like the idea of not being myself.”

“You have a Skill. That not only probably makes you immortal, but it may also let you look like anyone at any time. And you are tempted to drop it.” Avyna deadpanned.

“I really don’t—” Ranthia started.

“I have heard that combat-focused people can get skewed ideas about the value of a Skill, but my love you are ignoring a major asset!” Avyna’s voice was no longer deadpan, but Ranthia suspected the elf was more focused on teasing her than anything else.

“I’m proud of my own body and I think you’re overestimating the value a bit.” Ranthia tried to explain.

“Could you not turn into me?” Avyna asked.

Ranthia barked a laugh, until she realized her lover was serious.

“Oh. Gods and goddesses no, I couldn’t.” Ranthia answered before she took a sip of tea.

“Why not? Is it a limitation to the skill that you failed to mention?” Avyna asked, nakedly curious.

“Ugh, no. Oh Xaoc, how do I even explain this? Well, I have to study the appearance carefully to craft it…” Ranthia felt frazzled—how was this not obvious?!

“Like you do not already study me carefully every time we are together.” Avyna retorted.

Ranthia blushed and took a moment before she continued.

“It’s not that it’s… Okay, here’s an example. Imagine your daughter showed up someday, looking almost perfectly like herself, yet all of her mannerisms and actions felt strange and unsuited to her.”

“I would mourn because a changeling had clearly killed and replaced her. That is a cruel scenario to ask a parent! …Oh! Oh, I see, you are concerned that one of my associates will assume you to be a changeling and have you slain?” Avyna’s tone started more than a bit frosty, but it warmed rapidly as she ran with her assumption.

“Er, no, I wasn’t. …At least not until you pointed out that would be another risk! Ugh it’s more… wouldn’t it seem… creepy? Off-putting? Uncanny in a bit of a disturbing way? That ‘something isn’t right’ sensation is why I would never even try to copy another person. I can’t imagine pulling it off without it being disturbing. Plus, I… I feel like it’s important for me to be myself.” Ranthia had no idea if her explanation made sense or not.

Avyna fell silent as she considered the words.

“Do you never try to take on another form at all?” Avyna finally asked.

“I once wasted entirely too much time making a male version of myself for travel, but I purged it long ago—it turned out to be unnecessary. Beyond that… not really.” Ranthia confessed.

“You have never tested the boundaries of what the skill can do then? What if… you made a form that was inspired by both of us? Like a vision of what our child might have looked like?” Avyna asked.

Ranthia thought about it for a while, before she finally nodded.

“I… suppose that would be agreeable. Sometime when I have a day or two that I can spend on it without other concerns, I can try. But no promises that I could do it justice! I don’t even know if I can do horns or other elven-inspired features.”

Avyna smiled and offered her a quick kiss—which Ranthia was, unsurprisingly, quite happy to accept.

“So shall we continue, my love?” Avyna prompted.

“Oh! Uh… right. My last Skill for my mirror class! [Reflections of Reality]. Basically, it lets me make any image I create become my actual body—permanently, at least until I take another. It’s kind of the lynchpin for my class and is another large piece of my immortality. I’m still pretty certain [Mirror Spirit] is a hard requirement for this Skill to work, and not just for the mana efficiencies. That said, there are downsides. My images mean I have to include any visible items on my person in the image I shift to, otherwise they’re left behind. I do wish it was a bit quicker to activate as well—I’ve had far too many close calls, even once I finally gained enough mana to no longer need to channel. It’s also the reason I can’t use inscri—er, enchantments, like I mentioned before. For some reason when I shift, inscriptions burn out and even charged gemstones end up activating.” Ranthia concluded.

“That is surprising. The only thing that comes to mind is that there is a surge of mana over or throughout your body when you use it—which is quite odd.” Avyna frowned as she puzzled over it.

Ranthia laughed, but she knew Avyna well enough to recognize that the woman she loved was getting fixated on solving the problem. It was sweet, but it wasn’t something Ranthia was worried about at the moment—their conversation was too important. Ranthia gently bumped her shoulder against the elf before she spoke.

“If you have any ideas for handling it in the future, I’m all ears. But for today, can we focus on this?”

“Of course, my love.” Avyna agreed readily.

Ranthia swore she caught a hint of red on the tips of Avyna’s pointed ears and took a moment to appreciate just how cute the elf she loved could be. But she had only gotten through one class—and she still had another major revelation to share—which meant that she needed to focus.

“Okay, second class then, my Void-aspected [Warrior] class. [She who Dances with Chaos]. If [Diffuse Reflectance] was what my brain wanted—a class to keep me alive—[She who Dances with Chaos] is what my heart and soul needed. This class allows me to express my passion and energy. Not that I had an interest in dancing for years, not until I happened to see a vampire dancer in Ariminum’s nightlife and something about how she moved just… inspired me, for lack of better words.

“I was able to build this class myself during the class-up. …There’s a few things I wish I had done differently, knowing what I know now, but overall, this class is just… me.

“I’ve mentioned it before when we were first getting to know each other, but Hunting arranged dance lessons for me when I started trying to incorporate some dancing movements into my combat style. I trained with Remus’ best—Fausteo—at his musical theater. I even had a role in the big Winter Solstice performance that year—a story told through dance. Wish you had been able to see it, babe, even if I’ve improved immeasurably since then.”

Ranthia smiled wistfully and allowed herself a moment to enjoy the memories before she moved on.

“I only have [Void Affinity], of course. Xaoc can’t grant me absurd luck with every class.

“My mental image of Void was formed when I had that… incident I mentioned, when I got trapped in a body with no senses for… well, honestly, I have no idea how long. Probably not very, but it… left a strong impression on me. The element is a part of me, just as much as the art of dance is.”

Avyna frowned, though she nodded her understanding—not that it diminished her frown. The Void element was a touchy subject for many of the other races, even if only [Mages] had the alleged—and blatantly nonsensical—issue with exploding.

Ranthia lifted a hand to gently caress the elf’s cheek affectionately before she continued.

“[Rhythmic Grace] is a fun Skill. How do I even explain it? Basically, it lets me almost instinctively understand the flow of battle. It’s not quite a prediction Skill—I think—but it makes it easier for me to move with the flow of combat. My evasion Skill merged into it when I got it. …Oh, and it also erases my footsteps through another merged Skill, though I rarely rely on stealth anymore. I won’t be surprised if I have to lose that aspect when I reach 768, it’s admittedly more of a relic of what I used to try to do before I discovered my dance.

“[Void Edge] is my primary offensive Skill. It allows me to draw a thin line of Void energy across the edges of knives. And yes, that includes the tip, of course. Not sure why that always surprises people, a tip is just the place where two edges connect, or one edge ends for single-edged knives. Either way, it lets me cut through damn near anything—I’m actually more surprised when my knife doesn’t tear through something than I am when I can cut it. The Skill can drain my mana surprisingly quickly, but the bigger issue is even my own blades aren’t immune to the Skill. My adamantium is the only metal I’ve ever found that can endure more than a carefully timed slash or two, but for obvious reasons I’m kind of hesitant to really test just how much abuse it can take.

“[Flowing Momentum] is another passive Skill. It helps me guide my knives while I dance. Which, yes, means it will probably someday merge into [Rhythmic Grace]; the two work in conjunction.

“[Vision of the Void] is why my eyes look the way they do. But no matter how much I hate what it did to my eyes, it’s probably one of my more invaluable Skills. I don’t need light to see, and it lets me see through certain things. Density matters just as much as how thick something is—probably more. Some materials are easier to see through than others. I can control it pretty instinctively, like seeing through my blindfolds without seeing through other stuff. This also lets me see through many Mirage-aspected tricks, though I’ve been bested by them too. Not sure if it’s the level or the person’s Magic Power that’s important.”

“Wait, wait, wait! My love! You have a skill for perversion?!” Avyna gasped in a downright scandalized tone.

“No!” Ranthia’s face burned, even as she denied her lover’s accusation. “I don’t use it for that! I swear, I never saw you until you first undressed for me!”

Avyna burst into laughter—intense enough that she nearly spilled her tea—while Ranthia tried to defend herself. She knew Avyna trusted her more than that—the elf’s alarm had just been a façade while she teased Ranthia. Ranthia just snorted and took a sip of tea, but no matter how superficially annoyed she acted, she was enjoying the beautiful sight of her lover’s laughter.

Not that Ranthia waited for Avyna’s giggles to finish before she continued.

“[Sustained Chaos]! It lets my Skills continue to affect my knives even when they leave my hands. …Put more simply, it lets me throw my knives effectively and improves my throws too. I do lose some power behind my Skills though. …And it leaves me bereft of the blade until I retrieve it, which can be unexpectedly challenging. It’s still extremely useful to have a ranged option though.

“Next up is [Echoes of Devastation]. This, after [Void Edge], is the ‘secret’ behind my lethality. For every blow I land with my knives, echoing cuts follow an instant later. This lets me cut through things I could never manage with my strength and has proven to be crucial when I fight larger enemies. This Skill does much to offset how shallow a cut a knife leaves compared to a sword.

“And, once again saving the best for last, I present to you my favorite Skill: [True Grace]. The description even references me performing in Fausteo’s Musical Theater. It’s a complete bear to level up, but the Skill boosts all of my Skills while I’m dancing. Currently the boost is… roughly a five percent increase? Yeah, that sounds about right; I’m starting to feel the difference in [Void Edge] and such while I’m dancing. It also increases my body’s natural flexibility and grace.”

“Oh, and here I thought your [Vision of the Pervert] would be your favorite.” Avyna teased with a playful smile.

Ranthia snorted before she punished her lover with a rapid assault of little kisses peppered across the side of her face, horn, and shoulder. The distraction didn’t—couldn’t—last long though, Ranthia hadn’t expected their conversation to have so many interruptions!

“Anyway! For my next class… Actually, no. I want to cover a couple of my General Skills first. There’s… something else I really need to tell you, and I want to cover everything related to it in one go.”

