Simone drank from her cup. Then she refilled it and drank again.

“What happened on that rooftop?” Eppie had to know. She was now too deep in the well to escape.

“William gave me a script. Tell me where Mio has gone. And everything will stop.”

“I assume I didn’t have an answer.” Eppie pinched her brows. “I was too much of a dumbshit to make something up. To get help. To bait him. To threaten him with mutually assured destruction. Instead, I did something dumber than that. I threatened to jump. Didn’t I?”

Simone said nothing. The silence was worse.

Eppie wanted to tear out the feeling in her chest with her bare hands. The sound that came from her vocal cords was like that of a wounded cat’s final, fatal breath.

“You said that the police would investigate him if you died. You told him to leave you alone, or else. He hesitated, THEN you told him that, by your life, he had to believe that you had no way of finding Mio, that you had no idea what this recording might contain.”

“And then he laughed.” Eppie felt like a broken record. God, Eppie was so stupid. So young and stupid.

“You looked at the asphalt below you, and then you looked at me,” Simone’s gaze rose from her cup, to Eppie’s hands, to her chest, to her chin, then her face, slowly and meticulously, as if seeing her for the first time.

“I jumped?”

Simone shook her head. “I remembered you walking forward. I was sure you changed your mind. It was raining, and the ground was wet.” Simone reached out with a hand. Eppie took it. “Next thing I knew, we both lost balance. My hand was on your shoulder. I remember that. We fell in opposite directions. William caught my shirt and pulled me back, but there was no one to catch you.”

Eppie squeezed the girl’s cold, trembling finger bones.

“You were just gone. One second you were there, and then—William stood behind me, thinking for a while. He looked… relieved.”

“Hei-mei. He said to me. I’ll never forget the way he said it. The way he acknowledged me, like it was all a part of something we agreed on. I am impressed, he said. Good job, killer. We’re sharing the same script now.”

Simone tried to withdraw her hand. Eppie did not allow it.

“He said not to worry,” Simone continued, her voice stripped down to the marrow. "He said he was the witness. Eppie fell by herself, he said. You are only a murderer if I say so. He said. Be glad, he said, now we can all enjoy the rest of our academic careers. He said.”

Simone made a swallowing sound.

“I thought about mum, and Renée and Cora, I thought about… the Dancia shoes. Okay. I said. He kissed me on the forehead. Let’s celebrate, he said."

Simone’s left hand wound around her throat, like she was pulling on a leash.

She was speaking faster now, her words half-slurring. “After the ambulance left, we told Valorie the news. Valorie stared at him for a long time; she stared at me. Then she said she was hungry. William drove us out to Japantown. Val wanted ramen. We went to Ippudon. He bought me ramen, Eppie, all the toppings, and it was so expensive. I’ve never had Ramen before, it was, it was pork bone soup. There was so much of it. I don’t know why, I just kept… eating…”

+ Karmic Causality

“Stop,” Eppie pulled the black girl closer, close enough that she could put her head on her shoulders. “Enough. Don’t ask for forgiveness, Simone Goode, because I can't give it.”

She squeezed her friend hard enough to wring out tears.

“Forgive me, Simone, for my ignorance.”

Unlike Renée, who cried at the drop of a shoe. There were no tears left in the girl with the Dancia shoes. Their tears had dried out in July, with Antigone scratching at the door and Ismene outside, listening to the thumps. All that was left in Eppie now was rage, resentment and guilt, all of which she would heap on William’s shoulders.

I will plague them all, even to roaring.

Simone Goode had not been up to no good. She had done what good she could.

And Euphemia Fontaine, in her blind bitterness and suspicion, had forgotten all about Dr Cooper’s lesson.

+ Karmic Causality+ Karmic Causality+ Karmic Causality+ Karmic Causality

True heroism lay in human pain. It was about how much a girl could bear.

The girls took a break to wash up, because God knows they needed it.

They drank boiled water, they ate microwaved siu-mai and BBQ pork buns for sieu-ye.

They sat at the kitchen table. Their bodies pliant, casual, relaxed. The tension was resolved. The blood was let. Catastrophe had given way to catharsis.

“You were gone for almost a month. I spent the break with Valorie, practising, running errands, that sort of thing. Val can be very generous when she’s in the mood. She bought me clothes, drinks, supplements, and she even took me to see this old Chinese Physio when I sprained my ankle in practice.”

Eppie tried and failed to imagine Val being helpful. If Valorie hadn’t set William on Mio—

“The Club I am working at… I think I might keep working there for a while, at least until a month before dance tryouts.”

“Are they not taking advantage of you?” Eppie’s eyes fell on her friend’s rather fetching figure. “I mean… you’re seriously just waitressing?”

“The uncles there are really great people,” Simone spoke in a way that made Eppie wonder if some kind of Stockholm Syndrome was involved. “They give me all this food.”

Okay, she had to admit. This Chinese food is legit. Still, Simone had to wear what? The slits were HOW high? Besides, cash tips can’t be a long-term, fiscally responsible solution to building a credit rating.

“By the way, the Birkin…” She changed the subject. “Did you pay it off?” Eppie felt immensely guilty for the fact, but the matter of revealing Lim’s role and the forgiveness of her former friend were too complicated to untangle without putting them all at risk.

Unlike Lim, Simone could not be emancipated from William until Eppie mopped the floor with his reputation. Until then, Simone’s collar would have to remain. At least for now, she assured her friend, William could no longer blackmail her with “killing” Eppie. If he tried, Eppie could just stand up in court and tell Lafitte to bring on the discovery.

Instead of answering, Simone walked from the table to her bag. She retrieved a red envelope from a modest, faux-branded clutch and pulled out a wad of greenbacks. “My bonus, for being a good girl. A good friend. William said that it's good that Valorie has a friend. Val has no friends, William told me. You can be Valorie’s friend, a real friend who can’t betray her.”

Eppie had never seen kindness used in such a villainous way.

“I think…” Simone sat back down, her face a mix of emotions. “Val’s the only thing he cares about, other than himself, that is.”

The only thing. Eppie picked up on Simone’s unconscious choice of words. As a Tech Executive and Marketer, she had known men and women like William Chen. The precise, meticulous gaslighting, the web-weaving of debts and obligations—it was obvious that William would have succeeded in her old world. She had hired men like that, shaken their hands, praised them in her quarterly reviews. Gave them bonuses. Just as Simone had received hers.

But even so, William was a truly special existence. I guess that’s what makes us [Usurpers].

“I think… I’ll take Cora and Renée to Disneyland,” Simone said dreamily, her eyes lingering on the envelope. “It was our dream to go one day.”

As someone born with an annual pass and having had every limited-edition Minnie headband from the age of four, Eppie had nothing to add.

“In the future, the near future,” Eppie still couldn’t work herself up to tell Simone of her plans. The best she could do was keep the girl out of the crossfire. “Come work for me.”

Simone’s eyes fluttered. It was a hell of a statement to make.

“Theatre, music, film…” Eppie spoke with the confidence of a woman who had already bought out the entertainment conglomerates. “So long as you have the skill, I can get you through the door.”

Simone wetted her lips. The dancer was exhausted in more ways than one.

The lights were dim because the bulbs were as exhausted as the house.Next door, Cora was fast asleep. Knowing Renée, she was probably listening with a cup against the keyhole.

Eppie looked at her friend and told her that she was going to see Juliana Vaughan about an internship of sorts. She told her to stay out of the way when the new Semester started, because invariably, inevitably, William would be a footnote in their mutual future.

Simone’s agreement was forced, but Eppie knew that in five months, Simone would see.

The truth will out.

Quest Progression

[The Usurper of Hope]

You have partially restored a Usurper’s theft of Causality. You did not progress the Usurper on the path of Karmic Penance.

Your actions have reaped the Usurper’s Causality.Warning! The Usurper must be made to repent to complete this quest.Failing this quest will result in an immense loss of Karmic Causality

And there it is. Eppie had suspected there was light at the end of the tunnel, and the [System] delivered.

“I should go,” She looked at the clock, then the door. She had a flight to catch and bags to pick up.

Simone shook her head. “Not safe to go out now. Mum’s home soon, she carpools with a friend.”

Eppie looked around the room. There was one couch.

“I’ll take the floor,” her friend offered. “Like old times.”

Eppie thought of a life that wasn’t hers. A life where two girls would talk until they fell asleep in the living room, even if there were sirens and the occasional firecracker as the heater plinked.

“Like old times,” Eppie lied. “But trust me, let me take the floor.”

Unlike the old Eppie, Neo Euphemia was built of sterner stuff. Come the next morning, heedless of aches and pains, her [Stamina] would ensure that she rose as fresh as a Santa Monica sunrise.
