“Aye, thanks works,” Thuli said, releasing a contagious belly-laugh that filled the dungeon chamber with his mirth. “Let me give ya the tour. I designed both pieces with yer strength-focused tank build in mind. The weight of the adamantium should transfer with your shapeshifting, making you much harder to knock around, even by the big boys.”

“Sounds good. Go on.”

“The mace is focused on as much physical damage as I could cram on it, including the crushing blow. Then I gave it a little nature-magic boost – I think ya will like that. The damage is all designed to stack. For the shield, it’s obviously focused on defense skills, blocking, and I even got a little extra Resistance on there. Aliandra is going to love you for that Nature Vulnerability curse, but it should substantially benefit your Brutal Restoration, too.”

Mato studied each enchantment as the smith waxed lyrical about them, still reaping the benefits of deciding to share the details of his class and skills with the dwarf so long ago. Certainly, the increase to defense skills would be an incredible boon, affecting Bestial Combat, Last Stand, and even his Critical Block skill. The Nature Vulnerability was most certainly a potent highlight, especially with the nature damage on the mace. “Wait, how did you get so many enchants on this thing?” he asked, looking a little closer.

“The shapeshifter enchantment is very low-level, now, and with such advanced materials and reagents, it barely counts anymore. So that’s there as a freebie. Now, if you put the two items close together, you can see the set bonuses, which I think you’re really going to love.”

Mato did as he suggested, and his eyes widened in astonishment.

“Aye, that’s what I thought,” Thuli answered. “They don’t need much explanation.”

What he said was true: Spell Breaker and Spell Piercer would change the way he tanked. I can block magic? And even without the powerful Nature Vulnerability curse, all his magic would ignore twenty percent of his target’s resistance. These were truly incredible upgrades.

“Thuli, you are amazing!” he declared.

“Aye, I know,” he said with a chuckle. “Maybe ya can say that a little louder around town, where the other blacksmiths might hear it!”

Mato just laughed with him, adding, “I’m certain just walking around town with this massive shield is going to attract a lot of attention.” And with that, he took both items, testing their weight and heft, admiring the beautiful tree depicted on his shield, and he knew from the wise crinkling around his eyes that the dwarf knew precisely how much his thoughtful gesture of using Lirasia’s tree had touched his heart.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledgehttps://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledgehttps://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpghttps://topwebfiction.com/listings/dungeon-of-knowledge/
