“So, what do you think?” Ali asked. She floated along beside Mato through the sewer tunnel pointing out her new Poison Cloud traps and explaining – probably in far more detail than he cared to hear – how her new runic magic worked.

“It’s a great idea, Ali,” he said, rubbing his chin thoughtfully. “You need something that isn’t poison to deal with the undead, though.”

“Yup,” she agreed. As if on cue, her chime sounded yet again.

Your minions have defeated Warrior – Zombie – level 3.

Ali ignored the message. They had been coming incessantly since she had populated the Forest Cavern with minions, made her river chokepoint, and trapped the passage down past the caves on the way to the ruins. Nobody had told her how noisy being a dungeon would be. Her mana drew the monsters in, and her minions and traps took care of them… constantly. At least she was making incredible progress toward the undead kill quest. Worrying. Good, but worrying all the same.

“You’ve been busy. How many minions do you have anyway?”

“A little over three hundred,” Ali answered. “About half of them are the swarm oozes in the lake, though – they’re very cheap.” It was a rather impressive total, and she was certain Lyeneru wouldn’t be quite so critical if she saw it now. However, nothing in her dungeon could give someone like her a challenge.

“Wow, that many?”

“Yup. It costs almost six thousand mana to keep them all.” She might have gone a little overboard, but then there was that assassin she had killed only because she had the minions around to see him. “What about you? How is the Blight cleanup going?”

“I have most of the main farms cleared, and they’re starting to grow food again,” he answered. But then he stopped suddenly and sniffed. “Ali! Undead! I smell Blight!”

“What? Here?” she yelped, but he was already transforming into his Bear Form and rushing down the damp tunnel. Instead, she commanded her Kobold escort, “Be on your guard!”

The soft chirps of hunting Kobolds accompanied the chilling sounds of unseen daggers being drawn from leather sheaths.

Did one of the zombies get into the sewer? Popping out a barrier for protection, she zipped down the passage, chasing after Mato. Swinging around a corner, they found themselves at a dead-end. A few sunbeams snuck down through the iron grate at the top of the brick shaft, illuminating an enormous trash pile collected by her Kobolds the night before. Scrabbling fitfully through the pile was a gaunt figure flanked by two very obviously dead – and very obviously moving – skeletons.

Warrior – Skeleton – level 1 x2.Mage – Human – level 3 (Death).

An overpowering odor of rot and decay poured down the tunnel like a palpable manifestation of the Blight. Wisps of sickly gray-black death mana clung to them like a persistent miasma. The figure startled, looking up at her with a dirt-streaked, blight-marred face and half a dead fish in his mouth.

As Mato approached, he let out an incoherent screech, falling backward in his effort to scramble away, cowering in a corner while the two skeletons turned and advanced menacingly, brandishing rusted daggers in their bony grasp.

Mato charged, his huge bulk slamming into the skeletons, and with a single Swipe, he turned both into an explosion of bone shards that showered the trash pile and the quivering, dirty figure in the corner. Whirling on his paws, he prepared to strike.

“Mato, don’t kill him!” Ali exclaimed. “He’s a person.”

But Mato still advanced menacingly, growling.

In the darkness, black energy collected within the cowering person, and suddenly a hair-raising, ethereal screech cut through her with the chill of undeath, and something flashed out towards Mato. Ali snapped her hand forward and a golden bubble of barrier magic trapped the thing.

Volatile Wraith – Undead Spirit – level 2 (Death).

Necromancer! It was the only possibility. Volatile Wraiths were the weapon of the Death Wight they had faced, and the only class that could summon the undead were necromancers. As if the skeletons hadn’t already given it away. But the tiny spirit was stuck inside her barrier, bouncing against the walls ineffectively until it popped with a sharp, short-lived blast of black flame.

He summoned a second one, which launched itself with an equally chilling screech, and Ali reacted, catching it too, before it could reach Mato.

Still screeching, the emaciated necromancer rushed Mato, clawing and scratching, even trying to bite him. With a great swing of his paw, Mato struck – but Ali knew him well enough to see how he withheld his full strength – slamming the boy into the wall. He bounced, his head cracking loudly against the ancient brick, and then slid to the ground in a heap, unmoving.

Ali’s stomach churned and she turned and tried to throw up.

“He’s not dead, Ali,” Mato said, his voice cutting through her nausea as he walked over to examine the ‘body’, already transformed back to his Beastkin form.

“H…how?” Ali managed, wrestling with her unruly stomach.

“I did hear you. I took his damage and just knocked him out,” Mato said, staring down at the motionless boy with a serious frown. “Ali… are you sure? That’s a necromancer.”

“I know,” she answered. But how could she kill someone so weak and desperate? “He can’t have eaten anything in weeks.” At least desperate enough to be down in the sewers hunting for rotten food in a trash pile – and his body was quite obviously being ravaged by the undead blight. “Can we talk to him first? Before we decide if he’s evil, I mean?”

“If we don’t do something about that Blight, he’s going to die anyway,” Mato groused, bending over to inspect the unconscious boy, wrinkling his nose in disgust.

“Do you mind using your tree to help him?” Ali asked. She didn’t have any of Eliyen’s elixirs on hand, and the only other option she knew of was Mato’s potent aura in Tree Form.

“Yes, but not here,” he said, picking up the boy as if he weighed nothing and turning around to retrace their steps through the sewer.

Mato would do it, but he did not look happy at all.

It took them a little longer to return to the Grove and the shrine, but soon enough, Mato laid him down on the moss and planted himself nearby. As the aura exploded outward, Ali felt the regeneration pulsing through her body and watched it ripple through the unconscious necromancer. The suppurating black blight patches on the boy’s face began to fade and the angry dark miasma dissipated.

Is he the reason for all the zombies? She studied him with all the senses at her disposal, but she finally had to conclude that it couldn’t be him. He was only level three, and he must have just earned his class, although how he unlocked necromancy was a mystery. She knew what it was to have a problematic class and that was not about to change.

What must it have been like? She wondered if he had been in town when it happened and if he had been persecuted. Something must have happened to him to become so badly infected with the blight and forced down into the sewers to hunt for food.

Eventually, Mato’s tree shifted, and he slowly transformed back into his normal shape, and the aura faded back to its much more normal short-range magic.

“He’s clean now.”

“Can we take him to the library?” Ali asked. The forest had been necessary for accommodating Mato’s Tree Form, but the library was far more comfortable now; she loved having couches. Mato nodded and picked him up again as they wended their way to the upper entrance to the library.

As soon as Mato laid him on a couch, Ali felt the nature mana of Lira’s presence right before she appeared from within a branch of the giant tree.

“What have you found, dear?” she asked, and then her hand suddenly shot up to her mouth. “Oh, my! It’s him!” she exclaimed. “That’s the boy who found my acorns!”

Ali shot her an incredulous look, her eyes darting back and forth between her aunt and the grubby boy they’d rescued from the sewer. Him? By sheer coincidence?

“Wait, this is the person in your story? The one who untied you?” Ali asked. Her eyes drifted to the boy’s neck and the dark band visible around his neck. Dirt? Or scarring? Or…

“Yes, he is the one,” Lira said, dancing over to where Mato had set him down, still unconscious on the couch.

A prisoner of Alexander Gray, then. Ali winced. Those poor people had been subjected to compulsion collars and then sacrificed to the necromancer’s evil magic in a terrifying display of dominance and power. He survived. Has he been infected with the blight since then? Malika and Mato had both described it as excruciatingly painful, and that had been weeks ago. What he must have been through… Ali could hardly bear to imagine.

“I guess that explains how he unlocked a necromancer class,” Ali commented. He must have been steeped in enough of Alexander Gray’s powerful death-affinity mana to push him to unlock the class naturally, without a shrine. A real tragedy – if she had just found him before his class unlocked, she could so easily have offered him a better choice.

“Oh,” Lira said softly, her voice filled with sadness as she looked down at him as he lay on the couch. “You poor boy, fate has been rather unkind to you.”

“What do we do with him?” Ali asked. It was clear from Lira’s recognition that he was likely a good person who had been handed the worst luck. Running afoul of Alexander Gray had turned him into a permanent pariah; he would be despised and shunned in every part of civilization because of that legacy.

“I want to thank him for helping rescue my forest,” Lira said.

“I can stay here and look after him,” Ali said. It wouldn’t even disrupt her plans; she had no real commitments today, and she had been hoping to study some more magic anyway.

“You sure?” Mato asked, glancing at her and the boy. His eyes found Lira’s and then he sighed. He still looked visibly uncomfortable with the situation, but he seemed most concerned for her wellbeing.

“He’s level three, Mato. I know I’m not as good at fighting as you, but I think I got this,” Ali grinned, putting up her tiny fists and waving them around dramatically. All that training she had done with Malika to improve the melee skills of her warriors and rogues came out, and to both of their surprise, her form looked remarkably competent.

“Yeah, you’re probably better at it than me,” he said, his usual grin returning to the fore. “The day you have to punch something will be… I don’t even know… terrifying? Ok, I’m going to head out and take care of the rest of the farms and outlying areas today, I’ll see you all later tonight. Don’t do anything I wouldn’t do.”

Ali wrinkled her nose. “Me?”

***

Your minions have defeated Boar – Zombie – level 2.

Ali hissed between clenched teeth. The constant notifications were incessant, like that annoying mosquito in her bedroom late at night, waiting for the perfect moment just before she drifted off to sleep to swoop down and buzz right in her ear. She wished, for the umpteenth time, that she could silence them while she was studying – but she hadn’t found a way. Though it was rather telling just how many undead were trying to invade her space, and she knew deep down that turning off the notifications would be a bad long-term idea. Being surprised was not her forte.

A groan coming from the vicinity of the couch finally broke her concentration entirely, and she turned to find the boy scrambling backward and falling off the couch in his haste to escape.

“I’m not going to hurt you,” she said quietly, and the hand that was extending forward toward her, and beginning to gather dark mana froze for a moment before he relaxed a little and let it fall to his side.

“You…” his hoarse voice cracked. “You’re her,” he eked out, speaking like someone who hadn’t used his voice in decades.

“Her who?” Ali asked curiously. How does he recognize me?

“You kill… killed him. Alexander G… Gray.”

She could see the fear in his uncomfortably wide eyes as he mentioned the necromancer and knew instantly it was the result of his traumatic treatment at his hands and not anything she had done. After all, she was less than half his size, and hardly a terrifying person.

Well, I guess I am a dungeon, so some people think I’m even more terrifying than a necromancer.

“My friends and I did,” she answered, still not making any moves toward the fearful boy and striving to keep her voice level and calm. “My name is Aliandra.”

He stared at her for a while.

“You’re not going to kill me?” he asked, his voice quavering and cracking.

Ali was instantly reminded of poor Naia, asking again and again if she was going to be killed. I… miss her.

“I won’t kill you,” Ali said, returning to the terrified boy. “And I already know what your class is. Would you like some tea? Or some food?” Mato had left some of yesterday’s dinner, just in case – trust him to notice and try to feed even a necromancer who had been found scavenging through the trash.

At her mention of food, his eyes went wide – wider – and the aggressive growling of his stomach echoed into the library. Ali grinned at him and produced the bowl of leftover hearty beef stew Mato had made and placed it on the table between them, returning to her seat again. As soon as she made space, he pounced, demolishing the food in less than a minute, shoveling it down his throat with his hands, as if the utensils had not even been seen. It was rare for her to see real hunger, and she was reminded of her time lost in these ruins for over a week.

“I… I’m Seth,” he said at last. “Seth… Weston. Thank you –” His eyes bulged out of his head in shock and surprise as Lira appeared, warping herself out of the giant tree before gliding regally across the flagstones and carpet to join them.

“Hello Seth, dear. I’m Lirasia,” she said, as if not noticing the effect she had on him. She walked over to the tea stand and set the pot to boil. “It’s good to finally meet you properly, Seth. I wanted to thank you for releasing me from that evil fiend and offer my eternal gratitude for saving my acorns.”

