It took some effort, but between her and Lira, and a nice warm cup of tea, they managed to coax his story out of him. He was from a small logging village called Lyton on the other side of the border in Torian territory. Ali was certain Calen could tell her exactly where it was, but she gathered it was on the far side of the now-dead forest. He had lived all his life with his grandmother until Roderik Icecrown and Alexander Gray swooped down on their quiet community and slew nearly everyone. He had been one of the ‘lucky’ few spared to be used by the foul magic of the necromancer. He had been forced to watch while his grandmother’s skeleton was raised before his eyes and made to release foul undead abominations throughout the forest, spreading the blight. And then he had been marched to Myrin’s Keep to serve as the necromancer’s portable living sacrifice.

When Ali and her friends had killed Alexander Gray, before the Death Knight had appeared, Seth had fled into town and been captured by kidnappers, and only escaped when his class had unlocked.

Ali sat listening to the tale in horror, unable to imagine how terrified he had been. She was certain she wouldn’t have been able to sit calmly on a couch with a cup of tea discussing it with some strangers, and she glanced at Lira in suspicion. But there was no evidence of any magic at play, just her typical calm aura and her soft and soothing voice.

“I think we should take you to see Vivian Ross – she’s the Guildmaster of the Adventurers Guild. If anyone knows how to help you it will be her – and I know she will want to hear your story about the kidnappers,” Ali said. There weren’t very many options in Myrin’s Keep for people who might listen to a necromancer, but she was certain Vivian would have some ideas for what they could do. At the very least, Seth couldn’t continue living in the sewers, eating rotten fish. He had critical information on how the blight was continuing to spread, which Vivian absolutely needed to hear.

“No! She will kill me!” Seth yelled, scrambling back and falling off the couch, his feral fear taking over once more.

“She hasn’t killed me yet, and I’m a guild member,” Ali answered. She should have expected resistance toward anything related to returning to town. Although, in her case it hadn’t always been rainbows and roses.

Seth just sat on the floor staring blankly at her.

“I’m a dungeon, Seth. That’s probably worse than a necromancer.”

Gliding across the flagstones, Lirasia caught him as he toppled sideways. “I guess that was a little much. Sleep now, Seth. You’ll feel better soon – I hope.”

***

It was still challenging to convince him to agree to talk with the Guildmaster. And even harder to cajole him into making the trip across town to visit Lydia’s Allure, but even after putting him through one of her Cleanse circles, Ali insisted Seth still needed to replace the dreadful rags he wore. If she had learned one thing from her trial, it was the surprising importance of presentation when preparing for important meetings.

But Ali didn’t mind being patient. Coming face to face with the fact that people wanted to kill you was hard enough, but knowing that it was for reasons outside of your control added a heavy helping of despair and frustration. Ali still had nightmares about Roderik’s sneering face, and so she could empathize with Seth’s fresh struggle.

It was only when Lira offered to accompany them that he finally relented, and now with a clean blue shirt and a pair of khaki casual pants, he looked quite presentable as Ali led them into the guild hall. Given that they were risking him being identified in public, Lira’s presence offered a welcome distraction for the curious eyes. Nevertheless, Ali had still brought her two Kobold rogues and her normal minion escort just in case they were attacked.

“Great Mother of the Deep Woods,” Mieriel greeted, rising from her chair and bowing deeply to Lira. “Hi Aliandra, welcome back,” she added politely, her mind magic flickering rapidly as she glanced first to Lira, and then at Seth, hiding a flash of surprise. But, true to her word, Ali felt not even the slightest touch of her active skills impinging on her mind. “How may I help you today?”

“Hi Mieriel, is Vivian available?” Ali asked. Her prior anxiety toward the mind mage seemed to be fading now. While it may have had something to do with her reaching level fifty, and rather close to Mieriel’s level, she was certain the Sun Elf’s polite and respectful attitude around her was contributing much more. No longer did she try concealing her class from Ali, nor had she ever attempted to use her active skills on her since her apology.

Ali offered Mieriel a smile, deciding she would try and make the effort to acknowledge her attempts to repair the relationship between them.

“Of course, follow me,” Mieriel said, leading the way to the Guildmaster’s office. As they passed through the hall, they got some curious stares from the various adventurers, some of whom she recognized, but there were several new faces.

“Recruitment is going well?” Ali asked.

Mieriel grimaced, “It’s a struggle, especially with the Silent Assassin still at large.” She knocked and then opened the door to the office.

Vivian rose to greet them, and Ali reflected on how helpful it was to just have Lira present whenever she needed to talk to people. But Vivian was not one to be distracted, her observant eyes flickered in instant surprise, hardening at the sight of Seth.

“What’s the meaning of this? Death-affinity? Another necromancer?”

“Yes, we know, but it was not his choice,” Ali explained. “I think you need to hear his story.”

Ali studied the closed expression on her face and the glittering, narrowed eyes, and knew instantly that this was going to be a tough sell. Vivian would not accept a necromancer without a substantial push. She seemed to be on the brink of throwing them all out. “Mieriel, you should stay, too,” Ali said, blurting it out before Vivian could even respond.

Ali schooled her expression, hiding her instant visceral revulsion to the necessity of what she had just suggested.

“Good idea,” Lira said, nodding calmly to her as she took her seat, and Ali knew she understood. Her Aunt wasn’t about to let things get out of control.

It was almost imperceptible, but the tension lines around Vivian’s eyes relaxed just a little, and Ali knew that as difficult as it was, she had made the right call. While the Guildmaster was powerful, it was Mieriel and her skills she trusted in situations where she could be deceived. Ali was exquisitely aware of Mieriel’s passive ability to read emotions, and it was that she was counting on to convince Vivian of the credibility of Seth and his story, without which there would be no chance for the boy. Someone with power and status had to believe in him in order for him to survive the terrible stigma of his class. Yet, trusting Mieriel to hold back and not deploy her more terrifying abilities took all of Ali’s willpower. I thought I was over this… and now I’m complicit in doing it to someone else. If only there was another way… At least Mieriel seemed content to only employ her passive perception skills.

“Ok, I’m listening,” Vivian said finally, sitting back down in her chair and inviting them all to take seats.

While Seth recounted the saga of his experiences and torment at the hands of Alexander Gray, Ali studied Vivian’s face. When he described the destruction of Lyton by Alexander and Roderik, Vivian glanced in shock and surprise at Mieriel, but she nodded in confirmation.

The reveal of Roderik’s involvement in wiping out the town was new, and Ali could tell she had Vivian’s attention now. The Guildmaster launched a barrage of questions when Seth described the abominations that were spreading the blight, and then more again when he revealed the details of the warehouse and his kidnappers.

“That is an incredible story,” Vivian said, sitting back in her chair after Seth finished his retelling. “This changes our strategy for dealing with the undead and the Blight – I thought it would go away if we just killed the monsters, but that strategy is doomed. These abominations need to be found and destroyed. The mayor needs to know about the kidnappers, too. That can’t be allowed to continue.” Her piercing gaze returned to the awkwardly shuffling Seth. “What do we do with you?”

“I want to fix the forest, but I don’t know how,” he said, quietly wringing his hands. “I’m not strong enough.” His voice was choked with profound sadness and Ali felt the anguish of the boy who had been so committed to the ancient forest that he risked his life to save her acorns and had woken up to find himself turned into the very thing that had destroyed it all.

“How about we have Seth join the guild?” This was Ali’s main goal for the entire meeting – she just hoped Vivian and Mieriel had heard enough to trust that the boy was a good person at heart.

“A necromancer?” Vivian’s shocked gaze snapped to Ali as she made her suggestion.

Yes. Ali lifted her chin silently. Worse than a dungeon, Vivian? Was she truly sorry, or was this an entirely different situation?

“You were worried about not recruiting enough people who are motivated and have strong classes. Seth literally has nowhere else to go,” Ali answered, holding Vivian’s gaze. “You already have some dangerous classes in the guild.”

“He’s a necromancer, Aliandra,” Vivan said, her voice grating like granite.

“What is the alternative?” Ali pressed. “You know he will be driven out of every town and city. Is his fate to eventually become bitter and angry? If he isn’t killed outright, what are the chances he is forced to follow the path of Alexander Gray? You say your mission is to be a force for good in this town – how is this not exactly what you claim the guild is for?”

Vivian met her gaze with a stony stare. “How would this not ruin our already… tarnished reputation?”

Ali tried not to flinch. While the point might be fair, it still hurt.

It was Lira who broke the awkward silence. “Is the custom of having an elder sponsor a novice still respected in your kingdom?” she asked, her gentle voice cutting through the stalemate.

“You would be willing to sponsor him?” Vivian gasped. “To stake your reputation on the good behavior of a… necromancer?” At least she had the decency to wince at her own words when she glanced at Seth.

Ali knew just how unbelievable it must sound for a Dryad to sponsor a necromancer, of all classes, but she also knew the story that had unfolded between them.

“I owe him a life debt,” Lira said. It was a stunning, and incredible revelation to them, but Ali knew she believed it with all her heart. “I know he is a good person, despite his class, and I will not allow fate to punish him for his actions.”

“That… that is an incredible character reference, Seth,” Vivian said, studying the boy carefully.

Mieriel’s hand touched Vivian’s shoulder gently. “The boy seems honest and kindhearted, too. We could do a lot worse, Vivian.”

“Very well, Seth, would you mind sharing your class and abilities with me?” In the face of so much support, Vivian’s resistance seemed to crumble, and Ali suppressed a sigh of relief. It was surely not the end of Seth’s challenges, but it was the first step in setting him up on a better path.

Seth responded by sharing his skills and abilities with everyone in the room, and Ali studied them with great interest, fascinated to see a different style of summoner class.

“What does the Volatile Wraith do?” Vivian asked.

In response to the question, Seth shared the entire status sheet of the monster.

Name: Volatile WraithRace: Undead SpiritClass: Volatile Wraith – level 1- Touch of Death – level 1Mana: Attack, dealing Death damage. Range: TouchDeath, Melee, Intelligence- Volatile Detonation – level 1Explode, consuming all remaining mana to do Death damage to everything around you. Range: 3.09 feet. Trigger: DeathDeath, Area, Trigger, IntelligenceAptitudes- Mana (Affinity): Death- Incorporeal (Racial): Immune to physical damage, attacks ignore armor- Life Drain: Critical strikes cause Life Drain instead of Critical Damage- Damage Absorption (Racial): Death damage is absorbed as healing- Immunities (Racial): Poison- Vulnerabilities (Racial): +50% extra damage from Holy- Unstable: Dies after 15 secondsAttributes- Vitality: 1- Perception: 4- Intelligence: 6- Wisdom: 6Health: 10/10Mana: 60/60

Area damage, and life drain. Ali studied the monster carefully. It seemed weak beyond belief, but Ali had faced them in battle and knew just how terrifying they could be. They were incorporeal, ignoring physical damage and mundane armor.

It’s a good thing I trapped them, she realized, otherwise, Mato might have had some more life drain to heal after subduing Seth in the sewer – however unlikely it might be that Seth’s low-level summon might score a critical hit on Mato. Seeing the sheet answered a lot of the questions she had had after facing the Bone Wight and their Volatile Wraiths. Although seeing how low its health was, she made a mental note to try slicing them with barrier magic the next time she encountered one. These things are like self-guided Fireballs…

“That is an incredibly powerful class,” Vivian said, finally. “An area attack; you can heal your minions with your own damage; and regenerate your own health with life drain. Amplify Damage is an insane curse, and you can hide behind two types of monsters for survivability. If your class is representative of the typical necromancer, it’s no wonder they are so feared.”

Seth grimaced, seeming to curl up on himself as if he wanted to be swallowed up by his seat.

“It’s ok, Seth,” Mieriel said, reaching across to touch his shoulder. “You’re not in trouble.”

Ali suddenly knew Vivian was sold, and it was not just the support of herself and Lira – she could see an undercurrent of excitement the Guildmaster couldn’t quite keep from showing on her face at the prospect of such a strong class – specter of necromancy or not – joining the guild.

“Mieriel, can you ask Teagan to join us?”

“Not Aiden?”

“No, I think Seth’s abilities would be difficult to use with Havok’s holy magic as a tank. Teagan is competitive, she wants to become the strongest team in the guild, I think I can convince her to give Seth a fair shot.”

Ali smiled. It was a relief to know that Seth would be receiving training, and a group to help him level up. She was curious to see how his skeletons and wraiths stacked up against her own sewer denizens.

That wraith has some rather impressive abilities… wait, how did he…

