The void of space gained ten million claws, fractally spiraling out of Nothanganathor’s long body as he undulated in the shape of infinity, his head stilled at his center, one eye glaring Red, the other a bloody wreck. Nothanganathor was doing a dance. An Infinite Dance. In an offhanded sort of way, Erick recognized that his infinity symbol was the same as Earth’s symbol for Infinity. This was not too interesting of a fact, because apparently the symbol was the same in many different cultures.

Erick had not seen Nothanganathor start dancing. He just was; he was already dancing, this whole time. Nothanganathor liked attacking like that, Erick reflected. Establishing himself as having done something. The white bastard was a master of Establishment Magic.

Erick could play that game, too, but first he went through the process of understanding the attack so he could better counter it.

Nothanganathor’s fractal claws extended out into infinity, or at least the infinity within this ‘contained’ space, at this Mercury-distance from the Red/Burning-White sun. Nothanganathor’s claws clipped Valkyrie after Valkyrie, though most of them had learned how to be leaves on the wind, bending away from attacks and Siphoning those attacks in turn. Most of them escaped, but the churn was getting deeper. Harder to evade. Nothanganathor had Established himself as an Inevitability.

Erick wasn’t affected at all. In fact, the magic stayed away from him. That had implications as to how this was working, because the attack wasn’t avoiding Erick. It simply did not affect him.

Nothanganathor wasn’t using Malevolence, directly. Not much, anyway. He was Mana Altering it to Void and expanding it outward with resons.

Based on those facts, Erick deduced that this magic was focused on all forces that were subject to time. Nothanganathor had done that because this attack could hurt him, too, because it was just that destructive, and he was more interested in whittling down Erick’s forces than fighting him head-on.

More than that, though, Nothanganathor’s fractal claws were laced with Malevolence on the edges, and every strike against a Valkyrie was a bit of mana grafted back onto Nothanaganthor. This, then, was another of Nothanganathor’s own mana siphon attacks. This was him using his Sign of Power to steal from others.

That was the trick.

He looked like he was attacking everything, but really he was Draining everything— Except for that black planet down there with Everbless and others. That was actively being avoided.

This was a [Void Claw] enhanced with some ritualistic dancing and his Sign of Power. That Sign of Power was the only reason that it was hurting the Valkyries instead of the Valkyries fighting back against it, and Siphoning it apart.

Erick just needed to break up the power and allow the Valkyries to Siphon once again, and then this [Infinite Claw Dance], or whatever, would be a big, big mistake on Nothanganathor’s part. He was spread out all over the place, after all. That much surface area made him an easy target.

Erick spoke, “[Counter—”

Nothanganathor stopped dancing instantly, as though he had never been dancing at all.

Looked like he didn’t want that particular spell broken.

He moved on to other attacks.

He was in five places at once, and all of them were half-illusions and half-truths. Each of them was casting a different magic. One was doing something nuclear. Another was doing something penetrative. Another was doing some sort of grand ice magic. Another touched the void, and shattered infinity like breaking the iced surface of a pond. The other turned to nothing at all, and lunged at Erick, seeking to swallow him whole.

Erick stepped through time.

The nuclear attack was a beam that Nothanganathor swept across the void. It was more aimed at the Valkyries than at Erick. Erick opened a portal and swallowed Nothanganathor’s attack to aim it right back at him.

That Nothanganathor vanished, and so did that Erick.

The penetrative attack had Nothanganathor throwing out lances the sizes of moons, each of them differently-shaped, each carrying different horrors upon them. Fungus, eldritch tentacles, bones and eyes, souls twisted into horrors. Ten of them shot from the white serpent’s body, tearing toward Erick, and Erick could not move out of the way or else they would each strike a different Valkyrie and then infect those million-strong Weavers that the Valkyries linked to. So Erick conjured targets for the lances, summoning souls out of nothing, like slimes. The spears struck those slime souls and detonated their curses. Erick [Grand Reincarnation]d the cursed souls and sent them onto their new lives, cleansed.

The Nothanganathors that did the ice magic and the infinity-breaking magic simply vanished, lost to the illusion. The ice and void-cracking attacks had been too ephemeral to work, apparently. Those Ericks ceased to be; unneeded.

The shadowy Nothanganathor tried to eat Erick, but Erick easily dodged.

The shadowy thing twisted to rejoin Nothanganathor, repositioning.

It was one Erick and two Nothanganathors—

Erick realized, right before it happened, what was about to happen. The shadowy Nothanganathor bit into the real Nothanganathor, and then flowed into that wound like poisoned power. Nothanganathor’s whiteness shadowed over, and he became as bright as an eclipse.

Erick had done a little fuck up.

That shadowy thing had not been an attack. It had been a major buffing magic, made all that much stronger because Nothanganathor had ‘offered’ it to Erick, first. It was some wonky hospitality/weird-thinking that made that sort of thing work at all, but it worked quite well. On the plus side, it had probably been poison for Erick to take that into himself, anyway, so there was never an option to accept that sort of attack/buff in the first pla—

Wait.

It was a poisoned buff.

Buffs on Veird were always bad unless they were made by masters of magic, and even then you didn’t want to do Buffing Magic at all, almost all the time. But here Nothanganathor was, using major Buffing Magic on himself.

“You fucker!” Erick said, realizing a truth. “You poisoned buffing magic for all of Veird, didn’t you!”

Laughter echoed in the void and Nothanganathor joyfully declared, “YES!” He Declared, “NOW D—

Erick squeezed an entire word and power between letters, announcing, “[Animadversion].”

“—IE! Shit.”

A pin of purple magic shot out of Nothanganathor like an arrow released. It was the size of a world. It vanished. It appeared inside of Erick, ephemeral and at the same time large enough for Erick to consider it like standing atop a very pointed pillar ten times the size of his own body. This pillar was already striking at his heart.

And then, paradoxically, his silver shield of thorns caught the spellwork before it ever entered his body. The attack materialized as an arrow and Erick returned the world-sized arrow, shooting it back at Nothanganathor.

The purple arrow vanished again and then reappeared—

A whole third of Nothanganathor’s multi-Jupiter long, shadowed-white body, simply buckled. His spine tore out backward, spreading flesh everywhere. Nothanganathor roared in pain.

Erick almost attacked, but he wasn’t going to take the bait of getting in some easy attacks, even if it really, really didn’t look like bait. He let his [Animadversion] shield dissipate, for it was mostly broken anyway and he didn’t want Nothanganathor to corrupt it with a trick—

Nothanganathor’s shadowed body split away from him, taking his injury with it, and Nothanganathor was whole. He looked exhausted, though, and he didn’t collect all the flesh that he had just lost. The Valkyries feasted instead, their numbers multiplying.

Nothanganathor had lost maybe a few Earths of length, but it wasn’t that much. Maybe 10% of his length?

Also, Erick was bigger now, for some reason.

That black planet down there, where Fallopolis fought Oozy and Everbless, seemed smaller now, and by a lot. Erick had already ripped out Nothanganathor’s eye once and gained some size out of that, but now he was a lot bigger.

Nothanganathor glared at Erick, opening both eyes. It seemed the shadow magic dispersal had wiped away all his injuries.

The white bastard roared, “Do you have any idea how long I’ve been saving that one! You shouldn’t have been able to do that!”

Something clicked.

That had been an arrow, hadn’t it. Like a real fucking arrow.

Erick roared back, “You even stopped the development of bows and arrows?!”

“Of course I did! Do you know how many powerful spells are tied to arrows!”

Both of them realized something important at the same time.

Nothanganathor liked to take credit.

And.

He would thus be subject to the results of that credit.

Erick fired off perhaps his most effective attack yet, “Stopping progress isn’t in the portfolio of a God of Magic!”

Reality itself pressed down on Nothanganathor, crunching scales and breaking horns, but Nothanganathor turned the strike, roaring, “Cultivating progress is certainly within my purview!”

The reality crush slid off of Nothanganathor.

Erick resumed his argument through [Luminous Beam]s.

- - - -

Fallopolis spun and twirled away from Oozy, who wielded a hammer that glowed with silver and gold.

Normally, getting hit was not a problem for her, but Fallopolis had learned her lesson about Oozy’s endless supply of weapons once already, and then a few more times because she wasn’t used to dancing with someone with endless resources—

The hammer came down in a world-cracking blow that was like unto a god touching the blackened planet. The world broke, and Red filled in the gaps. Fallopolis escaped anyway, flowing around the broken pillars of Everbless that stuck out of the black ground like frozen lightning. Her body was a rush of Darkness; eyes open, mouths eating, fangs biting.

Oozy pursued, wielding way too many trinkets. His armor was an artifact that made him invisible to everything but direct sight. He discarded the hammer he had used twice to attack, neither blow hitting Fallopolis, and the hammer broke in the discard. He reached into one of the broken aerial roots of Everbless and pulled out an arch of wood and a bundle of arrows.

Melemizargo's voice whispered into Fallopolis’s everything.

“Lifekiller Arrows.”

So, lesser versions of the Absolute Death that Nothanganathor had shot at Erick, and which Erick had reflected.

Nothanganathor shouldn’t have had any of those arrows, but of course he did, since Melemizargo had had them in his armory, back in the Painted Cosmology. Nothanganathor probably had worse arrows, too.

“Not likely, but it is possible. The really bad stuff was set to break if it ever got free.”

Erick really shouldn’t have been able to reflect one of those Big Arrows, though, according to Melemizargo, but the Wizard of Benevolence was growing stronger off of this battle with Nothanganathor. Melemizargo was concerned with that, for any of a hundred reasons. If Erick was growing, was he a threat? Yes, but also no. If Nothanganathor was just leading Erick on, then was this a faulty fight? Yes it was, if that was the case, but in His opinion, Nothanganathor was truly trying, and had been trying this whole time.

Fallopolis simply hated arrows; that was her reaction to those splinters of wood, tipped with death. It was a much simpler reaction. She had never fought an actual archer before, but that’s what Oozy was. He was an archer from a time long ago on Veird, when archery was a small pastime that had experienced a small boom in popularity, and then faded away into oblivion in favor of [Bolt] and [Beam].

“As it had many times over the centuries! That bastard, Nothanganathor! I will rip his soul apart forever!” Melemizargo’s hatred burned a lot hotter than Fallopolis’s. He roared at the back of her mind, “I tried to get people to invent bows and arrows so many times!”

Melemizargo stretched a tendril of Fallopolis far to the right of the battlefield and opened a maw, right as Oozy released his arrow. Instantly, Darkness poured forth, scouring the land for kilometers upon kilometers with [The Breath of Melemizargo].

The arrow didn’t seem to care about that. It punched through Darkness and light and sky and reality, burying itself—

Melemizargo created a heart inside of Fallopolis’s body and the arrow burrowed into that heart. Melemizargo discarded the heart and it exploded into Annihilation. Fallopolis was already moving to intercept three more arrows, each of them flashing purple and aimed at Erick. Would those arrows aimed at Erick have done anything to him? Toothpicks against a world-sized dragon more than a hundred worlds away? No, probably not. But, Fallopolis intercepted the attack anyway.

Three more hearts intercepted those three more arrows, and now Fallopolis was above Oozy, blackening the sky with her flowing ooze body. [Avatar of Melemizargo] was only half under her control, which was the only reason she had survived this long. She usually had full control of her Avatar body, but not when Her God was this close to the battle, when He was this focused on this battle. Fallopolis was an ooze-shaped avatar, though, that could be pulled in a hundred ways at once, if Her God wanted it.

She had fought this way for a very long time, though, whenever she absolutely needed to win, and she was good at being an ooze. She could do this for an age, if needed.

The exact string of events that led to her being a person who became an ooze to fight, and Oozy of the Red being an ooze that had become a person, were unknown to her, but it was probably Fate, like the same Fate written into the sky above. Melemizargo grumbled about how he didn’t like that, because of the implications, whatever they might be. That whole dungeon of thought was too deep for her to explore right now.

She focused on the fight—

There, below her, Oozy floated in his Red armor, nocking another arrow onto the string of his bow. This one was tinged with brilliant gold.

Fallopolis felt Melemizargo fade away as he said to her with her own mouths, “Goddeath Poison.”

Fallopolis vowed not to get hit.

Oozy grinned underneath his helmet, and then pointed past Fallopolis, to Erick, more than half a solar system away. He fired the arrow, and it multiplied to a thousand bolts that flew faster than light.

Fallopolis almost tried to stop the arrows—

Melemizargo stopped her from interfering in their flight path, for any of a hundred reasons. To touch that stuff —even with one’s magic— is to be infected.

The Goddeath Poison arrows sailed on, into the sky and beyond.

Did any of them have any hope of reaching Erick at all? The chance was not zero.

