Erick’s verbal spar had shattered upon the twisting Reality of Nothanganathor, as Red words filled the void.

“They make bounty out of all the good things, Erick! Not the evil things! No one wants to live in a universe made of wrongness, and especially not me, or anyone like me! Let me give you a taste of how they would Sunder you into a new Painted Cosmology, if I weren’t around to win this war and save you from yourself.”

Nothanganathor twisted into infinity, his long body curling this way and that, his gaze leveled at Erick. Somehow he had gotten between Erick and the sun. He was backlit, shadowing the sun, casting Erick into that shadow. Claws came out, vibrating from every scale and spine of his long body, carving across Infinity, ripping edges rimmed in Red, reaping Valkyries and Erick’s flesh. The Erased One carved a fractal into Erick’s flesh. Every kilometer of Erick’s black scale and skin and membranous wings became a ritual circle.

Erick screamed.

Oppression crushed him from every angle. He felt no up, or down, or light, or dark. All was Red. All was an anvil and hammer at the same time, pressuring Erick into a mold that Nothanganathor desired.

Nothanganathor carved deeper, saying, “The only reward for good work is more work, so become the ultimate workhorse for the Dark, Erick.”

Nothanganathor released a pulse of Red that annihilated every Valkyrie within half of the solar system and obliterated half of Erick’s body. The rest of Erick’s body soon followed.

Erick knew pain.

In that pain, Erick realized more than he had ever known.

He accepted the Red for what it was; an expression of hatred for an unjust universe.

Nothanganathor screamed, “NO!”

But Erick was already headed Elsewhere.

- - - -

Hovering above a blackened land, Fallopolis witnessed sun-sized waves of Red cascading like fractal claws across the airless sky, and she knew terror. Power flowed out of Nothanganathor and power drilled into Erick. Carving. Winnowing. A wing went flying, followed by the tail and half of his neck and all of his lower body.

Erick stood before a blast furnace, and perished.

Fallopolis didn’t often get scared of things that were so much larger than herself, but when you watched something the size of a planet come apart in bits and pieces, you got scared—

There is nothing to fear, for I am here, and you are fine. Erick will either die or transcend this trial. You need to leave before the wave reaches you. Grab Shivraa and Oozy. Everbless dies hiding from salvation.

Shivraa howled at Fallopolis’s side as she witnessed the death of her King and the eradication of half of her army. Fallopolis wasn’t sure which affected her more. She went numb, floating there, eyes wide and her entire icy-body thawing, as though she was in complete shock. She probably was.

The army that remained beyond the portals far, far beyond the battlefield, managed to kill themselves and retreat back to Veird, faster than flight was possible. Those portals shut.

Of course, none of them could physically see any of that at all. Time was wonky, and light and power were moving faster than physically possible for those with the Sight to See what could be seen.

Oozy had a more normal reaction because he was separated from everything, except for his very new connection to Melemizargo. He was basically a newborn, who could only see the red and white glows in the air, cast from the sun. He had no idea what to make of anything, but he was terrified of why Shivraa was terrified. He caught on to Fallopolis’s fear, as well.

There was barely any time to think. There was absolutely no time to explain anything.

Fallopolis swirled with darkness, expanding and wrapping up both of her targets—

Suddenly a white branch invaded the working, grown from a suddenly-there aerial root. The branch spread out dull red leaves and a tiny spattering of roots into the center of where Fallopolis was already working her magic.

Everbless was trying to come along for the ride.

Darkness was already swirling. The tunnel back to Veird was already opening. Fallopolis had the option to abort her magic, and it never would have worked with the bigger aerial root impeding the space, but then the aerial root snapped off, leaving a red-leafed, white sapling floating next to Oozy. Oozy didn’t seem to understand the sapling, and Shivraa didn’t care about anything right now. Oozy grabbed the sapling to his chest anyway, like grabbing an uprooted bush.

Fallopolis could already tell the sapling was Everbless, and it was either going to interrupt the ritual to get them back to Veird, or it was going to come along for the ride.

Fine. He can come.

Return to me, Fallopolis.

And that is what Fallopolis did, collapsing space and ripping an insensate Shivraa, an ignorant Oozy, and a seemingly-contrite Everbless through a tunnel of Darkness.

Everything clawed at Fallopolis.

Everything was Black.

Fallopolis was the only thing standing between the annihilation of that Dark and her cargo, held within her body. Her presence was the only thing that solidified the way forward, into a tunnel that continued on forever—

The hole behind them was still open, held exposed by ripping Red claws.

Shit.

It was going to catch—

Detour.

The black tunnel branched off every which way, and Fallopolis raced down one of them.

The Red followed.

Fallopolis briefly dropped into a world of chaos that roared back at her with gibbering mouths and tumors untold. She screamed back at them, louder and stronger than any of them. The wrongness of the new world recoiled and the world turned intelligible with stone and trees and Darkness in the woods ahead. A portal opened up before her and she followed through the hidden horrors, protecting her cargo.

The portal shut behind her and she was back in the tunnels between slices of Infinity.

The Red clawed open the tunnels behind her, resuming the chase.

She veered off into another detour.

This world was mirrors and reflections and she was joined by ten thousand versions of herself, all of them carrying cargo onward into halls of Darkness. Red burst out of the mirrors, clawing her way.

She lost the Red in the confusion of it all.

Four more detours later Fallopolis spat out of a hole of Darkness in the air, landing atop the white pillar of Ascendant Mountain, on Veird. The hole closed up behind her as Melemizargo himself grasped the air where the hole had been, appearing like His True Self, majestic and Dark. He threw the portal away, back into Infinity, and Fallopolis knew the path to the big battle was lost to her.

There was no way back to the big battle.

Fallopolis’s part was done, anyway.

Erick was either dead, or not—

Melemizargo demanded of her, “My cargo.”

Fallopolis spilled out of herself, her [Avatar of Melemizargo] falling away, peeled apart by her insistent God.

She became so much smaller as she crashed onto the white stone underfoot, like a shell discarded.

Everbless’s sapling wormed out of Oozy’s grip and tried to plant into the white stone, but Melemizargo whipped the Red thing into a sphere of Darkness, taking some of the ground with it. Everbless twisted his form into a tiny tree, his roots gathering those stones to his body, where he suspended himself among that debris like an impostor of Yggdrasil, who was probably safe and floating inside Benevolence Itself—

Oozy suddenly retched out Red onto the ground. Red Sparks traveled this way and that, but Melemizargo descended his entire clawed hand onto the entirety of the Ascendant Mountain platform. Fallopolis briefly wondered if this was her End, as the world turned Dark.

But it was an Ephemeral Dark. They were not crushed.

Melemizargo’s hand and claws became ephemeral and bright with Darkness, slamming down on the Red and eradicating it.

And then Melemizargo went to work in the Darkness of His own making.

He reached into the Valkyrie, into Erick’s captain of his army, and Shivraa cried out in soul-torture.

She fainted.

Melemizargo pressed further into Shivraa’s soul, reaching, twisting. Shivraa thudded this way and that, as though buffeted by invisible winds. Melemizargo’s eyes opened in the Dark as he stared into Shivraa’s soul, and—

Rozeta stepped to the side, looking like a bright white human wrought woman, singular in the Gloom of Melemizargo. She stared up at the white eyes in the Dark. Her voice was insistent, yet even, “What are you doing, father?”

“The fact that I am doing this at all means that Erick has failed. He has not returned from his death. We are splitting up the Valkyries amongst ourselves. I am taking Shivraa.”

And then Shivraa opened her eyes, and they were full of light. She was a Shade now.

Her Brightness seemed clouded to Fallopolis, though. Full of confusion and insanity.

She did not voice that opinion. She resolved herself to cull Shivraa later, after she had served her purpose, though a part of her was disappointed that Melemizargo was doing this at all. She did not voice that opinion, either.

Melemizargo ignored Fallopolis as He said to His daughter, “You already have all of the Weaves of all of the remaining Valkyries. Split them up however you care to split them. Everbless is also Mine.”

Inside the Darkness of the sphere that contained Everbless, Everbless’s Red leaves and white body turned Black, with only cracks of light appearing in the smallest of spaces, in the twist of bark, or on the edges of a leaf.

Rozeta said nothing. She just stared.

Melemizargo told Fallopolis, “Prepare to repel Paladins.”

Fallopolis prayed for two things in that moment.

She prayed for Erick’s return.

And she prayed silently, so very silently, that Her God wasn’t going insane again.

Melemizargo’s full weight fell upon Fallopolis as he turned his eyes toward her.

Fallopolis splattered.

Melemizargo’s voice called her back from oblivion. “Fall in line or fall forever, Fallopolis.”

Fallopolis came back together, returned to life. She tried to stand. She ended up on her knees, which was as much as she could do. With her head pressed against the stone, she said, “Yes, My God.”

“Cease your madness, Father,” Rozeta said, “There won’t be any paladins coming this way, for if Erick is gone, then we must do what we must. I will begin dispensation of the Valkyries now, and then—”

The sky twisted and spilled with fractals.

Something happened.

Fallopolis had no idea what happened, but from one moment to the next, she had been witnessing the complete breakdown of everything Erick had tried to build, and then she was laid out on the ground again. When she regained her senses but her body was still numb, she saw the world had changed.

The sky, which had been an illusion of blue and clouds and sun, was broken, revealing the black adamantium of the shell of the next layer above them.

Melemizargo was alive, but his body was splashed across the land beyond Ascendant Mountain, like hills of black scales vaguely resembling a dragon, with one arm and one leg raised up in the air.

Blood was everywhere.

Rozeta was in metal pieces on the ground next to Fallopolis.

Shivraa was gone.

Everbless’s cage was gone, and so was the nascent World Tree.

Fallopolis was alone with Oozy.

Everything was silent, except for the breathing of her comatose god.

That had been the Fractal Fairy, hadn’t it, Fallopolis thought, as she managed to rise to her knees, and no further. She steadied herself upon the ground, everything still spinning. And then the full gravity of the situation truly struck her like a sudden vanishing of the ground underfoot.

The ground was still there, but was it, really?

Fallopolis shouldn’t have been surprised at how easy it was to ruin everything that Erick had ever built. Shades had been ruling Veird for 1400 years before Erick came along, but there had been many such potential ‘Ericks’ before him. Shades had often called people Fires of the Age.

And yet, none of them were real Fires.

Not like Erick.

And now the Fire was gone, and the shadowolves had come out.

Fallopolis had toppled her fair amount of cities and otherwise by removing one key person here or there, so this level of breaking shouldn’t have been a surprise. In every breaking, many things happened, all rather fast. First came the frantic reestablishing of whatever norms people could grasp, then came the real upheaval as the previous existence simply didn’t work anymore and people started to realize that fact, and then came dissolution and establishing of new social norms. That is what happened in every breaking, give or take any tens of thousands of specific variables.

And yet the ground still existed in all those scenarios.

Did the ground exist anymore?

Fallopolis lost her sense of self for a long moment.

Moments passed.

“All the Valkyries are gone, aren’t they?” Oozy asked, his voice full of sorrow.

Fallopolis was still gathering herself. She wasn’t sure how to answer Oozy’s question.

So, she was honest, “Yeah. Probably. The Fractal Fairy had enchanted that whole magic to never be corrupted, and every single god here just tried to corrupt it.”

Silence.

Oozy softly said, “You probably could have held out for a little while with them.”

“Probably.”

“What happens now?”

“I don’t know.”
