It didn’t matter right now. Fallopolis had 50 more arrows of dubious origin flying at her, anyway. Oozy was firing a hailstorm at her, and none of these ones were Goddeath. With a howling twist, Fallopolis spun herself into an array of black beams that further twisted down at Oozy and at the ground below him. Arrows exploded into hundreds of colors, indication that hundreds of arrows had been fired at her, too, which was weird because she only saw 50. The very air and ground caved into itself in the passing of her magics. She only managed to tear Oozy’s cape from his shoulders.

Fallopolis hadn’t seen that cape before it was destroyed, either.

Oozy became easier to see with her magical senses, but several arrows appeared already lodged in her flesh. She pulsed the arrows away and restored the parts of her that were breaking. At least this stuff wasn’t Goddeath… Hopefully it wasn’t Goddeath. That stuff had to be prepared ahead of time for a specific god…

Ah.

She was probably infected now. Would Her God ever speak to her again?

Oozy grinned and put another cape on his shoulders. Like a shattering of a mirror, Oozy multiplied across the battlefield—

Everbless peeked out from one of the white aerial roots, like a boy peeking through a crack in a door, sticking red leaves through the opening. He did that way too much.

Fallopolis opened up with a pillar of Blackfire that slammed into Everbless’s eyes and traveled all the way through them, to his main body far, far in the distance. His main body exploded in Blackfire. He screamed and focused on putting that fire out—

Everything in the entire solar system turned absolutely brilliant as the light of the battle between Erick and Nothanganathor erupted in more [Luminous Beam]s. The sky was brighter than ten thousand suns.

Fallopolis hunkered down under the lingering power of Her God, while Everbless burned under the light and Oozy screamed in pain.

And then Shivraa was there, at Fallopolis’s side, saying, “You let Goddeath arrows past you, and in you.”

She was blocking the Light for Fallopolis with an aura of ten million mana.

Fallopolis recovered, saying, “I tried, damn you!”

“Your loyalty is noted,” Shivraa said, “It is not your fault. You were just raised this way.”

“I have done so much more for that man than you will ever know.”

Shivraa seemed unconcerned about the destruction, even as the top layers of her body evaporated like ice under a [Flamethrower] spell. “Is that you speaking, or your god?”

“Both!”

Melemizargo was back.

Oh thank Him.

She wasn’t infected with Goddeath, or else He wouldn’t have come back.

Fallopolis hoped that she had been clean, for she had no idea how to clean herself. All she knew is that she did not want to be the vector that had infected Her God.

You were not clean, but those arrows were meant for Erick. The poison was easily removed.

Oh.

Fallopolis grew angry, right alongside a subtle anger inside Melemizargo.

Oozy and Nothanganathor didn’t respect the power of Her God at all, did they! They hadn’t even been using Goddeath to kill Melemizargo! They considered Him already beaten! Fallopolis was furious, but she was still in control.

The light soon faded and Oozy was nowhere to be found. Neither were any of the aerial roots, or the top several meters of land, or much of the atmosphere, though the atmosphere was already mostly gone long before this.

He revives at Everbless.

Fallopolis said, “He revives at Everbless.”

“We are already attacking there. I am here to ensure your triumph. Explain how I can help.”

Fallopolis instantly said, “Believe in Melemizargo, for He is the Darkness that will drown all that needs drowning!”

“I do not worship anyone and I will not start now.”

Surprisingly, Fallopolis was extremely happy with that answer.

Melemizargo was also happy, Fallopolis could tell, but His joy was tinged with need. Maybe Shivraa could be converted? Hmm.

Oozy comes first.

Fallopolis said, “We work to trap Oozy. Not to kill. He has killed himself ten times already to get away from me. We do the same to Everbless. His body moves when he dies as well, but he is still on this planet. Everbless guards much of the mortal-rank armaments that Nothanganathor has given to Oozy.”

Shivraa nodded, and then she turned her gaze toward Everbless in the far distan—

She whipped her head around and then she sliced the air with a tiny knife in her hand.

In that distance, Oozy floated, unseen until he was seen in that moment, but then Shivraa’s knife came down and, much like her master, she carved destruction on a scale only the avatar of a god could do. Several hundred kilometers of land instantly froze over.

Oozy was among that freeze.

Oozy popped like a balloon. Dead again.

“Ah,” Shivraa said, realizing what she had done.

Fallopolis said, “It’s harder than it looks!”

Shivraa frowned.

And then the Valkyries descended out of the void and made harrying Oozy considerably easier.

Sometimes it was hard for Fallopolis to understand exactly how far Erick had gotten in life, at the heights of power he now enjoyed. She was just a Champion of Darkness —Funny way to think about it! Sorry, My God.— and Erick was here with armies of billions of mind-melded warriors, each of them flowing in lock-step with each other, while Erick battled with an ancient Wrongness that was the brother of Her God. There Erick was, in the void beyond the sky, battling the White One which was the size of several much larger planets.

It boggled the mind!

On the other hand, that would be her up there, one day, ending big threats, when Her God rose to the power that he should have had all this time.

If Erick doesn’t steal my Mantle for himself!

Humbly, he truly is not aiming for your Mantle, My God.

… Yes yes. I am grounded again. But I am still slipping, my little Culler. I should not take it out on Erick.

The Valkyries harried Oozy into a trap between a thousand of them where they all linked power to form a cage of brilliant Benevol—

Oozy popped like a splash of blood again, his soul slipping through the cage before it could form.

Shivraa slashed out a thousand kilometers away, her tiny ice knife carving a swath of Absolute Winter across the land, intercepting Oozy as he reformed—

Oozy popped again.

The Valkyries kept trying.

Fallopolis thought, ‘This is utterly ridiculous. How is he able to evade these powers?’

A Darkness hummed inside of Fallopolis.

He is linked to Everbless and Everbless is spread across side realities like that Margleknot fellow. Nothanganathor is attempting to have his own Margleknot. It is an imperfect system, but it is a system that is good enough, for now, for doing this much.

Hmm.

Her God communed with others, and Fallopolis waited. She did not wait long.

Erick will not kill Everbless and Sininindi is begging me not to kill him either.

I see now.

The most you can hope to do is control Oozy so he can’t use Nothanganathor’s toys against Erick, exactly as Erick wished you to do when he told you to go here. Perhaps… I was asking too much to have you contain him and bring him to me.

Fallopolis slipped a few beams of Black into Oozy from several tens of kilometers away, drilling through his armor and snapping Oozy’s 25th new bow into pieces. Oozy cursed at his broken toy, and as the Valkyries tried to surround him again—

A great dome of Benevolence instantly formed all around Oozy, trapping him from running. Fallopolis almost gasped. That had been Establishment Wizardry. The Valkyries had done Wizardry, and now Oozy crashed against the side of the cage and then bounced off, disoriented.

He was trapped.

He tried to kill himself, to pop again, but he failed.

“Oh My God, they did it.”

DO IT NOW.

Time stopped.

Oozy froze. Everything froze.

Fallopolis cackled and twisted with power, flying forward, around Oozy’s cage, like a kraken around a pearl, taking control of the magic from the Valkyries.

I knew I was never asking too much from you!

Fallopolis luxuriated in the praise of Her God as she brushed away the time-frozen Valkyries, who— The Valkyries were still moving. They were still active, even in this [Time Stop]. And they allowed themselves to be brushed away. Oozy would probably be speeding up himself, soon enough.

She had enough time to do this.

She vibrated into the [Benevolence Barrier], using one of her favorite magics to do so, and something she had only started to develop properly in the last 120-ish years; Sanity Magic.

Fallopolis had started her life off as the daughter of a Wizard Mind Mage who ended up Forgotten Campaigned. Erick had given her a lot of information about her mother, and about her history, in what seemed like a long time ago. That information had helped her own Sanity, but it was like learning a fact about something that did not really matter to her anymore, for she had done well in making herself, herself.

Melemizargo had been the one to really be there for her.

Her life before becoming a Shade was a blur, and afterward it was a blur, too.

Most of her life was spent that way.

It was only after the Great Purge of Spur, which she spearheaded all those years ago, did she realize that the insane power of Her God was better used when it was Sane. She recognized that calling for the Purge of Spur had been insane. That Purge had cost them all the adventurers that they preyed upon for their games.

That was, perhaps, her first true waking.

That was when she installed herself into the Crack in the Wall of Ar’Kendrithyst, and made herself every proper adventurer’s first introduction to the Dead City, so that they could fight and survive and grow, like Her God wanted them to, because otherwise those adventurers would just make fools of themselves and die to any number of horrors in the dark. The solidification of her Sanity Magic happened after she culled the Clergy, killing all Shades who were too insane to live.

That was when she became the Culler of Ar’Kendrithyst.

That was also when she became a person who truly dealt in world events on multiple fronts. Mostly as Fallopolis, the ‘Insane’ Grandmother at the Crack of Ar’Kendrithyst. But also as another, who had been working with Silverite all the last hundred years, after the Purge, in order to ensure another Purge never happened, and that the remaining Clergy never again succumbed to insanity. The Clergy would always survive, after all, but adventurers were weak things that needed guidance every now and then.

Fallopolis had been Archmage Opal of Spur, the creator of barriers and the tricker of magic, and she had helped raise a lot of people to power, including Erick, to whom she had taught Tricking Magic.

She used all of that right now, to Trick her way through the opalescent barrier housing Oozy, without actually breaking that barrier at all.

In the Darkness of her body, Fallopolis opened a thousand eyes, gazing upon Oozy, into his very soul, into every part of him that had ever existed, or that ever would exist. With glee in her heart, Fallopolis drowned Oozy in Darkness, invading him in every way possible, as she opened a thousand mouths and spoke with the words of Her God into Oozy’s Everything,

“I SEEEEEE YOOOOU.”

MinE! miNe!! ! mINE!

MinE! ! miNe!! mINE! mINe!!

mINE! MInE!! ! MINE!

MinE! ! mINE! MInE!!! MinE!

miNe!! ! MInE!! !MinE!

MINE!

A cacophony of trinkets burst upon Oozy’s time-locked body, attempting to deflect her attempts at taking control of him, but Fallopolis’s spellwork sunk into his soul anyway. She dragged him kicking and screaming into a new life.

The [Time Stop] broke.

Fallopolis oozed away from Oozy, forming a white stone platform under both of them, under the void sky and surrounded by Valkyries. Oozy lay on that platform, the Red drained from him completely. He was asleep, but not for long.

Fallopolis gathered Darkness into her hands and formed her usual staff. With a click upon the stone, the world vibrated.

Oozy shook awake, opening his bright, bright white eyes, full of new sanity.

Fallopolis said, “Welcome back, Shade Oozy.”

The Valkyries were tense.

Shivraa glared at Fallopolis. She had not been expecting her to do this, but it was done, and now everything that Nothanganathor had given Oozy was now Melemizargo’s, including all the plans that Oozy had ever been a part of.

Oozy breathed out, “The Red is gone?” He started sobbing in joy, “The Red is gone!”

- - - -

Erick glanced over at whatever was happening on that planet over there. Shivraa and the Valkyries had helped Fallopolis trap and contain Oozy, and then Fallopolis had claimed him, it seemed.

Sure. That was fine.

Nothanganathor used Erick’s watching of those events to twist reality into a spear that flew his way, yelling out, “Don’t get distracted now!”

The spear disappeared out of Nothanganathor’s grip and then appeared from an angle Erick hadn’t been watching, which was literally impossible. He was watching everywhere. He had no blind spots. Nothanganathor had created a blind spot.

Erick had a choice, as the spear touched down in the middle of his back, between his wings. He could say he saw everything just fine, which would open him up to some sort of memetic threat which Nothanganathor had waiting in the wings, or Erick could take the hit, which was probably a terrible option—

Erick realized he was already in the middle of a memetic threat.

Erick said, “I can afford distractions while I’m winning.”

His words came out faster than the spear impacted him, and whatever the spear had been trying to do it instead flicked off of his black scales and went spinning out into the void like a planetary-sized length of metal.

Erick’s words, were, of course, turned back on him.

Nothanganathor said, “This is nothing more than my subjects throwing a tantrum.”

Nothanganathor was claiming Erick as a subject?! Ha!

Erick threw off an ephemeral yoke, saying, “A popular uprising isn’t a tantrum. It’s a revolution against someone that isn’t even in charge.”

“So you agree I’m in charge!”

A weak rejoinder, but Erick was the only one that recognized it. Nothanganathor was way too narcissistic to see himself as anything other than the largest power wherever he was. He wasn’t, of course. He was delusional.

Erick said, “You’re dead, and you don’t know it yet. This right here is nothing more than me putting down the creator of an age of destruction, to give rise to ever-flowing bounty from your corpse.”

Nothanganathor laughed. Even though Erick had laced his words with power, even though he had the upper hand, even though he had thrown Nothanganathor’s insidious barbs about sacrifice right back at him, Nothanganathor laughed.

