“I’m pretty sure you’re the real old man here,” Alden said finally. “You grew all the way up while I was gone.”

“Tell my parents that. They won’t let me have a motorcycle.”

Alden snorted. “So the truth comes out. You’re just trying to live vicariously through me.”

“Yeah. Obviously. You’re a rich, space-faring Avowed. If you’d just get new social media accounts—”

“Yuck.”

“You’d be famous in like four minutes.”

“Yuck.”

There was a soft whirr overhead and a faint trumpeting sound, and they both looked up to see a large purple quad-copter drone dropping down on top of them.

Alden grabbed the cat in case the drone scared it, but Victor just meowed and laid there in his lap like a lump.

So confusing.

“See this is what I mean,” Jeremy said while Alden took his new laptop out of the drone’s compartment. “You ate magic samosas for lunch, and now you’re chilling in a meditation garden in Apex while drones spit tech into your lap. The internet would love you.”

“The internet would want to see some powers eventually.”

“It’s not like you can’t show them some.”

“True.” He caught sight of his friend’s face and suddenly realized that Jeremy looked hopeful. “Ohhh…did youwant to see powers? I didn’t even think about that. We were right in the middle of doing cool power testing and shopping the Wardrobe, and then I got yanked to Artona III.”

“Well, you said you were doing something complicated with a card right now.”

“Not at this very second I’m not. It’s just sitting in my back pocket. Did you want me to preserve something else? People seem to get a thrill out of attacking whatever I’m holding. You’ve already done that once, but it’s better now. I’ve really got that shield thing we talked about going on these days. Watching me screw up enchanted items won’t be fun…but I’ve had way more practice with the Azure Rabbit trait. If we drop Victor off at a pet hotel we can go for a run or something?”

“That all sounds good,” he said hesitantly.

Alden stared at him. “What did you want me to do? Just say.”

“I kind of wanted to see the spell.”

Alden’s mind immediately went to his auriad. Wait. That’s not right. Jeremy doesn’t know about that.

He wasn’t sure if he was going to mention his ability to do non-Avowed magic at all, and if he did, he wasn’t going to do it out in public. Who knew how many audial Brutes there might be around?

Then Jeremy added, “I didn’t want to ask because I know you have to use an ingredient for it, but I thought you probably kept some with you all the time anyway…why are you making that face?”

“Okay,” said Alden, “just to be clear, I didn’t exactly forget I had the Haunting Sphere spell impression.”

He could literally feel that he did right this second if he thought about it. But it was the least interesting, and very nearly the least wanted, part of his entire affixation. And he’d been interested in testing the rest of his powers ever since he actually regained the ability to use them.

“I’d also like to remind you that I was busy at LeafSong, and then I was in a corruption field with no shopping opportunities.”

“Alden,” said Jeremy, “you’re not serious.”

“And, you know, it was a spell I chose specifically because I thought it might be a little useful for support hero work, which I’m not currently as sure—”

“You’ve been on Anesidora for weeks now!”

“True…” It did look worse if you didn’t know that he’d only been magically functional for a matter of days.

“You have a whole magic spell you’ve never done? You do? You’re an Adjuster nut! You wanted cool spells so bad when you were picking your stuff that you complained about the Rabbit options for like an hour. Boe and I thought you were never going to decide. How could you not have tried the one you got?”

“I can make tiny flames to light candles now, too,” Alden said. Since it was included on the fake profile it was fair game for showing off. “I really love that one.”

Jeremy was still looking at him like he’d never seen him before.

“We should go to a Wright shop,” Alden said quickly. “And buy the…thing…the ball thing that makes that spell happen.”

Jeremy gasped. “Did you forget what the ingredient was called?”

“No.”

“I see your eyes twitching. You’re looking it up on your interface! What kind of an Avowed are you?”

“One who absolutely knows the name of his own spell ingredient. It’s a temper sphere. Of course. Let’s go get one.”

**********

The nearest Wright shop was a place that looked like a hardware store, if all the smaller items in the hardware store were stuffed into various kinds of vending machine and all the larger ones were locked in cages with signs on them saying you had to ask for assistance.

“This is uninviting,” Jeremy said, staring into one of the machines. It was full of pouches of colored liquids. Some of them had things in them that looked like chunks of rock. “I’m really getting the feeling that I’m not supposed to touch the merchandise.”

“If you could see what I can see you’d be even more concerned.”

He was peering into the neighboring machine. Everything in it was sealed in metal tubes that were showing up as EXPLOSIVE — GRADE 3 TINKERING LICENSE REQUIRED on his interface. The prices were also provided through the System. Combined with all the buttons, dials, and packages that were glowing thanks to his Sympathy for Magic, Alden felt like he needed sunglasses for his brain.

He shifted his grip on the cat carrier and watched an Asian woman in coveralls direct an electric dolly down the aisle. It had a bunch of bizarrely shaped metal tubes on it.

“It’d be hard to be a Wright,” said Jeremy. “You can stink at being one. Can you imagine how depressing it would be to get a bunch of spells and skills to help you build something amazing—like magic cannons. But then you just…couldn’t pull them all together and engineer the actual cannons because you were missing one talent? Or you were bad at figuring out how?”

“I don’t think it’s actually that much of a problem for them. They have all the workshops for people who don’t have magical engineering skills or full item-creation packages. Even if you’re an unleveled F-rank you can still be the guy who just makes the cannon’s trigger or something.”

“Yeah, but nobody wants to be the superhuman who spends all day making triggers.”

“You’d be surprised!” someone called from the next aisle over. “Good magic triggering mechanisms can sell for a lot of argold!”

Jeremy’s face turned beet red. “I didn’t think I was talking that loud,” he whispered.

“I didn’t think you were either.”

“You weren’t!”

Both of them looked up in surprise to see a man—so covered in gear that he was leaning cyborg—floating up and over the vending machines toward them. His accent was pure Anesidoran, and his System name tag was up. It seemed he was using it as a business card:

[Techno Tarek]

[S-rank Wright ]

[If I can’t make it, I know someone who can. ]

“I’ve got convo picks in my ears. Made by me!” He pointed at his ears. “Better than your usual hearing aides because they only pick up stuff you’re actually interested in. I’ve got hover gear made by my wife! It’s experimental, but there are heroes using it in Delhi and Rome. I’ve got visual layer penetration goggles made by my son! He’s fresh out of uni.”

He paused for breath. “And I’ve got a murder ribbon launcher. Made by my baby girl.”

Jeremy’s face was alarmed.

“What’s a murder ribbon?” Alden asked slowly.

“I’m glad you asked, Alden Thorn.”

“You know my name?” He didn’t have his tag turned on.

“Observe! The murder ribbon—”

The Wright pulled a bulky squarish gun out of a holster on his belt. It looked like one of those things people used to shoot dollar bills. Alden and Jeremy both took a step back, but the man pointed it down the aisle and pulled the trigger.

A hot pink ribbon a few inches wide shot out of it rapidly. It cut itself off at thirty or so feet and drifted toward the floor so slowly that for a moment Alden wondered if it was actually levitating. After several seconds, before it reached the concrete, the whole thing flash-burned away into nothing with a sizzling sound. It smelled like burnt hair.

Jeremy was giving Alden a look that said he expected the Avowed to deal with the other, crazier Avowed.

“Does…does that actually kill people somehow?” Alden asked.

If it did, should he be using it indoors? In a place full of people?

Tarek scratched his head. “My daughter is fifteen. She’s just starting out. Murder ribbon might be an overly ambitious name for her first prototype. But it does give you a second degree burn if you grab it at the wrong moment!”

He held up his hand proudly to show them a ribbon-wide, blistered patch of skin on his palm.

There was a buzzing noise, and all of the sudden, a woman’s voice sounded over the store’s intercom. “Tarek! Stop hawking your family’s stuff to my customers! How many times have I told you—”

“But I’m your best customer, Bridget!”

“You are not!”

“I’m definitely in the top ten!”

“Leave the kids alone, or I’ll cancel your frequent shopper discount!”

Tarek put the ribbon launcher back in its holster. He leaned over to Alden and whispered, “You should buy it. It’s Spree day, and somebunny has money.”

“Um…”

“NO!” shouted Bridget’s voice from the speaker system. “Stop freaking out the new islanders, Tarek. New boy, he’s not a mind reader in disguise. His father’s the Informant. Tarek’s just got infogear screwed into his skull.”

That only made Alden slightly less concerned. The Informant was an old Wright who made cheap magical wearables that were popular on Anesidora, and in a few countries where they were legal. In exchange for the fact that they were sold below cost, they monitored and recorded things that happened around the wearer and sent the intel to the Informant’s private data collection center.

People said that the Informant could look at someone and get a full read-out through his infogear of everything about them that he would find useful. The wearables supposedly only recorded info that had been shared in public spaces, so it wasn’t against the law here on Anesidora.

I guess my name and the fact that I’m a Rabbit in the intake dorms isn’t private. It was unsettling to wonder what else Tarek knew, though.

He smiled at Alden while the unseen shop owner continued to yell at him through the intercom. “Temper spheres are on aisle eleven. White vending machine. Third item from the left on the top row. Good job surviving space, by the way. I’ve been a few times. Wild out there in the big universe, isn’t it?”

“It…is,” Alden said. "Thank you."

The Wright waved and left before his frequent shopper discount could be cancelled.

“It just hit me that you’re really going to be living here,” said Jeremy after a minute. “With super people.”

“Me too.”

“You’re gonna be okay, right?”

“I hope so.”

***********

When they got back to the dorms, Alden was relieved to see that his apartment was his again.

“This place is spotless,” said Jeremy, looking around at everything. “Your pinball machine is so shiny.”

“The other Rabbits are good about tidying up after themselves. At least the new ones are. Nobody’s gotten bored with their cleaning skills yet.”

Alden set the cat carrier down and opened the door so Victor could wander the place. He wasn’t sure how long he was planning to keep the cat here. Jeremy and Connie thought he needed company from home and had insisted that he give it a try. And half of Jeremy’s family was allergic, so it seemed good to give them a break.

But pets aren’t a great choice for student dorm life, are they?

Even if they were allowed at school, Alden would be busy with classes most of the time. And Victor had never been a cat that would tolerate being locked up in the house. It was like trying to keep a tornado in a cupboard.

Although now…

While the cat went to sniff the fridge, Alden set his bag on the sofa and pulled out the carton of temper spheres he’d bought. It looked like an egg carton, with twelve glass balls half-filled with glittery sand in the cups instead of eggs.

Despite the fact that they looked like soap bubbles, they were supposed to be tough enough to throw around and even stand on, so Alden chucked one across the apartment into the kitchen. It bounced across the faux-wood floor and stopped beside the door.

“You just point, and say its name, and it happens, right?” Jeremy asked in an eager voice.

“I think so.”

He could also do a mental target and command. But he figured he might as well start with the basics.

He pointed at the ball and said, “Haunting Sphere.”

What happened next was interesting. And shockingly easy. But having experienced normal casting, Alden wouldn’t be willing to describe it as enjoyable.

He felt the spell impression come alive. A glowing light provided by his interface surrounded the sphere. The hand he was pointing with made a series of rapid signs he’d never learned. His mouth whispered a word he didn’t know. His focus narrowed onto the glass orb until there was almost nothing else in the room.

Then the temper sphere disappeared. Alden’s brain snapped back to normal. About five heartbeats later, a loud high-pitched scream filled the apartment.

Jeremy jumped.

Victor yowled and skittered out of the kitchen to hide under the pinball machine.

