*

<<Alden, this is Dragon Rabbit. You need things. I get them for you.>>

“Hola, Dragon Rabbit!” Alden said cheerfully to the faceless and nameless errand runner on the other end of the voice call. “Muchas gracias por la…clothing. Ropa? Ropa! Muchas gracias.”

He was planning to try for a higher score on the Spanish language proficiency exam soon.

“You’re welcome,” said Dragon Rabbit.

Oh no, thought Alden, taking a sip of his coffee and waving off the guy from 912 who was trying to offer him half and half. I’m so bad he switched to English on me.

A girl he didn’t know from the eighth floor slid a notebook across the counter to him.

“Today is Spree day for our intake group,” Alden said, glancing down at the orders the girl had taken from the fifteen—or maybe it was twenty now?—other Rabbits who’d invited themselves over to Alden’s apartment at four in the morning to do prep.

According to Emilija, it was Natalie’s fault. She kept telling people how nice Alden was whenever they asked about the weird moon castaway who’d hired her with his moon castaway money. And since he had empty rooms…

“Apparently we need mohinga, mangu with los tres golpes, and two dozen mini cheesecakes?” He blinked down at the order. He’d offered to feed them all so that they would stay away from his fridge full of meals from Natalie. He'd seen the variety of things on offer in the dorm cafeteria before, so he didn't know why he'd been expecting them to request bagels and donuts.

<<I can get that for you.>>

Of course he could find a multinational breakfast hours before restaurants were open.

“Thank you. I also have a list of things that should be delivered to me via drone periodically throughout the day.”

<<I love Spree days.>>

That did make sense. “It’s mostly tech. A laptop. Some headphones. I’ve got the model numbers.”

<<I can get that for you.>>

“What about an Artonan-made tablet capable of accessing Anesidoran WiFi networks?”

Alden had gotten really used to the tablets at the lab. And Neha had one. So they did exist on Earth.

<<Limited holographic projection capabilities and the multi-angle magic camera?>>

“What does something like that cost?”

<<Not too much for a Rabbit taking part in the Spree.>>

“Yeah. Okay.”

While Dragon Rabbit figured out prices, Alden watched a guy who was going around insta-shining all the metal in the room. He did a girl’s earrings, a boy’s brand new watch, some bracelets, a computer case, aluminum eyeglasses, and even the kitchen sink.

Alden felt someone else brush by him, and a second later, all the wrinkles fell out of his clothes. They weren’t even the ones he was wearing today. He’d just thrown them on when people started pouring in.

The hairdresser and makeup girl from downstairs were in full swing, too. People were getting clipped, brushed, and improved at an alarming pace. And there was a strange rhythm to the chaos, caused by crafty Rabbits making messes everywhere and cleany Rabbits running along behind them and magically tidying up.

Presumably, similar scenes were taking place all over the Warren.

As Alden finished with the errand runner, a schedule popped up on the intake Spree day group chat. He glanced through it, shaking his head in amusement. Hadiza was on beautification duty. She’d be standing by the counselor’s desk, zapping everyone’s stuff with her skill to make it look better before they headed out for the day.

Alden escaped to his bedroom—the one place in the apartment that wasn’t full of other people—and got dressed. He’d bought a dark blue long-sleeved shirt from the gym. The name was printed on it in Artonan logograms. It was how some businesses on Anesidora tried to imply language-inclusivity without having to use tons of different ones in their marketing materials. The English translation was North of North Wellness Center for the Body and Mind.

North had eliteness connotations on Anesidora because Apex was north of F-City. Crescent moons did, too, because of the northern island’s shape. Which was why the gym logo was a man leaping from the bottom tip of a crescent to the top.

Alden personally considered the shirt to be sufficiently snobby for Spree day, but when he emerged from his room, one of the other boys immediately asked if he was going to go with the group of Rabbit guys who’d booked a personal shopping guide to take them around the luxury brand stores at Rosa Grove Mall and deck them out.

“This is it for me,” Alden said, grabbing some meal prep containers from the fridge and tucking them into his magic bag. The books were still in System storage, but now that he was closer to his new metaphysical normal and didn’t feel like the bag was biting him every time he opened it, he’d been carrying it around. “I’m a subtle conspicuous consumer.”

<<You know those are opposite words, don’t you?>>

“I’m going to have a big expensive laptop dropped on me from the sky. It’s very Rabbit. I promise.” He adjusted the note on the fridge door that told people Natalie Choir would be mad at them if they ate his food, then he headed out.

He stopped on the eighth floor to get a schedule update from Neha. A group of Rabbits, most of whom weren’t technically participating in the Spree, were gathered around Hadiza having every small item they owned beautified.

Alden plowed through the group to talk to the counselor.

“How’d interview Number 2 go yesterday?” she asked.

Alden wrinkled his nose. “I officially made it through to the final interview, so we don’t have to blow up my life plan and start over. It was…okay.”

“That much fun?”

The interviewers had been an alumni trio from the school who were taking the weekend off to help out at their alma mater. The interview had been more personal and way less passive aggressive than the first one, at least.

“I think they felt sorry for me.”

Neha blinked. “In what way?”

“Hard to pinpoint. Maybe it was the B-rank thing? Maybe it was the Rabbit had a traumatic experience and now wants to be a hero thing?”

“Probably the second one,” said Neha. “Or a combo.”

“I mean, I’ll take a pity acceptance into hero school if that’s what I have to do, but it’s not my first choice. I'd rather--”

“Hadiza!”

Neha stood up from her chair, and Alden spun around to see all the Rabbits around Hadiza leaning over her worriedly. She’d slumped to the floor.

<<What happened?>>

<<Hadiza? Are you okay?>>

<<She just fell!>>

<<I’m all right,>> Hadiza said. She was staring blankly at the ceiling. Her voice was monotone. <<I targeted Alden’s bag, but it didn’t work. I guess it was too big.>>

“You wore out your…power,” Alden said.

At the same time, Neha said, “Skill fatigue.”

The intake counselor raised an eyebrow at him.

“I used to drop just like that.”

<<I’ve overused mine before, and it just stopped working!>> one of the Rabbit girls said in an alarmed voice. <<I didn’t fall down.>>

Several of the others were nodding in agreement.

“A few people have a synesthesia issue when they overuse their main skill,” Neha explained. “When they hit the wall magically, they feel like they’re done physically and mentally, too. It’s usually a newbie thing. And it’s more common in Rabbits. She’ll be fine after a nap.”

Oh. It actually makes sense for it to be more common in Rabbits, Alden realized while he watched people try to coax Hadiza onto her feet so that they could take her back to her room. Such a large percentage of their authority was bound into a skill on first affixation that they didn’t have much else keeping them grounded. If you tired out your skill as a brand new Rabbit, then you’d tired out most of yourself.

And if you had the synesthesia thing…

“She’ll really be fine,” Alden said to one of Hadiza’s friends, who was wringing her hands while they waited for the elevator. “I did that once and fell asleep in the floor of a laboratory on Artona III. It’s a little like short-term magical muscle fatigue. Three hours later, I was back to normal.”

“It usually takes longer than that to bounce back,” Neha said. She was holding Hadiza upright with one arm. “But he’s right. She’s not hurt.”

Alden felt guilty. He’d have to apologize to Hadiza tonight and explain why his messenger bag was a harder target than she’d thought.

**********

Alden chose to bike all the way from the dorms to the Teleportation Complex.

He’d been using magic again for about a week, and his trait was back in action when he called on it. But although he knew he needed more practice running with it in an urban environment, and there was enough groundish material around to make it work, he hadn’t liked it at all the few times he’d given it a try so far.

He’d mostly used Azure Rabbit in wide open spaces until now—ones without other moving objects in them. Screwing up and smacking into a wall at the lab was fine. Screwing up and launching himself into oncoming traffic or some nice elderly F-rank who was out for a walk would be awful.

Realistically I don’t think I would do either of those things, he thought as he cruised past the place where Aimi Velra had once kidnapped him while he was feeding the ducks. I’m not a klutz. But I still think I’ll stick with practicing in parks for now.

Anyway, Bobby would be annoyed if he hurt himself. She’d had the gym’s gait analysis person come and take video of him running yesterday, and they were trying to figure out if his form was the reason he’d screwed up his knees on Moon Thegund or if it was just a case of it being too physically demanding for very long distances.

There was also superhuman exercise etiquette to consider on the walkways. The faster person was supposed to avoid the slower one. People got pissed if you were obviously using super speed on the far right of shared jogging paths, but they also got pissed if you weren’t obviously using super speed on the far left.

Alden couldn’t quite figure out where the happy middle running location for non-Brutes with a funky movement power was. At least the bike lanes were delineated with paint almost everywhere. It was hard to mess that up.

And bicycles counted as carrying for his skill as long as he was pedaling. So that was cool. He could also stand on trains and buses and shift his weight from foot to foot. He was still working on how to overcome the limitation. Now that he knew to look for it, he’d managed to sense it over the past few days, but it wasn’t really graspable in the way the functional parts of his skill were. It was more like a light fog permeating the whole thing.

He was either going to have to wait a few years for it to fade like she’d said it would…

No.

Or shred it up somehow with his authority….

Appealing, but I don’t think I actually know how to do that.

Or, he was supposed to do the perception thing.

It’s probably that. It seems like exactly the sort of magic that would respond to a change in mental state.

If the moving-around-with-your-object requirement was designed by ancient wizards to teach new Avowed profound lessons about being the Bearer of All Burdens, perception should be a good way to work around that. Or maybe even to prove that you didn’t need the teaching tool anymore.

Whenever he was awake, Alden was pretty much always in possession of an entrusted object lately. It seemed like the best way to tackle the problem. Right now it was one of the enamel bunny pins they’d given all the Rabbits in their welcome bags. He’d gotten someone to pass it to him, and it was currently tucked in his jeans pocket.

I forgot I was carrying it again, he berated himself as he jumped off the bike and left it in one of the racks outside the Teleportation Complex’s main entrance.

The pin was so little. And easy to hold. And his power had chilled out enough that he wasn’t thinking about it all the time like he had been.

The pin stayed preserved as long as he followed the “rules” of the skill, but forgetting about it was a problem when he was supposed to be trying to perceive it as a minor burden.

Keep my skill wrapped around my item. Keep it preserved. Feel the item with my authority.

It was his new mantra.

And he thought maybe that the last sentence was going to be a very important one for him. Eventually.

It was a long-term goal.

The skill came with those interesting illusory tactile features that made it possible for Alden to feel the texture, shape, and weight of the things he held.

It had been useful. Holding onto something you couldn’t properly feel would be hard. But Alden now had an additional sense to work with, and he was betting there would be benefits if he could somehow get the skill’s tactile component to acknowledge that. If he could get it to register him “touching” the things he carried with his authority, maybe new doors would open.

The only physical object he’d ever managed to touch and feel like that was his auriad. Right now, he could trace the loops of it around his wrist.

If it’s possible with that, it should be possible for my preserved burdens, too.

Alden hoped it wasn’t just wishful thinking on his part.

The skill was made for Avowed, not wizards. But surely the designers would have made it flexible enough to work with a sense that they themselves had possessed?

And my authority is what’s being the most fundamentally burdened. The bound authority of the skill is the only part of me actuallytouching the item. If anything it should work better if I can feel it that way, too. It’s logical.

He’d begun trying to train himself to do it in a couple of different ways. And one of his favorite training toys was located here at the Teleportation Center.

