The scream lasted a few seconds, and then it faded. The sphere was still invisible. A notification popped up telling Alden the ball would remain invisible for three hundred and seven more seconds, and he could make it scream again if he wanted.

He dropped his hand, clenching and unclenching his fingers to try to rid himself of the feeling of having them puppeteered by the spell impression.

“So that’s how it works,” he said. “I’m glad the apartments are well sound proofed, or they would have heard that across the entire floor.”

“It’s so cool!” Jeremy said. “The ball’s still over there, right? Can I pick it up?”

“I don’t think that’ll mess up the spell. There’s no warning against it or anything.”

Jeremy hurried over to pick up the sphere, and they spent the next three minutes passing it back and forth, being impressed with the fact that there really was a completely invisible object in their hands.

“Wait!” said Alden, a flash of inspiration coming to him. “I wasn’t thinking. Let me…”

He targeted Jeremy, and held out his hand. His friend passed him the sphere, and he wrapped his skill around it.

The preservation activated. The orb stayed invisible.

Alden held it between his fingers curiously. “Now. If it just wasn’t a ball the size of an egg, I would have an invisible shield.”

“Can I…?” Jeremy mimed thumping the ball, and Alden nodded.

Stepping from foot to foot still, he held his palm flat with the ball resting on it, and Jeremy flicked his finger over it.

“A little too high. You missed.”

Jeremy flicked lower, and Alden felt the impact.

“Why doesn’t it fly off your hand?” Jeremy thumped it again. “You don’t even have your fingers around it.”

“Because you’re not really touching it. You’re touching a layer of preservation magic. The dumb thing is that I’m not touching it with my hand either, but it has physical weight to it. The glass even feels a little bit cool. And if I don’t grip it, it still does this—”

He flipped his palm over and there were a series of thumps and the sound of an invisible ball rolling across the floor.

“I’m working on fixing that,” Alden said.

“Fixing it?” Jeremy looked surprised. “Is it broken?”

“No. It seems to be a core feature. Not a design flaw. But I really hope it can do just a little more on this front than it’s shown me so far.”

“Don’t be so hard on Let Me Take Your Luggage. I think it’s bomb for a B-rank skill. And you’ve already started leveling it.”

It is good, Alden thought. Very, very good. And also expensive in ways I don’t want to explain.

“I hope Celena North agrees with you,” he said. “I’ve got power testing this coming Saturday.”
