He headed into the building and toward the main atrium. He beelined for the customer service desk, and he beamed at the jerkface who’d been rude to him for being a non-resident when he came for Hannah’s funeral.

“No,” said the man as soon as he spotted Alden. “You can’t—”

“I’d like a NesiCard, please,” Alden said.

“You’re an Avowed. You have the System. You don’t need the debit card for children and visitors.”

“But I want one. And there’s no rule against it. You looked it up last time.”

“Why?!”

“Why don’t you want to give me one? It’s not like it’s hard.”

Alden stuck out his thumb toward the man’s fingerprint scanner insistently.

“What did you do with the last three I gave you?!”

“I broke them.”

“You broke—”

“It was an accident. I’m very clumsy.”

“With debit cards. That you do not need.”

Alden nodded.

“Why don’t you just hand him one?” the woman beside him whispered. “We have a whole stack.”

“They’re not for him. What does an Avowed need a card for?!”

“I like them.”

Despite his feelings about this person, Alden had not had any intention of tormenting him when he came here a few days ago. He’d just wanted a NesiCard to experiment with. And this was the place he’d always gotten them before during trips to Anesidora.

But he’d found the card a lot more useful than anticipated. He really did want it. And the island’s self-appointed gatekeeper here really didn’t want him to have it. So this was now a thing they did.

He stretched his thumb toward the scanner. “I want ten argold on the card.”

It was the minimum amount. He’d spend it right away here at one of the shops or restaurants and then…he’d probably break the card again.

This guy should be glad I don’t just sit here at the TC all day burning through his stack of cards.

The man gritted his teeth and handed the card over.

“Thank you. I’ll see you in a couple of days.”

“You’d better not be seri—”

“May the warmth of the Mother comfort you until we meet again,” Alden said in Artonan.

He strolled over to a breakfast spot with a long line and read the menu, trying to make an order add up close to the right amount.

He dropped the preservation on the bunny pin in his pocket and focused his attention on the cashier as he approached. He targeted her. The action was becoming so natural it was almost like pointing with a finger.

“Can I get the steak and egg sandwich with extra bacon and cheese? And scallion pancakes. And a large mocha latte.”

He handed her his card. She tapped it against a panel beside her computer screen and then held it out to him.

It now looked different than it had when he passed it over.

NesiCards were made of red plastic, with a white metallic oval about twice the size of a credit card chip in the center. The oval usually looked plain. Now that Alden’s new target was entrusting him with the object, it looked like it had a simple network of light running through it.

Alden activated his skill as he took the card back. He preserved the whole thing, just like it was any other object. And after he’d collected his order and found an out-of-the-way pillar to stand beside, he started the experimenting.

He let the preservation drop. As long as he didn’t change targets or lose contact with the card, it was still entrusted to him, and that meant he could still see the gold light on the metal oval. It was a tiny enchantment that let the card interact with some of the magic-run gizmos on Anesidora.

Alden slowly and deliberately touched a finger to the the center of the card. He made a conscious effort to focus not on the metal disc but on the magic attached to it. The network of light felt like a spark against his fingertip.

He picked it up.

His newly enhanced skill held it. It stuck to his finger, buzzing against his skin.

Burden of Enchantment.

Preserving the tiny enchantment on its own taxed his skill more than preserving the entire card. Alden’s theory was that this was because the enchantment and the card belonged together on some level. Maybe his skill was somehow preserving that belonging, too, even though they’d been separated. Or maybe it was actively fighting the belonging in order to separate the enchantment from its home.

Two opposite possibilities that deserved more exploration. But either way, there was some factor that made pure enchantments more difficult to hold than enchanted objects.

Alden pressed his finger against the disc again and dropped preservation.

The enchantment snapped back into its position. The network of light looked the same as it had before he’d removed it.

That was the easy way. Now for the experimental way.

Alden focused on the card. He let his mind drift back to the vault, to exchanging pats with Kibby. Using the lightest possible touch he could with his free authority, he tried to scoop up the enchantment.

He’d broken the first two NesiCards this way. But the last one had produced a result…not success but a result.

The enchantment wasn’t like a physical object. When his skill was helping him see it separately like this, Alden could also feel it with his authority.

The defogging package she recommended is awesome stuff.

He managed his scoop-up. His skill activated.

And instantly deactivated.

It felt unsettling.

By going for the enchantment using his free authority like a finger, Alden had gotten the skill to do its preservation thing. But Alden’s free authority couldn’t interact with something that his bound authority was preserving. It was like at the exact moment he grasped the enchantment with one, the other encased it and made it untouchable.

But since it was untouchable he wasn’t holding it anymore.

So the whole thing fell apart.

But this proves that the skill does account for the possibility of grabbing burdens…enchantments at least…with an authority pick-up. Right?

Alden tried again with the same results.

And then a dozen more times.

It made sense to him that this didn’t work. He was just trying to use this method to find his way to one that would.

The Bearer of All Burdens prevented the things it preserved from being impacted by outside forces. Including Alden. He couldn’t poke a hole in a sheet of paper he was preserving with his finger. He couldn’t melt an ice cube he was preserving with his body heat. He wasn’t ever really touching anything he preserved. Which meant the skill was holding it with something like a perfectly object-shaped magic bubble.

But the bubble was currently set up to be tied to his bodily senses. Possibly because if it didn’t work that way, Avowed would end up with synesthesia problems way more complex than the one that had just taken out Hadiza.

Alden didn’t think he would have that problem now. He just needed to find some little, special setting inside the skill that would tie the bubble to his hard-earned authority sense instead. Specifically to his sense of his own skill-bound authority rather than his free.

And then he’d be able to grab whatever he’d been entrusted with. Without using his body parts.

He hoped.

Even if it wasn’t straight-up telekinesis, even if symbolic Burden Bearer stuff prevented it from working on physical objects and it only worked on enchantments, spells, and similar nebulous things it would be amazing. And if it did work on physical objects…

He didn’t want to get ahead of himself.

But I’m going to be so eternally angry if the option to do it doesn’t exist in some form. I don’t think I’ll ever forgive the Artonans if even their ancient Avowed-will-save-us-all faction didn’t account for the possibility that some Avowed might one day want to use actual authority control with this skill in addition to carrying things with our hands.

He kept trying to find the hoped-for feature over the next few minutes, completely losing himself in the activity. It wasn’t nearly as enjoyable as playing with the auriad. Or authority control lessons with Kibby. But it was still very much a magical process, so he could get invested pretty easily.

Maybe I can try—?

He heard footsteps approaching, and he looked up just in time to realize who it was before he was grabbed in a crushing hug.

“Jeremy!”

His friend was squeezing the life out of him. A cat carrier was banging into Alden’s spine.

“I mean I knew you were alive!” Jeremy shouted. “I’ve been talking to you every day. But it’s so good to see you in person!”

Alden hugged him back. Same, he thought. A hundred percent the same.

“It’s great to see you, too. I bought you breakfast if you want it.”

Jeremy stepped back and glanced at the sandwich bag on the table Alden had been standing beside. “You promised me food from a magic cook.”

“I have magic food for our lunch. Natalie made it special for us yesterday even though she was prepping for the Spree. And there’s plenty back in my apartment if the other Rabbits haven’t robbed me. What do you want to do today?”

“I want to see all the best stuff.”

“Done.”

“The gym full of super people?”

“We can go there. Well, to my building anyway. The soft-super gym. It’s still great.”

Jeremy looked him up and down with narrowed eyes. “You don’t look crazy muscular.”

Alden laughed. “You video called me yesterday. Did you expect me to morph overnight?”

“I mostly see your face and shoulders on calls. And you said you were superhuman healthy.”

“Yeah. Healthy. Not a professional bodybuilder. I think Rrorro was aiming for everyday function, not magically packing on pounds of muscle for me.” He paused. “My abs look nice, though. I might have stared at them for way too long on my first day back home. And I don’t think allergies or zits exist for me anymore. And I can see freakishly well.”

“Awesome,” Jeremy breathed.

“I can’t lie,” Alden admitted. “Those things are all awesome.”

********

They spent the whole morning in Apex.

Alden never did that. He used his gym, did whatever business he needed to on the Celena North campus, and headed back down to F-city.

It wasn’t that he disliked the portion of Anesidora that was the main hangout for the high ranks, but he wasn’t used to it yet. He was just learning his way around F, and Apex was more complicated. Approaching certain buildings and neighborhoods set off lists of warnings through your interface.

It wasn’t as if they all said “GO AWAY.” It was usually more like, “DO WHAT YOU WANT, BUT DON’T BLAME US IF YOU DIE.”

Still, that sort of thing made the place feel harder to navigate.

“You should get a motorcycle,” Jeremy said, dangling his I’m a Human Minor card and lanyard in front of the nose of the fat, lazy, purring furball that he swore was Victor.

If not for some of the familiar scars and the bite taken out of one ear, Alden would not have believed him.

They were sitting together on the short grass in a meditation garden—currently devoid of meditators—behind the North of North gym. Because Kibby had asked to see the evil cat, Alden was attempting to film Victor with the brand new tablet that a drone had delivered a couple of hours ago.

“A motorcycle?” he asked while he fiddled around with the logograms that ran the magic camera. Toddlers at the LeafSong party had been using them to take pictures of Avowed in their costumes. Alden would succeed. “You’re as bad as the other Rabbits. They all seriously want me to drive back to the dorms tonight in a brand new car.”

“Motorcycles are cooler. And they seem to be more popular here anyway.”

“Public transport is king. And then mopeds and motorcycles. And then cars. There’s a huge tax on automobile imports. I think they want to discourage people from cluttering up the streets with them. Oh, some people travel around in small boats too.”

“You’re officially an old man now. You think about taxes.”

“I suspect one of the guys in the apartment next to mine is secretly a middle aged accountant in a seventeen-year-old’s body. He brings stuff like this up all the time.” Argold income from the Triplanets was un-taxable, so Alden didn’t really have much to worry about.

Jeremy twirled the lanyard.

Victor yawned and batted at it. Cutely.

Alden narrowed his eyes as he watched through the tablet screen. “Are you sure you’re not feeding him drugged cat food or something? Kibby’s going to think I don’t know what the word ‘evil’ means and give me a language lesson.”

“More proof you’re an old man. You have a daughter that you’re insanely proud of. Your new motorcycle is going to have a sticker on it bragging that she’s an alien honors student.”

“Kid sister,” said Alden. “Did I make you watch too many of her videos?”

Jeremy shook his head. “No, man. It sounds like she’s the best. And I wanted to see who you’d survived your own personal demon apocalypse with.”

Alden finally got the settings just right and let go of the tablet. It perched on its edge in the grass unsupported.

“You know,” he said, trying to keep his tone light, “you can ask me questions about it. If you want to. You haven’t pried, and I know you have to be curious. I don’t mind.”

“Uh…” Jeremy glanced off to the side. “It’s not like I don’t care. Or I’m not interested. But I actually thought a lot about this, and if you want to bring something up on your own…you know, you should do that. And otherwise I’m just gonna be glad you’re here. And not bother you about whatever happened.”

Alden blinked at him. “Total strangers ask me about stuff I’d rather not discuss all the time. You’re my friend.”

“Right,” said Jeremy. “That’s my point.”

Oh. Damn.

