​​In the Dark Blue Zone, tens of thousands of Demon-shaped gravity waves surround the battlefield.

Maria and I are deep below sea level, but there is no liquid Celestial Energy in sight.

For at least a 200 billion kilometer diameter crater into the sea, the massive pressure from the two of us and the two Sentinels is blasting away most of the Celestial energy in the zone. In fact, all of the collisions and explosions have been forcing us to absorb more and more divine threads and pure Celestial energy into our energy forms.

Head to toe, we may only be standing at about 500 thousand kilometers in our current forms, but our weight in reality is far superior to the Hydra and Tortoise we're battling.

Our last attack of 16 fireballs and 5 ice spears collide with our enemies, and they are completely obliterated once again.

The lag time between when they disappear from existence and their strange soul bonds triggering their regeneration is more than enough for the stray gravity waves to completely surround us.

In a massive circle surrounding this crater, I witness two kinds of demons emerge into my visual range.

The front line consists entirely of enormous soldiers.

I don't sense any energy forms or ranked-up buffs activated; yet they all stand from head to toe easily 10,000 kilometers in height. The moment all of them stop moving, darkness pulses out from beneath their armor, and the full power of their True Blue Cores radiates into the atmosphere.

Dark Black Demonic Essence grows their bodies and Soul Armor to over double our size. Tens of thousands of Demons, each over 1 million kilometers large, point various soul weapons our way. Many have swords, some have axes, clubs, short blades, or unique long-range variations of weapons.

Their immense size and their quantity is not the most terrifying or confusing part.

It is the vibrations that ripple off them. Every single Demon's start of their transformation gave off High Noble waves. Extremely strong ones at that, as though they have hit the peak of their strength in this zone. Every single one of them feels so confident and consolidated, as though they have held this strength for millions of years. I feel as though any of them could walk into the Rank of a Royal if they just tried...

However, the moments after their transformations give me insight on why they don't.

Royal Vibrations ripple out from every one of them, and it seems to infect and take over their wills the instant they reach their full potential. It resonates perfectly with the dark black armor they wear, and every Demonic Soldier surrounding me gives off the same Royal Vibration that the Sentinel's owner vibrates with. It is some kind of soul bound merging technique; they have all turned themselves into living weapons, sentinels that can go in and out of a conscious state for their wielder to use them in battle.

As this reality creeps into my mind, the second set of Demons that stay back behind these soldiers on blocky transportation vehicles all start activating ether commands. They're much smaller Demons, less than 5,000 kilometers tall, and their armor is not meant for combat. Many do not even have soul weapons equipped.

Bright white lights and spinning arrays burst out from all of them and shoot upward into the sky from each of them. A strong white beam of pure Celestial Energy follows each of the flare-like signals bursting into the air above this crater. In seconds, a massive birdcage of ether commands forms. All of these Demons' commands connect to each other at the center in the sky, and beams of white light shoot straight down into the sea below their feet, connecting to the bottom of the zone.

We've been trapped inside.

Tens of thousands of massive Royal Grade Sentinel Demons move into formations and close in, approaching us.

At the same time, 32 heads of a Hydra reform before my eyes to charge up just as many rust-colored Celestial Energy Beams. A Tortoise with bronze glowing eyes opens its beak to attack us back too with greater fury.

Maria and I charge up far more attacks and prepare for an all-out war. I push my current form to the absolute max and summon over 100 fireballs, while Maria's Angelic form is surrounded by 21 extremely powerful spears of ice. We point them both forward at the Monsters, while creating 6 defensive arrays all around us to block any attacks that come from the rear.

At the moment we release these attacks forward, the top of the birdcage dome ripples with a bright white light. Two orbs of energy come crashing down from the sky and collide with the Hydra and Tortoise.

There is no time to analyze them, our full-powered attacks just collide with them at the same time this white light ripples through them.

The crater in the sea explodes and expands even further, pressing outward to the edges of this cage we've been trapped in. A perfect 350 billion kilometer-wide circle has been carved into the sea.

The eruption of over 100 balls of fire fills the air in a violent burst of flames.

I watch Demonic soldiers nearby get incinerated in the blast. Thousands of them, actually. Their armor is broken and their bodies are burned through before they can even get their attacks off.

Some are faster, and beams of white, blue, and black-purple demonic energy collide with our defensive arrays. They're blocked and absorbed just like the Sentinels' attacks before. The Demonic Energy excess is channeled into me, and Maria and I split the Celestial Energy absorbed.

It looks like these Demons are still no match, like they have trapped themselves into certain death...

However, the sound of Hydra's roars and a Tortoise's screech fills the air even though our attacks made direct hits.

Once the residue of the explosive collision fades, these beasts are completely unharmed... Not a single scale or piece of shell on either of them is scratched. Instead, a strange new vibration hits my senses.

There is a glossy white light flowing through their entire beings, and it's forcing their Celestial Energy to rise to the top of their bodies.

The stone-like resting states they were in when we first spotted them are going away. Instead, their entire bodies are filling with pure rust-colored and shiny bronze Celestial Energy. Their eyes fill with life, and for the first time since this battle started, I feel as though I'm looking into the eyes of a real Hydra and Ancient Tortoise.

Their weight in reality multiplies thousands of times over, and space bends deeper around them.

My blade hums and gains its hunger back, tugging at my consciousness, trying to tell me something. It feels like it's resonating with something deep inside these creatures... They seem very similar to my sword... like they hold a key legacy of their races deep within them.

My eyes widen as I piece this together, but the fact that they blocked our attacks isn't what surprises me most. It is the fact that the thousands of Demons that were up close, incinerated by the blast, all start to materialize back into reality.

The invisible, and unsensible, soul tie pulls at my mind again thousands of times near where all these Demons died, and they miraculously come back to life, reforming into their perfect battle stances again as though I never killed them.

There is a shift in air pressure, and my instincts scream at me to stay on guard. I grab my sword out of its orbit and watch Maria do the exact same thing beside me.

We both pull 5% of stats from over 7 billion worlds in an instant, and this paranoid reaction pays off.

The moment we point our blades forward, a ripple in space between the two sentinels begins to waver. Out of thin air, another Demon reforms into existence, but it isn't one that we killed in the blast.

Instead... I feel the aura of a True Royal fill the air.

It holds no soul weapon and activates no greater form. This Royal just floats in the air, holding its two sentinels back with raised hands and stares forward at us with sharp and unwavering white eyes.

"I am Samir Vanguard. The Dark Blue Zone's Royal Family Head. Lesser Race Intruders, for making it this far, I admire you. For that, I will grant you the ability to state your last words before I eliminate you here and now."

The pressure flowing off his body becomes so intense that even with the emergency stats borrowed, I feel waves of natural intimidation starting to suppress my consciousness. I grip my sword harder and take in the scene to try and identify a weakness before replying.

–

At this exact moment in time, a dragon in the energy-efficient form of a red-haired human stares down through a small hole in the zone floor beneath his feet.

There are tall white trees that create a dense forest on every side of him, so deep in this strange land that even after spending 612,780 years here while the Realm Wave passed, not a single soul managed to sense his presence.

This is a special spot only him and a few Light Elves from the past ever found in this Zone long ago.

The small hole in space looks down into the Lower Realm, all the way through every zone below.

If he were to take a step forward, he would fall right through into deep space. However, it would be a one-way trip. There are extremely advanced High-Quality Ether Commands keeping this rift stable and permanent.

As the dense Purple True Core spins in Ember's chest, a white wisp of energy watches him from the other side of the rift.

Ren speaks up, in a completely natural state without any need for conserving their mortal mind any longer.

"So what happened? Did they make it out?"

Ember slowly nods. "Yes, they made it out fine. I'd have to start all over if they didn't... The only problem is the Imperials found out they stole the reset key. There's a good chance they're going to destroy everything below us to get it back."

The dragon's crimson eyes stare down, watching purple and white lights flash all over the Lower Realm's expansive galactic plane. The Imperials are releasing their sleeping army left behind from one of the first generations of Demons.
