Sarya shrugged nonchalantly. “The greatest loss will be opportunity.” She smiled sardonically over at the Heirs. “But I’ll pay standard blood price for your losses.”

Kaelis had been letting the discussion play out but at Sarya's comment he raised a hand to stifle any other responses. “Total elimination, then? Would they be receptive to a war to the last man?”

“If Sussu’s calling in the elders, they will be,” Garna said. “The Aleph grid may want to humiliate you, but Sussu wants to kill these five. She still knows where all the backdoors are in the Aleph grid, and to kill them she will use them."

Henrish scowled. “Like you with us. The truth is revealed. There isn’t just one game of Questors, but two. Now we are the pieces being played on the grander board. I would say I appreciate it, but that would be lying.”

“There’s more than two games of Questors,” Sarya replied with a snort. “This isn’t just another war like those you've fought before, a simple game of politics and status. This fight is a resurrection of the deepest and oldest conflict of Davrar. You will see more elders and more magics than any of you have seen before. It’s revisiting the very pillars of Davrar, and in a thousand years, they will speak of it as we speak of the Ending of Deicide. Even if we do lose, this will be a story you tell for as long as Davrar exists.”

The room was very quiet for a moment in the wake of Sarya’s words.

“No restrictions on magic, then?” Kaelis asked.

Permanent Talent 1: Magical Destruction 4

Permanent Talent 2: Immortal Body 7

Permanent Talent 3: Skystride 4

Class: End of Magic level 1281

Bottomless Stamina : 129100/129100

Indomitable

The Undeniable Strike of the Antimage

Stamina Burn

Momentum Mastery

Stoneflesh

Arcane Nullification

Galefoot

Close Quarters Mastery

Boundless Aura

Denial of Mysticism

The Ending of Magic

Aura Projection

Selective Dispel

The Living World

Class: Death of Legends level 891

Limitless Focus: 9010/9010

Legendary Blows

Out of Sight

Magical Mimicry

Antimemetic

The Hidden Strike

Nondetection

Mana Control

Lethality Prediction

Wizardly Immunity

Communication Countermeasures

Sorcerous Sabotage

Legendkiller

Bane of Myth

To the Ends of Davrar

Utility skills:

Tranquility 8

Inspiration 10

Impulse 6

The Sense of Magic 4

Forewarning 7

The Truth of Magic 4

Evasion 3

Wizard’s Palace 3

Veracity 4

Whiplash 3

Visibility Control 7

High-tier Disguise 10

High-tier Battle Cry 5

Aura Mastery 4
