Immediately, he detected that these had the same concept as the orbs before, which meant that while individually these beams would do little damage, should he get struck by too many at the same time, he would be in trouble.

With so many attacks coming at once and little time to react, Jake activated Pride of the Malefic Viper as he took dominion of his immediate area. Hundreds of arcane orbs appeared in an instant, exploding immediately and bathing the entire area in destructive arcane mana.

Jake flew out of the explosion a moment later, instantly attracting all the beams as they shot for him. He tried to dodge them and managed to avoid several hundred, but there were simply too many, and eventually he was struck… only for his body to disperse into black curse energy.

Yrelstromoz’s confusion was clear as she was unable to comprehend what had happened. Having lost their target, all the beams continued shooting into the sky before rapidly dispersing before the dragon had time to locate the real Jake. She released a brief flash of invisible light, but it was already too late.

Within the lingering destructive mana from the explosions earlier, an Arcane Powershot erupted from the hidden Jake, shocking Yrelstromoz. Not only because she’d failed to detect that he had been hiding in it and charging an attack, but by the power of the blow, as Jake’s brief period of hiding had allowed Stealth Attack to activate yet again.

Jake watched as Yrelstromoz was blasted back with yet another large wound on her body. Having to use Eternal Shadow – a skill with a great surprise factor – already hurt a little, but as Yrelstromoz healed herself, Jake felt it.

He couldn’t suppress a smile as he saw Yrelstromoz’s eyes open wide, her own healing seemingly not working the way she wanted it to. Through Sense of the Malefic Viper, Jake reveled in the sensation he got from the True Dragon. Within her body, all the mana inhabiting this creature of magic had long been infected, and now enough toxins had finally accumulated. In other words…

Dragonsbane Poison had officially kicked into effect.
