After a few hours of healing I open my eyes, but my body is still sore.

Meimei is awake, and looks like she has been for a while.

The small fox is running around the array in circles, occasionally trying to provoke Little Red.

He cultivates with his eyes closed, and doesn't give her any attention.

I eat another heavenly-grade healing elixir to numb the sharp pains in my spirit roots, and slip out of my hidden realm with the mischievous spirit beast..

Back at the sect, I would usually relax in a hot bath after training to loosen up my body and allow my qi flow to naturally recover.

The second-best thing is right in front of me, a massive lake, with the peaceful noonday sun overhead.

I take off my robe, and wade into the water.

Meimei excitedly follows, paddling her little legs like a dog, splashing me from behind.

I swim all the way out to the lake’s center, float on my back, and relax as the medicinal energy in my body is processed again.

Plenty of fish swim beneath me, and my spiritual senses easily track them all like a calming background task to keep my mind off the soreness.

There is a much higher number of qi-dense fish deeper in this lake's center. I send my spiritual senses down into the water, to even scan the soft mud at the bottom of the lake.

Nothing stands out.

There are a few long eels and large carp swimming in the deepest areas with enough qi saturated in their flesh to make them far stronger than average, this is quite normal to see around spirit veins. It is the small traces of blue water qi particles in their bodies that stumps me.

I come to the soft conclusion that the spirit vein closest to this lake must have been far stronger in the past, or mutated in some way, leaving its residual energy behind. There was no mention of it in the plot’s history files, but without any more clues there’s no use pondering any further.

A smile forms on my face as Meimei starts getting tired swimming on her own, and clings to my arm.

I let her climb up onto my chest to dry off in the sun, and at the same time a small speck of green comes flying toward me in the sky.

My emerald swallow has finally made it back from the sect after a full day has passed.

It flutters down to land right beside the resting fox, and I look inside the storage function to find two communication talismans, but nothing else.

This isn’t what I expected.

I remember asking him two things, to report on the fields and to sate my curiosity of whether he comes from the same Shen Clan I bought inferior spirit rice wine from in the city.

“Senior Li! Yes! That does sound like my old Shen family, but we’ve been out of touch since I joined the sect. I would have responded faster if I could, there has just been far too much chaos going on lately. First, our fields were sabotaged by a steward from a neighboring peak… They managed to burn over thirty acres before your spirit crane exhausted its stored energy to stop the fires from spreading. Thankfully, I followed your previous orders and harvested the spirit rice early. There was a 148 thousand kilogram harvest, that’s over our 122 thousand quota. Not to mention over 4 thousand kilograms of low-quality spirit rice was harvested near the steward quarters. It was all recorded! We even have images of the culprit’s face, but he managed to run away. The law enforcement hall visited once the smoke clouds affected nearby minor plots, and they confiscated all of our recording crystals to make a final ruling internally. Usually no matter the fault, a destruction of property this large would result in punishments to everyone, but for some reason the Vice Peak Master got involved… I’ve never witnessed anything like it. He halted the investigation, and provided a personal communication talisman to give to you when you returned, but I placed it in your artifact to get it to you faster.”

The message cuts off, and I pull out the second talisman.

It is extremely high quality, easily a tier 1 perfect-grade item. Some of the hard brown wood it’s made of gives off such a dense qi resonance, I feel this might be close to pseudo tier 2.

I imprint it, and instantly feel that no messages are stored inside. Instead, a long-range signal pulses outward.

The device trembles, and a familiar deep voice comes through instantly.

“This is Kang Yelang, Vice Master of the Beast Mastery Peak. I’m happy you’ve returned to the sect and got my message so soon, Li Hao.”

There is a very minor high-pitched buzz, as extremely dense qi travels outward to keep this line open.

My heart beats slightly faster as I realize I’m not listening to a message in the past.

The 1st-level foundation establishment vice peak master that greeted me into the outer sect upon Wang Ming’s recommendation is talking directly to me.

My eyes widen, and I think about my steward’s remarks.

Considering all of the whispers about me being allied with the Wang and Mu family in Lingshi City already, and the fact that Mu Shouxin reported the outcome of this feud to the sect, this must be a reaction to new information.

This Vice Peak Master curried favor with the Wang Family already to even allow me into the outer sect. Even then, it was out of courtesy, giving me one of the worst paid positions, furthest away from the main peak.

These elders do not make moves out of kindness, they do so for benefits.

For some reason, he must see me as personally valuable to be acting like this now.

I reply with caution. “Senior Kang, I have not returned to the sect just yet. I’m near Lingshi City, recovering after the wedding… My steward had this talisman expedited to me.”

There’s silence for a few seconds before a steady voice returns.

“Is that right? Well… please, do take your time recovering, as long as you need. Do know that all of our outer sect disciples are valuable members of the Beast Mastery Peak. When you return, please stop by my major peak. I have a reward I’d like to present to you for adding prestige to our sect in this wedding conflict.”

Both of my eyebrows raise, as this elder is being almost as cordial as the Wang and Mu Patriarchs were when they witnessed me use a Tier 3 artifact.

“Understood. I will take my time to heal. Thank you, Vice Peak Master.” I reply, and stow the talisman away.

I continue floating on my back, staring up at the blue sky with a skeptical expression on my face.

“What does the sect know about me now that they didn’t before…?” I murmur, scratching Meimei's head while she drifts off to sleep.

While relaxing in the lake, I throw a few vials of mid-quality qi gathering pills along with a handful of mid-grade water stones into my emerald swallow. Then, record another message to send back to Shen Dehai.

“Thank you for taking care of the fields promptly while I was away. Divide these pills amongst you, they’re slightly more pure than the low quality ones I gave you before. Do make sure my spirit crane gets these water stones to recover too. I will be in Lingshi City for a while longer, but I will return to the sect to collect the spirit rice before our quota is due in 3 weeks.”

The swallow flies away, and I begin sorting even more rings in my storage space.

One is a low-grade ring with a communication talisman placed inside for Wang Ruze.

“Once the store is open, make sure to limit the supply of the specialty wine I provided. Make it a special commodity, sell it for 99 spirit stones a bottle even though we both know it’s worth far more. Only allow customers to buy a single bottle per day per clan, no exceptions. Once it is sold out, we will wait to restock until the time is right, do not give any definitive timelines.”

Next, I take out a high-grade ring, and place my fully charged azure lightning attack talisman inside.

I slip into my hidden realm, and purchase an enlightenment talisman to place inside this ring too.

My next recorded message is for Meng Ruo.

“I know your physique does not allow you to craft tier 2 talismans yet, but with this small white and gold piece of jade, it may be possible for you to enchant one… Just prepare diligently before you imprint it with your qi, and try to enchant the offensive talisman I’ve provided. There will be no consequences if you fail, but if you succeed, I believe you will understand the potential future opportunities I’m offering.”

–

When Lan Xin finally returns from setting up concealment arrays around this massive 35-plot spirit vein farm, the sun is already setting.

I’ve finished my relaxing swim in the lake, and stored Meimei away in my hidden realm.

She brings almost two hundred thousand spirit stones, and waits for me to give her more orders obediently at the edge of the lake.

“Very good. Starting now, we’ll return to our old routine. You bring me spirit stones weekly from the farm, and I will return the favor with firestones. There are many more veins than before, so the collected output should be around 577,150 per week. Just bring me 500,000 flat. With the rest, I want you to purchase as many soul materials and enchanted artifacts as you can. Like that rock bee honey, it can be of any quality, even inferior grade. Just use the extra seventy thousand or so to buy as much as you can…”

She nods, “I will… but why not just ask the Wang or Mu Family? They could get you far more than I can.”

I show a warm smile, “I wouldn’t ask you if I didn't think you had your own edge. There are rumors going around now that you killed 5 foundation establishment cultivators all alone, and as a 10th level qi refiner. Your reputation has the potential of becoming far more than just a high-ranking beauty of the sect. Ask around while the shock of this wedding is still fresh in everyone’s minds, this is your opportunity to gain more influence and connections. It’s time you branch out a bit more.”

I toss her the two prepared storage rings, “While you’re at it, give this low-quality one to Wang Ruze. Then exchange this high-quality one with Meng Ruo for a package she owes me.”

Lan Xin catches both, and nods quickly. “I will get it done.”

She turns around to look out at the lake, and prepares to hop back on her flying vessel, but I stop her.

“One last thing before you go…”

I consider slipping away to my hidden realm to buy her an enlightenment talisman too.

Her soul is far more peaceful now, and the cracks in her mid grade physique are not spreading any more. Using one would probably help her heal faster, or become a more proficient fighter.

However, it is also clear that she’s still in a semi-dazed state.

This timid obedience toward me, and almost glossy eyed stare is a product of her worldview shattering. She is still doubting her own instincts, and mentally clinging onto my words for a sense of direction.

It would not be a safe bet to give her a talisman that would force her into such deep raw focus right now, when she has no clear purpose.

I still want to give her something to make her feel special, and valued higher above the other cultivators I’ve given her the task of managing.

The upgraded fire control booklet comes to mind, but I’m still unsure how rare this knowledge really is, or how beneficial it would even be to a cultivator like herself that relies on her innate physique’s unique properties to grow stronger.

My spiritual senses pour deeper into her body and soul while I sift through all of the new loot in my storage to find something more fitting.

Her cheeks turn a soft shade of pink after I don’t look away for a few seconds, “What is it? Is there anything else you need?”

A pair of serpent's eyes come to the surface of her skin. They look at me with an underlying string of fear, still traumatized from the events that took place in my hidden realm. However, this is overshadowed by a new tired and weak expression.

The serpent's innate physique actually looks even weaker than Lan Xin's, like it's been degraded since the last time I saw it. It's been hard at work to make sure its soul bound human’s condition doesn’t worsen.

I consider giving them a few drops of rock bee honey, as maybe it would help, but I doubt it's strong enough.

The tired semi-intelligent snake eyes waver, and a light ringing sound echoes in my inner ear, almost like it's replying directly to my thoughts.

[Ding!][A more valuable secret within the target has been located. Old data overwritten.]

[After forcefully awakening the mid stage of its spirit grade physique, this serpent has insufficient energy to heal on its own. The bloodline inheritance granted is too strong for its current body. A low grade tier 2 firestone will stabilize her long enough to naturally heal both its physique and its soul bound vessel.]

The serpent starts to drift back into Lan Xin’s soul, but I raise a hand to stop it.

One of the two element stones I found in Jiang Duo’s ring comes falling out of my storage.

When it touches the air, I don’t even try to catch it. In fact I take a few steps back.

The hot pressure is extremely uncomfortable, like a weak foundation establishment cultivator is standing right in front of me without restraining their aura at all.

“This is a gift for you. As a thank you for securing the new plots, and accepting your role as my right hand. It is to help heal your physique.”

Lan Xin’s eyes widen at my words, and the sight of a tier 2 firestone hitting the ground in front of her.

Before she can move, her yellow snake slithers down her arm. It is in a trance-like state as its instincts greedily push it to devour the stone.

It’s eyes are completely white, like it has passed out from exhaustion, and the surprise from seeing this stone pushed it over the edge.

I take a few more steps back as the hot red rock is swallowed, and a small shockwave of red and invisible elemental fire qi radiates off the bright yellow serpent.

The spirit beast swims back into her soul bound human’s chest and disappears.

Lan Xin’s eyes grow hot with flames, and her skin flickers too, but she controls the reaction from growing outward any stronger.

After a few long seconds, and many deep breaths, the flames seep back into her body. She shows her gratitude with a light bow.

“Thank you. I will not let you down.”