Cave Widows were the same Tier as Greater Venomous Cave Spiders, and they were also later evolutions of basic Cave Spiders, but their Evolution Path was different. Rather than growing large, and focusing on physical strength to supplement their venom, they went the opposite route, getting smaller and enhancing their venom while focusing on stealth. Their stealth was simple, and anyone with good observation skills would notice them, but they had other tricks beyond just hiding that made them somewhat difficult to handle.

Unlike their larger brethren, Cave Widows actually wove webs, and they preferred to rest in high places. This meant that in the much larger rooms of the silver area, Leonidas, Cassian, and Samantha could not hit them without wasting mana unless they descended. Additionally, with the ceiling covered in stalactites, there was plenty of cover, and most had wedged themselves in crevices, so it was impossible to get a clean shot on them unless one stood directly below them, at which point they would drop and attempt to bite whoever was below them.

Of course, all of this could be avoided by simply setting the webs on fire. The webbing was extremely flammable, and the Cave Widows had no resistance to fire. For groups who simply intended to push through as quickly as possible, this was a quick and easy solution to encountering such a cavern, but unfortunately for their group, they wanted to collect the venom sacs, which would burst and become useless if they caught on fire.

“Let’s make it a competition,” said Samantha immediately once Elise described what was inside the room.

“Done,” said Cassian.

“What are the stakes?” asked Helene.

“Hmmm…” said Samantha. “How about a secret?”

“A secret?” asked Cassian.

“Just a small one,” said Samantha. “The winner can pick one person, and they can ask that person one question, and as long as the answer is only a small secret, that person has to answer truthfully.”

The others contemplated that for a few seconds, but Elise already had her answer. She had been thinking about it as they walked, but given the nature of their class, she felt she could probably show off her abilities, at least a little bit. Leonidas and Cassian probably already guessed, and they hadn’t told anyone, Elise trusted Jessie and Sophie, she knew Helene’s secret, so Helene wouldn’t talk, and she had a pretty good hunch that Samantha wouldn’t mind either. And if she actually tried, she would win this competition without issue. The others didn’t really have a chance. And given that Samantha was so mysterious that even Emmett didn’t know who she was, Elise thought this was a great opportunity to get some information out of her.

“I’m in,” she said.

“Oho,” said Samantha. “I didn’t expect you to be so eager.”

“I didn’t expect you to offer me free information,” said Elise with a shrug.

“So if you win, you’re going to use your secret on me?”

“Maybe.”

“In that case, we’re in,” said Cassian.

“We are?” asked Leo. “Oh wait, yeah, we are.”

“Me too,” said Helene, looking at Samantha.

“Me too!” said Sophie, not wanting to be left out.

“Then it’s a match!” said Samantha. “Are you all ready?”

There was a small chorus of confirmations.

“Then we’ll begin in 3! 2! 1! Go!”

The others shot off into the cave, but Elise simply stood where she was, raised her hand, and snapped her fingers, sending out a {Power Word Kill} with {Whisper} to all eleven Cave Widows.

[ You have slain Cave Widow, Tier IV, lvl 2 ]

…

[ You have slain Cave Widow, Tier IV, lvl 4 ]

“I win,” she announced.

Cassian and Leonidas immediately stopped, completely unsurprised. Sophie turned around, eyes yellow and wide, having apparently seen what Elise had done. Helene kept moving, but looked back in confusion. Samantha froze in place, then looked back at Elise with a wide, almost unsettling smile.

“So you have,” she said. “No wonder you were so confident.”

“Wait, what?” asked Helene, finally coming to a stop. “Oh.”

It seemed that she had finally sensed the mana seeping from the dead spiders’ corpses, still trapped above them in their webs. When she did, she looked at Elise with a newfound sense of apprehension. Even Jessie seemed a little nervous, likely having sensed what Elise had done, which made Elise wince inside.

“You knew this was going to happen too,” said Samantha, turning to Cassian.

Cassian merely shrugged. “Maybe.”

“I see,” said Samantha. “Well, I suppose that’s my fault for being too confident. And I also suppose I owe you a secret now, Eleanor.”

“Indeed you do,” replied Elise.

“Well. Ask away.”
