“So did I!” I beamed and considered the situation. “I’m thirty-seven percent toward Level 4. Looks like we do share experience when we’re grouped up, but it also awards bonus experience for kills and damage dealt. Since you killed two with your flood, and likely hurt the rest, that granted you more than me. Nice!”

She beamed. “Who goes first? Never mind. I can’t wait. Here goes!” She ducked her head and went quiet, pushing the cart in silence.

I chuckled, meeting Haddock’s smiling eyes. I wasn’t a fan of people in general, but it was hard to dislike the ebullient splash of energy. Also, the relationship between her and Haddock felt… solid. Like they knew exactly where they stood with each other and provided different things that the other needed. Hard not to appreciate that.

A deep groan built from behind the handcart. “Oh, that effing sucks!” Nix said. “Man. There’s a Tier 3 fire talent that looks promising – expand my possibilities and all that. But listen to this.”

Tier 5

Lifeforce Absorption

Passive Talent.

There is power in death. Especially when you are the death dealer. While this talent is active, your attacks will saturate enemies with your mana. Any enemies that die, while engulfed in the area of this talent will let you absorb their lifeforce and convert it to mana. The efficiency of this talent is affected by the lifeforce of the targets and your Mental Control.

Area: 20 meter radius

Cost: 1 stamina/second

5 points to unlock.

0/5 points

I squinted. “The way I’m hearing that is that, basically, that could solve your mana problems forever?”

She tittered. “You and me both, girlie. Sorry. Podcast-brain on autopilot again. Yes. Of course, I don’t have a ton of stamina, which also might become a bottleneck. But this could give me three shots for every one I’ve got now.”

“So, you’re saving the points until you have all five?”

“I think so. There are other options. Defensive ones. A nice passive that’ll let me double down on elemental talents. But this one feels like the way to go, so I can cause some real damage, more than just once a fight. Thoughts?”

“I like it. We just have to spot a few easy targets at first. Then, we’ll be able to keep you firing.” I said.

“Oh. And I put my extra attribute points into Mental Control, this time around. Both to keep me in the game, until I get that talent, and so I can improve at controlling the direction of my Flash Flood. It grew a bit out of control for me there, for a moment.”

“I’m just glad you got it pointed in the right direction.” I laughed. “I would not want to get in the way of that tsunami!”

“Please. I’m not like that Elio guy. I honestly just want to grow strong enough to build and defend a tiny magical castle. Not go out and… kill six billion demons or something.”

“You also do want to earn super powers.” Haddock smiled affably. “And we’ll get there, love. Now, as for me? I already know what I will be doing. Give me a…” He trailed off, nodding a few seconds later. “Done.”

Tier 4

Environmental Control.

Passive Talent.

A builder knows how to adjust his creations to reality. Yet, sometimes, you need to adjust the world itself rather than your creations. This talent allows you to affect the existing world, remove rocks, dig into dirt, whatever your control and imagination allow. The efficiency and accuracy of this talent is affected by your Mental Power and Mental Control.

20% efficiency per talent point.

3/5 points

I could sense my eyebrows slowly creeping up, with a frown slowly building. “Wait a minute. Does that…” I trailed off, mentally running over the description again to see exactly what it would do.

“Show, don’t tell?” Haddock grinned and pointed. A moment later, a trench burst into existence right next to us.

I stared. A second before, there had been nothing but the ever-present wizened yellow grass and mud. Now, it looked like an excavator had taken a decent first swing at creating a backyard-sized pool. The depth slowly grew along the length of the trench, with the far end being around three meters below the surface. “But… you weren’t supposed to be able to create anything permanent?”

Nix tittered. “He’s been raving about this combo ever since he saw it. I’m just glad it worked. Now, his creations usually peter out after around… twenty minutes or so. I’ll bet that, once we hit that time, this is going to gradually revert itself as well.”

I softly whistled. “But it’s still permanent, for as long as it’s there. And it’ll allow you to not just construct new stuff, but alter what’s already there. Can you do it when there’s enemies charging at us?”

Haddock grimaced. “I think so. It will take practice, and be tough. And it’ll take more than just two seconds. Also, there is a drawback. Since solidity and durability depends on the speed and mana imbued into my creations, if I rush a creation, I could end with something that’ll only last, say, half a minute. But it’s something worth investigating.”

I nodded in agreement. “Even so: this is a huge difference. In our last fight, you created a funnel Nix could use to amplify and contain her Flash Flood. Now, you could lure them in, and have them drown down there.”

“You could even erect walls around it, keep them from crawling to safety.” A small hand emerged and slapped him on the shoulder. “Love, you are going to be dangerous!”

He beamed down at her. “Let’s hope so. My points went into Mental Power. I will need the mana.”

“And that leaves… you!” Nix concluded happily.

“We’ll see what I’ve got! You mind guiding my way while we’re walking? I’d feel a right moron walking into a hole while I was trying to become stronger!”

She laughed. ”Go right ahead. I wouldn’t mind a break from pushing either.”

I felt her arm on my hand. Then I dove into the mental realm of my possibilities, grinning at the knowledge that I was about to leave regular boring humanity even further in the lurch.
