“We talked about everything any of us could possibly think to say. That lasted a few hours. Stage three led to hard arguments and joyful tears and spilled blood, but we came out of it okay. Then came stage 4. We made camp for the night, inside Ar’Kendrithyst, right there in the middle of a skyroad. We all decided that laying right down where we were was good enough, even though shadows were watching, and laughing.

“I was the only one who woke up. The Witch, the one who makes the Cursed Babblers, she had done that on purpose.

“Everyone else was dead.

“But they woke up, too. Their eyes were black hollows and their voices were full of hate and lies.

“I spent three weeks running around the Dead City, trying to get back to Forward Base, to safety, while my family harried me, trying to kill me at every turn. When I got the upper hand on them, they devolved into hurtful truths, or hateful lies, in order to stay my sword. They pretended to be real. They pretended to be the people I loved.

“If the Witch had attacked me directly, I would have failed to escape. But she didn’t. She sent my family after me, forcing me to kill them to survive, while she watched and kept me in her [Teleport Lock]. The worst part, at the time, was when they tried to convince me that if I let them kill me, then they’d be set free. That they could go home.

“None of them had the same abilities they had in life. Each only had the power of their physical self, and some minor magics to them. But don’t discount the power of [Shadowblend], or [Conjure Weapon], or even a well-made, simple illusion [Ward].

“The easiest one to kill was the Scribe. Emotionally, I mean. Physically, it was tough. There were four of them and one of me, and they knew every way I fought. I didn’t even have time to recognize that I had killed the Scribe before the other three used that opening to lunge in for the kill.

“The Dagger was a difficult killing. I loved her like a sister. A day or three after I killed the Scribe, the Dagger had come at me all alone, asking for help to get out from under the Witch’s power. But I knew what was happening. I had seen her do the same thing to some bandits, one time.” Teressa said, “Looking back on it, I think she might have come at me like that, just so I could end her. Maybe a part of her was her. She pulled her dagger at the last moment, and mine kept going.

“Killing my brother was easy, at the time. I focused on some awful, stupid things he had done while we were both young, in those stupid years before either of us knew how to be decent people to each other. Before he became the almost-Druid who wanted to throw his sword into the ring, to decide who would become the next leader of the tribe.

“Killing the Healer… Killing him was the hardest thing I had ever done. He loved me, and I loved him. He had really nice hands. Loving. Gentle. Strong.

Tears fell down Teressa’s face, as she said, “It wasn’t till I had killed the last one that I found out I had been circling Forward Base this whole time. Either the Witch’s illusion [Ward]s had faded, or she had planned it, but I found my way across the line that declared me ‘safe’, with her floating right behind me.

“She huffed at me, like I had touched an artpiece at a museum. It was a disdainful sort of noise.

“The Army took me in and took me back to Spur. At the time, I had not noticed that they were unusually quiet.

“Back in Spur, Silverite immediately grilled me about my time in there. I was an emotional wreck, but all she could talk about was my tribe.

“Two days later, when I finally crawled out of my fugue long enough to talk to other people and comprehend what was being said, I discovered that Silverite had employed a Mind Mage to pry me open. I was offended at first, but then I found out why she had done what she did, and why the Mind Mage had agreed. But it was already too late.

“My tribe had been reduced to shadelings and survivors, by the time Spur showed up to help.

“The Witch had not failed to kill me. She had let me go on purpose, because that was a part of her plan. She leafed through our party like a noble picking out paintings, deciding who would be the most fun to torment.” Teressa said, “I was the Anvil. I was happy. During stage 2 of the curse, I held the party together, like I always did. I beat down hard feelings with easy words. ‘We’re a family. We’re a tribe. So what if this or that happened. We’ll hammer it out and get through this, together.’ So she picked me to break.

“And then she broke me.”

The cookies sat uneaten. Coftea had gone cold. Delia looked down at her mug and would not raise her head. But she was not crying.

Erick’s own emotions were all over the place, but he kept an even facade.

“Say something, please,” Teressa asked.

Erick immediately said, “The Witch targeted you because she is evil. Don’t blame yourself. It had nothing to do with you. I never used to believe that ‘evil’ was real before I came to Veird, but what she did to you… That was Evil. I’m sorry that happened.”

Teressa faintly smiled, then said, “She told me, in detail, why she picked me.” She said, “We had killed her latest generation of Vampiric Krakens.”

Erick said, “She was just making excuses for her actions, as all narcissists do.”

Teressa’s smiled widened, then fell. “Yeah. It took me a long time to realize that.” She added, “Many years of trying for revenge and failing at every turn, taunted and harmed and then dumped back off at Forward Base. Years more in the Army, looking for ways to kill her and failing. Finally, more years just accepting what had happened.” She said, “And now we’re here, where the shadelings of Candlepoint are taking the forms of our friends and family, claiming— They’ve claimed that they could become real people, again.”

Poi said, “I’m sorry, Teressa. I could have broken that news better—”

“No. Poi.” Teressa said, “It’s my fault I fell to the Rage. That’s completely on me. You shouldn’t have to worry about upsetting an orcol.” She sighed. She stood up from her chair. She stepped away from the table. She turned to Erick saying, “You shouldn’t have to worry. We take a lot of steps as a people to ensure that the Rage does not happen… It should not have happened. But it did. I apologize, sir, but I am a liability right now. I could Rage again. I cannot remain here. I resign. I apologize.”

Erick frowned. “No.” He rapidly added, “Take some time if you need it, but I don’t want you to quit over this.” He controlled himself before he shouted, and said, “Why does everyone do that! The first sign of trouble, and you bail! Poi tried to do it. Rats succeeded because that jerk just left without telling me. And now you! No. I won’t have it.”

“Thank you, but I am a liability right now.” Teressa steadfastly said, “Aloethag has given me a million Health quest to complete. If I don’t, she might not help me the next time I Rage.”

Erick noticed Kiri’s eyes going wide, as Delia finally lifted her face, only to show disbelief. Erick said, “I seem to be the only one who doesn’t know what that means.”

Teressa said, “It means I must kill a thousand Crystal Mimics in her name.”

Erick said, “Look. I am dealing with a lot of stuff right now, but it seems like your Rage is something I can actually help you with. What do you need? A percentage on a kill? If that’s the case, then you can do like, a buff or a heal on me and I can throw a few [Withering Slime]s out into the Crystal Forest. Simple!”

Teressa smiled. “Doesn’t work that way. The million Health is a measure of the degree to which I Raged. It’s the amount of power I took from my heritage; that I took from her, and must return, ritually.” She said, “I don’t want to leave, but I must.”

Erick tried, “So is this Quest based on percentage of Participation? Or not?”He added, “And a ‘million’ seems rather damn arbitrary. It’s way too round of a number.”

Poi said, “She could help you and get Quest credit.”

“Fuck, Poi!” Teressa briefly turned to Poi. “Stop helping.”

Poi shrugged.

Teressa said, “If I don’t do it right, then she’ll make it two million. She’s a lot of a dick, like that.”

“So it is possible for me to do this quest for you.” Erick stood from the table, saying, “We’re going to do that, then. Right now.”

A blue box appeared.

Divine Quest!

Spill 10,000,000 Health worth of monsters in Aloethag’s name!

<And Teressa must help in some fundamental way. Good luck!>

Teressa blinked red glints out of her eyes. “Damned Goddess. Now it says ten million!”

Erick said, “I got the same box.” He asked, “So what kind of enhancing spells do you know? Rifts? If not, I can give you a rundown on how to make one. I still haven’t made one myself, but we can work on that together.”

Teressa clenched her jaw, then said, “I don’t know any.” She said, “I mean… I can take monster aggression from you?” She shook her head, and said, “Sir. None of that matters right now. We have much bigger problems. You have bigger problems.” She looked to Delia, then back to Erick. “Now you know the score, and how I’m probably going to be used against you too—”

Poi interrupted. “Any person who the Army sent in to take your place would face a slightly different scenario of hurt and spreading harm. You are not special in this regard, Teressa.” He added, “The Shades are very good at this level of perversion and torture.”

Erick briefly pointed at Poi, adding, “What he said.”

Delia, who had been silently watching this whole time, finally spoke up. “Sir.”

Erick turned to the young girl. “Yes?”

“I would like to accept your offer of Oceanside enrollment. I cannot be here, and I will not face that. Not yet.” She looked up to Teressa, and said, “Thank you. I’m out of my depth. I need to not be here, or involved in this.” She looked to Erick. “When whatever happens, happens… Please let me know… If … If... Valok—” She said, “If that man turns out to be something other than a trap.”

Erick said, “Of course.” He summoned a few Ophiel and said, “I’ll make a [Teleporting Platform] for you just outside, and have you there in thirteen [Teleport]s. I’ll work out the details with you later, but I want you to enroll normally. Try for the scholarship, first, and I’ll make up the difference in tuition and board.” He added, “I’ll check up on you occasionally, okay?”

Delia got up from the table and bowed to Erick. “Thank you, sir.” She stood up. She nodded. She turned around, and walked quickly out of the kitchen, out of the house, and onto a platform Erick had already made with Ophiel.

She was eager to be gone.

Erick turned to Kiri and Teressa, and said, “Figure out a buffing spell, while I take care of this.”

Kiri started talking. After a minute, Teressa reluctantly started talking, too.

Erick spent a minute getting his Ophiel and Delia ready for the short, long flight. In another minute, Delia stepped off of the stone platform, onto the main intake zone for all people blipping into the great Oceanside Academy, where the sun was already setting, painting cream colored towers in oranges, reds, yellows, and shadows. People milled everywhere, of all sorts, some with goods for sale, others wearing student robes.

While Delia stared at everything happening around her, at people flying on carpets and floating platforms and in the sky, Erick had Ophiel point at a large building down a short road.

He sent, ‘That’s the intake office. Apply for your scholarship there. You might not get one and that’s okay. It’s a thousand gold a month in your first year, and that’s easy, but if you fail that first year, the cost goes up by the amount you fail. But that shouldn’t matter.’ Erick added, ‘A little bit of failure is fine, and good for growth, but you’re here to learn how to be the person you want to be, to hunt those who took your father. You’re here to learn how to succeed despite profound horror.’

Delia’s eyes welled up, but she did not cry. She just nodded. ‘Thank you, archmage, sir.’

‘Just a warning: they’re gonna give you a real hard time about not having the full suite of magic you’re expected to have before enrollment.’ Erick sent, ‘I encountered some of that, too, but I was only there for two months and as an archmage.’

Delia’s eyes hardened. ‘I can learn. That’s why I’m here.’

‘Good.’ Erick sent, ‘I’ll open an account for you on my end after I get through with this business, here. There shouldn’t be any problems with you actually getting enrolled, though. If there are, let me know.’

‘I can rough it for now, sir. Thank you.’

‘You won’t have to rough it, but good on you.’ Erick sent, ‘Talk to you later. Oh. And I’m telling my daughter you’re there. Good luck with that!’

Delia nodded, and walked forward, into the city of magic.

Erick cut their mental connection, as he blipped Ophiel over to Windy Manor.

Erick briefly turned his attention to Jane, but got no response. That had happened a few times in the last few days, but Erick already knew the problem, and it was not a matter of life and death. Jane was probably just a slime at the moment, as she usually was. That girl needed to make a [Familiar], to get around this issue. Erick said as much in a quickly jotted note he left on the kitchen table of Windy Manor, along with a brief mention of Delia’s current plans to enroll in Oceanside, and Erick’s sponsorship of her tuition. When the letter was done and placed, Erick dismissed the furthest Ophiel and ordered the closest ones to come back home, as he came back to himself.

“Thank all the gods and angels and demons; a problem has been solved before it turned into cancer.” He turned to Poi, “She wasn’t a secret sleeper agent of the Shades already, right?”

“She was not,” Poi said.

“Good.” Erick turned to Kiri and Teressa. “Got a solution for this Aloethag problem?”

“Maybe,” Kiri said.

“Great!” Erick said, “Lay it on me!”

Teressa said, “I was on the track for it… years ago. But I kinda… stopped trying.” She just came out and said, “It’s shouting magic. [Warcry]. But it’s not who I am anymore. And it never did much, anyway. I don’t think I can do this.” She turned away, muttering, “This is dumb. I shouldn’t be here anymore.”

“Stop talking like that.” Erick said, “Treat yourself better, Teressa, because you’re the only one who can treat yourself the way you deserve to be treated.”

