HAVE TO KILL

KILL THEM ALL

The River of Rage pulled Teressa along for the ride. Red got in her eyes and blinded her. It got in her lungs and stole her breath. Her hands turned to jelly, then to water. Her feet became one with the river. Her eyes fell in step with the rest of her drowning self.

THEY LIED TO ME

YOU CAN TURN A SHADELING BACK TO A PERSON

I’LL NEVER FORGIVE THEM

KILL THEM ALL

KILL EVERYONE

Teressa lost herself to the Rage.

But she was not lost. Another saw her plight. They reached down with a firm grip, and pulled a thread of red from the river.

“There you are.” The Goddess said, “So feisty. You didn’t get a chance to vent your Rage, did you?”

The ribbon thrashed in the grip of the Goddess; it did not want to acknowledge her power, it did not want to be free of its anger.

“Listen to your thoughts. You’re not thinking like yourself.” The Goddess playfully chided, “What is this ‘it’? You are not an ‘it’.” The Goddess’s voice became power, “You are Teressa Rednail, of the Journeyed Tribes.”

The red thread thrashed and bent, getting blood everywhere. Arms popped out, then legs, then the rest of her. The Goddess held the raging orcol by her left arm, for the Goddess was a hundred meters tall while the orcol was so much smaller. But the orcol was still red; still wet with the waters of Rage. The hands of the Goddess were thick with red, too, but that coloring was more permanent, for her.

The immense being smiled a little, and red flaked from Teressa’s body, revealing green skin, and pale blond hair. Teressa blinked, and all she could see was the white stone visage of her unwanted Goddess. All she could feel was the grip upon her arm, holding her aloft above an unknown infinity.

The Goddess said, “That’s a harsh term. ‘Unwanted’. But I’ll forgive you since I’m like that, and you’ve got blood in your eyes.” She set Teressa down upon an invisible ground, level with her face. Teressa, for her part, collapsed to her knees, spent and drained of all emotions. “Let me just—” The Goddess brushed a bloody finger the size of Teressa’s body across the orcol’s face and down her back, pulling off every single stray red flake from Teressa’s body like iron to a lodestone, perfecting the body as she went. The flakes coalesced into a tiny red orb, that joined the red upon her hands. “That’s better.”

Teressa looked up. Her eyes were clear again.

Aloethag, the Goddess of Beauty and Brutality, stood before Teressa like an alabaster mountain of an orcol. A thick halo of red waters hovered behind her head, like a minor ocean, and clung to her hands like she was a butcher. In some ways, she was. If one were to compare the Goddess to an unequaled Blood Magus, they would only be wrong in the scope of her power. And if some were to look closely, they would see that her ears were just a bit too pointed. She had never gotten over the loss of her elves, and it showed.

When she lost the elves in the Sundering, she had moved on to the orcols and drained them of themselves, leaving behind weak shells—

“Oops.” Aloethag tapped a bloody finger four times the size of Teressa, across Teressa’s arms and head, faster than the eye could see, leaving behind nothing, and dragging out everything. “There. All better.” She smirked, as she pretended the part of a caring mother, saying, “Now you be careful with that Rage, Teressa. I rescued you this time, but—”

Teressa, clear headed, said, “Don’t pretend to have done me a favor. I know your Truth. No one would worship you, so you took what you could where you could, leaving behind your touch to infatuate those who didn’t know any better.”

Aloethag smiled. “Here. Have a Quest.”

Teressa cursed loud and unhappy as a blue box appeared.

Divine Quest!

Spill 1,000,000 Health worth of monsters for your Goddess!

Slackers get a punishment Quest, so don’t slack off!

“A million Health!?” Teressa shouted, “Fuck you!”

The alabaster mountain shrugged. “I could make it two million?”

Teressa frowned. “I want to wake up now.”

Like a gurgling river, Aloethag’s laugh filled Teressa’s ears. She said, “Wish granted!”

The pulse of blood beating in Teressa’s ears was the first thing she experienced, as consciousness returned. Then she opened her eyes. She was laying on a bed, in a stone room. In the classroom on the third floor. She was nude, but someone had thrown a blanket over her and set out a change of clothes nearby.

All of her memories came rushing back.

She curled up into a ball, hiding her quiet tears from the world, as she thought about her friends. Her family.

Eventually, she dried her tears, she got up, and she put on her clothes. She went to the dense air separating this room from the rest of the house. She breathed deep. She touched the edge of the [Prismatic Ward]—

—her hand passed through, into the space.

She was allowed back in. After another minor cry, she went to see the damage she had done, to tell some uncomfortable truths, and to tender her resignation.

Her trip back to the library was quickly waylaid by other events.

Delia was in the foyer, along with Erick, Poi, and Kiri. The young pinkscale was bawling her eyes out. At that moment, Teressa’s own floodgates threatened to break, her heart beating in time to the girl’s, but she held it together. It wouldn’t have been a Rage, anyway, not since Aloethag drained her dry. It would have been more normal tears, because right now, Delia was no doubt going through something very similar to what had happened to Teressa.

- - - -

Hours ago, after putting Teressa to bed, Erick began working to find Delia.

This first order of business was asking Poi for help.

Poi easily agreed, and set about finding the young girl. Both he and Erick had their own ways of searching. Erick’s was sending Ophiel out and trying to telepathically connect with Delia. Poi’s methods were not much different, but perhaps he asked others of his nebulous organization for help. Poi’s methods worked. Erick was connected to Delia.

After calmly explaining some of what had happened, Delia went ballistic, denying what Erick had seen. Then she calmed. Then she got angry again.

And now she was in the foyer of Erick’s house.

Around the same time, Teressa woke, and Poi said she was okay, so Erick readmitted her to the house.

And now he had two crying women in the foyer of his house. Both were doing very well holding it back, but both also had watery eyes. So perhaps they weren’t actually crying, but instead just thinking, and feeling.

Erick’s own feelings felt numb. Like a callus.

Teressa turned to Erick, saying, “Sorry, Boss. I didn’t mean for that… It was...” Her voice trailed off.

Erick said, “It’s okay. We’re all alive.” He tried a tease, “But aren’t you supposed to be all bubbly and joyful right now?”

Teressa smiled, a tiny bit. Then it was gone. “No.”

“Okay. We can talk privately, later. Or we can talk now.”

Teressa looked to Delia, and said, “I’d like to talk to her, and you, because what is happening with Valok happened to my old team and I’ve spent a long time dealing with… that.”

Delia’s eyes watered. But she stiffened, breathed deep, and tossed off those emotions.

Erick looked from Teressa to Delia, and said, “Okay. We can do that. I’m going to make some sugar cookies, and coftea, or regular tea, and we can all have a sit down in the kitchen, and a talk. I don’t want what’s happening in Candlepoint to fracture my people like it almost did today, and how it will certainly fracture others going forward.”

“Aye,” Teressa said.

Delia sniffled. “Understood.”

Erick led the way into the kitchen. Poi followed close behind, keeping himself between Kiri and him. It was not lost on Erick that Teressa did the same. Kiri mumbled something about making the cookies, and that was fine. Erick started brewing a fresh pot of coftea, while Teressa and Delia sat at the kitchen table, and everyone waited for someone else to speak first.

So Erick started. He relayed the full story of what had happened when he delivered the rice and beans to Candlepoint, coloring the tale with how it made him feel, and what it made him want to do to everyone there. He especially focused in on how he was completely sure that everyone was fake, and how everything had been a test to break him in whatever way Bulgan could. He had gotten coftea made and served, while he spoke. Kiri’s cookies were already golden brown and ready to come out of the oven, by the time he finished.

Delia and Teressa listened, silently subdued. Teressa nodded occasionally, like she had seen it all before. Delia just sipped her heavily sugared and creamed coftea.

Silence descended, once again.

Delia broke the silence, “And this Justine shadeling… really said that someone could give up the Taint of Melemizargo… and come back?”

“I don’t know if it’s true.” Erick said, “There’s an archmage Syllea up in the Wyrmridge mountains asking for help transforming shadelings back to people. I had Poi check with his sources, and he says that, according to Anhelia, who rapidly checked with Syllea, that yes, she is still looking for help. Meaning that whatever methods Candlepoint has to accomplish this feat are not known methods.” Erick added, “Apparently they do this to some people, sometimes. Bring them back as shadelings, I mean. The notion of transforming them back into people has always existed, because the Shades like to torment others in this way occasionally, but until now, it was always used as a threat and a lure and a torment.”

Teressa sat very still for a long moment; her eyes glittering grey.

Delia, ever the 16 year old, did not notice Teressa, and asked, “Why would they tell you this, then?”

“Because,” Erick said, “Bulgan has it out for me and my daughter. He thought this was a nice way to throw a wrench in the works.” At a few confused faces, Erick added, “He thought this was a way to mess with me and mine.”

Delia’s face dropped. She stared into her cup of coftea.

Kiri laid a large plate of sugar cookies onto the center of the table. Erick took one. It was good. He said as much, but his attempt at keeping the mood light went unnoticed by everyone except Kiri. Kiri just nodded.

Teressa began, “When I first starting out adventuring—” She paused, roughly. She resumed, “I had a group of friends, and family. My brother. My cousin. I mean… Even the other two…” She restarted, and her words came like a flood released, “My friends growing up in my tribe, where everyone was related to everyone else, except for those who married into the family… My friends became my partners on the battlefield. They became the swords and the staffs and the daggers to my shield.”

“There was the Healer, a rough kid from four trees down who always broke other’s bones because he played too rough. Hence his duty to become a Healer. He took to it rather well. He would always say that it felt better to not need to be so careful around others.

“There was my brother, one of the best people I ever knew, but also one of the smartest, and that made him hurtful when he never meant to be. He became the main power behind our party. He focused on water and stone. He was angling to become a Druid, to seed Arbors across the Forest, and expand our tribe.

“My cousin wanted to become a Hidden Dagger. Many of us thought it odd. Girls like her don’t become Hidden Daggers. She was one of the best people you’d ever meet, always helpful, always caring, always doing the best thing for other people. It wasn’t an act, either. But when people brought up her odd adventuring choice, she’d always say that being Good was good, but not enough to make the world a better place.

“She was smart.

“Then there was the other kid. He wanted to become an archmage, but he was more like a Scribe. He had some good spells, and he ran out of mana way too fast. He was the outcast, but he tagged along, and we endured his company.

“We started our journey in the Forest around the tribe, after Wyrm Season was over. We wanted to be fully prepared for the next one, so we went out into the world, and got prepared. Before we knew it, we’d finished our Rookie Year, killing wyrms and otherwise. We were not as successful as we would have liked. We were all level 48.

“But Wyrm Season was over. If we wanted to break 50, and get a Class, we needed to wait another year, or, there was another option.

“We did not wait.

“We were at the perfect level to start our journey into Ar’Kendrithyst. So we came to Spur.

“We were excited. We had heard so much about the Dead City. We thought we knew what we were getting into, so we filled out the paperwork and passed the tests, and we were in.

“We got to the Dead City, and it was magnificent. We even greeted Fallopolis in an appropriate manner. She gave us some pointers. The only thing we trusted from her, was her advice to not go near the Spire, or too far down. Those were all known truths of the Dead City, but Spur had prepared us better than that. Everyone in town said not to go near the Spire, but they also said that as soon as you meet a monster that gives experience enough to count, you’re already dead, you just don’t know it yet, so get out if you can.

“We met and killed a nesting pair of Vampiric Krakens. They were about as dangerous as wyrms. But we killed them. For the first time in half a year, we leveled.

“Level 49. All of us, all at the same time.

“You can probably guess what happened. It’s a tale told a thousand times, that we had heard a thousand times before. But we were stupid kids. We decided we were invincible.”

“We were not."

Teressa forced her next words to come. “Cursed Babblers. If you don’t know what they are, they’re slime variants birthed in shadow and raised on curses. What they do, and how they spread, is to infect a person with a progressive disease. This disease first cuts off your sense of smell and annoyance at traveling conditions, along with making everything taste really good. It does this so that you do not feel the need to [Cleanse] yourself, which would disrupt the progression of the curse. [Cleanse] won’t cure you, but it will deny progression to stage 2.

“Stage two is when you start talking and you can’t stop. This is where the name of the monster comes from.” For a long moment, Teressa was silent. Then she said, “This is the longest I’ve ever spoke about this and it just makes me… Kinda itchy. So.” She threw a [Cleanse] into the room. As minuscule threads of thick air seeped from her body, and the rest of the room, she breathed easier. She said, “At the time, we failed to notice what was happening.

