Mephistopheles said, “Some of us have tried to kill him. Those people died for their sins against the Clergy.” He brushed off his red tuxedo, which was made of scales this time instead of sequins, and said, “And now, if you will excuse me, I am not dead today, and I cannot fulfill my end of our bargain, archmage, so I need to get back to the Garrison.” He asked the nearby guard, “Will some of you fine people please escort me home? I’m not walking through that crowd alone.”

Erick had seen the morning crowd before now, of course. Armored groups and penniless shadelings walked the main street, about a block from the gate. It was just like the last time Erick had been here, but this time, some people were watching from this side of the road. Shadelings and otherwise both waited for something else to happen at the gate. It was highly doubtful that they hadn’t already overhead everything that had happened.

Two of the guard immediately jumped at the chance to escort Mephistopheles back to the Garrison.

Mephistopheles turned to Erick, asking, “A [Cleanse], please, if you’d be so kind. I pissed and shat myself a little.”

Erick obliged, catching everyone by the gate in thick air. Sweat, dirt, grime, and more, floated away from every person.

Mephistopheles sighed, thick air curling out of his mouth, as he said, “I miss that spell the most. Nothing else can get you quite as clean.” He turned to his guards, saying, “Come along, you two! We have a breakfast buffet to keep orderly, and a morning show to resume!” He walked off, down the road, his guards rushing to catch up, and surround him.

Erick turned to ‘Valok’, asking, “When the fuck did you get alive? Or— What the fuck— No. Fuck you. What happened? No. You’re not real. Nevermind.” He turned to Justine, saying, “Rains? Yes? No?”

Valok stepped forward, saying, “Rains yes. North of the city. I’ll grow everything and organize others who want to participate.”

Justine frowned. She turned to Valok, rapidly saying, “You are not cleared for interacting with people your eyes are cloudy and you most especially do not have the political weight necessary to—” She stopped herself. She turned away, saying, “Go back to the homes and wait your turn. Meditate. Reconnect with your previous life in a respectful—”

“Fuck your respect! Fuck you! You did this to me, and you’re going to make it right!” Valok said, “I’m a gods damned farmer! Let me farm!” Shadows bubbled from his eyes, like dark smoke, as his mouth turned to sharp fangs. “You let me farm or so help me gods—” He cried out in pain as shadows bubbled from his mouth like crude oil.

Erick had successfully cut off all his emotions before this scene between Justine and not-Valok played out. He watched, impassionately, as not-Valok crashed to the ground, and began thrashing. Justine muttered curses as she and three guards restrained not-Valok on the ground as the false man thrashed out his seizure.

When Valok was still, and silent, two guards loaded him onto a stretcher and took him away, down the street a little, and then down an alleyway.

Justine’s voice brought Erick back to the moment, as she said, “He has a very strong connection to his past, but he is much too young to be out here. Hopefully, he will recover.”

Erick said, “He got worse as he called out to the other gods.”

Justine flinched rigid for a moment. “That’s not… Not exactly true. That’s not what happened, there.”

“Then tell me the truth.”

Justine said, “The souls that are gifted rebirth as shadelings are not truly alive until they are centered and fully severed from Death. It is a process akin to necromancy or incarnation or embodiment, or conjuring a life from [Conjure Force Elemental], or growing up from child to adult.”

“Call out to a god right now.”

Justine stood strong, saying, “I will not. It is highly disturbing to my shadeling self to call attention to my half-living nature, and I do not wish to be lost in the dark, ever again.”

“Fine.” Erick said, “Have a plan for growing your own food the next time I’m here. It might be a few days.”

Justine’s strong countenance remained, as she said, “Thank you, archmage.”

Erick dismissed his Ophiel at Candlepoint, and came back to himself, sitting in his chair in Spur. Rage and burning need coursed through his veins as his heart pumped hard and angry. He focused on everything that had just happened, calming his rage, trying to pick out the best path forward.

Certain people would need to be involved, now that something looking like Valok was there.

Erick quickly landed on a plan. It would make a certain young girl rather angry, but right now, Delia’s need for space was not a concern. A thing that resembled her father was being used against Erick, and therefore she would be used against him too, if she wasn’t already. If she wasn’t tainted by Shades, then Erick needed Delia to come back into the fold, right now, before she caught wind of the lookalike in Candlepoint.

Teressa sat across from him, sipping her morning coftea, looking up from her book at him. She asked, “Rough reception?”

“Yes.” Erick asked, “Where’s Poi? There was a lookalike shadeling in—”

Teressa shuddered. She gripped the cup in her hand too hard, cracking the porcelain, dropping hot liquid all over her book and her lap. “Ah. Shit.” She looked down, but did not move. She just let the coftea steam on her lap and the book. After a moment, she [Cleanse]d the mess away, and [Mend]ed the book. She looked up to Erick saying, “They hardly ever do that.”

Poi appeared in the doorway, as though summoned. He said, “Here’s the bad news: Valok will be—”

Teressa gasped, then got angry. “Valok? Really?!”

Pain bubbled up in Erick’s chest. “Yes. Valok. Others too, no doubt.”

Teressa breathed deep.

Poi continued, “He’ll be a mouthpiece for the Shades as long as he remains a shadeling.” Poi smiled a little, as he said, “The good news, is that with the recent revelation that shadelings can turn back into their original race, maybe he won’t always be a mouthpiece for the Shades.”

Erick felt some weird, bubbly kinda way, as Poi’s words sank in. He didn’t know whether to laugh or cry or sink into a deep depression. He was certainly not going to accept Poi’s idea as actually possible, though. Not right now.

Teressa’s feelings were quite obviously not like Erick’s. Her lips turned downward into a frown, revealing huge fangs that seemed even larger than normal. Her eyes flickered with grey light as she breathed deep, trying to control her anger.

She could not control her anger.

Erick had never seen it before, but he had read about the Rage of the Orcols. It was a magical affliction that was imbued into their entire people when trolls and orcs became one, that caused widespread, global wars, that destroyed so, so much, as the Horde killed everything that was not them. But then Aloeth, the Goddess of Beauty and of the Elves, became the Goddess of Beauty and Brutality, transforming herself to survive the death of her original people, wrapping her divine might into the orcols, subduing their Rage. To this day, those with orcol blood in them still produced Ragers that had to be put down before they got too old to be controlled. But almost every orcol had a bit of the Rage in them. Usually, it never came out.

Other times, a perfectly normal orcol would experience an event so traumatic and defining, that the spark of Rage they carried within them would catch fire, turning into an inferno.

Erick knew this, intellectually. He did not know what it meant, though.

But as he saw grey light flicker across Teressa’s skin, turning pink, then red, he knew the Rage for what it was.

Erick’s library was trashed in two short seconds as Teressa and her scream filled the space. His [Personal Ward] was ripped down to nothing. His right arm hung loose in its socket, for he had foolishly reached out to her as she transformed.

As orange rock rained down, Erick revoked Teressa’s [Prismatic Ward] permissions.

She froze in the middle of killing Poi. Her magic color had changed to bright, yet dark, neon red. She had grown armor of the same color, that did not really look like armor at all, but like swords and hatred hammered into place across her body.

Locked to the dense air all around her, she could not breathe, she could not move, and her horrible scream turned to nothing. But her eyes were balls of red radiance, and her Rage was a palpable force pushing out from her bladed body, ever so slightly carving into the [Prismatic Ward] that held her immobile.

Three seconds had passed.

Erick quickly dipped the stone floor out from Poi, to pull him off of Teressa’s long claws. He was bleeding from five different gut wounds, but he was alive. Erick had Ophiel blip to the other room and blip back with a rod of [Treat Wounds]. Poi got his emergency healing and Erick repaired his arm back into its socket, all while Teressa hung frozen amid dense air.

Kiri spoke from beyond the hole in the library’s ceiling, “FUCK!”

“She—” Poi coughed, “She’ll live.” He held his chest, wincing, as he admitted, “I should have— Shit. This is my fault. I hadn’t considered...”

Erick asked, “What was that?”

“Trauma, untethered.” Poi said, “She can still hear and see us, and has access to all of her normal skills and spells, except Spatial magic. She’s going to remember all of this, too.” Poi stood up with Erick’s help, saying, “After she drops off from lack of air, you need to leave her there, Erick. She’s going to try and trick us into letting her go early, but we cannot. Keep her alive with the rod of [Treat Wounds].” He stood a bit straighter. “When her magic goes back to grey, and she actually falls asleep, she’ll be okay.”

Erick looked to Teressa. She was still very red, and still fully locked in an attack position in the air, one hand made of swords pointed at a space that no longer held a target, the other hand made of shields. She had taken her [Conjure Weapon] and twisted it into something primal, something that covered her whole body, and continued to shift a little under the dense air holding her aloft, trying to cut into the air around her, and failing.

She flickered brighter every now and then, but four minutes passed safely enough. The fire in her eyes faded. Erick tapped her with healing magics and her color returned, brighter than ever, flare red and hateful.

She nodded off after a minute, her light dimming. Erick tapped the rod against her shielded arm, but she had tricked him. The shields on her arm turned to jaws, but as soon as they opened, dense air flooded the space, locking those jaws open. She had been faking her fall to unconsciousness.

Erick asked Poi, “Is she going to be okay?”

“She should be okay. But. Shit. I should have seen that coming.”

“What happened to her?”

Poi looked up at Teressa while Teressa glared down at him, her eyes going from hateful to hurtful in a split second. “Yeah. You understand.” Poi said to her, “So if you don’t want me to tell them why this happened, then come down from this.” He paused. He said, “I can break protocol in certain situations, and this is one of them.”

Teressa flared red again.

Erick watched as her sword armor cracked into the dense air around her, like knives being driven into steel. Her knives were winning.

And then she dimmed again, darker this time. She had spent herself struggling, and failed. Erick tapped her with the rod of [Treat Wounds].

It took an hour to get her to calm. When that happened, her armor dissipated, leaving her covered in bleeding wounds. Half an hour after that, when her wounds finally healed over and blood stopped welling up onto her skin, there was an almost-mistake, but Erick quickly rescinded her permissions when her grey magics turned pink and she lunged at Poi.

Another half hour and she was down. Her eyes were back to emerald, her skin was back to a healthy green, and her magic was grey.

Erick dropped her out of the air, onto a waiting bed. A quick floating brought her to the third story classroom, where the walls were covered in dense air, but the center was not. Erick rescinded her permissions again.

When she woke up, hopefully she would be herself. She had gone almost two hours without a proper breath of air.

Erick asked, “I’m tempted to ask about brain damage, but she’s regrown her head. So… I don’t know.”

Kiri watched Teressa from the doorway, next to Erick and Poi. She asked, “Brain damage?”

“From lack of air,” Erick said. “From being stuck in the [Prismatic Ward].”

Kiri said, “I don’t think it works like that.”

“It killed a lot of people in Odaali.”

“Those people died, though.” Kiri said, “Teressa certainly did not die.”

Poi said, “She’ll be groggy. She might come back bubbly, like the last time. She might come back fully aware of what happened.” He said, “Every case of Rage is different.”

Kiri whispered, “What set her off?”

Poi breathed deep. He said, “She can tell you, if she comes back.” He spoke louder, projecting his voice into the classroom, saying, “If she doesn’t come back, then I’ll tell you.”

- - - -

The Forest bloomed all around, in pinks and reds and yellows, while strong trees reached up to the green, leafy sky. Rich brown dirt crunched underfoot, as a breeze wound through the ferns and the flowers, bringing with it the smell of fresh rain, the sounds of countless animals fucking or trying to fuck, and the touch of cold, endless death.

A bone cropped up from a shallow burial at the base of two trees. Three skulls stared sightless out into the Forest. A ball of snakes slithered out from a ribcage, as Teressa stepped down nearby. For a brief moment, the snakes were intestines spilling out into the open, and that brought Teressa a stretch of joy to see a familiar sight in an unfamiliar way.

… Feeling joy at seeing spilled intestines brought a small pause, but whatever.

Teressa walked through the Forest—

She stopped. She looked around. “Why am I in the Forest?”

The trees and the soil, the bones and the birds, they were less solid than mist. The canopy was a green sky. The ground was brown marble. Trees were flickering lights shining down from above, that were brown one moment, and then deep, deep red. The world was awash in the colors of Rage.

Teressa said, “Shit.”

Memories flooded back, as red light became red liquid, became blood, became a flood, sweeping Teressa off her feet, carrying her down, down—

She fought the river. She discarded her armor with a thought; it dragged her down. She discarded her clothes with another thought; they dragged her down. She discarded her—

NEED TO KILL

