Trespasser Shaped of Dread and Null is a Skill Fusion unique to Tarrasques and a small number of Colossal-Class monsters, combining Stealth and Intimidation to manifest a zone of absolute concealment. From the monster, a realm of oppressive darkness stretches across the world and continues to spread until it reaches the extent at which the monster’s internal mana reservoir is depleted. Additionally, when other beings capable of fear are shrouded by this realm of oppressive darkness, their dread will be turned to fuel and mana for the devourer and cause the sea of blackness to spread ever further.

Unlike most Stealth Skills, this betrays the monster’s position and makes it impossible to hide when gazed upon via Divination. But, paradoxically, it counters Divination in a most peculiar way, since the Stealth skill is tied to the monster’s spirit, an outward manifestation of unattuned mana. It further colors a broad expanse of the world, and so, though the general position of the monster might be known, a Diviner will only know the generality, for an entire spread of their local environment will be subsumed by the raging fires of strife, inflicting a sort of metaphysical blindness if stared at for too long. Worse yet, should the Diviner strive to push through the discomfort, the darkness will leak over into them, spreading out from their body and consuming them in mind and flesh. The darkness will not harm you materially, but it will drown you. All sounds will be nullified, and all light will be banished, aside from a small sphere of space allowed by your courage.

This skill is a good counter against those possessed of even the highest echelons of Awareness, for it is not a skill that contends with Awareness but rather bravery. The more one can control their fear, the further they can dispel the darkness, shredding through its dense fabric. Yet be warned: the oppressive terror is unceasing and unending. Should your spirit break, it will wash through you; it will drown you. You will find yourself isolated in a realm of nothing, a realm where a trespasser, shaped of dread and null, will be free to close in on you at their leisure.

The best thing to do when faced with this skill is to seek someone that can raise morale, that can bolster courage, and stand against the oppression of fear. Faith and Psychomancy might be your only reliable bulwark—for your senses will be swallowed by the dread-stained dark.

—Encyclopedia Apocalyptia, Trespasser Shaped of Dread and Null

422

Trespasser

At first, the new skill reminded Shiv of The Creeping Void. It seemed like a stronger variant, further incorporated by a tinge of fear. But then the darkness swelled ever further, and there came a crushing weight accompanied by the gloom. To make matters more interesting, he could feel the darkness. He could control it. It was much like his plague flies in that it was attached to him, rather than an immaterial spot of ink that stained the world. He kept it close to his body, shaped it around his form, and it coiled across his person, furling more like a cape of fabric than a metaphysical black that couldn't be contained. Then he unleashed it further as a moment's reflex, and soon it crept across the jungle, swelled over Valor, and everything fell perfectly into an oppressive dark that was caressed by Shiv's senses.

The sensations this new skill—Trespasser Shaped of Dread and Null—provided were hard to explain. It was like running unseen in the grass, clinging to the trees, twirling about. It severed his fellow creatures as the darkness trapped them in a dense silo; while their screams shook the air, they didn't pierce through the crushing nullification, and the dread that Shiv bestowed swept down and drowned the Jotun Valor had captured entirely. It pressed against his body, effectively sealing him in a sensory deprivation chamber manifested from pure blackness.

As the nullifying dark swept through the Frost Giant, Shiv extracted fear and devoured it in this place of mana. It empowered him. It made him grow larger, made him turn greater. Instead of becoming a thing of physical nightmare, his body merged with the darkness. His body became a part of the dread of the fear, and so he went beyond the material, taking on an emotional aspect to his physiology—and his mana and all other skills were further tainted by an infectious edge of dread.

A low hum escaped Valor as he looked about. The skill seemed to affect him as well, but then, to Shiv's astonishment, the ancient Pathbearer swept a hand, and he managed to tear a gap in the surrounding darkness, piercing the fabric of null and black as if it was parchment rather than a gas or an expression of magic.

“Quite potent. Quite potent indeed.” Valor's comment was like someone testing a bowl of noodles, sampling the flavor rather than facing a skill aspected to stealth and intimidation. “This will serve our purposes well.”

Across all of Shiv's other bodies, a similar darkness reached out from him, coiling out of his skin in faint tendrils. It was bound to the shadow he cast, connected to his soul, but it didn't explode out unless he willed it. Yet even so, anyone who stood in his shadow would be stained with a measure of fear and the rippling aura of intimidation. It was forever anchored to Shiv's soul, ever more solidified compared to the Shape of Monstrosity it was once spawned from.

“I can feel things in my darkness,” Shiv said, watching his hands partially dissolve into the black, become part of the black, and spill out more black. He could also see other things: threads like chains, changing the shapes in crystallized incidents, instances of fear. It circulated through the domain of dread and null, and flowed back into his soul. As he spread the dark, so too did he extract terror, and from that did he spawn more of this oppressive nightmare.

The Jotun had ruptured his throat from screaming. He was trying to get away. He was rolling about, but he couldn't even see the ground he lay on. All there was was darkness. All he heard was nothing, not even his own voice. He struggled, he strained, but all his senses were swallowed by Shiv's horrific skill—and that was the only way he could describe it. It was horrific on the surface. It isolated someone, even while they were within the world. It severed them completely from their environment, from their allies, from everything.

It was an exaggeration of both his Shape of Monstrosity and his Creeping Void. For this couldn't hide him, not really. This was a higher tier of consistency and concealment rather than true stealth.

“The exercise I had you do was worthwhile after all.” Valor's approval surprised Shiv.

“You actually wanted me to get this skill? It seems counter to everything you had me do. I mean, frankly, I didn't even use my Creeping Void or Shape of Monstrosity on you. All that planning and preparation was more for out-thinking your wards than actually sneaking up on you.”

“Planning and preparation are essential to your Legend. It needs an aspect of calculation for you to develop this skill, as it requires a measure of displayed intellect to achieve. This skill is something that you must have if you are to contend with the Diviners across Integrated Earth. Here, let me give you a measure of insight.” Valor waved his hand, and from his palm he conjured a manifestation of light. When those ripples steadied and the mana grew stable, Shiv saw a gleaming scar that sprayed flame across reality. It was a dark, sour flame, an infectious, inflamed flame. It was wrong to look at, all-consuming, ever-building. Instinctually, he realized that was the metaphysical manifestation of who he was, of the strife he bore.

That was how the System saw him.

“You cannot follow exactly in my footsteps. There is something lamentable about that, but the lamentable aspect is only a problem of pride on my part; your Path and mine are dramatically different. But you are not limited either. Your Continuity Error allows you to achieve similar effects as my Legendary skill, and that is quite something already. But a proper Pathbearer does not rely on a single skill. As I have shown you just now, Stealth is about understanding your environment, your enemy, and yourself, and it is in this mental understanding that you learn how to become a proper trespasser.”

Shiv understood then. The exercise, slipping past those boundaries. Valor knew he was coming, but he got to Valor anyway. That was the critical point of the struggle. That was the legend he was supposed to acquire: to be expected and yet to sneak up on your adversary regardless. “You want me to be good at another type of stealth altogether. You want me to beat expectations, to work around people who already know I'm coming.”

“Exactly so,” Valor replied, grinning. “And it is your new skill that will grant us a measure of latitude when operating in the North. The Pale knows you are coming. It can see you. The System howls your presence to the Diviners and the gods that they serve in the North. You cannot be obfuscated, not so long as you remain inside the context of existence.”

Shiv still wasn't exactly following. “So, if they're Diviners and can see me, what's the point of this skill?”

“The skill is an amplified expression of your soul. Test it. Stretch it as wide as you can go. Consume as much of your surroundings as you can, using the fear you have imbibed.”

And so, Shiv did. The darkness exploded out from him. It stretched out, and so did he. Instead of being a human near two and a half meters tall, Shiv felt himself expand. His body grew titanic, much like it did when he manifested his Garden of Wounds and Broken Things. But rather than being a material collection of eldritch devastation, he was a projection of fear. He was the dark.

His body, his flesh, his being could still be shredded and torn if one possessed the courage. Yet his Scarforged Shell might see that countered as well. As Valor reached out once more and ripped through a patch of the darkness, he pressed upon the nucleus of this spreading dread, and Shiv's body came aglow in a platinum shell as a faint scratch was left upon his Toughness.

Valor hummed. “In most cases, when faced with someone capable of manipulating their own emotions, capable of extreme courage, they might be able to tear into someone who possesses the Trespasser Shaped of Dread and Null. However, you are different. Unlike most who walk the Path of Shadow or Thief, you are first and foremost a creature shaped by death. You are an unbreakable darkness, and so the desperation of those that drown in it must be a measure greater. They must rely on magic before they can ever strike at your person. Yet this is the lesser benefit provided to your skill. Consider your presence viewed through divination once more.”

Valor summoned another image, and this time Shiv didn't see a scar spreading fire, but a massive explosion that blazed blindingly bright. It was hard to tell where he was or what he was even looking at. Where Shiv was a manifestation of darkness, a colossus of shadow and horror, the System viewed him as a crawling conflagration that assailed the fabric of reality.

“Now consider how Divination works,” Valor intoned. “A Diviner must pluck your information from the world, and with all the strife passing through you, spreading out from you, you are like a klaxon sounding over the horizon. You burn bright enough to light even the bend of the world. Even so, if your flame stretches across kilometers and leagues, as it does now, where are you truly? Where is the core of your person?”

And true to Valor's words, Shiv's threshold continued to stretch wider. It got up to twenty kilometers of all-consuming black, twenty kilometers that continued inching out bit by bit due to all the microdoses of fear he swallowed in. The Frost Giant was foaming, twitching, driven mad by the silencing, consuming black. The same fate befell the birds in the sky, the fish in the water, all creatures in these gentle woods. They slammed into trees, they fell from the air, drowned, deprived of senses and severed from companions. They were lost in this maze, in the tyranny that was Shiv.

He grew vast enough that the massive cannons atop Fortress City Vermind turned toward him in recognition of a threat.

***

Back within the city's barracks, his other body hurriedly explained to Jessica and the Ascendants that this was his doing, that he was testing a new skill.

“Been working on your Stealth, huh?” Jessica hummed. “You turned your Creeping Void bigger? That it?”

The Giantsbane regarded Shiv with light curiosity, but he saw how Anthony was watching him in silence. The Councilman was tense, as did his Ascendant. The darkness in the room was unnaturally still and stiff. Shiv gave them an on-site demonstration of his new development. “Not really Creeping Void anymore. Here, try this.”

