And then a second patch of darkness detonated out from him. It was a far smaller patch, for the majority of his Skill had been expended to coat an entire portion of the woods outside, but there was still enough of him to entrap a kilometer-wide room. The chamber was drenched in absolute black in a near instant. His body disassembled itself into an expression of spreading darkness, and Jessica took a surprised step back as the waves of crashing black smashed into her. It didn't strike at her physically, but it did hammer against her emotions. To Shiv's surprise, she proceeded to shred through the nightmarish nothingness with the flex of her tranquillity skill. The cool waters of her emotional core proved impenetrable, at least for now, to his dread. Even so, her core had to continuously push against his dark like she was hacking through a thicket of nightmarish stealth. Meanwhile, he was free to maneuver as her senses were suppressed to the limit.

The Avatars responded differently. To Shiv's surprise, certain Avatars were consumed completely by his new Stealth-Intimidation Fusion. Daughter collapsed in an instant, lost to his darkness. She had always feared him. Though she was a god, he'd left her marked, and that mark proved fatal when faced with this isolating black. Instead of fighting back, she manifested her tar-black form around Hannah's body, and clawed blindly—yet her attacks proved impotent: unlike Jessica, she couldn't find any purchase on the null and dread. It was something that spilled through her, into her, consuming her, drowning her. It was water to her, not solid, not parchment. And Daughter the Deadly went from an Ascendant to a terrified girl screaming for her mother.

Shiv, for a brief instant, lost track of himself and winced. He pulled his power back, for he had no interest in traumatizing her further, nor the Avatar that suffered the presence of Daughter within. As Shiv receded like the tides, Daughter stared frightfully at the black, her body language becoming that of a child curled in on herself, having briefly forgotten the power she wielded.

Meanwhile, Maiden and the other Ascendants fared far better. They examined his darkness, studied his stealth, and it was Harlem that inflicted the first true blow upon Shiv. A sweeping beam of cleaving light and insight slashed into Shiv as Harlem's Avatar projected a wave of Divination in him. Yet even he struggled against the null and dread. He was winning the struggle, but it was a grinding battle of attrition between his piercing glare and Shiv's oppressive presence. Maiden’s Avatar strode forth, shredding through Shiv's dark like a towering suit of armor would through a curtain of vines.

Then there was Harlock the Midnight, who managed to counter Shiv altogether. For though he was Valor's inferior, he managed to use the surrounding darkness to move at will. He materialized right behind Shiv, planting a single finger upon his back, or so Shiv thought. Instead of it being a finger, it was a blade, one gleaming with Animancy, a weapon he knew all too well. It was the one that had crippled Shiv's soul during his escape from the Rubix Well, requiring Udraal’s help to fix him. The Deathless turned and gave Anthony a casual nod, betraying no hint of his own fear.

“Quite the useful skill, boy,” Anthony said. Instead of being fully apprehensive like before, his interest was genuinely piqued. “Trespasser Shaped of Dread and Null, is it?”

Shiv raised an eyebrow. He knew where this was likely going. "Let me guess, you killed someone who had this skill before?”

“An Awakened Beastlord, a Legendary Kraken of the deepest sea, approximately sixty years ago. It took a while. He crept across the coast and swallowed several of our vessels using his presence.”

“But then you arrived at the scene, huh? He thought his darkness would protect him, but since Harlock's the Midnight and you have a Stealth Skill that lets you blend into the black entirely, his Stealth betrayed him to you?”

The old Councilman just smirked. “Remember this, Deathless: there is no supreme skill. Every skill has an opening to another, and it might not even be one you know. It might not be the one you anticipate. I've seen certain Adepts outplay Legends from asymmetry alone. Keep that in mind, and never over-rely on a single skill.”

“Yeah, I'm getting that lesson a lot.” Shiv withdrew all the surrounding darkness, and it collapsed back into his own shadow. It took less than a second for his trespassing presence to recede, and by the end, his true form and that nucleus of core darkness which he became remained utterly untouched.

You know, between the stealth this provides and the fear that empowers it, this might just be more than a little useful when it comes time for me to spar against Roland…

“Well, that's gonna be annoying as shit,” Jessica surmised. She looked around the sparring chamber and regarded the others. Most of the Ascendants were quiet in their regard, each one contemplating and speaking to one another, but the Avatars were more on edge than ever before. It was their fear that sustained Shiv, their fear that empowered him more than anything else.

And then there was Daughter. She fled behind her mother, who used the iron maiden-looking automaton as a barrier, granting her child a single degree of separation from Shiv.

Shiv didn't look at her, not directly. He had no interest in traumatizing her further, but something went sour inside of him. This demonstration of power didn't need to be that vicious towards her. She was a devourer of children, someone who butchered the lives of the innocent, but she was also insane and broken, and a child when she rose to Divinity besides—how much of her nature could truly be blamed on her? How much of it was simply because she had no choice in the matter and was subsumed by the legend she found herself entombed in?

Did the other Ascendants ever give her a choice whether she wanted to be a god or not? Did Maiden care, even when she was an actual person?

Fucking doing the right thing is godsdamn hard sometimes. What even is the right thing when it comes to her? I can't just let her use up more children and mess up Hannah. Daughter hates and fears me now, but… just euthanizing her like I did Longinus doesn't sit right either. I don't wanna kill a kid. I really don't. But is this what you're trying to drive me towards, System? Is this what you're planning internally?

There came no answer. It gave him no offer, not like it did in the aftermath of Georges' death, but he could still feel it. It was watching, waiting, considering this new development on his part, and doubtlessly warning the Frost Giants and Diviners across the world, making them more confused, fanning the flames of eventual conflict.

***

Back in the woods beneath the cliff upon which the fortress-city stood, Valor watched as the dark receded back into dishes and gave a satisfied hum. “To the North, then, my disciple?”

Shiv froze. “Like, right now? Immediately?”

“Of course. You must keep the Court of the Shattered Moon unbalanced and worried, after all. I wish to observe what they do internally, how they restructure their movements.”

A beat followed, and a chuckle slipped out of Shiv. “Okay, I see what you're doing now. You're using me as a big distraction, the obvious trespasser, to distract and break the focus of the Pale while you slip in deeper.”

“In part,” Valor admitted, “but there are other things as well. This will be a furthering of your education in terms of stealth. As I told you before, we do not share a Path, but there are fundamental lessons when it comes to being unnoticed or unseen. I have been in your position as well, where my enemy knew I was coming, where they understood my skills, where they knew my methods. They have reviewed my behavior and placed a series of obstacles and prepared specialized experts to deny me my encroachment. But while they observed and studied me, I observed and studied them as well—and then countered them before they could even begin to outplay me.”

“How'd you do that?" Shiv asked.

“Oh, that's quite simple Shiv. The people they hired as scouts and monitors to intercept me I had hired in advance as plants.”

Shiv exploded into a guffaw. “That's not Legendary-Tier Stealth, Valor. You should be known as a Legend of Deception.”

“All Legends are practitioners of deception, Shiv,” Valor replied, shaking his head in amusement. “If you are to be a Legend at all and ensure your continued survival, you must understand how to exploit expectation and knowledge to your own gain and your adversary's detriment. Deception is the core of warfare. It is the only thing you might still save if you possess nothing else. And it is what I intend to use your current skill to enforce upon the North. Fear and paranoia. At present, we still don't know which dimensional cage the Tarrasque is trapped within, but you can force the Pale and its minions to react.”

“Alright.” Shiv held his hands out expectantly. “Pitch it to me, Valor. What kind of sick scheme are we running on these poor fuckers?”

“I want them to flinch. I want them to worry so much about you that they fail to notice my presence, and I want them constantly agitated and to suffer your encroachment outside their borders. But know this: You are not to trespass inward. If you over-extend, they will kill you. They will destroy you, and we do not want that. You are at your most highest influence as a looming threat. When tensions are high and the possibility of peace on one hand and destruction on the other hand draws nigh, decisions must be made, and all proper Pathbearers learn to be decisive rather than passive when it comes to choosing their future.”

Shiv saw the vision, but parts of it didn't sit right with him. There were risks as well. “I get what you're going for, but if we push too hard, won't they just accelerate their plan to hand the Tarrasque to Scorn? After that, we might have to fight Scorn on his own territory. I don't know how that'll go. We're not prepared for that.”

The ancient Pathbearer shook his head, devoid of worry. “If they are to accelerate how soon they are to transfer the Tarrasque, then preparations must be made in advance. It is a powerful creature, and the manner in which it will be safely transported across realms is going to be immense. That means they will likely have to shift a considerable number of High-Tier Dimensionalists. That would be impossible to hide, informationally and logistically.” Valor paused, granting Shiv a moment to digest the plan. “At present, Can Hu's contacts at New Albion either are uncertain of or unwilling to part with information regarding the Tarrasque's exact position. I suspect it is more the former than the latter. If we provoke the North to action, if we accelerate their timetable, then maybe something concrete can spill over to the Inquisitors at Yellowstone, or more likely the agents of Aviary. At the same time, I will take a more hands-on approach as I investigate the inner territories of the North.”

“Not sure if I like that part, Valor,” Shiv muttered. “That place is still too much of a risk for you.”

The Undying clasped Shiv's arm in a display of grandfatherly affection. “The worry you hold for me is a treasure my heart will cherish, but you should not worry about me. I know my limitations better than most, and I have re-familiarized myself with the Pale's methods and blind spots with my last excursion. Between the two of us, one trespasser, the other a true shadow, we will be able to achieve deeper levels of subterfuge than either of us could alone. And besides, I will not be walking the confines of the North without assistance; you have far more than one body, my boy. You have mimicked the Ritual of the Dichotomous Soul, and so I expect you to operate as a legion rather than a singleton.”

“Oh yeah.” Shiv huffed. “Sometimes I don't consider everything I can really do.”

“That is very common when someone comes into far too much power before they have the chance to familiarize themselves, but this is that opportunity, and this is the proper beginning of your tutelage. You won't just facilitate my infiltration. You will facilitate your own. Between the two of us, with one of yourselves masked by my skill and your other skill providing cover and drawing the attention of the North, there is much we can learn together—for every infiltration is different, and though I might be your elder in experience, we are both disciples beneath the totality of art.”

As Valor spoke, Shiv's Harbinger departed from his body near the forest and leapt over to another one of his spare vessels, left idle inside Gate Piety. In a flash of temporal mana, it materialized right next to him, and another version of himself was deposited beside Valor. Now there were three in the region: one inside the fortress-city, and two beyond its walls operating in tandem with their shared master.

“Alright then, North it is. I’ll let Jessica know about what we’re doing; I think it might be wise to get confirmation from Veronica and the Inquisition before we make an executive decision of our own. It keeps the feeling that this is actually an alliance alive a little while longer.”

“I would agree,” Valor replied. “I also anticipate no dissent on the part of the Republic. Only good can come of this.”

***

However, though Valor's words proved true, the Ascendants and one Avatar among their collective surprised Shiv with a request of his own.

“Okay, they're not disagreeing, Valor.” Shiv scratched his neck awkwardly. “I just told Jessica what we're planning to do, but—”

“Harlock and, by extension, Councilman Anthony, wish to join our infiltration runs?” Valor asked.

