However, this was where Jake had once more made a minor miscalculation. For the better this time around.

“Only a thousand?” the Oracle said with pleasant surprise, and he even saw the horned frog breathe out a sigh of relief. “Even if it’s several thousand years, it’s not too bad.”

Likely because Jake was so used to dealing with system events and a lot of things happening within a short time-span, he’d entirely forgotten to consider that he was dealing with powerful A-grades who’d lived in this world for who knows how long already.

To them, even ten thousand years probably didn’t seem that long. B-grades alone could live in the hundreds of thousands of years, and A-grades were fully capable of being over a million, so really, what was a few thousand years?

“Maybe a bit longer, maybe not,” Jake said, also feeling relieved. “I guess the only way to find out is to actually test it. To not waste time, have both factions bring members of their race in different level brackets, if possible, maybe even a few below B-grade.”

“It may take a while to get them here,” the Oracle said, though she didn’t protest his words.

“That’s fine, I’m sure we’re all fine with waiting,” Jake said with a smile. Seeing as they were right above an Arachnec Nest, Jake assumed they could put forth plenty of members rather quickly.

“Very well,” the Archweaver nodded. “Then we wait.”

The Venusians didn’t hesitate, as the Oracle went along with a few other A-grades, going to the closest Venusian Village, which Jake assumed to be the one he had visited. With the Oracle’s space magic, it wouldn’t take long to get there, but they probably still had at least a few hours of waiting.

This gave everything a bit of time to simmer and calm down, and Jake also relaxed, feeling that he was doing a pretty damn good job, and things were going better than he’d expected, as some kind of temporary agreement had been made. He didn’t even have to use Invocation-infused Pride to intimidate them, which had been his plan if they had gotten too hung up on him, probably being limited on who he could bring beyond the Boundary.

Now all he had to do was actually figure out who he could bring beyond the Boundary, and surely, he wouldn’t be in for more unexpected surprises.

Right?
