“Report in Four, the sun is moving backwards.”

"This is Four. The seasons don't match." I reply to my communicator.

"Why are you contacting me, Four? You should still be watching Kervin; you aren't due to report in until you head out of the village."

“Circumstances have changed, boss. Aaliyah is leaving the village for Drey.”

“Repeat that!”

"She's leaving the village to purchase materials for the arrow she needs to forge. Apparently, she needs to inspect the materials herself to match the general's specifications. Not only that, but we're running out of time. I need you to contact Drey and have them ready to help her find the materials she needs.”

“I’ll have Marshall handle it immediately.”

“Sir,” I Hear Marshall confirm on the boss’s end.

“Anything else to report, Four?” The boss’s curious voice comes through my magical tool.

"The girl is monstrous," I tell him. "I don't know how she did it, but she was able to see past my magical tool that hid the magic signatures on my body. She pointed out each of my hidden items, including the communicator, which has almost no signature when it's not in use. Then she used a skill that put even me on edge, I almost attacked her." I report in a dry tone.

“You what! Not a hair is to be harmed on her head, do you understand? What caused you to lose your composure?” He shouts through the device.

“I think she used an identification skill on me, only it didn't feel like any skill I've felt before. She was able to see my exact level, meaning her skill level was either extremely high, or it's a tier 5 skill."

Only silence comes through my communicator.

“Are you sure?” The boss finally asks.

“I would stake my life on it.” I confidently reply.”

“Understood, make sure to remove any nuisances you might encounter in Drey. If you need any cleanup, contact me, and I'll send Three to take care of it. Aaliyah is to have nothing but the best experience in Drey and dealing with our company. You can return to Kervin now."

"Four signing out." I stop supplying the communicator with my magic, and it goes silent.

I pocket my tool and turn back towards the village. The next few days will be perfect for observing Aaliyah better. She's young, has a high level, and already has a tier 5 observation skill. What other secrets is she hiding?

I can’t wait to find out!
