The two men nod, and each picks up a crate, bringing them over to Kervin and me. They open the boxes for me to see bundles of herbs in one and bars of mithril in the other. I see fifteen bundles of each of the herbs and 17 small bars of mithril. Isn’t this too much for 30 gold coins?

“I take it you noticed,” Kervin gives me his first genuine smile, slightly catching me off guard. “I decided to switch your share and my profits.”

“Does that mean there’s 50 gold worth of materials here?” I ask in disbelief. Kervin decided to pay me more after we agreed on a price!

Kervin nods in confirmation. “We need more transparency between us. You deserved more coin for what you sold me.”

“That’s incredibly generous of you.”

“I know what it’s like to have people undercut your goods. You can think of this as me showing my sincerity. Until we find out how much your goods are really worth, I'll bring you more materials based on how much I get from the army."

I’m left speechless. What happened to make him change so suddenly?

"I need us to be more open if we're to succeed. Going forward, I need you to tell me everything you can about your arrows.”

"I can do that, but I have to ask, why the rush? I'm happy you want to cooperate, but that doesn't explain why you came back so fast."

“I received another request from the general,” Kervin somberly says. “She wants you to make the single best arrow you can with 10 gold as a budget.”

"10 Gold for a single arrow, that's crazy! I can't make something like that."

“I’ll help you get whatever materials you need.” Kervin waves his hands in a grand gesture.

“That’s not the problem,” I frown.

"What do you mean?" Kervin asks me, concerned.

"I haven't worked with that many magical materials. Even if you help me get expensive materials, I have no idea how to use them. The composition of my arrows took me weeks of experimenting to perfect. To make the kind of arrow, the general wants would take me over a month to make and cost me tens of gold coins in materials. I can make more of the arrows I already sold you, but I'll have to turn down her request."

Kervin gives me a worried look. “This isn’t a request either of us can turn down.” He hangs his head.

“What is that supposed to mean?”

“If I try to turn away a request from the great Emily Pitz, the best outcome I could hope for is to be fired from Silver Herd. What if you ask for help from your master?” He hopefully subjects.

I scan our surroundings again to make sure Reel isn't hiding nearby. I'm positive he isn't spying on us. "I'll ask master, but I don't want you to get your hopes up." Kervin gives me an uncomprehending look.

"I can't share secrets that aren't mine, but I'll tell you master probably can't help us." I break the bad news to him. Master told me about the times he failed working with magical materials.

“You’re not joking, are you?” He sounds like he’s grasping at straws.

I stand up, “Don’t worry just yet.” I try to sound confident. “If we can’t deny her request, we’ll just have to figure something out.” I start to walk out of his campsite.

“Where are you going?!” Kervin asks.

“To talk to my master. I’ll be back soon, hold onto my delivery until then.” I leave Kervin behind and run to master’s clearing.

Using Double Step, I quickly make it through the forest.

I scan our forge and find master resting on his favorite bench. He opens one of his eyes as I approach him. "Where have you been? The extra rest is appreciated, but I was starting to worry."

"Sorry to keep you waiting, but something came up," I apologize. I know master cares in his own way.

“Oh, what happened?”

I sit down on the closest bench and explain everything that happened with Reel and Kervin. Halfway through, master's passive mask fell away, and he sat up attentively listening to me explain.

After I explain everything, I ask master if he has any ideas.

"I can give you the names of some of the materials I tried to work with in the past, but I'm not sure if any of them are what you need. Unless you’re willing to spend the coin and purchase a variety of materials, I can’t think of anything else.”

"So, I'll have to leave it in Kervin's hands." Kervin might be able to get me some top-class materials, but who knows if he'll grab the type of materials I need to make a decent arrow.

“You can ask him to buy certain types of materials. You need a good strong metal for the arrowhead and a strong yet flexible alloy for the shaft.” Master points out a possible solution.

"I don't think that will work," I tell him. “Even if I give him the parameters I'm looking for, he can't see inside the metal like I can. If I ask for ore, he won’t be able to see how much magic is inside each specimen or how it interacts with other people’s mana. And if I ask for already forged ingots, not only do I face the same problem, but who knows what structural issues could be hidden inside the metal. You told me many magical metals are incredibly tricky to re-forge; I can't trust other's work."

“You make a good point,” Master rubs his chin. “And you can’t ask him to bring every raw material Silver Herd has to you.”

Master’s offhand remark reminds me of a possibility neither of us considered.

I'm stupid; because master and I are so used to staying hidden in our village, neither of us thought of the easiest solution. If Kervin can't judge which materials I need, I'll just have to do it myself!

"You make a good point, master. Kervin can't bring me everything, and I have to personally inspect their ore options before I decide what I need. The only option I have left is to have Kervin escort me to Drey and show me my options in person."

Master’s eyes widen in surprise. “You want him to take you to Drey!? You’ll leave the safety of the village?”

“I don’t think I have any other options. I told you I can't turn down the general's request."

“We can find another way,” Master’s face tenses.

“I don’t think we can. You didn’t see Kervin’s reaction when I told him I couldn’t agree to her request. I think something bad happened to Kervin when he went to the army. He didn’t tell me in words what happened, but he had the same look I had after I survived the Hobgoblin. I think his life was threatened.”

"I don't care about his life!" Master boldly proclaims. "You are the only one I worry about. If you leave the village, I can't protect you. You told me that this Reel fellow almost attacked you; how can I let you leave with them!" Master clenches his fists in frustration.

I can’t help but smile at master’s concern. "How are you going to protect me when you never leave your clearing? Are you going to go with me to meet Kervin?" I laugh at the idea, but master nods seriously.

“Of course, I’m going with you to meet them.”

"It means a lot that you said that, but that's a horrible idea. Reel is working for the boss of Silver Herd, everything he learns about us will be reported back to his higher-ups. As much as I would like you to go with me, we can’t let them learn anything about you.” I point out to him

“But what if he tries something again?”

“Reel never actually attacked me even after I looked at a part of his soul. I’m too important to Silver Herd for him to harm me. Now that I think about it, he would probably prioritize my safety over Kervin’s if it came down to it. You need to stay here, master.”

Master grits his teeth in frustration. “Are you sure this is what you want to do?” He asks through his clenched teeth.

“Yes,” I firmly tell him. Standing up, I look into the distance. "I've always been worried about the outside world and people discovering my abilities, but I can't solve every problem hiding here. I need to do this!"

Master finally unclenches his jaw after he sees my resolve. “Ok, but I want you to promise me you’ll be careful.”

"I promise," I tell him. I make my way towards the forest path leading back to the village. "I'll stop by before I leave tomorrow," I say over my shoulder.

"Ok," Master sounds defeated. I wish I could stay and try to convince him everything will be ok, but now that I've made up my mind, I have a lot of preparations to make, including telling mother and father I'm going on a trip. If master was that opposed to me leaving, I'm afraid of breaking the news to mother.

I again use Double Step to quickly make my way through the forest and head back to Kervin's campsite. I was gone for maybe an hour, and they already have the snow cleared and a fire going. Kervin, Lurte, and Ryiba are sitting close to one another, snacking on some dried meat. My eyes travel past them and focus on Reel, who's watching my approach, noticing me long before the others.

His previous passive smile is back on his face. Remembering the bloodlust he's concealing behind his features makes the hairs on my neck stand on end.

When I get closer to the campsite, Kervin’s other bodyguards finally notice my approach and inform him that I’m back. He stands up, not concealing a look of hope now that I’ve returned. He gives Reel a sidelong glance before focusing solely on me.

“I’m glad you’re back! Was your master able to provide a solution to our problem?”

I shake my head, “No, master wasn’t able to come up with a solution.”

Kervin hangs his head in defeat. A small smile forms on my lips, “But I did.” Kervin and his bodyguards look invigorated by my news. Reel simply continues to remain in place, acting like nothing matters to him.

Kervin waits for me to explain myself. "I'm going with you to Drey." Finally, Reel's stone smile cracks, and he gives me a surprised look like the others.

“What,” Kervin asks like he didn’t understand what I just said.

I place my hands on my hips, giving them a confident pose. "It would take me months to teach you what I look for in my materials. If I'm to make a quality arrow for the general, I need to pick out my materials in person. That means I need you to escort me to Drey and take me to whoever you get your supplies from. After you escort me to Drey and help me get my materials, I can run back by myself and start figuring out how to work whatever materials I get."

“Even if I agree to take you to Drey, you want me to let you return to your village by yourself?” Kervin focuses on what he thinks is the most dangerous part of my plan.

“It will be fine,” I assure him. “You only know about my blacksmithing and merchant skills. I'm a very avid runner, and with my skills, I can make it back to my village in under two days if I'm by myself."

“If I’m taking you to Drey, I can escort you back home.”

"You forget something important; we don't have that much time. I don't know how fast your bivol is, but I'm guessing it takes around five days for you to take me to Drey. How many days has it been since you promised the General her arrow?"

"Nine days," he answers my question. After answering me, his face changes to one of surprise; he must have realized what I'm trying to tell him.

"It took you nine days to make it back to my village. I don't know how long you spent gathering the supplies for our village, but it couldn't have been longer than a day judging by how fast you made it back here."

"So, we take on another eight days for you to travel back to Teeburn once I'm done making the arrow. We'll waste another five days traveling to Drey, which means all our traveling will take up twenty-three days of the month. If I take two days to run back by myself, that leaves me exactly seven days to forge the arrow. We’re on a time crunch from here on out.”

“Either you agree with my plan, or you start thinking of an excuse for the general.” I present him with an ultimatum.

While Kervin thinks over everything I just told him, I make plans of my own. I painted a workable future to Kervin, but it's not that simple. It will take us at least a day to look over all the materials, and each delay we suffer cuts down on the time I have to complete the arrow.

“I see your point,” Kervin’s words draw me out of my thoughts. “We don’t have many options. I take it you want to leave tomorrow morning.”

“We should leave as soon as possible. You already promised to take orders from the villagers tomorrow morning, and I need time to prepare for the trip. I’ll be here as early as I can.”

“What about your materials?” Kervin asks, motioning to the two crates.

“I’ll take them to master in the morning. Now, if you’ll excuse me, I have to face tho one thing that can ruin my plan.”

I turn towards the village. “And what’s that,” Kervin worriedly asks.

“My mother,” I say in a serious tone.

I start walking back home. I pray to the gods, asking them to bless me for the battle to come.

Reel/ Four Point of View:

The other three look confused at Aaliyah’s back as she walks away.

So, her family is important to her. That's useful information to have.

"I'm going to take a leak." I get up and leave before Kervin can say anything. He has to know what I mean when I say that. It's no secret I'm sending information back to headquarters, but I doubt he could ever dream I'm able to communicate directly with the boss.

Judging by the position of the sun, I run in the direction of our headquarters. I activate the enchantment on my boots, causing me to levitate a few inches off the ground. Thanks to my boots, I can run faster, and I don't need to worry about leaving tracks behind.

I push my skills and stats to their limits. If I run in a straight line far enough, I can enter the boss's range.

It takes me twenty minutes before I stop up against a tree with a four carved into it. I pull my communicator out of my pocket and pour my mana into it. I alternate pulses of my mana, signaling I’m trying to reach him.

