She had about eighty miles of fuel in the tank, and she was headed down through a rocky canyon pass with the enemy on her six. Fightipilota overrode the warning sounds and forced her craft to down in an insane dive, flaring the wing flaps at the last moment to abort the dive from ‘death’ to a mere snap-glide.
A second, shrill whine came from her aircraft, and Fightipilota guessed she’d reduced the durability of the wings and overstressed the hull, but she had no choice. The enemy was right behind them, and—she glanced over her shoulder as she wiped at condensation on her glass goggles—
Three of them. Two regular Wyvern-class fighters and what looked like a green Wyvern-bomber with a payload that was spitting constantly in her direction. The globs of acid landed well short of her, but she saw pitting where the acid had landed, releasing huge gouts of steam from the melting ground. One shot might be the end of her, so Fightipilota urged as much speed as she could from her aircraft as they headed for the canyon pass.
Her one saving grace was that the enemy aircraft were as green as baby Goblins; they roared in pursuit after her, not trying to flank or box her in. Still, a dogfight would end only one way.
Fightipilota swung up her dorsal turret and fired once, then twice. A [Double Tap] that missed both times given the speed and distance between her and her pursuers, but kept them wary. She grinned as the wind blasted her face, and the canyon mouth approached. It was so narrow it would barely admit her aircraft wing-tip to wing-tip. But she knew the specs; she was operating a Wyvern-class aircraft at exactly thirty-seven feet’s wingspan. The canyon? Forty feet if she was a judge.
All the room in the world. Fightipilota’s aircraft came screaming at the canyon walls as her pursuers dived, still death-shrieking as they followed. The [Fighter Pilot] was reloading her turret when someone kicked her in the head. She ignored the blow, triggering the reserve fuel and urging the airplane to keep dead ah—
“Fighti, what are you doing?”
The second kick to the back of her head made Fightipilota break out of her trance. She looked up, and the [Beast Tamer] clinging to his Wyvern’s back screamed at her. The Wyvern, Coldcream, screamed at her.
Their two Hobgoblin passengers were deathly silent, clinging to their seat straps. Fightipilota broke out of the haze of concentration as the Wyvern tried once again to abort its flight into the narrow canyon mouth.
“Keep going straight! [Aerial Boost]!”
A sudden jet of speed pushed the Frost Wyvern forwards against its will; it was still trying to flap its wings and fly up. The [Beast Tamer], Chickenruler, roared back.
“You’re going to get us killed!”
“Shut up! Tell Coldcream to keep going or we all die when they catch us!”
As if to punctuate her words, another orb of acid just missed their tail; three Wyverns were diving after them, screaming.
Chickenruler hesitated, then pulled himself along Coldcream’s back towards its head. He shouted in the Wyvern’s earhole and got it flying straight, but Coldcream was panicking. He did not like the confined space he was entering and began to flap rather than glide.
Fightipilota ground her teeth together as she sensed their forwards progress slow. They were engaged in wing-mode! It was a huge problem for Wyvern-class aircraft and all fliers operating on similar organic models, frankly.
You’d think that fliers flapping their wings was a good thing; not so. If you were flapping, you were either building altitude or you didn’t have the momentum to be gliding or diving. Wyverns, eagles, Griffins, it didn’t matter; they wanted to be gliding using thermals or their natural magical functions to swoop through the air.
Damn. At least the other Wyverns were hesitating on following them into the canyon. Fightipilota fired again and winged one of them; she heard a scream as she yanked her aircraft left, avoiding a protrusion in the wall—
“Stop pulling his head!”
The [Beast Tamer] howled at Fightipilota, and Coldcream shrieked again, but right now, the Goblin didn’t have time for niceties.
“If he doesn’t move like I say, we die! More speed!”
She knew she was half-dreaming. The dream was that these were aircraft instead of angry Wyverns and that she was in a Wyvern-class fighter instead of…well, an unhappy Frost Wyvern being steered by a [Beast Tamer].
But the chase was real enough. Three Wyverns had objected to the presence of the Frost Wyvern entering their territory and decided it was time for a good old-fashioned beatdown. They were a tiny pack led by a green Acid Wyvern…it was a big sucker, and Fightipilota hadn’t liked the odds of taking it, even with her Thunderbow—before the other two appeared.
Maneuvering the Frost Wyvern was hard. The controls were nothing like what Fightipilota imagined and had seen examples of in Kevin’s sketches. She had reins, her feet, and verbal commands that Coldcream half-knew instead of a throttle and controls at her fingertips. The Wyvern would resist some commands, like heading into this canyon, or just react slower than she needed.
Rather than being a [Pilot], Fightipilota was more like a [Ship Captain] giving orders that had to be relayed and acted upon. That Chickenruler and Coldcream obeyed her was because she was still the best damn flier in Goblinhome. Only Snapjaw and Icecube even came close; Fightipilota had studied aerial combat. She’d gone over how aircraft worked with Kevin. So—in moments like these—she was the Goblin you wanted.
The New Lands sucked. But at least they had interesting terrain. Fightipilota glanced over her shoulder; two of the Wyverns were following her into the canyon. The big one was above, trying to get overhead so it could keep raining down acid. Good tactics, but there were enough overhangs and even natural bridges to give them cover.
The rocky walls were pale-yellow, abraded significantly. Ancient canyons far below the sea? They had little, weird plants with lots of fronds sticking out of crevasses, and as Coldcream flew between the walls, his passage disturbed a cloud of flitting insect-things that swarmed up the canyon walls.
…Shrimp? Only, they ran on their oversized feelers, and each one was hand-sized. Some leapt onto Coldcream’s wings, and his master kicked one off.
“Fighti, this is madness!”
“Shut. Up. I’m the [Pilot]!”
“You’re not a [Fighter Pilot]! You’re a Redfang [Warrior] and a Level 14 [Aerial Flier]!”
“Shut up, shut up, shut—engage the Wyvern’s riser sacs!”
Fightipilota didn’t have a function for that, so she kicked Coldcream in the sides. Chickenruler pulled at his head.
“Up, Coldcream. Come on, up—”
The Frost Wyvern, grunting and pooping in distress, rose five feet and continued its ascent as Fightipilota slapped a new bolt into the giant crossbow mounted on his back. She took careful aim at the two Wyverns gliding in a line after her. They looked nervous.
Oh yes. You don’t have Skills, and you can’t turn around. Now you’re stuck. She loosed her first bolt and hit one in the wing. The Wyvern dropped with a screech, almost taking the one behind it with it. Fightipilota reloaded again, keeping an eye on the sky. She saw a green glob and barked.
“[Snap Dive]!”
“Fightiiiiiiiiiiiiiii—”
They were headed towards the ground of the canyon. Two hundred feet. One hundred—Fighti shouted again.
“Wings! Wings!”
“[Wings of Salvation]!”
Chickenruler used his Skill at the last moment, and the wings opened. Fightipilota stared at the ground barely a dozen feet below her; Coldcream’s claws scraped the dirt, and they were rising again. This time, she thought he was peeing.
Fightipilota went to shoot the last Wyvern on their tail when she realized it had landed. It was circling its downed buddy, still screaming at them, but hundreds of feet away. That left their pursuer above.
Fightipilota pulled at the reins, cursing the fact that she didn’t have any direct controls, and snapped at Chickenruler.
“We’re hovering under that overhang—there. See that bridge of stone? Wait until we’re right below it, then we accelerate out and keep rising.”
It took the [Beast Tamer] a few moments to communicate this to his mount and even longer for the very upset Wyvern to stop balking and rise. Chickenruler was calling Fightipilota a bunch of names, but she ignored him.
She felt bad about Coldcream’s wings and the stress she was putting him under, but right now, she needed to be the pilot, not the mechanic or whatever Chickenruler was under this analogy. If that Acid Wyvern caught them or the other two Wyverns got back into the air, they were dead.
A landshrimp crawled up one of her arms, and she reached out, crunched it in one gloved fist, and tossed it into her mouth. Fightipilota chewed.
Tastes like…well, I don’t know what shrimp tastes like. Tastes good. Chieftain will want as many samples as I can get. 
If they survived the next few minutes, Fightipilota would mark the spot. She kept craning her neck as the Wyvern flapped its wings, mostly to keep level as it rose.
Wyvern biology—it didn’t really fly like other birds did. Wyverns were huge, heavy creatures who had no right to fly in the sky. But they did, and it was due to magic; they had internal glands that Fightipilota had dubbed ‘riser sacs’, which inflated and gave them the ability to rise and descend.
The wings were just for stability and small amounts of lift. If a Wyvern’s riser sacs were damaged, it wouldn’t fly right. Fightipilota knew this both from the dead Frost Wyverns her tribe had dissected and from observing the creatures.
She had to know her aircraft. Though, again, Chickenruler and the other [Beast Tamers] and [Wyvern Riders] got really mad when she called the Wyverns that. But it wasn’t Fightipilota’s fault. They were the only flying vehicles her tribe had. She didn’t want to be a [Wyvern Rider]; she wasn’t that good with the surprisingly picky, touchy creatures, and she didn’t have any [Beast Tamer] levels or classes.
Yet she wanted to be her namesake. Fightipilota wanted to fly.
 
——
 
High in the sky, the Acid Wyvern was getting impatient. It had seen and heard its flockmates go down, and it knew right where the Frost Wyvern was. It was circling the bridge of stone, waiting for the Frost Wyvern to break cover so it could turn its enemy into goo with its acid glob breath.
However…it really didn’t like the things on the Frost Wyvern’s back. The strange, little, green creatures and the strange device that fired those sharp ‘fangs’ at it—another came flying up as the Acid Wyvern saw its foe descend slightly. It spat a glob of acid back, as the crossbow bolt bounced off its chest, and it snarled.
The acid projectile went far wide of the Frost Wyvern, and the Acid Wyvern shrieked and made up its mind. Down it came, swooping below the lip of the canyon, maw open to strike its foe at point-blank range. The Acid Wyvern primed its glands as it saw the first blue-scaled claw of its hated rival and—
Flew straight into the full blast of ice breath from Coldcream.
 
——
 
“Enemy wings damaged! Superficial damage to hull! Looks like they’re going down! Keep rising! We’re peeling out!”
The two Hobs were cheering—and trying not to puke—as Coldcream burst out of his hiding spot. The Acid Wyvern crashed down, a layer of ice coating its grime-green scales. Fightipilota felt sweat running down her leather armor despite the chill from Coldcream’s breath.
That was close. However, even Chickenruler was giving her an approving stare as he urged Coldcream up. The Frost Wyvern wanted to get down there and beat down its enemy, but Fightipilota had seen the other two Wyverns flying up. They didn’t have time to savor their victory, but her gambit had worked.
You see, the entire plan had revolved around the relative firing arcs of the two elemental Wyverns. The Acid Wyvern spat orbs of acid, which it lobbed down in gravity-driven trajectories. Coldcream, by comparison, had a relatively short-range blast of ice.
It meant that unless they were dogfighting in close range, the Acid Wyvern had the advantage—but it was hampered by gravity. While it was above, it had a great shot…unless they were protected by the stone ceiling. Then the Acid Wyvern had to descend, but what it failed to account for was the other firing arc—of Fightipilota’s crossbow.
She could fire on the Acid Wyvern while it would lob globs of acid that would be either too high and hit the ceiling or too low to hit them. So long as they hugged the ceiling of their stone shelter, they were virtually impossible to hit unless it entered the canyon.
When it did—it was just a matter of attacking before the Acid Wyvern could. Fightipilota raised her goggles and wiped at her brows as she shouted.
“All targets out of contact. We’re clear. Chickenruler, aircraft status?”
Another kick to the side said that her grace period had ended. Chickenruler pulled himself back to his seat, a row of saddles along Coldcream’s back. He had good reason to be so fearless; there was a length of rope running down the Wyvern’s back, and if he had fallen, he was still clipped onto the harness and could pull himself back up.
Even so—he and Fightipilota were the only ones here brave enough to move about with a Wyvern in motion, let alone in the middle of an aerial battle. The two Redfangs behind them looked thoroughly green and white with terror and sickness.
“My status report is that Coldcream is terrified, his wings and back hurt, and he needs rest.”
“Fuel reserves?”
A poke this time.
“He’s tired.”
Better call that twenty miles, then; we burned out a lot of emergency fuel in this skirmish. We’ll have to land, make repairs, and refuel. At least there’s plenty of local supply. Shame we don’t have an outpost that can service our craft.
Chickenruler gave Fightipilota a long, exasperated stare. He was an old Goblin, eleven years old, and a former [Chickencoop Beast Raider]. Which meant that he was an expert who could walk into a farm, whistle, and have every chicken run after him.
He’d switched to Wyverns because they were more fun. He got along ‘well’ with Fighti, in that he and she hadn’t come to blows over how she treated the Wyverns she flew with. Mostly because he saw the point.
“You’re doing the thing in your head, aren’t you?”
“No I’m not.”
“You’re not a [Fighter Pilot]. That’s not a class, Fighti.”
