She didn’t dignify that with a response. If she closed her eyes, she could imagine that the rumble of the Wyvern’s lungs inflating and its belly growling was the purr of some vast engine and almost see the throttle in her hands. She wanted to pull it up and do a spin through the air or just soar into the sky without having to worry about a Wyvern or anything but her fuel and altitude.
She wanted to fly. It was her curse that she had actually found a way to do so; a curse that she had ever met a young Human man who had told her that it was possible. It was the curse of the Flooded Waters tribe, Fightipilota knew.
They had dreams. As a Redfang, she’d been an unassuming [Warrior], good enough, but nothing special, happy to raid and survive. Then someone had told her there could be more. And once you tasted it, once you even knew it was out there—
Ah, well. Fightipilota opened her eyes and inhaled the air. It smelled oddly fragrant here, and not just from the last fumes of the Acid Wyvern’s breath. She couldn’t describe it; the landscape below her was pale yellow, and she saw pinkish spores floating through the air as she stared at an entire network of canyon walls, doubtless filled with more strange fauna and flora.
The New Lands…Fightipilota glanced over her shoulder and saw the sea to the left. They were at the very southernmost part of the New Lands, along the coast as it ran up, in the west where the first settlers had landed. She pointed as she saw the ground rising, and something like a forest appeared.
“There. Those are the weird coral-tree things. Looks like a good spot with cover. Land there.”
Chickenruler acknowledged, and Fightipilota engaged the safety on her Thunderbow. She kept her head scanning the environment for other Wyverns or threats above and below, but she savored the view. She was in a new world, and whether or not she had her class—
Fightipilota flew on dreams and hopes. She’d have that class. Someday. As she landed and the two Redfangs hopped off to be heartily sick, then pitch camp, Fightipilota closed her eyes for a brief nap.
 
[Aerial Flier Level 15!]
[Skill – Aerial Craft: Override Controls obtained!]
 
Fightipilota opened her eyes.
“Damn.”
One level higher, though. She wondered if that meant she could force Wyverns into doing what needed to be done. Then she wondered if Chickenruler would let her fly with Coldcream again.
She wanted her own airplane. She hungered for it. Not one of the flying gliders that Felkhr or Ryoka used, though she’d take one in a heartbeat. She wanted a plane.
…So far, all her attempts had crashed after eighteen seconds of gliding.
 
——
 
At least once they hit the coral treelines they were fine. Said trees were a rough, spongy material that definitely wasn’t wood; they came in surprisingly varied colors, from mottled blues to faded pinks and baby-Goblin green. They were, to Fightipilota, like cacti she’d seen in Kevin’s videos and pictures of Earth, only even more funny looking, taking odd bends and irregular paths upwards, unlike trees, which craved the sun.
That was because, to her understanding and talks with the Drowned Folk, these were coral. Giant coral reefs transformed by Kishkeria’s magic into trees. Or close enough.
The two Redfangs, Mousebite and Evilknee, didn’t bother chopping the coral down for firewood as Chickenruler rubbed down the whining Coldcream. The coral trees didn’t burn at all, and they made bad building materials too.
Mind you, the local creatures loved them. Some places of the New Lands were barren when Fightipilota landed; not that she spent much time on the ground. She had no idea what was about, so she usually only took the time to rest and refuel under cover. However, this area had a bunch of wildlife.
There were more landshrimps, but also some vaguely similar creatures. Squirrels…but all scale instead of fur with a long, fin-like tail and gills. They were amphibious and only appeared on this coast.
Mousebite grabbed three and was about to smack them on a rock when Fightipilota complained. They were screaming pitifully.
“Aw. Let them live. They cute.”
“They food.”
Unsympathetically, Mousebite tossed one up, and Coldcream snapped it up with relish. Fightipilota scowled.
“We have food, stupid.”
This wasn’t the bad old days of being hungry in the High Passes. Rags had sent plenty of provisions, even if they were a bit dry. Mousebite scowled warningly. She, like Rabbiteater and some other Goblins, had gotten her name from having to eat anything she could in times of starvation. She was a [Scavenger] as well as a [Warrior] and had a Skill that let her practically vacuum up small things.
Evilknee broke the stalemate by coming over with a small bag. He opened it, and both Goblins stared down at about fifteen landshrimps. The far less cute things were all scrunched up, and Evilknee jerked a thumb over his shoulder.
“How dis? They stupid. Eat little crumbs off hand.”
Mousebite considered the offering, then tossed the two watersquirrels down. That was their new name. Fightipilota got to name them because she was here first, and she marked down their location—and that of the landshrimps—on her crude map.
She also added an illustration to the journal Rags demanded all the explorers keep and made a huge circle where she had run into the Wyverns. No one would be taking that route unless they had to.
“Good Coldcream. Is good. You fly for another hour? We’re almost at Nombernaught. Please? Okay, here.”
To placate the whining Wyvern, Chickenruler reached into his bag of holding and produced a treat. Namely, a ball of frozen ice cream encased in mostly melted ice. He opened the tin, and the Wyvern licked the ice cream with great delight. Hence his name.
Goblin names always made sense. Take Evilknee. He kneed people in the crotch with his [Devastating Knee] attack. Fightipilota had heard he’d made someone’s balls explode with it one time.
Honestly, given the local monsters, she would have preferred a different fighting expert as her escort. But then again…there were more than just monsters in the New Lands.
The whimpering Wyvern made Fightipilota break up from her brisk work on her map and updating Rags about the skirmish. She sighed, blew on the ink, furled the parchment up, then stomped over.
Chickenruler was rubbing the Wyvern’s back, using a long, wooden cane that he leaned on. It looked a bit like torture, but the Wyvern was so big that the cane was more like a massage even with the other Goblin putting all his weight into it.
Fightipilota was no Hob. But she had a similar cane, and she pressed it into another spot as the Wyvern groaned, then pulled out a half-empty tin of muscle balm that Taganchiel had made for her.
Chickenruler had been angry at Fightipilota ever since their firefight with the Wyverns. The other [Wyvern Riders] complained about the Goblin as well, and only her many Skills justified her presence in the New Lands. But rather than say something or gesture in the way Goblins could express sentiment, he just kept working on Coldcream’s back.
Even the Wyvern was more just whining, shedding huge, gloppy tears because he knew he’d get treats. He licked at her, and she patted his snout and fed him half an old apple; Fightipilota’s face was cold. But she tended to the Wyvern until he was beginning to snooze, then stood back as Chickenruler rubbed the Wyvern’s mane and whispered praises in his ear.
Neither one said anything to each other. The current [Wyvern Rider] and former one…Fightipilota imagined Coldcream as an aircraft, damages mostly mended by field repairs, refueling for their trip. It was easier that way.
She wanted a plane. She didn’t want a Wyvern. Why?
Because Fightipilota knew her job. She knew aerial combat; she knew what it was to be a Goblin, let alone one flying for Chieftain Rags on missions like these.
Someday, she’d have a moment when her aircraft would go down. When she’d be forced to make a choice between it and her tribe, or when her luck ran out. Far better to have a tangle of machinery and parts, no matter how much she loved it, than something of flesh and blood.
The [Aerial Flier] turned away from Coldcream as Chickenruler stole a glance at her. If he listened close, the other Goblin fancied he could still hear a sound around Fightipilota.
A Wyvern’s scream as it came down, tangled with one of the bat-horrors unleashed by Kasigna. A falling Goblin, pleading for someone, anyone, to intervene. Then—silence as Goblins fought and bled and died for the inn.
Her name had been Snowscale. No one from the inn had even known her name. It was one of those casualties, not like Kevin, not like Gershal of Vaunt. The Flooded Waters tribe had not suffered that many losses at the Solstice. Just a few.
The Goblin stood there for a while, then sat down and got back to work. She belonged in the skies. Someday, she would fly in a whirling craft high into the air where the only thing that would die would be her enemies—and someday—her.
She had a debt to the skies. It would collect from her and every other person who dared to fly. Fightipilota closed the jar of muscle liniment and put it back in her pack.
 
——
 
Nombernaught was on the western coastline, just south of the ‘middle’ of the New Lands. It was huge. Every time Fightipilota saw it from above, it resembled an island unto itself, vaguely circular, but as if someone had warped it slightly. Rather than a pure circle, there were ‘cuts’ taken out of the perimeter, so it resembled a whirlpool from above, with the furthest arms providing space for boats to dock around the entire city.
Of course, that was only from above. Fightipilota knew this had been a Drowned City, so she could see upper levels where ships had clearly been meant to dock when this had been underwater. She understood, as well, that Nombernaught had a lot of space under the water, but she’d never entered the city.
To her, it seemed so unguarded. No walls rose around the city; no blockades of stone. There was something incredibly beautiful about how the floors were laid out in that configuration, like someone had dropped a snowflake into the water and preserved its form.
She could see small figures walking to and fro on the upper floors, even some of the Drowned Folks stopping, perhaps to stare up at the Wyverns. The docks were wood; the entire city was more wood than stone or metal.
Though, in places, the city was grown of ancient coral that still looked alive. Magenta and pink towers in those places were made of bright coral that still lived; it was part of the city, and huge growths of coral stood on Nombernaught, such that it looked like it was a shipwreck of the deeps as much as city, partly overgrown by nature.
Calling Nombernaught part shipwreck was no insult, either; the Drowned Folk had built one of their famous, hidden cities out of ships. Everywhere Fighti looked, she saw the legacies of the crews and vessels that had made this place and continued to build on Nombernaught. It literally was made of stories.
Houses built out of ships come to rest at last; the hulls of some of them preserved and turned into buildings. Anchor-chains raising and lowering, primitive elevators, which let Downed People ascend and descend. But this was Nombernaught; some swam up the rivers that ran through the city that would have been underwater. Bright streams lit by luminescent stone, where figures glided like fish up and down the city.
Most precious of all, perhaps, were the jewels set into the central spire of Nombernaught and below, at the bottom. They pulsed with light; at night, Fightipilota had seen huge beams of light giving ships direction to the port. But they also projected the magical shields that could protect the city. They were inactive now, but Fighti had seen them once, a multicolored barrier like a bubble, but so powerful it had helped this city survive Kraken attacks.
That was not all Nombernaught was; it smelled like brine and seaweed, like salt, yes, the more unpleasant odors, but also with some deep scents unknown to the Goblin. Utterly foreign; like the loam of the earth, but if you had made it the sea instead. A mysterious odor carried from the deeps of the sea that provoked a hunger in her stomach each time she came here.
It sounded like a million voices picked up on the breeze, above the creak of a ship the size of a Walled City. Unlike Pallass, which Fightipilota had heard while staring through Erin’s door, which was so busy—this one was a city of a million voices talking to each other, and she swore she heard songs, even now.
And Goblins wondered why she made this long trip each week flying through dangerous, largely thankless lands. She did it for a city she wanted to visit, but as ever, Fightipilota landed on a cleared strip of sand with bright stones marking her descent.
 
——
 
To the Drowned Folk, Fightipilota knew she and her company looked like a bunch of Drakes, dressed in rather wild clothing for their species. Their leather armor with Carn Wolf fur didn’t change due to Rags’ Skill. Fightipilota herself was a short Drake with black-green scales; to her amusement, the Skill made her taller because there was no way a Drake could be short as she was without being a child.
The rest of her crew were Drakes as well from some distant and isolated Drake city. It was a good look; the Drowned Folk coming to meet them certainly recognized them on sight. They were interesting too.
Unlike the [Pirates] and [Storm Sailors] that Fightipilota had seen in Goblinhome’s library of books or on television, the Drowned Folk wore rather smart and sharp uniforms, albeit designed to accommodate their fish halves.
The one she recognized in front, a Drowned Man with a claw, was one of the ubiquitous crustacean-types common to Drowned Folk. He had a red claw and an antenna sticking out of his head; he was part lobster, and his shoulder and arm were bared. But the rest of his body had on a navy blue uniform with epaulets, stitched golden bars, and a symbol of Nombernaught to indicate his rank.
The military correctness of his uniform belied the way he walked, with that swagger unique to people at sea, and he wasn’t nearly as snooty as a Drake. He wore his uniform like a reminder, not identity, and his voice was deep and deliberate, not crisp like the Watch that Fighti was used to in her visits to Liscor.
A different tempo and people. The Drowned Folk still walked fast enough. By the time they were here, Fighti had swung herself down and was striding to meet them, waving a hand in greeting.
