Rags’ new Skill let all Goblins hide their appearance, but it was by no means a perfect disguise. So she had strict rules: no Goblin was ever to enter a settlement above the size of a town and to exercise extreme discretion with any non-Goblin group regardless. Liscor was obviously the one exception.
It didn’t mean that Fightipilota couldn’t talk. Indeed, her entire mission was to get to Nombernaught today.
The band of Drowned Folk came to a halt and nodded at the disguised Goblins. They didn’t reach for their weapons, but they were all armed. Each Drowned Folk had a different set of weapons, but the defenders of Nombernaught tended to carry one stabbing weapon and one shooting weapon, be it wand, hand crossbow, or something else.
The half-lobster Drowned Man that Fighti recognized gave her a nod and a half-bow, claw extending.
“Deeps run silent with you, visitors. This isn’t the first time you’ve passed across Nombernaught’s bow, is it?”
They had funny, deep voices and strange ways of speaking, but then—so did everyone. Fightipilota grinned as she copied the gesture. The two Hobs wrestled a chest off Coldcream’s back.
“Deeps run silent with you too. We’ve been here before. I’m Fighti.”
“Thought so. No wish to enter our city?”
“Too busy.”
“Hm. Well, we’ll take your cargo with many thanks. You’re one of the few able to make the trip over land as of yet. One Courier made it; your gifts are sorely needed. Which is it this time?”
Fightipilota glanced at the chest, but she had a list to confirm.
“Lots of buildy things. Dwarf metal from their mountain, mana stones—”
That made one of the other Drowned Folk jerk upright.
“Get them aboard and away from the land as fast as you can. That’s much appreciated.”
They needed the mana stones to fuel Nombernaught, and Fightipilota knew there was something wrong with the magic around the New Lands. It didn’t affect her in the air, but Rags had warned her about the dangers of the Chest of Holding breaking. As for the metal and whatnot, the Drowned Man took the list and nodded.
“Sorely needed. The Luminary will lay credit before all at half mast—Magnolia Reinhart is a generous friend to Drowned Folk. As are the Wyvern Riders and the Drakes of…”
He glanced at Fightipilota, and she smiled, seeing her reflection in a metal badge on his chest. She always found the image of that grinning Drake with dark, green-black scales disconcerting.
“City of Floodwater. You don’t know it.”
“We do now. Will you not enter Nombernaught?”
He seemed actually let down when Fightipilota had to refuse. She wanted to enter, she did, but Rags would kill her, and besides…Fightipilota jerked her thumb at the whining Wyvern.
“We have to go. Say, you got any more information about other people exploring? We been…we were flying over that way, but we got ambushed by Wyverns. No sign of two groups.”
She grimaced. Monster attacks were one thing, but the job of combing the New Lands and trying to deliver aid to people was literally like searching for needles in haystacks. Fightipilota had no idea why people enjoyed that so much, but she found it dull, if necessary. Rags had promised Magnolia, and Fighti was, in theory, earning lots of money for the tribe. But she didn’t get a paycheck.
Magnolia Reinhart kept providing Rags with groups to either help…or monitor from above. Generally, it was just flying down, dumping food on the ground if they needed it, or giving the people directions.
Some were doing well. Some were hostile, even to ‘Drakes’ on Wyvernback. But mostly…Fightipilota couldn’t find them.
It was a huge continent, and she stuck to high altitudes. Even with a spyglass, spotting groups was hard, so both times she’d checked for the people on her list, all the [Aerial Flier] had found was empty ground where they should have been.
Well, correction. No traces of the first group. The general location of the second one had led Fightipilota to a campsite overrun by little scavenging mollusk bastards with sharp teeth on their underbellies. It had seemed like something had disturbed the campsite fast; Fightipilota had seen a rusted pot and several pieces of gear.
But no people, no bones. And so she’d have to report back to Magnolia Reinhart or Rags until she got new groups to help. Including the two on this latest run, Fightipilota had checked on thirty-three different groups so far in the New Lands.
Over half were dead or missing.
The Drowned Man took the question from Fighti more seriously than the Goblin had thought. He went to confer with what seemed like his superior, a half-slug woman unloading the gemstones and having them actually run towards a boat.
“Apologies for the rush. If we stay at sea with the magic, it’s sure to last. People headed inland? Well, the Dullahans have yet to arrive, and the Terandrians took the northern landing spots. Full armies both. But there’ve been smaller groups coming all down the coast, from west to south.”
“I know. Know where any is? Boss Maggy wants to know.”
Part of Fightipilota’s job was to mark any group that had people with collars in it or the sigils of Roshal. She’d seen only one of those, and she’d been tempted to drop her other cargo right on their heads.
The Drowned Man snorted at ‘Boss Maggy’ and shook his head.
“They don’t break bread with us. Half come to our harbor because of our Guide Lights, but they think they’ll be robbed. In Nombernaught.”
He didn’t spit, but made a gesture where his Human hand covered his eyes at an angle. Fightipilota nodded.
“Stupid idiots. This place is real nice. I’d stay if I was allowed.”
“Hmph. You’re one of few. Speaking of, let us give you something for your trip back. Did you find anything worth eating or gathering on your trip?”
Everyone always asked Fighti that. This time, she showed him the landshrimp, and the Drowned Man recoiled.
“Eugh. What’s that? Shrimp with legs?”
“They taste good. Probably like regular ones.”
“I don’t want to eat a shrimp that crawls around on…we have [Shrimp Farmers] anyways. Argh, I’ll take a few if you can spare it. Here—we’ll put some fish in your stores. Salted or fresh?”
Fightipilota loved fish and smacked her lips together.
“Fresh. What kind?”
“Some fat tuna. Already checked for parasites; eat it cooked if you have to, but I’d chop it fresh and eat it raw with a bit of seasoning. Or some rice like a Drathian.”
The Goblins all cheered up at that, and Coldcream even got a few big tuna, which he happily devoured. By this time, an answer had come back, and the half-slug Drowned Woman herself strode over. She didn’t have the deep echo to her voice like some Drowned Folk, but she shook Fightipilota’s hand, which always made the Goblin feel funny. Good funny, but odd.
“Officer of Public Order, Me’shere. You looking for fools in need?”
“That’s my job.”
The officer grimaced and produced a map, which she unfurled against Coldcream’s leg. When the Frost Wyvern went to poke her with his head, offended, she pushed it out of the way impatiently.
“Here. This entire section just north of us is condemned. The half-Elves know it, and we’re finding more colonies along the south, but the idiots we warn don’t pay any notice. A group of Terandrians just headed that way. We saw them come in and drop their crew, but they refused all hails and warning lanterns, the idiots.”
She circled a small section of land just north of Nombernaught. Fighti’s ears perked up.
“What’s bad there?”
All the Drowned Folk chorused at once.
“Sword Crabs.”
Aha. Fighti didn’t know that particular monster well; Garen had fought them once, and he had described them as dangerous, Gold-rank monsters. It seemed reasonable to her, but from the Drowned Folk’s expressions, their warnings weren’t often heeded. It was a mix of pity and disdain for the landfolk.
“No one gets how damned dangerous they are. They’re nesting all over these caves on the coast, and they’ll butcher anyone. The Terandrians were two days gone; if they’re even alive, I’d advise flying over the spot and never landing.”
It sounded like a good detour, and Fightipilota wanted to see one of these Sword Crabs herself. She confirmed her bearings, then thanked the Drowned Woman and filled out her own map.
“Best of luck to you, wherever you sail…fly. I’d be out there myself if I had a way to scoot over land like you do. Then again, I can’t imagine flying. Solid ground beneath my feet is bad enough.”
What a strange people. Fightipilota grinned as she pulled her goggles down over her head.
“Nah. Flying is fine. I’ll take you up sometime if you want.”
“Aren’t you afraid of falling?”
The Drowned Man was curious. The Goblin grinned at him.
“Sure. But I’m afraid of not flying more.”
Then she was up in the air, slowly circling the city until the air felt thinner, and she could see so much land around her and the vast sea that Fightipilota felt like a giant soaring over the world. And when she looked up—she wanted to go even higher.
She laughed before setting herself about her task with a good deal of urgency. They weren’t her people. They might kill her if they knew what she looked like. But she still felt bad for the idiots coming to the New Lands.
They were getting a taste, in a sense, of what it was like to be a Goblin: lost, with no allies around, scrounging for food, at the mercy of other people and monsters.
No one deserved that.
 
——
 
In the New Lands, there was a [Knight]. He had a long, white beard that hung from his chin, untrimmed and flecked with dirt and blood. That seemed to throw him off as much as his broken arm; his armor was battered, bright mithril bent and even torn in one spot.
He was old. Not all the time, but now? Yes. Age weighed down his arm as he balanced the lance on his saddle before lifting it higher in a gesture second-nature to him. It was in the creak of his head, every failing of his body. Yet he sat with his back straight, as if he were riding parade.
That was how he looked. His horse was covered in a lather of sweat, breathing heavily, but the finest steed imaginable; despite the unsteady way it shuffled its hooves, it obeyed his gentle commands with his feet and turned, riding towards its death for reasons it could not have said.
Master and horse were not peaceful; there was a leaden weight in the [Knight]’s eyes, and when he set his lance, it was with all the weight of his shattered world behind the broken tip of metal and wood.
It would not be enough. He stared at an arm of barnacle-crusted chitin, a claw larger than his torso, rising and waving, dozens upon dozens of them. Like the arms of a windmill in another [Knight]’s story, just as futile to joust against.
A kick to the horse’s sides and he took off. The lance bobbed up and down slightly as the horse ran as it had been taught, and the [Knight] kept his eyes level. His course carried him straight at the closest creature: a crab so huge it was taller than he was, even mounted.
Its ‘mouth’ was four miniature pincers, which were folding and unfolding, stained red with blood. It turned as the [Knight] galloped and raised its dominant arm. When it lashed out, it was with precision and all the weight of its body—a blow that should have taken the rider off the horse.
To the crab’s amazement, the claw slid sideways, flicked aside by the lance. Then the lance struck home, and the crab reeled, recoiling. Its shell and underbelly were cracked; blue blood leaked from the wound, but it was not deep.
The same blow that would have speared a mortal man through, armor or not, had not enough force. Not against the Sword Crab; the lance was broken, the tip snapped off. The crab lashed out and caught the [Knight] with a blow against his armor.
He reeled back in his saddle like a training dummy given a wallop and lay, head bouncing against the horse’s back, almost falling off the horse, only anchored by his legs until he slowly, slowly came upright. The two passed by each other; the [Knight] turned his horse as the other Sword Crabs chittered and kept eating.
He rode back, panting, the horse whinnying, and the old [Knight] patted its head. Slowly, he reset himself, his good hand shaking. Broken lance raising…turning…
He rode like the banners strewn around the ground. A piece of beautiful cloth, ripped ragged, covered in blood, about to blow away with each breeze. A tarnished lantern shone on his armor, broken and warped. Light still played off it, but it was not magical and brilliant.
A new crab had sidled forwards, advancing slowly, wondering if this was worth the effort instead of vying with the others for food. The [Knight] leveled his lance. Nudged his horse forwards.
Someone was sobbing. He could hear it faintly. But the [Knight] put it from his mind. The rocky ravine where he rode was strewn with broken tent frames. A shattered banner; his love, blood, and stones were strewn across the ground. He sat with his back to a small raised mound of dirt, far from a hill, sheltered from the wind by a boulder.
The Sword Crabs were probably sixty strong; a nest of them that had emerged from caves along the terrain. They were huge, but not fast; it was conceivable he could race past them to safety.
The thought had never crossed his mind. Slowly, the [Knight] rode forwards as the new Sword Crab scuttled towards him. He crossed the ground, but this time, he had no Skill to parry the claw.
Strike. Be struck. The horse made a sound like a sigh. It staggered. If its knees broke, it was dead. But it turned as he hugged it, whispering, and he set the lance again as he rode back to his place.
Tilting with Sword Crabs. How long, he couldn’t have said. Every time he drifted off, the [Knight] would droop. Then his head would rise, and that focus would enter the grey clouds of his demise; the faint blue of purpose. Once more.
Once more.
Once more…a voice was pleading for him to stop. But why? For what? He didn’t turn his head. There was no point.
A young woman, barely sixteen, was sitting with her back to the stones with five survivors, pressed up against the shelter that would save no one. She wore traveling clothing, soft leather armor meant for the idea of battle; enchanted and handsomely made. Ruined and scarred like she was by the reality of the last two days.
The others in her company were a maid, a [Man-At-Arms] with both legs broken, two camp servants, and an unconscious [Archer].
