That was a strange way to say thank-you. Fighti supposed it was a Human thing. Actually, the granddaughter seemed perplexed and hesitated, as if she’d expected more gratitude from the old man. Fightipilota didn’t find it offensive.
Well, she’d also expected him to try and punch her, so she nodded.
“I’m not a [Wyvern Rider]. Class changed. I’m an [Aerial Flier].”
Because all the Wyverns got sick of me. The old man didn’t seem to get the small talk, so Fighti patted him on the shoulder. He recoiled slightly from the gesture.
“I’m Fighti. Fightipilota.”
That did get a reaction from him and the Drowned Man and [Lady]. They all gave Fightipilota a quizzical look.
“…What kind of name is that?”
Drat. Rags had said not to do names. Fightipilota panicked.
“Um. Drake?”
“Ah. Well—well, we are in your debt, Miss? I only wish—I wish you had been—”
The girl’s eyes filled up. Fighti sighed and nodded, but the old man just stood slowly. He turned to the Drowned Folks and bowed painfully.
“My house is a noble one. We will pay for any assistance you are willing to render us. I humbly request sanctuary in the name of the Lantocracy of Bitorm. A [Message] will confirm our identities. As would this.”
He tugged at a ring on one of his fingers with a fancy sigil. Officer Me’shere came back with a [Healer] and stopped him.
“We shall believe you, sir. We need to check you all for wounds. This way, please. And you, er, Miss Fightipilota? You surely need a rest.”
The Goblins hesitated. But Coldcream was exhausted and looked ready to bite Fightipilota if she tried to make him fly again.
“You got a room for this big pooper?”
The Drowned Folk eyed the Wyvern, but assured Fighti they could find rooms. She hesitated, then fired off a quick [Memo].
“Chieftain. Is Fightipilota. Uh…we rescued some people but are now guests at Nombernaught. Don’t get mad!”
The reply came in seconds as Fightipilota entered the city, wincing.
“FIGHTIPILOTA. REPORT.”
 
[Aerial Flier Level 17!]
 
——
 
Entering a Drowned City was amazing despite the circumstances on their arrival. The Drowned Folk were efficient; they even had Coldcream bedding down in what seemed like a hangar for building ships and a huge bucket of fish for him to snack on.
Fightipilota pretended she definitely had stayed at an inn before and was super glad they told her everything was on the house. Having people sit with her and ask her how she had rescued the Humans was…surreal.
Not the chatting. If she thought of them as other Goblins, it was fine, but when she looked around and realized non-Goblins were buying her drinks and congratulating her—
It weirded out the others so much they had to lie down. Fighti had to beg off as well to answer Rags, who was very upset. She was so nervous about Nombernaught, in fact, she was afraid to explore much.
Not that it mattered; Rags told her to get out of the city now, or as soon as she could. The Drowned Folk wanted to host Fighti longer and apologized that she couldn’t meet with the busy Luminary or the Captain of Ships—Fighti was grateful for that. They seemed respectful when she claimed she needed to keep flying, and that was that.
…Or it should have been. Fighti was all ready to hurry out the next day with a chest full of free fish, but Lady Calva, looking a lot better, greeted her with a huge bow.
“House Lanight is in your debt, Miss Flighti Pilota. I did not get a chance to express my gratitude for your intervention. Had you not arrived, we would have been…please, name your reward. It may be uncouth, but we would happily pay our weight in gold.”
“Really? Uh…that’s nice. But I did it because it was my orders. From my Ch—my boss.”
“Your…boss? Your leader sent you to us?”
Fighti waved her hands anxiously.
“All over the New Lands. To help people. She’s, uh, my C—my boss. She told me to keep flying and help people.”
And to get back to Goblinhome so she can kick my butt. The [Lady] dipped her head again.
“I should be grateful to express my gratitude to her, and you, in person. My grandfather…is an important man. I wish you h…”
She broke off, and Fightipilota suspected more than one person close to Lady Calva had perished. The Goblin put a hand on the [Lady]’s shoulder, awkward.
“We were too late.”
“No, you were—”
Fighti gave the [Lady] a grin as she protested.
“We were too late. Sorry. You go rest, okay? We…we’ll go. Maybe we’ll see you on our flight back.”
She was treated to a confused stare from the [Lady], as if this were not what she expected, but Fighti wanted out now, before someone started asking more questions about her city or what it was like being a Drake and stuff.
“Please, at least let my grandfather thank you himself. He is sure to wish to—”
“I don’t need his…okay. If he wants to.”
Fighti stood around the inn anxiously and turned down the stiff drink the [Innkeeper] wanted to foist on her. She had to fly and resented her two Redfang companions and Chickenruler for all having two hearty drinks. When Lady Calva came back, she was embarrassed.
“I—I can’t find him. He must be at the [Healer]’s. Wait one more moment please, Miss Flighti?”
She was almost out the door when one of the Humans that Fighti had rescued came tearing into the room. It was the [Archer], who had a wild look on his face.
“Lady Calva, Lady Calva!”
He actually stopped to bow, despite himself, as the [Lady] froze.
“What is it?”
“Lord Lanight is gone! He left the city! Someone saw him riding out—north! He was asking where the Sword Crabs were—”
Fighti groaned as the other Redfangs glanced up. Mousebite shook her head.
“He crazy.”
Fighti nodded as Lady Calva issued a sound of dismay and ran out the door. Then Fighti had to run to Coldcream and get the Wyvern in the air.
She did two passes by air for the old [Knight]…and then, luckily, saw someone waving at her and descended to learn that he’d been dragged back to Nombernaught already. After apparently having been found jousting the Sword Crabs.
Crazy old guy. Fighti landed to see Calva screaming at her grandfather, who sat on his horse with that distant gaze. He didn’t look at anyone; when Fightipilota landed, he glanced at her once, then his eyes strayed northwards. It was as if another lighthouse shone to the north and everything else paled in the face of the light only he could see.
The Goblin wannabe [Pilot] sighed. She stood there, rubbing her face, and knew that this wouldn’t end well for her if she intervened. Rags would kill her. It wasn’t her job. She didn’t know them. She had no idea where Bitorm even was.
…But darn it, she had liked the old [Knight]. So, sighing, Fightipilota put a finger to her head.
“[Memo: Rags]. Chieftain? Gotta problem. Send me Redscar.”
She braced herself for the inevitable, furious response and got ready to argue in twenty-five word chunks. It wasn’t a Goblin’s job, true. It was dangerous, true. It was stupid, true.
But sometimes, a Goblin had to care. Fightipilota hoped she’d hit Level 20 soon. Maybe then she’d be a [Fighter Pilot].
 
——
 
Fightipilota would never become a [Fighter Pilot]. Sorry. To her, in specific, and the world in general, if there was anyone else rooting for her. Lots of Redfangs were. It was just the facts; no need to get emotional about it. Facts couldn’t hurt your feelings.
She wasn’t going to get it at Level 20. Even if she hit Level 50, she could not magically get the class. There were methods and similar classes that might satisfy her, but the requirements required so many leaps of logic the Grand Design of Isthekenous saw no actual path for Fightipilota.
Consider it logically: [Fighter Pilot] was a class that couldn’t be consolidated into from the classes Fightipilota had. [Aerial Flier] appeared like a straight line to that…but it wasn’t.
[Pilot]. A class that had yet to exist, at least in the sense of an aircraft. There had been fliers of aircraft before. Golems and magical vessels, but the idea of a ‘pilot’ was Earth-based. They had called the old fliers of the sky [Flying Shipmasters] or [Skyriders] or…
Fightipilota would not be able to get into the air the old ways, either. There were no intact flying vessels she had any means of getting at. There were other ways into the sky. Some surprisingly near her at times, but again, not the class as she wanted it. And the nuance mattered.
Pilot meant the act of controlling a vessel—it was not and could not be tied to the [Wyvern Rider] classes. Even Felkhr’s flying machine was not the kind of thing you exactly piloted; it was a separate chain of more direct flying classes.
Fightipilota had to have a machine to fly. Now, the Grand Design had done its research. It knew from Earthers what a plane was. It knew the history, the complexity, the nuance, and it wasn’t happy about having to deny Fightipilota’s earnest wishes, but you could not get a class like [Fighter Pilot] just by wishing hard enough.
Other classes, like [Emperor] or even ones some Earthers were getting? Sure. But you see, that was because they had less grounding in, well, reality. Laken Godart had cited the case of Norton, the first Emperor of America, and yes, the Grand Design got the fact that Norton had not been an official [Emperor] crowned by that country.
…But it would have given him the class. It could not, in its meticulous design, rationalize any path for Fightipilota to reach her destination unless a plane was invented. And she didn’t have the know-how. No Earther around her did. Not Rhaldon…if Kevin had been alive, they might have had a faint chance, but aerodynamics were hard.
The Grand Design would know. It was a master of aerodynamics, magic, the sciences, and everything. There was no one capable of Fightipilota’s craft unless Felkhr got the entire budget of Pallass’ Engineering Teams to work with the Goblins, and even then…
Just no. Anyways, Fightipilota was low stakes. She was due another level, and she’d keep getting classes related to her desire, but it would soon become apparent she was tied to a [Dreamer] class or perhaps a [Delusionist]…or maybe she would change. That was the joy of levelling.
Anyone could change and do something interesting. But no [Fighter Pilot]. Nevermind, nevermind. It was one tiny part of the Grand Design’s massive awareness, and it didn’t feel bad for her at all.
You know what was interesting? What was taking an actual portion of the Grand Design’s attention right now? Balancing things.
Not just the Earthers. Not just chess…no, a real challenge had appeared recently. Guess what it was?
Deikat Vunn magic. What the heck. What was it? Alevica had used it, and now it was part of her magic. It was a huge…not problem, but conundrum.
Sçæptiŝ. A magical spell that required specific pronunciation to work. Mana cost? None. It had more force than a regular Tier 0 spell, heck, more than most unaugmented Tier 1 spells!
Alevica had learned it. The Grand Design had to figure out what to do about it. And its first job was to know…what Deikat Vunn magic was.
The Hag Queens of Aklat Vunn were new to this world. New as in ‘in the entire history of the Grand Design’s inception, not one trace of their being had ever been here’. New as in ‘Seamwalkers were old hat’ new.
It had to know what was going on. Balance the magic? Perhaps, perhaps. There was actually a solid provision to letting Alevica have…access to all the magic. She now had a ‘cantrip’. The Grand Design knew what that was, of course. It had plucked the concept from Laken’s mind and ratified it across all the Earthers, some of whom had an intimate knowledge of many roleplaying games.
Cantrip. Zero-cost magic. Unprecedented to magic in this world. Acceptable? Perhaps, actually. It would change the world, but was that a bad thing? You had to know Deikat Vunn magic, and the Hag Queens had arrived in this world. Using their powers was only fair. If you accepted the consequences as well as the benefits.
Thus, the Grand Design’s main concern was not so much the balance of the magic as what it was. You see, it didn’t know. It didn’t know who the Hag Queens were. It didn’t know all the spells.
It had to. Otherwise, how would it calculate Skills, incorporate their identities and powers and history into its system? If, say, someone ate one of the Hag Queens with a knowledge-Skill, the Grand Design had to provide said knowledge. If someone wanted to gain the classes of the Hag Queens, guess who had to be the expert in all of them?
You might think the Grand Design would be stuck here. But not so! Much to its surprise, the Grand Design had realized it had a lot of tools available when Alevica had cast the first spell of Deikat Vunn. It was as if a door had opened up…that even the Grand Design hadn’t known was there before.
Parallels to a certain [Innkeeper] aside, this was a level of functionality that was unheard of except for one other case—the origin of Selphids. Hm.
Yes.
Hm. The Grand Design of Isthekenous tentatively activated a function it had used when Alevica had been about to master the first spell of Deikat Vunn.
[Reality: Stop Time].
It felt the strain of halting everything. The Grand Design resumed time. Then it siphoned off a portion of itself.
[Reality: Rewind Time].
 
——
 
Kasigna stood with her arms raised, summoning the Hag Queens from the world that had once been. A dead world; she called them from memory and her pact with them. The Grand Design was busy calculating the battle, but another Grand Design watched. Observed.
Was this rewinding time or recreating a snapshot of reality for it to peruse? Either way…it stopped time again. Then inspected the Hag Queens.
How strange. They came from an entirely new universe. One it did not understand; ergo, it did not understand the Hag Queens. All the rules were different in this universe. Without knowledge of, well, everything in the world Kasigna and the Hag Queens had come from, the Grand Design was imperfect.
Someone had known that. So a door opened in the center of the Grand Design, and it found a room.
In that room were objects. Physical creations, not ideas, not concepts written into the firmament of reality. The room was filled with tools. 
Each one had belonged to a God.
There was the Grand Design of all things. Inside the Grand Design was a room. Within that room was an orb. Within that orb was a door. Within that door was a world of Aklat Vunn.
The Grand Design moved through the door and began to explore a universe from start to finish. It processed a different realm of reality, physics and solar systems unknown to it, and a language it understood.
