Only the [Archer] had the dignity of any kind of triumph or fleeting resistance on the grime and blood streaked across his unconscious grimace. A few arrows stood out in the Sword Crabs’ carapaces; they didn’t even notice them. The others had honed blades, new clothing tailor-made for their expedition. Explorer’s gear strewn across their camp. The silence of death on their tongues. A lantern hung from each one’s waist, unlit.
Beyond that small hill lay red sand. Horses, bodies, even livestock being devoured. If the [Knight] focused on them, his lance would slip. So he rode—
His horse fell to its knees, and he traded a blow with a Sword Crab; it hit him twice before the horse got up. The [Knight] limped away as the Sword Crab retreated for easier meals.
If he thought the weeping girl could have escaped with him on the horse or alone…she was no gifted rider, and his horse would not last the hour. He had no idea where the Drowned Folk’s city was. If there was hope, it was that the crabs would tire or be sated and leave.
The sun had risen once, and it was like to set again. The [Knight] raised his lance, pausing a moment to wipe away blood trickling across one eye and down his face. He only looked up when the crying ceased; he turned, thinking a Sword Crab had appeared, but his granddaughter was gazing up.
Then the [Knight] saw the [Pilot].
Well, [Aerial Flier].
 
——
 
Fighti had no idea who the old man was. She’d spotted him after her second sweep down the coast just as she was preparing to head out. It was a tiny spot; an inviting-looking landing cove…infested with Sword Crabs.
She didn’t need anyone to tell her what had happened. The ground was a massacre. A single [Knight] was riding against the Sword Crabs coming after the survivors, again and again. A hopeless, idiotic task. He had white hair; that meant he was old, right?
Terandrian? She had no clue from above. She had never met him. But—she saw Mousebite and Evilknee checking their weapons and shouting at Chickenruler to take them lower. Fightipilota checked her goggles and grinned, not in joy, but the mirthful grin of the Redfangs.
She was a former Redfang, one of Garen’s children. She did not know that old [Knight]’s name, but so what?
They already liked him. 
“Coldcream, down! Down!”
The Frost Wyvern was snorting, but Fightipilota’s voice rose over Chickenruler’s.
“No. Take us up. Prepare the Chest of Holding. On my mark—”
The Frost Wyvern rose higher, and Fightipilota heard a scream from below. She ignored it.
The Sword Crabs had noticed the Frost Wyvern, and perhaps reminded of their prey, were scuttling towards the [Knight]. He’d halted, but Fightipilota wasn’t bearing down on any of them. Instead, she was going high.
One hundred feet…two hundred…she wanted more, but there was no time. Fightipilota snapped.
“Brace in three! Open the Chest of Holding…now! [Aileron Roll]!”
All three Goblins and Coldcream screamed as the Wyvern rolled in the air. But Mousebite threw open the Chest of Holding, and Fightipilota reached for her personal bag of holding. She glanced down, and the [Knight] looked up.
 
——
 
The Sword Crabs were scuttling forwards when a fish hit one of them on the eyestalk. It jerked in surprise, then picked up the fat tuna with bemusement and gratification. Falling tuna? What th—
A fifteen-pound stone smashed through its head at considerable speed. Another Sword Crab jerked as it was hit by a dozen fist-sized stones. Another made a clicking sound of agony as another chunk of stone smashed into it.
How? The [Knight] gazed up and then saw the Wyvern right itself. His exhausted mind connected the dots.
Hundreds of feet. The simple expedient of weight. It probably had the force of a stone launched from a catapult. But to calculate where to drop the stones…the flier had to have experience. His eyes focused on a Drake—she had a leather helmet and glass goggles on her head. She pulled something glittering from her bag of holding as the Frost Wyvern banked, coming lower.
The second pass on the confused Sword Crabs dropped fewer objects. But when the Drake tossed down the first red orb, it exploded among the Sword Crabs, sending them scuttling back in alarm. Then the Wyvern exhaled, and ice coated the crabs, who jerked in alarm and agony.
 
——
 
Ammunition’s running low. Fightipilota had only two ‘bombs’ left. The Flasks of Blast and acid jars she was dropping constituted her entire arsenal.
She fired the Thunderbow again. [Double Tap]—one of the Sword Crabs flinched and backed up, but it barely bled.
Way too tough. Fightipilota howled as Coldcream came lower.
“Mousetrap, Evilknee, dropping on the next pass! Get them ready to go! I need another breath attack!”
“Coldcream can’t do it forever!”
“Just keep them back!”
The Sword Crabs were retreating in the face of this unexpected attack, but they were still intent on defending their meal. Now, the Frost Wyvern was barely fifty feet above the ruined campsite and descending.
“Three. Two. One—jump! [Cargo: Softer Landing]!”
The two Redfangs leapt, shouting obscenities at Fighti’s label for them. They rolled into the sand and onto their feet, charging with a roar one of the Sword Crabs still scuttling forwards.
Fightipilota tossed her last Flask of Blast—miss. But it made all but one Sword Crab reel back. She turned as one actually snapped at Coldcream flying overhead.
That one’s their leader. The biggest Sword Crab outweighed the others by at least half as much, and it had a huge claw that it snapped at Coldcream. Even the Frost Wyvern seemed intimidated and banked away from it. Fightipilota nailed the Sword Crab dead center with the acid jar.
Its carapace fizzed and smoked horribly, and the Sword Crab recoiled, trying to wipe the liquid off. Fightipilota pumped a fist…then stared.
“Aw. Never seen that.”
After about thirty seconds, the acid stopped smoking. It had abraded the Sword Crab’s ‘chest’ significantly, but that only seemed to piss the crab off. It waved its claws furiously, and Fightipilota saw it also had a huge hole in its chest, dead-on. The wound seemed fresh—but like the acid jar, it hadn’t been enough. It waved its bloodstained pincers at Fightipilota as she shouted.
“We’re heading down. Get ready!”
The Frost Wyvern landed, shrieking, and Fightipilota fired her Thunderbow again at the Sword Crabs. They were backing up, trying to hit the fire from the alchemical jars, and the Goblin turned.
“Everyone on. Now, now, now! Or you die!”
“Thank you, oh, thank—my grandfather!”
The first person up was a young, Human woman. She had on a traveller’s outfit stained with blood—she seemed like a noblewoman. She had two rings on her fingers and silver hair. Fighti blinked in astonishment, but just hauled her into a chair.
“Up, up!”
Four more people came up, two unable to move, so Mousebite and Evilknee had to wrestle them up. Coldcream groaned at the weight; his riser sacs might not be able to carry everyone! For such huge creatures, they had limited carry capacities.
Fightipilota had a Skill she hoped could get them up. [Aerial Boost] might get them up and gliding, at least out of range of the crabs. She turned.
“That everyone? Let’s g—”
“Wait! Lord Lanight is down there!”
Who? Fighti turned and saw the old [Knight]. He was staring up at her. His eyes were filled with relief, and a very familiar expression was on his face. He looked peaceful as he raised the broken lance. Then turned his horse.
He began to ride towards the Sword Crabs now advancing on their new, appetizing prey. The young woman shouted.
“Grandfather! Stop! He’s going to kill himself. Someone stop him!”
“Yah, duh. Hey you, old guy! Get up here! Horse too!”
Coldcream and Chickenruler gave Fightipilota an incredulous look. But Fightipilota had seen Wyverns grab horses and cows and drag them off…it’d be hard, but what else was she going to do?
The [Knight] didn’t pay attention to her. Cursing, Fighti shouted at the two Redfangs.
“Grab that old guy! He’s last-of-all-death crazy!”
They knew what she meant, even if the Human girl gave Fighti an uncomprehending stare. She added her voices to the other Humans bellowing for the old man to stop. He barely looked over his shoulder. He raised his lance—then reeled forwards in his saddle. His horse screamed and whirled—the old man’s head rose.
Fighti calmly slapped another huge quarrel into her Thunderbow as all of the Humans—and Chickenruler and Coldcream—gave her looks of horror. She thought it was a good shot, hitting him dead in the back while missing the horse.
Everyone else gazed at Fighti in horror. The old [Knight] turned, slowly, then his eyes focused on Fighti. His glazed look turned into confusion. Then—alarm. He steadied his horse, half-turned.
What are you doing? Fighti could almost hear the thought coming off of him.
She couldn’t read his expression. The [Knight] said nothing; she would have been surprised if he could say anything after fighting that long without water or potions. But his eyes certainly said it. She called at him.
“Get on. Or I’ll drag you on after shooting you. Cute horse too. I don’t want to have to shoot it.”
She swung her Thunderbow down, and the horse tried to go crosseyed. The [Knight]’s eyes flicked to his daughter, waving at him.
“Grandfather, listen to the Drake! Please!”
The [Knight]’s eyes flicked to the [Lady], to Fighti—then he opened his mouth.
“I…”
He began to object, but the clicking behind him made the old [Knight] turn. He hesitated—but Fightipilota fired her Thunderbow.
“On, now!”
The two Redfangs raced back towards her, and the old man almost fell from his saddle. Mousebite and Evilknee tied themselves into the harness and began to yank the old man onto Coldcream’s tail. Before they could get any higher, Fightipilota shouted.
“Hold him tight! Up, up! [Aerial Boost]!”
The first Sword Crabs were scuttling at them. The Wyvern leapt into the air, screaming with the effort, but they did fly! Chickenruler was whispering as he hugged his mount.
“Fly, Coldcream! [Lots of Effort]! Don’t fall, don’t—get us out of here, Fighti!”
“Almost…[Snap Dive]!”
The Wyvern passed back over the beach, where a horse was galloping in a circle, as Sword Crabs snapped at it. One reached for the horse—then recoiled as two talons yanked the screaming horse into the air. Then they were flying.
Fightipilota angled them over the nearest plateau of stone she could, towards Nombernaught, as Coldcream shrieked with exhaustion. She looked over her shoulder and counted.
One, two, three, four, five, six. Both Redfangs, Chickenruler…and the [Knight] being held by the two swearing Goblins. He looked up at her, and she gave him a thumbs-up. He just stared at her, eyes lost. His hand was on his sword hilt, and his eyes wrenched away from her to the beach below.
Fightipilota smiled tightly.
Too slow for the others. 
 
——
 
They landed on an open stretch of beach with no Sword Crabs in sight. Fightipilota didn’t waste time; she kicked half her passengers off and took Coldcream up. She hopped the other passengers to a safer spot, flew back, grabbed the rest, and in this way, leapfrogged them to Nombernaught.
Well, all but the horse. The horse did not appreciate being grabbed, so it galloped after the Wyvern after it had been let go the first time. It was definitely the product of a [Beast Tamer]’s Skills.
The passengers didn’t say much—well, they did, but it was so much of ‘thank you’, ‘I thought we were dead’, and weeping that Fightipilota didn’t get much. She focused on her job.
The old [Knight] said nothing; he might have been in shock or just run out of energy. When she told him to get off, he did. When she came to pick him up, he gazed at her with eyes unblinking.
Angry at her for forcing him to go? Confusion warred with exhaustion, and he was tensed. As if expecting the Sword Crabs to attack him even after they had moved miles from the campsite. Given they were still on the coastline, it was sensible. Fighti ignored the gaze.
When she landed at Nombernaught again, the Drowned Folk ran out to meet her and the survivors. One look at them and Officer Me’shere barked.
“Get a [Healer] and muster a group of Deckraiders now! Is there anyone else alive back there?”
“I didn’t see any.”
“No. No, it was just—there were two hundred of us. They’re all dead. We had [Knights]. And they—they—”
For all the Officer’s complaints about landfolk, she very gently took the young woman’s arm.
“You’re safe now, Miss. Let’s get you inside. Miss Rider, you have the gall of a Krakenhunter if you grabbed them from Sword Crabs.”
Fighti just shrugged. She was eying the [Knight]. He’d frozen up, probably with exhaustion, once they’d gotten him away from the crabs.
“What’s your name, Miss? How many fingers am I holding up? Who’re your people?”
The Drowned Man was speaking to the young [Lady]. She stared at his hand.
“Th-that’s a claw. I’m Lady Calva of House Lanight. A—a [Strategist]. There is my grandfather, Lord Olvos Lanight. Please, see to him. He was fighting the Sword Crabs all night into dawn—”
The Drowned Man turned and muttered an oath as he saw the old [Knight] sitting on the ground.
“By himself? Dead gods, that’s full mithril armor. House Lanight? What kingdom is that?”
The girl, Lady Calva, gave him one of those ‘how do you not know?’ looks. She spoke as if it were obvious.
“Bitorm. Terandria.”
Fighti had no idea where that was. But she approached the old [Knight].
“Hey. Good fighting. You bleeding? Dying?”
She checked him over, but aside from the broken arm and a lot of battering, he looked relatively okay. At worst, he’d probably only fractured a few dozen bones. Considering what had happened to the others…
The old [Knight]’s head rose. He had lost that dream-like focus, but he still had an amazingly good posture. His voice was more mellifluous than Fighti expected and deeper than his age. He spoke with that real poshness that Fighti had heard from some people on the scrying orb, as if he had a Skill or had taken lessons in how to speak good.
He glanced once again at his granddaughter, then the other Drowned Folk, and paused a good moment. Then he slowly inclined his head at Fightipilota, studying the rest of her companions with a frown. The old man seemed to be warier of Fighti more than the others, which again, checked out, and addressed her slowly.
“I am in your debt…[Wyvern Rider]. My granddaughter and people would have perished without your aid. If there is any reward you wish for, name it. It shall be granted.”
