Leaving Luo-Luo with a supportive smile and a gentle reminder not to overwork herself, I take the family for a nice, relaxing stroll around the pond. Lovely as the sight is, with Ping Ping and the quins splashing about while the bunnies, wildcats, and bears romp through the grass, our outing is marred by mocking laughter and snide remarks emanating from a crowd of hapless fools following us around. Ignoring them is easy enough, but I’m still eagerly awaiting the day when one of them slips up and goes too far, at which point I’ll order my Death Corps guards to rip a few tongues out. So long as I have reasonable cause, I don’t care what nasty rumours it might kick up, but these particular fops and dandies are much smarter than Gulong, or they merely learned from his mistakes.

So instead, I do what I always do and pretend they don’t exist, while my Death Corps escorts commit every snub and insult to memory so I can have my sweet, petty vengeance once I’m all better. Fuck taking the high road or being the better man, the second I figure out this broken Spiritual Self business, there’s going to be hell to pay. How I’ll do this without being able to sense my Spiritual Self or reach for Balance without debilitating agony is a question I’ve been wrestling with, but I have a few ideas which may or may not pan out, and other, more extreme ideas I’m not willing to try before I’ve expended all other options. Either way, I’m confident I’ll come up with an appropriate working solution eventually, but in the meantime, I’ll have to settle for minor victories, like finding the server who didn’t hold our reservation and making his life a living hell. He’s gone now, having left the citadel two days prior to escape from angry debt collectors, and now everyone knows that if they take coin to disrespect my family, then they best disappear the moment the job is done, else they’re gonna get robbed, humiliated, and run out of town.

Vicious and narrow-minded? Perhaps, but fuck it. I was crippled defending their worthless asses, and if that’s not enough to buy me goodwill from the common people, then vicious and narrow-minded I shall be.

Granted, I still haven’t worked up the courage to visit another restaurant. I don’t like me much when I’m angry. Rage and hatred take a toll on my psyche, one I’d rather not pay too often. Odd as it may seem considering my current circumstances, but these days, I find I’m genuinely happy more often than not. It’s liberating to sit around and do nothing without feeling like I’m wasting my time, because in truth, I’m not wasting time. I’m recuperating, focused on getting better and just being happy. Last night, I fell asleep star-gazing with Lin and Song, and the day before I watched the cattle push hay around for an hour, and the day before that, I taught Roc and the other birds how to flip onto their backs for treats and belly rubs. I can’t remember the last time I let myself go and just enjoyed the moment instead of fretting about my lack of strength or what to do next, but now, I’m so weak, even Tali or Tate could beat me up, so why worry about the Defiled? It’s out of my hands regardless, so I might as well enjoy my vacation while other people deal with the heavy lifting.

Besides, it’s not like everyone I come across is mean and ungrateful. There are plenty of smiles and too many reverent stares from people who’ve bought into BoShui's nonsense, treating me like I’m a saint walking amongst mortals or something. They’re a quiet bunch, because my detractors are liable to take offence at their praise or support, but they’re there, and it brightens my day to see their smiles and nods. It’s not limited to civilian life either. Hongji still keeps in touch and is raising a personal unit of crossbowmen with mixed results while Dienne personally paid a visit to purchase twenty chariots to test out, and I look forward to hearing about both endeavours. Too bad the stiff-backed southerner wasn’t willing to sell me any rhinos or elephants, because I would love to add a sweet tank pupper or a snufflepupagus to my pet menagerie. I suppose it’s for the best; without my loving Aura, I’m not sure how I’d bond with a war-trained animal large enough to swallow me whole.

Calling it quits after one-hundred-and-fifty-two steps, I take a seat on my walker to catch my breath, my silk shirt soaked with sweat and body wracked with chills. Grinning as Lin and Song fuss around me and Mom smiles and watches on, I settle in to enjoy the attention and thank them both for their help. Lin has been great this entire time, but Song has only recently warmed up to her new circumstances, no longer behaving as if a life bound to my side was anything less than a death sentence. She still cries a lot, which I know because Husolt shoots me dirty looks every time we’re together, but I can’t blame her and don’t take it personally. Or, at least I try not to. I don’t enjoy knowing that the thought of spending her life with me makes Song break down into tears multiple times a day, but what can I do?

I mean, sure, I’m a little in love with her and would go to great lengths to make her happy, but it’s not like anything would come of it even if she reciprocated my feelings, not until I fix this whole debilitating weakness thing and icky master/slave relationship...

Suppressing the urge to sigh, I snuggle with Lin and pull out a box of fresh shrimp while she lets loose with a piercing whistle. A tiny splash and a small rustle of grass gives Pong Pong away as he darts out of the pond and scurries over to my lap. Diving into the box with a satisfied squeak, he munches away at the crunchy, delectable delights and makes short work of fifteen palm-length shrimp, a horrifying, yet fascinating sight. Finished with his meal, the tiny turtle climbs out of the box and hunkers down to tolerate my affections, his eyes wide and mouth open in hopes of more shrimp. “Sorry little guy,” I whisper, giving his head a light scratch and enjoying the smooth, supple feeling of his wet skin. “No more shrimp for today, but I got plenty of other treats.” Sadly, as per usual, Pong Pong doesn’t want anything to do with veggies, dried fish, or various other snacks I’ve brought him, and he gives a little mournful squeak before hopping off to do his business in a pan of water.

It’s annoying how he still demands to poop in a container when the pond is right there. All I do is empty the pan the moment he’s done, but if I don’t put one down, he’ll squeak up a storm until –

A heart-rending shriek rips through the air and I almost fall out of my walker, but Lin and Mom both reach out to support me while Song leaps to her feet with weapon in hand. Gasping in horror, she points at the source of the shrill scream even as more sound out in tandem, a tragic, mournful wail which fills me with fear and despair, doubly so when I set eyes on the horrible bloodbath taking place in the park beside us.

So much blood... So much ferocity... It’s an all-out, no-holds-barred, bunny brawl...

Standing on her hind legs, Mama Bun lays the smack-down on her sweet babies as they fight to surge past her, butting heads and locking horns in a family feud of epic proportions. All thirteen buns present in the citadel are taking part, shoving, kicking, and clawing in a chaotic pile of fur and blood, displaying a never before seen savage ferocity so at odds with their regular, happy selves.

Running over to break the fight up, Lin pushes the bunbuns apart to no avail, and even Song is helpless to stop them. Letting out a cry of surprise, my sweet wifey drops to the ground and my heart skips a beat, but mere seconds later, she hops back up unscathed with a bundle of grass clutched in her hand held overhead, its roots still stuck to a clump of dirt. Immediately, the bunbuns stop their fight and crowd around my wifey’s legs, hopping and thumping in an attempt to capture what’s in her hands. Luckily, it seems like none of them are too badly wounded, and a few even go so far as to flop on their sides to offer their bellies for pets, ignoring their bleeding wounds and torn ears in desperate appeal for the treat. After studying the treat in question, I realize the item which sparked this fight was none other than a clump of dragon whisker grass, one of the more common Spiritual Plants, but a Spiritual Plant nonetheless.

The question is: how? We’ve been here for weeks so it’s not like it’s been there the whole time, so how could a Spiritual Plant grow in the middle of a populated field? I swear we sat there like two, maybe three weeks ago, doing the exact same thing we’re doing right –

The pieces come together and I glance down at Pong Pong’s poop pan, my eyes no doubt glimmering with greed as I stare at the runny poop floating in its watery depths.

It couldn’t be... could it? It makes sense though, and it’s not even too far a stretch...

When I first came across Pong Pong, his shell was covered in Spiritual Algae, the same stuff found on Sir Inky’s rock. Then, there was the whole unfortunate business with the bunbuns where I found them drinking Pong Pong’s poop water and accidentally splashed it all around my yurt trying to get them away from it. In the following weeks, I’d often find the bunbuns snacking on something in the vicinity of his poop disposal area, but for the sake of my mental well-being, I never took a close look at what they were eating, or even thought about it at all, but now the pieces are all coming together. This isn’t the first time Mama Bun’s gotten in a fight with her babies over food in the wild, with the most recent one in memory being when she punted Blackjack away the same day we first fought Pudge. I distinctly remember Mama Bun jumping out of my embrace and racing ahead the moment we rode into our old campsite, making a beeline to where my yurt had been placed a few weeks prior instead of the flower-filled meadow beside us, but I chalked it up to hunger and stupidity.

Which honestly, was a pretty stupid assumption. She’s a lazy, spoiled bun who knows to inspect at my pockets when she wants something to eat, so why would she leave the comfort of my arms if not for a high value treat, like say a young, tender Spiritual Plant?

Does this mean Spiritual Plants grow when fertilized by Pong Pong’s precious, magical poop? Did I just solve a millennia old mystery? Just think of the possibilities if this is true. I could farm Spiritual Plants. Endless ingredients for priceless, life-saving medicines, not the mention the ability to test any and all recipes or elixirs which might help me fix my Core and Spiritual Self. Maybe I could even grow Spiritual Rice to eat, or a Spiritual Tree which grows Spiritual Fruits, and use them to feed an army of powerful, intelligent, affectionate bunbuns! This is game-changing, not to mention it would prove the existence of other creatures like Pong Pong, flying creatures which leave their Spiritual Plant nourishing poop wherever they drop it...

...Also, I should wash my hands and never kiss the stupid turtle again. If his shell was covered in Spiritual Algae, and Spiritual Algae grows from his poop...

Gross. Divine Turtle my ass, what sort of Divinity swims around in their own poop?

Chapter Meme

Mama Bun's song
