Truth be told, the crowd’s warm smiles and resounding applause made her much happier than the Emperor’s solitary standing ovation, so genuine and heartfelt it brought tears to her eyes.

The crowd chanted for her to play again, so she sat back down and obliged, beaming as Lord Husband and his family cheered her on from the side. The hours passed quickly and she played until her fingers cramped, then she played some more until she could no longer continue, and only then did she beg leave to rest. The crowd gracefully acquiesced after she promised to play another concert tomorrow, and she packed her instrument away while reflecting on her “Rise to Glory”. Back then, she’d written the piece thinking her performance for the Emperor would be her crowning achievement, but things had not worked out as she hoped, with her true glory yet to come. There was more to the song, and she felt it coming together within her, the chords, progressions, harmonies, and resolutions all but writing themselves.

Committing the changes to memory, she shooed away the curious Jimjam and Baloo before they broke her zither case and left it for the Death Corps guards to bring away. Rejoining Lord Husband, she beamed as he, her sister wives, and her in-laws all praised her musical talents, concise and short-lived though their compliments might be. Though Lord Husband had little to say and faked his enthusiasm, Sister Alsantset seemed less miffed by Luo-Luo’s presence and gave her a pat on the head as if she were a mere child, but the fierce tigress treated Lord Husband the same way, so Luo-Luo took no offence.

Dinner was a festive affair as all of Lord Husband’s family gathered together to celebrate the end of the first day in the thirty-sixth year of the current Emperor’s reign. Luo-Luo was twenty-four years old now, a full four years older than Lord Husband yet still a girl without child. More importantly, by Bekhai tradition, Lord Husband and Mila were both of marriageable age, which meant their nuptials would happen soon enough. Once the fierce, freckled Mila was sated, then Lord Husband would finally be free to lay with Luo-Luo as well, and their bond would only deepen. Perhaps next time, Luo-Luo would welcome the new year with a babe in her belly, or if they acted quickly enough, in her arms.

While they ate and laughed, everyone praised her musical talents and Mother-in-law Sarnai seemed especially interested, asking questions and making arrangements for tomorrow’s concert while sending invitations to all her friends and associates. Delighted to finally have obtained the dragon lady’s approval, Luo-Luo committed to finishing Rise to Glory for tomorrow’s performance even if she didn’t sleep a single wink, a minor sacrifice now that she was a fully-fledged practising Martial Warrior.

As the festivities came to an end, Luo-Luo cuddled a sleepy Tate in her arms and prayed for these joyous, happy days to last forever, but she spoke too soon as an Imperial Messenger arrived strode in without fanfare, flying the Emperor’s dragon banner to denote official business. Without need for reminder, Lord Husband and his family all fell to their knees and bowed their heads, albeit a little slower than Luo-Luo would have deemed respectful. “Ten thousand years of boundless longevity upon the Emperor,” they all said in chorus, the traditional greeting to receive an Imperial missive. “Imperial Servant Zheng Luo awaits her orders.”

Obviously the others stated their own names, but the Imperial Messenger had no time to listen to their introductions one by one. Striding over to Luo-Luo, he placed the missive into her waiting hands and said, “The Emperor Demands.”

“And this servant obeys,” she replied, keep her head low until the Imperial Messenger’s boots could no longer be heard, at which point she raised her head and broke the seal on the scroll. Why her? Why not Lord Husband or his parents or Grand-Mentor? “It is a summons,” she read, answering the unasked question. “Demanding the presence of...” Her eyes widened as she saw the order the names were written in, but she dared not recite them out of order, for this missive represented the Emperor’s will. “Demanding the presence of Imperial Servant Zheng Luo and Falling Rain. There is a Death Corps escort waiting outside, and we are to proceed alone and unaccompanied by any others, including our own honour guard under threat of execution.” Rereading the missive, she quickly pointed out the discrepancies she noticed, knowing time was of the essence. “This is not signed. There are no other orders. The threat is written without flaw, almost in a bored manner.” Meaning whoever penned it was used to issuing death threats over minor matters. “There is no location stated, no time frame for return, and no reason for the summons, but we must obey.”

“Go then,” Akanai said, her voice strained and eyes angry as the rest of her warrior family bristled with indignation. “If you do not return, know you will not die alone.”

While a bit over-dramatic, she wasn’t wrong to worry since Lord Husband’s status presented something of an issue. Imperial Scions were meant to be seen as superior to all others by virtue of birth alone, and even though he was merely an Imperial Consort, Lord Husband’s condition brought disgrace to the Imperial Clan as a whole, which meant it was entirely possible he would be made to disappear. Idly wondering which of his wives Akanai meant to send after Lord Husband in death, Luo-Luo helped him board the waiting carriage and sat with him in silence, clutching his arm close to calm her nerves while he read through the missive himself.

“Don’t worry,” Lord Husband said, stroking her hand gently. “If they meant to execute me, they wouldn’t have sent such a nice carriage.”

A statement which made no sense whatsoever, but his intentions were good, and she settled her nerves to think. This wasn’t Shen ZhenWu’s work, this much she knew, because even if he intended to dispose of Lord Husband, it would have been done in secret since there was nothing to be gained from alienating the Bekhai and their many allies. No, this was a calculated move meant to humiliate and enrage, which meant the summons came from someone at odds with Lord Husband’s patron, someone inferior to Shen ZhenWu since he wasn’t publicly scheduled to arrive for another three days, and only the weaker party would avoid direct conflict. Games and schemes, but even though Luo-Luo sat at the heart of the matter, she had yet to understand the rules and stakes.

Though it didn’t last long in terms of minutes, the carriage ride felt like it stretched on into eternity, and when it finally came to a stop, Luo-Luo’s heart skipped a beat. It was entirely possible their mysterious host would have them both executed out of hand and lay the blame on Lord Husband after the fact, but as she stepped out into the night’s gloom, she breathed a sigh of relief. Silent despite her ponderous size, the Guardian Turtle of Ping Yao had followed them to their destination, which might mean the difference between life and death. After helping Lord Husband out with his walker, she held his arm for support and followed him in through the inconspicuous manor gates. Her path barred by Death Corps soldiers, the Guardian Turtle squeaked in protest until Lord Husband turned around to address the silent guards. “The big girl is sweet and all, but she's also super attached and doesn’t like letting me out of sight. If you keep her from following, she will squash you all and break down the gates. Not a threat, just the facts.” Shrugging as if it were no concern of his, he turned back around and proceeded into the empty manor courtyard, ignoring the increasingly insistent squeaks emanating behind him. The Death Corps outside must have received new instructions, for soon after, the Guardian Turtle shuffled inside to loom protectively over Lord Husband, her meaty legs encircling them both while she watched over from above.

Though usually a gentle creature, today the Guardian Turtle seemed agitated and protective as if sensing a threat, news which did nothing to calm Luo-Luo’s nerves.

Stepping out of thin air, their host appeared in the empty, but well lit courtyard, a golden armoured Imperial Scion much younger than Shen ZhenWu. If the man before them was a day over twenty five, then she would dance naked in the streets, for his youthful features had yet to take on the timeless gleam shared by older, yet still youthful-looking Martial Warriors. What’s more, he completely ignored Lord Husband and stared at Luo-Luo with a ravenous gaze, and this unbridled arrogance and obvious disdain spoke volumes to his inexperience since it put even her politically blind Lord Husband on his guard.

Seeing no Imperial Dragon Banner or Imperial Dragon Sigil in sight, Lord Husband clasped his hands and offered a Martial Salute in lieu of bowing, giving their host what she hoped was an intended slight. “Imperial Consort Falling Rain offers greeting. I’m afraid you have me at a disadvantage, as I’ve no idea who you are.”

Mother in Heaven, if these slights weren’t intentional, then Luo-Luo would have to give yet another long, lengthy lecture on etiquette. Perhaps she could illustrate it for him, since he didn’t seem too taken by her music or poetry...

Seething with rage, the Imperial Scion’s hand strayed to his sword, but Lord Husband merely smirked in response. His cavalier attitude gave their host pause, as did the Guardian Turtle looming overhead, so with a well-practised sneer, the young Imperial placed his hands behind his back and said, “Your ignorance is expected, savage. Clean your ears and listen properly. This Noble is – Yiii?”

Retreating several steps as Lord Husband picked his ears and flicked his finger clean, the Imperial Scion looked positively horrified. “Sorry,” Lord Husband said, wiping his hands on his jacket. “Ears cleaned. You were saying?”

“...This Noble,” the Scion said, his face twisted in fury, “Is Yang Jixing.”

“Uh huh, and the purpose of this meeting?” Though Lord Husband was unimpressed, Luo-Luo inwardly gasped at the youth’s name. The surname Yang meant this young noble was related to the Prime Minister, perhaps even directly related considering he had the gall to offend the favoured Heir to the throne like so.

Annoyed by Lord Husband’s lack of reaction and dismissive tone, Yang Jixing’s neck pulsed as he visibly swallowed his indignation. Speaking through clenched teeth, he uttered each word with great effort and lacking restraint. “Your Imperial Servant, Zheng Luo. This Noble wishes to purchase her. Her talents are wasted on a savage like you. I will gift you with another Imperial Servant who will also bestow the title of Imperial Consort upon you, so you need not worry about the loss of your title.”

“Not for sale.” Lord Husband’s refusal was direct and without hesitation, a response which warmed Luo-Luo’s heart. “If that’s all...?” Though his words implied asking for leave, Lord Husband was already turning for the door.

“You... Do you know who I am? Who my father is?”

Barely containing a snort of laughter, Lord Husband coughed and said, “No, but I suppose you’ll tell me.”

“My father is the Prime Minister of the Empire.” Pausing as if he expected Lord Husband to recoil in fear or grovel for mercy, Yang Jixing frowned as Lord Husband continued hobbling away, though the Guardian Turtle didn’t seem willing to move just yet. “Do you not understand what this means? My father’s word is the Emperor’s justice. You have many cases awaiting adjudication, and I only need crook my finger to have them all ruled in favour of your opponents.”

“Really? That’s a shame.” Frowning in consternation, Lord Husband sighed and looked up at the night’s sky. Or not. “Ping Ping, I’m tired and don’t want to walk around you, so could you please move?”

The Guardian Turtle didn’t respond, but Yang Jixing exploded with anger, screaming, “You worthless fucking savage! You should be grateful this Noble is even interested in your woman! You will hand her over or –”

“Or what? You’ll kill me here and now? No? Then I’m leaving.” Unconcerned by Jixing’s tantrum, Lord Husband gave a bored look over his shoulder and said, “The Imperial Missive demanded our presence here, but it said nothing about staying or listening to anyone. I doubt the Emperor would let an idiot like you speak with his voice, so whoever sent the summons isn’t willing to directly intervene. You can threaten all you want, but Luo-Luo is not for sale. She is my Consort, not a commodity to be traded.” Glancing at her in apparent apprehension, he added, “That is... unless you want to go with him. Do you?”

Warmed by his declaration and genuine concern, Luo-Luo moved close and took his arm once more. “No Lord Husband,” she said, her eyes wide and glowing. “This one will not leave you unless ordered by the Emperor himself.”

“Cool. Let’s roll.” Unromantic as always, Lord Husband nodded and bumped the Guardian Turtle with his walker. “Excuse me Ping Ping. Beep Beep. Back up.”

With an adorable squeak of challenge, the Guardian Turtle backed away slowly with mouth open and eyes wide, glaring not at the young Scion but at his protector or backer hidden in the shadows. “You’ll regret this,” Jixing yelled, but Lord Husband paid him no heed. “She will be mine, but now I will destroy you and everyone you hold dear to take her. You hear me?”

