“He knows we have a recording… of what he did, what he did to me. O God. OH GOD. We lied to him. Eppie. We lied to his face! He’ll never let us go now. He won’t forgive us. He won’t stop at the cats this time….”

Lim’s face grew blank, then it turned a deep, deep scarlet, like the hue of raw pork liver.

“So the cat, I assume, is either Mr Chin or…”

“Not Mr Chin…” Lim buried his face in his hands. “I should have just killed him. A few of the cats had gone missing after May. One or two, every few weeks. I thought they left…”

“Well, it's spilt milk now,” Eppie patted the man’s head, as did Mr Chin. “What the hell is this recording?”

“I am ashamed to say that I don’t actually know,” Lim shook his head, looking like a large dog in denial. “I am not privy to a lot of the actual happenings in LAPA. My crew mostly deal with things that William can’t handle himself.”

“True,” Eppie stowed her phone. “It’s not like he called on you to go and brutalise Mio or kick her cats. He managed that all by his God-damned, bottled-spider self.”

“But this is important,” Lim’s face grew hopeful. “And it's tied to what happened to you.”

“I am starting to get that vibe,” she hugged Mr Chin to her chest. The cat meowed.

“You don’t know why you jumped…”

“Nothing,” Eppie shook her head. “But I guess we have leads now.”

“We?” The giant scratched his head. “Yeah, WE, you oaf.”

+ Karmic Causality

Eppie did her best to smile, but her makeup was smudged, and she had no idea how she looked. “Our leads, Simone Goode, and Luciana Mio. You said you knew where Mio had gone?”Lim nodded, stroking Mrs Catch’em with the flow of a martial artist, but the precision of an accountant. “I hoped to God that she had run away before William got to her, and now I know she did exactly that.”

“Any idea where?”

Lim pulled out his phone, punched in a name, and showed her.

“Fresno?” She was ashamed to say that she had never travelled to Fresno in her life. “What’s in Fresno?”

“I don’t know,” Lim replied, shrugging his shoulders as Mrs Catch’em purred. “She mentioned it a dozen times in her conversations. I assume she has family there. It’s a Latino-heavy community. There are Peruvian families there, I think. Her mother's people. Peruvian, Japanese. Nikkei.”

“I see,” Eppie did her best to digest the details. “And Simone?”

“I’ll squeeze the information from her.” Lim’s face grew grim. “She’s guilty, for sure.”

“Maybe, but let me have a dig first,” Eppie shook her head. “Don’t want her running to William and telling on you. It’s normal, though, if she snitches on me. That’s assuming she even has the gonads to mention anything to William.”

“Alright,” Lim concurred. “That makes sense.”

“And we’ll need help,” she added some [Vocality] and [Persuasion] to her voice to make sure her co-conspirator took the news kindly. “Eric Lee, my lawyer, and Charlene Lafitte of the LA TIMES have both heard the recording I just played for you. They can be immensely helpful to us. Are you willing to make this big?”

“If it means taking down William,” Lim replied with equal seriousness. “I mean, truly take him down…”

“That’s going to be a bit challenging for us students, but there’s more than one way to skin a cat,” Eppie snickered wickedly, soliciting a meow from Mr Chin. “It’s the age of mass information. Mr Chen and Mr Sanders will have to carefully consider their career choices if William lets slip his dirty deeds.”

Their eyes met. DING—! DINGS—!

Her phone chimed. It was 10 PM. Curfew.

“FUCK,” Eppie swore. “Josefina is going to kill me.”

“I’ll walk you back,” Lim offered. “Don’t,” Eppie shook her head. “We’ll meet like this, in the Cat Society. Or where the strays hang out that only we know. It's safer. Text me like you always do. Talk about cats, keep me hooked.”

“Right, right…” Lim looked at her strangely. “Why are you so good at this?”

“Well,” Eppie tilted her head and made her ears move. “I am Frankenstein’s Monster, risen from the dead, remember?”

“Are you serious?”

“Dead serious.”

Lim laughed. His eyes were swollen.

It was time to go, or Josefina might just skin her.

Outside the Old Dorms, the pair looked at the renovated building with Chen’s name written all over the design. From here, they could see the Main Building. The LAPA signage. And above that signage, a teenage girl had leapt off the edge.

"There was no accident,” he said to her. “I am sure of it.”

+ Karmic Causality

“Yeah,” Eppie replied as her [Causality] increased by yet another increment. “It sure as hell wasn’t.”
