She woke on Day 5 to the basin thrush calling in fours.

She was out of the bedroll before she had consciously registered the change -- four syllables, not three, the bird's signal for *check the sky*. She stood at the tarp's edge in the grey pre-light and looked up through the canopy gap. The sky was cloud-layered, uniform, not the hard-edged cloud of incoming weather but the soft grey ceiling of something that had been moving in from the south overnight and had simply arrived while she slept. The air smelled different. Damp, but not the Thornwild's usual vegetative damp -- something more mineral in it, a trace of altitude, as if the plateau's colder air had finally remembered where it was going.

The high wind. The one the Shelf had relayed on Day 3, bending the rowan west. It had taken two days to reach the basin floor.

She dressed and went to the fire.

---

Theron was already there. He had rebuilt it from coals, poured water, arranged things. He did not look at her when she sat.

She did not speak.

They drank tea in the grey morning while the basin thrush called its four-syllable check-the-sky above them and the canopy gap showed nothing but cloud. After a while Theron looked toward the northeast -- not his south-east glance, not the grief-compass. Northeast. Toward the ruins.

"The east structure," he said. "Hadley's slab."

"What about it?"

"The root system holding it." He turned his cup. "Ghost-elm root. The same species as the grove." He paused. "The roots grew to catch it. Not by accident. The tree grew its lateral roots toward the stone after the slab fell."

She considered this. "How long ago did the slab fall?"

"Forty years. Maybe fifty." His hands were still around the cup. "The tree was there first. It redirected its growth."

She said nothing. She was thinking about roots and intention, about whether a tree that grew toward a falling stone was making a choice or following a gradient. She thought it was probably both, and that the distinction mattered less than the result: the dry space still existed. Something had preserved it.

"We should see it properly," she said.

"Yes." He drank. "After Maret."

---

Hadley emerged at the smell of flatcakes -- the cloud cover had not changed his internal schedule -- and delivered, over the first flatcake, a complete theory about the canopy disruption pattern's relationship to root-system geometry in the ruins' northeast quadrant, which he had been refining since yesterday. He stopped mid-sentence and looked at Theron.

"Maret's coming today," he said. It was not a question.

"She'll be here by midday."

"Right." Hadley looked at his flatcake. "I should probably not narrate my root-geometry theory at Maret."

"No," Theron said.

"Or at all, initially."

"No."

Hadley nodded with the gravity of someone receiving tactical advice before a difficult negotiation. He finished his flatcake in thoughtful silence.

---

The ruins in cloud-light were a different place.

Without shadow, the walls lost their dimension -- the stones flattened, the mortar lines less distinct, the whole structure more ancient-looking, as if the grey light had removed the present tense and left only the past. [Wayfinder's Eye] still showed the grey shimmer, but softer today, less edged. The shimmer looked more natural in cloud, like something the ruins had been doing quietly for decades and had only revealed in direct sun because she happened to be paying attention at the right moment.

She went to the east structure first.

The slab had fallen at an angle, a section of roof-stone, large enough to create a sheltered space underneath that was approximately the length and width of two people lying side by side. The ghost-elm root system held it from below: three thick lateral roots that had, over decades, grown parallel to the ground and curved upward at exactly the right points to brace the slab from beneath. The roots had bark that pressed against stone and stone that had worn smooth where it met root, each surface shaped by the other's presence over time.

Under the slab, it was dry.

Not merely sheltered -- dry in the specific way of spaces that have been dry long enough to develop their own atmosphere, a quality of air that had not been rained on in years. The soil under the slab was different from outside it: finer-grained, lighter in color, the kind of soil that held heat and released it slowly. She crouched at the slab's edge and pressed her palm to the ground inside.

The ground was warmer.

Not the stone's ambient warmth -- that was the bond-potential expressing itself. This was soil warmth, the warmth of something insulated. In a space this small, this well-sealed, the temperature differential between inside and outside might be enough, over winter, to keep seed stock viable.

*Seed storage,* Theron had said. *East-facing, dry.*

```stat-screen
-------------------------------------------------------------
  DISCOVERY LOGGED
  Location: Unnamed Ruins — East Structure (Seed Storage)
  Type: Architectural Feature (Structural Adaptation)
-------------------------------------------------------------

  Ghost-elm root system has grown lateral braces beneath
  collapsed roof slab, maintaining a sheltered dry space.
  Root-stone contact surfaces show mutual wear: decades
  of cohabitation.

  Interior soil analysis: finer grain, elevated temperature.
  Consistent with original function maintained by
  incidental ecological succession.

  The building is still doing what it was built to do.

  +45 XP (discovery: architectural + ecological)
  Surveying: +2 proficiency
-------------------------------------------------------------
```

*The building is still doing what it was built to do.*

She held that for a moment. Then she stood, brushed the soil from her palm, and went to find Hadley.

---

He was at the prayer-notch.

She had expected him to be at the central clearing, or measuring the northwest wall, or doing something productive and loud. Instead he was standing very still at the north wall's upper course, looking at the small pale plant that grew in the rectangular cut the Rimfolk builder had left. His notebook was open but he was not writing in it.

"You know what it is," she said.

"I've been trying to decide if I know what it is." He did not look at her. "It looks like a cave-pearl fern. I've seen them in the limestone karst near Millhaven -- they grow in enclosed spaces, protected from light, and they produce spores rather than seeds because seeds would need more light than they can access." He paused. "But I've only ever seen them underground. In caves. In hollows in the escarpment face."

"This isn't underground."

"No. But it has the same quality of enclosure." He finally looked at her. "The prayer-notch is facing east, and the moss has grown over the upper lip. The interior is almost entirely dark. The plant found it the way a cave-plant finds a cave -- not because it's underground, but because it's protected. Because something made room for it."

She looked at the pale plant. It was small -- perhaps ten centimeters tall, with fronds that were not quite green, more white-grey, adapted for minimal light. Growing in the dark because someone had left a rectangular cut in the stone that was exactly the right size and orientation to create the conditions it needed.

"The Rimfolk builder left that cut for the land's memory," she said. "And the land used it."

Hadley was quiet for a moment. "I've been gathering in the Thornwild for three seasons," he said. "I've walked past this wall I don't know how many times." He looked at the notebook he was not writing in. "I didn't know there was a wall."

She waited.

"It's a different feeling," he said, "than not knowing there was a rare species of fern. Not knowing there was a wall means I was -- I was living in someone's home. I was gathering food from someone's garden, effectively. For three seasons." He closed the notebook. "I don't know what to do with that."

She thought about what to say. She thought about the Warden's Shelf, the way she had pressed her hands to limestone that had been holding the Thornwild's acoustics for a thousand years before she arrived, and the way the System had called it *not yet properly met.* She thought about what it meant to meet something properly.

"I think," she said, "you do what you've been doing. You pay attention. And now you pay attention with the knowledge that someone else paid attention here first."

Hadley looked at the plant in the prayer-notch. He opened his notebook. He began, carefully, to draw it.

She put her hand on the wall beside the notch -- not in it, not touching the plant. The stone was warm. The [Dormant] trait in her chest was quiet, the way the Shelf was quiet on its coldest nights: not absent, but sleeping deeply.

She closed her eyes.

She recognized what was happening. The threshold stone had taught her: distributed attention, extended presence, no grasping. The system opened [Lay the Path] when you stopped trying to make it open. She knew this now the way she knew the basin thrush's four-syllable call -- not as a rule but as a fact of the place.

But the prayer-notch was not the threshold stone.

The threshold stone was warmth without identity -- a sleeping thing, deep and impersonal. The prayer-notch had Hadley beside her still drawing, had the moss-darkened lip above the fern, had the builder's cut in the stone that someone had deliberately left and something had deliberately used. There was intention in it, layered down through how many tenants she could not count. The cave-pearl fern. The moss. Whatever the moss had succeeded. Whatever had been here before the stone was shaped at all.

[Lay the Path] opened, for the second time in this place.

Not quieter. More specific. As if the ruins knew which kind of attention she was paying and had been waiting for exactly this.

The bond formed at the prayer-notch.

She felt it seat differently than the threshold stone had -- not warmth spreading upward but something more like recognition, the quality of a place that has been seen and tended across generations finally acknowledging that it is being seen again. The threshold stone: [Dormant], sleeping, waiting for depth she hadn't reached yet. The prayer-notch: awake in the small persistent way of things that have never been entirely abandoned. The cave-pearl fern. The moss. Hadley's careful sketch. Her hand on the stone beside the notch. A chain of attention she had just become part of.

```stat-screen
-------------------------------------------------------------
  SYMPATHETIC BOND FORMED
  Location: Unnamed Ruins — Prayer-Notch
  Bond Depth: Glimpsed
  Trait Active: [Tended] — Elemental family
  Bond Type: Cluster Node 2 of ?
-------------------------------------------------------------

  Cluster map updated: 2 nodes bonded.

  [Tended]: This location has been continuously cared for
  across multiple generations of tenancy. The care was not
  always human. What is cared for persists.

  Discoveries at bond: 2
  Active Bonds: 4/? [Warden's Shelf, Warden's Eye,
                      Ruins — Threshold Stone,
                      Ruins — Prayer-Notch]

  Network connections: 6 (geometric, 4 nodes)

  +75 XP (Cluster Node 2)
  Surveying: +3 proficiency
-------------------------------------------------------------
```

Six connections. She read the number twice.

Two bonds had been one connection. Three bonds had been three connections. Four bonds were six. And a fifth bond -- when it came, wherever it came -- would make ten. The network was not growing arithmetically. It was growing the way ghost-elm groves grew, each new tree increasing the resonance not by one grove's-worth but by every possible relationship between all the groves.

She opened her eyes.

Hadley had not stopped drawing. She did not tell him what had happened. She stood beside him and looked at his sketch of the cave-pearl fern, which was detailed and precise and showed, in the careful shading of the fronds, that he had been paying attention to this plant for longer than the drawing had taken.

"Hadley," she said. "What will you do, on your upslope run?"

He looked up. "Take the letter. Buy iron wire and birch-bark strips for Theron. Leave at first light tomorrow, back in four days." He paused. "Why?"

"I want to write another letter. Before you go."

---

Maret arrived at midday, as Theron had said.

She came from the east -- along the basin's edge, through territory Wren had not yet mapped. She arrived without announcement, stepping out of the treeline and into the camp's clearing with the practiced ease of someone who had been walking toward specific places for forty years and had no doubt about her navigation. She was shorter than Wren had imagined, and older -- not elderly but well into her sixties, with grey-white hair bound back and a face that had been weathered by the same forest that had weathered Theron, though differently. Where Theron's weathering was compressed, made angular by wind and cold, Maret's was layered. Sedimentary.

She looked at Wren.

Not the way Theron looked at her -- not assessment, not recalibration. Something slower. The look of a person who was filing. Who had heard something and was checking it against a version she had carried for a long time and was deciding which version to keep.

She set her pack down beside Theron's lean-to. She accepted the cup of tea he had already prepared without speaking. She sat on the flat stone at the fire's south side -- not the stone Wren usually sat on, not Hadley's log. Her own position, chosen after a single glance at the camp's geography.

She did not speak.

Theron did not speak. He looked at the fire.

Hadley opened his mouth. Theron looked at him. Hadley closed his mouth. He looked at the root he had been examining, which was not the counter-clockwise root but a different root, a companion mystery he had been accumulating. He turned it over in his hands without speaking.

The fire crackled. A branch settled. The basin thrush, somewhere in the upper canopy, called three syllables: the weather was steadying. The cloud cover was not lifting, but it was not worsening.

Wren drank her tea.

She was aware, in the way her EMP 10 made everything in the peripheral field of emotion available to her, that the silence had a shape. It was not Theron's functional silence. Something more active.

She let the fire speak.

After a while -- ten minutes, perhaps, or twenty, it was difficult to track time in the specific quality of attention Maret's silence required -- Maret looked at her.

"You hear them, don't you," she said. It was not a question. "The places. They talk to you."

