"...Which foundational magical principle did you accidentally invent?" he asked, his tone accusatory.

"I admit nothing," Cale said hurriedly.

Professor Graystalk just groaned.

That information was enough to satisfy them both, though. Graystalk seemed quite certain he had enough to go on for his research when they returned, and Elizabeth resumed her demonstration after that.

The Basic Illusion her apprentices conjured was larger and brighter compared to Erik's. It was surprisingly hard to tell it was an illusion at all, in fact, and remarkably, when she invited them up to prod at the illusion before dismissing it, Cale found that it even felt real.

That meant that despite its name, a First Circle spell could emulate the effects of perhaps up to a third-tier spell in the Gift's system. First-tier illusory spells were usually still immaterial, and second-tier ones could have minimal substance, but would break easily.

The ones conjured by Basic Illusion felt like actual flesh-and-blood. Stone, in the case of the Syphus illusion, but the point remained. Elizabeth explained that this was a result of the gelatinous residue, which was a remarkably versatile ingredient that could replicate all sorts of textures and surfaces.

Unsurprisingly, Erik whooped at this comment. "That's praise!" he called out. "You praised me!"

Elizabeth sighed. "You are such a child," she muttered, rolling her eyes.

"They're always like this," Nora remarked to Cale, Elizabeth's other apprentices nodding in agreement. "We're taking bets on when they're going to admit they like each other."

Cale snorted. "Can I join? I'm betting they already have and they're just going behind your backs."

"What? That can't... oh no." Nora looked horrified. "That would ruin the pool!"

She rushed off to join the other apprentices, and Cale laughed, shaking his head.

It was Instructor Hikari's turn next. She was more serene than the other two instructors, and so were her apprentices—it wasn't uncommon for apprentices to take after their mentors, Cale supposed. Their own changes were minimal, but there were some things significant about it.

Instead of using a recursive reduction to deal with the dirt, her apprentices planted some seeds within it and used a different spell to induce growth, turning it into grass; this, Hikari explained, completed an alliterative circle and would allow the fifth ingredient to boost the spell rather than simply suppressing it.

Interestingly enough, Cale noticed that the chalk she was using was singing in his mana sense, too. It was a quiet song compared to the one produced by the reagents, but the song was there, nonetheless. From the well-worn look of it, Cale was guessing the difference in quality came from how long she'd been taking care of it and carrying it with her.

In fact, now that he was looking, all three of the university's instructors carried a pouch at their waists with individual pockets for individual pieces of chalk. Erik had used a new piece to draw the first configuration for Basic Illusion, and Elizabeth had used one from somewhere in the middle of her collection—not the oldest one she had, but a reasonably strong medium for the spell, at least.

Hikari's chosen piece of chalk was closer to the end, and about half of it was already used. She gave it a fond smile before she drew out the rest of the circle, and when the spell completed, Cale sucked in a breath.

The song that resulted from the harmony of her new configuration was beautiful. The resulting illusions were almost indistinguishable from real. Without his mana sense, he might not have noticed at all. He could even see his own illusion's chest breathing, and he was pretty sure this version reproduced smells, too.

Magic in this era was clearly strongly rooted in significance and meaning, if the chalk was so important, but more than that...

"This is a fully refined First Circle spell," Hikari said, bowing toward them. "I look forward to what you can share with us in turn. Do not worry if your traditions are different. We would be eager to learn anything we can."

"Actually," Cale said. "There's something I'd like to try, if you don't mind."

Graystalk glanced at him curiously, but nodded his assent, trusting him.

Cale didn't notice. He was too focused on his mana sense, on that strange twist of it that allowed him to hear what these spell systems were doing.

There was still a dissonant note in there, and he was pretty sure he could get rid of it.
