Ali stared down at the ugly eye demon and flitted down to deconstruct it.

Demon Core.Greater Essence of Ice x2.Lightning Crystal x7.

Demon Core? Ali studied the drops closely. The demons she had been facing occasionally dropped lesser hellfire essences, and she had collected them all, but this was something new. Something to do with its advancement? It was a second-tier foe. Come to think of it, she had never seen Lightning Crystals or Greater Essence of Ice either. I hope I’m not going to have to collect three of each affinity combination. If that were the case, she would likely never learn the variant, no matter how long she was stuck down here.

Ali opened her notifications again.

Dungeon of Knowledge has reached level 130.+10 attribute points.Arcane Insight has reached level 73 (+2).Arcane Recall has reached level 36.Barrier has reached level 73.Martial Insight has reached level 83 (+2).Empowered Summoner has reached level 62.Identify has reached level 27.Inspiration has reached level 22.

Ali smiled. Nice. It wasn’t just her minions growing. She distributed her points quickly, four each to intelligence and wisdom, and the remaining two to perception.

Quickly, she stored the remaining corpses of her fallen minions, feeling a little like Seth, but they would come in handy for feeding her Devouring Consumption along the way. And she had no desire to feed this demonic dungeon if she could help it. She paused here only long enough to summon more minions to replace the ones she had lost, increasing their levels where possible, before she nodded to Azryet’s scout, and they plunged onward through the narrow tunnels.

I hope we get to the boss soon. This was not a pleasant walk in the forest, and Ali wanted to be done with it and learn what Azryet could do to help her return home.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledge

https://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledge

https://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg

https://topwebfiction.com/listings/dungeon-of-knowledge/
