At least I won't suffer from Distraction while her chest is covered. Ren thought, and knelt by the bed. Ereka had watched him come into the room, but she didn't say anything. He smiled, and leaned in close to her.

“I'll be gone for two days, but when I get back... you'll be the first thing that I take care of.”

“R-r-really?”

Ren nodded slightly. “Apparently, I'm completely oblivious about how women feel about me.” He grinned as Ereka blushed.

“A... a little.”

Ren leaned in and lightly kissed her. “Sleep well, and I'll see you when I get back.”

Ereka nodded slightly, and moved the pillow out of the way.

Notice!

You have gained the condition: Distracted

For as long as the object of your attention is within your sight, you must look at it. You will also suffer penalties to both Intelligence (-20) and Wisdom (-20).

Her slip hung off of her right shoulder, and the breast was completely exposed. Ereka said something, and Ren shook his head. He tried to close his eyes, but the compulsion forced his eyes open after only a second. Out of the corner of his eye, he saw her hand move and hook the shoulder strap. She pulled the slip back up, and covered herself.

Notice!

You have lost the condition: Distracted.

“Yes, Ren.” Ereka said. “You will see me... all of me... when you get back.”

“Um... yes. Right. Okay.” Ren said. “Goodnight.”

“Goodnight.” Ereka said, and clutched the pillow to herself when Ren left her room.

*

It still worked! Ereka thought to herself, surprised. His surprised expression was so cute! She thought, and rolled over on the bed and tried to stop herself before she laughed out loud. Only two more days!

*

Well, they still distract me. Ren thought, amused. What the hell am I going to do when she's completely naked, though? He imagined what it would be like, if he just stood there and stared at her. She'll be so disappointed if I do that for her first time.

Ren activated sneak, and went into Nathalia's room. She didn't hear him come in, and he walked around the bed. Nathalia's eyes were closed, and tears flowed from her eyes. He reached out and touched her face to wipe off the tears, and she opened her eyes.

“You've learned to block the collective feelings.” Ren said, and she nodded. “Please don't.” He said. He felt her sadness that she was slowly losing him more and more, as each new woman came into his life, and he got farther away from her.

“My Love.” Ren said, and she took in a sharp breath as she felt his intense feelings for her. “I love you.”

“I... I know.” Nathalia said.

“I know it seems like you're taking a back seat to everything, but that's not true at all.” Ren said and stored his clothing.

“Wh-what are you doing?”

“I am going to make sweet and passionate love to you for the next 2 hours.”

“Wh-what?!?” Nathalia exclaimed. “But... but you have Adventurer's business!”

“It'll have to wait.” Ren said and moved her over on the bed. “I have a much more important thing to do.”

“What's that?” Nathalia asked as she stored her clothing, too.

“You mentioned something about 'waiting your turn'.” Ren shook his head. “There's no such thing.” He smiled. “It's everyone else that has to wait their turn.” He said and started to kiss her. “You were the first woman I ever slept with in this world, and you will always be the first woman in my life here.”

“Oh, Ren.” Nathalia said, and kissed him.

For the next two hours, he showed her how much he loved her.

“That's time.” Teepo said.

Thanks, Teepo. Ren thought. “My Love, I have to go.”

“Mmm.” Nathalia said, with satisfaction in her voice and her feelings were full of both satisfaction and contentment. He kissed her, and she grabbed his hair and kissed him back passionately. She broke the kiss and Ren blinked his eyes at her.

“See you in a couple of days, My Love.” Nathalia said, then rolled over to get some sleep. He chuckled and kissed her cheek, and got out of bed. He equipped his clothing and went out to the couch.

Teepo?

“Yes, Ren?”

Do you want to stay in your metal body, or switch back to your astral one?

“I'll stay with this one for now.” Teepo said. “I haven't gotten used to it yet.”

Don't have too much fun, and be careful. If you get hurt, I won't be here to help.

“I'll be good.” Teepo said. “Bye, Ren.”

Bye, Teepo. Ren thought.

“Logout.”
