To learn {Mana Burst}, all she needed to do was cast {Magic Missile} with so much mana that it became unstable. Her practice with {Magic Missile} already involved adjusting the mana amounts, so the process was something she was very familiar with. She had even pushed it to instability a few times, so she was roughly aware of where the point of no return was.

The main difficulty in completing the Skill Quest, though, lay in maintaining the instability without losing control. Destabilizing the Skill was easy, but it would simply explode in the air where it appeared, damaging herself. And the further away from her body it went, the harder it would become to control, meaning that if she pushed it to the verge of instability, and then launched it forward, it would most likely destabilize along the way, exploding uselessly in midair. That wasn’t to say that it wouldn’t be easy, but after a few attempts, Elise learned to her dismay that she would not be completing it on the first day.

She burned through about half her mana on failed attempts, all of which exploded just a few feet away from her before stepping back and letting Cassie take her turn. Cassie lined up across from the target like she was supposed to, and then closed her eyes and began to concentrate. Elise tilted her head in confusion as the other girl seemed to be putting in far too much effort, but the projectile slowly formed over her shoulder, quickly becoming unstable. Cassie pointed her arm out, as if somatically guiding the attack where she wanted it to go, but before her arm was even fully extended, it detonated in midair, making her cover her ears.

The explosion did not hurt her, because somehow, Professor Dellinger had a passive defense spell covering the entire class, but having it explode so closely likely wasn’t good for her eardrums, and it was a few seconds before she recovered enough to try again.

Three attempts later, she turned around, shoulders slumped in defeat as she gestured for Elise to take her place again. Elise was still circulating her mana, so rather than standing up immediately, she decided to ask a question that she had been wondering about ever since she joined the class.

“You’re not aiming to become a full mage, right?”

“Hmm?” asked Cassie. “Oh. No. I’m going to become an archaeologist.”

Elise nodded as if this was new information to her and she hadn’t seen Cassie’s Class with {Inspect} already before continuing.

“Is learning this required to become an archaeologist?”

“Not usually,” said Cassie. “But I don’t want to be an ordinary archaeologist. I want to go to Carsas when I graduate. But to be approved for the expedition, you need to be able to reach a certain level of self defense, which means I need to get stronger.”

“Oh, interesting.”

“The requirements aren’t very high, but I’m not really cut out for this stuff, so it’s hard work. But if I just complete this class, I’ll be good! {Mana Burst} will be useful, but the third spell, {Dome Shield} is what I’m really after. If I can learn that, I’ll be more than qualified! Assuming I do well in my other classes, of course, but I’m not really worried about that part.”

Cassie smiled as she finished, but the smile quickly vanished as they heard a scoff from beside them.

“What?” asked Elise, annoyed as she turned to face the scoffer.

It was Liam Grane, of course, who had somehow ended up right beside them despite Elise’s efforts to avoid him. She had been pettily squabbling with him in class all semester, and she was pretty sure he had followed her there intentionally to continue.

“Oh, nothing,” he said. “I just thought I heard someone spouting nonsense.”

“Oh, I heard that too!” said Elise.

“You did?” he asked, taken aback.

“Yeah, it was coming from right over there,” she said, gesturing toward Liam.

The young noble’s face turned sour.

“Eleanor,” whispered Cassie, putting a hand on her shoulder. “It’s fine.”

“I think it might have been the wind, though,” Elise continued. “I don’t think there’s anyone stupid enough to actually talk like that.”

Liam’s face turned red with anger, but before he could say anything, Professor Dellinger wandered over and asked if they needed help. With the distraction, their bickering could no longer continue, and Elise used the opportunity to stand up and get back to practicing. Liam scowled at her, but nearby students kept asking the professor for help, so he didn’t get a chance to speak to her again until the end of class, when he walked up and put his hands on his hips as he glared at her.

“I’ve had it with you and your filthy mouth,” he said. “I would say your parents raised you poorly, but I looked into your background and learned that you don’t even have any. Given your unfortunate circumstances, it is my duty as your better to educate you on the lessons you missed out on. I challenge you to a duel.”

Cassie gasped and reached out, but Elise spoke before she could stop it.

“What are the stakes?” said Elise.

“If I win, you will serve me for the rest of the semester. You will speak respectfully, you will run errands for me, and you will not talk back.”

“And what if I win. Will you serve me?”

He scoffed. “A noble serving a commoner? I think not.”

“You’re just scared you’ll lose.”

“Why would I be scared–?”

“Coward.”

“I’m not–!”

“No wonder your brother never talks to you.”

The crowd that had formed around them collectively gasped, and Liam took an angry step forward before regaining control.

“Fine!” he spat. “If you win, I will serve you, not that that would ever happen.”

Elise smiled as {Fey Bargaining} took hold.

“I’m free tomorrow night,” she said. “Seven o’ clock?”

“Done!” he said. “If you get scared, it’s too late to back out now. The duel has been formalized with dozens of witnesses.”

“I was going to say the same to you,” she said. “Alright, seeya tomorrow, then. I gotta get to my next class. Bye!”

Liam shouted some angry bluster after her, but she ignored it, smiling as Cassie rushed after her.

“You didn’t have to do that!” the other girl exclaimed. “I– I’m fine! You don’t have to protect me!”

“Well, I’m doing it anyway,” said Elise. “Besides, I’ve wanted to do something like this for a while. I can’t believe he actually challenged me to a duel. And over something so small. Why was he making fun of you anyway? He seemed to think whatever you said was funny.”

“Well…” started Cassie, looking down at her feet. “The people in charge of setting up the Carsas expeditions are nobles. And they usually only recruit other nobles. And I’m a commoner…”

“That’s stupid,” said Elise.

“But they still take commoners if they’re talented enough,” added Cassie. “Which is why I was gonna get strong in this class, and then do so well in my other classes that they can’t reject me. I already have interest from a couple professors. They said they’d write me recommendation letters once I finish this class!”

“Oh, nice!”

“I still need a recommendation letter from a proper, landed noble, though. Even the noble professors are mostly minor nobles, or they are only noble by blood, and have no real claim to any titles.”

“Huh…” said Elise, rubbing her chin. “Would a recommendation letter from Liam Grane help you?”

“Huh? Wait— You mean–? You’re not serious, are you?”

“Well, would it help?”

“Yes, but–”

“Then it’s settled. I’ll make him write one for you once I win.”

“But he’s a Grane!” said Cassie. “The Granes are the champions of Jelor!”

“It’ll be fine,” said Elise. “I’m stronger than I look.”

“But–”

“Cassie,” said Elise, stopping and turning to her friend. “Even if I did want to back out, it’s too late. I have to continue. But seriously, don’t worry. I’ll be fine.”

Cassie looked like she wanted to say more, but held her tongue.

“Just stay safe,” she said.

“I will,” said Elise. “Now, let’s get to our next classes. Wouldn’t want that prick to make us late.”
