I was swimming in the ocean. Swimming wasn’t so bad; the cold water was quite refreshing. It didn’t matter that to usual Spirit Beasts the temperature would be debilitating; I was a Phoenix! I had internal warmth and fire.

I also had Perfect Disguise and changed into a sea serpent—a small one, but good enough to be able to slither through the water far more easily.

This skill was something else entirely. How could it just change the conditions so easily? Well, it was really good for me, but even in my past life, such transformation techniques were hard to come by.

Well, who was I to complain? Using it, I was able to swim far faster than before, and because I had so much internal heat, I had no issue. Still, I would rather not take my time. The aircraft started moving again, and I had to at least be able to keep up with them.

On the way, I was also making up excuses. I was hesitant about choosing between ‘Oh I just floated here’ and ‘I escaped and tried to find my way to safety.’

Either way, they would all smell the bullshit. I didn’t know what sort of things I could say, but maybe there was a skill that allowed me to fuck up their perception or use my high Charisma stat to trick them…

Bleh, I wasn’t a nine-tailed fox!

Anyway, that didn’t matter. Regardless of what happened, as long as I got there, I should be fine.

As I was swimming toward the surface, the Water Breathing skill I got so long ago finally ranked up. Sweet.

Not that it mattered now… Did I even need to breathe?

Curious, I tried taking a breath, but nothing happened. Interesting.

Anyway, I swam faster and faster toward the surface. I was far faster in the air than in the water at any point.

However, just as I wanted to escape, I’d noticed a certain… presence. I couldn’t quite put my finger on it at first, but as I got closer and closer to the sky, I’d finally recognised it.

That presence… was Elder Su’s!

Was she looking for me? That’s convenient.

I didn’t know why, nor did I care. Now I had the perfect excuse to get taken back to the airfact.

Undoing my transformation and changing into my human form, and putting on some pants, I let myself float to the surface.

Pretending to be weak and battered, I let out a low Qi signal. Thankfully, she’d noticed it and immediately turned back, then stared at me.

She shot through the air, appearing next to me in less than a second. The ocean waves rocked me back and forth, but Elder Su managed to grab my hand and pull me up, summoning a flying sword.

Laying me down on it, I kept up my act and squinted my eyes, controlling my breathing to be weak.

“What happened?” She asked, but I had ‘no energy’ to speak. I’d only stared at her, pleading for help with my gaze.

“Alright, we can talk later. Come, drink this.” Elder Su swished her sleeve and pulled out a vial that she poured into my mouth. I ‘swallowed weakly’ and could actually feel some strength return to my body after that difficult fight.

What sort of miracle medicine is that??

Coughing lightly, I let out a faint ‘Thank You…’ then ‘fainted’.

Elder Su shook her head and cast a protective barrier over me, layering it with a talisman. “Let’s get you back to the sect then.”

She didn’t stand on ceremony, and we flew back faster than the ships themselves. That was… impressive.

After that medicine and this speed, I looked at Elder Su a little differently.

Lying like that was rather boring, but there wasn’t much I could do…

Well…

[Unclaimed Achievements]

[Oh baby a triple!(Rewards Unclaimed)]

[Aiming for the skies(Rewards Unclaimed)]

Two very strange achievements, but I was looking forward to seeing what sort of rewards I would get. Since they were awarded after I’d killed the sea serpent, then there was no way they could be bad.

With that thought, I mentally selected the first one.

[Achievement: Oh baby a triple!]

[Gain many levels in a single go for the third time!]

Vague, as usual…

[Achievement: Oh baby a triple! Has been claimed!]

[Reward: +100% XP Gain for the next five kills]

Huh? Double experience… That’s awesome! What the hell?! Why wasn’t this a reward before?

Now that was an absolutely monstrous reward. If I had it when I’d killed the serpent…

Ah, no point in dwelling in the past; it was time for the second achievement!

[Achievement: Aiming for the skies!]

[Kill something twenty-five levels above you!]

Well… I supposed that was to be expected. The thing was more than twenty-five levels above me.

Now it was time to claim my reward!

[Achievement: Aiming for the skies! Has been claimed.]

[Reward: +100 to all stats; Title: Overachiever awarded.]

Well… That was something. One hundred to all stats was really nice, though now it was more like a drop in the bucket. Still, it was nice. Now what did the title do?

[Title: Overachiever]

[You went above and beyond and showed your determination to hunt. When wearing this title, gain better tracking ability, deal more damage to targets you hunt, and gain a random percentage of XP after delivering the killing blow.]

Now what the hell did being an overachiever have to do with hunting? The ways of the system were truly mysterious.

Now that that was done and over with, I’d quickly checked where we were.

…

Still above the ocean, right?

Well, the only natural thing I could do in that situation was to take a nap, pretending I’d passed out.

◈◈◈

When we reached the boat, it was already dark outside. I, however, was happy to finally touch down on a solid floor.

I was wet, my clothes were ripped, and my face was pale. The latter was, of course, an act performed by me.

At the very least, I had to seem the part of a rescued refugee.

Many people gave me sidelong glances, but none cared to come and see if I was alright. I was alive, though; maybe that was bad news to most of them. At least to the participants.

Peng Long made his way over to me and gave me a really, really burning gaze.

I gulped, afraid that he might discover something. Actually, no matter what he discovered, it wouldn’t matter. He knew something was up; he had to, and if he detected the half mark on me, then we were both in the same shit.

The main issue would be if he asked what happened with the corpse, or if he wanted to search my bag of holding. That would be an issue, because what was I supposed to say?

The most pressing question was how I survived, but nobody would ask that. Nobody with some sense anyway; that was something between me and my secrets.

Asking for someone’s secrets was rude.

After Peng Long stared at me for far longer than I would have liked him to, he turned away and headed toward the front of the ship. Elder Su took me to the infirmary, which was a sort of closed room, but not very private.

There, she laid me on a very comfortable bed, and gave me a weaker pill, then left me alone.

That was convenient; I didn’t have to talk to anybody and got free medicine out of it.

I chewed on the pill and stared at the ceiling. I supposed there was no better time than the present to take another nap.

Or… I would have liked to, but someone rudely interrupted my rest.

Who else than Peng Long?

“Patriarch…” I said weakly, but he didn’t look impressed.

“Cut the act.”

I didn’t cut the act.

“Patriarch… What… what act?”

He let out a sigh and sat down on an invisible chair. How fancy.

“I want you to tell me what happened, and don’t leave any details. And don’t try to lie to me.”

Internally, I rolled my eyes, but on the outside, I did my best impression of an injured disciple. “After the sea serpent swallowed me, I barely held on to its fangs so it wouldn’t swallow me. I… Laid there for however long I could before it finally succumbed to the injuries you caused, and I was able to escape.”

That was… Well, that wasn’t a lie, not entirely anyway.

“How did you survive the depths of the ocean?”

Oh, he really went there…

“My father… He’d given me a treasure to protect myself when in peril. I had no choice but to use it, and I can’t even remember how I got to the surface. But I was really grateful to Elder Su for saving my life.”

He nodded, his suspicious gaze regarding me with suspicion.

“And how come you, an incredibly talented Qi Condensation disciple, tripped in the first place?” He was asking the really blunt questions here, huh…

“I was… I was scared!”

“You didn’t look scared when you were looking at the damn thing with hunger. Be honest with me, what did you do with the corpse?”

“I-”

“Don’t try lying to me again, or I will kill you right here and right now.”

Why was he so angry? Was it because of the mark? Or was it just because he thought I’d made a fool out of him… What did it matter to him anyway?

“I’d left it there, of course. What was I to do with it…”

“Mhm…” He squinted and let out a sigh shortly afterward. “Don’t cause any more trouble.”

What a nice sect leader…

I didn’t say anything out loud, of course. That would have been extremely stupid of me, but still… Anyway, after he’d left, I returned to my rest and thought about what to do next. It wasn’t like I was about to fight anything right at the moment… Hopefully…

But having to wait again… was really painful.