Smeg nodded to two of the workers, and they manned a large crank. They started to turn it, and the 10 foot square indentation in the floor opened up; then a large metallic box was raised out of the floor. Cold water sloshed over the floor and covered everyone's feet, and then the engine stopped moving when the crank stopped turning.

“It's just a metal box?” Ren asked, and looked at the front. He saw the end of a cylinder that glowed, and blackness. He went around the other side, and saw a similar cylinder, but it didn't glow. “Where's the Dwarven Rune?”

“It's on the front of the engine.” Smeg said.

“I can't see it.” Ren said and stood up. “Open it.”

“I'm sorry, I can't do that.” Smeg said. “It's a trade-”

Ren switched to his Command Aura and cut off Smeg's words. “This is my engine. Open it. Now.”

Smeg looked at him with a worried expression, and one of the workers held out a wrench Ren hadn't seen before. It glowed brightly, but he couldn't read the enchantment on it. Smeg grabbed the wrench with an angry expression, then looked down at the engine.

Ren didn't need to share an Aura with Smeg to see how reluctant he was to open it. He looked at Ren for a moment, then bent down and tapped the top of the metal box. The four corners folded up to reveal hidden bolts, and Smeg used the wrench to unscrew them. When the last bolt was removed, he lifted the cover to reveal a metal box full of water.

Ren looked into the water and could see the front and back cylinders were about 3 feet long, which left a space of about 4 feet between their ends. He looked at the glowing front cylinder, and saw the ancient Dwarven Rune.

Notice!

You have learned a new Dwarven Rune: Water Funnel. This rune, when enchanted on an appropriately shaped object, will suck in a large amount of water on one end, compress it, and expel it out the other end.

“The water should funnel straight through.” Ren said. “Why aren't the pipes connected?”

“They are connected.” One of the workers said, and reached into the tank and pulled out a cork from the bottom. “With the ship so big and heavy, we needed an extra booster.”

“What do you mean, an extra boos-” Ren stopped talking as the water drained away to reveal something he never would have expected.

It was a young water elemental.

Ren knew that was what it was, because the leg and head stubs were identical to Zetaya's, his young fire elemental. The water elemental was about 4 feet long, the front enchanted pipe was jammed into the head stub, and the other pipe was stuck into... a part he refused to think about. He reached out and grabbed Smeg by the neck and squeezed.

“You're using a living being as an engine component?!?” Ren exclaimed, and he automatically connected his Screaming Terror enchantment to his Command Aura. It normally wouldn't work; but since it was tainted with Fear, it counted as a similar effect. Everyone within his Aura froze stiff from Terror, and Ren's cold anger filled it. No one spoke.

Ren fought not to crush the dwarf's throat to snap his neck. “How long?” He asked Smeg. “How long has it been like this?”

Smeg didn't speak as he tried to pry off Ren's hands.

“Since... about a week... before we left.” One of the workers managed to say through his Terror. “We... we just... finished the modifications.”

“By the gods.” Ren said and lifted Smeg up. “Disconnect it!”

“We... need the engine...” The worker said, and Ren turned on him.

“What did you say?!?”

“It's connected... through the... enchantment.” The worker said. “It can't... cant be...”

“He's... right.” Smeg said. “It'll die... if you...”

“I will NOT have this abomination continue!” Ren nearly yelled. “I will rip the engine from the floor before I leave a water elemental inside of it!”

“We'll be... stranded.” The worker said.

“Do any of you have even a trace of Honor?” Ren asked them. Smeg's face was turning a dark red, and Ren scoffed at him. “You're a piece of scum!” He said. “I thought your behavior towards your workers was uncalled for, but this...” He shook his head. “I'm placing you all under arrest.”

“What?”

“For crimes against another species, entrapment, imprisonment, torture, cruelty, and anything else I can think of.” Ren said and tossed Smeg across the room to land on several workers that were trying to leave through the large door. They were starting to work through the Terror, and Ren didn't want any of them to get away.

“You're all going to pay for this.” He said and knelt by the water elemental, then reached a hand out. He touched the glowing front pipe and used his Retain Essence ability to store the enchantment. The water elemental's head stub slid off of the cylinder, but it didn't reform and smooth itself out. Even the currents that should have been moving furiously through it's body, barely made any ripples at all.

“You poor thing.” Ren said and picked it up to dislodge it from the other pipe that held it in place. It's limbs flopped around and it couldn't even move on it's own. He hugged the 4 foot long water elemental close and pet it's distorted head stub, then he heard a trickling stream that almost sounded like it was crying. Tears came to Ren's eyes and he held it gently.

“I am so sorry.” Ren said, and his tears fell into the water elemental. “Don't worry, though. I'll deal with them for you.”

A bubbling brook could be heard, and Ren smiled.

“That's right.” Ren said. “I'll keep them prisoner until I find another one of your kind; then I'll hand them over, and we'll see how much they're going to regret doing this to you.”

The water elemental's distorted head stub rubbed against Ren's cheek and sucked up his tears greedily. Ren leaned his head down and let it take as much as it wanted for its last meal, and he heard a building wave. He let more tears escape, and the water elemental shivered several times; then the sound of a wave hitting the shore could be heard.

“Goodbye.” Ren said.

The water elemental stopped moving a moment later, then it dissolved into sea foam and disappeared.
