"That might have been true a year ago," Amber said patiently, "but things are different now. Your father is wrong. The Princess is just… misunderstood."

The girl's face fell. "So the Slaughter Princess isn't really like the legends?"

"No—"

"But she's so cool in them, though," the girl said brightly, throwing Amber off completely. "I want to be like her when I grow up and protect everyone. Just without the blood-drinking and slaughtering part."

Amber was dumbfounded, unsure what to say.

The father noticed at last and rushed over as if the girl were on fire. "My deepest apologies, cultivator," he said, bowing and tugging his daughter back by the wrist. "What have I told you about speaking to cultivators?" he hissed at her as he hauled her away. "They're dangerous, you know that. Especially the Redclaws…"

Amber watched them leave and felt her mood sour. Snapping her fingers, a sword appeared before her, and she hopped onto it. Making use of her Star Core Realm cultivation, she took to the skies. The noise of the city faded, and she took a moment to calm down.

Well, that was unpleasant. Though I can see now why Stella doesn't make an effort to fix her reputation, she mused as she gazed down at the hive of activity. The mortals were now tiny black dots going about their lives. Some wore the cult robes of the All-Seeing Eye and were devoted to spreading his name. Others went about their lives in peace, enjoying the benefits of living in a city ruled by the Ashfallen Sect, while giving little in return.

On one hand, it angered her. She knew what the Grand Elders of the sect had gone through and achieved to triumph over the Celestial Empire.

But she couldn't quite bring herself to blame them, either.

People from Argentum or Desolark City had seen and felt at least a taste of what the Celestial Empire was capable of. The cities near Ashlock, though? They only knew peace. The war with the Celestial Empire had hardly touched these streets, beyond the occasional moment when Ashlock's anger flared, and a desolation beam carved its way across the distant horizon.

After calming, Amber reframed it. The father was from the older generation and skeptical, and his views remained uncontested due to the peace. While unfortunate, what mattered was the little girl. She was part of the new generation that hadn't suffered under Vincent Nightrose's rule and lived as slaves to the cultivators.

She was growing up under the Ashfallen Sect, and even with a skeptical father, she was inspired by Stella and wanted to be like her one day.

Amber glanced toward the sun in the distance.

Perhaps in time, the memories of the past will fade, and even the skeptical will come to appreciate the Ashfallen Sect.

She smiled and turned her sword toward Red Vine Peak.

Ashlock's towering form jutted out of the swirling mist, dominating the skyline. His crown of branches was relaxed, and even from afar, she could feel the world's Qi being drawn toward him like a funnel.

The time for the opening of the Eternal Realm was drawing near, and the gathering was taking place inside his Inner World. As she drew closer, she saw she wasn't the only one. Many other Star Core Realm members of the sect, including some members of her own Redclaw family, streaked through the sky.

I need to take this opportunity to grow stronger, Amber thought. Until now, I only wanted to grow in power for myself. But now I see this is bigger than myself.

I fight for Ashfallen, a smile broke out across her face, and I will make Grand Elder Diana proud as part of the new force.
