“To say it another way: Matriculation into the Script involves the Script carving out a space in the magic for you, but you fill that space with your own magic. Gaining a Class is a further allowance of growth. Putting a plant in a bigger pot, for instance. And I am not talking at all about Class Ability Slots. Every Class gets those, and some more than others, but those don’t matter compared to the Class itself.

“If you were to take Water Mage, you would find, outside of all Ability Slots, your ability to control, change, or affect water, has increased. Either in quantity, or quality; however you chose to grow your own personal ability, the Script would respond.

“This is what it means to have a Class.” Alanaria asked, “Understood?”

“Yes.” Jane asked, “And the rarer Classes?”

Alanaria nodded. She said, “And now, we get into the rarer Classes, and what they mean. Take, for instance, River Mage. This is a variant of Water Mage. By taking the River Mage Class, you would find your rushing water spells and your control over currents vastly increased, even more so than if you were to take Water Mage. The exact nature of the change is up to you as the individual, but if a dam broke and rushing waters threatened a small village, all things being equal, a River Mage would be able to deflect the destructive rush to a greater degree than the Water Mage could.

“Another, slightly smaller thing to keep in mind, is that the suite of available Class Abilities are different between a Water Mage versus a River Mage. While the Water Mage might pull Class Abilities from the entire varied list of water-aligned Classes, and thus have a more generalized suite of options, the River Mage’s Class Abilities would focus primarily on rushing water of all kinds. Don’t expect to find ‘Tranquil Mind’ for 25% more Mana inside River Mage, for example. But a River Mage would always have access to ‘Rushing Mind’, for 25% more Mana Regen.

“‘Tranquil Mind’ and ‘Rushing Mind’ stack with the standard suite of Class Abilities for doubling your Mana or your Mana Regen, too, just so you know.

“If you choose to take a specialty Class over a generalized Class, keep this in mind.

“One last thing to keep in mind: All things being equal, and unless you are set on something specific, it is the official recommendation of Rozeta to take the generalist approach when choosing a Class.”

“Thanks… but...” Jane said, “I was hoping that you could give an example outside of the one I read in the textbooks.”

Alanaria smiled, faintly, like she had heard that complaint a million times before. She answered with a response she likely had said a dozen times today, already, “That’s not how Registrars work.”

Jane asked, “I suppose you wouldn’t know anything about a theoretical ‘Prismatic Polymage’?”

Alanaria said, “I can guess that such a Class would be a rare variant of Polymage. But I have no idea what such a theoretical Class would even provide, or how you would get there.” She said, “But! I can say, that if you have a large enough personal conviction for such a Class, then it should appear on the list.” She glanced to the blue box hanging in the air, to the side. “But, since your desired Class has not appeared, we can conclude that even you, yourself, don’t believe that you have earned the right to such a Class.”

Jane chuckled once. She sighed. She said, “Yeah. That’s about right.”

Jane turned to the floating box of options, and read through the list a few times. ‘Polymage’ seemed to stare at her, telling her that she already knew what she wanted. She had completed that Quest a week ago, but she had yet to turn it in.

Class Quest!

Abandon your initial Familiar Form 0/1

OR

Acquire an aquatic Form 1/1

Acquire an aerial Form 1/1

Acquire a fiery Form 1/1

Acquire a grounded Form 1/1

Acquire a hidden Form 1/1

Acquire a mesmerizing Form 1/1

Reward: Polymage Class

She could have accepted the Class right there. But she did not want to. She wanted to see if she would become eligible for something better, when she finally got the last three Elemental Body skills. Which she had.

Stone Body, instant, close range, 5 MP per second + Variable

You are the land.

Water Body, instant, close range, 5 MP per second + Variable

You are the river.

Air Body, instant, close range, 5 MP per second + Variable

You are the breeze.

But having all 6 Elemental Body skills did not unlock a special Class. It hadn’t even given her a ‘Special Action’ like she had gotten when she upgraded her flame slime into a flame ooze.

Alanaria said, “I can see you are having some difficulty. I would like to give you some personal advice, if you would allow me?”

Jane looked over to Alanaria, and said, “Yeah. Sure.”

Alanaria said, “Polymage is a great Class for those who enjoy [Polymorph]. It is a good road that many have traveled on, with well researched books and a myriad of personal journals in the library, of those who have come before. Either way, do not forget this: Any Class you choose, you can make your own. That is the beauty of the Script.” She said, “But, since it seems you are a bit lost, I will give you the advice I give everyone who levels, way, way too fast.” She smiled, saying, “You’re level 71, and you Matriculated ten months ago! That is simply too fast!”

Jane smiled to herself.

Alanaria said, “You need to take some time and find out what you want, for sure. If you’re going for such a ‘Prismatic’ Class, have you even tried to combine all of your Elemental Body skills and spells yet?”

“No. Not yet. I thought just having them was enough.” Jane said, “And I thought that having them all would unlock something. Some ‘Special Action’, or whatever.” She added, “How do you even use the Body skills in magic? Nothing I’ve read shows them used in any spell combinations. They’re always sort of… off to the side. Or recommended as alternatives to [Teleport] and [Blink].”

“Regarding how they’re used in other magics: I cannot help you with that. But regarding putting them all together? Have you even tried, yet?”

Jane frowned, but mostly at herself. The answer to Alanaria’s question was ‘no’. Jane never had any good luck combining magic. She also recognized that she was being foolish. Like a little kid scared to touch the stove because it burned her once before; Jane’s magic had never worked, and she felt it might never ever work, at all.

… She recognized that she was being foolish, for sure.

Jane said, “I haven’t tried combining them, yet. Or even using them fluidly from one to the other.”

Alanaria quietly looked at Jane. After a moment, she said, “Here’s some more unsolicited advice: You’ve been sick for a long time. It seems to me that you need to get back on a battlefield; out fighting the good fight. Harvesting slimes just doesn’t cut it.”

“… Probably true.”

“I can’t recommend specific actions, but I can say that there are quest boards all over the world full of needs, and you are more than capable.” Alanaria said, “Keep in mind that your gut instinct is usually the best one when it comes to choosing a Class.”

Jane stood up. She said, “Thanks, Alanaria. I’ll make an appointment for another day.”

Alanaria said, “Good luck!”

- - - -

Jane looked up at the tall towers of Oceanside, and the flying people above. She frowned, and trudged on through noisy campus streets. She passed open air bars where students drank tea and harder liquids, while arguing over tests and history and magic theory. She came to Central Tower, and walked with the first years, towering above most of them, except for the orcols, of course. Some people gave her weird looks. What was this taller, obviously older student doing, walking around down here? Shouldn’t she be flying to class by now? But no, Jane had not gotten a single version of that spell she liked; not yet, anyway.

So she walked the normal path, toward the elevators, and ascended through the tower while surrounded by kids. While most of the children got off before the lift got too high, Jane continued on to the second-to-the-top floor. Up here, the hallways were barely off-white marble, with golden flecks here and there in the stone. She had been up here more than a few times before, so Jane easily found her room.

She nodded to the space where the invisible person stood, guarding the room, and went inside.

Today would be close to the last day of work. Jane was pretty sure she had gotten everything out, and though she might have missed something, those forgotten secrets could come out some other day. And besides! She needed to save a few things for herself. Wouldn’t want them killing the chicken that laid no more eggs, after all.

Her desks, tables, and papers, looked much how they looked every time Jane had showed up for this job; highly organized, and nothing like the mess she usually made. She never made a large mess, but she had a tendency to construct scattered piles of paperwork on every table of the room, concerning everything she could remember about every various gaming system she had ever played, that might have been on the laptop Melemizargo stole. Those piles grew and grew as she recorded everything she knew, using the many pencils and pens and pastels she had been provided by the Headmaster. But every day, the papers and writing equipment had been organized by the Headmaster, after she left, to then appear like it did now, every time Jane showed up.

And to think of the devil: The Headmaster sat in a chair in the sun, on the far side of the room, reading from a small book and drinking from a large cup of tea. His emperor-like yellow-gold robes seemed to shine in the light, just like his eyes shimmered, as he watched Jane come into the room.

Jane joked, “I’m almost done, so it’s time to get rid of me?”

The old dragon frowned. “A man can’t check on his investment as the work comes to a close?”

Jane walked to her desk, saying, “You’re never here for the beginning part.” She added, “And you didn’t answer the question.”

The Headmaster lost his frown, and simply said, “If I went around acting like that, I would not enjoy my position as Second. Stability is necessary for one such as I. But just so the words are said: Neither I, nor any of my people, will end you now that your end of the bargain draws near.” He added, “At least your father has the decency to talk around such vulgarities.”

Jane smirked as she sat down at her desk. “Since you’re here: I was expecting something more after finishing with your air dungeon. But nothing happened. What gives?”

The old dragon perked up. “Ohh?” He set down his tea and his book. “Did you finally get all six Elemental Bodies?”

“I did.” Jane looked over the neat stack of papers to the right, to find her checklist of previously written works. It was sitting right under the top five pages, like usual. The Headmaster did it that way to prevent casual spying, but Jane thought he was more than a little OCD. She pulled out the page, and saw every single item she was willing to write about, was checked off. She smiled. She said, “Do I need to have Dragon Essence, too, to make that work?”

“No.” The Headmaster said, “We petitioned Rozeta early on for that to be exempt, when the pattern became apparent but our blood was already cursed for all eternity.”

Jane paused. She lifted her head from her work, to turn to the Headmaster. “I was just joking, but…?”

The Headmaster stood from his chair, and walked toward Jane’s desk, but not directly. In a most bizarre sense, Jane felt like she was watching a tiger, or a kraken, or… Well. A dragon. Like she was watching a dragon size up a target to devour. And with that thought, she saw that she was correct. She tensed her legs unconsciously, as the hairs on the back of her neck stood up. Her breath hitched in her throat.

The Headmaster was prowling at her.

And then he noticed Jane noticing him. Whatever danger hung in the air vanished like it was never there, like Jane had only imagined what she had seen. And then the danger came back, but more controlled. More a warning, than the approach of the end.

The ancient dragon wearing an old man’s body, moved to the side of Jane’s desk, as he said, “You are flippant, and this is good in some sense. Perhaps around a campfire, to keep emotions high when the darkness prowls. Or in a bar to celebrate a victory. But do not joke about dragon essence around a dragon. You have just finished recovering from an ordeal with the horrid substance; do not look to launch yourself into the jaws of the world so casually.”

Jane looked down and away, for that was the appropriate thing to do when directly told she was in the wrong. She said, “… Sorry.”

“I do not mean to frighten, only to instill information and the proper degree of necessary caution.” The Headmaster moved to stand on the other side of Jane’s desk, to separate him from her with a flimsy, foot thick oak desk that probably weighed two hundred kilos. He added, “For caution is required.”

Jane looked up into deep golden eyes, and nodded, slowly.

The Headmaster continued, “I will give you a few hints. The first, is that achieving the Special Action you are searching for requires an expression of dominance few are capable of producing.” He said, “The second, is that Body skills may cost Mana, but there was a rather large debate on if they should have cost Health, as each Elemental Body was an attempt by the Script to allow the now-extinct Elementassi to survive on Veird.” He looked over to a nearby desk. In a flicker, a stack of papers that had been sitting there, appeared in his hands. He set the stack in front of Jane. “The last hint, is that Intent is All, and you already know the way. You just need to unclutter your mind.”

Jane might have been recording what she knew about the gaming systems that had been stored on her laptop, but many of those systems were connected to other ideas from Earth. As such, there was a lot more than just D&D spells here. There was everything in this room from the Mythos of Cthulhu, to short essays on fantasy movies she had seen, to Greek Mythology, to memetic hazards and that whole barrel of fun, to knowledge of the nations of Africa.

She kept most of the high-technology stuff out of her writings, though. Veird might have had magic that was more powerful than guns, like [Force Beam], and something of a ‘nanobot swarm’-ish magic in the creation of magical plants like the Daydropper, but there was no need to go adding guns to this planet. If those got invented here, it would not be because of Jane.

