“So what’s the problem?” Erick asked.

“Destructive resonance.” Kiri offered, “Make a diamond bracelet. A completely diamond bracelet. Or let’s make something out of the metals that you’ve [Distill]ed out of your growing rain.”

“I can’t put a bracelet on my wrist if the bracelet can’t move at all.” Erick amended, “Well. I could. But I don’t want to. Ugh. Okay. Let’s try that.”

“A crown, too. And a solid diamond ring.” Kiri said, “People don’t make Stat items this way because the gems just aren’t strong enough; there’s always an inclusion, or something that weakens and interrupts the interior. But your diamonds have no such problems.” She added, “How about a diamond ring with a diamond inset, too? Connect them with the barest bits of metal.”

“All good points. Let’s try all of that.”

Erick tried the fully-diamond ring, first. Kiri carved a few of them in different diameters, while Erick carved a few sized for his own fingers.

He enchanted the solid diamond rings, and covered them in a layer of platinum. They did not explode! He attached All-Stat gems to half of them. Those held, too, while Kiri and Erick went on to carving larger, completely-diamond bracelets, and even a crown. The crown broke rather instantly, as soon as Erick tried imbuing it with purple light. It wasn’t a large explosion, but it was enough to cut that experiment short. The diamond bracelet met the same fate.

On a whim, Erick carved a fist-sized diamond into a perfect sphere, then soaked it in purple light for a full minute, waiting for it to break. It should have broken; it was much too big for any sort of normal enchanted gear. It did not break. Erick sealed it with platinum, then set it aside in a thick blast box.

Two hours later, when it was time to rain on the farms, and all of their resources except for platinum water, useless-wood, and the diamonds, were used up, the plain diamond rings remained whole. The ones that had a secondary gem on them had all exploded.

Erick picked up one of the plain rings. It looked like a silver band, without adornment. If he hadn’t made it himself, he never would have guessed that it was diamond underneath that thin platinum veneer. He put the ring on.

“Oh holy fuck,” Erick said, feeling a rush of calm flow through his body. He checked his Status. His eyes went wide, as he said, “It’s 29 All-Stats.”

Kiri eyed the silver band on Erick’s finger. She frowned, asking, “It’s stable?”

“… Maybe.” Erick joked, “Get ready for a trip to the hospital!” He put on another not-silver ring, on his other hand. As a rush of power settled into his body, he exclaimed, “Holy wow. Okay!” He said, “Nice.” He checked his Status. “Ah. They’re degrading… Oh. It stopped? It might have stopped. Oh. There goes another point. Plus 27 and 28.” He said, “Stable for now. I’ll wear them for a while.” He gestured to the rest of the experiments. “Go ahead. Pick some for yourself, if you want.”

Kiri’s eyes went to the blast box that held the large diamond. “That’s still stable, too? I’ve been waiting for it to explode.”

Erick looked down at the blast box that should have already exploded. “I guess so?”

Kiri wisely picked up a pair of plain rings. She slipped off her original rings, then slipped a new ring over a talon, saying, “These are gooOOOD. Wow. That’s a rush.”

Erick wiggled his ringed fingers in the air, saying, “If they don’t explode, we’ll call this a success.”

“Are you still channeling mana through Ophiel, to Spur?”

Ophiel trilled on Erick’s shoulder.

Erick said, “Yup. This whole time.”

“So they’re surviving a heavy stress already, but we won’t know for sure until you’ve gone through several mana pools.” Kiri held her hands up, looking at her new rings with a critical eye. “They might work?”

The time for rain came and went, and the rings held; stable. They held through a few hours of lightwork at the dungeon, and dozens of mana pools. They held stable all through the night. The next day, they lost a point, but past that, they continued to be stable, secure rings. They certainly weren’t the plus-200 All-Stats Erick had expected, but they were certainly a boost on all his previous numbers.

Erick Flatt

Human, age 48

Level 65, Class: Particle Mage

Exp: 1,597,236,147,974,331/2,777,789,003,528,800

Class: 6/6

Points: 6

HP

2100/2100

2100 per day

MP

6900/6900

27,600 per day

Strength

20

+50

[70]

Vitality

20

+50

[70]

Willpower

65

+50

[115]

Focus

65

+50

[115]

Favored Spell waiting!

Favored Ability waiting!

Favored Ability waiting!

Favored Ability waiting!

He recast the [Prismatic Ward] around his house for 78,000 points of [Solid Ward]. His [Personal Ward] was now worth 13,500 points of mitigation. He tested out his new Strength with Strength-testing metal rods, exactly like Jane had gotten from the Adventurer’s Guild, all those months ago when they were both first starting out. He had to work at it, but the 60 Strength rod bent easily enough; the Stats were willing, but the body had yet to catch up to its new Reality. Teressa smiled the whole time as she showed him up by bending the 80-Strength rod like it was nothing.

He had not saved any time in his dungeon construction schedule, because creating the rings had taken a good chunk of that time. If he had been unsuccessful, the schedule would have fallen even further behind. But he had succeeded, thankfully. The next few days went fast enough.

- - - -

Before the final floor was done, Erick went back to his original dungeon. Apell had already begun harvesting the slimes there.

Erick watched Apell guide a wave of water across the dungeon floor, sweeping up dozens of slimes at a time. Some tumbled away. Some struggled to get back onto the wave. She buoyed her catch into a side room, carved out from beyond the wall, near the stairs leading to the main floor. Erick followed. Poi followed Erick.

This side room was much darker than the normal dungeon floor, but only because it was lit normally. Apell shut the stone wall behind both of them, making it even darker. Erick took off his sunglasses and set them into a bin in the side of the room. The light slimes glowed like stars surrounded by nebulas, all jumbled around in a hover of water, supported by Apell’s magic. Apell took direct control of her spell. In an instant, she turned that water into a blender.

Twenty slimes died all at once, as their cores were forcibly popped from their glowing bodies. Light dimmed, as suddenly dead slime bodies slipped out of the hovering water, like so much discarded jellyfish.

Erick frowned. The slimes were rather cute. It certainly wasn’t a cruel death; it was fast enough, for sure, but seeing it happen right in front of him was…

It was a complicated feeling.

He didn’t really want to eat one of them, but he was still going to do it; he was probably going to be eating quite a lot of them in the near future, too. He steeled himself with a sigh. He straightened his back, and watched, as Apell took those twenty cores and set them into a stone basket, to the side of the room. She then cast a [Cleanse] into the room, turning slime mush and dirty water back into clean water and thick air that spilled around the room. With a gesture, a hole opened up in the top of the stone barrier between this room and the main dungeon floor. Brilliant light poured in, as Apell fed that water through the hole. She closed the hole, darkening the room back to normal lighting as she turned to Erick.

Apell said, “That’s the process. You look queasy.”

“I’m getting over it.”

Apell nodded, her green wrought skin flexing like it wasn’t solid metal. She said, “You know… if these slimes found you out there, dead, they’d eat you, too. If they found you out there sleeping, they might smother you in your sleep. I’ve seen too many novices get themselves killed by thinking that just because slimes are easy to deal with, that means they’re not real monsters.” She stressed, “They’re still monsters, Erick.”

“I know. Don’t mind me.” Erick walked over to the bin of light slime cores. He picked one up. It was the size of a large jawbreaker, and probably just as hard, but Erick knew his new inflated Strength would make quick work of it, if this was indeed the one he was going to eat. He psyched himself up, saying, “So I just… Eat it.”

Apell said, “Yup. That’s all it takes for slimes. They’re easy.” She quickly added, “But if this is your first form… then maybe you should do this at the hospital.”

Poi said, “It might be prudent to take that advice, sir.”

“I’m not worried.” Erick held the glowing orb in his hands. It was like a round egg. It was still warm, too. “I’ve been reading up a lot on the subject. I know how to do this.” Then he remembered Jane telling him about her experience eating the core of a flame slime. He paused. He said, “But. Yeah. Let’s go to the hospital.” He picked up three more cores, each of them bright with white light.

In a small room, in the cream-colored towers of Oceanside’s hospital, Erick munched on a light slime core, while Rats and a doctor used to this sort of thing, watched. Poi had stepped out for a while, but he would be back soon enough.

The core tasted like fizzing brightness, and crunched like rock candy. It was the size of a burger, and it went down easily enough. Erick sat down in a chair in the room and focused on absorbing whatever it was that [Polymorph] absorbed. Soon enough, a shift appeared in his [Polymorph] box, exactly how the books said it would happen.

Polymorph, instant, 500 MP

Change your physical body.

Familiar Forms: 2/13

~Erick Flatt

~Light Slime

Erick discarded his clothes and his rings, as the doctor nodded, and Rats watched.

The world turned to jelly as Erick cast [Polymorph], or maybe, it was better to say that he turned to jelly. As his body finished changing, his not-eyesight cleared. He saw in every direction at once, clear as he ever saw with his normal eyes, and without a decrease in distance that he thought would happen in slime form.

He was also on the floor, looking up at Rats and the doctor. They were giants, and he was the size of a basketball. He briefly looked at himself through Ophiel’s eyes; he looked completely normal.

Rats said, “Looks good, boss.”

The doctor said, “Agreed. You have successfully taken on a new form. Congratulations, Archmage Erick Flatt.”

Erick burbled out what might have been words, but which were not words at all.

As he contemplated possible indigestion, another box appeared.

Flash, instant, close range, 5 MP

Flicker with light in an attempt to blind a target.

Erick spoke with [Prestidigitation], saying, “First light essence ability, too. Thanks for watching over this, doc.”

The doctor nodded, saying, “If you will excuse me, I have other patients to see.” He turned toward Rats, saying, “Mister Rats.”

Rats said, “Thanks, Doctor Hubert.”

The doctor opened the door and walked out of the room; back to duty. Rats closed the door behind him.

Erick flickered his body back to human-shaped. He shivered as he returned to skin and two eyes, and a body symmetrically divided down the center. He began putting his clothes back on, saying, “Being another being is a weird feeling. At least the eyesight is better than I thought it would be, but they’re light slimes, so that makes some sort of sense.”

A knock came on the door. Poi entered. He asked, “Everything good?”

“Everything is great!” Erick asked Rats, “Are you going to be home for dinner?”

“They got me working overtime. Quest is going well, though. Down to a hundred terribly injured people remaining.”

Erick smiled wide, as he slipped his rings back on, saying, “That’s really good! I’m almost done with the dungeon, too. Light slimes are already spawning, ten a day. But Apell says that they’re going to start spawning much faster as the dungeon matures and as she works out the kinks in the mana flows.” He said, “Soon, we’ll be back in Spur. At least until we can find Messalina.”

Rats nodded, saying, “Good.”

Erick said, “And these new rings are working well, so I’ll make you all some, too.”

Rats said, “Nice. I heard Teressa talking, so I was wondering.”

Poi said, “Jane is apparently responsive now. She might even be able to come back with us.”

Erick’s heart soared. He said, “Really? When did that happen?!”

Poi said, “It’s been gradual, but there was a marked improvement when Alibeth checked on her today. She was able to eat and talk for ten minutes at noon before the convulsing threatened. Teressa and Kiri are in the room with her now.”

A calm descended on Erick. Everything would be okay. He said, “Let’s go see Jane.”
