But that had been a monumental waste of his mana. There was no way he had enough left to deal with her now, not with the power she'd just gained. And besides, how much mana had he used, really? Surely it wasn't enough for a tenth-tier spell. He had to be an upper archmage at best...

It seems the Great Realms have truly forgotten the work of the Monoliths.

...unless he was implying that he was one of the Monoliths.

No. That was impossible. Sneaks-In-Darkness shook off the thought angrily. This was just another wild mage pretending to be powerful, and she could show him exactly how weak he was. How vulnerable all wild mages were. They were nothing more than prey for the Red Hunters.

She cast three rapid defensive spells. [Eternal Aegis], [Adamant Bulwark], and [Diamondscale]. They were all sixth-tier or higher—even an archmage would struggle to get through a combination of all three.

And then she called to the depths of her new magic and changed once more.

If the first transformation had been painful, this one was a soul-rending sort of pain that hammered itself into her skull, but she persisted. She was a dragon now, and dragons could wear two forms; the first was their more humanoid one, and the second carried all the ferocious power of a true dragon. Her body grew, her limbs stretched until they dug trenches into the sand, and massive, majestic wings tore their way free from her back.

Like this, she could unleash all the power at her disposal. She could go beyond even the tenth tier and to the eleventh, though she could do it only once. It was fine. She wanted Cale dead.

There would be collateral damage, she knew. The Commander wouldn't be happy with this spell being used here. But he would understand. Besides, she was a dragon now. She would become one of their Forward Spears, the most prestigious of the Red Hunters. A small reprimand didn't matter.

She felt for the spell construct that had been implanted in her core, outside the purview of the Gift. The Commander said it was a spell from the Outer Planes, far beyond any of the Great Realms. It would erase the target utterly. Technically speaking, the true form of that spell was far higher than just eleventh-tier—but eleventh was where casting it became viable, and even a weaker version of the effect would take out Cale and probably half the academy with it.

Sneaks-In-Darkness smiled a twisted smile. She'd aim it at Cale and the Astral Wing. Two birds, one stone.

[Deepfire Abyss] spiralled out of her construct and toward the human...

...who caught it in one hand and swallowed it.

Then a tidal wave of mana slammed her into the ground and crushed her, harder and harder, until she couldn't breathe. Until her vision was blurred by the blood seeping out of her eyes.

This wasn't possible. She was a dragon. She was a fully unleashed dragon! Dragons stood at the top of the proverbial magical food chain! They bordered on mythology, and even gods had to be wary of them. This—this human was suppressing her with magical force alone? He wasn't even using a spell!

She looked up into his eyes, barely able to see him through her own blurred vision, and saw the pitiless gaze of the Mad Mage bear down on her.

"Pity," he said. "I expected better."

Sneaks-In-Darkness felt her mana core crack, and the pain tore away the rest of her grip on her consciousness.
