The Wandering Inn had breakfast. It happened every day, but it was always different. It had changed, from when the inn had first been reoccupied. And since then, breakfast, so often overlooked, had defined the inn. Because there was a story there.
At the beginning, breakfast had been scraps, badly-cooked food or blue fruits, eaten by a scared, lost girl. Later, it had been a young woman, making pasta and eggs, serving two [Guardsmen]. Then—a skeleton had appeared. After that, a few more guests.
Adventurers. Antinium. Still in small groups. And often, the young woman ate alone. But then had come a day when a City Runner sat and ate with her. And—a [Princess]. Later had come a small white Gnoll cub. And for a while, the young woman had vanished and the inn had grown dark. Until a [General] sat in the inn, and the [Princess] waited on the tables instead.
At some point, the [Innkeeper] came back. And by that time, the inn was lively. More adventurers came, and there were daily guests now. A bee began flying about. The staff increased. Once, there had been five Hobgoblins, always early for breakfast. And now, the inn was fuller than it had ever been.
There had been dark days, though. Days when no breakfast was served. When the young woman sat at an empty table and wept. When grief walked the tables. Days of mourning, when spilled blood was just drying on the floorboards. But days of triumph, too. Glorious mornings. To have lived them all was to have seen a story, told only in breakfasts.
And he had seen them all. Or most. Even in his head, Pisces Jealnet had to clarify that detail. Most, not all. But he had seen The Wandering Inn change over time. And this was better.
This was how Pisces began his day at the inn. He roused himself, over-weary from a late night of studying. But he did rise, and early too. He found Ceria stumbling half-asleep out of her door, went downstairs as she tried to lean on him. Yvlon and Ksmvr were there, and Pisces greeted them and ate breakfast.
“Saffron rice! With eggs! And sausage?”
Erin Solstice still hadn’t quite figured out how to add nuance to her breakfasts. But the rice was delicious and the food filling. Pisces ate it with good humor, adding extra black pepper on his eggs. Ksmvr discovered he loved rice. Ceria requested a steak. Yvlon vetoed it.
“You need to stop eating like that, Ceria. I know [Mages] burn energy and half-Elves don’t get fat. But you don’t need a steak for breakfast.”
“But I can have one.”
“Captain Ceria, I must inform you that the risk of parasitic worms or eggs is notably higher in meat products than anywhere else. It is a common issue in the Hive. Insects burrowing out of your head would be unpleasant, or so I feel.”
“…Well, now I’m not hungry.”
Yvlon smiled at Ksmvr. The Antinium twitched one antennae in a ‘wink’ and both Ceria and Yvlon stared. Pisces did not. He sat back and ate his breakfast, ruminating on what he’d studied. The bickering was a pleasant background.
The inn wasn’t empty, of course. These days, breakfast wasn’t just Erin and her guests. It was a bit of a crowd. Drassi was eating her breakfast before getting to work; Erin was helping Lyonette serve tables for once.
“Hey, Relc! Is it your day off?”
“That’s right. And I’m gonna be here. Drinking and watching plays! And Embria’s working. Which is too bad, obviously. But it’s play-day!”
The Drake crowed. He had a drink in one hand, alcoholic. The only other person in the inn with a drink this early was the Drowned Man, Seborn. He was sitting at a table with Moore, and Pisces caught a fragment of his conversation as Lyonette stopped by.
“…taking no for an answer. Jelaqua’s stopping by today, and we’re having it out.”
“And we need to talk to her about Ulinde.”
“Yeah.”
Pisces filed that away. But he was more conscious of the room as a whole. Drakes and Gnolls he didn’t know by name were present, eating breakfast. But as Palt and others had observed, including Wall Lord Ilvriss, Erin’s inn wasn’t filled with masterful cuisine. It was fresh and fast and simply good, and that was the best part. No, it was the other things that drew people here.
The [Actors], for one. Pisces turned and watched the Players of Celum setting up on stage. Practicing for the evening. This early, there wasn’t much to be seen; the [Actors] were practicing their lines on the floor while a few declaimed from the stage. It was just practice, for all they did their best, but some, like Relc, were here even for that.
Pisces observed one of the performers attempting to practice her lines for Pygmalion. The Players of Celum were now fully comprised of three species: Human, Gnoll, and Drake. Temile had been actively recruiting and come up with a fairly wide cast. The [Actress] he’d cast in the part of Eliza, or rather, ‘Eriza’ for a more Gnollish-name, was struggling to live up to his high standards. Temile shook a finger.
“No, no. Be the character. Don’t speak to me! I’m not here! Remember—face the audience, but don’t look at us. Now—from the top! Professor Hissins enters. And—begin!”
A Drake hurried onto the stage, pretending to be getting out of the rain. He began, speaking in a carrying, conversational tone. He was decent, Pisces observed. He’d performed before. The Eriza [Actress] hadn’t.
She was a young Gnoll. Female, auditioning or a newly-minted member of the cast. She began her part and Pisces saw Temile wince almost at the same time the [Necromancer] did.
It wasn’t that the young Gnoll woman was bad. It was just that she wasn’t good. She spoke her lines…not exactly stiffly, but clearly from memory. She spoke them as if declaiming to a room, but aware she was on stage and determined to not show it. So she was aware of the audience, and yet trying to pretend she didn’t notice the stares. After a moment, Temile cut her off to explain why that was a problem.
Pisces already understood what Temile wanted. True actors, whether by class or nature, didn’t act like that. Some spoke to the crowd, acknowledging them as part of their performance. And to others—the audience was truly invisible, and they lived in their world, alone. That was the height of acting in either fashion.
He watched as the Gnoll girl tried again. And she was doing better. Pisces had a moment of sympathy for her. After all…he was much like her. A poor actor who was caught between extremes. Trying to pretend he didn’t see the audience.
The [Necromancer] looked around. And he saw the three faces turn away from his. The morning breakfasters pretended to be talking with their friends, or interested in their food. But they had been staring at him. Exactly at him, not just looking his way or idly browsing. There was a difference.
Three, today. Pisces had observed them out of the corner of his eyes. The [Necromancer] affected not to notice. And that was an act. Here he was, performing the [Actor]’s contradictory role. Pretending not to know he was being watched. But like the [Actress] on stage, he always saw the audience. Pisces couldn’t help it.
It was a self-defense mechanism. Too much attention, too much anger or hatred or just dislike, and he would be in trouble. Pisces could remember the look he got before a mob gathered, or someone started an incident. He didn’t suspect it would come to that here, but habits died hard. And even now—
“Hells, I hope we get an easy job after yesterday. And a bonus. We’ve earned it, right? We’ll probably have to wait until we’re paid.”
Ceria’s voice made Pisces look up. The half-Elf was yawning. They were all tired after yesterday.
The Bloodfields. Pisces still remembered the battle there. He’d gone over what he could have done better. Practiced with the [Shatterbolt] spell so he wouldn’t miss a distant target a second time. And considered that [Deathbolt] wasn’t a good spell to use on slimes or plants. He still needed to learn [Acid Orb]; Grimalkin was right about that. He nodded as Yvlon sighed.
“We all got out of it fine. It was dangerous. But I’m proud of everyone. When are we meeting?”
“Twenty minutes. They’ll all start coming through then. Plenty of time for a hamburger.”
“Oh no.”
Pisces smiled slightly. Yesterday. He’d gone out drinking, been toasted for his part in saving two adventurers from Walt’s team. The huge [Warrior] had even gone as far as to clap Pisces on the back and say he’d misjudged him. So, today, the Horns were minor heroes, even if only among the teams working in the Bloodfields.
The [Necromancer] turned his head. A few of the Drakes and Gnolls that would be working on the road were breakfasting here since it was convenient. And some had waved at the Horns as they’d come down. Just—waved. It wasn’t as if the Horns had helped save the city from the moths or just come out of Albez. But the feeling was the same. They’d ventured into the Bloodfields and come out.
“Glory. And yet, it changes nothing.”
“What was that, Pisces?”
“Nothing.”
Exactly that. It didn’t change anything. Pisces turned his head towards Ceria and felt them again. Four stares now. He’d missed one of the Gnolls by the door. That was the thing. They were staring at him. After his team had been hailed for their valor yesterday. But that was the nature of people. And of Pisces’ class. He knew it would be so. Even in a smiling crowd he could pick out the frowns.
And even now, there weren’t many smiles. Not at him. More for Ksmvr, even. Because for all the Antinium was Antinium, one of the scourges of Rhir, a nightmarish foe that was the enemy of Drakes and Gnolls and all species—he was disarming, friendly, innocent. He was a member of a species. But Pisces was different. He had a class. And he had chosen.
Necromancer. The word hovered above his head, unspoken. It defined him. But each day, Pisces pretended not to notice the stares he could see, the way people watched him. He paused as one of the starers stood.
A Drake. He was one of the workers on the road. Pisces knew that by his clothing, nothing else. He didn’t know the Drake. And for a moment, Pisces thought the Drake would go to the outhouse or somewhere else. But then the Drake started walking towards the table where the Horns sat.
Pisces paused. He looked up, still watching out of the corner of his eyes. His teammates saw the Drake approaching and turned. So Pisces did too. He met the Drake’s eyes. Saw him fully.
Pale yellow scales, tough arms and legs. A [Laborer], perhaps. Not one of the skilled workers, but not unkempt either. He’d been sitting alone. Watching Pisces.
Now he stopped in front of their table. He was—trembling. With nerves? And a suppressed anger. Pisces saw it all. Ceria did not. She blinked up at the Drake.
“Hi there. Can we help you?”
Both Pisces and the Drake started. They’d been so focused on each other. The Drake turned his head.
“What? I—no, Miss. I’d like a word with…”
He gestured to Pisces. Ceria sat up a bit. Yvlon frowned.
“What about?”
The Drake peered at Pisces. He opened his mouth, and Pisces saw he was missing a tooth, a molar, but the rest of his teeth were sharp. White, barely yellow—he must take good care of them.
“The name’s Mesiel. Hey. You’re that [Necromancer], right?”
“I am. How can I help you, sir?”
Pisces already knew. Yvlon was staring at his face. Pisces realized he was being too calm. He should seem confused. But it didn’t matter. The Drake hesitated.
“I saw you yesterday. Daring the Bloodfields to save those two Humans. That was brave.”
“Thank you. It was what we were hired to do.”
“Yeah, but I didn’t see any of the other adventurers doing it. It was…brave. Good thing you got them out.”
“Yeah.”
Ceria nodded uncertainly. She’d picked up on the Drake’s tone too. Pisces waited. The Drake, Mesiel, swallowed hard. And then he came out with it.
“I wanted to ask you something. Pisces, right? Pisces Jealnet?”
The Horns looked at Pisces. He felt his heart jump. His last name was unfamiliar. Unwelcome. But he just nodded.
“That’s me.”
“I read your bounty. I’m not here to collect! But I read it. Do you—do you know that Liscor had a problem with the undead? Not just with the crypt. That’s new. But back during the Second Antinium Wars. The Necromancer hit the city over a decade back. You heard about that, right? Az’kerash.”
The word came from Mesiel’s lips like a curse. Again, Pisces’ heart jumped. He nodded, straightening in his chair. Waiting. The Drake’s eyes were locked on him now. A familiar expression. Anger and grief and—confusion.
“I was there. The undead—they put our city under siege. For months! The Necromancer was destroying the wall piece by piece, and the army and the Watch had to try and rebuild it while fighting the undead. We were all fighting. If someone died in Liscor—they came back. Even the rats. Even the damn rats.”
He was going somewhere. Far away. Back in time. The Horns waited, caught up in the Drake’s memories. Pisces’ stomach was twisting. Waiting. Which one was it?
The Drake gulped.
“My mother died to a zombie during the siege. It snuck past our lines somehow. The sewers. And it got into her house. She was just an old Drake. And it ate her. But that’s not all. It turned her into another one. A zombie. I came back and found her. Undead.”
He looked at Pisces then. Yvlon opened her mouth, but whatever words she was hoping for weren’t there. Pisces nodded. He met the Drake’s eyes.
“I’m sorry for your loss, sir. I was not there, but I am sorry.”
“Yeah. Thanks. But I wanted to know—how can you be one? A [Necromancer]? How can you do that?”
The Drake was shaking. And around them, people were turning, listening in. Erin Solstice broke off from her conversation with Relc. Hesitated, began moving their way.
Pisces shook his head and rose to his feet. Mesiel took a step back. But Pisces regarded the tables around him. His audience. He spoke to them, to the Drake.
“I am sorry about your loss, Mister Mesiel. I am. But yes, the undead are dangerous. And they wish to slay the living, it is true. But I attempt to control them. I cannot speak for other [Necromancers], but I want to understand them. And I am not Az’kerash. I am an adventurer, and a [Mage]. And a [Necromancer]. It is my occupation.”
It wasn’t a perfect speech. Far from it. There were no perfect, elegant words that Pisces wanted to deliver. It wasn’t even the whole truth. But it was the best he could give.
And even so. Mesiel listened to Pisces’ words. He stared into the Human’s face and shook his head slightly.
“Why do you do it? What’s there to be gained in—I could understand [Summoners]. Or making Golems. But undead? Rotting flesh and bone? People?”
