“I wish I could show you. Show you my soul, to prove it was there! I have never wanted to be anything but good. And yet, I found myself sinking lower because all I did turned to dust. Because wherever I tried to extend a hand to help, I was stabbed by prejudice in fear. Until I looked like the very thing you called me. Until I believed I was a monster myself. It was so hard to remember who I am.”
The [Necromancer] bowed his head. And he wiped at his eyes.
“I am different. But I wish I could just exist and it would not hurt you all. But it seems I cannot live in this world so easily. I never wished to be this. I dreamed of being a hero. I thought I could become one, regardless of who I was. When did I go so far astray?”
Far away, Az’kerash half-stood. He stared at Ijvani’s projection of the young man, and his hand rose. Searching for the place where his heart lay. And he saw Pisces turn, looking at Montressa. Her eyes were filled with empty hatred. Pisces stared at her. And he sighed, his voice exhausted.
“Montressa. I’m so very weary of it all. Exhausted of the chase. Of being me. But most of all, watching the good people suffer for what you and your kind do. Watching trust turn to ash. I—I am a poor friend, a worse man. But [Necromancers] are not one and the same. If we are monsters, some of it was what the world shaped us into!”
He reached for the rapier at his side. And drew it. The steel glinted in the sun of another day. Pisces spoke slowly, staring at the blade in his hands.
“It’s been too long. I, running, and you, chasing. Unable to forget. So. Let’s end it, Mons. This old mistake between us. I am Pisces Jealnet, a [Mage] of Wistram. [Necromancer]. And I challenge you to a duel.”
Pisces pointed at Montressa. Beza let go of Montressa. Ceria breathed.
“No. Pisces—”
“I accept! Let’s finish this!”
Montressa grabbed her staff and strode forwards. Isceil followed her. Ceria cried out. Pisces’ face was pale as Montressa’s. But his eyes held a terrible truth. A certainty. And Montressa—she stepped forwards, and Ceria saw death in her eyes.
“No. Yvlon, help me. Ksmvr! Pisces—you can’t!”
The [Ice Mage] grabbed at Pisces’ arm. But Yvlon stepped past Ceria, knocking her arm aside.
“They won’t stop. Pisces is right, Ceria.”
She drew her sword. The adventurers fell back as Yvlon lifted the enchanted blade in both hands. She pointed at Beza.
“Come on, Minotaur. Come, or don’t haunt our backs ever again. If you believe what your friend says. If you want to take Pisces—step forwards. Because you’ll go through me.”
“This is a duel!”
Beza hesitated. Yvlon’s gaze never wavered. The same fury in Montressa’s eyes was reflected in hers.
“Then let it be. Between our teams. Step forwards or forswear hunting Pisces! I’m tired too. He hasn’t deserved this. Come on! What about you? Or you?”
She pointed at Palt and Ulinde. The Centaur backed up.
“No. Montressa, pull back.”
“I—I can’t. Palt is right. Beza!”
The Minotauress hesitated. But then Isceil spoke up. He lifted his wand and walked up next to Montressa. He pointed with his free hand at Ceria.
“They still tell stories about a monster who was one of our Archmages. He had friends until they saw what he was. But they did see when they looked. His evil heart. His wretched lies. Step aside, half-Elf. I see a monster.”
“Stop! The Academy won’t allow it!”
Palt tried to trot forwards. But Beza’s arm stopped him. The Minotauress had made her decision. She reached for the scrolls at her belt.
“Honor matters more than the laws of Wistram, Palt. I’ve seen the death this creature caused. And others like him. I don’t believe him. And I won’t let my team fight alone.”
“Ceria—”
“Pisces. You can’t do this.”
“Then I should let her attack again? Attack Erin? Look at her, Ceria. She will do anything. I won’t let it happen.”
Ceria looked. Montressa stared at her, wild-eyed. She had lost something. Slowly, in a dream of her own, Ceria let go of Pisces’ sleeve. She looked around.
“Step back, then. Alais. Stan.”
“Ceria! You can’t do this.”
“I’m not letting Pisces die.”
How did it come to this? But look—look at her eyes. Ceria had seen a reflection of them somewhere. Where?
Illphres. Do or die. Montressa would never give up. Something was broken in her. Or—she was gone. Even if Ceria ran, she’d attack. Where had her friend gone? Ceria looked for her, but she couldn’t find the girl she knew.
“A duel?”
“Fall back.”
The adventurers were hesitating. Stan looked around.
“Move back! Clear the area!”
“We can’t let them duel—”
“It’s that or fight. Neither’s backing down. Look at them, Alais. Get out of range! They use lightning spells!”
The adventurers were falling backwards as the Horns and the Wistram [Mages] slowly walked to the right. Towards the Blood Fields, away from the road.
“I’ll take Beza.”
Yvlon’s voice was cold. Ceria looked at her, then at Pisces.
“It doesn’t have to be like—”
She looked at Isceil, and her voice trailed off. The Drake was aiming his wand at Pisces’ heart, a smile on his face. Ceria took a breath.
“I’ll stop the Drake, then.”
“Fine.”
Pisces’ face was pale. He looked at Montressa. To the side, Ksmvr looked at Palt and Ulinde. He aimed the bow in their direction.
“Is it battle, then? You are both off-guard. And I understand that killing you before a duel has begun would be considered improper. I would not wish to disgrace my team.”
“What? No. We have to stop this!”
Palt cried out. He was going over the list of his spells desperately, but he knew Montressa’s abilities. Ksmvr nodded.
“I see. In that case—I am content to watch also. If you move, I will kill you.”
The Centaur froze. Ulinde turned. Ksmvr aimed the bow straight between her eyes. The adventurers scattered around them.
“No! We have to stop them!”
Ulinde tried to step left, but Ksmvr pulled, and she froze. Palt raised his hands.
“Look—Ksmvr? We need to stop our team. Let us go and—”
“No. I do not believe you.”
“We’ll pull them apart! Don’t you—why don’t you believe us?”
The Antinium tilted his head.
“Because that is what I would say to allay suspicion before I killed both of you in a surprise attack. Move and I will shoot.”
“They’re going to die. This is madness.”
The [Skirmisher]’s voice was calm.
“No, it was inevitable, I think. Your leader, Montressa, is beyond reason. So Pisces must kill her.”
“She could kill him! You don’t know Montressa—”
Ksmvr shook his head. He never turned his head as the five [Mages] and Yvlon moved into position. Two sides, two dozen paces apart.
“He will not lose. My teammates will not fall, any of them. Or I would be in error. And my reason for living would be torn away. Watch.”
They did. Stan was arguing with Ceria, trying to convince her to halt. But it wasn’t in the half-Elf’s control. Pisces stood apart from Montressa. Yvlon was advancing towards Beza at a walk as the Minotaur read from her scrolls. Isceil pointed his wand at Ceria.
“Move clear, adventurers. This is a duel. Between all present. A duel of honor, which is more than the [Necromancer] deserves.”
“You bastard. Didn’t you hear a word he said? Get away, Stan.”
The old adventurer retreated, shaking his head. Ceria had drawn her own wand. Ice formed along the tip as she aimed it angrily at Isceil. The Drake sneered.
“I heard pretty lies. Anyone can lie, half-Elf. Even to truth spells. And everyone’s a victim in their own book.”
“Montressa. You can walk away. Promise me. The Academy doesn’t want me. It’s you. Swear not to come after me. Swear. Please.”
Pisces looked at Montressa. For a moment, Ceria saw the rage clear in Montressa’s eyes. She looked at him and hesitated. Fear and loathing and anger. But it wasn’t enough. She shook her head and lifted her staff.
“Me? How could I believe you?”
Pisces bowed his head.
“Yes. How could you?”
There was no signal. Yvlon’s pace accelerated as Beza’s sixth scroll scrambled to dust in her hands. The Minotaur began advancing, her fists clenched. She was wearing a shining, glowing magical gauntlet about her own fists and she moved too quickly. Ceria looked at Pisces and Montressa. They were still. The orb was rotating slowly around Montressa’s staff as the magic gathered about both.
“Ceria!”
Ksmvr’s voice was a warning. Ceria jerked her head up. The first [Fireball] shot towards her face. She flung herself left as she screamed.
“[Ice Wall]!”
The fire struck ice. The explosion hurled Ceria to the ground. And then it was battle.
 
——
 
The workers at the road stared. Master Builder Reikhle snarled, watching the battle.
“Fools.”
But no one could stop it. The duel between the two teams had begun. Montressa conjured a barrier as Pisces leapt—he appeared in front of her, slashing with his rapier and blasting fire. The magic and steel glanced harmlessly off her barrier. She shot lightning and he dodged the bolt.
Yvlon and Beza were trading blows. The Minotauress was inhumanly quick, but Yvlon’s sword was heavier than even Beza’s punches. Yvlon staggered as a punch hit her armor—Beza’s arm was deflected by a heavy cut. Her Sword of Weight would have gone through the Minotaur’s arm without the magical armor and the [Stone Skin] enchantment.
But it was Ceria’s and Isceil’s duel that was the most mortal. The Oldblood Drake had conjured a barrier of his own, but weaker than Montressa’s. He was firing spells from his wand and breathing flame. It melted the [Ice Walls] Ceria was conjuring. She was running, firing [Ice Spikes], but outmatched by the sheer firepower Isceil was throwing her way.
Another [Ice Wall], three feet thick, began to melt as Isceil exhaled burning flames. Then he switched to acid. Ceria’s [Ice Armor] began to melt and she screamed and conjured another wall, blocking the deadly acid.
“Surrender, half-Elf! I am Oldblood! I call on the power of Dragons! What can you—”
Isceil swore and dove sideways as five [Ice Spikes] shattered on his barrier. The flickering aura of magic went out and he desperately raised it again. Ceria lowered her skeletal hand and conjured more [Ice Walls] between them, creating disposable shields. Her jaw worked for a moment. Then she pointed her wand and her skeletal finger.
“Fuck you.”
Shards of ice blew apart Isceil’s second barrier. He fired back, dodging, weaving—he could use [Flash Step] too! But if he had mobility—Ceria’s training with Grimalkin had paid off. She was raising thick walls of ice, preventing him from aiming at her. And the last layer of defense—the armor of ice on her skin—had stopped all of his spells.
“Your little ice walls can’t stop me!”
Isceil bellowed. He conjured a wall of stone as Ceria shot spells at him. She aimed a [Fireball] and he inhaled.
The explosion blew the stone wall to bits. It rained on Isceil’s barrier and he flinched. But then he exhaled.
A firestorm of air and flames blasted forth. Two elements. It hit Ceria’s walls of ice like a shockwave, blowing the half-Elf off her feet. She landed, feeling the heat pierce even her icy armor. Blisters rose on her arms as she shielded her face. As she rolled over, she saw her terrain had melted. She—
A spear made out of obsidian hit her in the chest. Ceria fell back as the adventurers shouted.
“Ceria!”
Kam screamed. She saw the half-Elf jerk as Isceil crowed. A barrier of ice grew around Ceria. She reached for a potion, smashed it on her chest. Rolled away as the next [Fireball] blew her cover to bits.
“She’s losing. Let us go!”
Palt stared at Ksmvr. The Antinium was hesitating. He stared at Ceria.
“She will not lose.”
His voice trembled a bit. Ceria was rising to her feet, shooting [Ice Spikes] at Isceil. Walt turned to Alais. His team was tense, and he saw hers was watching the fight.
“Can she take him, Alais?”
“I don’t know! They’re both better than me! Ceria’s got aim, and she can make ice walls, but he’s got too many powerful spells! We have to stop this!”
Uncertainly, Alais raised her staff, but Walt grabbed her.
“It’s a duel! We can’t interfere!”
“Hells to that!”
Alais snapped, but by her side, Stan shook his head. He had a crossbow in one hand and was watching.
“Hold on, Alais.”
“For what?”
“Neither side’s in danger yet. They’re both equally matched. Wait. If we stop them, it’ll just turn into a feud later. Watch—and pray the Horns win. If we step in, it has to be at the right moment.”
Alais hesitated. Then she heard a roar. Isceil had inhaled for another breath attack and Ceria had pointed both wand and fingers.
Six [Ice Spikes] hit the Drake’s barrier and one got through. He stumbled backwards, swearing, as one of the deadly shards of ice struck him in the chest. Alais expected him to fall. But—the Drake regained his balance.
“Armor spells. You can’t take me, half-Elf!”
He snarled as he shot a volley of magical bolts back at Ceria. The half-Elf didn’t respond. She was ducking forwards, conjuring more walls of ice. Isceil darted left, inhaling again—
He ran over a patch of ice and slipped. His blast of lightning shot into the air and some of the arcs lanced downwards towards the adventurers wearing armor. They moved back even further as Isceil tried to roll to his feet. And Ceria ran.
“She’s going into close range!”
The [Cryomancer] shoulder-charged the Drake as he got up. His first spell cracked her [Ice Armor], but then she was on him. Ceria advanced, slashing with the dagger in her hand. The Drake backed up, cursing, wide-eyed.
“This is a duel! You call yourself a [Mag—”
He ducked a cut and aimed his wand. Ceria felt the flames engulf her, but the Drake was too unsteady to use more than a Tier 2 spell.
Now!
She tackled the Drake to the ground and then they were rolling. She slashed and bit, magical spells blasting from both wands. The Drake tried to fight her off. Beza and Yvlon raced past them, fighting, ducking back. Yvlon grunted as she ducked one of Beza’s swings. But the Minotauress was wary of her sword. Twice, Yvlon had slashed her down to the bone.
“What is that sword? It’s nearly cutting that Minotauress in half!”
Walt exclaimed. Yvlon’s sword flashed as Beza ducked back. But then she charged in and copied Ceria’s move. Yvlon went sprawling back as Beza tried to grab her. But the Minotauress couldn’t grapple; Yvlon’s fist caught her in the face and the [Wounded Warrior] got up. Her slash nearly cut Beza’s horns off.
