Lightning flashed past Yvlon, some of it earthing on her armor. Yvlon staggered, turning. Montressa blasted more lightning and both Beza and Yvlon sprang clear. Pisces was a blur, avoiding lightning, throwing spells back at Montressa. But theirs was a stalemate.
“Stay away! Stay away!”
Montressa was screaming at the [Necromancer] as she blasted another skeleton apart. She screamed, wildly sweeping her staff and blowing a Bone Horror to pieces. She was enmeshed in her barrier spells which soaked up each of Pisces’ attacks. Each time he took down one of the outer layers she conjured another one. It was a stalemate. She couldn’t hit him yet and he—
He ducked in, slashing across Montressa’s face. She recoiled, caught herself as her barrier flashed—aimed her staff. Pisces disappeared. But then one of the skeletons rose. Montressa’s shriek was followed by a [Chain Lightning] spell. It blasted the bones so far away that it nearly hit the observers. The [Aegiscaster] was panicking as Pisces harassed her with undead.
“He’s baiting her spells with the undead. Trying to wear her down. That’s the only way.”
Ulinde whispered. The Selphid had the best view and eye for the battle. The [Spellslinger] watched as Palt clenched his hands. He couldn’t move; Ksmvr was aiming at both him and Ulinde, and the Centaur couldn’t race an arrow.
“We have to stop—damn.”
In their rolling brawl, Isceil finally got a leg under Ceria’s stomach. He kicked her off him, and the half-Elf stumbled up. She looked for Isceil as the Drake muttered a word.
“[Dust Storm]—”
He vanished in a cloud of dust. Ceria cursed and raised [Ice Walls], shooting spikes wildly with her skeletal hand. She whirled, creating her own stationary barrier. The adventurers coughed, moving backwards. Ceria looked around—
“Captain! To your left!”
She turned too late. Isceil’s lightning shattered the ice wall. The half-Elf aimed her wand, and the Drake closed his maw. He pointed his wand, and the [Delayed Fireball] flew.
This time the explosion engulfed the ice barrier. Ksmvr made a sound. Ceria was lying on the ground. The [Ice Armor] had caught most of the spell, but she was dazed. Isceil aimed his wand at her as she threw up a hand.
“Got y—”
A black bolt of magic hit Isceil from behind. It passed through him, bursting out of his chest. Isceil fell forwards. Yvlon stopped. Montressa’s eyes went wide as Ceria rolled to her feet.
“Isceil!”
Ksmvr’s head turned. Behind the Drake, Pisces lowered his finger.
“[Deathbolt].”
Isceil fell to one knee, face white. Ceria looked up and Pisces dodged a huge comet as Montressa screamed, firing spells with both her wand and the brass orb. Ceria looked up at Pisces. Isceil raised his wand as the [Necromancer] appeared, conjuring a barrier.
Pisces looked down at his ring. [Shatterbolt]. He hadn’t used it on Montressa. He couldn’t. But Isceil? The Drake looked up, stood shakily.
“You coward.”
The [Necromancer] didn’t reply. He just set his stance, preparing to lunge. The Drake reached for a potion, wand at the ready.
“Pisces!”
Montressa screamed at Pisces, but her barriers kept her locked in place. She took a step, unsure, and saw Ceria advancing towards her. The [Ice Mage] met Montressa’s eyes. She smiled bitterly.
“Hey, Mons. Let’s settle this. Team captain to captain.”
Montressa gazed at Ceria. The half-Elf peered back at her. For a moment, they remembered. Ceria’s voice was low.
“I should have said this all that time ago. He’s not perfect. And he never was. But he is my friend. If you want to hurt him, I’ll stop you.”
“You don’t understand what he is.”
Ceria shook her head. She looked at Montressa with pity in her eyes. And she raised her wand.
“No. I don’t think you do. And you’ll kill him? You’ve gone mad. Come on, Montressa. Let’s settle our pasts.”
She lifted her wand. Palt kicked himself.
“Madness. She probably lost her grip when she saw the undead! We can [Calm] her. Ulinde! Ksmvr! Let me go to her! She’s not thinking!”
The Antinium looked at Palt. He hesitated.
“That is a very good try. I almost believe you. Don’t move.”
 
——
 
“Bevussa. I think I see movement ahead.”
“Where?”
The Garuda froze as Kin halted in the dungeon. The Drake [Mage] aimed her wand ahead.
“There.”
“Facestealer? Ready—”
Bevussa instantly warned her team. They clutched the magical amulets they’d bought. Zassil and Issa flew back, out of range. Bevussa hunkered down, ready to move. She waited—
And a masked, clothed figure appeared around a corner. Bevussa stared, and then she relaxed.
“Dead gods! You scared us!”
The masked warrior waved at Bevussa. The Garuda waved her forwards. She recognized the clothed body and the mask.
“We haven’t seen you in over a week. Where were you? Are you alright? We have to talk. Can you write? I’ve brought parchment and ink—”
She paused. The Garuda stared as the masked woman jogged forwards. Something was—off. Kin paused.
“Hey, does her mask look different to you, Captain?”
“Stop!”
Bevussa instantly raised her shortsword. The masked warrior stopped. She tilted her head. Bevussa stared at her. It was dark in the dungeon, lit only by Kin’s [Light] spells. But the mask was indeed different.
“Miss Warrior?”
Now it was a question. The woman nodded. But Bevussa looked at Kin. The mask was different. This one looked crude. Made of wood. It was more like a slat with eye holes.
“Stay where you are. Kin, this might be an imposter. Zassil, Issa—”
Bevussa turned her head. And the masked figure charged. Bevussa’s head snapped back up. She swore, her sword swinging up.
“Kin, get back—”
The masked woman lunged. Her sword blurred. Bevussa’s eyes went wide. She jerked backwards. Only a sweep of her wings kept her out of range as the masked warrior reappeared, her sword slashing at where Bevussa’s throat had been.
[Mirage Cut]. The Garuda cursed and lunged in. She knocked the woman’s blade back, using her aerial mobility to throw the warrior off balance.
“What’s wrong with you? Stop! Stop or I’ll—”
The stranger slashed. And Bevussa’s sword blurred. She buried her enchanted shortsword in the woman’s chest. Kin gasped, scrambling backwards. Bevussa stopped.
“I’m sorry. I—”
The masked woman looked down at the sword. Then Toren pulled off the mask. His eyes flashed. Bevussa stared into the skeleton’s grinning face as the enchantment hit her.
[Fear]. She choked, cold, icy fear running through her.
“What are—”
Toren’s enchanted blade took her in the stomach. He stared into Bevussa’s eyes. Saw them go round with shock. Ah, yes. That was what it looked like when they died. He’d almost forgotten.
He hummed a tune in his head as he twisted the sword. Bevussa made a choking sound, and Toren put a foot on her chest.
“Bevussa!”
The Drake [Mage] screamed. She lifted her wand, aiming at Toren. He dodged, and the ray of magic went past his chest. Zassil and Issa flew forwards, shouting. Toren pointed, and from around the corner bounded Ghouls. Two dozen of them.
“Undead!”
“Captain—”
The hallways turned to confusion. Bevussa was gaping at Toren, gagging with pain as he twisted the blade in her stomach. The Ghouls swarmed past her, attacking her team. Toren kicked her off the blade as the Wings of Pallass screamed and fought the undead suddenly overrunning them. He inspected Bevussa as she fell back, weakly grasping her shortsword.
It hadn’t been that deep a cut. Toren hadn’t been able to run her completely through. She had tough…feathers. Oh well. Toren wasn’t about to stick around for the fight. He pointed and a Ghoul leapt on Bevussa. And Toren walked on. He pulled his mask back into place, leaving the Wings of Pallass.
“Undead attack! Form up! Where are the Wings of Pallass?”
Three corridors down, Toren strolled past a team of adventurers fighting for their lives. They called out to him to help. He walked past them. The undead were storming the tunnels. Toren had brought them from his inn. His fake inn. He’d opened the metal door and let them out. How many?
All of them. The Crypt Lords led an army of the undead through the tunnels. Thousands, falling upon the Gold and Silver-rank teams. Even so, it was a familiar fight. Toren had seen it happen once and there was no huge flesh-pit this time or the crawling undead.
“Hold the line!”
At one point, the undead splintered and broke on a wall of flames. Toren avoided that tunnel, but he saw the unit of Drakes holding there.
Keldrass. And his second-in-command was wearing the Heartflame Breastplate. Between the Siegespell Armor and the Heartflame Breastplate, the Flamewardens of Pallass were holding the line, surrounded by the undead. If Toren’s goal had been to kill the adventurers, he would have been disappointed.
But it wasn’t. Toren passed through the tunnels, followed by a smaller group of undead under his personal control. The adventurers were too busy to stop him. And too busy to stop what happened next.
Toren arrived in the section of the dungeon where the roof had collapsed. He looked up, and saw the ropes leading upwards. Light shone down. Toren stared up. He had missed the sky. Slowly, he took off the mask. The clothing. They were just props. Hers. And he was all that remained.
The skeleton seized one of the ropes. A team of Ghouls and a Crypt Lord held the entry point as Toren began to climb. Alone. They advanced back into the dungeon, cutting the adventurers off. It didn’t matter that they’d probably be destroyed.
Toren climbed. He felt the magic of the dungeon leave him. Felt himself began to bleed magic. But he had enough in his bones. If he didn’t die, he wouldn’t…die.
He kept climbing. Soon, he was at the top. Toren looked down into the dungeon and listened to the screams and shouts from below. He nodded and looked around. The Flood Plains waited. And in the distance—a small building on the hill. The purple flames in the skeleton’s eyes narrowed into pinpricks of light. He stared down into the dungeon.
Slowly, Toren drew his sword. He went to the anchors that held the ropes the adventurers had descended on. And he cut the ropes one by one. Then Toren turned. Today he’d find out if the rumors were true. He walked towards the inn. Towards home. He wondered if she were there. He was coming home today.
This day.
 
——
 
Captain Pelico, Silver-rank team Captain of Hauntgheist, was leading his team around the Bloodfields, scouting the area where Walt’s team had fallen prey to the spores. His team was keeping a vigilant watch, armed with ranged weapons, moving forwards at a steady, wary clip. They had no [Scout] leading them. Nor were they aware of the magical battle drawing closer behind them.
They hadn’t heard about the battle on their scouting mission. If they had turned around, they would have seen the duel in the distance. But all of their attention lay on what was before them.
The Bloodfields. Hauntgheist shuddered as they did a slow circuit of the perimeter. Still two miles out—but too close for Pelico’s liking. Even so, his team was one of the few who could investigate the spores. He’d volunteered them, for the healthy pay bump. Hauntgheist had dealt with airborne threats like this before.
They covered their faces and every exposed body part in thick clothing over their armor. They even had glass goggles. And to breathe, they wore bandannas, charmed to keep all but clean air out. It was a cheap way of dealing with airborne threats like poison gas and so on. But if that failed, Hauntgheist’s members all carried stakes and rope to anchor themselves into the ground.
Again, an easy solution. Adventurers might be stumped or fall prey to a trap or trick a monster used, but their strength lay in their ability to adapt. Even so, Pelico was on alert. The Bloodfields had any number of tricks and the [Rogue] was only being paid to scout.
Unfortunately, there was a problem. Theirs was the closest team to where Walt’s team had been hit by the spores, but they’d done three passes and there was no sign of the spores. Or what had caused them.
“Look. The spore patch is gone. I know where it was. There! But it’s gone, Pelico.”
Desril came to the conclusion after the fourth pass. He pointed, indicating a patch of ground.
“Gone? You sure you’re not looking in the wrong place, Desril?”
The former [Raider] glared at his leader.
“I’m sure. You can see there’s some shit there. Left over, like. But the spores’re gone. Maybe they did their job? Maybe Walt’s team has them growing in them.”
“They were checked over by a [Healer]. It can’t be that.”
“Maybe the spores’re just one-use, then? The plant dies and comes back later? Like mushrooms.”
Another member of Hauntgheist offered. She adjusted her goggles to see, frowning. Pelico nodded. Nothing would surprise him around the Bloodfields. Even so—the [Rogue] shifted. His [Dangersense] wasn’t going off wildly, as it should near the Bloodfields. But he knew that was because there was a trap ahead. [Dangersense] was tricky. It only gave you a little bit of warning. Traps and the like you got a few seconds. Well, it was actually going off now; he knew the Bloodfields were dangerous.
“Perhaps something ate ‘em? Blood Slimes, maybe. Or those insects. The Bloodfields have to devour themselves to survive, right?”
Another [Rogue] offered. He eyed the Bloodfields, and Hauntgheist shrugged. Frustrated, Desril turned to Pelico.
“What do we do? We’ve gotta see the spores to get paid, right?”
“Maybe there are more. We’ll keep moving a few more miles. There are definitely more spore patches.”
No one in Hauntgheist liked that idea. Pelico grimaced.
“We’ll do it at a distance. Maybe borrow horses or—or the Horns’ chariot. Scout around the outside. We’ll reconnect with the teams first. Don’t worry; we’re not going further without a lot of support.”
The adventurers relaxed. They nodded at the commonsense idea. Then Desril pointed, frowning.
“Hey, what’s that?”
“What’s what?”
Hauntgheist turned back. The [Raider] pointed again. There was something past the spore patch. A large…odd…area. Not the usual red of the Bloodfields. Brown, in fact. Dead and lifeless.
“That brown spot. It looks dead, not like something else is growing there. See? There’s just no vegetation like a Watchertree would leave. The Bloodfields are just…dead, there.”
Pelico frowned, staring at the spot.
“Walt did mention that. That’s—strange. It looks dead.”
“Dead is good to me! Should we check it out, Captain? If we could investigate and find out why we might earn our pay—”
“No.”
Pelico and half of the seasoned adventurers immediately overruled the idea. The [Rogue] shook his head.
