Pisces’ shoulders began to hunch, but he straightened them. He met the Drake’s eyes. It was as if they were the only bright things in the world. So hard to meet.
“I attempt not to use people, sir. And I work with bone. It is—a material. To be used in creation.”
That was the wrong thing to say. The Drake jerked back.
“A—but why dead bodies?”
Pisces opened his mouth and hesitated. Say it another way. He spoke slowly, trying not to stumble over his words.
“It’s what I’m good at. I understand it, like a [Bladesman] understands his sword. What do you do for a living, sir?”
“I’m a [Builder]. I work with constructing stuff, fixing, mainly.”
The young man nodded.
“Then I enjoy necromancy as much as you might swinging a hammer. It may not be a direct comparison, but if you understand passion for your work—the satisfaction of completing a task well—that is what I have towards necromancy.”
The Drake nodded jerkily. He searched Pisces, and then his team. Pisces wondered what Ceria and Yvlon’s faces looked like. The Drake tried again.
“But couldn’t you make golems instead? Why bone? And the undead. Do you enjoy making them into—puppets?”
He was going in circles. So was Pisces. Erin trotted over.
“Okay! Hey! No bothering Pisces, okay?”
The Drake looked at her.
“I just want to know. He’s got a bounty. I read it.”
“It’s false. Wistram made it up. Parts of it.”
Ceria stood up, protectively standing by Pisces. He wished she wouldn’t. The Drake turned back.
“Parts of it are fake? What parts?”
She hesitated.
“The—look. Pisces did some bad stuff. There was an accident at Wistram. People got killed, but it wasn’t exactly—it was an accident. And the [Mages] in Wistram? Montressa and her team? They have a grudge. But—Pisces isn’t—the necrophilia isn’t true.”
The aforementioned Pisces closed his eyes. Erin inhaled her lips. Mesiel just looked at Pisces. And Pisces gazed at him. He bowed his head slightly.
“I’m sorry for your loss, Mister Mesiel. But cannot give you what you want. I am a [Necromancer]. But I am not Az’kerash.”
“But why?”
The question lingered even as a Gnoll and Drake came to pull Mesiel back. Pisces met his eyes.
“I’m sorry for your loss.”
It was the most honest answer. The most unfulfilling. The [Necromancer] watched Erin chivvy the others back. He turned. Now, they were all staring at him.
“Damn. What was that? He can’t just—”
Ceria was flustered. She turned. Ksmvr was looking anxiously at her and Pisces. Yvlon just met the [Necromancer]’s eyes. She nodded. So did he.
Pisces sat back down at the table, although his appetite was gone. His team sat around him and Erin came back. They looked expectant. He just shrugged, keeping his face straight.
“It is—tolerable. Fine, even. He asked, which is more than I am accustomed to. In truth, I am surprised no one sought me out before.”
“People didn’t know. They might have, but I guess rumors are spreading.”
Yvlon murmured. She looked around and Pisces sensed heads ducking back. The [Wounded Warrior] frowned, but stopped when he shook his head. Pisces glanced up at Erin, managed a smile for her. But it didn’t fool her.
“That Az’kerash guy was a jerk. Not Pisces. Well—Pisces is a jerk, but he’s not a bad guy. And they’re not the same.”
Erin’s comment made Pisces truly smile. The [Necromancer] stood back up, pushing his plate back. He glanced around.
“But he was the Necromancer. That’s how they remember him.”
No one replied to that. At last, Ceria muttered as she drained her cup.
“Let’s get to work guarding the Bloodfields, shall we?”
Pisces nodded. He felt tired, despite having just risen. Not physically, but with that mortal tiredness. He turned towards the magic door. And then he felt a hand on his shoulder.
Yvlon’s. Ksmvr put his hand on the same spot. Two of them, in fact. And Ceria gripped Pisces’ other shoulder. She raised her eyebrows. And despite himself, he smiled. His heart lifted for a second and his shoulders relaxed.
He was not alone. And so, the [Necromancer] walked towards the doors, surrounded by friends. It was just another day. They were always like this. They had been ever since he’d gained his class. Like breakfasts, some had been dark days. Many had. But they were getting better.
Yes. Better. But he wished he had an answer for Mesiel. A perfect answer to tell him the truth. Pisces sighed and shook his head. He hadn’t found it yet.
Why do you do it?
Because I want to. That’s all.
 
——
 
Someone else was having an unordinary, ordinary day. Bevussa, Gold-rank Captain of the Wings of Pallass, descended into Liscor’s dungeon with her team. Ready to slowly explore the dungeon, kill monsters, and get paid.
She’d had breakfast at The Wandering Inn. Or maybe—a snack? Bevussa’s beak opened and she made a disgusted sound. She was still tasting it, nearly twenty minutes later.
“Something wrong, boss?”
Zassil, one of the winged Oldblood Drakes and a competent [Flier], looked curiously at Bevussa. He was actually a [Battle Flier], which wasn’t that noteworthy. But it was unique to flying species. Bevussa spat, opening and closing her beak and grimacing.
“That soup. Gah! I know Erin said it keeps well, but—Ancestors! It’s coated my tongue!”
She drank from a water flask as her team walked through the cleared tunnels. By now, all the traps had been carefully outlined in glowing paint, and the adventurers had barricades up, maintaining a safe zone. Even so, the Wings of Pallass were wary; monsters could bypass the barriers.
Wary and yet not. This was a job. They’d done many days of this routine. It could turn deadly at any second, but it was what they were used to. This dungeon would make their fortunes. Or become their grave. Even so, they could chat.
“It tastes awful. I’ll give it that.”
Issa muttered as she flexed her wings. Bevussa nodded and Zassil and Kin, their [Mage], all agreed. Erin’s Scale Soup was so foul that it beat out even potions. It was the texture on top of the taste.
“Why’re we using it, Bevussa? I know it’s not much, but none of the other teams go to Erin’s inn every day for it. The Flamewardens didn’t.”
“They have the Heartflame Breastplate, Zassil. They don’t need the potion. Dead gods, but I’d love to try it on myself, even if I couldn’t fly!”
Kin looked envious. Even Bevussa nodded; she’d been raised among Drakes and the famous Heartflame Breastplate stirred feelings of awe and envy in her feathered chest as well.
“They’re just renting it from Miss Shivertail. Can’t we do it after them, Bevussa?”
“And do what? Turn into a land-bound team, Zassil?”
“Well, maybe it’s light enough to fly in? And if it’s not, one of us could stay on the ground. They’d be just as safe with that artifact on! Have you seen the flames?”
“Keldrass is paying for it, and I’m not wasting gold on something we don’t need. The Flamewardens can pay to use the armor.”
“And we pay to drink Scale Soup? That’s a terrible tradeoff, boss!”
The Wings laughed. So did Bevussa, but she shook her head.
“Let’s think about it, team. Erin’s food isn’t as good as, say, a Stoneskin Scroll like the one that we bought from that Minotauress, but it’s a tiny fraction of the cost! And it’s pretty good!”
She thumped a fist on her chest for emphasis. Her skin was tougher now, like leather. Zassil, Issa, and Kin nodded reluctantly. Bevussa gestured back the way they’d parted with the Flamewardens.
“It doesn’t make much difference if you’ve got armor. Some, but anything that can go through plate mail will go through her enchantment. But if you’re wearing light armor or nothing at all? The Scale Soup was made for our team!”
The Wings of Pallass stopped in front of a barricade. Zassil muttered.
“It still tastes like Wyvern shit melted into a pot.”
“True, but it’ll keep you alive. So eat it. I’m actually thinking of asking Erin if she can make it more palatable. She said she forgot how to make it the other way.”
“Why doesn’t she sell more of it? Dead gods, if it tasted good I’d eat it all the time.”
“Lack of interest? Apparently to make it she melted like eight pots and nearly killed herself a few times. I’ll talk with her. But no complaining. Now, let’s get to it.”
Bevussa checked the barricades, unlatching the bolts with Issa. Beyond this point lay unfamiliar territory. Monsters and treasure.
“Think we’ll get a haul today, boss? Something we don’t have to gamble for, like with the Raskghar? I’m still mad about that armor! Did Keldrass say he finally got it appraised?”
“No. What is it?”
“It’s classified as Siegespell Armor. It might be a variant, but it’s close to Named-rank gear.”
Zassil hissed as Bevussa shoved the barricade aside. She reached for her shortsword, grimacing. She felt exactly like the rest of her team.
“Damn. That’s not fair! We didn’t get nearly as much for our share!”
“It’s luck of the draw, Zassil. But let’s all be on the lookout for secret rooms, huh? If there’s magical armor and an invisible bow and whatnot in this dungeon, there’s something for us. Stay sharp and on me! Kin, take point!”
The Wings of Pallass straightened and nodded. Bevussa watched Kin take the lead and followed after, Zassil in the rear after Issa. Her team got to work. It was an ordinary day. But it could turn special or dire in a second. She just wished she could get the damn soup’s taste out of her mouth!
 
——
 
Palt, the Centaur [Illusionist] had not had breakfast at The Wandering Inn. He hadn’t really had breakfast; just a few oat snacks he’d eaten while talking. Negotiating, really. He was yawning, tired from an early morning. Dawn, practically. But the Ullsinoi faction had been in heated conference last night, and they’d come to a decision as promised.
Naturally, they’d included Palt in the conversation. He’d said as much as he could, but the Elusive Lot, the leaders of his faction, had done the deciding. And they’d decided right! The exhausted Centaur grinned as he trotted down the street. He didn’t mind the stares the Drakes and Gnolls gave him; he was used to being an oddity.
And nothing could shake his good mood. It was going to be a good day. Possibly an amazing one. No—it was already exemplary. Terrific!
And because it was this particular day it mattered. The day might not have been special, but now it would be. Or perhaps it was the other way around. Palt wasn’t interested in the philosophy of such things.
He murmured to himself as he paused by a market stall. The Gnoll attending it looked somewhat familiar. But Palt was too busy to listen to her talking policy with her customers. He murmured to himself as he pointed for a few ingredients and she happily packaged them up.
“I’ve settled the matter. The Ullsinoi faction has convinced the Revivalists not to interfere in your inn for a few—a very few!—concessions. You can offer us more than sheer military matters. Plays, your door as a hub for our people—how much Miss?”
“Four silver and three coppers, yes?”
Palt happily paid Krshia, not noticing the Gnoll staring at him. He thanked her and hurried off, thrusting the ingredients into his belt pouch.
“—only a few concessions. The Ullsinoi faction would love for your inn to stay right where it is! And if it connects to both Pallass and Invrisil? We just need to put a few—markers—on the door. And if you’re able to tell us—”
He was so relieved. The Elusive Lot had seen his points! In fact, they’d realized how valuable Erin was even outside of her status as an Earther. That was what Palt liked about his faction. They were practical, and they stayed in the world, not apart. Erin would get what she wanted. Montressa wouldn’t, but Palt would get what he wanted. And perhaps more.
The Centaur distractedly pulled out a mirror and checked his appearance. He could always use a glamor spell, but that would be a waste of magic. He pulled out a comb as he trotted towards the inn. Okay—now, he needed a smooth transition.
“So, shall we discuss the matter over a meal? Somewhere else than your inn? I know it’s work—no, wait. I’d love to show you some more of my cooking. No—”
The Centaur halted. Careful! He tried again.
“I just happened to have—no, that’s trite. Miss Solstice, would you care to accompany me for a night out? No, that’s far worse. She might not even get the nuance if I said it another way, though! Argh!”
His hooves did a little dance on the cobblestones. This was the hardest part! Palt glanced around.
“Let’s share a meal and discuss it. My treat. A table at Wishdrinks? Or perhaps a place in Pallass. I insist! We’ll need to work closely—no. I’d like to get to know you better. Damn, damn.”
He wasn’t used to Human traditions. Centaurs had it easy. And Dullahans! Lizardfolk were delightfully straightforward—Humans were complex in their inelegance and Palt didn’t know what was normal in Erin’s culture. But he’d workshop it.
“Hm. Go now or deal with Montressa? She’s all the way in the Bloodfields. Damn, damn.”
A passing Gnoll father glared at Palt and the Centaur saw his son staring up at the Centaur. The Centaur closed his mouth. He cast a localized [Hush] spell.
“No, no. Deal with Montressa first. She’s going to throw an unholy fit. Let’s go there first. [Flash Hooves] it is. Then—a dinner? No…how about—a chess game! Wait! Has she played Go? Palt, you’re a genius!”
He happily galloped towards the eastern gate. Montressa first. He’d present Erin with everything she wanted and then they’d nail down the deal over a meal. Take it slow. But there were first steps, and Palt intended to make this day one he’d remember. Should he get her flowers? But that was so trite and she wasn’t going to eat them…
The Centaur laughed as he ran out of the city. He smiled as his heart leapt. It was going to be a special day, he knew. Because it was today!
This day.
 
——
 
Ceria was worried about Pisces after the awkward, tense confrontation in the inn. But the [Necromancer] didn’t seem too bothered. Indeed, he even made a small joke as they entered the grasslands bordering the Bloodfields for work.
“One would imagine venturing into the Bloodfields, battling a Watchertree, and nearly being consumed by insects would merit us a day off.”
The half-Elf blinked. Then she laughed, relieved.
“That’s because we’re soft. I bet Master Reikhle doesn’t see it that way. See? He’s already at work!”
The Gnoll [Master Builder] was indeed already chivvying his workers at the road. It was sloping upwards, heading into the foothills, and the Gnoll was shouting orders.
