“It might be a trap. Or poison. Or something. Maybe nothing, but we don’t get anywhere close. That’s just idiotic. Let’s wait for a request, huh? And it had better be a good one. Look, one more pass and we’ll call it in to Master Reikhle. The other teams found nothing.”
He pointed ahead, at a team of Drakes similarly geared, checking out another patch of the Bloodfields about three thousand feet ahead. Pelico cast a troubled glance at the empty place Desril had pointed out. The spores were indeed gone.
As Hauntgheist moved slowly forwards, some of them began to debate what the brown spot was.
“What could kill the Bloodfields? Salt? Fire? It just regrows! People have even tried drying the area out, but the Bloodfields are just too tough.”
Desril frowned. He glanced at the dead zone. Far wider than what any one Watchertree would leave, true. And there was no distinctive towering plant, either. He muttered to Pelico.
“You know, it reminds me a bit of grass what’s been nibbled on by moths. You know, with tons of larvae? I knew a [Gardener] once—got a bunch of them in his plots. Looked just like that. Maybe—”
“Dead gods! What’s happening over there?”
Both men’s head snapped up. Pelico readied himself, but his teammates was pointing back towards the road. Desril swore.
“Don’t scare me like that! What?”
Then he saw it. Hauntgheist stared, seeing the duel between Montressa’s team and Ceria’s at last. Adventurers were racing after the six running shapes.
“What? Is it a fight? Dead gods, all the teams are out there!”
“What’s happening? [Bandits]?”
“No way. That’s—hold on, that’s the Wistram team! They’re dueling the Horns!”
Hauntgheist exclaimed. Pelico saw Ceria at a distance. She was battling one of the other [Mages], who was pursuing her, surrounded by a magical bubble of energy.
“Dead gods. Springwalker’s in trouble. Should we—”
“If it’s a duel, we can’t interfere.”
“Bugger that. Let’s put a bolt in those Wistram bastard’s heads. Look! Springwalker’s on the run!”
Desril pointed urgently. It was true. Ceria was retreating, towards the Bloodfields. The battle had shifted in that direction as Yvlon and Beza’s duel took them further back, the [Wounded Warrior] pressing the Minotauress [Spellscribe]. The other four dueling [Mages] followed them, threatening each other’s battles.
“They’re getting near the Bloodfields—”
“We’ll cut them off. Hauntgheist, hold up!”
The adventurers watched the end of the battle. Ceria was running. Her [Ice Walls] were shattering under Montressa’s spells. The [Aegiscaster] could fire two spells with both the brass orb and her staff.
But so could Ceria. Her [Ice Spikes] flew from both her skeletal hand and wand. She hit Montressa’s barrier, watching the magic flicker. Montressa advanced, shouting as she cast spells.
“Coward! Coward!”
Ceria ignored her. She ran back, forcing Montressa to keep advancing. The [Aegiscaster] couldn’t layer her barrier spells on the move! And as one of her lightning spells hit the [Ice Wall] where Ceria was hiding, the [Cryomancer] moved. She took a step out and pointed.
“[Ice Lance].”
From her skeletal fingertip, a huge spear of ice formed. It shot across the ground, like a bolt launched from a ballista. With her wand, Ceria aimed at the same target.
“[Fireball]!”
The cold froze even the bones on her hand, turning her skin to ice, deadening it. Her wand-hand was burning with the backlash of the other spell. The half-Elf could control neither perfectly. But she ignored the burning/freezing pain. Mana burned in her veins. She felt as if she were burning away her very soul, as she always did when she was reaching her limit. But she reached for more magic.
Both spells hit Montressa’s barrier. The [Ice Lance] first. The crash threw Montressa back from within her barrier. She looked up—
And the fireball finally broke the magical shell. Montressa got to her hands and knees.
“Staff? My staff—”
She couldn’t see or hear after the explosion. Ceria advanced, her wand raised. She hesitated. She had a shot. But then Montressa grabbed her staff. The barrier reappeared. Ceria halted.
“Oh shit. [Ice W—”
“No!”
Kam saw the lightning throw Ceria off her feet. The [Ice Armor] had saved her, but Ceria was down, writhing in pain. Montressa, swaying, stumbled closer. Kam saw her aiming at Ceria.
“No. Enough! I’m stopping this now, duel or not!”
The [Bow Rider] aimed her bow at Montressa’s back. She drew—and a sword kissed her side.
Kam froze. She stared at the Drake adventurer standing next to her. He was resting his claw on the hilt of the bullwhip he carried as the shortsword touched her side.
“Tellis! What are you doing?”
The other adventurers reacted. Half of them drew weapons on Tellis. The other half—the Drake’s team backed him up as he shook his head.
“No one’s interfering in the duel. Lower the bow, Captain Kam.”
“You’re on their side?”
Kam stared at Tellis. The Drake paused. He looked past her at Pisces. The [Mage] was battling Isceil. Both he and the Drake had hit each other. Now, Isceil was blasting apart one of Pisces’ Bone Horrors, snarling. Tellis shook his head.
“Neither. This is a duel. My team won’t interfere no matter what happens. But no one else does either.”
Kam looked at Stan, Alais, Walt, and all the other Silver-rank Captains. They were hesitating. But half of the other teams were silently opposing them. Stan’s hand twitched towards his bag of holding. Then he shook his head. He looked at Ksmvr and Palt and Ulinde. None of them had moved. they’d followed the battle, but they were at a stalemate. Ksmvr’s Flamecoat Dagger was aimed at Palt’s chest.
“My team will not die. My team will not die.”
The Antinium repeated the words. And none of the adventurers could move. Palt’s face was pale as he watched Ceria conjure a wall of ice, trying to get up. Montressa blasted it apart. Hauntgheist saw Pisces jump in. Slashing. Isceil caught a slash across the jaw, but he exhaled. Pisces went backwards, howling as acid burned at him. The Drake had conjured a buckler made of stone. But he didn’t advance on Pisces. He was waiting.
[Shatterbolt]. The [Necromancer] flicked his wrist and the Drake [Flash Stepped] out of the way. But the spell didn’t come. The two exchanged another volley of spells. Isceil watched Pisces’ ring. The [Necromancer]’s arm was bleeding.
And across from them, Yvlon watched Beza stagger upright. The Minotaur’s magical gauntlets were gone. She couldn’t block Yvlon’s sword, even with them. Now, stone covered her arms, like scales. She charged, head down, and Yvlon advanced. Two-handed, she swung her sword, aiming for Beza’s chest.
The Minotauress aborted her charge, flinched back. Yvlon advanced. Her Sword of Weight was heavy in her hands, but all she’d drunken was a single stamina potion. Beza had healed her cuts twice.
“[Haste]—”
The Minotauress blurred as she reached for another scroll. Yvlon’s eyes narrowed. She swung her sword in rapid arcs, cutting at the Minotauress as she tried to strike at Yvlon. But Beza couldn’t, without risking one of her arms. Yvlon’s armor was too sturdy. And Bezale refused to attack from a distance.
One minute. That was how long Beza’s scroll lasted. And she’d used three. Yvlon took a hit across her helmet that made her head ring. A punch to her breastplate sent her staggering back. She cut, keeping Beza at bay. A kick to the side—Yvlon heard something crack. But she felt no pain.
She slashed, and Beza jumped backwards. Yvlon had cut down the Minotauress’ side. Yvlon kept counting.
Fifty eight, fifty nine—
Beza slowed. The Minotauress reached for another scroll, but too late. Yvlon charged. She brought her sword down in a two-handed cut. Beza’s armored gauntlets went up to block the strike, turn it. And Yvlon shouted.
“[Crescent Cut]!”
“Yes.”
Ksmvr saw the cut. Yvlon’s sword arced. It turned, changing its trajectory as the [Warrior] used her Skill.
A Skill meant to kill people. The Minotauress’ eyes went wide as the enchanted sword curved impossibly fast, changing its position. Her arms were in the wrong place. Beza staggered as the enchanted sword cut her deep across the pelvis.
Yvlon halted the cut, swung the other way. The second cut tore into Beza’s arms. It lodged in bone. The [Spellscribe] bellowed in pain. And she tore away.
One arm hung limply as Beza fumbled for a scroll. She dropped it as Yvlon charged her. The Minotauress stumbled back, lost her footing. She fell. Yvlon swung her sword up.
“I yield.”
Beza gasped. Her eyes were wide in her head. Montressa turned. Yvlon looked at her bloody sword. She stared down at the Minotauress, shielding her head with her one good arm. Yvlon closed her eyes. Then she opened them. And they were cold.
“…No.”
“Stop! Don’t make me kill you, Montressa!”
Montressa blasted away Ceria’s last barrier of ice. The half-Elf aimed her wand at Montressa. The [Aegiscaster] stopped. Ceria aimed at Montressa’s heart. And Pisces slowed.
“Beza!”
Isceil pointed his wand at the Minotauress, glaring, but Bezale just backed away, refusing to continue.
Montressa, breathing hard, stared at Ceria. Her staff was glowing. Her barrier intact. Pisces looked at both stalemates. He glanced at his hand. And then at Isceil.
The Drake was looking at him. Flames and electricity crackled out of his mouth as he spoke.
“Try it.”
Pisces turned. He had two targets. The Drake and Montressa, battling Ceria. The Ring of [Shatterbolt] glowed on his hand. His rapier rose in the other.
Isceil aimed his wand at Yvlon as Pisces lifted his hand. The Drake’s mouth opened as he inhaled.
The magical ring flashed.
Pisces hesitated. Ceria looked up at Montressa. Why did it have to come to this? The [Aegiscaster] stared down at the half-Elf. And Yvlon swung her sword down at the yielding Minotauress.
It was just an ordinary day. But it mattered because it was today. This kind of day.
This—
The ground exploded. Pelico turned. He saw the Bloodfields erupt. A shower of dirt fountained up into the air from the brown patch of land. The [Rogue] Captain stared.
It wasn’t his fault. Or even Yvlon’s. Her blood had awoken them. But it was no one person’s fault. Hauntgheist hadn’t done anything to provoke them. None of the adventurers had, really.
They hadn’t gone near the dead patch in the Bloodfields. Or provoked anything after their encounter with the Watchertree. But that didn’t matter. What rose, seething, hungry from the depths, didn’t need a reason. It only needed food.
The brown spot. It wasn’t a trick. It wasn’t some ruse. It was exactly what Desril had said. Dead land in the middle of the Bloodfields. But how was that possible? The red wastes had survived fire and salt, every effort to kill them off. It had survived cold and drought.
What could kill the Bloodfields? No—not kill. Pelico stared up and realized what the truth was. Not kill. Eat. Something had eaten the rich vegetation of the Bloodfields. Had preyed on it, like the Bloodfields preyed on other creatures. But what could do that?
Crelers could. Something was moving in the ground two miles distant. Pelico gaped. It was as large as a house. Larger. In the red earth, something gazed at him and laughed.
It rose out of the ground and kept rising. The wet soil fell around it, exposing an armor of blades. Scuttling legs. Wings. A terrible maw. And eyes. Sunken sockets. Too many limbs to count. And it rose still larger. Pelico stared up at it.
This was no child. Nor even the half-grown creature that he had battled. This thing was old. It had grown here in secret. And now it rose. A colossus. Screaming—he was screaming, and it was laughing at him.
An Adult Creler. Its shriek tore the sky as it surfaced, digging itself out of its deep coffin of dirt. Everyone, adventurers, far-distant workers, [Mages]—Yvlon, Ijvani—stopped. They turned. And they saw it.
Out they came with it. Hundreds of Crelers. Swarming across the ground, hundreds, no, thousands of larvae, red-pulsating bodies and exposed organs withdrawing, revealing sharp, chitinous legs, biting, tearing parts. A nigh-indestructible body. And juvenile Crelers, some as large as bulls, giant pill bugs with too many limbs, fast—faster than horses. Too many limbs to count. Too many to count.
Monsters that came from Rhir’s hell. They had nearly overrun the world once. Pelico turned, looking for salvation. But they were so fast. They were so—
 
——
 
“Dead gods.”
Ceria breathed the words as she stared at the distant Creler. It was shaking itself. Dirt cascaded everywhere. And a wave of red and black flowed down off it. Crelers, crawling all over each other, biting, tearing at everything in sight. For a moment, the sight transfixed the half-Elf. Then she realized she was still lying down, aiming her wand at Montressa.
She stood up slowly. This wasn’t real. It couldn’t be real. Thousands of Crelers were streaming towards them. She looked around. The adventurers were all frozen in shock. And the tide was coming on, shrieking.
“Crelers? Are those—”
Montressa was swaying on her feet. Her head swung to Ceria. The half-Elf turned. She gazed back to see if she was dreaming. Then she pushed Montressa.
The young woman stumbled. She lifted her staff, gaping at Ceria. A line of blood ran from a cut at her cheek. Ceria‘s voice rasped in her throat.
“Run.”
The adventurers blinked at Ceria. She heard the distant shriek, now. She drew in a breath and screamed.
“Run!”
The paralysis broke. The adventurers turned and ran. Ceria looked over her shoulder.
Thousands. Her team had killed a few dozen once and nearly died. But that was a Junior Creler. And there were at least a hundred of them. They were coming! They raced across the ground, chittering. And the Adult Creler shrieked. The noise made Kam’s horse rear and scream.
“RUN!”
Beza got to her feet as Yvlon grabbed her. The duel was forgotten. They glanced at each other and ran. Behind them came death. Ceria’s head spun.
“The other teams!”
Alais turned, but Stan grabbed her. He was white-faced. Hauntgheist was gone. Crelers were covering the Bloodfields, eating—eating the plants and creatures there! But their prey lay ahead.
“Run! They’re already dead! Get to the door! Sound the alarm!”
Kam galloped past them, screaming an alarm. In the distance, Master Reikhle turned. He had heard the shriek. He stared. And the Gnolls and Drakes turned to watch. They were transfixed. Then they ran.
“The door!”
One of them beat on the door. But it wasn’t opened. Erin had changed the door. The workers looked back.
Ceria ran. She could see the scrum at the door. She screamed at Montressa. The young woman was stumbling to keep up.
