Drakes and Gnolls flooded out the inn’s doors, screaming. They ran for the city as the Crelers poured out the inn. Only a handful of people were left, fighting for the doors. Seborn cursed as he looked around.
“Move!”
Moore threw one of the Players through the window. The half-Giant whirled, planting his staff in the ground.
“[Earthen Spire]!”
A huge pillar of earth rose, smashing the floorboards, and impaled one of the Junior Crelers. But only one. They were still coming. And the half-Giant was a target.
“[Flurry Blades]!”
Seborn flashed around Moore, stabbing so fast he could barely see his own arms. Crelers died around him, but more were biting him, tearing at him. He felt the poison entering his blood and howled.
“Moore!”
“Where’s Erin?”
The half-Giant turned desperately, swinging his staff and throwing another spire of earth up. Erin had been by the door. She was d—
Relc emerged from the sea of Crelers, his spear blurring. He tore Erin out of the sea of bodies. Seborn seemed slow compared to him. The [Spearmaster] was roaring, killing the Crelers around him as he fought for the door.
None of them touched Erin. But they swarmed over the Drake, biting, tearing. Their fangs pierced his scales. Relc impaled a huge Creler charging him through the head. It kept coming and the [Sergeant] staggered. He tore another off him as Erin threw a potion. The Tripvines slowed the Crelers for a moment, but they began eating the bag and vines!
“Poison. Damn, damn—”
“Potion!”
Erin yanked open the door, grabbing for her belt. Seborn pointed.
“Moore!”
The half-Giant screamed; Crelers were burrowing into his side, trying to eat him alive! Seborn flashed over and stabbed until the Creler was dead. Relc roared as he held the door.
“Healing potions don’t work! Move!”
The Halfseekers turned. They went through the Crelers, grabbing the last living person in the inn. Temile’s thumb was missing, and the Actor was bit so badly he couldn’t move.
Moore bellowed and threw one of the huge Crelers into the sea pursuing them. The half-Giant staggered, turned, and ran. He was bitten down to the bone. Relc’s breath was growing slower.
“Go. The city.”
His spear never stopped moving as Erin dragged Temile out. The Halfseekers ran as Seborn stopped.
“Go.”
The [Rogue] turned. Moore stopped. He looked back, then seized Temile. The man in his arms, he charged down the hill. Seborn and Relc held the door for a second. Five. Ten.
The Crelers covered them, biting, eating—
 
——
 
“La, la. I am Bird. It is noisy down there. I am Bird. That is a good word. Bird. Birds.”
Bird sat in his tower. He was munching on one of the birds he’d let sit out for a few hours to get nice and squishy. He wasn’t supposed to eat them, especially when they had wriggly things, but he wanted to and he didn’t have to tell Erin. He listened, hearing the commotion below.
“Something is very loud.”
The [Bird Hunter] stood up. He heard screams. Then saw people rushing out the door. The Antinium’s head jerked up. Those were not good screams. He drew an arrow, looking about.
“Bad things? Bad birds?”
Then he saw the first red, insectile shape crawl out of the windows and appear in his line of sight. Bird froze, but his bow did not. The arrow nailed the Creler pursuing Ishkr to the ground. Bird stared. Then he began to scream.
“Alarm! Creler attack! Alarm! ALARM.”
They were coming out of the inn! The Worker saw Drakes and Gnolls fleeing in every direction, then turning to the city. Bells were already ringing in Liscor, but there was no army here to stop the tide of Crelers.
Only Bird. His bow sang as he loosed arrows as fast as he could, drawing with three arms and loosing. Crelers fell, impaled by the arrows from above, but more were coming. Big Crelers, but barely more than children. Juvenile-grade. The Antinium recognized them and avoided them. He couldn’t even stop them. The giant ones chased the others. Lyonette and Mrsha were being carried by Numbtongue.
“ALARM. SOUND THE ALARM.”
Bird was shouting at his Hive. With his mind. He didn’t know if they could hear him, but they must! Crelers! Crelers were here! They would eat everything!
The Worker saw the last few running out of the inn. There were so many Crelers coming out! A vast nest! The Antinium heard movement behind him and whirled. He stared down the stairs.
They were coming up the corridor, dozens of them. Bird drew and loosed an arrow in less than a second. He watched the shaft hit the Creler in one of the glowing midsections, hitting the vulnerable innards. But that barely slowed the Creler. They wouldn’t die from a single arrow, or even a dozen. Not even the larvae. They wouldn’t stop even until they were completely dead! And sometimes not even then.
“Alarm!”
Bird called one last time. Then he climbed out of his tower. He hit the roof and began to slide near the edge as the Crelers boiled out of the roof, swarming down at him. The Worker skidded down the roof on his back shell. There was the ledge. He put his feet down. And then he leapt.
For a moment Bird flew. And even then, his heart soared. Then he felt gravity catch him.
“Alas.”
He crashed down off the roof and got up. Erin turned. She was outside the inn. That was good.
“Bird! Run!”
The Worker got up and ran. He saw Seborn stagger out of the door, then Relc. They were the last to leave the inn. Moore reached down.
“Seborn!”
He grabbed the [Rogue]. Seborn collapsed, bleeding from dozens of wounds. The half-Giant straightened as Erin and Temile ran. Relc was stumbling after them. Bird began to shout.
“This is bad. We are going to die. Alarm! I have been very happy, Erin. Alarm!”
He was loosing arrows as he trundled down the hill as fast as he could move. The arrows slowed the first wave of larvae, but not the bigger Crelers. A Juvenile exploded out of the doorway. Bird saw it charging down the hill at them. Moore raised a fist. Relc raised his spear.
“Bird, no!”
The Worker happily blocked the Creler’s path as it came for Erin. He drew a dagger. She screamed and threw her knife. It lodged in the Creler’s exoskeleton, going hilt-deep into the head. But that didn’t stop a Creler. Bird saw Erin brace—
And the Creler exploded. Bird saw the flash, felt the kick—and he was flying again. Then he landed. The Antinium waved all his limbs on his back. Then he got up.
“That was not me. I think.”
He looked up. Erin picked herself up as the hillside exploded. Another spell shot down from the heavens. Liscor’s walls sent a flaming ball of magic down and the first wave of Crelers coming out the inn vanished. She looked around—they were regrouping. They were going after Relc! He swung his spear as they leapt—
And another spear impaled one. Hooves trampled the others. Embria rode her horse in a quick circle and shouted.
“4th Company! Cut them down!”
Drakes and Gnolls surged past the fleeing people. They formed a line as Liscor’s Watch charged out of the gates. Wing Commander Embria thundered past Erin. She leapt off her horse and landed beside her father. Her spear stabbed, killing Crelers, cutting them to pieces.
“Kid? Ancestors, that was fast—”
Relc fell to one knee. Embria grabbed him.
“On your feet, soldier!”
“Not—I got bit.”
The Drake’s body was covered in deep lacerations. He was bleeding, but green and yellow ran with the blood. Poison. The potion Erin had used on him hadn’t worked.
Embria stared at him, wide-eyed. She bellowed.
“[Healer]! Sergeant Tilk! Creler poison! Get over here now!”
Erin stumbled towards Relc. But a Gnoll shoved her aside. The [Healer] ran as Embria turned. The waves of Crelers pouring out of the inn didn’t stop! All of them were coming through the door!
“What happened? Where are they coming from?”
The [Innkeeper] looked around. She knew the answers as soon as she asked. She spotted adventurers, Silver-rank, collapsed outside the gates. All of them were wounded. But there weren’t enough. Less than a third who’d gone through were back. Most of the road crew was alive. Reikhle was babbling as Olesm pointed.
“They came out of the Bloodfields! Thousands! We barely escaped—”
“[Attack Formation]! Hold that line! Embria, advance!”
Olesm bellowed. The Watch was forming a line as the walls unleashed their spells on the Crelers. The huge Crelers were being brought down as Embria and the high-level [Soldiers] aimed at them. The small Crelers died to swords, arrows, maces—even boots. But they died hard. And Gnolls and Drakes were screaming as the Crelers bit straight through steel!
“We didn’t see it. They just appeared—”
A female adventurer was babbling as Olesm turned to her. The [Strategist] was swearing.
“I don’t care! How many? An Adult? We need to sound the alarm in Pallass! [Rapid Retreat]! Pull back on the flank!”
“The Horns? Where are the Horns of Hammerad?”
Erin called out. She saw Lyonette and Mrsha, tending to Numbtongue. The Hobgoblin was on the ground. The [Princess] was shouting for one of the [Healers].
“They’re still out there.”
A voice. Erin whirled, expecting to see—
It was Palt. He was bleeding. Creler bites had torn open his chest. The Centaur was half-collapsed. Ulinde was on his back. What was—Erin stared at the Selphid. Something had torn her half to pieces. And Beza—the Minotauress was silent.
“The Horns? There are adventurers out there?”
Olesm whirled. Palt was staring at Erin. The [Illusionist]’s voice was a whisper.
“We—we held as long as we could. I tried. I’m sorry. Isceil’s dead. It killed him. We fought—but we couldn’t hold out.”
“But it was minutes—”
“Ten minutes. You didn’t open the door for ten minutes!”
The female adventurer whirled on Erin, cursing. The [Innkeeper] looked at her.
“No. My [Dangersense]—I checked the door not a minute after it went off—”
“We were there! We sent [Messages]! But you didn’t open the door!”
“I didn’t know.”
Erin whispered. Palt looked around vaguely. He was shaking.
“They stayed behind to buy us time. They were trying to retreat. But there were too many Crelers! Hundreds! Baby Crelers and Juvenile ones—and an Adult. An Adult Creler.”
Olesm looked at Palt. He stared at the inn. So did Erin. The Crelers were slowing in coming out. But they were still coming. Dying. She looked at Relc, trying to move. Seborn and Moore, downed. Numbtongue.
Something in her head began counting.
“How long…?”
Ten minutes ago. Plus nine of fighting. Nine? About right. Erin stared at the Watch, holding the Crelers back.
Nineteen minutes.
 
——
 
Grimalkin of Pallass folded his arms. He stared at the breathless, wide-eyed Drassi as his students paused on their third lap around the city.
“No.”
“What?”
The [Gossip] clutched at a stitch in her side. She’d raced across the city, looking for him. The [Sinew Magus] shook his head.
“I’ve told Miss Solstice time and again: I am not her personal [Bouncer] or her eternal ally. I have my own duties. The Watch’s entire purpose is to protect citizens of Liscor, like Erin Solstice. She should go to them first, not me.”
“But she said—she was really afraid! Please, you have to help!”
The Drake begged Grimalkin. But she didn’t know what ‘it’ was. Grimalkin paused. But then he shook his head.
“If the crisis demands it, she should flee to safety in Pallass itself. But I will not—cannot—drop everything to bail her out of danger every time. Unless she sent you with an offer?”
“No! There was no time! Please—”
“Magus Grimalkin, we could investigate for you?”
One of Grimalkin’s students suggested. Grimalkin glared, and the Drake shut up. Grimalkin sighed as he looked at Drassi.
“Miss Drassi, was it? Whatever the situation is, I will react when called upon by Pallass. Not by an [Innkeeper].”
“But—”
Grimalkin was turning away when a [Guardsman] raced up. The [Sinew Magus] saw Kel appear, panting.
“What is it now?”
“Magus Grimalkin! Liscor is sending out a third-priority alarm to all nearby cities! Crelers have been spotted around the Bloodfields! A nest has invaded the inn—hundreds of Larvae-stage Crelers and Junior-stage! And—there is a confirmed Adult-stage Creler.”
The muscular Drake paused. He saw Drassi turn pale. Grimalkin’s students looked up.
“Alright. I’m on my way.”
“Oh, thank you—”
Grimalkin was already sprinting towards the door. The [Guardsman] raced after him. Grimalkin bellowed as he left the Drake behind.
“Convene the Watch! Let nothing through that door!”
He ran. Drassi had caught someone else on her way to find him. Jelaqua was surging up the steps, shouting for people to clear the way. The Selphid had changed into her Raskghar body. It took Grimalkin off-guard—until he saw the flail in her hands. The Selphid roared.
“Grimalkin! The inn!”
“I heard!”
“What’s attacking them?”
The Selphid leapt up the stairs. Grimalkin was faster. He touched her arm and both accelerated. The citizens of Pallass stared as the two dashed past them.
“An Adult Creler! I haven’t fought one of those in over a decade. I would appreciate the assistance.”
Jelaqua sped towards the door. She slammed into the wall before she realized it was closed. There was already two squads’ worth of [Guards] at the door.
“Magus Grimalkin!”
“Step back! Crelers will swarm your formation! Lock down this street! Get me [Mages] and high-level [Guardsmen]! When that door opens, we are going through.”
Grimalkin snapped. The [Guards] jumped out of the way. Jelaqua stared at the door.
“It’s not open—”
“The inn itself may be under siege. You. Where are the Crelers coming from. The Bloodfields? Or have they assailed Liscor?”
“The [Message] didn’t say. We are asking for a confirmation—”
“Send it to me by magic when it arrives! Miss Ivirith, have you fought Crelers?”
The Selphid turned. Her eyes gleamed, and the Gnolls present stepped back. The Selphid’s voice was low.
“I was part of a force that fought some in my Silver-rank days. Three Gold-rank teams and six Silver to back them up and destroy the entire nest. Two of them nearly tore us all to pieces. The Silvers won’t stand a chance! Seborn and Moore need me.”
She slammed a fist on the door. Grimalkin grabbed her.
“You won’t help them by damaging the door.”
“Sorry. The door—”
Grimalkin paused. He put a claw on the door but felt nothing.
“I see. It’s not connected at all.”
“Do you think maybe the Crelers—”
Grimalkin was nodding. The worst-case scenario was already appearing in his minds. He’d thought about it after hearing about the Raskghar attacks. The door was a weakness too.
“You—[Guardsman]. Did the door open after Miss Solstice warned you?”
“No, sir.”
