Ali summoned her Grimoire, intending to make reinforcements, but a powerful ribbon of green mana suddenly shot forth from her Life Bringer, linking the troll shaman to the three-headed demonic hound with a lifeline of healing magic that instantly stitched wounds closed and restored ravaged flesh. The line of green mana arced through the demon, bouncing between it and the two dragonkin, causing all their wounds to rapidly seal. Oh! She pursed her lips. Nice.

The Sylvan Druid of the Deep Woods stretched out a leaf-covered hand, and the gnarled bark flared with nature magic. Trees bent and swayed, and vines exploded from their branches, lashing out to grasp at the flying Mantis-Shrike, while simultaneously dissolving the poison festering in the Hellfire Cerberus with a wave of her other hand.

The jungle screamed from the twin Howling Hellfire bows as the Sylvan Archer unleashed a furious, crackling storm. The rippling cracks and booms of thunder pealed continuously, a deafening accompaniment to the brilliant flashes of lightning as arrows tore through the air bearing powerful enchantments of lightning, nature, and hellfire. Then the four-armed archer hasted himself, vanishing with Disengage, only to reappear again after a thunderous lightning-laden Ambush attack.

“Ouch!” Ali yelped, slapping her hands over her ears. The Druid of Deep Woods creaked as she turned, and a moment later, Ali felt a gentle spell that smelled of pine sap seep into her and soothe her ringing ears. Ali glanced back in surprise. From so far away?

The kobold Pyromancer shot through the undergrowth, leaving a trail of fire behind, opened her mouth, and breathed crimson fire with a dark, bluish core of intense heat. Instantly, Ali knew the tiny kobold had used her Title. A ghostly outline of a massive draconic maw made from pure flame appeared above her head, and the Mantis-Shrike froze.

The battle was short and brutal, and in moments, Ali lost all doubt about her minions and their ability to survive. Not the best group synergy, she thought, but they’re all strong and will grow stronger.

Your minions have defeated Mantis-Shrike – Insect – level 142 (Nature)Pyromancer has reached level 101.Hellfire Cerberus has reached level 102 (+2).Sylvan Storm has reached level 102 (+2).Life Bringer has reached level 101.Divine Sword has reached level 101.Void Monk has reached level 101.Druid of the Deep Woods has reached level 102 (+2).

There it is, a few levels already. Ali idly wondered if the insects would make a good addition to her Grimoire as she followed along behind her minions, slowly claiming the entire jungle for her own domain. It was an easy thing to check. As her domain rolled out, she used it to deconstruct everything her minions destroyed.

Imprint: Beetle updated to Imprint: Insect.Variant: Mantis-Shrike added to Imprint: Insect.Variant: Toxic Hornet added to Imprint: Insect.Variant: Arid Pine added to Imprint: Tree.

[…]

As the brightest sun began to set over the distant desert horizon, Ali scrolled happily through the vast number of imprint variants she added to her Grimoire by virtue of subsuming the entire jungle. Granted, most of the variants were mundane, fortunately taking up very little space in her Grimoire alongside the more complex magical varieties, but there were a few new insects that might go well in her forest or jungle caverns, and several herbs and wildflowers that Basil would no doubt be excited to experiment with.

And my new minions are leveling quickly. I wonder how many of these groups I could manage at one time? Levels. Always the levels.

“Here, do you see it?” Calen said. He was bent over and doing something to the dull dirt in the strange echo-flicker world.

Spirit Realm.

He had told her what it was called. She liked her name better, though.

Naia extended a pseudopod to touch his hand and then reached toward the ground where his fingers lay. She poked it a little. And suddenly she could taste it.

A strange flavor, like something only half-there had passed this way. And yet, it was unmistakably an ooze.

She wobbled excitedly.

“See, I told you they were here,” Calen said. “Let’s go find them.”

“Ok!” She really hadn’t known what to expect when she had asked him, but Calen had immediately leapt into the spirit realm with her. And his enthusiasm was somehow contagious, making her far more excited for the hunt. That’s what he’d called it.

She followed, merged with several other oozes to increase the size of her pseudopods, just to keep up with his speed. They charged through the strangely subdued landscape, the only real vibrations coming from herself and him. But after about thirty minutes, he stopped.

She drew up beside him, casting her feelings out, straining to feel what he could obviously see.

“Just up ahead, there are three of them. On the far side of the clearing by the biggest tree,” he said. And then something moved, and her Identify triggered.

Ectoplasm – Ghostly Ooze – level 127 (Soul)

“Soul magic,” she said, keeping her membrane vibrations small.

“Yup,” he answered. “Should I kill them?”

“No,” she said. “I will use Mine.”

“What?”

“I’ll show you,” she said. For some reason, nobody seemed to understand her skill. At least till they saw it. Not even the big dragon.

Her mana bubbled within her, stretching her membrane with new mass, and then she split off a half-dozen oozes, sending them out into the clearing. Instantly, her field of view grew larger as each new ooze picked up a slightly different set of vibrations, tasted the world from a slightly different vantage point. And as they rushed out, she saw the other two Ectoplasms hanging in the tree.

As soon as her ooze touched one, she used Mine.

Imprint: Ectoplasm completed.

“Oh,” Calen said. “That’s incredible! I didn’t know you could just take them like that.”

“Yes,” she said. “As long as they’re not somebody else’s, they can be Mine.”

“Any level?” he asked.

“I’m not sure,” she answered, but so far, she hadn’t found any limits. Although his question inspired a rush of sudden curiosity and the desire to know more. “Do you know where I can find more?”

“I will let you know when I find some oozes,” he said. “But you could try a few different ideas. Ali’s shrine can force different affinities. And now that we’re in the spirit realm, the Infinite Maze is near, maybe you can visit Cael and ask him to try to teach you space affinity? Or go ask at the guild, you can probably pay people to shoot you with new magic.”

“Pay? What is that?”

Calen made that odd noise that meant he was amused. “Come on, I’ll explain while we… ah, walk.”

“Ooze,” she said, and that noise came again, much louder this time. Naia shook her body, surprised at the tingling that response had set off. Why did I feel like that? It wasn’t just the vibration.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledgehttps://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledgehttps://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpghttps://topwebfiction.com/listings/dungeon-of-knowledge/
