Looks like I’m done here, she thought. Ali had a group wanting to visit the shrine this afternoon, but she had a lot of her own shrine work she needed to accomplish before then, so she teleported right into the grove, bringing her guard minions with her.

She reached out a hand and touched her shrine, the cold dark stone offering a sense of stability in her otherwise chaotic existence. It was one of the very few things she could say had remained a constant presence throughout her entire life. When she had inherited it, it had already been a large obelisk of ageless black stone, a testament to her father’s life’s work. Now, however, it towered taller than any building in Myrin’s Keep, covered in dense inscriptions of shining runes that emitted a low, throbbing hum. And that was just to her mundane senses: in her mana sight, it blazed like a golden pyre, emitting coronas of potent mana that she could even feel like an ethereal breeze gusting against her mana-sensitive skin.

It took a quick moment to verify that all her efforts in planting broad fields of Eternal Reverie flowers in the spirit realm had updated her shrine: she could now offer mind-affinity to anyone who wanted it and was compatible. There was a time when she would have thought it too dangerous, but she had long since discovered that the world was filled with dangers far more terrifying than a mere mind mage.

Ok, she decided. Minion evolutions first.

She flipped open her Grimoire and summoned five monsters, each of which had achieved level one hundred in the Crypt of Kings – mostly during the battle against the Devastation Knight general, Haverron.

“Ok, you first,” she said, speaking draconic for the benefit of the small, red-scaled kobold standing beside her. All her summoned kobolds could speak common now that she had taught it to several of them, but she still felt it was more appropriate to speak with them in their first language. Especially after having met Azryet.

“Of course, Ancient Mistress,” her kobold said, bowing deeply. The diminutive reptilian mage stepped up to the shrine and placed her hand upon its rune-inscribed stone surface. Her talons clicked sharply against the stone.

“Ok, it’s ready,” Ali said, activating the shrine.

The kobold’s eyes glazed over for a moment, and then she refocused. “Which path should I pick?”

“Do you have a preference?” Ali asked.

Her kobold turned, staring at her with surprise written in her wide eyes. “You would let me pick?” she asked quietly, as if afraid that the offer might vanish if she spoke with any more force.

“Of course. If you see a path you like, you should choose it.”

“I…” the mage turned to look at the shrine, presumably reconsidering the offered paths before she looked back at Ali. “I like the Pyromancer path?” she said, the upward pitch in her voice at the end turning it into a question.

“Then that should be your path,” Ali said, grinning at the sight of the kobold Fire Mage’s eyes lighting up with pure joy.

A few moments later, the zone chime sounded loud and clear.

[Zone] Pyromancer has advanced to the second tier.

The scales visible upon her face, hands, and exposed tail deepened to a dark, glossy crimson, and she suddenly ignited with flames that flickered across her scales.

“What did you get?” Ali asked, preferring to hear the answer instead of studying the skill sheet. There would be time for that later.

In an excited voice, speaking so quickly she was tripping over her own words, the newly ascended kobold Pyromancer blurted out her skills. “Empowered Fireball, improved Flame Shield, Multishot on my fire mastery… and… I can breathe fire!”

“Show me?” Ali asked, grinning widely as she found herself caught up in the little kobold’s pure excitement.

The kobold stepped back, took a deep breath, and then breathed fire. An intense cone of orange-red flame jetted from her mouth, covering a broad arc of almost a hundred and twenty degrees and reaching past ten meters from where she stood. The intense flame roared and crackled, buffeting everything around with waves of heat. Flickering within the mana were the formations of several support skills and masteries, empowering it, making it hotter, more intense, and something else… Ignite?

After almost twenty seconds, the kobold stopped, staring wide-eyed at the damage she had wrought upon the moss of the grove. “Ancient Mistress,” she gasped. “I’m sorry…”

“Nonsense, I asked you to show me. Besides, that was amazing! You looked like a dragon!”

From the sudden awe in the kobold’s eyes, Ali knew there wasn’t a compliment in the world that would top the one she had just offered. Suddenly, Ali felt pressure in her chest at the precise location Azryet’s mentorship had infused her, and the kobold startled as Ali heard its notification chime sounding.

Ali gasped at the sight of the script appearing as red, fiery letters in her kobold’s eyes.

You have earned the title: Delusions of Draconic MajestyThe blood of the Red Dragonflight runs in your veins.You can use Draconic Majesty while breathing fire, Intimidating all foes in sight of your flames. Recharge: 24 hours.Title

“You earned a title!” Ali exclaimed.

“Eep!” the kobold chirped.

“No, no! This is amazing!” Ali reassured the suddenly trembling kobold.

“It is?” she asked.

“Yes! Look, it’s a draconic title!”

“Oh…” the kobold said, and then her entire countenance brightened with joy. “Yay!” she jumped up and down, sending blazing flames shooting off in all directions.

Ali chuckled. All in all, Pyromancer was a fantastic class, and she was incredibly pleased with the evolution. It took her Fire Mage in a unique direction, making her kobolds useful again, even beside her potent demonic hellfire users. The Pyromancer indeed had Ignite – a support skill that added a growing percentage of extra damage as a burn effect to any fire spell. She had received Empowered Casting meta magic, and her multishot could be used for firebolt and fireball.

But it was the combination of fire breath and her improved flame shield that really made the class shine. This little kobold would be able to wade into melee range fearlessly and lay waste to any swarms of monsters that might come her way.

And that Title: Ali was certain that it had to be Azryet’s meddling.

Ali left her happy kobold juggling tiny balls of flame and returned to the rest of her waiting minions.

Next, she evolved her Subterranean Brood Queen. For a monster like her, where her class and her race were inextricably entwined, there were no branching paths to choose from. Instead, she found a race upgrade.

[Zone] Subterranean Brood Queen has advanced to the second tier.

The huge queen grew even larger, her carapace creaking and cracking as the rock armor adjusted to her greater frame. Most of her skills advanced pretty linearly, but the bonuses she gained for consuming high-quality ores or metal for her shield became far more varied and interesting, and her brood summoning skill could now summon several juggernauts in addition to the smaller rock beetle swarm. That ability, just by itself, turned the queen into a portable army capable of dealing with many threats all on its own.

Happy, Ali immediately teleported her queen into the mines and sent her on a mission to excavate better armor for herself, an order which was received with pure elation.

“And which path would you like?” Ali asked, turning next to her Baelok Descrier. The descrier had three paths available to it, one of which greatly expanded its telepathy and surveillance powers. The second seemed to be focused more on mind-control and managing an army of demons, granting them enhanced mental buffs and directing from the back. The third seemed to be focused on offensive mental powers.

“Master, I believe it is your role to direct battle, so that would be a poor choice for me, and you have a broad range of surveillance powers that far exceed anything I could gain from this evolution. I believe the correct choice is Psychomancer. Among the demonic horde, this is also a rare and powerful choice,” he said. “It should greatly enhance the power of mind blast and psychic scream, and Psychomancers usually gain a Confuse curse.”

“Very well, if that’s your preferred choice, you have my permission.”

“Thank you, Master.”

[Zone] Baelok Psychomancer has advanced to the second tier.

As soon as the gong sounded, the demon filled with mana and grew substantially larger. A long vertical slit appeared in the center of its forehead, opening to reveal an oval eye. Several smaller ones sprouted along the bony ridges along the sides until they matched the Eye of Agnor. However, it remained smaller, and its coloring was strikingly different. Its body darkened to a shimmering black color that seemed to shift and change, almost like slowly shifting shadows that played tricks on the mind. It reminded her somehow of Calen’s Mirage Armor.

After exploring her demonic sentinel’s abilities in detail for some time, Ali moved to consider her next minion.

Her Hellfire Warg, like her Subterranean Brood Queen, was a monster whose race and class were inextricably entwined. However, he had two choices, but it was not like she could speak to him in more than images, so she examined the options herself. One made him stealthier and faster, and the second seemed to be the rarer and more potent of the two options, making him larger and more robust, and putting more emphasis on his hellfire breath.

After gauging his impression via her connection, she picked the second option.

[Zone] Hellfire Cerberus has advanced to the second tier.

This time, the change seemed even more dramatic. The warg grew substantially larger and broader, sprouting a third head between the two existing ones. The heads grew heavier, with larger jaws armed with far more dangerous teeth. Ridges and smoking cracks spread across its hide as it grew heavier and denser armor, and small licks of hellfire erupted from the cracks in lieu of fur, making it look like a beast of pure black flame had been barely contained by heavy armor.

And when he growled, the ground shook.

Ali nodded approvingly at the three-headed demonic wolf. Yes. Yes, this is perfect.

“And finally, it’s your turn,” Ali said, turning to study the strangely quiet and demure troll standing beside her.

“Would you make me choose, also, Seeker?” she asked.

“Only if you want to,” Ali answered. She had her own preference this time. In the list of paths offered to her restoration shaman, she could clearly see the one her shrine had recorded from Teagan’s evolution: Nature’s Fount of Life, and she was really excited about getting the group buff. But like always, whenever she allowed her minions to choose their classes, she found they usually had a better affinity with it. At least that’s what she believed – perhaps she should talk to Azryet about it some more. She definitely wanted to grill him about her excited Pyromancer, who was still capering about, setting fire to everything in sight.

“Very well, Seeker. If I am allowed, I would choose Life Bringer.”

Ali had seen the Nature’s Fount of Life option and had been so excited she hadn’t even read the other options. She glanced at her shaman with some measure of surprise before glancing through her chosen option to see what it had to offer. Immediately, Ali understood. Teagan’s class had been a well-rounded shaman build, well-suited for filling a healer role, along with other support roles as needed within any adventurer group. It had versatility. Life Bringer, on the other hand, was a pure nature-affinity healer. It seemed to sacrifice everything else in exchange for powerful healing magic, and even the auxiliary spells, buffs, and totems were optimized for a singular purpose.

“I can choose something else, Seeker,” the shaman quickly interjected, no doubt taking Ali’s silence for disapproval.

“No. You should take Life Bringer,” Ali said. She had badly wanted Teagan’s Primal Ritual for her own armies – a mage version of Bloodlust that improved spell haste, wisdom, and intelligence. But a pure healing shaman would still probably be quite a boon to her armies. For Ali, a specialist was ideal.

[Zone] Life Bringer has advanced to the second tier.

The gong was loud and pealed out with a sound of finality, but when Ali examined her new Life Bringer’s skills, all her doubts vanished. She had a healer version of Bloodlust called Life Bringer, a skill named after her class. And it was incredible:

Life Bringer – level 72Mana: Grant Life Bringer to yourself and all chosen allies. All healing magic gains +187.2% [skill x 2 x 1.3 (bloodline)] spell haste. Healing spells gain +93.6% [skill x 1.3 (bloodline)] additional healing over thirty seconds. Healing spells gain a +50% chance to refund their resource cost over thirty seconds. Due to the extreme strain on the target’s life and mana, Life Bringer and similar magic cannot be used on the same target more than once every fifteen minutes. Duration: 47.5 [wisdom / 20] seconds. Recharge: 15 minutes, Range: 63.2 meters.Blood, Bloodline, Buff, Area, Wisdom

“That was a phenomenal choice,” Ali said.

“Thank you, Seeker,” her troll said, sitting down on the mossy ground, presumably to take the time to familiarize herself with her newly advanced skills.

Ali turned back to the shrine and studied her Grimoire. Most of her newest acquisitions, her highest-level minion options, had come from the Blooming Rot dungeon, or from their recent delve into the Crypt of Kings. Likely the most well-represented affinity in her Grimoire – at least among her best monster imprints – was death magic.

Not exactly what she would have planned as a nature- and arcane-affinity mage. The plan was to soon return to Ciradyl and secure the Well. After that, Meere Kada, Telim Gor, and the Crypt of Kings. All of these dungeons were crawling with undead, either immune to death magic or worse, death affinity would buff or heal them.

It was time to take Azryet’s guidance to heart: Ali needed to make the most out of her imprints, and while she could manually transcribe some affinities, it was an incredibly difficult endeavor, with no guarantee of success. On the other hand, she had a dungeon shrine. Her shrine, while not as powerful as Azryet’s, was brimming with affinity options and all the classes and evolution paths that she had recorded while servicing the town’s hopefuls and visiting platinum-rank aspirants.

She summoned her easiest option.

Dark Druid – Sylvan Elf / Plant – level 120 (Nature / Death)

