Her shrine chimed a loud, mournful sound as she reverted her tall Sylvan’s evolution, and removed her death affinity. The tall elf-tree hybrid plant shrank, diminishing in size and stature, and she shed dark, rotting leaves which fell to the ground like shorn hair beneath the hairdresser’s chair.

“I’m sorry,” Ali said, recognizing the downcast expression in her sylvan’s bark-covered face. “I’m hoping this will make you much more useful in the future.”

“Balance shall be as you will it to be, Ancient,” the Sylvan intoned, but Ali was not convinced she would be happy until she had finished with the re-evolution.

“Come, let us study your paths,” Ali offered.

The sheer number of paths offered to this sylvan druid was staggering – even with her enhanced reading skills, it took Ali almost ten minutes to fully read and understand each option, and then she had to wait while the Sylvan completed it herself.

Why so many?

The question hovered in her mind for quite a while until she remembered her discussion with Azryet. Is this what he meant? While the imprint itself was rather anemic, the Sylvan shared the Elf racial trait, allowing it to overlap with her recently gained and equally small Elf imprint. However, Ali had offered hundreds of classes and evolutions to the Pathfinders and the refugees from Ciradyl. If I understand Azryet correctly, the shrine has recorded all of that. And now the Shrine of the Ancient Grove was offering up this wealth of class options, all of which were compatible with a pure nature-affinity sylvan elf druid. After all, druids with nature affinity were a dime a dozen among the wood elves. All she needed to do was summon Sylvans and Elves and have them choose new classes and paths, and she could transcribe much of what her shrine had recorded over into her Grimoire. I’m going to be here for a while.

“Which path should I pick?” her waiting Sylvan asked.

Again, Ali offered her minion freedom to choose, “If there is something you prefer, you may pick that.” While she had her own preferences, and she was certain Azryet would have counseled optimizing the best possible combination, she had been surprised by her minions before, and it often turned out well. Besides, she could always redo the evolution with a different Sylvan to explore alternate choices later.

“I do have a favorite… will you let me choose it?”

“Go ahead.”

[Zone] Druid of the Deep Woods has advanced to the second tier.

“Deep Woods?” Ali gasped. She could not fathom how Lira’s influence had come to guide her Sylvan’s choice through the shrine, only that she felt a sudden pang of sadness as she missed her kind words and steady counsel. Ali tucked her emotions away for later. The only explanation she could imagine was that the Sylvans were originally from the Blooming Rot dungeon, and a monster the dungeon artifact had not possessed before Lira was forced to merge with it. If that convoluted path held, then this Sylvan bore some small fraction of Lira’s essence.

The class, though, seemed excellent. A minor shapeshifting ability allowing the druid to memorize animals and plants and shift into them as needed – more suited to scouting and concealment than combat. A strong repertoire of nature healing magic, cleansing abilities for poison, disease, corruption, and an offensive, ranged nature spell. It could summon all manner of treants, spiders, wolves, and the like, and commune with them. The class included significant plant magic, including root control like Mato’s Rampant Growth. And finally, a pair of combat skills for use with a shield and a mace, along with an armor ability called Bark Skin.

“Good choice,” Ali finally said. A strong, robust healer with moderately strong control and support abilities. It also had a pure nature affinity, so Ali could boost her magic substantially when the time came. Such a strong class had to be the result of so many elves using her shrine – Azryet, it seemed, knew his stuff.

One more, she thought, her success with the sylvan elf prompting her to see if she could eke out another great class. This time, she summoned an Archer, carefully selecting one with Elven heritage and the four-armed variety they had faced in Myrin’s Keep. She seldom had use for archers, simply because her mage options were usually stronger, but that wasn’t because archers were inherently weak. Calen, Lyeneru, and the many Pathfinders were proof of that – Ali simply had not yet found an extraordinary class.

Archer – Sylvan Elf / Plant – level 139 (Nature / Death)

Just as she had done with her druid, she reverted thirty-nine levels and the death magic affinity, again resulting in a very unhappy Sylvan. But then she tried something new.

[Shrine of the Ancient Grove] Reserved mana reduced by 50,000Latent mana affinities:- NatureCompatible domain mana affinities: - Ice- Arcane- Soul- Death- Mind- Lightning

It had a surprisingly large set of options to choose from. It was obvious why affinities like blood and fire were missing from its list – it had sap, and fire was typically anathema to plant monsters. Death, she did not want. I have too much of that already. She also had a large assortment of ice-affinity monsters already, which left Arcane, Soul, Mind, and Lightning. While Arcane would be a strong choice for her, she had an arcane kobold mage in the works already, and her arcane-affinity Eyes of Agnor were rather impressive. A soul magic archer sounded very intriguing, but she found it was lightning that was calling to her most of all. Surely not because Lyeneru looks so cool, she thought to herself. Am I that shallow?

“What do you think of adding a lightning affinity?” she asked.

“That would work well with a bow,” the Sylvan said, creaking as he bowed to her. But the gleam of interest in his dark eyes and the rush of concealed excitement from her connection told her it was far more than just formal acceptance.

Ali selected the option and then offered him the same choice she had offered to all her sentient minions. A few moments later, the gong sounded again, probably annoying half the town by now.

[Zone] Sylvan Storm has advanced to the second tier.

Well, that’s a cool class name, she thought, studying his abilities with more than a little interest.

He had retained most of the abilities of the sylvan archer boss they had defeated while Myrin’s Keep was infested with Blooming Rot. Dual-wielding bows and some level of plant mastery. The Fade and Disengage skills seemed almost unchanged, just the movement speed enhancement was larger due to the better alignment of lightning and haste. He had two archery skills just like Calen, one for the bow and one for the ammunition, although all the death magic enhancements had vanished, replaced by powerful-looking lightning damage. He could conjure arrows of pure lightning or nature magic, imbue poisons or shock, and he could unleash a combination of poison and lightning nova on hit.

His self-haste skill was extraordinary. On par even with Calen’s Righteous Fury.

To round it off, he had a signature damage skill: Rain of Arrows, all of which could be enhanced with lightning and nature damage bonuses.

This is very strong, she thought. Lightning rivalled fire as the premier damage affinity, and she could see why. As a dual-wielding archer with nature and lightning affinity, this new Sylvan was going to plug several holes in her minion strategy.

Happily, she began to summon gear for him. She couldn’t give him The Scourge of Deadly Creep bow yet, so instead she crafted two Howling Hellfire Bows that were accepted with glee, as were the parasitic rings, which would still heal him, given his nature damage absorption aptitude, which was retained in the transition.

“You’ve been noisy, Ali,” Calen said as he descended to the mossy ground beside her.

“Ah, sorry,” Ali said. “Just going through my minions and preparing.”

“Lightning and nature archer? Very impressive,” Calen said, nodding at the Sylvan, who was still fiddling with his new bows.

“I just finished evolving him,” Ali said. “I got a ton of options for Sylvans because they’re compatible with all the Elves’ classes.” Quickly, she shared the Sylvan Storm’s sheet with him, knowing how much he enjoyed the details.

“Wow, I think this might be stronger than the death ones,” Calen remarked, his voice distant as he clearly processed the facts and figures at high speed.

“More damage and faster,” Ali agreed. “How was your scouting mission?”

He blinked. “Oh – I didn’t – we found it, Ali! His phylactery. It’s guarded by the three kings of Dal’mohra.”

“Oh, shit! You found Artur Dragonsworn, Bragni Doomhammer, and Thaldorien Stormshaper?” She still remembered how she had trembled at the sight of them in this very grove so long ago. How was he even still standing?

“We ran like frightened fowl,” he admitted, drawing a smile from his friend.

“Eh… right?” she said.

“Pretty much. Now, I found something I need you to study,” Calen said, and then he produced fifteen heavyset humanoid corpses, still wearing shattered armor and displaying scales of varying shades of silver, browns, or reds. “Seth questioned one already, said it was from an isolated Dragonkin tribe being hunted relentlessly.”

“Hunted?” Ali asked. The corpses on the ground were all well into the second tier. All the more reason to wipe out Kryostria if these Dragonkin required refuge.

“Apparently, that realm is dominated by far more powerful monsters than these. The rift is seen as the lesser danger,” Calen said, the furrow on his brow deepening.

“Wow. Well, let’s see what we’ve got,” Ali said, simultaneously deconstructing the entire pile.

Imprint: Dragonkin completed.

There was a time when inscribing Kavé’s race into her Grimoire would have bothered her greatly. Now, she just experienced a discomforting twinge but brushed it aside. It wasn’t like she was killing her friend to inscribe the chapter.

“Looks like a warrior with good natural armor, and a melee fire wielder,” Ali said, browsing the imprint. “Oh, there’s an earth-affinity defensive warrior here, too.”

“Can you make use of them?” Calen asked.

“Second-tier robust fighters? Definitely,” Ali said, immediately summoning one and introducing him to the shrine. To her delight, several of her domain affinities were available as options, including holy and void. “After I get done, I think I should have several interesting affinity options. Maybe even a few to offer to Azryet.”

“Well, that’s promising,” Calen said. “I have to run, Malika said Naia needed some help.”

“Ok. Tell her I said hi,” Ali offered, and then devoted her full attention to eking out the most from her newest imprint.

A couple of hours later, she stepped back and surveyed her work.

“Not bad. Not bad at all. I just need to get you guys some levels now,” she said. She hadn’t managed a healer, but she had an offensive holy Dragonkin warrior and a monk-style fighter with a void affinity. All her new minions needed levels badly, though. At least when her Sylvan archer reached level two hundred or so, she would be able to give him the Charged Band of Electrocution they had recovered from all the ridiculous Bone Fetishes in the Crypt of Kings, but that would likely be a way off still.

She was happy with her addition to the Abyssal Realm and didn’t want to mess with that any further, but that didn’t mean she had no options for leveling her newly evolved monsters. There were always the battlements of Myrin’s Keep, which was where she sent her Baelok Psychomancer, but she had another wild front that could use some taming.

Taking only a fraction of a second to locate a suitable Glitter Dragonet, she teleported, landing in the strange split-realm of desert and jungle that Calen had said was named Zulkora. She brought with her most of her newly evolved minions, landing beside her champion, Maalgaroth. Or at least, landing within sight of the Pit Lord who was actively defending the rift against a horde of treants and rock beetles.

Reflexively, she checked the violent conflict to ensure she wasn’t in any sort of danger before returning her attention to the task at hand.

“Ok, here’s the plan,” she said, addressing her assembled minions, all of whom were also cautiously checking out their environment. She paused to give them time to take it in, before clearing her throat for attention. “I want you to make a party and clear that jungle of hostile monsters,” she said, pointing to the lush, overgrown island in the middle of the desolate sands of the desert. “Use the Hellfire Cerberus and the Divine Sword Dragonkin as your tanks. The Restoration Shaman is your primary healer, and the druid is support, control, and backup healing. Sylvan Storm, you and the Pyromancer are your primary damage sources, along with the Void Monk. Everyone got it?”

Ali was answered with several nods and some eager smiles, and then she watched the eclectic group charge off in the direction she pointed. High level, intelligent minions, she mused. They seemed so eager and barely needed instruction most of the time, no doubt the doings of her Minion Ego advancement. Flexing her wings, Ali followed along behind the group, albeit at a much slower pace, sprouting giant Lirasian Oaks and laying out more of the Sparking Runner vines, adding a much higher-level lightning and nature biome to her dungeon.

Up ahead, her minions had found their first opponent.

Mantis-Shrike – Insect – level 142 (Nature)

Ali stopped summoning, immediately worried by the size and power of the insect that shot out of the trees to impale her Cerberus with slicing sword-legs, powerful mandibles, and hard, buzzing chitinous wings. The blades sliced deep, dripping with a viscous green ichor and cutting through the heavy demonic hide like a carving knife through a plump, fresh roast.

The Cerberus roared in pain, wheeling about to face the insect that was almost as large as he was. Black flame ignited in the three maws, raging out to incinerate the area in front of him, but the Mantis-Shrike had already vanished, flying so fast as to fool the eyes, and leaving behind several bleeding gashes on the pair of Dragonkin warriors. Another roar and swooping dive, and the stabbing, slicing blades cut deep into the demonic flesh, injecting even more of the deadly poison.

