“Craftsmanship? You want to talk craft? You? You won this in a tournament—you don’t know how it was made! Hah! This isn’t even fine work—not by their standards. Not by far. I could crack this myself! They put adamantium into it—but it’s not made that strong. I could—”
He raised the axe and Dawil tensed. But then Pelt slowly lowered it and placed it almost reverentially on the table. He looked at it. And Dawil saw tears in his eyes.
“Get out.”
Dawil took the axe, carefully putting it in the sheath.
“Master Pelt—”
“Leave your order and get out. Don’t you dare lose that axe, Dawil Ironbreaker.”
“I won’t.”
 
—-
 
Dawil hadn’t told Ylawes how he’d secured the order. Now, he looked at the axe.
Oh yes. Pelt would murder him. But—Dawil flipped it up and caught it. A risky maneuver; you could lose all the fingers on your hand. He broke off reminiscing and saw Ylawes throwing up his hands and cursing. Another rare sight.
“Wistram, then.”
If it came to it, would Pelt be happier Erin lived—or the axe was gone? Dawil sighed. The Horns were on the move. And so were the Silver Swords.
 
—-
 
The other Dwarf thought of the axe then.
Probably because he had replicated the conditions under how Dawil had met him. Drunk, Pelt was laughing.
“Potions of Regeneration. Ignorant bastards. Getting hopes up—”
He threw a bottle at a wall and cracked the wall. The glass sprayed across the room, but much of it powdered on impact.
Pelt was a [Smith]. He knew there was a process! This—this was like beating on unheated metal. They’d crack Erin’s body, thawing and freezing her.
Or would they? He was no [Healer]. Pelt sat.
Just like this, when he’d laid eyes on another masterpiece. He recalled that brat—Dawil—and the way he’d looked at Pelt. Contempt and awe.
Well, Pelt deserved both! He would never deny it! Pelt looked for more alcohol and wobbled around his home.
Esthelm. Esthelm had built this place and it was far from being as nice as Pallass’ apartment. But he’d trashed the one in Pallass, so Esthelm still won.
“Petty mining city. No skill here. No craft, but for me. Goblins sacked it. Not as damned bad as the places some of us went into exile, but—”
Far from where Taxus had gone. Pelt snorted to himself. He hadn’t believed in penance. They would never recover their honor, or so he’d thought.
But he had his pride. Somehow. The Dwarf stumbled out of Esthelm to find more drink.
He came upon the statue of the [Florist] amid people nodding to him. The drunk Dwarf stared up at it.
Flowers. They put flowers here. Grew them, rather, in a little garden around the [Florist]’s feet. Someone had worked hard on this, replacing Skills with effort.
The hero of Esthelm, who had apparently saved the city. Along with Goblins. Even the sculptor hadn’t added Goblins in. But the names were here. Somehow, found.
That…those ones had been here. Pelt saw the connection.
“Numbtongue.”
His fingers touched carven stone. There was the name. And he recalled the blade he’d made.
“Fat lot of good it did. Should have made armor. Beautiful stuff. Scale mail—no, something lighter. Mithril woven fibers. An apron of the stuff. Hah! Hahaha—she would have worn that. Now that…that would have been a masterpiece.”
His Drake apprentice, Emessa, found the old Dwarf giggling to himself, lying amid the flowers.
“Master Pelt—Master Pelt, people are staring. This is a statue—”
“I’m just resting. Why are you here? The forge is empty!”
The Dwarf swiped at her. The apprentice carefully dodged; he was fearsomely strong and wouldn’t hurt her on purpose, but he forgot his strength. He could probably uproot the statue by himself.
“Master Pelt, let’s get you home. I’ll get you whatever you want. But please, have some water? Something to eat? Have you eaten?”
“Mithril apron. No, something more subtle. Dye it. Infuse a flexible alloy so it looks like a damned apron. Miniature runes on the inside. That’s what you’d need. And it wouldn’t stop an arrow to the face. That would be craft, though. Beyond me. I’m not a damn [Seamstress]. But it would be something, eh?”
She didn’t know what he was babbling about.
“Yes, Master Pelt. Master Pelt…”
He sat in the kitchen as she ran to get food from an inn. Pelt sat there.
“Wasn’t even a great blade for the Hobgoblin. Good—solid Dragonblood crystal. Cuts beautifully, but it won’t last a decade. Weapon for a Goblin, really. It’ll keep cutting as it breaks off. But I could do better.”
“Yes, Master Pelt.”
He was still babbling when she came back. Extremely drunk—she offered him some soup. He gulped it down and exhaled.
“I used to make great blades.”
“You are, Master Pelt. Tomorrow we have to get to work.”
“Yes. Tomorrow. But I used to make even better blades. I’m teaching you the secrets of Mithril. ‘Dwarfsteel’, you fools call it. What did that boy, Kevin, call it? Titanium? He knew some metals…but there is craft beyond that.”
The Drake stopped. She looked at him. He grinned at her hungry expression.
“Yes. There is. Is the adamantium here?”
Slowly, Emessa put down the food.
“The Drakes from Salazsar actually brought some, Master Pelt. But you’re drunk—”
The Dwarf wasn’t listening. His eyes were far away.
“There was a time I never touched drink. When I aspired to best what that brat, Dawil, held. But it wasn’t just me. Pallass…is Maughin still working?”
“He’s done good work, Master Pelt. But he misses you.”
Emessa had visited her home quite often thanks to the door. Pelt shook his head.
“He’s young. Good, but alone. No competition. The ‘best’ in Pallass without me. They must be looking for another smith.”
“They are, Master Pelt. Will you have some fries? You do like them…”
She offered the snack food. Pelt munched, talking as she plied him with water.
“Maughin now. He has potential. But I’d never make him my apprentice. Even though he asked. Four times.”
Emessa’s claws nearly slipped as she handled a knife, cutting up some fresh vegetables. Dangerous in Pelt’s home; everything he owned he’d made and they were all sharp.
“He did?”
“Yes. But why would I teach someone like him? He has ambition. Pushes himself. Not like you.”
Emessa’s head sank.
“But you’re the expert, Master. It’s…terrifying, not knowing how to improve yourself. Smithing mithril, Dwarfsteel—there’s so much we’ve lost.”
“Yes. I did learn from my masters, didn’t I? Reminds me…damn idiots with that potion. Wasting my…”
He was drifting off to sleep. Emessa wavered, with fresh vegetables, more food. Should she let him sleep? Drag him into a bed, or just put him on the floor and put a blanket over him?
She slowly put down the bowl of vegetables and began to nibble on them, wondering if this would set back their work tomorrow. If it caused him to spiral back to his old self—could she handle that, seeing him at his best, now?
She munched on a carrot. Crunch, crunch—
Pelt’s eyes opened. The Dwarf snapped upright.
“Craftsmanship!”
He screamed in Emessa’s face. The Drake apprentice fell out of her chair. Pelt was out the door before she could blink.
 
—-
 
“Master Pelt! Master Pelt, please! Go back and rest!”
Emessa and the Dwarf smith attracted his apprentices, the new [Smiths] learning from the Dwarf. They had understood that the potion—the [Innkeeper]—had meant a surprise vacation, which wasn’t that unpleasant.
Pelt worked them hard. He made them do 95% of all work, which meant they did level and learn the craft by his excruciating standards—but it wasn’t fun. He intended to wear them down for a year, maybe two. He got their hard work, and when it was done, they would be far better [Smiths] than when they started.
A fair exchange. An ideal apprenticeship, in some ways. The Dwarf knew how to run a team, which was the thing. Not all [Smiths] were team players, but to everyone’s surprise, Pelt was good at it—or rather, he had been part of one and knew the components.
“Where’s the adamantium?”
“Here, Master. But you told me once that our anvils couldn’t even handle the force to shape them—”
“Of course they can’t. Neither heat nor…good stuff.”
He was sniffing it. The Dwarf stared at the powdery rock; strata mixed in with stone. No solid lumps; you could mistake adamantium for weak rock. Unless you noticed that some of the dust you’d get from breaking it up was the hardest stuff in…
“Ah. Teaching. This reminds me of how it was. Apprentice—isn’t there a good, open space somewhere outside of Esthelm? Find me one. A thousand feet of cleared space. Nothing woody or even plants around. Stone. I don’t care if it’s high-up.”
“Outside the city?”
“Go! You—where’s our worst anvil with a flat surface?”
Pelt pointed at a [Smith]. The man jumped.
“Er—the worn ones?”
“Yes. Grab it and come with me. Apprentice, where’s my spot?”
Pelt was not a fun master. Perhaps because he had learned that if you kept shouting, you got results. Niceness was not only optional, but detrimental to getting things done as fast as possible.
“Master, there’s a good spot down the road. But—what are we—doing?”
The Dwarf was lifting one half of the anvil while a team of [Smiths] dragged the other half of the insanely heavy object. He grunted, still drunk. Still…
“Teaching. Come. Come!”
He’d brought some of his canisters of materials. From her understanding, Emessa recognized the mithril canister, some actual billets they were supposed to be using for swords tomorrow—and to her great surprise, an amulet.
She’d always wondered why Pelt had enchanted items like the amulet in his possession. She knew it was magical, but the Dwarf never used it. He tossed it all on the road, then looked around.
“A damned road, apprentice? Well, fine. You—you lot, stand there. A thousand paces that way. You—that way. No one goes past. This won’t take more than an hour. If they have to, they can climb all the way…”
He indicated a vast circle around him. The [Smiths] exchanged looks. Some of Esthelm’s residents were coming out, watching.
What was he doing? The Dwarf had half of the adamantium sample with him. Was he actually going to…? Emessa looked at him.
“Master? What is this for?”
“Teaching. Apprentice—you can watch, I suppose. Hands help. But when I tell you to—go with the others.”
The [Smith] didn’t mean teaching her, Emessa realized. He was setting up. Anvil. His personal hammer…tongs…
Few tools compared to what he normally used. No forge, nothing. Just the worst anvil, with a stress-fracture already in it, in the middle of the road. Some people were standing closer.
Pelt threw his hammer and missed an onlooker by a foot. He called it back to him as the woman fled.
“Anyone comes closer than a thousand feet and I will break their toes! And it will be a kindness!”
He bellowed. The audience moved back; even Emessa hadn’t been sure that had been an intentional miss. The [Smith] began laying out the materials.
“Master? What are you making? A blade?”
The Dwarf looked up. He stared at Emessa until she turned red.
“Apprentice, do I look like I have a crucible of metal? Do I look like I have any material? What is this?”
He pointed. She squirmed.
“Adamantium, master. I just meant—”
“Adamantium ore! Adamantium dust! What, are you expecting me to squeeze it into a metal? Put some water in it and make a brick out of it? What do we do, apprentice?”
“Smelt, then forge.”
“And what is the basis of any tool?”
He screamed at her.
“The quality of the metal, Master Pelt! I apologize!”
She screamed back, exasperated despite knowing him. He calmed down.
“Good. Then what we are making is a teaching tool. Pass me the mithril. We’re lacing this with the following…watch. Because I cannot do this twice if I fail.”
He brought out the billets. Pure mithril, without impurity. And then—Emessa saw the other components come out of the canisters.
Grasgil. The cold metal. And—her eyes spotted one of the conductive metals of magic. Vetil, an ore used in artifacts.
“Master. Do you need a fire?”
“Fire. We’re constructing the big forge. But even then—even with Hedault—it wouldn’t be enough, you know. Because we’re using flame spells. Burning damned charcoal. You know adamantium is one of the greatest metals of [Smiths]?”
“Yes, Master. An achievement that makes you world-renowned.”
The young Drake’s eyes were hungrily set on the stuff. Pelt snorted.
“And you can forge it. But it’s easier to forge it with tools. That’s why artifacts for the stuff are fought over by [Smiths]. But that’s not craft. The craft is knowing every moment of it. Adamantium. You know, when they teach us this, the best of us—they make us forge a little bit. A ring. A cup, a fork or dagger. Something trivial. And then you know what they do?”
“No, master.”
He was spreading it all out. Pelt was ready. He left the adamantium in a pile next to the anvil; it was the components, the mithril, Grasgil and such that he was staring at.
“They toss it into a volcano. Or burning rock. Magma. You know the stuff? They toss it in—and then retrieve it. If it’s whole, you did your job right. Any weakness and the adamantium wasn’t forged right. You think you can get hotter than that in a forge?”
“Then…how? You don’t even have a forge fire, Master Pelt.”
He looked at her. His eyes shimmered—no, was the air around him—? Emessa felt the heat first. It radiated outwards, as the mithril began to glow in his grip.
“I am the great [Smith] of Deríthal-vel, my apprentice Emessa. Did you think you had seen my Skills? Now, watch. Those Human women are not the only ones who know flame. And mine burns hotter still.”
The metal was hot. His hands alone might have melted it, but Emessa realized he was holding something. He put it at the end of his anvil. The iron began to catch fire and deform from the heat—then stopped. Pelt put the first glowing mithril bars on the anvil and hammered them down.
“An alloy of mithril. Grasgil! Vetil—stand back. Toss me what I demand.”
She did. It was already growing hot. But she had felt the heat to cook mithril on her scales. She had [Resistance to Fire], as many [Smiths] did.
“First mithril! Into every inch of it, the Grasgil must be infused! Until it practically melts—”
He was taking the mithril to that temperature. Undoing the metal to turn it into an alloy. Mithril was no steel; it was a pure metal. Then, letting it rapidly cool away from the fire. Turning it into a billet. Then…
It was going to be a single thing. Made in two pieces, she realized. But this was no sword. Mithril, Grasgil, and Vetil went together. The clear metal of Vetil along one side; the bottom?
