No, top. The two sides came up. The fire roared, and Emessa felt it begin to sting her, despite her Skill.
“Now toss me the amulet!”
Pelt was roaring as his hammer sang. Like all his work, he moved so fast that even mithril flowed around the way he wanted it. Emessa did.
“What is it, master? Do you need it?”
“Me?”
He looked at her. The Dwarf began laughing.
“I already have what it does. Don’t you know, apprentice? This—is an artifact I bought from Gold-ranks too stupid to realize what it was. What it could be. This is an Amulet of Greater Fire Resistance.”
He held up the glowing locket, forged like a burning flame itself, bright red. He tore the chain off the amulet. And then—pressed it into the Vetil heart of the glowing…
Emessa saw what it was as the smith took his hand away.
Two parts. Both like bowls…but identical, save for one with the amulet buried in what would be the top. And both sides had grooves carved into the mithril alloy. Put them together and twist and they would lock.
A canister. A container. Pelt did so now, as the metal cooled. He had created…a mithril box.
Or, the Drake realized, the most flameproof container she had ever seen. The glowing amulet fixed in the mithril container—the Grasgil forged into mithril—
“Apprentice. You must know what this is. Tell me now, or throw away your hammer.”
Pelt looked at her. Emessa gulped. But she spoke, almost without thinking.
“It’s…a crucible, master?”
He smiled. And it was a rare smile from master to student.
“A [Smith] without my Skills will make his own forge. Make his own anvil. Even his tools. Look—did you know I made this hammer myself?”
He held it out to her. She studied the dull metal, covered by soot. And she saw Pelt shake his head.
“When they cast me out, I broke every hammer I had owned myself. We all did. They took my anvil and cast it in lead, then buried it so deep it would never be found. But I never forgot. Every tool I used to first make new metal, I made myself. But I was given one thing when I learned to make adamantium. This. From one [Smith] to another—the great challenge. A first step. Because we work on the foundations of those before us. Now—apprentice. Put the canisters into your bag of holding. All the tools. I only need the hammer, the tongs, and this.”
He hefted the mithril crucible. Emessa scrambled to put away his materials. There was just the anvil, the road—people were watching from a distance. An impatient caravan had pulled up, but even they were watching.
Pelt was piling the adamantium ore into the crucible. She knew what was happening now. And if the fire he had called was hot before—it had gone now. Emessa was trembling.
The Dwarf had all the crucible could fit. He looked up at her. And smiled again. With the joy of creation in his eyes, Pelt spoke.
“Emessa. You may watch for the first ten seconds. Listen. Learn. Some day you may pick up this hammer. Ten seconds. Then—run. Understand?”
She nodded. The [Smith] picked up his hammer. A strange tool for smelting. But then—
The air caught fire.
The blast of flame was like a [Flame Geyser] spell. Emessa threw her arms up with a cry. The air ignited.
The dirt of the road cracked. Sand turned to glass; dirt scorched itself away.
The wave of fire cooked Emessa’s scales in an instant. Her resistance to fire—she felt her clothes catch fire.
“Apprentice! Run! Look upon me once and run!”
Pelt was laughing. Something was burning around the smith. Flame. Not the flame of memory. But pure heat. Emessa looked at him, at the culmination of her desire and craft. Then she ran.
Behind her, the crucible was heating up. The lesser rock mixed with the adamantium was turning molten. Pelt’s hammer struck the glowing mass of liquid stone. He hammered down the liquid and forced the heaviest metal to the bottom.
Molten stone splashed his beard and sprayed into the air. Worthless to Pelt; he waited as it heated up. He just wanted the most precious metal of all. It wasn’t even glowing yet. He added more ore, repeated the process. Separating that which felt the heat from that which did not.
The road was catching fire around him; weeds and the few plants incinerating. And the heat was spreading in moments. Emessa ran arms and legs pumping as those at the thousand-yard circle ran back further, all those except the [Smiths] or with Skills like her.
She heard him roar at last. His great Skills. The exiled [Smith].
No—she had heard his true class once before. She looked over her shoulder as he sang.
[Hammer of a Hundred Metals].
The Dwarf roared. And his voice was triumphant. He hammered and sang. His Skills were more than words. They were…
“[I Forged in the Greatest Fire I Have Known]!”
It was melting the ground around him. He was sinking amid molten stone, a pillar of smoke and steam. Yet the anvil remained. His hammer, the tongs by which he was holding the crucible as he forced more adamantium down—all held.
“[My Tools Were Unbroken].”
Liquid rock struck Pelt. And he wiped it away. The last of the adamantium shed the lesser rock; powder and fragments. Now—it began to heat up.
And the Dwarf himself began to burn. His clothes, like Emessa’s, were catching fire. Emessa turned back, staring as the heat baked her a thousand feet away. She heard the last Skill, with the other two. Advanced, a culmination of ability. A song, a boast.
“[I Forged in the Greatest Fire I Have Known]/[My Tools Were Unbroken]/[I Fear No Flame].”
The Skill that Dragons had once feared, but a [Smith]’s Skill. Now, the Dwarf sang. The adamantium was…melting. He was breaking the impurity away with hammer blows that shook the world. The onlookers could feel the vibrations.
Then—Pelt took the crucible and closed it. He held it, in the burning pit, as the anvil melted away. He held his hammer as the tongs evaporated. He let the burning fire engulf it, and him, completing the smelting. Then he just sang. And Emessa heard the only song the Dwarf had ever sung, from his craft, from his home.
When he had been legend.
 
“Look, now, and recall my tale! 
I forged in the greatest fire I have known.
Yet my tools were unbroken! 
I feared no flame! Remember that, metal! 
Know who made you, who wrought you—
For there is no substance I cannot tame!
As I turn you into purity, by my hammer, by my craft,
Remember my name!”
 
He was lost amid the smoke. Emessa and the others retreated as it grew too toxic to breathe. The people of Esthelm stared from their walls.
It was a long time before the Dwarf reappeared. When he did—Emessa saw the road was gone.
A huge pit had formed where the dirt road had been. A depression formed as if a meteor or object had struck it.
All was ash and fire around the area Pelt had forged.
Yet two things remained.
The first was the Dwarf. He was naked. Not that you could see anything out of the ash and grit caking his body. He climbed out, coughing, the stuff flaking off him.
The second was the crucible he had made. It was glowing hot, even now. But it was done. And inside…was a billet of dark red and brown. A glorious color though, a color unto itself. The great metal—
Adamantium. Pelt looked at it. He smiled at her, wearily.
This was the story of Pelt in his mastery. It did not end there, though.
For the very hour as word spread, as Wistram lamented not having been there—for Pelt had not told them! As if he cared nothing for their fame!—and the [Smiths] of Pallass stopped working, wondering at the tale, someone appeared on the 9th floor.
Emessa. She walked past the forges. Past [Smiths]. Her arms burned from the short journey. Her scales were singed. The [Smiths] stopped talking to stare after her.
Then—followed. Because they saw what she held.
Maughin the [Armorer] stood at his forge, staring down at the armor he was working on for a Dullahan. All he had made in inspiration, even love—and his worry over seeing off Jelaqua—had been erased temporarily from his mind by the tale of craft.
“What is this I am working on? What paltry—”
He was about to toss the armor aside, for all it had his own, patented alloy with yes, some mithril in it. The Dullahan turned in disgust.
And there was Emessa.
He stopped. The huge [Armorer] looked down.
“Maughin. I have something for you.”
The Drake apprentice’s voice trembled. Slowly, she stepped forwards. Maughin’s fellow [Smiths], his team—looked and recoiled in shock.
For she held the crucible. And—with it—a single, perfectly solid, incredibly dense metal. She placed both on an unused anvil and bowed.
“What? What is th—”
Maughin didn’t believe it at first, for all the story was fresh in his ears. He looked down at the adamantium. The crucible.
“Master Pelt sends it.”
There was no note. No instructions. No tools beyond the crucible and metal. That was the point.
Teaching. A Blacksmith’s Puzzle to end all puzzles. And the reward was—
Maughin dropped his hammer. And he had not done so since he was a boy learning his craft. The great Dwarf [Smith] had passed down a challenge.
To a worthy smith. He saw Emessa turning away. He called out after her. But then she was running, laughing, giddy.
It was the day a potion had failed to do a thing for Erin Solstice. And had no consequences. Whatsoever.
 
—-
 
Pelt, the Hammer of Deríthal-Vel. His name echoed for a moment. Adamantium smith. Master craftsman.
A passed era of greatness. But one that might see a second dawning, if not so brilliant. A [Smith] did not lose their talents with time.
…Less so for those in professions that took harsher tolls.
The Couriers of Izril had diminished over the events of the spring and summer. Four had died, a harsh number. In other times, it might be taken as a sign that the Runner’s Guild was lowering its standards.
Some people did say that. For, Mihaela Godfrey had been bested by the Assassin’s Guild and Lacel the Leaper had perished, as well as the Firedrake. The Courier of the Antinium Wars had lost her edge. She was a Guildmistress, no longer the Courier to inspire.
So some people said. For proof, why not look at her son, Valceif Godfrey, who had perished at the hands of common [Bandits]?
Of course, they did not say this around other Couriers or anywhere near First Landing. But that was three.
And the last, Tritel, the Moonlight Rider—well, he had made the Courier’s mistake of thinking he was an adventurer, hadn’t he? Three Couriers versus three [Assassins] of high, possibly roughly-equal levels. What did you think would happen?
Four dead, when it was rare for two Couriers to be certified in a year. Was this a referendum on the Runner’s Guild? A sign of Izril’s complacency?
Or was it just talk from people who had no idea what they were saying? Couriers—try running the places they went and then complain.
The truth was simply that running deliveries was not a job for the old. That change happened all too quickly. Couriers rose and fell. And…changed.
They said two new Couriers had emerged from the deaths of the old. One was familiar—but different.
Salamani, the Mage Runner, had inherited Tritel’s last will and legacy. His partner, Ci, rather. They called him the Mage Rider—and whether it was a partnership that would last was unknown.
And—there was one new Courier whose name people still remembered. The Wind Runner of Reizmelt.
Ryoka Griffin.
 
—-
 
A [Bandit] group waiting in ambush was looking for a juicy target. They were watching caravans, passing up the heavily-guarded [Merchant] with thirty [Mercenaries]. A lone [Trader], a City Runner who might be carrying something good—they had a [Stalker] with an arrow trained on the road.
“Anything? What about that one?”
“I’m lining up a shot. Shut up.”
He was sighting down the arrow at a carriage. The [Bandit Leader] was a former [Warrior], a hard fighter who ruled the group by force.
“What do you see?”
The man grumbled.
“[Mark’s Eye] says they’re as poor as shit. We could still take the horses—”
“We go after someone and the road’s dead all day. Wait. There’s a Runner. That one?”
They saw a young woman running down the road at a good clip. The [Stalker] brightened.
“There’s something nice on her. Might be jewelry. Not the best mark, but—”
“It’s better than anything we’ve got. Get ready—we get her and the horses.”
The [Bandit Leader] called to the others in the underbrush. The group of twelve readied themselves. The [Stalker] grumbled as he changed the position of his bow, tracking the possible City Runner.
“Well? Hurry up!”
One of the [Raiders] whispered loudly, already on horseback with a spear. He scratched at his hair; he had lice to the [Stalker]’s keen eyes. Disgusted, the man snapped back.
“Give me a moment! It’s not easy hitting a moving target! I just need—”
He drew back, calculating range, the environment. He felt a moment of regret, but he aimed for her chest, not legs. No taking chances. He held his breath for a moment—
And the wind changed. The [Stalker] cursed and shifted his aim. Just a bit—he felt the wind growing stronger. Stronger—
“Dead gods damn it, is this a gale or what?”
He snapped. The [Stalker] relaxed slightly. And he heard a muffled curse.
“What?”
“It’s—above—”
The man with the bow looked up as the [Bandits] stared up. He saw a strange thing in the sky. A triangle? His first reaction was to fear a wild Griffin. But no—not a bird or monster. It was…a person. She flew overhead.
“That’s—”
And she was looking at him. The [Stalker] and the woman holding onto the glider locked eyes. He cursed, swinging his bow up—
The dust cloud blasted over the [Bandits]. The Courier—the Wind Runner of Reizmelt tilted her glider and spun down.
“Bandits in the brush! Run!”
She shouted over the scream of the wind and curses of the ambush group. The City Runner did a double-take. She turned and sprinted back the way she’d come. So did the couple in the carriage and people on the road.
“That bitch!”
Sand and grit was whipping around the [Bandits], blasting them in the eyes. The [Stalker] cursed, but he was aiming at the shape as she swooped up.
“I’ll kill her. I’ll—”
A vice of iron pulled his arms down. The [Stalker]’s shot went wide.
“Boss!”
“Are you mad? That’s a Courier! We have minutes before someone’s on us. Get moving! Everyone in the saddle! We’re running!”
The [Bandit Leader] bellowed. Cursing, the [Stalker] shouted an insult at the Wind Runner, already flying past them. He went running for his horse as the [Bandit Leader] shielded her face with her arm.
To herself, she watched Ryoka Griffin soar off. The former [Warrior] grinned.
“Besides. I saw her on the scrying orb. And it was a damn good run.”
She watched as the Wind Runner flew on.
Ryoka Griffin had weird fans.
 
—-
 
