They were going to try to use it. Az’kerash observed, listening to the commentary about…a [Doctor]? A multi-phase process…yes. He wished he could steal whatever notes they were discussing. But the debate was about using the potion now. It was a Potion of Regeneration! If they warmed her around the frozen bolts…
Desperation and hope. The magical bottle—Az’kerash frowned. There were a lot of powerful auras in this inn. People had gathered. Master Pelt of Pallass—no, Esthelm. Hedault the [Enchanter] of Invrisil, a strange young woman who had no…appraisable level…
The beaver crept around the outside of the inn, watching, as a group of [Mages] talked with friends. They decided it must be done. Attempted, at least.
They brought the frozen girl out into the inn. A little, white Gnoll was kept back, but clung to a Drake’s claw. She watched as they all did. Ice began to melt. Az’kerash watched.
They failed.
He knew it before they began, in truth. But even so, they all watched the potion drip onto wounds—fail to react, and splatter onto the floor. Only a few drops; but what a waste.
Grief a second time. Sorrow. The Necromancer knew it had been desperation that drove them to that. The young woman was refrozen. The Drake delivered the news.
His magic could not heal frozen flesh; similarly, this potion was incapable of it. All that had been done was to waste…
Well, the bone beaver disintegrated then and there. Az’kerash opened his eyes. He wondered, perhaps, if they had done more damage unfreezing and refreezing—although the [Enchanter] leading them had used the ice magic fairly well.
To no effect, the Wall Lord had spent all this effort and time. To no point.
Except one. The [Message] spell went out. The Necromancer read it, as it was sent to multiple sources.
 
We tried it. The potion failed.
 
Replies, from the Wall Lord, Lyonette—formality hiding true emotion, resolve to find an antidote and way of—
And one that mattered to him.
 
Ceria to Palt. We understand. We’re assaulting the Village of the Dead in two days’ time. Wish us luck.
Wall Lord Ilvriss to the Horns of Hammerad. Will you wait for a week or two for additional adventurers from Salazsar?
Ceria to Wall Lord Ilvriss. No, thank you, Wall Lord.
 
“Foolishness.”
Az’kerash whispered. Youth and haste and mortality and—desperation. The kind of madness he had once known. To defy an army by himself. To do battle against any odds.
But the Village of the Dead? He closed his eyes.
When he had first come to Izril, he had tried to claim them.
He had failed and declined to press further than the true interior. He wanted to tell the young man to stop his team.
But would they? The Necromancer remembered the Crelers. He hesitated.
Such moments made legends.
After a long pause of racing thoughts—he turned to the frozen corpses. And got back to work.
 
—-
 
The Wandering Inn was a mix of emotions that day. As it usually was.
First there had been a kind of…peace. Not happiness. Not exactly. But a bit of something.
The [Shaman] did not mourn someone she had never known. So, she had danced around the laptop in the secret rooms, excited.
Watching a movie. She clapped her clawed hands, delighted, laughing, scarfing down snacks. She’d raided the inn’s pantry liberally.
Mrsha ate a loaded baked potato skin, filled with an assortment of toppings. Was she happy? No. But she was a kind of satisfied, watching the Hobgoblin’s face.
She and Ulvama had made peace. Even an alliance of sorts, to look after Numbtongue. Mostly because Ulvama was willing to treat Mrsha like a sort of equal.
You scratch my back, I’ll smack you. Similarly—you help me, I help you. The Hobgoblin [Shaman] was interesting. She had little power like Palt did.
The Centaur had enchanted something—the air, not exactly the laptop itself since no one wanted to risk the device—to magnify the screen to be larger than the tiny laptop screen itself. Thus, Mrsha didn’t have to crowd around it. He could also do the same for the speakers.
Simple magnification spells, he’d called them. Ulvama couldn’t do that. She was a [Shaman], and her magic was less…technical than a [Mage]’s.
“Too much think magic. Stupid. You—you have magic like mine. Magic that comes from here, not here.”
She poked Mrsha’s heart rather than her head. Her magic was different. For instance, Ulvama had not been able to do much with the device of metal and electricity and plastic beyond use it, much to her disappointment.
…But she could reignite Erin’s fire. And, crucially?
Five faerie flowers were blooming in a bowl of water. They lay dead in vast patches in the [Garden of Sanctuary]. Mrsha had wept about her hard work when she’d had the thought to look for them.
But Ulvama had brought them back. She put some in water, mashed up some Sage’s Grass and mixed it in, and cast some spells, muttering, when she saw how sad Mrsha was.
A fraction had bloomed yellow the next day. The smug [Shaman] had shown Mrsha.
“[Renew Plants]. You give more good things, I teach.”
Thus, movies. Mrsha thought Ulvama would be nicer for a while. She thought the Hobgoblin was stingy though; she’d only brought back five flowers! What she didn’t know was that Ulvama had nearly burnt her entire mana supply on five and was seriously debating burning the flowers the Gnoll prized so much.
She knew a dangerous plant when she saw it. Although it was debatable what kind of danger it was—perhaps, like Sage’s Grass, it was more of a danger to itself and those who grew it. Either way, she was watching Humans on the silver screen and really enjoying it. The little Gnoll-child seemed happy too.
And then had come the Drakes. People flooded into the inn. Hedault, Pelt, Selys—Mrsha saw them all, and hoped. They brought Erin into the inn, fearing the [Garden of Sanctuary] might interfere in some way—and Ilvriss’ representative refused to give the Potion of Regeneration to anyone, even for a second.
They failed.
Mrsha hid in the basement, crawling under a sack of potatoes to be nothing-Mrsha. The others, above, left, rebroken by the moment. Some stayed; Ulvama let the Selys-Drake try to comfort Mrsha. Since she did a bad job, the Hobgoblin grabbed Mrsha, dragged her out, and gave her to the Fortress Beavers. The beaver gang cuddled her, at least.
And then…well, Ulvama went back to watching movies for the rest of the day. She had her priorities straight. Let everyone else worry about how to fix the frozen Human. It looked annoying and complicated to her.
 
—-
 
The failed Potion of Regeneration had no lasting effect whatsoever. No, none at all.
It wasn’t as if the image of the frozen young woman was traumatizing, or hope, reignited and then snuffed out, affected someone.
The Horns were marching on the Village of the Dead. They had told everyone who was able to make it to hurry.
Some would not make it. Wall Lord Ilvriss, exasperated, argued with Ceria. But she did not budge on the timeline.
Even so, it caused arguments. Not least because the Silver Swords were ready to turn around.
“We are two days from the port! Ylawes, we will not make it. Believe me—there is something going on at Wistram.”
“Is it worth more than our friends’ lives? My sister is taking part in that raid. And that threat is Named-rank, Falene!”
Ylawes Byres and Falene Skystrall were arguing fiercely; they had stopped in the road. It was an unusual sight. Normally they were quite able to resolve all differences.
But Falene was dragging them to Wistram. And Ylawes wanted to go to the Village of the Dead.
The call had been put out, but they were far from the Village of the Dead, having gone west to a port-city, rather than northeast, past Invrisil to the landmark of death.
“We need to be there.”
“We will not make it. If Ceria has any sense, she won’t try that place—or if she does, she is capable of retreating, as is your sister, Ylawes. And unless you have a Scroll of Greater Teleport…”
Dawil Ironbreaker tugged at his beard. The [Knight] and [Battlemage] were glaring at each other. Ylawes and Falene turned to him, almost at the same time.
“Dawil, help me convince Falene we must go back!”
“Dawil, tell Ylawes he is being unreasonable.”
The Dwarf sighed. He scratched at his chin and spoke.
“We won’t make it to the Village of the Dead before the Horns go in, lad. If Ceria’s willing to wait, we’ll turn back, sure enough. Ask her, Falene. You too, lad. Otherwise, we’re Wistram-bound.”
The [Knight] and half-Elf looked at each other. Neither was pleased, but both nodded.
“Let me compose the [Message] to Ceria, Falene.”
“Oh—very well.”
Exasperated, the half-Elf acquiesced. Dawil got off his pony to stretch his legs. They were probably camped for the day.
He sat by himself. Erin Solstice remained dead, then. He wondered if it was all futile.
Dawil tugged hard at his beard. It wasn’t for him to decide. They were bound in Falene’s plans. They could go questing for a cure…but Wistram was good as anywhere else for that, actually.
And she had a hunch Wistram related to Erin and…Dawil had agreed, which was why he was expecting to continue on his journey after Ylawes failed to convince his sister.
She, he, and the Horns in general were as stubborn as Ylawes could be. Which meant no one was shifting the other. The Dwarf sat back. Unconsciously, he pulled out a little axe.
He was an [Axe Champion], after all. Despite favoring the hammer he used. But the little throwing axe glinted in the light. He never touched the edge, and the sheath itself was designed not to rub against the blade.
A beautiful tool. He wondered how much it was worth to an Archmage. He had never considered selling it. Not once. He knew some of his people would actually hunt him down and murder him if he did.
He had met one such in Liscor. Briefly.
 
—-
 
Then.
“Master Pelt? I was hoping we could commission some armor or weapons for—”
The Dwarf slammed the door in Ylawes’ face.
“I’m not accepting orders! Begone!”
The [Knight] turned to his team. They had stopped here, after returning to see Erin. The moment had shaken the Silver Swords.
Pelt, likewise, was in no mood for anything. Ylawes would have left it there and gone to Falene, but Dawil nudged him.
“Why don’t you let me take over, lad? Maybe I can talk to Master Pelt, between Dwarves. You find Pointy Ears.”
The [Knight] eyed Dawil, but nodded. He had reason to doubt Dawil would get to Pelt with the bonds of species; Dasha of Vuliel Drae, among other Dwarves or part-Dwarves, had tried to coax Master Pelt into giving them a discount or taking their orders.
He treated Dwarves with more disdain than other species and threw them out. But Dawil was confident, so Ylawes left him to find Falene.
“Master Pelt?”
“If you don’t leave, I will break your feet.”
The voice inside was thick with emotion. Dawil couldn’t credit it; he’d heard Pelt had gone to Pallass, but from what he’d understood, the Dwarf was a drunk, a shadow of himself.
Someone had brought him back. Given him his pride. And she was dead.
No wonder…
Dawil knew Pelt. Hah! Any Dwarf raised in Deríthal-Vel, the home of Dwarves, knew Pelt’s infamous story. Disgraced…Dawil spoke up.
“I’m Dawil Ironbreaker, from home, Master Pelt. I hope we can talk—”
“I said begone! You—”
Pelt’s roar ended abruptly. Dawil heard a scuffling sound.
“Dawil Ironbreaker?”
The name registered. Dawil had been poised on the balls of his feet—to run like spit if Pelt came after him with a hammer. The Dwarf had been an amazing [Smith] and they had swings that could kill even Gold-rank adventurers.
But Pelt knew his name, too. The door abruptly opened. Pelt wasn’t red-eyed; but he was drunk. He looked at Dawil. His eyes passed over the Dwarf’s face, and right to his side.
“It is you. Get in if you want to speak.”
He jerked the door open. Dawil eyed Pelt.
To say he had mixed feelings about the [Smith] was an understatement. Dawil had heard the story; it had happened oh, what, over two decades ago? He’d been a boy, so it had shaken him; he wasn’t as old as Falene.
But Dwarves still aged slower. Pelt, to Dawil, was older by far. Still strong, but he would have been venerated, and Dawil respectful.
If his failure wasn’t known. Dawil nodded and stepped into the Dwarf’s home.
“Show me.”
That was all Pelt demanded. He didn’t offer Dawil anything; the [Axe Champion] hesitated. And then slowly unhooked the axe he treasured and carried everywhere and placed it on the table.
“Ah.”
Pelt gently removed it from the sheath. His breath caught in his throat as he beheld the beautiful metal blade, a single, balanced piece of metal.
He balanced it on one finger; Dawil had known how perfect it was to throw. If you put too much oil on one spot, or got enough blood on the tip, it actually changed the balance ever-so-slightly. He had once ascertained the perfect spot of balance and put it on a little wedge in his room overnight.
When he woke up, it had stayed there; only a thump from Ylawes dropping his armor had unbalanced it.
The blade of the axe was ornate. Oh, the edge was straight, but it had some ornamentation; Deríthal-Vel insignia, old runes of hearth and home on the head where it met the metal handle. The metal was…odd. A jasper color, amid the tint of coral blue and brass, rather than gold.
But it was not brass, or any other metal Dawil could name. And he was a Dwarf who could at least identify Mithril from fake silver-alloys with alchemical treatments.
“Ah.”
Pelt sounded like a Dwarf drinking after decades of thirst. He held the blade, running his fingers along it, inspecting it for…
“Flawless as the day it was forged.”
Dawil volunteered when the silence grew long and he was fidgeting from minutes of silence.
“Of course it is!”
Pelt snapped at him. He stopped lovingly admiring it and fixed the throwing axe with a more critical eye.
“A flaw? A crack, or dulled edge? Watch your tongue, boy. Do you even know what an honor it is to have won the right to carry this? It’s not even the best work…which one made this?”
“I don’t know, Master Pelt. About my companion’s request. Would you find the time to take an armor or blade order? We needn’t have it now, but upon our return. It can even be sent…”
The younger Dwarf held his temper. Pelt glanced at him.
“For a [Knight]? Pah. I don’t feel like making armor good enough to do the fighting for fools who don’t deserve it.”
He actually spat. Dawil glowered.
“That man is Ylawes Byres, my friend and team captain. Do you think I’d travel with an amateur, Master Pelt? I won this axe. Does the craftsmanship not inspire you? Isn’t it worth your smithing?”
Pelt brought his fist down, upsetting the five bottles on his tables.
