The Wind Runner, the Courier, flew her first delivery as an actual Courier and it was the strangest feeling ever.
For one thing, she flew. Ryoka was still amazed she could actually do that.
But it had been a smooth flight. She’d taken off from Riverfarm, and found the ‘right’ breeze in the sky, going the right way. Well—she’d had the sense of where the wind was blowing from the start.
She could have burned her own mana for her personal wind, and she did twice when the wind changed, going up or down to find the right breeze, but Ryoka found that her travel was now…holding onto the glider and watching the world go by.
Was this less taxing, less athletic, than running? Was it cool as all heck? Yes to both accounts. Ryoka covered the distance from Riverfarm to her destination in…a fifth of the time it would take on foot? And that was taking regular shots of stamina potion with the wind at her back already. Even with Boots of Speed or whatever—no comparison.
And that was with her landing twice to stretch out her arms; they got tired, as did her body in the gliding position for such a long time. She wondered if she could just strap herself into the glider and not have to hold it.
Well, it was an uneventful first leg of the journey aside from the [Bandits]. Ryoka had wavered when she saw them, but who else sat in a thicket near the road? She’d dumped sand out of her bag of holding and warned the City Runner.
Ryoka circled twice, but saw the [Bandits] break towards the hills rather than the road. So she flew on, and landed at one of the towns along her route.
Not in the city, but just outside the gates. Ryoka shook out her arms, hopped up and down to pump some blood into her legs, and then stowed the glider in her bag of holding. She had to disassemble parts of it; it didn’t fit in one go, but it was relatively painless. She jogged up to the gates.
“City Runner on delivery!”
The [Guards] stared at her. Ryoka Griffin waved her seal. After a second, one of the [Town Guards] leaned down.
“Isn’t that Courier? Dead gods, Miss! You just flew here? You’re—the Wind Runner of Reizmelt!”
Ryoka blinked. She’d forgotten her new designation. And she saw the [Town Guards] all abandon their gates.
“That was amazing! What’s that thing you were flying?”
“I saw you on the scrying orb! Could—could I try flying with that thing?”
“Hey, will you sign my helmet? An auto-graph? Here—someone get some parchment!”
It was not the first such encounter she’d have that day. Indeed, Ryoka took almost as long getting to the Runner’s Guild in the small town as she had flying there; everyone wanted to see the Wind Runner.
The adults were caught between amazement, the thrill of seeing a Courier, and horrified fascination at the idea of flying. Some wanted to try it, others just wanted to ask how Ryoka did it.
But Ryoka’s real, hardcore fans, the ones who’d been there from the start, flocked around her without reservation, begging for just one flight.
Children. Ryoka’s biggest fans were either children or types like adventurers, thrill-seekers, teens who had been like her. The Wind Runner, overwhelmed by it all, refused everyone a turn on the glider. The wind liked her, but even she couldn’t guarantee it wouldn’t try to flip her in the air for ‘fun’. She could survive that; a random person, no.
However, she did provide some amusement. A spare parachute and children were taking turns being ‘flown’ in a little basket. They screamed with delight and the adults looked on, some trying to hide their jealousy; they were too heavy, by and large. And it was beneath their dignity or something.
Ryoka smiled at that, as the [Mayor]’s son went screaming past her, pursued by the anxious woman herself, who wasn’t convinced he was quite safe. She stayed nearly two hours, then practically begged to deliver the sheaf of letters and several parcels from Riverfarm.
“I really must go. I’m sorry, but I’m trying to get to Reizmelt by evening—excuse me, I’ll take any correspondence that way.”
“All of it, Miss? We’ve got a lot you could take if your bag of holding’s big enough…”
Ryoka saw the [Receptionist] at the Runner’s Guild hesitate. Some of the City Runners and Street Runners who’d queued up to shake her hand and say what an amazing run they’d seen looked dismayed.
So, Ryoka caught herself and, mindful of the other Couriers she’d met, amended her statement.
“—Er, sorry. I mean, any priority mail or packages. Nothing local. Anything over two or three towns or which needs to get there fast.”
“Ah, very good, Miss Griffin. We’ve got…seven items.”
The Runners relaxed.
“Thanks, Miss Wind Runner.”
One nodded gratefully at Ryoka and she nodded back.
Runner’s etiquette, like Fals had taught her one time. It was all there. Lessons past and present. The Wind Runner collected her packages, assembled her glider as the crowd watched in the street, and, intensely embarrassed, flew up into the air to wild cheering.
 
—-
 
The next city Ryoka came to she ran into the gates—and had ‘run’ all the way there after landing while out of sight of the town.
She did it to avoid causing another scene—and to try out her second mode of transport. She could glide or wingsuit fly to her destinations—but the wingsuit was scary as hell, and less controllable than the glider. Also, frankly, a bit more embarrassing since people would stare up at Flying Squirrel Ryoka as she sped past them.
That was what she felt like. But Ryoka had an alternate use for the wingsuit—which people kept thinking was ‘windsuit’, since they had no reference for it.
She ran across the ground and leapt over a hill. Ryoka’s jump carried her forty feet; she landed lightly and ran past a [Farmer]’s son in the fields. He stared at her, hoe raised.
“Hi!”
“H-hi?”
The young man of about fifteen waved back. He stared at Ryoka as she leapt again, a fifteen foot jump which shattered all world records on Earth. How was she doing that?
Windsuit! Ryoka was barely even ‘running’; the wind was picking up the loose cloth in her wingsuit and blowing her forwards. It was like when the wind was so strong you could barely fight against it—but it was all behind her. She could leap like a frog, and she was running almost as fast as the wind was blowing.
“This is so cool!”
Ryoka actually enjoyed the sensation of effortlessly leaping around more than flying for a bit. Because this—this was like having super powers.
The city of Onononno—had a weird name. Ryoka had chosen it on her route just to see why it was named that.
…Well, there was a confusing statue in the square. Ryoka stared at the [Slime Rider] for a long time; the man riding a giant slime, which had been called Onononno, and the founder of the city.
It just went to show there was something unique everywhere you went. [Slime Riders].
She had thought her running into the city would attract less attention, but one look at her garb and her features and the same thing happened again. The [City Watch] turned out, people wanted to talk to her, children flew about—
And so did their pets. Onononno had few cats or dogs or any other ‘regular’ pet. Rather, they owned slimes. Ryoka saw one gelatinous blob and girl flying past her in the parachute-ride and decided this was a cool place.
The parachute ride was a good idea to let kids play with. Sammial and Hethon had been the ones to suggest making it, and they had both been crushed when Ryoka said she had to leave.
But…it was inevitable, surely. It had been a strange goodbye.
Laken had been—off. He’d refused to talk about the future, only talking about what he would do. He’d refused to hear Ryoka out…why? Either his ego as an [Emperor] was finally inflating or…
What had been stranger was Tyrion Veltras. He hadn’t shaken her hand like Prost and some of the others, but his family had been one of the last to leave Riverfarm. The nobles were going back home, the Solstice party done with.
But he had remained, perhaps because his two sons had enjoyed Riverfarm too much. They both threw tantrums, although Hethon’s was more complaining. Sammial had demanded Ryoka stay and be fun.
“I trust this event has aided you in some way, Miss Griffin. I still owe you a debt for your service to House Veltras.”
“Oh, no—you’ve done more than enough.”
“That is not what I believe.”
Lord Tyrion was a strange [Lord]. He refused to settle their debt, and he had done so much already. Pride and stiff honor. Ryoka wished she could have actually disliked him. She knew what he had done to Liscor. But she couldn’t help but feel like they were a bit similar.
A bit. She wished she didn’t, though, honestly. But Lord Tyrion had raced her while flying, even suggested seeing who was faster. It turned out he was, unless there was a faster wind. He’d laughed and…
Well, it’s just a connection of Runner and client. Perhaps I’ll meet him again. Ryoka thought of all the Veltras group, Jericha was somewhat glad to see her back. She’d kept asking about Eldavin after the call.
He had promised to help Erin. Ryoka tried to run, leaving Onononno behind. Wait. There was no better way than the Dragon. Even distant Ailendamus which had a ‘surefire thing’ or the ‘best thing’ according to Ivolethe and the powers of the fae, wasn’t as good as a Dragon.
He had promised. So Ryoka went back to her job, if only to see how flying worked. She ran out of Onononno—well, slipped, really, the streets were a bit slimey—and continued on her way.
 
—-
 
If Ryoka Griffin got used to the attention her arrival caused after the fifth Runner’s Guild delivery, she still tried not to let it get to her head.
She wasn’t a real Courier yet. She had the speed—not the Skills. She still remembered how fast Mihaela could go, or Salamani being able to conjure arrow-swarms of attack spells, cast [Haste], [Invisibility] as a matter of course…
She was a new, ‘low-level’ Courier. Even so, she resigned herself to being famous until the novelty wore out. She visited eight Runner’s Guilds on her route north over two days; she kept losing hours to people, rather than the road.
And she was still unprepared for Reizmelt. The entire city threw her a celebration when they saw her flying in.
“Miss Wind Runner, Miss Griffin, you’ve put Reizmelt on the map, even more than it was! You’re a credit to our city. It is an honor—please, accept this honorary citizenship. A key to your new home, and—”
Ryoka Griffin shook hands with each of the Councilmembers in turn. She smiled as people cheered, looked at her new, complimentary home as well as a citizenship in Reizmelt…and decided not to tell anyone she had been planning on getting ‘Wind Runner of Reizmelt’ changed to a different title. Wind Runner of Liscor, maybe.
“I’m—so honored. I feel like I haven’t been in Reizmelt long, but you’ve taken me in and I’m just…”
Super overwhelmed. Ryoka gave a speech, shook hands, let kids play with the parachute-basket, and then hid inside her home until they left.
They’d decorated it with flowers. Furniture! Ryoka stared at the house they’d given her.
Oh no. How was she going to tell them that…she was not staying in Reizmelt? She’d rather stay in Liscor. She had to go there. To The Wandering Inn. To Mrsha and…see Erin.
“Don’t worry. No one expects you to stay. But if you can just keep letting us call you the Wind Runner of Reizmelt? It means something.”
Alime, the [Receptionist] at the Runner’s Guild, actually hugged Ryoka when she came in. But she was the most reassuring. Ryoka exhaled.
“That’s good to know. I um—this is a lot.”
Everything was different. She had done a two day run to Reizmelt from Riverfarm. Wind speed? Alime was over the moon about it.
“You’re one of the faster Couriers in Izril based on those speeds, Ryoka. I imagine there are limits.”
“Yeah. Like flying monsters. I’m not taking deliveries anywhere with Wyverns or Griffins.”
Ryoka shuddered. She’d ran afoul of some damn geese on the second day. They were aggressive, pecking bastards.
“I imagine you’re also grounded when it’s raining or thundering?”
“Yep. On foot for that.”
“I can actually add a note for prospective clients. Have you taken any private orders?”
“No. Why?”
Alime’s eyes glittered with mirth.
“Has anyone told you there are people asking for you?”
Ryoka stared. Couriers did get private orders; City Runners were rarer, but Couriers would get private requests all the time. And she had sixty eight—
“Sixty eight?”
“You don’t have to answer any of them. You’re popular and your name is out there, so everyone wants you. Would you like to see them?”
“I—sure.”
“I’ll have to get them—[Receptionists] will have to request the details, for privacy’s sake. I won’t even be able to open them; you’ll get it from our in-house [Mage] or the Mage’s Guild for your eyes only. Also, there is a fee to have all of them scribed. Sixty eight would be a bit.”
“I…see. Um—uh—I’ll tell you what. Can you write out…six? And I’ll look at them. I’m going to visit a friend.”
 
—-
 
Lupp the [Corn Farmer] was arguably one of Ryoka’s few friends. An interesting friendship, to be sure. But one that had helped both.
Ryoka had gotten corn that had…impressed…even the fae. Lupp? Well, he’d gotten famous.
Literally.
“[Famed Sweetcorn Farmer]?”
Ryoka Griffin exclaimed in the man’s homey kitchen. Lupp tried to keep from smiling too much. He modestly scratched at his head.
“Not my doing. I owe it all to you, Miss Ryoka. And to Eldert. You two kept talking me up, and I suppose it was why I was leveling out of nowhere. Got some nice Skills too.”
“Such as? Thank you so much, by the way, Miss Ryoka. Father, show her your new corn!”
Lupp’s daughter was present. She had visited her father, perhaps because of the news, and Ryoka found Lupp’s farmhouse more crowded than it had ever been.
…As in, there were about six people present. Lupp looked overwhelmed at the number of people, frankly. But two of the House of El’s security forces were still watching his farm for trouble. Ryoka had been aghast to learn about the close call on his life and apologized—Lupp seemed to take it in stride.
Or at least, he hadn’t said anything with his daughter and the two [Soldiers] around. As for the last member…Lupp’s daughter, Kamine, and Ryoka, and the House of El’s guards, were all trading glances at…
Eldertuin the Fortress. The Named Adventurer had visited Lupp and Ryoka had knocked to find him opening the door.
Named Adventurer! Eldertuin Terland! In service to Ulva Terland herself as a [Bodyguard]!
Ryoka kept those screaming thoughts inside. She smiled at the veteran adventurer.
