“Eldert. You arrived an hour before Ryoka—I was going to show you—fancy digging a bit and see if your Skills still work?”
Lupp smiled at his former neighbor-turned-adventurer. Kamine was scandalized.
“Father! Adventurer Eldertuin is…a Named Adventurer! You can’t say that!”
“He was Eldert to me. Fancy names don’t change who he was. Used to be able to hoe a section of ground in half the time I did. What about it?”
“Argh. And I thought I’d never hold a hoe again. Fine, Lupp. But only for you.”
Eldert, in the company of Lupp, was almost as down-to-earth as Lupp. Although Ryoka had a sense it was him coming back to his roots; he had been more ‘official’ as Ulva’s bodyguard.
But she saw how he had been a [Farmer]. He had a cologne, amazing armor and the tower shield and mace, both enchanted, emblazoned with the Terland family sigils, and someone even styled his hair, by the looks of it. He wasn’t as old as Lupp, so instead of white hair, he had a magnificent blonde-green, perhaps natural, but definitely augmented with alchemical items.
Lupp had the right idea, though, and it was treating Eldert like an old friend. The two talked and Ryoka found herself hovering awkwardly as they caught up. In truth, she didn’t mind; it was the first time the two had seen each other in a long time.
“You stopped writing.”
“You never seemed interested to get my letters. And I felt…odd, sending them to you.”
“I liked them. I never said? Well, they were hard years, after you left.”
“I know. I should have come by for the…funeral. I’m sorry. May I visit her grave?”
“’Course. You have to tell me too, how you met Miss Ryoka. Strange meetings, and that you both came by.”
Eldert glanced at Ryoka. She ducked her head.
“He helped me in a tough spot, Lupp. Actually fought someone for my sake.”
“Really?”
Lupp hadn’t heard about the Solstice party. Eldert just waved it off.
“It wasn’t easy—but I don’t think I was in danger. But that [Knight] or whomever it was…I haven’t felt my arm shake like that in a long time.”
He flexed it, and looked at Ryoka. She preempted his question.
“They’re…outsiders. Strong ones. If you went toe-to-toe with them—well, they’re the best in the world.”
Their world. Eldert nodded slowly.
“I felt like it was a test. And I haven’t felt that young since I became an adventurer.”
“Started at thirty. Old! But you were never a good [Farmer]—for all you grew things well. I’m glad. But what’s with the name? Eldertuin Terland.”
Lupp teased the man as he handed him a hoe. The Named Adventurer sighed as he hefted it.
“I married into the Terland family for my service to Ulva Terland, Lupp. I have a family.”
“Really? You never said!”
“It’s…complicated.”
The Named Adventurer looked troubled for a moment. Ryoka and Lupp exchanged a look. Perhaps a former [Farmer] didn’t enjoy being a Terland…well, they dropped the subject.
“Just cut a new furrow, there, and there. Now, if you’ve forgotten how it goes, you swing your hoe up and—”
“[Channel Strike].”
Eldert swung the hoe down and a rift of dirt, straight as an arrow, exploded up from the ground. Ryoka and Lupp blinked in the downpour of soil.
“[Farmer] Skills can become a [Warrior]’s Skills. You want me to do it again?”
The Named Adventurer hefted the hoe. He looked at Lupp. After a second, the [Corn Farmer] spat out some dirt and laughed. He slapped Eldert on the back, and he and Ryoka stood back as the Named Adventurer did it again. Then they looked at his new corn.
 
—-
 
“[Pepper Corn]? Seriously?”
“You get fancy Skills like swinging a sword and cutting the air, or new spells. I get new corn. I can even grow ‘em in patterns, see? This one’s just for fun. Mind you, even I’ll take a week or two more till the first harvest, but look!”
Lupp proudly showed them his new Skills. Ryoka stared at a corn that had a weird checkered pattern.
Red, brilliant carmine kernels, mixed with a slight blue tint to them.
“What’s the blue part taste like?”
“Sugar—sweet. So that’d be a hot mouthful and sweet one. Not sure who’d buy it, but I want to taste it first. These new ones take a bit more richness in the soil, and water, or so it feels. But they’ll be good. Lady Bethal is already asking to have the first harvest sent to her.”
“Have you considered selling to another family? Lady Ulva herself complimented the corn. And she is…peculiar about trusting food. She might offer you a better deal.”
Lupp looked worried. He actually had to sit down and have some calming tea.
“I…don’t do business decisions like that, Eldert. I just sell my corn. Thinking about money—I can’t refuse Lady Bethal after she’s been so generous.”
“She wouldn’t mind. Well, she might, but she knows it’s business.”
But Ryoka knew it was Lupp’s personality that made the thought of negotiating the sale of his corn so nerve-wracking. Eldert didn’t push the matter, although he did ask Lupp to send him some corn when it was done. Ryoka, likewise.
“If you had any of the sweet-corn, I’d take it with me. I’m going to Liscor so I might not see you for a while…”
“Ah, you can always fly by. Just visit me in a month or two—I’m busy enough. And I have something for you. Nothing full-grown, but…it’s another Skill. Here, take these.”
Lupp was understanding. And he handed Ryoka…she blinked at the baby-corn, all blue, and sweet as candy. He grinned at her expression.
“You have a sweet tooth for the stuff?”
“I know a little Gnoll girl who might change her tune about corn. Well—she likes it anyways, but she’d gobble this. Thanks, Lupp.”
He also handed her some baby corn of the spice variety. It was like eating a hot pepper spice on corn—except it was all hot. Ryoka’s eyes watered.
“Damn. Fuck, that’s spicy—it’d be good if you mixed it with regular corn.”
“That’s what I thought. Good for the children, though. They love it. The village’s kids came begging for it; I’ve been giving it out, the little ones at least.”
Lupp smiled as his daughter fussed around, scolding him for giving out his hard work as always. Ryoka wondered, honestly, if she’d done him a disservice.
His farm was crowded and he looked a bit overwhelmed by the company. But as Eldert bade her farewell for the night, she saw he and Lupp were going to sit, perhaps on the porch, with a drink.
That was nostalgic. And Ryoka thought that made up for any inconvenience of fame. Lupp’s house didn’t seem so empty. The old [Farmer] looked at Ryoka and their conversations about bad days were unspoken.
“Hard to sit by yourself when there are so many people you like about, right?”
“Ah, just so long as you like them. Stop on by again if you’re staying longer. Thank you, Ryoka.”
He winked at her. She grinned and left, spirits light.
 
—-
 
Ironically, it was Ryoka who was down after meeting Lupp. He was doing well. But was this life?
Was she going to forget Erin was dead and do deliveries? Visit Liscor and tell Mrsha and the others to wait?
That was the sensible thing to do which normal-Ryoka would not do. And was thus the thing Ryoka should do.
…But she wanted to fly to First Landing, get on a ship, and raid Ailendamus’ vaults. She wanted to move now.
And she knew she shouldn’t risk herself. She was not immortal. She had thought Erin might be, but Ryoka would never assume she could survive…
She stared at her missing fingers when she needed a reminder of that. Or felt at the scars on her back where crossbow bolts had nearly ended her for good.
Crossbows. Ryoka was starting to develop a thing about them.
She was planning on making one last visit before she slept and headed south. She wasn’t even actually planning on staying the night at Reizmelt—she was pretty sure the Lischelle-Drakle household would be up all night and they’d give her some space.
She hadn’t checked in on Fierre. Ryoka went back, took the six sample requests she’d asked to see, and got a list of names for the others. She went through them, and to the Mage’s Guild.
“You have eight hundred and twenty one [Messages]. Would you like them all printed?”
The [Scribe] gave Ryoka a sunshine smile, behind which lurked the suggestion that if Ryoka said ‘yes’, this late at night, she would get a quill stuck in her forehead.
After a while, he stared at Ryoka’s open mouth and went on.
“The Mage’s Guild does offer a service to ah, individuals of note to screen unnecessary [Message] spells. We only refer you to established clients such as [Merchants] of good repute, and so on. It cuts down on this. It’s a small, yearly fee—quite affordable for a Courier. Oh, and we can also take a list of people who should always be included.”
“Yes, please. Can we do that now?”
“Certainly, Miss Griffin. Who would you like to include? I can take names or cities as well…”
“Liscor. Um, Lyonette, Palt—no, wait, that’s all Liscor. Liscor, Celum, Players of Celum, Lupp—”
Ryoka spent the next thirty minutes setting up a spam filter for [Messages], paying the fee for the service, and collected a lot fewer [Messages].
The first was from Fierre. Ryoka read, anxiously, aware she had left her friend to go do this party.
“…am establishing a business in Invrisil. See me soon—there’s big stuff happening. Well, that doesn’t sound ominous at all.”
Ryoka sighed. She wondered how Fierre’s de-toxified life was going. She was definitely going to Invrisil as soon as—
The next letter was from Lyonette, informing her about the Potion of Regeneration. Ryoka dropped it, fumbled, and picked it up with shaking fingers. She read, heart pounding—then saw a [Message] from Palt.
“The Potion failed.”
Surprise, fear, shock—it hit her all together so she wasn’t as fully torn as she might have been if she had been able to get her hopes up. Ryoka lowered the letters.
The potion was worthless. No—they just hadn’t done it right. There was something else. Teriarch would know. Teriarch would know.
She wasn’t in the mood to visit the Lischelle-Drakle family all of a sudden. So, Ryoka trudged out of the Mage’s Guild, sorting through the remaining letters slowly. It was too dark to read, so, without realizing it, she found herself pushing open a door into…
The Huntress’ Haven. It was…
Ryoka blinked at the noise, light, and voices in the inn where she had stayed. She saw a group of people glance up—and then an exclamation.
“There you are! Hah! I knew you’d come by!”
Mad Madain, [Innkeeper] and former adventurer, bellowed as he pushed himself back from a table where he was drinking. A serving man was passing out stew from a kettle, there was a lot of alcohol in the air—
Ryoka was back.
 
—-
 
She’d uh, forgotten about Mad Madain. Which was amazing since he was hard to forget. But Alber and Fierre had both gone to Invrisil.
But the [Innkeeper] had his inn. Ryoka might have expected it to be empty and Madain in a bad way as he sometimes got, but the inn was crowded.
“Obviously, because the Wind Runner stays here! I’m famous. So’s your room. I heard you got a house so I didn’t keep it—also, someone bought everything where you stayed. Pillows, mattress—even went sweeping up for your hair.”
Ryoka nearly spat out the meat stew and drink.
“And you let them have it?”
The [Innkeeper] shrugged, unconcerned with the sale.
“It was good money. And she was what, a [Mage] or something. Weird woman.”
Stalker-creeps didn’t get better by gender! Ryoka was about to protest when she had a sinking suspicion she knew which…she…had bought all that stuff.
Well, that was fun. Madain grinned at her.
“I also squashed some [Assassin] bastards. You can pay me for it later. Even those…Pithfire kids. Yeah, they’ve come by a lot. Although they’re headed south on an adventure. Damned thing.”
“I’m sorry I didn’t see them. How are they? How’re the dogs? How’re you, Madain?”
This was fine. Ryoka was sorting through letters as she talked, and Madain wasn’t that much into the conversation. He just wanted to know about the battle. Saliss of Lights—he had an admiring note when he talked about the Drake. Ryoka supposed the former adventurer had respect, even for a Drake Named adventurer.
“Ah, well, I have actual guests who want service, so I hired that bastard to serve and clean up. Not like the [Fistfighter] and Fierre. They were easy, like you. What’s his name?”
“Alber. He’s in Invrisil.”
“Oh, right.”
Madain was refreshingly straightforward—at least at this moment. He was talking.
“Anyways, since business is good, I’ve bought a scrying orb. That’s fun all day, and getting adventurer-types in. Did you hear what the Pithfire Hounds are going for? Idiots. They’re going to get hurt or killed.”
“What? Why?”
Ryoka was distracted. She’d just seen a [Message] from…Madain snorted.
“Some fools—the Horns of Hammerad are going after the Village of the Dead. Better teams than theirs have died trying. I don’t even know their name. Ever heard of them?”
The Wind Runner of Reizmelt stared at the [Messages] compiled from Ceria Springwalker. She looked up at Madain.
“…What?”
 
—-
 
“They went because they knew you were connected with those…Horns? I told them it was stupid. They got puffed heads because they sent a few [Assassins] running. Idiots.”
An hour later in the dead of night, Madain was talking to Eldert and Lupp. And wasn’t that a weird meeting?
Ryoka had actually dragged him down to Lupp’s farm. Madain could move quite fast on horseback. She’d asked him to, so she could consult with the man who knew about the Horn’s crazy plan—and a Named Adventurer.
Eldert and Lupp had been surprised to see Ryoka, but they’d stopped talking on the porch to let them in. Madain was chewing on the spicy baby corn as he finished telling them the setup.
“The Village of the Dead. That’s…madness.”
Eldertuin the Fortress looked at Madain and the former Gold-rank nodded. Ryoka’s stomach twisted.
Fool. She had been worried about what she, Ryoka, might do impulsively, especially given the Potion of Regeneration failing. The desire to see Erin again…
She had forgotten other people wanted to see her just as bad. And they would risk anything—no, more than Ryoka. They were adventurers. She was a Runner.
“Are you sure?”
“Of course we are. That’s death. It’s a safe zone—doesn’t attack you, doesn’t get larger or send waves—but it’s still death. No one lives there. But it takes a real fool to try and attack it knowing how many attempts have been made.”
Madain was disgusted. Eldert looked at Ryoka.
