“Let me put it this way, Miss Griffin. I have a team of adventurers I would join with if I were raiding a dungeon or particular area I thought was worthwhile. I wouldn’t try the Village of the Dead with them. I wouldn’t try it if there were three times our numbers. You would need an army to fight that many undead, especially how fast they regenerate. Nothing kills them permanently.”
“You know? You’ve been there?”
Madain spat. Lupp looked offended at the spot on his floor. Eldert looked at Madain.
They both had.
“Everyone tries it, well, most teams. Everyone thinks there’s a way in, or that it’s exaggeration. I nearly lost a teammate. Bitten down to her bones.”
“A similar experience. It’s not even a place to train. The undead move too fast. They’re too deadly—we tried to kill a single zombie for good. Held it down, burned it until it was ash and tried to destroy the ash. It still came back. You have to tell this team to stop. If they’re wise, they’ll fall back. But so many teams—and Silver-ranks? They might push in too far.”
Ryoka’s heart was pounding. She knew they were right. But why the Village of the Dead? Unless—Pisces knew there was something that could help Erin?
“I think my friends have tried to talk them out of it. I—I can make it there tomorrow. But what if I can’t?”
“Then you’d better hope every Gold-rank team and Named Adventurer in the north joined their call.”
Madain drained his drink. He put it down and looked at Ryoka, serious for once.
“But I think it’ll be them and half a dozen idiots like the Hounds. No one who’s smart will read that and join in if they’ve got half a brain. And the ones without…who’d go there for a share of the loot? There’s no gold, no glory. It’s a stupid request. For an [Innkeeper]? Hah! I couldn’t get a Gold-rank team to risk their lives for me.”
He said that. But Ryoka just looked at him. And she saw another [Innkeeper]. For her? She slowly pushed herself up.
“They might have an army, though. Even if it’s not enough.”
Eldert and Madain stared at her, disbelieving.
 
—-
 
The Village of the Dead lay far north of Invrisil. Not as far as Reizmelt. So—if you left now, you could make it in three days.
“Hey, Jewel. You going to the Village of the Dead?”
In the Gold-rank+ back rooms of the Adventurer’s Guild in Invrisil, one of the local Gold-rank adventurers leaned out of his chair and called across the room.
Laughter followed his remark. Jewel, leader of the Glitterblade, ignored Samung’s comment. But she was sitting there—rather than making plans to go.
“I can’t believe anyone is going. Or that someone would post a raid call that stupid.”
Samung, a member of Oblivion’s Call, a Gold-rank team with a name that was arguably cooler than they were, was pushing the envelope.
Jewel had laughed a bit with her team and shaken her head when she saw the request. But she had met the Horns.
“They’re Hell’s Wardens, Samung. Maybe they think they have a shot.”
Another Gold-rank had his feet up on the table. Invrisil was actually quite crowded at the moment.
Lots of Gold-rank teams had returned from the High Passes and the Wyvern hunt. They were in the mood to spend gold, and the City of Adventurers was the place to do it.
Jewel was annoyed because she’d missed the rush—and some teams had earned over ten thousand gold. Three had earned over twenty thousand! Easy money!
“Hey—is this table taken?”
The veteran Gold-rank glanced up. He had his legs on one table, and he and his team—Waterborn Raiders—were occupying the other. A new Gold-rank team, rookies, were looking around and the crowded back room had nothing but standing room, which a number of teams were using.
“My feet need rest. Who’re you?”
Hazing again. Jewel, another relatively new team, was sick of it. But Todi wasn’t here. The Gold-rank adventurer murmured.
“We’re, uh, Ten Razors.”
“Ten Razors? Then why are there eight of you?”
The teammates of the adventurer flushed. The answer was that the founding group had taken casualties. One of them looked at the Waterborn Raider.
“Can we use this table?”
“Sorry, my feet need rest.”
The Gold-rank veteran stared at them. He grinned unpleasantly, testing them. The Ten Razors knew the score. Two glowered, but the rest stood.
Respect for seniority. Alternatively, older adventurers bullying younger ones.
“It’s almost tempting. If they offered money, I’d give it a shot.”
One of Jewel’s teammates muttered after a while. Jewel half-nodded. Tempting. But…
“Hey, aren’t the Horns one of the Silver-ranked teams that got wiped in Liscor’s dungeons? They reformed—but is anyone going to follow them into another death-zone?”
The noisy adventurer got another muted round of laughs as he went on, studying the appeal.
For the [Innkeeper] of Liscor. If there was one reason Jewel would have been interested, it was that. But she wasn’t about to speak up.
“He’s being disrespectful. Why do we even hang out back here? We saw that [Innkeeper]—she commanded the Black Tide. There’s something there, Jewel.”
Jewel’s friend muttered. He turned to the Gold-rank Captain and [Swashbuckler]. She nodded.
“Let’s go to the main room. At least we don’t have to listen.”
Glitterblade was getting up. They had looked around—as some teams had done—when the Horns’ contract was brought up.
Because, despite what the Waterborn Raider said—there was interest. But adventurers watched each other. Some took risks, but calculated ones.
The Horns had taken huge losses at Liscor—but they’d also won at Albez. That sort of squared their record. And they were Hell’s Wardens—a title even Gold-ranks respected.
And the [Innkeeper]…but no one had said they were going, so Invrisil’s adventurers expected the Horns to not raid the Village of the Dead.
Or…do it alone? But that would be madness. Even the Village of the Dead—
Wasn’t that what Gold-ranks did?
Jewel was conflicted. Then—the door opened. Heads swung around. There was a shout.
“Hey! That’s a face I haven’t seen in a while! Is that you, Seborn?”
Jewel turned and saw another Gold-rank team enter the room.
“Who’s that? I know that name.”
She turned to a friendlier team. An old [Mage], a member of the Distinguished Staves of Invrisil, a [Wizard], chuckled.
“Oh, Jewel, that’s the Halfseekers. They’ve been in the south for a while—you know them?”
“The half-Fr—”
Jewel kicked her teammate so fast that the word never came out. The older [Wizard] smiled and nudged one of her sleeping companions; her trio of three were all over fifty. [Mages] who walked to easy requests, blasted it with spells, and thus earned decent pay.
“You’ll like them. Their leader, Jelaqua, is quite friendly. And there’s Moore, such a sweetheart. They’re all friendly—except for Seborn, at times. They had a rough patch…but I hear they took on a new member. Oh, there she is.”
The Gold-ranks were surrounding a new team coming in. Greeting them, exchanging news—Jewel saw one figure’s head rise. She blinked.
A half-Giant. Old Geni waved her hat gently.
“Jelaqua! Moore! Over here!”
They didn’t appear to hear her. The half-Giant was frowning; he didn’t look as friendly as described, but perhaps he was worried about standing on someone’s foot. He did move through the room slowly, looking for a table.
He saw the only one with the Waterborn’s Raider resting his feet there. The half-Giant pointed.
“Excuse me. We need to use this table.”
A nervous Gnoll approached. That had to be the new member; there was a grinning Drake with a flail over her shoulder. Jewel realized both were Selphids. There was a Drowned Man—half crab or maybe lobster—
“Sorry, I’m resting my feet.”
The Waterborn Raider smirked. Ulinde hesitated.
“Look, we need this table. You’re not using it.”
“Hey! Let our teammate rest his feet!”
The other Waterborn Raiders turned. They were apparently former [Raiders] in actuality, hence their nature. They sniggered as Ulinde turned to the [Rogue].
“Seborn?”
“You’re not using the table. Feet up.”
The [Rogue] appeared and addressed the annoying adventurer. Jewel saw the man’s eyes narrow.
“Oh yeah? I don’t take order from the half-Freaks.”
She held her breath. Seborn’s Human eye narrowed. The Waterborn Raiders turned in their seats. There was a potential in the air. The other Gold-ranks leaned in or out depending on their natures.
“Seborn, there’s no need for that. Sit with us.”
Geni called out, but her voice was still lost. The Gold-rank adventurer looked at Seborn. Then…a shadow fell over him. He looked up and his grin faded.
“Move.”
Moore loomed over the man. Jewel blinked.
That didn’t look like a friendly half-Giant. He had a scar running across his chin. And…nope. She didn’t see any nice qualities. The [Rogue] looked like a ray of beaming sunshine compared to the [Green Mage]’s face.
Unfortunately or fortunately for the Waterborn Raider, he knew Moore. So he recovered from the moment of chagrin and sneered.
“Nice try. Why don’t you go coddle flies, Moore? Have Jelaqua come over, greet our team Captain, and then—”
Moore reached down. He picked the man up—and tossed him over the table.
It was so fast. It was like Jewel flicking a bug off her knee. She stared, open-mouthed, as the man shouted and then went thump.
The other Waterborn Raiders stared. They had ducked when he went sailing over their heads. Two got up.
“You b—”
Moore reached out and grabbed a head. His hand—gently covered the top of the adventurer’s head.
Now, the guild was silent. The Waterborn Raiders looked up. And finally began to realize that Moore had…changed.
“Why don’t we all…sit down? Sorry about the trouble.”
The leader of the Waterborn Raiders suggested slowly. Jelaqua Ivirith appeared.
“Moore? What’s the problem?”
“Nothing. We’ve got a table.”
Moore turned. The Waterborn Raider he’d let go of slowly sat back down and then shuffled his chair around. Everyone stared at the half-Giant.
“Whoa. That’s nice?”
One of Jewel’s teammates whispered. Old Geni was just staring. Jewel looked at Moore, appraisingly. Nice or not, he’d impressed her.
Moore sat there, cross-legged on the ground, as the other Halfseekers sat down. They didn’t smile long. Jelaqua greeted Geni, but she was transparent with why they’d come.
“We’re seeing who else is heading north. We need to move today if we’re getting to the Village of the Dead.”
The Gold-ranks turned in their seats. Geni gasped.
“The Village of the Dead? You can’t be serious, my dear! We all thought it wasn’t worth even considering. There have been jokes told all week.”
“By who?”
Seborn was grinning. He turned to the Waterborn Raiders. They didn’t look around.
“Just jokes.”
One of them muttered. Jelaqua’s eyes were steady.
“You don’t have to take your team, Geni. It’s going to be dangerous. No doubt about that. But we’re going.”
“Jelaqua, you’ve never been…this reckless. Are you sure?”
Geni chose her words carefully. The Selphid looked at her.
“Sometimes, we have to go in. We’re going. And we’ve been getting ready. We’re armed up.”
She gestured. And Jewel saw that under their travelling cloaks—the Halfseekers were wearing armor. It wasn’t unusual, so she’d barely noticed.
But wait.
Even Moore? Yes, the half-Giant was wearing a kind of leather-and-steel composite. Leather covering plates of metal. It was probably as thick as plate mail, but made for someone his size.
And—Seborn pulled back his dark clothing to reveal shining chainmail.
“Lightweight stuff. Custom-made by Maughin of Pallass.”
He told the other admiring adventurers. One whistled; even Ulinde and Jelaqua had armor. Light for the Selphid [Spellslinger]. Jelaqua?
Jelaqua had plate armor. Her lover had not sent her without all the help he could muster.
“We’re going to the Village of the Dead. Any team who wants to join us—we can ride together. We’ll hire the carriages.”
Jelaqua announced to the room. The Gold-rank teams hesitated. Jewel bit her tongue. It was still reckless.
“Even if it’s two teams, you’re outnumbered.”
One of the newer Gold-rank adventurers pointed out. Moore shifted in his seat. The female adventurer gulped.
“I just meant—”
“Moore.”
Jelaqua put a hand on his arm. The half-Giant looked away. Jelaqua replied with a smile. Not a happy one but—just a smile.
“We’re adventurers. The Horns say this place has something special—we’re going in. For the [Innkeeper] of Liscor. And you’re wrong, friend. We’re not going alone.”
There were voices from the guild’s main hall. Jewel rose as another team entered. To the surprise of Invrisil’s adventurers, they saw…
Drakes. In armor. The heavy-armored group marched in.
“Are those—Drake adventurers?”
“Flamewardens. That’s Pallass’ Gold-rank team.”
Someone muttered. Jewel saw Keldrass remove his helmet and look around.
“Shame we can’t stay here. So this is Invrisil’s Guild? Are we sitting here? The other teams can’t get in.”
“We could ask for an exception.”
Other teams? Jewel craned her head. Then—more Drakes appeared.
Lifwail Blades. Another Gold-rank team. The Wings of Pallass weren’t present. But a Wall Lord had spoken. So more teams were waiting behind them.
“Gemhammer, The Pride of Kelia, Pithfire Hounds—Silver-ranks. The Silver Swords would join us if they weren’t so far away. All but two teams in Liscor are coming through. Now—who’s coming from Invrisil?”
Jelaqua put her foot on a stool and looked around.
Ceria had put out the call. The Horns, though…they were new. New to their rank. But Jelaqua? She had led teams before. She turned her head, waiting. It just took one—she needed a force to bring to Ceria. She had promised.
The southern teams waited, stares challenging. The Gold-ranks hesitated. To say it now was to not be able to go back. Not here.
Then, someone spoke.
“We’re going too.”
The Selphid turned. She saw a team, fresh off their horses, stride into the guild. She blinked—then smiled.
“There you are.”
“Why are you waiting around?”
Halrac stopped next to her. Revi, Typhenous, and Briganda entered the room. Jelaqua grinned.
“We were just leaving. Who’s with us?”
Jewel pushed back her chair at the same time as half a dozen adventurers. And that was the first moment. She felt her heart beating.
Reckless. Dangerous. She began ordering her teammates to stock up on gear.
Because they were going to the Village of the Dead.
 
—-
 
To the north, it was a dead zone. Even grass died the closer you came to the Village of the Dead. Only one group of people were in the area; animals fled, as did people.
