The Necromancer was no fool. Toren had been ‘helping’ the Chosen to impress him, but Az’kerash was intelligent. Oblivious at times, changed by death and immortality, yes.
But he began picking up a…flaw in his children.
It might have been time. Toren was the oldest leveling undead by far. They were newborns if you ranked them that way, and they had been created and raised in different conditions.
Nature and nurture. Az’kerash had confirmed his hunches by replaying something that he also had watched on repeat.
The King of Duels’ first match with the King of Destruction. Toren liked that one too. That plucky Human [King], being thrown around but stabbing that other one—he liked the agile Human, having a lot of sympathy for Raelt’s dilemma versus the tougher, stronger, King of Destruction.
Toren saw the point. Az’kerash hopefully turned to Ijvani this time.
“Ijvani. Let us not talk about whether you enjoyed the duel. But give me your honest opinion. In that battle, who—no, what would be your preferred outcome?”
Clever. Toren watched as Ijvani thought, her eyes glowing with uncertainty. He would have preferred if Raelt won. Az’kerash too, it seemed, because he smiled when Ijvani began with that.
“I would have preferred at the last exchange, Master, if the blade had struck true and the other [King] died.”
“Ah! Yes! A victory for the King of Duels?”
Ijvani, encouraged, smiled. Her eyes lit up.
“Yes, at first, master! And then—the King of Destruction, with his last breath, smashes the King of Duel’s skull in.”
Toren and Az’kerash stopped getting excited. Ijvani wasn’t even done, though. She began gesturing.
“And at that moment, a fissure opens and all of the armies fall into it! Then a volcano erupts and the city is destroyed!”
“That is a good ending!”
Venitra pounded a fist into her palm, excitedly. Toren had suggested the more animated gesture, and she kept employing it, hoping Az’kerash would keep praising her.
The Necromancer stared at his creations.
“I…see.”
He looked at Toren. And the skeleton saw his eyes flicker to his creations; even Wesixa and Devail seemed more enthused by Ijvani’s ending.
That he had work to do did not fill the Necromancer with dread, but a kind of resolve. He locked himself in his study, pondering the issue.
And…trying to figure out a conundrum.
 
—-
 
Toren cared not for Az’kerash. He was willing to admit the Necromancer was…interesting. He was really good with the pointy, flexy-swords. Rapiers and such. Better than Toren, actually.
And Az’kerash knew what Toren thought. He, unlike every other person, could understand Toren, sometimes asked what the skeleton thought.
The problem was his damn kids, four of whom delighted in bullying and breaking Toren’s bones. He would have put Az’kerash squarely in the ‘sort of nice to have around’ camp, otherwise.
That was one new thing about Toren. He no longer had two states of mind about…everything…which had been ‘kill’ and ‘not-kill’. And most things had been in the ‘kill’ category, even if it was ‘kill later’.
Now, he thought about Liscor. He missed Liscor. It would be so nice if he could go back. Start over, not stab Erin—
Because Liscor was better than this. He wanted more than this. But he could not leave the castle.
The reason he felt so different wasn’t because he’d come to an epiphany about his actions. The reason was…he had a friend. And his friend thought nicer things, so Toren stopped vouchsafing that it was better to kill Mrsha and so on because it made his friend, Healing Slime, upset.
He fed Healing Slime the stolen Sage’s Grass and the little slime plopped in Toren’s chest cavity. It felt safe behind his ribs. And it was a bit bigger thanks to Toren finding food for it; it had been tiny due to Ijvani’s neglect.
Toren liked being in their secret hideaway rooms from the Chosen. He only came out when they or Az’kerash went looking for him; they could not discover Healing Slime.
Healing Slime was the only good thing in this castle. Healing Slime was a friend. Toren had found Healing Slime when they were both…despairing. And that was why he had purpose, now. He was going to do all the things Erin did for her weird guests. Feed, protect…
He was a skeleton with a mission.
A Level 7 [Carer].
 
—-
 
One of his Skills was [Enriched Recipes]. It meant that if Toren found the right ingredients, he could make Healing Slime a ‘meal’ better than just the component parts.
So he kept one of the Sage Grass leaves, and tried to find something else for the mishmash of alchemical ingredients that made the Healing Slime light up. That, or a potion—but the Potion of Frenzy he’d stolen for Healing Slime hadn’t…reacted…as well as either of them hoped.
Healing Slime could be Speed Slime if it wanted to. Both from potions. But when Toren had tried to give it the third potion, the Healing Slime had greedily sucked it up—
Then exploded. Toren had barely saved its life, putting the mana core in a jar of water with as much of it as he could gather.
Something was wrong—and neither he nor Healing Slime wanted to try that again. Toren had a hunch Healing Slime hadn’t been able to ‘contain’ all three potion’s effects, much like his skeleton couldn’t contain all the magic sometimes, especially without the Archmage’s bones which were going to a new Chosen.
So he was feeding Healing Slime back up. Some rat bones here, Sage’s Grass there, glowing mold scraped off the walls, and you had a right proper meal. For a slime.
Toren was busy doing that when Venitra came to exact her revenge.
“Stay still, skeleton!”
She wanted to smash him to powder. Toren fled, arms waving in the air. This was dangerous. He could die! Only Az’kerash’s castle steeped in death magic saved him from the bad beatings; if he was crushed to powder, especially his skull, he feared without the Archmage’s bones—he would die a skeleton’s death.
If he was lucky, Venitra would give up or get bored after doing less damage—or he’d find Az’kerash. Or Belavierr, if she had been here. Neither suffered the Chosen’s wrath upon Toren.
Az’kerash because he respected Toren or something weird like that. Belavierr because she wanted Toren alive for reasons that made the skeleton think it might be better to be dead.
He was rounding a corner when Ijvani caught him with a spell. Toren flailed in the air as Venitra stopped.
“Master always prefers your thoughts. Stop thinking them!”
The skeleton held a burning hand near Toren’s skull. He struggled as Venitra smiled.
“This time burn his skull until it turns to ash, Ijvani.”
“I will. I—”
The two stopped. Toren stopped struggling in the holding spell.
Something was walking towards them. Both Chosen and Toren stopped. Ijvani dropped Toren, abruptly.
The last of the new Chosen stopped and stared. It—she—smiled.
“Hello. I am Maviola. Do you know where my mother, Belavierr, is?”
Toren slowly got up. Ijvani, Venitra, both stared at Belavierr’s price for her work. They slowly shook their heads.
“Your…creator…has left the castle.”
“She has? I did not know that.”
‘Maviola’ looked—Toren slowly got up and backed down the corridor. He kept facing the last Chosen. Ijvani, Venitra, hesitated, but they were loath to go after them.
Even the Chosen felt uneasy in the presence of what Belavierr had wanted. Toren fled. Belavierr had a few steps on Az’kerash in some ways.
Her creation called her ‘mother’. And she called it—her—her beloved daughter.
Toren had never called himself evil. He just liked killing things. He had admired the [Lady] of flame when he saw her—and shortly before her death. Bravery—he had never thought himself as bad, until the end with Erin.
But the Stitch Witch had shown him evil.
 
—-
 
Az’kerash himself did not like to think of…what had been done by Belavierr. But they were allies of convenience. Then she would leave.
The issue of her was temporary. The issue of teaching his Chosen…less so. He had time. But now he worried about them. After all—he would never uncreate his children. Not now they were people.
You only got one chance. What had all the parents he’d met said? He tried to recall a lifetime’s memories in death.
His companions had been little help. Archmages made for poor parental units, what few of them had children. [Mages]…well, some were decent.
But Perril Chandler’s immediate friends hadn’t been parents, by and large. One or two…he clenched a hand as anger, even a hundred and fifty years later, struck him.
Forget that. His thoughts went searching and found another applicable parent, especially to this situation.
But had Zelkyr been a good father?
“No. If they had been flesh and blood—no. Far from it. I will not do what he did, not part or the whole of it.”
The Necromancer sat there. It was hard to parent alone.
Also, he had so many things to do. A working parent with undead children. His servants and puppets moved, he had dealings in the world, he needed to watch his enemies like Reinhart and Teriarch…
And he had promised that young [Necromancer]. For some reason, that ate most at Az’kerash, driving his thoughts. Of all the things…he did not want to be found out to have lied to Pisces.
He was still stymied. Although—it wasn’t his field. Healing and ice magic. Not exactly high on his areas of expertise. In truth, Az’kerash was moving into searching his collection and the world for spells or artifacts to aid the conundrum he was facing.
“Stasis…a kind of enhanced stasis? I need an artifact not from the [Mage]-schools of magic. Something different. Perhaps—”
As he sat in his rooms, an alarm-thought began pulsing. One of his split minds had detected something; any number of things he monitored for.
[Messages] with ‘Az’kerash’ in them, not encrypted.
People inquiring into undead extermination.
Key phrases with any of the local landmarks or geographical locations in them.
‘Tier 7’, ‘Tier 8’, ‘Tier 9’, ‘Death of Magic’, ‘Named Adventurer’, ‘Relic-class artifact’…oh, the list went on.
In this case, the reason his mind had picked up on it was because of the connections made. Content. He devoted two more ‘selves’ to analyzing it as he read a book and tried to alter a [Preservation] spell.
Hoarding and Hostility: How to Deal With Negative Traits, by Kassi the [Carer].
It was a Drake book, but it was surprisingly hard to get ahold of literature for adults raising children. Books weren’t that commonplace.
More mini-Az’s came back with a trace of the first [Message] spell in this ‘chain’ of conversation and all asides. They reviewed the findings to see if it actually mattered, then began kicking his mind, so to speak. Az’kerash focused his full mind on—
 
(Delivery Details) – To Lyonette du Marquin of The Wandering Inn, from Wall Lord Ilvriss of Salazsar, copy to Ceria Springwalker, Horns of Hammerad.
(Content) – Miss Marquin, I have obtained a partial Potion of Regeneration and am sending it to Liscor with all haste. I have hired my own security and escort with Salazsar’s transport rather than entrusting it to a Courier; they will arrive at Liscor in three days or less unless there are delays in changing mounts. I hope that it will aid Miss Solstice. 
–Wall Lord Ilvriss of Salazsar, sent by Alrric, [Administrator].
(Additional Notes) – 1st-rate delivery requested, City Runner for immediate delivery, replies paid in full, unlimited content. Maximum confidentiality.
 
The Necromancer blinked. He stripped the superfluous details and checked—yes, there was a reply! What was the date on this?
Two days ago. Az’kerash frowned. There were two replies. One from the north…the other from coordinates precise enough that he could almost be certain it was coming from Oteslia.
Not Liscor.
 
Ceria to Lyonette and Ilvriss, did you really get it? We’re holding off on the Village of the Dead. Please tell us if there’s anything we can do. I can arrive if you need ice-magic!
 
Lyonette to all, I am not at Liscor. However, I have sent immediate word to the inn and [Mages] Palt, Bezale, or Montressa will be there to receive the potion. Thank you, Wall Lord Ilvriss. Ceria, I will tell you if you are needed. I am preparing to return home if news is good. Thank you again.
 
He went over and confirmed—yes, a [Message] spell to ‘Palt’…the Necromancer kept blinking.
A few thoughts ran through his head.
 
Ilvriss, a Wall Lord of Salazsar paid for a Potion of Regeneration?
            Calculating the cost, even at market value would be exorbitant, even for a Wall Lord
            He was with Zel Shivertail. Danger?
                        None shown; under scrutiny. Remember this.
 
Oteslia? Why would that young woman—
            Ah, antidotes, logical.
                        Odds of antidote low, however.
            Reinhart is at Oteslia.
            I wonder if there are good books on child rearing in Oteslia? Manus and Pallass’ markets have not been as useful.
                        Manus does not surprise me.
 
The Village of the Dead is dangerous.
 
His eyes snapped open. Az’kerash terminated the parallel thoughts speaking and refining themselves before he was caught in a thought-trap. Left alone, they’d list every salient fact until he was recalling market figures in Oteslia from decades ago.
“A Potion of Regeneration.”
The Necromancer sat there. He began to stretch his magical connections and mental ones out. Monitoring Liscor’s [Message] spells. Extrapolating. Was there a chance a potion might…?
“Awaken.”
In a cave, bones assembled. Something crept out, ignoring the remainder of the Shield Spiders, betrayers of the ancient alliance of oaths, now replenishing their numbers in treachery. It left the Defenders of the Cave’s broken sanctuary.
Two Shield Spiders objected to the creation of death. They tried to kill the bone-beaver. The glowing, green eyes in the sockets flashed.
Az’kerash had no time to waste on pests. His creation rapidly raced past the fragments of chitin and twisted legs. It zipped across the Floodplains, invisible, camouflaged.
To see.
It was just in time to witness the Drakes arriving via door from Pallass. The Wall Lord’s representative; it kept well clear of three Drakes armed in full gemstone plate—the Rubirel Guard? It watched as the potion was delivered. The people clustered around.
