“Like round up the chickens and gather the eggs in the coop down near the Market District.” Gretchen said. “They let them out every morning so the quest can be repeated.”

“It's not a lot of money if your at a high level; but, for normal players, it's like a repeating gold mine.” Dana said.

“Wow.” Ren said. “I wonder when they started doing that?”

“Who knows.” Gretchen said. “It's a little weird that you don't know about them, though.”

“Not really. Like I said in my speech before the fight, I didn't really go out adventuring.” Ren chuckled. “In fact, for the first 8 months or so that I played, I never left the Artesian District except to gather herbs for the old man alchemist.”

“You're kidding!” Dana exclaimed. “Why in the world didn't you go anywhere else?”

“I was only level 1.” Ren said.

Dana and Gretchen stared at him and he felt their shock.

“What?” Ren asked.

“So... it... the show... it's true?” Dana asked.

“They cut out a lot of the long and tedious parts.” Ren said. “When I gained a level in the fifth episode, that really was my first one.”

“Oh, wow.” Gretchen said. “I thought... I thought it was all scripted.” She said. “I thought it was all made up so that it would be entertaining!”

Ren laughed. “Nope, it's entertaining all on it's own.” He said. “I think that's why the network liked it so much. It's just editing and no real production overhead costs to create it.”

“So... in the last episode...” Dana stopped talking and looked away from him.

“Yeah, it really happened.” Ren said. “Getting tripped, punted like a football by an ogre, and the bridge collapsing.”

“Oh, wow.” Gretchen said and looked away for a second, then looked back at him. “Did you die?”

“Gretchen!” Dana turned towards her and smacked her arm. “No spoilers!”

“Why not? He's right here.” Gretchen laughed. “It's not like he doesn't know what happened to him.”

“It's me that doesn't want to know!” Dana exclaimed, then her face turned red. “I mean, I want to know... but, I... I want to watch it and see what happens.”

“It's okay, Dana.” Ren said and knelt to put a hand on her shoulder and pat it. “I won't spoil it for either of you.”

Dana took a breath and let it out, then she relaxed. “All right. Thank you.”

“It's time for the chicken run!” Teela said.

“That's our cue.” Dana said and moved to stand up, and Ren held a hand out to her and Gretchen. They both took the offered hands and Ren pulled them up into a standing position.

“It was nice meeting you again.” Ren said. “I'll see you later.”

“Bye.” Dana and Gretchen said together, chuckled for a moment because of that, then started to walk away. Gretchen grabbed Dana's arm and stopped walking as she turned around to look at Ren.

“If you're not doing anything right now, why don't you come with us?” Gretchen asked.

“Yeah! That's a great idea!” Teela said. “Teela and Teepo on their first mission together! Woo-hooo!”

Her enthusiasm made everyone laugh, then Ren and Artemis stepped over to them.

“I'd be happy to tag along.” Ren said, then 4 people and 2 beetles entered the city, all of them quite a bit happier than they had been barely moments before.
