The entire audience was shouting and yelling in excitement or denial as the fight resumed. Aarl moved like a man possessed, matching Lyra’s earlier grace as she stumbled into a combat stance, her armor only half-deployed and her two weapons struggling to match Aarl’s one. He kept one hand free, wielding the black blade like a fencing saber in rapid thrusts and twists. Lyra smacked it aside, and Aarl tossed the blade to his other hand, switching sides and pressing the attack without a pause.

The moment Lyra regained her balance, she went on the attack again with a predatory smile on her face. Aarl responded by bringing his other hand around, wielding nothing but a golden shimmer of fire. Nathan could see the outline of the invisible axe, but Lyra almost didn’t and had to throw herself awkwardly backwards to dodge it. Then Aarl threw the necromantic weapon, and Lyra almost fell again dodging it. He followed up by throwing Brox’s black blade, which she caught on both of her weapons and deflected to the side. She ended up half-spun around, out of position.

Aarl didn’t stop moving, pirouetting with both hands rising up in preparation. He came around with the disintegration-edged greatsword in a picture-perfect slash that cut through the Questor diagonally. She gasped at the blow and reached for him, but fell apart into two pieces. Aarl stepped forward to finish the job, the shape-changing club emerging to pulp Lyra and render any last-minute healing irrelevant.

Then he looked up at the crowd, chest heaving and blood still dripping from the rents in his armor. The golden light bled away to reveal an angry snarl. Aarl spat blood and spoke commandingly. “Now celebrate my victory instead of my death.”

Permanent Talent 1: Magical Destruction 10

Permanent Talent 2: Distributed Immortality 2

Permanent Talent 3: Skystride 5

Class: End of Magic level 1337

Bottomless Stamina: 115181/134700

Indomitable

The Undeniable Strike of the Antimage

Stamina Burn

Momentum Mastery

Stoneflesh

Arcane Nullification

Galefoot

Close Quarters Mastery

Boundless Aura

Denial of Mysticism

The Ending of Magic

Aura Projection

Selective Dispel

The Living World

Class: Death of Legends level 951

Limitless Focus: 5302/9610

Legendary Blows

Out of Sight

Magical Mimicry

Antimemetic

The Hidden Strike

Nondetection

Mana Control

Lethality Prediction

Wizardly Immunity

Communication Countermeasures

Sorcerous Sabotage

Legendkiller

Bane of Myth

To the Ends of Davrar

Utility skills:

Perfected Mind 3

Inspiration 10

Impulse 8

The Sense of Magic 7

Forewarning 10

The Truth of Magic 8

Evasion 5

Wizard’s Palace 7

Veracity 4

Whiplash 5

Visibility Control 8

Blending 1

High-tier Battle Cry 7

Aura Mastery 6
