Ren had Nathalia recharge his Mana Pool while they spent the last few hours together, then had a great supper with her mother, and let Narhilda know what had been going on. He let her read the children's book, as it was short and didn't take long. He didn't get a popup for an increase for Fire Affinity, and figured he'd need more than one person to read it to increase it, now that it was at the Advanced level. Narhilda said she'd tell everyone she knows the story, and Ren did get a popup for a 1% increase.

As long as people will hear about it, I get the bonus. Ren thought. I guess it's the potential that matters, and not necessarily the actual passing of knowledge.

“The food was delicious, Narhilda.” Ren said. “Thank you.”

“It was no trouble.” She said. “I really enjoy cooking.”

“I'm sorry I didn't help today, Ma.” Nathalia said.

Her mother snorted. “I wasn't going to steal you away from your date day just to cook supper, dear.”

“I was only in the next room.”

“I know.” Narhilda grinned. “I can't remember ever hearing you giggle so much!”

“Blame him!” Nathalia said and chuckled. “He wouldn't stop tickling me.”

“I can't help it if I like the sound of you laughing.” Ren smiled.

“You don't have to force it, though.” She said. “I'll laugh as much as you want.”

“Where's the fun in that?” Ren grinned. “I'd rather make you laugh.”

“Okay, you two.” Narhilda said. “Go on. I'll clean up.”

“Are you sure?” Her daughter said. “It'll go faster if we all help.”

“No, no. You've got stuff you need to take care of.”

Ren stood up and gave her a kiss on the cheek. “Goodnight.”

Nathalia stood and kissed her other cheek. “Goodnight.”

“Goodnight.” Narhilda said, then waved them away. “Shoo!”

Ren laughed and took Nathalia's hand and led her to the old bedroom. He spent half an hour playing with her, then an hour pleasing her. He told her what he was planning to do, and she nodded. Nathalia was exhausted and fell asleep right afterwards, and Ren slipped out of bed. He equipped his Travellers Clothes and Dire Wolf Hooded Cloak, and snuck out of the bedroom and then into the kitchen. He stored a pile of food, then crept out of the house. Once outside, he opened the message system and sent a message to someone he needed help from. Ren asked to meet, and he got a response right away. She would meet him in 3 hours at the Library in Aurora. He confirmed the appointment, closed the message system, and went into the stable.

“Princess.” Ren whispered. “I need another cart ride.” He held out a choice piece of cut meat and Princess sniffed it, appreciatively. She huffed and Ren put it in her bowl. When she finished eating, he stored the bowl and crate, then led her out of the stable. Once the cart was enchanted with a double glyph of Antidark, Princess was hooked up to it. Ren led her out of the courtyard and closed the gate behind him, making sure it was locked.

“The weight's going to be different this time.” Ren said. “Start slow and adjust to it, then you can pour on the speed.”

She nodded, and he climbed into the driver's seat.

“Okay.”

Princess trotted at first, and noticed that Ren was right. She huffed and moved side to side a little, then she ran. It was a little faster this time to the city, since the weight was nearly a third less than what it was. At the main part of the city, Ren saw that no one was around and he told Princess she could go a little faster. She went into a fast trot, and they got to the other road in no time and Princess poured on the speed. They stopped every 20 minutes, so Ren could give her food and water, but it only took an hour and a half to get back to the warehouse. Ren thanked her for working so hard, unhooked her from the cart, and brought her inside the warehouse. He took out her crate and bowl, and gave Princess more food. He opened her stat window while she ate, and smiled.

“Your Strength and Endurance are both gaining ground.” Ren said. “I'm proud of you.”

Princess blew a raspberry and Ren chuckled. “No, I'm not going to say 'I told you so'.”

She huffed and Ren rubbed her neck.

“I'll be back in a few hours.” He said, and went upstairs. Teepo, I'll summon you on the other side.

“See you then.” Teepo said and dissolved back into the ring.

Ren opened the cabinet, nailed it shut from inside, then stepped through the portal. He opened the other cabinet and nailed that shut, then summoned Teepo. He appeared at Ren's feet and flew up to land in Ren's hood.

“That is so cool.” Ren said.

“It sure is!” Teepo said. “I can still run and jump, but flying will surely help with my scouting!”

Ren nodded and went downstairs. The place was empty and Ren opened the door and locked it behind him. He walked down the street and around the corner. He didn't notice the man standing 3 buildings away, watching him.

*

When Ren was out of sight, the man slipped around the corner and walked as fast as he could, without actually running, up to the north gate. Being this late, no one was there watching things, so he just walked out of the gate. A hundred feet away near the treeline, a hooded figure stood.

“You have the money?” The man said.

“You have information?” The hooded figure held up a silver coin.

“I've been watching the place all afternoon and evening.”

The hooded figure held up another silver and the man grinned.

“He just left the building and is walking towards the center of the city. He wasn't running, so he had no clue I saw him.”

“Do you know where he's going?”

The man smiled. “There's only 2 places open at this time of night.” He said. “The Jiggly Puff, and the Library.”

The hooded figure pretended to toss the money, and the man jerked in place to catch it. The hooded figure chuckled, then actually tossed the coins. The man grabbed one, then scrambled to get the second one as it rolled away across the ground. The hooded figure opened the message system and sent off a quick group message.

He's in the Library.

*

Ren went into the Library and looked around. No one was there, except the receptionist. He walked closer and saw who it was.

“Rosie!” Ren said, and her face lit up. “I'm really glad you're here.” He said, then frowned. “Hold on, why are you here at night?”

“That's easy to explain.” Rosie chuckled. “The night Librarian wanted a night off.”

Ren smiled. “This makes my visit so much better.”

Rosie giggled and blushed a little. “You flatterer.”

“That's not flattery, that's the truth.” He said. “I was worried I'd have to explain a whole bunch of things to someone I didn't know.”

“Oh?” Rosie said. “Like what?”

Ren took out a copy of the children's book and gave it to her. “This for one.”

She took it and flipped through it. “You're submitting a book?”

“Two, actually.” Ren said and took out a copy of the other book. “Could you add them to the Archive for me?”

“Ren, I'd be happy to.”

“Thanks, Rosie.”

“I'll be right back.” Rosie disappeared behind the desk for a couple of minutes and came back empty handed. “There, all done.”

“Well, not quite.” Ren said and smiled. “I know it costs a gold for a copy of a book if you want to keep it, so I want you to give them away for free and I'll pay for the copies.”

Rosie's mouth dropped open. “Ren, we get hundreds of people in here a day!”

Ren chuckled. “Not everyone will want a copy, but I'd like you to put a copy of each in the front window and offer them for free.”

“Why in the world do you want me to do that?”

“I need the Tale of the Fire Dancer to reach as many people as possible, and as quickly as possible.”

“Well, okay.” Rosie said. “I hope you've got deep pockets.”

Ren passed her 5 platinum. “This will cover the first 500 copies that you give away.”

Running Quest Update!

You have spread the word of the birth of Fire Dancer, Deity of the Fire Element.

Rewards: 10,000 XP

Knowledge Of Fire Level 5 (Advanced 0%) Fire affinity and resistance increased to 50%

Rosie stared at the money. “You... you were serious?”

Ren chuckled. “I'd also like to make a donation to the Library, to help with maintenance, upkeep and maybe a huge pay bump for the Librarian that I'm giving it to.”

Rosie stopped looking the money, and stared at Ren. “Y-y-you're crazy!”

Ren snorted laugh. “I don't know why everyone says that.”

Rosie put a hand over her mouth and started laughing. “All right! I'll accept a donation, in the name of the Library.”

Ren put 10 platinum on her desk, then 10 more, then 10 more, and didn't stop until there was 100 platinum. Rosie stopped breathing. Ren ran around the desk, rubbed her back, and told her to take deep breaths. She caught her breath a moment later and grabbed the desk to stop herself from fainting.

“You... you... you have really deep pockets!”

Ren kept rubbing her back and laughed. Rosie eventually calmed down, and she turned to him.

“You're not supposed to be behind the desk.”

“Oh, sorry!” Ren said walked back around to the front. “I saw you needed help, and I...”

Rosie came around the desk and stood in front of him. She was almost exactly Ren's height and she stared at him in the eyes, then took him into a hug. He hugged her back automatically. Ren hadn't hugged anyone that was the same height as him before, and it was a very intimate moment.

“Thank you.” Rosie said, and then kissed him briefly. She let him out of the hug and stepped back. Ren stood there with surprise on his face.

“Rosie...” Ren started.

“You're so sweet that I couldn't resist.” She giggled.

“...I'm engaged to be married.” Ren finished.

“That's okay.” She said and went back behind her desk. “It was just a thank you kiss.”

Ren didn't know what to say to that, and she smiled.

“That was me thanking you personally.” Rosie said. “The Library on the other hand...” She smiled. “...would like to thank the most generous Patron it's ever had.”

New Title!

Your generosity to the Library has been recognized, and you've been awarded a title: Patron of Knowledge. This title grants you a 5 level Bonus to Speed Reading and Hidden Knowledge.

You have also been granted access to restricted areas of the Library.

Stat Change!

Speed Reading Level 2 (Intermediate 40%)

Hidden Knowledge Level 7 (Beginner 0%)

“Rosie!” Ren exclaimed.

“There's coffee in the break room, Mr. Patron.” Rosie grinned. “Care to join me for a cup?”

“But...”

She came out from behind the desk again and hollered to someone at the back of the main room. “I'm taking my break!”

“Okay, Rosie.” A wizened old lady came out from behind a small desk and hobbled up the aisle to the main desk. It took her a while, and Rosie waited for her to sit down. “15 minutes.”

“I know, Grandma.” Rosie said. “Come on, Ren.”

Ren followed her to the hallway on the side, and they entered the first door on the right. Inside was a nice break room with a small kitchenette and a plate of pastries.

“I didn't know they had coffee here.”

“It's new.” Rosie said and poured a cup for herself and one for Ren. “I came in here the other day, right after we hired a new helper, and poof!” She sat down at the small table. “The helper said it was called 'coffee', and we've been drinking it ever since.”

Ren's eyes widened. “Who is it?”

Rosie waved Ren's question away. “Just some guy. He had a pile of books with him, and donated them to the Library when he asked for a job, so we hired him on the spot.”

I wonder how he got coffee to appear here. Ren thought and tasted it. “Wow, that's strong.”

“Oh, I forgot!” Rosie said, and opened one of the cupboards. “Crugar and seam.”

Ren chuckled. “I think you mean 'sugar and cream'.”

Rosie shrugged, and Ren put some sugar in his cup to take some of the bitterness away.

“What are you doing here, by the way?” Rosie asked. “You could have dropped the books off anytime.”

“I'm here to meet someone.” Ren said. Teepo?

“About an hour.” Teepo said.

Thanks. Ren thought. “She should be here in about an hour.”

“Can I go exploring?” Teepo asked.

Be careful and don't exert yourself.

Teepo took off from the hood and slid out through the edge of the doorway. “Wheee!”

Rosie sighed. “It's her, isn't it?”

Ren smiled and nodded. “Why don't you like her?”

Her eyes widened for a moment, and then she smiled. “It was that easy to see, was it?”

Ren grinned. “Only to everyone that knows you.”

“Yeah, I don't like her.” Rosie chuckled. “There's something about her that rubs me the wrong way whenever I see her.”

“I've heard of something like that.” Ren said. “You know about love at first sight?”

Rosie nodded.

“This is hate at first sight.” He said. “For some unknown reason, you just automatically hate them.”

She nodded. “Yes! She didn't do or say anything to me, and yet I hated her instantly.”

Ren chuckled. “Chemistry between people can work the other way, too. It doesn't have to be positive.”

“I'm glad that didn't happen to us.” Rosie grinned. “All the fun we would have missed!”

“You asked me to dance, remember?” He said. “I was terrified until you showed me a few moves.”

“I still can't believe that was your first time.” Rosie shook her head. “You moved like you were floating on air.”

“It was an ability called Sneak, actually.” Ren said. “Some Adventurers have access to it.”

She chuckled. “So you cheated!”

Ren chuckled, too. “Maybe.”

“Sneak.” Rosie said. “I'll have to remember to ask my dance partners about that, the next time I go to a party.”

“Have there been many since the last one?”

Rosie shook her head. “There hasn't been a lot of activity at all around here.”

“Really?” Ren asked. “I wonder why.”

“There's been a lot more shady characters around than usual, too.” She finished her coffee and put the cup on the counter. Ren handed his cup to her, and she put it next to the other one. “Something is going on, that's for sure.”

“Are you being careful walking home?” Ren asked. “I don't want anything happening to you.”

“I only live up the street.”

He smiled. “I'll stick around and walk you home if you want me to.”

“See?” Rosie giggled. “I told you that you were too sweet.”

“It's not my fault that I care about what happens to my friends.”

She put a hand on his arm. “Thanks; but, I'll be walking Grandma home. She'll keep me company.” She left the break room and pointed down the hallway. “You can wait for her at her desk.” Rosie said and rolled her eyes.

“Thank you, Rosie.” Ren said, and tried not to laugh. “See you on the way out.”

