She waved and left him in the hallway.

Teepo? Where are you, buddy?

“I'm in the back room.” Teepo said. “Resting on top of a shelf, near the desk in the middle.”

I'll be right there. Ren thought and walked down the hallway to the door at the end. He entered the room and closed the door, then walked down the aisle to the desk near the center of the room. There wasn't anywhere for him to sit, so he made a chair to sit in and waited. Ren was tempted to pull some of the books off the shelf nearby and try his Speed Reading out, but he didn't want to abuse his new access privileges like that. He put a single finger on the raised surface of his Water Spray ring, and absorbed the enchantment, then cast it again and absorbed it. 45 minutes, and 450 enchantments later, he'd raised his Advanced Enchanting Level 1 from 20% to 43%.

I definitely need to get a healer to help grind that skill up higher. Ren thought, then cast a double glyph of Water Spray (8 runes total). His Mana Pool was only down by a quarter. All in all, I could keep going, but she should be here any moment.

Ren heard a door open, and footsteps came up along one of the aisles. Since they all led to the desk, when she came up to it and saw Ren sitting there, she was surprised.

“How did you get in here?” The Sage of Ages asked.

“Through the door.” Ren said and smiled.

“Ha. Ha. That's so funny, I'll laugh tomorrow.” Lara said, and sat down. “Where did that chair come from?”

“Well, that's a long story.” Ren said. “First off, the chairs have to like each other enough to reproduce...”

Lara snorted a laugh. “I hope you're not trying to be funny.”

“Hmmm.” Ren said in a gravelly voice, then crunched his face up and hunched down. “Do or do not. There is no try.”

Lara burst out laughing. “How long have you been waiting to say that?”

“About 3 years.” Ren said and laughed.

“Congratulations. You got me in a good mood.” She said. “What can I do for you this time?”

“That depends on how many libraries you have access to.”

“All of them.”

“A number, please.” Ren said.

Lara looked at him skeptically. “Why do you want to know?”

“Lara... I mean Sage of Ages... I won't tell anyone how many libraries are actually in the game if you don't want me to. I also didn't ask you where they were, just how many.”

“Okay.” She sighed. “Including this one, there's 8.”

“I have enough copies, then.”

“Of what?”

Ren took out the 9 copies he had left of each book. “I'd like you to deliver a copy of each book to the libraries you have access to.” Ren said.

“Really.” Lara said. “I came all this way to meet you, and what you want is for me to deliver books?”

“All this way?” Ren chuckled. “All you did was step through a portal.”

She looked at him in surprise. “How did you know?”

“I'm a business owner. I made a duplicate business in the Dwarven Kingdom and opened a portal to here.”

Lara's eyes widened for a moment, then she shut them. A few minutes later, she sighed and opened her eyes. “Of course it would work that way.” She shook her head. “How did you make the connection to me being able to do that?”

“When you told me you had a 'space' that was yours in every Library, I always kept it in mind. When I made my own portal, it clicked.”

“You're one smart cookie.”

“You're going to change that opinion in a minute.”

“Yeah, why?”

“When you give the books to the libraries, I want a copy displayed in the window and any that people want are to be given away for free.”

Lara barked a laugh. “That's not going to happen.”

“I didn't say they wouldn't get paid for them, I just want them given to anyone that wants them at no charge.”

“You're going to pay for the copies, then?”

Ren nodded and put 5 platinum on the desk.

“Whoa.” Lara said and picked up the 5 coins. “This will get you...” She thought for a moment. “...about 35 copies of each book at each Library.”

Ren smiled. “That's only for one Library.”

Lara's mouth dropped open. “You're crazy!”

He laughed. “I told you your opinion of me would change.”

“Ren, you're out of your mind.” Lara said. “To give away 35 platinum for books that people might not want...”

“Don't worry about that.” Ren said and grinned. “Once they hear the word free, people will take one just because they can.”

She snorted a laugh. “You're right about that.”

“So.” Ren said. “Will you do it?”

“What's in it for me?” Lara asked.

“What do you want?”

She smiled. “I want... the biggest diamond that you can find... right here, in my hand... then I'll do anything that you want.”

Ren reached a hand out and she took it. He shook it and smiled. “Deal.” He said, then let an evil grin cross his face. “Now you have to do anything I want.”

Lara had a shocked look on her face for a moment, then she scowled. “You rotten, dirty-minded, perverted little-”

“Ha!” Ren interrupted her. “If I was even half-way dirty-minded like that, you'd be all mine, Sage of Ages.”

Her mouth dropped open, and he grinned.

“You agreed to do anything that I wanted. Anything.” Ren said. “Lucky for you, I'm actually a nice guy.”

Lara closed her mouth and frowned. “Our 'deal' is only good if you give me a diamond.” She said. “The biggest that you could find.”

“And the money equivalent isn't the same thing, is it?” Ren asked.

She shook her head. “Nope. I want one big honking diamond siting right here.” Lara said, let his handshake go, and held her hand cupped to catch something.

“I'll be right back.” Ren said and walked out of the room and into the hallway. He took out one of the crates that had the different-sized diamonds in it, and he rummaged around until he found the biggest one in the crate. It would fit in her hand nicely. As a bit of a joke, Ren took out the sack of 1 gold coin diamonds and moved them around. He 'found' one and took it out of the bag, then stored the crate and bag again. He appraised the big diamond at 40 platinum, slipped it into a pocket, and went back into the room where the Sage of Ages waited. She sat there at the table with her hand out, and Ren walked over to her.

“This is the biggest I could find in the sack I have.” He said and put the diamond on her palm. She closed her eyes for a moment.

“Oh my god.” Lara said, dropped the diamond onto the table, and walked over to a shelf. She pulled out a map with nothing marked on it, except ocean and land. She ran her finger across it, and stopped right under a mountain peak. “You have a diamond mine. Right there.”

Ren grinned. “You saw the diamond was cut from a bigger one, didn't you?”

Lara nodded. “I saw it pushed up to where it sat for hundreds of years, saw you dig it up and keep it for a while, then a dwarf... Dorcot the Gemcutter... cut it for you.” She traced back along the shoreline, then up about 6 miles and stopped. “Right there.”

She let the map roll up and sat down. “No wonder you can give platinum away to libraries so nonchalantly.”

“They were just worthless crystals until I found Dorcot.” Ren said. “Now, though...”

“Okay, give me the biggest one you've found.” Lara said, and held her hand out.

“I already did.” Ren grinned. “I told you it was the biggest I could find in the sack I have.”

Her eyes nearly bulged out of her head. “NO!” Lara took a deep breath and sat back. “I can't believe you got me to help you, for only a single gold coin diamond.”

Ren held his mouth shut to stop from laughing.

Lara sighed and stood up. “All right. Give me the rest of the money, and I'll make the trips.”

Ren snorted, then couldn't stop himself from laughing anymore. He guffawed and held his belly, and a few tears came to his eyes.

“Oh... oh, that face...” Ren said, once he caught his breath after laughing so hard. “I'm sorry, but that was funny!”

“What was?”

“I... I had to play a joke... you... you agreed to such a broken deal, that I... I had to show you... how broken...” Ren calmed down and took several deep breaths.

“You... you tricked me?” Lara asked.

Ren nodded and held his hand up with his fingers apart about an inch. “A little bit.”

Lara scowled and stomped her foot. “That's not funny!”

“That is the diamond I found in the sack.” Ren said, and pointed to the small gleaming stone. “The sack wasn't the first place I looked, though.”

Ren reached into his pocket and took out a palm-sized, round-cut, diamond. Lara plunked down onto her chair and stared at it. He walked around the table and took her hand, then placed the stone in it.

“I never cheat people on deals.” Ren said.

“40 platinum.” Lara said. “It's worth 40 platinum.”

He nodded. “I lose 10% when I sell it to the system, though.”

“Ren, people would pay more than that if they knew!”

He nodded again. “That's why they don't know.”

“You're intentionally not selling them to people?”

“I know they'd spend more than they could afford to get them.” Ren said. “I'd smash them all before I'd let people hurt themselves, or others, over it.”

“You're a good man, Ren.” Lara said, and smiled. “A complete fool and totally crazy; but, you're a good man.”

“Do you want the money in separate coin pouches?” Ren asked.

“No. I think I can count to five, seven times.”

“Are you sure? You've had quite the shock.”

Lara chuckled. “Don't be an ass.”

Ren handed her 30 more platinum, and she stored 7 copies each of the books. He picked up the small diamond and held it out to her. “Don't forget this one.”

“I won't be forgetting that one for a while.” Lara shook her head and stored it.

Notice!

You have gained the willing co-operation of a Sage and have unlocked a hidden ability: Dedicated Sage.

You can call upon the Dedicated Sage at any time, and they must help you in any way they can.

Lara walked away and went through the same door that she'd come out of. Over the next 10 minutes, Ren got a series of popups.

Running Quest Update!

You have spread the word of the birth of Fire Dancer, Deity of the Fire Element.

Rewards: 3,000 XP

Knowledge Of Fire Level 8 (Advanced 0%) Fire affinity and resistance increased to 55%

Running Quest Update!

You have spread the word of the birth of Fire Dancer, Deity of the Fire Element.

Rewards: 5,000 XP

Knowledge Of Fire Level 1 (Expert 0%) Fire affinity and resistance increased to 60%

Running Quest Update!

You have spread the word of the birth of Fire Dancer, Deity of the Fire Element.

Rewards: 2,000 XP

Knowledge Of Fire Level 2 (Expert 0%) Fire affinity and resistance increased to 65%

Running Quest Update!

You have spread the word of the birth of Fire Dancer, Deity of the Fire Element.

Rewards: 5,000 XP

Knowledge Of Fire Level 4 (Expert 0%) Fire affinity and resistance increased to 75%

Running Quest Update!

You have spread the word of the birth of Fire Dancer, Deity of the Fire Element.

Rewards: 5,000 XP

Knowledge Of Fire Level 6 (Expert 0%) Fire affinity and resistance increased to 85%

Running Quest Update!

You have spread the word of the birth of Fire Dancer, Deity of the Fire Element.

Rewards: 4,000 XP

Knowledge Of Fire Level 8 (Expert 0%) Fire affinity and resistance increased to 93%

Level up!

You have gained a level and are now: Level 8.

Running Quest Update!

You have spread the word of the birth of Fire Dancer, Deity of the Fire Element.

Rewards: 5,000 XP

Knowledge Of Fire (Master) Fire affinity and resistance 100%

Notice!

You have maxed out your Fire affinity and resistance stat. It no longer costs you Mana to use Fire-based enchantments.

Whoa! Ren thought, and then the entire room went completely dark. Even Ren couldn't see with his perfect night vision. There was a flicker of light about a foot in front of him, as a small flame appeared. It grew and grew until it formed a portal big enough for Ren to step through.

Holy CRAP! Ren thought.

“It's Fire Dancer.” Teepo chittered in delight and landed in Ren's hood. “I can hear it!”

It's a portal, though. Ren thought. You better...

“It's okay, Ren.” Teepo said. “Fire Dancer is waiting for us.”

Ren nodded, took a deep breath, and stepped into the portal.

*

The portal closed behind Ren and the darkness dissipated as quickly as it had appeared. A minute later, Lara came back into the room through the same door she'd left it.

“Okay, Ren. It's done. They all know about...” She looked around. “Where the hell did he go?” Lara took a breath to not scream curses at him, and tasted sulfur and ash. Her eyes widened and she sat down at her table.

“Oh, Ren.” Lara said, and put her head in her hands. “What did you do?!?”
