The mage acknowledged him with a nod, but she was already dismissing the privacy spell and striding away. “Colborn will speak soon.”

“Do you need help organizing?” Aarl asked sharply, moving to stand himself.

“We have enough directors,” Slick replied, waving Aarl back to his chair. He got up himself. “Atomic Insights. A caustic burn.” He turned to leave himself, bustling away to take care of some task or another.

“It’s nice to not be in charge of everything,” Aarl commented, idly popping another of the small bites into his mouth. “I haven’t been under the command of another since we returned to Gemore.”

Sarah grunted her disagreement. “I would follow their light more easily if they had not missed the target in the conclave. Their error led to Nathan’s sacrifice.”

“But here we are again. Following their lead,” Stella said, similarly dissatisfied.

“But we’re not following their light,” Khachi said with conviction. “Nathan set us on this path, and we are lifting the weight he has left to us.”

The Heirs all had differing opinions on that. They’d discussed the topic extensively in previous years, and all had different interpretations of the extent to which Nathan was still present in Davrar. But there wasn’t much more to say on the topic, especially here. They let the conversation lapse as more Questors filed in.

They could track the spread of the news about the atomic spells. People received messages or talked to new arrivals in hushed tones, and most of the mortals in the room filed out. That included the man who’d challenged them earlier. He shot them an apologetic, somewhat fearful look before slipping out the door.

The dawn broke, the sun overhead illuminating the gorgeous city and glinting off the waves of the ocean. The balcony was nearly full; more than a hundred Questors assembled on this balcony. None of them were people that the Heirs knew, and they also mostly didn’t appear to know each other.

Then a magical projection of Colborn appeared, hovering in the air over the ocean. “My friends!” he announced, the words booming out of the illusion and accompanied by a jaunty wave of his hand. “I thank you all for coming to support the Continuance Council in this momentous time. This battle will determine the future of Davrar, and the nations -”

Khachi sighed loudly as Colborn continued to pontificate. “I have heard enough Questor speeches for a blasphemous eternity. They all claim the same weight, saying that this is the moment that matters, that the next battle is the one that will be pressed into eternity.”

“True aim,” Stella agreed. “But in this moment, those words are prophecy. The last fight established a new era on Davrar. Now we determine that era’s direction.”

Khachi waved a hand, acknowledging her point. “But there will always be another fight. Questors demand significant events. If those events do not exist, they will create them.”

“Usually that means wars,” Sarah said grimly. “Wars that destroy cities like this one. Can we stop it? We are more powerful than before, but without Nathan, the battlefield is still balanced against us.”

“Fight virtuously,” Khachi answered instantly, as if it wasn’t even a question. “We seek the best allies we can find, and use our power to defend Nathan’s dream. We should have contacted those other mortals. If they stand anywhere on the path to Questorhood, we should speak to them beyond the sight of the Questors.”

Stella gave a sly smile. “I exchanged some initial messages with some other mages. I won’t be able to contact them across Davrar, but we’ll be able to find them again if we try.”

“Colborn’s wrapping up,” Aarl noted. He’d had an ear on both the speech and the ongoing conversation. “Short speech. Nothing notable.”

“... I won’t fill the air with words before a battle. Our enemies arrive soon from the sea, and I trust you to fight them with honor, to crush those who seek to dominate Davrar, and to secure a just future for us all! Now, take flight and claim victory!”

The cheer that went up was a bit halfhearted, but Khachi couldn’t fault Colborn for that. The people around them were the unaligned Questors who had agreed to help the Continuance Council, not the core believers committed to the cause. Speaking through a projection was also blunting the old Questor’s social and leadership skills.

The Heirs joined most of the Questors in taking to the air directly from the balcony, flying up above the city as thousands more took off from sites all across the city.

“Waking giants, this is going to be a bloodbath,” Sarah said, eyes panning across the arrayed might of the Continuance Council. “A bigger fight than the polite war.”

“A light in the darkness,” Khachi spoke, rising with them. His face was turned upwards, his arms out as if to embrace the newly revealed sun. “We rise to uphold what is right, to continue our Path to power that we might guide Davrar to a better end. By my power, by our righteousness, by the sacrifice of our companion, we will triumph this day in the face of any fury brought against us. May the morality of Davrar itself see the righteousness of our cause, and ensure our victory.” He didn’t speak loudly, but his words sent a shiver through the world itself.

Stella shivered. “Hear me, that prayer left a mark on the Aether even I can feel.”

“Not praying for resurrection?” Aarl asked, concern in his voice that was trying not to turn to worry.

“No,” Khachi said, turning his face downwards and sweeping eyes of golden flame across the ocean. “If Nathan’s influence exists inside Davrar, it will show itself on this battlefield.”

“They’re in that cloud,” Sarah said, pointing off towards a barely visible speck on the horizon that was quickly growing larger. “It’s enchanted with spells to block my vision.” She still pulled her rifle to her shoulder, firing off into the distance and being rewarded a moment later by a bright speck of light. “It’s also shielded.”

Some other Questors were sending out long-range attacks of their own, and a few spells were starting to come back in answer. “Here it comes!” yelled Stella, establishing a multi-layered shield of a dozen merged mana types reinforced with wizardry around the Heirs. “Khachi, we need more shielding!”

The wolfman turned his eyes back towards the sun. “No, we don’t,” He smiled calmly, his expression that of a man basking under a peaceful sky.

Dozens of spells cast by both sides winked out of existence, vanishing as if they’d run headfirst into Nathan's antimagic. There was a moment of confusion as Questors hidden behind shields realized that the expected volley of atomic spells was not coming.

Stella laughed wildly, cancelling her shielding and spinning up a massive wind spell high in the sky with a flick of her staff. More magic joined it, cast by the Maestro and others who knew similar massive-scale storm magic. Together, they hurled the massive vortex of air towards the enemy formation like a city-sized shuriken of ripping wind.

More magic and projectiles flew in both directions. Aarl cut spells out of the air, and Khachi caught them on shields of divine light before retaliating with golden power. Sarah fired again and again, splitting enemy spells and nailing individual Questors who dared venture out from the centralized protection.

Then the massive wind spell reached the enemy and shattered their defense, hurling aside their visual cover and scattering the interlocked set of magical shields behind it. A new sight-blocking spell replaced it nearly instantaneously, but it was cancelled a moment later by a massive dispel from Mirus.

More spells and projectiles flew back and forth, and the simple truth of the battle was revealed. The defenders outnumbered the attackers. A massive spatial warping deposited a core of melee fighters into the midst of the defense, hundreds of Questors blurring through the air to engage in surprise close-range attacks. But they were met by thousands of ready opponents. Two foes came for the Heirs and were cut down immediately, Aarl slicing one apart in a single stroke while Sarah shot the other down with barely a moment of distraction.

There were more tricks, more attempts. The Severance Bloc tried more grand area spells to leverage their greater number of mages against those trying to defend Dawn’s Concord. But everything that could cause significant damage to the city was blocked by Davrar’s injunction. That cut both ways, with the defenders also prevented from using their most destructive spellwork. But the balance favored the defenders. Both sides were quick to work out the rules, quickly focusing on spells that would still have great effect but would spare the city below.

Questors fell by the hundreds to spell and sword alike. A torrent of disintegration beams poured out of a cooperative casting by a dozen mages, Evesor and Badud among them. Khachi blocked the spells, Sarah pierced a hole through their shields, and Stella drilled through the gap with a tightly focused beam of almost-fusing plasma that incinerated the whole cluster of mages.

In a last-ditch effort, the final remnants of the Severance Bloc tried to strike at the giant sphere of the Arena. If they couldn’t defeat the enemy, at least they could destroy the symbol of the conclave and disrupt the planned meeting. But the Continuance Council had been saving many of their heaviest hitters against precisely that eventuality. Mirus had popped the bubble of darkness earlier. Since then, she’d been preparing her domain to protect the Arena, with Phyrne conjuring divine shields in support. Vesh appeared to cut apart those who got close.

The battle didn’t end with a dramatic triumph. It petered out slowly as the enemy Questors started turning tail and fleeing, only occasionally tossing spells out behind them to try and secure their escape. They mostly failed.

Congratulations! You have successfully defended Dawn’s Concord!

Reward: Significant progress towards Questorhood

Stella scowled at the blue box. “Significant progress. A wonderfully vague phrase. I wonder if it’ll happen before my hair turns grey."

"Or how many more wars we'll have to win," Sarah said bitterly.

“Nathan?”
