New Quest: Defend Dawn’s Concord from the Severance Bloc

Reward: Significant progress towards Questorhood.

The message appeared in Khachi’s field of view, but he didn’t allow it to interrupt his lecture. “... and thus, virtue depends on both intentions and ultimate outcomes. It is not enough to merely attempt good, you must truly accomplish it. Virtue is impossible without competence.” He nodded to himself and looked out over the students crowding the auditorium.

They were a varied bunch. The majority were from Gemore and the surrounding villages, but they just barely outnumbered those from Halsmet and Giantsrest beyond. In recent years, he’d also seen more and more from further afield - some from Litcliff, a few Treeborn from the plains, and even an elemental from the mountains. All coming to learn from him.

But for today, he would have to disappoint them. “That is the end of my wisdom for now. My light calls towards other duties. Speak to each other for the rest of this period. Imagine you are at war and find yourselves in an enemy city. What actions are justified, and which are not? I will call for answers in our next session, though it may be delayed.”

He checked his message tablet as he walked quickly through the halls of the Archive. The crowded hallways cleared before him, and he emerged from what had once been the Adventurer’s Guild of Gemore and was now known by the name of the institution that had overtaken it. The Archive was a center for learning as much as a training center for combat these days. But the front courtyard had been a mustering ground for Adventurers since the founding of Gemore, and it was still where teams met up before missions. He found Aarl already there, leaning invisibly against a side wall to avoid being crowded by fans and admirers.

“Can your duties hold?” Khachi asked, exchanging a quick fist bump with the other man.

Aarl shrugged, flickering back to visibility as he deactivated whatever item cloaked him from view. “Jadya is set, and others can manage the elite training. If the guard can’t last through the darkness for a few days without me, then that’s beyond prophecy’s hold. What of your acolytes?”

“Students,” Khachi corrected. “They come to learn from me, not to worship me.”

Aarl shrugged one shoulder. “With your power, what’s the difference?” His voice was teasing.

The wolfman grunted. “They gain the power of my faith by embracing my principles and drawing on the Domain of Virtue, not by earning my favor and being granted my power.” He didn’t feel like having this discussion again, especially when he was pretty sure that Aarl was just doing it to kill time while they waited. “What of Sarah? She has not answered the message.”

“She’ll be faster than a stalker’s pounce. The new message tablets still can’t reach all the way through the northern mountains, but that notification will bring her back. It’s Stella that I’m worried will delay us. Twins are a demanding task.”

Khachi was about to respond, but there was a faint flash. Sarah appeared from thin air, brushing snow from her outfit that fell to melt on the stone cobbles.

“How are they doing?” Aarl asked, real concern in his voice. “Is the mission going well? You were clearing out some terrible dungeons, and that's blasphemously far out to be unescorted by true power.”

“Raf is still with them,” Sarah noted. “The rangers are leveling. I haven’t needed to intervene in any of the dungeon clears since one last month.”

A small spinning ring of fire appeared in the air and expanded to give a view inside a luxurious home. The sound of crying babies carried through the gap. Stella stepped through, sighing and stretching to crack her back before gesturing the portal closed.

“Trouble?” asked Aarl, worried.

Stella shook her head. “I have as much help as I need. The council would rather I probe the depths of wizardry than raise my children.” She glanced around at the rest of the Heirs. “Shall we depart?”

“Can you portal to the Arena of the Concord?” Sarah asked skeptically. “It’s farther than we’ve gone before.”

The redhaired mage flashed a crooked smile that broke through her matronly composure. “Farther than I’ve said I’ve gone before. My gatespan is linked to places of Significance. There aren’t many places more significant than the Arena of the Concord. Not to us. Or to all of Davrar, if they knew true history.”

“Then let’s hope we’re not repeating prophecy,” Aarl quipped and pushed himself off from the wall, running his hand over the rakish stubble on his chin as if checking it was appropriately scratchy.

Stella took a deep breath. “This will take a moment.” Her staff of stacked cubes - the same one she’d taken from Sussu’s vault so many years before - appeared in her hand, and she began channeling power into a point in the air. It was like she was prying open a point in space using enough determination and power to demolish a hill. Then it was done, and the gate rotated open before them.

The Heirs trooped through without waiting, not acknowledging the small crowd of gawking onlookers that had gathered in the short time they'd been present. They’d gotten used to being celebrities, and only their towering reputations and obvious preoccupation had kept anybody from approaching them.

They stepped into darkness. The city of Dawn’s Concord was far enough around Davrar that mid-morning in Gemore meant pre-dawn in the other city. It took them a moment to find their bearings, but with the gigantic sphere of the arena looming overhead, it wasn't hard. “You missed the target,” Sarah said, though her tone was more amused than cutting.

“From Gemore?” Stella asked in mock anger. “Within the continent of Ostren would be true aim. This is striking the center of the bullseye.”

Khachi rolled his eyes, but he couldn’t help but grin at the byplay. “I’ve missed our adventures. Few challenges demand our united power beyond Nathan’s quests, and we barely speak beyond those moments.”

Stella scrunched up her nose. “Our lives are too full. My days are full of magical research, and the kids…”

“We can change that,” Sarah suggested. “Weekly dinners?”

“Let’s decide details after the current Quest,” Aarl said, definitively. “Then we will talk about invading Stella’s home on a regular basis.” He grinned at Stella’s sputters and pointed off into the distance. “The Golden Respite is that way. If there are Questors here, we’ll find them there.”

“Or I could just message Sarya, or Mirus,” Stella said grumpily. "Though Sarya might not take the call."

Aarl pointed forward, striding off down the street. “Onwards towards the Golden Respite! I remember it having a fine kitchen, and I miss those delicacies.”

The rest of the Heirs followed him, tromping through the empty streets. “A city so peaceful it doesn’t need guards,” Sarah commented, gesturing around.

“Current threat aside,” Stella said.

Khachi raised an eyebrow at her. “I doubt the Severance Bloc is mustering a threat that normal guards could smother.” He turned his attention to Sarah. “Is there any news on them? When we last spoke to Sarya, she said they had gained more allies. But you keep a closer contact than I.”

Sarah shrugged, her expression a bit bitter. “They’ve cast little light on it since. Since we displaced Brox they haven’t been our firmest friends.”

“During our last session, the Maestro said that the Bloc was gathering their might. That was before the Solstice,” Stella added. “But we all know that Questors move slowly.”

“They do indeed,” Khachi murmured. “Phryne warned me that our obligations would increase if we chose to support the Continuance Council. The last decade has seen the greater assembly of alliances, and now they begin to move against each other. We will have to be ready to participate more to enforce the laws between nations.”

“Do you think we’ll be the only mortals?” Aarl asked. Then he corrected himself. “Half-mortals.”

“Mortal in the way that matters,” Sarah corrected. “But I believe there are others. Sarya has her stable of agents, and I believe she has manuevered some onto the path to Questorhood.”

They walked into the Golden Respite, observing that the inn had not changed at all in the decade since they’d stayed here during the conclave. The person on staff wasn’t Jenice, but the young man shared a family resemblance. He greeted the Heirs by name as they entered. “Laureate Colborn has left guidance. Your group is assembling in the Room of Golden Waves, and he will make his appearance shortly after dawn. You may go there early, or retire to rooms we have ready for you.”

“We’ll go up now,” Aarl said. “Will there be food served?”

The man bowed low. “I will have food brought to you.”

The Heirs went up to the room and found that they weren’t the only ones to have arrived early. A few other groups were scattered around the palatial balcony, mostly keeping to themselves. The Heirs sat at an isolated table, studying the others who were already present. “Not all Questors,” Sarah said, pointing out a few nervous-looking groups whose heads snapped around at every new arrival. “Powerful, though. For mortals.”

Then the Heirs’ food arrived, and a man from one of the other tables stood up and ambled over. It was somebody Sarah had labelled as a mortal, but he didn’t show any trace of hesitation as he slumped into a spare chair and reached for one of the small morsels without asking. “So you’ve been summoned, same as us. You got one of these quests people are talking about?”

The man’s enchanted bracelets jangled over hardened knuckles, and he gave off the threatening aura of a barely-restrained predator. He slurped down the morsel and eyed the Heirs in expectation. “Well?”

Aarl frowned, and when the man reached out another hand to the plate of food, he knocked it aside. “Greeting strangers with rudeness seems a prophecy of death. Especially here.”

The man shrugged and smiled, revealing large canines. He hunched forward slightly, and an intimidating presence rolled out, a social skill to cow anybody who sought to challenge him. “Only if rudeness is unintended. Now, I command an answer. What is the Questor’s Quest?”

Stella’s lips pinched together, and she snapped at the man. “That goes beyond rudeness and into challenge. You risk conflict amongst allies." She cast a glance towards the table the man had left, seeing several of his companions watching tensely. They seemed more ready to jump to their compatriot's aid than restrain him. “Will you speak sense to this fool?”

“Who are you, to call me a fool?” the man growled, the words coming out of a throat that was growing increasingly bestial with every moment.

“They are the worst you could have chosen for this game,” came an annoyed voice from the side, and everybody looked sideways to see Slick walking out onto the balcony. The scarred orc Questor looked like he had absolutely no patience. “They are the Heirs, and ten years ago, they won the conclave that created the Continuance Charter. I doubt their skills have atrophied since then.” He dismissed the interloper from his attention and addressed somebody sitting at the table he’d left. “Binga, they will not tell you how to unlock the Quest for your minions. I doubt they even know.”

The woman shrugged, but didn't seem apologetic. “My apologies. Seral, leave them.” The aggressive adventurer turned and left, making a surprisingly good impression of a cat retreating with their tail between their legs.

Sarah shook her head. “It’s always games with the Questors.”

“Some things never change,” Slick said as he took the chair the intruder had occupied. “Are you ready for war? This will be a large conflict, larger than the polite war.”

“What triggered it?” Aarl asked intently. “Why is this fight here? I thought Ostren was neutral ground."

The orc leaned back and threw his hands up. “Politics. We’re trying to hold the first full meeting of the Continuance Council to lay the groundwork for a many-country alliance. It may even lead to a conclave if we have the support to draft clearer rules for interactions between nations and have Davrar enforce them. That part of the original proposal was vague beyond the demands for polite wars.” He snorted. “Colborn curses himself frequently for not writing a few more sentences in that section.”

Sarah cocked her head at the mention of the short Questor. “Does he lead the Ashen Accord again?”

Slick shook his head, but not convincingly. “Kaelis still leads. But I’ve seen Colborn more in the last decade than in the previous millennia. He is one of the true powers behind the Council. He’s worried that if we cannot hold their first meeting, the Severance Bloc will use the excuse to hold their own conclave.”

Khachi’s brows drew down in sudden anger. “Will they seek to reverse Nathan’s sacrifice?”

“They can’t,” Slick said. “Since Nathan’s upload, Davrar is no longer simply a smart system. It has rights under the laws of the Distal Expansion now. But they will seek to limit its power in any way they can.”

“It,” Stella said bitterly. “All that’s left of our friend. I don’t understand why there isn’t more trace of him left…” she trailed off as another Questor exited from the building and made a beeline towards them. Mirus was striding quickly, and she’d caught the end of Stella’s words.

“Because Davrar spans the same territory as five thousand planets,” she answered bluntly. “It’s mentality outweighed Nathan's to an entropy-damned ludicrous degree. It’s more of a flavoring than an ascension.” Then she shook her head, as if to dismiss the topic, and tossed out an anti-eavesdropping spell around them. “Can you bring in an antimage? I just snuck a scrying spell into the invader's command meeting. Verified truth, they're planning on using atomic spells in the battle.”

The Heirs shot each other conflicted looks, but they were already shaking their heads. Stella answered, her voice tired. “No. The antimages of Halsmet are good, but the powerful ones cannot step through a gate. None could dominate the battlefield as Nathan could, not even Shom.”

Mirus scowled at Stella’s denial, already moving to stand. “This will be an apocalyptic fight. You should consider leaving. We Questors will fight, but this is not a battlefield for those still mortal.”

“They would destroy this city?” Khachi said, eyes igniting in righteous fury. “Then they have forgotten the weight of our judgment. Hear me now, we will not flee before this threat.”

