Blushing like a schoolgirl, Mother feigned a frown and pinched his cheek. “What do you think happened? We fell in love, I got pregnant, and then we married in secret. The Patriarch was not happy with our actions, but by the time he found out, the rice was cooked. Your father agreed to marry into our family and for many years he represented the Clan interests.” Glowering with anger, Mother continued. “They worked him like a dog and openly mocked him to his face, but he endured their scorn because it meant we could be together as a family. Yet even after years of meritocratic service, they still had him killed.”

Finally. Confirmation of what Zian suspected. “Who?” He asked, jaw clenched breath short. “Who killed him?”

“Presumably, the Defiled.” Patting his shoulder to soothe his anger, Mother lamented, “Even after all these years I’m still not sure if our enemies killed him directly, but I’m certain your father was set up for failure at the least. Someone wanted him dead or dishonoured and made efforts to make it happen. His retinue was delayed, intelligence reports falsified or altered, his water skin drugged, and more, all because he refused to play politics and serve beneath a lesser man.”

“A name.” In Zian’s eyes, the details mattered little, only the result. His father died and someone was to blame. Zian would avenge him, or die trying.

“I have no proof, so I will not say,” Mother said, silencing his protests with a glare. “Better you don’t know. You’re incapable of hiding your thoughts. Now, off with you. I’ll see you in Nan Ping after I arrive, there’s still much left here for me to do. Oh, and I left a present in your room, so stop in before you leave. It’s to your tastes, I’m sure of it.”

And just like that, the discussion was done as Mother summoned her maids to see him out. Fuming with anger, Zian looked Jukai in the eyes and Sent, “Who is to blame for my Father’s death?”

“Myself,” Jukai replied, solemn and grave. “For I was not at his side when he needed me most.” Placing a hand on Zian’s shoulder, the old man added, “I’ll not let his son suffer the same fate.”

Considering the old man’s guilt, Zian swallowed his anger and turned away, heading towards his room in search of his present. Hopefully it was a new Runic Armour, to replace the one he’d lost to Rain. “I didn’t know him, so I cannot say, but do you think he’d blame you for his death? Don’t be foolish old man. Tell me the truth. Even if you don’t know, surely you have a suspect in mind.”

“... Situ Rang Min."

Still reeling from the reveal, Zian opened his bedroom door to find a buxom, raven-haired beauty, kneeling in wait, her milky white skin and deep, brown eyes demanding his attention. Though still enraged by what he’d only just learned, Zian couldn't help but marvel at her impeccable poise and flawless beauty. Lowering her head into a kneeling bow, the young beauty spoke with a charming, sultry voice. “This one is Ong Jing Fei,” she said as her forehead rested on the ground. “This one is to be Situ Jia Zian’s concubine, with orders from Mother-in-Law to bear her a grandchild as soon as possible.”

Zian’s tongue felt five times larger and his chest tightened as he struggled for breath. Staggering back, he reached for Jukai in search of support only to hear the older man drop to the floor like a sack of turnips. Raising her head, the devilish Lady Jing Fei gave him a sweet smile which both chilled him to the bone and enflamed his passions. “A small warning, husband mine. Though this one is a mere concubine, she will not tolerate being humiliated or shamed. You licentious ways will end, or there will be dire consequences.”

Falling to his knees, Zian stuttered, “You... Fung...”

“Yes,” she said, pulling him close to rest on her ample bosom. “I was once betrothed to Tong Da Fung, but fear not dear husband. My chastity is still intact.” As the world fell into darkness, Zian’s cringed as he recalled his mother’s cryptic parting statement. ‘It’s to your tastes, I’m sure of it’. Mother even knew about his crush on Sumila and found Ong Jing Fei to be his concubine.

Fierce and untamed, a brutal, ruthless woman who poisoned her husband as a mere warning, this was a woman after his own heart.

Truly, Mother knows best.

Chapter Meme
