Prince Charming  Ideal Man, Attracts attention, +5 levels to Aura (Personal)

Patron Of Knowledge  Grants 5 level bonus to Speed Reading and Hidden Knowledge, Access to full Library

Father Of Fire  Grants Absorb Fire and Fire Manipulation Skills

Hero Of Aurora  Etiquette +10 Levels, Fame +5000, All Auras +5 Levels

Lord  Word Of Law, Etiquette +10 Levels, Fame +10000, All Auras +10 Levels

Health  1048  Mana  1274

Strength  175  Dexterity  97

Vitality  105  Agility  93

Endurance  101  Intelligence  139

Luck  39  Wisdom  144

*

“Ugh.” The giant said. “What... what...” She put a hand on her head, then opened her eyes. “AHHHHHH!!!” She screamed when she saw three small figures sitting nearby. She covered her face with her hands, knocked the chair Ren had made away, and broke it. “You're not real!” She said. “YOU'RE NOT REAL!” She yelled, then started to cry. “The little people! The little people are haunting me!”

*

Ren dismissed his status window and was shocked at the giant's words; because he didn't know what to make of it.

“It's all right.” Groggot said and walked over to her.

“Groggot!” His brother tried to haul him back, but Groggot slipped out of his grasp.

“Don't worry.” Groggot said to the giant. “We won't hurt you.”

The giant shook her head. “No no no! You aren't real!”

Groggot stepped close to her, which put his life in danger; and Ren held the Wand of Entanglement at the ready.

“It's okay.” Groggot said, and put a hand on the side of her ear. The giant froze still, then spread her fingers a little to look at him.

“You... you're touching me.” She said, her eyes wide. “You're real.”

“I am.” Groggot said. “Can you tell me your name?”

“I...” She looked at Ren with the wand held out at her, and she frowned. “I remember... I remember... OW!” She winced and gripped the sides of her head, and started to cry again. “Where am I?”

“The land between the dwarves and the giants.” Groggot said, and she looked at him.

“Dwar-what?” She asked. “There's nothing between the giant lands and the mountains by the sea.”

Ren glanced at Croggart, who had a surprised look on his face, and then he looked at Groggot.

“This isn't the time to discuss things like that.” Ren said. “Can you sit up?”

She frowned at Ren. “I don't like you.” She said. “I can't remember why; but, I don't.”

“I'm sorry.” Ren said, then remembered his Aura and Connected rings. He let the Connection lapse, then concentrated on his Camaraderie Aura. The giant relaxed right away, and Ren smiled at her.

“Can you sit up?” Groggot asked, and her gaze fell on him.

“I... I think so.” She said, and braced herself with her arms. She pushed herself up into a sitting position, and then she started to swoon. “Oooohhhh...”

Groggot stepped into her and held her steady, and she wrapped her arms around him automatically. Her eyes widened as she looked at him.

“R... Ro?” She asked, and Groggot nodded slightly.

“What's your name?” He asked her.

“Rubella.” She said. “Why... why do I...” She sighed. “I remember you.” She said. “I've held you like this before.”

Groggot nodded slightly. “Every night for nearly a month, you've held me like this.”

“Wh-wh-WHAT?!?” She exclaimed in shock.

“This might be hard to explain...” Groggot said as his face started to flush red.

“I think we should let her get dressed first.” Ren said, and took out the clothing he'd made for her.

“What did you...” Rubella looked down at herself, and saw that one of her breasts was hanging out for everyone to see, and she screamed from embarrassment as she pulled Groggot in front of it. When she realized what she had done, she stared at his face.

“I... I've done this before, too.” She said in a soft voice.

Groggot nodded slightly again. “Yeah, this is definitely going to be hard to explain...”
