Malika swore viciously under her breath, the words almost impossible to make out, but their tone was unmistakable. After the longest time, he realized that both of his friends were looking at him for the lead.

“I’m not sure we can tell her,” Calen finally admitted. “Ali has had more than her fair share of shock and trauma, and she seems to be starting to enjoy her new life. I fear what this will do to her if we tell her.”

“What if she starts to go down a bad path?” Malika asked in a shaky voice. “Dungeons… well, they’re dungeons. We can’t do this to her. No. This is Ali. Our Ali.”

“I think you are the best person to help her,” Calen replied, sharing his honest opinion.

Malika gaped at him. “Help? How?”

“We’re all friends,” Calen explained, “but she seems closest to you, and trusts you. And you have a lot of clarity for what is right and wrong. Mato would just get us in trouble by accident, and I would probably avoid saying anything, but you are more grounded. Ali will listen to you. Look, we’ve been through a lot together – we owe her this.”

“Ok,” Malika said after a long pause. Then she sighed, slumping back down to the mossy ground.

“I think she’s going to need as many good friends as she can get,” Calen added.

Suddenly Malika’s raw scream rang out, “Fuck you, fate!” She stood panting for a moment before collecting herself. With hard eyes, she muttered, “See… this is exactly why I hate the Ancestors.”

He squeezed his eyes shut, pressing his fingers into his temples. This will turn out alright… right? It must. Think, Calen. Think!

Ali floated along the main street, seated on her barrier, taking in the bustling sights of the marketplace at lunchtime. She chatted animatedly with Malika about her delightful morning with Ryn and the interesting books she had bought. Malika seemed a little more subdued than normal, but Ali didn’t mind carrying most of the conversation.

Lydia had only a couple of clients when they arrived, so it didn’t take long before she called them over. As Lydia smiled at her, Ali could sense a barely repressed excitement, and even the movements she made as she laid out several items on the table had a sense of energy, an eager speed.

“I wasn’t able to duplicate the bone magic enchantment, and the robes unfortunately didn’t survive the study,” she began. “I’m sorry.” Then her face lit up with a radiant smile as she placed a set of perfectly stitched cloth armor on the counter. “But I learned the healing one! And I got a level in my tailor class for the new enchantment.”

Ali picked it up and identified the item she was holding.

Tailored Cotton Clothing – level 20Resistance: 288+9% spell power to Healing skillsRequirements: Wisdom 70Created by Lydia Avery.Body – Cloth

“You improved the amount, too!” Ali exclaimed, examining the soft fabric under her fingertips, amazed at the quality of the garment she was holding.

This is perfect.

“I’m sorry I couldn’t put the self-repair enchant on it too, I can only do one at a time – I couldn’t get the hang of combining two. Also, the healing power worked better with a wisdom requirement. I hope that works?”

“It’s perfect.” There were three of them, just as Ali had requested. The other two were weaker – only eight percent – but all of them were better than the original.

“And here’s yours – I managed to get it up to level twenty-five for you. It should be a substantial improvement.”

Tailored Cotton Clothing – level 25Resistance: 360Mana: Self-repairRequirements: Intelligence 88Created by Lydia Avery.Body – Cloth

The order was expensive, but Ali counted out the coins with a broad grin on her face.

“No, I couldn’t possibly accept,” Lydia objected, pushing the coins back. “I learned an enchantment and got a class level for this.”

“I insist on paying,” Ali countered. “I can’t just keep taking your best crafting for free.”

They argued back and forth for a bit until Lydia finally relented, but not before Ali accepted at least a friends and family discount. She was at least half certain Lydia had made up the discount on the spot, but it seemed unfair to argue too much.

Ali made use of the fitting room to change into her new armor, and when she came out, she found Lydia chatting animatedly with Malika.

“I know you’re focused on fashion, but I think you would make a lot of money selling these to adventurers,” Malika explained.

“That’s a good idea,” Ali chimed in. “You could also earn experience faster if they get used by adventurers in dungeons.”

Malika gave her an odd look.

“I’m afraid I can’t,” Lydia answered. “I’m already bending the rules with my business license. Also, most noble customers care about the ambiance – if I started displaying combat gear, they probably wouldn’t stop by to purchase my other work.”

“What about the guild merchant?” Ali asked.

“Guild merchants are a unique case,” Lydia said. “Most cities grant them special dispensation because they buy whatever adventurers dredge up out of dungeons, including monster parts, and they have to supply any combat needs. So, their licenses are one of the precious few that are entirely unrestricted. They can sell literally anything, provided it’s not illegal to own.”

“I meant; we have a guild merchant now. His name is Weldin Thriftpenny. What about making a business arrangement with him? He could display your combat items in the guild shop. It’s the perfect market for it, and you can keep this store dedicated to your fashion clients. I’m certain Serendipity would want one of these armors if you made it in Gnome-size. Perhaps in blue?”

“You have a guild merchant?” Lydia asked, eyes widening a little at the news. “When did this happen?”

“It’s pretty recent,” Malika answered.

“Hmm, I think I might have to pay him a visit. Weldin Thriftpenny, you said?”

“I’ll let him know you’ll stop by,” Malika offered.

Lydia fussed with Ali’s new armor a little, making her turn around a few times for adjustments. “Aliandra, you said you can learn to make items?” Lydia asked as her tailoring skills flickered with little bursts of mana.

“Yes, it destroys the original, but I can usually learn an item after about three or four tries.”

“Can I see?” Lydia asked curiously. “I assume that’s why you commissioned so many of these?”

Ali nodded. She hadn’t shown anyone else how her abilities worked, but she couldn’t imagine Lydia taking advantage of her knowledge.

Carefully she deconstructed the old armor she had just taken off, and two of the healing ones Lydia had just sold her.

Variant: Tailored Cotton Clothing added to Imprint: Armor.

Then she spent a few minutes creating armor sets. The chainmail and leather she handed to Malika who immediately stored them for sale later. One Simple Robe came out with a bone magic enchantment. Ali handed it to Lydia for study.

And finally, her Grimoire let her create her newest imprint. She produced a level fifteen Tailored Cotton Clothing with a healing enchantment. In all other ways identical to Lydia’s work, with the exception that Ali’s Grimoire did not reproduce her personal mana signature.

Ali handed it to Lydia and noticed she had an unusual expression on her face. Ali couldn’t quite read it. “Did I do something wrong?”

“No, dear.” Lydia collected herself and her expression changed back to normal. “I just leveled again when you learned that.”

“You leveled when I learned your item?”

“I think crafters can level if they teach something difficult to someone else, right?” Malika seemed just as intrigued as Ali was.

“I think so,” Lydia answered. “It’s just never happened to me before. I never expected to earn four levels so quickly. I’m not complaining, mind you. Thank you, Aliandra.”

Lydia seemed very happy when they finally left to return to camp.
