Merr seemed about ready to give him a comment with bravado, but she hesitated. She looked at Pisces, then sighed.
“I’m gonna say this once, and you didn’t hear it from me directly, Pisces. Merr the Storm’s the [Bandit Lady] that even Nerrhavia puts bounties on. She doesn’t take shit or crap or even camel dung from anyone. But…Savere is sometimes a refuge, sometimes a hideout, sometimes just a place to stop over. When Merr’s there, she doesn’t fuck with Savere or anyone in it, you understand?”
She tapped her chest, eyes serious.
“Merr’s Merr. Savere’s Savere and it gets dangerous. Not like Roshal, but Merr likes to keep her head on her shoulders, and there are powers there, got it? Now, Merr is going to stop talking about Savere—and she thinks she is stuck talking in third person. Damn.”
She coughed, and Pisces nodded. Something to be wary of indeed, if Merr phrased it like that. He mentally tabled the idea of using that to find a ship. Well, it depended on how fast they had to leave and where his team was at.
The fact was, they did have a good shot with Merr and Pisces. Better than having no Level 30+ people. But the reality of pursuit and their long trek weighed on Pisces. He hoped to reach a town or settlement and find some way to search for his team, but it might be a needle in a haystack. His fame among the [Slavers] gave him hope there might be clues.
He just didn’t know if he could move the caravan away from danger or leave them with his promise. Merr was training them all to fight, but they were far from becoming good fighters overnight. Watching Eloque try different weapons or Bearig trying to take his [Cook] knife-handling into using a butcher’s cleaver was…well, something.
So he rode and talked and found these people he knew so well: Eloque, of course, slowly removing the thread one stitch at a time, blinking around at everything, the Lizardwoman from Baleros, her neck frills opening and closing when she laughed, scales running from bright orange down to the shades closest—red and yellow and violet at the edges.
Next, Qshom, silent often, listening, reserved, skin darkened with the sun, often with his cloth armor body holding his head in his hands—or with a needle and thread in the other, mending some of the Stitch-folk’s bodies. But a keen intelligence, and when he spoke, he sounded almost academic.
Bearig, and, of course, Rophir were two constants. The big [Cook], often sweating or red-faced, was always looking for the blank half-Elf boy with scars and a stare as old as time. By contrast, Bearig smiled or laughed on the brighter side of everything, despite it all, and the Stitch-man lifted dark conversations up with good food or just his presence.
Last, at least among the living, was Merr the Storm. A [Bandit] to her core; she looked like she could have ridden out of a story in Izril, albeit having darker skin than many northern Izrilians. She was the [Bandit Leader] challenging the hero, with a grin on her face, spitting, swaggering around, referring to herself in third-person.
They were the ones Pisces knew. Of course, there was also Ivery…another odd skeleton. Pisces sighed when he saw Ivery marching about with his sword, shield, and magically bound glass rock. Was he completely unable to make normal undead?
There were far more [Bandits] and freed [Slaves], but Pisces was more passing with them, though he learned more names every day. Yet in the quiet moments, he did recall.
There had been Astotha, who had seemed—no, had been kind, caring, but ultimately too afraid, treacherous. Droppe, the cunning Lizardman who had chosen wrong after all, and Shein, the Bronze-rank who would never rise higher.
And…Cawe. Pisces forgot her least of all. He would have forgotten Riqre, Igheriz, and Hrome’s names gladly. Azam…Pisces wondered if he would see Azam again, or the Death of Chains. Czautha—he would never forget her either.
But Cawe. As the freed [Slaves] rode onwards over the Glass Straits, they talked about the future. They ate, gained strength and some saddle sores from riding instead of walking all the time, and breathed in fresh air. They had the luxury of becoming bored, but the future…
 
——
 
The first conversations began on the morning of the fourth day. Not of the future. Nor the past…no, not that. It was just as Bearig was discussing plans—well, he and the others were badgering Merr and she was patiently explaining their rough goals.
“Listen. I’m not some fancy [General], you lot. You want a route? Go ahead and make one, and I’ll toss it to the winds. Planning a route and sticking to it gets you caught, ‘specially if there’s some bastard snitch in the ranks. We’re going east towards Pisces’ friends and maybe Savere, or Nerrhavia, or something. And that’s all. We’ll play it by ear. There’s nothing as hard as catching someone who has no idea where they’re going. That’s [Bandit] cunning for ya.”
She tapped the side of her head. Eloque gave her a skeptical look, but Merr refused to discuss specifics.
“The Glass Straits run for a long while along the south here. We’ll keep going long as we can. There are some settlements…we might hit them.”
“So we’re going to attack other people and pillage them?”
Merr caught Qshom’s gaze. She shrugged and spat over the side of her horse’s back.
“Listen, Qshom. You don’t have to come along—in fact, I’ll probably leave anyone who can’t fight while we ride out. But this lot?”
She jerked a thumb at the [Bandits] and [Raiders].
“They won’t stick around without something every week or two at least. And we need them. Without good fighters and riders, this group’s never going to make it. Right, Pisces?”
She turned and Pisces glanced up. He was half-reading his spellbook. He nodded.
“It seems like an unfortunate necessity, Qshom. I will not object. However…I hope I can persuade you to keep casualties to a minimum?”
Merr nodded.
“We’re [Raiders], not butchers. Speaking of which—can you get me some undead? You mentioned skeleton horses. We’ll—I’ll take any if we end up with dead mounts, but, uh—three dozen Ghouls or even Zombies wouldn’t go amiss.”
Pisces rode straight for nearly twenty seconds, blinking at Merr. The [Bandit Lady] coughed.
“No? I’d do ten.”
“You want…undead?”
He had indeed offered them to Merr, but her asking him for regular undead was a first. Merr grinned.
“Don’t tell me a fancy Level 30+ [Necromancer] can’t rustle up a few for me? Bodies’re hard, but we’ll have some soon—and the Glass Straits have more’n a few dead travellers. Zombie horse? It’ll tie up the fighters.”
“Ah—I could certainly do that. And you just want…average undead?”
“Sure, sure. I don’t want them munching on us, obviously, but you can just point the Ghouls and we’ll keep wide of them. I’ve done it before with [Necromancers] who couldn’t control ‘em. How many can you raise?”
Pisces hesitated.
“I don’t know. I have never…”
The others looked at him as Pisces just blinked, and they realized he was surprised. Surprised because, aside from the Horns, no one had counted his abilities as an asset.
Oh, he had run with cults and cabals as far back as Terandria, and then afterwards. But never so casually had anyone just asked for a handful of Zombies, like you’d ask for a bit of parsnip.
A difference in continents. Indeed, Eloque leaned over as Pisces began to ask what bodies Merr had and search the sands for any ‘materials’.
“Can I watch as you animate them? I’ve never seen you actually do it.”
He twisted in his saddle.
“You’re curious? None of you—necromancy is disturbing to most sensibilities where I come from.”
“It’s not pleasant. I will not watch. But Baleros has [Necromancers]. Some. We are well aware of the undead, and Suppression Companies must keep them down.”
Qshom shuddered, but Merr just grinned.
“A few rotting corpses isn’t the worst you’ll see, Pisces my lad. We’re not as soft as some Terandrians.”
Pisces began to smile.
“Ah, well then. I can certainly try with the bodies we have. Although, if you can procure more…”
“We’ll see. I don’t want to kill many people when we raid—that gets you a bounty fast. And it’s touchy on our side too, unless no one likes the bugger. Shame it’s got to be people.”
Pisces tapped a finger to his lips, looking amused.
“And why would that be a requirement?”
Merr eyed him.
“…You can do monsters?”
Pisces shrugged, sniffing slightly. Eloque pointed and grinned and Bearig hid a smile, and he hastily stopped with a glare. He covered his nose as he went on.
“…I have dabbled in arachnids. It is possible to animate most creatures with a skeleton or flesh. Believe me, it is possible. Whether or not I can do it effectively is another matter, but…”
He had a mentor who might be able to give him some pointers. Instantly, Merr whistled.
“Hey, idiots!”
A few [Raiders] quickly rode over.
“Something up, boss? And we’re not idiots.”
One of the [Raiders] plaintively complained. He was from a gang that apparently went around the Glass Straits; he had a glass sword, made of sharpened detritus from the road, which was pretty much how rich this gang was. Merr gave him a long look.
“Fine. Yokels. Go and start hunting for anything with bones around here. Don’t kill anything, but find me dead carcasses of travellers—dead camels, people—and if there’s a graveyard, we’ll be doing some digging.”
“Aw. We have to pick up corpses? I don’t want—”
“Shut it.”
Merr rode over and two of the ragged [Raiders] tried to flee—but she swatted them as they cursed. She projected her voice around.
“I don’t want to hear it! Get me some corpses! And don’t slack, you lazy idiots—every dead body you find is an undead between you and an arrow! If Pisces can’t raise enough bodies, guess who gets to lead the charge?”
The [Bandits] looked at each other. Merr went on, speaking slowly and loudly.
“Undead mean we ride in while people are fighting them, steal everything, and get out without a scratch, got it?”
Oh. Eyes lit up at the idea, and the scouts moved off with considerably more enthusiasm than before, with a few people calling out suggestions for where to check. Merr rolled her eyes as she rode back.
“You do that quite well.”
Pisces commented to her. She winked at him.
“[Bandit Lady]. You have to talk to them and make them see why they’re doing crap they hate. That’s most of the job. So—what can I get? Ghouls?”
“You could get Draugr if I can figure out the spells. No more Skeleton Lords this month, I believe—”
Az’kerash had told Pisces it was a ritual thus far, which meant that he could not animate them as much as he wanted. Merr whistled at Draugr, though.
“Are you kidding? Those things can knock down gates. I’ll take one over a lot if you can make it. But I also need numbers. So Ghouls and Zombies—several dozen’d distract anyone.”
Pisces smiled.
“That doesn’t seem arduous. A few high-level undead mixed with the others? I will see what the night’s count is. I can even animate them and move them with the group, assuming my mana pool can sustain them. Perhaps, ah, downwind and behind us. Nevertheless…”
He was rising to the challenge. To the idea that his [Necromancer] class would be the most useful thing here—and realizing that there was no law, people’s opinions to care about, or anything else here. To survive, he’d do whatever it took. He was smiling.
Until he saw Rophir’s face. The half-Elf boy was staring at Pisces. And the young man remembered what Riqre had done to his parents.
He abruptly fell silent. Merr glanced up from her calculations and hesitated. Eloque, Bearig, Qshom—all looked at Rophir. Pisces saw the half-Elf boy staring at him.
An [Assassin] in training. A killer, at least, that was what Riqre had tried to make of him. Pisces…he didn’t see Rophir look away or blink, but he had to. He turned his head away, to Merr.
“…Monsters.”
“Monsters?”
The [Necromancer] nodded slowly. He cleared his throat, looked back.
“Monsters and, ah, mounts. Those would be the ones to animate. Perhaps a deceased traveller—the—the graveyards contain the loved ones of others. The same with those who might inadvertently die. I will animate the corpses of monsters if I can, and dead animals. Not people. Not in large numbers.”
Merr glanced at Rophir, and nodded.
“Sure. Bad example anyways, I guess. If those idiots think they’ll get more meatshields they might…yeah.”
Both glanced at the boy, but still, Rophir said and did nothing. He just stared at Pisces, and that was worst of all. He and Merr fell silent—until Bearig’s deep voice broke in.
Gently, very gently, the [Cook] reached forward. He was letting Rophir ride ahead of him, vaguely holding onto the reins. Now he took Rophir’s shoulder.
“So you see, Rophir? Only monsters and animals. And only because Pisces must. We may have to fight, but Pisces is doing his best to protect us. I know it is hard…but Pisces is not a bad man. You know that. He helped save us. If you wanted to say anything, Rophir, I am sure Pisces would talk with you willingly. He feels great sadness for you.”
“I—yes. Yes, Rophir. I would not want to make you uncomfortable.”
Pisces rasped after a second. His throat had gone dry. He coughed, watching the little boy. Bearig’s eyes rose to meet Pisces’, and he gently patted Rophir’s shoulder.
“Anything. Anything, Rophir—just say it. Or tell me and I will let Pisces know.”
The half-Elf boy never said a word. But after a second, he looked ahead. Pisces exhaled, and Merr gave Bearig a nod.
“You’re kind to him. Wish my fellow’d been half as good, but all he knew was this life.”
“Rophir is the bravest boy I’ve met.”
That was all Bearig said. He patted Rophir on the shoulder and fished out a bit of this morning’s flatbread. He offered it to Rophir and the boy munched on it. Bearig gazed at him as Rophir stared ahead with a look of such profound…Pisces felt the exact same way, yet it was Bearig he admired, because the man took care of the boy nonstop. Spoke gently, even when Rophir stole food or struck him in fits of anger.
It reminded Pisces of how Erin had talked about Mrsha when she first came to the inn. He closed his eyes.
Mrsha. He wanted, suddenly, for Rophir to go to the inn and perhaps meet her. To see Bearig experiencing all the strange dishes Erin made.
He was sick of this continent, though he had seen virtually none of it. He knew that, intellectually, but it contained Roshal and the likes of Riqre. It was therefore the worst place he could imagine. A hell.
