Someone shouted in her earpiece. The woman touched her ear and winced. For some reason, she’d not flinched when her arm was torn off by an undead Revenant, taken terrible wounds from Crelers, monsters, and people—but she still smarted from getting her ear pierced.
She rolled to the side, looking for her sword, but Rexel, the [Storm Bandit], was shouting.
“Leave it! Leave it, and raise one arm up! Your right one! You’ve surrendered!”
Yvlon did that, lifting the jagged stump of her right metal arm up as she slowly walked past fighting figures, a group all dodging a rain of [Light Arrows]—she heard a shout.
“Silver Killer! We’re not done with you.”
She whirled. The [Gladiator] who’d beaten her turned as a pair of other [Gladiators] advanced. Yvlon saw one aim a bow straight at her.
“Rexel…I’ve surrendered.”
“I know! They’re not supposed to—duck!”
Yvlon didn’t duck. She raised her arm and shielded her face, just in time. She felt the impact, heard the snap as an arrow glanced off her metal flesh.
“She’s yielded!”
The [Gladiator] snapped, but the second attacker lifted a wickedly curved half-moon on the end of a pole. Some kind of glaive or halberd variant.
“Stay out of it.”
The [Gladiator] was panting; he and Yvlon had traded blows for nearly five minutes. He backed up, looking at Yvlon.
“Rexel. What do I do?”
“Fight! Get to the gates!”
Yvlon backed up, aiming her jagged stump of an arm towards the other two. She could extend the metal into a stabbing lance—but they knew that and circled.The second arrow was tracking down, and Yvlon knew she couldn’t get lucky a second time. They were going to shoot her legs out or strike her in the stomach! She tensed. She’d have to charge in and—
“There she is! Mectail, over here!”
Yvlon looked around. She saw the two [Gladiators] turn; curse. Then Yvlon saw a figure burst through a clump of struggling figures. A [Martial Artist] moved aside a sword thrust with his bare hands, and advanced.
“Damn, it’s them.”
“Back up! No one’s killing Silver today!”
A second figure followed the Stitch-man from Pomle, cursing, slashing left and right and forcing back those around with two poisoned long daggers. Yvlon saw the [Archer]-[Gladiator] curse as the second veteran, Thexca, stormed forwards.
“Do it. I won’t slow them more than—”
“I know.”
Yvlon saw the bow rise as the two [Gladiators] exchanged terse words. She saw the [Martial Artist] charge, but step back as the half-moon spear slashed. Yvlon saw a flicker—
“Yvlon!”
The crowds watching the group-battle in the Coliseum of Monarchs were roaring and cheering and screaming. There were many things going on, but the scrying orb projection had focused on one bit of drama. The newcomer, the Silver Killer from Izril, Yvlon Byres, Gold-rank adventurer of the Horns of Hammerad, was down.
“Those bastards! They got her in the knee!”
Rexel was screaming from the gates. There was indeed an arrow going straight through Yvlon’s leg, and she was half-collapsed, shielding her face and throat with her metal arms. One had turned into a miniature shield, but the [Archer] calmly stepped left and put another arrow into her other leg.
Thexca and Mectail were furiously attacking the second [Gladiator], who ate a full palm to the chest—somehow he kept standing, though Mectail had clearly broken another rib. But all they needed was a final shot…
“Not yet!”
And that’s when the last [Gladiator] appeared. She leapt through the air in a huge leap, twenty feet long, defying gravity in an arc that carried her over the heads of the others. Even the other Garuda in the air, fighting and diving, didn’t have the strange momentum of the…
Fox. The fox-girl, the [Gladiator], Vitte, who seemed to swing towards the [Archer]. She twirled as the [Archer] turned, cursing, a single shortsword in her hand, a strange claw-weapon in her other paw. She landed as Yvlon looked up, blood streaming from both legs.
“Vitte Groundless!”
The audience cheered as the trio of [Gladiators] fought to rescue Yvlon from the cowardly attack. Mectail knocked the other [Gladiator] left into a hail of stabs in a perfect combination attack from Thexca. Vitte saluted the stands, facing the [Archer] who backed up three steps, cursed—
Then shot Yvlon straight in the chest. Vitte recoiled, turned left, and saw Yvlon grab at the shaft of the arrow. She fell backwards as Mectail, Thexca, and Vitte heard Rexel and Leprel shouting Yvlon’s name. Vitte looked back as the [Archer] turned and raced for the gates, raising her hands in surrender. The Foxgirl stared at Yvlon.
“Oh heck.”
 
——
 
Two female gladiators stood at the entrance to one of the waiting pens in the Coliseum of Monarchs.
“Bring her here! Quickly! Is she dead? She’s dead!”
Leprel was wailing. Rexel had a healing potion, and jogged out a few steps to meet Mectail and Thexca as they dragged Yvlon towards her. The blonde woman’s eyes were closed, and she had one hand around the bloody arrow shaft in her chest.
Behind them, Vitte was giving chase to the last treacherous gladiator, and the thunderous disapproval from around the arena made it clear in no uncertain terms how the audience felt about such treachery.
In fact, people were throwing bits of food, rocks, and other objects into the sands. The magical fields that protected the arena were one-way. Defiantly, the [Archer] raised his arm and made a gesture at the stands. The blowback of noise temporarily deafened Rexel as she rushed Yvlon into the waiting room, out of sight and, hopefully, more danger. Vitte kept pursuing in huge leaps, but kept wide of the arrows streaking her way, and another tangle of [Gladiators] nearly took her down.
“She’s dead.”
Leprel kept wailing as Rexel saw Mectail and Thexca drop Yvlon. The [Martial Artist] bent down to touch her neck; Thexca snorted and glared.
“That’s the end of it for us. Unless you want to go out there and knock heads, Mectail? I think it’s done.”
She stood over Yvlon, looking down at the woman’s closed eyes, grimace of pain, and the deadly arrow lodged just under a rib. Mectail straightened.
“No.”
“Right. Me neither. We’re out of sight. Good work, I guess.”
“She’s d—oh, can I stop now?”
Leprel stopped wringing her hands. Rexel lifted the healing potion, and, unopened, put it back on her belt. There was a moment’s pause, and then Yvlon Byres sat up.
“That hurt.”
She reached up, touched the arrow shaft still embedded in her flesh, and swore.
“Silver in my eyes, that hurt! You said it was all arranged! I felt all three arrows!”
She gingerly touched the arrow shaft in her right knee and pulled it out with another muffled oath between her gritted teeth. She looked up and Thexca grinned unsympathetically.
“It’s a real arrow—the only not real thing is the Skill. What, you thought it wouldn’t smart? That’s why it’s realistic. Good work.”
She grudgingly gave Yvlon a nod, and peered out of the waiting room, eying Vitte.
“Vitte said you’d be able to do it, but I would have stabbed you myself if you messed it up. I think we got the attention of the massed bout, though, don’t you?”
Yvlon looked out. She couldn’t see much besides distant figures fighting, but she still heard the booing and people chanting Vitte’s name. She glanced sideways. Rexel wiped sweat from her brow, looking relieved, and Leprel seemed quite pleased by her one-line performance.
Mectail…he offered her a hand. Yvlon took it, and the Stitch-man [Martial Artist] helped her up. Then he casually and quickly yanked the arrow out of her chest.
“Gah.”
“You did well, Yvlon. Vitte loves her performances.”
Yvlon Byres, [Silversteel Armsmistress], unwilling [Gladiator], and captive of Nerrhavia’s Fallen under false pretenses—well, half false—rubbed at her chest and eyed her friend.
The other gladiator of the Coliseum of Monarchs, who had snapped her out of her one-woman, one-armed rampage through the capital city. The only Stitch-Person she’d met with integrity, that she respected, aside from Oct—aside from Rev—
The only Stitch-Person she’d met with integrity, that she respected. And yet…Yvlon gave him a quick glance, and Thexca as well.
“So you won’t go back out and fight?”
Thexca answered for both of them. She was a Human woman, but from some nation to the west, the Empire of Scaied, and her poisoned daggers spoke to that, as did her light, free-flowing armor.
“No. Dramatically, it makes sense we’re with you since you’ll survive this. If you actually died, Mectail and I would be seeking vengeance. Or if you were on your deathbed.”
Yvlon frowned, trying to figure this out. Thexca rolled her eyes.
“Think about the narrative.”
“Narrative. It’s just a show. And you’re okay with this, Mectail? Truly?”
The [Martial Artist] stretched his arms, and now he showed her his fist. It was slightly cut from where he’d been blocking swords and other blades.
“It is half a show. You did well, to let Arnei strike you. But he is quite good, isn’t he?”
Yvlon hesitated. The truth was that kick had caught her off-guard. She nodded.
“He is…those kicks are fast.”
“You have to be good to make people fall for a fight like that. Let alone put on a good one or one that lasts a while. Don’t worry; you and Mectail will get a chance to actually bloody each other up. In a smaller setting.”
The [Martial Artist] nodded in agreement. He still saw Yvlon’s doubtful look, and smiled.
“I know you must be thinking the same thing I did. But I sometimes enjoy such battles. Vitte comes up with interesting plans and we try them. Sometimes it does not work and we run inside while they throw trash at us.”
“Rarely. And it’s mostly Mectail’s fault because he can’t Knight well enough. This is no place for amateurs in any field. Anyways…there’s room for improvisation. Nice combo attack, Mectail.”
He nodded. Yvlon ran her good hand through her hair, mystified. She knew Mectail was a genuine expert fighter from Pomle, so good he’d taken on her shifting, metal arms barehanded.
“So it really is fine?”
He smiled again as Thexca rolled her eyes and walked off to drink some honeyed water set out for the returning gladiators.
“I think of it as fake, Yvlon. A show, but no worse than a practice bout or a casual duel you adventurers might put on.”
The Gold-rank adventurer’s brows furled.
“We don’t put on shows.”
Rexel interrupted her.
“Cup? Potion, Silver?”
Yvlon distractedly saw the [Storm Bandit] offering her and Mectail a drink and even a shot of potion. She seemed to have moved into a supporting role quite happily, as had Leprel, who even had a towel. Yvlon reached for the cup and realized it was with her jagged stump of a right arm. She grimaced, switched hands, and nodded. Mectail took a drink, nodded at the two women, then turned to Yvlon.
“Do you not? Do you fight with all your strength, with your lives on the line?”
“No, of course not. But…”
He lifted a hand apologetically.
“I am sorry. It is not an insult, but I would call it something like that. Testing, then. Showing each other your strengths. But it is not a true bout to me. This? This is much the same. In truth, I like some aspects of it.”
“Really.”
He gestured and they sat on a bench. Yvlon leaned forwards, resting her arm on her knees. She still felt her blood pumping hard—even knowing it was a trick, it had been something to let that [Archer] shoot her.
In the back of her mind, Yvlon had to admit that even had she been doing her best, he might have still done the exact same thing. Dodging arrows…they were real, genuine warriors. But this was also an arena. The duality of that was something she disliked, and, but for Mectail, she never would have agreed to participate.
The Stitch-man took another sip, shrugging.
“It makes coin, and the audience enjoys it. That is a valuable thing for someone who can only fight like me.”
“Except we’re prisoners. You and I, at least.”
Thexca glanced up.
“Don’t lump me in with you two.”
Both Yvlon and Mectail were criminals of Nerrhavia’s Fallen who’d been shuffled into the [Gladiator] ring. Yvlon grimaced, and Mectail nodded, tapping his own neckband. Not as painful as a collar, but…it boiled her blood. And that was despite Yvlon having a wooden one since all the enchanted, metal ones kept breaking.
“That is true, Yvlon Byres. And I wish to be freed. I hope it will come soon; I have been a gladiator here long enough, even without a patron.”
“Then why are you smiling?”
The woman was mystified. Mectail kept smiling.
“Why are you angry, Yvlon?”
Where to start? But before she could answer, he went on.
“That is what the Strongest of Pomle once asked me. Ah—the one before. One of the ones before? He retired to live with his relatives in his old age. A wise man. Once, as a boy, he caught me in a fury and asked why I was angry. Why? If you are angry because you think you should be angry, or angry at things you cannot change…better to leave it for later and enjoy the present.”
“That’s an incredible statement.”
Yvlon muttered. Mectail shrugged.
“It helps me. Anger is a waste of energy. When I need to be angry—I will. I think you have every right to it, Yvlon. But remember your Skill. It can change you.”
She looked up and remembered. [Berserker’s Rage]. It was indeed—more concerning than any other Skill she had ever gained. She sat back, content with her answers for the moment, and all those in the waiting room watched the mass-battle end.
It was a sight. Yvlon Byres had to admit, grudgingly, that most of the warriors in the Coliseum of Monarchs could go toe-to-toe with a lot of Gold-ranks she’d seen, just on pure weapon skill alone. And they had levels to match—but in that [Gladiator] class, which she now knew to be part show.
Some were outsiders like her and Mectail, but many had grown up in this circuit, and they were so good that if she’d fought with two arms, all her might…she might have gotten to the top twenty reliably, but any higher would be chance.
You needed a team in a massed battle. Sure enough, even Vitte went down, hit by a flying dagger. She rolled around, and surrendered before the [Gladiator] could hit her with a mace.
From then on, it became a quick free-for-all of shifting allegiances as teams broke up, sensing a shot at being the last person standing. To be fair—that was drama.
