There were many things that people affectionately liked to call ‘hell’, in this or any other world. Often, it was a rather subjective term that seemed to range from mildly-inconvenient to a genuinely nightmarish situation.
Rhir was an excellent example of how the term could apply, in geography, event, and the simply nightmarish array of monsters and enemies one might face there.
Compared to that, it was fairly difficult to come up with another, more suitable definition for ‘hell’. At least, in this world.
But the term and expression still applied. Hell was a concept. And, in a larger term, the hells that people suffered through might well be a commentary on what truly made a hell.
Or they were simply prone to exaggeration.
Either way, hell was Rhir. Hell was Crelers. Hell was devils and angels. Hell was a shard of glass under your big toe that would not come out, digging into your metaphorical soul.
Hell…and this was a broader term, was travel.
 
——
 
It was amazing, though. How quickly boredom could set in. Pisces had survived the worst humanity—no, any species could devise. He had seen a legend come to life, and had won his freedom against all odds.
And yet—boredom still crept in, even after all that. It was not that he lacked for things to do.
He had a magic spellbook predating or possibly refusing to bend to conventional spellcasting theories. His caravan of freed [Slaves] and [Bandits] needed constant minding, and, even with Merr the Storm now leading the group, Pisces, as the [Necromancer] with a majority of their strength, had to be vigilant.
He had a Skeleton Lord, the difficulty of navigating the Glass Straits, and more. And yet…he got bored.
He couldn’t help it. Yes, he reminded himself that he was a free man every other minute. He touched the scarred skin around his neck, where he had worn that hateful collar. He talked with Eloque, Bearig, and the others about the future, tried to make the little half-Elf boy, Rophir, smile.
However, that pernicious foe crept in. In truth, the problem was that boredom was largely tied to helplessness. Boredom was a disease born of a lack, and the lack?
Well, it snuck up on him when he put the spellbook down, mind practically exploding out of his skull with the agony of trying to process theorems, nay, ideas that he had never thought of before.
The magical book was incredible. Mainly because it revealed something to him. Where Pisces had thought he was talented—alright, a prodigy, so gifted even his abridged magical lessons were only an impedance—this revealed just how woefully ignorant he was.
It brought him to mind of other encounters like this. Pisces had met more incredible mages in his short time than most could dream of. Among them: the mysterious half-Elf on the road, and…Az’kerash.
There was a difference between the two. The Necromancer of Terandria was a genius beyond compare. A being whose very power could generate national conflict at the least, and raise armies.
He had all the magic Pisces could ever dream of. And yet…he was using magic as Pisces understood it. Even though the scope and complexity was beyond Pisces, the framework was understandable.
It was the half-Elf who had thoroughly trashed Pisces and Ceria with Tier 1 and 0 spells and his cryptic comments, combined with this spellbook, that was beginning to unearth some kind of revelation in Pisces’ mind.
Magic…the magic he practiced…was a shortcut. No—it wasn’t a shortcut, but it contained, somehow, a great deal of—of—
“Secret magic.”
That was the only way he could explain it. It sounded ridiculous, but even the most basic spells seemed to contain a nuance and complexity he had never dreamed of.
For instance, this Unicorn Light Arrow function like a [Light Arrow] normally did, but Pisces was struggling to re-learn the spell because it was so difficult. So complex!
It was as if he had been cooking with a cookbook all his life that left out three out of every five ingredients and some of the preparation. And yet—if Pisces cast the spell, or cooked the food, he was still rewarded with the end result.
That was how he could explain it, if he had to, to a layperson.
Like Erin. Ah…Pisces closed his eyes and massaged his forehead as he rode at dusk, along the hard glass road, hearing quiet voices, the crunch of hooves on glass, and smelled the dry emptiness and cold that cut him despite the warm hood—
Erin. How had he gotten so far from his goal? He had tried everything he could. Right now—he had to survive.
So, magic. So, studying. Pisces memorized the spell, learning just how much went into such a simple spell. And he realized—you could theoretically customize such magic far, far beyond even what the most adaptive Skills and normal spells could. Perhaps…
Then his head would burn with agony, like someone was slapping it with a hammer, and Pisces would put down the spellbook and ride, trying to contain everything.
That was when boredom set in. Boredom and travel and…
Part of the issue was that Pisces had no one to talk to. The long caravan and desert winds along Zeikhal were such that unless you rode side-by-side and kept yourself on-track, you would have trouble keeping anything like a coherent conversation.
The other problem was that they left him alone. Pisces rode, often at the head or back in case of danger, and saw the freed [Slaves] he knew congregating in other parts of the caravan.
They sometimes looked at him, or rode ahead, backwards, fetching snacks, arguing, but Pisces felt excluded. On the second day since Merr had taken charge, he asked why over their regular stop.
“Pisces? We thought you were studying or casting your [Necromancy] spells.”
Eloque was plainly surprised. The Lizardwoman was letting Qshom work on her arm as she rode on one of the wagons. She eyed Pisces as he blinked and sniffed.
“Ah, well…I do most of the time. But I am hardly immune to the necessities of conversation.”
Bearig turned to Eloque for translation. She frowned at him.
“…I have no idea what that means. Are you angry or not?”
Pisces hesitated. Again, dissonance. Not bad, but most of the people he knew, from Ceria to Yvlon to Erin to Selys, would have figured out what that meant and taken him to task.
“I, er…”
Eloque watched as Pisces’ ears slowly grew red. It was Qshom, the [Tailor], who looked up and hid a smile.
Someone roared with laughter in Pisces’ ears and he searched about.
“He got lonely! That’s what all those fancy words mean, or I’ll be a naked camel.”
Merr the Storm had spotted the gathering and rode in, head held high, voice commanding. She had fallen into the role of leader as naturally as she breathed, and Pisces had to admit she had been the right person to trust. Now that he knew he could trust her.
Merr was a [Bandit Lady], and so her style of command was as rough-and-ready as Pisces had ever seen. Not abusive…she tended to slap some sense into anyone giving her lip, but she was careful around the freed [Slaves].
Not so the [Raiders] and other outlaws she’d picked up somehow. They were on a short leash, and Merr suffered no challenges. However, this was her group.
This was Pisces’ group. The freed [Slaves] of Hrome and Igheriz.
“Lonely? Well, why didn’t you ride with us? Even Azam did, you know. He’d stride over and you’d know he wanted to talk.”
“Terandrians. Not a social body among them.”
Merr agreed with a wink at Bearig. The [Cook] said nothing as Rophir sat on his lap, face blank as always, but he gave Pisces a look.
Not mocking, not hostile or anything close. Just…wondering. Perhaps even happy.
Pisces was red, and not from sunburn. He cleared his throat.
“That is not how I would phrase my position, but I am happy to wile away the hours between studying. I can only devote myself to learning magic for so long each day.”
Eloque smiled and Merr grinned again, reaching out to slap Pisces on the shoulder. That was how they fought boredom. No—that was how they fought the dark thoughts. The memories that came creeping in, with any second, at any time.
Together, they talked. About what, it didn’t matter. They were here. And not all conversations were pointless either.
 
——
 
The first thing they talked about was their dreams. Each one had a dream. Yet it varied, depending on how long they had been in captivity.
“I must find my team. They are out there—I will rescue them, return to Izril, and tend to my friend. I hope…I hope we have not left it too long.”
Bearig and the others nodded, listening to Pisces talk. He had a story to tell, the story of adventure and daring. Yet…he didn’t belabor his point. It was a long journey ahead, and it gave him little comfort, imagining Ceria, Yvlon, or Ksmvr in situations similar to his. If he thought of it, he would not sleep, and imagining them in someone like Igheriz’s clutches…no. No.
Better to listen to someone else speak. Anyone, really, for they all had better dreams. Theirs bore no battles to come, just hope, hope liberated and set free to dare to think of better days.
“I hope to go home.”
Bearig looked around, his diminishing second chin moving as he spoke. He ladled the soup he’d been working on into bowls; it was a hot mix of mostly Yellats with fat, water, and spices, but it did the job, and a single bit of meat added something. A meal for hunger—somehow better because it was like this. Rophir had already scarfed down his portion, but Bearig fed him by spoon, carefully giving him some of his portion.
“Does home exist, Bearig? We were all [Slaves] taken from Nerrhavia’s Fallen. Home…I was a debtor. I could not even pay to keep myself free. Yet you were imprisoned, is that so?”
Qshom’s head turned to the [Cook] and Bearig hung his head.
“For nearly killing the [Magistrate], yes. But while that was my incompetence—I am glad it fell on my shoulders alone. My wife, my daughter—they weren’t harmed. I know it’s a fool’s dream, but I hope to come home. I know I am a [Slave] and it would mean me risking all. But I have this image, you see.”
He shrugged, gulping hard as he filled another bowl.
“…There I am. At the door to my house. I knock, and my wife opens it and she’s astonished to see me. She rushes me in and I find our daughter well, and I tell them what happens and we…we leave. We pack what we can, and we head out.”
He hesitated.
“When I think too hard, I imagine how much they’d have to leave. They’d think I’m dead, or not likely to see them again, and I’d have to ask them to run with me, to risk enslavery and where would we go?”
For a second, no one spoke. Then Eloque raised her voice. Pisces had been opening and closing his mouth, but he saw her look his way, eyes shining by the stars and moonlight reflected onto the glass road.
“Izril. You go to Izril. Izril, and Liscor. Isn’t that right, Pisces?”
She looked at him and he nodded.
“I promise you, Bearig. You and anyone I can manage—my team and I will go there, and so shall you.”
The [Cook] sighed, long and hard.
“Now there is a proper dream. Izril, serving Gnolls and Drakes food—not seafood.”
Everyone chuckled. Bearig glanced at Rophir, then at Pisces.
“I know things may change, but if it did happen, if naught else came up, would you have room for two more…? Perhaps three or four, even, if more relatives were to join me? I have an ailing mother.”
“Of course.”
The Stitch-man smiled and said no more. Next was Merr.
“I don’t know as I’d go to Izril yet. A [Bandit]’s a [Bandit] wherever you go, and I’ve heard Drakes are even keener on stringing us up than Stitch-folk. You can break a magic collar or steal the key…but few can walk away from the noose. Still, I plan on some payback to Roshal if possible, and, next time, my gang won’t fall to army or adventurer.”
She winked at Pisces, who raised his brows.
“You wish to continue, Merr? Even after…Roshal would be hunting you.”
The others went still, thinking of that unpleasant truth, but Merr’s eyes gleamed.
“I don’t take them lightly, Necrolad. But I’m a [Bandit Lady]. I have my own backup—they can try to grab me, but in Savere, even [Bounty Hunters] are prey, often as not.”
“Necrolad…?”
Eloque started laughing. She nearly fell off the wagon as she covered her mouth, then gave up. Pisces saw Merr wink, then go on.
“Aye, Savere. Not that it’s sunshine and roses, mind you. Did you wonder how I got a gang behind me so fast, Pisces? Or why I was starving for gold within days of being freed?”
Pisces recalled something after Merr’s first raids. He’d seen her taking a huge cut of the loot, and wondered where it had gone.
“I did…I assume the two are connected, then?”
Merr nodded seriously.
“I gifted the treasure via a Skill. That’s how a gang came to me. ‘Course, I took in two small lowland groups, but it wasn’t all my own talents. It’s a special Skill. You might’ve never heard of it, but we like to call them Yellat Skills. [Tribute to the Bandit Queen]—that’s it. Takes whatever I send straight to the Siren of Savere herself, the ruler of Savere. The [Bandit Queen].”
Pisces’ ears perked up.
“[Bandit Queen]?”
“I’ve never heard of a Yellat Skill, Merr. What’s that about?”
The woman winked.
“Oh, that, Eloque? It’s just our term for it. Rare Skill. But it’s, ah…orange? I don’t know how to say it. Not exactly, but close. Not like a Bloody Skill at all. That’s red, like death. Yellat Skills pop up sometimes; tied to fame, or other things. The [Bandit Queen]—that’s all part of [Bandit Ladies] and [Bandit Lords] popping up. Without us, she doesn’t get to rule. With it—well. Let’s just say that Savere sometimes backs up a gang in need.”
“Not when you were taken.”
Merr’s face darkened, and Qshom ducked his head apologetically, but she waved it off.
“It’s worth, Qboy. I’m worth a bit to the Siren. I pay my dues, don’t cause trouble, but she wasn’t going to throw down with Nerrhavia over me. Or Roshal. Same with me getting out here and restarting my gang. I’ll need to be careful…”
“Of Roshal?”
“That. And Savere. When you’re in the downs, that’s when you’re at risk. But hey, I’m a [Bandit]. Qshom, you go next. Tell us about opening a new shop.”
Pisces rode closer as the Dullahan began his tale.
“Savere. I don’t know it too well, Merr. Is this Siren someone to be worried about? Might she be a possible ally?”
She snorted.
“Enemy? No. Ally? Also no. If we don’t fuck with her, she won’t bother us. Same thing—I wouldn’t say let’s bother her too much. A gang or two or a bit of favor is all I can curry unless I send her real artifacts and treasure.”
Pisces nodded dubiously.
“You suggested Savere might be dangerous for you?”
