Yvlon saw a five-way standoff between a hurried alliance of three [Gladiators] and a duo of a big Dullahan and Garuda break up as the Dullahan shoved the Garuda into the crossfire of blades, and the other two [Gladiators] took out one of their teammates. The three fought against each other and the Dullahan woman won—mainly by picking up the last gladiator and hitting the other one with the first’s body.
“Was that last bit scripted or real?”
Mectail was watching. He closed one eye as he studied the woman raising two huge arms to the sky; she was larger than anyone but Moore that Yvlon had met.
“Real, most definitely. Pethore’s grip is similar to any [Grappler]’s. If she grabs you…”
Yvlon imagined what would happen if Moore got a grip on you and was really mad. She nodded. Skill at arms was one thing. The ability to throw someone through a wall was generally respected most places.
The last [Gladiators] were coming in, some being carried, and the injuries looked about half-real, half-fake.
For instance, Vitte was lying on a stretcher, swearing a blue-streak. The blood running down her furred leg was matted, and she was drinking a healing potion.
“You bastard. I nearly had top ten!”
She shouted at the [Gladiator] with the throwing knives, who waved cheerily at her and blew a kiss.
“That’s for last week, Vitte!”
The Fox Beastkin sat up, grumbling. Thexca walked over and touched fists with Vitte.
“Nice performance. Did you really say ‘oh heck’?”
“I thought it was convincing. Don’t bug me, Thexca. I nearly had top ten. That’s a cash prize, Yvlon.”
The woman nodded awkwardly. What a strange world this was. She hesitated, and then saw two figures walking over. One of them was a Human man, tall, long armed, and tattooed. He was the [Archer]. His companion was the other [Gladiator]—a Dwarf who was rubbing at his sides.
“Nice work out there.”
“You say that, but you stabbed me in the liver, Thexca. That hurts like fire, even now! Still…the crowd will remember that. Everyone’s asking if the Silver Killer’s alive.”
They gathered up, and the [Archer], Romen, nodded at Yvlon. She nodded back, hesitated, and glanced at Mectail.
“Er—good shooting. I barely saw it coming.”
Romen nodded again. He frowned, pursed his lips, and then addressed the entire group as a whole.
“Thank you, Yvlon. May I ask a question? How did you find my expression? My posture? It’s hard to convey proper menace. Did you think it was off?”
The woman wavered. Leprel waved a hand.
“I thought it was very convincing, Mister Romen, sir! I’m a huge fan of yours, actually…”
“Really? That’s gratifying. I think I left an impact, but I need to plot the rest of my villainous story.”
Vitte nodded, getting up to rest her leg in a chair. Yvlon sat back as Romen took a cup of honey water. The Fox girl gave Romen a huge grin.
“Now that you have a lot of people who want to take you to task, I bet you could team up. Vengeance arc?”
He frowned.
“That’s fairly predictable. But if we can work together if we’re ever thrown with Miss Yvlon into another massed match…”
Thexca grinned crookedly, watching Yvlon’s colorful expression.
“Sure, but you’d better hope she’s learned how to show off properly by then. Or all you’ll be able to pull off is a Knighting.”
“A what? Excuse me, what does that mean?”
Even Rexel and Leprel seemed confused. ‘Knight’. Thexca had mentioned that before. Romen rubbed at his hair and grimaced at his slick hand.
“Sweat and hair grease. Does anyone have a towel? Thank you. That’s an inside term. We pulled off a variation just now. It’s where…no. Now that I have to explain it, can anyone…?”
He gave the others a helpless look. Mectail shrugged, but the Dwarf man leaned in, giving Yvlon a knowing wink.
“It comes from back home. Terandria, eh? Izril too, but mostly Terandria. You know the story of a [Knight]? Brave fellow or woman—goes off. Always has a grand struggle between them and the monster, but they win. So it’s like that. You have one person who’s about to win or lose, and then it looks the other way…”
“You can pull it off in less than what, six strikes? Mectail, show Yvlon.”
Thexca drew her daggers. She slashed at Mectail, and the [Martial Artist] swept her arm down from a standing position, without even bothering to shift positions. He knocked her back and she staggered, going to one knee and raising one hand as if to shield her head. He sighed, walked over, punched at her face—and Thexca surged upwards, the tip of her blades gently drawing across his throat.
“And…that’s a Knight routine. Well?”
Yvlon Byres, [Lady] of House Byres, one of the oldest and most honorable families of Izril that still maintained at least one [Knight] per generation and often more…bit back all the things she could say. She sat there, perched on her chair, as Romen went around shaking hands.
“Here’s hoping for a patronage, or that we all ride your newcomer fame, Miss Byres. Best of luck.”
“Thank you.”
It was her first match of cooperation. And, in a way…Romen smiled, and she saw some of the other [Gladiators] here watching. They waved and came over to meet her. Because she was no longer the Silver Killer, a genuinely unpredictable warrior who would try to kill or maim them.
Yvlon realized, watching Mectail smiling and Vitte and Thexca nodding at each other when they thought she couldn’t see, as well as Rexel and Leprel’s relaxed expressions, that this was vital. Because…she looked at Romen.
If we were fighting, I could probably take him if I was anywhere close or ran in. But he’d be thinking she was an actual threat. And all it took was one arrow.
She knew that full well. Far, far better to engage in these fake bloodsports. Yvlon managed a smile. But she was surprised as the [Gladiator] nodded.
“And best of luck finding your team, Miss Yvlon. I often go drinking with a group from Baleros—my homeland. I’ll spread the news about you being falsely imprisoned. There’s a tale that will spread like fire, not least because it rings true. If I hear anything about the others, I will let you know, though doubtless you’ll hear it first. Could I ask for an autograph, to that end?”
“I—of course—”
Yvlon scribbled on a piece of cardboard. Only then did Vitte stop smiling.
Fox Beastkin. A species Yvlon had never seen, that apparently had as many numbers in Chandrar as Baleros because they were the same species as Tottenval, one of the King of Destruction’s Seven. She was short, as in barely five-foot-three, on par with a Dwarf, but slim, usually happy, mischievous, her face expressive.
Her fur was not the red Yvlon was used to, but more of a sandy…sand. Because it fit the natural landscape, Yvlon supposed, with darker pale-grey fur on her underarms, belly, chin and so forth. Right now, her amusement soured slightly.
“We’re the best [Gladiators] in all of Nerrhavia’s Fallen, in the world, maybe. And we’re asking for autographs from Gold-ranks?”
“Don’t start, Vitte. Thank you, Miss Yvlon.”
“Yes, but we’re falling behind. First these [Actors] from Izril—I only autograph, what, twelve things a week!”
“That’s because you autograph everything, Vitte. It’s about value. Supply and demand. Even a non-[Trader] knows that. You can’t sell a scorpion to someone with five down their pants.”
Everyone turned to Thexca. The woman raised her hands.
“What? What? It’s not that weird to say! Didn’t you sell, I don’t know, mice, growing up?”
“…No.”
The woman looked at Rexel. She lowered her hands.
“Oh. Well, we sold scorpions on the streets. Good money. You can get a silver for a rare one…”
Romen gave her a completely mystified look.
“…Do people just collect scorpions where you live, Thexca.”
“Why not?”
“Why would you?”
“Uh, because they’re food, self-defense, poison, collectible—some are really rare and poisonous, they don’t cost much to keep, they’re cute…”
“…What?”
The [Gladiators] were breaking up now the match was done. Some were heading off to rest, or train, and many to eat. Yvlon saw more than a few being tossed small bags of coin, and, in fact, a [Guard] sauntered over to their group.
“Vitte. Everyone’s talking about the Silver Killer. Huge stir—actually, go show her face, hey? The [Arena Master] doesn’t want a fuss, and some big patrons want to know she’s actually alive. Here.”
He tossed her a bag, and the Fox girl leapt up and caught it. She opened it, and Yvlon saw the flash of gold amidst silver. Vitte grinned wickedly.
“Can do! Thexca, stop talking about your pet scorpions. She’s got, like, twenty in her room, Romen. You can come over and watch them try to kill you later. We did good, today. Especially Yvlon.”
She smiled at Yvlon with sharp teeth. That was at least normal, and Yvlon nodded. She sat there, feeling…odd. Struggling, she realized, to stay angry. She had every reason to be, but—she looked up and saw Mectail smiling.
Enjoy what you could. Yvlon exhaled. She nodded, turning to the Dwarf [Gladiator].
“Thanks, Vitte. Thank you, Romen and…I’m sorry, I don’t know your name?”
“Granith. Don’t laugh, please. It’s my actual name, not my arena name…”
Yvlon shook his hand. And she thought the Coliseum of Monarchs might be a bit more bearable. Right up until Vitte raised the bag of coins and looked around.
“Okay, everyone! And by everyone, I mean Thexca, Mectail, Leprel, Rexel, and Yvlon—Romen, you’re welcome and you too, Granith—drinks are on me! Let’s get out and hit the city! Who wants to go to the Silken Saloon?”
Yvlon Byres’ head rose as the other [Gladiators] hurled insults at Vitte’s qualifier and Thexca smacked her lips. She stared at Vitte.
“…Do what now?”
 
——
 
Yvlon Byres stared at the door. She stared out the door. She stared into the street where crowds were pouring out of the Coliseum of Monarchs. She stared at Thexca, who offered her a piece of cloth.
“A hood. Unless you want to be mobbed.”
“We can leave?”
Yvlon’s shout drew more than a few heads and the other [Gladiators] leaving glared her way. Vitte doubled over laughing and Mectail nudged her.
“Don’t be unkind. I didn’t realize it either.”
“We can leave, Yvlon. Yes, even you and Mectail. Not the city—did you think [Gladiators] had to stay in their rooms and train all day?”
Yvlon inhaled.
“But—so you get paid based on how well you do and even the convicted criminals can…?”
“Well, you’d have to rise up pretty far to get to the position where they let you out, but sure. You do know [Gladiator] pays extremely well, don’t you? More’n even Gold-ranks who don’t land huge cushy jobs or get treasure. Alright, hood on and try not to flash your arms around?”
Yvlon put on the hood silently and stared at Leprel and Rexel. The [Thief] and [Storm Bandit] followed the other three [Gladiators] into the capital of Nerrhavia’s Fallen. Rexel grinned at Yvlon.
“Don’t look at me, Silver. You’re the one who never wanted to talk. I told you it was worth rising up. And look at us! [Gladiators] in the Coliseum of Monarchs!”
Thexca turned her head and glowered.
“You mean, ‘gladiator and her two support crew’. Yvlon’s the one fighting and they’ll take your nice rooms out of her coin.”
Leprel bit her lip and slid her eyes sideways to Yvlon. The Gold-rank adventurer rubbed at her forehead.
“I don’t care. Rexel and Leprel helped me out. And I…I am not staying here. This is insanity.”
“No, it’s just sensible. Come on, the city awaits! This is Yvlon’s first day out there, isn’t it? In that case—”
Vitte threw her hood back. The Fox Beastkin leapt upwards, and the people down the street pointed. She leapt up onto the roof of a house in a single gravity-defying bound, spread her paws, and shouted.
“This calls for a party!”
Mectail sighed good-naturedly and Thexca threw back her hood.
“So much for getting there in peace and quiet.”
 
——
 
Yvlon Byres’ first true hour as a semi-free woman in Tyrant’s Rest was like a storm. The first thing she saw was the crowds.
She had thought Pallass was crowded, or Invrisil. She had thought they had wide streets, and rich cities. She had been to First Landing, but even the capital city of the north…was just small compared to the scale of Nerrhavia’s Fallen.
The streets were so wide you could play a baseball game across some of them. There were thousands of people, usually Stitch-folk, with Humans in the minority, but every species, crossing streets, buying goods, living.
But unlike Izril, the skies were just as crowded. Garuda swooped around, filling the air traffic, occasionally lazily dodging a flying carpet or, even more rarely, strange figures of all shapes and sizes that flew through the air.
Djinni.
The colors of Nerrhavia’s Fallen were just as vivid. Like Ger of Germina, bright colors were painted onto the stone worn by the wind and dust. Unlike Ger, or other cities with less funds, Nerrhavia’s Fallen was rich.
So Tyrant’s Rest had countless fountains, waterworks, plumbing, sewers, which meant no one would die of thirst. Yvlon also saw there was a kind of gradation to the city. The center, marked by the royal palace itself, towered over the rest of the city, and the buildings were tallest there, countless stories high. The further out you got, the less developed, so the furthest buildings up against the walls were ‘short’, and, even then, were proper houses and sometimes walkways overhead.
That was architecture. The people? Well, they were sights just as foreign to Yvlon.
String-Folk. Stitch-folk. The self-made people of Chandrar. They came in three rough categories—Hemp, Cotton, and Silk. Of course, those were catchall terms for a variety of cloth, and so Yvlon saw the most varied set of quasi-humanity she had ever seen in her life, in every shade of skin tone, feature, and design.
Because Stitch-folk could choose how they looked, if not always from which cloth they were first cut. Therefore, if they wanted certain features, they popped into their version of a [Barber], and had someone stitch up their nose, adjust their eyes—or just replace entire body parts altogether.
If you had the coin, you could be anything you wanted. And, oh, they did.
“That person has blue skin.”
“Yeah? Drakes have blue scales. Garuda have blue feathers.”
Yvlon Byres stared at a Cotton-Man walking past, carrying a load of fat grapes in a basket. She turned to Rexel. The Stitch-Woman was much amused by Yvlon’s reactions.
“Is that—normal? All the Stitch-folk I’ve met didn’t look like that.”
“And how many have you met?”
Mectail glanced back and Yvlon bit her tongue.
