“…Revi, Octavia, about six more before that…oh. There were those at the Village of the Dead…”
“So, until Chandrar, less than twenty, easy? And I just bet they wanted to fit in around Izril. It’s not normal over here either. Well…that’s just because it’s a pain in the stitches.”
Yvlon saw someone else with a distinctly red component to their skin that had nothing to do with sunburn. Hair? Hair was an illusion. You could have hair any color you wanted. Pink, neon yellow, rainbow…
“Pain? Why?”
“Getting all the cloth dyed. It does wear, you know. And you can’t replace anything easily on the outside because it’s all a different color from standard. That’s all. It’s more usual to get something more…copycat-ish. See?”
She pointed out a half-Elf walking along and giggling with some of her friends, all of whom were younger, maybe young teens? A half-Elf…until Yvlon saw the stitch-marks on her skin.
“Isn’t that…”
Rexel waited, looking expectant. Yvlon didn’t even know what she wanted to say. Isn’t that something? But then her eye was caught by a group of [Laborers] with features like actual stone, walking along one side of the street. They were ignored and had broad shoulders, strong frames…
“They’re Hemp, aren’t they? Uh—the Hemp Stitch-folk?”
Rexel grimaced.
“Yep. Glad I wasn’t born Hemp. But then—I was always a [Bandit], and we change up, see?”
She waggled her arms at Yvlon, which were old silk, but noticeably smoother and more supple than the rest of her body. It was as if where her arms met the shoulders, the skin became more weathered, less well-cared for. Even a bit off in skin tone.
Yvlon glanced at the Hemp [Laborers].
“So they’re the ones who stand at the bottom of Nerrhavia Fallen’s society?”
“Mhm. If they’re lucky they’ll trade up to Cotton—not that you can change who you are on the inside. Some even get lucky, but most are like that.”
“Like…what?”
“You know. Slower. They’re good [Soldiers], but not the brightest bunch. Believe me—Merr used to run rings around them with the [Storm Bandits].”
Rexel casually spat in their direction. She didn’t look twice at the Hemp people. Yvlon stared at the [Storm Bandit] in silence.
“I see.”
“Some of them are smart. But it’s rarer. Heard of Alked Fellbow? He’s a Named Adventurer, even. Or was. But you know that you take the cloth from your parents, right? So the best thing is if they somehow marry someone who’s Cotton. Or Silk. Then their children are set.”
“I see.”
Mectail glanced at Yvlon. Rexel clearly didn’t pick up on anything Yvlon was saying, but the Stitch-man nodded her way. It was, however, Thexca who glanced back. Somehow she had already picked up a snack while Yvlon was gawking around. She sidled back down.
“Hey. Newcomer to Nerrhavia’s Fallen, heh? Strikes me like that too. Don’t get too bothered by every Silk-woman looking like she’s royalty. It’s all just cloth-deep. Just make sure you don’t get into it with the Silk-caste. They’re touchy, every single one, and it’s a pain to deal with. They’ll challenge you to a duel if they don’t know who you are, and the other half will do it if they think they’ll win.”
Yvlon nodded. The Human woman offered her a bag.
“Nuts?”
Yvlon reached down and received a handful of roasted, salted nuts that were sweet to the taste. She frowned.
“…These are perfectly round. What are they?”
They were like dark brown marbles with a sweet, crunchy interior. Thexca grinned.
“Rollynuts. I love ‘em. Specialty grown around here. Have you ever had anything as good?”
“Walnuts dipped in honey…are not as good.”
Yvlon took another handful. Thexca slapped Rexel’s hand away from her bag.
“Get your own. I’m just humoring Yvlon.”
Rexel sighed, but she had some coin somehow, so she instantly went off to get some. In truth, for all her worldly wisdom about this place, she seemed just as impressed. Yvlon suspected a [Storm Bandit] didn’t get to hit the big city that often.
While she was gone, Thexca leaned over.
“Hemp gets a lot of shit. We’re all fleshies—meat people, so the worst is that we’re all outsiders. Don’t bring it up.”
“But that—”
A friendly hand squeezed her arm. Thexca frowned at Yvlon’s metal bicep.
“Dead gods, that’s an odd feeling. Look, it’s friendly advice. Just don’t bring it up. Some [Gladiators] do and get nowhere. They don’t like Hemp, but it’s mostly just talk. There are some [Gladiators] and most treat ‘em just fine. It’s like anywhere in the world, you know?”
Yvlon Byres grimaced. She hadn’t missed how the [Laborers] kept out of the way of everyone else and were cursed at if they impeded the progress of someone who wasn’t Hemp.
“I come from Izril, and we don’t have anything like that. If I saw someone of the nobility talk to someone like that—most Izrilians wouldn’t stand for it to begin with.”
“Huh. Are you a [Lady] or something?”
“House Byres, yes.”
Thexca gave Yvlon a friendly nod and popped two Rollynuts into her mouth.
“Oh, makes sense. Then this is your first time on the other side of it, huh? Yeah, just think of Hemp like your commonfolk. You’re not a noble here, though. They might respect it a bit, mind you.”
Yvlon turned to stare at Thexca.
“I beg your pardon? I just said they’re nothing like—”
The Human woman shifted her gaze past Yvlon and suddenly pointed a finger.
“We should be heading to Vitte’s favorite spot soon. The Silken Saloon. And, oh, look who’s found Vitte. Her fans.”
And there they were. At first, Yvlon thought Thexca was pointing out a giant rug in the distance. It took her a second to realize it was countless Fox Beastkin, mixed with Stitch-folk, mostly young, milling around, begging for autographs, with Vitte in the center.
“Yeah, yeah. I’m sure you bet on me. Where’s my sister at? Anyone seen—hands off the coin purse!”
She was laughing, slapping paws, and scolding the others at the center of it. Yvlon recognized the leader of a group, and she had to admit, Vitte did have that infectious charm and confidence. She was young, but she was a top-[Gladiator].
What fascinated Yvlon, though, was the Fox Beastkin. Many had fur like Vitte’s, but some had red or black—even a flash of silver. Unlike Gnolls, the Fox Beastkin didn’t have the more brownish focus and really did stay true to their distant cousins’ variations in fur.
They were shorter on average than most Humans, slim, and animated. What interested Yvlon the most was how nimble they were. One enterprising thief had snatched Vitte’s purse. He scaled up a drainpipe in seconds, and perched on the roof, waving it. He was so flexible; she saw him curl up into a ball as he rolled backwards without any trouble.
However, Vitte had a strange quality of her own and it was this—she narrowed her eyes and leapt upwards.
And there it was again. Yvlon saw the other fox-boy yelp in alarm, somersaulting back as Vitte landed on the roof. He leapt for a second roof even as she descended, and seemed to be running for the distance, if playfully.
In response, Vitte grabbed something in midair, and swung herself into a flying kick that knocked him flat.
“Got you, you little—”
Yvlon watched her thrash the thief, and come back with the coin pouch in seconds. The Human woman narrowed her eyes.
What had Vitte grabbed hold of? It looked like she’d swung herself, like someone would swing off a bar. But…the space above the roof was empty.
Still, it was clear that had just been a prank, and the Foxfolk were full of pranks. And excitement. When they saw Yvlon, they swarmed her.
“The Silver Killer! Can you move your arms for us?”
“Autograph, please!”
“Where are the other Horns? Do you know? Were you really falsely imprisoned?”
“Can I have a lock of hair? I won’t sell more than half of it—promise!”
Yvlon raised her hands, feeling like she was at a Byres family reunion—but they weren’t half as chaotic as this. It was like…a bunch of talking Mrshas.
What a thought. Thexca was noticed too, but she kept them away, swatting unkindly at paws reaching for her snacks.
“Clear off, you walking fur-rats! Vitte, get rid of ‘em or I’ll start stabbing!”
The press let up a bit, and Vitte herself stood on the roof to give a pronouncement.
“Hear me! I’m giving Yvlon a tour of the city! We’re drinking, and no, you’re not invited! But tell the elders Yvlon’s here and if they want to meet her, they can ask me!”
She gave the others a wicked smile as they groaned and pleaded. Sure enough, three lucky people—two Fox Beastkin, one Stitchgirl—were allowed to join their group.
“I had no idea that Fox Beastkin lived in Nerrhavia’s Fallen in such numbers.”
“Eh, some cities. And many’re here because I’m here, you know. We’re still a super-minority. There are just lots of us for us. We’re here because, back during the King of Destruction’s time, our people were protected under Tottenval. We had lots of kids.”
Vitte airily waved a paw. Yvlon looked sharply at her.
“The King of Destruction. I forgot he—it feels like a story, elsewhere. But he’s actually awake again, isn’t he?”
The way they told his story made it sound like he was dead—and he had been slumbering twenty years. Vitte just grinned at Yvlon.
“He’s as real as you or me. Some of the elders in the city even met him. Heck, some served under him when he was still young.”
“Really. And no one holds a grudge? You don’t have…”
The [Gladiator] made a phshing sound.
“That’s old news, and we never ruled over anyone. Unlike some. Besides, Tottenval was the nicest of the King’s Seven. You know Thexca’s Rollynuts? He planted those nut bushes. A lot of kingdoms benefited from all the plants he put down, so most didn’t kick us out.”
“Will…does that mean the Fox Beastkin have no intention of joining the King of Destruction?”
Thexca frowned. Mectail, Leprel, and Rexel glanced back, frowning, and Vitte eyed Yvlon.
“What, all of us? Why would we? Tottenval was his vassal. We just came for him. We’re not going to fight in his armies—most of us. Some of the elders like him, but Tottenval’s dead. We don’t have a grudge either, like some vassals. He’s just…”
She searched for a word, then snapped her furred fingers together.
“Old.”
And that was it. Vitte walked forwards, waving to people she knew, preening and then glaring because people wanted to meet Yvlon. The woman realized hers was a generation that cared little for Flos Reimarch.
So, Nerrhavia’s Fallen. It took them an hour to get to the Silken Saloon. Mainly due to the crowds, the size of the city, and the people wanting to meet Yvlon and the other [Gladiators].
Even so, Yvlon hesitated as they passed by a street where a gate in the distance was clearly open and manned by two ceremonial guards. She looked around and, aside from her friends, no one was here minding her. And she was a Gold-rank adventurer. If she grabbed the artifacts…
Thexca popped up.
“They’ll find you, you know. Mectail never bothered, but I think that’s because he saw them grab a [Gladiator] who tried it and toss them back to the lowest circuit. Besides, that’s the middle city gate. You’d be running for a long time. There’s the lower city, and then the outer city.”
Yvlon jumped.
“I was just—”
“Yeah, sure. Whatever you were going to say, I totally believe it.”
The woman grinned at Yvlon.
“Listen, Yvlon. No one’s found your friends, right? Aside from that Pisces fellow, and he’s in Roshal. There’s not much you can do if Nerrhavia’s haunting you. Best thing you can do right now is get free, legally. You do that? Then you can see about hiring someone to get your friend. Maybe even my home. Scaied’s not cheap, but we do have armies for sale.”
“And how would I do that?”
The woman clapped Yvlon on the shoulder.
“Let’s get a drink.”
 
——
 
Elsewhere in Chandrar, at this exact moment, in Savere, the Kingdom of Bandits as some called it, all secrets were revealed.
Or perhaps just one. A circlet sat on a half-Elf’s head. It did not shine. It did not glow. And that was scary because even [Detect Magic] made it look like ordinary metal. But then—it didn’t even appear unless the owner wanted you to see it.
And even she had forgotten it was there. So they gazed at her, in the banquet room. Siren and [Pirates], [Rogues], and [Bandits]. She sat at the table, wearing the relic of a lost time. Ceria Springwalker turned her head to Omusc and the [Bandits].
“Ib a chubbfy chipmunkf!”
Her cheeks were bulging with sweet yams this time. And yes, it was the second time she’d done this. Omusc stared silently at Ceria. Then at her circlet.
No one laughed.
 
——
 
At roughly the same time, Yvlon Byres was having the exact opposite problem as Ceria Springwalker. Her companions realized it shortly after they got to the Silken Saloon.
“So, can you explain patrons to me? Someone suggested that was one of the fastest ways to be freed.”
“Sure, sure. But come on, look around this place, Yvlon! The Silken Saloon? Like it? Silk servers. And there’s dancing! Hey, it’s me! Has anyone seen my sister?”
Yvlon did actually meet Vitte’s sister, who was named Zirre. And yes, it was deliberate. More than a few Fox Beastkins who were ‘elders’, something of a respected term, came to meet her.
Or were allowed to meet her? There was something going on that Yvlon couldn’t quite parse. This wasn’t like Gnoll culture, where honored Gnolls existed in cities or tribes. Nor were the elders accorded the same respect of age—Vitte ribbed them and they did the same to her.
In fact, the Fox Beastkin who put her in a headlock and tried to rub the fur on her head until she broke loose and tossed a drink on him was seventy-three. Yvlon was amazed—partly because she hadn’t been able to tell.
For instance, Vitte’s sister was younger than her by about a year, had silver fur, and thus the family resemblance was lost, as was age on Fox Beastkin who’d gained silver or simply lost color. They were all so spry.
“Zirre’s one of those [Mages], Yvlon. From Nerrhavia’s academy, though. Hey, Zirre. Look who I found. She’s on my team.”
“I saw you on the scrying orb! Vitte, you joined Miss Byres’ team?”
Zirre covered her head as Vitte threw a half-finished rib at her; they were all eating at one of the private booths, and she was clearly a well-known patron and celebrity. Mectail casually slapped the rib straight back down and, amazingly, back onto Vitte’s plate. The Fox [Gladiator] glared.
“She’s on my team, Zirre. Get it right.”
“Where are you from, exactly? Not Wistram, then.”
“No. Thousand Tomes.”
At the woman’s blank look, Zirre elaborated.
