“The Hundred Thousand Tomes Academy of Nerrhavia’s Fallen. It’s…the best in the kingdom.”
“And she’s not the best student. But she did get in. Let’s talk about patrons later. Who wants to dance? Is that the Singer of Terandria’s newest song?”
Vitte soared up from the table. Even Thexca and Mectail were going. Yvlon looked up as Zirre hesitated, unsure if she was joining them.
Rexel and Leprel were already dancing, incidentally. They had found partners, though you could dance alone.
“Are you dancing, Miss Yvlon?”
“I’m not sure. I don’t dance often.”
And this was not the dancing Yvlon had been raised for, which was Lyonette’s formal ballroom affair. Thexca stopped as Mectail was offered a hand by Rexel. To both her and Yvlon’s surprise, the teasing gesture turned into Mectail matching Rexel step for step. He seemed focused too, as if this were training.
“Aren’t you an adventurer, Yvlon? Surely Izril has at least one tavern.”
“Yes, we do. I don’t make a point of dancing in them.”
Thexca eyed her.
“…Want to try?”
Yvlon passed. She sat back down with Zirre. The Fox-girl was definitely not like her older sister, but she was quite friendly; like most of her classmates, they’d kept up to date on the news.
“It is just amazing, Miss Byres. Not many adventurers are on the scrying orb, but some took scrying orbs into their dungeoneering. Dungeoning? I’m sorry, I don’t know what—”
“Dungeon diving is probably the term. Really. So more are, uh, being noticed?”
Zirre shook her head.
“Not exactly. Most aren’t interesting. Wistram News Network featured a few—but the only interesting one was when the team walked into an ambush. And a lot of teams didn’t, um…look good.”
“Ah.”
Yvlon thought she understood. A team could probably reveal a lot of flaws, from picking your nose to all the things you did when you were normally not being watched. And an adventurer’s approach to taking down monsters wasn’t exactly inspiring either. Jumping them from behind wasn’t like the Village of the Dead.
Zirre told Yvlon about the Hundred Thousand Tomes Academy, which actually sounded quite decent. Not Wistram, but Nerrhavia’s Fallen had a vast amount of its own magic, and the underground academy had apparently existed from the time of Nerrhavia the Tyrant herself. It was one of the reasons why Nerrhavia’s Fallen was so powerful; it had a strong foundation of [Mages].
“I’ve actually thought about changing my focus. I’m studying traditional magic for my people, you know, but scrying might be steady work, right? I, um, don’t know about being an adventurer. I’ve wanted to—so has Vitte, but—”
Before they could finish, somehow, it was already an hour past and they were having more food with drinks. Then they hit the city, leaving the pub, and the problem cropped up again.
“So what do you want to do, Yvlon?”
“Can we discuss the patron issue?”
Rexel waved a hand, still grinning. She’d been exchanging locations with some people after dancing and she seemed hepped up by this dose of freedom.
“Silver, Silver—we can talk about it back at the arena. But come on, you have a chance to explore one of the greatest cities in the world! What do you want to do?”
“I—”
“Rexel’s right, Yvlon. What do you want to do? We’ll come with.”
The others nodded as Thexca interjected. So Yvlon had to think. She was indeed in one of the shining capitals of the world, which had so much to do any tourist would be spoiled for choice even a month in. So what did she want to do?
“…Do they have any galleries of art open for public display? Perhaps some landmarks? Some historical sections?”
Vitte’s face went blank. Rexel and Leprel exchanged a look. Mectail blinked and Thexca stared at Yvlon.
“Yeah, I’m sure we have some of them. Uh…let me get a map.”
 
——
 
No, but it was an important part of any city and culture. And each nation was quite different. For instance, Yvlon had seen art galleries in private estates and other places, and she had to admit that Nerrhavia’s wealth meant that the pigmentation open to the [Artists] here was certainly varied.
“A strong foundation in [Alchemists] must also help the design. But you paint your statues?”
“We do, Miss Byres. The bleached color of Izril and Terandria is so odd. Most things aren’t just pale marble, so why not add color?”
“Isn’t there a kind of austerity to…”
Vitte and Yvlon were admiring the sculptures on display when Vitte slapped herself, coming out of her dazed look.
“I’m going to die. Yvlon, I’ll catch you later.”
She left. Indeed, even Mectail and Thexca didn’t linger; Rexel and Leprel looked around a bit longer, but Yvlon and Zirre cut short their watching to find Mectail doing squats outside.
“I’m sorry—I am genuinely interested by Nerrhavia’s culture.”
“Each to their own. Okay, what next? We could go shopping in the bazaar, maybe do some singing with the Singer’s ‘kara-okay’ crystals—oh, there’s also trying out fun magical artifacts! Anything you want, Yvlon? What do you normally do?”
The woman hmmed. And she made the mistake of answering honestly.
“Truthfully, in Liscor or another city? I’d see the sights, art—have a drink and a meal that night, but I tend to spend most of my time in the practice courts.”
She looked at the slack looks on the others’ faces and clarified.
“I do go around—with my team. With Ksmvr especially.”
“Seeing the sights? What about…hobbies? Like getting a pawful of Dreamleaf and jumping off roofs? Or—we have lots of good restaurants.”
“Hmm. I do like good food, but that’s mostly Ceria’s thing. Pisces dances and enjoys magical items. I…”
Yvlon hesitated.
“I have a great deal of hobbies.”
Mectail prompted after a moment.
“…Such as?”
Thexca kicked him. Yvlon stood there, biting her lip. And she realized the same thing everyone else did.
She was mainly—an adventurer. When she was at Liscor? Yvlon counted it off on her fingers. Get up, eat with the team, then she went to the Adventurer’s Guild like clockwork with Ksmvr. If she went around the city, shopped—she was with Ceria, or again, Ksmvr—
It was taking the Antinium to new places he’d never been, or doing things with her team that took a lot of her day. But before that? In the Silver Spears…
“I must have swung a sword four hours a day, or spent an hour or two on my gear—and we travelled a lot…of course, I went to see the sights everywhere…”
Thexca exchanged looks with Rexel. The [Storm Bandit] cleared her throat.
“Silver.”
Yvlon looked up. Rexel patted her on the arm.
“You have no life.”
The [Armsmistress] began to protest that was untrue. But really…she sat back. Stared about. They were in a restaurant, as food was one of the uniting things even Yvlon enjoyed. She stared at a bowl of some kind of curry they were pouring over rice and other very tasty foods.
“I’m not fit company for Nerrhavia’s Fallen. Or the Coliseum of Monarchs. I’m sorry, Vitte. I’m simply focused on my team. I do…tend to work hard, I suppose. And I can’t act.”
“Not even a little bit?”
Yvlon grimaced expressively.
“I’ve seen it done. The Players of Celum—I’ve seen their performances, but I can’t imagine myself doing it. As for the showing off, attracting the crowd to get a patron?”
They had explained the system to Yvlon briefly over food. It was quite simple: if someone liked her, they could pay off the arena master or guards, or arrange favors for her in the arena. They might even pay for her freedom, or simply pay her in Vitte or Thexca’s case. In return? She might represent them, even work for them in some capacity. It ran from above-board behavior to relationships—and all the [Gladiators] warned her about that.
“You know the—you know what? It’s fair, it’s fair. Being a [Gladiator] isn’t for everyone, but you did your best. We’ll work around that. Dead gods, I don’t want to do a match tomorrow. We have another group-bout, but no Romen.”
“Well, you’re coming up with the plan to get us attention. Or we can just hit people and try to come out on top.”
Thexca slapped Vitte’s shoulder. Yvlon felt the need to clarify.
“…It wouldn’t be the same if my brother were here. I can’t imagine Ylawes would do poorly, though he’s no actor. As for Ysara—she has her own flair.”
“Older or younger?”
“Both older. Brother and sister.”
Yvlon grimaced again into her plate. She began to eat, and realised she was famished. The silver spoon glittered as she took a bite, and she instantly reached for the yogurt. When the pain abated, Yvlon sighed.
“They’re…well, Ylawes would be perfect for you, Vitte. He really is a [Knight] and he’d probably challenge people to duels.”
“Oho. So he’s really the kind of person who rides around fighting battles?”
Yvlon chewed glumly.
“You have no idea. You know those stories about [Knights]?”
Everyone nodded. Yvlon waved her spoon and frowned at it. Was it bending? She looked around.
“Excuse me, can I get a wooden spoon…? I think my grip’s too strong. Thank you. Where was I? Ylawes? He is that [Knight]. I know that sounds off, but he looks the part, he’s impossible to sway, he’s…well, a hero. Just without the class. His team is famous, you know. The Silver Swords. Countless people look up to them.”
Thexca raised her brows.
“More famous than the Horns of Hammerad?”
Yvlon started. She stared at Thexca, then sat back.
“I—well, up until—they were. They’re a veteran Gold-rank team. Ylawes could probably even meet your [Queen]; he’s got the manners for it.”
“A real knight’s [Knight]. Huh. And your sister? Why’d she do better than you? Is she higher-level? That’d be something.”
Yvlon drew in her plate with the replacement spoon.
“No…and yes. She’s not higher-level, but she is a prodigy with the sword. I have never seen anyone better. I don’t think I could beat her without Skills, maybe not even with my new arms.”
Something about the way Yvlon talked…Rexel looked around the table and saw she wasn’t the only one who noticed it. Vitte put her chin in her paws, fascinated. It was Mectail who looked at Yvlon.
“Neither one raided the Village of the Dead.”
“Ylawes might have—would have done a better job. I nearly got my team killed. I should have pulled them back.”
Yvlon grimaced. Thexca frowned at her over her meal.
“But you’re a Gold-rank. So your big sister’s the genius with the sword and your brother’s the upstanding hero. What’s Yvlon got?”
The woman looked past them. She stared at her jagged metal stump, growing slowly, her left hand. She looked up and calmly met Thexca’s gaze. Calmly, because she’d had that very thought before. And this was her answer.
“I’m the adventurer. I can’t fight like either Ylawes or Ysara. My bladework isn’t so fine, and I can’t stand in the center like Ylawes. But…”
She flexed her hand and Mectail nodded.
“…I can certainly win. I just have to work hard enough. And that’s fine. I don’t want to be Ylawes. I couldn’t, even if I tried. Ysara…”
She paused.
“I’d quite like to see her again. But not Ylawes. It’s impossible, truly.”
“What’s wrong with him?”
That was like opening the floodgates, Vitte kicked her sister under the table, because Yvlon was only too happy to explain.
“He doesn’t just act like a [Knight], he just does what he ‘thinks is right’, and that’s always the most moral outcome. It’s as if the world twists so that he’s the one who carries someone out of a burning building, or fights the monster face-to-face. I thought he was pretending at one point, but he’s not. That’s the worst part. It’s actually something like a trick.”
“How so?”
Leprel was slurping down noodles, fascinated. Yvlon grimaced.
“Ylawes isn’t an idiot. He’s actually quite experienced. So—part of it is that when he sees something happening, he puts himself right where it’s likely to swoop down. He stands in front of the [Fireball] because he sees where it’s going.”
“So he’s actually quite clever. Is he not pretending?”
Vitte was confused. Yvlon shook her head.
“No, you see. That’s all part of it. I think…Ylawes believes he’s the only person who can do what needs to be done. So he does it, regardless of the danger. And it’s not pretentious. He’s just…a good man.”
She took a long drink from her cup. Thexca whistled.
“Wow. I hate him already.”
Yvlon shook her head.
“No, he’s someone you’d like. It’s my fault. I’ve just been in his shadow for a long time. It’s not his fault he casts it. I—nevermind. I’m sorry, let’s change the subject.”
Moodily, she took a huge draft of what she realized was wine. Her friends looked at her, and, thereafter, their goals changed.
“Yvlon, it is my solemn duty to get you to have some fun. Come on. Follow me! There’s a saying in Nerrhavia’s Fallen: no one has fun like a fox!”
“No one says that.”
That was how they began the First Temptation of Yvlon. It was certainly a Gold-rank challenge. Yvlon Byres herself didn’t realize how many things she just…didn’t do. She found herself arguing with Rexel as the woman tried to offer her a pipe.
“It’s illegal.”
“Not here. Silver, as I shit on Nerrhavia’s grave, you’ve never tried anything? Not a pinch of Dreamleaf? Not a single—one puff.”
Yvlon’s arms folded like the gates of propriety itself.
“No. I don’t need drugs to enjoy myself.”
“How would you even know what that looks like—alright, fine! Who’s next?”
“Me. I’ve got just the pet for—”
“Thexca, get away from me with those scorpions!”
Vitte nearly threw an entire jar of bright red hairdye over Thexca. Which she did not get Yvlon to use, incidentally.
“Come on, don’t Terandrians love red hair? Izrilians too, I hear.”
“I don’t need to dye my hair.”
“Well, you’re going to sing, then. You can sing, can’t you?”
 
——
 
Yvlon Byres stood like the solo member of a choir, a silver hand placed over her heart. Her blonde hair shone in the light of a silver spotlight, and her clear voice had the training of tutelage behind it. She projected her voice into the silence, like an opera singer into the limitless dark, be it crowd or only the empty sky.
 
“I saw the Silver Dragon flying
Over home and golden fields…”
 
It was an old song, a House Byres song, actually. As close to an anthem as they had. Yvlon had sung it with peers at celebrations, and she still remembered every word. Her friends watched, open-mouthed.
 
“Courage be my sword and shield
While valor holds I will never yield.”
 
