One threw a knife and Yvlon felt a flash of pain across her cheeks. She saw Thexca leap forwards with a cry of outrage. Yvlon readied herself, and the first two [Gladiators] came in.
And the audience loved it. Two against nine. Three, because Zirre rallied herself enough to start casting magic. A shower of sand, even a spell that lowered the Dullahan woman’s weight so much so that Yvlon sent her flying across the ground with a punch.
That was unprompted. Unscripted. But you had the world’s best improvisers here, and Yvlon? She was an untrained actor, but she knew her source material by heart.
Oh, but it wasn’t easy. It couldn’t be or it wouldn’t be real. Someone leapt on Yvlon’s back, garroting her as another bore her to the ground and then began raining blows with a mace on her torso. But she severed the cord, which was a bit too loose, and staggered upright, drinking a potion.
But she was losing. She put up a fight as much as she could, though. The nine ducked a wire of metal that threatened to cut them in half—one of them screamed, staggering away as she cut off his arm…which turned to cloth as it hit the ground. Yvlon Byres charged them, and they scattered after fifteen minutes of fighting that left three face-down. She had them on the run, six-to-two—
They bore her down. It was so fast she never saw the tripwire, went sprawling, and the Dullahan woman herself planted a foot on her back and ground Yvlon’s face down. She turned, as Mectail went over, taking five of the six original [Gladiators] set against him with him, and only defeated by the reinforcements.
“Now bring that girl over so they can watch as she dies!”
The Dullahan boomed. The last [Gladiators] whirled—but then shouted.
“You idiots! Close it! Close it—”
The gates of Zirre’s waiting area were slowly rising. Zirre, who had fled their lazy pursuit, looked up. Yvlon struggled, but the foot held her still. She saw the Dullahan point, roaring in fury.
“Now, get her you idiots!”
She waited a beat, then whispered to Yvlon.
“I hope she can jump half as well as her sister.”
Zirre ran, screaming, as four [Gladiators] tried to grab her—then the Dullahan as well. Yvlon tackled the woman from behind, and Zirre dashed for the gates. But she was far slower, and a [Gladiator] leapt at her. The Fox-girl saw it coming and—
Leapt. Yvlon’s head rose and she heard a delighted, quiet laugh from the Dullahan woman’s throat. The audience cheered and roared as Zirre leapt through the air. Weightless. Soaring as if she had forgotten the earth had a hold on her, silver fur flashing in the light. Reaching upwards, seeing an arrow aimed—twisting—swinging herself through the air in that curious fashion.
As if orbiting an invisible force. But, of course, Yvlon could not understand how—only the name of that magic.
Gravity.
Zirre plummeted to the earth faster than anyone else, slowed—slammed into the ground as she miscalculated her descent. She rolled under the closing gates as the last [Gladiator] leapt, slammed into the bars, and howled upwards like a depraved animal. The audience was on their feet as the [Commentator] shouted.
“She’s done it! Zirre, the sister of Vitte Groundless can fly as well as the [Gladiator]! She’s escaped the Coliseum of Monarchs, but that was a splendid debut! Will she return? The Silver Killer, Thexca of Scaied, and Mectail the Striker won’t forget this humiliation and the depravity of Pethore and her gang any time soon, however! I am [Commentator]…”
Now that was a show worth coming for.
 
——
 
Afterwards, Yvlon stood in the waiting room shaking hands. Pethore herself was smiling.
“Excellent improvisation. I feared we would have to make the girl suffer. Where is Vitte? I would like to have words with her.”
“I’m going to hurt her. She’s pulled stupid stunts before, but that—Zirre, how are you doing?”
The girl had her head in her knees, but she was unharmed, and still shaking. The other [Gladiators] didn’t know where Vitte was either, but they were congratulating Yvlon on the performance.
And she? She smiled.
“I just did what my brother would do. Only, he would have actually fought you all.”
“Well then, I’m damned grateful it was you. The last thing we need is an idiot who can’t read the crowds—and that’s someone who dies. I thought you—er, well, I’m glad. Vitte, though—it is something else, to put your sister in a place where she’ll be stabbed! What were we supposed to do? Stabbing—dead gods! I did it one time on my cousin because he insisted and it traumatized him for years, Skill or not!”
Another was helping tend to Mectail, who had genuinely been quite badly battered in the fighting.
“We’ll settle this next time, Mectail. A duel to see who truly is the better fighter.”
The [Martial Artist] spat out a tooth. He eyed it ruefully and offered the torn bit of cloth to Leprel.
“I need another one. We will, Tren.”
Yvlon shook her head. Stitch-folk were as adaptive as they came. Replacing teeth, limbs…she could envy that.
She was so caught up in deciding what to do about Vitte, talking, that she didn’t see the [Guards] waiting for her until one of them interrupted.
“I have to take Yvlon Byres with me, now, [Gladiators]. Excuse me—excellent match. But her patron is waiting. There’s actually an invitation for her companions, Thexca, Mectail, and I suppose Zirre since Vitte is missing.”
The others turned. The [Gladiators] glanced with keen interest at Yvlon.
“And who is she meeting? Or is it in the secret meeting rooms?”
The [Guard] glanced over his shoulder and Thexca eyed the odd group behind him. Usually a single [Guard] just took you to a private, spell-proof room if you had to have secrecy. This though…she frowned.
Those aren’t [Arena Guards]. Their armor was far, far too ornate. Each one was, in fact, Silk, and looked down at the Cotton [Guards] who stood respectfully back, as professionally as they could. There were no less than eight of them and…her eyes went round as the [Guard] turned and lowered his voice.
“It’s not the secret rooms. Miss Yvlon Byres? I don’t know who it is but…you’re bound for the palace. The palace.”
The other [Gladiators] looked up. Yvlon sat straighter, and Mectail and Thexca exchanged a glance. Zirre sat up suddenly.
“Wait, me too?”
The [Guard] hesitated, and, at that point, the impatient Silk-caste [Palace Guard] stepped in.
“You four will all ride to the royal palace of Tyrant’s Rest, at the behest of the patron of Yvlon Byres, who sits on the Council of Steel. Their name and identity is not at liberty to be discussed; you shall all be guests of the palace until then. Make such preparations as is needed to leave in twenty minute’s time.”
Yvlon Byres nodded, heart beating faster. Someone on the Council of Steel? She…she had no idea what that was, but she could guess. The other [Gladiators] watched as the [Palace Guards] marched back, then burst into frantic gossip. Thexca sat back, and then spoke after a second.
“…You know what?”
Everyone looked at her. The woman nodded slowly to Yvlon, then Zirre.
“Forget me stabbing Vitte. I can’t think of anything that would hurt her more than knowing she’s going to miss this.”
 
——
 
It was time. Beyond time, really.
The quartet entered into the palace of Tyrant’s Rest, Resturgium, so-named because it had been seized from the Tyrant of Cloth, then rebuilt so that no stone remained that had belonged to that old seat of evil.
The Stitch-folk architecture, melding styles, and flowing approach to construction—as opposed to the rigidity of Izrilian and Terandrian forms—rightly made Resturgium one of the wonders of Chandrar and the world.
Of course, a proper monarch would receive a welcome of thousands of servants and [Slaves], some grand entrance—perhaps on the walkways of air, a procession seen across the entire city.
The four [Gladiators]—wait, was it three plus the sister of one?—were simply walked in, with no fanfare, to the Court of Silk as it convened in the wide forum. They attracted attention, of course.
“That is the adventurer from Izril. You know, the one in the scrying orb?”
“Who sent for her? Look at that arm.”
“—Swear my plumbing was working fine yesterday. In the capital? An outrage, the [Chamberlain] should be—”
Yisame sat on the royal throne which granted her hearing across the entire area. She tuned out the superfluous talk, trying not to crane her neck as she kept her face impassive. Her [Speaker] kept up a light conversation in her name as the other powerful members of the palace circulated around her, or skulked off on their own designs.
It was time…but Yvlon was at the edge of the royal courts, and a proper opening needed to appear for Yisame to quite-coincidentally meet her. Open favor…no. But it would come.
She had missed the chance to coincidentally meet Yvlon yesterday, and had to spend forty minutes meeting other [Gladiators]. Yisame pursed her lips, frowning. It might be too brazen to invite Yvlon now, but…
It was time. Those [Gladiators]—what a mockery they made of a real adventurer, a heroine of true wit and daring. Involving her in those charades? Yisame knew their playacting when she saw it.
That wasn’t Yvlon Byres. She was a Horn of Hammerad. She had gone into the Village of the Dead…Yisame saw a flash of blonde hair as Yvlon circulated. She let a [Servant] fan her, waiting impatiently as the happy group around her discussed the siege of Reim.
“Three armies have begun the advance. No sign of that Rev—that ‘Vizir’, but we have placed an army facing Khelt.”
“Facing Khelt?”
Yisame broke off from looking for Yvlon to look around in alarm. The [Strategist] hastened to clarify.
“At a great remove, of course. A symbolic position far from the borders. Yet we cannot be seen to give way to undead. As for Pomle…”
“These are insolent wasps. Incompetence is truly what it is. Too many feather touches when what is called for is the hand to wield a hammer for a decisive strike. Isn’t that so, General Thelican?”
The Stitch-man touched his beard, smiling around at the others.
“You would say it, not me, Chancellor…”
Yisame rolled her eyes, but privately. Now where was Yvlon…?
 
——
 
[Gladiator Level 6!]
[Skill – Weakness Feint obtained!]
[Skill – Suresand Step obtained!]
 
“Yvlon! What are you doing?”
Yvlon Byres jerked. She opened her eyes, and realized she’d dozed off. She sat up hurriedly as Thexca looked askance at her.
“You’re in the royal palace! Resturgium itself! Are you sleeping?”
“Yes. I levelled up as a [Gladiator] again.”
She had mixed feelings on it, but none wholly negative. Thexca hesitated.
“Oh—congratulations. Er, we’ll have to celebrate. But what are you doing?”
Yvlon sighed and stretched her back slightly. She looked around, and eyed the table filled with high-class delicacies. They sat in one of the royal courts, where Named Adventurers and [Courtiers], powerful [Magistrates] and no less than the [Queen] of Nerrhavia’s Fallen herself, Yisame, would come and deliberate upon the affairs of state.
The two [Gladiators], Thexca and Mectail, were looking around, and even he was clearly taken in by the atmosphere. Zirre? Zirre was petrified, sitting and agog.
Yvlon yawned. Thexca was offended by it, but Yvlon rubbed at her right shoulder.
“I’m sorry, Thexca. Healing and fighting in the morning…”
“Aren’t you excited? Your patron is from the Council of Steel!”
“Well, they haven’t shown up. And I think we had better prepare to be here all day.”
Yvlon glanced around the royal court. She eyed the delicacies on the table, then sat back, sighing. Thexca gave her another glare.
“You don’t seem impressed. What, do Izrilian [Ladies] get this sort of treatment all the time? We can order whatever we want—look at all the richness! Scaied is not half as rich…and we might meet the [Queen] herself!”
She trailed off. Yvlon nodded, understandingly.
“I don’t want to take away from the moment. But you should know, Thexca, we’re not going to meet the [Queen].”
“You sure? She’s sitting right there.”
Mectail pointed towards a distant throne. Yvlon shook her head.
“I know royal courts, Mectail. We are far too unimportant to get close. We’ll circulate the lesser areas. Maybe meet with curious members of the aristocracy, important figures—but not too important. Unless one of them is interested in us…it’s impossible. And who would be?”
“We are top [Gladiators]. And you’re famous from Izril.”
Yvlon waved that away.
“Not to a monarch. She could summon Named-rank adventurers.”
That put it into context for the others. Thexca eyed a frosted delicacy sprinkled with gold.
“And the furnishings? The treats? You don’t want anything?”
Yvlon looked at the sweets. She shuddered.
“…No. To be honest, I’d like more regional foods from Nerrhavia’s Fallen. This is all—well, simply rich foods. More edible gold than substance. And no, thank you. I’ve had enough pastries and sweets to last eighteen lifetimes. And fifteen stomachs.”
The others gave her a curious look. Yvlon Byres had to explain.
“I used to visit my aunt. Magnolia Reinhart. She…”
…Quite ruined even a young girl’s sweet tooth. It was like that parental trick of giving a child who tried wine an entire bottle until they were sick—not that it was a smart move. But in Yvlon’s case? She shuddered. Sweet tea. Sweet pies. Sweet…
So she was more analytical than the others. Still, Yvlon had to admit, this court was huge. Thousands of people, all who qualified to be here, and, soon enough, more than a few made her acquaintance.
“So you are the adventurer from Izril. I am the Emira Sal-Therrisa, and I have observed you on the news network, of scrying orb repute.”
The complex statement was followed by the delicate snap of a fan as a Stitch-woman with eye-shadow and a sigil of some kind painted on each cheek in gold stopped before Yvlon. All the [Gladiators] and Zirre bowed.
“I’m honored to meet your acquaintance, milady.”
Yvlon pulled from some of Ylawes for that, and the [Emira] smiled.
“Ah, Izrilian etiquette. How delightful. Tell me, Adventurer Byres. Truthfully—was all of that quite real? I have an acquaintance who insists it was staged.”
She fingered a brooch as she eyed Yvlon. The woman blinked at her.
“…It was certainly real, Emira. I don’t know what you saw exactly, but we didn’t stage the Village of the Dead raid.”
“Really. It was so untidy—and quite dangerous. Yet thrilling. And now you come here—and I hear you have been unjustly imprisoned? How did this come to pass?”
