He hesitated and his bodyguard or servant leaned over.
“Four.”
“Four transgressions. Yes, Septis.”
Yvlon Byres glanced at the man, who gave her an unfriendly look. She exhaled, slowly.
“…I cannot do that, Your Highness. I did not lie. I am Yvlon of House Byres, an Izrilian noble house, and my word is true as silver. I do not intend offense against…House Quarein of Satin or Nerrhavia’s Fallen—I am simply pointing out a corrupt man who lied and interfered with the system of law to place me in bonds illegally. That is all. I hope you will not be offended and if you try and slap me one more time, I will rip your arm off and feed it to you.”
The [Prince] recoiled and every [Guard] raised their weapons as Yvlon grabbed the glove and her hand turned into a flurry of spikes. It shredded the fabric as Septis recoiled, half-drawing his sword. Yvlon tossed the piece of fabric down.
“Back, Your Highness—to the [Prince]!”
Someone cried. The Silk Stitch-man slowly drew a dark, purple-tinted blade that made Yvlon’s nerves sing. The Hemp-man in the back calmly raised his hand, moving forwards in front of Esceit as Thexca backed up, horrified. Mectail raised a fist—
“Lay your weapons down.”
A voice from the dais. Yvlon stopped, hand raised, and the others froze, swords raised. Mainly because a line of archers had stood up, and, in front of them, a wall of [Palace Guards] were presenting enchanted steel. No less than forty advanced on Yvlon as she froze, then raised her arms.
The [Archers] had flaming arrows. Most were trained on her, but a few shifted aim towards Septis, the Hemp-man…and Mectail and Thexca. None to the [Prince].
The [Queen]. Her [Speaker] was on her feet, and it was she who called out, furious.
“You draw blades in the Court of Silk? Before Her Majesty? Even a [Prince] should not dare. Let alone an adventurer from foreign lands.”
Instantly, the Quarein family turned to the throne. Yvlon saw the [Prince] bow, face flushed, and glare at her. As if any part of this was her fault…well, she had lost her temper. She froze as they began to apologize.
“Your Majesty, we beg forgiveness for the disturbance…we will offer apologies to the throne and all present. His Highness was simply concerned with—”
“I will not accept this slight on my royal name, or that of the crown, Your Majesty. Forgive me.”
Prince Esceit broke in. He bowed to Yisame, who had never moved. Her [Speaker] stepped back, as Yisame’s fingers flashed, but she listened, glancing once at Yvlon as the [Prince] spoke.
“I will not trouble Your Majesty or the Court of Silk. Yet it is done five times now—five slights. Therefore, as this Human woman is a [Gladiator], I demand a bout in the Coliseum of Monarchs. My warriors will redress her—Septis, my loyal hand, will answer her insults in blood.”
He gestured, and Septis stepped back, sheathing his sword. The [Prince] glanced up, but the woman on the throne was silent. It was her right hand who spoke, eyes flashing, frown in full view of all.
“This entire affair…displeases us, Prince Esceit. The adventurer is a noted figure of distant Izril. We are unhappy with Quarein. Insults or no, a Gold-rank adventurer deserves respect, in combat or outside. Your warrior is no [Gladiator]; the Coliseum of Monarchs is for those who earn the right to battle there, not a grounds for simple dispute.”
The ominous speech from the [Speaker] made Pince Esceit duck his head further. His ears were bright red, and he hesitated. Before anyone else could speak—and they looked ready to drag him off—he glanced back.
“Then…if it pleases the throne, I shall answer [Gladiator] with [Gladiator]. Beton! Step forwards!”
Another figure came forwards, the calm Hemp-man who hadn’t drawn a weapon. Yvlon’s nerves tingled as he sank to one knee. The [Prince] gestured to him.
“Though it may shame the Courts to present him here—Beton is a champion of the Coliseum of Monarchs past. Beton [Doomguard]. I shall have him answer the adventurer in a manner befitting the arenas.”
Yvlon saw the [Gladiator] bow. She heard a muffled oath from behind her.
“Oh shit. That’s not…”
Thexca fell silent. And indeed, Yisame and her speaker were silent a long moment. Yvlon saw a finger twitch. The [Speaker] glanced at her, then smiled.
“We are most pleased by this. Honor to the traditions of Nerrhavia must stand above all. Honor and dignity. We shall forgive this slight once.”
“Yes, Your Majesty. I am humbled by your words. I shall arrange the match at once.”
Prince Esceit shot to his feet. He turned, and fixed Yvlon with a stare. She looked back, glancing first at Septis, who eyed her balefully…then that man.
Beton. He rose, slowly, bowing, and tilted his head her way. His face changed not at all, but Yvlon cursed. Why did these things always happen to her?
She should have let that idiot slap her. But this was Nerrhavia’s Fallen. The courts where duels were not unknown, and the dignity of such things sometimes ended in blood. Where such plots were common. And the [Queen] floated above it all, serene, impartial, an observer among a current of plots. There was little else of note as Yvlon was towed backwards to the Coliseum for a match of vendettas. No time for a patron—who never revealed themself.
But she swore, when the [Speaker] took a bad fall off the dais, that she saw a foot kick her.
 
——
 
Yvlon Byres was getting awfully sick of people making life harder for her. Greedy, shortsighted, arrogant…
She was almost glad for a chance to fight back. Almost—but she kept staring at her right arm. It was still jagged just past her wrist. She couldn’t fight at full-strength without it, even if she could pull tricks with the metal itself.
This time she needed to be at full-strength. Prince Esceit’s challenge had hit Nerrhavia’s court and city like a storm, and he did not waste time. They had a duel that evening, and Yvlon had to not only figure out how to fight—she also had to see if she was alone.
“I wish it was the other one. The right hand—Septis, that Silk [Bodyguard]. Not that it would be easy. He’s got a poisoned blade. Did you see the purple edge?”
“How good is he? Some idiot in a distant family or…?”
“Professional bodyguard. No idea how good, but they’re one of the main bloodlines. He has to be Level 30. Not higher, probably.”
“Wonderful.”
Yvlon was sitting with Rexel and Leprel as the two freaked out. Vitte was here, and Zirre, Mectail, Thexca…and even Romen and sympathetic gladiators like Pethore. They’d all heard the story by now and Vitte’s outrage…
Was somehow still focused around Vitte.
“I missed it. You didn’t even put my name on the autograph card! You put Zirre’s?”
“Vitte, shut the hell up. Yvlon, you’re in trouble. Septis was the better choice. If they let you duel him, you’d have a fair shot, one arm or not.”
“I think so.”
Yvlon didn’t like the poisoned blade, but the man hadn’t seemed impossibly good and she had a distinct whiff of arrogance from him. Vitte nodded.
“All you’d have to do is not kill him or else there’d be a second feud. Beton, though…”
Everyone fell silent. Yvlon looked around.
“He was with the [Prince]. Part of the bodyguard, despite being Hemp.”
“Because he’s the real security, along with Septis. No one’ll try to take on an arena champion. And he was the champion of this arena.”
Romen muttered. Yvlon felt at her bad arm, touching the ends of the metal.
“…So how good is he? What’s his fighting style? Can I bring any—”
“Forty-three.”
Pethore spoke. Yvlon glanced up. The Dullahan woman looked down at her, eyes sympathetic, holding her head in her hands. She placed it on the table and her head addressed Yvlon solemnly.
“Forty-three. That was his level when he became champion. In true bouts—no pretense, no acting. That was then, and it was near a decade ago, when I was first here. He uses a mace in one hand, and has a kind of arm-gauntlet on the other. He can block with it as good as anyone with a shield, and I once saw him crack the arena’s magical barrier with a blow. That…is your opponent.”
The room fell silent. Yvlon felt cold.
Level 40. A step above her current stage. A huge one. No—she had other levels. She wasn’t purely Level 30 alone but…
He might have multiple classes too. Still, Level 40. And she had one arm, and not even her dominant one.
“Maybe it won’t be to the death.”
Thexca suggested after a while. She shrugged.
“I don’t know blood-duels in Nerrhavia’s Fallen. Back in Scaied, we just tap them with poison and let them scream for a week straight. Is there any chance…?”
“It depends on whether or not the [Prince] tells Beton to finish Yvlon off once—if she loses. Thumbs up, thumbs down. Simple.”
“And the odds of…?”
Thexca looked around. No one met her glance. Vitte coughed.
“Well, he was insulted five times.”
Yvlon Byres sat there. No gear. No secret weapon. The others began trying to talk tactics.
“At least he’ll have to use standard gear.”
“That favors him, not Yvlon—someone check her potions allowance. If we can give her a Potion of Speed instead of a healing potion—”
“…saw Beton fight once. He’ll charge straight in. If Yvlon could evade…”
She didn’t partake in the strategy. Mectail wanted to run through a practice battle. Someone else suggested a [Masseuse]. When everyone stared at Romen, he lifted his hands.
“They have good Skills! It will limber her up for a battle. Anything. Any temporary buff or advantage…”
“That’s a good point. Yvlon? We could try a massage or…Yvlon?”
The woman stood up without a word.
“I need a moment. Rexel, let me know when the match is an hour away.”
She slowly walked towards her room as her friends fell silent behind her. Yet it was not in despair or desolation as they might think. Yvlon entered her room, sat down, and went for the desk drawer. She pulled out the two rings, two scrolls, and stared at them.
I could destroy all of the arena if one of these scrolls is deadly. The rings…
She reached for one, hesitated.
There was nothing stupider than putting on an unknown relic. No one was that crazy. Ceria, Pisces…Ksmvr might do it because he was young and new to the job, but she might well take her chances that the [Prince] would spare her.
But if it was certain death or not—Yvlon Byres slowly put the rings in her pockets. She hoped that wouldn’t activate them—well, swallowing them hadn’t. The scrolls? She hesitated.
The scrolls could be truly dangerous if they were the possessions of that Putrid One. She would rely on the rings as a last-ditch resort. She stood up, shaking slightly, and went to talk to Mectail and Pethore. Either training or insight into that [Gladiator]’s style would be welcome.
She walked out the door and straight into a wall of flesh. Well, more like rock. Yvlon recoiled. She looked up—
And there he was. Beton [Doomguard]. Yvlon froze. She went for the sword she, again, didn’t have and he grabbed her arm.
“You have insulted Quarein’s royal line.”
“You—what are y—”
He was right outside her room! The former [Gladiator] pivoted, and tossed Yvlon as her shoulder morphed. The spike of steel missed his hands and she hit a wall.
“What was—dead gods!”
A [Guard] came walking down the corridor, saw Beton, and went pale. The [Gladiator] ignored him. He reached out and put an arm against her shoulder, away from her metal arm, pressing her against the wall. He was strong! And—Yvlon grabbed his hand—his flesh was almost as tough as her skin!
“Steel woven into thread. Steel wool. Quarein’s gold is my cloth and flesh. I am Beton, and I ruled this coliseum. You are a Gold-rank adventurer and brave, but I tell you now—you cannot best me. If you bow and grovel before Prince Esceit, you may yet live. I am offering you this chance.”
“Gladiator Beton—you can’t—let her go!”
The [Guard] nervously shouted. Beton glanced sideways at him and the man stepped back. Beton shook his head.
“Adventurer Byres will not die here. I am offering her a chance. Do not interfere.”
“You—I didn’t start—”
Yvlon’s chest was compressing. Beton leaned forwards. His skin did have a metallic-ish cast to it. And, yes, his features were dull. A blunt, curiously flat edge to his nose, two wide-set eyes, a mop of short, tough hair in grey, and cracked lips. He looked like an upscaled version of a [Bouncer] in some bar, a [Tough]. The [Guard] was backing up, calling for reinforcements as Beton leaned forwards.
“Surrender and beg for his mercy, or I will punish you before you die, adventurer. You are not my equal. You should have been a [Knight]. A [Knight] could face me well. You? Pathetic.”
He pressed harder and Yvlon gasped. Gasped…and stared at him.
“You think…I’m a [Knight]…?”
“Better you were. But then, I have no weaknesses. Understand?”
Beton stepped back, as more [Guards] skidded around the corner, saw Beton, and decided they didn’t have enough reinforcements. He lifted one huge hand.
“Do you understand?”
Yvlon saw him point at her. She backed up, coughing.
“I do. And—I refuse to bow to your [Prince] for telling the truth! I was told this city was founded on the bones of tyrants. It doesn’t seem much has changed.”
His eyes narrowed. Yvlon saw a hand come up. The [Guards] ran forwards, saw a fist go through the wall, and ran back.
Yvlon ducked. She stared up at the crumbling stone, plaster, and Beton’s face. Now shouting filled the halls, and more [Gladiators] came running, including Mectail, who sped up when he saw Beton. The [Gladiator] stared down at Yvlon and his lips moved fractionally.
“Just like that.”
“Beton!”
The [Doomguard] turned. Yvlon saw Mectail leap and throw a palm out.
“[Aeriform Palm]!”
“[Perfect Guard].”
They touched—palm to arm blocking Mectail’s chest. This time, the shockwave made Yvlon’s ears pop. When she got up, she saw Mectail recoiling, and Beton…walking backwards.
“I gave you one last chance, Human. Remember that.”
He pointed at her and walked off. Mectail was glaring. The others stared at the hole in the wall.
“Oh, dead gods Yvlon…”
“I’ll be okay. I think. I’ll be—”
Yvlon stared back at Beton. Her lips moved slightly.
“…A [Knight]?”
 
——
 
The arena was roaring already. They did for things like this. A former [Champion Gladiator], facing a Gold-rank adventurer in a blood match of honor?
The stuff of stories. Oh, but she wished it were a story she would like.
Yisame was furious. That idiot from Quarein—she hadn’t thought they’d take it personally. The [Princes], though—they were dangerous. Too close to the throne. Yet Yvlon!
