And yet…it was their home. Merr and Bearig, Stitch-folk. Cawe’s too. What astonished Pisces was that they still loved it. They loved the land, their family, the cultures and peoples. However…Bearig looked at Rophir, then his head rose.
“…Do you think she knows?”
Everyone else turned to him. The [Cook] glanced around blankly, then clarified.
“Ah. Her Majesty, that is.”
Still, Pisces was blank. Bearig tried a third time.
“Queen Yisame of Nerrhavia’s Fallen. Do you think she knows…what Roshal does? What the likes of Igheriz, Leciaun—Riqre?”
Rophir twitched at the last name. Bearig looked guilty, but Eloque had sat up in her cart. Merr blinked long at him.
“Knows. Do you mean…about what do you mean, Bearig?”
Qshom seemed uncertain. The [Cook] struggled for words.
“I have always known [Slaves] exist. As a boy. But you see—I did not know anyone who was one…I have had them working for coin in my kitchens. Later, I knew a relative who could pay no debts and became one. A [Thief]—I was glad to see him caught. You see? I would tell a joke that I’d rather be a slave than fillet another fish this evening. I…I quite knew it. But I didn’t know.”
He looked around helplessly. Pisces met his gaze and Bearig shook his head.
“I knew it was a terrible fate. But better that than dying. A [Slave] earns their fate—they were defeated in battle, a debtor, a criminal—until I had a collar on my neck, it did not bother me in the same way. Now?”
He took a deep breath.
“Now? It has been a mere month—no, two, I suppose. For me. I have seen such things…I will never see someone in a collar again, nor—even if my bounty were lifted and I could walk around freely, without fear—I will never look at Roshal’s [Slavers] again.”
A shudder ran through those listening. Bearig looked anxiously at Rophir, but it seemed even the boy was listening. He took a deep breath.
“So. I dream of home, friends. But—when I think of it—does Her Majesty know? Not about [Slaves] but about…what it is truly like.”
No one said a thing. Pisces hesitated, and, eventually, Merr spat.
“If she does, what matter? She won’t take on Roshal; she’d lose out on far too much coin. ‘Sides which, she’s a ruler. We’re not people she’ll ever meet.”
“Yes, but, Merr…she is Her Majesty. She protects Nerrhavia’s Fallen. If she knew, surely—but then she doesn’t know. Or does she?”
Eloque glanced at Bearig.
“Do you truly believe that, Bearig? That Queen Yisame protects Nerrhavia’s Fallen?”
He squared his shoulders, a flash of indignation in his eyes.
“I’ve lived in Nerrhavia’s Fallen all my life, Eloque. It is a good nation, one I’m proud of. A nation of the String-Folk—and Queen Yisame’s a proud ruler for a man to have. Better than the King of Destruction, who abandoned his kingdom to ruin. Our cities are rich, our borders strong…and all is…well. It all seemed well, until they put me in chains. I never thought of Roshal.”
He stared down at his hands.
“She must not know, then. As much as I—perhaps more, but it must be that she has never seen the likes of Riqre. If she did?”
Pisces waited, but Bearig said nothing else. Pisces prompted him after a minute of silence.
“…Then what?”
The [Cook] looked up.
“If she did know…if she does. It has been two months. Weeks for you, Pisces. But I have seen—I shall never—”
He struggled for words. Qshom’s grip slowly tightened on his scissors until his knuckles were white. Eloque almost reached out for Rophir, but the boy was just glancing up. Bearig struggled, face contorting as Merr and Pisces rode alongside him.
“It will never be the same.”
That was all he said. They all nodded. Pisces set his eyes forwards and touched his bare neck. It would not be. And it would never be that again. Even if Roshal set every guard and bounty hunter on the world upon him—
He would never be chained again.
 
——
 
Someday, the Walled Cities would fall.
Not just them. The Drake cities and their proud monuments would crumble to ruin. Their inhabitants would flee or fight and die, screaming, their bodies ravaged and turned against their kind.
The Gnolls would perish, the great tribes of the world end, and the Waning World—or perhaps the next era—be their last. Perhaps it would take thousands of years, or tens of thousands. But they would die, adults, heroes, children…
It was nothing personal. No, truly, it wasn’t, in every sense of the phrase. He hadn’t even thought of it like that until now. When he had sworn to haunt the living, he had dedicated himself to the eradication of all life, and the hatred in his heart had continued beating even when his body fell long silent.
…But Az’kerash, Perril Chandler, had mostly meant Terandrian life at the time. He didn’t actually have a grudge against most other parts of the world. Oh, some private quibbles from life. The Lizardfolk of Baleros, for example, had made brutal war. But he had had friends…among Drakes and Gnolls.
He had done the Gnollish people a terrible injustice in a sense. Dealt them a blow beyond blows.
Az’kerash. Slayer of Kerash. That title…he had not welcomed that title when they first gave it to him. It had been a shame. A thing he had thought necessary—no—something he had done out of necessity, from the bonds made.
For his great friend.
So Az’kerash would one day overwhelm Izril under a tide of the undead, but it was not personal. He had severe distaste for some things, but it was his hatred of life itself that motivated him. He would rather tear down each Terandrian kingdom, starting with the hypocrisy of shining Calanfer…
Yet if he had a list, Az’kerash might well admit that he had sated some of his desire for vengeance against Terandria after a century of war. At the moment, if he had a Top 10 list—he would place Roshal on the top.
“Why not? It has always been thus. A cesspool…no. Cess would fain flee the depths they sink to.”
Why hadn’t it occurred to him? They would be mighty foes. Yet inevitable ones, given his ambitions. Az’kerash sat there, thinking of how even Archmage Chandler at the height of his power had not been able to eradicate Roshal, or drum up the support for it.
Perhaps if the Rhir war had ended in success…perhaps if he had lived without being cast down. Perhaps if—
At the moment, he thought of Roshal and regretted that he had concentrated so hard on Izril and Terandria. He had few agents there, and even less political power. The [Necromancer] studied the map.
It was going to be an arduous journey to escape Chandrar. Long, with countless perils due to Roshal’s wide reach.
Pisces Jealnet may have been freed, but he was far from any port, and weighed down by low-level people he had elected to protect. In any other situation, he might have been surely doomed, because Roshal had reacted to the Death of Chains’ raid by dispatching high-level [Slavers], and their most deadly [Slaves] to recapture those freed.
Level 40 [Mages] on flying carpets. Named Adventurers wearing collars. Brave and resourceful though he was, Pisces would have no chance if they concentrated on him, and no less than the Naga of Roshal was in pursuit.
However…they were going to have a bad time. Az’kerash calmly reached out to an object in front of him.
It was a small, perfectly round crystal ball hovering in midair. It looked like many scrying orbs. It was not. Most scrying orbs were clear, enchanted glass, a quartz if they were fancier.
They were generally not made of literal blood diamond, glowing with the ominous light that seemed wet, like the rare crimson moons. Their colors did not run and drip as they reflected Pisces—then a startled, straining, sweating face of a Garuda [Mage].
“Something is interfering with the scrying spell, Master!”
“Abort the spell! Cut the connection, damn you! Cut th—”
Az’kerash saw a hand striking down, holding what might have been a riding crop or something similar. He put his hand on the orb. It shone.
The screaming started before he cut the spell. He didn’t need to see the rest. Az’kerash sat back, and the dead orb floated away.
“Next. Ijvani. Bring me that scepter.”
“Yes, Master!”
The [Skeleton Mage] scuttled forwards with a staff that screamed faintly as something crawled around the inside. She watched with delight as Az’kerash lifted it in one hand.
Roshal was indeed mighty. It had vast reservoirs of artifacts, and had hoarded its strength. Well…it could join the club. And a nation’s might was not the same as an individual of his level.
The Necromancer could keep Pisces free of [Scrying] spells, as Roshal was learning. Direct aid…that was more difficult.
He eyed his own [Eye of Clairvoyance] spell, frowning down at Pisces.
“At least one raiding group. Low-level [Raiders] and [Brigands]. A [Bandit Lady]…”
Hardly ideal. The Necromancer drummed his fingers on the table.
“Ijvani, go check on the [Message] scroll. Has Fetohep of Khelt replied?”
“No, master.”
“Then…send another missive to Savere under the same identity. Emira Se-Hexri. Are there no [Mercenaries] in the entire region?”
Frustrated, he swept his hand across the orb. Ijvani hesitated.
“Master…”
“Ijvani, I am at work. What is it?”
“Master, I sent a [Message] twelve minutes ago. I can send another, but the [Mage] said…”
Az’kerash glanced up. He sat back, frowning. His black eyes flickered and he shook his head.
“Ah. Of course. In that case, hold off, Ijvani. I shall…”
He stared darkly at the scrying orb. The Necromancer tapped his fingers together.
“He is approaching a trading settlement. If he were to raise a horde…”
But would he? Perril Chandler observed Pisces. He hesitated, finger on his temple, nearly about to send a message…
To the Gold-rank adventurer. Az’kerash lowered his finger. Made a fist. Grimaced, though he was not consciously aware of doing any of these things.
“The others. If but one linked up—not the Antinium. The half-Elf. Yes. But the impetus for her learning would be…”
He hesitated. His mind scrambled over a number of scenarios. Highly difficult. Did he sacrifice the Emira? That was no issue except if the attention it garnered—arguably, Savere was more dangerous. A million gold bounty—which he could pay the Siren, but from which source? What was Fetohep of Khelt, damn…that esteemed ruler…doing?
Archmage Chandler was just about to settle on a plan that went through the Horns of Hammerad’s allies when someone interrupted him. He looked up and someone spoke.
“You are late. You must continue spellcasting or we will be in danger of failure. Or worse.”
Belavierr stood there. She regarded his setup with calm interest. Az’kerash got to his feet. He frowned about and conjured a magical timekeeper.
“I had lost track of the time, Witch Belavierr.”
“Yes. You must join me. Now.”
The Necromancer hesitated. He peered back at Pisces’ orb.
“I have a pressing—”
“I would prefer not to perish.”
Belavierr’s tone rose slightly, and that was so extraordinary that the Necromancer realized—he checked the timekeeper again and was halfway towards the door.
“I have an affair I must tend to.”
“Then choose between failure or that. Our pact will not extend to a second attempt.”
The Witch’s tone was warning. The Necromancer saw her glance ahead, and he focused on the present. Magic was twisting…he stopped walking and raised a hand to teleport in.
“I understand. I will focus my efforts there.”
“Good. I will leave with my daughter until you succeed. I shall return if the castle remains.”
Belavierr eyed Az’kerash. The Necromancer cursed. He cast one glance back—then vanished. Belavierr looked back towards the room where Ijvani appeared. The skeleton stared at the [Witch]. The Witch stared back and the skeleton slowly retreated back into the room.
“Mother?”
The undead called Maviola appeared. Belavierr turned and smiled. The…[Lady]…looked at where Az’kerash had been and then at the room.
“Are we leaving?”
“For a moment. It is still likely he will fail.”
Belavierr kept staring at the room. Maviola twisted her head from side to side.
“What is the matter with him? You said something was wrong.”
Belavierr regarded her second daughter, then the room. Ijvani poked her head out, saw there were two, and hid again. The Stitch Witch sneered. Just a small sneer, but…
“He is entangled. Entangled by his own threads.”
“Is he a fool, then?”
The Stitch Witch turned. She began striding along, holding her daughter’s arm, out of the castle.
“Fool. Not a fool. He tugs on threads too far for him to control. They move without him. Do you see them?”
She turned, hopefully, and the Revenant stared blankly ahead.
“No, Mother.”
Belavierr paused, then nodded. She stared up.
“My daughter will, someday. They move. All coming together. Four threads by fate tie faintly to the Necromancer of Terandria. Fate…fate moves. You must learn to twist it.”
“Yes, Mother.”
Maviola stared obediently at the Stitch Witch. Belavierr’s sneer turned to puzzlement. Then her eyes, the ringed orange eyes, narrowed slightly.
“They twist together here, too. From him to the Gnolls. From him to…it matters not. He has countless threads and to pluck one is difficult.”
She was trying to teach. It was about as effective as her lessons in bookkeeping to Wiskeria were. Yet her new daughter listened dutifully. And she saw Belavierr touch her chest as they left the castle.
“Threads. Many threads for mortal get. Far fewer have I. But one…”
She reached out as if to pluck it, eyes narrowed.
“I have one. It leads to him and to the Meeting of Tribes. That little thread. That…”
Her voice grew darker.
“…wretched child.”
‘Maviola’ looked at Belavierr. She looked at the thread the Witch traced, unseen. She hesitated, then decided to burst into tears.
“Me?”
 
——
 
Yvlon Byres lost the good fight. Which was because she put up a bad fight.
She slipped. That was all it took. It wasn’t a slick patch of ground, or any Skill. Sometimes you just slipped.
The foot kicked her onto her back. Yvlon hit the ground, winded, a curse on her lips. She saw someone raise a spear, aim it—and thrust it down.
The roar of the crowd thundered, and they shouted as the [Gladiator] thrust the spear down—right next to Yvlon’s head. He raised an arm, and Yvlon almost rose.
Almost. The voice thundered behind the helmet.
“Yield!”
She hesitated, raising her arm, and the figure tensed, but Yvlon only took a second to inhale.
“…I yield.”
He nodded and stepped back. Yvlon half-lay there. She wasn’t sure what to do.
“Yvlon, get out of the arena!”
