She knew Yvlon was the heroine of the Horns of Hammerad’s tale. A brave woman, who had survived encounters most warriors couldn’t dream of.
Yet she kept repeating the numbers. Level 37 [Silversteel Armsmistress] versus Beton’s Level 43 [Doomguard Gladiator Champion]—and that was ten years ago.
“A Level 40 capstone does not make an entire battle.”
“No, but it tends to win most of them. There is a huge spike in power and Beton’s no rookie. Your Majesty.”
A cracked voice replied. Yisame turned to glare, but this wasn’t her [Speaker] and her gaze bounced right off her companion in the royal booth.
“So that’s the Gold-ranker, eh? One arm and she’s already fought this morning? I’ll bet on Beton any day of the week.”
Yisame had forgotten all about that. She ground her teeth together as Yvlon came out onto the sands. She raised her one arm briefly; she had a shield strapped to the other arm. The crowd cheered and roared and jeered, because she had insulted Quarein, a beloved royal line. Satin’s caste.
When Beton entered, though, the roaring was so loud the [Silence] spells automatically activated in the royal booth. He wore no enchanted armor; just that steel armguard over one arm, running down to his hand, and holding a mace in the other.
Hemp. Metal-cloth. Yisame had heard even his bones were made more of metal than cloth, and he had shown that toughness in the arena time and time again. She ran down the list of highlights as the [Announcer] read them off.
Survived a [Fireball] point blank range. Fought a Grand Elephant to a standstill. Hit by a catapult and…
“Oh come on.”
She watched as he raised his arms and the screaming grew even louder. Yvlon Byres looked quite small, standing there, even reflected onto the large, enchanted mirror set up to magnify her. How had it come to this?
In dead silence, she watched as Yvlon Byres was given one last chance to repent her scurrilous ways. The [Prince], Esceit, did not occupy Yisame’s most royal booth, but his family and entourage, including that idiot with the glove, Septis, were all watching from the front rows. Yisame half-wished Yvlon would…
But she did not. She shook her head, and that was everything Yisame wanted of her. And yet…Yvlon lifted her sword as the [Prince] pointed at Beton. The [Doomguard] bowed and then raised his mace. The two warriors stared at each other as the [Announcer] counted it down with the crowd.
Yvlon’s heart beat down. Three. Two. One…
And then Beton charged. He launched forwards so fast that Yisame didn’t see it. Yvlon herself was caught off-guard as he flashed across the arena. His mace screamed behind him and she saw him roar a Level 40 Skill.
[Doomshaker Blow].
Not his best. But a Skill of a level above Yvlon’s. The simple, iron mace turned dark. What Yisame could only describe as a pall of dark energy charged around it, and when it swung down, she saw the air fracture and spread outwards, crushing everything the shockwave touched.
She cried out. Yisame was on her feet, so was half the arena. The other half was watching the scrying orb. They saw a flurry—then, as the dust was whisked away by spells they saw Yvlon Byres.
She had ducked the blow, unimaginably fast as it was. Beton recoiled as her sword came up and the metal on her arms twisted—stabbed in an explosion outwards. He twisted, but too slow, and as he recoiled…
The [Doomguard] stepped back, touched his shoulder. He stared at Yvlon and a drop of dark red blood hit the sands. Yisame gasped as the crowd shouted and cheered and exclaimed. Yvlon Byres charged into an attack, took a step back—and the earth exploded. A geyser of rock and sand nearly took her face off. She stumbled backwards as Beton charged again, but once more he was caught off-guard by her morphing arms. Twice now! Yisame was breathless, as her companion chortled and demanded a drink and snack.
The stuff of stories.
 
——
 
A geyser of earth? She had never even seen a Skill like that. Had he somehow transmitted a blow through the ground? Yvlon Byres rolled, panting, and saw the mace come down.
The ground kicked her. The air kicked her. She went flying, caught herself, and saw Beton turning, looking for her. Each time his mace struck, it left a terrible shockwave—she had already realized she could block one blow at most before he destroyed her shield.
Yet he wouldn’t give her one blow if he could follow it up. Nor did he give her a chance to set herself. He was already charging. Yvlon saw the mace come up and aimed a finger—a needle of metal shot out and his hand twisted—but she’d forgotten his other hand.
The gauntleted arm blocked her sword, picked her up, and Yvlon felt herself being carried in a bull-rush towards one of the walls. She swore, trying to move free, but the momentum—
Up.
Her eyes widened. She struck the wall, so hard the wind went out of her. The stone cracked and she hoped her ribs hadn’t, but—she could breathe and she saw the mace moving—
Her foot dug into the stone. No, wait—his knee! Yvlon pushed up and jumped. The mace hit the stone wall of the arena. The detonation sent her tumbling, and the entire arena’s barrier flashed as people threw up their hands from the terrific cloud of debris.
When it was gone, Beton was staring incredulously at the wall, coughing in the dust. Looking around for her…Yvlon Byres charged him from the side. He whirled, and they locked blades. Yvlon’s arms began to explode into a porcupine and his eyes went wide. He tried to back up, too slow…
The illusion. Behind.
Beton went roaring away as the crowd howled; he had been struck dozens of times as Yvlon’s arms became a living porcupine of metal! Yet he was not the Champion of Rust; he turned, eyes ablaze with fury and came at her in a roar. Yvlon saw him blur slightly as he charged her. She ran forwards, hesitated, saw the image of Beton charging her vanish. She was already turning—
And the mace nearly took her face off again. The uppercut did send her reeling backwards. Yvlon’s mouth was bloody, but she staggered back. She began her [Sword Art], sword twisting in her hand and he stopped, warily.
They faced each other, for a shuddering heartbeat, then three—then he kicked sand up at her and charged. She hit the ground, wrestling away from punching fists, that mace—
During the throw. Sword art.
Her eyes widened. And up she went. And—he raised a mace to strike her as he held her and she stabbed down. He roared and threw her and Yvlon twisted.
[Sword Art: Crescent of the Moon]!
It caught him across the chest, and even the [Doomguard]’s partial block wasn’t enough. He stared at his torn flesh, in a crescent arc across his body, and howled. Yvlon got to her feet, reaching for her own potion. She saw Beton whirl, point at her, and shout. But she wasn’t listening to that.
Four times. Four deaths. From the first blow, impossibly fast to her head, to the rock geyser attack to being trapped in the wall—now the illusion attack. She had escaped each one by the barest chance—and only because she had the reflexes to match.
And…because she’d known it had been coming. Yvlon waited. Beton struck the ground with a mace, creating a huge dust cloud, which he disappeared into. She retreated, putting her back to the wall.
Waiting for his voice to tell her what was coming next. Yvlon Byres set herself.
Knighting.
The oldest trick in a [Gladiator]’s book. It was still life-or-death. But because he’d told her—he had to be improvising with her. They were cutting each other; she’d loosened a tooth in that punch! Yet he was—
Yvlon heard a voice. She dove forwards and this time he got her. The mace came up and her chestplate bowed in. She went spinning out of the cloud, and she thought she had snapped a rib. But she was sure if he had actually meant to hit her that hard…wait for the flash. What flash? Just wait for the—
She saw his mace flash, closed her eyes, and spun right. This time she caught him across the side with a horizontal slash, and the flash of light both blinded him as it bounced off her arms, and missed her. The crowd was on their feet; the [Prince] was howling at Beton to finish Yvlon.
He couldn’t. He tried, but she was too quick, her arms too adaptive. The metal could morph, cut him as he blocked with one arm, and Yvlon was too nimble, ducking blows—and he wasted Skill after Skill, destroying a lot of the arena in grand, showy blasts and clouds of dust while she cut him across the belly, hit him with her own Skills and metal arms.
Bleeding him down.
They had three potions each. Beton used one after Yvlon’s first sword art. The second after the cut against the side; the first clearly hadn’t been enough for all his wounds so far. When he reached for the third, Yvlon knocked it off his belt and shattered it on the ground.
His back against the wall, Beton [Doomguard] kept fighting, but Yvlon had two potions left. They kept at each other, and Yvlon pulled one potion out as he hammered her to the ground but failed to finish her, then the last as the two, staggering, traded blows in the center of the arena.
She knew her friends were cheering her on. She knew the crowd was roaring, the enraged [Prince] screaming orders. She could hear none of it, only her blood pounding and that quiet voice.
Dodge, block—be wary for this Skill. A quiet, methodical tone.
Wearying, now. A rasp, each time they collided.
“Good.”
Good. She looked up, and she saw his bared teeth, his snarling face. A [Gladiator]’s grin. He shoved her back.
“Now.”
She stumbled backwards, and saluted him with her sword. Beton, breathing heavily, lifted his mace. Blood running down his legs onto the sand as the arena fell deathly quiet, he tossed his armguard away. Lifted the mace high, and came at her with a roar for the last time.
Yvlon pivoted, watching him come in. She swung her sword up, charged shoulder-first, collided, felt like she’d hit a wagon—and swung the sword.
Beton [Doomguard] lay on the ground, staring up at the sky, unable to move. A sword was embedded in his belly—not far, Yvlon hoped. He stared as she yanked at her belt—looked around for a potion and shouted.
“Good.”
His lips moved, but the sound wasn’t even audible. Yvlon gazed down at him as [Guards] rushed out with potions and the [Queen] of Nerrhavia’s Fallen herself rose to her feet, applauding. She mouthed back, shielding her face.
“Thank you.”
The Hemp-man winked slightly. Yvlon looked down at him and wanted to know how he had come to work for a [Prince] like that. No—his class, whether he had done this before—she turned her head to the stands and saw the furious [Prince] shouting down. Yvlon reached for the sword as someone rushed forwards with a healing potion, wondering what came next…
And saw the [Prince]’s bodyguard, Septis, drop to the arena’s floor, sword drawn. Yvlon stiffened and Beton looked up.
Seven [Bodyguards] landed—one hit the ground and broke his leg—behind the Silk man. Quarein was on its feet, some remonstrating with the [Prince], but he pointed at Yvlon, thumb down.
“Prince Esceit Quarein has sent his personal bodyguard into the arena to slay Yvlon Byres! This—Her Majesty herself is outraged! This is a disgrace! The—”
Yvlon Byres backed up as Septis charged across the sands. The [Arena Guards] looked up, saw the deadly poison blade, and threw themselves sideways.
“You cowards! Don’t you have any honor?”
Yvlon ran backwards, stumbling. Behind Septis, the [Gladiators] were trying to raise the door to the arena, but the other [Bodyguards] were spreading out to block them and more were leaping down.
“Septis.”
Beton spoke, trying to pull himself up as the man passed by. The [Bodyguard] sneered as he lifted his sword, slowing, aiming up for a thrusting strike. His other hand was hidden on his belt, clasping something.
“You…”
Yvlon had no words. She lifted the sword up, and felt a terrible weakness in it. Yvlon shifted her guard. No, not now! Another sword? What was wrong with…?
Fighting in the arena. The [Queen] herself was shouting fury. Yvlon angled her metal arms. She saw a flicker—her hand caught the poisoned dart and it left a notch on her silversteel flesh. No more. Septis cursed, pivoting. He stepped closer, seeing Yvlon waver, bloody and exhausted.
“Enough!”
Yvlon heard a furious voice snap across the arena. A royal voice, no [Speaker], bringing silence. She agreed. The blood beating behind her eyes was speeding up. A fury was filling her. Septis hesitated, glancing up.
Then he craned his head back. Frowning. Eyes widening. Yvlon hesitated as the man took a step back, lips forming a curse. She was tempted to look up, but it was a feint—
Wasn’t it? Yvlon saw an uncertain boy staring up at the [Queen] of Nerrhavia’s Fallen. No…something else? The Quarein family were all angled the same way as he was. So was everyone around him. Their heads slowly moving up, up…following something. Tracking—Septis leapt backwards, sword raising.
At last, Yvlon Byres looked up. She whirled, head turning as her sword stayed on-guard and saw the man charging down the steps of the coliseum. Cloth armor flying behind him, salt-flecked cloth blowing as his lips moved. As he jumped, an enchanted scimitar in hand, his own bodyguards surged after him, followed by a giant woman made of…marble?
But every eye was on him. Prince Zenol.
[Like a Lion, He Leapt]. 
The [Prince] took to the air in a single jump that carried him from the edge of the arena high overhead. Slowing, rising, until he reached the zenith of his arc and fell like a meteor towards Yvlon and Septis. The [Bodyguard] threw himself back and the Gold-rank Adventurer, the [Prince], struck the ground.
“Zenol?”
He rose, sword slashing out. Septis deflected it with an oath, then the second blow. Zenol advanced. Yvlon heard him whisper something.
 
——
 
Barelle the Bard stopped at the head of the stairs, next to Cognita Truestone, as Yisame rose to her feet. The [Bard] murmured as he saw the [Prince] land.
“[Like a Lion, He Leapt]. [He Fought With All His Pride].”
The world flashed. Barelle saw Zenol, standing in the arena, next to Yvlon Byres. Then—over a dozen figures. His [Bodyguards] leapt out of the air around him, weapons drawn.
The [Elite Bodyguard], Septis, stared at Zenol’s reinforcements, his pride. Like a lion, the [Prince] charged him.
Prince Zenol Isphel of Nerrhavia’s Fallen knocked the blade of Septis, bodyguard of Prince Esceit Quarein, down. In the Coliseum of Monarchs, before the [Queen] and all gathered, his sword swung once.
Septis’ upper torso collapsed, cut from the neck across down to his left armpit. Zenol flicked his sword and blood showered the sand. Then he turned.
