Matiala, the Druid of the Southern deserts. It is said that she controlled the life there so that it lived and breathed as one. Scorpions, worms with large teeth, Anthor colonies with hundreds of pincered warriors, all of them answered her command. It was her alone, that closed a portal to the first realm, her alone that held the deserts against the wrath of the demons.

Legends Of The Incursion

Lady Kala, one of the few Dralk with a golden mask, stares at Keve as whispers spread among the other council members. Her eyes flicker to me, shock, hope, and caution warring in her expression. I caught bits and pieces of their words, all spoken in Dralk.

“Impossible.”

“Another? But they …”

“Vishten lies-“

“What kind of protection do you offer?” The young man who’d spoken up last time asks, his mask made with gold highlights. Everyone silences at his question. “We won’t be slaves-“

Lady Kala held up her hand, and the young man stops. “Lord Makar has a good question, young Vishten Warrior. We will not be at the mercy of your people.”

“Seer Varia will make a Dralk into a Lord of the Stronghold.” Keve glances back at me, his feet shifting as he turns back to the Dralk, “You must meet the seer to know more..”

Lady Kala taps her long claws against the arm of her chair, then nods, “Your offer is appealing.” Her gaze moves to me, “But this was not what I expected.”

“You wanted protection.” I say slowly, “The protection of Kolas’s Stronghold is strong, and with your people, it could be even stronger.”

“We will make a home for all,” Keve draws their attention back to him, his eyes meeting the Vishten Lady’s without fear. “Not just us. Not just you. No one will be tossed aside to die in the wilds.”

The Wisewoman, who’d stayed quiet until now, spoke, “Strong words. But they are just words.”

He turns to her, his tattoos reflecting the strange light of the undergrowth. “It cannot be done alone. But my people walk behind me.”

“You’re a fool if you think our peoples will make peace.” Lord Makar lifts his chin, looking down on Keve. “Or have you forgotten the flames of the eastern forests?”

Keve frowns. “I do not know what you speak of.”

“An alliance was made long ago.” The Wisewoman answers, “Until your people betrayed us. Burnt our home to the ground and forced us to flee here.”

“I did not know.” Keve looks upset, but doesn’t back down from their tall gazes, “But old grudges are many.” Then he does something that catches me off guard, he speaks Dralk. “The murder of …. The Kalich’i carved from their skin, leaving only scars.”

The Dralk too, are caught off guard by the switch in language, or perhaps from the content of his words. The Wisewoman sits back in her chair, and Lord Makar looks over to Lady Kala.

The woman who leads the Dralk does not react, except for the smallest tilt of her head. She continues in common, “Wisewoman, do you know what he speaks of?”

The Wisewoman hesitates, then nods, “Yes. Lady Zarala-“

“I don’t wish to hear the mistakes of my mother.” Lady Kala cuts her off. She closes her eyes, any thoughts hidden by her mask. After a moment, she reopens them. “It seems there are horrors on both sides.”

“Peace does not come from one.” Keve bows his head, “But we offer our hand, whether it be bit, or…” He pauses, then clears his throat.

“Held.” I whisper to him.

He gives a small nod in thanks. “Whether it be bit or held.”

Lady Kala’s eyes crinkle under her mask. “You are… correct.” She lifts her head, looking over the other council members. “Peace can only be … when swords are lowered. My vote … in trust with the outsiders.”

The wisewoman meets her gaze, and nods. “My vote … in trust with the outsiders.”

Lord Makar shakes his head, “You … the pain of their swords too easily. Vakar, what do you think?”

“They keep ….” The Commander behind us says, “But they hold tight bonds. I think they speak truth.”

The young lord considers his words, then looks at me. Our eyes meet and hold each other for a long, drawn out moment. “Lady Kala, I … caution. Still, my vote … in trust with the outsiders.”

The rest of the council speaks, not a single vote going against.

Lady Kala turns to us, “I will accompany you to speak with your Seer, Vishten warrior Keve.”

“Lady Kala-“ The young lord starts, but she shakes her head at him.

“Only my word holds the … of our people, Lord Makar.”

He frowns, then lets out a frustrated sigh. He meets Commander Vakar’s eyes, and the Dralk warrior salutes him.

“We will meet you in two days, then journey to your stronghold. Take your rest before we leave.” The Dralk Lady stands up, and the rest of the council follows as they disperse.

“You did well.”

I turn, and smile at my mentor.

He looks past me to the disappearing council, then motions for me and Keve to follow him. We fall into step behind him as he leads us away from the cavernous hall. Once we are out of sight of the council, he speaks quietly, “It is rare to see them unite, but they are more desperate than they seem.”

We walk along a familiar path, leading away to the exit.

“Good luck on your journey, Leo. I’m afraid it will be some time before I see you again.”

My smile disappears as I look at his back, trying to read his emotions through the hunch in his shoulders. “What do you mean?”

“I must keep peace here while Lady Kala travels with you. Don’t worry, she will do well.”

“Won’t she need a good explorer to keep her safe while she travels to the Stronghold?”

My Master stops, then turns to me. His hand rests on my shoulder, as his eyes look into mine with an understanding I don’t appreciate. “They have an excellent explorer, mi alio, Leo. I trust you to see them safe. I am quite proud of how much you’ve grown over the last year.”

His hand lifts from my shoulder.

I look away, trying to hide the tears at the edge of my eyes. I am an adult, and yet still, during times like these, I’m reminded of the kid I once was. The one who always put on a smile, pretending to be okay, even when the world was drowning them, tearing them down, and dragging them into the depths.

His tall back was a light in the dark, one that told me I was worth more than an orphan of the frontier. He told me I was worth caring for. And some times, it feels like I can never repay that kindness.

I let out a small snort as I shake my head, then look up to try and hide the tears.

The Dralk Explorer is already walking away, but Keve gives me a soft knowing look.

I give him a small shove, then we both start walking after the old man.

He’s right, I can handle this. I can bring the Dralk to the stronghold, and then I can deal with whatever comes next, whether that’s demons, necromancers, or an ancient witch I’ve let loose in the world.

See History Of Object.

The spell forms in my hand, the runes spinning in their circles as my hazel mana lights up the world.

In front of me, the wooden golem transforms, the wood turning softer as lines of circuitry repair themselves.

Once the circuitry is perfect in front of my eyes, I lower my pen, and begin tracing the mana circuits. My mana drains from me as I repair the golem, giving it some approximation of what it once was. It’s slow, and painstakingly precise work. Still, we have time as we wait, and this is something I’d rather get done now.

The process takes an hour, and I’m forced to wait for my mana to return between certain circuits, still I’m happy with my progress.

Soon enough, I finish the last circuit, and let my spell fade. Before my eyes, a wooden finger twitches.

Then a happy surprise appears before me in the form of a blues screen.

New Profession Skill: Infuse Circuitry Ink

Lore-Mage Level Up!

Oh. If this does what I think it does, then I might have some luck with more of the golems in the Archmage’s Sanctum.

I stand up and stretch. Below me, an arm moves, and the golem slowly pushes itself up into a sitting position.

Shar lands on my shoulder, looking down at the golem as it studies its surroundings. It says something in Merlan, that I don’t understand. It’s voice is a tenor, and masculine enough that I think it’s male.

“Sorry, do you speak Southern Keltick?”

It tilts its head at me curiously, “Pardon me, good sir. But where might I be?”

“The forest outside the home of the Owls.” I answer, “How much do you remember?”

The golem looks down at its hands, where the wood is slowly crystallizing. I grab his hand without thinking, studying the effect as the wood turns into petrified wood.

“Sorry that’s not supposed to happen…” I reach for my pen, but the golem’s other hand on mine stops me.

“It’s quite alright. Simply a side effect of the alignment of your mana.”

I stare up at him in confusion, “My mana shouldn’t be aligned.”

“A neutral alignment, but an alignment all the same.” The golem stares at its hand and hums, “Judging from the hazel color, I believe it’s a knowledge alignment of some kind.” It’s eyes turn to me, “You asked me what I remember. The fall is quite prominent in my mind, I’m afraid. After that, I spent quite a long time… waiting.”

Shar shifts uncomfortably on my shoulder.

“Waiting?”

He nods, “Yes, quite a bit of it. A creature did try to enter my room towards the end, but I made quick work of it. Other than that peculiar encounter, I entertained myself with the movement of dust. Oh! And the movement of the earth was quite, well- fun, when it occurred.”

I look at the bird on my shoulder, and she hops off, transforming into a cat, “We are golems.”

The Training Golem looks at Shar with a tilted head before turning back to me. “Might I have your name, Master Mage?”

“It’s Leo,” I say thoughtfully as I study the change to the wood across its body. “Why didn’t something similar happen to you, Shar?”

Shar follows my gaze, then shrugs her cat shoulders as she licks her paw. “You’re adding age to him. I’m made of black-metal, and Geode was made of stone. Age doesn’t do much to that.”

“Age is one way to put it, although I’d argue it’s something quite different entirely. Knowledge, history perhaps.” He laughs as the process finishes. He looks up at me, a smile on his wooden face, “Hmm. Wood is a material that is quite used to change. Ah, forgive me. You introduced yourself, but I have yet to do the same. I am Teacher Merun. I was designed many years ago to safely teach the Owls how to use the darker magics of the world in combat applications.” he slowly pushes himself up until he’s standing.

He’s slightly taller than me, but not by much. Still, something tells me that those wooden limbs could pack quite the punch. I’m nowhere near good enough to say what most of his circuitry does either.

The movement of the golem draws the attention of Grildor, who’s over by the stream with the others. He laughs and sends us a wave before shaking his head and turning back to the others.

“It said you were a Training Golem.” My hand moves to the sword at my waist without thinking.

“Ah, yes. The strange system that the Paruk created. I suppose that is close enough to teacher. Tell me Leo, what has become of the Owls?” His head twists as the question is met by a hesitant silence.

Right, I should probably tell him what I’ve learned.