“That’s bad.”
Eater of Spears grumbled. The Humans were running, and the Eater Goats were breaking away from their pursuit of the faster horses. They’d just spotted their second dinner in the form of the Goblin army, and they were charging towards them, never mind that there were only a few thousand goats and hundreds of thousands of Goblins. To them, that just meant there was more to eat.
“Goblins!”
Eater of Spears roared, and the Goblin Lord’s army turned to face the goats. Pyrite strode through the ranks of his Goblins as well and heard a familiar voice.
“Crossbows and bows front! Big shields forwards! Hobs and warriors behind! Redfangs to side!”
Rags surged forwards, shouting and pointing. Her tribe set itself up, preparing for the goats. They were right in the path of the oncoming monsters. Pyrite took his position behind the line of pikes, thinking fast. Rags was employing both her old and new Goblins, but she was relying on a rank of Goblins with tower shields to slow the goats down while the bows went to work. She screamed an order, and the first ranks of crossbows and bows fired.
A stream of arrows rained down and struck the first wave of goats, eliciting braying screams. Some fell, but even the ones with arrows sticking out of their legs and torsos kept running. Rags shouted, and another volley fell, and another. The first rank of Eater Goats struck the Goblins with shields and bounced back. Some leapt but were skewered before they landed. The Eater Goats circled as they tried to find a way into the defensive formation. They nipped and bit—the Goblins with tower shields held their ground.
“Wait! Wait!”
Rags shouted at the Goblins warriors pushing the goats back. Pyrite saw a wing of her archers and warriors moving to the left side. She was going to pin the Eater Goats down and shoot them to death without risking her warriors. That was a smart move. Someone—Redscar—must have told Rags how dangerous it was to fight Eater Goats up close.
Pyrite saw it all happening as the Eater Goats began biting through the shields. Goblins shouted and screamed as they tried to force the goats back. He knew some of them would fall, but this tactic Rags had come up with was the safest. Only—Pyrite looked around.
Every eye was on Rags. Tremborag’s former Goblins were assessing her. They could see she was a genius when it came to strategy, but like Pyrite had told her, it wasn’t enough. They needed to see strength as well as intelligence. Pyrite stared at the Eater Goats fighting the Goblins with shields. Then he groaned.
“My turn.”
The Hobs around him looked confused. Pyrite turned to them and took a deep breath. He bellowed.
“Hobs!”
They straightened. Pyrite pointed ahead and roared.
“Charge! Shields back! Archers back! Hobs charge behind me! Redfangs charge!”
The Goblins gaped, and Pyrite heard an exclamation from Rags. This was not part of the plan! But Pyrite was already moving. He charged forwards, and Goblins scattered in front of him. The first rank of shields was folding as the Eater Goats leapt up, biting, ripping at the wood and metal shields. Pyrite thrust a terrified Goblin aside and raised his battleaxe.
There were thousands of the goats. They screamed, a hoarse, piercing shriek magnified from a thousand throats. Pyrite roared and charged at them. The Eater Goats didn’t expect that.
“Forwards!”
The enchanted battleaxe left Pyrite’s shoulder. He swung it, and flame burst from the edge of the axe. Five Eater Goats leaping for him were caught by the swing, and the pieces landed around Pyrite. He charged forwards, kicking a goat head-over-hooves and bringing his axe down on another. The goat gurgled, and Pyrite swept his axe.
“Forwards!”
Hobs charged through the ranks of Goblins behind him. They clashed with the front rank of Goblins, but Pyrite was still running forwards. Eater Goats were all around him. They leapt, and Pyrite swung his axe. Greydath had taught him how to use weapons. Swinging with huge strikes would get Pyrite killed. And it wasn’t necessary—his enchanted axe could cut through the goats easily. He swung the axe as fast as possible instead, covering the area ahead of him. High, low, high, low—
It was like he was a farmer with a scythe and the Eater Goats were wheat. But the wheat moved and bit. Pyrite roared as a goat got past his guard and tore a chunk out of his shoulder. But he didn’t stop. He kept moving, swinging the axe with one arm as he tore the goat—and more of his flesh—off and hurled it to the ground. If he stopped, they’d swarm him. He could only move forwards and trust the Hobs to his back, forwards and forwards, screaming that one order.
“Forwards! FORWARDS!”
Where were the Redfangs? He should have called them up earlier. Something bit Pyrite on the leg, and he kicked, shaking it off. Blood ran down his arms, and he could smell burning, the stench of cooked meat. At the very least, they’d have food. Pyrite saw the goats leaping at him, swinging his axe. He slipped—
And a bounding red wolf leapt and bit the Eater Goat, snatching it out of the air. The massive wolf, Thunderfur, worried the goat and threw it to one side. On its back, Redscar turned, his blade flashing. He leaned down and sliced an Eater Goat across the neck, killing it instantly, then turned and stabbed a leaping goat through the mouth. Redfangs bounded past him, screaming war cries and attacking the goats from the side.
“Pyrite!”
Redscar bellowed. Pyrite stood up and raised his axe. He swung it wide, and the goats in front of him vanished. Redscar blinked as Pyrite pointed.
“Attack! Don’t stop attacking!”
He charged forwards, and Redscar and the Redfangs were with him. The Hobs could barely keep up as they scythed through the Eater Goats. Pyrite kept running, swinging the heavy axe though his arms burned and his chest hurt. He only stopped when he looked around and realized there was nothing ahead of him. He looked back and saw the last of the Eater Goats being finished off behind him.
A red trail marked his passage through the monsters. Pyrite leaned on his axe, gasping, then remembered. He stood up straight as Redscar rode back towards him. The [Raid Leader] had an odd look in his eyes as he fished something from his belt and tossed it at Pyrite.
“Here.”
Pyrite caught it and blinked down at the green healing potion. He looked down and realized the goats had torn chunks out of his arms, shoulders, and legs. Absently, he drank the potion and tossed the bottle down.
“How many lost?”
“Few. Eater Goats got surprised. No good when defending. Think they started to run.”
Redscar grinned. He patted Thunderfur and let the Carn Wolf begin to eat one of the goat corpses in front of him. But he was still looking at Pyrite. He wiped his blade with one hand.
“That was—good. Impressive. Not like you.”
He nodded to Pyrite. The Hob silently wiped blood from his arms and chest. He was drenched in it. Pyrite nodded shortly.
“I know. Had to do.”
“Why?”
“To show them.”
Pyrite pointed. The Hobs were panting while the Redfang warriors of Rags’ tribe were cleaning their weapons or letting their Carn Wolves eat, tending to their injuries. But the Goblins behind them—the Hobs from Tremborag’s tribe—they were all staring at Pyrite. At the Hob who’d just cut a hole through a thousand Eater Goats by himself.
Redscar grinned at Pyrite. He understood. It was only Rags who didn’t. She rode up to Pyrite, swearing and looking ready to murder him.
“What that? That was not plan! Why attack?”
“Pyrite showing off, Chieftain.”
Redscar grinned and saluted Rags with his sword. She gave him an evil look and then looked at Pyrite.
“Why?”
Pyrite shrugged tiredly. His arms hurt.
“Have to show them, Chieftain. Show them you are smart, but also strong. I am second-in-command. Have to be strong. Show them—and show others.”
“Others?”
Rags looked around blankly. Then she noticed the other tribes.
The Eater Goats had split up in their attack. Most had gone for Rags’ tribe, but two groups had split off and attacked the other two tribes. The last of them were dying on Reiss’ side now.
The Goblin Lord’s troops had fought the Eater Goats well, although without half as much flashy tactics or aggression as Rags’ tribe. Eater of Spears was pounding the Eater Goats flat while the warriors in black armor supported him. On the other side, Garen’s warriors were already dissecting the Eater Goats that had attacked them.
“Fast.”
Pyrite murmured. He hadn’t even seen Garen’s tribe fight. Redscar shook his head.
“They didn’t attack. Garen attacked them when he saw you—”
He mimed Pyrite swinging his axe. Rags and Pyrite both looked confused.
“Why not attack?”
Redscar looked a bit sad. He glanced over at Garen then tapped a streak of red on his green skin. He had a slash of crimson paint running down his left cheek.
“Warpaint. Garen tribe has it. Mark of Redfangs. Eater Goats see, they don’t attack. Know it means death.”
“Really?”
Rags blinked. Pyrite saw Redscar was right—every Goblin in Garen’s tribe was wearing their signature war paint. Rags frowned, musing.
“Good to know. Could use, maybe.”
Then she looked over at Pyrite and scowled again. She poked one of his healing wounds, and he winced. Redscar chortled as he left them alone to order the Goblins to butcher the dead goats for food. Rags and Pyrite looked at each other.
“Took big risk.”
“Yes, Chieftain. But did show them. I think.”
Pyrite felt at his shoulder, pulled out a tooth so the flesh could regrow. He flicked it to the ground and looked at her.
“Did it work? Did it seem strong?”
He hoped it had or else he’d taken a big risk for nothing. Rags hesitated, then smiled.
“Looked like scary monster to me. Scary, big, fat Hob.”
“But not smelly.”
“But not smelly.”
They laughed. Pyrite walked back, noting the difference in the way the Goblins looked at him. One of the Hobs he recognized, a lieutenant of Tremborag’s, had been part of the fighting. Pyrite slowed and stared at him. What was his name?
“Hammersteel?”
The Hob blinked. He nodded slowly. He had a wicked maul and steel cuirass on his front as well as a reputation for picking fights.
“Pyrite. Good fight. Knew Flooded Waters tribe was right choice.”
“You think so?”
Pyrite tilted his head quizzically. Hammersteel grinned and spat.
“Think so! Garen not smart, but Chieftain Rags is. Better than traitor lord. And has strong second! Pyrite with the axe!”
He pointed to the axe and cackled. Pyrite smiled a bit. Hammersteel looked envious. He made a circumspect gesture.
“I hold?”
Pyrite nodded. Hammersteel approached—and was promptly shoved out of the way. Ulvama appeared, smiling widely. Pyrite blinked. The [Shaman] of Tremborag’s tribe wore very little in the way of clothing and instead had colorful paint on her skin. She smiled seductively at Pyrite as she kicked Hammersteel, forcing him back.
“Strong Hob. Didn’t know so strong! Good second for Chieftain Rags. I am Ulvama. You are Pyrite? We should talk. Meet each other.”
She laid a hand on Pyrite’s arm, brushing at the blood and ignoring the flies buzzing around Pyrite. He noticed the flies though and resolved to wash himself as soon as possible. He hated being dirty. Pyrite stared at Ulvama’s soft touch and grunted.
“We have met before. Long time ago.”
Ulvama’s smile slipped.
“We have?”
“Mhm. Back in Tremborag tribe. I was Goblin. Small. You were small Goblin too. Apprentice to Chief Shaman. Remember you getting in trouble for using paints.”
Ulvama’s jaw dropped. Hammersteel cackled with laughter. She turned and pointed a finger at his groin, and he yelped as the air grew subzero rapidly and fled. Ulvama turned back to Pyrite. She tilted her head.
“You were Tremborag’s?”
“Yes.”
Pyrite met her eyes. Ulvama hesitated. He could see her thinking. Her gambit to tie herself to the highest-ranked Goblin in Rags’ tribe wasn’t going well. But she didn’t give up—mainly because she had no choice. Noears had been in Tremborag’s tribe, so he was well aware of Ulvama’s ways—and he didn’t get along with Tremborag’s Goblins to begin with. It was why he’d left and why he was called Noears to begin with. Poisonbite was female, as was Rags, and neither of them were interested in other females in a way that would help Ulvama. And Redscar liked male Goblins. So Ulvama tried again.
“You want sex?”
Goblins didn’t do much subtlety. Ulvama’s first attempt had been as subtle as it got. Pyrite shook his head.
“No.”
“Why not?”
She stared at Pyrite suspiciously. He shrugged.
“Too busy. And don’t like you. You go back to wagons now. We keep moving.”
He shooed Ulvama away, ignoring her hissing and threats. Pyrite walked back to the front of his tribe. Eater of Spears was there, rubbing at a chunk taken out of one bicep. Pyrite nodded and began walking. The tribe marched after him, hurriedly packing away the meat from the dead goats. It was just one thing in a day.
But it mattered. Pyrite could sense Eater of Spears looking at him. The Hob absently swatted a fly trying to lick blood from his skin.
“What?”
“Never saw that before. Strong. Cut goats apart so quick even Garen Redfang looked scared. Why do it?”
Pyrite paused. He looked around and saw Garen Redfang was staring at him. He shrugged and looked ahead.
“It was a warning.”
“To Garen? To Tremborag Goblins?”
“To everyone.”
Pyrite looked up at Eater of Spears. The Hob paused. Then he nodded. The two walked on. Pyrite found his waterskin and tried to wipe off the blood with a little bit of water. Eater of Spears silently offered him his waterskin, and Pyrite grunted in thanks. He noticed Eater of Spears hadn’t healed the bites he’d taken—not that the Eater Goats had been able to do much damage to his skin.
“Need potion?”
“No. Have, but not waste. Will heal quick.”
The Hob shook his head and tapped a bottle on his belt. He had three potions, actually. A sign of how important he was. For the first time, Pyrite noticed that Eater of Spears had a number of objects on his belt. A little band of feathers, a token of some sort, his own belt pouches, the waterskin—and two glittering hatchets.
“What are those?”
Eater of Spears blinked down at his belt. Then he grinned.
“Throwing axes. Weak enchanted. Sharp. Reiss gave as reward.”
“Any good with axes?”
Pyrite was intrigued. He glanced back at Reiss, then at Garen and had another thought. Another bad idea or, perhaps, a good one. He raised his eyebrows, and Eater of Spears grinned.
“Have Skill. And class! Was a [Thrower] before. Can hit flying Wyverns with rocks. Don’t level class much anymore, though. But this good for [Mages]. Threw at fast-fast flying pink thing, but missed.”
