Deresdra was no longer held in place by Ren's order to 'stay like that', and she took full advantage of it. She used her fists to punch him several times, used her feet to kick him a few times, then she switched to open slaps and hit him across the face a few times. She hit hard at first, but then her blows lost their power as she started to cry, and when the last hit barely grazed his cheek, he took her into a hug. Deresdra put her head on his shoulder as she cried and bawled, and held onto him tightly.

Ren let her tears flow across his shoulder and down his back. He hadn't defended himself in the least, and had even lost a few Health points; but, he regained them quickly so it was okay.

“How... how could you... do that to me?” Deresdra got out between sobs.

“You needed to know.” Ren said. “All these people that work under contract, don't realize what that actually means for them.” He explained. “I've already had a revision submitted to the Hall Of Records, but it won't be approved by the Council for another month or so.”

“You... you changed it?” She asked, as she let him out of her tight hold. Ren nodded, and took out his own contract. She read it, and her eyes widened at the slight revisions.

“By the gods, you're a genius!” Deresdra said, and he shook his head.

“No, there's still lots of loopholes.” He said. “Like, if a healer says you can't work, unless you strip naked in front of her.”

She looked at him in surprise, and then blushed a little as she remembered what had happened then.

“The thing is, if there's too much changed, they won't approve it at all.” Ren smiled. “So I didn't go back after you... discovered... that loophole.”

Deresdra put a hand to her lips, where he'd accidentally rubbed across them that time. “That...” She swallowed. “...that was... quite a big loophole.”

Ren chuckled. “You have no idea how big... of a loophole... it could have been.”

Deresdra looked at him for a moment, and then her eyes widened. “You don't mean... you mean... just from that?!?”

“Okay, maybe you do know how big of a loophole it could have been.” Ren said and grinned. “Can I get dressed now?”

“Yes, you're cleared for work.” Deresdra said. Ren equipped his clothes and started to walk by her. “Wait.” She said, and he stopped. “Ren, I...” She sighed. “Thank you.”

“You're welcome.” He said. “Can I get to work now?”

“Of course.” She said. “See you tomorrow morning.”

“Goodbye, Ma'am.” Ren said as he left the curtained off area.

“Goodbye, Ren.”
