Matt threw out one of the few male names he’d felt needed to be championed since Liz hadn’t landed on it yet. “What about Casper? It’s a bit unique, and gives them a long and short name.”

However, midway through, Liz was already shaking her head, and he asked, “What’s wrong with it?”

Liz looked positively vindictive as she walked two fingers up his chest. “While I’ve been here putting out fires and soothing egos, I had lunch with Carissa and we may or may not have talked about baby names. I don’t think we want our kid to have the same nickname as the heir.”

“Cas?”

“Carissa is confident it's a girl, even though she swears she and Manny didn’t peek. To that end, she's dead set on Kassandra if they are right.” Putting on her best Carissa impression, she cupped her nonexistent belly and looked exasperated as she drawled, “It's a girl and I know it. I’ve been keeping the bugger inside of me for long enough, I just know.”

Matt shook his head, not believing a word of it. “They definitely peeked.”

“Of course they did. Well, maybe. I don't think Manny did. He's way too excited to talk about literally anything involving the baby to have it confirmed… anything. We talked about strollers for an hour. I figured he’d get bored at some point but nope, he’s still reading reviews and testimonies about every model on the market. No way he peeked. Carissa might have though.”

Matt pondered that for a brief enjoyable moment before he nodded at the chaos ongoing outside their bubble. “How bad is it?”

Liz sighed but didn’t resist his subject change. “Not as bad as we feared, but worse than we hoped. We might have caught the Cabal midway through this plot, but they still inserted over two hundred unauthorized rifts through our duchy. That was always going to have repercussions, even if they hadn’t been preparing key players on the other side.”

Matt knew that and nodded along. “Have we been able to sort out the true players from the smokescreens?”

At that question, Liz hesitated before waggling a hand. “A few, but I’m not going to tell you who they are yet. Not until this is over.”

Matt wanted to argue, but they both knew what his reaction would be. He didn’t enjoy going full Ascender, but he was more than tempted after the latest stunt. That was exactly why Liz had taken the lead on the scandal.

“Do we have a resolution?”

Liz’s scrunched up face told him everything he needed to know, but instead of arguing he just nodded again to show he was listening. “You aren’t going to like it.”

Matt rolled his eyes, he’d known that from the minute he’d found out from their own spies about the hundreds of illicit rifts scattered through their duchy. He hadn’t expected Liz to work that large of a miracle unless she did what he wanted to do, go and kill everyone who’d dared to touch his rifts.

“We are going to pay the fines, fees, and penalties without pushback.” Matt sucked in his lips and chewed on them for a long minute before accepting that and nodding for her to continue. “I know you don’t want to end up paying the cabal for their plan, but unless we want to tear down the very aura protections we put in place, we are going to have to eat that loss and smile while we do it. If it makes you feel better, I think we can use this to push a few other aura based measures we’d been considering. If you look at it this way, it's just really expensive campaigning.”

That actually did mollify Matt, but he didn’t get too excited. That would only be the outline of what she’d wrangled. Still, it was better than he’d hoped was possible when the news broke and he knew he couldn’t have done better. He’d need to go through everything himself and verify that fact before he truly felt at ease but he kept that thought firmly in his mind as he prepared himself to look at the situation.

Suddenly, the war and previous dynasty, along with the myriad of troubles both things brought almost seemed like a welcome relief.
