It hadn’t been until he’d reached Tier 22 that Vincenzo started publicly selling his services to modify growth items that he’d been recruited and trained by the army to his current heights. His Talent saw him advance faster than most combatants all the way to Tier 35, but there he’d remained a recalcitrant, if dutiful, soldier until the minute his contract was fulfilled.

Matt didn’t hate the man or his choices, he just wished Vincenzo was willing to keep to the more rigorous schedule as he had in the army. Or at least adopt it when ‘needs must’. His musings ended when Vincenzo started growling as the metals slithered through his body like slowly burrowing roots.

Through his connection with his sword, Matt felt the metal being… subtracted was the best word he had to describe the feeling. It wasn’t being removed, at least not exactly; though that was happening, it was more than the metal that had comprised his blade for all of its existence since he’d bought it no longer considered itself a part of the blade. Reality somehow reflected that.

It almost felt like a math equation trying to keep things balanced as the other metals started to consider themselves as part of his sword.

To Matt, the combination felt like two streams of his blade, one in and one out, each perfectly balanced. Vincenzo, on the other hand, groaned and gasped as his spirit strained to move around the metals.

Vincenzo spat out through gritted teeth as the neutronium started to slither its way through his body inch by agonizing inch. “I hate you. I hate you, I hate you, I hate youuuuu. I'll never do anything with neutronium again. The price has doubled. Tripled. Quadrupled. QUINT— AHHHH!”

His verbal complaining devolved into agonized screams as the seal of silence was broken.

If Matt hadn’t known how touch adverse Vincenzo was to everyone beyond his harem, he would have given the man a comforting pat on the shoulder, but he refrained. Instead, he did the next best thing and informed the healers on staff that had been waiting a few floors down to be more ready than they already were. He even went as far as unlocking all but the final door, knowing Vincenzo didn’t like unnecessary people inside his lab, even his healing team.

Matt could understand and respect that.

He readied a healing spell just in case, but didn’t cast it.

Two long hours later, Matt’s bloody sword was expelled from Vincenzo’s arm, where it clunked onto the table with a heavy sound that pleased a part of him that had been waiting thousands of years to hear it. However, instead of inspecting his blade, he magically lifted the spent man and delivered him to the healing staff, who started pouring spells and potions into him.

Matt waited until one of the healers gave him the all clear before he returned to his blade and the metals that used to comprise it. The latter were stored for later analysis, but he took his time with his sword, running his fingers over it feeling every bump and edge.

With a five Tier lead over the blade, it was still light enough to move, but for the first time since he was Tier 10 or so, he felt the weight of his weapon. It was no longer feather light, it had a heft and weight it previously lacked.

He felt his smile, but didn’t particularly care to suppress it.

It only took a thought to return the blade to its hollow lattice weave, and another to fill it with a bar of liquid mana. Getting his liquid mana stones to work in the longer form factor hadn’t been easy, but after over a thousand years of plugging away, he’d figured out an internal weave that kept the mana liquid without requiring a perfect sphere.

Matt let the mana dissipate as he cycled through a few more of his preset forms; a halberd, a glaive, a long dagger, and even a greatsword; before he returned it to its normal lattice longsword form as he ensured that the change of base materials hadn’t harmed his sword in any way. When everything worked the same way it always had, he quickly sketched out a few enchantments on the now blank blade.

The efficacy had taken a hit, but it was exactly what he’d calculated and he didn’t mind. He considered it a worthwhile tradeoff when he could just throw twenty percent more mana at the problem.

He could spare a few additional million mana per second in a fight.

His inspection complete, he moved to find Vincenzo awake and glaring at him through the walls.

When he got inside the lounge, he offered words of thanks. “You do good work.”

“Of course I do. Are you satisfied?”

Instead of arguing like Vincenzo clearly wanted, Matt tossed the man the storage ring he’d prepared thousands of years ago. “Payment in full as requested. One Arcane Life Scale. I even threw in a basket of Voluminous Spirit Pears for your inconvenience. There are even two of the fire variants we haven’t started selling yet. I did listen when you hinted about trying them.”

That softened the man’s expressions and he waved lazily as one of the healers handed him a medicinal smoothie meant to soothe the spiritual damage that moving so much metal had caused.

“Want a drink?”

As much as Matt wanted to decline and immediately go to the army vaults to hopefully find the item he needed to Tier his sword up, he accepted. If Vincenzo was willing to play the part of a much more gracious host, he’d do his half of the hard work. For all his quirks, the man had garnered himself a lot of soft power over the years, and given his latest scandal, Matt didn’t need another enemy. They’d probably never be friends, but being polite cost him nothing.

When he extricated himself, he [Portal]ed in front of a well guarded building deep in one of the many army bases scattered through the Capital. After a dozen rounds of scans, checks, and verifications, he was finally let inside the tower.

Instead of immediately going to the thirtieth floor, he let his spiritual perception stretch the hundreds of miles the first floor encompassed. The entire building was hyper-massive, created with innately spatial materials that magnified the already extensive spatial expansion formations, but they really did need the space.

The building and its contents weren’t inherently valuable, half of the objects were readily available on any properly Tiered world, rather it was what the collection represented that demanded so much protection.

Taking the elevator to the thirtieth floor, Matt withdrew his sword and took a long, steadying breath, hoping against the odds.

For all of Vincenzo’s advantages, his Talent had the side effect of randomizing the item that was required to Tier up a weapon. Matt only needed a single step to confirm the Tier 30 yellow footed rabbit’s fur was no longer the item his sword resonated with.

He thanked the worried Seeker kept on staff and took his sword where he moved from case to case, checking its resonance with each and every item inside. It was tedious, slow, and fruitless, but he didn’t stop or pause. Part of him wanted to just skip the hassle and use the universal upgrade item he bought, but he knew he’d feel silly if it turned out he'd have found the correct item with little difficulty. If he was so lucky he could use the stone as a bet material with the other Ascenders, or sell it for a polished mana stone or twenty from someone who was as desperate as he was.

Matt managed to keep that hope alive right until he reached the other end of the building and had scanned every type of Tier 30 material the Empire had been able to collect over millions of years. Not a single one had resonated, and he couldn’t help but add an attempt to understand why Vincenzo’s Talent had such a strange effect to the task list his [Actual Insight] worked through when otherwise unoccupied.

The required items didn’t always get altered into stupidly obscure things, but it did happen more often than not. His best guess was that it had something to do with how Vincenzo’s spirit had merged with his sword’s spirit, but that didn’t explain the divination resistance. Maybe that came from the man's Domain?

That was an interesting thought he didn’t investigate too deeply. Instead he made one much faster round about the floor just to be sure he hadn’t missed anything. When nothing changed he shrugged.

He’d waited long enough and he wanted his primary weapon at his Tier.

Withdrawing the unobtrusive stone that was the universal upgrade material, he pressed it into his blade, willing the sword to absorb the item. At first, the sword almost seemed confused as to why it was absorbing something that wasn’t what it needed to Tier up, but after a moment, something in the Natural Treasure resonated with the weapon and it eagerly devoured the stone.

Before his sword finished the process and Tiered up, he added a Tier 30 ore he’d had specifically refined and treated, letting it get pulled in and integrated. The effect was slightly muted due to the sheer amount of neutronium it was trying to affect, but combined with the secondary metals, his sword's edge grew that much sharper and more willing to cut, further reducing the downsides of his choice.

With his sword at Tier 31, Matt hefted it as he took the elevator up another flight of stairs. Midway through, he opened a portal for Vicky to return to Vincenzo’s, but he barely noticed the interruption, with most of his attention inspecting his newly Tiered up blade.

The new metals had already formed a perfect and unified whole during Vincenzo’s alterations, but Tiering it up had cemented the changes in a way he liked. With most of the blade being neutronium, he’d known it would get heavier with Tier. He had more than enough experience with the neutronium in his own body and Tiering it up to know how that would play out, but he still took his time between floors getting to know this version of his blade.

At its current weight, he was still able to wield it with one hand, but he knew that wouldn’t last very long. At least, so long as he found the required items to continue to Tier it up, because he was fresh out of universal upgrade materials. Thankfully, he ran into almost zero issues, with the on-staff Seekers able to lead him right to his items until Tier 33. There he needed to go through three quarters of the rooms to find the petrified gecko egg fragments his blade wanted, but refused to acknowledge until he’d checked manually.

After mollifying the apologetic Seeker he moved to the next floor as runners pulled a full sized piece out of storage for him to absorb. They were quick and efficient enough it was already waiting for him by the time he’d reached the next floor’s Seeker.

From there it was clear sailing.

When his blade finally reached Tier 35, Matt couldn’t help grinning, even as he had to use a hefty amount of [Gravity Manipulation] to keep from ruining the building.

His own body was heavy enough that it was an inconvenience most of the time, but JR had taken less than three percent of the bar. That tiny amount had more than quadrupled as his augment grew deeper, but he knew better than most how heavy that remaining ninety seven percent was.

Now, Matt could barely lift his longsword with a single hand let alone fight with it. He’d known that battle with his newly improved blade would take some getting used to, but his excitement was almost painful as he wanted to put it through its paces. He’d thought he’d been properly prepared via his training blades, but now that he had his sword in hand, he knew they were poor training aids, if not outright detrimental.

He briefly checked on Susanne, but when he saw she was still in the same training camp she’d been in for over a decade now, he cursed the fact his best sparring partner was out of commission.

Instead of letting himself dwell on it, he redirected. He knew where he could find a hopefully willing sparring partner. At least if she’d managed to keep to their originally expected time frame. To that end, he opened a [Portal] in front of their official ducal suite, where he felt Liz was still holed up and working contrary to his expectations.

Matt had only expected a few of the permanently stationed aides to be at the suite three months after the initial scandal, but when he saw the eighty four people all hurriedly moving about inside, he resigned himself to the fact he wasn’t going to get his desired spar any time soon.

Nearly everyone in the room popped to their feet the instant he arrived, but he waved them down even as he hurried to Liz’s office where he could already hear two copies of her giving orders.

A phoenix Liz who’d been napping on a perch was the first and only Liz to respond to his arrival by softly cooing at him. She then abandoned him as she tucked her head back under a wing and went right back to sleep.

Instead of interrupting their conversations, one of the Lizzes split off and reformed another Liz that sauntered over to him in a manner he didn’t feel quite matched the intensity of what she was dealing with.

When they separated, she drawled, “Hey there, hot stuff. What about Brendan?”

Matt created an air pocket around them and then sternly said, “Brendan Alexander Moore, you get your behind back here right now, mister!” He let the feeling of the full name linger on his tongue before nodding. “It's not bad, but I can’t say I love it. I’ve actually been thinking about Rosalie.”

Liz repeated his move with the new name, following one of the many surprisingly practical pieces of advice they’d gotten from Mara and Leon. “Rosalie Alexander Moore! Yeah I kinda like it actually. Rebounds well off the middle name and flows into the last smoothly. It's got good tempo. Let's put it on the list!”

