Soul ties sever beneath the pressure of my blade as I fly through the void.

Many of the stray fragments of energy explode outward into the void without any connection to grip onto. Unlike the soul ties that manifest in my system, this Demon's cannot grow stronger or heal itself when broken.

The energy has been artificially sealed. Every tethered glyph around its outer edges is burning through energy to keep an array active, containing this energy frozen in time the very moment before his death over a billion years ago.

I'm able to absorb the residual flawless-grade ether, but the soul ties themselves fade out of existence the moment they're separated from their main power source.

Noctus desperately reels in portions of the broken ties to reform with his main body, but even this expends a large amount of energy to recycle and use again. The pool of consciousness even becomes diluted with a far more stagnant and less pure version of his soul ties as some of the outer edges are affected by broken and malfunctioning strands of Realm Waves.

Every strand we break, I can feel the hold on the origin plane weakening, but it also sends intense mental shockwaves through my mind.

It is like a perfect map of every single soul tie in this membrane lights up on contact. They are like invisible veins, denting space, latching onto the lives that exist at its center.

Every time a strand is severed, I also feel as though the void around us is opening up and becoming even easier to travel through. It is like a mental weight is being lifted with every strand.

The more I cut through, the more it feels just like the shift I felt when Noctus expelled his last silver thread.

The very laws of the void itself are shifting with every soul tie that is broken.

We easily catch up to Noctus again. This time, he is almost defenseless to stop us from shattering his arrays. A thick blade full of fire, and a thin stream of ice obliterate over half of his remaining glyphs in the next exchange.

The trails of demonic essence filled with broken glyphs fill the void behind him as he frantically propels himself backward with an even smaller amount of remaining energy.

He does not even fully grow back his demonic form. Doing so would cost too much time. Instead, purple claws connected to a terrorized sea of gel begin latching onto the soul ties that web through the void.

He forcefully severed many to siphon out just enough energy to propel himself forward, away from our advance.

Just like the ties broken by the red and blue swords that follow, once snapped, the indentation in the void is still scarred, but there is a shift that ripples through the entire membrane, as though it is telling everything within it that this portion of the void is relieved that it can finally heal.

Many soul ties are of different sizes and strengths, and the corresponding ripples through the void feel different with every one of them.

It gets to the point where I can start to predict the sensation before it even comes, like the membrane around us has a mind of its own. The more I get accustomed to its intricacies, the more this membrane feels like an enormous semi-dormant artifact of some kind.

While slightly conscious, the sensations it triggers still feel like automatic, instinctual responses. Yet, I can't brush off the feeling that each time another ripple flows through the void, the mood of this entire strange space shifts.

Noctus' physical energy becomes smaller and smaller, even appearing no taller than a single one of my arms. He's becoming far more desperate, sacrificing an equivalent amount of soul ties that we destroy ourselves while following him.

It allows him to dodge the up-close strikes that would carry the most power, but every few swings, a long-range attack still hits, diminishing him further.

Another interesting sensation catches my attention as we chase this demon through the void. It is the number of silver threads that are summoned into existence from the void.

When long-range attacks carrying large amounts of threads are sent out, and the explosion of energy releases these threads to bend through the membrane, only the exact amount lost are able to be summoned back into my merged immortal core.

In certain moments, my entire body feels perfectly synced, like there is no room or no need for any more silver threads to hold it together.

I can vaguely feel through the malleable surface of the membrane, after summoning threads over and over again in this state. When my new body feels completely satiated with threads, it is because there are no longer any silver threads remaining behind the veil.

It is not only my body that picks up on this sensation, the heavy sword in my grasp does too. The river of silver threads in its core flows with an extremely strong purpose. The constant shifts of laws in the void make its weight in the membrane even heavier, like it is shifting toward a breakthrough of its own.
