“How many of these do you have?”

Ren took out the handful of small diamond crystals that Nathalia had given him and the dwarf's eyes nearly bulged out of his head.

“W-w-where did you get those?” He stammered

“I dug them up.”

Dorcot's eyes squinted.

Ren smiled. “From the ground, that I own. I have the deed and everything.”

The dwarf relaxed and went back to work. It didn't take long for him to cut up the diamonds into proper shapes. Ren asked him why he chose some shapes for some stones, and different shapes for the others.

“It's the shape of the crystal. Rounder ones, use a round cut. Chunks? Use the square cut. Long ones? Rectangular.” Dorcot shrugged. “You could just cut them all the same, but then you'd have a bunch of similar shaped gemstones and a gigantic pile of small ones. Where's the beauty in that?”

Ren grinned. “Beauty is in the eye of the beholder.”

Dorcot's eyes widened and then he grinned, too. “It surely is.” The dwarf gathered up the dust from all the work he did, into the same cloth Ren had used before. There was a large pile of small diamonds, and a pile of oddly shaped ones as well. They were all different cuts, and Ren was already seeing himself smelting metal to set them into.

“I really do have work to do, despite my slacking off in here with you.” Ren said and chuckled. “Are you busy today?”

Dorcot shook his head. “The wife is out working, the kids are off on their own, and I'm just sitting at home doing nothing.”

“How would you like to do something instead?”

“Like what?”

“I've got a one storey building to make out back. If you give me a hand, I'll give you something really nice to dig your Gemcutting teeth into.”

“Ha... if it's more of them things, I could do those in my sleep.”

Ren grinned and pulled out one of the fist-sized ones he had in inventory.

“Holy CRAP!”

“Those were my words exactly when I found it.” Ren said and chuckled. “So... are you interested?”

“Sir, I'd give you one of my kids to work on that!”

“That won't be necessary.” Ren smiled. “Your help is good enough.”

“Are you sure?” Dorcot asked. “I'm not too fond of Garmon. He's becoming a pompous ass.”

Ren laughed and stored the diamond crystal. “Yeah, I'm sure.”
