Is that vanilla I smell? Ren opened his eyes and saw his face was nestled into a mass of brown hair. He took a deep inhale through his nose. Yeah, definitely vanilla.

Nathalia tensed up slightly and Ren smiled.

“Sorry, I didn't mean to wake you. I just smelled something really good and had to take a deep breath.” Ren said. “I couldn't help myself; and before you ask... yes, I meant you.”

He saw that Nathalia still had a hold of his arm, and when he tried to take his arm away, she held on tightly.

“Just a few more minutes.” She said softly, and Ren smiled.

Teepo, how much time left?

“About 10 minutes.”

Thanks. Ren thought, then cuddled in a little tighter. They both took a breath and exhaled together.

*

“They still aren't up.” Narhilda said, perplexed. She'd had breakfast ready for nearly an hour now, and Ren usually came running long before this. “I'm tempted to go in there and drag them out of bed, but Nathalia made it perfectly clear that I wasn't allowed to do that.” Narhilda snorted a laugh. “Imagine, not being allowed to do something in my own house.”

*

Barnar and his workers had all the carts loaded up and ready to go. “This is going to be fun!” He said, and the workers cheered. “Let's go!”

*

The female dwarf running the stables had worked all night to get all 6 carts ready for work. The drivers had readily agreed to do some shoveling, once they found out that it was extra pay. She had found 2 extra workers for each cart, too. Once word had gotten out that she needed workers to shovel, and that they didn't have to show up until after breakfast and could leave early for supper, they practically begged her for spots on the carts. Shoveling was easy money, apparently.

*

The lumber yard was scrambling to finish filling the carts they had to deliver the 1,000 planks of lumber to House Neram.

“They're not all going to fit, Ma'am.” The foreman said to the receptionist. She rolled her eyes at him and then smiled.

“Send them in a train. Spread them out so that it looks like there's a constant flow of carts. When the first one comes back, fill it, and send it out again.”

“That's a great idea!” The foreman said. “I guess that's why you run the place, Ma'am.”

*

The caravan of carts delivering ore to various businesses and Houses left the mines in a single row. The eighth one was tasked to House Neram, with it's quota of a quarter ton of ore.

*

“Time's up.” Teepo said and crawled over to the door. “Everything should be coming soon.”

Thanks, Teepo. Ren thought and shifted away from Nathalia a little.

“Just a little longer.” She said, and Ren chuckled.

“I'd love to stay in here all day with you, Nathalia...” He said as he rolled her onto her back, and she kept a hold of his arm. “...but I've got a lot of work to do.”

Nathalia sighed. “I know. I just...”

Ren leaned in and kissed her. She let his arm go and put her hands on the sides of his face. Ren gently slid a hand up along her side and stopped when his thumb rested along the underside of her breast. Nathalia took in a quick breath and Ren broke the kiss.

“I really would like to stay here, but I can hear a pile of carts already at the gate.” Ren started to move away and Nathalia grabbed the hand that had almost cupped her breast, lifted it, and placed it on top. Ren's eyes widened as he felt how happy she was that he was touching her. She closed her eyes as he moved his hand slightly from side to side, and kneaded her breast with his fingers. Nathalia took in another breath and arched her back. It pushed her chest into his hand and Ren smiled. He let her breast go a moment later, and cupped the side of her face. She opened her eyes and he gave her a quick kiss.

“Okay, now I really have to go.” Ren said, stood up, and glanced down at himself. It was Nathalia's turn for her eyes to widen, as she saw how happy Ren was that she'd let him touch her. A loud bang of metal on wood resounded through the house.

“I'll get it!” Ren shouted and then he bowed to Nathalia. “My Lady.” He quickly turned and left the room to go and answer the gate. Teepo dropped into his hood as he passed.

*

“Oh... my...” Nathalia whispered, then curled into a ball and shivered with anticipation.

*

Ren ran through the hallway and the main room, into the kitchen. “Sorry, My Lady, we over-slept.”

“Over-slept. Uh huh.” Narhilda laughed.

Ren smiled, took her hand and bent over it. “Thank you for making breakfast. I'll be in soon to grab a bite to eat.”

Ren ran through the main room and out the front door. He stopped in the courtyard and put a hand near the hood of his cloak. Teepo.

Teepo climbed onto his hand and Ren tossed him up into the air, about 15 feet.

“It looks like it's mostly Barnar's group.” Teepo said as Ren caught him. “Toss me again.” Ren threw him a little higher this time and Teepo confirmed it was Barnar's group, and that there were more carts coming, several miles down the road.

Thanks, Teepo.

“Anytime. That was kinda fun, actually.” Teepo chittered in laughter.

Ren smiled and opened the gate. “Barnar! You're here bright and early.”

Barnar clapped Ren on the shoulder and grinned. “You've inspired me, Ren. I've got to get these horrible walls fixed!”

“I tried to warn you.” Ren chuckled. “You can set up your workspace right over here.” Ren said and pointed to a good sized area just off the road. Barnar told his workers where to set things up and turned back to Ren.

“Where do you want your bricks?” Barnar asked.

“I'm going to make a spot out back.” Ren said. “I need extra room, more than I could get inside the Keep. It would be safer if I did it above ground, too.”

“What are you doing?”

“Making several forges.”

“Yes, definitely better to do that out here.” He said. “Where do I send the cart?”

Ren walked over to the side of the walled off house and pointed. “About a hundred feet behind the house.”

Barnar looked at the uneven ground. “I don't think so, my friend.”

Ren looked down as well. “Oh, right! I needed to make a path.” He said and took out his hammerpick.

“What the hell is that?” Barnar asked, and stared at it.

“This? It's my Great Earthshaking Hammerpick of Reaping.”

“That's it's name? What does it do?”

“I've only ever used the hammer part to squish things.” Ren smiled. “It's about time that I used the other end.” He walked over to the road and picked a good spot, let the system draw a straight line to where he wanted to go, then jammed the sharp end of the hammerpick into the ground. “Be right back.” Ren said and started to run.

“By the gods!” Barnar exclaimed as Ren dragged the hammerpick through the dirt and tore up about 6 inches of it. Ren ran about the length of a football field, turned around and ran back. The earth parted for the hammerpick like it was water, and Ren ran back and forth for about 5 minutes. He stopped and looked at the 10 foot wide dug up path that he'd made.

“How in the world... no, don't tell me.” Barnar said. “You made that, didn't you?” He pointed to the hammerpick.

“Yep.” Ren responded.

“You've made it worse with all the churned up dirt, though.” Barnar shook his head. “It would have been difficult with the uneven ground, but with all that mulched up, the cart will never get through.”

“I was just making the path.” Ren grinned, stored the hammerpick, and took out a shovel. “Now I've got to clean it.” It took another 10 minutes, and Ren had all the loose dirt shoved to the sides and left a nice and flat dirt path. Ren got to the end and waved.

“Damn, that is a nice path.” Barnar said and waved the cart and pony forward. It easily went down the improvised road and dropped off the 200 stone bricks that Ren had ordered. It had plenty of room to turn around and came back with Ren right behind it.

“Your crew are almost set up.” Ren said. “I can't wait to see what the outer wall is going to look like when you're finished.”

“You're not sticking around to help?” Barnar asked.

“I'd like to, but there's too much other stuff going on.” Ren turned at the sound of another round of carts coming. “Speaking of which...”

The carts were from House Longore and were full of the paving stones Ren had ordered.

“Perfect timing!” Ren said to the head cart and the driver smiled. “Go all the way to the end and unload, please.”

The driver nodded and turned in to drive up the improvised road. The next cart pulled in, and Ren told them to go almost to the end and unload. He told each cart where to unload, and by the time the tenth (and last) cart was in front of him, he helped them unload right there by the roadside. The first cart finished and came down the road. Ren stood back and held out a silver coin to the driver.

“Thank you for the extra work of unloading.” He said and the driver's eyes widened, then took the coin. Ren repeated this for all the other drivers, even the one he'd helped. Each driver had wide eyes, but still took the coin anyways.

“You know, you didn't have to pay them for unloading.” Barnar half-whispered, once the last driver had left.

Ren smiled. “I know, but when I order more things, they'll be the first to come when I call.”

Barnar smiled, too. “You've always got your big brain thinking ahead, huh?”

“I try to.” Ren said. “I still forget things, though.” He looked over Barnar's shoulder and saw another group of 5 carts, widely spread apart, come up the road. “If my guess is right, I'll bet that's my lumber.”

When the carts were close enough, Ren looked inside the first cart and saw that it really was the lumber. It looked to be about a hundred planks, and Ren told the driver to unload in the courtyard. He said the same thing to the driver of the second cart a minute later. A minute after that, the third cart came and Ren told it to go to the end of the improvised road. When the driver of the first cart finished unloading, he mounted up and rode away quickly.

They must be going back for another load. Ren thought as the fourth cart came and he sent it down the road as well. The second driver mounted up and left, just as quickly as the first driver. He past the fifth driver about a hundred feet away from where Ren stood, and Ren told him to unload at the end of the road. As soon as the cart took the turn, Ren started to place the paving stones. Since they were exactly 1 foot across, 10 fit perfectly into the space he'd dug out.

“Sweet!” Ren said and turned to Barnar. “When the lumber carts come back, can you send them down the road?”

“Sure.”

“Thanks.” Ren said and kept laying the paving stones. It was taking longer because he didn't have an open slot, and then Ren slapped himself on the forehead. He ran back to the house and took out the crest he'd made that first time with the mold, and hung it on the front gate. He put a couple of nails around it to stop it from sliding, and smiled. He ran back to the road and stored the stack of paving stones, then dropped one after the other in a row. He criss-crossed the road over and over, laying each row of paving stones. They interlocked, so he didn't even have to worry about using mortar or even packing them in with dirt. The work went much faster after that. He got about a hundred feet in and a different cart appeared. Ren dropped the last paving stone he had in inventory onto the road, and ran over to see who it was.

“Someone rented carts and workers here?” The female driver asked.

“I did.” Ren said.

“So, what's the job?” She asked, looking around. “You've got lots of things going on here, but I don't see where 6 carts and 18 people shoveling would be needed.”

Ren chuckled. “That's because I'm having stuff moved to here, not from here.”

“Oh, that makes sense.” She said. “Where do we go?”

“The mines.” Ren said. “I'll ride along for the first time, if that's okay?”

“Sure.” She said. “Hop in.”

“Can you hold on for a minute? I need to get my fiance out here.” Ren said and the driver nodded. He ran back inside the house and called for Nathalia. He made a few egg, bacon, and toast sandwiches and stored them into inventory. Ren went outside and gave one to Princess.

“Sorry, I almost forgot to feed you.” Ren said, then went back inside to get Nathalia. She came out of the old bedroom a moment later and Ren told her what he wanted.

“Ren, I don't have any idea what you're doing.” She said. “How can I direct people?”

Ren smiled. “There's only a few carts of lumber coming, and a cart of iron ore. Just send them down the road.”

“What road?”

“The one I've got partially built beside the Keep.”

“You... you built a road...”

“It was the only way to get the silt from the mines to where I need it.”

“Oh.”

“I just have to go with the carts to the mines the first time, to show them where to dig, and then where to drop the silt off.”

“Okay.” Nathalia said, then had a thought. “Why didn't you just use the ring to ask me to come out?”

Ren smiled. “I forgot.” She snorted a laugh and her mother joined her. Ren took Nathalia's hand and switched his Camaraderie Aura to just Aura, and asked her to do the same.

“Come on, I'll introduce you.” Her face flushed a little red and she nodded. They went out past the gate and stopped in front of Barnar. “Everyone...” Ren said and they all stopped working and turned to look at him. “I'd like to introduce the Princess of House Neram, and my fiance, Nathalia Neram.”

A few of the workers clapped, and Barnar took Nathalia's hand and bent over it.

“It's an Honor to meet you.” He said and straightened up, then leaned in close. “You know, your fiance is crazy.”

Nathalia laughed. “Yes, it's part of his charm.”

Barnar let her hand go and looked at Ren. “You caught yourself a good one, there.”

“I'd like to say that I did, but she caught me, actually.” Ren laughed at Barnar's shocked face.

“You don't mean?”

Ren grinned. “Yes, she proposed to me.”

Several tools and stones were dropped in the silence that followed Ren's words. Gasps were also heard, and workers quickly picked up the dropped tools.

“She'll be in charge while I go on a short trip to the mines.” Ren said and turned to Nathalia. “I'll be back as soon as possible.” He said, stepped close, and gave her a kiss on the lips. Another tool was dropped, and then several oo's and ah's were heard, mostly from the 6 carts of married women. Ren broke the kiss, walked over to the lead cart, and climbed into the back.

“Let's roll.” Ren said and the driver turned the cart around and galloped down the road. The other 5 carts followed them and they quickly disappeared from sight.

*

