“You've got a special one there, Ma'am.” Barnar said to Nathalia.

“I know.” She said and smiled. “I know.”

*

The cart Ren was in, took the corner and passed the cart of ore going to House Neram. There were 2 people in it and it was loaded with ore.

“I just missed it.” Ren said, and about 5 minutes later, they arrived at the mine's gate. He hopped out and walked over to the guard.

“Hi, again.” Ren said.

“Good morning.” The guard said, then looked around. “Say, you don't happen to have...”

Ren grinned and handed over one of the sandwiches he'd made and the guard opened the gate without even checking the carts.

“They'll be coming and going a lot over the next few weeks.” Ren said. “Hopefully, we'll be out of your way as soon as possible.”

The guard nodded and Ren hopped back into the cart, and directed them to the mountain of silt that was off to the side of the mines.

“By the gods!” One of the women said. “We can't move that!”

Ren had all the women get out of the carts and gathered them together. “I know this looks like a lot...”

“It doesn't just look like a lot, it is a lot!” Another woman said.

Ren chuckled. “It looks that way now, but once you start shoveling it... every little bit is a little bit taken away. Trust me, it won't take long. With all of you great women working, you'll make short work of this.”

“I don't know...” The first cart driver said.

Ren looked at each woman in the eyes until he had looked at them all. “I don't want all of you shoveling all of the time.” He said. “With 2 workers, half of you can stay here and fill the carts, and the other half can stay at House Neram to empty the carts.”

“Why didn't you say that before?” One woman said. “You could have saved some of us a trip out here.”

Ren chuckled. “It wouldn't be fair to leave the same group here all day. If we have an 8 hour day, I'd like you to switch spots at 4 hours.”

“Well, that would be fair.” Another woman said.

“It saves the extra wear and tear on the carts as well. They'll move faster, making more trips without the extra person on board.” Ren said. “And you'll have a good 15 minute rest between each cart load.”

“Hey, that does make it a lot easier.” Someone else said.

“I don't want you to work hard, I want you to work well. The more you do, the more that gets done.”

“We can still leave early to make supper, right?”

Ren nodded slightly. “That's the schedule. The carts bring you after breakfast, then take you back an hour before supper.” He said. “I assume an hour is long enough?”

Most women agreed.

“Are there any questions?” Ren asked.

“Can we stay longer?” One of the extra workers asked.

“You can stay as long as you want.” Ren said and smiled. “I'm paying for the cartloads, not the time it takes to move them.”

“I guess that's fair, too.” One of the drivers said.

“Let me make this clear.” Ren said and everyone looked at him. “Don't hurt yourselves trying to fill carts as fast as you can. Take your time, fill them, then rest until the cart comes back. The same goes for unloading. Take your time, empty it, then rest until it comes back.” Ren said. “Your cart is the one you came in. For the next few weeks, that's your team.” He smiled. “Look around you. This place is filled with men, digging silt up to make this pile bigger. I want you to show them what a real woman can do.”

The women gathered smiled and a few chuckled. One cheered and another lifted her shovel above her head. Ren saw the state it was in, and mentally shook his head.

“Everyone, please hold out your shovels.” Ren said and everyone did. He pulled out his blacksmith's hammer and repaired each one, much to every single woman's surprise.

“My grandpa's shovel!” One woman exclaimed. “It looks brand new!”

“I'll keep repairing them when it's needed.” Ren said. “For free.”

Nearly everyone gasped and Ren smiled. “You're working for me, I won't have you using damaged equipment.”

“Thank you, sir.” “Thanks.” “Can I bring another shovel?” “Quiet, Mari.” “Ow.”

“Yes, you can bring another shovel for me to fix.” Ren chuckled. “Actually, I'll repair your clothing if it needs it, too.”

“Really?” “Hey, he's really nice.” “He's already engaged.” “You're married, Mari.” “Dammit.”

Ren laughed. “Let's get to work, shall we?” He said and took out his own shovel. Ren helped fill each cart up to a safe, and respectable height. “Keep it at this level, please.” He said when they were all done. “It's the best for weight and balance. Don't over-fill it.”

“Got it.” “No problem.” “He really knows what he's doing.” “You're still married, Mari.” “Dammit.”

“Have you decided who's staying first?” Ren asked. “One person from each cart.”

Six Women stayed there in a group, and Ren stepped over to them. “I'll have a guard sent over to keep an eye out, if that's okay?”

“We'd appreciate that, sir.” A woman that had been in the first cart with him, said.

“No problem.” Ren climbed into the cart and asked to stop at the foreman's office. The cart stopped there and Ren hopped out and knocked on the door.

“It's open.”

Ren opened the door and the foreman smiled. “You found a cart.”

Ren smiled back. “Six, actually. I was wondering if a guard could be assigned to the silt pile.”

“They make regular patrols.”

“I know, but I'd like one exclusively, to stand there and keep watch.” Ren said. “What about the guard at the gate?”

“Well...” The foreman hedged.

Ren chuckled. “I'll pay his salary for as long as I need him, and the hours are from after breakfast until an hour before supper.”

The foreman's eyes widened. “Are you serious? You'll pay him to watch the dirt for only 9 hours?”

“As long as he's trustworthy.”

The foreman snorted. “I wouldn't hire anyone that wasn't trustworthy.”

“Excellent. You just need someone to take over at the gate.” Ren said. “I'll let him know on the way out.”

The foreman waved acknowledgement. Ren turned to leave and then turned back.

“Have you thought about my cafeteria idea?”

The foreman nodded slightly. “I'll need to think about it for a while.”

“No problem.” Ren said. “If you decide to go with it, I know a great cook that can teach the staff.”

“You?”

Ren smiled. “I could, but my fiance is a much better cook.”

“I'll keep it in mind.”

“That's what good ideas are for.” Ren chuckled. “Have a good day.” Ren shut the door and climbed into the cart. “Onward!” he said and pointed. The driver laughed and drove the cart over to the gate. The guard opened the gate and Ren had the driver stop the cart by the guard.

“Are you interested in a job?” Ren asked.

The guard raised his eyebrows.

“You'll still be here and standing guard, but not at the gate. You'll be over by the mountain of silt, where my workers are waiting to fill these carts.”

“Sounds easy.” The guard said.

“Your job is to guard six women from any advancing men from the mines.” Ren said in a seriuos tone.

The guard stood straight and nodded.

Notice!

You have gained Honor: +10

“I'd be Honored, sir.”

“I'll pay your salary, and the hours are from after breakfast until an hour before supper. Every day for several weeks, with 1 day off each week.”

The guard saluted and he saluted back. Ren heard footsteps as they approached, and smiled.

“I believe that is your replacement for the gate.” Ren said and another guard came over.

“You're relieved.” The new guard said.

“I stand relieved.” The old guard said, nodded slightly to Ren, and ran down the road to his new station.

Ren looked at the new guard. “These carts will be coming and going from here, several times an hour.”

“Understood.”

“Would you like a sandwich?” Ren asked him.

The guard blinked and then shook his head. “No, thank you.”

Ren turned to the driver. “House Neram, please.”

“Yes, sir.” She said and flicked the reins. The pony trotted down the road, and led it's 5 companions along behind it. 10 minutes later, they arrived back at House Neram and Ren told the driver to go down the road, and to be careful. The cart went down the road and Ren didn't feel the bump at the point where he'd stopped laying the paving stones. Ren looked down to see that the road was finished.

What the? Ren thought and a minute later, the cart reached the end of the road. He got out and told the cart driver to turn the cart around, and to shovel the silt out onto the ground at the end of the road. Each cart did the same, unloading the extra worker as well. Ren spread the silt out over a large area to show the workers what to do with each cart.

“But sir...” One woman said. “...you'll run out of room here at the end of the road, in a day or so. With so much silt coming...”

Ren chuckled. “Don't worry. I'm putting it here, but it's not staying here.”

“Oh.”

“You'll see... eventually.” Ren said and left the six women to ponder at his words. He saw the pile of ore to the side, and that the rest of the lumber had been delivered. There was a crate of nails and the 4x4s, too. Ren lifted the crate of nails and the women gasped as he carried it down the road and brought it into the courtyard. Nathalia came out of the house and saw Ren carrying the crate.

“I'm sorry. I didn't know that you-”

Ren chuckled. “I didn't tell you about it, so how could you have known?”

“But...”

Ren put the crate down and took her into a hug. “You can't expect to know what I'm thinking, Nathalia.” Ren smiled. “Even I don't know what I'm thinking sometimes.”

She laughed. “That I believe.”

He gave her a quick kiss on the nose. “Who finished the road?” Ren asked. “When I left, it was only a third done.”

Nathalia blushed a little. “When you left with the carts, I saw it wasn't done. Barnar told me what you were doing, so I did that, too.”

Ren widened his eyes. “You stored a stack and dropped them into place?”

She nodded and Ren grinned. “Thank you so much, Nathalia.” He said and kissed her on the lips. “I was worried about the carts having to go from the paved part to the dirt, and you saved me from that.”

“It... it was nothing.” She said, then Ren looked at her with a raised eyebrow. She smiled and rubbed it with her thumb to make Ren laugh.

“You're still carrying all those diamond crystals, too.” Ren said and she nodded slightly.

“It's been making me stronger.”

“I'm glad.” Ren said and snuggled her a little.

“Ahem.”

Ren broke the hug, and stepped back to see Narhilda standing at the door to the house.

“There's someone here to see you, Ren.”

“Who?”

“He says he's the mine foreman's brother-in-law.”

“Right!” Ren said. “He was in the cart I passed when I left.” Ren walked over to Narhilda and gave her a kiss on the cheek. “Thanks for keeping him company for me.” He walked passed her and into the house.

*

Narhilda put a hand on her cheek. “That wasn't part of any ritual I know.” She said and blushed a little as she smiled. “I wonder if we should register a new one.”

“Ma...” Nathalia said.

“What?”

“It doesn't mean the same to him as it does to you.” Nathalia said. “He really was only thanking you.”

“I know, dear.” Narhilda said. “But it's nice to dream, isn't it?”

Nathalia walked over to her mother and gave her a hug. “Not with my husband, it's not.”

“He's not your husband yet.” Narhilda said, and laughed at her daughter's shocked expression. “Oh, stop acting so surprised. I'm just joking.”

“It's hard to tell sometimes.”

“I know! Isn't it fun?”

*

Ren went into the kitchen and saw a dwarf sitting at the table. As he walked over, he saw the dwarf had a salt-and-pepper beard and mustache, and a completely shaved head. Ren sat down on the other side of the table to face him.

“Hi, I'm Ren. I asked for you.”

“I'm Dorcot.” The dwarf smiled. “You have need of my various and fabled skills.”

Ren smiled. “I do.”

“What do you need cut?”

Ren took out the mangled diamond and passed it to Dorcot. The dwarf winced at the horrible job that was done to it, and examined it.

“Yuncith!” The dwarf spat, and stood to throw the gem across the kitchen.

“Wait!” Ren nearly shouted and Dorcot stopped. “I took it to him to try and get it cut, and he tried to scam me out of the pieces he'd cut off.” Ren took out the tied cloth and opened it, revealing 3 pieces and the dust. “If I'd known beforehand, I would have thrown the crystal into the ocean, rather than let him butcher it.”

Dorcot sat down and grunted. He looked at the gem again and kept wincing as he turned it to see all the damage done.

“Do you have somewhere I can work?”

Ren smiled and led the dwarf to the old bedroom and the huge workbench.

“Very nice.” He said, sat at the desk, and pulled out a kit similar to the one Yuncith had sold Ren. He took out a small piece of that wax like substance, warmed it up with a flame, and placed the mangled stone in it.

“You're going to lose a lot of the weight.” Dorcot said.

“That doesn't matter.” Ren said. “Make it gleam like it should.”

The dwarf smiled and got to work. Ren watched closely as Dorcot used various tools and files, and slowly worked the stone into a smaller shape. When he was done, he popped the stone out of the holding material and passed it to Ren.

Diamond - Round Cut (High Quality)

This diamond was cut by an Expert Gemcutter, and it's quality reflects that.

Ren appraised it at 50 gold coins and smiled. “This is beautiful, sir.”

The dwarf grinned. “It is, but it's only half the size of what it should be.”

Ren nodded slightly. “Can you do anything with the pieces?”

The dwarf worked for another 15 minutes, and gave Ren a small handful of tiny diamonds, each worth a gold coin.

“What about the dust?”

Dorcot shook his head. “It's only good for polishing, if attached to a thick cloth.”

“You can polish things with it?” Ren asked, surprised.

Dorcot smiled and took out a piece of cloth from his kit. He unrolled it and it glittered in the light. “Anything with an edge can be polished and sharpened, if done carefully.”

“How did you get the dust to stick to the cloth?”

“Just give the cloth a quick rub with oil, and sprinkle the dust on it. When it dries, you've got a polishing cloth.”

“Sir, you are a rare find.” Ren said and handed back the tiny diamonds.

“What are these for?” Dorcot asked. “That's 15 gold worth!”

“A payment for more work.”

“More work?”

Ren smiled. “A lot more, since I'm going to be busy doing my own work for a while.”

