“His own evacuation priority is significantly lower than yours, but in many planetary loss scenarios, he would still be saved. My people have a responsibility to Avowed. Even those who have rejected the Contract. If that was a factor in your decision, you can change your mind.”

“I’m still sure,” said Alden.

“Good,” she said.

“Do most people have to agonize over it a lot?” he asked. “I don’t have much family, so maybe it’s different.”

“I have only seen a few people make their choice,” said Zeridee, speaking after a pause. “They all chose quickly and did not change their minds. If they agonized, they must have done it afterward and gained no insight from it.”

He watched her put the tablet in with the other items.

“This is a bag of oranges.” She picked up the final object on the sofa. “They are my favorite Earth fruit, so we had them in the kitchen. I didn’t know if you would be hungry or not.”

******

“The Span remains mostly intact,” Zeridee said as she led him through the house again.

Alden was pulling his new suitcase along behind him, and his messenger bag was slung over his shoulder. Zeridee had stared at it a little but made no comment.

“A gap at this end of the bridge is preventing people from exiting, but your friends don’t seem to be among them. I’ve been examining the scene for a while.”

“Thank you for looking for them. A gap wouldn’t be a problem if they were with Maricel.”

That’s right. Kon’s teeth.

“Zeridee, do you mind if I target you? I need to preserve my messenger bag.”

“I don’t mind,” she said.

A few seconds later, bag safely preserved, he followed her into a closet-sized room full of monitors.

“I think the fastest way to obtain information will be for you to send a message to the one with the watch. Infogear is currently suffering from minor delays, but it should go through. Here.”

As she said “here” she reached into a cabinet and produced a small metal safe that opened only after she laid her hand on top of it for a while. Inside the safe was a second safe.

Alden fully expected her to pull out a bomb or a diamond the size of a baseball.

Instead, she handed him a normal infogear cellphone.

Okay. The Artonan Ambassador keeps his infogear in two safes even in the privacy of his house. I’m never saying a freaking word aloud in front of a piece of this stuff ever again.

“To use it, you need to—”

Before he could tell her that him blanking out earlier was really no reason to explain what oranges were or how to use phones, she sighed.

“Again?” she murmured in Artonan. “So many people assuming…”

“What’s wrong?” he asked in the same language.

“Contact your friends,” she said, switching back. “I will return. There are people in the garden.”

She hurried away. He typed Mehdi’s name into the phone and listed his address as the third floor of the Garden Hall boy’s dorm. Infogear didn’t care if you actually knew somebody’s number. You just had to narrow down who they were tightly enough. It was convenient right now.

He tried a voice call first, got a delay notice, and sent a text instead: [Mehdi, this is Alden. I’m safe. The guy I brought with me should be too. Is everyone all right?]

While he waited for a reply, he stared at the monitors. There were none that showed rooms in the house’s interior. They were all outside. Front Garden. Verandah. A very large back yard by local standards with an enormous greenhouse.

Nothing that looks like a hangar.

Motion on the verandah monitor drew his eye, and he watched Zeridee-und’h using her big human hand gestures to explain to a group of four people—two middle-aged men and a younger man and woman—that they couldn’t come in.

He could practically hear the conversation through the way her arms moved.

A bow—she’s so very sorry for the unpleasant circumstances. A sweep of her arm toward the water with a shake of her head—no, no, the Ambassador isn’t here and the house isn’t flood proof. Pointing at the place where the police cars had been and then north, toward the train station—please go that way. You’ve only just missed another group.

Alden watched the pantomime.

They’re not happy with her answer.

One of the men was pointing angrily at Zeridee herself and then up at an angle. Alden wasn’t sure if he was gesturing at the second floor of the house or the sky.

She bowed again, more deeply this time, gripping the end of her dark purple braid in both hands so that it didn’t trail in a puddle.

Alden suddenly wondered if maybe Ambassador Bash-nor was a piece of shit for leaving the assistant here to handle both Alden and a tense situation on her own.

The house had had a dozen of the escape flyers. Now it had one. Eleven must have left without Zeridee-und’h.

He frowned at the monitor. The two older men were arguing with each other now, and Zeridee was back upright. She didn’t look flustered at all. Nothing seemed to have fazed her yet except for the mother of the little girl she knew from the neighborhood not having accepted the teleport.

But Alden was suddenly reminded of his first visit to the lab. And the fact that Joe’s assistants had been a little scared of him.

A human! Probably it is a man human. I wonder if it’s going to do magic. I hope it’s going to help us. I hope it’s not going to hurt us.

That was what Kibby said she had been thinking the first time she’d seen him. Such simple, obvious stuff.

He left the monitor room and headed back to the front of the house.

When he made it to the entryway with the all the windows and spiky shadows, the group of people was just leaving. Zeridee was stepping back inside, a bit damper than she had been.

“Zeridee, will you be coming on the flyer with me?” Alden asked.

She let her braid drop down to swing behind her.

“No,” she said. “You will leave as soon as you have heard from your friends on the bridge. I’ll stay here. As you see, people still think this is a safe place to evacuate to, even though they have been told that the area should be abandoned. The house is on a hill, and they believe it is guarded by magic. Like a chaos fortification. If people try to shelter here, they may be swept away when the contaminant shifts toward us again.”

“Is the house really not protected?”

She blinked at him. “If it was, I would have let them in.”

“It just seems strange. I see why they all assume it.”

“The ambassadors come and go so often,” said Zeridee. “It’s a good way to get experience on Earth and gain a larger voice to influence the committees that make decisions about your species. Many ambassadors have fractious relationships with their predecessors, so they all prefer to install their own personal security measures. Ambassador Bash-nor’s protective enchantments are contained in a portable form. He took them with him to protect the chambers of the Anesidoran High Council while he met with them.”

“What about you?” Alden asked. “You’re just going to stay here, trying to make sure nobody tries to use the house as a shelter? Where will you shelter?”

She smiled. “You are kind to worry. But I will not stay too long after the last train leaves. Once I’m sure that the neighborhood is empty, I will walk to safety. It’s not very far.”

If safety was the nearest inland skyscraper, as Alden suspected, then it was a very long walk.

“I’ll stay with you,” he said. “You said it wouldn’t be long until the last train, right? I’ll stay, and I’ll help you explain to the people who come, and then we’ll both leave on the flyer together.”

******
