134

*****

Moments after the Artonan rose from his bow, he pushed the entire tray full of mugs into Alden’s hands. This is not what I was expecting, thought Alden, staring down at the selection of many teas.

The tray was heavy. Most of the ceramic vessels were giving off fragrant steam, but some of them were iced. He remembered Stuart saying he’d had to drink eight cups of wevvi before first meal one morning to be polite to the LeafSong faculty, and he wondered if he was about to have to do the same kind of thing.

Wasn’t I just standing on a possibly-broken bridge?

“The Span,” said Alden, while the Artonan studied him. He had metal iris rings, like Stuart’s, though they were a shade of pale brown that almost blended in with his eye color. “I was on the bridge, and the water was trying to pull it down. The people there—.”

“Do not worry,” the Artonan said in very clear English. “Earth’s Contract is performing to the best of its capabilities, and its capabilities are substantial. I wasn’t expecting you to arrive with a companion.”

There was nothing at all reproachful in the tone, but Alden wondered if he’d done the wrong thing.

How could it have been? I was just trying to get somebody away from trouble and help out the others. I didn’t know I’d be coming somewhere more exclusive than a shelter.

Maybe he should have suspected something like this, given the swiftness of his exit compared to everyone else’s, but he’d had a lot on his mind.

Mr. Dandelion was wringing out his Club Dandelion tank top onto the floor.

“This man was on the bridge with me,” Alden said slowly. “It was dangerous there. I thought bringing him with me would be helpful.”

“Of course,” said the Artonan, bowing his head once. “You were accomplishing all you could with your skill. I understand.”

“I’m Marks!” Dandelion said. “The letter s on the end is for luck according to my mother. So we’re going in some kind of escape plane? Sounds great to me! If there’s room for more, I’ve got some friends, my girlfriend…you’ve got ways of calling people from here I bet. You can make the System send messages like normal?”

He stepped over and reached for the nearest mug of tea.

“My name is Zeridee-und’h,” said the Artonan. “I’m sorry to meet you both under such unpleasant circumstances. That is a butterfly pea flower tea, Marks. You may have the cup. It’s a short walk to the train. A team has been summoned to keep the line running in the event of flooding, but we are endeavoring to clear this area swiftly so that the Avowed assigned here can head to more populous neighborhoods soon. Please enjoy your drink while you follow local evacuation orders.”

Oh shit, thought Alden. No company allowed.

Zeridee-und’h sounded polite and professional, but there was not a hint of wiggle room to be found in that voice.

Alden couldn’t imagine this going over well. And it was his fault even if he’d only been trying to make himself useful. He held his teas and tried to think of some way to smooth it all over.

“So there are evac teams helping out nearby!” he said. “And the neighborhood’s almost empty already? That’s great. The Span was chaotic, and I didn’t see rescuers other than Plopst—”

“Now wait a minute,” said Marks, narrowing his eyes at Zeridee-und’h. “Why am I supposed to go to a train if you two are taking a plane?”

“I’m sorry, but there is no plane. Only a single flyer. Its course is preset, so even if there were room for your friends aboard it, there would be no way for us to retrieve them.”

Zeridee-und’h walked over to one of the shuttered floor-to-ceiling windows, and hooked a finger through a latch Alden hadn’t noticed. When he pulled it open and pushed aside one of the heavy shutters, the window revealed itself to be a door that opened onto a verandah. Beyond it, a terraced garden led down to a picturesque brick lane that overlooked the tiled roofs of cottages that lined a seaside boardwalk. In daylight, Alden was sure the hill this neighborhood sat on would provide an excellent view of the ocean. Now, it provided an excellent view of a pair of parked police cars that bathed the area in flashing red and blue. A small group of people carrying backpacks and bags were climbing a stairway that led from the boardwalk up to the lane. They were escorted by a lighting drone and a man in a raincoat with reflective striping on the sleeves.

Zeridee-und’h paused at the sight of them then muttered in his own language, “Still more children. The humans need to practice ———. Not enough faith in the Contract. No ————.”

This feels uncomfortably familiar without the translation.

But at least there were people around.

“Come with me, Marks!” Zeridee-und’h motioned for him and stepped out into the rain. “Don’t be afraid for your safety. The evacuation teams are taking everyone to secure locations. There are no shortages, and there will be very minimal danger to those who arrive promptly.”

Marks looked over at Alden. “Don’t you have anything to say about this?”

Alden’s brain shuffled through options. He wanted to point out that if he was going to beg a person he’d just met to give strangers access to what sounded like a limited escape resource, he wouldn’t do it for Mr. Dandelion when there were more endearing people in plain sight.

This guy had already been rescued three times tonight from his own stupidity by Alden’s count. Once by the guys stopping to free him from the traffic pile-up he’d only been in because he’d refused to leave his car, once by Dee talking him out of just standing around waiting for someone to carry him to F, and once by Alden giving him a free ride from a bridge under oceanic assault to this place, where there were professionals directing people to safety.

My classmates are still stuck on the Span. You’re here on land. There’s a kid with a ewtwee plushie climbing the stairs with their family. Move your own ass this time.

He took a breath.

Marks is scared. Everyone’s scared. Don’t make it worse. Do the right thing.

He actually wasn’t a hundred percent sure what the right thing was. What he wanted was to shove this man off the verandah, run straight to whatever an escape flyer was, and buckle himself in. Having two Peace of Minds was great. But the wordchains didn’t make him eager to suffer through a disaster.

Again.

Why is something like this happening again? Less than an hour ago, I was hanging out in the mall with everyone else, and now…

The alerts he still hadn’t dismissed were shining in his eyes.

“I’m really sorry my teleport didn’t take you to F, Marks,” he said, trying to sound as calm as the ambassador’s assistant. “I can go with you and everyone else to the train station to make sure you get there safely. If that would make you feel more comfortable. Or I could help with—”

“Fuck,” said Marks, glowering at him. “I should’ve known some Rabbit globie wouldn’t follow the rules. I’m a D. You’re an A. You think about that! Think about that on your private jet while you’re li—”

“There’s not a jet,” Alden protested. “He just told you. And I don’t know what you think I can do for you that I haven’t already done! Do you want me to carry you to a shelter in my arms? I don’t see how it would make any sense. I probably don’t have many more physical foundation points than you. I might even have less. And I’m a B, and I don’t have any powers that make me immune to floods.”

“What about this house?” Marks demanded as he rounded on Zeridee-und’h. “You’re not letting people in? Just keeping it all to yourself.”

“The house isn’t a safe location, except for the natural safety provided by its position on the hill. This entire neighborhood is being evacuated. There is no magical shielding on this structure, and there are no wizards currently in residence to offer protection to Avowed. Ambassador Bash-nor must refuse you this household’s hospitality tonight for your own wellbeing.”

The way the assistant delivered the news sounded rote, and Alden wondered if it had been delivered to others already tonight.

Marks suddenly threw the mug of tea at the floor hard.

The ceramic bounced instead of shattering, but Alden still jumped enough to make the other mugs rattle on their tray. He felt himself stiffen up. He wondered what his body thought they were going to do if Marks got violent.

Do I hit him with my many teas? Do I swap targets and try to turn this tray into a shield? Or…

His auriad shifted against the skin of his wrist.

But instead of making even more of a scene, Marks turned and stalked out the door. By the time he hit the lane, he was waving toward the officer and the family and calling, “Wait up!” in a voice that was almost cheerful.

Alden stared after him. I guess he tries nice to get what he wants then switches to angry and forceful when it doesn’t work.

He now understood why Writher had been looking so unfriendly when he’d found Lexi yelling at this guy.

“I’m sorry,” he said. “I couldn’t just leave him on the bridge.”

“Don’t worry,” said Zeridee-und’h, looking slightly distracted. He was squinting toward the family climbing the hill. “That’s Mrs. Chandola. She is a reasonable person. Why…? I must speak with her. I’ll be right back!”

He took two steps out the door into the rain, then turned around.

“By the way, Alden Ryeh-b’t, I’m female. Hip width and nape hair aren’t good indicators in my case. I have noticed humans are less embarrassed by such misapprehensions if I clarify as soon as possible after our first meeting. Please enjoy your beverages!”

“Oh! I—”

He…she…was already running after Marks, lifting her extremely long braid as she hurried down the verandah steps with the practiced air of someone who was used to keeping it from dragging.

Alden’s first thought was, Crap. I did so good at LeafSong. I was bound to get it wrong at some point.

His second was, How many of them have noticed me checking their hips?

He was sure they didn’t really care, but he’d also prided himself on doing it quickly and unobtrusively. Zeridee-und’h was even wearing relatively form-fitting clothes—light brown trousers and a darker brown sweater with a cowl neck. Wizards were sometimes dressed in layers upon layers of fabric. The assistant’s simpler outfit had given him false confidence in his first guess.

She’d told him to enjoy his beverages, but there was no table in this room for him to set the tray on. And he was nervous about Marks’s behavior still. He stood at the door, watching the Artonan talk to the group who’d just reached the lane. She used very human hand gestures, but she used them a bit too much and a bit too emphatically.

She must be trying hard to communicate human-style. Her English is amazing.

It would make sense if the ambassador himself spoke an Earth language or two… although it did seem to be a position with a lot of turnover. In an Anesidoran history lecture Alden had attended for exit credits during intake, he’d heard at least three different ambassador so-and-so’s mentioned. But even if the ambassadors had to learn local languages, he wouldn’t have expected all of the staff to be so fluent.

There were a couple of other surprises, too. For one thing, the ambassadorial residence wasn’t in F, with the larger building that was the official embassy. The Artonans must have wanted to be fair to Apex. Either that, or they just preferred this very cute seaside residential area on the western point of the crescent to the urban tangle around their office.

And Alden also would’ve assumed that anywhere an important Artonan official lived would be magically protected.

It’s one thing for the art’h family living in their knight-governed state-sized rapport, but you’d think here on Anesidora…

Maybe she was lying just to get rid of Marks. But if the house was completely safe other Artonans would be weathering the catastrophe here, wouldn’t they?

The residence was large enough to be home to quite a few people, but it was silent at his back. If there were others here, they were being awfully stealthy.

A man was coming up the lane now with what looked like half the contents of a home piled on his back in a teetering tower that had to be held in place by magic in addition to his strength. A woman was following along behind him with her own arms loaded with bags. It was a ridiculous sight, but…

They’re all worried about their houses flooding.

Such a different tone in the middle of the same crisis. On the bridge, people were ditching shoes so they could run faster. Here, they were trying to save their whole closets.

Alden didn’t blame them for it. They’d been woken up by blaring sirens and flashing lights a very short while ago. They were confused. The neighborhood was evacuating fast, all things considered. He kept catching glimpses of a speedster running from door to door down near the water, checking houses for stragglers.

This was just danger happening at a different pace.

Zeridee-und’h smiled widely at the woman she was talking to. Bowed. And a moment later, the little girl holding the ewtwee doll disappeared.

The ambassador’s assistant hurried back to Alden.

“We’re having some unexpected trouble with people refusing the teleportation of their children,” she said, taking the tray from him and striding toward the door with the "welcome" logogram. “Your Contract is being a little too abbreviated with its orders and explanations, I think. But it’s all right! Mrs. Chandola understood. Come with me. I have dry clothes for you.”

“Is there time for something like that?”

