“Yes! It’s fine. There are people shifting the contamination away from shore here. An alert will come before they lose strength, and you are shivering.”

He realized she was right. He was drenched in frigid seawater, and the wind on the bridge hadn’t helped matters.

He had a lot of questions to ask if she was a person who had answers, but first—“Zeridee-und’h, is there a way to find out if my classmates are okay without distracting the System from its work?”

“Please call me Zeridee if the familiarity doesn’t make you uncomfortable. I prefer it. I will help you. And there is some business for us to complete together. Do you like sugar in your tea?”

******

The Artonan woman led him through the mansion so quickly that he wouldn’t have had time to appreciate the floors, tapestries, and alcoves full of carvings even if he’d been in a touristy mood as opposed to a stressed and slightly dazed one. She took him to a windowless parlor that was probably for the residents to socialize and smoke in, if he was right about those little bowls on the side tables being some kind of ashtrays.

Beside an open suitcase, a few supplies had been laid out on a long sofa covered in silky gray fabric, as if someone was meant to inspect them before they were packed away.

Me I guess.

This was surreal.

“Did you prepare all of this for me? Just now?”

Over the last half hour. While sirens went off and everyone else evacuated. Why?

“Not exactly.” Zeridee was looking at him with one eye while the other scanned the items on the sofa. “I did run to one of our neighbor’s houses to purchase clothing for you. I didn’t know what state you would be in when you arrived, and I hoped you might take comfort in having some casual human garb with you. Everything else has been prepared and kept ready since your return to Earth. I thought you would be presented with it very soon after your arrival. I assumed the ambassador would meet with you at once to ascertain your well-being and discuss your status with you.”

There was a brief pause.

“I failed to anticipate his pace. I’m sure he wished for you to be settled first, and there was no reason to rush.”

She sounded very, very polite. Alden didn’t know if she was dissing the ambassador or herself or merely stating facts.

“This is all because of Alis—Knight Alis-art’h’s commendation,” he said.

He chose to use the Artonan word for knight. The one with all the subtle layers of meaning he still hadn’t fully unpacked.

Hn’tyon was probably how he would spell it if someone asked him to, but it had an unusual first syllable, even by the standards of a language that had been forcibly unified during its history by people who didn’t want to leave out any of the cool sounds their species could make. A kind of inhaled hum, as if the word demanded a tiny gasp from the speaker before it could proceed.

“Yes,” she said. “Do you want help dressing yourself?”

It took Alden a second to realize she was literally asking rather than telling him to hurry it along.

The clothes she’d bought from the neighbor were a long pair of khaki walking shorts, hiking sandals, and a sweatshirt that said CANADA in red letters.

“Um…no, thank you. I can handle this on my own.”

He stripped off the poncho. There was no good place to drop it and he’d already trailed water through the entire house without her complaining about it, so he just let it fall onto the floor. As he shrugged out of his soggy green plaid over shirt, she turned her back.

“I will explain the situation to you while you dry off and re-clothe yourself.

She’s not even leaving the room?

The auriad was tucked under his bracelet and he had no reason to hide his contract tattoo from her, so he guessed it was fine if a turned back was as much privacy as he got. And now that dry clothes were right in front of him, and his adrenaline was giving out, he was acutely aware of how uncomfortable being drenched in cold salt water was.

“I wouldn’t mind having a towel.”

“I have given you something to dry with,” she said. “On the back of the seat.”

Alden looked around the room. The sofa was the only piece of furniture with anything on the back of it, and that couldn’t be right.

“The quilt with all the different shades of silver and gray?” he asked hesitantly.

“Yes,” said Zeridee.

It looked like something you kept as a family heirloom because your great-grandmother had stabbed herself ten thousand times stitching it together. Not something you dried your butt with.

I’m not crazy, Alden thought as his t-shirt slapped against the floor and he started to peel off his jeans. Artonans have towels. Those microfiberish things. I have seen them. I have used them.

“I can’t justify using the Contract to monitor the classmates you’re worried about,” said Zeridee. “But there is alternative footage of the situation on The Span. The steam is obscuring much of it. What area would they be in?”

“We were just a kilometer from the end. They might be off by now. They should be. If the water went over the bridge again, Maricel had a granite countertop. She’s a Shaper. They were riding on it. Mehdi has an infogear watch if that helps.”

“I will search for them while I talk to you. First, do not be overly alarmed by the fact that you have been summoned for special evacuation. Most of the people with insight at this early stage do not believe that Earth has a serious problem.”

“This isn’t a serious problem?”

“It’s a problem for Anesidora. I speak on a global scale.”

That’s better than nothing.

Zeridee went on, “However, in the unlikely event that this incident or a future one leads to a catastrophic erosion of the Contract on Earth you will………priority………assure you…….many different methods of exit……….the tablet in front of you can be—”

“Stop,” said Alden. He was staring down at the tops of his bare feet. The extremely beautiful blanket that was clearly not intended to be used as a towel no matter what planet you came from was wrapped around him. “I don’t think I’ve…I haven’t really heard anything since you said the System might collapse.”

Zeridee turned to frown at him. “It’s important that you remember all—”

“I’m sorry,” Alden said in Artonan. He felt like he needed to apologize in her language. He had the impression that she might have been speaking for quite a while before he stopped her. “The thought of the Contract failing causes me pain. I’ll listen now.”

It was interesting how having an incomplete vocabulary to work with could force you to be more honest than you really wanted to at times. Right now, he couldn’t seem to come up with words that would politely brush over the matter.

Zeridee-und’h stared for a few seconds, then her expression softened. “I will explain again. The Contract doesn’t appear to be in danger to those who are now studying the situation. However, it is behaving with extreme vigilance. Failing to anticipate an incident at Matadero is unprecedented for it. It still doesn't know what it might have missed that led to this outcome, and because of that, it’s responding in a defensive manner. One of the effects of this is that it doesn’t wish to initiate exit teleports from Anesidora at this time. And there's no reason to force it to when we have another option prepared. Do you understand?”

“Yes,” said Alden. “No. Why—?”

“Its reasoning is complex. Drain on resources, the potential for an inimical Avowed to escape and instigate a second attack in another location while its focus is here, and a desire not to choose usual courses that might have been anticipated by enemies are parts of the whole.”

The System’s panicking and playing chess with an unknown enemy at the same time?

That was what it sounded like she was saying.

She’d turned her back on him again, so he went about dressing himself in some other guy’s clothes while he listened.

What it boiled down to was the fact that Earth was almost definitely not about to dissolve into an unsalvageable puddle of chaos. But since the possibility wasn’t completely off the table, the Artonans were quietly rolling forward with the first stages of planetary evacuation. Apparently planetary evacuation, “in its most desirable form,” involved mass teleportation from secret locations.

The flyer, designed to provide an escape from a wide variety of crises, would take Alden to one of those places now with no involvement from the System at all.

He was paying attention to Zeridee-und’h this time, but he was still reeling from the pace of it all. And from the sudden need to redefine which incident he was being saved from.

“You didn’t bring me here to protect me from the ocean,” he said, just to confirm it.

“As I told that man you carried with you—and several others tonight—there are many places on Anesidora for people to shelter. Having you directly teleported to one of them would have been a simple matter. I brought you here because one of our last flyers is here. You will be among the very first to arrive at the planetary evacuation site.”

The CANADA sweatshirt hid Alden’s wrists thoroughly, so he unhooked the itchy wet leather bracelet and shoved it into the pocket of the shorts. A quick shove had his auriad settling into place farther up his arm.

“The System says the probability of chaos exposure is low.”

“It is. It is so low that the ambassador was somewhat annoyed that it was mentioned in the alerts at all.”

“So it’s low. But you’re starting preliminary evacuations for the apocalypse anyway?”

“Should we wait?”

Okay, there was definitely some sarcasm there.

“What about…?” The number of things he wanted to ask was creating a mental clog. “Aren’t there some other people who should leave first?”

“If there are, then they are already in possession of the means to do so. There were a dozen flyers here at the house and five times as many at the embassy. Others were in the personal homes of the Artonans and Avowed who were assigned them.”

Alden watched the water from his clothes pool across the floor. Leaving Anesidora to get away from what was happening here was a simple enough idea for him to get a handle on it. Leaving Earth to fall to chaos and never coming back, even though it was just a tiny possibility, was…not computing well.

Zeridee, obviously deciding he’d had plenty of time to put some clothes on, turned around and walked over to the sofa. She picked up a shiny metal ball. “This orb functions as a beacon in the event that your flyer crashes. It will also be useful if you fail to make your destination in time and must escape into space.”

“So that’s an option too, huh?”

She must have heard the high note in his voice. “I will schedule a meeting with you after this is over and you return safely to Anesidora. I will explain it all in more detail,” she said gently. “If the ambassador doesn't have time, I’m sure he will not mind me taking on the task.”

She tucked his stranded-in-space beacon into his Earth’s-about-to-die suitcase, then moved on to the next thing.

“This is your personal medical kit,” she said, opening a shoebox-sized container and holding it out for him to see. Neatly packed potions, injectors, a stubby looking stick, and something like a glue gun greeted him. “All of the dosages are tuned to your body size. I have translated the labels into English for you. Instructions are in the booklet at the bottom.”

She really has been prepping all of this for a while then.

The medical kit went into the suitcase beside the beacon.

“It is inconvenient that some of the things in your kit are illegal for Avowed to possess and use here. From now until you return, you will be on or within property under Artonan jurisdiction, so please don’t fret about legal consequences.”

I’ve got too much other stuff to fret about anyway.

“This tablet will be kept in storage for you at the embassy and frequently updated by staff. At the start of any future emergency, it will be transported to you directly or it will be waiting for you at your final evacuation site. Its last update was ten days ago.”

Alden hadn’t realized the thing she was holding was a tablet. It was thick enough to be used as a little step-stool.

“What’s on it?”

“A copy of the internet,” said Zeridee.

“A copy? Of the whole internet?”

“Yes. For your entertainment, education, and to remember your people by.”

Their eyes met.

“Not…that the last one should be taken too seriously” the Artonan woman said. “Someone…a well-meaning person…had the idea that humans might appreciate having their own personal copies during trying times. And giving these out to many trustworthy people ensures the survival of the information.”

“Are you the well-meaning person?” Alden asked.

“The tablet is also how you make your official requests known to deciding parties during an emergency.” She handed it to him and pulled back the cover on the screen. A stylus rolled down, and he caught it. There was a form glowing there, waiting for him to fill it out. “You are allowed to name two people. Their evacuation priorities will be changed to match your own.”

Alden looked down at the form then back up at Zeridee-und’h.

“Thank you.”

She nodded.

He wrote in the names, and the form faded.

A moment passed. Zeridee seemed to be looking something up with her eye rings.

“It’s inappropriate of me to…I feel obligated to mention that one of the people you have named is an Avowed of high rank and unique ability.”

“I know.”

