Floating there like a—

JR’s words broke his train of thought like a door slamming. “The first and most important layer is the core built around the neutronium. It can be regrown, and any lost pieces can be reabsorbed and reintegrated, but it will take two or three millennia to regrow an entire body's worth of at-Tier neutronium, even accounting for your own increased regeneration. Try not to lose it all in your first fight.”

Quill never intentionally left body parts lying around, Liz normally cleared any biological remnants they might leave behind, but he wasn’t dumb and gave the bird a flat look. They were supposed to be showing off the armor, not bashing him.

Unbothered, JR gestured to a thin layering of mana that ran under his translucent skin. “The outer shell is already some of my finest work. Look at these defenses. Look at this strength amplification! Praise me. Yessss!”

Quill cocked his head, trying to parse the unexpected words before JR’s laugh made him regret letting the bird take the lead.

“I was just checking to see if Quill had stopped paying attention. There is no strength application as part of the base armor. No, as we originally discussed, most of the effects are centered around making mana easier to control. You can see some here, The gold intertwining with the neutronium, that is the remnant of the Ichor Bonsai Apple, Chosen Legion. That addition was very helpful in stabilizing the resulting body changes. Quite the interesting element you created there. If you want something made, do pester your Tier 50. I’d love to get a better look at you. I mean your blood.” Coughing, the bird faced the armor, “The blood generation effect slotted in nicely with our body enhancements. Now, body enhancements should take less of a drain physically, freeing up mana to be used elsewhere. Look at this darker tint to the mana lattice over here. This is a —”

Quill started to tune JR out at that point, but he kept enough of an ear out for another test. Most of his focus was on the next step.

The final step.

Using the strange realm reward.

Hundreds of years after the strange realm, it was time to use it. Except as the moment grew closer a fear started to rise in him.

Was it too late?

Had the reward gone stale like bread two days out the oven?

The thought came out of nowhere and refused to leave, no matter how many times he inspected the perfectly preserved reward.

What if there was an internal timer on the reward?

Did a strange realm have that level of control?

Quill’s silent spiraling was halted when he heard JR mention the gem. As he retrieved it from his chest, a small part of Quill was certain he and everyone else would only see a hollow husk.

He found it as vibrant as the day he’d captured the reward.

Not letting anyone see his breath of relief, he nodded and tapped into the liquid mana stone’s hard outer shell. Looking at it almost felt nostalgic. The Blake that made the gem had no idea what they’d made, or how to destroy it beyond physical damage, but now he only needed a single thought to collapse the structure.

“Don’t be shy, not at all! Just hold it right here, and let it shine!” JR’s voice pulled him from his introspection once again, but he didn’t want to do anything wrong at this point, so he begrudgingly held the crystal in the indicated spot.

Once there it began to fold into the multifaceted nature of the room around him. Then, as the crystal broke like a piece of shattered glass, so too did the room around him.

Beyond the reality was only darkness.

Not the darkness of JR’s strange language, but something loftier.

Quill was only able to observe as the darkness slowly grew to encompass everything except himself and the armor. Except as only they remained, he realized something.

It wasn’t him, the armor, and the darkness. It was only him and the armor. The darkness somehow was the armor, just the parts he couldn’t interact with.

Quill didn’t know what urged him to step forward, but he was no longer restrained and the darkness blurred around him, forming columns that stretched further than he could see above and below.

It wasn’t until an unfelt wind passed through the armor that he realized the columns were wind chimes. Long, endlessly tall and hollow tubes, each one represented a power his armor possessed or could grow to have.

Quill took a moment to look around at the sea of possibilities and considered they might have gone a little overboard, before dismissing it. It wasn't his fault the strange realm hadn’t expected someone to get a perfectly made item.

Thankfully, the area was responsive to his thoughts and the wind chimes played a pleasant melody as he moved forward through them, looking for his prize.

His first stop was the largest and most real wind chime in the darkness, but that didn’t surprise him in the least. It was the core of the armor.

Quill still gently touched the wind chime and sensed what it housed before committing. There were no second chances here, and while he didn’t have time to spare, that really meant he didn’t have the time to rush.

Thankfully there were no surprises.

The chime represented the armor's ability to control mana.

If Quill was outside, he’d have sighed with relief and possibly given the raven a hug, but instead, he sent in nearly half of the energy given to him by the strange realm reward, locking in the chime as the item's Tier 1 growth power.

A real fear he had going into this was that the armor would be too specialized, and the closest power he selected would be an ‘internal mana control’ or something along those lines.

Thankfully, it wasn’t an issue.

As he made his first choice, the world, the darkness, the armor, himself, hummed in tune with something grander than he could comprehend. At the same time, the chime turned a blue that perfectly matched his mana. Then at the moment the blue reached the top and bottom of the chime, the entire structure solidified and crystallized like his mana after he’d used his Tier 25 Talent.

Then, having already been empowered, the chime faded into the darkness, vanishing from his sight.

With his first prize secure, Quill stepped through the forest of metal, listening to the distant echoes and hoping to find the part of the armor he wanted to make its Tier 25 growth power.

He already had a plan, but it was more ambitious. So much so that the longer he searched without finding it, the more worried he became.

Thankfully, his fears were unwarranted and JR’s excellence was highlighted as he found what he’d been looking for. The chime in question was ephemeral, like several chimes had been layered on top of each other, but that only made him more excited.

Somehow, the crazy bird had managed to convince the armor that the ability to better regenerate itself and himself, their theorized ideal Tier 25 ability to awaken, also covered the additional growing functions he’d built into the armor.

Quill would hate to admit it - but he would if the bird ever directly asked-, but JR was a genius. No matter how he’d done it, he prevented Quill from having to make a hard choice between the two effects.

Quill desperately wanted to spend some time and study the layered chime. To glean something from the overlapping powers, but he didn’t have the time.

With one final push, he sent the rest of the strange realm reward energy into the chime solidifying the Tier 25 power.

The ephemeral chimes conversion was much slower, but he could only watch unsure if it was a good or a bad development. Thankfully the energy didn’t run out midway, and when the pillar turned solid, he felt himself ejected from the world.
