Chapter 498

With a working liquid mana stone talisman in hand, he was finally able to start prototyping rather than searching blindly, and that made all the difference.

It was a good thing too, as Quill wasn’t very happy with his first results. The transfer runes were inefficient, they took far too much time to make, and the physical material wasn’t entirely used up, which resulted in its own host of problems.

Despite all of the setbacks, he couldn’t wipe the smile off his face. He’d proven it possible and that was all that mattered at this point. He’d savor his win.

Repeating but scaling down his tests, he watched the talisman activate rather than miss half the process in his surprise. While his transfer runes worked, they left quite a bit to be desired. But after years of trying to find alternatives, he’d rather just push ahead with what he had than to delay everything on its behalf.

All of the liquid mana inside of the gems was fully utilized, but the hard outer shell hadn’t dissolved, as the talisman had already burned itself out on the readily available liquid mana.

Quill paused at that revelation. Typically, enchantments were forced to harvest and convert mana into its purest form before actually using it. That was mostly a practical measure - ambient mana, by definition, wasn’t in an enchantment structure, and crystals were too solid to be fed into runes. But liquid mana was a fluid. A semi-unstable fluid, which could be trivially provoked into becoming an energy-state, gaseous mana at the exact time and place he wanted, thanks to it remaining his mana. That opened up… possibilities.

Quill twisted suddenly as a sensation from the integrated Natural Treasures bled through his controls. Flapping his arms, he channeled the scrambled urges into something silly for the half napping phoenix to enjoy.

It was that, or punch a hole through something.

When he was able to suppress the urges once again, Quill returned to his research.

Liquid mana was being only accessed and drained from the point of contact with the rune on the shell because he hadn’t created any holes, unlike his earliest attempts. It also explained why his initial talisman had worked so well.

Quill only wished he could claim it had been intentional.

His rune was so inefficient at moving the power, it acted as an inadvertent throttle to what would otherwise be an uncontrolled torrent. His earliest attempts at turning his normal, solid mana stones directly into talismans had failed because of the same problem. Solid mana stone transferred its full energy capacity all at once, and his new rune accidentally solved that.

A little more testing even confirmed why his new rune was so good at stabilizing the mana transfer. He’d made a series of baffles when he’d been trying to make a straight pipe. However, now that he had them, he was content with the result and could even see some improvements.

His first attempt had only blinded him because the liquid mana still emptied itself too fast into the light rune, even after accounting for how bad the transmission rune was. Fixing that was as simple as Quill could ask for, he only needed to make the rune worse. Something he had a lot of experience with. Eventually, he’d want to make some kind of proper adjustable valve rune, but for now, a bad one would do nicely.

It also made liquid mana stones a fantastic talisman power source. One so good, it almost made up for all of the other disadvantages that came with them.

Quill felt his grin turn wicked as he got to work. He’d never cared about those downsides anyway. Others might be worried about using all of their resources to best effect, but mana? He had more of that than he knew what to do with in a fight.

Further testing quickly crushed his second hope, being able to recharge the spent flash talismans with liquid mana for easy multiple uses. While the outer shell appeared to be intact, channeling even a few million mana through the outer layer ruined the internal structure. It would have paired nicely with his Concept’s Folded Reflection effect of being able to send a bit more mana into a talisman as he activated them.

Instead of writing the idea off entirely, he noted it for later study.

If he wanted to redesign everything it might have been possible to find runes that could withstand that level of energy, but he didn’t bother going that angle. Talismans were inherently disposable, and he'd never expected any other result.

As positive as the development proved itself, his original problem hadn’t changed. The outer shells didn’t get absorbed as part of the activation like his solid stones did.

Quill took a stone and crushed it between his fingers. The shells weren’t hard necessarily, nowhere near as strong as the full stones were, but they were just robust enough that he was afraid one might be recovered after a fight.

That wasn’t acceptable.

Thankfully, he already had an answer. One of his Folded Reflection Concept powers had been the ability to drain mana, even at range. Liquid mana stone or not, used as a talisman or not, it was still mana and it only took a moment to drain the leftovers.

Holding his breath, Quill centered himself before quickly activating and tossing the light talisman all in one fluid motion. The burst of light was enough to activate the safety bubble that prevented the light from bleeding through the walls, but his eyes never left the lingering shell.

Then, because he could, he did it six more times, laughing the whole while, even as he burned through all of his stock and was then forced to clean up.

Quill's first instinct was to run and brag to his friends, but held himself back through sheer force of will. He would do so later, when they were in the Empire safely and when he had more than a single light rune to show for it.

Also, and more importantly, after he'd made some improvements.

With a working and satisfactory prototype in hand, he started iterating.

His first target was the transfer rune.

It was very much cobbled together and he didn’t really like the final result. It would take far too long to create them in combat and it seemed like his easiest place to improve.

The original rune was based on his [Spirit Print], which had a number of flaws he needed to address. His first idea was to change the base rune to the publicly available [Item Link] and have his AI work from there to develop something that might work for everyone. Sadly, the [Item Link] rune was so stripped down he couldn’t even find a place to start, and after a few hours he shelved the idea.

Instead, he started looking at different transfer runes from other applications he might be able to learn from. He found little due to how rarely anyone used transfer runes at such high mana throughput, at least without having far more physical space to work with, but what he did find was helpful. He was just grateful most of his testing could be done on normal mana stone, which saved his Domain the effort of making even more liquid mana stones.

It took three months, but he managed to simplify the transfer rune to something he was able to make even in light combat. His new rune took advantage of the spherical nature of his liquid mana stones, with nine overlapping and connected rings centered around a single axis that acted as the transfer point.

Now, depending how fast he wanted the mana transfer to be, he was able to change the positioning of the rings, opening or closing the valve. It would take decades to get skilled enough with carving the rune that he could truly make changes on the fly, but that was only a matter of patience and effort, two things he had an abundance of.

The efficiency had dropped further as a result of his modifications, but there was nothing he could do about that. None of that mattered to him; it worked.

Quill walked into Liz’s lab whistling a jaunty tune from a show they had recently enjoyed. He was in too good a mood to deny himself.

Liz raised an eyebrow at his sudden and loud intrusion, but he made a playful throwing motion, creating a small liquid mana stone and activating it.

The light output was carefully controlled to mildly annoying levels instead of blinding, but Liz still had to blink for several seconds even after she popped to her feet.

“You got it working?”

“I did!” Unable to hold it back any longer, Quill let himself brag. “It’s been very difficult, but I did my best and that was more than enough. As expected.”

Liz laughed as she took a newly proffered liquid mana stone talisman and inspected it.

“It’s pretty.”

“I designed it after your eyes.”

Liz paused before smiling. “Oh now, mister flatterer. That won't save you from the following question. How useful are they?”

Quill waggled his hand, not lying. “There’s a lot of room for improvement and I’m limited to fairly simple, single effect talismans right now; so about that good.”

“I know you made something flashy. Don’t keep it to yourself.”

Unable to help himself, Quill pointed at the previous mana talisman and deadpanned. “That was plenty flashy.”

“You know what I meant.”

He did and opened a [Portal] into the estate’s training room where he activated all of the defenses, not wanting to damage everything.

“Like I said, I'm limited to one or two primary runes, so don’t expect flash tracking talismans any time… well, ever. I might be able to simplify runes I like, making them easier to create, but right now the talismans I’m drawing aren’t that different from a normal talisman. So keep that in mind. Well, the results are pretty standard. My methods are less so, and I’m sure it’ll be an adventure to maximize my new crafting techniques, but that's for later.”

“Are you trying to temper or raise my expectations?”

“Yes!”

Accompanying his single word answer, he made and threw a small mana talisman at the far wall.

The [Mana Slash] was forty feet long and as wide as a typical bus, which spoke to the shoddy refinement he’d managed with such a crude talisman rather than a show of strength. The mana was blocked and then absorbed by the far wall, which gave a complete readout of the damage and methods to improve.

Proving how good his talismans were, the wall even falsely identified the spell as coming from an actual cultivator.

“That's it? It says it only hit as hard as a typical Tier 27 attack.”

“I wasn’t trying to break anything,” Quill shot back defensively.

Seeing Liz’s disbelieving look, he widened his eyes and tried to portray innocence, but she didn’t buy it.

“No, really. I know I’m hitting some diminishing returns but it's not like a channel skill where the results are calculable based on the amount of mana invested. I really don’t want to have to explain to JR that I broke his estate. He’d pester me about it for sessions. I can’t give him that kind of ammunition.”

Liz turned to him with a playful look on her face. “Wait, what? Are you messing with me? Doesn't that mean if you just sit here for a few weeks you can let out a strike with Tier 50 power?”

“I wish.” Quill rolled his eyes. “Even if I could create runes strong enough to withstand the activation of that much mana in a single burst, which I can’t, I’m confident we'll run into other problems. No, really, I wanted to start at a safe level. That was only a few million mana. Realistically, I'm spending multiple times the amount of mana a same Tier cultivator would have in total, for that single attack.”

He left unspoken that few others had so much mana to throw around, controlling his urge to brag with everything he had.

Making another talisman, he repeated his testing, raising the mana he spent until he’d reached Tier 32 attack power.

Creating but not activating another talisman, he mused, “I think that's about what I’d feel comfortable making in combat outside Icliz’s aura right now. I could go higher, but that would take more time to create, which I’m not sure would be worth it. I should be able to toss one or two of these out basically any time I’m not using my Domain for something super demanding.”

“What else can you make? Shields? They might be useful.”

Quill raised an eyebrow, even as he browsed the easier to create shields talismans. When he found one he thought might work, he slowly created the liquid mana stone and carved the talisman. Not because it was a hard and complicated talisman, but so Liz could watch the process.

When he finished, her words were the sweet flattery he’d been hoping for earlier. “And you did all of that at once earlier? That's quite a bit more impressive than you make it look.”

“Thank you for realizing that. This is very much one of those things that practice makes perfect. After I make a few dozen, I can usually speed up, but I actually didn’t think about shields. Most of my efforts went offensive.”

Tossing the talisman into the air, a thirty foot wide and ten foot tall wall of mana appeared briefly before vanishing as the talisman failed.

“Not great. It burns out too quickly, but still useful.” Continuing to think out loud, he added, “If only you guys could use these. I’ll put that on the list of things to do. Let me try slowing it down. That’s my best guess at improving this idea.”

A few moments later, he tossed out his second attempt at a shield talisman, having dialed the transfer rate down quite a bit. The resulting shield lasted longer, but it also lost so much defensive power in the process he determined the trade-off wasn’t worth it.

After he shared the results with Liz, she asked, “What do you intend to focus on next? Did you only finish the mana slash?”

