Quill felt a lot better getting back to prepared ground and rubbed his hands together. “Only a few more, but I don’t love that wording. I have a few more to show off. I didn’t ‘only finish’ a few more, no matter how true that may be.”

The following liquid mana stone talismans exploded in a wash of fire and ice respectively.

“Admittedly, the ice one is just a cooling effect rather than a materialization effect. It's a lot easier to make fire than it is to make ice. I need to complain about that to Aster next time she complains about me defaulting to heat in a pinch. It's thermodynamics and physics, not me.”

Liz rolled her eyes, knowing how unlikely the two of them talking actually was while he was in his current state. He hadn’t even seen Aster for the last two years. Any time she wasn’t overseeing the bloodline business she opened, she was with Max, her friends, or Allie tracking down people who might have spirit spaces in the Corporations.

All places he wasn’t.

Except her friends.

He made sure to swing by every other month or so to make sure no one needed anything. It would be far too easy for their friends to be caught up in something and not want to bother any of them until it was a larger problem than it was originally.

Thankfully, none of them had any such issues. In fact, the only one to have anything left to do was Cameron, but her problems were entirely business related.

Quill hadn’t expected that out of everyone they brought along, she would be the only one to actually create a thriving business that wasn't secretly financed by him. He’d anticipated at least a few others to match the otter’s drive, but he couldn’t blame them for taking advantage of the break they were promised instead of working as hard as she’d needed to.

Cameron’s cleaning service was well targeted. She started by offering to teach skill creations related to cleaning at only slightly over cost, undercutting the existing schools who were the current skill teachers. It had taken her a few years to scale up, but she had four hundred employees and if they had a few more years, would have been looking to break into another floors market.

However, she’d already admitted she had no intentions of trying to operate the business remotely. According to her, most of her success came from her own leadership and the willingness to step in where needed.

Quill, having access to everyone but her finances thanks to her positive income flow, peeked at the public listings, where he determined she wasn't wrong. If she stayed local and actually cared about the business, he was sure she’d be cleaning JR’s office in another few millennia.

Pondering her results, he penned a note to his future self. It might be an unconventional choice, but eventually Kees was going to step down from his position as Titan’s Torch’s vice guild leader and day to day operational manager. How and who to replace him with had always been a concern, but if Cameron was so capable, he might have found Kees’ replacement.

It would be some time before she was prepared for that level of responsibility, but once his mind caught onto the idea, it refused to let go. It wasn't only the financial side of things that might cause issues with a replacement. His next vice guild leader would not only need to worry about his Talent and help him launder its mana, but they’d also need to be able to run his guild.

Cameron had also proven herself trustworthy enough not only through her friendship with Aster, but through her decades of existing work at the guild. Tapping into his mental calendar, he sent a reminder to look into getting her on the management track where he paused, finding he’d already had similar thoughts in the past.

Rolling his eyes at himself, he pushed a message to Kees, telling him to look into it and thus wiping his hands of the matter.

The other person who managed to surprise him was Rah, who’d only revealed what he was doing after he’d succeeded. After browsing every library and repository of knowledge in Asa, Rah had managed to recreate a skill that had been lost in the Ascendancy’s fall.

Already deliberately kept rare, it hadn’t been hard for all known rifts that dropped the skill to be wiped out, leaving it to only appear as a rare random drop. It was a skill originally known in the Ascendancy, and Rah had discovered its diagram in some of their old texts during his research, so it wasn’t publicized when he started selling them.

The Tier 0 and Tier 8 [Dark Vision]s he’d published weren’t the most popular skills for combatants, at least not initially. Their initial success was from the civilian sectors as a generally useful life skill, but they were starting to see it picked up as a skill for the stronger teams who were willing to delve the less popular and usually more difficult night and underground rifts.

Personally, Quill thought Rah had caught a bit of a skill making bug after his first taste of success. It wasn’t the wealth, Rah was a seasoned immortal who had no issues making a living, but rather how much he liked the atmosphere the Empire and most of the Great Powers had surrounding the Tier 0 skills, letting them be shared for a pittance.

Quill shook himself to refocus on the person in front of him instead of the ones in his head.

“Sorry, I got distracted. Again. So, what do you think?”

Liz pulled out her spear with a wide grin like she’d been waiting for that exact question. “I think it will be super useful. Why don’t we spar a little and see how useful it is together?”

Not needing to be told twice, Quill flexed his mana pool, creating a staff as tall as he was. It wouldn’t hold his talismans like at the Tier 10 tournament, but he didn’t need that any more.

Quill used the shaft of his staff to deflect a light thrust as he teased. “You’re going to have to do better than that if you want to spar!”

Liz sped up and poked him twice in rapid succession, slipping by his defences. “I’m sorry, what was that?”

Skipping backwards, he tried to sound as whiny as possible. “But we hadn’t officially started yet. It's not fair!”

In the final word, Quill made and activated a talisman.

It was simple. A single rune talisman. It was something no self respecting talisman business would sell and would get him laughed at if someone was able to see him before he used it in combat.

The world went white for a brief instant as nearly a quarter billion mana was converted into light.

Liz wasn’t as phased as he'd hoped. Unbothered by being blinded, she poked him three more times in rapid succession.

“Hey, I liked this shirt and you are making holes in it.”

“Yeah, so did I. But I also like it off of you, sooooo~.” Liz’s words were accompanied by two more playful pokes.

Having enough, Quill formed and activated another talisman for nothing to happen.

Instead of pressing her opening, Liz stopped mid-poke and asked, “Everything okay?”

Not bothering with any formalities, he sat down on the floor and started fiddling. “I was trying to be clever and create a cycle based talisman. I was aiming for hundreds of projectiles rather than one big one. It would have been really cool had it worked. Sadly, no matter how fast the cycles are, they are still slower than a single activation and timing-wise, that's about all I have.”

Activating the freshly made talisman to no effect, he finished. ”Dead idea.”

Liz crouched down next to him and inspected the gem, but after only a moment she shook her head and stood up. “Yeah, I have no idea what you are talking about. Sorry.”

Quill waved away her concerns as the two of them resumed their testing, where he made two more talismans. Out of necessity, both were incredibly simple, single rune talismans with room for improvement, but each helped solve a problem.

The first, a simple concussion wave of pure mana, wasn’t necessarily deadly, though it would do some damage if activated at close range. Its real purpose was to knock back or turn aside projectiles with a well timed pulse. The talisman itself was so simple and easy to make, he could rattle a new one off every few seconds in a fight. When his control improved, he intended to take a few pages out of Light’s Codex by making adjustments to maximize his effectiveness for specific situations.

The second talisman was far more complicated, being based on [Breach], and was meant to bypass physical defenses that wide area attacks might struggle against.

Titan usually was able to just brute-force things, for a certain definition of brute force, but to reach that level of power, by necessity he needed to focus on a kind of… generic approach. Good at everything, great at very little.

Talismans had always been his counter to that, preparing more specific tools for specific situations. Being able to flash-create talismans would let him get even more specific with his counters, bringing a specialized macuahuitl - there was no situation in which Quill could truthfully call his successful efforts a mere scalpel - to bear precisely where it would be most needed.

With his final goal accomplished, Quill finally let himself do something he swore he’d do when they made the trip.

He took a break.

For an entire month between two of JR’s sessions, he did nothing.

Every day was at least partly spent with Liz. As for the rest, some days he hung out with friends, other days he wandered throughout the city, going with the traffic flows until something caught his attention and he detoured. For a rare few days he just found a quiet place to sit and enjoyed the chance to turn off his brain.

The break was fantastic and well timed. However, it didn’t last forever. It couldn’t.

They were almost done with the armor, and he needed to prepare to reintegrate with 『　』.

After learning they couldn’t start work on his [AI] modifications immediately because of his name removal, he’d asked Max what, if anything, they could do to minimize the downtime. She, of course, had several answers, but most of them devolved to meditation and mental exercises.

They weren’t fun or flashy, which made it hard for Quill to focus, but he could at least get through them. Titan tried once but found it impossible to fall into the proper meditative mindset because his battle sense was already a form of meditation, and one so core to his identity that any time he forced it, the dominant personality reverted to back Quill.

That left Quill to do it all himself, and he made sure to note his frustrations down for Blake. He owed… him.

How Blake would pay a fragment of his own personality back once the whole was put back together? Quill had no idea, but he thought his expression would be funny when he saw the note and that was enough of a reason for him. It wasn’t often he got the ability to play a prank on himself in a way it wouldn’t feel forced.

Taking advantage of his own predicament only took him so far, and the rest he had to muster through on pure willpower alone. It wasn’t that Quill didn’t have access to all of their will power, but without a personal desire to work on what he was doing at hand, he wanted to complain about doing it. Mostly to Luna, so he did exactly that and sent her a running stream of his complaints as he worked with Max through the incredibly boring lessons.

The replies were exactly what he expected, and put a smile on his face whenever he pestered a new one out of the cat.

The last year passed in almost a fugue state between sessions as JR put the finishing touches on the armor and the burden grew.

On the day of, Liz and Aster came along.

Aster was frazzled but he had little mind for such peripheral details.

Things were…

Hot.

Humid.

As if he was in a swamp and not a laboratory.

His chest was heavy—

Quill blinked as things refocused, the feelings vanishing as JR welcomed the other two into the lab.

The lab that had been home for the last two decades.

Where he’d been hung up and worked on like a coat.

Quill paused mid-step.

Where had that thought come from?

He tried to drill down on the thought but a barking laugh from JR shattered that train of thought completely. “Are you ready, Quill? A final inspection before you pay?”

“Unless you swapped out the armor, I was there for every agonizing step of the process. It's ready.” Quill rolled his eyes, not caring that a Manny clone or the other two saw it.

“Well too bad, because I want to show off. Onward paying person and additions.”

Manny shot Quill a side eye but he shrugged, taking no ownership of the bird's actions. Also, the armor was amazing and deserved to be praised, there was nothing wrong with that. It wasn’t like he hadn’t known about the bird's ego, and that declining would lead to the same result without him being the one to brag.

Not at all.

“Ta da!” Proffering a wing, JR showed them the see-through 『　』 surrounded by hundreds of newly made scanners. The room that contained it all was a… wonderwork in its own right.

It looked a bit like a starscape from one angle. Luminous nebula clouds hung in the distance, while clusters of stars made constellation-like tools, organized perfectly neatly as far as Quill could see. Then a centimeter later, everything changed to be biological, with veins of glowing liquids being distributed throughout the pulsing room, dozens of hearts pumping ‘blood’ in every manner conceivable.

Then he blinked, and 『　』was deep in the heart of a planet, molten rock and metals flowing through pipes and channels replacing the blood and hearts. When he tried to study it all, the room then became a solid wall of books and paper stretching out to infinity, every page absolutely covered in dense but beautifully illustrated runic script.

But no matter the visual,『　』was always there in the middle of the room.

