he seed is converted, stripped of the Lost Sibling’s power and infused with the Brother or Sister’s strength. Like Hermit Crabs, one would say,” Marrow said casually. Delta spun, finger pointed.“Stop it. You’re being creepy and weird and I don’t trust a single thing you say or do,” Delta warned. Marrow blinked once, then kept walking.“No one is asking for your trust, Delta. Quite the opposite,” she said, brushing down her dress. The girl looked different inside, her face different and voice rougher. This was what Marrow saw herself as... not the pretty and skeleton girl outside.“Delta. Look at my clumsy efforts, look at my seed,” Marrow insisted.Delta did, not liking how when all the seeds compressed to an extent, they would almost be a rough sphere.“A seed planted in the ground to grow and provide life to the world around. Our seeds were meant to be testament to our growth... the seed they turned you into was meant to serve them. Your ability to assimilate and take in seeds is what makes a core a core,” the girl said and sat down abruptly.“When you absorbed a strong seed utterly, it allowed you to grow and develop, reclaiming parts of yourself. You reclaimed a strong sudden burst of humanity and that was dangerous to the Sister. She made you resistant to that. You could remember more if you had been allowed to experience the seeds as they were,” she said flatly.Delta was quiet for a moment.“People are the original Dungeons. If they killed one another or defeated factions of the siblings, their seed grew and so did their power,” Marrow said and Delta looked down before she pushed Marrow backwards, making her little legs fly up.“I get it. You can spin it as Sis and Bro are refusing to let me and the others remember or go home cause they need us, but Marrow... I already kind of knew that. I like them, but they’re kind of idiots when it comes to details,” Delta said dryly.Marrow flailed before she sat up, incredulous.“Brother thought the key to fixing people was to release monsters. Monsters!” Delta waved her hands erratically.“Sis has poked holes in reality to let in things with too many hands or tentacles and she didn’t put any rules in place! She just opened her front door to hoodlums and sat in her kitchen to play Sims!” she went on, pacing now.“They tried to make a god without ever asking if they should and they’re still paying for that, but at least they’re trying. Sis is so... socially inept that she thought sending flat deadline messages and informing us of how I might die every two seconds was ‘helping’. My new brother, who you kidnapped by the way, is traumatised into being unable to eat without a prompt or quest! He needs therapy and the closest thing I have to a therapist is Fera! She's a bartender!” Delta yelled, the world around them shaking violently.Delta bent down and grabbed Marrow by her pretty little collar.“I am infested with Mushrooms. Everytime I try to make something cute it's horrible, everytime I want it to be horrible, it's cute. And now, I have someone who I guess had a shitty life due to their actions and is now at my door being a pain in my rear. You want lore bombs, Mharia?” Delta asked as the girl seemed to shrink away from Delta as if she was too bright.“I am doing the best I can and your great ‘enemies’? They are a bunch of kids who don’t even know how to ask someone for help. All they had was each other and now they can barely have that. Your war? It’s a playground scrap on a deity level. I am so goddamn tired of it,” Delta said, dropping the girl.“They took you. Ripped you from your world-” Marrow tried and Delta held up a finger.“Shush,” she warned.“But they-”“Ah bubbub!” Delta cut her off.“The seeds-”“Zip.”“The-“Nix!” Delta said and Marrow finally went quiet, mostly out of sheer frustration.Delta rolled her neck, feeling rather good at being able to make an unruly child sit down and take notes. Almost natural.“Now, I beat you, I take your seeds, you overflow me with humanity using... five people at once that are soaked for a hundred years or so in power and I go nuts when I get my traumatic flashback, turning on my friends and the Siblings, sound about right?” Delta said aloud.Marrow just glared.Delta bent down and the world was turning orange, but not directly touching the seeds.“You shouldn’t have let me in here, Marrow. It’s pretty personal,” she said brightly.“Now, you said ‘five little birds’ and you didn’t answer how you knew about dear little Alice in Wonderland,” Delta reminded her.“Devour me or kill me. End this charade of humanity,” Marrow glowered, more commanding than asking.Delta sighed as if Marrow had pushed her too far.She began to send her mana into the soul, looking for parts that were still ‘spongy’. Marrow began to twitch slightly, eyes widening.“Tell,” Delta repeated and Marrow squirmed.“G-get your... peasant fingers out of there,” she warned, reverting to a much less controlled personality than before. Delta wiggled the spots and Marrow seized up, choking before she snorted... twitching on the ground, going red.Tickling was not how she wanted to defeat the evil lich girl, but soul-tickling? It was far worse.But as she distracted Marrow, she was slowly cutting away her seed-tumors. Two of them were deeply wrong, sprouting parasitic limbs to try and snare Delta.Delta crushed them without even looking, their black forms turning mushy and orange. The essence inside was freed. Delta didn’t absorb them yet, No, she had a better plan and as such, she searched for Maestro.Maestro had kept her updated on his progress, including what looked like the exact same godly summoning circle found in the book she had read.“Revenge is best served to someone who actually deserves it,” Delta said as she sent the infected seeds off, mostly converted into a godly source. How Marrow had kept them in line all these years was insane.The circle was almost ready now and with the seeds, the dragon-hydra was collapsing from lack of Marrow’s mana. The seeds weren’t exactly someone Delta could just make physical, but the fun thing about rituals was that they could be symbolic and metaphysical in what they accepted.Maestro focused, glowing power flowing to the circle, the infected seeds.“You know what is neat, Marrow?” Delta said conversationally as the girl wheezed in exhaustion from her torture.“When you open a door that seems too heavy to close... you only need to do it an inch at a time,” Delta said as the circle began to blaze with power, absorbing enough of the mana left in Marrow’s Dungeons to do its purpose.“And with these offerings? I want nothing. In fact... I want to give these back to the realm of gods...absolutely free,” Delta commanded as she pointed forward, grin wide.The ritual circle exploded as the energy shot up through the ground.----Holly trembled as she felt that... power flare once more. Her soul, scabbed and scarred still ached everyday, but now it burned, before it turned slightly soothing.A beam of orange light shot skywards, a star blazing in the twilight.It went for an old star rather than a new one, fading into it for a moment.The star did something she had never seen before. The slightest edge of it became eclipsed as if some moon were moving over its light.Holly bent over as something else happened, she looked down, sweating as... one of her fingers abruptly turned wooden, a sheen of Blackthorn wood.Holly stared, then she smiled.---The World Tree and its ‘heart’ rippled, some of its upper leaves abruptly wilting as its energy seemed to restrict itself.Ygg felt his most distant roots wither and sent a command to Beta.He needed her to set up more fear. His myth... his story had to grow quicker.The girl, mostly immune to his infection, was quite open to more honest manipulation. Pride and fear.After all... Ygg could only grow solid in this world even as his door closed. The story of the Monstrous Dragon and the tree it feared.He would root himself into this world, one way or another.
