With their engagement approved by the Wardenfels, Angeline and Isaac's next stop was Majestic, and her father, so he could be asked to give his blessing over his daughter's wedding.

Not that Angeline expected her father to refuse. This was mainly for the sake of appearances.

She might be marrying for love, but she would be a poor noble's wife if she didn't squeeze all advantages and opportunities out of the event.

The orb recordings of the ceremonies, for example, would make great reference material for the author they were meeting after the wedding, who would be penning their “early years” biography. They'd be very useful for the movie adaptation later on as well.

They landed at the Majestic Airport about a week later, just about six weeks before the last day of Autumn, the date of their wedding ceremony. The town was already abuzz with what the newspapers were calling “The wedding of the century” between the heirs of both the arguably most powerful noble family and the richest and most influential company.

And as well it should be; she had called in several favours for the newspaper to be politely, yet firmly, suggested that this was the story they should be running with.

Of course, she could have just paid and gotten the same result, but where was the fun in that? Besides, she was owed too many favours from the Majestic nobles and merchants.

Knowledge truly was power.

She called in an autocar with escort from the All Brew mansion. After a short and relatively quiet ride, they arrived at her home. The house guards stood at attention when she stepped out, followed by Isaac, and they made their way inside.

And began dodging the house staff who were running haggard all over the place, carrying stacks of paper, clothes, food samples, and a hundred other different things.

She could faintly hear her father's shouted orders from deeper within the mansion.

With a resigned sigh, she followed the ever-increasing chaos until she walked upon its nexus: Cornelius All Brew.

The man had his back turned toward her, and yet he froze as soon as she stepped into the room. His ears twitched once before he spun around, confirming with his eyes what his father's instincts had told him.

His baby girl was back.

Tears began flowing out of his eyes before he took the first step of a flailing dash toward her. His coat fluttered behind him as he ran, arms extended. “Angeliiiine! You're baaaackkk! I've missed you soooo muuccchh-UFF!”

He smashed into Isaac, Angeline having side-stepped from his path at the last second.

The young noble somehow managed to remain standing upright, though he didn't quite understand what had just happened.

Cornelius shared the sentiment, looking up at a face that was not his daughter, and wondering how he'd gotten there.

Angeline stepped up to her father and pulled at his collar, separating him from Isaac, spinning him in place, and patting down his clothes, finishing with a dusting of his shoulders. “Father, you know how I feel about being lovingly assaulted, don't you?”

He sniffed and looked up at him. “But you've been gone for so long!”

“Dad, we saw each other a few weeks back when you came to Riverwall to go rescue Niala,” she reminded him.

He stomped with his foot. “That doesn't count! It wasn't here, at home!” His pout turned upside down. “But now you are here! And we can finish planning the backup wedding!”

Angeline sighed. “Yes, Dad, we can finish wasting your money.” She smirked. “As soon as you give this union your blessing, of course.”

Cornelius blinked at Angeline, his ears stilling, before twitching once when he remembered she wasn't alone. He turned toward Isaac, his eyes drying up and his shoulders squaring. “Lord Isaac, welcome to my humble abode.” He said with a bow. “Thank you for returning my daughter to me. I have been informed you wish to ask for her hand in marriage?”

Isaac blinked, glancing at Angeline and then looking back at the catkin. “I, huh, yes, sir.” He cleared his throat. “I would beseech you to grant your blessing over th-”

“Granted!” Cornelius exclaimed, hand thrown forward as if ordering an army. He looked back at his daughter. “Now, Angeline, come with me, we must select your four alternate wedding dresses!”

He turned to leave, only to choke as Angeline grabbed his collar once more. She pulled back into place and spun him around, giving him a smile. “Father, we have to do the blessing properly. With a recording crew and proper lighting. You wouldn't want your blessing over your daughter's wedding to be questioned, would you?”

He looked at her, then at Isaac, gears grinding in his head, eventually understanding what she meant. “Of course not, my daughter! Come, Lord Isaac, we shall arrange for a proper blessing ceremony!”

The eccentric cat-kin turned around and marched out a door.

Isaac gave his fiancée a glance, which she answered with a smile before stepping after her dad. He sighed and followed her.

Weeks passed. The wedding preparations continued. Even if Angeline had planned the invitations and social aspects with a master's touch, Isaac showed her that she still had much to learn about logistics.

She had thought it enough to hire the various groups needed for the wedding reception, give them her requirements and dates, and receive confirmation for both.

In a way, it was, and maybe even more than many people did for their own wedding.

From Isaac's perspective, it was a gross dereliction of duty. Sure, the various groups could be expected to arrive and then figure out where they needed to go. These groups would also expect to receive instructions once they arrived, and someone would have to step up. It would invariably be multiple people, who wouldn't communicate with each other properly, and thus the process would be studded with inefficiency and hitches.

To remedy, he had schematics of the Solar Grand Hall's floor plan printed out, identified upon it the points of interest to the various groups, and name-marked each schematic for specific groups or individuals. He added a list of contacts that could help in case of questions, problems, or emergencies. He then met with the Hall's staff, providing them with copies of these documents, along with a list of the groups who were expected to attend.

Anyone not on the list was to be sent to the security detail to have their case reviewed. He knew how many people attempted to get a free pass to these events by posing as contractors or caterers.

And finally, he had the staff rehearse the ceremony, borrowing some of Cornelius' employees to act as guests or hired help, and scoring the staff's performance in handling them. They had four complete rehearsals before Isaac gave them a passing grade.

Angeline was both humbled and endlessly amused by her fiancée handling his own wedding like a construction project. All that was missing was one of his audits that everyone loved so much.

He did not disappoint, holding one a week and a half before the ceremony.

The Grand Hall staff were more than ready to get this wedding done and be rid of this nagging noble.

Angeline, on her side, used that time to refine the guests' sitting arrangements. With the wedding's high profile, she knew that most of those invited would attend, if only to try and curry favours with the Wardenfel main family.

For her, this was the opportunity to make things happen. Here, a merchant family whose daughter was of age, next to a storied but financially flagging noble family with three as-yet-unmarried sons.

There, two young nobles from historically opposed houses, who both had the same general interest in the arts, would share a table with quite a few renowned artists.

And speaking of artists, the son of a martial family who wished to do nothing but paint, and had quite the talent, only for him to be forced to take up the sword. His seat was, unfortunately, going to be separated from the rest of his family, and instead be at the Rosepelletier's table, a young dynasty, recently elevated from powerful merchants who made their renown by trading art pieces, and always looking for new talent.

And whose current patriarch had been blessed with nothing but beautiful daughters.

She hoped the young painter would survive the evening.

And those were only the seats. People would mingle, and topics would be broached, opportunities would arise, as they always did at these events. She would be right there, with her distinguished and upstanding new husband by her side, to pounce on every single one of them.

She licked her lips without realizing.

Angeline made her way to Isaac's bed chambers, where he had retired after dinner. He had, so far, refused to engage in any sort of intimacy beyond snuggling and kissing.

She was a little annoyed and frustrated, but, at the same time, she respected his iron will. It would have been relatively easy to make him crack, she thought, but she didn't want to.

They had talked about it, like grown people, and he had stated his views on the topic. She had stated hers, and they had met in the middle: snuggling and kissing now, the rest later.

To force the topic would be a misuse of trust. She would wait, as he'd asked. At the very least, she took heart in the way he kept looking at her with the sort of hunger that a young, healthy man could feel when in the presence of a beautiful, receptive woman.

She would be lying if she'd claimed she didn't enjoy catching those glimpses. Which was why she was making her way over to his room, late in the day, wearing just enough clothes to be considered proper, while showing enough skin that he wouldn't be able to look away.

They had agreed to sleep in separate beds until they were married. They had not, however, broached the topic of teasing.

She would have felt bad for him if he didn't clearly enjoy the show, and she knew it would also make their first time extra special for him.

And, to be honest, for her as well. The anticipation was enough to give her slight shivers now and then.

Maybe Isaac was on to something with his desire to abstain, even if she would have never agreed had their actual wedding not been within the season.

She wouldn't have lasted that long.

The actual day crept up on them before either realized. The last day of Autumn rolled around. All preparations were done. All the guests had arrived, including David, Niala, and friends.

The wedding itself was to be held at the Cathedral of the Order of All Saints, the same religious organization that had wed David and Niala, in front of friends and families. Given Isaac's familial situation, this meant close to a hundred guests from just his side.

They followed the same ceremony as their siblings, waiting in the wings until the gong rang, stepping out and meeting before the altar, with Isaac a mere quarter step behind Angeline.

The officiant read the hymns and blessings and called for the exchange of the bands.

Isaac, wearing a tailored suit in the black-and-silver liveries of his noble house, presented Angeline with a woven wristband made of violet, alternating bands of black and purple, with a single golden thread in the middle. He wrapped it around her offered wrist and tied its silvered clasp.

She, wearing a form-fitting white satin dress with silvery highlights, which didn't even try to conceal her assets or curves, in turn presented him a wristband made of metallic steel-grey outer edges, followed by twin lines of earth browns, with a blood-red and golden thread woven together in the middle. She deposited it on his wrist, pulling its edges together and securing it in place.

They both looked at their new bands for a moment, the symbol of their union. She quirked a brow when she spotted a few slightly misaligned or fraying strands on her own. Had he...?

The officiant cut off her train of thought as he resumed the ceremony. The sacred vows of marriage were called upon, and with one final line, Angeline and Isaac were wed under the gaze of all saints.

They stepped closer, she with a shining smile, he with bedrock focus, and delicately embraced each other as their lips met, the first kiss of their joined lives.

A rumbling of polite hand claps filled the cathedral, redoubling when their kiss finally ended. Still held in his arms, she subtly manoeuvred him so he'd give the recording crew the perfect profile.

She'd been mindful of them since she had exited the side room; they had to appear the perfect couple, after all!