Thomas put the unicorn back in its box before stuffing the whole thing into his backpack.

"What are you going to name it?" Zach asked.

"Problem Child for now," he muttered then out of curiosity he checked his status. As he suspected, it didn't mention anything about a bound pet. There was no mention of his abilities either, just his skills. Maybe more information would be available once he leveled up.

With determination, he put the problem of the unicorn out of his mind for now. "Didn't you say something about someone selling dungeon guides?"

"Hey, yeah. Over here."

Zach led him towards the edge of the main lawn where the crowds weren't as thick. The guide booth reminded Thomas a lot of Ralph's setup in Tahoe: the guides were clearly printed on someone's laser jet and then bound at home. Most of the guides were stacked and arranged by region, from different areas in L.A. all the way up to the mountains and then down to the Inland Empire.

The man himself reminded Thomas a little of his older brother—Pete, not Derek—because he had a real outdoorsy, mountain man air about him.

"Let me handle this one," Zach said, and instantly slid into full charm mode, casually walking up to start some easy small talk with the vendor.

Meanwhile, Thomas glanced over the available guides. Nothing much interested him. He would only be diving level 3 dungeons to make money, and while there were some interesting mana types, he saw nothing that would net him a profit like getting basic drops on Elf World and then returning here to sell them.

His attention was pulled back to the conversation when he heard Zach ask with distinct casualness, "Do you have any guides on dungeons that haven't made it to the official registry?"

"Selling information like that would be illegal," the vendor said piously. "LAPD sometimes comes in to take a look around at the goods and also at receipts on who bought what."

Zach paused for a second. "Do you keep receipts for barter transactions?"

The man's beard shifted as he smiled. "No, I do not."

Taking that as his cue, Zach swung his messenger bag around and pulled out one of the feather drops from the griffin dungeon. "This is a Natural treasure," he said, holding it up. "The System doesn't designate these as bound by levels. When it is absorbed, you can slow down a fall once every 24 hours."

Thomas hadn't known that, but then he remembered that Zach and Jo had gotten the item drops assessed back at the Elfin Marketplace. He'd been so distracted by his conversation with Akilah that he hadn't asked for the results.

"I'll have to verify that claim," the vendor said, but if it checks out—again, the vendor's beard shifted as he smiled— "I think I might have something worth your time."

They waited while the vendor called a friend over, who did in fact verify exactly what had been claimed. Then he sharply asked where Zach had gotten it.

"I'm keeping that to myself for now," Zach said. "I like to travel here and there."

The vendor turned and pulled out another booklet from the middle of a stack of others, hidden in plain sight. "This one will cover most of the western states, some of Canada, and a couple in Mexico close to the border."

"Hold on," Thomas said, stepping forward. "Let me take a look at that."

The vendor frowned at him. "This isn't a library. I won't let you read for free."

"I'll just verify it's good with one dungeon," he says shortly and took the guide from his hands.

The guide was well organized and he flipped to Northern California and then from there to the Tahoe Basin area. Sure enough, the Chipmunk Fire Dungeon was listed. That meant somehow his secret dungeon was no longer a secret... at least to the people who had the means to look.

Thomas snapped the guide shut before the vendor could have a hissy fit. "How did you come by this information?"

The vendor glowered at him. "Someone's Gift. That's all I'm saying."

Possibly his Gift, then.

"It's good info," Thomas said to Zach, who exchanged the guide for the feather.

Now they had a list of dungeons where they could freely dive without being monitored. Then they could use those drops to sell here, which would be an easier prospect than trying to offload a lot of level 4 stuff.

No, the level 4 stuff would be for their own leveling plans.

It was getting later in the day; the sun was blazing high in the sky, and the crowd had thinned out a little just by virtue of no one wanting to stand in the heat.

Zach seemed distracted and kept glancing back towards the direction of the pet vendor. Meanwhile, Thomas was painfully aware he hadn't yet purchased anything that would help with his combat problem. He kept a sharp eye out as they walked until he spotted something interesting.

He had to poke at Zach's shoulder to get his attention.

"Huh?"

Thomas nodded ahead. "Skill and Weapon Merge Emporium. That sounds promising." He made a beeline right for it.
