I blinked and looked behind me. At the back now stood a third wall, creating a triangular inner court, with only ‘my’ gate as an access point. There was but a single other construction inside the walled-off area. It was the weirdest thing. It took a few attempts to even fathom what I was looking at.

It was a staircase. A spiral staircase growing right out of the grasslands, like some sort of weird-ass beanstalk. It was built around a thick central pillar, with rough planks of some material leading up to a platform overhead, placed on the pillar, sporting a single hole for access.

After a few seconds of consideration, and more than a few glances at my surroundings to ensure nothing was sneaking up on us, I realized the brilliance of it all. The pillar was all piecemeal, added together little by little and conjoined by the means of magic. They’d be able to climb the steps as Haddock created them, getting themselves out of the reach of any pursuit. And he could, at a simple thought, cancel any one of the steps leading up, sending climbers tumbling down, or cutting off access entirely.

Except, those were all contingency plans they hadn’t even turned out to be necessary. They’d simply fled up and to safety. And from up there, with a clear view of the surrounding walls and the Ceaseless monsters attacking, they had managed to gain the kind of panorama and safety that was needed to pick their options and make them pay for attacking us.

I ambled around near the opening, making sure that I didn’t go too far away, taking in exactly what they’d wrought. What I saw made me reflect on my situation and choice of companions.

Apparently, there’d been quite a few of the Ceaseless around. The number I’d clashed with was drowned by the number that lay dead or dying in the grasslands around us.

I took in the image of a Ceaseless Scout lying broken in the grasses. Whatever blood it had contained had long since watered the surroundings, and now just the bent and twisted remnants of the body were left. It had been crushed down into the soil, at least thirty centimetres, its skull smashed and flattened to oblivion, two of its limbs bent in unnatural angles. The thick slab of a concrete-like construction still remained in place above it.

This, apparently, was what happened when Haddock had the time to enact his ‘rocks from the sky’ approach.

Other signs weren’t as over the top as this one Scout. Yet, proof of the pair’s impact was everywhere. Torn-up muddy streaks remained next to still-smouldering patches of grass, from where Nix had unleashed her elemental payloads.

Everywhere, corpses. A few still twitched and moved pitifully, trying to escape being trapped or trying to attack on broken limbs. Yet, most were permanently still.

A few hundred meters away, the original Scout, the one who spotted us, remained. It pointed to us and called out, shrill screech tearing through the silence again. Then it slowly turned and started running. Away from us, in long, loping movements.

“Well. That’s not ominous at all.”
