Poi, looking cool as a cucumber in Erick’s ‘sunglasses’, stepped forward. Erick handed him a copy of the spell, too. He read the spell. He dismissed it, saying, “Tell the Headmaster, if you want. It would make the job go faster.”

Kiri dismissed the box, saying, “Yeah. That’s my opinion, too.”

Erick cast one into the air, in front of him. The air sparkled with a much more organic-looking evershifting ‘flower’ than the ones Erick had created against the ceiling. The lines of the lightward were less solid; more ephemeral. It was almost like a kaleidoscope made of fog and rainbows. Almost.

“It’s a little different.” Erick said, “But the costs of using it would make the job take twice as long… Unless I had Ophiel put them up. Then I could automate this whole thing.” He added, “Mostly.”

Kiri said, “I’ve never heard of anyone getting a spell out of a lightward.” She chuckled, adding, “This would be fascinating if not for everything else going on.”

“I’m ready for a break.” Erick said, “And I need to test this to see if it has everything I need. Maybe it has the other lights, too?”

Kiri said, “Let’s go see the Professor? I saw her walking around earlier. She can see blacklights.” She looked up at the lights above, saying, “I can’t tell if it’s giving off warmth in all of this.”

“Me either.” Erick said, “Let’s go find Apell.”

Poi said, “Apell is on the third floor, working with Merith on the waterworks.”

Erick led the way to Apell. As he walked into the second floor, his eyes relaxed from pinpoints to normal; the lights down here were dark compared to up on the first floor. He took off his sunglasses; maybe he needed to make stronger glasses. The dungeon was even darker on the third floor, but there were still enough wardlights to see by, and it was a nice walk. Erick’s legs were apparently getting stiff along with his neck, from constantly looking up.

Apell’s people had finished sculpting and shifting the first and second floor into their proper positions not one hour ago, so they were down here now, working alongside Merith and Apell.

Apell and the young incani woman were in a room set past the northern dungeon wall. Another young person beside the two of them noticed Erick walking toward the water room. He notified Apell, then stepped back. Erick still hadn’t learned most of everyone’s names, and he likely never would.

Apell turned. “Hey? What’s happening?”

He said to the others nearby, “This is gonna get bright. So put on your glasses.”

They all immediately dropped their shades over their eyes, except for Apell. Wrought and dragons apparently didn’t suffer from normal light-blindness like the rest of people.

When everyone nearby had their glasses on, Erick conjured a flower, asking, “Can you tell if this has blacklight in it?”

Apell’s face went still as she gazed upon the churning, brilliant flower. She breathed a little. She said, “Uh. Yeah. Yeah. It does. That casting was instant, too— How did you…? It’s really pretty.” She caught hold of herself, and said, “Yes. It has one of these blacklights in it.” Her tone turned serious, as she said, “But we need permanent lightwards. Not… whatever this art piece is.”

“I got it when I was making permanent lightwards.” Erick brought out the box and handed it over to Apell, saying, “I didn’t know that lightwards could make new spells.”

“It’s rare but it... does… happen...” Apell’s eyes widened as she read the box. She breathed. She sighed. She said, “I’ve got to tell the Headmaster.”

Erick said, “Fair enough.”

Apell nodded, then sent a tendril of thought through the manasphere, like a tiny line of heat coming off of her head and diffracting the light around that line. After a moment, she said, “The Headmaster does not want this spell in his dungeon. Erase all the ones you have put up, and craft the lightwards exactly as you made them in your original location.” She paused a moment, listening to elsewhere. She looked to Erick saying, “But a few around the statues you have planned at the bottom would be nice, just to see what happens.” The thread of thought snapped. Apell spoke for herself, as she said, “Personally, I think you should experiment elsewhere. This dungeon will be better if we treat it like a farm, not like an experiment.”

“There goes that easy idea.” Erick said, “Probably for the best, though. The farmers in Spur are always talking about order versus chaos in the farm; chaos is the enemy, after all.” He added, “You know what my new magics did for them, right? A whole new way of life in the desert.”

Apell smirked, then said, “We’re a lot more conservative, here. No [Kaleidoscopic Radiance], please.”

“Fine fine fine.” Erick changed the subject, “So when is the white stone getting here? That stuff is expensive. It cost me fifteen grandrads to layer my original dungeon in the stuff. This place is going to be a lot more.”

Apell winced, saying, “Maybe tomorrow. Maybe the day after.”

“We’ll have diamond dust to put in all that white stone, too, just so you know.”

“Oh, I know.” Apell said, “This place is going to be the brightest, most expensive, most sterile dungeon I’ve ever made. I hope we can scale your example dungeon up without losing whatever made the first one effective.”

“I do, too.”
