Calzin pointed to the dungeon entrance, saying, “Down there, already. She was the first one here, several hours ago. I heard that as soon as your [Familiar]s went away the Headmaster sent her back in.” He added, “After she got here, she set to clearing the mountain. Then a pair of doctors came out and checked the area and the dungeon for biologics. They found some outside, but they took care of those. The entire mountainside and dungeon is clean, now. We’ve got the all-clear to work, so we’re working.”

“Okay.” Erick looked to the dungeon entrance. It was still a hole in the ground, three meters wide, leading to a downward tunnel. Not much had changed there. Maybe the lights leading down the tunnel were more uniform, or maybe not. Erick would get to all of that later; put up some something decorative, or whatnot. But proper construction came first. He turned back to Calzin, then looked to the floating, glowing dungeon map, saying, “I don’t see any waterworks in here.”

Calzin smiled. “We were waiting for you for all of that.”

Erick said, “Excellent!”

“Good. You’re here.”

Erick turned toward the voice.

Apell was walking up from the dungeon. Her light green metal body was formed into light work clothes.

Erick said, “Hello. I expected to be working on it myself, today.”

“No such luck, I’m afraid.” Apell stepped to the side of the floating dungeon map, saying, “The Headmaster wants this done as soon as possible and he’s worked out the basic math. You need help.” She looked to Kiri. “I’ve heard that your apprentice should be able to help put up lights?”

Erick covered for Kiri, saying, “I haven’t told her everything quite yet.”

“Probably for the best, but that will throw our schedule back a few days.” Apell looked to Erick, saying, “What kind of waterworks do you want? Something similar to the original location? We’ve got streams to route however you want, but I assume you’d want to start with some of that silver rain of yours?”

Erick turned his attention to the dungeon map, and saw it inadequate. He turned to the left, to an open space in the air, and began creating a second map in full color, saying, “This is how I would do it...”

Apell, Calzin, and the incani woman, who was no longer just standing in the background, but watching intently, all listened and saw what Erick wanted to do. Apell had quite a few suggestions. Erick moved the map accordingly.

When the conversation was done an hour later, there was a plan, and several other graduates who had come in halfway through the talk were all in the loop.

Beauty and ornateness would come later, but for now, the ten floors would each be the same. Each of the base floors of the dungeon were a hundred meters long on each side, square, and perfectly flat, but that would all change soon enough. Erick wanted undulations and fun spots for slimes to play. He also wanted a winding river that went from the top floor and around the entire level before passing through a grate, to drop down onto the next floor, to continue on its way. Each floor would have lots of diamond sculptures and lots of entertaining lights, which Erick would provide. The students would work the mana flows and the river and even the carving of the floor and the pillars everywhere, to maximize the condensation of mana into areas that Erick would flood with all the necessary lights.

The verdict had come down from the Headmaster. He wanted this place full to bursting with all the appropriate lighting, no matter if it was secretive or not. Blacklights were to be liberally employed throughout the whole space.

Apell was less than happy about this, as it meant she would have to account for this strange new magic being widely employed, and everyone soon finding out about it, but Erick was thrilled; he was going to make a good product that actually did what he wanted it to do. After a little bit of explaining about the side effects of the blacklights, without getting into too much detail, the graduates, who were apparently going to be employed here to watch after the dungeon, were also slightly thrilled. Blacklights meant that the need to [Cleanse] the place would be a lot less than normal because blacklights were natural disinfectants.

In the main reservoirs, strong blacklights would keep the water pure, but even the smaller, less powerful blacklights that Erick would place around the dungeon itself would be good for keeping out other accidental slimes or other potential fauna. With all the moisture in the air, moss and mold were usually a problem for every dungeon, but not with the lighting Erick had planned.

When they doubted the disinfecting properties of blacklights, Apell spoke up, saying that it was true. The original dungeon was still clean, even with all of the water Erick had strung through the place. Several people looked at Erick differently, after that.

With the plan finalized, Apell set her people to work with precise orders.

Erick stayed outside. The first thing to set up was the diamond-making area.

Atop a plateau only thirty meters north of the dungeon entrance, and still in view of that hole in the mountain, Erick first conjured a few more Ophiel, then set them blipping across the ocean to Spur, to check on the Mage Trio’s house. With another Ophiel right in front of him, and using that Ophiel to cast the spell, he conjured a [Prismatic Ward].

He checked back to Spur, and…

The dense air around the Mage Trio’s house remained stable; Erick had not compromised the [Ward] around the Trio’s house. Very good.

… Needing to check on their house every time he wanted to use another [Prismatic Ward] was rather annoying. He really needed to hurry up and understand how Ophiel’s [Prismatic Ward]s worked, with regard to the ‘can only have one Solid Ward’ aspect of the spell. He couldn’t do it right now; he needed to use his mana and his time on the dungeon.

Erick recalled the closest Ophiel and dismissed the rest. He summoned a few more. As several Ophiel hovered around him, Erick shaped the land into a large pool. Then, he raised silver mist from the land. That mist turned into silver clouds, that rained platinum. Erick funneled that rain into the pool using a wide [Weather Ward]. When the pool was full and shimmering, he cast a [Distill] into the water. Platinum metals, that Erick very much doubted were platinum, separated from the water. He and Kiri separated the resulting metals from the pool. Soon, Erick was left with one long, large pool of clear water, underneath a long, hanging [Prismatic Ward].

Erick set five Ophiel to hovering above the water, inside the dense air. With another thought at comfort, he pulled up perches of stone from the bottom of the pool, into the [Prismatic Ward].

With the benefits of the enforced ‘Rest’ state inside the [Prismatic Ward], Ophiel’s natural regeneration was the same as Erick’s; a little over 20k per hour. Meaning that, between all of the Ophiel on perches over the water, they could maintain a [Cleanse Aura] by switching between who cast the spell every 20 minutes, keeping the water pristine, and casting [Crystallize Diamond] down into the pool below them.

Erick took a dozen diamond chips from his pocket and tossed them into the water. [Crystallize Diamond]s began from each Ophiel, almost immediately. The water bubbled. One of the Ophiel turned on their [Cleanse Aura].

Chips became gems, became jewels, growing larger and larger as time went on, and thick air spilled up and out of that deep pool. Time would pass, and rocks would become more than simple rocks. They would become the accents for a new light dungeon; ones that would glitter and sparkle enough to entice light slimes to spontaneously generate out of the manasphere.

Erick set up a system of shifting magical responsibility with those five Ophiel, knowing Ophiel could follow his instructions. One of them would [Cleanse Aura], while one Rested, and the other three cast [Crystallize Diamond] at their targets. Occasionally, one of them would grab a done diamond, and crack it into shards with [Stoneshape], to keep growing more diamonds. When one of the diamonds was at an appropriate size, the Ophiel would take that rough diamond and set it outside of the pool, into a pile.

Erick left Ophiel to it. That job would take them quite a while.

With that set up, Erick went into the dungeon, itself. The young incani woman who Erick had seen earlier met him at the entrance. Her name was Merith. She was a graduate of dungeoneering from Oceanside who had yet to make it on her own, but she was a Water Mage and fully ready to commit to Erick’s planned waterworks, and working here after the dungeon was set up; she just had a few questions. She walked with Erick, down into the dungeon, down into the cavernous space where sounds echoed loud and moisture layered across grey and tan rock.

Erick remarked that the grey and tan would need to get covered in white. Erick had had to cover the rock in the original dungeon, too. Merith replied that she would let Apell know. Erick decided to tell Apell, himself.

They spoke of plumbing, coming to agreements and working out ideas on what Erick thought would be necessary. Erick essentially wanted a water park for the light slimes; an area for them to play and not hurt themselves, full of swirling pools and lazy rivers and splash zones that would all catch the light and break it up into color and rainbows. Some water sprays for rainbows here and there would be a good idea, too. Merith thought the idea rather cute. Time would tell if it was a good methodology, but Merith was more than willing to try it out. It sounded rather fun.

Merith went off to work, and so did Erick.

Erick started off with sending Ophiel over to Windy Manor, to pick up a pile of iron ingots. When Ophiel came back, carrying four ingots, Erick began shaping lightmasks over [Metalshape]d bands, making sunglasses for everyone. He had told them of the danger of blacklights on the eyes, so hopefully everyone would use them. He spoke to Kiri through [Telepathy], keeping the conversation private, as he made the sunglasses, telling her of the polarization of light, and how back on Earth they used physical substances to do what he was doing now; mainly molecules in organized strings on glass that vibrated in only one direction, up and down. That was how ‘polarized sunglasses’ came to be on Earth, but that system of coatings was very complicated and Erick had no idea where to even begin making such a thing, and it was all quite redundant on Veird, anyway.

One just needed to know that light waves traveled in packets of energy that could be polarized, in order to create a working polarization lightmask.

But, oh! Wasn’t it interesting how if you took one mask that was polarized up-and-down, and crossed it with another turned 90 degrees? Zero light would get through if you did that.

But if you put a 45 degree polarization lightmask in between both of them, you lost only something like half of the initial light coming through the first mask! Amazing!

Kiri’s eyes went wide, as she deeply frowned.

No. Erick did not understand why, exactly, this happened, only that it was neat.

And no, the lightmasks were all made the same. They all blocked light in the same fashion; everything that wasn’t up-and-down didn’t get through the mask. Erick gave Kiri the lightmasks and she tried them herself, but they worked the same, because, of course, Erick had made them. Handing them off to her wouldn’t change how they worked.

Kiri tried to make her own polarizing maskward, but she had yet to understand anything that Erick was talking about. Her own attempt at a lightmask produced a brown blob of air. She would have to work on all that for a while longer, and Erick would need to figure out a better way to explain light and electromagnetic waves.

In the meanwhile, Erick made sunglasses enough for everyone. Twenty right now; more later, if required. After giving one each to Poi and Kiri, and putting one on top of his head, and telling everyone else to have at it ‘because it was going to get very bright in here!’ and 'blacklights are bad on your eyes', he set those metal bands into a stone bucket at the entrance. Then, he set to work crafting [Permanent Special Ward]s on the first floor.

He stopped after the first kaleidoscopic lightward.

He needed to see the whole of the dungeon first, just to make sure it was all looking like the plan. A few people paused in their dungeon shaping tasks to look at the prismatic light, but not very long, and not too directly; it was damn bright, after all. But it didn’t have ultraviolet light or infrared in there; that was a separate lightward he would put up later. This particular lightward was too complicated to include absolutely everything, after all.

The tunnel to the second floor was directly across the first floor. It was a three meter wide tunnel that led down a smooth walkway made of undulations; slimes were expected to be able to climb everywhere, except up the final set of stairs.

The second floor was the same as the first; flat, for now, and full of lots of structural pillars. Some of those pillars were thicker than others. Those larger ones were meant to flow air down or water up, and were inscribed with ‘air’ or ‘water’ to indicate which was which.

Erick had repaired a lot of this place yesterday, but not nearly as much as was present. Apell had done a lot of work since Erick had last set eyes on this dungeon.

