Sulfur’s upper surface began to crack and rupture. The heat radiating out from that inner core was hot enough that Randidly felt a searing heat against the flesh of his back. His skin tingled with the buzzing potential. Underneath the rising force of transformation, the remnant portion of Sulfur shivered in something between agony and excitement. The energy reaction grew increasingly intense, warping the surrounding air even through the restrictions of the mountain.

That’s my armor, Randidly thought fondly.

Crack!

Sulfur’s substance exploded in a whooshing rush of energy. Randidly’s eyebrows shot upward. With the exterior breaking, a gush of the liquid essence of Sulfur sprayed downward. For a brief moment, Randidly thought all of Sulfur’s vital innards were going to be dumped on the stone ground like the goop from a shattered egg. However, even as the liquid fell, it stretched and arced in specific lines, soon settling into a solid form. The essence spun in perfect lines to generate its new shape.

An arm was created, glittering and gunmetal grey in the stark sunlight. Pure black lines ran in loops around the knuckles and wrist.

Randidly gasped as a buzzing jolt traveled through his shoulder joint and integrated the new limb with the rest of his body. Then the entire thing tingled as his senses connected with the surface. He raised the heavy grey arm in wonder. The fingers were large, pretty comparable to the size of a regular hand with a metal gauntlet across it, albeit an exquisitely crafted one. The wrist was thick and armored, with powerful and elastic substances shifting beneath the armored surface, allowing the metallic limb near-perfect movement.

His eyes immediately locked onto the sharp, dagger-like protrusions that grew along the edge of the forearm, each a few inches apart down from the rest. As the tingling sensation spread along, it concentrated around those three locations. They seemed to glitter slightly, revealing small motes of crimson within the metal of these extensions. A notification popped up in front of Randidly.

Congratulations! Due to immense empathy between you and your Soulseed, a Unique connection has been established! Your Soulseed Sulfur has agreed to share a portion of its abilities with you!

Calculating… Warning, due to the interaction between individuals, the resulting ability will gain Skill Levels at a slightly inferior pace to the Skill of a singular individual.

Calculating…

Your new left arm has been classified as equipment by the System!

Sulfur, the Ghosthound’s Aide (T) Lvl 100: A Soulseed that has completely dedicated itself to its creator. Using a vast amount of accumulated potential, it has grown into a left arm of Randidly Ghosthound and found a Great Path for itself. Due to its intelligence, the arm can continue to improve and evolve. All Stats +50. The Mysterious Ascent VIII. Armament of the Ghosthound VII. Domain Remnant VII.

The Mysterious Ascent VIII: Due to first being a Soulseed and slowly morphing into equipment, Sulfur has broken past an inherent limit of equipment. It has obtained the initial stages of a Great Path. Details are hidden from the user; they are only available to Sulfur.

Armament of the Ghosthound VII: A powerful equipment that merges several divergent elements to create a new and unique effect. Influenced heavily by Nether. In addition, the Armament is perfectly synchronized with the user’s body. Can only be used by Randidly Ghosthound. All Stats will be treated as if their Rarity were boosted by one, leading to increased effectiveness.

Domain Remnant VII: Due to a deep yearning in Sulfur, a nostalgic Domain has been created. Due to sympathy, user will have access to that Domain as well. Aspects of Sulfur have been incorporated into the Domain.

Congratulations! You have gained access to the Skill (Domain) The Resonant Fangs of Extinction (M)! Skill Level has been set at 300.

(Domain) The Resonant Fangs of Extinction (M): A Domain of one who has walked the Path of sophisticated carnage. Control several sharpened fangs within a current of force that can spread and influence the surroundings. Amplifies all Skills that affect a wide area. Generates a restrictive power in the surroundings against foes. User experiences a slight boost to all Stats within the area of that restrictive power. When the fangs are hit directly with force, they absorb a portion of that force. When sufficient force has been absorbed, the fangs can resonant with the next attack and neutralize it. Effects increase with Skill Level. A new fang is earned for each one hundred Skill Levels.

The tingling sensation moved to concentrate on those three fangs that jutted out from the Sulfur arm. They burned for several long seconds, scarring and marking Randidly’s perception so they would be perfectly engrained into his body. Randidly released a low hiss through the process. Because simultaneously, his Soulspace shifted to accommodate the new Skill. The bridge between himself and Sulfur grew stronger.

Although he felt them so vividly, Randidly made sure to study the fangs as the tingling died. They were razor-sharp and serrated at the edges, the flat of the blade not truly flat. Thin ripples ran across the surface of the fangs, modeled on-

-on the storm I created in the Third Step. Randidly’s eyes glittered as he began to imagine the various possibilities. With but a thought, he activated the borrowed Domain Skill. The three fangs unmoored themselves from the arm and began to swim through the surrounding air. As he expected, all three left turbulent trails of natural energy in their wake.

Congratulations! Your Skill (Domain) The Resonate Fangs of Extinction (M) has grown to Level 301!

The ripples gather force for Cutting Tide of Amenonuhoko, but the serrated blades shred the power as soon as it is gathered. The look in Randidly’s eyes deepened as he had them accelerate before him. Soon the cliff was filled with a keening thrum as the fangs cut through the air. They cut deep gouges into the heavy stone that had been able to withstand basic wind blades from the Grand Pattern. They vastly increase the efficiency of creating natural energy on my own. This… is such an unselfish choice for evolution. Setting aside the ability to absorb force and neutralize attacks, the flavor and coloration of this new form-

Randidly sighed and rapped the knuckles of his right hand against the metal. “You miss her too, don’t you buddy?”

Sulfur hummed shyly in response. He raised his head and looked up at the sun. Randidly was happy that he managed to obtain a Domain of his own, even it was borrowed. However, how could he not look at it and not think of Helen’s Depths of Horror?

But in a way, it makes a lot of sense. Randidly’s lips twitched. Compared to Thorn and Arbor, both Acri and Sulfur are more isolated; they mostly interact with only me. However, Helen’s pretty constant desire to spar meant that both of them are intimately familiar with her attack patterns and strikes. Acri might not care as much, but Sulfur-

Well, Sulfur’s biggest donator of kinetic force, to date, is probably Helen.

Congratulations! Your Skill (Domain) The Resonate Fangs of Extinction (M) has grown to Level 302!

After spinning the three fangs together and forming a drill of force he used to bore into the mist below the cliff, Randidly recalled them. Leaving a wide crater in the mists below, they whizzed back around and rejoined with his arm. He raised his head and studied the turbulent air flows for several seconds. The effect was good. Then he examined the growing restriction on him. From what he could tell, Randidly had about seven more hours before he needed to start with the Fourth Step. He released a breath and flicked his hand.

The Dreamcatcher of the Long Night hung from his fingers, its complex threads glittering in the sun. Randidly glanced upward at the sky, waiting to see if the dormant consciousness of the mountain would show any response to his Fatepiece. Obviously, his ability to improve on the mountain was more important, but he couldn’t resist the urge to pay his respects right now.

Not when Sulfur so clearly was marked by her as well.

To Randidly’s relief, the mountain didn’t seem to care about the Dreamcatcher at all.

His fingers tightened on the Fatepiece. He looked down at his new arm. “Let’s go show her how much we’ve improved.”

A ringing chime sounded out from the Fatepiece and his consciousness slipped into the inner world. With an explosive sigh, Randidly found himself in the massive crater on the Fifth Cohort Rally Station, before that last spar against Helen. She was already raising her spear, ready to attack, but Randidly raised his hand. “Wait.”

“Tsk, you better not be trying to weasel way out of this spar,” Helen eyed Randidly warily, tossing her braid back over her shoulder. But even if she spoke harshly, she still lowered her spear.

If he really didn’t have his heart in it, she wouldn’t force him to fight. Because that was the sort of friend she had always been to him.

For several seconds Randidly just stared at her. He had obviously spent a lot of time grieving Helen, which made him believe that he would be able to handle this. But immediately, he felt himself trembling as he looked at her.

She practically burned in his vision. With the context of her absence aiding his awareness, the significance of her existence to Randidly Ghosthound was nearly blinding. He felt tears forming in the corners of his eyes and sucked in a shaky breath.

Of course, Helen greeted this display with a grumble. “Something wrong? Why are you looking at me like that?”

“...nothing,” Randidly said slowly as he steeled himself then he raised his new left arm and clenched a fist. The effect of boosting the Rarities of his Stats was hard to get a read on, but Randidly definitely enjoyed being free of the physical restriction from the mountain. His images all started to billow out as well, impressing themselves on the space outside of his body. “But I want your help with something a bit special.”

“Hm?” Helen raised an eyebrow.

Hiding his sorrow in his heart, Randidly flashed an almost malicious smile at Helen. “I’ve been watching your Domain. And honestly, it seems super useful. So I’ve made my own version. Why don’t we check how well it compares to the original?”

Helen’s nostrils flared outward. “You fucking did what?”

Randidly stretched out his arm and the three fangs happily buzzed out into the air. They cut wide troughs through the air currents, leaving ample natural energy in their wake. Then those ripples were gathered into a tide that spun around him. The influence Randidly possessed slowly stretched into a maelstrom. Helen’s scowl deepened and she raised her spear once more. The air around her darkened and four undulating wicker arrowheads formed around.

“Are you trying to piss me off on purpose?” Helen muttered right before she accelerated forward, her Domain spreading out to oppress Randidly’s.

Congratulations! Your Skill (Domain) The Resonant Fangs of Extinction (M) has grown to Level 303!

No. But if I say anything else, I’m going to start crying again, Randidly whispered in his heart. Then he mobilized his Skills and images to meet her directly. A black wicker and smoky arrow had tore forward, aiming for Randidly’s chest. A fang slid down to meet it.

BOOOOOOOOM!
