Randidly folded his arms and looked out across the new home of the Nether people. It had taken a bit of Yggdrasil snaking thick roots across the interior Alpha Cosmos and gathering materials, but he felt proud of the result.

With a little help from the Pantheon, Randidly had forged together the disparate chunks of space rock, metal asteroids, and assorted destroyed lands from the various Danger Zones to create a massive ring of land. Shadows stretched across its rugged surface. The construct floated in space, so large and expansive the ring completely encircled the half-dozen planets that made up the improved Alpha Cosmos.

One more unusual interloper in this strange existence I’m building.

It had the slight downside of adding a strange black ring to the horizon on the planets, and sweeping, half hour long stretches of twilight racing across the landscapes, but Randidly figured the System had already done enough damage to the sleep schedule of the people on Expira that the shift wouldn’t matter much.

Hopefully, Randidly sighed, already knowing that his Class essentially guaranteed that he wouldn’t be able to make changes without producing consequences, no matter how small his choices were.

And this definitely wasn’t small. A whole new celestial body would exist in the sky above the Alpha Cosmos, for a foreseeable future. A whole slew of new myths regarding the skyring would emerge. But those developments would happen naturally, while Randidly ensured the future of this place remained peaceful.

After the base shape had been built, it had been a simple thing to utilize some of the natural life energy to seed plants and animals on the massive ring. The Pantheon was in the process of figuring out a sustainable system of water flowing through the ring, but they had at least managed to pin an atmosphere in place.

Lowanna floated beside him, looking across the massive ring. Her people arrived in mass below, spreading across the relatively small thickness of the ring and setting up a crowded base camp. Already, several foolish Nether Warriors had to be rescued when they attempted to navigate the strange ‘edge’ to this world. But while the thickness of the interior ring was only the size of a massive city, the length could fit thousands of such encampments. In time, the Nether People would spread out and cover the whole of the land.

And that didn’t even address the possibility of digging through the ring to the opposite side. Or Nether Warriors with a bit more… sophistication being motivated to traverse the edge. Randidly had already seen the Pantheon’s plans to use Engravings to reverse gravity and hide a few nasty little surprises for the Nether Population, but he approved of the idea. He had never promised them that the life he provided in the Alpha Cosmos would be easy. Just that they would be free to conduct themselves however they wish.

“A strange world,” Lowanna commented softly. But a smile crossed her face. Her hands spread wide and released rings of warm significance to drift across the Nether Warriors and Heralds. “But ours.”

Enmya grunted, much less impressed with the land we have given to him. “How can this world be sustainable? There are only two directions in which to travel.”

Randidly supposed it was healthier if the individual he now shared a Toosah Bond with be willing to challenge him on his decisions, but in the short term it would be much more obnoxious. And in this instance, Randidly could only shrug.

He didn’t have time for any more effective solution and he didn’t have any conveniently located planets to gulp down until he left the memory. It was a vessel informed by necessity, but its strangeness only made Randidly more fond of it.

“The pitfalls our people dug for themselves had very little to do with the geography and everything to do with attitude,” Lowanna countered, taking Randidly’s side. She pivoted and gestured to the sky. “Look at the beauty here. Doesn’t it resemble how we left? The wide empty spaces, the kites and colors filling the sky?”

Enmya was dumbfounded by that, but Randidly felt his eyes glowing with comprehension. He looked with sight, but also with his Nether Senses. In the Alpha Cosmos, the kites were massive planets, marbles of green and blue and purple and orange shrouded in their atmosphere. And the streamers and color were all the trails of significance spreading out from the worlds.

The most domineering was Expira itself. Randidly could sense the core whisp that originated from the Kharon Academy and the physical location of his Nether Core, but others rose to the sky and joined the throng of meaning. Expira’s significance spread out in a web that undulated with the pulse of the planet’s rhythms. The other planets possessed smaller tails of meaning, but they rabidly wove themselves connections, with Expira’s more stable network and with each other.

And already, the thinnest streamers of meaning began to flow outward, questing for the ring around them all that now existed.

“So we begin,” Lowanna said softly. “How frightful it is to hold power. How deep and dark and vast it seems, to be freed.”

Randidly bowed his head and left them to their work. He returned to the memory and looked around. The cracks were spreading up through the ground, a horrid plant varietal of destruction that would soon bloom and consume all the remaining lives in the memory. He released a soft sigh and felt the weight of all those lives marching forward to weigh on his conscious. Then he looked at the waiting notification in front of him.

Congratulations! You have completed the Reality from Echoes, Moirae and Alchemist Ascendant Path! To cross the vast distance from the beginning to the present, you have chosen a variety of Paths. Your unique advantages have given you more steps than any other individual in the history of the System; simply in terms of the number of Paths you have followed, you dwarf all your competition. Your wanderings have given options of which others can only dream.

The Pinnacle might hint at the holy heights scaled, but you seemed concerned more with breadth.

Yet you didn’t limit your advantages to just ranging far and wide. You have followed two patterns that accumulated your abilities until you near the cusp of the genuine Pinnacle. First, you have discovered the power of the Moiraes. These Fates control specific aspects of life and death, delineating harsh boundaries in expanses of ambiguity. Their voices shape the cadence of humanity. And more than a single Moirae, you have condensed aspects of three within your body, the Moirae of Minute Repercussions, the Dove Moirae, and the Apostate Moriae.

Your body crackles and shifts. Your skin withstands their authorities. As a vessel, you are exemplary.

Especially the third Moirae grins, looking around at the power you’ve assembled.  Without a whole world existing within your Soulskill and body, you would be completely unable to host this monstrous potential. The air quakes with it. With three Moiraes concentrated into your body, other authorities wane near you.

On the other hand, your Fateset hints at an even more alien pattern within the System. You are an alchemist that wields roles and rules and possibilities as your base materials, transforming the fabric of existence with creativity and sacrilege. You have made one of your original species into a Champion, you made a Soulskill into a world, and now you have even managed to cheat your way into killing the reflection of a true Shallah.

The System dreads your existence. It shudders as it considers what your next trick may be. If it had a conscious will, it would seek to kill you. You benefit that the soul of the Nexus has been thoroughly buried.

Congratulations! The trio of Moiraes and the Alchemist conspire. The ripples begin to spread as they plot the coming upheaval.

Congratulations! For completing the Reality from Echoes Path, +1000 Free Stats! Your actions have created substance from memory and absence. Your Skill Nether Modification (U) has shifted, due to your impressive accomplishment. Your Skill Nether Modification (U) has evolved into Nether Executive’s Discretionary Genesis (U).

The Alchemist and the three Moiraes come to an accord! Your Skillset the Moirae of Minute Repercussions shifts to incorporate new aspects!

The Apostate Moirae gleefully takes the first opportunity. Your Skills Heritage of the Origin Beast (T), Fruit of the Planting of Enmity (L), and Diffracted Corruption of an Avaricious Impossibility (P)(U) are being incorporated…

Your Skills have been merged into Apostate Moirae’s Seditious Touch (GD)! Skill Level will be set at 1300.

The Dove Moirae next steps forward. It offers the universe a gentle bow as it prepares to peer through to the fundamental truth of perspective. Your Skills Protostar’s Twilight Radiance (L), Ghosthound’s Acute Nether Nose (M), and Infinite Incendiary Filaments of the Dove Moirae (P)(U) are being incorporated…

As Randidly drew in a breath, his entire awareness changed.

Threads of energy and significance had previously been flowing in every direction. The interplay between the forces had constructed the shell of reality. With focus, he had previously been able to peer through the edges of existence and examine the building blocks of existence. Concentration allowed him to fold his own perspective and alter the entire world around him.

But now… all the movement of energy ceased.

The world bloomed into a dozen different dimensions.

At that exact moment, the memory began to crumble and shake around him.

Your Skills have been merged into Emerald Eyes and Dove Breath Certify the Objective (GD)! Skill Level set at 1500.
