When Neshamah didn’t elaborate on her strange and sudden nickname, just kept looking at Randidly with an enthusiastic expression, he eventually cleared his throat. “...I’m sorry, but I have no idea what you are talking about. Skull Shadow?”

She laughed and winked at him. “Of course, of course. Considering your attitude, I shan’t say any more on that subject. How have you been, Randidly? You’ve been quite busy recently.”

Randidly cast a questioning glance toward Claudette. Quickly, he received a message from her. Skull Shadow is one of the two figures who gobbled up a significant portion of the Engraving Guild’s Nether Lattice. Compared to the other person, who had been a close disciple of Lathis N’Gick, basically nothing is known about Skull Shadow. Many are scrambling to find out who it is. The Engraving Guild is keeping its mouth shut about the issue.

I’m not sure why Neshamah thinks you are Skull Shadow, but it will probably make the negotiations easier.

Randidly turned back to Neshamah. The most likely reason for her misunderstanding was the improvement of his Nether Core, combined with a fast rise of a mysterious figure of Nether; it seemed like the two factions who had the capability to form Nether Cores still thought he had utilized the method of the other to do so.

Congratulations! Your Skill Nether Sensation (L) has grown to Level 440!

Congratulations! Your Skill Right Hand of the Nether Polymath (M) has grown to Level 448!

His eyes opened and he viewed Neshamah with the whole of his senses. Nether glittered in the air around her, definitely thinner than his own but also possessing an impressive fineness to its flow. If Randidly sat in the middle of a maelstrom of Nether that constantly churned, the Nether Core of Neshamah Rex was as light and airy as a circus tent held aloft by a playful breeze. The construction possessed simplicity and grace that demonstrated an entirely different understanding of Nether.

Out of curiosity, Randidly manipulated a pinch of his Nether to flow toward Neshamah’s graceful arrangement. When the two interacted, Randidly half-heartedly demonstrated his newly acquired Synechdochence with an implosion of physical force. That pinch flared and Neshamah grinned, a swirling mote of her own Nether moving to meet the challenge.

A ripple ran through the sapphire water that surrounded them all as the two forces met. Nether crackled and spat, unleash a gasp of bubbles. Neshamah laughed out loud at the result, the sound completely clear despite the water. “Impressive as always, Mr. Ghosthound. Not only have you successfully created a Legendary Nether Core since we last met, but based on the Weight you have likely accumulated… is your Synechdochence already past 50%? Honestly, excellence seems to be the norm for you.”

Randidly gave her a slow nod of acknowledgment; he filed away the fact that his 29% effort registered as almost 50% for Neshamah. In addition, it was difficult to say whether that attempt truly represented what he could accomplish at the moment.

But even as he felt a rush of confidence, Randidly’s expression hardened. The emotional intensity from his memory seemed to have grown even stronger, swirling in his subconscious, a constant reminder of the danger. If I were to compare this Nether trick to the solidity of the look the Don gave me…

He shook himself to push that brief flared emotional power away and looked at the stranger: the man with a tiger head. “And who are you?”

“Colm Yust.” The tiger-headed man spoke with a pleasantly rumbling voice. He swayed his hammock chair and got to his feet, offering Randidly a hand. Randidly marveled at the way the sapphire water didn’t seem to get them wet at all as they moved. “An individual whose interest aligns with your own. We are all here to help Claudette.”

Randidly shook the hand, but only felt bemusement as Colm tightened his grip on Randidly’s palm until his queerly unfurred knuckle joints popped. The squeeze wasn’t even slightly uncomfortable. He stoically observed the tiger man as his eyes slowly bulged in shock. Randidly ignored the expression and didn’t bother to demonstrate the difference between their physical strength. Eventually, he shook off the handshake and turned to Claudette. “He better be worth it.”

“He is,” Claudette smiled. Then her expression grew more serious. “He might be blustering, but he is the disciple of a very talented Pinnacle Seeker who holds a deep grudge against one of the primary competitors for… me. Meeting you was a happy coincidence that has definitely improved my power- but I had other plans to try and struggle before I even met you, Randidly.”

Neshamah leaned forward with an ingratiating smile. “Obviously, the Rex Family will also be helping Claudette avoid this tragic fate. From the moment we heard about the Don’s plans, we attempted to dissuade him. And since that method failed, we are more than happy to provide Claudette with assistance of a more… concrete nature.”

Randidly’s lips twitched. She really is laying it on thick. Perhaps Claudette is right, and she has really fallen for me?

He turned to Claudette. “So what do we know about the competition? From what the Don said, he seemed to have given an edge to me that I could use to help you.”

Claudette’s resulting smile was quite bitter. “True, I have no doubt that he would be willing to give you a nod. However… he has told me that it would be spoiling the fun if he let us know the exact arrangements that were made. There are a few things I can tell you: only individuals can compete and there is no way to withdraw once the competition starts. You can hide, but you will be risking your life. The general structure is a free-for-all scavenger hunt. The winner will be the first person to find the chosen object. But as for what the object is, the environment, and the special rules that he will undoubtedly include to make things interesting…”

Randidly frowned as he listened to the explanation. “Not to be insensitive, but isn’t this supposed to be a way for your dad to make a political alliance with other factions? Deciding everything with a game seems a bit… random for a meticulous man like your father.”

“Don’t think you are the only person given an advantage.” Claudette shook her head. “You are exactly correct. For all my father’s flaws, he’s not someone who would leave this competition to chance. Based on what I can tell, there are three forces that are his most likely choices: the Pinnacle Seeker that Yust will help subdue, a retired Military High Command Commandant, and one of the old hermits who hides away in the Tier III Citizenship Zone. The four of us will all be competing, so hopefully, we can work together to overcome these old monsters.”

“Since it is a free-for-all,” Yust added. “So long as we develop a method to find each other quickly, we can join forces and attack one of the other factions. Those old monsters will have much too much pride to work together to resist us.”

And the power to back up that pride. For another split second, Randidly felt the condensed emotion that Don Beigon had shown him and gritted his teeth. Even with the four of them, assuming Neshamah would assist them, taking down a truly powerful image seemed extremely difficult. Somehow, Randidly sensed that the Don’s display hadn’t been done as a threat; the older man had demonstrated his own power so Randidly wouldn’t forget what he was up against.

They discussed their options for a while longer, Neveah ingratiating and Yust occasionally looking at Randidly with obvious wariness. But very quickly, all went their separate ways to make their own preparations for this party.

As he closed the portal behind him, Randidly couldn’t help but laugh. “That’s right. It’s a party.” His eyes crinkled at the edges and he barred his teeth. “So the whole point is to have fun. No need to hold anything back. No regrets.”

*****

Pinnacle Seeker Moonlight Blade stroked the bracer on his left arm, savoring the sensation of his claws running through the furr. Even now, he felt the intoxicating potential waiting within the equipment, only needing some time to blossom. A small wind rustled across the clearing, winding its way through the stone pillars carved with the names of powerful foes that Moonlight Blade slew in the past.

The two individuals in front of him continued to kneel, waiting for the pleasure of his permission before they spoke. Moonlight Blade appreciated the fact that they understood their position. Many of his other subordinates let their accomplishments get to their head in situations like this.

Yet these two continue to kneel. Moonlight Blade’s lip curled upward. Then he forced it down. Although his instincts screamed that these two were weak and he could easily rip out their throats and lap up their blood, he suppressed it. These two remained useful, so long as they could provide him with similar equipment.

Besides, neither of them would be worthy of a stone pillar. He might sate his aggression, but he would find no honor in hunting them.

Moonlight Blade lowered his head and rubbed his nose against the bracer, mixing his scent with the equipment’s. Already, he could feel some small, budding image beginning to form. His heartbeat quickened at the possibility of growing stronger, even while he avoided stepping into the image fulfillment stage.

This was the key he had been waiting for. And then-

Moonlight Blade raised his head. They had proven their patience. “So? The rest of the equipment?”

The minor Pinnacle Seeker pressed his forehead against the ground with additional force. “To avoid the artisan taking advantage of us, we have provided him with various random ingredients and asked him to generate similar results to make sure that bracer wasn’t a fluke. About 50% of the time, he succeeds-”

“Why bother?” Moonlight Blade sniffed. “Capture the artisan and his family. I shall give you a thousand winged wolves; capture his entire people. If he refuses to work with us, we will teach him the meaning of fear.”

“Of course, that was my first thought as well,” The Pinnacle Seeker replied quickly into the grass. “However… there is something strange about his home planet, Expira. Based on System records, its clearly in the Seventh Cohort. However, all attempts to locate the planet have failed. Unfortunately, due to the recent destruction of the record keeping-”

“Amateurs,” This time Moonlight Blade didn’t bother to hide his bloodlust. Both shivered and cowered on the ground, which did a little to alleviate Moonlight Blade’s annoyance. He suppressed the impulse to howl upward, calling his endless wolf horde to devour their flesh and leave him the bones to gnaw to alleviate his boredom. Despite the failure, he knew this Pinnacle Seeker was competent; if he could not find the planet, the issue wasn’t simple.

However, Moonlight Blade instead turned to the smaller figure. “And you? Why are you here? I do not know you.”

“I am Ozark, Great One,” the individual was so fearful that his words came out in pants, partially muffled by the grassy ground. The obvious show of submission at least was the proper respect Moonlight Blade deserved. “I am the one who discovered the bracer. Immediately, I thought of you, Great One, and-”

“You are a poor storyteller,” Moonlight Blade said sharply. He shifted on his throne. “But apparently, you are a talented porter. For your contributions, you will be my servant when I attend that foolish Don’s party. Heh, and if you do well there, I’ll even let you watch as I win the rights to his daughter… and devour her.”
