Devick trembled, somewhere between fear and anticipation at the coming battle. Although the energy of the World Tree had been clearly adjusted to consider her an ally, she still felt its overwhelming weight against her back. The air was thick with it, even in her lungs she could feel its warmth. The shadow cast by the massive tree completely engulfed the battlefield, as Elhume and Fiero rushed forward to attack them.

Definitely, we are working as partners right now.

She glanced sideways at Hungry Eye, whose gaze practically sparkled with his numerous calculations as the enemies approached. She felt anticipation and rising joy in her chest at the thought of fighting by his side against these two. A two versus two match, the sort of bloody sport she had always craved.

She felt fear because she knew she didn’t deserve to be here, by his side. She released that warm breath of the air produced by Yggdrasil and felt cold. By no stretch of the imagination did she possess enough power to have earned a place by his side.

Still… Devick took one last surreptitious glance at Hungry Eye. She felt a horrible, hateful pride rise up in her chest. At the very least, she could afford to be in her own head once the fighting started. Her question about being the bad guys to Hungry Eye had been something of a fishing question. She had wanted to earn her place here, but she would still accept that she had gotten somewhat lucky. There is the matter of compatibility. Heh, in this life, luck plays a role.

Hungry Eye’s mouth twisted as the two attacked. Elhume and the Patron of the Borrowed might have moved first, but he claimed all the initiative with a single word.

“Kneel.”

The World Tree might be a symbol of life and growth, but now Devick felt from it an indignation and cruelty she couldn’t help but admire. Plus, the look of shock on the Patron of the Borrowed’s face, as he ceased dashing forward and collapsed onto his knees, was quite amusing. Elhume endured the word with much more dignity, only staggering forward, but staying on his feet. His image flared around him, a jagged blade of void that cut through the command.

Devick moved even before her foe had finished his reaction, following her body’s instincts. Even without seeing she knew the power of Hungry Eye in her marrow. The specter of Malice flowed across her body. Two floppy ears stretched up from her head. Glittering crimson claws stretched out from her fingers. And each step seemed like a bound, devouring distance. She stood over her target and slashed.

Congratulations! Your Grand Fate Malice, Merry Bride of Perdition has grown to Level 401!

Hissing, Elhume brought up his arm. The attack skittered off his skin, his void-obsessed image impervious to Devick’s attack. She could only click her tongue and curse her own weakness. His other arm settled down at his hip, ready to throw a powerful punch, but before he could attack a sharpened root slammed into his chest.

Congratulations! Your Grand Fate Malice, Merry Bride of Perdition has grown to Level 406!

…

Congratulations! Your Grand Fate Malice, Merry Bride of Perdition has grown to Level 417!

Her senses tingled, even while she felt the flush of enjoyment at her rapid growth.

Devick leaned back, narrowly avoiding the grasping hand of the Patron of the Borrowed that shot toward her back. Her instincts screamed that she would die if a hit landed, even as her Grand Fate narrowed its eyes at this foe that dared to lash out at the Consort of Perdition. Even still, considering the compatibility between herself and Hungry Eye, she barely had the qualifications to observe this fight, let alone participate.

But at the same time, she knew that her growth here would be monstrously fast. And more than anything, that was what she craved.

Devick adjusted her stance, but the Patron of the Borrowed had already brought his other hand around. The muscles in her knees and thighs tore as she forcefully tried to adjust. She wouldn’t be able to react in time. But luckily, she didn’t need to. At her back was the most powerful individual in existence.

“Dawn,” Hungry Eye growled. Although obscured through the emerald canopy of the World Tree, an eye that contained all of the brilliance in the world opened and peered at their two enemies. All the warm golden light around them became spears of indignation, cast down by a vengeful god. Several powerful streaks cracked the ground near Devick, eradicating any opposing images. The Vulpine faltered, his hand slowing down enough that Devick could create some space and eye her foes warily.

She felt the energy swirling in the air, released by dawn’s light. As the oppressive power of the World Tree strengthened itself, it wrapped warmly around her limbs, giving her a noticeable boost. Perhaps the reason she hadn’t died in that first attack was in fact already due to Hungry Eye’s assistance.

But even if that’s the case now, I can narrow that gap here, Devick reassured herself. She forced herself to believe this, so self-pity and recrimination didn’t erode her self-respect. This battlefield… yes, I could die at any time. Yet I can also gain a lot. I cannot miss this chance.

Elhume roared, pulling her attention to him. His hands tore through the root of the World Tree that had stabbed his chest, his fingers edged with the void. He glared across the battlefield at the floating figure of Hungry Eye. “Do you truly intend to play around like this, Hungry Eye? Didn’t we want the same thing, to change the Nexus for the better?! Yet time and time again… You— what the hell are you doing?!”

While Elhume spoke, self-righteous and wrapped in his image of the overwhelming void, the Engravings that covered the skyisland began to glow. By the time he was done speaking, the energies had begun to flow through the complex patterns. The Engraving filled with a kaleidoscope of shifting light as energy poured through their length. At first, the effects weren’t very noticeable, but then the environment around them began to blur.

They remained still within the World Tree’s shadow. Yet everything else…

Devick’s heart beat faster. Her senses might be limited, but she could still observe the changes. The battlefield directly below didn’t seem to be affected by whatever process Hungry Eye had started, but everything else began to run together, as though the energies released by the skyisland began to melt reality.

“You aren’t ready to be what I need. So, back to square one.” Hungry Eye shrugged. His smile sharpened further as he examined Elhume. Crackling orbs of dawn-light hovered around his body. “But if you are bothered by my methods… don’t you just need to improve and stop me?”

Such an arrogant bastard. Is this really your first time acting like a villain? You are a natural. Devick’s heart skipped a beat to see such a vindictive expression on Hungry Eye- no, on Randidly Ghosthound’s face.

Congratulations! Your Grand Fate Malice, Merry Bride of Perdition has grown to Level 422!

…

Congratulations! Your Grand Fate Malice, Merry Bride of Perdition has grown to Level 434!

Howling with rage, Elhume rushed forward. Fiero blurred as he leapt back and sideways, slipping under Elhume’s towering image. The Vulpine practically vanished, slipping into the crackling fissures the image caused in the air. Devick’s eyes widened in concern as she stood before this charging colossus of image power, but Hungry Eye appeared at her side.

She hated herself a little bit, both that she needed his help and because she felt a flush of relief when he appeared by her side. But what she hated even more than that, what ignited her stubbornness and rejection from the depths of her soul-

Hungry Eye paused as he raised his spear and winked at her. “Try not to hold me back.”

Her eyes bulged in disbelief and indignation. Malice gnashed its teeth as her blood boiled with competitive fury. “You arrogant—”

Even as Devick fumed, Hungry Eye struck. With the towering presence of the World Tree behind him, the movements of Nether King Hungry Eye took on a machine-like precision. Every aspect of the moment, from the set of his feet to the rotation of his hips, seemed to have been pushed to the limit. The leafy, harpoon-like spear blazed with concentrated energy. He stood completely still, a statue epitomizing potential energy, then he exploded into motion. The ground rippled, the Engravings briefly disturbed, and his spear ripped forward.

Elhume unleashed a shout. He clenched his hand into a fist and threw a punch. All the void he had managed to cram into his body exploded in a funnel of devastation. When the golden spear met the blast of annihilation, the annihilation cracked.

However, the Patron of the Borrowed used the moment of conflict to flicker out of the crack in which he had been hiding and appear behind Hungry Eye. Those grasping fingers reached out for the Nether King from behind.

Congratulations! Your Grand Fate Malice, Merry Bride of Perdition has grown to Level 449!

…

Congratulations! Your Grand Fate Malice, Merry Bride of Perdition has grown to Level 470!

Devick landed between the Vulpin’s shoulder blades, already predicting his movements. His tails lashed out at her, but her cavorting allowed her to just barely squeeze through the gaps in their orbits, distracted as he was by his attack on Hungry Eye. As she landed, she thrust both of her taloned hands into the Vulpine’s back, happily allowing her Grand Fate to drink down his blood and earning several Skill Levels in the process.

Her heart raced. At this distance, it would be almost impossible to dodge a counter-attack. So she threw everything into her offensive-

Congratulations! Your Grand Fate Malice, Merry Bride of Perdition has grown to Level 474!

Her image of crimson violence and hate seeped into his body, but in the next moment. Devick exploded away as the overwhelming image possessed by the Vulpine battered her away. However, the small distraction allowed Hungry Eye to complete his strike against Ehlume, shattering the pillar of the void and sending his foe tumbling through the air.

He pivoted, glancing over his shoulder at the Patron of the Borrow. Some of those powerful dawn rays shot through the air and briefly pinned the Vulpine in place. Hungry Eye threw a backhand blow. “The Wrathful Calamity Rends.”

Hungry Eye’s fingers ripped the Vulpine’s grasping fingers to shreds. The Patron of the Borrowed retreated before more of his body was torn, but still he received several deep gashes across his right shoulder.

Elhume smashed into the ground and threw himself back up on his feet. Scowling, the Patron of the Borrowed cradled his shredded arm to his chest. Both could only stare at Hungry Eye, already with their images somewhat cowed from first contact. Above them, Yggdrasil’s manifestation continued to tighten its grip on the surrounding space. The light it released grew brighter and more overwhelming. Wisps of energy floated up from the Engraved ground as their battlefield became increasingly strange.

Around them, the running environment swirled together.

“Is this really it?” Hungry Eye frowned, seeming to be confused as he looked at their opponents. He shook his head. “I don’t have time to play around. If this is all you can manage Elhume, I’m wasting my time fighting against you. So would you please-”

The air behind Hungry Eye flickered. Darkness squeezed space together into a sphere and it opened like an eye. From the abyss came a silent song that stole Devick’s breath away. Both the Patron of the Borrowed and Elhume began to pale as the range of influence spread outward from that tear in the world.
