The Level 59 Crushgrip Crab, leader of the location population and generally the most powerful entity in this corner of the sea, had initially believed that some new entity was invading its territory when it saw the froth and bubbles and felt the heavy impact on the ground. However, after a thorough exploration and several liberal pinchings, it could only conclude that while this thing looked like a surface dweller, it was just a likeness to those chaotic flesh bags. In fact, this thing was made of some super durable material.

Rather than a biological being, it seemed some incredible metal object.

Considering the imposing resemblance to the accursed surface-dwellers, the Crab was quite pleased with this discovery. It scuttled up to its ‘shoulder area’ and proudly looked around, able to see the drifting kelp fields, the endless trench, and even the cave that housed the Deepsea Horror. All of the Crushgrip Crab’s surrounding world was laid out before it.

Best of all, he stood atop a being that resembled its greatest predator. There were no finer pleasures in life than this.

Its eyes brightened as it gazed at the small stone cluster in which its greatest critic lived. It scuttled sideways down its new edifice and approached the rival’s home, releasing a telepathic impulse. Lessor Crushgrip, is your grip strong?

...Greater Crushgrip, may your grip always be sure, After a long pause, the telepathic reply came. The critic, being a Level 58 Crushgrip Crab, came out of his hole almost unwillingly. It clicked its claw twice. Unfortunately, I am quite in the middle of some business-

This won’t take very much time at all, The leader Crab replied cheerily. It gestured with its minutely larger claws, swirling the water in the area. Have you seen my new dwelling? You simply must visit with me. Come, come. It will only take a few minutes of your time and the views are definitely worth it.

The business… the weaker crab replied rather listlessly, but the more dominant figure simply clomped onto the other’s claw and dragged it the rest of the way out of its rock pile. Then it excitedly led the other up to the surface dweller statue and climbed up onto the highest point to show off its view.

The weaker crab experimentally lowered its claw and pinched the surface of the edifice. Its claws could rip away some scrap material, likely accumulated detritus from its sinking into the sea that the leader Crab intended to clean later, but the main material it couldn’t damage at all. Despite its earlier unwillingness he got caught up in the failure of their claws. How is this possible? Why is it so powerful that I cannot squeeze it?!?!

Yes well. We all have certain immutable deficiencies, The leader crab said airly. It seemed unnecessary to bring up that it also couldn’t pinch this edifice. Instead, it gestured with its claw. But please, feel free to stay as long as you like and admire the view. I’ll be back presently; I have a few more individuals I’d like to invite to see my new home.

*****

Randidly’s attention remained focused inward, scanning himself with a fervent dedication that he hadn’t previously possessed. He could feel himself practically humming along with the task. Of course, the irony was that he was currently trying to understand the evolution to Exquisite Piety, which had previously been Focus, so the whole-hearted intensity he now possessed attempted to fold its function processes around to get a good look at itself.

It was the zeal and religious associations discussed in the notification that left Randidly somewhat confused and suspicious. Why had the System judged his recent associations with Moirae of Ripples to be vaguely religious?

His Nether Core spun, creating a dense network of the energy of connections that allowed him to follow and trace the influences that helped shape this new Stat. And Randidly couldn’t deny that his new Focus was extremely helpful for gathering and categorizing information. The fanaticism with which he pursued his goal felt somewhat frightful.

Eventually, he returned to himself. It wasn’t the Moirae of Ripples that pushed Focus to be more religious, but rather how heavily I’ve been weaving Nether into my energy storms. And when it comes to Nether, there are much more obvious connotations that if not religious, are certainly mystical.

The transformation was a strange one, but the associations with Nether were acceptable and the result seemed effective if a bit unexpected. For now, Randidly was satisfied. So he looked at his twenty-four hundred remaining PP and considered the other options.

It comes down to whether I want to try for a wholistic improvement of Nether or whether I want to try and strengthen these unborn spirits that helped me endure Devick’s power, even if their efforts only earned me just for a few seconds. Randidly remained still, allowing his thoughts to swirl around in his mind. But considering that I want to face Wick in a process that likely involves capabilities inherited from Devick…

She casts a long shadow, for sure.

Congratulations! You have completed the Long Shadow of Accumulating Tragedy I Path! As you proceed forward, you have gathered two inauspicious passengers on your person. Despite the warnings, you have welcomed them into your journey. For that, they will be eternally grateful and provide you with what assistance they can, but it is not without reason that these two spirits are considered ill luck.

Congratulations! For completing the Path, you have gained Resistance +50!

For a hundred PP Path, the 50 Resistance was a pretty good reward. Randidly nodded slowly as he looked at the message. Again, hard to not feel disturbed that Devick’s presence is so prominent that even the System notifications seem to recognize her.

The next Path cost 200, so Randidly completed it immediately.

Congratulations! You have completed the Long Shadow of Accumulating Tragedy II Path! Ahead of you stretched a road that leads directly to lands blanketed by thundering clouds. As you continue, rain falls and the Path becomes treacherous. It is clear that something builds beyond the horizon, aware of your efforts and plotting to put a stop to them.

However, that is not to say that walking forward has no meaning. As always, traveling forward leads you closer to the Pinnacle. The adverse conditions toughen you. Under your protection, you can feel these two tragic spirits finally growing.

Congratulations! Resistance +50! If you continue, you sense both danger and opportunity.

Randidly continued straight into the next Path.

Congratulations! You have completed the Long Shadow of Accumulating Tragedy III Path! The rain falls more heavily and misty lakes of indeterminate depth had emerged on either side of you. Sometimes you must wade through the muddy shallows of these disturbing waterways. Perhaps a lesser man would have paused or turned away as the storms crack themselves upon on your Path, but your physical gifts have allowed you to plow ahead in the face of these impediments.

The darkness brewing beyond the horizon has grown stronger, but not for a moment have you considered stopping. And, in exchange for your efforts, the two tragic spirits you harbor have grown stronger.

Congratulations! Resistance and Willpower +50. The efficacy of the Skill Cursed Fate of the Unborn Duo is slightly increased! It is slightly easier for the projections to achieve a corporeal form.

He didn’t hesitate.

Congratulations! You have completed the Long Shadow of Accumulating Tragedy IV Path! Mud, water, and chill have risen to engulf the whole of your experience. Sloshing forward becomes the only sort of movement available. You may forge a Path, but no obvious answer remains for how to proceed. You lean forward and brave the violent elements. Again, you feel yourself being tested by the horrifying forces around you.

This time, as he completed the fourth Path, Randidly very literally felt the System examining his body as he received the notification. A ghost of a frown drifted across his face. Would the reward be different if I didn’t have this powerful body…? Or is it a matter of significance that protects me?

Either way, Randidly seemed to pass with flying colors and the next portion of the notification revealed itself to him.

Congratulations! You have forced your way forward. The ground rises beneath you and you near the edge of the horizon, behind which the source of the tragedy lurks. You feel the fear coming from the Unborn Duo. When the reward from reaching this point comes to you, there is a choice: shall you absorb the reward yourself or donate it to the Unborn Duo?

You have chosen to donate the reward to the spirits you harbor! Congratulations! +5 to All Stats! Continue to advance at your own risk, because you will soon come face to face with a great danger.

The Long Shadow of Accumulating Tragedy V Path cost 1000 PP, but Randidly didn’t mind. He had donated the reward to the spirits, in hopes that the final result would be for the best. Before he poured away this last chunk of PP, he stirred his Nether Core and wove especially thick Nether from the significance he had received from Neshamah. At the very least, he wanted to be prepared for another test from the System.

Considering the specter of Devick lay across this Path, he didn’t dare underestimate it.

Congratulations! You have completed the Long Shadow of Accumulating Tragedy V Path! Your feet have carried you through bogs, mires, blizzards, lakes, seas, and the deep shadow. You crest the horizon and look over into the darkness that waits beyond all thresholds. Of course, to glimpse the tragedy is to have the tragedy glimpse you.

It smiles in anticipation.

Randidly gritted his teeth and shook, feeling a physical impact as some foreign influence slammed into his body. It wasn’t significance per se and it wasn’t a physical attack, but it incorporated elements of both to pressure even him to the point that he was helpless. The pressure continued to build and Randidly heard the loud pounding of his heart in his ears.

However, just as the grasp of that shadow seemed ready to pop Randidly, the two unborn slugs within him began to swell in response. They still appeared mishappen and poorly formed, their bodies like rotting sacks of grain and their eyes and mouth jagged and triangular, but they expended themselves bitterly to defend him.

Observing them, Randidly was oddly touched. Then he mobilized his preprepared Nether, joining in the fight against the test of this Path. Under the combined assault of him and the two spirits, they soon banished the invasion into his person. The shadow snarled and howled, but was forced to recede.
