No one in the room understood what Lord Husband meant, but he still cautioned everyone to keep silent on the matter. Soon enough, his tolerance for society wore thin and he said his farewells, much to the relief of Jiao Yu’s poor, anxious wife, so obviously worried someone in the household would accidentally offend their noble guests. It was a sentiment Luo-Luo could empathize with, for there were times when Lord Husband’s manners were so lacking, only his lofty status kept him alive and unchallenged through it all. Poor Sung-Hoon understood as well, for in their first few days of working together, the prideful young man was almost driven mad by Lord Husband’s unintentionally abrasive demeanour and poorly-worded statements.

After parting ways with the bell-maker and Sung-Hoon, Luo-Luo and Lord Husband rode home in silence, sitting side by side in her rickshaw yet still worlds apart. They’d been married for over two weeks yet she was still a virgin, a horrific scenario which she wasn’t prepared for. Her bold and seductive behaviour only drove him into the arms of another woman, a shameful defeat which wounded Luo-Luo’s pride, perhaps even beyond repair. Every night since, the cadenced moans and heavy breathing would haunt her dreams and she’d wake each morning panting and covered in sweat, aching at the imagined memory of Lord Husband’s touch. Sadly, even without Mila or Yan here to compete for his affections, he still paid Luo-Luo no mind, and Lin-Lin’s advice to halt her efforts and let nature take its course had thus far failed horrifically. In distancing herself and only speaking when she deemed absolutely necessary, she’d turned herself into a nagging harridan of a shrew who only opened her mouth to criticize, hardly the image she’d hope to cultivate.

Perhaps this was to be Luo-Luo’s fate in this life, to be unappreciated, undesired, and unloved for the rest of her days. A virginal widow soon enough, for Lord Husband was now separated from his greatest allies and protectors, undoubtedly a prelude to Shen ZhenWu’s cold vengeance. A shame he wouldn’t listen to her advice, but for all his virtues, Lord Husband’s greatest flaw overshadowed them all.

Nothing could be done until she fixed his crippling lack of ambition.

Throwing herself at him didn’t work. This passive approach wasn’t working. What else could she do to win his trust and affection? Open a dialogue, at least. For two weeks now, she’d kept to herself in hopes he’d ask her if something was bothering her, but all she accomplished was make it easier for Lord Husband to ignore her. Grasping for a relevant topic, she took a deep breath and asked, “Lord Husband, what is the strange bell for?”

“Oh?” His wry smile nearly drove her to madness, though out of anger or lust, she could not say. “Finally willing to speak again? Is my punishment over? I suppose curiosity won out over anger.” Ignoring his jibes, Luo-Luo pouted until he asked, “What do you think it’s for?”

He thought she was punishing him by remaining silent? In what world would silence be a punishment? Baffled by his stone-headed foolishness, Luo-Luo rolled her eyes and huffed. “... Perhaps it’s an improved bell, used to direct sound in a particular direction?”

“Good guess, but no. This thing will make noise, but that’s not its purpose.” Holding his hand out, he waited for her to take it and Sent, “It’s a weapon, one the likes this world has never before seen.” Noting her confusion, he explained, “No, it’s not a strange club or hammer. It’s a ranged weapon called a cannon. Basically, you place a metal ball into the tube and use a propellant to launch it. There’s a few major issues to work out, like the ban on oil and well... anything that explodes in the presence of fire.” Shrugging, he Sent, “I’ve had my people working on an alternative, and just yesterday recieved word they were making progress.”

Furrowing her brow, Luo-Luo asked, “Your destructive explosive made from yellow dye?”

“Guessed it in one. There’s still a ways to go before it’s in working order, but the Enemy is busy innovating new weapons, so for us to do any less would be a mistake.” With a grin which made him look younger than his years, Lord Husband Sent, “Imagine five kilograms of iron launched faster than the eye can follow from range no bow could hope to match. Impressive right? Even more impressive if it explodes where it lands, but one step at a time. All I can say is, if this weapon works as expected, it will change the way the Empire fights war forever.”

Blinking in surprise, Luo-Luo studied her incomprehensible Lord Husband once again. How could she ever think he lacked ambition? He cared nothing for status and reputation, but only because he set his sights on loftier goals instead. Perhaps it was time she accepted there was no mastermind standing behind Lord Husband and he was the driving force behind his book after all, the brilliant mind who sought to bring great change or unspeakable horrors to the Azure Empire. What sort of man could be so loving and sweet, yet also devise such terrifying weapons of destruction?

And why did this make her ache for him all the more? Maybe if she wore an animal costume...

Pleased by her amazed reaction, Lord Husband released her hand and said, “You know, I wasn’t lying when I said I consider my mind my greatest weapon. You’re a smart girl and your talents are wasted cooped in your yurt all day. Assuming your plan works and the world learns to appreciate the value of my book, then I’ll need help organizing all the inquisitive minds who come in search of funding and cooperation. ”

Snapping out of her fugue, Luo-Luo nodded. “This one is here to serve at Lord Husband’s pleasure,” she said, hoping he’d catch her play on words. Her body was ready, he only need crook his finger and she would be his...

Settling back into his corner as if afraid to accidentally touch her, Lord Husband went back to playing with Blackjack while saying, “Excellent. I look forward to a successful working relationship between us.”

Damnable, insufferable man...

Chapter Meme

Chapter Meme explanation
