Calen did not possess any enhanced sense of smell, but even he gagged as he entered the mines, coughing and choking on the stench of rot and smoke that filled the air, trapped by the confined space of the tunnel. Inside the first cavern, the rocky walls, floor, and even the roof were covered with damp and seeping fungal creep, but the lava pools and rivers were still flowing, pumping heat and smoke into the air as the endlessly growing creep blackened and charred on contact.

Mato roared, and Calen’s attention was immediately on the fight as two Braconids emerged from the far tunnel, scrabbling along the walls in their haste to reach the noisy bear. Calen rolled his shoulders, stretching the muscles in his back for a moment, and then unleashed his arrows in a continuous stream as they began their descent into the mines, echoing the footsteps of their prior flight from the raging dungeon and the ill-fated accident with the rift that had gotten Ali stuck.

He focused his mind, pushing forward as the Braconids died and were replaced with several Rot Slimes deeper in the tunnel. Slowly, he settled into the zone, his arms drawing and releasing his bow in a continual rhythm of destruction and leeched mana that became somewhat soothing in a way. It ceased to matter what exactly they faced, only that they were in a narrow tunnel, and all of his being was focused on blasting their way through as they inched their way closer and closer to the rift and finally finding Ali.

He lost count of the number of monsters they tore through on their way down, but they finally slowed as they reached the widening tunnels before the Landing, and his mind registered the denser mana up ahead, yanking him out of his flow.

“Let me go look,” he said, vanishing with a quick application of Eclipse, and then he dashed forward on silent feet.

The Landing was about what he would have expected: a pit of rotten fungal growth that covered all available surfaces. Sludge dripped from the ceiling, and strange fungal growth protruded from the walls, lending an eerie, soft glow of dirty green to the chamber. He found he couldn’t shake the feeling that it all resembled the inside of a giant stomach far more than was comfortable. At the far end of the Landing, the three exits lay open, but choked up by the growth of stunted trees, vines, ferns, and fungi.

In the center stood a massive ravager – a four-legged hulk of mutated fungus that loomed too large within the chamber. Far bigger than the Living Flames they had first encountered here. It shuffled, shifting its huge body, making the walls of the Landing shake and the vegetation shiver in response to its immense weight. Six uneven, misshapen eyes gleamed menacingly in the dim light.

Fungaloth Ravager – Fungal Aberration – level 146 (Nature / Death)

[Explorer]Category: Dungeon BossThreat Level: RaidMonster Type: Fungal AberrationDamage: RotKnown Abilities: --

His heart sank as he saw the sheer power of the monster before them, larger even than the one they had faced guarding the passage between the two forest caverns far above where they now stood. But they had no choice – Ali was trapped beyond this monster, and they had to defeat it.

He retreated back to his waiting friends.

“Ravager,” he said. Their faces immediately registered frustration, annoyance, and several other emotions. “Level one-forty-six. It’s a raid boss, but I didn’t sense the suppression aura, at least,” he added.

“Nasty,” Vivian said.

“Well, we have to go through it,” Mato said.

“Yes, let’s see what it does,” Malika said, and by the set of her jaw, he could tell she was just as determined to overcome this obstacle.

“Up against the back wall?” Mato asked.

“That sounds good,” Calen answered. He and Lyeneru could shoot from the entrance, while the three of them tackled the boss at melee range against the far wall in case there were any area damage effects or knockback.

Mato’s transformation was rapid, and a few moments later, his roar filled the chamber, drawing the ire of the many tons of angry fungus that guarded the Landing. There was a loud crash, a sizzling of void magic, and a rending of flesh, and the monster let out a crazed hissing screech of pain and anger, but Mato simply charged past it, drawing it away from the group as they all sprinted into the foul, dripping chamber.

Malika vanished, appearing next to Mato, pulsing her healing. Calen waited, charging Power Shot while observing carefully until the Ravager was properly placed and secured on the opposite side of the room.

“Ok, go.” Mato’s thoughts popped into his mind, and he automatically echoed them out loud for everyone to hear, unleashing his arrows in a rapid stream across the room. But he could immediately tell something was wrong.

It took him several more volleys to put his finger on precisely what it was. He was leeching health and mana, but somehow it wasn’t nearly as much as normal. As he focused on it, it became much clearer. “Is everyone else doing a lot less damage than normal?”

“Yes.”

“Yup.”

“Yes.”

“No.”

Huh? Lyeneru was the odd one out. Somehow, she alone was doing normal amounts of damage, but his seemed to be less than half. Calen puzzled over it for a while, but then the monster suddenly raised the front of its body clear off the ground, stomping down with both front legs in a blow that shook the entire Landing, shattering stone through the creep.

And Mato collapsed, hitting the ground like a sack of wet sand.

“He’s stunned!” Malika yelled, but her voice carried a sudden sense of rising alarm as the Ravager turned and bit her, no longer interested in the disabled bear. Soul magic flared under the powerful grinding jaws, both healing and Soul Strike flashing furiously within the cavernous maw, until the monster finally released her and she fell back against the wall, panting with expended energy.

Fine! Calen thought. You want to play? I’ll just –

“Get off!” Malika yelled as she hammered at the insistent creature, but the Ravager was not done with her, pressing its attack with snapping heavy jaws and smashing legs, even trying to shoulder check her into the wall. Now freed from its maw, Malika danced around the attacks, dodging furiously and unleashing ripples of healing magic that flew from her in waves as she desperately tried to heal the downed Mato without being able to physically reach him.

Seconds ticked by as Calen kept up his assault, but his attention was entirely on Mato’s collapsed form and the rapid-fire dodging by Malika, who was suddenly tanking the boss. It was a full thirty seconds by his internal reckoning before Mato finally stirred, rising shakily to his feet once again.

“Armor debuff and stun,” he sent. “Fifteen more seconds.”

Calen had not seen the ability triggering, which meant it was a martial ability using stamina, and probably a domain magic too. “Fifteen seconds,” he called out, echoing Mato’s message. “Malika, it’s a martial ability. Armor debuff and stun attack.”

It was a nail-biting fifteen seconds as Malika somehow repeatedly dodged the tremendous melee power unleashed upon her – her relatively small form blurring as she danced back and forth in front of a rock wall that was rapidly being pulverized by the sheer brute force of the monster.

Finally, Mato braced himself and his roar echoed through the chamber, and the giant misshapen fungal head with its six eyes and rotting maw filled with too many blackened fangs turned on the bear once again.

Calen could see Malika’s visible sigh of relief. He let out his breath too, as the fight returned to a more normal stability, the massive blows striking Mato’s immense armor and powerful blocks, while his roots and brambles harried the giant monster.

Fifteen seconds later, the monster struck again, smashing Mato into the ground and wheeling about to knock a surprised Malika flying through the air across the chamber. It charged, clearly intending on crushing her against the wall before she even landed, and incredibly, it was fast enough to reach her, but despite her startled yelp, Malika was ready and dodged the charging behemoth by sidestepping in the air, finishing with a graceful flip and landing by a fresh wall.

“Malika, can you disrupt that attack?” Calen shouted. If he wasn’t much mistaken, the Ravager’s devastating stun had a one-minute recharge.

“No. I tried. It’s a domain skill,” she yelled back, clearly breathing hard as she pushed herself to the limit to dodge the monster once again.

“We need to reset this,” Lyeneru said. “It’s fully healed, and this is clearly a two-tank fight.”

“I agree,” Vivian said. “I’ll get Mato.”

And then they fled.

***

“That stun has a one-minute recharge and lasts thirty seconds, and according to Mato, the armor reduction lasts forty-five seconds,” Calen said, his bowstring twanging with ceaseless shots as they fought their way back out of the mines through all the respawned monsters.

“It’s incredibly resilient,” Malika said. “I’m doing much less damage than normal, less than half.”

“I’m doing about a quarter,” Vivian said.

“Some kind of damage reduction domain skill then,” Lyeneru said, a thoughtful expression on her face. “Perhaps level dependent, because my damage seems about normal.”

“What did you mean by a two-tank fight?” Calen asked. “Are you suggesting intentionally switching tanks?”

“Yes,” she said. “This kind of ability requires two cooperating tanks. We almost got it right, swapping between Malika and Mato, only Malika isn’t the ideal build for tanking something like this, and Mato pulled the boss back too early. If you have each tank taunt the boss right after the stun and tank for a full minute, you always have a fully healthy tank on it while the second one recovers.”

“We would need one of the raid groups,” Calen said, considering the strategy carefully.

“Probably two,” Lyeneru said, agreeing. “We were not doing enough damage to overcome its regeneration; you’re going to need a lot more damage classes in that room.”

“We can’t afford to take two raid groups off the defense upstairs.”

“Give them two raid groups, and you and I will stay upstairs and help defend the camp,” Lyeneru said. “I agree with Calen, this effort is important.”

“Will they do enough damage without you?” Vivian asked.

“That I don’t know,” Lyeneru said, her brow creasing in thought.

They spent the rest of the way back discussing finer details of strategy and the logistics of bringing another twenty people all the way down through the dungeon, given that many of them couldn’t fly.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledge

https://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledge

https://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg

https://topwebfiction.com/listings/dungeon-of-knowledge/
