It was early afternoon, which meant he had some time to figure something out. I really was lucky with the Wolves and Reymond last time around. Well, it wasn’t luck exactly, was it? They’re good people, and I got to know them thanks to Warren. And thanks to all the time I spent in Eyra, and the connections I formed there.

He even helped me out this time around.

Veron smiled to himself, and rolled his shoulders. Now. I already died twice. Let’s try to stay alive for a little longer this time around.

He thought a good way to start was figuring out if there was a local branch of the Hunter’s Guild. They had been pretty helpful last time around, and considering how they ran Anvakar, he felt some trust in their institution.

Maybe getting an iron badge would be the first thing on his list after all. He had to ask a few passersby and guards but eventually found the building somewhere in the center of the city and bordering the Karrian river. It looked like an old structure, with thick walls and grated windows, standing alone and with some distance to the nearest other buildings. An oddity compared to the surrounding structures.

Its roof resembled the battlements of a burg more than the tiled or flat roofs on the nearby houses.

It's more like a military fort, or a prison. Do they have a lot of enemies? Or anything valuable in there?

There were people going in and out, two people wore full plate armor, their faces covered with steel helmets. They carried large weapons and packs that seemed heavier than his entire set of gear. Someone else he saw wore a bright red vest embroidered with gold, a wand on their hip as they whistled a tune to themselves. Another man he saw had disheveled black hair, torn and tattered shirt and pants.

Now that he got closer, Veron could spot some supposed guards as well. Half plate and gambesons, not marked with the green color of the guards he’d seen in Perrion but instead wearing iron and silver badges of the Guild.

Veron went past the heavy wooden gates and found a spacious common room inside, with stone floor and walls, red and golden banners adding color and lanterns adding light. He heard laughter and conversation from the upper floor, the smells suggesting they served food and drink as well. On the ground floor, people were lining up before a counter at the back, another group stood gathered in front of a few notice boards to the left.

Veron joined one of the queues and watched the people around him. He hadn't been to all that many places and establishments in this world but he would’ve been surprised to find any with this much diversity in people.

There were two old men in battered half-plate armor, talking in warm and quiet voices. They seemed calm and confident. A woman he saw had dark skin and armor that looked somewhat similar to Ivera’s. She glanced around, her right hand gripped around the shaft of her glaive. Some of the people had heavy packs, others came here with just the clothes on their back. He understood some of the conversations. Others were speaking in languages he didn’t know.

And all of them had found their way into the Hunter’s Guild in Perrion.

Maybe this is where I would’ve gone instead of Anaville. If I’d been born on Renavor instead of Earth.

Veron exhaled, feeling a lot calmer than he had this morning.
