He didn’t know why either. But what he did know was that the longer he spent here, the higher the odds of the Prophet’s arrival, or perhaps even the previous looper discovering him.

Orodan truly wasn’t interested in a drawn out fight. Hence, he threw his all into a singular, powerful attack.

Gods, having failed the System’s trial of ascension, were weaker than Transcendents by nature. And Orodan could kill the latter with fair ease nowadays.

The power of his attack, capable of destroying planets, shot forth.

And as the strongest of the Gods arrayed before him knew that death was inevitable, her last words simply confused him even further.

“Death to the Collective. Death to the System… I die fighting our oppressors!”

Orodan grabbed the now unconscious woman he was originally tailing and swiftly departed.

Somehow, tailing this interloper had only given him more questions than answers.

#

“A fine mess you’ve caused, my thuggish student… but I suppose even I would have a difficult time telling exactly who caused such a mess.”

“But you’re not exactly an investigator, are you?” Orodan asked. “What’re the odds of someone more skilled than you dissecting the scene?”

“Quite low, but I can deign to monitor the site of that battle if it worries you so much,” Talricto said, and Orodan nodded in gratitude.

“Still, this leaves us with the main problem,” Orodan continued. “We’re at an impasse… this one knows very little, although her blind subservience to the Gods I slew is entirely genuine and not the result of any mind control.”

“I have a difficult time understanding why these Gods would act against Fenton… you mentioned a giant bird made of water? That sounds much like Cytarr, the islander God of the sea winds. A woman with an oversized rifle? That’s Sharp herself; all marksmen pay homage to her,” Clyburn explained. “Putting aside the disturbing thought that you outright killed many of my people’s major Gods… why would they do this?”

“Why indeed? The Gods I’ve known have ever been fickle beings,” Talricto said. “Though you said the divine you killed declared the Collective and the System as her enemy? A bit odd to say the least.”

Odd; that was certainly one way of putting it. Orodan didn’t think he’d heard anyone declare the System their enemy aside from the Reject, perhaps the Mage and maybe himself.

“But enough of that, is Fenton alright, Mister Wainwright?” Clyburn asked.

“Aye. He had a barrier up before I even got there, quick thinking and good instincts,” Orodan said. “But if you’re so concerned, you can ask him yourself.”

The door flung open and in walked his student with a smile on his face.

“Was that you ser? I could’ve swore I caught a bare glimpse of somethin’ the color of your cloak,” Fenton cheerily said. “Best day of university I’ve had yet!”

“I’m surprised they didn’t simply cancel classes after that whole debacle,” Clyburn said. “My contacts tell me that the Crown’s agents are all over the Capital combing through the place as we speak.”

“Aye ser, that’s why I said it’s the best day, they let us go early after all!”

Ah, to be a delinquent youth again.

Orodan threw a pebble at Fenton’s forehead which the boy barely dodged.

“If you have enough energy to be complaining about how much you hate classes, then you have enough vigor to train,” Orodan declared. “And if the subject material of these classes is too easy, then I can introduce my own exercises to your curriculum.”

“What exercises ser? No disrespect meant, but by now I’m probably a fairer hand at enchantin’ than even you!”

Orodan had a devious grin on his face at that remark.

“I’m not disagreeing with that assessment lad… but there’s a certain exercise I believe I’ve yet to introduce you to.”

“An exercise? What’s it? More running? More spars?”

“None of that. Tell me Fenton… have you heard of chicken scratch?”

“Chicken… scratch?” the boy asked. “That some sort of food sir?”

“Right, I forget you grew up in either the city or an island and haven’t seen a live chicken before…” Orodan muttered. “But that’s besides the point. Allow me to explain to you the wonders of this new and mysterious enchanting language…”

Fenton didn’t know what he was about to get into.

With less than a month left till the award ceremony, he was intent on training not just himself, but Fenton too. Furthermore, Luetta had sent him a letter informing that she felt ready to take her trial of ascension, but Orodan had let her know that it would likely occur after the ceremony.

At that time, Orodan felt, things would come to a head.

But at least his cover was still intact, and perhaps he might even get the drop on the previous looper when the time came.

#

Like that, a month passed. It went relatively quickly too, and without any further incidents or trouble.

The Eldritch hadn’t acted, the previous looper didn’t come by trying to sniff him out and Orodan had neither tried pursuing this mysterious cabal of enemy Gods, nor did they attempt to cause trouble for him. As a result, the time passed peacefully, with much training and progress being made. Both personally for Orodan and Fenton, and for the Ironhaven Engineers’ Guild as a whole.

For starters, Fenton had progressed quite well. Not only did he keep up with his regular physical conditioning, magical and combat training, but his student had naturally gotten the idea of chicken scratch down quicker than Orodan himself had.

But what separated the two of them was that the lad didn’t have Reality Alteration nor the sheer willpower he possessed. This meant that what Orodan could brute force and make reality through pure will, Fenton had to work around with great skill. It cemented the realization that talent wasn’t everything. Someone with a higher work ethic or other advantages could still outperform someone extremely talented who didn’t have those things. And Orodan’s iron will was one of the mightiest advantages anyone could have. Fenton, genius as the lad was, had a long way to go before he could hone his willpower to the extent where he could mold reality. In this regard, he’d finally found an aspect of Enchanting where his student didn’t immediately trounce him.

On the administrative side of things, the Ironhaven Engineers’ Guild was doing well, very well. Their rivals and those pushed out the market as a result might’ve said too well. But according to Zaessythra their opinions didn’t matter if they were too inept to capitalize on the market’s openings. Not only had their large scale recruitment campaigns alongside their healthy merit-based compensations stolen a number of the talents from other guilds, but their Guild also dominated large swathes of the job market for low-skill engineering jobs.

In tandem with Orodan’s insistence that every member of the Guild engage in physical training, their engineers could work for longer, complete tasks faster and were plainly more efficient than those of the other guilds. And while this might not have mattered too much on the small scale, when things were scaled up over hundreds of engineers, the difference added up significantly at scale.

Clyburn’s connections to the Ironhaven Isles and his existing base of operations there also helped acquire further resources and gave them a leg up on the Guilds which had no existing base of power on the islands, and surprisingly enough, Fenton’s mother Fanny had joined one of the large tailors’ guilds in the capital and an unexpected partnership between her tailors’ Guild and theirs had bloomed. And finally, the Guild had begun building the prototype for a device which could not only detect Eldritch, but track it over great distances.

Once these devices were mass-produced in great quantities, there was no doubt that the plague’s foothold upon this world and the Blackworth Collective as a whole would be severely diminished. Clyburn and Fenton were to thank for that.

Needless to say, these exceptional results weren’t thanks to Orodan; rather, the tactical mind behind all this was Zaessythra. She claimed it helped her stave off the boredom of having to remain within his soul. Frankly, with the way she made sharp decisions about business and dealing with competition sometimes it didn’t feel much like Orodan was the assistant Guild Master. Still, at least he’d made gains in Logistics as a result of helping manage the Guild alongside Florence.

But that was just on the business side of things. When it came to his personal training and advancement, Orodan had grown in several key ways. For starters, his Fire and Ice Resistances gained levels as he sparred with Talricto and was often subject to getting battered whenever the dimensional spider used rifts leading to the elemental planes offensively. He’d gained levels in Dimensionalism yes, but surprisingly enough one in Sword Mastery too; the result of puppeteering himself and gaining insights about the blade that way.

Talricto could’ve used more elements, but for now Orodan was happy to focus on fire and ice, particularly fire as it was important he develop further resistance against it if elementally infusing his body with it was his goal.

Of course, resistances aside, the astounding discovery of elemental infusion had been his primary focus during training with Talricto. Over the past month, he’d trained extensively with the dimensional spider and focused on understanding the connection between Dimensionalism and his elements. And while Orodan wouldn’t say he was an expert, the singular month had seen him make decent progress in syncing his partially dimensional body with the elements he commanded.

If he could truly bring his body, dimensionalism and the elements in sync… what then? He felt closer to that goal than ever before.

And of course, Enchanting practice alongside Fenton had made decent progress, with Orodan’s speed of enchanting guns with two-dimensional enchantments having drastically increased. Now, in a singular second he could enchant a rifle with a basic inscription for durability. Naturally he’d gained a skill level in the art, but the most valuable take-away was the increased comprehension into how to quickly weave an enchantment. Alongside Weaving, which he’d regularly practiced with Fanny Penny, Orodan felt the foundations for his planned skill grow stronger than ever.

Body Enchanting, or the planned living enchantments Orodan was aiming for, seemed close.

Of course, various crafting skills had gained levels as well, courtesy of the work he often stepped in to help the Guild with. And all in all, it had been a good month of training and advancement.

But the event he’d been anticipating now approached. Something that needed to pass before Orodan could think of approaching the Conclave or aiding Luetta with her trial of ascension. After all… a meeting with the King of the Blackworth Collective naturally meant that somebody else he’d been after for a while would be near.

Thankfully, his cover had remained intact and nobody came by to bother him, a result of his skills and careful planning no doubt.

For some reason he always got the feeling Zaessythra was rolling her eyes at him whenever he considered that, of course he had no way of proving it.

“Ready to be dressed up for your execution?”

“Don’t joke about that Mister Clyburn! I’m not headed for that… it’s just an award ceremony… in front of thousands of people…” Fenton muttered, fear evident on his face.

“You’re certainly acting as though your death approaches,” Orodan remarked. “Haven’t you fought thousands of Eldritch before?”

“That’s that and this is this ser,” Fenton replied and then sighed dramatically. “Well, I suppose it can’t be too bad. What’s the worst that happens? I embarrass myself before the King and cause a political incident that’s spoken of for years?”

“Aren’t you a little world-wise to be experiencing something as petty as social anxiety?” Orodan asked. “I doubt it’ll be worse than the years of indentured servitude and labor in scrap town.”

“…when you put it like that Mister Orodan, it doesn’t sound too bad.”

“That’s what I thought, now off to the carriage with you.”

The three of them, Orodan, Clyburn and Fenton, made for the gates of the guild grounds where an extravagant flying carriage awaited. The driver of said flying metal vehicle was the same one who’d chauffeured them to Storven in the first place.

“Good to see you lot again sers, you’ve made quite some waves since I last saw you,” the woman said, opening the door for them. “As you can see, we’ve been given an upgraded ride. We’ll be taking to the air today. Only the best of transportation for the Collective’s heroes.”

“I wouldn’t go that far…” Fenton muttered.

“Nonsense! My son at Acadia says everyone talks about the young master Fenton Penny,” the driver said. “Why, scarcely a day goes by without some rumor that you’ve impressed a senior professor or turned the Enchanters’ Association’s conceptions about their trade upside down. Say… do you fancy anyone yet? I’ve got a few nieces that-”

“That will not be necessary. And you’d better hope his mother doesn’t hear you say that,” Clyburn intervened. “If only because I also don’t want to have my bedsheets replaced with cursed silks which strangle me in my sleep.”

Or have some of the first year girls at the university kill him. From what Orodan had heard far too many times for his liking, his student was something of popular individual. Good thing Fenton himself was too dense to realize most of the attention.

“I wonder who he takes after in that regard?”

