After a while the group settled down and Clyburn was returned to his feet.

“If we’re quite done with the celebrations… I have a few announcements to make. First, while young Fenton will continue working with us, it shall be in a part-time capacity,” Clyburn declared, causing many of the engineers to gasp and express dissatisfied looks on their faces. “Don’t look so sour, he’ll be studying at Acadia University which is practically next-door. He’ll have plenty of time to enable the inventions of you mad fools…”

Fenton had become popular with Clyburn’s engineers. The lad had a certain affable charm and humility to him, and many of them had practically adopted the boy as their younger brother. It also helped that Fenton turned their ideas and contraptions into concrete designs which could work with some clever enchanting.

“And second, effective immediately, Mister Wainwright here will be acting as the assistant Guild Master,” Clyburn declared. “His authority will be second only to mine, and we’ll be using the authority and funding granted us by the crown to begin a recruiting drive.”

Any nonsensical thoughts of them giving him the stink eye over his position were purely fictional. Orodan had worked alongside these engineers for the past three months during the construction of the pillars of purification. They knew him, his skillset and his work ethic very well. He could already see the looks of relief and approval in their eyes.

“We’re at your service sir Clyburn and we’ll gladly work under Mister Wainwright’s leadership too, but what’s the recruiting drive for? Does the crown want us to make more of the pillars?” one of the engineers asked.

“That’s part of it. On the other end, we’ve been tasked with making more devices, and that’s all I’ll say on the matter for now,” Clyburn added. “What we’ll need more bodies for though, is to compete with the larger guilds around Storven. It’s a beautiful workshop and guild hall you’ve set up here, but even one of the middling guilds on the capital’s outskirts runs a grander operation than this. We’ve barely filled this building up, and there’s plenty of unused space on these grounds. We need to expand, to fill orders and attract customers. Any success we acquire here will also benefit our operations on the Ironhaven Isles. If we’re to be a Guild, we must begin taking it seriously and expand our ventures and operations. Only with the backbone of industry behind us can we succeed in meeting the crown’s demands.”

“But sir Clyburn… won’t that attract the ire of the mighty guilds around the Capital?” an engineer asked. “They’re pretty good at causing problems for people and aren’t afraid to stoop to dirty tricks.”

“Correct. Which is why, effective immediately, you all are welcome to move your families onto the grounds. Furthermore, we now have the King’s favor. I don’t think they’ll act too brazenly given our recent accomplishments,” Clyburn replied and then looked to Orodan. “And if they do… then we have something to deal with them.”

That something being him.

“Well, what’re we waiting for?” Orodan asked. “Let’s finish up the relocation, and then… there’s plenty of work to do.”

And a university for Fenton to attend.

#

“I really don’t like this get-up Mister Orodan… makes me feel like I’m ‘bout to get taken for all me coin. This is the sort o’ thing that robbers and vagrants will be eyin’ me up for.”

“Are you really concerned about any ‘robbers and vagrants’ after the training I put you through and the battles you’ve experienced? If the sufficiency of your training is in question, I can always-”

“No! No ser, it was just a joke!” Fenton quickly amended and Orodan had an amused smile on his face. “Damn it… you nearly had me there.”

“Did I? It’s always good to continually increase the intensity of your training. Particularly when you have access to recovery elixirs and good food,” Orodan said. “Though I’ll agree that the gaudy get-up is a bit much.”

“So you agree too?! Can’t I just wear a simple cloak and trench coat like you? Why does my mum insist I look all frilly and nice for my first day at the university?” Fenton asked.

“You’re asking the wrong person. I was also dressed up like some prize stallion for my first day entering an Academy back home,” Orodan replied, recalling how Burgher Ignatius had paraded him around. “But, she might just be proud of her son and wants to see him succeed. Anyhow, this is where we part ways. Off you go. Time for you to act the genius and astound everyone you meet.”

Just like Orodan himself had done back in his younger days.

“But I already read through the curriculum for the first year, it’s so… basic.”

“Then show them how you can expand upon the basics and do them better,” Orodan reminded. “Never neglect the basics Fenton. Complex techniques and grand miracles are nice, but at root, everything starts from the foundational concepts. Remember that, and you’ll always find a way to do the impossible.”

“Yes ser, I’ll keep it in mind. You’ll be watchin’ me I suppose?” Fenton asked.

“Generally. I won’t be paying attention to your every move, but if something comes for you, I’ll know,” Orodan replied.

“Like a God tryin’ to grant me a Blessing?” Fenton asked and he confirmed with a nod. “Still can’t believe I have Gods after me…”

“You had actual Transcendents trying to kill you in the last battle, what do you care about Gods?”

“Yes ser, but they’re Gods… Gods! The actual divine’s after me!”

“You… Gods aren’t even…” Orodan trailed off and then sighed, giving up. “Never mind.”

Orodan could only shake his head at his student’s perception that Gods were somehow more impressive than Transcendents. Perhaps it was the mysticism and shroud of worship surrounding them? Orodan didn’t understand it, but he supposed if one had grown up worshipping Gods all their life then the divine would sound more impressive than a Transcendent.

Even if the truth was that Gods were merely the product of a failure to reach Transcendence.

“I’ll be careful Mister Orodan. See you after class?”

“Aye, we’ll reconvene for more training afterwards. You don’t need as much sleep nowadays thanks to your improved physical abilities,” Orodan said as they parted ways, with Fenton heading for Acadia University and Orodan heading for a venue Florence had rented and prepared ahead of time.

Orodan’s destination was right next to the Storven Engineer’s Association, a building where the various engineering guilds of the city would come to congregate and discuss guild and trade relevant matters. The Engineer’s Association was the central landmark for a plaza which was teeming with engineers or those here to peruse engineering related things.

Among the vehicles on the ground or in the air, could occasionally be seen some experimental model not available for the public; likely the brainchild of some mad engineer as not all of these experimental vehicles looked stable to Orodan’s eyes. Foot traffic was positively bustling, and the profile of the average person walking the streets around here was markedly different from the other, more commercial, parts of Storven. Aside from the heavy presence of the military and constabulary, the only other non-engineers frequenting this place were wealthy patrons and nobility with an eye out for talent or unique contraptions. The rest though, were all people who were engineers or in some way related to engineering.

Men and women who looked either surly or reclusive were making their way around the place. With odd gadgets, trinkets and devices on their person, it was obvious that these were engineers. Top hats, monocles, spyglasses and more adorned these professionals. Some of the older engineers he saw even had mechanical limbs; an interesting choice since the building and maintenance for those must’ve cost more than what it would take to simply heal a lost arm or leg.

All in all, they were an unsociable sort of people who were hurriedly marching from place to place, or had their heads buried in some text or contraption.

Being next to the Association meant that young engineers fresh out of university or seeking employment would potentially try their luck here instead of at the other guilds. The price for renting the building was appropriately outrageous, but when Clyburn had crown funding, it wasn’t a concern. The entrance to the building he’d had Florence rent out had a giant sign.

‘Hiring Engineers and Engineers-in-training. No university education required, no skill levels needed, just a good work ethic.’

Naturally, without the name of the Ironhaven Engineers’ Guild associated with the sketchy sign, most of the engineers were giving it a wide berth.

“No university education required? What sort of dodgy establishment is this? An utter disgrace that the Association is allowing this to occur right next to it!”

“Never seen anything of the sort… bet they don’t even have any Elite engineers in whatever guild’s begging for hires.”

“Hold on gentlemen… can they really be begging if they can afford the rent right near the plaza’s center? I reckon there’s more to this matter…”

“Who’s that going inside? Real rough-looking fellow that one… are we sure this isn’t a criminal operation? Does the constabulary know?”

Orodan ignored all these comments as he entered the building and spotted Florence.

“Mister Wainwright! I’ve set up the signage and testing stations as you’ve asked ser,” she said.

“I see you’ve gotten some rest since we last spoke. Good,” Orodan replied. “Anyone come in yet?”

“Er… given the unorthodox nature of the recruitment, most people have been avoiding entry thus far,” she reluctantly said.

“That’s fine. I’m not looking for the best of the best candidates, just the hardest working ones. Clyburn’s running the conventional recruiting campaign in another part of the city,” Orodan said. “Give it some time. I get the feeling we’ll have our first applicants soon enough.”

Florence nodded to that, and the two sat and waited as Orodan practiced his Weaving.

“Weaving…? Your hand’s quite the steady one Mister Wainwright.”

“It’s good training.”

She slowly nodded, entranced by the slow but deeply intricate weaves he was performing.

A spectacle that was interrupted by a loud thud as the door slammed open, revealing a group of three well-dressed engineers. Two men, one woman.

“The inside’s got a number of workstations too, you sure this is a scam?”

“Look, there’s only two people inside. What reputable guild would run a recruitment operation right next to the association with just two people? Neither of them look like engineers either,” an arrogant young man said. “Told you Portia, this is just a big waste of time. Let’s report this shoddy campaign and-”

Orodan’s hand was placed upon the youth’s shoulder.

“Are you here to participate in the recruiting event?” he slowly asked, voice steady as he looked down upon the boy. “Come, if you’re so loud surely the test will not be difficult for you.”

“W-weren’t you over there…?” the youth asked, voice suddenly timid at seeing someone far larger gaze down at him. “Ah… o-of course, I can participate.”

Orodan smiled.

“Excellent! Come, all these workstations are equipped with whatever engineering tools you’ll need,” Orodan declared, leading the trio to the tables. “The task is a simple one. In front of you is a steam-powered conveyor belt with components, simply put the components together as the conveyor belt moves. If the conveyor belt moves on without you being able to put the components together, the test ends. If you do not know how to put the components together, that’s alright, the instructions are right in front of you and you can study them for as long as you want.”

“What… what sort of elementary test is this? My little cousin could perform this trivial task!” the other man barked.

The woman though, was the only one who looked serious.

“By all means,” Orodan began with a smile on his face. “Go ahead then. The belts will start moving as soon as you put your hands on a component.”

The youth thought himself above the task, and he wasn’t wrong. The test was meant to be very easy of course. Any engineer with even a singular level could fasten a screw into a pre-drilled hole and fasten it with a wrench. Having to do it while the things were moving like an assembly line? It simply imposed a time limit.

Of course…

…since when were any tests administered by Orodan simple?

“I’m looking for two things in the people we hire,” Orodan said as the conveyor belts began speeding up for the man. “Talent… and a good work ethic. If you’ll notice, the speed of the belt is relative to your skill level. Don’t try to think about slowing down to artificially grant yourself more time… I’ll know.”

The young man, likely a fresh graduate from one of the universities, was now sweating as his hands were frantically putting components and trinkets together one after another. He had a decent enough skill level, and his hands were passably fast for one untrained in the physical disciplines. The work ethic though, left something to be desired.

“I… I can’t…! I can’t!” the arrogant youth shouted, fumbling a piece as sweat began dripping from his brow. “I didn’t come prepared for this test! If I had known ahead of time I could-”

