“I was expectin’ a little more from this…”

“What? Like trumpets and a see-off party? The soldiers are exhausted to the bone after that battle and mostly asleep, at least the night watch are waving you farewell,” Clyburn replied. “Is it not enough attention for our young hero’s liking?”

“Quit teasin’ me Mister Clyburn!” Fenton protested, embarrassed. “I didn’t mean it like that…”

“The reason for moving out at night is to avoid anyone knowing your departure time. With things the way they are, the Collective can’t risk losing a talent like you,” the spatiomancer in charge of their teleportation said. The man was Enias Weller, who Orodan had aided during the fighting. “And you Mister Wainwright, you shall keep our young prodigy safe, yes?”

“Me? I’m just an employee of the Ironhaven Engineers’ Guild, I can’t fight,” Orodan replied.

“You’re a horrible liar,” Zaessythra remarked.

The spatiomancer narrowed his eyes at him.

“Of course, of course… a non-combatant,” the man said, looking at Orodan’s size and demeanor and looking as though he didn’t believe it in the slightest. “Metallurgy, Engineering and Alchemy too… some interesting techniques you used during the battle. I knew not who you were then, but my cousin who works out of the Ironhaven Isles spoke of an Orodan Wainwright helping him in the lab. Scant on any details, but he had nothing but high praise for you. Rather multi-talented man, aren’t you?”

“I dabble in a thing or two,” Orodan replied.

Clyburn though, saw what was occurring and swiftly intervened.

“Unlike us civilized folk who can afford to specialize in a singular field, Mister Wainwright’s upbringing in the bog islands is of a more unforgiving bent. There, a man must not only know how to mold metal, but also how to counteract the various poisons and naturally toxic flora,” Clyburn explained. “His alchemic abilities were honed during that time.”

“A bog islander eh? Interesting. Well, who am I to pry into the affairs of another? Especially one who’s done us such good and personally saved me from a fate worse than death during battle,” Enias Weller said, dropping the matter easily enough. “Come gentlemen, your carriage awaits.”

The remainder of the day after the awarding had been spent erecting the unused pillars of purification across the hot zone. Orodan doubted the Eldritch would try a frontal assault any time soon with these things in place, at least, not without the backing of the Prophet.

Orodan and Fenton had also been hard at work reforging and enchanting the arms and war machines of the standing army stationed here. Even without any aid, these troops could now fend off hordes dozens of times their number. And more importantly, the lad had helped improve the anti-spatiomancy wards and defences of Lonvoron. Even plague worlds would now face an uphill battle creating spatial rifts through which invading forces could come through.

All in all, it had been a successful trip to the front lines, and everything Orodan had planned for had come to fruition thus far. Including a potential avenue for finding the previous looper in a months’ time.

“Ugh…” Fenton groaned.

“We’re headed to Storven young Fenton, what could you possibly be unhappy for?” Clyburn asked.

“Aye ser, always wanted to see the capital I did. But on the other side o’ this rift… is my new life at the university…”

Orodan rolled his eyes at Fenton looking like someone had robbed him. With a friendly nudge, he bullied the lad into the carriage.

“The pittance I instructed you in is nothing compared to the wealth of different views, theories and disciplines you’ll have access to at this university,” Orodan said, entering the carriage himself alongside Clyburn, causing it to unhappily creak at his heft. “Focus on learning as much as you can. Read ahead, seek things out on your own, use the opportunity to its fullest extent.”

A proper education had done absolute wonders for Orodan himself during his early loops. For Fenton, it could only be a boon of the greatest sort.

“And what about all the blue-bloods that’ll try to give me a rough time?” Fenton asked.

“Just give them a be-”

Clyburn loudly cleared his throat, interrupting Orodan’s sagely advice.

“What Mister Wainwright means to say, is that you should play your cards close to your chest and react appropriately to any incidents. Especially when the capital is a pit filled with the most venomous vipers in the Collective. Many of them would want nothing more than to see your and my reputations dragged through the dirt,” Clyburn advised. “Which isn’t to say you can’t defend yourself or your honor. Just… be smart about it.”

Well… perhaps someone should have told Orodan that when he had attended Bluefire for the first time. There would have been far fewer traumatized nobles and bruised egos.

The driver of the carriage however spoke up, adding her opinion to the matter.

“The young master needn’t worry too much. Plenty of the attending students are base-born as well, and quite a few of the noble houses are all too happy to act well towards talented common folk if it means they’ll get to ask favors in the future,” the woman explained. “My son’s a first year; Adept metallurgist, almost Elite. He tells me the school gives him preferential treatment and the nobility shower him with gifts hoping he’ll work for their house or affiliated guilds when he graduates.”

“That don’t sound too bad…” Fenton muttered.

The sound of a hand slapping the metal frame of the carriage could be heard from outside.

“Alright, rift’s ready, off you go,” Enias Weller said.

“Aye my lord, I’ll get them to Storven safe and sound,” the driver said.

The carriage hissed, belching steam, and then… it sped right on and into the expanded spatial rift.

Spatial travel whether through his own hand, or while inside vehicle passing through the rift made by another, was much the same for Orodan. Fenton though, looked on with a star-struck look in his eyes. Well… he couldn’t fault the boy; especially if it was his first time experiencing spatiomancy directly.

The time spent within the rift was less than a second, especially with how relatively near Storven was compared to the spatial rifts connecting Lonvoron to far-away plague worlds. And once they were through…

[Vision of Purity 81 → Vision of Purity 83]

…Orodan’s head felt as though it would explode. All of him really, thanks to the sheer strain in having his skill account for an entire city. Excellent gains though, and he had no interest in stopping, even as he bled from numerous parts of his form from the mental strain.

The sights though, were beautiful. After all… it was a city of steam, metal and magic.

Orodan had been to Storven before, but with all the chaos of that long loop, hadn’t really had the time to get a good look at the city itself. Now though, being on the street level, he had to admit it was beautiful. Pretty paved stone roads upon which metal steam-powered vehicles traversed, railroads tracks winding about, not just on the ground level but even on the higher levels of the city, connecting to some of the taller buildings’ upper floors. A number of smaller flying vehicles too, though these looked reserved for city watch patrols and the wealthy, and there was plenty of foot traffic on the roads as people went to their destinations or customers perused streetside stores.

Long trench coats were common wear, with most people holding an umbrella above their heads. That of course, was due to the ever-present rain and fog, which barely allowed the untrained and naked eye to see farther than a hundred feet ahead. Still, not everyone slogged through the inclement weather and ankle-high water in a mundane manner. A few wealthy individuals, typically well-dressed in ostentatious attire, had enchanted devices which warded off the rain and caused the water on the ground to part for them. And while Orodan didn’t particularly care for frilly folk, it was a good sign for the economy when people were wealthy enough to go about showing off their money. Business looked to be booming as folk were going in and out of storefronts at a steady clip while the transport of goods and materials was ever-present.

Storven seemed a happy city. He wasn’t sure if the word had spread about the plague’s recent defeat, but the spirits of the average citizen seemed quite high.

Of course, despite the prosperity, even the wealthiest of cities had their share of chaos added to the mix.

“They’ve got that fellow surrounded…” Fenton muttered, looking out the carriage window.

Indeed, on the street corner, five members of the constabulary had an unassuming man clapped in irons. The arresting group didn’t seem malicious in their actions, rather it appeared to be entirely expected that they do what they were doing. Even the man being put in cuffs appeared fine with it.

Orodan’s hearing picked up on what was being said.

“Thank you for not causing a fuss, this is just a formality and we’ll get the matter squared away soon as we can with some compensation provided for your time,” the senior constable said. “We’ll try to get you out quick as we can.”

“I shan’t cause you any trouble sirs. I’m an honest businessman and the Blessing came in out of nowhere,” the man replied. “I want it off just as much as you do. Even with the plague being driven back, we’ve all got a part to play in safeguarding our world.”

“We appreciate your understanding. Here, let me just double lock the irons and I’ll get you a snack once we're in the carriage."

The officers of the law and the arrested individual seemed entirely civil. But a nearby haggardly dressed man who was watching, wasn’t.

“A travesty! A shame! The King suppresses the righteous Blessings granted by the Gods themselves! Divine wrath shall befall the Collective!” the haggardly man angrily declared in protest. “The plague shall destroy us all!”

Other citizens however, weren’t as understanding of the protester.

“Silence your tongue you treacherous vermin! The plague’s been struck a great blow recently and you still want to give our diligent officers a hard time? You’re a bloody traitor! Why I ought to cuff you with the back of my hand!”

“Oof! I won’t be silenced!”

Soon, the protesting man and the nearby unhappy citizen were locked in a scuffle, and the constables were forced to rush in and break them up. But as they did, the Blessed man who was in cuffs met the gaze of a particular person…

…Fenton Penny, who happened to be looking out the carriage window.

A device around the constables’ necks went off, indicating that something was wrong. But Orodan had felt the insidious tendrils of divine energy crossing the dimensional boundary well before that.

Before Fenton could react, before anyone knew what was going on even, Orodan’s Domain of Perfect Cleaning shot out and utterly eradicated the offending God’s attempt at granting Fenton a Blessing. He had seen what unwanted Blessings could do to someone.

The best strength was the sort earned through one’s own sweat and toil. Power borrowed from the divine oft came with a hidden leash, and before one knew it, they would become beholden to a new master.

It hadn’t even been the poor Blessed who’d tried Blessing Fenton, but the God empowering them. And suddenly, divine power descended upon the Blessed businessman who was in cuffs. The poor man didn’t have long left, his body clearly unused to such power.

The cuffs, meant for stifling the flow of divine energy, were strained heavily. But this gave the constabulary time to react.

“Avatar!” a younger constable called out in panic.

The senior officer though, was a quick hand, and immediately stabbed a device onto the Avatar’s shoulder before it could gain further power. Immediately, it began draining the excess energy. A secondary device, an orb, was then deployed and the connection between host and God was swiftly cut.

“Bloody hell… an actual Avatar? Why on-”

Unfortunately, the fight still wasn’t over. In its last moments of consciousness, the Avatar’s eyes turned to the haggard man who had protested the situation in the first place. And another intrusive Blessing was laid.

The constables were occupied with safely subduing the first Blessed when the divine power of a God blazed through this second man. The Avatar’s eyes locked onto Fenton, and Orodan was on the cusp of damning the consequences and ending the threat when a high-power bullet impacted the Avatar’s leg. The divine power flowing through the man immediately began lowering as a result.

Divine energy unwillingly fizzled out, blocked by the disruptive nature of the bullet, and a man clad in a gilded dark trench coat with the accoutrements of an inquisitor leapt down from the roof of a nearby building.

He certainly felt more powerful than the last inquisitor Orodan had seen. Transcendent-level.

“H-high Inquisitor… my lord, to see you here?”

“At ease constable. This was never a job meant for officers of the law… although with the inquisition in tatters it’s unfortunately been pushed onto your already overworked constabulary,” the man said. “You’ve done well finding the bearer of this illegal Blessing, we can take over from here.”

“Yes my lord, thank you for your aid.”

Their carriage sped on, leaving Fenton entirely unaware of the fact that both Avatars were quite intent on targeting him. Furthermore, something about the High Inquisitor made Orodan feel as though he was looking at a slimy leech. Outwardly, and even with Vision of Purity, he noticed nothing wrong with the man. But he just couldn’t shake the feeling that the man couldn’t be trusted.

