But in just a singular attempt, his understanding of fire had grown in a most strange way. Puppeteering his mana pool into forming a spell like this provided him with a unique perspective on how the spell was shaped and how his fire magic worked.

With a grunt, the Draconic Fireball shot forward…

…and harmlessly fizzled out on a dimensional barrier just in front of Talricto.

“Ah, what was it you said? That’s right. It’s not even capable of killing an Apprentice. Is this some sort of cheap gimmick?” Talricto mocked. “A strange technique, mixing Dimensionalism and your Mana Manipulation. I would actually notice a regular Draconic Fireball.”

“I didn’t use Mana Manipulation at all,” Orodan clarified.

“…what? You mean-”

“Yes, that was entirely done through Dimensionalism. I controlled my mana via Dimensionalism into forming that spell,” Orodan said. “In fact… I already feel as though I understand how to harness the elements within my body just a bit better.”

As Talricto had said, his body was partially dimensional in nature. Over the three months of training with the spider, Orodan had understood the connection between his body and the dimensional forces. Now, what remained was the connection between his body and the magical elements he wielded.

If he trained this… then the various elements he used could finally be brought up to the level of his most powerful abilities.

Orodan focused, channeling the basic Candleflame to his fingers, but he went beyond just that. Instead of the mana just emitting from the tip of his finger…

…it now began enveloping his arm.

Talricto looked on in fascination, enraptured by the light show as the gentle fires of Candleflame began enveloping Orodan’s arm, and then began slowly moving up his shoulder. It wasn’t just mana coursing through his cells, but the very element of fire itself. His body wasn’t normal, his efforts in obtaining Dimensional Resistance had changed his cells into partially being small dimensions in and of themselves; this made the channelling of any energy in a harmonic manner quite difficult. Soul energy, which he was intimately familiar with, wasn’t the issue. Mana and elements though, were.

Or, they would have been… if Orodan hadn’t spent three months training to dimensionally puppeteer his body like a marionette on a string. The thorough understanding he had of his physical body, its dimensional nature, and the forces of dimensionalism was now significant.

It was like a sense of oneness with the element he was wielding. No, that wasn’t quite accurate… it was as though he could truly channel the elements through himself in harmony. In fact, the sealed glyph of infinity, within which a copy of all the System’s knowledge lay, thrummed briefly, signifying to him that he could choose to learn a new skill right now.

But… Orodan held off. He wanted to experiment with this purely on his own for now, without any System assistance.

During his past experiments in Anthus and the training under Destartes, he’d certainly tried to bring the elements into his combat style. Previously, if he brought fire to his fist, it would simply explode outwards, acting independently and perhaps even pushing the foe away before his strikes could fully land. Lightning? It formed a coating, perhaps shocking the enemy but not adding much.

Compared to his full power Smite of Abrupt Deliverance, adding an element was akin to throwing a bucket of water into the ocean. Merely additive, not multiplicative.

But now? Now, things were different. Like an old friend of his who he’d taught, he too might well be capable of harnessing the elements and adding them to his fighting.

For any other, this alone would have been cause for great celebration. The harnessing of the elements within one’s physical form? A powerful ability which could seriously amplify one’s existing battle prowess if they were a martially inclined sort. Energy-intensive, but powerful.

But… what if this ability landed in the hands of one who could generate endless energy?

Orodan decided to put it to the test. The basic Candleflame was fed even more mana as more and more fire began generating within his arm. At first, it was like a steady wave, enough fire to set a forest ablaze. Within seconds though, it became more than that; his body containing flames enough to scorch an entire world.

Right now, if Orodan were to let go, Lonvoron might face severe damage.

The fire coursing through his cells wanted to go out of control and fizzle out. And it certainly was on the verge of doing so, but this feeling… it was utterly profound! It was similar to his final attack against the Living Crystal, except with fire, and not a one-in-a-thousand feat he didn’t know how to replicate.

This, was his own doing, though it was a tenuous connection, about to be lost. Hence Orodan brought the flames to his fingers, feeling the element of fire course through the tendons and bones of his digits. A punch would have been too large of a motion, and he risked losing control of this sensitive state.

Instead of throwing a punch forward, his fingers made to perform a singular gesture…

…a snap.

Talricto seemed to know what was coming, and a dimensional rift was hastily created.

“Put your arm in here! In here!”

Orodan did as asked throwing his arm into the dimensional rift; thoughts of sparring the spider forgotten due to the priority of this insight he was experiencing.

Talricto wrapped the boundaries of the open rift tightly around Orodan’s arm, and only then did he finally feel safe unleashing the pent-up power.

Orodan was strong, physically that was. Enough people remarked on his size and he had enough skills affecting his body that it wasn’t arrogance to say this. Thus, compared to the less physically gifted, the prospect of him snapping his fingers at full strength was far more dangerous. With just a finger snap alone he might be capable of destroying a city if he truly focused.

And when he had fires enough to turn planets to ash coursing through his arm? The results could only be summarized one way.

Cataclysmic.

[Physical Fitness 95 → Physical Fitness 96]

[Dimensionalism 84 → Dimensionalism 85]

[Mana Manipulation 63 → Mana Manipulation 65]

[Candleflame 32 → Candleflame 35]

[Fire Magic Mastery 55 → Fire Magic Mastery 57]

[Fire Resistance 61 → Fire Resistance 63]

[Mana Resistance 65 → Mana Resistance 67]

Orodan’s finger strained against his thumb, the stored muscular energy within the tendons erupting downwards upon release to strike the palm of his hand. It was the hardest finger snap he had ever performed in his life. If just done with muscle alone, it might have rocked a continent the size of Inuan while destroying the majority of it.

However, what made this snap different was the apocalyptic amounts of fire in his body, all converging towards the tips of his fingers.

Immediately, Orodan was forced to reinforce the already warded room they were in with Domain of Perfect Cleaning. His soul wrapped around every bit of it, making the room as strong as his sword and shield when he was in the midst of battle. Yet even then, it was a mad struggle.

Talricto’s control over the dimensional rift immediately failed, and Orodan was forced to take over as the spider fell over in a daze from the mental backlash. Even then, the flames erupting triggered an alarm across the entire guild hall. Orodan’s control over the rift wasn’t as good as Talricto’s either, and a few licks of flame erupted out his way, causing the wards and integrity of the room to nearly fail.

At the last moment, he managed to regain some semblance of control, not over the rift, but over the flames which had erupted from his snap. And he managed to divert the majority of the fire away from the rift opening and out to wherever Talricto had made it lead to.

Even Orodan himself stumbled backwards a step and finally allowed the rift to close.

“You careless buffoon! Experimentation with the forces of dimensionalism is a dangerous matter and you nearly got us all killed!”

“You’re right… I wasn’t expecting that at all myself,” Orodan admitted. “Who knew the elements could be so dangerous when combined with my physical might?”

He noted that his arm was naught but a blackened husk of ash and carbonized bone. It healed instantaneously enough, but that it had suffered such damage from his own attack? Just how strong had the effects of that been? The rift was gone too, and he knew not where it led.

“I know I enjoy getting a rise out of you with my remarks, but what manner of anomalous creature are you?” Talricto seriously asked. “That was just a snap of your fingers too…”

Orodan frowned in confusion.

“What do you mean? I simply released the power I had built up within me, it’s just fire magic and physical might,” Orodan said. “I’m sure there are plenty of beings across the universe capable of synergizing the elements with their body. At most it should just be a Legendary-rarity skill.”

“What rarity is the skill you received?” the spider asked.

“I didn’t acquire one. Practicing without the aid of the System is a better path forward,” Orodan answered. “I could likely get something similar to the Elemental Fist skill right now if I wanted… but that’s not the height of my ambition.”

“That was… freeform? The entirety of it?”

“Yes? I haven’t been suffering defeat after defeat against you for three months for nothing,” Orodan said. “I have a good grasp on the connection between Dimensionalism and my physical form, and I’ve now proven that the dimensional forces can work with elemental magic too. But… I still need more practice. A mere snap of my fingers and I lost control.”

Orodan was somewhat disappointed in his own performance, but he supposed the reliability of this technique could be improved through training.

Talricto though, wasn’t having it.

“Are you mad? That rift led out to an uninhabited star system in your home galaxy… do you even know how much damage you caused?” Talricto asked, a slight quiver to his voice. “Orodan you… you destroyed that entire star system!”

That was…

“Hmmph… unimpressive,” Orodan remarked, refusing to remain satisfied. “Though I suppose it has some potential.”

“Unimpressive? Unimpressive? That attack could have killed an Embodier and you consider it unimpressive?!” Talricto demanded.

“Aye, I cannot do that reliably, and I doubt my enemies will peacefully wait for me to gather fire into my body and snap my fingers in the midst of battle.”

“You’re the most-”

The door to the office flew open, and both Clyburn and Fenton rushed in.

“The alarm went off! Mister Wainwright is anything amiss?” Clyburn immediately asked.

“No, no… if anything we’ve come upon good news,” Orodan said and then flashed Fenton a guilty look. “Although… this room may need to be re-fixed.”

Fenton gave the wards an assessing look and frowned.

“I just enchanted this room and you’re already breakin’ it ser…” Fenton grumbled. “Though, I suppose I could make an improvement or two here and there…”

As the lad considered ways of improving upon his sorely tested work, Orodan too considered how he could further improve himself.

Frankly, he considered unreliable attacks not worth the energy used to think about them. What Orodan had just done, infusing his physical form with fire and channeling it through himself for a synchronized attack with his physical might, was strong. But it would require more practice to perform reliably.

But if he did… how much more power could he access?

Of the elements, light magic wasn’t even his strongest; that honor belonged to fire. But today, using his mightiest element, with just a finger snap he’d evaporated an entire star system. Endless mana backed by his existing cataclysmic physical might, was it truly so powerful?

What if he were to train to the point where he could unleash a Smite of Abrupt Deliverance while infused with an element? Could he destroy multiple star systems? It was clear to Orodan then, that alongside the rest of the skills he was training, this needed to be his prime focus during this loop.

His elemental skills, when backed by his ability to generate endless power were already frightening. But when combined with his physical might in perfect sync… could he dare to even challenge the Prophet?

Orodan’s blood boiled at the potential chance to strike a blow against one of his most hated of foes.

And who knew what other tricks could be added to the mix to narrow the impossible gap between him and one of the System’s mightiest beings?

#

Orodan’s hands blazed with mana, his mental capacities pushed to the brink as he focused on the rifle in front of him.

A simple enchantment, durability; within six seconds it was laid upon the gun.

“Faster ser! Quality’s passable but you’ve got to pick up the pace.”

Passable? That was some of Orodan’s best work under time constraints! With a sigh he brushed the feeling of irritation away and dedicated his attention to the next one. Comparing himself to a genius of enchanting was pointless, but it was a good learning opportunity all the same.

“I admit it, this is more helpful than I thought it would be. Enchanting under a time limit is difficult on the best of days, but with such a simple language, perhaps I can hone my technique using the basics and then build up my speed from there,” Orodan remarked.

What was he doing? Or rather, what was Fenton training him for?

Enchanting of course.

