“An early arrival might indicate that the other party is presenting themselves in a more deferential manner. This should be eventful,” Zaessythra said.

Or boring, in Orodan’s opinion. Unless there was a fight to be had, what was the point? He’d only come to give Clyburn some moral support. It wasn’t as though he relished these pointless meetings where saber-rattling and veiled threats were likely to be made.

Three men and a woman passed through the gates of the Guild’s grounds. Two of them Orodan had seen before. Lord Morvale and his lackey, Eliezer who’d given both Clyburn and Fenton a difficult time while in Port Bellgrave. The other two he didn’t know, though one of the strangers was unmistakably a noble given how much pomp he walked with.

The visiting party had a crier with them too… how ostentatious.

“Presenting the House of Trevelain! His lordship, Ardathen Trevelain, Duke of the southern counties and Guild Master of the Storven High Enchanters’ Guild comes to pay respects to the Ironhaven Engineers’ Guild and the honorable Guild Master Sir Clyburn Anderthorn!”

No greeting and introduction for Lord Morvale? Even the politically ignorant Orodan could recognize the slight when he saw it. Furthermore, both Eliezer and the noble he served looked utterly exhausted and forlorn; dark circles under the eyes, and outfits that looked as though they’d seen better days and could use a wash.

The crier’s voice boomed, but the Duke flashed the man an irritated look and gestured for him to step back and make himself scarce.

“I apologize for my man’s… eager nature,” the Duke said, looking at Orodan’s Guild Master. “You must be Sir Clyburn Anderthorn, an honor to finally meet the man whose name is on everyone’s lips.”

“This is the one we must pay particular attention to,” Zaessythra immediately identified.

Was he? Orodan thought he sounded like just another scheming noble with a nice face, albeit, one who had a hidden motive.

“Pay attention Orodan. Having the crier fail to mention the other noble accompanying him can be nothing but planned. And to then apologize and present himself deferentially? I smell an opportunist who seeks to move where the winds of fortune blow.”

He would take Zaessythra’s word for it.

“You honor me your lordship. Yours is a name more famous than mine,” Clyburn spoke, his words measured. “I was not expecting your presence here today.”

“I simply wished to come along and lay certain matters to rest today. From the ground of such misunderstandings might arise new partnerships,” the Duke remarked. “Come, Lord Morvale… you have a few things to ask of Sir Clyburn here, do you not?”

Clyburn frowned as the man who’d caused him much grief stepped forward. Frankly, Orodan thought this Lord Morvale might drop dead from stress here and now, for so red was the man’s face.

“T-that is… the reason I’ve come here today is… to speak to you about…”

Even Orodan had to raise an eyebrow at the man’s stuttering and sudden case of fright. It was as though the words simply couldn’t come out of his mouth no matter how hard he tried.

“For a noble Lord of the islanders to stumble over his words so is an embarrassment, speak or I shall speak for you,” Duke Trevelain coldly demanded. “Or need I change the already forgiving terms of the contract we negotiated?”

Finally, the nervous man took a deep breath and began.

“My Guild and all its properties have… been sold off. I, Carrow Morvale, am begging you, Sir Clyburn… to please aid my Guild, please help m-”

“Enough. I did not bring you here so that you might plead for alms like some street side beggar,” the Duke icily scolded. “You were brought here to apologize for the troubles you’ve put Sir Clyburn through. The debts you held over his head, the unreasonable demands you made of him, it must all be atoned for. We’re here to start anew Carrow, swallow your pride and show your sincerity.”

Clyburn looked more than a little taken aback.

“Such a thing is… entirely unnecessary,” Clyburn muttered, though the anger and desire to inflict revenge within him couldn’t be entirely hidden. It was clear that while he wasn’t comfortable with the situation, the man would shed no tears for the noble who’d fallen upon hard times.

“No, this is very much necessary,” the Duke clarified. “When I’d heard of what Carrow here was doing, I immediately set about cancelling many of my contractual obligations to aid him. His Guild was already in a bad spot due to some competitor’s sabotage, and with me withdrawing my support due to his dishonorable conduct… he was forced to sell everything. Which included your debt to him, but worry not, that’s been forgiven.”

“Sly and conniving, this one,” Zaessythra remarked. “He presents his minion for sacrifice while hoping that his own involvement will be forgotten. Unfortunately… I don’t think he’s aware that you’re onto his part in all this.”

Without a doubt, it hadn’t gone unnoticed to anyone that none of the listed crimes mentioned Lord Morvale’s attempts at having hired assassins and mercenaries outright attack Clyburn Anderthorn. And while Duke Trevelain hadn’t directly ordered those attacks… the man certainly wouldn’t have complained if he benefitted from their success.

“Sir Clyburn… please, I’m sorry for all I’ve done. I am responsible for all of the misfortune that’s befallen you, but I humbly request that you show clemency now that we’re at your mercy,” Lord Morvale pitifully implored.

“You’re sorry? For years, you and your insecure pride have hounded every accomplishment I’ve earned. My guild upstaging yours through the development of a new model of rifle? You tried discrediting us! I came up with a promising design for the Crown’s competition? You tried sabotaging me and holding the debt I owed you over my head!” Clyburn angrily listed. “And now you ask for clemency? I would sooner see you working as a menial enchanter in an island scrap town than show you mercy. And why are you asking me for mercy? What power do I hold over you?”

“That… would be because he in fact attempted to have you killed and your project destroyed. A crime of treason,” the Duke coldly revealed. “As Duke of the southern counties, enforcing the King’s laws within my domain is a responsibility I take very seriously. Normally… the punishment for such treason would be execution… but I imagine you may want to handle it yourself, as a result I’ve asked the judicial officers of the county and the Crown to stay their hand. His properties now belong to you, including a particular assistant of his, guilty of aiding in these crimes, who I’m told caused you much grief as well.”

Clyburn gave Orodan a brief side glance, their eyes meeting with the understanding that Duke Trevelain was certainly not to be trusted. Orodan had told Clyburn about the assassination attempts and who was responsible for them already. For this Duke to come in and try to reveal it as though he was doing Clyburn a favor?

Zaessythra was right, this man was untrustworthy.

“Sickening… throw them into the darkest hole you can find and throw away the key,” Clyburn ordered, causing two nearby guards of the Guild grounds - who were constables of the capital acting in dual-capacity - to apprehend them. “I will not sully my hands with their blood.”

“Quite noble of you Sir Clyburn, now then, with the foul business dispensed with we can turn to matters of mutual benefit,” the Duke said. “Here with me, I have a representative of the Storven Engineers’ Association. Specifically, her seat on the Association represents a majority of the small and middle-sized engineering guilds in the capital.”

“I am humbled to make your acquaintance Sir Clyburn, your genius and accomplishments are often spoken of even in the capital,” the woman said. “Although I notice your protege isn’t here? I was hoping to see the young purifier himself.”

“Ah, young Fenton is away for the morning at Acadia, attending classes as an up-and-coming lad of his age should,” Clyburn replied. “He works for our guild in a part-time capacity at this time, given how- Mister Wainwright?”

Orodan, whose Vision of Purity had been on at maximal power since the end of the battle against the Eldritch, felt and saw the subtle shift in the air the moment Clyburn had uttered those words. Immediately he stepped away and made to get behind a corner, and as he did, he felt a dirty pulse of mana go off from a communications pendant worn around one of the visitors.

It hadn’t been the Duke who sent out a message, but the woman who accompanied him.

Of course, he felt something coming for Fenton and could afford no further delays, even if his cover would be compromised. Besides, they could always come up with excuses later.

[Dimensional Step 32 → Dimensional Step 33]

He winked through the boundary separating the material plane from the other places of the cosmos, and immediately felt some sort of divine force attempting to stifle his travel. Somebody must have known he was coming.

Yet, it mattered not to Orodan who had overpowered far worse.

A simple flex of his power, and the power attempting to block him was smashed through as though it had never been there in the first place. The force on the other side felt alarmed, but Orodan cared not.

He stepped out to a grand lecture hall with hundreds of enchanting workstations set up, with an equal number of students working them.

“Now then, Mister Penny aside, would anyone else like to answer some questions or demonstrate a concept? Didn’t take the job as a professor to teach a class of one,” a man said with a chuckle. “Yes Mister Rosegard? Can you answer-”

The lecture was interrupted as pandemonium occurred.

There were two Blessed, both in the process of trying to attack his student. Fenton, smart lad that he was, already had a mana barrier up via one of the enchanted artifacts he carried. Must have seen it coming thanks to Orodan’s rigorous training.

One, a student sitting two rows up from the boy, the other a member of the cleaning staff who was supposedly passing by the open door of the lecture hall. Faster than anyone in the room could see, Orodan halted the janitor’s divine-empowered fist in the palm of his hand and lashed out in turn with a singular sweep which purged the Avatar of all Blessings in their entirety.

The Blessed student however, an Avatar too, must have been possessed by a relatively fast God, for their eyes managed to briefly meet his and get a look at Orodan’s face.

Of course, meeting the eyes of Orodan Wainwright was a move ill-advised.

Incipience of Infinity flared, and he deftly made sure to target the consciousness of the God inhabiting the student rather than the student themselves.

A shriek of divine duress followed, the entire lecture hall rumbling with force, and Orodan’s broom lashed out to purge that one too.

The entire altercation had occurred in less than a hundredth of a second. Even Fenton’s eyes, swifter than his counterparts’, were unable to keep up. And Orodan hastily winked back out of the material plane, taking a trip through the dimensional boundary to step back onto the Guild grounds of the Ironhaven Engineers’ Association.

Immediately, he furiously turned towards the visiting party of guests, only to realize that one of their number was gone.

Time Mastery came to the fore as Orodan swiftly gave a cursory glance towards what had occurred, and before the eyes of the startled Duke, he once again winked out of existence.

[Dimensional Step 33 → Dimensional Step 34]

This time dimensional travel took him farther, much farther. As he stepped out to the peak of a desolate mountain, he realized he wasn’t on Lonvoron anymore.

The woman who’d escaped, the supposed representative of the small engineering Guilds of Storven, was trembling, her eyes wide with terror. In front of her, four Avatars.

And from the looks of things, they were ready for him.

“This must be the one who can purge Blessings! Be care-”

Words were for the weak. Orodan’s broom lashed out and rid the Avatar hosts of the foul parasites infesting them. The matter seemed easily resolved until a dimensional rift tore open… leading directly to the divine dimension.

There was no Eldritch that came through, just Gods. More than one of them. Entering the material plane at great expense of energy.

The first, a giant glowing bird made of water, dove for his chest with fury only for Orodan’s hand to wrap around its beak. Its head was torn off entirely right after, and the divine energy fizzled out as a domain within the dimension of the Gods unraveled.

The most powerful of the enemy Gods at the rear ranks on the other side of the rift was a human glowing with energy and wielding an oversized rifle. Her eyes widened at Orodan’s display of instant brutality and violence.

“He’s stronger than even a peak-Transcendent, fall back now!” the Goddess roared.

Smart of them; they’d realized within one exchange that the odds weren’t in their favor.

A powerful bear, very similar to the ones he’d fought in the hot zone while fighting the Eldritch, charged him with fury, trying to cover the retreat of the rest. Only to be sent flying back through the rift as a bloody pulp from Orodan’s kick to the head. Oddly enough, it and all of these divines bore the tell-tale signs of something in particular…

…his Celestial skill. In particular, the fortification against corruption.

But, for something to bear that trace of his skill would mean…

“That you purged them of something unclean,” Zaessythra finished. “Why do these Gods fight against you despite being liberated of the Eldritch?”

