Over the past two days, he’d been engaging in regular training with the lad, but he’d also been getting tutored by Fenton in the ways of Enchanting. A little ridiculous considering that Orodan was a Master-level enchanter and Fenton was still an Elite. But it wasn’t so ludicrous a concept when remembering that Orodan himself taught beings with superior skill levels insights about Cleaning. An art he had no peers in.

In any case, Fenton’s earlier outburst had been seemingly shelved for now. Orodan didn’t make a habit of reading minds and violating peoples’ privacy, so he had no clue what the boy was thinking. But if Fenton had put it to the side, then so would he. Though, he had to say… the lad seemed far more serious about ensuring Orodan progressed in Enchanting since then.

Two-dimensional enchanting, which Orodan now considered to be a lie as nothing was truly two-dimensional in the material plane, was normally seen as the inferior form of enchanting.

And in Orodan’s eyes, he too saw it the same way. After all, why engage in two-dimensional enchanting when three and four-dimensional languages were available? Fenton had disabused him of this notion.

Orodan himself often preached that the basics were important, and Fenton had reminded him of this and drawn attention to the fact that truly perfecting two-dimensional enchanting could only benefit his other works. Mainly though, he was focusing on speed enchanting with the Imperial two-dimensional enchanting language from back home because he was too slow with three and four-dimensional enchanting.

Orodan had explained in-depth to Fenton that he didn’t want to learn just standard body enchanting, but a skill which would allow him to form living enchantments within himself. The boy thought that was a great idea, hence Fenton had set Orodan on a training course to develop his enchanting speed. It would be the first step towards the skill he had in mind.

The next one, backed by his full effort… was done in five seconds. A noticeable improvement.

“Not bad Mister Orodan, next!”

“Already I can feel my understanding of how to swiftly enchant something growing… perhaps making soul-based enchantments quickly isn’t as far away as I thought…”

“I can’t say I understand the soul weave all too well Mister Orodan. Even with the soul trainin’ you have me doing, it’s hard to see past the blindin’ glow and make much sense of it. Not saying an enchantment can’t be woven of the stuff… but it won’t be me who does it. But I suppose that’s why I’m trainin’ you in this.”

The lad wasn’t wrong. Fenton wasn’t exactly talented when it came to the soul, a reminder that even the greatest of geniuses could be stumped at skills outside their purview. Furthermore, the soul weave was made of Orodan’s own soul, who better to work with it than himself?

But, all the better this way. After all, right from the get-go Orodan had never intended to allow anyone else, Fenton included, to make an enchantment for him. Better to rely on power acquired with ones own hands.

Though… perhaps some guidance from the best enchanter he’d ever seen might come in handy.

They continued this process for four more hours. And although Orodan gained no skill levels in Enchanting, he did walk away with a more thorough understanding of the very basics of the art. After all, two-dimensional enchanting was as foundational as it got.

The sun’s rays began shining through the window of the workshop; dawn had come.

“Can’t believe we’ve been workin’ all night and I still feel fine,” Fenton muttered. “Don’t think I’ve slept since our battles in the hot zone.”

“Now you see the benefits of Physical Fitness? Why waste time sleeping when you could instead be training?” Orodan posed. “That Recovery skill you acquired yesterday must’ve helped too.”

It was a Rare skill, meant to bolster stamina recovery, but in tandem with decent Physical Fitness and good nutrition, could allow one to remain awake for long periods of time. Orodan had better skills which filled that gap, but for someone like Fenton having more hours to train and work in the day were invaluable.

That was also why he’d been pushing the engineers of the guild towards physical conditioning. The better the body, the better the mind, yes… but it also gave stamina benefits. Already, some of the engineers who had a few levels in Physical Fitness were capable of focusing for longer and working more hours without needing a break than the others.

“It is nice to have all the time to do what I want,” Fenton replied. “Feels like I’m losin’ track of time though, staying awake for so long. My class mates must have slept twice now in the time that I’ve been up consecutively for. Speakin’ of, I’m off to the university ser, I’ll see you once I’m back.”

“Aye, study hard Fenton.”

They both left the guild’s workshop and Orodan made way for the office of the assistant Guild Master, which was him.

Florence at the front desk nodded in acknowledgement upon spotting him.

“Mister Wainwright, Sir Clyburn will be in your office waiting for you.”

“So early? Must be about the meetings he has today,” Orodan replied. “I shall speak to him. See you at the pavilion.”

He went behind the front desk and into his office where Clyburn Anderthorn was fretfully pacing about.

“Mister Wainwright!” the Guild Master and chief engineer greeted.

“Clyburn. You seem nervous,” Orodan stated; a factual observation.

“How can I not be? The man who has hounded my every step and seen fit to torment me for so long will be paying our Guild a visit!” Clyburn exclaimed. “For too long has that wretched snake Morvale smugly sought to keep me pushed down.”

“You fear their political machinations?” Orodan asked. “I’ve noticed the Transcendents keeping watch over our Guild grounds, I doubt the crown will take any assault upon the place lightly.”

“Right you are, the Crown has assigned some powerful military elders to watch over us. Lord Morvale and his backers will not dare make any direct or indirect moves now, not after our successes which exceeded any and all expectations anyone could have had of our project,” Clyburn explained. “To threaten us would be to threaten the Crown and Blackworth Collective itself. I have little doubt that the snake and his entire house would be imprisoned if not executed for trying.”

“Then why worry?” Orodan asked, not understanding why Clyburn appeared so nervous. “I was under the impression that they would try some backstabbing or subtle political maneuvers to see you fail, but this meeting should be of no concern, yes?”

“Politics, Mister Wainwright! Politics!” the man declared. “Lord Morvale will show up, he’ll walk the paces of showing me respect, giving me credit and congratulating me for my successes… and then I shall have to similarly maintain decorum. An act which will sicken me to my core given the bad blood between us. Ever since you informed me of his attempts to sabotage our project I’ve wished for nothing but death upon that verminous man.”

“I feel as though you’re overthinking something very petty… let’s speak regarding Guild matters, perhaps that will take your mind off of such things,” Orodan suggested. “Our ventures into the markets of Storven are going well. Our engineers, particularly the new ones, are quite productive.”

“In truth, I didn’t think the unorthodox crew you recruited would amount to much… but I’m glad to have been proven wrong,” Clyburn said. “With these junior engineers taking many of the lower-level jobs in great numbers, it frees up our more skilled members to take the jobs which will bring us much prestige. Of course… the smaller and middling guilds of the city aren’t too happy that we’re intruding upon their clientele.”

Indeed, Orodan had done a slight reorganization in how the Ironhaven Engineers’ Guild conducted business. The Ironhaven Isles weren’t all that big, and the job market was concentrated to the numerous islands. The method of operation there favored skilled workers taking jobs from the wealthiest of clients first and foremost, with certain guilds essentially dominating the trade on certain islands.

On Storven, which was situated upon the mainland of Lonvoron, sea travel wasn’t an expense that needed to be incurred. In fact, Free travel within the capital and its surrounding areas was easy. Consequently, the job market was expansive and there were far more people in need of their services than engineers capable of doing the work. As a result, Zaessythra suggested that it would’ve been utterly foolish of their Guild to send Elite and Master-level engineers out to do menial labor, but at the same time, leaving the labor market of low-skilled engineers entirely untapped would’ve been foolish.

Training new engineers by sending them out to easier jobs while the veterans took the high-difficulty and prestigious ones. It wasn’t anything revolutionary.

The big guilds did much the same thing, but they focused on talent and good educational pedigree when hiring people. Indeed, if the Ironhaven Engineers’ Guild was an unknown new entrant into the market, hiring people without university educations might have even harmed their reputation. But… as it stood, rumors were a powerful thing. The average person on the street now knew that the plague had been dealt an irreparable blow, and soldiers loved to talk to their family and friends back home.

Clyburn Anderthorn, Fenton Penny and the Ironhaven Engineers’ Guild were famous. For them, hiring dependable new talent who might not have had the best education was a reputation blow they could afford. Hells, given their existing track record of beating back the plague, it might even be seen as innovative.

Needless to say, when Orodan wasn’t training, he was managing the logistics of deploying the Guild’s engineers to areas where the demand for engineers was high. The large numbers of new hires alongside the Guild’s reputation quickly led to them pushing some of the smaller and mid-sized guilds out of the market entirely. But that was just the price of a competitive business.

All this had given him two levels in Logistics, and while the skill had no associated title, Orodan had held off on creating one for himself for now. The Wainwrighting Apprentice title was eye catching enough as it was.

And of course, Orodan’s talents laid in fighting and cleaning, not managing a Guild. It was in fact Zaessythra who took to the business management side of things with gusto. With her advising him, Orodan was able to recommend some downright savvy decisions which allowed them to capitalize on the market within just two days of their arrival to Storven.

Naturally, this had caused many of the small and mid-sized guilds to feel threatened by the Ironhaven Engineers’ Guild. Which of course meant that today’s meeting would be with more than just Lord Morvale.

“The smaller guilds can only lament their inability to match our resources. Putting them in such a disadvantageous positions gives us more leverage to come to a favorable agreement,” Zaessythra remarked. “Just as planned.”

Ruthless and aggressive, she truly had a keen mind for warfare and strategy, which also seemed to extend to business. Aside from the years spent delving into Infinity, Orodan wasn’t sure if he was even a century old in terms of lived experiences and time in the loops. In contrast, she was much older and had spent the majority of her life leading her planet.

Her advice and counsel on many matters was much appreciated.

“Well, let’s see how this meeting goes,” Orodan said to Clyburn. “I’ll be with you in any case, as will Florence.”

It was a bit much to expect of a young girl who looked as though she’d just graduated from the university, but in the short time Orodan had known her, he thought the lass was a fair hand at Logistics and Administration. Frankly, even if Orodan and Clyburn stepped away, he felt the day-to-day running of the Guild’s operations would be fine as long as she was around.

“I suppose that does comfort me a little. Shall we await our visitors?” Clyburn asked.

“A little early, but if it makes you feel better, why not?”

The two of them made for the guild hall’s guest pavilion, which was near the entrance to the grounds. It was a pretty location with a sense of tranquility to it; the open air pavilion was surrounded by a pretty moat and an assortment of colorful flowers. At the center was a large table obviously meant to host meetings. Laborers and non-engineering staff were in charge of maintaining the grounds and serving tea and refreshments.

Florence was already standing near one of the chairs and gave the both of them a light curtsey.

“I still question why the Crown saw fit to reward us with such an extravagant property. Even with another month of dedicated recruitment I can’t see us having enough people to utilize all of this space,” Clyburn said. “Does make for a grand backdrop to a meeting I shall admit.”

“Too pretentious for my liking, give me a meeting in the training yard with sword and shield any day. Easier to read someone’s during the dance of battle and violence,” Orodan said. “Has a way of making them honest.”

“Well, aside from the rare few who practice fencing at the universities or the military, swordsmanship has few enthusiasts here Mister Wainwright. Though I suppose it’s good we have you on-hand lest we need someone dueled,” Clyburn replied and then looked to the main gate of the grounds which were opening and from where a trumpet sounded. “And here I thought we were coming to wait early. Seems our guests have arrived already.”

