“Could what? Mentally prepare yourself? Practice? The belt moves relative to your skill, improving would only make it go even faster,” Orodan explained. “As you can see, what our guild requires isn’t just talent or skill levels, but the ability to persevere under pressure. Are you capable of that?”

The answer was that the arrogant lad wasn’t. His hands fumbled, which was fine, but it was the crumbling of his resolve, the surrender in his eyes that stood out. The next few pieces, he didn’t even try on. With his head lowered in shame, he simply walked out without saying a word.

The other young man, and in particular, the woman… were doing far better.

The conveyor belts were moving at a swift pace as components were being put together with rapidity. Both the remaining participants were sweating, but neither had any intention of quitting from the looks of it. Screws were fastened, lugs were tightened and gears were slotted in.

“Whatever universities you lot are from taught you well, you’re both clearly quite good at Engineering. But… I’m sure you’ve begun to notice by now, the limitation isn’t your skill, but your physical ability,” Orodan said. “If hired by our guild, you’ll be put through the paces and taught to embrace physical training as well. After all, an engineer’s only as good as their ability to unscrew a particularly tight bolt.”

“This is manual labor sir! How can this be related to being an engineer?” the remaining man quickly asked while continuing to frantically assemble parts.

“Everything starts from the basics. A swordsman cannot properly execute fanciful techniques without first learning the rudimentary thrust and cut, a mage cannot cast grand storms of fire without knowing how to light candles… and similarly, you cannot truly learn Engineering until you can perform the basic acts of assembling parts over and over,” Orodan explained. “Who knows? In being forced to repeat the basics you might even learn something…”

[Teaching 77 → Teaching 78]

And the woman had, for Orodan could see the subtle tells of System energy activity within her soul which denoted a skill level gain.

“Do we have a score sir?” she asked.

“You’re both nearing the top, but the test is graded on multiple aspects and the speed of your conveyor belt is but one of them,” Orodan explained. “In fact, you might be surprised at what the final test expects of you.”

There was an industrial machine casting and cooling the components as they were placed onto the belt. The final test though… was Orodan’s tampering with the machine so that the cooling part was stopped for a brief moment. As both the man and woman approached their limits, Orodan shut off the cooling mechanism for their respective machines.

The two of them were near the limit of what they could do anyways; they’d already displayed the maximal speed they could make the belts go. This though, was a different matter entirely.

“Hey…! The parts are hot! That’s unsafe!” the man protested.

In response, Orodan simply smiled and said nothing.

It wasn’t a surprise that he’d sprung upon them, thirty seconds remained before the first of the hot parts would reach them. Enough time to make an informed choice about what they wanted to do.

The man, once the hot parts came by simply stepped back and raised his hands.

“I’m done sir! This mad test has taken its toll on my sanity.”

“Good, you’ve passed,” Orodan said. “Speak to Florence here about admittance to our Guild.”

His focus however, was on the woman, who had decided not to step away.

She was already pouring sweat, so intense was the exertion. Even then, her red face got even redder as adrenaline and the anticipation of pain coursed through her. There were no gloves at the station and no time to get them lest the belt move on. Yet, that didn’t deter her in the slightest as her hand lashed out and grabbed the hot piece.

A scream of pain tore free from her lips as the hot metal scalded the palm of her hand. And yet…

…she still assembled the piece.

The belt suddenly stopped. And Orodan had an exceptionally pleased smile upon his face.

“Excellent, excellent! You’ve passed with flying colors.”

“I… I have?”

“Aye. What our Guild needs most is not just talent… but people with a good work ethic,” Orodan said as he walked over and poured a healing tincture over her palms, repairing them instantly. “How far are you willing and able to go? That’s the additional component to the test.”

He certainly intended to hire those who could make the conveyor belt go very fast, and those who worked very hard and put in their maximal effort despite not making it go quickly. But the real definition of good work ethic was the willingness to embrace pain to achieve success.

“But sir… what guild are you even representing?”

“Ah right, I suppose we did intentionally leave that part out to avoid attracting candidates we aren’t looking for,” Orodan said. Then again, Clyburn was in charge of the conventional recruitment and would be getting candidates aplenty of that type. Nothing wrong with them, but Orodan felt the ability to persevere mattered more. “If you’re interested in signing, the papers there will say the guild name.”

The two of them walked over…

…and their eyes could only widen at the name of their future employer. The Ironhaven Engineers’ Guild. The organization responsible for making the devices which had purged the plague.

“Y-you’re…!”

“Yes, we are. But keep quiet about it or else the test will be negatively impacted for anyone who hears it. Here, step to the side and into this room where Florence will assist in the administrative matters related to your hiring,” Orodan said, looking at more new entrants to the building. “After all, we have plenty more recruiting to get through today.”

#

Overall, it had been a very successful recruiting operation. Orodan had managed to recruit twenty-six individuals in total.

It was a bit pitiful when compared to the three-hundred and fifty-seven total applicants that had come by, but Orodan could only assume that the universities here had spoiled these graduates’ work ethic. After all, the overwhelming majority of those who’d failed the test were those who came from wealthy backgrounds and had a high level of education. In contrast, his successful candidates were half educated and half from backgrounds unrelated to Engineering and were down on their luck.

It wasn’t a total loss, for he simply gave them directions to Clyburn’s recruiting event in another part of the city, but they’d failed all the same. Which wasn’t such a bad thing as he’d rather have twenty-six quality recruits ready to work hard than three-hundred spoiled fools. Most important of all, the twenty-six he hired were teachable. A far more important quality than simply having some education. When the going got rough, these would be the sorts to stick with it and see a job through to the end.

Indeed, two destitute twin siblings were among the candidates he’d hired, and their tenacity and knack for quickly gaining levels through hard work had impressed him.

He’d left the matter of their settling in and relocation to Florence and the guild’s laborers. For now, Orodan had threads in-between his fingers, deftly moving them about, each finger acting independently yet contributing to the overall success of the outcome.

[Weaving 58 → Weaving 59]

“You’re getting a lot better at this Mister Wainwright. You’re a bit unfairly talented, aren’t you?”

“It helps that I have a good teacher,” Orodan replied. “I don’t think I’m near being an Elite weaver as you are. Not for a while.”

“You flatter me, but such is what comes with time and dedication to a craft. I’ve been weaving since I was a young girl, and then the Elsworth Tailors’ Guild here in Storven took notice of me,” Fanny Penny said and then sighed. “I always see you and Fenton working exceptionally hard… bit of a shame that I’m here just sequestered away. I suppose I should be going back to keeping myself occupied shouldn’t I?”

“You want to work for one of the tailors’ guilds again?” Orodan asked.

“Not the same one, the bad blood from them having to let me go would make any employment exceptionally awkward,” she said. “But I suppose there are plenty of competitors in this city.”

“I doubt money’s an issue with how much Fenton’s making nowadays… but if you’re so insistent on finding work, why not work with us?” Orodan suggested.

“A tailor in an engineers’ guild? Shall I spin the blankets and craft the banners? Perhaps tuck everyone into bed as the guild’s mother?” she asked with amusement in her tone. “No, much as I appreciate the offer, I’ve got to go this alone. Before I was Fenton’s mother I was a professional in my own right, with my own aspirations and dreams. Now that my boy’s doing so well… I suppose it isn’t the worst idea for me to return to pursuing something of my own. I don’t fancy the thought of being reliant upon my own boy for any longer than I have to, especially now that I’ve got my health back.”

“Hmm, I can respect that mentality. Though I doubt your overprotective son will be too happy to hear it,” Orodan replied, continuing his weaving.

Indeed, with how protective Fenton was about Fanny, one could forget that Fenton was the son and she the mother.

“The boy will simply have to bear with it. Besides… with the mighty otherworlder nearby, I doubt I’ll be in any danger,” Fanny said. “Though I would really prefer my son stop following you into the depths of danger.”

“So would I. I’ve lost enough friends who’ve fought alongside me that the thought of him fighting next to me doesn’t please me either,” Orodan remarked. “But, he’s a grown man and has the right to make his own decisions. Whether you or I like them or not.”

“It’s not exactly easy for me to accept that Mister Wainwright… am I meant to just watch as my son marches off to his death? You could just live a peaceful life,” Fanny proposed. “This isn’t such a bad world for you to settle down in, is it?”

“Not only would I detest every second of it, but my enemies aren’t the sort to remain idle either,” Orodan explained. “I will do what I must.”

He also didn’t want to burden Fanny with the knowledge that an Administrator, a being capable of laying waste to a galaxy, had its eyes set upon Lonvoron and the Administrator’s Mantle therein. Even without Orodan’s interference, this world was the stage for a deadly war in the shadows between the Prophet and the previous looper.

Not to mention the gradual corruption of everything due to the very nature of the Boundless One empowering the System.

Settling down? Living a ‘normal’ life with a family in some idyllic place? A cute sentiment, but not for him. Orodan was a warrior through and through. Even in his first life he’d died fighting, sword in hand and defiance in his heart.

He had long ago accepted that he wasn’t a normal person. Even on the day he finally succeeded in achieving his grand ambition and repaying all his debts, battle would forevermore remain a part of him. Orodan Wainwright would be fighting forever.

“But perhaps you can still live life despite that.”

Zaessythra wasn’t wrong. And if such a life of fighting would be beside anyone, it would be her. Yet, such thoughts were for the future.

Especially since his famous student was now returning home.

The doors to the dining room opened up as Fenton Penny barged in, looking quite irritated.

“Welcome home Fen!” his mother greeted. “How was your first day at Acadia?”

“Annoyin’…”

“Let me guess… too much politics and far too many people trying to get in your good graces?” Orodan asked and Fenton nodded. “Heh! Just like the first time I went to an academy. You didn’t punch anyone? That tends to solve a lot of the problems.”

“M-mister Wainwright?! Don’t encourage him to punch people!” Fanny protested. “Not unless they start a fight with him…”

“See? Even your mother agrees. A good jab to the nose will shut people right up,” Orodan said. “I didn’t notice you getting beat up, and I’d be embarrassed and triple your training if you did.”

“Nobody roughed me up ser, it wasn’t like that, it’s just…” Fenton trailed off. “Everyone’s too nice, and it’s a waste of my time havin’ to deal with it.”

As Orodan had learned long ago, fame was a double-edged sword.

“Do they fall over their feet trying to talk to you?” he asked.

“Aye ser. Almost nobody’s tried causin’ any problems with me, and the two that did some older students took aside and roughed up for me. Doesn’t stop people coming by, asking for advice, asking if the guild’s hiring or wanting me to do them a favor and put in a good word with Mister Clyburn,” Fenton said. “At least the ones who want me to enchant their stuff are easy enough to deal with.”

“Tell the ones seeking employment to come by the guild hall. And as for people wanting you to enchant their gear? Why not, sounds like good training to me,” Orodan said. “As for the rest, just tell them to get lost and if they don’t listen, as I said…”

“A jab to the nose will do the trick? Good idea ser!”

“Fenton! Ugh… I can’t with you two,” Fanny surrendered. “But I did have something to tell you dear boy.”

“What’s that mum?”

“Your mother’s been cloistered inside for an awfully long time…”

Fenton didn’t look happy at where the conversation was going, that was for sure.

#

[Blacksmithing 73 → Blacksmithing 74]

A hammer pounded down on the piece of steel before it was thrown towards his target.

