Orodan wasn’t even dense! In his opinion anyhow…

“R-right… I’d heard about Madam Fanny Penny, Elite seamstress of the Soaring Canvas Guild. I don’t want no problems with her…” the woman muttered. “Anyhow, shall we depart for the King’s citadel? You ever been there young master?”

“Once or twice when someone needed somethin’ enchanted,” Fenton replied. “Too many paintings though, some of ‘em look eerie too.”

“Well you’re in luck. The citadel’s never been as lively as it’s going to be today. The King’s finally returning from his tour of the other worlds,” the woman said. “King Alstatyn’s come home to Lonvoron.”

And possibly, with someone else in tow. They had to be here, given how important the previous looper considered the King.

Soon enough, their flying carriage took off, belching steam as it did, and Fenton periodically grumbled about how inefficient some of the enchantments were and Clyburn had to restrain the lad from fixing up and improving the inscriptions while they were mid-flight as it would’ve been rude.

Storven was a pretty city, particularly when seen from the air. Aerial traffic around them was entirely non-existent however as two accompanying voidcraft of the Crown cleared the skies for their approach towards the King’s seat of power.

It was a truly gigantic citadel, something Orodan hadn’t truly been able to appreciate last time, having teleported from the battlefield to directly under the citadel where the vaults lay. Furthermore, though he’d seen it from a distance enough times over the past month, the gigantic clock embedded into the face of the citadel’s tallest tower was both intricately designed and beautifully enchanted. Even Fenton gave it an appraising look and wasn’t immediately thinking of ways to better it.

“Sparrow four to citadel aerial monitor, come in,” the driver voiced over the carriage’s in-built communications feature. “Requesting landing.”

“You’re cleared sparrow four, landing zone one is expecting your passengers,” the return came. “Welcome to the citadel sirs.”

Their vehicle passed between two tall pillars with numerous defensive weapons and soldiers upon them. They were taking an air route and heading for a landing zone not accessible to regular inbound traffic. This was shown to be true soon enough as their vehicle touched down directly upon a large balcony which simply wasn’t accessible on foot. Instead, the door leading into the castle showed a grand hall and within…

…the throne room of the citadel itself.

This grand throne room was far from empty, with thousands upon thousands of people inside. All of whom were raucously cheering and eager to lay their eyes upon Fenton.

“It’s their ship! The young purifier is inside!”

“I love you! Marry me young master Penny!”

“Destroyer of the plague! Savior of Lonvoron!”

Orodan ignored some of the weird individuals making their inappropriate remarks about a young lad and focused upon the ground.

He doubted even Fenton could see it. But it was a grand array made of one very particular thing.

System energy.

But that was fine. In fact, Orodan had been preparing for this day for over a month now. Ever since he’d realized that he couldn’t detect the previous looper’s entrance at all, he’d been slavishly devoted to increasing the levels on one particular skill.

Vision of Purity.

And the way he’d been doing it was based off of a simple premise. If seeing all mana as dirty during his attempt to infiltrate Novar’s Peak had caused such strain and caused him to gain so many levels?

Then what would occur…

…if he saw everything as dirty?

[Vision of Purity 89 → Vision of Purity 90]

The skill crossed a threshold, and finally… he began to notice the most subtle patterns of energy which indicated the presence of his main target for this long loop.

They weren’t physically here it seemed, but the threads of energy leading from this throne room to wherever the physical caster were could, if barely, be seen. The energy was so utterly pure that it was incredibly difficult to notice, it was in a sense a good counter for Vision of Purity and why he’d been so desperately training the skill.

Still, with this there was a chance. All Orodan needed was to spend some time following the threads, subtly of course. A task that would doubtlessly be easy since he’d been quite focused upon laying low this loop.

Thanks to his planning, it would be he who got the drop on someone for a change! The crowning achievement of his stealthy ways!

Even the System array beneath his feet, he sensed was meant to freeze the entire room in time. No doubt so that the caster could have a private word with Fenton Penny, the hero of Lonvoron. Orodan himself had enough finesse in chronomancy and dimensionalism by now that he planned on appearing to be affected for as long as possible so that he could trace the threads back to their caster.

And from there, the confrontation and answers he sought awaited!

Clyburn touched the ground, the array didn’t trigger, as expected since the array appeared ready to trigger at the touch of someone specific, likely Fenton.

And as Orodan’s feet touched the ground, he was unprepared for the sudden surge of System energy which enveloped everything around him.

The crowds stilled, air froze, the steam in the air became completely inert. And most importantly of all…

…Fenton who was behind him, was frozen in time.

What? Orodan was confused! Zaessythra’s snorting only added to the lack of answers.

He didn’t understand, should the array not have been meant for his student? He was certain that Fenton would be the previous looper’s target. Yet by the looks of things, the array was meant to isolate someone else entirely.

And as Orodan pondered on just who this elaborate time-freezing array was for and where his stealthy approach to this long loop had gone wrong… a voice from behind him spoke up.

“The engineer, I knew about. The boy, regretfully slipped under my notice. But you… you I do not recognize. So tell me otherworlder…

“…who are you?”

It seemed Orodan’s machinations had been sprung right back upon him.

And Zaessythra finally erupted into a full blown laugh within his head.

“Tch! I’ve been had! And here I thought I was doing everything right and being clandestine…”

“Orodan… since when would anyone consider half the things you do clandestine?”

An irritating setback.

Perhaps Orodan really wasn’t meant for this cloak-and-dagger lifestyle after all. But… in the absence of tricks and schemes, he could always fall back upon the one facet of himself that was always reliable.

“Who am I? I am Orodan Wainwright, and I…”

“…am the time looper.”

As the pandemonium began, Zaessythra’s laughter was the only thing he could hear echoing within his mind.
