Fenton, who was sprinting laps around the workshop, enchanted it mid-air and in the midst of the run before catching it in his outstretched hand. The pleased look on the boy’s face was wiped off as a pebble flew for it, forcing him to hastily dodge. A follow up pebble targeted his student’s imbalanced posture from the dodge, but Fenton managed to barely dodge that too while continuing his sprint.

[Teaching 78 → Teaching 79]

Orodan was sat at the center of the workshop, hammering out pieces of metal as fast as he could while his student sprinted laps around him. Whenever he was done a piece, he would swiftly throw it towards Fenton, and the boy’s goal was to enchant the flying piece mid-air before it reached his hand.

Not only did it train the boy’s ability to enchant swiftly under pressure, but it also kept up with his physical conditioning.

“Good, you’re learning. Recite to me a random enchanting theorem you learned today,” Orodan demanded.

“Sharp’s Theorem about two-dimensional enchanting states that the line between two-dimensional and three-dimensional enchanting isn’t as clear as one would think,” Fenton recited in a practiced manner, by now used to Orodan’s harsh demands during training. He also dodged two more pebbles in the meanwhile. “Nothing perfectly two-dimensional exists in our reality. Even the creation of the thinnest possible two-dimensional mana inscription is in fact… three-dimensional.”

Hmm, interesting. Then wasn’t two-dimensional enchanting really just a weird way of performing three-dimensional enchanting? Truly, Sharp’s Theorem questioned the very foundation of the Imperial-enchanting tradition on Alastaia.

While considering that tidbit, Orodan withdrew the next projectile from his dimensional ring. It certainly wasn’t an inanimate pebble.

The wriggling cockroach was chucked towards his target, and Fenton had barely a moment to gently catch it in the palm of his hand, spinning himself mid-step so that he could bring it to less of an abrupt stop.

“First time you didn’t let it splatter on your palm, not bad. Keep it up,” Orodan earnestly praised. “Stamina and strength are important, but so is fine control over your body. All else being equal, finesse will separate an average fighter from one who’s truly great.”

Not only had Orodan been throwing pebbles and freshly forged metal plates at Fenton, but he’d also been chucking bugs at the boy. The pebbles, Fenton was required to dodge. The metal plates he was required to enchant mid-flight before they even reached his hand. And the bugs he was expected to catch without killing them.

Not only was it training which pushed the boy’s physical conditioning, but it also improved hand-eye coordination. But, Fenton wasn’t the only one training. All around the workshop, engineers done with the day’s work were strewn about, pitifully grunting and struggling to stand. They’d tried following Fenton as he ran, yet that had been a hopeless endeavor for them. Instead, Orodan had them jogging laps at a comfortable pace until they’d finally stopped and been unable to continue.

The stronger the body, the better the mind. He’d put them through a very gentle training session too, nothing too strenuous or even halfway approaching their physical limits, but just enough to gain them a level or two in Physical Fitness. Too much and they’d refuse, too little and there would be no gains, but this much was fine for those who weren’t Fenton.

And as they trained, so did he.

Fenton grabbed a piece of ore off the shelf and hurled it at him. Orodan caught it and immediately lit his hands up with a Draconic Fireball, smelting the metal.

[Smelting 22 → Smelting 23]

[Draconic Fireball 74 → Draconic Fireball 75]

[Fire Magic Mastery 52 → Fire Magic Mastery 53]

Under rushed time constraints, the gains were excellent. As he trained Fenton, so too did the lad help Orodan train. The lap they’d set up had shelves filled with scrap metal in a perimeter around it, and at every interval the boy was to throw a chunk of ore at him and he needed to have it done and thrown back before Fenton got to the next shelf.

Needless to say, it was a serious struggle to meet the time demands. He’d trained Fenton well, and the lad could now run decently fast, giving Orodan seconds to get each piece done. Furthermore, the boy was quite invested in making Orodan slip up, the desire for some revenge after all he’d been put through at his hands. Hence, Fenton ran as fast as he could.

The student was determined to make the teacher lose, and the teacher in turn was determined to meet the stringent expectations. A mutually beneficial feedback loop of training and motivation.

Finally, ten minutes later, Fenton began to sag. And this was when a pebble caught him on the forehead, a grasshopper splattered across his cheek and a metal piece went sailing by his head.

“Good work. I expect you to hold out for two minutes longer tomorrow,” Orodan praised while setting his expectations. “Catch your breath and get some food. That goes for the rest of you too, the pot’s in the kitchen, go eat and recover your strength.”

The rest of the engineers left, leaving just Orodan and an exhausted Fenton.

“You know Mister Orodan… I used to hate this gruellin’ toil, I really did, and then some blue-blood tried bumping into me at the university today and they landed on their bum like a sack of ore,” Fenton said while slowly rising to his feet. “Whatever toil you’ve been puttin’ me through really helped. So I just wanted to say… thank you ser.”

“You’re the one doing the work, don’t thank me, you achieved this with your own honest labors,” Orodan said. “I will say I haven’t seen you try this hard in a while. Something on your mind?”

Fenton frowned.

“Bugger… am I that easy to read?

“With a sour look like that, you might as well be telling everyone who sees,” Orodan pointed out. “You can’t control what others do. Can you expect your mother to be okay with you marching into danger alongside me and then deny her the chance to pursue her own passions?”

“It’s not like that ser… for the longest time it was just her takin’ care of me. I wasn’t worth nothin’, incapable of helping. Just an extra mouth to feed for an already overworked woman without a husband,” Fenton recounted. “And then, it was my turn to take care of her. I’m not sayin’ I ever want to go back to those times Mister Orodan, but I could finally repay her for looking after me for so long. And now she wants to go toil away again? It doesn’t make a lick o’ sense to me!”

“You enjoy Enchanting, right Fenton?”

“I don’t mind it… why?”

“Then have you considered that your mother might be the same?” Orodan posed. “First thing I saw her doing when I met her was weaving a quilt, even in her bedridden state. Besides, you act as though she’s going to be a menial laborer at some predatory operation. The woman is an Elite-level weaver, do you really think she’ll have to stoop to doing work she doesn’t enjoy?”

“I… suppose I hadn’t considered that,” Fenton muttered. “But it still feels wrong! She should be livin’ the life o’ luxury and not have to worry about nothing at all.”

“You’re a good son. But from the little I knew of my own mother… I don’t think their worries ever stop, especially when their children are the targets Gods and the Eldritch,” Orodan said, recalling how Valburga had wanted to stand and fight alongside him against the imminent descent of the System and its Administrators. “Let the woman do what she wants. It might help take her mind off of what you’re up to.”

Fenton yet again frowned, but his face slowly eased as he seemed to understand Orodan’s line of reasoning.

“You’re a little wiser than Mister Talricto would have me believe ser,” Fenton remarked.

“Oh? Joining in on the trend of calling me stupid are you?” Orodan asked with a smile and the lad vehemently denied it with a head shake. “Well, some things are learned through time and experience, and I suppose I’ve experienced a lot of time.”

“Time which ends up with you dying and wakin’ up again in your world, doesn’t it?”

“Fenton… we’ve been over this…”

“No, we haven’t been! The way you talk about the mastermind behind the plague, you’ll die against it won’t you?”

“High likelihood of that, yes,” Orodan honestly admitted. “But as a warrior, that’s my choice to make. And I’m in a time loop, I’ll return.”

“But I’m bloody not! And I don’t want to see you die,” Fenton exclaimed. “I’m not goin’ to stand by while you face your death at the hands of some cosmic madman from the stars. And if that wretched thing wants to try… I’ll make it pay!”

Fenton stormed away, having let Orodan hear a piece of his mind.

“I would say that’s exceptionally adorable if not for the fact that he’s inviting a death wish upon himself. I can’t see him faring well against an Administrator.”

“Him? I don’t see myself faring well against the Prophet yet. One idiot following another into the jaws of guaranteed death…” Orodan remarked. “Must extreme talent always come accompanied by extreme recklessness? I can return from death, he cannot.”

“Ironic of you to say that, Orodan. But I suppose experiencing the consequences of your own bull-headed behavior enough times has finally made you self-aware of it.”

She wasn’t wrong. In many ways, Fenton was shockingly similar to him. Which was why Orodan didn’t want to see his student die. But mainly… he had grown fond of the lad.

If Fenton was that concerned about Orodan’s death… then he would just have to find some method of winning wouldn’t he?

Easier said than done.

From here he could hear the sounds of everyone eating in the kitchen. He’d made a nice meat platter of a number of monster corpses that were sitting in his dimensional ring. Of course, Orodan needed no food, and the previous conversation had only cemented in him the fact that he needed to get stronger.

To that end, he made for the foyer of the guild hall. Florence, sitting behind the front desk, waved.

“Bunch of paperwork came in for you sir, I’ve put it on your desk as you’ve requested,” she said, seeming almost nervous that he’d recant the order.

“Thank you, I’ll handle it,” Orodan said, heading behind the front desk and into the room that had been specially designed as his office.

Clyburn had an inkling of the type of training Orodan got up to. To that end, the bulk of the laborers’ work before Orodan’s arrival had been designing this room. Sturdy stone walls, warded and enchanted by Fenton to withstand the attacks of even a Transcendent and enhance privacy. Quite spacious too.

And at the far end was a large desk…

…behind which sat an imperious-looking spider with a top hat and monocle.

“You’ve allowed quite a lot of paperwork to pile up. Being derelict in your duties are you?”

“I was wondering when my favorite sparring partner would make another appearance,” Orodan remarked. “Stolen anything of note while I was gone?”

“Stolen? I merely put these items to better use,” Talricto said, sporting a fresh cane with a button at the top. “Behold, my new weapon.”

The dimensional spider pointed the cane at Orodan, squeezing the switch. And the bullet flew true…

…only to harmlessly bounce off Orodan’s forehead and fall into his outstretched hand.

“…it’s not even capable of killing an Apprentice. Is this some sort of cheap gimmick?” Orodan asked, flicking the used bullet back at Talricto, landing with a satisfying thwack right between the spider’s eyes. “Gotten rusty and begun relying on tools to bridge the gap have you?”

“You imbecile…! I’ll show you which side of the gap you’re on!”

Orodan had a happy smile on his face as he received Talricto’s attack. The dimensional boundary shuddered as flaying waves of dimensional force rushed for him. Yet Orodan kept calm and simply targeted the weakest point of the wave while puppeteering his body with dimensional power.

And with Talricto’s attack dealt with, it was now Orodan’s turn.

But instead of sending a puppeteered punch using his own body… why not try something different? After all, if the dimensional forces could be wrapped around his physical form, why couldn’t they be wrapped around a spell?

[Dimensionalism 83 → Dimensionalism 84]

[Fire Magic Mastery 53 → Fire Magic Mastery 54]

He began the task of manipulating the mana within him, not with Mana Manipulation, but with Dimensionalism. It was a seriously difficult task and he felt incredibly clumsy with it. Orodan outright refused to use Mana Manipulation, which made the process far harder. But it had its benefits.

And slowly, incredibly slowly… he began to puppeteer the mana within himself to form a Draconic Fireball.

It took an entire three seconds, throughout which Talricto looked on in interest and graciously allowed Orodan the opportunity. Until finally…

[Draconic Fireball 75 → Draconic Fireball 76]

[Fire Magic Mastery 54 → Fire Magic Mastery 55]

…a flickering Draconic Fireball was formed in his outstretched right hand.

It was an unstable spell, but the proof of concept remained. Even now, just maintaining it required his utmost focus as it was a delicate thing. It was akin to using one’s hand to control their leg into delivering a dexterous kick. A step beyond even that as Orodan refused to use the ability to manipulate mana and instead used raw Dimensionalism to puppeteer the mana pool within himself.

