Especially since nobody but Orodan had noticed the glance the High Inquisitor had given Fenton Penny as their carriage sped away.

Fenton though, looked to have questions aplenty.

“What was that? The man glowed like he was possessed!”

“Best not to ask too many questions about that sort of thing young master,” their carriage driver remarked. “Some odd business going on between the inquisition and those who receive unlawful Blessings. Although… can’t recall the last time I saw anyone who had one of those lawfully.”

Orodan had told Fenton in length of many of his adventures. The lad knew what an Avatar was, and looked to be holding his tongue while in earshot of the driver.

Soon enough, the winding streets and bustling roads of Storven led them to a rather opulent campus, a walled-off section of the city where ordinary foot traffic wasn’t allowed. Green front garden, soldiers guarding the front gate, it was all quite wealthy-looking. There were manors dotting the grounds too, alongside a central building which was quite decently-sized, akin to a castle.

“Right, we’ve arrived at last sirs, if you would exit the carriage,” the driver said while disembarking herself.

“Quite the expansive grounds,” Clyburn remarked while looking around. “Is this to be where we shall work? Which other Guilds are based out of here?”

“Er… none sir Clyburn. Just the Ironhaven Engineers’ Guild,” the woman said.

“That is… a bit much,” Clyburn muttered. “Well, I suppose my surprise is unwarranted. Of course the crown’s reward would be generous. It’s just a little rare for a property to remain entirely unused until our arrival, especially in the capital where land sells at a ridiculous premium.”

“The crown’s had this property reserved for a while now sir. I believe it was meant to be bestowed upon whoever won the competition,” the driver explained and handed Clyburn an enchanted pass. “Never used one of these things myself, but supposedly it controls entry to the grounds and can duplicate to let you give copies to trusted folk.”

Without needing to think about it, the chief engineer of the Guild made two copies and handed them to Orodan and Fenton.

“I could make a few modifications to this too…” Fenton muttered.

“I’m sure you’ll have the grounds turned inside out with wards and defenses before the day’s up young Fenton,” Clyburn said and then looked to the largest building on the grounds. “I know my guild members should have arrived ahead of us. Did they set up in there?”

“Aye sir, about two dozen of them. I’m told they have a number of the workshops and rooms prepared already. Plenty of crown laborers and builders in there too, finishing up the final bits of work,” the woman explained. “But the manors have been left mostly untouched. Admiral said you might want to decorate them yourselves.”

“Decorate? I wouldn’t mind havin’ me own wing for experiments,” Fenton said excitedly. “But er… miss, do you know if my mum’s here yet? I was told they’d be sendin’ her over as well?”

“I think a look at the balcony above will answer that question lad,” Orodan said, gesturing for Fenton to look behind him and up to see his mother waving at him from a distance.

Fenton’s expression lightened, and he immediately waved back with enthusiasm.

“Mister Orodan can I-”

“Go be with your mother. You hardly need to ask me for permission…” he replied and then looked to Clyburn. “To the guild hall?”

“To the guild hall indeed! Let us see how the relocation has been going,” Clyburn replied cheerily. “Meet us there whenever you’re ready young Fenton. The matter of your education yet awaits.”

“But ser… do I really have to?”

“Would you prefer I ask your mother what her opinion on the matter is?” Clyburn queried with a smile which had Fenton shivering.

“N-no! No! That won’t be necessary ser, I’ll be good!”

The lad skipped off to the manor he and his mother would be residing in, and the driver bade them farewell as Orodan and Clyburn walked towards the giant guild hall.

“Of course, the grounds has a residence for you too Mister Wainwright. I can see at least three unused manors and you’re more than welcome to have your pick of any,” Clyburn offered. “The crown has been generous given our accomplishments, and I’d feel bad if you didn’t have the chance to savor at least a bit of the wealthy life in Storven.”

“The offer is appreciated, but I shall have to decline. I need no food or sleep anyhow and there’s far too much to do for me to be lounging in a lavish manor,” Orodan replied. “Especially when our enemies may not be limited to just the Eldritch.”

“That incident upon our arrival? You mean to say they were making an attempt on us?” Clyburn asked, putting two and two together.

“Both times the Avatars looked towards Fenton,” Orodan revealed. “I also intervened without anyone’s knowledge and thwarted a Blessing about to be put upon him.”

Which meant that Orodan didn’t plan on letting Fenton get too far from him anytime soon. Dimensional Step and Teleportation were more than sufficient in allowing him to reach the lad quickly, but he’d be taking it a step further by remaining within a range where he could watch the boy with Vision of Purity.

Yes, he could simply fortify the lad against Blessings via his Celestial skill. But Orodan was truly hoping to avoid using that much as he could until he had his target in sight. He had been suspecting for a while now that Fenton had something special, and Orodan wasn’t sure if using Domain of Perfect Cleaning to fortify Fenton against any possible corruption would trigger some sort of detection.

Not to mention, if he gained another level in his Celestial skill, he’d be one more step closer to Embodiment and blow his cover with all the attention that would draw. There was no hiding it, the cosmos itself shook and many parties had become aware upon the last level gain Orodan had experienced in that skill. Even approaching Embodiment was like lighting a blazing beacon across System space.

“Concerning news… I take it you wish to keep the boy nearer to yourself? I can look into giving you an assistant professor or faculty member position at-”

“Going that far won’t be necessary. Long as he remains within a hundred miles I’m confident in being able to reach him instantly,” Orodan clarified. “After all, I’ll have my hands full working as your assistant Guild leader.”

“That you will. It’s also a position that will see you frequently visiting Acadia University where I plan on enrolling him,” Clyburn explained. “Come, let us head inside and speak as we do. I know you’ve spoken of facing Avatars before… but what could possess one to do such a thing?”

The duo neared the double doors of the guild hall.

“An Avatar isn’t exactly a creature of its own, it’s merely the consciousness of a God descending unto a Blessed host. The real question then, is why would a God attempt to reach Fenton?” Orodan rhetorically asked. “That, I cannot answer. I’m unaware of what relationship Lonvoron and the Blackworth Collective have with their Gods. I only know that never have I seen a God of your peoples.”

Neither the first time he’d been here, nor in any of his subsequent visits to Lonvoron had Orodan seen any Gods of the Blackworth Collective. He’d heard in the past that Gods were a severe vulnerability while fighting the Eldritch, especially because an infected God could in turn corrupt all of their followers and Blessed. The Collective’s attempts to monitor undocumented Blessings and divine activity made a great deal of sense with that in mind.

“It’s a… complicated matter. I’m no politician Mister Wainwright, I do my work and stick to my field of study. That being said… it was a topic of heated discussion when many of our Gods returned recently,” Clyburn replied.

“Recently? Would this happen to be just over three months ago?” Orodan asked.

“Why yes, around that time before your arrival,” Clyburn remarked and then quirked his eyebrow at him. “Do you know anything about that?”

He certainly did, considering it was Orodan who was responsible for it. His purging of all the Eldritch from the divine dimension had liberated every single corrupted God under the plague’s sway. Under such circumstances, of course many of these Gods would return to Lonvoron.

But the question then… was why did a God, entirely uncorrupted by the Eldritch decide to show an unfriendly interest in Fenton Penny?

“Never mind that… the answer would only give you a headache and bring further stress upon your shoulders,” Orodan waved off. He’d told Fenton about all he’d done, but he’d held off on the full extent of it with Clyburn. The double doors of the guild hall were pushed open. “Now let’s focus on bringing your guild up to speed shall we?”

The foyer of the guild hall was spacious, and laborers were going to and fro, hauling materials, trinkets and components between what Orodan presumed was the storerooms and workshops. Otherwise there was no fancy pomp or banner, not yet. Perhaps the engineers had wanted to leave such decor for Clyburn to decide upon. The front desk, which Orodan would have thought empty if not for Vision of Purity telling him that a diminutive girl sat behind it, was the only other thing at the entrance.

She was an anxious-looking girl, and Orodan was of the opinion that the lass needed to eat a bit more lest a stray gust of wind knock her over. As Clyburn and he approached, the sight of stacks upon stacks of paper could be seen; the reason for the girl’s stress and state of anxiety no doubt.

“Good evening,” Clyburn greeted. “Sir Clyburn Anderthorn, and you are?”

“S-sir Clyburn Anderthorn?! I mean- welcome to your guild hall sir! I’m Florence Avaliro, the receptionist and acting assistant, it’s an absolute honor to have you here… sir!”

“Mental taxation is good training, but it should also be balanced by a physical regimen of equal intensity to truly advance,” Orodan said. “When was the last time you ate anything? Can’t fuel your body off of paper… without any specific skills anyhow.”

“Do go easy on the young woman Mister Wainwright, she looks quite overworked,” Clyburn said with a chuckle. “What my friend means to say is that your work is appreciated but you should also look after yourself. Managing the relocation of most of our guild must have been strenuous, you have my thanks for your work. Quite nice of them to send a young Avaliro too.”

“We’re really not all that special sir…” the girl shyly muttered while looking downwards.

“Nonsense! Your Bloodline makes you invaluable for handling administrative matters, Logistics and paperwork are naught but a breeze when an Avaliro’s around,” Clyburn declared. “Why Truxbury’s a dear friend of mine. Is he still the director of admitting for Acadia?”

“Yes sir, he speaks of you at every family dinner. About your time together at university where-”

“Oh that rascal… spreading tales of what we got up to during our younger years, I’ll have to give him a call and let him have a piece of my mind,” Clyburn said, interrupting her. “Mister Wainwright, Florence here will be your point of contact for all administrative affairs. She’s more than capable of handling the day-to-day and even the entire job. In truth, you need not even care about the logistical side of things as long as she’s here.”

The poor girl had a strained smile on her face at the sound of this, but swallowed it.

“Well, I don’t plan on entirely throwing everything on her plate. Besides, I’ve been looking forward to manually training my Logistics skill,” Orodan assuaged, much to her relief.

“Ah, where are my manners. Florence, this is Orodan Wainwright. He’ll be our assistant Guild Master. Consider him the sole authority on all matters related to the guild when I’m not around,” Clyburn said and then added. “And even when I am around, if it comes to matters regarding the safety of the guild or an emergency situation, consider him the highest authority.”

Hopefully such a thing wouldn’t need to be used.

Florence looked at him inquisitively upon hearing that.

“You possess the Logistics skill ser?”

“Aye, picked it up working at a warehouse a while back. Good skill to have,” Orodan said. “While I won’t throw everything onto your shoulders, I might be away for long periods of time, so simply throw whatever you can onto a pile meant for me and I’ll handle it whenever I return.”

“Understood sir, I shall leave the paperwork on your desk. I’m here to assist as you need however,” Florence said.

“Very good, I’m sure you two shall be working together often in the coming days. Now let’s go see how my colleagues have settled in,” Clyburn said, moving towards the workshop with Orodan. They both passed the doorway and a massive workshop became visible. “Well I’ll be… there was certainly no expense spared here.”

A nearby engineer walking by spotted the two of them and approached.

“Sir Clyburn! Mister Wainwright! You’re finally here!” the woman exclaimed, causing many of the engineers’ heads to turn. “Hey! The heroes have returned! Give it up for Orodan Wainwright and Sir Clyburn Anderthorn!”

“Hold on a moment!” Clyburn interrupted. “I’d rather give applause for all of you! The pillars of purification were a group effort!”

The engineers of course weren’t having it and instead grabbed Clyburn by the coat and hoisted him into the air in a raucous manner while cheering. Truly… these introverted folk could be quite rowdy when excited.

