“Remember what I said when we first met?” Irogh spoke as though from a script he had memorized long ago, and made his own over the years, “I will assist you in planning your builds to the best of my ability, be you plotting the downfall of a nation, god, demon king, or dragon lord, or if you want to become the best darn farmer on Veird. I am here for you, and your needs.” He added, “I suppose, for you, I should also add ‘crown of heaven’ to the list, just to round it out.”

“… That’s why you’re not more popular around town.” Erick felt a chill, realizing that the orcol in front of him was truly dangerous, in his own way; in a way sanctioned by a neutral goddess. “You helped Bulgan. Did you help him become a Shade, too?”

Irogh said, “I cannot talk about the decisions of those who have walked through my office.”

Erick stilled. He said, “Okay.”

Irogh nodded softly. “This is why I avoided most of your party.”

Now that just pissed Erick off. Tension broke, as Erick said, “You avoided my party for…!” He frowned. He said, “I worked damn hard on all that food! You should have come anyway. It’s not your fault Bulgan chose to do what he— It’s not your fault, right?”

Irogh said, “I give guidance to all, but I do not make choices for anyone.”

“Do you wish people would do better with their choices? Do you wish people would murder as much as they do?”

Irogh smiled softly. “I do not wish for people to harm others, but I must remain neutral in all proceedings.”

“Then! Fuck. Come on by sometime for coffee or something. I almost always have some dessert laying around. I know you can’t share stories about people who’ve done wrong, but I know all about trying to help people who just can’t help but hurt themselves and others.”

Irogh said, “Maybe some other time.”

Erick looked at him for a moment, then said, “Okay.” He stood up. “Then I guess I better get working on these quests.”

Irogh nodded. “Do you require any guidance as to where to start?”

Erick glanced at the quests again. “Looks like I need to go to the Church and talk to some Relevant Entities to get Insight, and then pump out another 25,000 experience into Aurify. Figure out another large-sized Particle spell somewhere in there; I’ll stay away from the SLR stuff for a while. I think I’ll go talk to the Mage Trio regarding that. Then it’s time to research enchanting… I probably need to buy [Metalshape]…” Erick looked up [Metalshape]; it was just past [Stoneshape], at tier 2. “Then I need to buy some metal from somewhere… Am I forgetting anything?”

“Gems hold enhancement enchantments better than base metal, and if you stress the enchantment, it will break. Don’t wear the items until you’re ready to complete the quest.” Irogh said, “Or do, just to see how they work.”

Erick nodded, “Then I can create a particle spell to make as many diamonds as I need. They’re just carbon arranged in a crystalline structure, you know.”

Irogh winced.

“What?”

“Diamonds are okay for enchantments. They’re cheap enough, anyway. Perfectly round pearls are the best, though you’d likely have to go to Portal to find enough of a supply to make up for failed attempts.”

Erick smiled. The world seemed to be opening up for him.

He said, “Maybe I’ll do that, anyway, just to see some other part of Veird.” Erick nodded, saying, “Thank you, Irogh.”

Irogh flicked the air; the door to the room unlocked. He said, “May all the Relevant Entities of the Script watch over you, Erick Flatt.”

“And you as well!”

Erick walked out of Irogh’s office, rejoining Poi in the hallway. Irogh’s Script-blue door swung almost closed; remaining open a foot. Light spilled out into the already bright hallway.

“Where to next, sir?” Poi asked.

“First, I gotta do this.” Erick thumbed toward his back as he turned on his Handy Aura, but restricted it to between his shoulders, like tiny, tiny, handy wings. It was a major alteration to his aura so it cost more mana to maintain, but his regen could handle it; if he kept this up for the rest of the day, he could knock off his Sculpt Spell quest by tonight, and get Aurify 3. “Is this weird?”

Poi smirked. “You’re already plenty weird, sir; that will not stand out.”

Erick laughed, then said, “And now we go to Church.”

- - - -

The Interfaith Church was more like a cathedral than a ‘church’. It was as magnificent today as it was the first time Erick saw it; all white stone with flying buttresses with huge stained glass windows, surrounded by a green and purple vineyard twice as wide as the temple itself, which was already larger than all other nearby buildings. The sun streamed through the vineyard, to touch a scattering of people praying under the vines in their own, private ways. There were some larger trees here and there, with simple little stone shrines nestled next to them; the tree at their back almost growing completely around some of the more ancient-looking shrines. Wind blew through the city, rustling leaves in a peaceful way.

A redmetal wrought in the shape of a male dragonkin, with his metal flesh shaped like priest robes, stood at the entrance to the garden. The man noticed Erick’s approach and stepped up when Erick came closer. He looked slightly nervous; he stood a bit too straight, moved a bit too solidly.

“Greetings, Archmage Flatt. A few Relevant Entities have decided to grace us with their presence. If you would please follow me.”

“Okay?” Erick said, “Sure! Why not. Is Darenka okay?”

“Head Priest Darenka is busy with provincial matters. My name is Abraxis; it is a pleasure to meet you, Archmage.”

“Nice to meet you, Abraxis.”

“This way, please.”

The red wrought walked down the path through the vineyard to the Interfaith Church, through the wide open doors, into the central room. Pews lined the church, just like back on Earth, all of them pointed toward a blank wall and a blank podium all the way at the other side of the massive room; most of the ornamentation in this room was blank, in fact. That blank back wall and all the rest would be [Stoneshape]d into appropriate imagery depending on which god they were venerating on that day. Each Relevant Entity had their own days of the year they decided on as holy, while several of the major gods held particular days of the month. Today was no one’s day, though, so the Interfaith Church stood blank.

But it wasn’t plain, not by a long shot.

The high, cathedral ceiling and all the pillars and corners of the church were adorned with ornate, geometric stone, that left ample space for people to [Stoneshape] imagery into the large blank spots around the room. The pews were rich brown, heavily carved wood, that had supported hundreds of thousands of people. This place was holy in a very real way. The most beautiful parts of it had to be the multicolored stained glass windows, draping everything in rainbows; the windows were abstract, geometric designs, done in all colors, equally.

Erick smiled. He hadn’t been to Church for anything except business; he would have liked to explore it all sometime, but that just felt wrong, somehow. These weren’t his religions; he didn’t think he really had a religion, even back on Earth.

But maybe today he’d find, if not a religion, something to complement his own faith in what life should be. Abraxis walked down the central aisle, and Erick followed. Several people prayed silently around the room; not one of them within five meters of each other.

The main room of the Church was technically ‘blank’, but where Abraxis took Erick, was very much not blank at all. To the left and right of the stage and black backdrop, behind the preacher’s podium, were two archways that were connected by a winding hallway. Entering one archway would eventually spit you out on the other side, but all along that path, there were alcoves; some larger than others, some deep enough to hold a dozen people. All of them filled with stuff, and sculpture. Books, paintings, stone imagery, incense and offerings, little bits of gold or silver, gems, poetry, gilded things and plain rocks. Back on Earth, Erick would have thought of these almost-rooms as dioramas, displays, or exhibitions. But here, they were full of divinity, where Relevant Entities had invested themselves with minuscule fractions of their power, so that they might form a connection to those living on Veird.

With Meditation active, several of the alcoves blazed with a strange power that was like hearth fire in an ocean of ambient mana; all flickering and welcoming. Abraxis stood at the entrance to the hallway; he went no further, but he bade Erick to continue.

Poi stayed behind; he would not follow Erick down this path.

Erick turned away from Poi, and walked down the hallway.

- - - -

Erick sat down on a tree stump, beside a dark skinned woman, sitting on her own stump, in the only green space in the center of an endless field of golden wheat. There was no sun; there was no need. Everything was made of light.

Atunir spoke toward the wheat, “Keep making your new plants; I like them a lot.” She said, “I’ll help you [Grow] some good things, but I’m way too busy to grant you a Pledge of Insight. You’ve tossed down dozens of new vegetables and fruits and vines and trees for me to fit into the ecosystem. Everyone wants some or all of what you’ve created, and you’re not my Champion. My Champion might come your way, soon, though. That’s up to her. She’s dealing with this Daydropper mess. It’s going well, in case you were wondering.” She turned to Erick. “Tell me about chocolate.”

Erick smiled. Then he talked about chocolate, from seed, to tree, to beanpod, to fermentation then drying then roasting. Processing past that was a detailed affair, about sugar content and cocoa butter and grinding the beans very, very fine. All the way through all of that, Erick sprinkled in anecdotes about the taste and the variety, from cakes to drinks to bars to cooking, to tempering, to sculpting. It was a nice conversation. Atunir listened.

- - - -

Erick stood in the air, above a dark, storm tossed ocean, while hurricane winds blew sideways rain and flashes of lightning illuminated everything; but there was no noise. None of the rain struck Erick.

Sininindi said, “I probably had some reason for talking to you, but there’s a war in Nergal and you like lightning and storms. Not as much as me or any decent storm priest, but… Meh. I’m busy now. Go away.”

- - - -

Erick sat at the table beside his garden of successes.

Another Erick sat across the table; a game of half-played chess waited between them.

It was hard to tell which pieces were Erick’s and which were Phagar’s, because there were no black pieces, or white pieces; every single chess piece was a type of slime. The pawns were little sewer slimes, all wiggly and greenish yellow. The knights were furry slimes, that sniffed the air. Bishops were wispy, airy slimes, that were mostly tendrils. Rooks were stone slimes, dark grey, completely opaque. The king slimes were dark metal, and barely moving. The queens were brilliant crystal slimes that glittered in the sunlight.

Erick was not winning, but he wasn’t losing, either. He felt like there had been some close calls, but he had pulled away from defeat before, and Phagar didn’t have a clear path to victory, yet.

But the God of Death and Time would win, in the end; of that there was no doubt.

Phagar said, “I’ll help with this Pledge of Insight. If you wish to become my Champion, you could do that, too. I haven’t had one of those in a long time. I’ll help even if your ultimate goal is to 'defeat' me.” Phagar shrugged. “I don’t consider myself a poor sport by any stretch of the meaning, but everything dies, even if you do manage to reinvent immortality-in-a-spell; souls still flow, and someone has to keep this mess in order.”

“… Do you like slimes that much? I mean— To name me your Champion? To be okay with me poking around with immortality? To help me poke around with immortality?” Erick admitted, “I think the little slimes are cute, too. But about all the rest of this… I’d call you a liar in some sort of way, if you were a person, and not a god. Do gods lie?”

“We try not to. Lies ripple and break. Truths affirm and solidify.”

“Break what? Solidify what?”

“Everything.”

- - - -

Erick looked up, and saw a hazy planet, swirling with atmosphere and blue water and white clouds and green life.

Erick looked down, and all around him was a half-there reality; silver sands that supported figments of trees, shadows of houses that spilled out laughter and love into the air, a flying river with silver fish that glinted under the lights of four celestial bodies; Veird, the sun, pink Hell, and white Celes.

A loincloth wearing half-incani, half-human, with pale violet skin and tiny white horns, stood on the silver sand in front of Erick.

Koyabez said, “You managed to make some normal magic, and it almost cost you your life, but the spell you created has already saved thousands of lives. My head priests, all across Veird, are already holding peace talks between embattled peoples, in spaces where everyone knows there can be no hostile magic.” He pointed to Veird. The continent of Glaquin glowed all along the edges, then that light moved inside, like a flashlight concentrating to a point, down to the south east of the continent to become a bright spark upon the globe, on the southern coast of the Greensoil Republic. “The Halls of the Dead still plague the land with guerrilla warfare, but the Wasteland Kingdoms and the Greensoil Republic are debating all out war, instead of heading out to fight. This is only possible because of [Zone of Peace].”

Koyabez waved his hand, and Veird turned in the sky; several bright sparks appeared all across the surface.

Koyabez said, “There is hope for peace in many parts of the world, and there is more to come.”

Erick felt tears run down his face. He saw people around the world, helping each other, reaching out to their neighbors and lifting them up out of the dirt, or out of danger.

“I’m glad.” Erick looked back down to Koyabez, and the god looked sad. Erick had been about to ask for a Pledge of Insight, and his spell. But suddenly, that seemed impossible. “What’s wrong?”

Koyabez said, “I cannot give you the spell, and I cannot help you with a Pledge of Insight; not as you are right now.”

“Why?”

