“For a pig rider, you have some talent. I shall have to see about mounting your head on a wall somewhere. An honor, I assure you,” Levix said, reattaching his jaw that Fran had almost knocked loose.“I’ll mount my lance in your skull,” Fran replied coldly. Levix chuckled.“You’ll have to reach it first, you cocky goblin,” he fired back and they charged once more. But something was different. The longer the captain fought, the more that energy seemed to expand and climb.It was coming from the collapsed gate but Delta had no idea what was causing all this free energy to flow to Levix.The sealed door her monsters had gone through led to a giant kitchen and just as Delta guessed, another sealed door lead to beyond the gate as well. A few of the smarter creatures had tried to use the door to sneak past the destroyed gate.Like ants in a hive, they just never seemed to end!Rale, wielding two pots, crushed skulls left and right as Billy fired oil-covered arrows for Cois to ignite over the ooze puddles with floating bones in them.None of these things could be allowed to get past and help Levix! Jeb reached in and crunched another wallcrawler skeleton. The troll was doing great at catching the sneaky ones.Delta needed Levix down so she could start trapping the hell out of this place.She spun as Levix’s spear glowed even deeper inverted, his power growing at stupid rates that Delta wanted to call ‘hacks’ on. What the hell was going on?Levix raised his spear and two coronas of black light surged out, curving. It was broken in places and looked weird but Delta could see it was exactly the same as the symbol on his front.That weirdly curved two-pronged trident. His Mana or whatever that dark energy was, looked exactly like it.It was freaking Delta out, just looking at it.“Two did bend and flee but the strong remains upright! The Silence arrives not with a bang but with a point!” Levix’s glowing eyes seemed to gleam as Fran was pushed back further and further with each clash.“Fran!” Delta moved forward but his sharp gaze kept her still.“Trust… in me,” he panted. Bacon looked exhausted, one of his tusks had broken off in the fight.“I do, but I can’t lose you either,” she said, voice frail. Levix snorted.“Ladies first? I can accommodate that,” he almost seemed to purr. Delta glared hard him.“You’re a filthy cheater and I don’t know how or why… but you aren’t the only one who can cheat,” she warned. Levix didn’t seemed that scared of her words but the small break had given Fran time to catch his breath,“You won’t touch her while I live,” Fran and Bacon stood at the ready. Levix’s dark aura grew thicker.“Then I shall end this quickly… swine-rider,” Levix moved and he swung his large dark lance over and over. Fran’s flickering lance kept up for a few seconds but the growing gap in the power balance was quickly wearing Fran down.This wasn’t… this wasn’t fair!That was when the bravery of Sir Fran could no longer withstand the cruelty of power.Delta moved before she thought. Before she could logically think about what she was doing, Delta wrapped her arms around Fran, tears dropping as the dark lance raced towards them both.She felt Fran and Bacon’s warmth, their being, their souls…She felt them and wept for what was to come.Then she got pissed.---Sis watched with a frown as boss-module ‘F/B’ flickered then blinked out. The orb cracked a little as the boss creature met an end. Being outside the safe net of her power… Sis closed her eyes.“I’m sorry,” she whispered. She reached over to maybe preserve some memory or seal the forming hole to prevent corruption from seeping in from the Silence when all her screens went black.Sis had never experienced a shutdown before and just stared for a long moment.Then one by one, her screens turned back on. Her calm white and blue screens crackled with orange sparks and one screen merely just overloaded.“I think I might have to start isolating Delta from the overall matrix but… this is kind of fun,” Sis admitted.She looked below her… way below her where another small form was curled around a glowing orb similar to the one under her own chair.“Brother… you did pick an odd one this time,” she sighed. The boy grumbled, tossing as he slept. The full moon was soon, they could only talk when the eye of the left stared down and the eye of the right stared up.She laid back and watched as her Delta connected to both eyes and turned them orange.Physical shell in her brother. Soul in the Sister.Dungeons truly did have access to the most importants bits. Shame they never did anything with them until Delta.She just hoped no one freaked when the moon changed colour a brief moment.---Levix stared, he just… couldn’t understand.His lance looked sad as the energy had been cut in half. He stared… at the creature of equal height.The round pig, looking pitiful before, had now grown to a monstrous size with taut muscles and black eyes. The rider upon the back raised one hand and the wickedly barbed lance glowed with power.Then he raised the second lance and the air between the two tips crackled loudly.“What did that… bitch do?” Levix hissed. There was a thunderous roar and the entire right side of the hall was torn up and awash with orange energy. The silence that followed made Levix nervous… he felt… scared. No, that couldn’t be!The sleeping avatar of the core was resting with her arms around the knight’s body. The goblin looked more like some ogre than any pest of a goblin.“My Mother did what she does best. It’s a quirk I admire but wish to not inherit. It seems to be hazardous to logic and common rules,” the deep voice of a warrior said. He showed no reaction to having doubled in size and leaking far more power than he had any right to own.“But if you wish to know… I guess that I was given the most powerful tool available to a boss,” the goblin said and the boar inched forward with deep snorts of hot air.“What power can… could beat me?!” Levix sagged lower on his stead.The goblin grinned.“A second form.”There was an ear shrieking blast and Levix fell… fell… and there was only silence.If Delta was awake… she would have seen a simple box.

---
