I shook my head.

"Don't thank us yet."

Obolis's brow furrowed.

"We just need to pull him out of there and evaporate his physical form. He'll return unharmed."

I tapped my teeth together.

"Now, if there's one thing I've learned from fighting Elysium, they are always three steps ahead."

I dug several wires of Dimensional fabric through Helios.

"And I also know they use tricks to get what they want. Like-"

I split open one of Helios's shins, tearing his armor apart like a tin can. Obolis winced as I drained the blood over Helios's bones. The Emperor leaned back.

"Ugh, must you consume his corpse?"

I pointed at the shin.

"I'm not. I'm getting it out of the way."

Obolis inspected close, and horror spread over his face. I pursed my lips.

"See what I mean?"

Cipheric inscriptions laced the entire surface of Helios's bones. Obolis spread his hands.

"What is this?"

I sighed.

"It's a way of corrupting someone's physical form. I remember Yawm tried using it with insidious effects on his Followers. Elysium's taken up the mantle, and they're doing, er, something with it, I guess?"

Obolis leaned closer.

"This...An implanted restructuring enchantment?"

I shrugged.

"Honestly, I have no clue, but it's there."

Obolis turned a hand.

"We'll have it canceled before having him reset."

I dug through the corpse before I shook my head.

"This is what I mean by three steps ahead."

I cracked open the shin bone, and underneath the marrow and blood was another layer of dual-sided runes. I nodded.

"They thought they had us this time, but not on my watch."

After memorizing them, I smashed the cipheric inscriptions, blending Helios's bones to nothing. Somehow, this helped him. At the same time, I pulled out my grimoire and handed it to Obolis.

"Use this to make the counter enchantment. At the very least, we'll need any cipheric effects voided in this space."

Above us, several screams echoed out. I turned to Shalahora.

"What's happening?"

Shalahora raised a hand.

"The Hybrids are consolidating."

The cathedral's roof ruptured, and several albony royals approached us as Hybridized monstrosities. A freed Victoria glared at us with a wicked smile, and she swung a spear of light behind herself.

"It's time to make our mark."
