As another minute passed and Sylphie rose several kilometers higher, even some of the B-grades had to drop out. Sylphie was still leading the flock, but the stronger B-grades would clearly be able to overtake her if they so desired. However, they allowed her to keep leading as the tiny hawk simply refused to surrender.

Eventually, her body began to almost lose its form. Due to how intense the winds were, holding onto one’s physical form was extremely difficult, and if any of the spirits found themselves dispersed, they risked taking extreme damage from being caught up in the winds of the Vortex Pinnacle.

Yet Sylphie soldiered on until she reached a point where even Minaga began to feel a bit worried. Not enough to step in, as the Sylphs of the domain would do so if they deemed it necessary.

Pushing herself a little further, Sylphie struggled before she also found herself forced to give up and allowed the wind to blow her back down towards the ground. As she tumbled through the air, Sylphie gave out a triumphant screech, making it clear to all she had surpassed her prior record.

While tumbling, a blue spirit bird with four eyes and weird tentacle-like appendages sticking out here and there appeared beside her, also tumbling down.

“Hey Sylphie,” Minaga, in a hastily constructed bird transformation, spoke.

“Ree!” the hawk responded, for some reason not at all surprised at seeing the Unique Lifeform there.

“Yeah, I’m good, thanks,” Minaga responded, unbothered despite spinning roughly eighteen thousand degrees every second. “I’ve come to fetch you for a reunion party.”

“Ree?”

“Yeah, there should be snacks.”

“Ree, ree?”

“Oh... oh yeah, good call. We’ll fetch some of those on the way.”

“Ree.”

“Not gonna ask how you already know that, but sure, let’s head off right away.”

With those words – and a polite telepathic message to the Sylph god in charge of the domain – Minaga teleported the two of them away halfway tumbling down the tornado, able to take them all the way back with this clone as it had been his god one... only taking a slight detour on the way to pick up some very important party snacks.
