Chapter Forty-Five - Gear On“Deus Ex: And then they said that I couldn’t just talk the talk.”Hyper Cutie Zoom Ranger Sparkle Girl Bubble-chan: Makes sense, yeah.Deus Ex: They said I had to walk the talk too. How... how do you walk a talk? What’s that even mean?!Hyper Cutie Zoom Ranger Sparkle Girl Bubble-chan: ... Oh, Deus, sweetie, no.”-R/GapMoeSamukawaii, Top post of 2053***Myalis had landed me above the wreck of the building that toppled over. Which meant that I had appeared atop what was essentially a huge barrier blocking off an entire street. The horde couldn’t pass here, not unless they were willing to climb up the wreckage.I groped for a gun, then slid my arm into my thigh holster and pulled out my Claw. I took a calming breath, then carefully planted a round in the middle of the chest of a model five which was busy scrambling over the ruined building.The wave had likely split off to run around the wreckage, but I had been busy before redirecting them this way. Now there were a lot of the fuckers waiting below to attempt their own climb over the wreckage.I spun then started to climb up the wreckage as well.The aliens didn’t fail to notice me, of course. I was crawling right past a bunch of them and more had already made it to the other side and were resuming their charge towards New Montreal.I flicked up my back-mounted rails, but only one of them responded. It was enough for the moment, the railgun fired, poking a hole through the nearest model three.“Myalis, need to get out of here,” I said.We could replace the back section of your jetpack. You could fly out of danger.I glanced back down. The wave was shifting, more aliens heading my way as if they intended to gobble me up on the way over. “Sounds good,” I said.Something clunked on my back and the broken jetpack module fell. A box appeared on a flattish piece of concrete nearby and I tore it open while my railgun worked hard to keep the area around me clear.I slapped the jetpack on, then picked my Claw up again to fire a few rounds into the biggest aliens trying to catch up.The jets on my legs spurted, and the one on my back whined. “Ready?”Indeed. Where to?I glanced up. “Got to be a spot around here that’s safeish,” I said.Checking... some security systems are still online. Here.The jets fired, nearly silent, and I was flung up and into the air. From above I could see the rubble of the fallen building, and some wreckage from other buildings too. The shelling hadn’t been kind, and having one building ram into another created a huge fucking mess.The jets flew me sideways and then across the blockage created by the rubble.This location is somewhat safe for the moment. Firing your railgun.The gun over my shoulder swivelled around and fired three times in quick succession into the side of what looked like an office. A window burst apart at the impact, then I folded my legs up and ducked my head as Myalis tossed me through the hole that had left.I had to jog a bit to keep from falling over. A glance around revealed... a spa? Fancy place, lots of wooden panelling. Big windows overlooking the city and little semi-open rooms to the sides with massage tables.This is a luxury relaxation location for what seems to be a criminal syndicate. The location is currently abandoned.“Okay,” I said. I could deal with that weirdness later. “ETA for the next alien hungry for me?”I would estimate at least three hours. Likely more. The antithesis seem to be focused on reaching New Montreal first. They will push forwards before they start to scour the entire area for food and threats. Though the opening in the wall might let some flying models slip in.I nodded. “Turrets, please.”Myalis gladly complied, and I casually tossed a couple of turrets down facing the window.“Right, I need new armour, and an arm. Let’s buy everything then I’ll start changing, in case some fuckwit shells this place too.”The mortar companies have been warned not to hit the immediate location.“Fat load of good that did me last time,” I muttered. I looked around, then noticed a sign that read ‘sauna’ hanging from the ceiling. I followed that into a large room with a domed ceiling and a ring of wooden seats. There was a big fire pit in the centre, with jugs filled with water next to it that had ladles hanging from the side.Reading on this site? This novel is published elsewhere. Support the author by seeking out the original.Big fancy sauna. Perfect for what I needed.“Arm first,” I said.Certainly. Can you assist in removing the armour over your shoulder?The armour shifted, plates moving up and away, but some of them looked jammed in place. I shoved my hand under those and tugged. Something snapped, and the plates over my shoulder and back fell apart.That left my shoulder exposed. I still had a meat shoulder, but it was covered by the mechanism for my prosthetic. That hissed, and I felt something like... like someone licking my brain. Then the prosthetic just fell off.“Oh, hey,” I said. I wiggled my stump around. It was a bit pale, with some indentations where the prosthetic pushed into the skin. It actually felt good to free it, like taking off too-tight boots after a long day of walking. “Been a while since I’ve seen you.”What are you looking for in a new arm?I was going to be dismissive and brush the question off, just get something temporary. But I knew myself. My temporary was the next person’s permanent.“Uh... I want something with better tactile than my last one. Tougher would be nice. I didn’t use the internal rocket much either, so maybe we skip that this time.”We could get an arm with a built-in grenade launcher. Something that would let you place explosives exactly where you want them. Or an arm with an aiming assistance module.“No. I’m going to learn how to aim all on my own. I’m not useless. I’m figuring it out. My aim is improving.” I took a deep breath. “Can we do a grenade launcher that you can reload via teleportation?”That is easily done, yes.“Cool,” I said. “Also, I’ve been thinking about this for a while, in terms of arm upgrades.”Yes?“Can we have a vibrating function?” I asked.... Yes. I imagine this is for Lucy?“And for myself,” I added.Duly noted. What’s your budget here? That will help determine the quality of the arm. I don’t believe I can get anything that will fit all of your requirements for below one hundred and forty points.“Call it a thousand points? It’s going to be semi-permanent, I think. At least until the next time a building falls on me.”In that case... From your Sun Watcher Technologies tree, I’d suggest the Lynx Nine. It’s a modular design, which means it can come configured with the additions you want. A grenade launcher with an internal magazine, tactile receptors, and a vibration system with seventeen vibration modes. It’s significantly more durable than your previous arm, though it is a little heavier. No more so than your own flesh and blood limb.“Sounds perfect,” I said. I glanced out of the room as I heard a distant boom. More artillery? “We should speed this up.”New Purchase: Lynx Nine Modular ArmPoints Reduced to... 35,559A box appeared on one of the wooden benches next to me. I didn’t open it just yet. “Armour next?”Certainly. Did you like your previous suit?“Yeah, it was great, still kind of is,” I said. I tightened my fist, then let it open. “Something similar?A slightly upgraded model, perhaps? You won’t be doing as much stealth-based activities in this active warzone, I don’t believe. We can get you something a little heavier. More armour, with more hardpoints. Built-in jump jets and more power. Next time artillery strikes your position, you won’t notice it as much.I laughed. “Sounds good. I do like my stealth though.”We can switch out the servos for higher-end, quieter models, the boots can have silent-running treads, and the jump jets can be designed to be whisper-quiet. The armour panels can also have adaptive camouflage, though it won’t be as good as a suit entirely designed for stealth.“Get it,” I said. “Price isn’t much of an issue.New Purchase: The Tiger’s Mane, Mark XXIPoints Reduced to... 34,159The armour that appeared before me wasn’t too different to what I had on. It was bigger though, a least half a head taller than what I had on, and a lot bulkier.I also purchased some back-mounted guns, as you like them.“Nice,” I said.I pulled the release on my own armour and stepped out of it. It was time to gear up.Then, back to killing xenos.***
