“It’s only detectable in the negative from what I’ve been able to see. It either disrupts magic, pulls it in, weakens it, or… something. Healers are working on mitigating the issue and hopefully removing the things, but most—if not all—of our fighters on the plateau have at least one.” She gave a mirthless chuckle. “After all, one got into you, and part of your Reforging was directly related to toughness and defense. Your armor should have mitigated most of the chance of being so infected.”

Rane grunted. “That would explain what’s been going on…” He sighed. “Well… I’m glad that you noticed; that you caught it.”

Lea frowned for only an instant before her eyes widened in horror. “Otherwise, we’d be slowly getting weaker, healing slower, having more and more trouble with our magic, and we’d be hard pressed to even realize among all the chaos.”

Tala grimaced. “Indeed. Honestly, I only noticed due to a fluke. They overplayed their hand there.”

Rane arched an eyebrow, and Tala flushed, clearing her throat and glancing away. “I… I over-committed a bit to take out three commanders, permanently.”

Lea brightened. “That’s great, mom! Congratulations.”

Rane gave her a flat look. “Lea, sweet, your mother likely almost got herself killed.”

Lea scrunched her nose. “Yeah… well. She didn’t though, and it sounds like three commanders are gone?”

“That’s right.” Tala smiled slightly. “It also had the side benefit of revealing this issue.”

His eyebrow lifted again. “Let me guess. They pumped you so full of these slivers that the difference in your healing was unmistakable.”

Tala flushed deeper, clearing her throat. “Something like that.”

Rane’s eyes narrowed.

Alat took it upon herself to answer so that everyone could hear. “-Oh, they turned her to a slurry in her armor, and she was utterly unable to heal. If we hadn’t been so diligent about protecting our head—or if we hadn’t had the nice shell of armor—we’d absolutely be dead.-”

Rane blinked a few times before frowning. “Tala…”

Lea was less controlled. “Mom!”

Tala threw up her hands in a vain attempt at defending herself. “I got better!”
