“That one’s saved our lives a few times.” Nix smiled fondly. “With all the running and fighting and reshaping the battlefield he’s been doing, it’s no surprise my man’s the highest-leveled of us. Tell him what else you got.”

Tier 5

Higher Magical Crafts

Passive Talent

Many Crafters are able to imbue mana into their constructions. Not many are able to do it well. This talent improves your mana control, reducing mana usage in constructions and improving how much maximum mana can be imbued

5/5 points

Nix clapped her hands. “So vague a description. Yet, so damn useful. It’s the only reason that fortress of his was still standing when you came to save our asses yesterday. And that he was still standing for that matter. That reduced mana usage is no joke.” She wrapped both her arms around the sitting Haddock. “I still love that last one of yours the most. Tell ‘em, love.”

Tier 4

Combat Crafting

Passive Talent

Keeping your temper in battle in hard. Managing the same while crafting can be downright impossible. This talent temporarily improves any of your attributes used for crafting while mid-combat.

5/5 points

“Any of your attributes? What does that even mean?”

“Exactly what it says on the package.” She beamed. “Better eyesight for spotting the right placement. Improved Mental Power and Mental Control for any magical crafting. Improved Dexterity or Strength for anything that needs to be physically wrangled into place, or for evading monsters. My man’s a beast!”

Haddock grunted behind his beard, but clearly didn’t mind the words. “What I need now.” He rumbled. “Is staying power. You saw it yourself yesterday. I ran out of mana. My Mental Control is my main focus, and my Meditation skill is improving-”

“Wait. Meditation?”

A brief detour explained to me that, yes, there was such a thing as a Meditation skill, that helped you regain mana faster. Just like Self-Heal or Stamina Regeneration, but for mana. Only, you needed to focus on it, which was likely why I hadn’t earned it yet.

“Anyway, I need to be able to stay in the fight for longer. I’m at Level 17 and have two talent points available and two options. One’s this one:”

Tier 3

Temporary Storage

Passive Talent

A Crafter cannot always be expected to be in the right place for crafting. As many plans fall apart due to bad timing and planning as the crafting itself. This talent allows you to place a crafted creation within a temporary internal universe and extract it mentally later to be placed at your convenience.

One day’s maximum storage per item per point.

0/5 points

“Way I see it, it’ll let me prepare even better, if I know what I’m going into. Then, I’d be able to have a full two days of crafted walls, funnels and whatnot ready to place. Other one’s more familiar.”

Tier 2

Improved Arcane Control

Passive talent. Adds to the effectiveness of your Mental Control and talents which are calculated from your Mental Control. +10% per talent point.

0/5 points

“Wait.” I protested. “Ten percent? Ours is five!”

“I know. It’s disgusting, right?” Nix agreed. “But the difference here is that ours improves health for you and mana for me. His doesn’t do directly affect any stats. I’m guessing that’s why.”

“Okay, I guess that makes sense.” I nodded, considering the possibilities. “Okay. So, the options are straightforward. Either better prep or better over-all mana regeneration and control when crafting.”

Haddock grunted in agreement. “Storage is way better if we know what we’re in for. I can craft what we’ll need up front. Regen is better if we’re surprised.”

“Is it though?” I said.

Haddock raised an eyebrow.

“Just thinking out loud here. But… we agree that you gain experience when you construct stuff, right?”

“More in combat, but yeah.”

“Okay. Then… consider this. I’m thinking, from all your constructions, there’s bound to be a lot of items you use again and again. Like those lovely, tall walls we hid behind. What’s to stop you from continually crafting new stuff and just saving it? If you don’t use it, it’ll just fizzle into nothingness, but you still got experience from the construction itself. If you need it, you can pull two full days of premade stuff out of your dimensional pocket. That’s got to be beat improving your mana regeneration. Especially, when you consider that you can pull mana from mana coins.”

Haddock got a look as if I’d slapped him in the face. “You can?”

I nodded softly. “I learned it a few days ago. It takes some practice. But it works. I was flush out of coin yesterday, or we could have done it on the walls.”

He snorted and got the faraway look in his eyes of somebody messing with their system mechanics. “Temporary Storage is a lock. What about you, Liam?”

I rolled my shoulders, smirking. “I’m saving up my talent points. Need five points to get myself a taunt and ensure attackers focus on me, and not my soft, fleshy comrades.”

“As a representative of the soft, fleshy comrades, I approve. Time for our Canadian life-saver to make his picks, then.” Nix rubbed his hands and turned toward Steve.
