Del’s door looks so much more menacing right now. Pushing on it slowly, I hear pots being pushed around.

The room isn’t as dirty as when I first cleaned it. All the piles of ore’s and metal products are still neatly separated. That doesn’t mean there isn’t a mess. The floor is covered in dirty pots, and the fireplace has a pile of soot next to it. And…

Oh, Gods!

There’s a pile of bones in the corner!

Walking over to the pile, I can finally make out three farkas skulls. Is he keeping the bones for crafting or is this another sign of depression?

The hut stinks so bad it’s covering the stench of alcohol wafting up from the bundle atop the stone bed.

Checking the small keg, he keeps his drink in, it’s mostly empty.

I can’t wake him up with water, if I want to try to apologize.

I might as well clean as usual, everyone would be happier waking up to a cleaned room.

Sitting on the stone bench facing the house, I wait for the sleeping Stone Kin to rise. Even while I straightened out his house, he didn’t move a muscle.

Imagining all of the different ways this could have gone, I didn’t expect to be sitting here waiting for Master Del to wake up.

Now that I don’t have anything to do, I’ve started shaking again from the anticipation. This isn’t good, I need to be calm before I try talking to Del. If I’m anxious I won’t be able to calmly defend myself. If I act too weak, he’ll toss me away immediately, and if I rush my apology and come off rude, it could be worse.

I know what I have to do. Relaxing, I try to enter a meditative state.

This time I don’t close my eyes. I need to reach the next level in Meditation. I think I can pass the test if I can stay aware of my surroundings even while meditating. Next, I try to see the mana around me, not by closing my eyes and feeling it during Meditation. I think my eyes are the key to passing both of my tests together.

In, outIn, outIn, out

Regulating my breathing, relaxing, and focusing; all at the same time.

Time means nothing right now.

Slowly I start to see threads floating trough the air. Wisps of color, moving in and out of my vision. I want to look at each individually, but every time I start to focus, they fade away. I can’t move, it will break my meditation.

If I can keep this up…

Everything falls away as the door I’ve been staring at finally opens.

Standing in the doorway is Del. He looks horrible.

He still has no hair on his face or head; however, he looks tired. His face has the kind of tiredness that someone gets when they have nothing to look forward to.

As we make eye contact, a little life seeps back into his face.

Last time I was overcome by his presence, this time I won’t be scared away. Standing up from the bench, I walk in front of Master Del.

I decided earlier that I needed to show my remorse and sincerely as much as possible. I don’t know any of the customs of Stone Kin or even human etiquette for something like this.

Over the last seven months I tried to think of the best way I could express my emotions. Even my parents couldn’t think of anything off the top of their heads, so I used my previous life memories. There was a great way to apologize in Japanese culture, the dogeza.

With only two feet between us, I assume the dogeza position. I remember from my past life, this position represents acknowledging someone of higher status, or showing someone a deep apology, and even asking for a favor from the person. All three of these reasons are exactly what I’m looking for.

With my forehead on the cold ground, I give my apology.

“I am truly sorry for lying to you Master Del-Razen! You gave me your trust, when you told me your history. I dishonored you, my Master, by withholding such important information. If I can have one request, please continue to work with my father. My family was unaware of my talents. I only told them after you terminated my apprenticeship. I can only dream of your forgiveness. I promise never to lie to you again!”

…

…

“How long did you practice that speech?” Dang, and I just said I wouldn’t lie again.

“I’ve been practicing every night since our separation.”

“This type of apology may be favored amongst elves and other noble races, but you have to talk to a Stone Kin while looking them in the eye. Stand up!”

Climbing to my feet, I meet Del’s eyes. His face looks like it’s carved from stone, but I can see the anger bubbling underneath. Taking another breath to calm myself, I brace for any question he might ask.

“Who does your family serve!?”

What!?

“What are you talking about?” Crap, I dropped my calm face. How was I supposed to expect a question like that?

“Don’t play dumb with me! Your parents move here from nowhere, your father spends years befriending me, and their child is capable of stealing Stone Kin secrets! So, I’ll say it again. Who are you working for?!”

I can’t keep the shock from my face.

I can’t help but feel angry, right now. Is he trying to blame my parents or something?

“First, my parents moved here to escape my mother’s family, who were merchants by the way. Second, my dad is the nicest man ever, of course he wanted to befriend an angry Stone Kin on the outskirts of our village. And Last, I never asked you to teach me any secrets, magic or otherwise!”

“But what about all those questions in the cave? Asking more and more about magic?”

“I already told you, I …!” Stopping, I take another deep breath. I was really close to yelling; I know yelling never solves an argument. “I asked you those questions because you were the only one, I trusted. I kept all of my talent hidden from my family. They didn’t even know my level, but you did.”

“I’ve always kept my training secret, so I could only ask questions like that to someone I trusted.”

Del’s scowl finally slips. This is progress but I have to air my problems too, or I could never work under him again.

“I trusted you…and you hurt my father.”

He finally looks like he’s understanding me.

“You hurt my father, and you hurt me.”

“You scared my family, and you scared the whole village.”

“I came to apologize, and I hope I can work with you again, someday.”

“But, before that can happen, my family deserves an apology from you; especially my father, he always considered you a friend.”

I said my part, and Del looks like he is thinking things over.

“Good Day, Del-Razen.”

Turning away, I head for the village, feeling much better about myself. No matter what happens, my conscience feels a lot better.

Stopping right before the edge of the clearing, I turn around one last time. Del is watching we with thoughtful eyes.

“If you want to apologize, I suggest you do it in your real voice. Just a thought!”

With my last remark I disappear from Del’s sight.

Walking home, with the weight lifted off my shoulders, I wonder how mom will react when I come home. Maybe she’ll be so happy, that she won’t complain about me meditating again.

With my lighter heart, I know I can advance further.

There’s always something to improve on.
