It was late afternoon by the time David finished telling Niala his story. He had remained motionless afterwards for a while, and she had stayed glued to him, giving him as much time as he needed to steady his emotions.

Near dinner time, he stirred, squeezing her and pecking a kiss on her forehead, signalling he was ready to move again.

They untangled and had a sandwich for dinner, neither of them feeling particularly hungry. They bantered and made light conversation, enjoying each other's company.

With dinner done, however, Niala had something that she'd been putting off ever since David had returned.

“Ok. Potion time now. David, you got the flowers?” She asked.

He nodded and pulled out the three dozen cackling beauties from one of his cargo cloths.

Her eyebrows rose, and she did a little jump, wiggling at the sight. “That's so many! I can make so many potions with those!”

She snatched them out of David's hand and darted to her brewing room.

When he caught up to her, she had already begun sorting the flowers, inspecting each one in great detail, smelling them, even cutting tiny bits and tasting them. Most went to a central pile; a few were sorted to the left and right.

He kept silent, not a word to disturb the little catkin as she engrossed herself in the process. He was more than content simply observing her as she moved about with purpose and deliberate actions.

She stored most of the flowers in various sealed glass jars, kept a single one from the rightmost pile, the smallest one.

Niala then began retrieving the tools of her trade, setting up various beakers, dishes, cups, pipettes, and a mortar and pestle, bringing out one of her new high-grade burners.

She referred to her personal formula book, taking a few notes on a sheet of paper, before collecting a few ingredients from her supplies in a small silvered tray.

She ground up, cut, and chopped, using a water scale to measure precise quantities, lining up everything in order according to her notes.

Double-checking her notes against her formula book, she nodded and measured distilled water into a beaker, adding the first ingredient and setting it over the mana burner, tapping a few minutes into her bellglass and waiting.

She was like a busy bee, buzzing from one station to the next, fretting over every step of the formula with exacting minutia.

The more he had watched her perform alchemy, the more he realized how skilled and dedicated she was. Nothing was left to chance. She timed every single step to the second, every quantity to the most precise of measures.

She removed the beaker from the burner, let the potion within settle for exactly 25 seconds, stirred it one last time, and then deposited it in a basin of room-temperature water, quickly cooling the liquid.

Delicately, she poured the beaker's content into a decorated flask and corked it tightly with a tiny rubber mallet.

She held up the completed brew over a lamp. It was nearly clear, with the barest rose tint, and faint glimmering particles that scintillated when the light hit it just so.

David would have found it pretty, were he not transfixed by her glinting amethyst eyes.

She looked up from the potion, meeting his stare, and smiled, ears wiggling and tail swishing excitedly.

“It's done!”

“The panacea potion?”

“Yup! All done! And if I know my alchemy, and I know my alchemy, it's a royal grade potion!”

His eyebrows rose. Royal grade, one step above superior. Whatever the potion was, if it was Royal grade, its price started at a few princes.

For a Royal grade Panacea potion? His girlfriend had just brewed a dozen nobles' worth of liquid in a little less than a bell. More money than most people would earn over the span of five years.

She grinned, seeing the recognition on his face. “Aren't I the second best and greatest alchemist? You can tell me, you know!”

He walked up to her and petted the top of her head. “You're the greatest I know.”

She blushed and leaned into his hand before walking off and depositing the flask in a small wooden box stuffed with cotton cloths, sliding a lid into place.

She twirled around and smiled. “Now we can get rid of this stupid condition and finally open my shop! My shop! My shop!”

She singsonged, skipping over to him and jumping up at his neck, while he grabbed her by the waist and spun her around once.

“My shop!” She repeated, grinning, as he put her back on her feet.

“Your shop.” He agreed.

She blinked and then frowned.

“No. That's... if you want, it can be our shop. Niala's and David's shop.” She offered.

He shook his head. “Niala's shop, but our home.”

Her smile returned, and she jumped at his neck once more.

The next day, Niala, with David in tow, reported to the town hall that she had completed her assignment. She was told a messenger would inform her of the next appointment with the mayor, freeing up the rest of her day.

They made their way toward the glassmaker, planning to retrieve the greenhouse's parts, when they saw old Hodge walking around town, a dignified older lady by his side.

Sharing a look, they approached him.

“Mr. Hodge, good morning!” Niala waved at the old man, or rather, the old devil, walking up to him in the process.

He waved back, grinning.

“And, huh, hello miss...?” Niala asked, addressing the older woman.

She spoke with a heavy Tikitoan accent, her voice imperious and clipped. “Girl, I am Anaakendi, the first guardian. Do you not recognize me?”

David's muscles tensed up, taking a step forward, ahead of Niala, who took one step back, her eyes opening wide.

The woman sized David up and down, turning her nose up at him. “I would like to see you try, little boy.”

“Last time I did, it didn't go so well for you.” He growled back.

“Only because of this interloper's foul play!” She shot back, pointing a finger at Niala.

David took one step forward, stopped by Hodge, who interposed himself between both antagonists.

“No fighting around Hodge, young'uns.” He warned.

Anaakendi gave him a side-eye before huffing and crossing her arms. David backtracked, remaining alert, keeping his sight upon the incarnation in human form.

“Hum... is everything ok, Mr. Hodge?” Niala asked, in between glances at David and Anaakendi.

The old man smiled, “Oh oh, yes, of course! She's calmed down a fair bit, now she barely tries to escape when I'm not looking!” He leaned in and whispered, “I think she's starting to like me!” He turned back and addressed the old woman. “Ain't that right, Windy!?”

“My name is Anaakendi, old fool! And in no ages would I show affection to my jailer!” She huffed and turned her head.

Hodge shrugged. “She's just playing hard to get. What can old Hodge do for you, girl?”

“Oh, nothing, I just wanted to say hello and to meet your companion.” She fiddled with her fingers. “Is, huh, the thing...”

“The pup's fine, it's sleeping like a log within my pile. It's a very comfortable pile for demonic beasts, I'm told.”

Both David and Niala's eyes widened.

“Demon-!” She jerked back in surprise. “Demonic?! Did it come from the blood pits?”

“Where else would a demon come from? Of course it came from the bleedin' pits!”

“We need to banish it back!” She exclaimed.

He held his hands up. “Now now, I said it was fine, pup's asleep, and it'll remain asleep for a good long while. Don't tie your undies in a tangle, when the time comes, old Hodge'll find someone to take care of it. It's a Hodgepodge promise.”

He grinned, all seven of his teeth in full display.

“How often do you pull that one?” David asked while Niala tried to process everything.

“Ha-ha! That's why I like you, lad, asking the real questions!” He trundled over and leaned in, shielding his words with his hands. “As often as I can.”

He pulled back, looking rather pleased. “Right! Well, if you haven't business with old Hodge, my date and I have some shopping to do! Come now, Windy!” He beckoned Anaakendi over as he shuffled toward the market square.

“You old kleptomaniac goat, there is no shopping! Every day you bring me out to parade me around town, making sure all of these lambs see us together!” She complained.

“Shopping doesn't mean buying! It just means looking around with the intent to buy!”

“You have no intent to buy!” She accused.

“You don't know that, you're not in my head. I'm not in my head!”

Anaakendi snorted and turned her nose up, following Hodge with some reluctance.

David and Niala watched them leave before sharing a gaze.

He nodded, she nodded. They continued on their way without further words.

A town hall messenger reached them later that afternoon, while they were assembling the greenhouse.

Mayor Caleb would see them on the morrow, at eight bell.

Niala pumped an arm, happy she wouldn't have to wait longer, before turning and yelling at David to be careful with the pane of glass he was trying to bludgeon into place.

The next morning, David woke up with a scratchy throat and a slight cough. Concerned, Niala added a few immune-boosting herbs to his old woman, which seemed to resolve the issue, though she told him to make sure and let her know if he began to feel sick.

He assured her he would, telling her that he was looking forward to having a really cute nurse coddle him while he recuperated.

She turned a nice shade of pink.

They lazed the rest of the early morning until their appointment at the town hall.

Just as last time, Brenson was waiting when they arrived, giving them a critical eye, halfway between anger and derision.

It wasn't long before Carole, the bunnykin assistant, let them into the Mayor's office, taking her place in the corner as a minute taker once more.

“Mr. Brenson, Mr. David, Ms. Niala, welcome again.” Caleb greeted them before going through the motion of opening the meeting, with Carole taking notes once more.

“Now, I'm hoping this will be a quick resolution to the complaint. Ms. Niala, you reported you had completed your task.” The dogkin said, motioning for Niala to approach, as Brenson tensed up.

With a smug smirk deliberately aimed at Brenson, Niala nodded and approached, putting down the small wooden case upon Caleb's desk, and stepping back.

“There you go, Mr. Mayor, one freshly brewed panacea.” She crossed her arms, side-eyeing Brenson. “And probably the highest grade one you'll ever see.”

Brenson scoffed but remained silent.

Caleb quirked an eyebrow and delicately removed the lid, exposing the intricate flask within. Picking it up, he inspected its contents against the light and frowned, depositing it on his desk and turning his head to Brenson.

“I am no expert, but this does bear the marks of a Panacea. Mr. Brenson, mayhaps you wish to conduct your own inspection?”

Brenson scowled. “Indeed, I should, I wouldn't put it past this ruffian to provide you with a fake potion.” He shot at Niala, walking up.

David put a hand on Niala's shoulder just as she'd begun uncrossing her arms and opening her mouth to speak. He slowly shook his head when she looked back at him.

She grimaced, but held still, fuming in place.

Probably cataloguing which potion she could slip in his water supply. David mused.

Brenson spent far more time observing the potion, even uncorking it and dipping his finger, tasting it. As his investigation progressed, concern crossed his face, soon replaced with consternation.

“Well?” Caleb asked after ten minutes.

“It's, hum, what I mean is that... it appears to be that...” Brenson stammered.

“Just admit it already, you pig-viper! It's a panacea!” Niala could no longer hold it in.

Brenson twirled around, face turning red, teeth bared. “You insulting witch! I don't know which trick you used, but I'll find out, and then I'll expose you and drive you out of our town!” He vociferated, slamming the potion on Caleb's desk and storming off.

Niala attempted to take a step forward, but David's grip on her shoulder held her back, snapping her back to the present. She glanced back at him, angry, before closing her eyes and taking a deep breath.

Caleb waited for Brenson to leave.

“About what I expected.” He turned to Niala. “Well then, Ms. Niala. It seems like you have successfully proven your dedication to the town's well-being. Your operating permit will be approved by this afternoon.” He said, the corner of his mouth turning up.

Niala's frown turned upward, hands balling and shaking in front of her, ears wiggling, as she made a little squeal and jumped into David's arms.

“However,” Caleb spoke out. “If any further conflict erupts between you and Mr. Brenson, I would strongly encourage you not to take matters into your own hands. Report any misconduct to my assistant, and I shall look into it personally.”

He tilted his head. “We can't have our town's two alchemists at each other's throat, after all.”

“Yessir!” Niala dismissed Caleb's warning, busy as she was skip-dancing in front of David, who held his arms limp for Niala to swing them side to side.

The courier ignored his girlfriend's antics, turning his head towards the Mayor.

“I do have something to report.” He said, glancing at the door that Brenson had left open on his departure.

Caleb quirked an eyebrow and motioned for Carole to close the door.

In privacy once more, David took back control of his arms and pressed his hands on the wiggling catkin, calming her down as she noticed his serious look.

“Do you know what a Fel is, Mayor?” He asked.

“A... Fel?” Caleb rubbed his chin. “It somewhat rings a bell, but I cannot recall from where.”

“Then, do you know how the Wardenfel family got its name?”

After a second, recognition passed in Caleb's eyes. “Ah, I believe I remember now. They are some kind of beast, akin to demons, are they not? Are they not a legend?”

David shook his head. “It's true nobody has seen one, or at least reported seeing one, since before the Amberfall dynasty rose to power over 700 years ago.”

His stare hardened. “Or I should say, had seen one since then.”

Caleb blinked, eyes narrowing. “Do you mean to say...”

David nodded. “To the north-east, there is a region of the forest that is dotted with tall stone towers topped with crystals that pulse under the sun.”

“The star trees,” Caleb said.

“Right. There are underground passages there, underneath, where I found the missing ingredient for Niala's brewing. Inside, we met at least one Fel, barely managing to escape.”

Caleb's brow creased, hand on his chin, as he paced behind his desk. He spoke as he walked. “Disconcerting. I barely remember what a Fel is, but from your tone, I must assume it is quite dangerous.” He glanced at David, who nodded.

“Very well.” He stopped and looked at his assistant in the corner. “Ms. Carole, please bar this information from the meeting's records, and open a private investigation on the matter. Make sure Ma-Ke-Lo is informed.”

He turned to David.

“If said creature were to attack the town, given what you have seen of our guard forces, what kind of result would you expect?”

David's eyes hardened. “A massacre.”

Caleb's control slipped, shock flashing over his features for an instant. “I... see. Do you have any recommendations?”

David looked at Niala, who stared back, before bringing his gaze up at Caleb.

“As much as I hate saying this, the Wardenfels are the supposed experts on the matter. You should be asking them and their retainers, maybe petition to have a few Azure guards stationed in town, or to mount an extermination.”

Caleb hummed, sight unfocused, before looking back up at the couple.

“Thank you for bringing this to my attention. I will keep you apprised if I must involve the Wardenfels further. You may go.”

The couple nodded and walked out of the Mayor's office, closing the door behind them.

David coughed once. Niala looked up at him, concern on her face, bringing a hand to feel his forehead.

He smiled and shook his head, taking her hand, kissing it.

Stopping by the print house to order another run of advertisements and another stack of flyers for Niala's new grand opening, they went back home and spent the rest of the day assembling the greenhouse, finishing near sundown. The setting sun painted the glass panes a warm orange.

She stood, leaning back onto David, a smile on her face, her hands over his arms looped around her waist, as they surveyed the newest addition to their home.

Built by their hands.

Together.