“Ah yes, I’ve seen the woman before. Didn’t she escort Rain into Nan Ping? An influential woman then, and powerful enough to escape my detection. Good, good.” Finally noticing the gargantuan Society Adherent stepping on stage with a massive maul, Nian Zu chuckled and shook his head. “Sang Hyoon is in for a rude awakening. Look at him swagger like a man half his age, as boorish in age as he was in youth. Worry not, this match will be without suspense.”

Easy for him to say, as he had no vested interest in keeping Gerel whole, but Yuzhen loved his mind almost as much as she loved his body, and even a glancing blow from the weighty weapon could render him into a drooling mess. “I am Sang Hyoon,” the hulking adherent declared, raising his maul overhead in a single hand. “Father of Sang Ryong and First Elder of the Seven Star Sect. Brigadier of the Heaven and Earth Battalion, and Peak Expert of fifty-seven years. Does this humble one qualify to challenge the illustrious guard captain?”

The last was said with a sneer and elicited a few laughs from the crowd, but Gerel’s reply put them in stitches. “No, but I’m feeling generous. Fifty moves.”

Forcing out a harsh laugh, Sang Hyoon smacked his chest and asked, “You think you can defeat me in fifty moves?”

“No.” Shaking his head, Gerel spoke in deliberate monotone, which made his remark all the more cutting. “I’m gifting you with fifty moves, because I can defeat you in one.”

Silence fell over the central square aside from the barely perceptible sound of Sang Hyoon’s teeth gnashing together in frustration. Then, the audience burst into excited discussion over Gerel’s bold claim while Yuzhen closed her eyes and took another deep breath. It wasn’t enough to defeat a decorated Peak Expert thirty years his senior, no, Gerel had to humiliate him too.

Mother in Heaven, why was she so aroused?

Fuming at the insult, Sang Hyoon took his stance while Gerel did the same, and then the battle began. Letting loose with a bellowing cry, the First Elder hefted his hammer high and brought it crashing down onto the stage. Gripping her armrests to keep from leaning forward, Yuzhen willed her heart to slow down before she grew lightheaded from shock, because Gerel’s feet were still planted in place and yet to move a single step. Glaive resting on Sang Hyoon’s shoulder after Deflecting the attack aside, her betrothed smirked at having proven his claim and retracted his weapon. “My mistake. Saw the opportunity and instinct took over. I’ll give you an extra ten moves as recompense.”

Red-faced and veins throbbing, Sang Hyoon almost looked shamed enough to leave the stage, but instead he roared incoherently and brought his weapon to bear. Lashing out with a combination of Swipes the Rushes and Traverse the Mountain, he charged forward with a powerful swing which cut through the air with a howl. Forced to retreat, Gerel skipped back a single step, then another to avoid the next attack, but on the third, he reversed his momentum and slid forward underneath his opponent’s swift and intense attacks, his feet flat on the stone stage yet gliding across as if it were ice instead. Though not as graceful as other warriors like Han BoHai or even Vichear, Sang Hyoon was light on his feet and quick to react, but no matter how he twisted or turned, Gerel stuck close to his back without giving him a chance to come face to face. Laughing at the comical display, the crowd’s reaction brought Sang Hyoon to the height of fury as he used the haft of his weapon like a spear and thrust blindly behind him. Lancing directly towards his opponent’s chest, the accuracy of his blind strike was a testament to the First Elder’s consummate skills, and it forced Gerel to parry and side-step only to be met with Hyoon’s meaty backhanded punch.

A gasp slipped out as she watched the blow connect, but her man did not disappoint. Turning with the impact, he emerged unscathed without so much as a bruise before returning to his deadly dance, stepping, sliding, and leaping about the stage with a hunter’s grace. Aside from their first exchange, Gerel never met Sang Hyoon head on, dodging first and parrying only when forced to. Ten moves, then twenty, then thirty were quickly used up, but the First Elder had yet to land more than a glancing blow, all of which did no damage as they were unable to break through Gerel’s Domain. Though lacking a Domain of her own, Yuzhen knew enough to understand the basics. While it didn’t offer invulnerability to attacks, a Domain’s defensive properties were nothing to sneeze at, for most Martial Warriors would have to go to great lengths to even scratch the armour on a Peak Expert. Her former guard captain, a silvered grandfather who served her old man well, had implied it wasn’t a physical barrier which guarded the Martial Warrior, but wouldn’t go into more detail because she “wasn’t ready”.

The last thirty moves went by quickly, and when Gerel finally struck again, his glaive flashed faster than the eye could follow and severed Sang Hyoon’s hands off at the wrist. Sweeping the appendages up with the flat of his blade, Gerel flung them out over the crowd and buildings to sail off into the distance, and Yuzhen almost choked trying to restrain her laughter. “Best run lest a stray dog find them first,” Gerel said, ignoring his defeated opponent’s murderous glare. “Is this the best the Society has to offer?”

This time, Yuzhen recognized the warrior who stepped out, an Arhat from the Baiji Sect named Teng Hong Chuan. Though considered superior to his deceased cousin Major General Teng Wei Sheng, Gerel gave the Arhat a handicap of thirty moves and the man was smart enough to merely accept it without bluster. Her betrothed had already proven himself a worthy opponent and there was nothing to be gained from grandstanding, so both Peak Experts let their weapons do the talking. Fast as Sang Hyoon was powerful, Hong Chuan lived up to his moniker, ‘Vast Fist’, by unleashing a dizzying array of kicks and punches which seemed to disappear before Yuzhen’s eyes, but Gerel had no trouble warding them off while both men zipped back and forth across the stage. A symphony of metal sounded as gauntlet met glaive, but since she could barely track their movements, she focused on committing the battle to memory for future study.

Impressive as this duel already was, she also needed to account for what she couldn’t see. Not just their speedy movements, but all the tricks and tools available to a Domain-capable Expert were largely invisible to the naked eye. Waves of Reverberations trailing after his attacks, pockets of Lightening or Reversed Lightening to throw off his opponent, and shards of Honed Chi protruding from one’s weapons, these were but a few of the Peak skills Hong Chuan could be using, but if so, Yuzhen saw no sign of them or any other skills she knew of. This didn’t mean they weren’t being used, but rather that Gerel was dealing with them so easily that they might as well not matter. What’s more, she saw no sign of Domain Deflection from her betrothed, and though a few hits landed, he merely twisted aside or moved with the attack to minimize the impact, all without slowing his footwork a single beat.

When they first met, Yuzhen had thought them both somewhat equal in skill, but in less than three years, Gerel had left her far behind on the Martial Path.

Pride and delight overwhelmed her as Gerel defeated Hong Chuan without dismembering him, offering respect where respect was given. The courtesy won him praise and applause from the crowd, which he accepted gracefully with a Martial salute. “Enough games,” he said, once the bustle died down. “Situ Rang Min, have you the courage to face me, or will you continue to hide behind your allies?”

Half-giddy and half-terrified, Yuzhen felt like an eternity passed between each heartbeat before Rang Min finally answered. “Insolent whelp,” he uttered, cold and without passion from his hidden vantage point, like a lord addressing his subjects. “Who are you to meddle in the affairs of your betters? A mere rankless soldier is enough to deal with you. Kuang Biao, teach this savage a lesson he won’t soon forget.”

Cloud-stepping over the audience, the soldier’s graceful entrance was a cut above Gerel’s, but in all fairness, this ‘Hurricane’ wasn’t laden with heavy armour and a massive glaive. Wearing a wrinkled brown robe and carrying only his naked sword, Kuang Biao hardly lived up to his name, a young, slender, man with long, unkempt hair which looked like it might have recently been braided. Standing at full attention, he towered above his opponent even while offering a Martial salute, and Gerel responded in kind. “This one is Kuang Biao, thirty-seven years of age. By Great One’s order, this one shall defeat you.”

The audience burst into chatter about the soldier’s young age, then again when Gerel put aside his glaive in favour of his longsword, and a third time as he took up his stance without offering Kuang Biao a handicap. By now, any fool could see Gerel felt threatened by his unassuming opponent, and everyone settled in for an exciting match, but the two combatants did not oblige. Standing a mere five meters apart, they were close enough to strike, yet neither one moved a muscle as they held their swords in identical stances, both hands on the hilt and tip pointed at their opponent.

Long minutes passed without movement and in the deafening silence, all Yuzhen could hear was the beating of her racing heart. Then, without warning, both men moved, but only to change their stances, with Gerel moving his sword to one hand and holding it over head for a chop, while Kuang Biao cocked his arm and brought his sword back for a thrust. Over the next ten minutes, they changed their stances thrice more, but still they merely stood and stared while an invisible battle took place between them, one of Aura, Domain, and positioning, and Yuzhen could only sit and wait.

It was over in the blink of an eye, their movements so quick she only saw the outcome. His left hand severed at the wrist, Kuang Biao’s right hand held his sword with the point stuck in Gerel’s gut, whose hands were whole and unharmed, but empty as his weapon slid across the stone stage. A clear win for the self-proclaimed rankless soldier, but Kuang Biao was not yet done as he withdrew his sword and raised it high for another blow.

“Hear me. Receive Imperial Consort’s token.”

Though not bolstered by Chi, Rain’s voice carried easily over the shocked, silent crowd, and a blur of motion shot out from the top floor of the tea-house. Catching the projectile easily with his one remaining hand, Kuang Biao barely looked at the token before falling to his knees and lowering his head, leaving his sword unsheathed but pointed away from Yuzhen’s beloved betrothed. “This one awaits your command, Imperial Consort.”

Resisting the urge to lean over the railing and gawk like a child, she made a personal vow to learn to Scry as soon as possible, even if she had to beat the method out of her idiotic husband. “Why mar such a stunning exhibition with death?” Rain asked, his voice light and amused, and Yuzhen imagined his gaunt, sickly frame standing on the balcony above for all to see, perhaps supported by his wives or family. “Stay your hand.”

“By your will, Imperial Consort.”

“Kuang Biao, is it? An impressive display for one so young, I am awed by your attainments upon the Martial Path.”

“This one is unworthy, but thanks Imperial Consort.”

“More than worthy.” Yuzhen could hear the smile on his lips, for he spoke in that same, knowing tone he usually reserved for humbly bragging about his accomplishments or the newest trick his pets had learned. “But I must confess, I am rather confused, and I hope brother Biao could clear things up.”

“This one will endeavour to answer whatever questions Imperial Consort has.”

“How did an Imperial Royal Guardian end up working under Situ Rang Min?” With a condescending tone, he added, “Your boots. Lion-hide and Imperial marked. Standard issue for Royal Guardians. Who commanded you to come up on stage?”

Damn it, Yuzhen should have seen it too, but she’d been too distracted by her concern for Gerel. Now that Kuang Biao was kneeling, it was easy to see his boots were those of an Imperial Royal Guardian, though it still begged the question of how Rain noticed such a minor detail. Perhaps someone else noticed and Rain was merely the mouthpiece, but it mattered not, for the scheme had been uncovered and the Situ Clan exposed as a mere cat's-paw for an Imperial Scion, one at odds with the still beloved young Hero, Falling Rain.

“Hmph.” Displeased at being publicly called out and by name no less, Rang Min asked, “Is there a rule against Royal Guardians competing in a friendly spar?”

Instead of answering the question, Rain asked with a slow, deliberate tone, “And who are you, to meddle in the affairs of your betters?” Muffled laughter was heard from the audience as Rain threw Rang Min’s words back at him, mirth which quickly died down as they remembered who they were laughing at. Though crippled, Rain was still an Imperial Consort, and with his token received, this made his conversation an Imperial affair, so Rang Min had truly erred in speaking, but that didn’t mean he would look the other way while his lessers mocked and derided him. Long seconds passed in utter silence until Rain finally spoke again. “Still not apologizing? No matter. I am a magnanimous man, and for the sake of my friend Zian, I’ll overlook your insolence this once.”

