Today was full of surprises, and Yuzhen loathed surprises.

Traditionally, the second day of the new year was reserved for visiting close friends and compatriots, so she’d been quite flattered when Baatar personally delivered a handwritten invitation to Zheng Luo’s performance. Considering their difference in status, most would see it as the Northern Marshal gracing a promising Major General’s event with her attendance, but in her eyes, she was finally being accepted by her beloved’s fellow people. The Bekhai were an independent bunch who rarely mingled with ‘outsiders’ unless necessary, and even her upcoming nuptials weren’t enough to establish herself as one of their own, so imagine her surprise when she arrived and found she wasn’t the only outsider to have been invited. Nian Zu, Han BoHai, Man Giao, and the married Exarches Bralton and Erien, none of them were tied to the Bekhai by more than friendship, yet they too had been invited alongside a plethora of acquaintances and associates who could barely be counted on to remain neutral in event of a political conflict, much less lend aid to Baatar or his kin.

So why did they also count as close friends and compatriots? Yuzhen would soon marry into their stupid, insular tribe, but she had yet to even be invited to a casual meal, much less anything more intimate...

Her disappointment aside, she was relieved to see the brusque half-wolf making an effort to connect with possible political allies, but there was still plenty of room for improvement. All of the Major General’s colleagues, some of the most powerful and influential people in the North and Central, had been hosted on the fourth floor alongside Yuzhen, while Baatar’s family and the reclusive elites were on the fifth and highest floor above them. While not an intentional slight, someone ignorant of Bekhai ways would see it as a snub, but the reclusive mountain dwellers cherished family above all else and community coming in as a close second. Though most would have no choice but to swallow the perceived insult, Yuzhen did what she could to soothe bruised egos and hurt feelings by quietly suggesting these arrangements were to keep the Major General’s talented but troublesome son, with his ailing physical condition and all too many pets, out of the public eye.

Ah Falling Rain, truly a name for the history books. Most of the Empire lamented the loss of such a promising young Warrior, but Yuzhen saw things differently. The Mother always left a path to salvation, and Rain had many other talents to choose from. Considering his imaginative and revolutionary thought process as well as the talents demonstrated by his Imperial Consort, Yuzhen had offered him a high position in her administration whenever he felt ready to put his financial talents to good use, but the poor child seemed all too happy to spend his days idling about while frittering away a vast fortune. Whether it was buying Spiritual Plants, funding Runic research, or simply giving his coin away, she feared even Consort Luo’s business acumen could not keep up with Rain’s profligate spending habits, though having seen the girl’s most recent marketing proposal promising an alternative laxative to mandrel stalk, it seemed Zheng Luo was doing better than most would in her shoes.

Add in her phenomenal musical talents and she was a true treasure of a woman, one Rain and the Bekhai were lucky to have.

Bringing her mind back to the present, Yuzhen quashed the urge to scream in frustration and slowly put her tea cup down so as not to give away her trembling hands. Though she’d known this year would be a tumultuous one for her office and allies, she thought she’d have more than a single day’s respite before having to deal with any political disasters, but it seemed like neither time nor the Bekhai were willing to wait. The thirty-sixth year of His Imperial Majesty’s reign marked a momentous occasion for the North and the Society in particular, because Nian Zu, the black sheep of the Situ Clan and antagonist to so many of the Society’s ambitions, had turned a hundred years old. A small stone which created countless ripples in the surface of Northern politics, for the balance of power swung heavily in favour of the Society now that the aged Colonel could no longer keep them in check. The Hero of the Wall once dominated his peers in the twenty-five to ninety-nine year old age group, but now that he was a centenarian, participation in a trial by combat meant he would have to face the likes of ancient, powerful half-beasts and monstrous half-step Divinities. Judging by the injuries he’d taken some fifteen months ago at the hands of a mere three Demons and a host of Wraiths, the famed hero’s abilities were no match for the hidden behemoths of the Society, which meant his once-domineering influence had faded away with the changing of the year.

And now, it appeared the Bekhai meant to fill the void left in Nian Zu’s wake. That’s what all this pomp and pageantry was about, using Zheng Luo’s concert to draw in a crowd before parading a remarkably long line of young talents to exhibit their skills for all to see. Though Rain was now crippled, Sumila’s tyrannical talents would ensure Bekhai supremacy in the under twenty-five category for the next five years, and her shapely bared legs in that scandalous red dress would have the Empire talking for more, but the Bekhai didn’t stop there. Alsantset, Charok, Vichear, and Dagen were warriors she knew of, but there were at least a dozen new names she marked to watch out for in the future, not to mention the surprising progress made by the members of Rain’s retinue. Most notable were the five new Domain-capable Experts, two half-beasts in their prime and three humans under thirty, two of whom were Oath-bound young Experts, which meant the Bekhai had already revealed enough talent to shake the Empire to its core.

Though they had yet to show a Warrior capable of matching Nian Zu, by trotting out so many remarkable Martial Warriors from the younger generation, the Bekhai insinuated that just as a sparrow can not beget a hawk, a tiger son could only have a tiger father. A bold, brazen warning to their political opponents, but one which struck fear into the hearts of many, for who knew how many Peak Experts were hidden in the shadows or what their ages might be. If the Society were united in this feud, then perhaps they too could match this demonstration of younger talents, but considering both Han BoDing and Jin ZhiYa were also Bekhai guests in the tea-house alongside Yuzhen, only the Situ Clan and its allies were opposed to an alliance with the Bekhai, a stance which could very well change today.

That is, unless someone was stupid enough to spit on the Situ Clan’s honour and offer a not-so-subtle challenge to Patriarch Situ Rang Min, like Yuzhen’s idiot betrothed just did.

Heart pounding and mouth dry, she dared not take another sip for fear of dropping her cup. Though she knew Gerel was vain and prideful, she never thought her handsome, passionate beloved would be so arrogant as to declare himself a Peak Expert at thirty-three years old, not to mention challenge a man rumoured to be the Society’s answer to Nian Zu. In truth, knowing how heated tensions between the Situ Clan and Bekhai were, she half-expected something like this to happen, but it should have been the Bloody-Fanged Wolf Baatar to offer challenge instead of Gerel. Did he intend to make her a widow before even going through their marriage ceremony? They were scheduled to be wed at the end of the new year festivities, but she refused to become the bride of a corpse, nor would she be like one of those idiot doe-eyed maidens from the dramas who threw themselves atop their beloved’s funeral pyre or some other such nonsense. All the same, she loved him so much it hurt, so why would he risk this? He wouldn’t be the first Warrior to die in a ‘friendly’ spar nor would he be the last, and were she not concerned about affecting his confidence and certain her efforts would bear no fruit, she would have rushed onto stage and dragged him off to be beaten and scolded.

This fool of a man had no right to look so damned handsome while causing her so much distress...

“Ease your worries, child.” The Sending startled Yuzhen so much she almost jumped out of her chair, but a calm, reassuring hand kept her in place and squeezed her shoulder ever so gently. Having snuck up behind her, the Living Legend Nian Zu offered an encouraging smile before nodding at Gerel down below. “I’ve been sparring with your betrothed these past few months, and make no mistake, his claim is justified.”

“What? When? Why?”

“A Marshal must always remain calm.” Winking to show he meant no criticism, he Sent, “Your father was a master at keeping a straight face, and none will ever match him. I once snuck a trained carnugator into his bedroom and scattered my torn, bloodied clothes about, then Concealed myself nearby to watch his reaction, but all my hard work was for naught. Du Yi just opened the door, blinked twice, and gently closed it without breaking a sweat. Later, he tells me he almost had a heart attack, but you wouldn’t know it from looking.”

...Why was Nian Zu sneaking into her old man’s bedroom? Or playing childish pranks despite knowing how to Conceal? No, as much as she’d like to hear more stories about her father, now was not the time. “Why have you been sparring with Gerel?” And why didn’t he tell her? Well, she knew why, because she explicitly warned him against bothering the Colonel General, but it seems like her Guard Captain was not as obedient as she thought.

“Hmm?” Lost in his memories of past mischief, Nian Zu returned to the present with a distracted look in his eyes. “Oh right, your betrothed. After the tragedy in Sinuji, Baatar wanted to spend more time with his family, so he requested I take over his late afternoon duties. I thought he meant paperwork or troop inspections, but no. He spars with your betrothed for at least an hour every day, and the young man is tenacious.” Swelling with pride, he gave Yuzhen a grandfatherly smile and said, “While he’s not the most... socially adept person in the Empire, his courage and devotion are unmatched. One only need broach the subject of you to know he loves you with all his heart, and I believe Du Yi would have wholeheartedly approved.”

Why was he being so... familiar? Nian Zu had been good friends with her old man, but never the kind to be so intimate. Perhaps he felt guilty for not taking her in as a Disciple, though in his defence, she had been none-too-thrilled at the prospect of learning under a ‘mace-wielding muscle-head’. She favoured the jian, a light, double-edged sword which had nothing in common with the mace, and she dreamed of having a heroic, female instructor to guide her along the Martial Path, a woman to look up to and model herself after. Her old man never married or even took a lover in all his years as Marshal, and she wanted to set him up with a powerful Martial sweetheart to support him in office, but all her attempts had fallen flat.

There was a story there, one her old man never shared, but perhaps Nian Zu might know...

Focusing her thoughts on the matter at hand, Yuzhen took a deep breath, reached for Balance, and cast her fears and apprehension into the void, a trick she’d actually learned from Nian Zu. Calm and emotionless, she Sent, “What are his chances for victory?”

“Near nonexistent,” Nian Zu replied, filling her cup with tea before pouring one for himself and taking a seat. “Gerel is a phenomenal talent and never makes the same mistake twice, but I fear he’ll need a few more years of training before he can defeat Rang Min.” Noticing her clenched fists and grinding teeth, he quickly added, “Fear not. While victory might be out of reach, he’s not so weak as to be slaughtered out of hand. Besides, Rang Min is a coward at heart, a shrinking turtle who will take no unnecessary risks. He’ll send someone out to test the waters, but I doubt he has anyone young and powerful enough to pose grave threat to your betrothed.”

While it’d been several months since she last saw Gerel spar, she didn’t think his skills were advanced enough to be considered a Peak Expert, and she voiced these concerns through Sending. Nodding in agreement, Nian Zu replied, “He wasn’t a Peak Expert four months ago either, but he’s improved by leaps and bounds ever since. Do you know who his Mentor is? I would like to meet and learn from the brilliant warrior guiding your betrothed’s steps along the Martial Path, but he refuses to even name his Mentor much less give an introduction. He’s not much of a conversationalist, your betrothed. I don’t think I’ve heard him speak more than ten words in our time together, four of which are ‘greetings, let us begin’.”

Strange. Nian Zu had always kept himself away from most political affairs, but now it seemed like he intended to throw his support wholly behind the Bekhai, and was asking her to make the introduction. Why not ask his protege Baatar? “His Mentor is a woman,” Yuzhen absently Sent, noting there was finally movement among the Society’s ranks in response to Gerel’s challenge. Who would they send out? “I don’t know her name and have never seen her face, but she’s one of the Bekhai’s hidden Dragons to be sure, a reclusive Expert who wears a veil and sticks close to the Medical Saint.” No harm passing this information along, because she explicitly asked Gerel if she could, but she knew little else.

