Slap after slap dealt to Rang Min’s face, and Yuzhen could no longer hold in her laughter, nor could the rest of the crowd. Even Nian Zu cackled and stomped his feet, his normally stoic expression twisted with delight. The laughter continued as the Situ Clan and their allies stormed off, but Kuang Biao remained behind, no doubt abandoned by his Master to shoulder the blame for this deception. Luckily for the Royal Guardian, Rain wouldn’t bully a man who’d clearly been used and dropped the matter forthwith. Instead, he extolled the virtues of Imperial Martial superiority before inviting ‘brother Biao’ up to the tea-house to enjoy another musical performance from Zheng Luo.

Sublime as the musical performance was, nothing could outshine Rain’s performance, a crippled youth of twenty years verbally sparring with one of the most influential Peak Experts of the North and emerging victorious. When the music came to an end, everyone applauded politely before standing to leave, no doubt intent on telling the tale to anyone who would listen. Yuzhen looked forward to hearing how the truth would be contorted and garbled in the telling, but as she bade Nian Zu farewell, the old warrior reached out and took her hands in his own. “Err... This is difficult to say,” he Sent, looking less like a living legend and more like an embarrassed grandfather. “When it came to matters of office, Du Yi never let me help. Said I was hero enough for the rest of the Empire, and didn’t need to swoop in to save him too. ‘Politics would be handled politically, not by swinging a honking big mace,’ he’d often say.” Clearing his throat despite speaking through Sending, he continued, “But he knew I was there if he needed me, and I want you to know the same.” Gesturing towards the direction Rang Min retreated in, he said, “Now that the Imperial Clan is mixed up in things, the waters will muddy fast, so if you find yourself in over your head, then you only need speak and I will be there to help you, even if it is an Imperial Scion who seeks to sink you.”

“Thank you,” she Sent, genuinely touched by the offer. She knew Nian Zu and her old man had been good friends, but not the depths of their friendship. To even imply going against an Imperial Scion could have dire repercussions, but he did so without hesitation or obfuscation, which was a good as placing himself in the palm of her hand. Watching the Living Legend awkwardly scurry away, she reflected on his story about sneaking a carnugator into her old man’s bedroom and wondered just how the greatest warrior of three generations had become such close friends with a politician like her father. Sure, they worked closely to keep the Bridge in order, but practical jokes and unprompted promises of absolute support spoke of more than just a working relationship.

So how come she only remembered meeting Nian Zu once outside of her old man’s work, when the gruff warrior refused to take her in as his Disciple? Was that when they fell out with one another? How sad. If she’d known how close they were, she would’ve used her charms and convinced Nian Zu to accept her. Turning north, she stared far off into the distance as if she might see her old man’s unmarked memorial all the way at the Northern Bridge. Muttering a small prayer under her breath, she told him how much she missed him and how glad she was to have had him in her life.

A new year had arrived, the second without her father here to wish her good fortune and happiness, but he need not worry, because in less than two weeks, she would marry the love of her life, a man who would do anything for her, and a man she would do anything to be with. Marching downstairs to check on her beloved’s condition, Yuzhen wasn’t sure if she wanted to kill him or kiss him, but either way, she would box his ears first for not telling her about this grand scheme in advance. Worst of all, he put on such a provocative and exhilarating show which got her all riled up and ready to go, then had the sheer audacity to let himself get badly wounded in the final stretch.

The Bekhai best have their Healers ready and waiting, because if Gerel wasn’t in top-notch condition by the time the sun set, then her passion and ardour just might kill him...

Chapter Meme 1

Chapter Meme 2
