All drivel of course. The desert bordered both ocean and Azure Sea, where the cold currents made it all but impossible for the air to hold moisture, giving rise to the desiccated wastelands. Cause and effect, a simple explanation as any. At most, Nan Ping would be burned to the ground and be decades in recovering. Even Ancestral Beasts weren’t powerful enough to do something as drastic as altering the climate and landscape.

Or so he hoped.

While he mused over the consequences of failure, the Death Corps searched the fort and uncovered no hidden tunnels or waiting ambushes. This, combined with the setting sun, emboldened Min Gyu into ordering the attack, a little disappointed he wouldn’t have the opportunity to use any of the countermeasures he’d come up with during the ride here. After stressing the need for prisoners to his colleagues, he led the charge himself, leaping over the barricade with a single bound. A powerful burst of wind erupted from his palms, impacting harmlessly on the steel breastplates of two nearby assailants. Though the attack did no direct damage, it sent both luckless targets hurtling away to crash into their comrades, clearing the area and allowing the Death Corps to tear down the barricade and stream in unopposed.

Ah, it felt good to finally stretch his muscles again, both physical and spiritual ones. When was the last time he faced a true challenge at the peak of health?

The Canston Guards put up a staunch defense, but well-trained as they were, they proved no match for the Death Corps and were quickly overwhelmed. Guard corpses littered the ground while even more were taken prisoner, pummeled unconscious with closed fist and heavy boot as it was the only way to subdue them. Clearly, they’d been ordered to fight to the bitter end, lashing out with tooth and nail when no other options were left to them, determined to find death on the point of a Death Corps blade.

The fighting continued for long, grueling minutes as the last pockets of resistance held out, and after judging they had enough prisoners, Min Gyu gave the order to end things. Not ten seconds later, the battle ended, a lop-sided engagement from start to finish. Giving the order to clear the battlefield and secure the area, he brought Jun Bao, Siyar, and Jorani to check the warehouse, only to find it empty save for a few broken boxes. The other three buildings were the same, and to make matters worse, they found no tunnel entrances either, collapsed, covered, or otherwise.

“How can this be,” he asked, speaking to no one in particular. “Where did they go?” Furrowing his brow, he sought Gam in person and grabbed the scruffy half-fox by the arm. “Are you certain there were people escaping from tunnels beneath us?”

Covered from head to toe in the blood of his enemies, the odd warrior tilted his head in an almost innocent gesture. “Never said ‘escaping’, and no were about it.” Dropping to all fours, he placed his human ear the to ground and closed his eyes, his fox ears flicking left and right as he listened. “Yep,” he exclaimed after a moment of silence. “Are. Is? Still plenty of boots trudging around right beneath us. Closer too. Ten meters away at most.”

Realization dawned on Min Gyu as he checked the surroundings. Their backs against the buildings and empty space all around, a tailor-made killing ground prepared just for them. “Form up,” he shouted, heading towards the gate where their wagons awaited. “Fall back to the wagons!”

But alas, his orders came a minute too late.

The earth erupted in a spray of dirt as three bald, misshapen creatures emerged from below. Arranged in a neat semi-circle around his troops, the wrinkled mole-like Demons roared in challenge as a steady stream of hostile warriors emerged from their tunnels. Though the buildings blocked line of sight, the cries of alarm told him there were still more Demons to contend with on the other side, his people neatly encircled by the Enemy’s devious trap. They’d known someone would come, how he did not know. Traitors in the Legate’s household, or perhaps someone noticed the two missing vessels Siyar stole. Whatever the reason, he’d led his people into an ambush, and seeing how well the Enemy prepared for this, he judged their chance to escape slim to none.

Well, at least he’d found proof of collusion.

A shame his end would come so soon. He would have liked to spend another decade with his doting granddaughter, but a year would have to be enough. “Warriors of the Empire, gather to me,” he commanded, his voice calmer than he’d expected. Their only chance was to punch through before the Enemy finished arranging their forces. The math was simple enough, three Demons, three experts. Turning to his old rival, he said, “Jun Bao, hang back and do not engage. The first chance you see, take to the skies and escape while we hold their attention. You must get word to the Legate. The Defiled wasted no time consolidating the West. They’re here, and they have allies amongst us.”

Conflicting emotions flashed across Jun Bao’s face, his warrior’s pride demanding he stay and fight, but in the end, he merely saluted and said, “By your command, General.”

Happy to have won the final exchange of their rivalry, Min Gyu turned to face the Demon, giving his orders out loud for all to hear while gathering the Divine Wind into a rotating, razor sharp disc. Slaves though they might be, even the Death Corps were mortal men, prone to despair as any, and in order to escape, they would need every advantage he could eke out. “Broken Blade Pichai, at my left, Eccentric Gam, to my right, and stalwart warriors of the Empire at my side. With such formidable forces gathered at my side, I, Du Min Gyu, have nothing to fear! Forward into the Enemy!”

Finally, a challenge worthy of the Sanguine Tempest, Du Min Gyu.

Chapter Meme
