His attention switches to Lily, who continues to smile happily as he asks in a much calmer tone, "A low pristine passive? I’m taking into consideration the fact that you were not present when the items were available to take, so this is mostly to stop you from doing this again in the future and to prevent the possibility of you adding in something even worse."

Lily looks at me. Seeing me shrug, she says, "I will take that, but please make sure Iant is really helpful to the twins."

"I keep my word," the ant says. "With the deal made, I will take my leave."

And as he says it, he is gone as if he were running away, along with Zant, leaving me, Lily, and Ruby behind. I still stare at where he stood, not believing that blatant favoritism and the way he offered a fair and decent reward to Lily, considering her participation, while I had to fight for mine.

"You know, I got flashbanged by the notifications when they came. I panicked and forgot how to turn them off, so I faceplanted into a building," Lily says, prodding me with the playful accusation.

"Poor building," I say, ignoring a playful punch from her that I have to defend against to preserve my dear life, while acting as if it’s nothing. "What level are you?" I ask.

"I reached 405. I had hoped to get a few more achievements before my third trait, but I guess even this should count. I think I’ve already noticed some interesting options."

"Well, at least Diligence forgot about giving you a lesson or something."

"Oh, he didn’t. The entire time he was talking, he was berating me. Though he was much nicer than my handler. He isn't as bad as you made him out to be, Nat." She smiles at me.

Lily doesn’t get to say more after that before she disappears, leaving me to turn to Ruby, who is looking at me from behind her table.

"I don't like thieves,” she says with a smile, “Oh, and congratulations. You’re the 18th highest level attendee in the past thousand years. You can go finish your boys' trip, but after you’re done, I have a thousand year quest for you, so make some time in your schedule."
