“I can’t say someone with a personal relationship won’t try to get revenge, but I can say that the Lumenflight won’t,” the Viper shook his head. “Didn’t I tell you that she killed the kid of some demigod from the United Tribes?”

“You did,” Jake nodded.

“Yeah, so she was dead meat anyway,” Villy said. “You seriously think she would have ever gotten away with shit like that? She would likely have died sooner if I hadn’t more or less reserved her for your hunting pleasure. If I were you, rather than the Lumenflight being mad at you, I would be scared of the Court of Shadows, as I may or may not have snatched one of their contracts.”

“Oh,” Jake muttered. “Alright, yeah, makes a lot of sense. I did question whether her punishment would really only be that they threw her out of the Lumenflight.”

“From the Dragonflights’ side of things, it was the only consequence,” the snake god explained. “It’s just that the second she was thrown out, she lost all the protection they afforded her while putting a target on her head… speaking of a target on her head.”

Villy waved his hand and took out a token before throwing it to Jake.

Catching it, Jake looked confused down at it. “What’s this?”

“The one to contact to cash in the bounty,” the snake god said, his tone making it sound as if Jake’s question had been the dumbest thing he’d ever heard.

“Yrelstromoz had a bounty on her head, huh…” Jake muttered.

“Obviously,” the Viper shrugged. “As I said, she was a very dead dragon from the moment she pissed off the United Tribes and got kicked out of the Lumenflight. I genuinely believe that aunt of hers when she said she was thankful you were the one to kill her niece. If she had to die, it’s a least more respectable to be killed by the Chosen of a Primordial rather than a gang of regular bounty hunters, or worse yet, the Court of Shadows, where your corpse would just be left floating in the Shadow Realm.”

“I guess,” Jake said with a shrug. “Anyhow, you got any comments on the fight?”

“Eh, for the most part, it was as I’d expected, though I do have one minor question,” the Viper said casually before his demeanor changed and he turned more serious. “Was that Event Horizon thing really a class skill?”
