Venturing out to the very border of System space wasn’t as simple a prospect as just taking a hike. Not only was the deep void between galaxies treacherous, but a blazing beacon such as himself deciding to chain a few Spatial Folds and Dimensional Steps together would draw a lot of attention.

Both Alagameth and Talricto—respective experts of spatiomancy and dimensionalism—had openly told him that the longer the distance of travel with each cast, the greater the odds of drawing unwanted attention.

Orodan had of course not seen any problem with this at all. He was stronger than the Prophet, he had argued.

And Almyra and Alagameth then informed him that monsters within System space weren’t the issue. It was the Invaders beyond it.

With so many breaches in the barrier between System space and the grand cosmos beyond it, his gigantic Spatial Folds and extreme-distance crossing Dimensional Steps would blaze like a beacon. Like a brazier lit within a patchy tent, it would be quite visible.

Predators or beings of interest who had thus far felt neutral about the prospect of entering System space might be more tempted if they saw power of his scale being thrown around from within it. The one time he’d been hurled outside System space he remembered the sheer number of hungry and curious things which had been drawn to him, thus Orodan had to grudgingly agree with that line of thought.

Given all the issues he’d caused already, attracting more Invaders wasn’t an option.

That being said, just because he couldn’t travel there swiftly didn’t mean the alliance’s hands were tied. The grand array they’d been using could easily be re-tuned to aim for a relatively safe spot near the edge. Almyra and Alagameth, who were a lot more knowledgeable of the wider factions of System space, told him that there were mercenary worlds which specifically accepted wanderers, freelancers and the like to aid the Administrators in their fight against Invaders.

Something which answered the question of how the hells five Administrators—one of whom was actively hateful of the System—were supposed to defend a border that big.

The planned invasion of Narictus would continue as usual… without Orodan or any of the allied Embodiers physically present. Which in turn would leave the Hegemony’s ancient Embodiment-level dragon no excuse to interfere and violate cosmic rules around Embodier interference to begin with.

All this was to say, he had time on his hands until the grand array was ready. And he couldn’t exactly death loop right off the bat without also ruining the loops for all the others who were along with him.

Which was fine by him as he needed to consolidate a number of his skills and further his training.

“Hold it straight you rockhead!” came the demand of his favorite foreman.

Orodan had long since learned, even before the loops, that attempting to argue that he was holding it straight was futile. If anything, Old Man Hannegan was always unerringly right in whatever he found fault with. A fact some of the other specialists and craftsfolk hadn’t caught onto fully. Their mistakes following that only rubbed salt in their decision to doubt the grumpy supervisor.

Thus he stoically shifted the citadel-sized support beam atop his finger.

[Laboring 68 → Laboring 69]

“Hmm… acceptable. Now keep it there and don’t move it a hair’s width,” Old Man Hannegan instructed. “I won’t accept your spell training as an excuse for failure either.”

Said spell training made itself known as the lightning bolt coming off his middle finger came awfully close to jumping from his planned arc towards the target dummy to the support beam instead.

Casting near a support beam made of pure metal which naturally drew lightning was a rather novel way of training the element, not that the Celestial foreman approved in the slightest.

“Watch it! If your little casting session damages that beam I’ll have you shoveling gravel until-” Old Man Hannegan’s threat cut off with a sigh and a shake of the head. “Feh! You’d probably enjoy that… just, watch it.”

“That… is the intention,” he replied as he cast simultaneous lightning bolts from each fingertip.

[Lightning Bolt 61 → Lightning Bolt 62]

All five dummies had black scorch marks burned onto them, dead center too. That would’ve been a success for anyone else.

“Again,” Destartes calmly ordered. “The scorch marks are of uneven coloration. I expect each bolt to be absolutely perfect and uniform. The middle finger arc also bent unacceptably much towards me.”

“That was intentional,” Orodan replied with a strained smile.

The old mage simply rolled his eyes and shot a tiny lightning bolt right at his middle finger which was in the midst of casting another Lightning Bolt.

The spell wasn’t quick compared to his reflexes, but having to block an incoming spell of pure lightning with one of his own composed of mana-fueled lightning was tricky. Particularly when he had four other spells mid-cast and was also holding a colossal support beam above his head.

[Lightning Magic Mastery 36 → Lightning Magic Mastery 38]

His lightning bolt shot out and intercepted Destartes’s spell, and his other bolts hit their targets.

“A juvenile jest, Mister Wainwright. And also, again. Your fifth bolt did not even leave your finger and only four out of the five targets were struck.”

Anyone else would have protested about how they were meant to strike a target while also blocking an incoming lightning bolt, but knowing Destartes the old mage probably wanted him to block with the uncast spell before even firing.

“Orodan! You moved the beam again! Get it straight!”

And of course, any effort could not come without Old Man Hannegan simultaneously barking about labor.

All in all, Orodan was under a lot of pressure. Not exactly the physical sort, nor the mental sort where each and every cell was dying as he tried to think. But the sort of fine and delicate pressure which came with maintaining absolutely perfect control while still being forced to expend effort in sudden and odd directions.

It was… exactly the sort of good training he loved. It was what he needed if he was to succeed in besting the oncoming Invaders, repairing the breaches in the System’s boundary and achieving his grand ambition.

“My lady did not exaggerate… I see your manic enjoyment of such mad training regimens with my own eyes now,” General Vaelrosaan of Vylrystia muttered. “Now, Burst Cast. You will vaporize only the orb I throw. I will accept no collateral. Cause not even a blade of grass to sway.”

The half-dragon general threw an orb into the air and Orodan’s mana pool trembled as he forcibly clamped his will down upon it, stilling it entirely like a puddle of water frozen over in the deep winter.

From a state of perfect stillness… lightning exploded out of his finger.

[Lightning Bolt 62 → Lightning Bolt 63]

[Burst Casting 76 → Burst Casting 77]

The orb utterly vaporized.

And the entire field of grass outside Vylrystia’s capital citadel swayed as though a gale roared through it.

“Damn…”

“Again. The arc of that bolt was dissatisfactory.”

“Perhaps you mistook my instructions my lord?” General Vaelrosaan asked. “I meant for you to avoid causing any grass to sway. Not that you should shake the entire valley.”

“Straighten the beam! The jewelcrafters can’t measure things right if you don’t keep it aligned!”

And so Orodan’s day went, getting bullied into repeating insane feats of control over and over again.

He had been pulped down to single cells under extreme physical pressure. He had nearly killed himself by attempting to account for an insane number of things mentally. But to explode with force while still retaining perfect physical and mental control?

Strenuous in a way he wasn’t used to.

The unassuming monk they brought in from the Eastern Kingdoms of Alastaia didn’t lessen the intensity of the demands either. A philosopher, or so he was told. Alongside him, a few others who pursued the same academic discipline. A few were fighters and mages in their own right, but the monk before him was neither. A non-combatant who dabbled in studying scrolls rather than blades or spells.

“My lord, what is lightning?”

Firing spells from the fingertips of his free hand, doing Burst Casts in-between that, and having to hold a support beam perfectly straight with occasional movements as Old Man Hannegan demanded was not relaxing. Adding an academic discussion on lightning to that mix wasn’t conducive to critical thought.

“The natural power borne of friction within the sky itself.”

“Not the mana channeled within you which then comes out as the spells you are casting?” the monk asked.

“No? Why would that be? Lightning has existed long before I ever began casting lightning bolts.”

“Then you do not cast lightning, but an imitation of it. Is this true?” the eastern philosopher asked.

“No… that is not necessarily true. Yes in this case, because I fuel my lightning with mana and not the soul, but I have fought creatures who naturally are born attuned to an element. Theirs is no imitation,” Orodan replied.

“But these creatures too were not born before lightning naturally fell from the skies. Are they not imitations of the natural, true lightning?”

“No. Is a dragon hatchling who imitates its sire’s fire breath a mere imitation of its forebears? Is a child who imitates their father’s walk merely imitating walking? Of course not, we say the dragon when grown is simply breathing flame. Or the child is now simply walking.”

“But are we not all products of our environment and mere imitations of what came before us?” a half-dragon philosopher asked, remaining entirely unperturbed as Orodan shot out more lightning bolts and adjusted the beam he was holding up after some yelling from Old Man Hannegan. “In fact, are the skills we acquire not just imitations of someone who founded them for the first time somewhere?”

“If we are mere imitations, then there would be no innovation. Even at the same skill level, two people can have varying insights and outputs when all else is the same. Your argument is also invalidated by Celestial skills, even the System cannot quantify those properly. It is new ground.”

[Stubborn Persuasion 15 → Stubborn Persuasion 18]

As usual, the skill gain only came after he had some logical ground in his argument to stand on. Arguing something logically unsound wouldn’t have done anything for it.

“Then perhaps, Orodan, you should not just see yourself as casting lightning,” Destartes finished.

He was casting Lightning Bolts, but he shouldn’t see it as casting lightning? That was… an intriguing way of seeing things.

“Why are you so insistent I focus on lightning anyhow?” Orodan asked.

“Why should you not? If you are so monstrously powerful by just adding flames to your Elemental Living Enchantment, then there is no excuse for not studying more,” Destartes explained. “As per estimates, your total lifespan mentally would not even be a thousand years. You are young, Orodan. Youthful in mental age even by the standards of a Grandmaster. Which is not to say you haven’t seen more battle or death than any of us. But your mentality of study, of training and the approach to mastery is still very… Adept-like. And the fact that you were thrown into a time loop also does not help matters.”

“Adept-like?”

“Yes, Adept-like. Full of vim, vigor and ferocity; as though every hour is his last. You train like a furious young man on a revenge-driven quest. It shows in how you push yourself, your study, all of it. Do not mistake me, these are exceptional qualities which have brought you to where you are. In fact, I will never have another student of your caliber, nor will anyone else who has ever had the pleasure of teaching you. But it does not erase the fact that you are young, and it shows in your approach to bettering yourself. This confuses, you, yes? Then allow me to pose a question… tell me, what are the different melting points of each metal upon Alastaia and how quickly can your lightning bring them to said melting points?”

Orodan was… entirely clueless about that question.

“They didn’t exactly teach me that at Bluefire.”

“Nor would they. Such a thing isn’t exactly laid out in textbooks so cleanly, not for first years. The melting points of the metals, perhaps. But the standard time needed for a lightning mage to bring them to that threshold? Those are only in fourth year-courses meant for those near graduation from the school of electromancy. And even then, the calibration and regular testing of each mage’s lightning is left to themselves. A constant crucible of testing and experimenting in the path towards true mastery.”

“My education is incomplete then? Perhaps I should return to the Academy and finish out my years. If it’s higher year texts I require…”

“Partially. Reading is always good. But to truly show you what I mean, consider some other questions: what are the different temperatures produced by lightning in varying conditions? What materials would conduct your lightning best? Which substances in the air would benefit your lightning flowing through? Which would hinder it? Which metals would cause the most alteration of your lightning arcs? Why? What adjustments must you make for each one and what is the pivotal factor you need to control?”

Orodan’s head spun a bit as he considered all these questions. Even with every cell thinking… he had no comprehensive answers for each one. His experience with lightning was shallow.

