“See now what I mean? You are a frightening prodigy of hard work. Even things you have abysmal talent in will come to you far faster than they would for the average learner through simple virtue of grit and obsessive work ethic. But your approach to training is that of a hot-headed young man who chases the greatest insights one after another, leaping from mountain peak to mountain peak without ever exploring the troughs and valleys down beneath,” the old mage clarified. “This is good, do not lose your obsessive drive and that ferocity… but you must also begin to shore up your comprehensive foundations like a true master. You are already on the right path with your rejection of the System’s crutch, but merely training with an obsession to seek the next breakthrough insight will not do.”

“In other words. Old Arvayne, or perhaps I should say Agathor, did not help by turning your time at Bluefire into a weapon-sharpening session designed to create a blade capable of fighting the Eldritch Avatar.” The voice was not Destartes’s but that of Adeltaj Simarji. The old halberdier seemed in slightly better spirits than the last time Orodan had seen him. “Regular brutal sparring is well and good. But nobody has truly sat you down and forced you to confront philosophy, thought and the absolute intricacies of things in a setting which was not a mid-battle breakthrough under pressure. Much of these things you’ve done yourself naturally over the course of training, but not with some time dedicated it specifically.”

“You sound like the cultivators,” Orodan remarked.

“As we should. You of all people know well that whether it is cultivation, warrior martial philosophy or magic spells, true mastery must be acquired the same way. Through study, effort, experience and insight. From what I read of the cultivators, we are not so different,” Adeltaj spoke. “At root, their halberd cultivators are no different from me wielding and meditating on my own.”

“You deserve credit for all you’ve done. What you’ve achieved in the short time you have is what countless Grandmasters have been aspiring to since time immemorial. The time loops went to the right person, none other could replicate your results to the extent that you have. You stand as an Embodier in a timeframe where others would still be Masters, and yet… your journey has taken you in a straight path towards whatever brings you more power. It has not allowed your mentality to round out and grow in the way a Grandmaster or even a Master’s should, let alone Transcendents and Embodiers. You, Orodan, have not truly lived the requisite time someone of your power should. And it has led to a lot of foundational weaknesses which must be amended through more than just harsh training.”

The two of them were not wrong. When laid out to him in such a way, he was forced to see it. Leaving aside his fueling of the time loop mechanism and his battle against Cleanliness and Infinity, he really hadn’t experienced much normal life across all his loops.

In the early loop days the most prodigious Master he knew aside from himself had been Yarostov Iron-Bear. The man had reached Master by the age of eighty.

Eighty years to reach the Master-level.

Compared to Orodan’s progress in the time loops that might as well have been a snail measured against a lightning bolt.

Masters and Grandmasters not only studied across centuries and milennia, but they also lived. They had societies built around them, research which not only they were a part of, but the preceding and following generations too. A Grandmaster lived life and then slowly advanced their craft through study drawn from not just themselves but the insights of their peers, research centers such as the Academies and even a thing or two they might see a talented member of the younger generation do.

They did not advance anywhere near as quick as he did. But they had knowledge, theories and an understanding of history which far surpassed his own. A breadth of knowledge and cross-referencing ability which Orodan did not have a fraction of.

Yes, he had fought in battle across the cosmos and slain thousands. He had seen things far beyond his years lived and fought foes which even Embodiers were terrified of. He had climbed the cosmic ladder very high up. But if put in a room with other warrior Embodiers, he might be able to relay his own experiences… but what more? Each of them likely had ten-thousand stories for each of his.

The actual lived time he had experienced, was less than a century. Embodiers, even the talented ones… were millions of years old.

Which meant millions upon millions of spars, millions of events and ancient battles they had witnessed or studied about. Treatises, manuals and scrolls on a near-endless number of techniques, skills and martial forms which he had no reference for since he was mostly self-taught and forged through the fire of the loops and endless battle.

The ancient Alagameth who was one of the founding ancestors of the Conclave? Millions of years old, and possibly someone who knew the Prophet before that zealot became as maddened as it was.

Even Almyra, the time looper before him, was in the range of tens of thousands of years. That she’d reached Embodiment in that time was nothing short of astounding and a testament to her own talent, genius and capabilities. But even she had oceans’ worth of knowledge and more life lived than he did despite herself being incredibly young for an Embodier.

And him? He had reached the Embodiment-level in not just one skill, but two. In a time period of less than two-thousand years total, of which he was only conscious for less than a century.

Orodan’s training which was ongoing, was interrupted just before General Vaelrosaan could throw another orb. The person who interrupted it was the previous looper herself.

“Almyra,” he greeted.

“Orodan Wainwright. I see you have much to think about,” she spoke. “Have you recognized now the gulf in knowledge and experience between you and your peers which you bridge through monstrous talent alone?”

“I do. Yet it seems I cannot simply lean upon my work ethic and talent as a crutch.”

She smiled.

“Yes. But if I’ve come to learn something… it is that the conventional way of doing things does not apply to you. And we would not be where we are if you had gone about things the normal way,” she said, taking the target orb General Vaelrosaan was about to throw and shattering it in her palm. “It is good to live and experience life… but that should also come with not forgetting what got you to where you are.”

“What are you trying to say?”

“It is good that you are taking the words of Adeltaj and Destartes seriously. But, I find you grow best under pressure,” she said, and then smiled in a way which Orodan felt ominous. “I notice you have been failing that and unable to grasp the half-dragons’ attempts to teach you counterforce and control over your gigantic energy pool. It is time to rectify that. Prepare a Lightning Bolt, Burst Cast. Ten percent of your total reserves. Not a single blade of grass should move from collateral shock.”

What? That was frankly the height of lunacy, even by Orodan’s standards. Not only was he being told to pour a tenth of his entire power into the Burst Cast, but also that he could not cause any shockwave to leave his cast at all.

Worst of all, even without amplifications via Eidolon of Violence, Elemental Living Enchantment and the Smite of Abrupt Deliverance, he was a true calamity. Ten percent of Orodan Wainwright’s power put into a Burst Cast Lightning Bolt, even just mana-fueled, could obliterate a planet and perhaps more.

Thus, Orodan found himself saying something he never thought he would.

“This is madness. I cannot just gamble the lives of the innocents around me for the sake of training.”

It was not Vaelrosaan who did anything. Nor Destartes or Adeltaj. Instead, it was Almyra who stepped up, staring at him holding the beam.

“Orodan Wainwright. I see you do not wish to risk the lives of innocents in your training. A noble goal, a lofty ideal,” she said with a mirthless smile, and something in him didn’t like her tone in the slightest. “But such notions are but hot air without the strength to enforce them. Or in your case, the control.”

“What are you trying to say?”

“I am in no place to lecture you, but you destroyed numerous star systems in your battle against Kharadun Voidfortress. And you also slew your own friends when breaking Anomaly #3’s wicked influence upon them. Neither situation was directly your fault, but they highlight the weakness in your lack of preventing collateral destruction,” she spoke. “Forgive me, but as I said, I find you learn best under pressure. You want to protect everyone? You wish to avoid gambling their lives? Then show you have the control to save them.”

He felt something very powerful leave a dimensional storage space of hers. He had seen this before, it was…

“Embodier’s Sacrifice…!” someone exclaimed.

It was slow to Orodan’s reflexes, but his left hand held aloft a citadel-sized support beam upon which several craftsfolk were working. And the lightning bolt in his right hand was already mid-channel. There was frankly, no time to do anything else for the conniving Almyra had chosen her moment well.

The Embodier’s Sacrifice would annihilate both Vylrystia and Alastaia. It was a single-use star-system destroying weapon.

Which meant that he had no choice but to throw at least ten percent of his power into a Lightning Bolt via Burst Casting. And he would have to contain the collateral or everyone around him would die.

Time Reversal was not on his mind. Preventing the tragedy was.

Soul energy flared as he strengthened his body much as he could to hasten his perception. Every split moment where he could think and plan mattered.

And just as the weapon was about to detonate, his mana pool exploded outward, with an equal and opposite force produced to contain the collateral shockwave of his cast.

[Burst Casting 77 → Burst Casting 79]

[Lightning Bolt 63 → Lightning Bolt 65]

[New Skill → Internal Counterforce 7 (Legendary)]

The Embodier’s Sacrifice utterly vaporized due to the sheer power of the lightning bolt he sent.

The sheath of rebounding energy he wrapped all around the spell prevented any collateral damage from leaking out either. Enough so that eerily enough… not even Orodan’s clothes were ruffled.

The gigantic support beam above his head remained held by his finger. His free hand crackled with lingering electricity.

And a baleful gaze landed upon Almyra.

But before he could think about how he would intensify her training, one more voice came through demanding his attention.

“Straighten the damned beam! That’s it! You’re on gravel shoveling duty!”

#

If there had been one benefit to all of that, it was that the shoveling of all that gravel had made him a Laboring Elite.

And the other benefit had been the very effective training regimen he’d put Almyra through. It was the least he could have done after the woman got him a new skill and helped cement the notion that he worked best under the pressure of a crucible.

Not that it spared him from having to do things the way Adeltaj and Destartes wanted of course.

“-Elydia’s Phoenix Anthems: Volume IX, Uthoryn’s Research Compendium On The Nature Of Lightning: Version IV and er… On Fire & Certainty by Baron Viglas Argon.”

“Quite the reading list,” Orodan remarked, not displeased. “There was a time where I would dread the thought of reading a book. But then I actually entered an academy and saw that they aren’t so bad.”

“For you perhaps, Mister Wainwright,” Kalemar replied as he put the list away. “Not everyone can read a book in seconds like you can with the unfair thought-speed you possess.”

“Thought-speed and reflexes are two different things. I see fast but my mind is no quicker than anyone else’s,” he corrected. “Equalize a scholar’s reflex speed with my own and they shall outthink me every time. I can swat bullets and spells out of the air quicker than they can, that’s my only advantage. Something which gives me ample time to think on things line-by-line in a short time.”

Alongside Incipience of Infinity and his naturally prodigious strength and control of soul. Mind mages, but particularly soul mages, were known for having perfect memory. Orodan was no exception to that; a natural consequence once the soul got strong enough and forgetting things ceased to occur.

“An unfair advantage which students across all the academies would kill for, though it is good that we needn’t waste time sitting for hours while you peruse books,” Kalemar spoke. “But I suppose Lord Talricto’s demands of you would render that impossible anyhow.”

“As it should. We were supposed to venture out together last loop before that gigantic mess occurred, and I shan’t see it put off for a moment longer,” the dimensional spider declared imperiously. “Come, disciple. We step beyond the dimensional veil today! For the first time you shall bear witness to the splendor and life of your teacher, the great Talricto the Wanderer. Yes, yes. You are welcome for the honor.”

Orodan allowed the eight-legged dimensionalist its eccentricities. Talricto didn’t really ever ask him for anything, which made any request by the spider to accompany it far more important than any ask from someone else.

Tegin and Eldarion had expressed their concerns about Orodan essentially gallivanting into unknown parts of the cosmos, especially when Talricto did not even wish to disclose exactly where they were going. Even Almyra and Alagameth had spoken up in disapproval of this, so close to their planned venture towards the border of System space.

