But in the face of all of them, Orodan had stood his ground and refused to budge. Talricto had taught him, helped him grow and aided in defeating some of his worst enemies. The dimensional spider was prickly, seemingly impatient and an all-round irksome pest.

But the spider was also his teacher, his ally, his friend. And Orodan Wainwright did not let debts go unpaid.

So what if there might be danger? Orodan had not forged himself through the fires of endless battle and the time loops to be cowed by risk. Before he had brought all these people along notions of risk did not factor into his calculation.

If Talricto wished to go somewhere and had explicitly requested Orodan accompany it, then he would. And that was the end of it no matter what anyone else grumbled about risk.

“I suppose I should speak on behalf of Almyra and reiterate that neither of us are entirely comfortable with you venturing past the dimensional boundary to places unknown… but it would be remiss of me to worry when you’ve shouldered the burden of being the pillar for everyone by yourself all this time,” King Alstatyn of the Collective spoke. “Almyra would have come herself if she wasn’t still recovering from training.”

“It was just a few spars and some weight training… those things can only be good for a mage,” Orodan replied, recalling how he drove the previous looper into the dirt. “She won’t be complaining about the improved ability to circulate mana at higher levels of Physical Fitness.”

It was a bottleneck Destartes of all people was starting to understand, especially since the old mage now had the Eternal Soul Reactor skill. The old wizard’s energy output was high, but too much wore the body out. Thus, that old spellcaster never complained whenever Orodan put him through rigorous drills and conditioning.

Still, the subject of training could be shelved until they returned.

“Do be safe, yes? It would be irritating to be pulled from my own projects just because you died,” Zaessythra said, brushing the top of his hand with her own in a tender gesture. “Though… I suppose waking up next to you allows for a rematch, hmm?”

“You-!” Orodan exclaimed, heating up before he pinched the bridge of his nose and sighed, refusing to play her game. This half-dragon was entirely shameless. “I can’t promise I won’t die, but it’s Talricto who asked. Since when does my most vexatious teacher of the dimensional arts ask for anything?”

“Perhaps I should ration out my requests then, make them more impactful,” said dimensional spider muttered. “Worry not, dragon. I shall have your preferred plaything back in one piece. There shan’t be anything of the sort which he cannot handle.”

“You telling us where you are going would help ease some of our concerns,” Alstatyn spoke up.

To that, the spider had only one thing to say.

“No.”

Orodan shrugged.

“Well, you have your answer.”

In the face of such a concise and final reply none present could say anything else, and he would not allow anyone to force an answer out of the spider either. Forcibly prying answers from an ally was a line he refused to cross even on a bad day, and Talricto had done too much for them all to not have earned their trust.

“Then shall we, my favorite disciple?”

And thus, the two of them set off.

Orodan tried casting a Dimensional Step, but it was Talricto who took over, highlighting that no matter how good Orodan got at Dimensionalism he would likely never be the spider’s equal now that it was in the loops too. In power perhaps, but in skill? His teacher’s rate of growth for the art was as absurd as his own talent for Cleaning.

A gelatinous bubble comprised of multiple separate dimensional pockets linked together formed around the both of them. Simultaneously, waves of scrambling force went out causing the gaze of Alstatyn, Zaessythra and Kalemar to lose focus, as though they could no longer see the departing duo.

And lastly, the entire dimensional boundary around Alastaia briefly and almost imperceptibly rippled. At first he didn’t understand why, until he realized that every single tracking mechanism or method of reading where they might go had now been scrambled.

And before Orodan could even remark about how impressed he was as the thoroughness of covering their tracks, the bubble shifted sideways and along the boundary for a while, like a boat skimming the surface of the ocean. And after a few passes, they finally crossed, traveling through at least four different intermediary dimensions before finally arriving.

The bubble around them vanished, and he felt as though his intuitive understanding of Dimensionalism had increased by a step through just watching all that.

“If you were trying to show off, you’ve succeeded. I didn’t understand even half of that, and I’m not exactly a fledgling in Dimensionalism.”

“Hmmph… do not get ahead of yourself. If you were not taken by that tyrant of yours the clan matriarchs would certainly try to arrange a match between you and some promising princess. As it stands, they may still try, though I shall warn them against the rudeness and danger of that.”

“Still may? Where are we Talricto?”

It was… a place vaguely similar to that dimension of utter nonexistence that he and the Prophet had had their recent battle in a few loops ago. And though Orodan was no scholar of these things, if there were degrees to nonexistence, this place would be lesser on the scale than the place he’d done battle in.

“Orodan,” Talricto began, sounding more serious than the spider had in a while. Its forelegs were entirely still too. “I did not mask and scramble our tracks for no reason. I also brought you along not just because you are… useful in your brutishness, but also because I… I trust you. If I tell you not to tell anyone where we have gone, would you abide by that?”

“Consider it done,” he replied almost immediately.

“Good, good. It would have been quite uncomfortable if you had said no after we came all this way,” the spider said, sounding rather nervous now. “We make for my birthplace.”

Ah, that explained the secrecy then.

Orodan had traveled System space enough now to know that dimensional phase spiders were incredibly elusive and rare, yes, to the point that even on Alastaia they were considered a myth. But he also knew that the creatures were found not just on his home world but also beyond it.

The hells, the lands of the cultivators, even the records of X2 mentioned historical incidents of the spiders phasing in, realizing there was nothing to eat, and then leaving.

Yet, for all those records and incidents, nobody had ever quite discovered where these elusive planeswalkers actually resided. Save for one recorded incident in a distant galaxy, nobody had found a way into the pocket planes of these spiders. Even Almyra for all her efforts and meetings with them had failed.

Worst of all, even when the spiders were on rare occasions captured and had their minds and souls opened up for reading, the trail was useless since the entrance was ever changing. Frankly, even the one instance of explorers finding one of the pocket planes of the dimensional spiders was by sheer luck and statistical improbability, or so the head expeditionary themselves had claimed after returning with half of her five-hundred strong party dead.

“From all I’ve heard, your folk are very secretive and not fond of being found,” he spoke, noting the spider’s anxiety visible in the soul. “Even if you know the way, will they take kindly to meeting me?”

“Well… that is just the thing. They will not. And for another, I do not know the way entirely.”

“…then how are we to get there?”

“Simple, my illustrious disciple. You see, the location of the plane itself is ever-shifting, but I remember enough of the way that at this time of this millennia, it should be drifting somewhere in the nearby few star systems’ worth of space,” Talricto spoke, acting as though it wasn’t an entirely mad endeavor. Like finding a specific grain of sand in a desert, but amplified to cosmic scale. “The plan then is a simple one. I will guide you, you shall hold the entirety of the dimensional boundary for the designated area… still, by force. And you will then use your improved Vision of Purity to comb through the area.”

“Hah! A worthy endeavor,” Orodan said, relishing the thought of the challenge. “It shall be good training.”

“I knew you would say that… now, let us begin.”

[Incipience of Infinity 179 → Incipience of Infinity 180]

Soul energy wafted off him in a deluge, causing the very nonexistence of the dimension they were in to slowly unravel as something very existent suddenly flooded it.

He had performed feats requiring far more power; this was nothing in comparison. He reached out, and with his iron will channeled into the skill, used Dimensionalism to spread his reach out across the entirety of the dimensional boundary for this plane… and grasped it it all.

Through the force of his will and the expenditure of his bottomless well of soul energy, the boundary first slowed, and then still entirely.

But right away he could see the boundary, despite being held still by force, was trembling under the collateral of being gripped by that much energy and will. If a dragon were to lift a citadel, it would protest at the point of grasp, the pressure there extreme.

“Minor miscalculation… the boundary may tear before our plan can be enacted,” Talricto spoke, doing his best to continually smooth and repair the spots which were under the greatest strain.

But for Orodan, this was exactly what he needed. Rather, it was exactly what his latest skill was for. His time training with the half-dragons of Vylrystia and being lectured about Counterforce over and over had not been for nothing. A learning process which had finally hit a milestone when Almyra had hurled an Embodier’s Sacrifice at him.

[Internal Counterforce 7 → Internal Counterforce 10]

Orodan’s mind was focused on not just the grasp he had on the dimensional boundary, but on producing a secondary and internal counterforce to negate the excess of his own grip.

It was a skill shockingly similar in principle to Balance Maker, to the point where Orodan wondered if they were part of the same umbrella. Then again, with Balance Maker already in his toolset, perhaps it was what colored his thoughts on what he began to do.

The Internal Counterforce flared and began easing the excess power in his grasp over the boundary. Bit by bit.

Like a swinging pendulum slowly approaching rest, the internal and opposing energy he flared began to eventually bring his grasp to a point where the boundary was no longer strained.

“I don’t know what you’re doing, but it works. Keep at it!” Talricto declared, helping guide his grip to ease in certain portions before any tears could occur. “Now my disciple, use your eyes!”

And so started the second part of this monumental endeavor: actually finding the pocket plane.

[Vision of Purity 101 → Vision of Purity 103]

Orodan’s cells began dying as Vision of Purity extended as far out as it could and then some. It was… excellent training, and also some horrid strain upon his mind as he was attempting to not only manage the brute force work of pushing his perception past its limits, but also maintain a delicate Internal Counterforce while keeping an open eye for any pocket planes.

He would’ve liked to say it was his relentless drive which led to success. But after thirty minutes what finally caused a change was an imperceptible ripple in the dimensional boundary he was holding still.

Imperceptible for him, but not for Talricto.

“I have it, come,” the spider immediately spoke. “Not so difficult to spot the elder city shifter’s moves when the entire boundary is held still like ice. Be ready, disciple, they will hurl some foul things our way.”

Orodan saw it too now, a tiny, cell-sized pocket plane. He would have never noticed it at all. In fact, Vision of Purity, even at the Transcendent-level, would have failed to pick out anything about it since it was as pure as it got and blended in perfectly with the dimensional boundary of the plane they were in.

No wonder nothing had ever found these creatures’ abode save for one recorded instance. And even then who knew if that was them willingly showing up to send a message for once?

Talricto yanked the both of them right towards their target destination via a quick Dimensional Step, and it was there that Orodan understood why the dimensional phase spider had brought him along.

It was as though a grain of sand suddenly decided to grow claws. No combatants came out, but attacks certainly did. Reaving and cutting scythes, the edges of dimensional rifts sharp enough to cut right through Transcendents and harm even Embodiers.

Unfortunately, such a retaliatory strike wasn’t designed to deal with him. Rift edges which could slice anything in half by closing upon them instead found themselves fizzling and then imploding as they failed to close upon him due to the sheer amount of soul energy.

“Hold, disciple! I am in the process of cracking the outer defenses and then we can be in!”

Orodan had to wonder, that if they were encountering this much resistance already, then what would be waiting for them inside? He wasn’t threatened by this, but the possibility of innocent dimensional spiders dying in the crossfire was decent.

More came. Spells meant to immediately sever the link between soul and body, a form of instantaneous death magic. All manner of elemental barrages, soul curses, mind magic. And even, interestingly enough, a form of reality alteration which tried to erase his very existence.

