“My mother’s silks, the remnants of her web… that is all we come for. Orodan Wainwright will not divulge the location or method of reaching the clan world, this I promise.”

“Is that truly all you came for? To recover a traitor’s webbing from her accursed and abandoned spire?” the matriarch asked, and then regarded Orodan once more. “Embodier. We watch through the boundary what you and your kind have been doing in the Athranos Galaxy. The sudden mobilization, the existence of two other Embodiers alongside you. Would we make such bad allies? The places we could lead you to, the things you could do if you had us as your allies. Will you not consider it?”

Adding a world of dimensional phase spiders to the alliance would certainly be a great boon. Uneducated about politics as he was, even he could see that.

Truly, it was a good deal. Get Talricto reinstated, get her mother’s webbing back, get new allies.

But the answer was made for him already.

For he had been paying close attention to how his eight-legged teacher’s soul spiked with dread and anger whenever the notion of returning here was brought up.

“No.”

#

“Hold it! Hold it! Good! Right there!” Old Man Hannegan encouraged.

[Laboring 71 → Laboring 72]

Orodan’s finger maintained the gigantic support beam above his head still.

It was the same one he’d been holding in place before departing too. It was the centerpiece of the grand array, though with a far larger support beam than the one last loop. Mainly because this would be the piece that bore the brunt of the energy backlash when a pathway was opened up to near the edge of System space.

For once, his handlers and training assistants were away, giving him a reprieve. Not that he needed it, and he would normally be training something or the other.

But it was hard to when an irate spider was fitfully pacing near his feet as though particularly offended by his existence.

“You are the biggest oaf I know. A true uncivilized brute with no manners and decorum who is not fit to even grace a hut with his barbaric presence.”

“I prefer a hovel anyhow.”

“Do not jest with me! Do you realize what you’ve done?”

“Accompanied you while you retrieved your mother’s webbing and belongings from her spire?” he suggested.

“No! I mean yes! But no!” she angrily stated. “You turned down the possibility of having the entire clan-world as allies! Imagine what could have been done if they were with us?”

The matriarch of the dimensional phase spider clan world hadn’t been pleased by his answer. But there was no other option he would have taken anyhow. Even then, his refusal hadn’t suddenly caused them to go hostile and start fighting. They weren’t stupid.

They simply allowed Talricto to grab her mother’s webbing and belongings after paying some token compensation which was of an amount far lower than the spider herself had budgeted for.

It explained why the irksome thief went around stealing anything and everything of gaudy value

“It would have involved you returning there. You didn’t seem overly pleased about that prospect.”

“Who are you to-! You should have taken-”

“And be bereft of my Dimensionalism teacher? I think not,” he replied. “Now, if you’re done fielding protests about my decision, clear the way so I can practice something. Or better yet, stand right there so I can use you as a mobile target for my Lightning Bolts.”

“Brute! Let us see if you can land even a single bolt against a true talent of Dimensionalism!”

And so the rest of the array’s construction went, with Orodan trying his best to zap Talricto while she continually confounded and confused his lightning bolts with her deceptive tricks using the planar veil.

It was the least the irritating spider could do if she was going to be this clingy from now on.

For once this array was built, it would be time for a foray…

…to the edge of System space.
