Of course, the instant death magic, the mind magic, the curses and the reality alteration all ran into the same impassable problem. He was simply too much. And the elemental barrage wasn’t anywhere near strong enough to harm him.

The response took on a more panicked note from there, and Talricto’s progress in unraveling the defenses didn’t help.

He felt it before seeing it, the use of some single-use treasures and weapons, incredibly expensive no doubt. But they certainly hit a lot harder. One of them even hit with the force of an Embodier, which he ended up taking on the shield.

But it was all to no avail. As fortified as this pocket-plane was, as many tricks as it had, it was being assailed by the single worst combo of brute force and dimensional finesse in all System space. Talricto knew how to get in, but wouldn’t have managed it without alerting them and drawing their retribution which the spider wasn’t suited for taking. And he would have been stuck scrambling for ages without having ever found the pocket-dimension in the first place.

But together? A horrid prospect for any foe to face.

Whoever was directing the defenses of the pocket-plane seemed to now understand this as well, but by now it was a little too late. Perhaps they had gotten complacent with so long spent never being discovered. Mayhap they were unused to fights they didn’t utterly dominate due to their ability to pick and choose. But only now did the option of retreat enter the calculus, and it was one Talricto had accounted for.

The cell-sized dimension tried escaping via a fluid dimensional maneuver which would have absolutely flummoxed and eluded Orodan himself. But it did not fool the dimensional phase spider with him.

The attempt at escape was instead met by a clever tether which the spider had placed at the start of the battle. And in attempting to flee, the yank of that tether caused multiple defenses on the their target to unravel.

“In!” Talricto sharply instructed, more as a courtesy really, as the spider shifted Orodan alongside.

His first footfall upon solid ground was met by every possible element he could think of lancing up through the ground and attempting to eradicate him.

He ignored it, and the brief moment’s lull in the assault allowed him to get a clear view of where they were.

Orodan had traversed plenty of dimensions. The hells, the elemental planes, the various planes where he and his opponents had been dragged into to do battle for the sake of avoiding collateral. Furthermore, he’d also seen pocket dimensions before. They were a part of his training when learning dimensionalism for the first time via an orb that continually emitted decaying dimensional bubbles.

The internal size of those was nothing too special. A bubble the size of an apple would have double or triple the space inside. It was certainly wondrous when seen for the first time, but by his standards now, nothing out-of-the-ordinary.

But this? This was.

His physical sight finally caught up to what Vision of Purity was telling him.

It was a world the size of Xian, which itself was many times the size of Alastaia or Vylrystia… and it was all contained within a stable pocket-plane the size of a cell of his.

Not unoccupied either.

Towering and majestic spires of gilded gold, glittering silver and sparkling jewels of colors enough to make the head spin. From these spires hung webs and silks of the finest make and intricacy, some of them even had precious metal threaded alongside them, those webs were nearer to the highest spires though.

But even the lower spires housed all manner of opulent trinkets, things taken from the various civilizations of System space. And a common theme of… socks? Odd.

The entryway they were standing upon was meant to be a receiving point. However it was surrounded by an unfriendly ring of defensive spires from which thick webs were hanging. And upon those webs were spiders.

A lot of them. None of whom were happy.

Yet interestingly enough, they were even less happy to see the dimensional phase spider, one of their own, accompanying him.

“The exile! Warn the matriarch! Her traitor sister’s misbegotten spawn returns!”

“Aberration! You would turn from outcast to traitor out of spite? Decided to join your mother have you? You would lead an enemy Embodier to the heart of our clan world?”

The spiders didn’t look as though they were interested in talking. Furthermore, they were quite wary of him, yes, but they had identified who the weak link in actual combat was.

Which meant Talricto was now in far greater danger than he.

“Hide as close to me as you can,” he calmly spoke, and the dimensional spider obliged, narrowing itself down to the size of a cell and tucking into Orodan’s hair atop his head.

“Embodier, just what has this exile promised you for your aid? We shall double it, nay… triple it! Whatever wealth and treasures you seek shall be yours! But if you do not retreat, know that we have strong ties to certain powerful parties.”

Orodan simply hummed.

“I shall not be dishonest. I… have absolutely no idea why I am here.”

His declaration caused the murmurs to give way to a profound and shocked silence.

Even Talricto was rendered speechless!

“What?! Then all this conflict! All this hostility! You engaged in it on a whim? Have you come to assault the matriarch and lay claim to our treasures?!” an angered phase spider demanded. It was decked in enchanted gear meant to bolster its natural abilities in combat.

“No. I came for none of those things,” he replied loudly. “I came… because my teacher wanted me to. As a favor; as student repaying master. Now, if Talricto wants me to give you all a beating? I shall. Short of anything dishonorable, I have come here to do as my teacher asks.”

Talricto, having finally regained its speech, finally spoke up.

“No you buffoon! I did not come here to hurt anyone!” the spider insisted, and then spoke towards the defenders surrounding them. “I was exiled for something I had no hand in. I shan’t complain, it is the way of the clan. But as exile there was no way for me to reach here, thus I have entered the way I have. Pardon my… impoliteness, but I simply came to retrieve my mother’s silks, and I have brought much in the way of payment for the right to do so.”

It was the most subdued and polite he had ever seen the eight-legged wanderer. Certainly, Talricto would sooner give up all its treasures than speak so respectfully and deferentially to Orodan himself.

“It is forbidden! The traitor’s silks are kept in the cursed vault! The stain of dishonor can never be erased! We should-”

“Qalricen. Lower your ire.”

“But shifter! We cannot-”

“Quiet, hatchling. The order comes from the matriarch herself,” the senior spider spoke. A shifter, from what the other had said. Its beady eyes focused not on Talricto, but him. “You… Embodier. You are Orodan Wainwright, are you not? Our matriarch wishes to speak with you.”

“And will that involve Talricto getting what we came here for? Its mother’s ashes?” he asked calmly.

“It? The last daughter of a traitor house and she never introduced herself as such?” the shifter spider asked, causing Talricto to stiffen. “

She? For so long he'd been referring to his teacher as it. Perhaps an occasional slip of he... but... she?

“Daughter?" Orodan asked. "I am no expert in spider anatomy so it makes little difference to me.”

Though now that he thought about it, during all those spars whenever Talricto had shifted…

…he still had absolutely no clue what her gender was. Even in hindsight.

How was he supposed to know what a spider’s gender was? They had eight legs and that was that.

A soft warning thump hit the top of his head where she was hiding, as though she knew exactly what he was thinking. The less he thought about such things the better.

“As for your… request. The matriarch has conditionally approved of it, as long as Orodan Wainwright meets with her.”

Orodan yet remained on-guard, not quite trusting these spiders. It was less out of worry for himself and more out of a concern that they might try to assassinate Talricto. Though, with him already inside their clan world it made sense that they would try to avoid further hostilities when their strongest defenses had failed already.

“Well? I’m here for you, not the other way around. I’ll only meet with them if you agree,” he spoke.

For a moment, the spider atop his head stilled, anxiety coursing through her. But then, he sensed the currents of determination going through her soul.

She gave her assent, and the duo were led further into the winding planet-sized city of spire-dwelling spiders who had a love for the trinkets and things of other civilizations.

The warrior’s instinct within him noted several good spots for ambushes which had plenty of defenders emplaced. Not that any of it would matter against him. Even the strongest dimensional phase spiders here were Transcendents.

Still, the tense atmosphere aside, he hadn’t actually killed anyone, even if this was a historically significant event for these beings. Supposedly, no foreigner had ever set foot here.

The lower spires were full of curious observers, hatchlings too. And the upper spires had guards hanging off webs with curious and opulently dressed eight-legs watching. There was a definite social difference between those on the upper spires and those on the lower. That being said, there didn’t seem to be any poor spiders or orphans at least, which was a plus point in their favor.

Plenty of homes had trinkets which he recognized too. A cultivator’s flying sword, a Blackworth Collective rifle, a Conclave warhorse’s barding and more.

It even had him looking on agape when he saw an Exerston County militia outfit on one of the spire’s webs.

Ridiculous. These things really did get everywhere.

Soon enough, past the first block of spires, there was a prepared meeting ground of sorts. No seating or furnite for bipedal beings such as him of course, indicative of the fact that they’d never expected anyone to set foot on their world let alone here. But they did have a ceremonial space for him to stand. Which was about as good as it would get.

The matriarch—and he knew it was her based off the strength of her soul and the fact that he got the vague feeling of a peak-Transcendent—was dressed in a gaudy manner. Ornaments and jewelry hanging off of each of her arachnoid eight legs in a display Orodan felt would not have looked out of place in an Alastaian noble salon. She was not the biggest either, but two particularly powerful-feeling spiders to each side of her indicated her importance.

There were also Demonic Berserkers held in place with dimensional seals.

Not the undead sort, but actual Demonic Berserkers. Transcendents too, likely captured at some point. Unfortunately, the handlers for those practically shrank when the demons met his gaze and shrank away from looking at him.

He had slaughtered far worse.

“Orodan Wainwright. Embodiment of Cleaning and Embodiment of Infinity. A dual-Embodier… one of seven in all System space. Yet I have not heard of you until a few days ago when you slew a critical Invader and caused the bounty upon it to go inert,” the matriarch spoke. “I am Matriarch Valtarcto, spiritual leader and reigning brood mother of our clan world. An elder weaver of our kind across the cosmos.”

“You know of me?”

“Our clan often trades with Embodiers. The Identifier among them. That one is always watching; especially when a notorious Invader is slain. And no amount of defense against Identify will stop it. A favor here, a call there…”

“And what? They come running to help you?” Orodan asked. “Where are your Embodiers now?”

The spiders bristled at his tone, but he cared little. Something about the way they were treating Talricto had him… displeased.

“Present, and available to answer any calls, even if at great expense. Make no mistake, Embodier. Upon my death, an automated call can be sent out to one of the mightiest in all System space below the Administrators. The King of Kings among dwarvenkind. Kharadun Voidfortress himself.”

The dwarf?

“Strong, but I have his measure. I don’t mind the thought of fighting him again,” he replied with a hungry smile.

Whatever internal calculus the matriarch held, Orodan could see it shattering in her multiple beady eyes as he uttered that.

“That is… a bold claim. I have never heard of you until a few days ago.”

“And I hadn’t heard of you until a few minutes ago,” he cut sharply. “Why did you want to meet me?”

“Your words are terse and unfriendly… does this one’s fate bother you? Certain humans among you disfavor punishing the brood for the actions of the mother. But it is not so… permanent a thing, to be an exile. Especially if her friendship with you leads to friendship between us,” the leader of the clan spoke. “And she has grown… prodigious. Outmaneuvering the elder shifter himself, quite some talent in our ways.”

The nearby spiders hearing this were shocked into stiffness. It was as though the notion of allowing an exile back in was utterly unfathomable to them. But power had a way of rewriting social convention, especially when said power was capable of turning star systems to ash.

Orodan already held a poor first impression of this society based upon the implication that Talricto had been punished for her mother’s deeds. But to now hear that slimy political tone? He liked her even less.

He could feel the fear and dread rolling off Talricto in waves too. It caused something angry to coil up in him, as though this was not the right state of things.

His teacher was supposed to be arrogant, flippant and haughty. Not meek, afraid and subdued.

