Year 2

High Cleric Marcus Radden’s personal study was lit with several oil lamps burning clean and bright. A fire in the large fireplace provided additional light and much appreciated warmth. Piety had visited the High Cleric’s study often since Father Vytal had introduced them. She was no longer awed by the wealth of books on the shelves, or the view from the large round window, or the familiarity with which the High Cleric treated her.

“Good morning, Piety. Thank you for coming.”

Piety bowed. “Of course, sir. What do you want to talk about?”

The High Cleric looked up from his desk, reading glasses perched on his nose, and looked at her without smiling.

“I wanted to talk to you about this report I received. Brother Thyme is… worried about your behavior in his Morals and Ethics class.” His tone was stern, flat.

Piety felt like she’d been punched in the stomach. She and Brother Thyme often disagreed and by the way the High Cleric looked at her, it seemed he agreed with him rather than her.

“Did Brother Thyme say what he’s worried about?” Piety swallowed, her mouth dry.

“Saint Esther and the Dread Necromancer.” He tapped the paper. “In this concerned letter, Brother Thyme says you spent an hour yesterday defending the Dread Necromancer. He says you argued against Saint Esther’s actions.”

“Oh.” Her shoulders hunched and her breath caught.

Discussing scripture, philosophy, and the metaphysical with the High Cleric was an aspect of living at the High Temple Piety hadn’t become accustomed to. She was certain she never would. She reminded herself that though the High Cleric often talked with her familiarly, he was the leader of the Church of Khulanty while she was an orphan girl raised to acolyte by virtue of another’s kindness.

He looked at her over his reading glasses, no hint of the gentle smile he usually wore, and raised an eyebrow at her.

Piety lowered her eyes, folded her hands, and bowed. She heard the High Cleric’s small sigh, then the faint rustle of cloth and muted footsteps as he walked around his desk to the sitting area.

“Piety, please join me.”

Piety sat on one of the well-cushioned couches and the High Cleric sat on the other, facing her. She kept her gaze on her hands, folded on her lap.

“How did you defend her?”

Piety bit her tongue, not because she didn’t want to respond, but because she didn’t want to burst into tears. She took a deep breath, in through her nose, and tried to remind herself that the High Cleric had only ever been kind and encouraging.

“I… I just said that necromancy isn’t inherently evil. In the story, Saint Esther attacks the necromancer for no reason.”

“Ah, but Saint Esther did have a reason. The necromancer was raising the dead. Why do you believe raising the dead isn’t evil?”

Piety shrugged. “I don’t know.”

“Of course you do. Piety, look at me.”

Piety looked up, taking slow, shaky breaths. The High Cleric removed his glasses and looked at her sternly.

“She could have been raising the dead to do something benign like build a house, or even heroic, like defend the village. The story doesn’t say she was hurting anyone or scaring anyone or even that anyone in that little village nearby objected. The only one who seemed to think it was evil was Saint Esther. Why didn’t she at least try to talk to the Dread Necromancer first?”

“Do you remember how the story begins?” the High Cleric asked.

Piety nodded. “It’s a description of zombies.”

“It’s a description of rot, pain, and evil.”

Piety shrugged uncomfortably.

“You have doubts?”

“Well, what if it’s just that whoever wrote the story is afraid of necromancers? What if they got it wrong?”

The High Cleric studied her for several quiet moments. The large fire crackled and popped.

“Did you become friends with Devorah Kempenny?” When he named the black-haired girl, his voice became breathy.

Piety shivered. “No,” she whispered. “We barely spoke.”

Several more silent moments passed while the High Cleric considered. Piety did not dare to know his thoughts. She made certain her glass shield was tight as a blanket around her mind.

“You’re not the first acolyte to challenge Church teachings. But you must never forget that the Saints wrote their stories at the behest of God. They didn’t get it wrong. We know necromancy is evil because God says so.”

Piety’s skin tingled, the hair on her arms rose. She took a breath to steady her chest and clasped her hands to stop the shaking. She knew she should leave it there, should nod contritely, should let the High Cleric think she agreed with him.

It’s what she would have done at Sacred Heart.

“Sir, power runs through everything. I feel it. I’m sure you feel it too. And it’s like the weather. When a storm comes in off the ocean so hard that ships capsize, we don’t say the storm is evil, it just exists.”

“The sailors on those ships might disagree.”

“Or they might blame God. Sir, I’m a healer, but that doesn’t mean I’m inherently good. I could use my power to do all sorts of horrible things.”

“Like what?”

“Like revive a torture victim so he could be tortured again, or heal a wound so it closed over an object still in the body, or set a bone wrong and purposely cripple a leg. People can be immoral, sir. People can be evil. But a force of nature cannot.”

The High Cleric shook his head. “I once met a man, Paul, whose power was to incite madness in anyone who met his gaze. That is evil, Piety. Sometimes the evil can be removed and what remains can be salvaged, but it’s a rare case.”

Piety disagreed. The man was afflicted with an unfortunate and dangerous power, but that made neither the man nor the power evil. She didn’t say so aloud.

After several moments more, the High Cleric smiled warmly. Piety felt some nervousness drain away. The tingle dancing along her skin dissipated.

“You’ll be a powerful cleric one day. I hope you work out your understanding of good and evil.” He stood and went back to his desk, a silent dismissal. Piety stood and walked quietly to the door, but paused.

“Sir, what did you do with him?”

“Hmm?”

“The man who caused madness. Paul. What did you do with him?”

“I took his eyes.”

Piety shivered.

“It was God’s mercy. What remained was salvaged.”

• • •

Piety took a deep breath as she stepped into the courtyard, taking in the scents of wood smoke, falling leaves, and rain coming in off the ocean. The great oaks in the courtyard had shed most of their leaves in falls of scarlet, gold, and umber. The grass had gone to pale brown and the squirrels inhabiting the courtyard begged, borrowed, and stole everything they could, in preparation for winter. Their back-and-forth chittering floated in the courtyard.

The stone-paved path was covered in dried leaves whispering aside as she walked through them. Briefly, she felt a tinge of responsibility, like she should fetch a broom and sweep the pathway clean, but those days were behind her. Almost a year now. The High Temple paid a head gardener a hefty sum to keep the gardens, lawns, and courtyards neat and clean, and the head gardener oversaw several other gardeners to do such things as sweep pathways. Sweeping was no longer Piety’s responsibility and it was no longer her name.

Piety didn’t know when she’d stopped thinking of herself as Sweep, but in the months since she’d come to live, study, and train at the High Temple in Kinswell, her mindset had shifted. Everyone here called her Piety, and she had no reason to think of herself any other way.

There were a few other acolytes in the courtyard, enjoying the cool afternoon. They waved as she passed and she smiled and waved back, careful not to drop the package tucked under her arm.

It had been strange, at first, how different the acolytes at the High Temple were from the acolytes at Sacred Heart. Though they were still mostly from noble families and many had a low opinion of manual labor, they were generally friendlier and regarded their duty as one of service to God and His people. None thought her white hair or left hand was a sign of evil.

Piety shook her head and watched the pure white hair dance in front of her face, felt it tickle across the back of her neck. Her hair was longer now than it had ever been, no longer cut short by the Mother Superior.

It had been months since Piety had thought about the Mother Superior, and she realized thinking about her no longer brought the clench of fear or the sting of tears it once had. Instead, she felt relieved; she felt she could breathe and move and think without fear of being hit.

At the other end of the courtyard she entered the distillery, where were made and stored a variety of brews, including wine, beer, and medicine. Initially, it had been peculiar to Piety that the High Temple would make and store spirits, the Mother Superior had often preached against the evils of alcohol, but it had been another case of the Mother Superior being wrong.

Piety laughed and shook her head.

Twice in as many minutes her thoughts had taken her back to Sacred Heart and that awful woman, and twice she had blithely dismissed her. It was a nice feeling, to not be afraid.

Piety looked down at the small package wrapped in brown paper and held with twine she’d brought with her. Written in a neat hand she’d come to know well as Father Vytal’s, was the name Temperance Sunday. Their mentor had sent letters nearly once a week, telling them about his adventures. He never let on what the council had sent him to do or where he was, mentioning no town or province by name, but the stories he sent were akin to the adventures they had shared trekking along the Grand River: a broken leg, a lost treasure, a disputed tract of land.

Piety descended the worn stone stairs to a hallway lit by thin, horizontal windows near the ceiling. Lately, Temperance spent most of her time here, mixing all manner of things she’d excitedly explain to Piety over dinner, but which Piety barely understood.

A sudden explosion, as though lightning had struck somewhere in the building, loosed dust from the ceiling and shook the windows in their casings. A door down the hall slammed against the wall, letting loose billowing smoke and soot. Temperance soon followed, coughing and choking and covered in black soot from head to toe, the thick leather apron she wore was pockmarked, and those marks were smoking. An acrid stench filled the hall. Temperance pushed her soot blackened goggles up off her face and collapsed to her hands and knees, still coughing.

“Temperance!”

Piety ran toward her friend, dropping to her knees beside Temperance and setting the package on the floor. With ease of practice, she pictured her mindspace and opened herself to her power, allowing it to fill her. With a hand on Temperance’s shoulder, she let her senses delve into the other girl, telling her what was wrong. Smoke and soot filled Temperance’s lungs and Piety focused her power there, helping Temperance’s body to expel the intruding substance with three mighty coughs, and then helping her throat to smooth over the irritation caused by the smoke and heavy coughing.

Temperance sat back on her heels with a deep breath. The goggles with the round glass lenses held to her head with a leather strap, were pushed onto her head, holding her grimy hair back. Tears tracked down her soot-covered face, making clear tracks in the black. She smelled of sulfur, like a struck match.

“Piety,” she said. “Good to see you.”

“And just in time it would seem.”

Temperance laughed happily. “You’ll never guess what I’ve done.”

“It sounds like you were trying to destroy the distillery. Are you playing with alcohol fumes again?”

Temperance eased from kneeling to sitting. “No, no,” she waved her hand in the air between them dismissively, “Nothing like that. I’ve created…” but she paused and looked at Piety through lidded eyes.

“Created what?”

“I’m not sure I should tell you. It’ll ruin the surprise.”

“What surprise?”

But Temperance changed the subject. “What’s that?” she pointed to the package Piety had set down nearby.

“You’re really not going to tell me?” Piety demanded.

Temperance laughed and shook her head. “No. Not yet anyway. I want to make certain I’ve got it right first.”

“You know, I could have let you choke on the floor for a while.”

Temperance picked up the package and flipped it over to show her name in Father Vytal’s handwriting. “You wouldn’t have done that,” Temperance said. “Not even for a secret.” She held up the package to Piety. “What do you suppose this is?”

“A birthday gift,” Piety replied.

Temperance’s eyes went wide. “You think so?”

Piety nodded. “Father Vytal wouldn’t forget your birthday.” She smiled. “Of course, your birthday isn’t for three more days. Perhaps I should take it back,” she reached for the package but Temperance thrust it behind her back.

“Don’t you dare, Piety Churchstep.” Temperance stuck out her tongue.

Piety laughed. “Well, at least come back to the dormitories with me and get cleaned up first. You’ll mark it up with soot as you are.”

They stood and turned to the stairs in time to see Mother Josephine Simmons coming down them, her skirts held up so she could descend quickly. She stopped at the bottom of the stairs and looked down the hallway at them. She was a tall woman with broad shoulders and a big nose. She was clad in simple brown and grey work clothes. Her golden sunburst amulet was tucked away under her dress.

“Temperance,” she said with a hint a humor. “I should have guessed.”

Piety and Temperance folded their hands at their waists and bowed quickly.

Mother Simmons waved a hand at them. “Quit that,” she admonished. “So, Temperance, have you destroyed another laboratory?”

“Another?” Piety asked, looking at her friend.

“Not entirely,” Temperance answered, ignoring Piety’s incredulous look. “And, I think I’ve finally got it.”

Mother Simmons nodded. “Of course you do, dear. But from now on, I think I’m going to have to insist on a healer present while you conduct your experiments.”

Piety nodded. “I’ll do it, Mother.”

“Of course you will,” she smiled. “I’ll talk to the Dean of Students to see if we can adjust your studies with Temperance’s experiments.”

Her smile turned to a critical examination. “Now, run along and clean up. I’ll take care of this mess.”

“Seriously?” Temperance said. “Since when do you clean up after me?”

Mother Simmons fixed her with a stern look.

“It’s well within my purview to help an acolyte once in a while. Now go on before I change my mind.”

