“Oh.” Piety hurried to the door and opened it, bowing quickly. The High Cleric had not invited her to his study since their discussion of Saint Esther and the Dread Necromancer. He’d never come to her room before. The visitation was so unexpected she only remembered how uncomfortable their last meeting had made her after she’d opened the door and bowed. She wondered if he’d found out about her flinging towels off the bathhouse shelf.

The High Cleric returned the bow, a gesture that still shocked Piety.

“Piety, I’m sorry to bother you when I’m sure you’d rather be celebrating, but there’s someone I’d like to introduce you to. Do you have the time?”

Piety was taken aback. “Uh… yes, yes sir. Will I need my coat?”

The High Cleric shook his head. “No, she’s in my office.”

They walked next to each other, trailed by a pair of church guards, as they made their way into the upper floors of the dormitories where the higher-ranking members of the church living in the High Temple, had their rooms. Piety thought it disconcerting the High Cleric was considered so vulnerable as to need guards even in the High Temple.

As they walked, the High Cleric said, “Have you given any thought to our last conversation?”

Piety nodded slowly. “I have, sir.”

“Good.”

And that was it. He didn’t ask her if she’d changed her mind, if she agreed with him, just whether or not she’d thought on it.

Another pair of guards stood at the door to the High Cleric’s office, but these guardsmen were dressed in the purple and silver of the Khulanty guard instead of the scarlet and gold of the Church. The purple-clad guards saluted as the High Cleric approached and he nodded to them. The High Cleric’s guards stayed outside the office while he and Piety entered.

A woman stood from one of the couches adorning the sitting area. She was tall and lithe with long silvery hair and a confident demeanor. The woman approached and held her hand out to Piety.

“Piety Churchstep, Cleric Radden has told me much about you.”

Piety took the woman’s hand tentatively. “Hello,” she said shyly.

“Piety, this is Isabel Loreamer, the Heir to Khulanty’s throne.”
