The two hurried back to the dormitories where Temperance took her time cleaning up before inviting Piety over to her room. Piety was re-reading Saint Esther and the Dread Necromancer, looking for some hint of understanding from the Saint.

Piety sat on Temperance’s bed while her friend tried to shift sheaves of paper from her chair to her desk, which was cluttered with jars of herbs and packets of powders and the instruments with which to work with them: scales, drying racks, and the mortar and pestle Father Vytal had given her months ago.

Piety looked around at the clutter and shook her head.

“You’re usually more organized than this.”

Temperance sighed and gave up trying to find a suitable place for the papers. She set them back on her chair instead and sat on the bed next to Piety. “I’m working on something special,” she said.

“The same special thing you won’t tell me about?” Piety reached down the bedside and plucked a hairbrush from the clutter. She scootched behind Temperance and began brushing her hair.

“That’s nice,” Temperance said. She sighed and her shoulders relaxed. “But no, I won’t tell you. Not yet. It’s a secret.”

“And what about your package from Father Vytal? Aren’t you going to open it?”

“Oh!” said Temperance, and she straightened quickly, pulling her hair against the brush. Leaning off the bed, she snatched the package off the desk and tore it open. A thick, black book fell onto the bed. Temperance picked it up and leafed through it.

Piety let her friend examine the book in silence for several minutes before she asked, “What is it?”

“It’s an index of herbalism,” said Temperance quietly. “It’s got notes and observations from all kinds of people I’ve heard about in Mother Simmons’s classes. It’s got sketches and formulae and recipes…” Temperance trailed off, becoming engrossed in the book.

“Happy birthday,” Piety kissed the back of her friend’s head.

The explosion and package had chased the memory of her conversation with the High Cleric from her mind, but now it returned and Piety wanted to ask Temperance what she thought of it all, but her friend was absorbed in her birthday gift. There would be another time.

• • •

The months slid along in a cascade of brightly colored leaves and cups of spiced cider, cold gusts of wind and late nights reading by candlelight. The first snow came in the second week of eleven-month and buried Kinswell in thick powdery white. Two weeks later, at the end of eleven-month, the clerics and acolytes of the High Temple gathered in the massive sanctuary to observe the official coming of Winter, the holyday associated with Saint Lucius the Just. It no longer seemed odd to Piety that she should be counted amongst the acolytes.

The sanctuary at the High Temple was at least three times as big as the one at Sacred Heart and the acolytes, clerics, workmen, and servants only took up a third, the rest was filled with people from Kinswell, come to celebrate the holyday. Those who hadn’t arrived early enough to secure a spot, or weren’t important enough to reserve one in the sanctuary itself, crowded Kinswell Square, the plaza between the High Temple and the Royal Palace where they danced, sang, ate, and drank in celebration.

One month later was the new year. New year wasn’t a holyday marked by solstice, equinox, or season’s beginning, and there was no saint associated with it. Instead, the celebration marked the day First Royal Dalton Loreamer had founded the Nation of Khulanty over one hundred years ago. Some in the church disparaged celebrating the new year, claiming it was a secular holyday and that Royal Dalton Loreamer was revered like a saint.

New year day was also Heir Isabel Loreamer’s birthday, marking her nineteenth year. Every day of the week before, there was a party held in her honor and on the eve of the new year, the eve of her birthday, a grand ball was to be held at the Royal Palace and many notable dignitaries were invited. The celebration lasted the whole day and Kinswell Square was crowded with those celebrating both the new year and the heir’s birthday, each commencing at midnight.

Piety was glad no one but Temperance knew that new year was her birthday too. Or at least her founday. Some would have made a big deal of it and Piety didn’t want that. Temperance had promised not to tell anyone.

The morning of the eve of new year was spent in lectures; powers theory, ethics, history. Mother Simmons had assigned Piety on duty while Temperance conducted her experiments, but she was one in a rotation of five, and today was not her day, so she spent some time in the temple library, looking up stories on Saint Claes, Saint of Midwinter.

After lunch, was powers class.

“Let the tip of your tongue rest on the roof of your mouth, just behind your teeth. Breathe through your nose, fill your lungs and let them exhale. Focus on each part of your body in turn, starting with your toes all the way to your head, letting each relax in turn. Still your mind.”

Piety didn’t need the meditation exercises, she knew how to enter the room in her mind, but she liked powers class and class always started with meditation. So, Piety stilled her thoughts as coached, and relaxed in meditation.

“Picture a room. It’s your room. It’s a comfortable room where you can relax and concentrate for as long as you need to.”

Piety hadn’t told anyone at the High Temple about how she used the room in her mind. For everyone else in the class, it was nothing but a mental picture, a metaphor that helped them access their power. They could picture a blossoming flower or a burning candle and achieve the same effect. Most would abandon the practice when accessing power became as natural as breathing. But for Piety it was something more. She already had three powers for certain; telepathy, martyr, and healing, to acknowledge she could do something with the room in her mind no one else could might be considered a fourth power and she already got enough attention for having three powers as it was. The attention made her uncomfortable.

Now in the room in her mind, the teacher’s voice was distant, as though coming from across a large space. Piety sat at her desk in the room in her mind and waited for the teacher to continue.

“Now, picture a table in the center of the room and on the center of the table is a bowl and in the bowl is still, pure water. This water is your power.”

“Gently dip your hand into the water and feel it caress your skin. This is your power. Let it feel you, let it become one with you, feel your power, hold it, shape it.”

Piety let her power fill her and it felt like that first time, when she had been so young and she’d stared at the shining stained-glass window and had felt God’s presence, listening to the faint chimes at the edge of sound. And just beyond the edge of everything, she felt the gaping cosmic void where all power originated and she was tempted to pull aside the veil between here and there and look into the beyond. But caution stayed her hand.

Piety opened her eyes. Her fellow pupils glowed to her vision, varying shades of orange. At the head of the class sat Hirrom Berek, the man responsible for guiding acolytes through basic power use in their first year at the High Temple. He was a round man with only a few white wisps of hair. He was always gentle and kind.

Most acolytes would learn to harness their power in a year’s time and be ready for individual tutoring. In Piety’s case, she had already mastered this particular lesson, but even acolytes who came to the High Temple able to access their power were made to take the class so as to insure each had the same training and make sure nothing had been overlooked.

Father Berek approached each student in turn, spoke with him or her quietly, and moved on. He came to Piety last. “Piety, your aura is looking well today.”

“Thank you, sir.”

Father Berek was an aura reader, and he always complimented her on her aura. She’d gotten used to it though it still seemed an odd greeting to her.

“Are you looking forward to this evening’s festivities?”

Piety shrugged. “It’s not a holyday. But Temperance seems excited. She’s been working with Mother Simmons on something. She won’t tell me what.”

“Is that so?” But he said it with a conspiratorial tone that made Piety think he knew what was going on. Father Berek often engaged in small talk to put his students at ease. This was the first time he’d teased her.

“Sir, do you know what she’s planning?”

Father Berek put up his hands. “Ask me no questions, acolyte. Mother Simmons will have my hide if I tell.”

Piety sighed and nodded. “Shall we continue then?”

Father Berek smiled. “Indeed. Perhaps you should be running this class instead of a distractible old man.”

Piety blushed and looked away. “I would not presume, sir…”

“I’m only teasing you, Piety. Come now. Concentrate on your powers.”

Piety pictured the room in her mind and eased into her power, like sitting next to a hearthfire. She shivered at the tingle across her skin, and the faint chimes at her ears, then she touched first her healing power; let it fill her with the invigorating buzz of life.

“Very good, Piety. Now the martyr.” Father Berek smiled.

Piety let go of the healing power with some reluctance and reached for the power to absorb another’s pain. This was a power Piety had only been asked to demonstrate once, but was required to touch every time she had powers class. It was a soft power, like reaching into a pile of cushiony bed sheets.

“Good. Now the telepathy.”

And Piety touched the smooth, supple glass of her mental shield before she made Father Berek aware of her, tapping politely at his mental door. Father Berek had an impressive mental shield, but he let her through.

“Well done, Piety, as always.” His mental voice was strong, as strong as Father Vytal’s.

“Thank you, sir.”

“Piety, I’ve been meaning to mention… I’ve read many auras, but yours still mystifies me.”

“Sir?”

“We say you have three powers, which is more than any other alive today. But when I look at your aura, I see so many swirling colors, and yet there is a solid core. I believe there is more to you than we know.”

Sweep shrugged uncomfortably. “Like more powers?”

Father Berek nodded and spoke out loud in tandem with his mental voice. “You’re uncomfortable with standing out in a crowd. But Piety, it’s okay to be different. There will be some who hate you for it, but there’s nothing you can do about that. If you don’t want to tell me now, that’s fine. But if there’s more you can do, we should start you practicing it.”

For years, Piety had stood out because of her white hair and been abused for it. Now, despite reassurance, she was still afraid to stand out.

Piety left class early, claiming a headache, and Father Berek let her go with a knowing look.

When Piety entered the bathing room it was empty, a rare treat for such a shared facility. Each floor of the dormitories was designated either for boys or for girls and each floor had its own bathing tubs fed by a boiler and distributed by a clever array of pipes and taps. The bathing rooms were at least a century old, but the pipes were a new contrivance, recently installed, imported from Kempenny Province.

Turning a few knobs, Piety sent hot water rushing into a large, copper tub. Minutes later, she lowered herself slowly into the tub of steaming water and let the heat and steam relax her. She stared at the far wall where several stacks of folded towels rested on shelves.

Father Berek had said her aura was so many swirling colors, and he was the expert in such matters, rivaling even Father Vytal’s reputation. So, she closed her eyes and focused on that still, cool well of power, comforting as a warm fire on midwinter and prodded at it.

With half open eyes, she slid to the room in her mind. She could see the desk in her mind even as she stared at the towel shelf in the bathing room. She dipped her finger in the bowl of water on her desk. In turn, she touched and recognized her powers: healing, martyr, telepathy. And, indeed, there was something else. Perhaps it had always been there and she’d just never noticed.

Perhaps.

She reached for the power and felt it slide through her fingers like water. Her skin tingled with it. She reached again and again it eluded her.

Piety shifted restlessly in the tub, sending the steaming water rippling.

In her mindspace, she stood and took time to examine the chessboard and scan the bookshelf for any changes. She moved a pawn.

She reached again for her power but, rather than seeking that flavor of power she did not know, she let it all suffuse her; she enjoyed the tingle along her skin and the chiming ghost of a sound at the edge of hearing. Rather than seeking it, she let it roll about within. Rather than grasping for it, she examined her chess board and stared at the towels, sat in her arm chair and reclined in the tub. Slowly, like approaching a frightened animal, she set aside her healing, her martyr, her telepathy and let the rest of it come to her…

The stacked towels burst from their shelf toward her like they’d been hit by a gust of wind. They unfurled and scattered thumping and fluttering and settling around her. Several ended up in the tub with her.

Piety gasped and sat up, sliding from the mindspace. Her shoulders ached like after a full day of chores without rest. Her breathing came hard and sudden. Her teeth were clenched.

Father Berek had been right.

• • •

Because new year day was not an official holyday, there was no vigil in the sanctuary. Instead, those who wanted to participate in the celebration gathered in the courtyard of the High Temple, or in the Kinswell Square between the Royal Palace and the temple. Piety had planned to spend the evening studying in her room, but several days ago, Temperance had insisted she join her in the square.

Piety was in her room, looking out her window to the great square. The square was packed with people. Impromptu stages displayed musicians, actors, and sleight of hand artists. Merchants had set up booths wherever was convenient and sold food and drink and knickknacks. People danced and ate and sang and drank, preparing to celebrate the Newyear and Heir Isabel’s nineteenth birthday. For the dual celebration, the people of Kinswell seemed prepared to celebrate twice as exuberantly. According to firsthand accounts, the real partying started after the church’s bells struck midnight.

A knocking at her door drew her attention away from the crowd below. “Come in, Temperance,” she said.

“Piety, it’s Marcus.” High Cleric Marcus Radden’s baritone voice rumbled through the door.

