Revi needn’t have feared. Pebblesnatch was amazing. She’d gotten a new Skill as a [Forager Cook]. And that was: [Remove Food Poisoning]. No more throwing up or having mad poos after the wrong thing!
Anyways, she was doing this right. The soup was all hot and Pebblesnatch took it off the burner and added some magic.
Hot spices! Green onions! A bit of butter! And done! Pebblesnatch’s Dropped Eggs Soup was done! It had bits of chicken, a nice spice, eggs…and it was a soup!
You couldn’t ask for more than that, could you? The Goblin heaved it over to the table in a big pot and began ladling it into bowls. She stared at her guests for breakfast this morning.
Griffon Hunt examined the meal as they sat in one of the mess halls of Riverfarm. In the Human lands. Not the Goblinlands. And here was Pebblesnatch.
“I’ve never seen a soup like that.”
The Human [Cook] edged around Pebblesnatch and into his kitchen, as if to make sure she hadn’t stolen everything or poisoned it while he was blinking. The other Humans, who’d been surreptitiously watching the Cave Goblin, eyed the glistening soup with the same dubious expressions.
But Halrac? He’d been in an inn and served this exact soup. It wasn’t the same, but the adventurer took the bowl Pebblesnatch offered him. He dipped a spoon into the broth, blew on it, and put it into his mouth.
The [Cook] waited. Halrac’s face didn’t change as he chewed the egg bits, then swallowed. The rest of his team, especially Revi, waited. Briganda pulled Cade’s hand away from his bowl.
“It’s good. And it tastes like the other soup. Just more chicken. I’m almost certain it’s safe, Briganda.”
It’s almost certainly safe. Pebblesnatch exhaled slowly. That was the kind of praise you worked these long hours for. Especially from Halrac. She beamed as the [Scout], of his own volition, took another spoonful.
“The things I do. Are you sure, Halrac? That was a lot of eggs.”
“Doesn’t Ceria eat them raw, Revi? It looks a sight better than most of the cuisine I had as a boy, I must say.”
Typhenous took a bowl and ate with good humor. It was actually a pretty good soup and Pebblesnatch seized a loaf of white bread which would go well with it. Briganda tried some before giving it to Cade.
“Hey, it is good! Nice inn-food. We could have actually made that on the road. Here, Cade. It’s a bit spicy.”
“Spicy?”
The boy was still staring at Pebblesnatch. It was butt-scratching time since she was done cooking. She stared at him.
“Thanks, uh, Pebblesnatch. It looks good. And it tastes…huh. Hey, this is really good!”
Revi’s eyes widened as she took a bite. She relaxed and Pebblesnatch beamed. The Stitchgirl [Summoner] looked around at her team.
“Whew, and here I thought it’d be horrible!”
Pebblesnatch glowered and Typhenous nudged Revi. But the Stitchgirl had never been known for her ability to keep her opinions to herself. Revi sighed.
And then she looked around and saw Riverfarm’s people watching the Gold-rank team eating a Goblin dish with mingled horror and shock. They looked away as Revi glared.
“Halrac, are you sure this was a good idea?”
“Nope. But she kept insisting and it was this or the Goblin’s camp. Which would you have picked?”
“Ah…good idea to have it here.”
The [Cook], oblivious, helped herself to her own dish. She stared around the large mess hall. The Goblins needed to build something this nice! They were working on it with all the wood and such, but everything was so polished. More Skills and time, she decided. She’d tell Leafarmor and Raidpear and Ulvama about it when she got back.
She was in the Unseen Empire’s lands. The Human-part, not the Goblinlands. Pebblesnatch had thought this day would never come—unless she was running for her life. But she had never expected old friends to show up.
Griffon Hunt. Halrac had come home, as well as seeking a mysterious employment offer. He had met Laken Godart and then, when hearing of the Goblinlands, gone to investigate.
And he’d found Pebblesnatch. Or rather, she’d found him. The Goblin’s smile was big on her face.
“…never seen a Goblin smile.”
Someone muttered. Briganda looked about.
“And you never will if you keep your distance. Hey, you want a bite? It’s good soup! What is it, eggs and chicken?”
She waved at the Humans. And most didn’t come over—but one or two did.
Mostly former Windrest villagers. They looked at Halrac as he shrugged and ate. And a Halrac-shrug was good enough for them.
“Is this the Goblin?”
“That’s Pebblesnatch. A Goblin.”
“And you know her?”
Revi rolled her eyes, already out of patience with the same conversation they had gone through countless times over the last week. Typhenous explained.
“She’s an acquaintance, Miss. A [Cook]. She used to work at an inn we stayed at. Her name is Pebblesnatch—”
The Cave Goblin stared blankly at the Human woman and waved. It shocked them, somehow, to know she could hear them. As if they knew Goblins could listen, but not that they really understood.
Halrac was wearing his permanent scowl. Pebblesnatch kept waiting for him to burst into a huge smile or to say this soup had changed him for the better. Maybe not this time?
It was a funny thing. She didn’t know Halrac super well. He was just one of Erin’s guests. But…he had been there. He was from the inn. And when she had been alone in Riverfarm, a face from there was all she wanted to see.
“Thanks for the meal, Pebblesnatch.”
Revi ended up eating two whole bowls. She leaned back with a large sigh.
“Erin is going to flip when she learns Pebblesnatch actually learned how to cook.”
“She’s going to flip in more ways than one when she hears about this.”
Halrac pushed back his empty bowl and sat back. The rest of his team nodded. Revi alternatively winced and smiled.
“What do you think she’ll do? Burn down half of Riverfarm?”
Some of the other breakfasters looked up sharply and Revi earned a smack on the back of her head from Briganda.
“Don’t joke about that.”
“Sorry, sorry! Ah, my eye!”
One popped out of its sockets and landed as a bit of cloth in Revi’s bowl. Cade began choking on his spoonful of soup as Revi reached for her eye. Briganda immediately helped him spit up into his bowl.
“Sorry. Anyways, what do we think? We have to tell her, right?”
Revi looked around as she washed her eye in her water cup and put it back in its socket. Pebblesnatch listened with half an ear; she was three-bowls down and currently coma-ing.
“The problem, Revi, is that you were indelicate, but completely correct.”
Typhenous sat back with a sigh. He looked around Riverfarm.
“…And I cannot imagine her attitude will earn her much sympathy around here. Even if we’re doing our best.”
He gestured to Pebblesnatch. Revi grinned.
“Erin won’t care.”
“That’s the problem.”
Halrac growled. After a second, Griffon Hunt all nodded. That was right.
Pebblesnatch was here. So were other Goblins from the Siege of Liscor. Laken Godart had been responsible for the trebuchets that had assailed Liscor. It made sense from the Human perspective. The Great Chieftain Tremborag, Goblin Lords, history with the Drakes, and all that.
But…would Erin Solstice see it that way? They had met Pebblesnatch a while back. And still, they hadn’t [Messaged] Erin to say, ‘hey, we found your Cave Goblin friend, want to pick her up?’
Revi had wanted to on the first day, in the first hour. It had been Halrac and Typhenous who predicted that it might lead to…issues.
Such as Erin Solstice punching an [Emperor]. Such as Erin Solstice leading a Goblin rebellion to mutual bloodshed. Such as Erin Solstice doing anything that she had in the past. Including marshaling Numbtongue to lead a one-Goblin, one-[Innkeeper] raid on Riverfarm that might pull in monsters like Saliss of Lights or…any of her friends.
You could see Erin getting away in Liscor with that—if only because of her history. But Laken Godart? No one wanted to risk it.
So here they sat. Griffon Hunt watched as the Cave Goblin, groaning, lay on the floor on her back. Cade dangled his legs at the table, staring at the Goblin. She wasn’t the monster his Box of Wonders had produced. His mother had tried to explain—some Goblins were evil, but not this one.
That was how the [Emperor] found them. Laken Godart paused in the doorway as everyone sprang to their feet.
“Is…that Goblin well? I’m sensing she’s lying on her back.”
“Bloated, your Majesty. Not dead.”
Rie murmured in his ear. Laken relaxed.
“Ah, good.”
“Your Majesty. Is something amiss?”
Halrac rose to his feet. He was more accustomed to Laken after a week or two of living in Riverfarm. Certainly—Griffon Hunt was willing to call Laken ‘your Majesty’ and stick around for the dirty work.
It had paid off. Briganda adjusted her new belt—which was actually an extremely old Belt of Strength. It made Briganda’s already threatening grip and swing far more intimidating.
And fun fact about good artifacts; it didn’t just enhance her arm muscles, but her back, her legs, everything. Briganda could do a backflip with it on. Or do most of one with armor on; and face plant much to her son’s amusement.
Boots and a belt. Griffon Hunt had taken their cut of the secret escape room they’d found on the first day and the boots were on Halrac’s feet. Typhenous and Revi had both wanted them—and Briganda, again—but they turned out to be non-resizable so they’d only fit Halrac. And even then, they were a bit too big even for his feet.
Boots of Stability. High-grade. If Briganda’s belt was, say, a five out of ten, Halrac’s were a seven on the ‘adventurer’s loot scale’. At first, everyone had assumed they were just Boots of Water Walking. Since you could walk on water with them.
As it turned out, you could walk on quicksand or mud with them and not sink too. Also, if someone rammed Halrac, like, say, Revi with a run-up, she’d just bounce off. Only Briganda could even budge Halrac with them on, and even then, not knock him down.
It wasn’t earthshattering equipment, but it was nice. Whomever the luckless person who’d died in there had been, it was pretty clear they’d been a [Rogue] or [Thief] of some sort. The kind of person who could steal something, backflip or climb over a wall, and run across a river to escape their opponents before hiding in their getaway secret lair and then run out of oxygen and die because the teleport spell broke.
And that was the first thing Griffon Hunt had investigated. The rest hadn’t been as wonderfully rich, but they’d discovered a small gold vein, uncovered two old nests of kleptomaniac animals and monsters—one with a little magic ring that Griffon Hunt had forfeited since Typhenous had a better Ring of Mana—all of which had earned them some share for investigating.
So when they considered telling Erin Solstice, it was carefully because this was a good thing and Griffon Hunt didn’t want to jeopardize it. And as it happened—
“The door in Invrisil?”
Halrac didn’t blink, but Revi traded a glance with the others that everyone, including Laken, noticed. The [Emperor] nodded.
“I have an interest in receiving some visitors through the magic door for a party during the summer solstice. Do you know about the door?”
“We—used it, yes, your Majesty. I don’t know if it could reach Riverfarm, but it can move within…four hundred miles of Liscor? We asked about it.”
Halrac glanced at Typhenous, too-casually. The [Plague Mage] schooled his features and neglected to mention who had helped figure that out. Or that they were on a first-name basis with the owner.
“I believe so, your Majesty.”
“Really? Well then—do you happen to know who owns the door?”
“A…[Innkeeper] in Liscor.”
Griffon Hunt saw the [Emperor] raise his brows.
“Really.”
“Yes, your Majesty. Apparently she got it after an adventuring team indebted to her cleared a dungeon.”
“I see. Some relic, then? Rie—”
“I’ll see about the door, your Majesty.”
“Good! And I see you have…Pebblesnatch here?”
Griffon Hunt as a team were dying to put their heads together and figure out how Erin’s name had even managed to come to Riverfarm. And what this might mean. Halrac nodded slowly.
“I was told it would not be a problem, your Majesty?”
“Of course not. I approved it myself. I’m grateful for your—stance—on Goblins, Captain Halrac.”
The man’s eyes flickered. And this was the same [Emperor] who’d assailed Liscor? Well, Erin Solstice might be gratified to hear that. But she still might punch him.
“I see. Thank you, your Majesty. We are making sure Pebblesnatch doesn’t get into trouble. As we said, we know her.”
“From Liscor. It seems a lot happened around that city.”
“…Yes, it does seem that way.”
By now, Pebblesnatch had recognized the [Emperor] and his entourage. She sat up, warily, eying him. Was he here for her famous Dropped Eggs Soup?
As it turned out, she was partially right. When he heard about the soup, Laken wanted to try it and half of his entourage insisted on poison and taste-testing it first.
“Ah, egg-drop soup. With chicken?”
Pebblesnatch’s jaw dropped.
“You know this dish, your Majesty?”
“I think I do. Amazing. Goblin cooking is…no, that can’t be right. I haven’t heard of rice—Lady Rie, do you know what ‘rice’ is?”
“It’s…a Balerosian plant, your Majesty. I’ve had it in some dishes…”
“Aha! We should grow some if possible. It’s quite good. Well, I pronounce a Goblin’s cooking as excellent! Even nostalgic!”
The [Emperor] actually had the audacity to open his eyes just so he could wink. And didn’t that drive Lady Rie insane? He was from Baleros? Or was it a trick? But how had he known what—
“Is there anything you would like us to do, your Majesty? Or should we continue investigating the dig site to the northwest?”
Laken was investigating every underground spot or strange location in a radius around Riverfarm and they were sixteen miles out so far. It wasn’t like every mile had something unique in it. The [Emperor] held up a hand as Gamel proffered a handkerchief.
“Perhaps if time allows, Captain Halrac. But I’d be most grateful if your team—and Pebblesnatch here—can accompany me to resolve a pressing matter in the Goblinlands. I hope with negotiation—and a friendly Goblin—we can find answers.”
The adventurers and Riverfarm’s people stirred. Laken Godart sensed Halrac’s head lift and the Gold-ranked [Captain] eyed him. Laken could not sense what was all in the Goblinlands of course, but he had some knowledge.
