A sly voice. Not Galei or Taxiela. Palt was listening, shuffling his hooves too quietly to be heard. Elena paused and then went on.
“Cara’s on the same page. Look—if you could reach out to her, she’d be a valuable ally. I could give you one of my code signs. And…could we really leave Wistram?”
“The Elusive Lot…seems to be on board?”
“Ullsinoi is on board, Miss Elena. Not because we’d like to get rid of you. Far from it. We just believe—oh, what’s that saying? Don’t put all your potions in the same basket. Especially the explosive ones. We’ll talk.”
Elena’s voice didn’t immediately take over after that. Ryoka was fiddling with a quill. What to ask? What to ask? There was a lot that was so specific. How much did they know about the Antinium? But the Elusive Lot were listening.
They couldn’t know—even if they knew Ryoka and Erin were in Liscor—how close the Antinium were to them. Even Palt probably couldn’t explain that, if his look of guilt said anything either way.
Not total trust. And too many questions for answers. At last, Elena sighed.
“I’m sorry. I was trying to look up magic spells or—secrets I could tell you. But we’re just…they’re having some of us take classes as students. Most, actually. Some are inventing things—I think they want us to feel like we’re part of Wistram.”
“Sounds like classic indoctrination.”
“Yeah…yeah, but it’s working. Lots of kids—I told you some survived horrible, things, right?”
“Tell me about them. What’s it like at Wistram? Let’s start there, if we can’t think of anything.”
Ryoka heard a short intake of breath from the other end. Elena hesitated.
“It’s not bad here. Really. We’re all divided up into factions, but we see each other regularly. Wistram—it’s like a bunch of different groups, all fighting over how to do the same thing. Aaron was the first. Aaron Vanwell. He’s Blackmage.”
“What’s he like?”
“…He’s never left Wistram. I don’t think he gets it when we talk about monsters. But he’s a good guy. Younger than I thought, Cara too. He’s about, oh, nineteen? I think the last count was that there were around forty one of us—about half are over eighteen, the rest under. It’s really split. We have a girl—a kid. She popped into—we have this therapy session because when she arrived…”
Ryoka listened with Erin as Elena spoke. Sending a message to the first person she could chat to on the outside world. Erin looked at Ryoka and unspoken—the thought flashed between the two.
They had to do something. Even if it was only to help. And that was because Erin was Erin and…Palt thought the exposure to the outside was good for the Earthers trapped in Wistram. Only—was it Elena being drawn to the outside, or the outside being drawn into Wistram?
Palt wondered what the Elusive Lot’s game was. He had told Ryoka and Erin you could trust them, and you could! They were practical, loyal to some degree, and intelligent. But they were still a faction of Wistram. He wondered if their end goal was to really get Elena out…or reel someone else in.
 
—-
 
A snuffing, panting thing comes up to me to investigate. I hold still.
What do blind men and Runners have in common? We don’t like strange dogs off their leashes. But then again…I scratch at the huge Aldasian warhound’s head and it makes a happy noise.
I do like dogs. And guide dogs are a wonderful companion for some of my friends. Anyways, the [Lord] who brought this pack here gave me some of his love of animals.
Lord Gralton Radivaek, surly and even oafish to anyone that walks on two legs—friends to furry, four-legged animals everywhere. Even cats. But he doesn’t breed cats.
“There you go. Good fellow. He’s blind so don’t run about. That’s Draugmot. Named him after a Draug his mother brought down.”
“Dead gods, he’s huge, Gralton! His Majesty should not be in—would you call off this—this chaos?”
Lady Rie sounds exasperated and put upon; she’s trying to hold her ground as a dozen dogs mill around her.
Some of my subjects are watching from far, far away. And I can understand why.
Packs of dogs can be a terrifying thing if they turn on you. And these dogs? Some are smaller, like smart terriers or, well, a griffon-dog that Gralton brought who’s currently surrounded by Griffon Hunt. But some are Aldasian warhounds, or part-wolf mixes that are probably as big as actual wolves from my world due to magic and the variance in dog breeds.
“Stop barking at me, Rie. His Majesty told me to come over whenever I felt like it. We’re allies. And I’ve brought him a gift.”
Gralton growls back; I hear muffled laughter from the side.
“Lord—Lord Gralton! This one won’t stop climbing on me!”
Durene is gently trying to remove a huge puppy trying to lick at her face. Gralton laughs and it’s a pleasant thing to hear.
Dogs. Nearly four dozen dogs, of many different breeds. Gralton stormed into Riverfarm an hour ago, as I was waiting for Griffon Hunt to investigate the Goblin situation. And guess what?
“So they’re all for Riverfarm, Lord Gralton? To what do I owe this pleasure? And I’ll happily accept this gift. But why exactly?”
“The kennels are filling up. Most’ve the breeds we had enough to repopulate. Thought your Unseen Empire needed dogs. They’ll be good ratters instead of that crow-[Witch], herders, guards…anyways, there wouldn’t be any dogs to give if you hadn’t sent the [Witches].”
The man clears his throat, awkwardly.
“Thank you, your Majesty.”
I smile.
“You’re welcome. And we are allies, Lord Gralton. About time it paid off after that long ride north, right?”
“True!”
He even laughs like a dog barking. And then Lord Gralton’s striding about, keen to introduce me to all the dogs he’s brought.
No poodles or Chihuahuas I’m glad to note. They don’t exist for Lord Gralton—he was offended I even asked if he had them.
“What, lapdogs? Damned sorry things. They can’t live except to be fed and pampered. I’ll keep them, but not raise them. Closest I’ll get is a thinking-pug. One of the Melull breeds.”
“Melull?”
“Smart dogs. Close to lapdogs—but let ‘em loose in the wild and they’ll survive. Smarter than any other dog in the world. They can draw, understand you perfectly—[Mages] loved to have them.”
An entire world of dogs unbeknownst to me is Gralton’s kingdom. Myself, I’m just pleased to have his gift. Certainly, animals are welcome to the Unseen Empire. And Radivaek-dogs are like Walchaís horses, apparently. Famous across Izril, even the world.
“Lord Gralton, this is a magnificent little Griffon!”
Revi calls out from where she’s petting the dog her team was named after. Fun fact—since I only heard it, I always thought it was ‘Griffin Hunt’. But apparently it’s a play-on-words.
“Griffon Hunt. Didn’t your team buy some dogs from me years back? What happened to them?”
The [Lord] clasps Halrac’s hand and the [Scout] nods.
“We let them go to a [Hunter]’s team, Lord Radivaek, after the incident in the north. We wouldn’t have let them die or abandon them.”
“Oh, the plague thing. Well—good. I’d have to kill you if they got eaten by a Griffin!”
Gralton laughs and only Briganda, the mother-warrior, joins him. I’ve heard of the team’s past—the old man, Typhenous, is shifting his feet and looking down.
“Your team used to use griffons to hunt…Griffins, Captain Halrac?”
The [Scout] turns to me and nods—then remembers I can’t see. Perhaps because I’m so able to ‘look’ at people because of my landsense. Well—I caught the nod so yes, I can see as well as any person! Just don’t ask me to read your features. Or tell you what color anything is.
It’s better than nothing.
“Yes, your Majesty. Griffons are excellent hunters and guide-animals. More than that—they’re good at sniffing out Griffin nests and provoking them into attacking.”
“Really?”
“That’s how we used to ambush Griffins, your majesty. A griffon runs out and barks and the flying monster goes after it. They’re too small for a meal, but they can taunt monsters.”
“Smart dogs. Smart team. You freelancing or does Laken have you working for him?”
“They’re on a contract, Gralton. Digging up artifacts.”
“Speaking of which…we should get to the next site. Your Majesty.”
Halrac bows. I assume he’s delivered the report to Prost about the Goblins. It must not be dire and Gralton’s here, so I bid them farewell.
“Gold-rank team. And they’re working for you for a song or do you have more gold than I thought?”
Gralton grunts. I walk with him, surrounded by a furry, panting horde.
“Oh, they’re working practically for free, Gralton. I think we pay them a few gold per week.”
“How? Did you rescue them from the snow as well?”
I smile as he twists to stare at me.
“No, they’re content to work for cheap so long as I give them half of what they dig up. Secrets in the ground.”
Gralton listens as I explain about the landsense and then he exhales and swears.
“I’ve had dogs sniff out buried monsters and treasure before, but every damn seam and passageway? You’ll leave Izril without any secrets left to find!”
“I can’t go deep, Gralton. Anything long-buried stays there and I hope there’s nothing like a monster down there. An [Emperor] has to improvise.”
“Sure enough. Sure enough. Listen, Godart. I came here for two reasons. Why don’t you and I feed the hounds and we’ll discuss it privately? How’re the Goblins doing, by the way? Still building damn walls?”
That’s Gralton for you. Better than Rie? Well, I don’t suspect Gralton of trying to poison Lady Bethal Walchaís or ordering Wiskeria to attack the Goblins. I know it’s only Ryoka’s supposition—but I’m beginning to believe it if only because Rie’s the only person who’s ever given me the impression she’s got more yet to hide. [Witches] are different and besides—they weren’t here when it all went down.
Which begs the question of course: why? Well, one thought springs to mind. And that’s a name I’ve been hearing on a lot of people’s tongues.
Interesting. I just had a thought. I have never heard Lady Rie mention them.
 
—-
 
“The Circle of Thorns. They’re popping up on everyone’s tongues. You heard about Lord Tyrion’s boys?”
“No.”
Lord Gralton turns to stare at me. I sit there, feeling like this is another ‘obvious thing’ I should know about. But…don’t.
“No one told you? Not Lady Valerund or…no, she’d be the only one, wouldn’t she?”
“She hasn’t brought it up. Perhaps she thinks it’s not important? I heard about Lady Reinhart surviving an assassination attempt, but I’m not looking outwards.”
“You should on this. I came to ask about it myself. Veltras is getting desperate. He asked me to get a message to you—I don’t think he knows you’ve got [Mages] with [Message] spells of your own.”
“Really?”
We’re sitting together in my private chambers—in Riverfarm. Durene’s cottage is still a place of residence—but more seldom do each of us stay there. We have a rather large home in Riverfarm, as close to a mansion as there is, despite me objecting to the unnecessary space.
As it turns out, it’s necessary to let Bismarck and Frostwing have the freedom to move about. Not that Bismarck gets to roam around indoors all the time; he’s generally ‘helping’ by the fields. The [Farmers] can actually get him to pull a plough if they guide him with food, but he’s mostly there just as a mascot. Who eats too much.
Frostwing is shrieking at the dogs milling about the backyard. I tell her to quiet down so we can talk and she moodily flies to the roof. Frostwing is another way I can monitor the Goblins, by the way. Although she never actually flies over the Goblinlands—they’re aware she’s my bird, but I’m not going to risk a Goblin with a bow shooting at her.
“Tell me about this, Gralton. What about Lord Tyrion’s sons? I know he saved Magnolia Reinhart…”
“From the Circle of Thorns.”
My eyes don’t narrow since they’re closed. But my brow definitely creases. Lady Rie did not mention that.
“Hmm. I only heard it was an assassination attempt.”
“I guess my ears are sharper.”
Radivaek takes a huge bite of the mutton he’s sharing with his dogs. I motion for him to go on as I turn in my seat.
“Durene? Can you find Lady Rie? Tell her I’d like her to come here to consult on Lord Gralton’s issue. And tell…oh, Prost to come too.”
“Anyone else?”
She’s out, feeding Frostwing and Bismarck in the yard. I think. Rie and Prost are my go-to confidants. Then I have a thought and call back.
“Eloise and Hedag, of course. Wiskeria too. And if she’s here—summon Witch Mavika. Tell her it’s about [Witches].”
Gralton is looking at me as I turn back towards him.
“You really did embrace the [Witches]. You know—in some parts adventurers are paid to chase them off.”
“And do villages drown [Witches]? Burn them at stakes?”
“Sometimes. And if you’re going to lecture me about Goblins…huh. Sounds about damned right. People always say [Witches] bring plague, bad luck, stillborns…wonder how true that is.”
I don’t have much of a smile, but I’m glad he sees it my way. And while we wait for the others to arrive, Gralton catches me up on what no one’s told me. Then he gives me Tyrion’s plea.
 
—-
 
By the time they arrived, Laken Godart was unable to sit still. He was pacing. And—angry. Furious.
Enraged.
“Those cowardly—”
The next part was a stream of invectives in a language no one knew. Durene might have recognized a few words at best, and the language since Laken had been teaching her.
But Lady Rie? She stopped in the doorway, listening hard. That wasn’t made-up. Nor was it Drathian. She’d asked for a sample and it wasn’t even close.
“Your Majesty? What is—”
“Enter! No questions, Rie!”
The [Emperor] whirled and snapped. He was angrier than Rie had ever seen him in recent memory. Only a few times had she ever seen him this furious. Catching the edges of his mood, she sat. Suddenly—Lady Valerund was worried.
The rest entered. Prost sat alert, Durene sidling in after Hedag. The [Witches] sensed the [Emperor]’s mood; how could they not? They were watchful.
Mavika came last. She wouldn’t have except for how Laken had phrased his request.
The bird-like woman was, in her way, as much changed by her class as Radivaek. More so, in fact. A huge raven perched on her shoulder and Rie sidled away from her. It was Mavika who spoke in her sibilant voice.
“Why did you call me, [Emperor] of men?”
A reminder. Laken Godart turned. For once, he wasn’t about to play even-handed, calm counterpart of Mavika.
