“Because I want you to listen, Witch Mavika. Gralton—please—tell the others what you just told me.”
The [Lord] was only too willing. In silence, the others listened. And Lady Rie felt the uneasiness in her stomach turn to—well, something like fear.
“Lord Tyrion’s sons are poisoned. The Circle of Thorns is holding ‘em hostage unless Lord Tyrion bows to their demands. He doesn’t say what. But he asked me to appeal to Emperor Godart. His words are…let me check.”
The [Dog Lord] found a folded piece of paper, carelessly crammed into his vest. He stared at it, and then read it out loud slowly.
“…hope Emperor Godart will recall any debts and the goodwill of House Veltras in this hour of need. If there is any [Alchemist] or [Healer] of such Skill as to be able to assist…he wants you to help find the cure.”
Rie stirred. This—was not good. The look on Laken’s face was murderous. She had feared this would happen. She hadn’t imagined Tyrion would reach out to Laken himself. It proved how desperate he truly was.
Damn Gralton. This was why Rie had omitted the Circle of Thorns as much as possible around Laken! It was not…
Not a good look. To put it mildly. Not all of the Circle’s highest members moved alike. Someone had ordered Magnolia’s death. Someone else—not the same person who’d ordered the assassination—had ordered the poisoning. That much Rie knew.
There were reasons. Good ones. The Circle…but Laken Godart had been introduced to them in the worst way possible. Rie covered all this with genuine distress for the two boys.
“Your Majesty—”
“You knew about this Lady Rie? And neglected to mention it in your daily briefings?”
All eyes turned to Rie. The [Lady] answered, as if bound by truth spell.
“I…apologize, your Majesty. I did not think it was pertinent. I assumed whatever one of the Five Families were to deal with was removed from Riverfarm’s affairs and that of the Unseen Empire.”
“I see. In the future, anything of note in Izril should be directed towards me, Lady Valerund.”
She inclined her head humbly. But it did not escape her notice; Laken Godart had been genuinely surprised by the news. So did he have sources of information outside of Riverfarm that were so specific? Or had he really known how to make trebuchets all by himself? Or was it so sporadic?
Intrigue was a game of learning and watching what you gave away. However—it was different depending on who you played against. And right now, the [Emperor] was too furious to be subtle.
It didn’t mean the game wasn’t going on. But Rie had a sinking feeling. She told herself that there was little he could do.
“Poison. Terrible things. Many a Terandrian dynasty has suffered from that sort of thing.”
As if you wouldn’t know. You come from those very houses on Terandria. Rie saw Eloise innocently sipping her tea. As if a pointed hat took away her past.
“Poison, your Majesty? And Tyrion Veltras is appealing to the Unseen Empire? But surely he has [Healers]. [Alchemists]. All of the Five Families could cure most poisons.”
Wiskeria looked uncomfortable. Laken shook his head. Radivaek bared his teeth as he tore another strip of meat off to feed to a waiting dog.
“They tried. Last count over forty dead [Healers] and [Alchemists] ran afoul of [Assassins]. No one’s even identified what’s making the boys sick before they get knifed in the back.”
“[Assassins]. And they’re actually threatening the Five Families?”
The [Paladin] was incredulous. Rie shook her head. A half-Troll [Paladin]. Well, that might explain why she had so much trouble charming Laken Godart if that was his…taste. Almost as bad as Wuvren—
“Threatening the families of [Alchemists] and so on, Miss Durene. And your Majesty, I caution you. Even the Five Families have been affected by the assassinations. Riverfarm is…vulnerable. Despite your protections.”
The totems couldn’t stop one of the Guild’s finest. They could walk across the ground invisible, or teleport in, or fly. Rie—didn’t want Laken Godart to incur the Circle’s wrath.
Beyond her fears of him doing something rash, though, Rie was still a bit confident. And that was because—she explained the issue.
“Reaching Lord Veltras’ manor is a long trip, your Majesty. Doable in any other time with speed—even overnight! Especially with a carriage, or dedicated travel-specialist. Lord Veltras himself could make the journey in—but these are not safe times. Any [Healer] or [Alchemist]…or [Witch]…would be exposed.”
She nodded to the four [Witches] in the room and saw three pointed hats turn in affront. Mavika’s didn’t. She just narrowed her eyes.
“Is that so, Lady Rie?”
“If Lord Veltras cannot do it—as I said, the situation is horrific, your Majesty. But I do not think this is Riverfarm’s time to strike at a foe like this…Circle of Thorns? They’re unknown, perhaps not even Izrilian…”
Don’t overplay your hand. Rie shut up. Gralton rumbled as he sat back and tossed the bone to the fighting pack of dogs, who raced outside after it. Rie was grateful that Prost closed the door.
“The Circle of Thorns. Well, that’s the second time they’ve intersected with Riverfarm in a meaningful way.”
Rie felt perspiration begin to touch at her neck and back. Did he mean…?
“Witch Mavika, is this the same group that attacked your coven? Wiskeria’s?”
Oh. Rie relaxed a bit. Mavika nodded. Her voice wasn’t a hiss, but it was low, intent, as was her posture. Like a bird eying a rival.
“They named themselves that. As if it were to strike fear into the coven. So they said. The ones I hunted said little of value. They were tools.”
She killed the Ranks. Low-grade [Assassins] which the Guild could replace. At very little cost. No doubt they’d swarmed the poor [Witches] of Wiskeria and Mavika’s coven. Rie bit her lip.
When she was one of the Petals, the highest position on the Circle’s inner council, she’d apply more finesse and grace to how they handled things. Sometimes the Circle was a delicate kiss, other times all the elegance of a sledgehammer on a hand. The inner members were a varied lot in styles.
“Then it seems the [Witches] owe the Circle a grudge. As for Riverfarm? The Unseen Empire has no personal issue with any particular noble—and few favors as well. House Radivaek and House Byres are our allies. Lord Tyrion’s house is…affiliated. But I don’t know if I owe him any favors. That’s my stance.”
The [Emperor] calmed down a bit. Lady Valerund exhaled silently. Good, he was being logical. That was wh—
“However. Anyone who stoops to poisoning children and hostage-taking is as good as an enemy. How would you trust someone like that?”
Damn! And everyone was nodding along, including Rie. Prost, Durene—well, they were righteous [Farmers]. Wiskeria believed in law, which was commendable, but foolish, Eloise was smiling and doing that obnoxious tip of the hat.
And Hedag? Oh, Rie rolled her eyes as the [Witch] with the axe laughed.
“Well said, Emperor! But if words were deeds, we’d not need for the Hedag. Do you intend to swing at this Circle? For you’ve surely seen what happens when the axe comes the other way. The Drake’s fires are louder than the [Assassin]’s blade. But the other will come for Riverfarm.”
“Well put, Witch Hedag. Emperor Godart, I encourage you to think over this matter. I would not wish to endanger Riverfarm—or put one of our [Witch] allies to undue risk! Which I assure you will come if we enter this situation unguarded!”
Rie jumped in a touch breathily. Laken’s head swung towards her.
“I’m well aware that the Drake [Infiltrators] were a direct result of our attack on Liscor, Lady Rie. Neither am I ignorant of the dangers of [Assassins].”
Oh, but you are! You have no idea how the Guild’s best can operate! Rie wished she’d told Laken more, now. A Level 50 [Assassin] could walk into Riverfarm and leave nothing living. Perhaps one of the [Witches] could fight someone like that. But this was not how it was supposed to go!
“Lord Veltras is calling for any favor he can, your Majesty. However, the fact remains that in order to cure his sons, an antidote for a poison that is unknown is needed! Someone must go to House Veltras, to the west. And the only specialist I could name in Riverfarm with that level of knowledge would be…”
She glanced to one side. And everyone looked at the old [Lady] with the cup of tea. Rie nodded at Eloise. But what she was really thinking was—
If I have to, I’ll let you ride to House Veltras, Eloise. And you will not make it. 
That was the best solution she could imagine. Laken made an effort which Rie would publicize, and the Circle wouldn’t be interfered with. Laken’s fingers drummed on the table.
“Is that your belief, Witch Eloise? Who among the [Witches] in Riverfarm are good with poisons? In Izril?”
Eloise’s eyes flicked towards Laken and then at Hedag and Mavika. The two gave her silent looks Rie tried to interpret.
“In Riverfarm? I believe you mean, cures, your Majesty. Wiskeria, for instance, knows poisons. Cures are much harder. You can mix swamp water into a cup and hope it makes someone sick, but neutralizing a poison…if it were simple, I’d name Agratha, and half a dozen other [Witches].”
“And for this case?”
“Probably myself. In Izril, there are oh, a number of experts. I know of someone as accomplished as I am in both poisoning and curing. But—I doubt she would consent. Among the healers, then, I’d be most suited in this region.”
Eloise’s eyes slid sideways to Mavika and the older [Witch] shook her head slightly. Rie’s eyes narrowed.
Another expert? Well, it didn’t matter. She’d have to arrive at the mansion and there was at least one of the Faces there ready to halt anyone.
“Really? Then, Witch Eloise, do you think you could cure a poisoned [Lord]? Two of them?”
“Yes.”
What a fast answer! Eloise sipped her tea with the unshakable confidence that made Rie very nervous. She went on.
“In time, certainly. But as Lady Valerund says—the issue is not merely me attending to these two poor children, but arriving there in one piece. And I fear, your Majesty, that the journey is too dangerous for me to undertake.”
Rie exhaled. Laken frowned.
“Really, Witch Eloise? What if I were to offer Witch Mavika the chance to oppose her foes and her price? Certainly—if I couldn’t name it myself, House Veltras can. And an escort? Beniar, Griffon Hunt—”
“No, your Majesty. Please, hear Witch Mavika out.”
Eloise gestured to Mavika. The [Emperor] stopped and Rie was rewarded with a look of genuine frustration.
“Surely, Witch Mavika, you could escort Eloise that far?”
The bird-[Witch] looked uncomfortable. She folded her arms as her raven glared around the room.
“Each one to their task, Emperor Godart. If you ask me to kill one of this Circle’s agents, this I may consider, with spell and malice and wing and claw. But if you ask me to protect—it is not my craft, and not what I do. An [Assassin] is honed to kill. That is not my craft or will.”
So she’d fail. Everyone interpreted this after a moment. Laken emitted a frustrated sigh. Eloise adjusted her hat again. And Rie was…
Impressed, really. Look at these two [Witches], being practical. They didn’t outright say they understood how dangerous the Circle of Thorns was, but they were refusing all the same. Well, she had heard [Witches] were a sensible lot.
“Even if it’s not your specialty, Witch Mavika, what about…an army? Let’s say you, a Gold-ranked team, Lord Radivaek?”
“I have dogs. Not that I’d pit them against poison-wielding bastards. But go on, Godart.”
“Witch Hedag, your role strikes me as protection. What about you? Other [Witches]?”
A booming laugh from Hedag, but she shook her head.
“You mistake me, Godart-boy, although I see how you came to the conclusion! But think of a Hedag. A Hedag comes once there’s rot to be found and hacks it away. If I protect—it’s those that cry out for help, from small evil. Small men and women. Not flashing blades. Not a hero’s lot.”
“Gold-ranks as well, your Majesty. Griffon Hunt is certainly capable, but Captain Halrac and his team are specialized for monster-slaying. It is not impossible, but I caution you…”
Rie trailed off delicately. She was waiting, and rewarded as Laken sighed. He was losing his temper. Durene looked just as angry—but Laken shook his head.
“I begin to see why even the Five Families are having trouble. Safeguard someone all the way there to try to cure them, eh? I…understand, Witch Eloise.”
“Thank you, your Majesty.”
She stopped fidgeting and adjusting her hat. The [Emperor] shook his head.
“Gralton, thank you for bringing this to me. I don’t know…I’ll see what can be done. Why don’t we break? It’s about lunch anyways and I need to clear my head.”
“I could punch something. Is that tree still needing to be uprooted?”
Durene growled. And like that, the meeting ended. Mavika stalked out of the house—her raven left her shoulder with an angry caw, no doubt reflecting her emotions. The [Witches] were silent as they left.
“I—shall attend to my duties, your Majesty. Mister Prost?”
The [Farmer] walked out with Rie, shaking his head.
“A terrible thing, poison. And to those two boys, Lady Valerund.”
“Terrible indeed, Mister Prost.”
He really meant it. He was an honest man, as far as Rie could tell. It was one of the reasons why she liked Riverfarm. An honest [Emperor], people who were hardworking, able to rebuild time and time again—this was what Izril needed.
The Circle was there to do what honest, hardworking people never thought of. Rie exhaled. She’d have to monitor Laken Godart closely to make sure he didn’t take it in his head to do something stupid. The Circle was aware people would come to Tyrion’s aid.
By land, by sea, by magic—nothing was going to reach him save as the Circle willed it. Rie knew some of the plan and she had no desire to watch the Unseen Empire suffer. It was very, very good that the [Witches] were sensible.
She hurried off to communicate with the Circle and get updates. And that was Rie Valerund’s big mistake. She should have been watching more carefully.
 
—-
 
When Lady Rie is gone, I sit back down. Gralton’s left, Durene’s gone off to vent her fury, and so is everyone else.
I think that confirms it. Lady Rie seemed passionately concerned for Riverfarm—but she leaned a bit too hard on the ‘let’s not anger the Circle, shall we?’ angle. A bit too little shock and concern for two children dying of poison, or so I feel.
Or maybe I’m just biased because I think I’m right. Time to find out. I stretch and, just in case someone’s listening via spell or in person, remark to myself.
