Laken had asked Griffon Hunt to intercede since they knew Pebblesnatch. Also—the Redfangs tended to respect the Gold-rank adventurers, albeit grudgingly. Ulvama bared her teeth.
“Far away. Goblins hear of safe place for Goblins. Goblins come. Smart-[Emperor] surely thought of this?”
She spoke with that halting awkwardness of Goblins. Or at least, pretended to. Halrac’s eyes narrowed.
“How did they hear about the Goblin’s encampment here? His Majesty was sure no Goblins had left or entered the area until now.”
Ulvama scratched at the ground with the butt of her staff, drawing something. Halrac was unmoved; Typhenous or Revi would call out if she was casting something. The [Shaman] peeked up, then scowled as she saw Halrac was unmoved.
“Goblins hear things. [Emperor]…[Emperor] sees everything around Goblinlands? And in Goblinlands?”
“Who knows?”
She scowled at him. Halrac saw her flick a claw dismissively—
“[Hex Eater]! Halrac!”
Typhenous pointed his staff. Halrac dove to the side as Revi pointed her wand and shouted.
“[Wind Orb]!”
Ulvama’s eyes widened. She raised her staff and the orb of wind burst in midair. The Goblins behind her shouted and raised their weapons. One reached for a horn as Halrac lifted his bow, coming out of his roll.
“Stop! Do not blow a horn, idiots!”
The [Shaman] shrieked at the Goblins. One choked, lips pursed as he tried to suck the breath back in. At the same time, Typhenous was shouting Halrac down.
“It wasn’t a mind-hex, Halrac! Hold! Hold!”
The [Scout] lowered his bow slightly so he was aiming at Ulvama’s leg. The [Shaman] was tensed—her eyes flicked upwards at the old [Mage].
“What was it, Typhenous?”
Briganda was tensed, ready to leap down there. The Goblins were muttering too. The [Plague Mage] chuckled, and in a carrying voice, informed Halrac and the Goblins what the spell had been.
“It was…a flea hex. A minor spell as they go. The [Shaman]—Ulvama?—was trying to attract some onto Halrac.”
“Oh, dead gods.”
Revi sighed. Halrac stared at Ulvama. The Goblin pursed her lips, looking peeved.
“Wasn’t there a flea outbreak the last time a Goblin thief was caught and the Goblins had to pay a fine?”
“I think there was indeed. Well, it was slickly-done. And it would have worn off after twenty minutes. Hard to pin on Miss Goblin.”
She bared her teeth at Typhenous, then Halrac.
“Little prank.”
The [Scout]’s eyes narrowed. He put down his bow and the Goblins relaxed, including Ulvama. But Halrac’s scowl was warningly dour.
“I’ve had enough games. You’re quite well-spoken for a Goblin. Why are the Goblins here? Give me a straight answer.”
Ulvama chewed this over. At last, she spat.
“Fine. Goblins came because they heard about ‘Goblinlands.’ Too many Humans hunt them to the east. These Goblins are [Miners]. [Smiths]. They will make more ore and iron for your Humans. Happy?”
“No. But I’ll carry your words to Emperor Godart. How many Goblins are there? How many Hobs? And how armed are they?”
The [Shaman] spat answers and then stomped away. Revi was impressed as Halrac walked away.
“Wow, you actually got her to speak. Apparently that’s Ulvama. She hates Humans more than most.”
“I’m aware.”
Pebblesnatch had pointed her out on Griffon Hunt’s one tour of the Goblinlands. Not far in; just around the outside so she could show them some things from afar. Halrac climbed up the walls and for a moment, stood with his team.
“So? I guess it’s up for the [Emperor] to decide if he wants more Goblins. Let’s tell him. And about the fleas?”
“Tactfully, Revi. No doubt the [Shaman] will stop now her bluff has been called. We’ll bring it up in the throne room.”
“Hah. Nice throne.”
“Don’t laugh. He’s an important client, Revi.”
She ducked her head silently. Halrac looked back at the distant Pebblesnatch which he had seen while on Briganda’s shoulders.
“She looks happy.”
Briganda offered cautiously. Halrac nodded after a moment.
“Happier than I thought a Goblin would be. They’re fed, no one’s actually attacking them…”
He trailed off. And then there was Ulvama. Typhenous stroked at his beard and Revi bit her tongue.
“So, do you think it’s okay? To leave them like this? Just…for a while?”
The Gold-rank Captain folded his arms. Revi went on.
“We’ll just monitor them until we can get a break. In a month, or if another team shows up. And then…we ask to take Pebblesnatch back to Invrisil. Go through the door, Erin’s happy, and we can let her know there are more Goblins here that don’t need rescuing.”
Typhenous nodded. So did Briganda—the issue was Halrac. He stared ahead.
“It’s lying by omission. She would want to know.”
“Halrac! She’ll come here, punch everyone, and cause a riot! You know Erin! She’ll find the Goblins, hear [Emperor] Godart out, and then go, ‘I’m the Face-Punching Consequences girl’ and hit him!”
“The face-punching…”
Typhenous chuckled at the look on Halrac’s face. Revi blushed.
“You know what I mean! She says stuff like that! Look—we’re here. Let’s just watch the Goblins. It’s not like there’s more space back at Liscor, is there? Or that Watch Captain Zevara is keen on having more?”
All valid points. Halrac rubbed at his hair. Was it really okay? He saw Typhenous nodding, and Briganda’s shrug of amiable indifference. Revi looked at the guarded Goblinlands and her face went sober.
“Anyways. It’s not just Erin we’d have to watch for. It’s Numbtongue.”
That was the closing argument. And a good one. If Erin Solstice could accept the Goblins were in a better place—Numbtongue had lost his friends, his tribe—his team at the Siege of Liscor. And the person behind part of that army was here. Halrac wondered what he might do.
“…Fine. Let’s go tell this [Emperor]. And—not a word about Erin Solstice. We don’t tell her, we don’t tell him. If we’re keeping confidences, we do it both ways.”
“Fair enough.”
The others sighed as Halrac led the way back to Riverfarm. That was an adventurer’s brand of honesty for you—as honest as it got, anyways. Revi stretched.
“How much loot do you think’s buried around here, anyways?”
“We got that [Thief]’s Chest of Holding opened. It was trapped. Apparently it’s got scrolls. We’re entitled to a pick—no doubt General Wiskeria will want some, but there is apparently an intact [Firestorm] scroll in there.”
“No way. Really?”
Briganda turned to Typhenous eagerly. The [Plague Mage] saw Halrac turn his head.
“Typhenous, we’ll aim for that. You’ll be in charge of it. Not Briganda. Don’t let her touch one.”
“Halrac! I was young!”
“What happened?”
“It was before your time, Revi. Briganda burned down our camp and half a forest.”
“I—didn’t know you could activate them by speaking while holding it! I didn’t open it or anything!”
And now they were going to get a scroll and more loot they’d hopefully dig up. The Gold-rank team thought about that.
“You know, Lady Valerund told me that if we could pull in another Gold-rank team she’d make it worth our while. Think we could get any more? Or do we not want to share?”
Revi glanced at the others. Halrac thoughtfully watched a bunch of birds flitting from branch to branch. Now, if this was Liscor, they’d be too terrified to sing…
“Certainly, at some point it would be refreshing to have another Gold-rank team here, in case we run into another Creler nest or a considerable threat. Riverfarm is growing and where there’s this much industry, threats tend to pop up…”
Typhenous comment elicited a wary nod from Briganda. She gestured at her belt.
“But—loot, Typhenous. We’re pulling it in.”
“Obviously, we can wait. But if we were to tell another team…”
The [Shield Maiden] blinked and then smiled.
“…They’d owe us a favor. Smart. A big one too, for a plush job like that.”
All the Gold-ranks nodded. Oh yes. There was such a thing as debts and this—far from being the no-pay, grunt-work job they’d assumed—was a wealthy job with minimal danger and high reward. A team might owe them a lot of favor for something like this.
Like…enough favor to join them on a quest to investigate a Dragon. Not that a Belt of Strength and some Boots of Stability were enough for that. Halrac was trying to figure out how you blocked dragonbreath when you didn’t even know which type. Fire was presumable from what a certain [Innkeeper] had said, but did you want to take that risk?
“Favors, right. Who might we tell? The Horns? The Halfseekers?”
Revi rubbed her hands together eagerly. Halrac made a sound.
“They’re hardly the only teams we know. And they’re not the most professional. We could reach out to some established teams.”
“If it’s Todi, I’ll take off my ears before I have to listen to him on shared duty—”
“Todi’s at the bottom of the list, Revi. I’d rather take a good Silver-rank team first. Or a new Gold-rank team.”
“Good. So…? Briganda?”
“The Onyx Bucklers. Um, who’s professional? Damn—I heard Kerimane disbanded his team…”
“We’ll talk about it. I doubt any team off Izril would want to come all the way here—”
“Halrac, Halrac. With the kind of loot we’ve been getting? If we dig up even another medium-grade artifact we can claim in the next month, I know Chandrarian teams who’ll rush over here and owe us a major favor. Let’s just see what that dig site holds, hmm? The [Emperor] says it looks big. Treasure vault?”
“Keep your expectations low and be careful, Revi.”
But even Halrac couldn’t keep a smile from his lips. Artifacts and loot and egg-drop soup. Everything was looking up for their team. For the Unseen Empire? The Gold-rank team returned to Riverfarm proper just to find a second group had arrived.
Bringing…trouble. Although not necessarily for Griffon Hunt.
 
—-
 
“There’s a lot Wistram doesn’t know, I think. Or most of them don’t. They pretend to, but you just have to ask multiple people. Play on their egos. And they’ll wink or reveal…the point is, I’m almost positive they don’t know what brought us here.”
“Do they have any theories?”
“Lots.”
Elena was sitting down this time, which was helpful. And also not surrounded in whatever black abyss the Elusive Lot had conjured. She had a notepad, a seat, and even some snacks and a drink while she talked.
She did not have anyone else from Earth with her, unlike the mysterious ‘batman’, who had told her others were listening in. If Elena revealed anything—and it was probably not going to be to Aaron—she’d do it afterwards. Anyways, this was mainly her telling her new ally abroad important information.
Elena consulted her notes. She’d been hard at work trying to figure out what was most important to say. Firstly, how they’d all got here.
“There are lots of theories. The biggest ones are that there’s some kind of interdimensional rift that opened and sucked us through. A naturally reoccurring phenomenon or some huge ritual-level spell. What caused it? Well…it might have come from Wistram, actually. But not the [Mages] on the lower floors…have you heard about the Golems?”
“The entrance exam? Yeah.”
Palt shuddered. Erin remembered Ceria telling her about it as well. Elena gulped and went on.
“You have? Well…people have always said they think [Mages], even [Archmages], could still be living up there. Like Archmage Zelkyr. If there was a grand spell that could have teleported us here…”
“But it’s not confirmed? There are no traces?”
“Nope. There are other theories too. But the other real threat is um, the second thing I wanted to bring up. How much do you know about Rhir?”
“I know there are some Earthers there. Has something happened to them?”
“You…could say that. Blackmage—Aaron—isn’t in direct contact with them. The Blighted Kingdom keeps everything locked down, and even Wistram isn’t able to just waltz in. But there’s bad news coming from Rhir. One of the Demon’s biggest threats apparently healed—or came back to life and Wistram was freaking out about it.”
“I heard about that…they think this person could have done it?”
“They call her the Death of Magic. She was on a short list of names of people they thought could cast a spell of that magnitude. She’s…at least Level 70. Probably Level 80? They say she learned magic from Dragons. An [Archmage] of Wistram—a rebel who joined the Demons when the Demon Kingdom was founded…”
Ryoka sat back. But Valeterisa had intimated…she lifted the stone up and spoke urgently.
“There’s a living [Archmage]?”
“Yep. That’s the stuff Wistram likes to keep quiet.”
Well, so much for the Archmages being dead. With Az’kerash, that made two. Ryoka drummed her fingers on the table.
“Okay. Thanks for letting us know. But there’s not much we can do to investigate. And no one here’s going to Rhir.”
“Right. And if I learn anything…but Wistram doesn’t know. Moving on—well, if we’re talking big secrets Wistram has, in general, the scrying orb was the huge one. But I wanted to tell you—they’re almost certain the King of Destruction has an Earther.”
Erin waved her arms frantically. Ryoka nodded. Gazi. Oh no.
“Got it.”
“You do know about the King of Destruction, right? Because they’re really nervous of him, even if all these nations are declaring war.”
“We’re aware. But he’s far away.”
“…Okay, moving on. About the Antinium—Wistram thinks they’re like, the biggest threat Izril has to face. They’re weak, but Wistram keeps putting them high on their list. It’s like—King of Destruction, Death of Magic, Antinium in that order. The Antinium aren’t that bad compared to the ones on Rhir—if they’re still around. Ever since Wistram helped wipe them out at sea—”
Ryoka looked up. Palt stared ahead, avoiding her gaze. And especially Erin’s.
“Elena, how do you know this?”
“I asked. The [Mages] let things slip when they’re quizzing us about Earth. By the way—someone’s buying sulfur. A bunch of it from the big markets. Wistram is tracing it—but all they knew is that it went to Chandrar.”
“Fuck.”
“Yeah, right? Anyways, listen. Not everyone here is on the same page about…secrets from Earth. I think six people know how to make gunpowder—although two might be talking out their asses. But…we’re not united. I’m trying to get them to agree to keep quiet, but a lot are from other nations or they’re frightened kids and Wistram is bribing them…”
“Are we on the same page that giving Wistram firearms is bad? Is the Elusive Lot?”
“We’re thinking about it. Miss Elena has been arguing with the Council and Archmages. She’s quite persuasive.”
