Here’s a fun fact for you that I learned today: people are really scared of little girls.
Okay, I was aware of this. There’s…commonalities between worlds. For instance, I’m aware of evil little twins being a staple in horror movies. But while I was aware that ‘scary little kid’ was a horror trope, I wasn’t conscious of that fact. It was like knowing a tomato is technically a fruit, or something.
It never personally affected me. Because I, Laken Godart, am blind. And the idea of a strangely creepy girl standing in my hallway at night? Not really as scary. I’d just walk into her, or more accurately, bump into her with my cane if it wasn’t my house.
I don’t get it. Anyone standing in a hallway at night in my home when they’re not supposed to be there is scary. I think it’s the entire effect.
All this to say that the visual component of horror is lost on me. One of the reasons why horror movies aren’t great is that, in a silent scene, where suspense is allegedly building? I can’t see whatever’s making everyone else so nervous.
Not that I can’t understand fear. It’s just a difference in how you have to scare me. And there’s lots of scary stuff, like dogs off their leashes, losing your way and having no idea where the hell you are—
That was me when I first met Durene. Now of course, I have ‘landsense’, or perhaps ‘[Emperor]-sense’? Durene called it that the other day and I’m not a fan.
But here I am. Sitting, listening to about, oh, two hundred individual complaints brought to me as a whole by Mister Prost. About creepy girls. To be more precise:
[Witches].
“Your Majesty, it’s—it’s not just nerves. No one who’s seen ‘em at night gets a good night’s sleep, and that’s with your Skill sire, begging your pardon.”
“Creepy little [Witch] girls, Mister Prost?”
“Yes, your Majesty.”
The things that an [Emperor] has to deal with…but the [Witches] are an exception, not just me being hands-on.
Witches and Goblins. Two unique…allies? Groups that are part of the Unseen Empire. I believe it’s for the best. My people have reservations.
And to be fair, Belavierr and the Goblin raids did happen. No one should demand that people who’ve lost family or friends to Goblins should welcome them or be expected to forgive. It’s just…
Arguments. Which I’ve had with Durene, Rie, Beniar, two thirds of my advisors. And that group has expanded of late. So when I turn my head, it’s expectantly.
“Witch Eloise, Witch Hedag, do you have anything to say on the—‘creepy little [Witches]’ topic?”
I hear a booming laugh. It’s Hedag and Eloise who represent the [Witches] on my council. They accepted when asked and obviously, they were my first choices. Mavika refused and—it’s honestly for the best. But the [Witches] need representation, especially here. I want them to be more than bound by a pact.
I think I’m doing well. Or they’d tell me otherwise. [Witches] can be both enigmatic—and refreshingly direct. And in this case…
“I think your [Steward]’s fears have merit, Emperor Godart. Or should I say—I’m certain? But it isn’t something solved in a moment. It ties to witchcraft—and we are not of their covens.”
That comes from Eloise. I actually stir.
“Really?”
And here I thought people were being paranoid. But Hedag’s chuckling.
“Oh, your Majesty, we’ve no doubt of it. But it’s one thing to know and another to see, isn’t it?”
“It is indeed, Witch Hedag. Something of a problem with me, isn’t it?”
[Witches] aren’t afraid to be honest either. I smile drily, but Hedag just chortles louder over Rie, Beycalt, and Gamel being offended. The others are used to it, like Wiskeria, who’s sighing.
“I mean, go witness it, [Emperor]. You should be able to tell what your people fear even without vision alone.”
Hmm. Interesting. And since it does come from Hedag, I stand up.
“Does it happen every night, Prost?”
“Around dusk or later, your Majesty. Should we…?”
“Of course. Do I need an escort or is it just scary?”
I’m making light of it. But Gamel and Durene both agree to come with me. I sigh. Eloise just smiles. I can tell she does because she’s taken to tipping her hat up to signal me. A downwards tip means it’s a frown or something. She’s used it more than once when giving me advice.
Clever tricks.
As we leave the ‘throne room’, which is both treasury and throne room—in other words, a part warehouse and a reception area with the wooden throne, now apparently painted, and a place to put Riverfarm’s greatest treasures under guard, I’m still making light of the issue.
Honestly, it’s a relief from all this unpleasant and tedious business negotiating with other settlements. Cities and towns have become aware of the Unseen Empire and everyone wants something—preferably without having to pay.
‘Guard your roads for free? Why certainly, let me just do that in exchange for trade concessions I’d get from every [Merchant] anyways.’
“How many nobles have replied for the party now, Rie?”
As my small group of about eleven walks through Riverfarm at dusk, I try to see what’s changed today. What’s changed this month?
Paved roads. To be precise—twice-paved roads. What a disaster.
You see, when I first laid out Riverfarm in my head, I made plans for it to be far larger. I tried to think of all the basics—wells at numerous points in case of fire, farmland, placing buildings such that you wouldn’t have a smithy next to houses, for instance…
Riverfarm is laid out very neatly; no weird roads or confusing intersections. I can visualize it all from a bird’s eye view. Which is very handy!
But I make mistakes. Everyone makes mistakes. And one of my mistakes was that I didn’t realize that after the first mad rush to put up enough houses and the essential buildings…people would begin constructing things the way they thought was right.
Case in point: paved roads. Sounds good, right? Only—they used bits and pieces. Stones, parts of masonry from foundation-work, and so on to make one of those roads you get in Europe. Collectively strong, flat-ish—but bumpy as hell and prone to having bits and pieces torn up and needing to be reset.
I hate those roads. They are so difficult to walk on without tripping and they don’t do people in wagons any favors as well. So, I demanded that if we were going to get roads, make them brick! Make them flat and not prone to being torn up.
…Well, it took about four weeks to tear up the old roads and find the right [Bricklayers] who knew exactly how to get bricks of the hardness and durability we needed. Sourcing the right clay?
Gah. But you don’t see me kicking over stones, do you? Not one. I’m not being petty about it either, no matter what Durene claims.
“Nice brickwork. I’ll be interested to see how it takes its first winter.”
I…sense…the eye rolls from Durene, even Wiskeria and Rie. I determinedly do not scowl, and keep an even pace. I’m an [Emperor]. I don’t have many demands, like a golden palanquin. If I want nice roads, I’ll have them. And sewers! No one seems to think they’re a good idea, except for Rie. It’s a ‘Drake thing’, apparently, or a big city idea which is somehow a condemnation.
“We have eleven names after Lady Imarris, your Majesty. None of the Five Families as of yet…but some of the nobility have followed suit.”
“Better late than never. It seems Ryoka’s plan is working.”
It’s amazing how audacious she is. Three of the Five Families, coming here? A party for the fae.
I remember last time. It wasn’t a failure—far from it. But neither was it a huge success.
The fae are dangerous. True, they prevented Durene’s cottage from being covered in the avalanche—and it would have certainly killed us both. But they can be cruel, capricious…
Still, it’s a favor to Ryoka. I owe her one, or so I feel. And…it’s an opportunity for Riverfarm. But the preparations are difficult, her [Messages] sporadic and she herself isn’t exactly contributing hands or money to the cause.
“Ivolethe’s statue is finished?”
“Yes, sire.”
“Good.”
That was on my list of priorities. Near the top, actually. It seems to me that I’d want to be known for keeping my promises, even to the fae in disgrace. As for the rest?
Rie is helping with the party, even though she thinks it’s far too much work. She’s only going along because she believes it’s good public relations for the Unseen Empire—not because she believes in Ryoka’s ritual, or even understands it. She’s reached out and got three names of nobles she knows to come along before Ieka Imarris made her pronouncement.
Ieka. I remember her from riding with Lord Tyrion. Very polite, very knowledgeable. Part of his inner council. A [Mage]—and one of the more powerful nobles outside of the Five Families. 
Interested in me—but standoffish. Extremely so. She kept asking questions which I’d deflect. How did Ryoka get her to come?
“We’ll just wait and see, Rie. Have we removed all the iron nails from the party grounds?”
“At great effort, your Majesty, yes. Would you like us to brick the grounds as well?”
Some laughter. Either they’re becoming more relaxed around me or the last sixteen meetings on roads really have left their mark. I smile.
“I thought you had already begun the work? See to it, Lady Rie.”
Hedag starts laughing as Rie hesitates, unsure of whether I’m serious or not. I have to clarify that yes, it was a joke. My words have power.
 
—-
 
The ‘scary [Witches]’ apparently appear around Witching Street—fittingly. It’s late evening and I feel the sun waning on my skin. Ah, the sun’s still taking a long time to set. Far better than winters where it’s gone before dinner.
Witching Street. So-named because most of the new [Witches] who have come to Riverfarm are settled there. And yes, in the new houses, sometimes one or two per house if it’s Eloise or Hedag—often in small groups. Or covens?
Certainly, multiple covens have come here seeking Riverfarm’s protection. It surprised me, honestly. I thought the pact I made with the coven was for [Witches] like Hedag or Mavika—those who were accused of crimes and might be guilty, or might be prone to fear and prejudice.
But Agratha’s coven appeared first, and then roughly two more. The [Witches] seem to think there’s an opportunity here. Especially to raise new [Witches] in peace.
Hence, young [Witches] and the ones like Agratha, who’s an actual [Teacher]—the first one I’ve met in this world.
So far, the [Witches] haven’t given us more problems than the help they’ve been—[Witches] are an interesting combination of problem-solver, [Healer], [Mage], [Alchemist]…but as I come to Witching Street, very deserted except for [Witches] in their houses, the first problem manifests itself.
Few of the Unseen Empire’s people are near the street. They do indeed seem to avoid it if my landsense is correct. I don’t understand why. In my internal vision, the street is much like the rest. Oh, there’s the smell of some [Witch]’s experiment in the air—I cough.
“Ah. One of the apprentices must have fouled a batch.”
Failed experiment. I cough and fan at my face. Still, you’ll smell worse from a tanner, right?
“Any creepy [Witches], Prost?”
I laugh as I turn my head. Prost hesitates.
“Your Majesty…”
…And that’s when I hear it. Sense it, too. In the distance, there’s chanting. I stop chuckling. Fall silent.
Six small [Witches] are skipping down the street. Gamel makes a sound. I sense—behind me—a group of men and women coming back from the fields stiffen, then hurry off in the other direction. Fast.
They’re singing. So, six kids, ranging from as young as nine, to perhaps, a girl who’s thirteen? Singing? This doesn’t sound scary on paper.
But—is the air colder? I feel a chill. And tingling on my skin. Like goose bumps. I twitch—it feels as though there’s a hand on my shoulder.
“What the—”
My voice feels more quiet. I know there are people around me—but suddenly I feel as though I’m standing alone. The street feels wider. The voices echo as the girls skip forwards. Singing and laughing—no.
Chanting.
 
The hats are in the well, the bodies in the dell 
The gate is open and goes to hell
 
“Dead gods.”
Someone mutters behind me. I hear laughter, again. The girls are skipping down the street in a line. Then—they stop and start running in a circle around the one in the middle. Giggling.
 
The ghost is in my hat, her corpse is dark and fell
Take the bell and ring death’s knell
And don’t fall in the well!
 
I…feel someone grab my shoulders. I start—Durene is trying to hide behind me. I sense their heads turning, hear more high-pitched laughter.
“…Ah. That’s horrifying.”
I take it all back. I turn.
“Witch Eloise, Witch Hedag? Can you get them to stop that?”
“Girls!”
Eloise raises her voice. I hear giggling. The young [Witches] stop.
“Yes, Witch Eloise?”
They chorus as one voice. I hear a murmur from the side.
“They definitely practiced that.”
Wiskeria. Durene meanwhile is giving me a massage—or trying to pull the bones out of my shoulders with her fingers.
“Enough playing around.”
“But we’re not playing, Witch Eloise! We’re practicing our craft!”
Another six-in-one voice. More giggling. I hear Eloise sigh and beyond the basic, primal terror trying to pick at my common sense—it begins to come together.
“Ah. Not yours, Witch Eloise?”
“Not mine, Emperor Godart. Precisely the problem.”
“Well then, I think we’d better reconvene. They don’t stick to Witching Street, do they, Mister Prost? You were saying…”
“No, your Majesty. They wander down other streets. Lights go out when folk’re drinking in pubs. They peek into houses through the windows so you wake up and—”
He shudders. I begin to understand.
“Well, well. And I’ve been laughing it off so far. Creepy little girls indeed. We can’t have this. Suggestions?”
“If you’ll give me permission, I’ll stop them tonight, your Majesty.”
Wiskeria. I nod. This is why you have talented people on your side. People who’re right for the moment. Wiskeria squares her shoulders, adjusts her spectacles, and begins rolling up the sleeves of her robe as she secures her hat. I wait for her to break the younger [Witches]’s spell or—
“Enough, girls!”
She sprints at the [Witches] and they shriek and run off. I sense them scatter as Wiskeria chases them, calling out all manner of curses—verbal ones—if they don’t come here right now.
“Er…was that a particularly witchy move, Witch Eloise?”
Rie’s voice sounds a bit strangled. Hedag chuckles.
