“One more chance I have yet to see.”
“Then take this. A bezoar’s gift. It will surely fail if the [Assassins] know their craft. But how do they die?”
Mavika handed her something. Oliyaya took it and shook her head.
“The bezoar’s gift in vain. Even with it—the [Lords] wane.”
Laken Godart was fascinated. So this was divination. But how did it work? He heard some of the younger [Witches] asking that very question, witnessing the true Skill and skill of their elders.
“I sense a Skill amid this. Break the chains, Eloise.”
Mavika hissed at Eloise. The [Tea Witch] paused, then nodded.
“I require a gift. Witch Rebeca.”
“I will break the [Assassin]’s hold, Witch Eloise. Give me your brew.”
The audience watched, spellbound as the pot changed hands. The second [Witch] murmured. And Laken was beginning to understand. He leaned forwards, and even Durene forgot her nerves—
“And we can see, young [Witches], how each [Witch] is performing the divination using a combination of Skills! Witch Oliyaya is using her [Prediction of Success] Skill in combination with Witch Eloise’s herb craft.”
Witch Agratha clapped her hands together as she decided to take this moment to lecture the audience. Half of the [Witches] sitting there turned and gave her dark looks.
Rather like someone who decided to explain every trick as a stage magician performed it, Agratha went on as Witch Oliyaya glowered at her.
“You see, Witch Oliyaya can only use her Skill so many times, but I will be using [Renew Skill]—a very useful Skill if put in conjunction with other Skills. This way, Witch Eloise will be able to test out numerous brews and see how effective they are. We are isolating the poison by the cure—”
“Witch Agratha. The ritual is ongoing.”
Mavika hissed at her. The [Witch]-[Teacher] hesitated. She made a sound of discontent.
“Ah…yes, Witch Mavika. I just thought it was ideal to teach in the moment. We’ll review this later!”
She beamed at her pupils. Laken was informed by Durene that the other [Witches] were rolling their eyes at this point.
“Different kinds of craft, I suppose.”
He saw why Eloise wasn’t a fan of Agratha. And also—why Agratha had not been invited to the same gathering as Belavierr. Totally different style. Also—Laken wondered what Belavierr would have done if Agratha had decided to explain her magic.
He wondered if Agratha could.
“Ah. Skillbreaking works. But—there’s some magic in it! The cure needs more. More! The children have a fly’s chance caught by deadly web, but it grows!”
“Would you say that’s a one-in-ten chance, or one in a hundred still?”
Agratha got another dirty look from Oliyaya and the others. The [Witches] murmured. Eloise looked around.
“I have none of the rarest materials. Witch Devay? I seek your aid.”
“I have seen some of what you seek, Witch Eloise. What do you wish?”
“Mithril dust. And—have you witnessed Darcaw’s Pearl?”
“No, Witch Eloise.”
“Then—”
Laken saw through Durene, a phantom substance appearing in Devay’s empty bowl. This was where the magic began working with Skill. The other [Witches] had to help Devay.
“A half-cure for a half-sickness. We must account for that.”
Another [Witch] murmured. And Laken got it again, before Agratha whispered her explanations. The [Witches] were supplementing any lack of Eloise’s ingredients.
On it went. After the third pass, Oliyaya had to take a break. Another [Witch] took over from her. Not with the same Skill—she used another Skill as Eloise did. [Tea Omens] provided more enigmatic answers than Oliyaya, who was using Mavika’s proximity to the children to ascertain the odds of success.
Oliyaya wouldn’t have been able to divine at the range without a physical link with Mavika, who could share Skills with her raven. And the [Tea Omens] Skill could be vague. The other [Witches] began producing their own means of divination. Frustratingly, Agratha’s medium was a clacking abacus.
But it was Eloise who worked. And her knowledge of herbs craft and—Laken realized—poison was what was leading her to identify the increasingly narrow set of poisons that could produce the effects in Hethon and Sammial.
Both in cure and symptom. Laken Godart had to leave after the eleventh try—already an hour and a half had passed.
“I think they’re narrowing it down. Tell me at once when they’re certain, Durene. No matter where.”
Oliyaya had gone from predicting ‘certain death’ to ‘a young man’s chance of taking a mortal wound’, to ‘the toss of a coin’. Of course, the [Witches] wouldn’t be satisfied until the cure was close to 100%…
…Although if the two boys were too sick, it might never be a certain thing. They’d find out. Meanwhile, Laken Godart decided to put the next part of the plan into motion.
“Lady Rie, thank you for coming on such short notice.”
She sat across from him warily, watching Laken Godart’s smile. The [Emperor] had summoned her and so Rie had come.
She was no fool, however. The sudden absence of every [Witch] in Riverfarm and Laken himself giving orders she was not privy to?
“Has something come up, your Majesty?”
“Just now. Excellent news, Lady Rie. I actually went after Witch Eloise to ask if there was anything more that could be done. She had no idea—but it was Witch Mavika who recalled an old magical ritual that might actually isolate the poison from afar.”
“An…old ritual, you say? Well, your Majesty. That is splendid news.”
The [Lady] smiled. So did the [Emperor].
“I asked them to begin at once, naturally. Eloise seems to believe there’s a chance. And this is so much less involved than risking life and limb, isn’t it?”
“…Absolutely, your Majesty. What a splendid idea. I am so glad Witch Mavika recalled a powerful magic such as this.”
The [Emperor] sighed. He stood up and, with casual certainty despite his closed eyes, turned his back to Rie to face the window in the room where they were sitting.
“It is. It is. And it is the right thing to do. Children should not be poisoned. That is despicable and heinous. We can all agree on that, despite the risks.”
“Of course, your Majesty.”
Rie Valerund watched the [Emperor]’s back. Grimly, he waited. He sensed, after a moment’s delay, an old [Mage] sitting outside tug once at his beard. Laken sighed.
“I’m glad you agree, Lady Rie. I truly am.”
“Was that a test, your Majesty?”
Lady Rie smiled, or at least put a smile into her voice. Laken laughed, a bit guiltily.
“Would you believe me if I said that sometimes I do have to check? After Sacra, you know, I gained a few Skills that help me learn how to hold my own in regards to truthfulness.”
A small sigh. Of relief?
“I thought so, your Majesty.”
“Well, I was hardly uncertain of you, Rie. I was just unsure if you thought it was wise to test the Circle of Thorns in this way?”
The [Lady] hesitated. She bit her lip and went on after a delicate pause.
“Truthfully, your Majesty? I fear what they might do if Witch Eloise aids Tyrion Veltras. The Circle of Thorns attacking the Unseen Empire—the thought of it terrifies me.”
Tug. Laken decided that while he’d keep a mental eye on Typhenous, Rie was too smart not to tell the truth. She went on as he nodded.
“While I am completely in favor of the sick children living if at all possible, I fear the reprisals. Riverfarm is not yet able to engage with this…Circle of Thorns, your Majesty. Or to move Izril at large.”
Nice way of putting it. Laken nodded a few times.
“It is tricky. However, as [Emperor], I had no choice at all, really, Lady Rie. If I could help and I did not? If I were Tyrion Veltras, I would never forgive such a thing.”
“I…can see that. Not that he would find out, surely?”
“Secrets, Lady Rie! Secrets have a tendency to get out. I only hope the Circle of Thorns will…direct their ire elsewhere.”
“Your Majesty?”
She blinked a few times. Not that Laken could know this. The [Emperor] sighed as he turned back to face Lady Rie.
“Of course, as soon as Eloise reveals the cure—if she can, rather—I intend to tell Lord Veltras. But it stops there. Eloise has told me herself that she probably lacks the ingredients to manufacture the cure. And even if she made it—who would pick it up?”
“I—I see. So you intend to provide Lord Veltras with knowledge of the antidote—this is clever, your Majesty! And well thought-out! I believe it may work!”
The [Lady] grew excited again; audible relief in her voice. Laken nodded solemnly.
“It’s all Riverfarm can do. As you said, there’s no point in making the Circle of Thorns my enemy yet.”
Truth and truth. Smile. The [Emperor] paused.
“I wonder if the Circle will think of it that way.”
Lady Rie Valerund sat there. That she did not reply was due to many thoughts running through her head. Chief among them was that she was the only person whom Laken Godart was speaking to about his plans regarding the Circle of Thorns. Then again—she was the only really qualified person here besides perhaps Eloise, and the [Witch] was busy.
Then again—was it a ploy, or genuine, or…? But Lady Rie’s indecision only lasted a moment. After all, you had to tell the truth. So she sighed.
“I cannot imagine, Emperor Laken. Truly, one can’t predict what the Circle of Thorns might do as a whole. But—I should imagine that this is the most Riverfarm can do without arousing their full wrath.”
“That was what I thought, Lady Rie. We’ll have to see, of course. I’ll put the Unseen Empire on alert. But I thought you should know first. I value your counsel.”
“Thank you, your Majesty. As you know, I have every wish that the Unseen Empire prosper—with my help, small as it may be.”
The [Emperor] smiled again. Then, Durene crashed through the front door.
“They found it! Oh, hullo, Rie.”
 
—-
 
Later that day, Tyrion Veltras, disheveled, unkempt, rose as his [Majordomo] burst into the bedroom unannounced. The [Lord] rose from the bedsides where he had kept watch and Ullim whispered to him.
“—Certain? Can he—no.”
The [Lord] found a second wind just as the Circle of Thorns received a message that someone had complicated their plans. But—as their informant tried to assure them—not significantly!
The [Witch]’s recipe was a very complicated alchemical brew. Not unheard of—but meant to neutralize a five-poison blend. And it called for either Skills or alchemical ingredients so rare that she herself didn’t have them, mithril dust being the least rare by far.
And that was as far as it went. It was already more than enough. Tyrion Veltras rose from his vigil. One last chance. No longer did he need someone to come here.
The [Assassin] with the mask ducked back into her rooms as he bellowed an order.
“Send to First Landing! Send to other cities! Bring it here! By spell or beast or by horse or on foot!”
His private, desperate appeal between the noble houses of Izril became a public [Message]. Wistram picked it up.
A cure for House Veltras. Poison and treachery and two children’s lives. Who would hear it and dare the Guild of Assassins? Within the hour, Tyrion Veltras, who had waited so long and tried so much to no avail got his answer.
 
To Tyrion Veltras from First Landing, regarding Delivery of Cure request:
Your delivery has been accepted.
Couriers outbound.
