“I think I shall go for a walk. Gamel? I’m going to have a walk in the forest. Have a horse readied for me, please?”
“Yes, your Majesty.”
My [Knight] appears and after a few minutes, I’m off. Let’s see…along the Goblinlands is probably good. Few people go that way, and there’s a nice forest we cut in half with those damned walls.
 
—-
 
Pebblesnatch stared down at the [Emperor] of Riverfarm from the wall. She was in one of the towers, hiding from Ulvama. Pebblesnatch had stolen her magical dyes as food coloring for her pot and Ulvama was ready to smack her silly.
She’d come across the [Emperor] quite by chance. He was busy discussing some Human-problem with Gamel, the young man who was keeping him company. They had another escort of [Riders] keeping a great distance. Pebblesnatch had keen ears though, so she heard Laken and Gamel talking.
Someone was sick? Oh no! But they could cure them—but they couldn’t because of [Assassins], whatever that was. Some kind of…of…monster? Evil Humans?
Pebblesnatch listened to Ulvama shouting furiously behind her. You know, if she was more kindly disposed towards this [Emperor], and if Ulvama was less irate—and if Pebblesnatch had the lexicon to express herself—she would have told Laken that Ulvama was great at healing stuff.
She could cure Pebblesnatch-induced food poisoning, Goblins who got sick from mushrooms—she was really good at it! Too bad Laken Godart wasn’t able to order Ulvama around like his subjects.
Still…maybe this was Pebblesnatch’s big chance? Ulvama could cure this person, everyone would be happy, and Pebblesnatch, after taking her due credit, would be so beloved she’d get enough ingredients to make anything she wanted! The Humans would let the Goblins go into the empire and there’d be no need for all these walls!
Then maybe the sad little [Witch] and Pebblesnatch could be friends. The Cave Goblin began to slither out of her tower to begin this chain of events. She’d learned this kind of optimism from Erin Solstice, incidentally. Cave Goblins didn’t usually have such convoluted plans of things going right.
As Pebblesnatch hopped along the Goblin’s wall, waving and shouting at the oblivious [Emperor] in the distance, she saw someone picking her way towards the duo, having bypassed the escort waiting politely behind. Laken Godart held up a hand and there…Pebblesnatch saw an old Human woman with a hat walking towards him, with a basket in one arm.
Oh. One of the [Witches]. The tea-[Witch]. Pebblesnatch began to climb down, undeterred. Then—something swooped out of the skies, making her duck.
A raven alighted on a branch over the [Emperor]’s head, cawed once, and turned into Mavika. Pebblesnatch froze. What’s this, now? The [Emperor] motioned Gamel away. He turned—and Pebblesnatch watched in fascination.
 
—-
 
It doesn’t take them long to get to me. Well, we walk for about twenty minutes and Gamel’s mandatory escort of some of the Blacksky Riders is shadowing us—but they wouldn’t stop a fellow member of the Unseen Empire, would they?
Witch Eloise is gathering herbs. Mavika’s appearance is more dramatic.
“Your Majesty?”
Gamel’s caught off-guard, but I just nod.
“Gamel, I’ve been expecting them. Keep the Blacksky Riders from noticing them. Say I’m…meditating. Collecting my thoughts. I’ll signal you when it’s time.”
“Yes, your Majesty.”
He hurries off. Good man, Gamel. He doesn’t ask questions. I sigh, and turn to Witch Eloise.
“So what do we call that? Tug up for ‘smile’ or ‘yes’, tug down for ‘no’, and spin your hat around for…”
“I had to be obvious, your Majesty. I do apologize.”
Eloise actually blushes a bit. She was making all kinds of mad signs while she told me to my face that she wouldn’t risk her neck. I nod.
“Witch Mavika. Are Wiskeria and Hedag not coming?”
The two older [Witches] look at each other and shrug.
“Neither one need participate. We are the [Witches] who matter here, Emperor Godart. Did you notice the malice coming from your [Lady] sworn?”
Mavika’s tone is brusque. I nod.
“Ah. I wondered if you could sense that. Lady Rie…is not all she seems, is she?”
“Few people are. I’m quite glad your Majesty did not need to be told. Well, better the [Spy] you know. I was reluctant to speak more in that place, Emperor Godart. Not that our intuition proves anything.”
Mavika jerked her head, clearly of a different mind. Eloise shot her a quick glance.
“—She was simply disturbed by the idea of opposing this Circle. We would not like to make pronouncements, would we, Mavika?”
“Well understood, Witch Eloise. My conclusions are my own. And I have been aware of this issue for a while. Let’s put that aside for one moment. What else would you like to say?”
Durene is going to beg to be the one to thump Rie on the head. Or…what will I do? Argh. But I was warned. He told me there would be at least one, and…
Well, enough of that for now. Eloise looks around and to my surprise both she and Mavika sit along the forest trail. I end up sitting too.
“Frankly, your Majesty, we spoke no untruths. It’s unwise to lie as [Witches], let alone in the presence of truth spells if there are any about. Mavika would fail to guard me against what I assume the Guild of Assassins could send, especially if they were forewarned…even if not, the roads are certainly watched and each person who could help Lord Veltras screened.”
“Really. So—is the answer more [Witches]? Or one you don’t see coming?”
Mavika grinned.
“The other [Witch] who could certainly cure any ills would die ere she reached House Veltras’ manor—without the need for [Assassins]. And that was if she deigned to leave her home. Which she will not. Not for all of Riverfarm’s riches.”
“…Well then. I assume you have some answer?”
Brightly, Eloise smiles at me. Oh, it was wise to put her on my inner council. I shuffle the order around in my head. Let’s say—Prost for commonsense things, Wiskeria for intelligent matters, Rie for possibly untrustworthy advice…but I’ll say that Eloise is now my most knowledgeable, trustworthy advisor.
Shame.
“As I said, your Majesty. The journey is too dangerous. I would never, ever risk it, even if I had House Veltras’ army riding to escort me. That is…such a bold move it would simply escalate the matter. Lead to open conflict.”
I nod, slowly. Yes. The Circle wouldn’t back down. It’d be a running battle with damned armies of [Assassins] and far more danger, even with the Five Families’ support. Not a smart move.
And [Witches] love to have smart answers. Straightforward ones. I almost smile myself. Some commonality between [Emperor] and [Witches] there.
“And how would you solve this?”
“Witch Mavika has sent her crow familiar to fly to House Veltras. In the meantime, with your…permission and at your request, I am willing to decipher the poison that afflicts Lord Hethon and Lord Sammial.”
I blink.
“What is the airspeed velocity of—no, never mind. House Veltras is to the west, not the north, isn’t that right?”
“Not nearly as far as First Landing is from here, no, your Majesty. But I may begin solving the riddle of poison at once. If—it is your will. Because as I am sure you know, Emperor Godart, there will be reprisals.”
Now Eloise looks at me and I catch the full implications of her warning. I sit back, thinking.
“I have two questions. What will you ask, [Witches]? And will you accept your risk if I accept mine?”
Eloise and Mavika smiled. For answer, Mavika tips her hat up and gives me a direct, disconcerting stare. I can’t see her face, but I’ve had Durene describe her eyes to me and I can feel them on me now. Bird’s eyes, overly large in her face.
“The Circle has made enemies of [Witches], Emperor Godart. For that alone, we would dare it. But also because we have made a pact, here, and if [Witches] die, it is only because an [Emperor]’s will is thwarted. Is that not so?”
“No one will be killed on my lands, Witch Mavika, without me doing everything to stop it.”
She nods, quite pleased. Eloise is next.
“As for the price, your Majesty? Well, as we said, it could be an act of [Witches]. However…if the Unseen Empire would like to involve itself in our action—”
“Take credit, you mean.”
Perhaps a little too direct, there. Eloise looks a bit offended.
“Declare itself the beneficiary of [Witches], and my work at your request as an example of that pact, your Majesty. We would accept that. And…some land.”
I’m sure if I could see them, both Mavika and Eloise’s eyes would do that ‘glinting’ thing I’ve read about. I always wanted to know if it was actually a physical motion or just an impression.
“Land, Witch Eloise?”
“Land, your Majesty. In perpetuity. A place for [Witches].”
“…You don’t just mean, Witching Street, [Witch] Eloise. Do you?”
She smiles. I know she does.
“We may discuss the issue. But if we were given a…small forest? We would consider ourselves in your debt.”
I sit back. [Witches] want to practice witchery more witchily than before. Okay…but if it’s between Lady Rie and Eloise, I know which one to pick. So I smile back.
“We can discuss forests, [Witch] Eloise. Or other locations. We have an agreement in either case. Now—how can you safely uncover the illness? And what might you suggest we do when the cure is found?”
The [Tea Witch]—if that is her class—chuckles. Mavika makes a sound like a bird.
“It is struck, [Emperor]! Let it be that neither [Witch] nor ruler regret this.”
She takes off. Is she literally flying? I hear Gamel and the [Riders] exclaim in alarm. I’ll have to ask. Eloise is slower to rise.
“Oh, it won’t take too long, hopefully, your Majesty. You see, the Circle might be aware of [Witch]’s unique talents, but I doubt they know all of our tricks. Finding what ails the young [Lords] Veltras is not easy. But I am very good. I’ll need help. But I don’t need to be there.”
“What then?”
She laughs as I offer her an arm.
“Divination.”
 
—-
 
Divination. Not [Scrying]. Nor is it like the class [Diviner]. It was something partly lost in this day and age. A different kind of magic. A different technique and way of looking at things.
It looked—
Well, it sounded like cheating to Laken Godart. But that was also very witch-y.
At first—it had all the hallmarks of a true ritual straight out of the fairytales. Eloise did not waste time. Nor—it seemed—had she thought Laken would refuse her.
Multiple covens had come to Riverfarm. Even if not all the members were here and there were more young [Witches]-in-training than before—there were any number of adult [Witches].
Almost all of them were here. Mavika, Oliyaya, Agratha, Devay, Rebeca, Eloise, and more. Wiskeria was admitted into their number; only a handful had been excluded like Hedag.
The others were watching. Apprentice [Witches], a small sea of pointed hats, sat around an inner circle. There was Eloise, with a small magical fire, a pot—multiple pots with ingredients simmering away, emitting noxious fumes—
It was why they were outside. The [Witches] had found a perfect glade. It was, in fact, the forest they would rather like to have. So they worked their magic here.
Laken Godart was one of the onlookers. Durene had come too, and was nervously watching while linking arms with him; just in case she squeezed his hand too tightly.
It began with a chant. The young [Witches] took it up first. It was a whisper. Two names, echoing around the ground in uneven harmony—but it was a harmony.
“Veltras. Veltras. Sammial Veltras. Hethon Veltras. Veltras, Veltras…”
A susurration of sound. Laken’s skin began to prick with nerves. As far as he knew—Lady Rie was occupied. Prost had that job. And this area was being watched. He’d deployed the Blacksky Riders to keep everyone five miles away from the forest.
But this—the air felt thick. It was only late noon, but the shadows of the canopy seemed to thicken.
The glade had been breezeless. Now, a low wind blew up around the sitting [Witches]. Laken spotted Nanette’s figure, whispering with the others. He could not see her face and he didn’t want to interrupt Durene to tell him what his landsense couldn’t.
“Veltras, Veltras. Poisoned be, reveal to me.”
Now, the inner circle moved. Eloise sat in the center. She raised something and gazed into it.
A tea cup. Of course. But the contents were swirling. And Laken saw tea leaves moving about, forming shapes, as he walked along the edge of the ritual. Durene hurried after him.
[Tea Omens]. Whatever Eloise saw made her grimace.
“Fennel root.”
Her voice was normal—the whispering in the background died down. Mavika handed it to her.
“I see sweat and labored breath. Coughing which does not cease. Paleness about the lips. Blood on the cloth.”
She announced the first symptoms. Eloise nodded. Wiskeria’s eyes flickered.
“Fever. But the coughing…”
“I will fight it. Sage’s Grass. A brew to eat away at anything made of arsenic, first.”
The [Witches] murmured their acknowledgement. Laken heard voices, speculating.
“…Basilisk’s root, perhaps…”
“What do they smell of, Mavika?”
“Incontinence and foulness, like the gas from swamps.”
The [Crow Witch] was watching elsewhere. Eloise was—half-listening. She shook her head. Turned up the heat by putting one of the small pots on a burner. She made tea in the second. Or so Durene whispered to Laken, and that was one of the smells he caught.
“A cure all?”
Oliyaya’s voice was surprisingly normal for when it wasn’t cackling. Laken asked Durene to describe what—if anything was unusual about Oliyaya.
“Her—hands.”
“To see what magnitude of poison we are working with. It should narrow it down…now, to test it. Witch Oliyaya, to you.”
Eloise’s voice was quiet. She turned and handed the first of three brews to Oliyaya. Laken frowned. Had she made the cure already?
No—this was the essence of divination Eloise had meant. The whispering began again.
“Veltras, a cure for Veltras—”
“Show me your fate.”
The [Witch] spoke. Then she laughed. It was sudden—high-pitched, mad laughter. Durene jumped and grabbed Laken.
“Death! No chance at all!”
She tossed the pot’s contents to the ground. Laken heard the sizzle as whatever it was met the flames. The other [Witches] murmured.
“Next!”
The second brew made Oliyaya hesitate.
“A flicker of life among the weeds. A single moment in a hundred.”
“And that was the cure-all. More potent than we thought.”
A [Witch] sitting next to Wiskeria murmured. Laken was fascinated. The third brew?
“Death, again!”
Oliyaya discarded the contents. The apprentice-[Witches] murmured as Eloise began to prepare her brews anew. Oliyaya sat back.
