“Nothing for stopping a good scare spell than smacking a head or two, Miss Rie. Wiskeria knows her craft. Let’s head back now we’ve convinced yon [Emperor] there’s something to be scared of, eh?”
 
—-
 
Witchcraft is a strange thing. Sometimes it seems so ordinary. Like Agratha sweeping up honey but leaving it pure. Other times it’s dark and magical. But it always makes sense.
Like—Wiskeria chasing off the girls by hitting them with a broom until they stop casting the fear spells? It makes sense because that’s the least-scary thing I can think of. Also, very practical.
“The issue is that each coven, and each [Witch] is a law unto herself, Emperor Godart. Apprentices are apprentices even so, but—”
“—but if you start telling them their craft, their mentor objects. I have it precisely, Witch Eloise. I’m only curious of two things. Why are they doing it? Not just for fun, it seems. And how much trouble will there be if they’re forced to stop?”
A murmur of conversation among the other [Witches]. I’ve dismissed most of the council for the night. Prost is here as always, Rie, Wiskeria, Hedag, and Eloise. Durene needed a lie down and some time at the pub after that scare.
Joining us, though, are three more senior [Witches]. The one who replies is very technical with that…that…teacher-y voice. A tone of command, really. And of making you feel as though you’re always in the wrong.
“To be precise, Emperor Laken, the young [Witches] are practicing their chosen specialty. It just so happens that the thing they make their spells out of in this stage of their careers is, regrettably, fear.”
“Ah. I thought so.”
Scary little girls. And because they’re [Witches], they know they’re terrifying and use it to fuel their magic, like Mavika uses fear, Alevica uses resentment and loathing—
“Like Witch Alevica? I haven’t seen her around. I trust she’s doing well?”
A susurration. The other [Witches] don’t like Alevica much, at least, Agratha doesn’t.
“It would be—regrettable—if the young [Witches] try to emulate Witch Alevica. They hold her in some esteem. We are trying to guide them onto the right path, your Majesty, but their teacher is Witch Oliyaya.”
“Ah. Her.”
I don’t think I’ve ever heard her speak. Nor did she introduce herself. She’s one of the reasons why people imagine [Witches] would want to live in a camp outside of Riverfarm instead of in houses. And indeed—Oliyaya does. Or in a tree, or a swamp hut…I’m rather glad of it. The only time I’ve ever heard her is when she started laughing manically.
“Like Witch Mavika, it seems.”
Another delicate pause. Another witch, Rebeca, another one like Agratha—a teacher, replies quickly.
“Ah, but your Majesty, Mavika is even older magic. She has a flock. Her example isn’t fair to use. Witch Agratha, Devay, and I are attempting to create a school of magic for young [Witches], but those like Oliyaya complicate matters. We would be all too willing to intercede on the Unseen Empire’s behalf, of course…”
And here’s where Eloise tugs on her hat. Downwards. Ah. I hear a grunt from Hedag, a dissatisfied one. And that tells me something else.
There’s a split in opinions here, isn’t there? Eloise and Hedag might not be fans of creepy [Witches] scaring everyone, but they’re not all on board with Agratha’s teaching methods.
Tread carefully. If I pick Agratha’s side, I have no doubt she might use that to push her kind of witchcraft. Which alienates Oliyaya and…
I sigh. But I’ve learned how to do this. And as an [Emperor]’s tasks go, this is one of the most important. I lean on the throne’s armrest, as if bored.
“So I would ask you to manage Oliyaya’s pupils to bring peace to the Unseen Empire’s people at night?”
“If you deem it best, your Majesty, of course we would be happy to oblige. Witches are guaranteed protection, but your laws must be weighed against the craft of [Witches].”
Another telling answer. ‘If I deem it best’. And that wasn’t exactly a promise to obey all of Riverfarm’s laws.
“Perhaps it would be best to tell Emperor Laken why Oliyaya and her pupils like fear first, wouldn’t it, Agratha? Young man he is, and sharp as the [Reaper]’s sickle, but he might not see the issue.”
That comes from Hedag with a bark of a laugh. I smile as Agratha makes a noise of discontent rather like Rie. She was clearly hoping Hedag wouldn’t say that.
“What’s this, Witch Agratha?”
“Erm…only that there are complications in some of Witch Oliyaya’s pupils, your Majesty. All girls may become a [Witch]! It doesn’t change—”
“You can’t see it, Laken Godart. But young Witch Cirsa is the survivor of a fire. Her family perished in the flames and she was orphaned. Oliyaya adopted her as a pupil.”
Eloise spells it out at last. I exhale.
“Ah.”
I wouldn’t have sensed that. I can tell with my landsense where people are precisely, how they’re standing, everything about their postures—not facial features. Not yet, if it’s even possible.
“It’s just features. The child…”
Agratha trails off. I turn my head.
“I take it she has—scars, Witch Eloise?”
“Yes, your Majesty. Which I realize may not be as troubling to you. But they trouble Witch Cirsa. Especially other people’s reactions to them. Hence her decision to play upon them. Most of Oliyaya’s pupils are like that. And she herself.”
“I see.”
It all becomes clear. Small wonder. I feel sympathy now, despite having been scared myself. Agratha and her trio are silent as they wait for me to reply. It’s Rie who helps set me up.
“A tricky situation, wouldn’t you agree, your Majesty? On one hand, we have [Witches] practicing their natural craft. On the other—your subjects are disturbed. Is there no common ground to be found?”
Thank you, Rie. She spells out that I’m aware this will inconvenience me either way. One of the other [Witches] makes a sound as she shifts. I nod.
“It is troublesome, Lady Rie. But as I have agreed—I will make every courtesy and afford [Witches] every due possible. Far be it from me to decide what [Witches] are.”
A tip of the hat upwards from Eloise and an exasperated sigh from Agratha. I suppress a smile. You’re welcome. I wonder how much I just gave Eloise’s camp, if she has one?
“Even so, Witch Oliyaya and her pupils cannot terrorize Riverfarm. Witch Hedag, will you speak to Oliyaya and ask that the scary little [Witches] confine themselves to the only occasional haunting?”
“Your Majesty, all parts of Riverfarm?”
“Mm. No, good point, Mister Prost. Certain streets of Riverfarm may be ‘scare zones’ at night. Some residents do seem to enjoy being terrorized. It adds spice to life.”
Like people who insist on watching horror movies. It’s a happy compromise and sending Hedag seems like the safest bet. I hear more sighing from Agratha’s lot. And once again, Emperor Laken has steered the rocky course of negotiations!
Huzzah. I stretch. I want to eat something.
Anyways. Creepy little girls, even if they are horrifying, aren’t the biggest thing Riverfarm has to deal with. If you want to deal with real problems—well—the next day was even more of a headache.
Goblins are good at giving me headaches. I think they enjoy making trouble for me.
 
—-
 
“Where do I even begin? There’s too much to say…where are you, I guess? Can I ask that? Or is it…dangerous?”
“It might be. But this is the only way we can talk. The safest way…well, how confident are you?”
“Um. S-six?”
“Six?”
That wasn’t Elena’s voice. Ryoka stared at Palt accusingly. He shrugged.
“The Elusive Lot.”
He whispered back. Elena was arguing with someone on the other side.
“You are all listening in!”
“We’re keeping the spell active! You want to chat on an unsecured spell? We could get you a decent artifact, I guess.”
“Well? Will you?”
“But we want to listen in!”
The argument between Elena and an unknown speaker—Palt was writing ‘Galei’ as Galina frantically transcribed—ended in the background. Galina had experience in transcribing, apparently. Erin was resting her hands on her chin, just staring.
“That’s one of the Elusive Lot. Do you know about…?”
“Yes. I’m um—allied with Ullsinoi. We are.”
“We? There are more of you?”
“Yes.”
Ryoka Griffin, aka ‘batman’, was sweating. Elena made a sound.
“I—maybe don’t tell me?”
“The Elusive Lot knows. I’d rate this as a six out of ten myself. But we have to try. Let’s keep anything extremely important secret. But I can tell you we have a safe place. In Izril. In…”
Ryoka looked at Erin. The [Innkeeper] shrugged. Ryoka still hesitated.
“—In Izril. If we could get you out, we’d bring you here.”
“How safe is ‘safe’? We’ve heard how bad it is—I saw some terrible stuff myself. Not all of its bad, but I saw…monsters…and Cara—the [Popstar]—she showed me a text chat that apparently happened before I arrived. That’s how we know you. Some people…”
“Yeah. I know. You know…‘asdf’? The…”
Imani flinched. Ryoka chose her words carefully. Elena made a sound.
“I think so.”
“It was Crelers. The—survivor’s with us.”
“Oh. Oh my god—we’ve found more people who survived monster attacks, but you found…? Some people have horrible stories—”
“We have to stay on topic. Sorry, but I know we’re on a time limit.”
Palt nodded. Elena took a breath.
“Okay. You’re in Izril. Got it. Um—there are things we should tell you. I don’t know what you know. But first? Listen—do you have a scrying orb?”
“Yes. We’ve seen all the broadcasts, including the Singer—Cara’s?—video.”
“Ah, right. Well, she’s telling you important things. You caught that, right?”
“Ailendamus, Wistram, er…[Necromancers]? Seek safety with Noelictus, Calanfer, half-Elves, Dwarves? Just in general?”
“There’s only one major Dwarf settlement in the world. And the half-Elves—well, Cara knows some. Yeah. Good. I knew you’d get it. I got it at once, and Cara and I can’t talk. It’s too dangerous.”
“So Wistram is keeping you all hostage? You can’t communicate?”
“Someone’s always listening if we talk. They want Cara to come to Wistram—and no, we can’t leave. We’re told we’ll be able to once Wistram has ‘control of the situation’. But…she asked for volunteers and I came here.”
“Who?”
“Oh, Cara, sorry. She has more Earthers and she was suspicious of Wistram. I volunteered…”
Write this down! Ryoka was waving at the others as they poked and nudged each other. This was huge! And more was yet to come.
Elena caught herself once more.
“Never mind that. Listen. Don’t ever, and I mean, ever say anything about Earth in front of a scrying orb. Or give away who you are! It’s usually safe—Wistram can’t see everything. But—and we can’t confirm this, the others with me—something’s up with Wistram’s scrying television thing. I think…they might be able to see through some of them.”
Ryoka nearly dropped the stone Palt was focusing through. He caught the stone before the artifact could break. Erin threw up her hands.
“Illuminati! Aaaa—”
“Who was that?”
“Someone else, sorry.”
Ryoka had clapped a hand over Erin’s mouth. The [Innkeeper] was pointing at Kevin and gesticulating for him to ‘get a hammer’. Ryoka quickly spoke.
“Are you sure?”
“Nearly. I heard them talking about ‘obscure artifacts’—ones they can’t hack into. They’re…monitoring all kinds of people. The King of Destruction, other nations—even the Antinium.”
Oh no. Ryoka felt her stomach twist. That—that wasn’t good. Erin was sitting bolt-upright, focused on the conversation. For the Wind Runner herself? The cost of telling Elena had already paid off.
“We’ll make a note, thank you, Elena. We’ll remove all the scrying devices or be careful to—”
“Actually, I don’t think you need to do this, Miss.”
A startled sound from Elena. Ryoka stopped.
“Hello? Who is this?”
“Master Galei!”
“Hello, Palt! I just had to break in here.”
A friendly male voice—Palt’s master?—spoke up. He addressed the Centaur directly.
“Psst, Palt. How friendly are we getting? We could consult here—but I’d like to hear it from you first.”
The Centaur hesitated and looked at Erin and Ryoka.
“Master Galei? I’d call these significant allies.”
Other voices in the background. Ryoka frowned. How many [Mages] were in the Elusive Lot? And listening in? Even Palt didn’t know. Galei murmured.
“…heard him. I say we take it…no votes! We’ll leave you two to talk, Miss ‘batman’. But I just wanted to tell you that if you’re just enchanting a mirror with [Scrying], you’re not in danger of Wistram reversing the spell to watch you. Not if Palt’s doing it.”
“Oh.”
Ryoka looked at Palt for confirmation. Then she snapped back towards the stone she was using to speak through.
“Wait. Wistram is watching us through scrying orbs?”
“Oho! She got it! I knew she was smart! That’s five secrets you owe me!”
Someone chortled in the background. Palt sighed and reached for a cigar. Ryoka felt like she never wanted to meet the Elusive Lot in person. It was like listening to faeries, a bit. At least in their chaotic insanity.
“Thank you.”
“Here’s Elena again. Also—you have about six minutes left. We can’t keep this up forever. Is this chat going to take long?”
Elena sounded rushed.
“Six minutes? But we have too much to say! Okay—listen—give that back!”
Galei’s voice again.
“Ah, I thought so. In that case—we’ll do it later tonight. Mm. One of our warded rooms.”
“Wait, again? You just said—”
Ryoka and Elena were both confused. Galei made a sound.
“I meant, we grabbed Miss Elena not knowing how she’d react or how long this was. We’re casting a linked spell in a damned hallway! It’s not perfect! We’ll resume this later. Miss Elena, you’ll just have to show up in one of our secure areas where we can let you talk far longer without the same risk.”
“Oh. Will—will it be safe? Archmage Feor’s in my faction, Mage Galei. If he finds out…”
The Elusive Lot laughed in the background. Ryoka saw Palt give her a nod as Kevin made a motion. With a resigned look, Palt handed out a spliff to beckoning hands. Erin scowled. Ryoka reached out and Erin smacked her hand down. Like hell Ryoka was going to turn down Palt, though.
Galei turned to Elena on their side of the call. He was a Centaur and he looked offended Elena even had to ask.
“What, communicate without anyone in Wistram knowing? My dear, half of the [Mages] in Wistram could do that. We’re the Elusive Lot. We could dance naked in the hallways while screaming secrets from Earth if we wanted!”
“…Do you?”
 
—-
 
