Who is coming to the Summer Solstice party? I have no idea if Ryoka will succeed with her plan to get three of the Five Families—I don’t even know why she’s so convinced it’ll succeed.
But I’m still excited because I know someone is coming. Someone Ryoka told me about a long time ago, when we first met.
Her other friend from Earth. And for that alone, I’d roll out a red carpet. If we had one. We have carpets. They may be red?
“All the way from Liscor. But if they’re not on the way already, how can they get here? Ryoka seems convinced she can just run over and maybe she can, but her friends? Unless they have a magical carriage…”
That’s been bugging me all week. It took me ages to get back—true, we were escorting the Goblins in wagons, and that was the slowest trip you could organize—but it’s still a huge problem.
As it happens, today my answers come from the same source as my headaches.
Goblins.
 
—-
 
Laken Godart’s musings on guests for the mid-summer party, musings on his growing empire, and everything else, were idle thoughts.
But unlike everyone else in the world, at any given time he had at least a dozen people willing to listen, hear him out, and devote every waking minute they had to an idle question.
Such was the power of an [Emperor]. Instantly, Lady Rie signaled covertly to one of her attendants that they should get a [Message] spell to Miss Ryoka Griffin about that matter. Someone else produced a map and began calculating the average speed of people on horseback from Liscor to Riverfarm.
Laken Godart could, if he really wanted, know the airspeed velocity of the Izrilian swallow, laden, unladen, and even if it was a migratory bird. Terandrian swallows were harder of course, but he could probably find that out too.
“Your Majesty, we could send Beniar and the Darksky Riders to escort whomever it is, but only if we have ample time. These visitors—they’re important?”
Lady Rie was not privy to the Unseen Emperor’s every thought and confidence and she resented it. The [Lady] was an accomplished personage in her own right. Not extremely high-level in the [Lady] class, but still more than her level indicated.
She didn’t miss the fact that Durene gave Laken an excited look, or that he himself sometimes slipped up and referred to Ryoka’s ‘guests’ as ‘friends from home’. She didn’t have all the pieces, but she knew there was a puzzle and that was an important first step.
The [Emperor] took his time in replying. And his morning walkabout of Riverfarm meant all his advisors not currently at-work waited with him.
Prost wasn’t here. Nor was Beycalt, Master Ram—those were representatives of significant branches of Riverfarm’s talents. Master Ram for the [Farmers], [Herders], and so on. Beycalt responsible for construction—
Master Helm, the [Blacksmith] of Windrest, was here. When he probably should have been at work. But the man was newly-promoted to his position and seemed to feel that he should be here. He’d either calm down or Prost would take him aside to tell him that Laken preferred he do what needed doing; he’d be summoned at need be.
Gamel shifted, keeping a lookout for migrating swallows, monsters, or anything else that might trouble Laken. Durene was walking along, snacking—Rie eyed her as she crunched noisily on some popcorn.
“Want some, Laken?”
“No thank you, Durene. Ryoka’s friends are greatly interesting to me, Lady Rie. I don’t know them myself. But I consider their visit to be as important as any noble’s. Let’s ask about Liscor—if they leave now, they might still be too late. They certainly will be if they moved as slowly as we did. Can we arrange for one of the coaches that go across Izril?”
Rie had to think.
“They stop at Liscor, certainly, unless it’s flooded, your Majesty. Perhaps that’s what Miss Griffin is counting on.”
“Flooded? Wait, Lord Veltras mentioned that and it was damned muddy when we were there…oh, the rains. But I didn’t think that meant it flooded.”
The [Emperor] had to be told about Liscor’s odd weather patterns. He was interested in Liscor—but better at compartmentalizing than he had been.
“Lady Rie, please prepare any notes on Liscor. I know enough about the city from the siege…but not enough, it seems. We’ll discuss it tonight.”
“Of course, your Majesty.”
Rie smiled. Another opportunity to talk privately with Laken Godart and learn more—as well as ingratiate herself. She saw Durene grunt and eye her, but all the [Paladin] did was cram more popcorn into her mouth.
It was Master Helm who volunteered, with voice-cracking nervousness, an important factoid.
“Your—your Majesty! I think there’s a faster way from Liscor to Riverfarm—at least it’d make it a sight shorter, if you’ll forgive me speaking up!”
“Master Helm? Go on.”
Laken turned and the [Smith] found himself at the center of attention. Master Helm, who could cheerfully handle hot steel and shout orders to apprentices in the center of his village, turned beet red with stage fright.
“Er—sire—it’s er—something I’ve heard second-hand, mind. But I um—it comes from Liscor. That is to say, I heard from Halrac there’s a door there. Magic. Connects to Invrisil—never seen it myself, but—”
Laken, who had politely been listening to the confused reply, glanced up instantly. Or his head rose while his eyes stayed shut.
“A magic door?”
Lady Rie had heard the same rumor. It had been one of those things she’d dismissed as not being able to seperate truth from rumor—but Helm’s retort made her check through her notes.
“I heard the same thing, your Majesty. It seems hardly possible—but I did hear Lady Magnolia used a door to get from Invrisil to Liscor in a day. I thought it was a limited artifact but apparently—there’s a door of teleportation that can take you across the continent in a moment.”
“Remarkable. Is it a relic? Could we get one?”
The [Emperor] was fascinated, as well he should be. Rie pursed her lips.
Magnolia. The name had been sour on her tongue, especially in light of recent events. The woman had more lives than a cat. She had been seconds away from being ended and Lord Tyrion Veltras had let her escape.
Now this business with poisoning his children. Rie felt like the Circle was overreaching. She knew how much power they had and she knew how much danger one of the Five Families could bring. If they took Tyrion Veltras and his House, it would make the Circle incredibly powerful—and their reach was already long. But if not?
“I’ll see, your Majesty. But it would cut any travel down to a scant day or two at most with an overnight carriage.”
That was what she said to Laken about the door. The [Emperor] nodded.
“Well then. A magic door. And it connects to multiple cities, Master Helm? I wonder…could it reach Riverfarm?”
Rie bit the inside of her lip hard. And connect to—Drake cities? She didn’t like it. Not one bit. It was dangerous if everything was true; she’d heard the door in Liscor—already a Drake city—reached Pallass. One of the Walled Cities and principle enemies of the north. They’d been responsible for sending the Drake [Infiltrators] to ruin the north’s lands.
But it was a worthwhile question to ask. Master Helm hesitated.
“I wouldn’t know, your Majesty. I only heard tell of it. But—young Halrac—that is, Adventurer Halrac would know all about it!”
The [Emperor] smiled. And that smile—Lady Rie scowled behind a handkerchief as she pretended to dap at her cheek, even though she was almost certain he couldn’t tell what her facial expressions were.
“Ah. Captain Halrac and Griffon Hunt. Well, I owe them a visit about a problem already. Let’s finish our walk and meet them, then.”
He walked on. Rie fell back.
“Beatica, find me everything regarding the magic door and notes on Liscor for his Majesty. Have them to me before dinner.”
“Of course, Lady Rie.”
The former [Councilwoman] of Lancrel didn’t meet Rie’s eyes. She bowed low, and scurried off. And here she had once been a self-proclaimed rival for Riverfarm. Well, she’d assumed she had been, but she was smart enough to throw herself on Rie’s mercy when Laken had returned.
Now she was a useful subordinate. Of course, once a traitor, always a traitor, as the saying went. But…Rie Valerund wondered if Beatica wouldn’t be a good low-level operative of the Circle of Thorns. She might be a first good recruit. The Circle had ways to ensure that old truism about traitors only applied to people not in their organization.
The Circle had yet to spread its roots in Riverfarm. To her knowledge, Rie was only one of three operatives in the area, and the largest at that. The other two had come simply to monitor her work with the [Emperor]. Until now, no one had given Riverfarm a passing thought.
Rie had gotten lucky. Lucky indeed; the Goblin raid had not been planned. But here she was, advising an [Emperor]. It was rising her star as both [Lady]…and member of the Circle of Thorns.
She only wished—well, that Laken were easier to persuade. He couldn’t see, and a melodious voice wasn’t half as effective. She needed him to embrace the Circle of Thorns. Or else, if he became an enemy—they’d cut him. And they could work well together.
 
—-
 
Rie caught up with Laken Godart as he finished his walk and headed into Riverfarm proper. It was now a large town and still growing. Rie had never seen expansion this fast—or successful. But the rumors were already spreading.
The [Emperor] of the Unseen Empire had traded his physical eyes for the ability to see all things. He could speak the tongue of beasts, and could tell if you were lying. He even allowed untrustworthy [Witches], evil Goblins, and more onto his lands because he didn’t fear them…
True and false. True and false. But it was certainly true that being able to monitor all his lands meant that there was little fear of [Bandits]. They kept coming—and [Thieves] too. Laken would find Beniar in the middle of the night and tell him, oh, two hundred [Bandits] were coming here, or a [Thief] had just broken into a house—would you mind dealing with them?
A Skill worthy of an [Emperor]. Rie was jealous. It also made working in secret very hard. She’d been trying to figure out how to induct members of the Circle of Thorns and eventually concluded it had to be done outside of Riverfarm entirely; she had nearly, nearly tried to use a secret basement, right up until she’d learned Laken Godart could see under the ground as well.
That kind of thing gave her ulcers. What else was he hiding? Who was he? And why, oh, why was he so willing to allow Goblins a second chance?
It was an enduring mystery about him. Rie had thought Laken was mad. But apparently, madness was spreading.
 
—-
 
The Goblinlands of Riverfarm had been contentious the moment the first Goblin’s prisoner wagon had rolled into the village. There had been threats. Arguments. People had left over their presence.
They were Goblins. But the [Emperor] had insisted. The Goblins had made a wall. Riverfarm had made a wall.
They had nearly been killed in a standoff that had ended with an angry [Cook] and a ladle. People had first been outraged—then paranoid—then suspicious…
After months, they were—not okay with it. Not at all! If you struck up the right person with conversation, they’d rant about how [Emperor] Godart’s one flaw aside from maybe the [Witches] and his thing about brick streets was Goblins.
But the fire of hatred had been replaced by, well, experience. Not acceptance. You stared at Goblins for long enough as they built their walls, you stayed awake all night holding the sword and watching for them to slip over and slit all your throats to no avail…and slowly the [Emperor] got his way. Hatred became sullen acceptance, which was still a complete willingness to kick all the Goblins out if Laken changed his mind.
And then had come Griffon Hunt. And everything changed again.
The little, grey-skinned Goblin had a poofy hat. This was a fact. You could take the hat off the Goblin if you were fast enough, but she’d probably bite you and hit you with her ladle.
The [Cook] had to have a hat. And Pebblesnatch, the Goblin [Cook], was cooking.
It was a variant of something she’d once heard Erin talking about. Nothing fancy. Pebblesnatch was not a fancy [Cook]. She was young, even as Goblins measured their craft and still learning.
Here was how it went if she could remember it right: you had chicken stock. Which was not, in fact, chicken in your soup like Pebblesnatch’s first three experiments had yielded.
You soaked chicken in liquid and let it release…chicken essence. Pebblesnatch had worked with the fermenting expert, Holdnose, and the chicken stock tasted good. Just in case—Pebblesnatch had added tiny bits of cut up chicken to the broth. Because why not? It was her recipe.
Next—a bit of flour. Erin said ‘corn starch’, but Pebblesnatch had stared at corn for a long time and not found any white stuff. So—flour. You could put flour in soups.
The other bits were easier. Some wild garlic from the Goblinlands. And ginger! The two roots came from Ulvama’s stocks, actually. Pebblesnatch had seized them while Ulvama wasn’t looking. Two bumps on her head attested to the sacrifice paid for good ingredients.
Pebblesnatch had actually figured out how to make garlic powder. It was super dry and she’d removed the edible-but-tasteless shell as a snack. Now she added ginger and the powdered garlic to the stock and mixed it all up.
Her guests kept watching Pebblesnatch to make sure she didn’t wipe her nose with her claws or do something weird. Which she’d never do! Pebblesnatch had learned from the best. You scratched your butt after cooking properly.
She brought the stock up to a simmer after a taste. Yum. Any Goblin would eat this as it was, but Pebblesnatch had learned the joys of cooking. Well, a snobby Mountain City Goblin might not…
The Goblin took this time to admire the stone stove. And the kitchen! What a lovely kitchen! The Human [Cook] was staring at her nervously, but the Goblin had been able to use the kitchen.
What next? Eggses. Lots of eggs. Pebblesnatch whisked them up in a huge bowl. Fat big eggs, small eggs…
“Um. Halrac. Those are wild bird’s eggs.”
“It’s probably edible.”
Pebblesnatch ignored her audience. She whisked up her broth vigorously as it simmered. Then—in went the eggs! Not all at once! She poured the blended mixture in and it became little fragments. Mm.
“Now she’s licking the bowl, Halrac.”
“She’s done with the bowl. I think.”
You had to lick things clean. The Goblin glared at her guests. Yum, raw egg. She smacked her lips.
