For instance, that the Goblins actually possessed the iron-ore deposit there which Riverfarm had begun trading for. Laken had a ‘view’ of both walls, which now encircled all of the Goblinlands with no gaps…and he had people who told him of the growing Goblin settlement.
Yet trouble continued. And Laken felt this one could be…concerning.
“What is the matter, your Majesty? And how may Griffon Hunt assist?”
Laken turned towards Pebblesnatch. The Cave Goblin slowly covered her face with her poofy hat.
“Nothing the Goblins have done, Captain Halrac. It’s just…I do believe there are more of them. A lot more. I’d rather like to know how they got there.”
The Gold-rank team stirred. So did Lady Rie, the entourage, the people of Riverfarm—they all stared at the Cave Goblin pretending to take a nap. Halrac closed his eyes.
“Ah. A good question, your Majesty.”
 
—-
 
A second Goblin tribe had arrived in the night. They had gone into the Goblinlands—over the Human’s walls and been admitted by the Goblin’s walls.
A…fundamental flaw of Riverfarm’s hard work of months was that they had never considered that Goblins might want into the very lands they had worked so hard to safeguard.
This tribe was a medium-sized tribe for the area. In other words, around three times as large as the original Flooded Waters tribe had been; roughly the same size as they had been after Rags took over and before assimilating other tribes.
However, to the more senior Goblins, this tribe represented more than just…other Goblins. Raidpear and Leafarmor of the Redfangs, Ulvama of the Mountain City tribe, and a Flooded Waters tribe [Mining Leader] by the name of Sparkstones were the four Goblins who gathered to meet the Chieftain.
Sparkstones was female, incidentally, and had been part of the Goldstone tribe, whose members even now held positions of respect for their technical knowledge, if not combat or strategic or magical prowess. Pyrite had taught his tribe well.
And she knew this tribe.
“Greystone Tribe.”
She looked at the Chieftain, a surly Hob who smelled of soot and iron to Ulvama. And indeed—his was another mining tribe. The first thing he’d asked was about Pyrite.
“Goldstone Chieftain dead.”
“Dead?”
The Greystone’s Chieftain was astonished. And upset. He was a self-proclaimed rival to Pyrite; his tribe had known the Goldstone’s Tribe as the two wandered mining ranges. Unlike Pyrite—his Goblins were specialists in using mineable ore to make weapons of iron, even armor. They were sought-after by other Goblin tribes who paid them to arm their warriors.
“Goldstone Chieftain too hard to kill. Mistake.”
“Dead. Impaled-dead. Sacrifice death. But death.”
Sparkstones’ bleak tones convinced the other Chieftain. He had to walk off and kick the nearest Goblin he found. After a brief fight; it had been a Mountain City Goblin, he came back.
“Good miner, Goldstone Chieftain. Good miner. Many pretty, worthless stones.”
And that was all he said. If he sounded callous; he had seen it before. Even good tribes died.
What interested Ulvama was the state of the tribe, not why the Greystone Chieftain had come. She knew why he had come.
She had summoned his tribe.
The Greystone Tribe was a proper one. It had a [Shaman], it did not have an odd tribal composition, or something unique about it like…every other tribe in the Goblinlands. It was not freakishly strong like the Redfangs with an imbalance of Hobs; the Greystones had seven total and they looked askance at the Redfang Hobs, probably hoping their Chieftain wouldn’t make them challenge the famous tribe to see who was best.
They also had a [Shaman]. She was a [Stoneshaper Shaman], low-level but with the kind of spells that really helped a tribe like the Greystones. Ore detection, melding stone to move the right way, sensing or preventing passage collapses…
She bowed repeatedly to Ulvama, who condescended to let her join the Greystone Chieftain for this meeting. The Hob rumbled.
“Good walls. Lots of Humans. Shaman say come. So come. Hunted-death otherwise.”
Raidpear and Leafarmor nodded knowingly. So did Sparkstones. Ulvama made an irritable noise.
“What hunters? Where was Greystone Tribe before this? Explain.”
She spoke in the common tongue. Reluctantly, the Greystone Chieftain rumbled more explanations.
To the two Redfang Hobs, Leafarmor and Raidpear, the Greystone’s plight was one that many tribes that weren’t the Redfangs had suffered. His tribe was average-sized. Which meant they sometimes would raid very weak [Trader] caravans, steal, attack villages if desperate—but they never really fought Humans. Indeed, the Greystones lived off of trading with other tribes rather than conflict.
And if a rising tide raised all ships or whatever the saying was, a strong Goblin brought wrath down upon every tribe. The Goblin Lord was dead at the Siege of Liscor, but the Humans had kept eliminating Goblin tribes for months thereafter.
“Too many Humans. Too many hunters. Tribe hide. Tribe run. Much running-death. Too-strong Humans come. Gold-ranks. And then…”
The Greystone Chieftain shuddered.
“Arcsinger.”
The other Goblins went quiet. Even Ulvama bit her lip in silence.
Elia Arcsinger, the famous Named Adventurer was operating out of Invrisil. And wherever her famous name travelled—Goblins died. The Greystones had been trading with three other Goblin tribes in the eastern hills around the same time as the Ogre raids. Retaliation from adventuring teams had wiped out the other tribes to his knowledge and sent the Ogres fleeing higher. The Greystone Chieftain had been prepared to do the same—when Ulvama had found his [Shaman].
“Ulvama?”
Raidpear looked at Ulvama. Leafarmor frowned darkly and Sparkstones struck a shower of sparks into the fire she was building, muttering. Ulvama smiled sweetly at Raidpear.
“This place is safe. So more Goblins make it more safe.”
She fooled only the Greystone Chieftain’s…[Shaman]. The other Hobs and Sparkstones exchanged looks. Ulvama’s ambitions had not died with Tremborag. And she seemed keen on building the Goblin’s base of power, here.
The problem was that—Leafarmor dragged Raidpear away to have a quiet argument. Ulvama would have listened in, but she didn’t really need to.
The two Hobs argued. Leafarmor made several gestures spelling out Raidpear’s entanglement with Ulvama in a relationship was affecting his bias when it came to taking her to task for disciplinary issues—especially without consulting the leadership.
Raidpear, less eloquently, tried to defend himself that while he was perhaps affected, his overall commitment to the safety of Goblins was not mitigated by his sentiments for Ulvama. If anything, they offered a valuable insight into her tribe and a parallel bias as it pertained to—
At this point Leafarmor hit him. Ulvama rolled her eyes as the two Goblins got into a short fistfight, egged on by the other Redfangs. She knew this would be trouble. But it was one she was willing to dare.
She did not like Gold-rank adventurers, no matter what Pebblesnatch said. She did not trust the [Emperor]’s words. She wanted Pebblesnatch to come back now. Besides—the Greystones could help mine.
 
—-
 
The Goblins had begun mining the ore deposits they had coincidentally been placed near. That was the basis for the interchange between Humans and Goblins.
Few of the Unseen Empire were good [Miners] to begin with, and while Laken Godart had lucked out that some were of the Goldstone tribe. Now, the Goblins had iron in abundance.
But they craved steel. Nails, hammers, and so on. Cut wood, like the Humans could manufacture and Pebblesnatch so loved. Spices, cooking materials.
So they traded. It had really begun to pick up as Griffon Hunt arrived. Pebblesnatch being willing to gesticulate and point at things the Goblins wanted—along with a few other Goblins—meant the Humans would bring things the Goblins wanted, the Goblins would put bags of ore on the ground, and they’d point and go ‘nuh’ until both sides were reasonably happy.
It also helped with matters like crime—such as there were between Goblins and Humans. Goblins stealing from farms and warehouses had precipitated a lot of bad will and since Laken Godart wasn’t able to imprison or punish Goblins as easily as Humans, he’d instituted an easy system.
Any Goblin who was caught stealing was ‘ransomed’ at their body weight in ore. Until then, the Goblins received no supplies from the Unseen Empire. The Goblins considered it a good alternative to being shot—and it stymied the thefts.
After the second portly Hob was caught sneaking out of a henhouse at night with a bunch of eggs and five hens, an enraged Sparkstones had come down on the thefts. No more! Unless it was a really small Goblin who could get some produce, that was. But no more!
All this to say that when Pebblesnatch raced back into the Goblinlands to tell Ulvama that the Humans wanted to know why there were more Goblins, there wasn’t an immediate rush to battle stations. The Goblins, like Griffon Hunt, had realized there was a potential here for a good thing. Not a perfect thing. A thing born out of blood and death. But they’d be silly to turn it down because of that.
“Pebblesnatch, tell Humans other Goblins come because they hear it is safe.”
“Safe? How Goblins hear?”
Leafarmor folded her arms. Ulvama rolled her eyes.
“Goblins hear.”
“Emperor is not stink-mind. Emperor knows no Goblins escape.”
“Goblins listen to the wind. Tell [Emperor] that.”
Pebblesnatch opened and closed her mouth. And how was she supposed to say all that? She did her best; Ulvama had been teaching her.
“Emperor stink-brain.”
Ulvama raised her smacking-hand and Pebblesnatch leapt behind Raidpear. The Hobgoblin smacked his lips.
“Pebblesnatch make good foods in Human-land?”
Dropped Eggs in Soup! Pebblesnatch nodded eagerly. Ulvama’s ears perked up. But hold on! They weren’t done with this Goblin issue!
…Unfortunately, everyone else seemed to be. The Greystone Chieftain was consulting with Sparkstones—mostly about what they could expect to mine and how the food situation was looking. He brightened up as Sparkstones pointed at Pebblesnatch.
“Dropped Eggs? Mm. Make, make.”
Leafarmor ushered the little Cave Goblin over to her cooking area—considerably less fancy and hygienic than the Human ones—but Pebblesnatch had Skills now. The [Forager Cook] happily grabbed the biggest pot. She was so glad she’d tested out her recipe on Griffon Hunt first!
“Raidpear. The Humans. Pebblesnatch tells them first.”
Ulvama plucked at Raidpear’s shoulder. They had to be assuaged! The Redfang looked at her blankly.
“Mountain City thinking. Humans get angry anyways. Not Pebblesnatch fault.”
She blew out her cheeks. Mountain City thinking? It was so much harder for Ulvama to find support—and Raidpear was no Tremborag, undisputed ruler of the tribe who thought along the same lines. Leafarmor had as much authority as he did.
Frustrating! She had been able to command thousands of Goblins at her whim, and the entire tribe through Tremborag! The [Shaman]’s magical body paints began to glow as she got annoyed.
“Pebblesnatch tells Humans—”
“Ulvama tells Humans herself. Ulvama has best words.”
Leafarmor twisted as Pebblesnatch adjusted her hat and prepared to work the wonders of culinary magic. Ulvama hesitated. But Sparkstones looked up with the Greystone Chieftain, Raidpear’s ears twitched as he kept his silence—
She’d gone too far this time. The [Shaman] bared her teeth as the other Goblins regarded her expectantly, and then turned away. After a minute, she turned and stomped off towards the Human’s lands.
It wasn’t just that it was a mix of tribes and not the Mountain City tribe alone. It was that—Raidpear, Leafarmor, even the Greystone Chieftain, were not the kind of Goblins to inspire the others to action. They had not the ambition, not the drive. Ulvama needed…a [Chieftain]. Or for that damn door to start working.
 
—-
 
“Anything?”
“…It looks like she’s gone back to making that soup.”
“What? I thought she was going to ask about the new Goblins! What do we do?”
Revi lost her temper as Griffon Hunt waited on the Human walls. Halrac said nothing. He was watching from a vantage point…which was Briganda’s shoulders.
The Unseen Empire had yet to put up towers, which would have given their [Archers] an unparalleled shooting position. And that was because Laken had let civilians make the damn wall. The Goblins had sniper towers, but Halrac didn’t want to stand on the ones Riverfarm had in progress.
“Halrac, you’re a lot heavier than Cade. You going to take much longer?”
Briganda glowered up at Halrac. He didn’t look down at her.
“Stop moving. I think one of them’s coming this way.”
“Pebblesnatch? One of the Redfangs?”
“No. The [Shaman].”
“Ah!”
Typhenous smiled and stroked his beard. Revi looked at him in disgust.
“You old lecher. That’s a Goblin.”
“Is it my fault if I admire body art, Revi? Incidentally, have you ever met some of the [Sailors] in ports with those amazing tattoos all over?”
“Not impressive, Typhenous. I’m a Stitchgirl. String Folk can put all kinds of tattoos on their body.”
“Yes, but that’s just thread and ink, isn’t it?”
“So’s an actual tattoo. Ours are just easier to put on and remove.”
“That’s my point.”
“Silence. Let’s hear what the [Shaman] has to say. Typhenous, you’re on defensive spell duty. Mind she doesn’t hex us or cast a charm spell.”
Halrac hopped down. He stared at the [Shaman] making her way warily over with a dozen smaller Goblins as backup.
“She’s pointing at you. You want to go alone or do you want us?”
Briganda observed. Ulvama pointed at Halrac, and then pointed to the neutral zone, and beckoned as she walked forwards with her staff. Halrac grunted.
“I’ll hear her out. Revi, Typhenous—”
“Yeah, yeah. We’ve got your back.”
The [Scout] descended from the wall and walked forwards as Ulvama waited, staff in hand. Halrac’s face did not change. He knew she was watching him—and his empty hands, probably to make sure he wasn’t holding the invisible bow. Halrac did not arm himself.
But neither did he smile as he stopped across from Ulvama.
He did not like the female [Shaman]. She did not like him. Halrac…had some feelings for Pebblesnatch, who had practically clung to him. But Ulvama? He and she were the kind who’d killed each other over the years.
As if sensing his thoughts, Ulvama bared her teeth.
“Human. Afraid of more Goblins?”
“His Majesty, Emperor Godart, wants to know where they came from and why they’re here.”
