An encouraging sentiment to be sure, but Hongji still had his reservations regarding his ability to live up to such lofty expectations. Alas, there was no other option left to him save to try his best, because they’d come too far to give up without even trying. It wasn’t as if they didn’t stand a chance either, because if all went according to plan and Baatar was truly capable of killing Bai Qi, then this might well be enough to throw the Enemy forces into disarray and open up a path to salvation for the Imperials. In the hours leading up to the attack, Hongji studied the maps and questioned the locals in the desperate hope of stumbling across something to tip the scales in their favour, and he continued to do so even now after the arrow had been loosed. Then, just as Hongji’s forces were almost all in place, disaster struck as the sounds of combat alerted the Enemy to the Imperial threat making their way into the city.

With the advantage of surprise already lost to them, Hongji Scryed over the city to match what he studied on the maps with the actual situation. The spyglasses were useful, but limited in scope since they only enlarged what the human eye could see. Reports arrived through Sending which his aides narrated out loud, informing him that the Legate’s retinue had landed themselves in hot water after failing to silence the Defiled sentries before they raised the alarm. A quick study of the city movements showed no real concentrated defence forming up just yet, so Hongji ordered the rest of his forces to remain hidden as they moved into place, while wishing commander Jorani the best of luck. The city came alive as Defiled scented blood in the air and converged around the Legate’s retinue, while armoured Chosen made their way through the streets in an organized grid pattern in search of other hiding Imperial forces. Hongji expected no less from Bai Qi who quickly grasped the crux of the issue, for he knew that if one group of Imperial soldiers could make their way deep into the City undetected, then surely there were others.

Within the span of five minutes, three more Imperial units were discovered and came under Defiled attack even as Jorani’s unit forced their way out into the streets to avoid having the building collapsed on top of them, a turn of events which was less than promising. Bai Qi had instantly seen through their plan and determined that the Imperials were targeting the slave sleeping quarters, but the worst part was that the Chosen were none too gentle in their search. Panning across the city from his command centre over a kilometre away, Hongji watched as the Enemy terrorized and brutalized Imperial citizens while looking high and low for soldiers. Heads were smashed and throats slit for no reason other than to express their displeasure as the Chosen and tribesmen left a trail of death in their wake, and Hongji’s blood boiled to witness such callous disregard for life. Not just from the Enemy, but from the people of Empire as well, most of whom simply regarded the violence unfolding around them with apathetic disregard. For two years, the people of the west had suffered under Defiled rule, and though he knew it could not have been pleasant, to see the results with his own eyes was heartbreaking indeed.

Yet much as he yearned to order his troops to slaughter the Defiled and free the people of the west, there was nothing he could do but watch and wait as his countrymen paid the price for this attack. Though he could not hear what was being said, or even read their lips from his vantage on high, Hongji knew the Enemy believed the locals had kept quiet about the tunnels underneath the city and might even have provided this information to the Imperials. Not true, as even the oldest half-beast in the Empire had been born more than a century after the tunnels were sealed, meaning these poor people knew nothing of them, but the Enemy agents were clearly displeased by the lack of answers forthcoming, and the innocent people of Pan Si Xing paid dearly for it.

Snapping out of his thoughts, Hongji turned to his aide in sheer disbelief at what he thought was said. “Repeat that last message.”

Looking like a fish out of water, his aide wasted no time reiterating his report once more. “A soldier has taken it upon himself to Speak to the people of Pan Si Xing,” the aide reported, unable to meet Hongji’s eyes yet unwilling to turn away. “He is encouraging them to ‘strike off the shackles of fear and oppression to take up arms against the Enemy’, sir.”

The aide continued narrating the soldier’s words out loud, but Hongji was in no mood to listen. “Damned fool!” Slamming his fist against the table, he snarled at his aides and said, “Get me that soldier’s name and rank! If he survives the coming battle, then I’ll have his head for this.” How dare he give these poor slaves such feeble and futile hope? Rise up against the Enemy? Might as well ask them to deliver the moon on a silver platter instead. It was a Martial Warrior’s duty to defend the people of the Empire from the Enemy, not lead them to the slaughter. While Legate Rain’s Irregulars proved themselves able enough, they at least had courage and training enough to know what they were getting into. After two years under Enemy rule, the people of the West were like beaten dogs cowering before their new masters, but this defeated, docile nature also kept them safe. So long as they remained compliant, they were a valuable commodity to be exploited, but with an Imperial soldier encouraging them to rise up and resist, Bai Qi might well order the slaughter of every last man, woman, and child in the city just to send a message to the rest of the Empire.

Though he knew what he saw might well haunt his nightmares for years to come, Hongji felt it was his responsibility to bear witness to what might befall the poor people of the West. Would they die on their knees pleading for mercy, or would they see this lamentable fate as an escape from the staggering trials and tribulations they’d faced these past two years? Returning his attention to his Scrying, he steeled his heart for the worst -

And found the city in upheaval as the people of the West rose up in bloody insurrection.

Mere minutes before, these same people had cowered and looked away as Chosen and tribesmen slaughtered their kin, yet now, with little more than a few words from a nameless soldier, they were filled with renewed vigour and purpose. All across the city, Imperial commoners poured out into the streets to throw themselves at their hated foes with varying results. In some areas, the Enemy soon found themselves overrun as abused, half-starved Imperials fought tooth and nail to slaughter their captors through sheer weight of numbers. Elsewhere, commoners died in droves charging at a dug in foe, throwing away their lives to achieve nothing except drive their comrades to do the same. Some commoners threw themselves out of windows to tackle the Defiled below, while others tossed lit lanterns at their foes to set them ablaze. Just south-west of the city, quarry workers took up their picks and hammers to express their anger at their slavers, and it was here the westerners found the most success, for unlike inside the city proper, the people of the Empire vastly outnumbered the Enemy stationed at the mines, and they made the most of their advantage.

Regardless of their effectiveness, the sheer scope of the outbreak was unexpected to say the least, as commoners in every corner of Pan Si Xing took up arms against the Enemy without hesitation. While planning for the attack, Hongji had noticed the refugees were fond of saying ‘the West still resists’, which he took to be an expression of their faith and how they held firm against the Father’s lies, but now he saw that they meant so much more. The people of the West had endured long enough, and a single spark of hope was enough to set them ablaze.

Much as he mourned their sacrifice and resented the soldier who encouraged it, Hongji knew he had to strike while the iron was hot. His command room faded from vision as he turned his focus wholly upon the city and set to devising a plan to make the best use of it while he could. “Heed my orders,” he began, sounding far calmer and in control than he currently felt as he rattled off a string of commands that he hoped would see the people of Pan Si Xing safe. Taking advantage of the chaos and confusion caused by the uprising, he manoeuvred his soldiers through the city streets to link up wherever they could, while sending strike forces out to run roughshod over the Defiled whenever it seemed like they were gathering to form a concentrated defence. Any civilians his soldiers came across were encouraged to retreat into the tunnels, where a skeleton crew of soldiers had stayed behind to guide people out to safety, but few cared to retreat now that blood had been spilled. The people of the West had endured for long enough, and now their collective repressed rage had been brought to a boil, so Hongji could do naught but allow them to express their murderous anger in a more effective fashion.

In the north-eastern quadrant of the city, Situ Jia Zian led his troops headlong towards an oil storage depot, which had Bai Qi scrambling to muster up a defence. Wave after wave of tribesmen threw themselves at the young Patriarch’s twin sabres in a desperate attempt to slow him down, but he carved a bloody path through them all like a dragon cutting through the waves. Time and time again, he led the charge against the Enemy in a dizzying whirlwind of steel and death, so full of deadly grace and natural poise it was easy to mistake him for a Warrior twice his age. None could stand in his way, not the tribal Champions bearing their tainted weapons or the Runic-armoured Chosen unfortunate enough to meet him, all of them fell before him like rice during harvest. Had the Defiled fallen back to regroup and strike as one, young Zian’s forces would not have had it so easy, but then there would have been no one to stop him from seizing the depot and using the oil to set the city ablaze. Imperial law dictated strict measures for limited quantities of oil being stored at any one time, but the Defiled had not adhered to those rules for various reasons. No doubt Bai Qi believed that was their intended target which was why he paid so dearly to block him, but this was only a feint as Hongji ordered Zian to veer south-west and link up with two other units to support the rampaging miners, who had long since dispatched their overseers and were making their way back towards the city with a thirst for Defiled blood, led by a mousy little woman with a bloody pick in hand and murder in her eyes.

In the south-east quadrant, Tam Taewoong’s forces emerged from the tunnels into what was once a thriving market square, the largest, most open area in all of Pan Si Xing. Any fighting here would be bloody indeed, for there were no less than twelve direct avenues leading to the square, to say nothing of the countless unsecured buildings bordering it, making the square all but impossible to secure. The Enemy came thick and fast from all angles and young Taewoong would have been hard pressed to hold them back, but he was Hongji’s favoured successor for good reason. Rather than sit and wait for the Enemy to surround him, he led his foes on a merry chase in and around the market, smashing through any smaller forces that stood in his path and avoiding the larger ones until their eager impatience caused them to spread out thin. Though he killed far fewer Defiled than young Zian, Taewoong's efforts occupied the attentions of at least three times as many combatants as he led his soldiers to dance upon the knife’s edge of victory and defeat. Granted, he couldn’t keep this up forever, or even for long as less than fifteen minutes later, multiple sizable Enemy forces converged around the marketplace and left him no room to maneuver any more. Forewarned of the impending attack thanks to Hongji’s Sendings, Taewoong gathered his forces into the centre of the market in preparation for a desperate last stand. They made for a tempting target, but Bai Qi’s attention could be seen here as the tribesmen proceeded into the square at a somewhat orderly pace whereupon they hung back to wait for their allies to arrive so that they could launch a concentrated and coordinated charge.

Which left them in perfect position for Major Chu XinYue’s heavy cavalry and Ulfsaar’s cattle-drawn chariots to strike.

Emerging from sealed service tunnels buried under at least a full meter of sand, the two contingents of cavalry surfaced less than fifty meters from their closest respective targets after taking the tunnels once used to bring raw ores to sell at market. Needless to say, the Enemy was wholly unprepared to receive their thunderous charge and the results were as bloody and satisfying as Hongji hoped. In a crash of steel and blood, the cavalry made short work of the Defiled inside the marketplace and left a trail of corpses behind them, but even a single jaunt around the perimeter left the beasts panting and heaving with exertion. Luckily, the market had plenty of access to water for the thirsty beasts, but Hongji knew they couldn’t be used too often or for too long lest they succumb to the desert heat, which made this initial victory all that much more valuable to have achieved.

