North of Taewoong’s position, Major Rustram’s Stormguard marched into the heart of Pan Si Xing to assault the most difficult target of them all. Once the shining jewel of the city where the Magistrate and noble families built their manors, the city’s central district had long since been transformed to cater to the needs of merchants and travellers alike. Inns, taverns, restaurants, and general stores had lined the streets in the days before the Enemy invasion, and now the Chosen used this area as their barracks. It was also the most likely area for the Enemy command centre, meaning there was a good chance Bai Qi was hidden somewhere close by, but Major Rustram was more than up to the task. Though he himself only commanded three-thousand Stormguard, Hongji granted Rustram command of four more units for a total of fifteen-thousand soldiers in total, most of whom were Westerners posing as reinforcements from the North and well-motivated to succeed. The young Major put these staff-wielding Warriors to good use clearing the streets of Chosen, personally leading from the front to ensure their righteous anger did not get the best of them. Step by careful step, he advanced deeper into the district, the heavy staves of the Western soldiers making short work of the Runic-armoured Defiled. Though impervious to blades, arrows, and various Chi skills, the enchanted armour offered minimal protection from raw, blunt force impacts, which the Westerners doled out with near-crazed enthusiasm. A Runic helmet kept their skulls from being crushed, but it did nothing to stop Defiled brains from the concussive impact delivered by giant staves smashing into heads, a scene which never failed to satisfy no matter how many times Hongji saw it.

Impressive as their effectiveness might be, Hongji was even more impressed by what he saw from the Stormguard themselves, who moved with what appeared to be little to no direction from their commander. Breaking off into groups of five, they cleared out the interior buildings room by room with such efficiency Hongji would have believed it if someone told him they were Warriors with years of experience fighting in cities rather than what basically amounted to raw recruits who barely stepped onto the Martial Path a year ago. It wasn’t their Martial skill that impressed so, which was fairly middling on all accounts, but rather their strict discipline and flawless teamwork built upon a groundwork of open communication. Whenever they came across a group of numerically superior Chosen, the Stormguard were quick to fall back and call for reinforcements, but in clashes with even numbers, they undeniably had the upper hand.

Time and time again, Hongji watched the Chosen approach their foes with the expectation of pairing off into a series of one on one matches, which was how most small skirmishes were fought. Each Warrior picked an opponent, and you tried to kill them or hold out long enough for help to arrive, while hoping your enemy’s support didn’t arrive first. The Stormguard defied those expectations each and every time, with a select few charging forward to hold the Enemy at bay while the remainder gang up on a few vulnerable stragglers. Few Warriors were so accustomed to fighting as a team, which meant they were less effective than the sum total of their strength, though the same could not be said for the Stormguard. In most engagements Hongji saw, the charging Stormguard suffering an injury in exchange for the near instant death of the Chosen stragglers, a more than fair trade any day of the week. It was frightening how well the Stormguard worked together, coordinating their attacks so that even if the Enemy were to block or counter one, there was still a second, third, or even more attacks to contend with, while the defending Stormguard usually only had to deal with one attack at a time as the Chosen struggled not to get in each other’s way.

For a time, Hongji was unable to understand how the Stormguard were able to accomplish such a feat, so he chose a single unit at random to pay more attention to. Soon enough, he discovered why their behaviour seemed so odd to him at first, and why he could never shake the feeling that these Martial Warriors were still commoners yet. It was simply because the Stormguard lacked the inherent pride and arrogance most Martial Warriors possess, which one usually only saw in raw, rank recruits who’d only just barely created their Cores. This lack of airs worked in their favour however, because even though each five man group had a de-facto leader, any one of the members might make a call that the others would heed without question. This was almost unheard of as there was a strict hierarchy which most Martial Warriors followed, and giving orders to a superior was the same as spitting in their eye and telling them they weren’t good enough to lead. It was a matter of face, in which the superior gave the orders while the inferior gave suggestions that may or may not be accepted, but this social nicety didn’t exist among the Stormguard. A minor, almost inconsequential distinction one might think, but to Hongji’s surprise, it made the whole unit function much more smoothly as a whole. This cooperative spirit translated to working with other units as well, with no jockeying between leaders to see who would take charge, because they would default to listening to whoever was best poised to give orders.

At first glance, such a system might prove to be too confusing in massed battle, but it gave the Stormguard an unshakable advantage as they made their way through the inns and taverns of the central district. Even when outnumbered, they strove to turn the fight to their advantage by singling out their targets to kill one at a time. The lack of individual action also meant the Stormguards were less likely to put themselves at risk to kill their foe, because even when fighting alone, they knew that their comrades were there to support them. In the military, Officers were the pillar that held up the Heavens so that the soldiers could fight safely underneath them, but the Stormguard shared that burden amongst themselves and played their part with pride.

It was a different sort of pride from what most Martial Warriors possessed, not the pride of a lone tiger or dragon perched atop their mountain, but the pride of a wolf moving in stride with his pack.

This was far from the extent of Mister Rustram’s skill however, for while he advanced slowly along the main thoroughfare, he dispatched a force of soldiers to patrol around the edge of the central district and guard his back. Led by none other than Tong Da Fung, who was joined by his Senior Martial Sister Li Song, the young Magistrate made for a fetching image in his fine silk robes as he strolled through the city as if out for a mid-day jaunt. Despite the bloodshed and violence around him, he couldn’t even be bothered to carry his own weapons, which were borne effortlessly by his intimidating manservant and bodyguard, the half-weasel Fu Zhu Li, who Hongji had long since sworn never to cross. Beside them, Li Song cut a much more heroic figure in her Runic breastplate, her stony expression fixed in the focused vigilance of a Warrior who knew never to let her guard down. Her new Spiritual Weapon hung from her hip, but she had precious little chance to use it, for the Warriors of Fung’s retinue were far more capable than they appeared and quickly dispatched any and all Defiled sent their way. Most were stragglers too crazed to heed their Chieftains’ commands, but even a concentrated push from a force of five thousand tribesmen failed to force Fung’s retinue back a single step. Were he not privy to the details, Hongji would have thought them both spoiled silk-pants with overprotective parents and Mentors, but when an Enemy Champion made his presence known, Fung was the first to act. Charging in with his heavy spear, he skewered his foe in the first exchange before retreating back to his servant's side, where he traded the weapon for a perfumed handkerchief which he used to dab the faintest beads sweat from his brow.

Before they parted ways, Akanai had taken Hongji aside and asked him to place Fung wherever the fighting was thickest, and to inform her if the boy dared to slack off. Of course, the boy had been present when she said as much, as was Li Song who’d attached herself to his retinue, so Hongji could hardly do otherwise, but at least the boy was up to the task. Say what you will about Tong Da Fung, but he did not lack Martial talent, and as the Enemy sent more tribesmen to punch through his position, the young Magistrate killed three more Defiled Champions with similar ease.

All of this and more took place in the span of a quarter hour, a frantic, nonstop fifteen minutes in which he barely had a moment to draw breath as order after order spilled from his lips. It wasn’t a repeat of his accomplishment in the Central Citadel, but having experienced this state of higher focus once before, he’d improved by leaps and bounds in matters of mental speed, acuity, and efficiency. At his behest, the young Wolf Huushal brought the Enemy on a merry chase around the city before circling back around to set fire to a now undefended storage depot, which he promptly set ablaze. From the market square, Tam Taewoong pushed headlong into a Defiled armoury filled with mundane spears which he then distributed to the local insurgents. Major Chu XinYue and Ulfsaar trotted to and fro along the city streets, threatening the flanks of moving Defiled units and indirectly relieving pressure from friendlies already in combat without needing to do more than move at an easy trot. Warrant Officer Sang Ryong led his troops into a Defiled ambush and suffered significant casualties before fighting his way free, a troublesome turn of events had Lin Ji Yeon not moved into position to capitalize on the subsequent Defiled overexertion. All the while, Major Rustram pushed steadily forward into the heart of the city while Warrant Officer Situ Jia Zian rampaged unchecked throughout the entire south-western quadrant, a far more promising turn of events than Hongji could ever have hoped for.

And then, everything went to shit in the blink of an eye as Bai Qi made his presence felt.

“Major Rustram reports Cloud-Stepping Chosen approaching from the north.”

“Warrant Officer Huushal reports riders approaching from the east.”

“Warrant Officer Jia Zian reports Demons sighting in the forging district.”

“Major Chu XinYue reports he’s engaged with Half-Demons and requests immediate reinforcements. Status critical.”

More and more sightings rolled in as Hongji’s stomach flopped in place, his nerves getting the better of him at this pivotal moment. They’d expected as much, for there was no way Bai Qi would move without a contingent of Peak Experts and Demons to guard him, but this was the real deal. Even though he’d spread his Peak Experts thin to ensure no single unit would be overrun, the greatest risk of spreading his forces out across the city was if Bai Qi gathered his strongest combatants together to strike at a single target with overwhelming force. Which unit was the hammer then? The Chosen in the central district? The Half-Demons hunting Chu XinYue? The feral demons moving in to surround young Zian? Or any of the other reported sightings?

Difficult to say until they struck, which meant the price for this information would be paid in Imperial blood, but this had been the plan all along. Whoever incited the enslaved locals to act pushed up their estimated timeline, as Hongji thought it would be the better part of an hour before the Demons were set loose. That was the way the Enemy fought, chipping away at Imperial strength one tribesman at a time until those brave Warriors no longer had the strength to fight off greater threats. However, with the civilian uprising occupying the attention of most of the Defiled tribesmen, Major Rustram’s forces were now poised to eliminate the bulk of the Chosen stationed here in Pan Si Xing before any reinforcements could arrive to support them. Now, Bai Qi’s only choice was to dispatch his Demons and Peak Experts to save his Chosen elites, but Baatar and Hongji had planned for this well in advance.

“The sharks have entered the waters,” he Sent, knowing there would be no response, for Baatar and his elites could not afford to give away their locations. “Standby.”

A warning to be ready in case the worst should come to pass, but only then. Unless their participation hinged on victory or defeat, the Peak Experts with Baatar would not enter the battle until the ‘Tiger came down the mountain’, or more specifically, Bai Qi revealed himself. For now, Hongji’s forces would have to make do with lesser, but still capable heroes like Lawgiver Won Gwang, Li TieGuai and the Devilish Duo, and other such valiant Warriors. Hongji only prayed that their preparations would be enough, but then again, even all the preparation in the world would not save them from the worst case scenario. Namely that they succeed in killing Bai Qi and crippled the Enemy forces here in Pan Si Xing only for an Enemy Divinity to show up and break the treaty in full. Though Baatar assured him that they had their own Imperial Divinities on standby, Hongji had seen what a casual exchange between Divinities had done to the once thriving city of Sinuji, and he would rather not experience it first hand here in Pan Si Xing, a name which was a homonym for Death Sentence.

Imperial or Defiled, whose death sentence it was still too early to say, but at this point in time, it could really go either way. Not the best odds to stake everything on a roll of the dice, but there was nothing left to do but fight and pray.

Chapter Meme
