The best laid plans of mice and men often go awry.

Yet another favoured saying from Hongji’s father, but it wasn’t to say there was no need for planning. Instead, he meant that one should always be flexible in case your plans should fall through. If he needed a single tool for something out in the field, he would never only bring the one he needed, but his whole tool box instead just in case. When bringing crops to the Lord’s manor, he always checked the wagon the day before at the latest, and sometimes several times in the days leading up to his trip. When helping their neighbours raise a new barn, he’d carry a pouch of clean bandages just in case, and this sort of thinking is partially why Hongji excelled in areas of command.

Essentially, Hongji’s father made plans for when other plans went awry, which wasn’t the worst lesson to take to heart. Hongji wasn’t the only commander who liked to thoroughly prepare for any and all eventualities, as one of the first lessons a Field Officer learned was that the path to success was much smoother with the right preparations. Akanai, Nian Zu, Shuai Jiao, and more, Hongji had seen these great generals go to great lengths to prepare for the worst, though few went to such great lengths as Legate Falling Rain. The young man’s penchant for widespread planning encroached on the boundaries of paranoia to the point where it seemed like no surprise could faze him.

One only needed to look back at his trip to the Central Citadel to attend Legate Shen ZhenWu’s banquet of heroes to see the lengths Legate Rain went to in order to prepare for the worst, and it was a most eye opening experience for Hongji indeed. Rather than board a ship and make his way to Central with all haste, the Legate travelled alongside Nian Zu’s military convoy with the intent of luring his enemies out. At the time, the general consensus was that the crippled Legate was taking advantage of the Colonel General’s forces to keep himself safe, but time and circumstances proved them all wrong. Travelling under heavy guard was merely a means to minimize the variables involved, because even though Nian Zu’s presence meant the Legate had no need to worry about being ambushed at any given moment, he used this to create a controlled vulnerability which he used to lure his enemies out of hiding. By personally escorting the Divine Turtle out to the river every morning and evening without fail, he presented his enemies with a target too tempting to pass up, but when the ship the Vast Distance arrived bearing assassins intending to take his head, Legate Rain revealed that he’d long since been aware the ship had been co-opted by his enemies and set the Disciplinary Corps on them for failure to fill out the proper permits correctly. A masterful stroke of genius engineered to not only use the Disciplinary Corps to deal with his enemies, he also caused his rivals to lose face by showing just how inept they truly were, and though the culprit had yet to be revealed to the outer provinces at large, Hongji was certain this move had ended the political career of some aspiring Imperial Scion or another, if not their life as well.

Schemes within schemes, that was Legate Rain’s preferred speed, and he continued to showcase his abilities in the days leading up to the banquet. Going shopping with his mother and concubine only to ‘coincidentally’ run into his allies, who then brought him to watch an opera show where he humiliated Ishin Ken Shibu with his words and actions both, followed by a casual trip to a popular dessert parlour as if without a care in the world. All this with a shattered Core mind you, which left him that much more vulnerable, yet with the proper planning, he was able to humiliate an Imperial Scion, destroy the reputation of a promising young Central Warrior, and evade Mother knows how many assassination attempts along the way without ever showing a hint of weakness the entire time.

None of which could have been possible without thorough planning and preparation, else who knows how many times the Legate would have died that day. In contrast, Hongji was far from able to match Legate Rain’s obsessive attention to detail, but more interesting was that he discovered the Legate’s father was quite the opposite. It wasn’t that Baatar eschewed planning altogether, but rather his plans weren’t based on facts and evidence, but instinct and gut feelings instead. As the scouts and retinues moved into place around Pan Si Xing using the underground network of tunnels, Hongji envisioned a thousand and one things going wrong along the way, which made for the most stressful hour he’d ever experienced. What if the Defiled had found the tunnels themselves and were using them to move about the city? Or worse, had the exits watched and guarded meaning his divided troops were all walking headlong into death and disaster as the Enemy waited in ambush? What if a unit found the way forward blocked? Could he afford to keep the rest of his forces waiting for a single unit to find a new entrance into the city? If one unit wasn’t worth the risk, how many units would be? Two? Three? Five? What about his distribution of soldiers? With their forces spread out all across the city, he’d had to ensure that each retinue had enough strength to operate on their own lest they be overrun by Demons and Peak Experts aplenty. That was the greatest danger here, the Enemy gathering an elite fighting force similar to what Legate Rain did when taking the harbours last month. The Empire’s greatest advantage lay in unity which they needed to go up against the numerically superior Defiled forces, but here in Pan Si Xing, all that had been flipped on its head at young Jorani’s suggestions.

Credit where it was due, the plan was a good one. Break into groups of two to three thousand, infiltrate the city at various locations where slaves were bedding down for the day, and secure those choke points to buy time for the slaves to escape. From there, it was merely a matter of making enough chaos inside the city to force Bai Qi out of hiding, which could be done in any number of ways, but what Hongji hated the most was how Baatar, Jia Yang, and everyone else was counting on him to coordinate their efforts in real time. In short, once the troops were all in place, the rest of their plan could be summed up as, “Leave it to Hongji”, a weighty responsibility which he was unable to bear. Every Officer of note had studied his actions during the defence of the Central Citadel wherein he coordinated a city-wide guerrilla defence against Bai Qi’s invading forces, a feat only made possible by his familiarity with the Citadel, weeks of planning, and a fortuitously timed bout of Insight from the Mother Above. Yet now, everyone expected him to replicate that same miracle in spite of all his efforts to explain how that wasn’t possible.

All this stemmed from the unusual manner with which Hongji used to Form his Natal Palace. Since most Martial Warriors had based their Natal Palaces on a real structure or location they could visualize and visit when meditating, everyone thought Hongji had taken the Central Citadel and recreated it in its entirety within his Natal Palace. From there, the details varied, but every Warrior of note he’d spoken to believed that this was the key to the Chi working with which he used to oversee the fighting and coordinate a Citadel-wide defence against the Enemy. Whether it was a complex, multifaceted working of Scrying, Listening, and Sending, or deploying his Domain and materializing his Natal Palace to link the material and immaterial together, all those theories were completely off base because Hongji’s Natal Palace had no perceivable form. Though he went to great efforts to commit the sprawling maze of Citadel streets to memory, he never went as far as recreating it in his Natal Palace, not like how Legate Rain recreated his hometown village or Du Min Gyu recreated WuTai Mountain. Even if his Natal Palace had a visible form, how was he supposed to envision the concept of self-reliance and self-certainty? Even using an image of himself wouldn’t fit, because the Hongji everyone saw here today was different from the man he was yesterday, and vastly different from the Hongji of ten years ago. Not all of the changes were visible, but there were enough of those to make his point, and because he never had any need for a fixed Natal Palace to visit, he saw no point in bothering with it now. No, when Hongji closed his eyes and reached for Balance, the only thing he saw was the darkness behind his eyelids, which was how it’d always been.

Though unable to come up with a suitable way to explain it, he also failed to understand why the others seemed so skeptical about his claims. Du Min Gyu’s endless curiosity was understandable since he wanted to know more in order to better guide his grand-daughter who was following a similar Path to Hongji’s, but to this day, Akanai and her husband Husolt were still unable to fathom how he formed a Natal Palace without creating a mental structure to visit when meditating. In contrast, he was at a loss to explain how others could keep the entirety of their Natal Palaces forever fixed in memory and always in mind. There were times when Hongji had walked into a room only to discover he’d forgotten why he’d entered in the first place, so the thought of always keeping a complex, lifelike model image in mind at all times was almost incomprehensible. Granted, he was the outlier in all this considering most Martial Warriors Formed their Natal Palaces in this manner, but regardless of the facts, none could deny Hongji had a Natal Palace. It even functioned the same way, but instead of visiting a mental construct to practice his Chi skills and Forms as if in a separate plane of existence, he simply mentally went through the motions as if reliving a memory in his mind and making corrections along the way. There was no need to visualize the process, because it wasn’t as if he could see his every movement as he Demonstrated the Forms or see anything worth mentioning while utilizing his Chi, so why was it so important to visualize himself while meditating?

This lack of understanding from both sides made it difficult to explain his hardships however, because few understood his process well enough to have an idea of the issues he faced. While it was true he’d memorized the Central Citadel in its entirety, which played a large part in the miracle he accomplished during the siege, it wasn’t as if he had a perfect recreation of every stone, street, and building stored in his mind or Natal Palace. No, he memorized the Citadel layout by physically walking the streets until he was familiar enough with the area to know where he was at all times, something people naturally did when staying in one location long enough. Hongji simply put a little more effort into the process than most, and in doing so, paved the way for his defence of the Citadel. He remembered the battle well and the part he played in it, but it wasn’t until after the Enemy breached the third line of defences that the Mother saw fit to bestow Insight upon him. He remembered seeing the entire Citadel from a bird’s eye view, but the information he gleaned from it was more than merely visual. It was as if this advanced Scrying were capable of transmitting all sensations the Citadel experienced as if the entire fortress itself were a living entity. He could feel the Enemy marching across his cobble-stone skin, hear the short, staccato breaths of his soldiers on the cusp of panic, even smell the metallic tang of blood and steel in the air itself, a multitude of sensations which he processed all at once without ever losing sight of his thoughts and goals.

Only then was he able to coordinate such an effective defence, for this bout of Insight did not simply grant him awareness of the happenings within the Citadel, but enabled him to perceive all that information without needing to follow any singular thread of thought. It was like playing a thousand instruments to perform twenty different symphonies at the same time, far beyond what Hongji had ever thought possible, and in the moment, all he could do was surrender himself to the moment and focus on defending the Citadel with everything he had. Reading the reports of what happened in those scant few hours was an odd experience, because he remembered giving each and every individual order, but the sheer volume of commands and instructions was staggering to say the least. One Senior Captain claimed Hongji had given him step by step instructions on how to navigate his way through a Defiled infested market, while at the same time, a Lieutenant Colonel on the other side of the Citadel claimed Hongji had led him and his troops in a series of successful ambushes against the encroaching Enemy. All the while, there were hundreds of other Officers reporting that Hongji had spoken to them in the same general time frame, which meant Hongji had somehow split his mind to focus on and speak with multiple Officers at the same time.

A feat made all the more impressive when Hongji admitted he still had yet to understand how to Send a single message to multiple recipients at the same time, much less Send two different messages to two different people.

In short, ever since that fateful day, he’d tried to recreate that same sensation countless times each passing day, but he never even came close, so for Baatar, Jia Yang, and so many others to expect a repeat performance from him here in Pan Si Xing was nothing short of impossible. Hongji himself brought it up a number of times, but Baatar merely smiled and said, “You are a capable commander even without Insight to guide you. You need only treat this battle like any other and victory is sure to be ours.”

