The ebb and flow of battle lines portrayed a tale of strife and sacrifice, but one Song had no part in.

Idle and anxious as the conflict raged on around her, she stood by Erdene with one hand holding her drawn sabre while running the other through Princess’s thick, bristling fur. Tucked inside her shoulder bag which lay slung across the quin’s back, the weasel-bear poked her head out from the flaps, turning this way and that as she emitted rumbling growls of threat and warning. Ferocious though she might appear, Song knew the sweet girl would much rather avoid confrontation wherever possible, but being a slow, near-sighted creature of formidable fang and muscle, fleeing would always be an option of last resort. Affected by Princess’s audible trepidation, the other animals were also on edge, huddled together on the wagon in search of safety and comfort as they trembled in fear. Not Mama Bun though, who stood perched on her hind legs peering out at the battlefield, a watchful protector ready to defend her family with her life.

Not that Song expected much from the foolishly courageous bicorn rabbit. No, she was more concerned with making sure Mama Bun stayed in the wagon instead of hopping off to go commit suicide by headbutting a Defiled Chosen in the shin. At least the baby bunnies were all more level-headed, all hiding their faces in Aurie’s fur or burrowing under the bears’ bellies, save for sweet George who was flopped on his side and fast asleep. The laughing birds were also being well-behaved, with Roc, Yipi, and a few others standing vigil on the wagon sides, while the others roosted on and around the other animals. The birds were a clever bunch, frightened by the din of battle yet smart enough not to fly off into the sky, where they would undoubtedly be struck down by the constant deluge of stones, bolts, and arrows arcing overhead and sailing towards the Defiled horde.

This was Song’s fault for bringing the pet wagon so close to Rain’s carriage without thinking things through. True, she was Oath-Sworn to remain within five kilometres of his person, but she could easily have stayed behind the Irregulars and still had plenty of room to work with. Then again, the laughing birds preferred roosting atop the carriage which meant they would’ve been left on their own for the duration of battle, but Roc was an able guardian who appeared undaunted by the death and bloodshed, his feathers only lightly ruffled as he watched the carnage unfold with startling calm. Perhaps it was because he’d seen battles before, or perhaps it was simply instinct as the leader of his flock, but the other laughing birds took their cues from his calm presence and behaved themselves while keeping to the confines of the wagon, a feat Song would have once believed impossible.

The bears and wildcats were not faring as well, their quivering bodies and plaintive stares paining Song more gravely than any weapon ever could, especially poor Jimjam kneading away at Baloo’s shoulder. She desperately wished she could bring the animals away to safety and solace, but both were in short supply here on the fields of Central. This engagement might well be the greatest battle the Empire had seen in centuries, though from the sounds of things, that title might not remain theirs for long as conflicts broke out at Castle Wulin and along the coast of the Azure Sea. Still, with more than half-a-million Imperial soldiers facing off against Mother knows how many Defiled, this was shaping up into a battle for the ages, one which would be studied in depth by budding Officers for years to come.

Song was curious to know the details herself. If the Imperial forces were outnumbered by less than five to one, then she would consider that a blessing. One to ten was considered the golden ratio, to have one Imperial soldier for every ten Defiled to ensure victory, but that was when defending a well-fortified position, which this was not, and against typical Defiled, which the Chosen were far from. This type of engagement was rarely seen even in the annals of history, a sprawling, open field battle between two massive, well-equipped forces. Rebellions were common enough, but for an entire army to turn against the Empire was almost unheard of, save for a dozen or so times since the Empire’s founding. What’s more, in every one of those examples, the rebellion began with the seizure of a critically important location, whether it be a city, fortress, treasury, or what have you, all of which were typically well fortified. There were not many commanders foolish enough to abandon their fortified positions in order to do battle against an equally powerful enemy force, which meant the examples Song had to draw from were few and far between.

Even the smaller scale skirmishes fought in this manner couldn’t hold a light to this grand battle. Those usually read like a series of carefully calculated movements, like pieces on a chessboard shifting into position for one, grand, climatic attack. Officer One leads his retinue to hold the centre, while Officers Two and Three break through the flanks. Officer Four falters and falls, but Soldier One rallies his comrades and holds out long enough for Officers Five and Six to arrive and save the day. It all seemed so cut and dry, detailing every major event and variable as if it all added up on a balance sheet of cause and effect.

In a battle of this size, however, there was nothing but chaos and bloodshed, two factions locked in bitter combat, with no mercy given and none asked for. Try as she might to make sense of the situation, Song was unsure if the Imperials were winning, losing, or holding firm. To make matters worse, she had not been called upon to join the fray, and instead was relegated to permanent pet duty by her immediate commander Kuang Biao. The taciturn Peak Expert never once came to her to ask if she would care to fight, and simply left her to her own devices, treating her as mere luggage to guard and protect rather than a fellow soldier to fight alongside.

As proof of this, the former Royal Guardian assigned her eight protectors, Yellow One through Eight respectively, but not the same Yellow One through Eight Song was familiar with and previously fought beside. Ever since Rain rose to the Office of Legate, the Death Corps soldiers serving under him all had their ranks reshuffled and names reassigned, much to her dismay. The former Yellow One was now Wood Ninety-Eight, and Song only knew this because she went looking for the gruff and humourless woman when preparing to ride out for Castle JiangHu. Unfortunately, Kuang Biao rejected Song’s request to have her old retinue of Death Corps with her, stating that Wood Ninety-Eight was too weak to properly protect her, as if she were some sort of fragile maiden who needed to be coddled and cared for. Perhaps that was exactly how the former Royal Guardian saw her though, since Song’s strength counted as a mere drop in the bucket when measuring both armies as a whole. In fact, her presence might be lowering the overall strength of the Imperial forces, considering this new Yellow One was likely a Peak Expert, and Song suspected Yellow Two through Eight were the same. The depths of the Imperial Clan seemed more unfathomable than ever, but at least they were united against the Enemy.

In short, Song was a detriment to the cause, a burden to be guarded, and both the Bekhai and the Empire would be better off without her.

Never before had she felt so small and insignificant when faced with the prospect of battle, utterly helpless and forced to watched as Warriors of the Empire fought, bled, and died. Lives were spent like raindrops in a thunderstorm, yet nothing changed in her eyes, the Imperial forces holding firm while the Defiled marched ever forward to engage. Off on the right flank, Mama led five-thousand Khishigs including Sister Mila to deliver death from afar, and Sister-in-Law Sarnai did the same with Niece Alsantset on the left, all while Aunty Ghurda sat in reserve, watching and waiting for the opportune moment to strike. At some point, Yan disappeared into the chaotic mess which was the left flank, and emerged sometime later covered in blood and sweat, yet still the Imperial and Defiled lines remained locked in place, with neither side gaining or losing ground to any significant degree. Mister Rustram made two trips into the battle to reinforce flagging sections, but both times he withdrew as soon as matters stabilized so he could keep his reserves well rested.

Better men and women gave their lives in defence of the Empire, while Song stood idle. She could do more to help, should do more, but instead, she did nothing.

All across the battlefield, dying screams and roars of defiance intermingled into a single, steady stream of indecipherable sound. Tired soldiers withdrew and were replaced by fresh reserves, while dead Defiled were trampled over by new ones eager to take their place. In less than half an hour, the mound of bodies grew so high, Brigadier Hongji ordered his soldiers to shift back because the Enemy Defiled were leaping off heaped piles of corpses and launching aerial assaults that were equally fatal to attacker and defender alike. One for one trades were a net loss for the Empire, and this movement marked the first break in the near constant waves of bolts falling down upon the Defiled as the Irregulars faltered and stumbled in place, milling about in confusion from such a simple manoeuvre. It took long seconds for their leaders to sort everything out, long seconds Gongsun Qi took full advantage of to try and surround the partially isolated Death Corps contingent. Having anticipated this reaction, Mama’s Khishigs charged into the rear of the Defiled mob and drew their attention away from the beleaguered centre, relieving enough pressure to allow the Death Corps to fight their way free and fall back into line with their allies once the Irregulars were finally out of their way.

In retrospect, keeping Rain between the Death Corps and Irregulars might not have been the best idea. If, Heavens forbid, the Death Corps line were to crumble apart, Rain, Song, and all the sweet pets would be caught between the Enemy and a panicked horde of commoners, which boded poorly for their chances of survival. Glancing over to the empty area where she suspected his carriage might be, Song idly wondered if Rain was being himself and standing on the battlefield without a care for his safety, or if the mysterious Guard Leader had finally managed to reign him in and keep him locked inside the carriage. Song personally hoped for the latter, since it meant Lin-Lin, Ping Ping, Blackjack, and the red panda would be relatively safe, or rather as safe as their current circumstances would allow.

Forcing herself to relax her grip, Song rested her sabre’s tip in the dirt and flexed her fingers just to get the blood flowing once more, before doing the same with the rest of her rigid muscles. Restlessness and anxiety was making her tense, tension she could ill afford if she should have need to do battle. It didn’t look likely, but things could change in an instant, or so the history books would have Song believe. There was also the ever present risk of Wraiths or Peak Experts roaming the battlefield in search of easy prey, and while Song was being kept hidden under a veil of Concealment, this was exactly the sort of target the Enemy assassins would be searching for.

Granted, they’d likely be disappointed to find a slave girl and a wagon full of pets, but on the bright side, at least Song’s presence might draw attention away from other, more important Imperial targets. That was really the most she could hope for, as she was unable to affect the battle’s outcome in any other manner. That was the harsh truth of it all, her progress along the Martial Path proceeding along far too slowly in comparison to her peers. Yan was fast becoming a beloved leader of soldiers, having blossomed into an able commander since her first foray on the front lines and earning a reputation as a formidable combatant on the field of battle. The Blessing of Wind allowed her to kill Chosen with near impunity as her ranged Wind Blades slipped through the gaps in their Runic armour and claimed their lives with ease. Then there was Zian and Tam Taewoong, who were equally matched in time spent upon the front lines since the First Imperial Grand Conference. Both had progressed by leaps and bounds in the time since, and both were expected to become Peak Experts given time, with whispers of Zian following in his father’s footsteps to achieve this penultimate breakthrough before forty, if not earlier. Why that might be, Song wasn’t entirely sure, but she did know that the measure of a Peak Expert wasn’t solely strength of arm, but rather was weighted more heavily towards the utilization of External Chi.

