The ground shook with every clash of their blades, and Mama moved too quickly for Song to register it, but the Prince of Barbarity was another story. There he was, Cloud-Stepping across the sky, moving faster than any human had any right to, yet in an almost languid, lazy manner. Each time he waved his weapon, Mama disappeared from sight, and it took several seconds and countless exchanges for Song to realize it was because Mama was being violently hurled away every time their weapons connected. Gongsun Qi was dashing about not to dodge Mama’s attacks, but to chase her down after launching her away.

The two opposing commanders were clashing head to head, and Mama was clearly losing. To Song, this was almost unthinkable, but she could hardly deny the truth before her eyes.

“Hmph. So noisy.” Before Song even thought to stop her, Lin-Lin hopped down to the ground, unshouldered her bow, and nocked her last arrow in one, smooth motion. Lifting her left foot high off the ground until her toes pointed at the skies, she aimed the arrow straight up and used the full weight of her body to draw the bow into a full arc. At the same time, her foot descended back down to stomp the ground while she sighted the arrow and loosed whilst still in motion. The bow swung out in her grip like an open door while the arrow flew off into the horizon, and Gongsun Qi plummeted from the skies, but not before Song spotted a feathered arrow protruding from his raised forearm.

Not a kill shot, but on target all the same, and Mama was quick to take advantage.

“Ah! Not fair!” Stamping her foot again in an adorable fit of pique, Lin-Lin pointed at Gongsun Qi while Song and the Death Corps stared at her in open disbelief. “He blocked my arrow! It was gonna hit him in the neck, ya?”

Despite listing off all the Martial Warriors Song expected to be outdone by, Lin-Lin name never crossed her mind. Glancing at the now empty quiver, she wondered how many of the half-hare’s targets were Peak Experts, men and women who trained for decades only to die without knowing why. For better or for worse, once word of this spread to the Empire at large, there was one thing Song knew for certain: no one would dare look down on marksmanship anymore, not once they learned a young girl not even twenty years of age almost brought down the Lord of Martial Peace himself.

Chapter Meme
