Domain. That was the next milestone along Song’s Martial Path, the final step before tackling the hurdle of Peak Expert, and while Mama was pleased with her progress, Song was far from satisfied. Everyone around her was improving by leaps and bounds, while she moved forward one small step at a time, and though it might be asking too much of the Heavens, she too wanted to be of use to Mama. Even from this great distance, Song could make out Sister Mila’s position on the battlefield, her unique weapon Paragon flashing in the afternoon light as it whipped out and scythed through any Defiled who drew close. During Mama’s timed charge, Sister Mila must have scored at least two dozen kills in a matter of seconds, if not more, while only Sister Tursinai had any chance of measuring up. This meant Sister Mila’s performance on the field of battle was a match for Sister Tursinai, a stand-out genius a decade her senior who was only outmatched by Gerel, a once-in-a-thousand years talent who became a Peak Expert at thirty three.

Meanwhile, Song was comparable to a run-of-the-mill Captain or Senior Captain level talent. Not terrible, but not particularly outstanding either, with little to no prospects for the future.

Lips puckering at the errant thought, she took a deep breath and sought Balance to centre her thoughts. It was easy to see why so many Martial Warriors grew frustrated and lost motivation, since they were in no way compelled to work hard. That was how Song felt now, and she almost wished Rain would order her to train just so motivation would no longer factor in. Things were so much easier when she’d been a mere slave with no prospects. Back then, her only goal in life was to follow Teacher Du’s lessons and progress along the Martial Path, nothing more, nothing less. There was security in such simplicity, a sense of freedom from responsibility, but now that she was Li Song, daughter of Akanai and Husolt, she was free to do whatever she pleased, yet constrained by expectations to live up to. Mama and Papa loved Song regardless of whether or not she continued progressing along the Martial Path, but as Mama’s daughter and Disciple, Song didn’t want to shame her by becoming a lacklustre Martial Warrior. The problem was, she couldn’t even begin to imagine how to proceed from here, for she had seen firsthand the vast difference between herself and Kyung, not to mention the vast, insurmountable chasm between herself and Teacher Du.

Out there on the field of battle, Du Min Gyu slaughtered Demons and Peak Experts with laughable ease. On the surface, his actions didn’t look overly complex or awe-inspiring, but the thought process behind each and every decision made Song’s head spin with confusion. A simple twist of the wrist brought his sabre in a curving arc, one which blocked three strikes and claimed two lives. An unremarkable side step moved him in position to avoid a counterattack and aim a thrust towards an unsuspecting foe. Languidly raising his arm ever so slightly moved his weapon in perfect position to block or attack, defending and threatening all at once and leaving his foe frozen with indecision before the sabre claimed his life. Simple, yet brilliant decisions combined with powerful and unexpected movements, these were the core tenants of Teacher Du’s strength. With this alone, he would stand out from the masses, but add in his superb grasp of battlefield positioning and the Blessing of Wind, and Song was certain she could never match up.

Never. Even if she worked day and night without food or sleep, no amount of hard work could ever make up for lacking talent.

But as Mama would say, one step at a time. Teacher Du’s skills were honed from a lifetime of experience, with almost half his life spent embroiled in bitter conflict, and the bulk of the rest spent studying the Martial Path. Song was still young yet, and she had plenty of time to follow in his footsteps, but Mama was adamant she ‘find her own Path’, whatever that meant.

Frustrated from going around in circles, Song put aside her personal woes and focused on the battle before her. The Death Corps were a wonder to behold in action, their matching dark armour and standard issue halberds giving off the impression of a staunch, unending legion of Warriors, but the same could be said of the Enemy Defiled, clad in their striking Runic armour and uniforms. The difference, however, lay in how each side fought, for while the so-called Chosen looked like disciplined Imperials, the majority fought like crazed Defiled. Against standard Imperial soldiers, this proved troublesome, as even their mundane brigantine armour proved highly effective at warding off even the sharpest and sturdiest of steel weapons. Combined with the reckless, relentless aggression of the Defiled, this made these former Imperials a formidable foe, but in front of the iron discipline and steel full-plate of the Death Corps, the Chosen fell like wheat before the scythe.

It all came down to coordination, in that the Defiled had none to speak of, a failing the Death Corps took full advantage of. Standing shoulder to shoulder in tight formation, the dark-armoured slave soldiers all fought in similar stances, with left hand and left foot forward, and right hand and right foot back. To attack, they generally either thrust forward using both hands, swung upwards with both hands like wielding a shield, or released their left hand to deliver a longer, less inhibited thrust while taking a step forward with the right foot. The trick to their effectiveness was simple to the extreme, in that no two adjacent Death Corps would ever both swing or step forward at the same time, so that the attacker remained well defended by the comrades to either side. The Defiled, on the other hand, knew how to march and stand together in closed ranks, but once battle was joined, all semblance of discipline went out the window. Despite wielding decently long spears which would allow them to use the same tactics as the Death Corps, the Defiled Chosen used a wider array of different attacks. The reckless ones charged in to deliver a killing thrust, but most of the time, these attacks were either parried, blocked, or stopped by armour, leaving the attacker within range for a short thrust to the face, neck, groin, or leg, the four easiest vulnerable areas for the Death Corps to target. Any other attack was often even less effective, like those Defiled who swung their spears like staves or halberds, leaving them isolated from their allies and unsupported when their attack was blocked by one Death Corps guard while a second one down the line delivered a killing blow. No matter how the Enemy attacked, it often boiled down to a fight between a single Defiled Chosen against two, three, or even more Death Corps guards working in concert.

Rain talked about this style of fighting more than once, and everyone had dismissed his ideas as mad, but only because he suggested it as a means to train and raise an army of commoners. Now that she’d seen his idea in action, Song had to admit it was frightening to see how effective this sort of coordinated efficiency could be, not to mention how daunting it would be to face them. Despite taking on the bulk of the pressure due to their forward position, the Death Corps were holding out with minimal difficulty while the ‘solid’ left flank was struggling to hold firm, because although they were supporting one another in along the line, the imperial soldiers under Yobi-no’s command for the most part were fighting an endless series of one against one fights. That was how warfare was done in the Empire, how it’d been for as long as anyone could remember, or so Song believed, but apparently, the Imperial Clan had always known better.

Small wonder the Death Corps were so renowned despite what Song saw as only above-average individual strength. Should she ever be matched against them, as few as three standard guards might be enough to overwhelm her, and even if she lucked out and defeated all three of her foes, it would still be a hard fought fight, with plenty more Death Corps to go through on the field of battle.

“Li-Li. Li-Li! Over here Li-Li!” Glancing left, then right, the left again, Song finally found Lin-Lin, peering out of the carriage window less than ten meters away. “Come here please.” Striding over with a stiff gait, Song brought Erdene and Princess with her, as well as Yellow One through Four who refused to leave her side. Puffing her cheeks in adorable frustration, Lin-Lin motioned for Song to step up to the window and look inside. Though wary of her mischief, Song figured even Lin-Lin wouldn’t pull pranks in the middle of battle and did as she asked, only to immediately see why the half-hare was being so circumspect.

Because much like sweet, simple George, Rain had somehow fallen fast asleep while battle raged on around him, his head resting against the carriage wall and arms wrapped tight around Ping Ping, who greeted Song with a pleased squeak and burst of Loving Aura tinged with mild concern.

“It happened just before we stopped to fight,” Lin-Lin explained, petulant and frustrated to the extreme. No surprise there, as that was over an hour ago, which spoke volumes to her commendable restraint. Normally, the restless half-hare couldn’t sit still for five minutes without complaining of boredom, so to wait in the confines of this carriage for an entire hour with only Guard Leader to talk to was utterly remarkable. Uncharacteristically abashed of her actions, Lin-Lin glowered ever so slightly at Rain and pouted. “So, um, Li-Li... can we trade places? I was gonna stay with hubby the whole time and keep him safe but... it’s really boring ya? So maybe you could look after him for a bit, and I’ll look after the animals. Is that okay?”

Considering Lin-Lin also had a quiver of arrows slung across her shoulder and a longbow in hand, Song suspected she would do more than just ‘look after’ the animals, though at least sweet Blackjack was being carried in a pouch instead of perched between her ears, where any errant movements could send him flying off. Still, there was no harm trading places for a while, and at least then Lin-Lin could contribute to the battle effort, which was more than Song could do standing around outside. Nodding in agreement, she sheathed her sabre and lifted Princess off Erdene’s back while Lin-Lin and the veiled Guard Leader filed out, then headed inside to sit with Rain and Ping Ping. Pausing at the door, she looked to Yellow One and tilted her head in question. Discerning her meaning, Yellow One offered a small shake of her head and the ghost of a smile, expressing her belief that Song and Rain would be better protected if she remained outside with the rest of the guards. Why she felt the need to smile as well, Song couldn’t say, but she inwardly shrugged and closed the carriage door behind her, encasing the interior in gloomy shadows and leaving her sitting alone next to Princess, Rain, and Ping Ping.

The red panda too, who was currently hiding inside a cushioned box attached to Rain’s wrist. Leaning over him and Ping Ping to lift the lid, Song peeked inside and earned herself an adorable growl from the darling, scowling beast, a single paw slowly raising as if daring her to reach in. Resisting the urge to poke his nose, she dropped in some dried fruit, closed the lid, and sat back with a soft sigh, glad to be off her feet for a bit. Out of sight and out of mind, the tension melted from Song’s frame as she sank into the cushioned seats and let Princess out of her purse, but the irritable weasel-bear hunkered in place and stared out at the battle she could no longer see. Patting the growling grouch to soothe her nerves, Song smiled as a concerned Ping Ping shimmied out of Rain’s embrace to snuggle with Princess instead, pulsing her Loving Aura while nuzzling her chin against dense, prickly back fur. It was sweet of her to try and comfort Princess, but the weasel-bear was having none of it, still rumbling at the perceived threat to warn it away, and Song wondered if she’d erred in bringing the pets along. War was a human concept, one animals might well never truly understand, and truth be told, Song didn’t entirely understand it either.

Conflict was necessary, but all out war? Against other Imperials, war could eventually end in surrender, but there could never be peace with the Enemy. They simply wouldn’t allow it, for the Defiled were drawn to death and driven towards destruction. Such was the cost of Imbalance, of giving into emotion and believing the Father’s foul lies. Perhaps that was why animals never turned Defiled, because they were not creatures of emotion, but instinct. This wasn’t to say that animals were incapable of emotion, as Ping Ping was living proof otherwise, only that animals never gave in to emotion, because their instincts for continued survival would always supersede whatever lies the Father’s foul servants might whisper.

Which raised an interesting question. It was well known that while animals never turned Defiled, they were capable of becoming Demons. This meant there was a line which delineated a marked difference between Defiled and Demon, but where did that line lie? When Guan Suo died, Rain feared Ping Ping would turn into a Demon, so perhaps that was the answer, where emotion overruled instinct. A traumatic experience was required to overturn the scales of Balance, which Song supposed she already knew, but now she understood why. Becoming a Demon was akin to ultimate surrender, accepting death without the courage to follow through. That was why Song was never in danger of Defilement or Demonization, because if she had the means to go against her Oaths and end her own life, she would have done so without hesitation.

