All the more fool her, for then she would have missed out on this wonderful life she now lived. Stroking sweet Ping Ping’s leathery head, Song smiled fondly at the turtle’s satisfied expression as Princess’s growls slowly diminished in volume and intensity. Eventually, the weasel-bear seemed to forget why she was so concerned and looked to Song with a confused, yet hopeful expression, wondering if this Loving Aura was emanating from her, rather than the strange, overly friendly turtled pressed up against her. Rather than try to explain, Song simply hugged Princess and Ping Ping together, to which the latter responded with another pulse of Loving Aura, while the former merely huffed a small sigh.

Despite the warm atmosphere inside the carriage, the battle continued raging outside, and soon, Song’s thoughts returned to her personal inadequacies. Sister Mila, Junior Brother Fung, Senior Sister Alsantset, Yan, Huushal, Lu Jia Zian, Tam Taewoong, and so many others, each and every one of them was out there making a name for themselves, while Song sat in ultimate safety with up to eight Peak Experts responsible for keeping her alive. More if you counted Rain’s unseen guardians, of which there were too many to count, though she should try regardless. Naaran wasn’t here, nor were any of the Bekhai, since they were all with Mama out in the field. Rain’s mute guards were somewhere close by, though where, no one could really say. They were a strange bunch, zealous and loyal to a fault. So concerned with Rain’s well being, they trusted no one else to keep him safe, and thus always had at least two Concealed guards around him at all times. Kuang Biao also took his duties seriously, and while he hadn’t shared what arrangements he’d made to safeguard Rain, if he tasked eight Peak Experts to watch Song, then there were probably two or three times that stationed around Rain. Granted, she wasn’t sure if all her guards were Peak Experts, or if there were enough Peak Experts in the Death Corps to spare so many at once, but...

but...

Why was she so concerned with Rain’s guard detail? Strange.

Stirring in his sleep, Rain’s slack expression twisted in concern, his arms instinctively wrapping around himself as if to ward off the cold. Song wasn’t the only one to notice, as both Ping Ping and Princess turned to take in his reaction, but while the latter paid him no mind and returned to cuddle Song some more, Ping Ping ambled over and tried to squeezed herself back into his embrace. Alas, his arms remained locked tight and all she could do was watch as his expression twisted in fear and concern while muttering unintelligible syllables, odd sounds which flowed together and sounded like proper words, but in a language Song had never heard. According to Sister Mila and Yan, he did this often during nightmares, but they both found it endearing for some reason and gave it no further thought. Personally, Song thought it made him look and sound foolish, but far be it for her to judge Sister Mila for her strange taste in men.

Still, if he was having nightmares, then perhaps Song should do something to help. Lifting Princess’s bulk off the seat, she shifted them both over until Rain’s arm was resting against the weasel-bear’s fur, which she didn’t much like, but accepted after Song tickled her chin. It didn’t help Rain in the least though, so Song reached over with her free hand and patted his shoulder ever so gently.

Only for the carriage to lurch as the horses bolted away.

Steadying Rain to keep him from falling out of his seat, Song released Princess to grab the hilt of her sabre, but rather than draw it in a reverse grip and risk impaling herself while going over an unexpected bump, she readied to give her life to protect Rain, Princess, and Ping Ping should the need demand it. “Stay in the carriage.” Yellow One’s Sending arrived just in time, but it did little to assuage Song’s fears as she added, “Guard the Legate.”

A clash of steel emanating from far too close accentuated the danger they were all in, and Song briefly regretted allowing Lin-Lin to run free. Strong as these Death Corps might be, there was no doubt in Song’s mind that Guard Leader was stronger, for there were few Martial Warriors who could dive into a living shark and explode it from the inside, and most who could wouldn’t even think to try it. Princess’s growls were back in full force, and even sweet Ping Ping seemed distressed by their current situation, her plaintive squeaks sending a spear of sorrow to pierce through Song’s frail heart. There was no time to comfort the animals though, for the carriage doors burst open to reveal the toothy grin of a grey-skinned Wraith. Anyone who could get past so many Peak Expert guards had to be a Peak Expert himself, or perhaps this was one of those half-step Divinity Wraiths like those who brought Shen ZhenWu low. Either way, Song was clearly outmatched and should just accept her fate.

Even as the dissonant thought rang through her mind, Song’s sabre emerged from its sheath to strike at the Wraith, but her backhanded grip slowed her down so much, even Tate could’ve blocked the attack. However, before her sabre even left the sheath, the Wraith disappeared from the doorway in a spray of water. Beak open and eyes narrowed, Ping Ping sat perched atop Rain’s legs and watched the carriage door swing and slam shut before snapping her jaws shut with an audible click, though she remained vigilant even after the carriage slowed and the danger had passed.

“I’m coming in.” Startled by the Sending, Song almost reacted too slowly to stop Ping Ping from firing a Water Ball at Yellow One, but luckily the sweet girl recognized the guard’s armoured form. Squeaking in warning as Song’s hand reached over to cover her open beak, the Divine Turtle only relaxed when she saw Yellow One stopped outside. “We must move the Legate,” Yellow One Sent, warily watching Ping Ping but unwilling to back away. “The carriage is too easily found by those who know how to look.”

Which made perfect sense to Song. A large carriage required significantly more effort to Conceal than a few individuals since the carriage was larger in size, which meant it required a larger Domain to cover it. Unless Yellow One and her comrades knew how to Conceal themselves from probing Domains, then the Enemy Wraiths only needed to attack the largest target to find the Legate, whereas they could split up into groups and force the assassins to guess at which Concealed bunch was hiding the Legate. Putting away her sabre, Song hurriedly helped Princess into her bag before lifting the comatose Rain into her arms and bringing him out of the carriage.

“Is the Legate injured?”

Genuine concern tinged Yellow One’s Sending, but Song shook her head. “Sleeping.” Seeing the questioning look, she merely shrugged in reply, also unsure how he could sleep through all this excitement. This clearly wasn’t natural, but there was no time to think. The clamour of battle struck her like a hammer as she exited the carriage, but she grit her teeth and checked her surroundings. As expected, there were many more hidden Experts about than before, mostly more Death Corps and a handful of Khishigs, but four of the armoured guards were bleeding heavily and unable to stand. “Have two of your people get those four to the Healers.” Before Yellow One could argue, she added, “They’re of no use to the Legate dead. We have more than enough guards to protect him.”

As if the Heavens meant to prove her wrong, the area exploded into chaos as more Wraiths emerged from Concealment, their twin blades dripping with insidious poison and dark eyes radiating sadistic glee. Yellow One reacted first, her halberd sweeping out to smash the closest Wraith aside, and Song was unable to follow the rest of the exchange. In the blink of an eye, three more friendly guards were down, including one of Rain’s previously unrevealed fanatics. Belatedly opening wide, Ping Ping’s summoned Water Ball faded back into obscurity as the sweet but slow turtle tried to understand what just took place. Divine Beast she might be, but Ping Ping was inexperienced and untrained in the ways of war and conflict, a sheltered creature who lived in relative safety for centuries, if not millennia. She lacked both the hunter’s alacrity and the ever-vigilance of prey, which meant she let her guard down far too easily and reacted much too late, but that wasn’t her fault. Ping Ping was a sweet innocent, and if Song had her way, the Divine Turtle would remain so, because she was too kind and pure to be marred by this ugly, tainted world.

Better to burn this whole world down and rebuild atop the ashes.

“We must move.” Rather than waiting for a response, Yellow One grabbed Song by the arm and pulled her along beside her, while another Death Corps Guard, Yellow Three it looked like, took his place on Song’s other side. Rain’s own guards fell in beside them, and a glance back showed that the Bekhai Healers had already arrived to tend to the wounded. Song prayed they would all keep their lives, but it was a vain hope, as she was fairly certain several of those guards had already been dead by the time she laid eyes on them. Honouring the dead would have to wait however, as they came under attack a third time, and this time, Song noticed that none of the guards expected it. Each and every one of them were caught by surprise, and as she thought back to the previous attack, it’d happened there as well. The Wraiths appeared and then the guards reacted, but that shouldn’t be the case. Assuming they were all under Concealment, at least one of the Wraiths would’ve had to reveal themselves while sweeping the area with their Domain. That was how anti-Concealment measures worked, unless one knew how to Conceal the touch of their Domain.

Which meant... these Wraiths were far more competent than any Wraiths they’d ever encountered before, their familiarity with Concealment allowing them to even Conceal the touch of their Domains...

A brief but intense clash ensued, but after a full second passed, the only Wraith still standing was summarily dispatched by Ping Ping’s Water Ball. No, not dispatched, merely knocked off his feet, but a flying dagger to the heart finished the fallen Defiled off. Scowling as he appeared in plain sight and retrieved his Spiritual Knife, Healer Tokta confirmed Song’s suspicions with a frustrated snarl. “Concealment does us no good. Let us move in strength instead.” Eight more Bekhai guards appeared from thin air, and a dozen more of Rain’s fanatics, though Song suspected there were still more in hiding. Frog-marching Song away, this cadre of Peak Experts escorted Rain behind the Irregulars to safety with no further incident. Some of them must have still been Concealed, because none of the commoners spotted Rain’s comatose form and panicked, though more than one gave their eclectic group a curious stare.

Since no one asked to take him, Song held onto Rain, even after he wrapped his arms around her neck and snuggled peacefully into her shoulder. How he could still sleep was a mystery for the ages, but she would be sure to ask him another time. She only hoped Lin-Lin and the pets were all safe, but as if summoned by the mere thought of her, the half-hare appeared atop Erdene with Coto and Gatai’s wagon in tow, and all the pets accounted for. “Sorry Li-Li,” Lin-Lin whispered, mournfully eyeing the wounded guards, some who only just succumbed to the insidious Wraith poison coursing through their veins. “I got a little carried away and stepped too far away.”

It was hardly her fault the Wraiths attacked, and Song said as much, but Lin-Lin would not be consoled. Instead, she draped herself across Song’s back with arms also wrapped around her neck, softly sighing as she watched her beloved hubby sleep. At least her quiver was almost entirely empty now, with only one arrow left to her after contributing to the battle effort, and Rain was still alive and unharmed, though more than a few had given their lives to make this so. There were a few muttered conversations between the Khishig guards, discussion on how the Wraiths kept finding Rain’s Concealed group without revealing their presence, but aside from sharing Song’s unfounded theory that these Wraiths were simply stronger than any others they’d ever encountered, there were no other working explanations.

Just as Song was about to ask about Wraiths and why they were different from regular Defiled, the din of battle died down for the first time in hours. No, rather, her ears were deafened by a single, booming clash, one so loud it felt like her eardrums had popped and the world gone silent. As her hearing slowly recovered, she saw the guards all staring off into the distance and followed their gaze to the right flank, where Mister Rustram’s forces were still holding the line with help from Mama, Sister Mila, and five-thousand Sentinels.

At first, Song didn’t see what they were all looking at, but then a flash of movement caught her attention, and her breath caught in her throat. For there, up in the skies above the swarming melee, Song spotted Mama’s distinct, blonde bun and silver axe-lance trading blows with Gongsun Qi and his oversized Green Dragon Crescent Blade.

