“You’ll have to take it up with the Artonans if you want a drudgery chest, Natalie. There’s low supply for one of the components. I’m on a waiting list just so I can put one together for my own personal use. They provide me with everything I need to fulfill orders for them, but otherwise…”

“I’m not making any personal projects right now either,” said her friend. “Not because I can’t get supplies, but because I’m getting sick of making cases. The last thing I want to do in my free time is make another one.”

When Alden left them, they were arguing about the Wright who’d made the bomb that the SAL boat had been smuggling off the island and whether or not he had known where it was going when he created it.

He stood across the kitchen island from Natalie, watching her garnish the turkey. It was resting on a glazed platter that was such a biteable candy apple shade, he was sure Hadiza had hit it with her skill. “Thank you so much again for doing this. If everything else is ruined, at least we’ll still have the traditional dish.”

She didn’t answer, and he realized her eyes weren’t closed in momentary thought. She was actively using her power on the citrus wedges she was nestling around the bird. He watched her lips move as she mouthed a word.

Laughter, he decided.

She’d said before that Cook of the Moment required her to focus on her own memories. Her own moments. As the skill developed, she’d get more control over the flavors and the feelings her food evoked.

Maybe laughter always tasted a little like cake batter in Natalie’s head, and she would be able to inject a hint of that into a lemon if she wanted.

I would absolutely eat a cake and laughter flavored lemon.

She was taking a while with each piece of fruit.

He reached into one of his back pockets and pulled out his piece of origami paper from earlier. It was currently a diamond with a couple of protruding triangles. He’d stopped folding here, since this was the last part of the design that wasn’t easily ruined. While Natalie focused on a kumquat, he pulled up the instructional video he’d been watching in brief bursts this afternoon and finished his inadequate contribution to her holiday.

“Okay,” she said a couple of minutes later, opening her eyes.

“It’s done?” The turkey looked glorious, but it had looked glorious even before she’d started on the garnish.

“It’s done.” She stared down at it. “What if they don’t like it?”

“I’ll snatch it away from them and bring it back here to appease the beasts you live with.” He took a deep breath, filling his lungs with scent. Emilija’s right. Taking it away from them after they smelled it cooking all day is a crime.

“The Artonans are going to love it,” he assured her. “And here. I made a replacement for you.”

He set the origami turkey on the countertop beside its more edible relative. It was a perky looking little thing with an upturned beak. And just as Alden felt a flash of pleasure at how neat the paper animal looked, it slowly tipped over onto its back.

“Oops.” Before he could reach over to set it upright, Natalie grabbed it.

“Oh my god! He’s precious! I love him.” She held the turkey in her palm, and it tipped over again.

Alden scratched his head. “Sorry. He must be heavy in the rear. I’ll make you a better—”

Natalie glared at him and cradled the turkey to her chest. “No. Take it back. He’s perfect.”

“He’s got a tail so big he can’t stand up straight.”

“He grew those giant feathers to impress the other turkeys. He’s doing his best.” She righted the turkey again on its tiny paper feet and watched it fall over once more.

They both looked at it for a second and then burst out laughing.

“I’m going to name him,” Natalie said breathlessly when she’d recovered enough to speak. “I’m going to name him something!”

“You should name him Big Butt.”

“He wants a noble name.”

“King Big Butt.”

She threw a kitchen towel at him, and he caught it.

“Hey,” she said, “you know how Verna was just saying there was only one place using a drudgery chest for cooking? It’s a large one her mom made. Like a whole drudgery room. It’s usually set up to make a meal of the day all by itself, and you can watch through a window. Do you want to come see it with me sometime?”

“Yeah, of course. New magic stuff is always cool.”

“Great! I’ll find out when it’s open again and let you know.” She smiled at the turkey and made it a nest in another towel. “There you go. He’s looking comfortable now.”

“Just needed a prop for his massive butt,” Alden said.

“His name is Wobble.”

“Wobble?”

“Wobble Gobble.”

Alden nodded. “A truly noble name.”

******

The flight of The Turkey Express was a remarkable experience. Alden would have preferred an unremarkable one, but he tried to act like he wasn’t freaked out by any of the things that happened after he left Boomtown.

Like former-Instructor Rao meeting him in the common area on his final, final stop by the dorms so that she could deliver a clove-studded ham. All her Avowed profile information was written on the aluminum foil that covered it, so that Alden could memorize it and then casually mention it in conversation to the Artonans he met.

Or like Principal Saleh falling through the ceiling to land between the two of them and inform Rao that former faculty members shouldn’t be lurking inside Garden Hall to bother students and insist they take their pork résumés to Matadero.

“I’m sorry about all of this,” Alden said when Rao was gone. He shifted his grip on the large shopping bag that Hadiza had given him for easier turkey hauling. “I thought I was asking a few friends for help, but everything got crazier than I planned.”

“I’m here to add to it,” said the Principal, passing him an accordion folder. “But at least it’s not food. Let’s try and keep the next few holidays on the calendar simpler.”

“I will.”

“By the way, about twenty students are outside trying to attach a plant creation to Hn’tyon Esh-erdi’s flying device.”

“I know. They’ve only got two minutes left, then I’m leaving no matter what stage of the operation they’re at.”

“Don’t drop it on anyone.”

Alden was just glad the Cornucopia of Earthly Vegetation was slightly smaller than a golf cart. It was kind of amazing for a blinged out salad horn, but he’d been afraid it was going to be bigger than the Grant Park Christmas tree by the time Jupiter and all the others who’d gotten involved were finished.

Just before he boarded the nonagon, an older girl he didn’t know grabbed him by the shoulders and said, “Say bloom,” in an accent he couldn’t place.

“Bloom?”

“No. In Artonan.”

He opened his mouth.

“Not now! When you get there!”

Which bloom? He knew three words for it. He guessed he’d go through them all.

Standing in the garden, he smiled for a hasty photo with everyone in the vicinity who’d contributed. He saw Colibrí, the uni instructor from his interview committee, coming down the pathway toward the group. But then Principal Saleh was talking to her. And the picture was taken, and he was up in the air.

He waved goodbye to Haoyu. He waved hello awkwardly to the drones filming him. He flew at low altitude through Apex so that the cornucopia wouldn’t kill anyone if the tarp and tape they’d used to pin it down failed. And he waved some more any time he spotted someone on the street or in a window waving at him.

This is surreal. I want a nap.

He carried the turkey in his lap and almost cheered when he left the coast behind, shoved his driving hand forward, and zipped toward Matadero.

The approaching sunset tinted the sky.

“System, call Kabir!” he said, lifting his voice over the wind. “Kabir, I coming. I got the turkey!”

“I see you coming!” Kabir shouted back. He had a frenzied look on his face and a butcher knife in his hand. He was using it to hack his way into one of the coolers Haoyu’s dad had wrapped. “I’ve been checking our hashtag to monitor your progress.”

“I hate the fact that we have a hashtag and people can do that! But I’ll be there soon!”

“It’s almost time!” said Kabir.

“I know!”

“We can do it!”

“If not, at least it will be over!”

He could tell they understood each other perfectly.

******

“Blossom,” said Alden in Artonan. “Flower. Bloom.”

Hundreds of tiny purple buds spread their petals. Kabir’s hand slapped against his in a high five before they both rushed for the elevator again.

One cornucopia left in the lobby of the residential area, covered in rainbow vegetable carvings and garlands, and sparkling thanks to someone’s spell impression. It was stuffed to bursting with Earth fruits they’d taken from the crates the Artonans already had lying around.

“I’ll light the candles,” said Alden as they reached the cafeteria again. His turkey bag was still preserved.

“I’ll put out the cards,” Kabir replied.

The Wrightwork candles someone had sent earlier were spaced around the edge of the room at regular intervals. Kabir had been working hard while he was gone.

Autumn Evening Picnic Set. Alden crouched to hold his hands over the wick on top of the first chunky black candle. Let’s see what you look like.

And let’s not flub the casting, he thought wryly. Kabir’s not paying much attention, and I can always blame the candle itself, but still.

His fingers moved. He pretended he was lighting a promise stick.

The command his authority gave for this was so familiar, and it seemed to grow easier every time. He wondered if it was him, getting stronger and more used to making this particular demand. Or if it was everything else, growing accustomed to listening to him and answering him.

A flicker.

One enchanted candle dimming the corner it sat in instead of brightening it, casting the shadows of trees against the ceiling and walls.

Alden watched a ghostly leaf fall from a branch.

“Good candles,” he said.

“Keep going!” Kabir called. He had the accordion file Principal Saleh had given Alden, and he was spreading the cards it contained around the cafeteria tables. They were from the preschool children who attended Celena North’s daycare while their parents worked or attended classes. The handprint turkeys and indecipherable drawings joined the few, more-legible notes sent by adults.

Alden went to light the other candles.

The work didn’t really end. They just ran out of time.

A couple of minutes before nine o’clock, Kabir spied the first large group of wizards teleporting in thanks to a viewing spell he’d set up downstairs.

“They’re here!” he bellowed. He’d gotten louder and louder as they approached the finish line. Alden didn’t know if the chef was trying to pump them both up, or if it was a side effect of the champagne that Aulia Velra had somehow managed to have delivered by helicopter while he was away.

Standing in the kitchen, Alden looked down at the floor. There were still a few mystery boxes that had come through the TC to open, still a few final touches to make things perfect.

Kabir ran by with yet another chafing dish. The wizards could easily heat their own plates of food with a spell, but they were trying for proper temperatures anyway.

We’re done?

He studied all of the containers. None of them seemed to be from individuals. Lots of packaging from businesses.

Yeah, we’re done. This can all go into the freezer later.

Showtime.

[Porti-loth,] he texted. [Second meal is ready. It’s special.]

[Hn’tyon Esh-erdi…]

[Hn’tyon Lind-otta…]

[Drusi-otta…]

[Zeridee, we’re having a Thanksgiving supper. You should come get a plate, and we’ll save it for when you’re allowed to eat Earth food again.]

He freed the turkey from its bag carefully. Re-preserved it.

Then he went to stand behind the long buffet Kabir had made by shoving tables together. Dead center, facing the elevator. For the first time, he had the chance to see it all arrayed in front of him. The tables had white cloths. The candles were doing a lot of heavy lifting on the atmosphere front.

It looked really overambitious all of a sudden. Wrong. Like if he were throwing an amazing party for the species that was obsessed with parties, he should have gone bigger. And since he wasn’t doing that, he should have gone smaller, with his original vision. Just the food and the gratitude.

What if they think it’s lame? What if they’re tired and annoyed by it all?

His mouth dried up.

Then his eyes landed on the creamed spinach from Mrs. Long. He’d already set aside the letter she’d written to the two knights, so that it wouldn’t get lost. And there were the stuffed peppers from Haoyu’s mom. Bobby’s salad. A mound of cheese muffins from someone who was living in one of the temporary housing domes on campus.

A ton of food had been relegated to the fridges and freezers. They’d put out the dishes from the people they knew and the ones that fit in with the potluck spirit.

Everyone meant well and donated. They’re all going to ask me how it went. What if it goes wrong?

One new terror crossing his mind at the worst possible moment: “Am I supposed to say something to everyone before the meal?”

Kabir had just dashed by with a piping bag full of whipped cream. “What?”

“Like a speech? I don’t have to give a speech, do I?”

Kabir stared at him. “Well, I’m not giving a speech.”

“Does there have to be a speech? I can’t just drop the turkey and run away. Can I?”

“Of course not.”

“But what do I say? Me standing here in the center holding the turkey makes me look responsible for all of this. Like I’m in charge.”

