“You are responsible for all of this…don’t look at me like I just hurt you by saying that! It’s the truth!”

The elevator arrived. The door that led to one of the cube’s staircases opened at the same time.

As the first bunch of chattering wizards walked in, Alden froze like he’d been hit with a spell. They were looking around with curious expressions.

“This is the Thanksgiving?” he heard one of them say.

“Shadow trees.”

“Hello, Kabir!”

“The Thanksgiving!” someone else chirped. “I was told the goal of the event is to eat one of everything.”

“Look! Drawings made by human children.”

The preschool artwork was apparently worthy of everyone’s attention. They were still exclaiming over it when the doors opened again.

Alden felt his tension ratchet up to new heights as more wizards poured through, and then he spotted Lind-otta, Esh-erdi, and Porti-loth. And he suddenly relaxed.

Lind-otta was watching her partner fondly while he bickered with Porti-loth about healing groves. Esh-erdi was wearing the same outfit he’d had on when he and Alden had had their talk after his rescue.

Boe’s back. I’m out of my squishboot. I got to visit with Stuart.

I learned a hundred things while I was with him at the Rapport, and I’m going to see him again soon. And visit a mind healer. I’m weaving a friendship. I have a magic earring now. And…choices to make.

So much life lived in just a few days.

So much life he’d almost missed out on.

Esh-erdi spotted him and started toward him with a smile. Lind-otta was with him.

“Hello, Alden,” she said. “I’m glad to finally greet you.”

Her brown hair hung below her waist in triple braids, and her wide-set eyes were a pale caramel color.

“Is this the Thanksgiving?” Esh-erdi asked. He was studying the platter in Alden’s hands.

“It is,” said Alden, looking between the two of them.

No need for some dramatic speech. That’s not the right thing.

“This is from my friend Natalie. A lot of people wanted to share what they could even though I didn’t give them much time to prepare. They wanted to say thank you. So did I.”

He let his skill end so that hers could take over.

One turkey.

A smell that called to mind warmth, laughter, family, and friends was unleashed into the room. Lind-otta smiled. Esh-erdi clasped his hands together in front of his chest, looking delighted.

Alden watched as heads rose from their perusal of cards and their studies of candles and turned toward the feast table.

“Thank you.” He said it loudly enough for his voice to be heard by everyone who had arrived in the cafeteria so far, but his eyes paused on Porti-loth and then stayed on the knights. “Thank you so much for coming when we needed you. We all hope you enjoy the meal.”

******

******
