Seconds ago, I only had the epiphany that Vibrations could be warped and tethered to Celestial energy, and now, moments ago, I've witnessed Maria act upon this thought and attempt a rudimentary barrier.

I already have far more experience and confidence as I lunge forward and begin focusing solely on the sharp tip of my blade.

While I don't have the capability to access my system and activate a full Royal Bloodline Transformation, the basic nature of my Vibrations is still present in this void.

It is hard to tell if it is a suppressed state or just the natural state they resonate with my body in when I am not using the system at all.

It doesn't matter if either one is the case, but the unique scenario in this abyss has allowed a hyper focus that I'm not sure would be possible in a normal energy-rich realm.

Maria and I have been communicating and resonating for over a month straight, using the simple fluctuations and flow of Vibrations to share our thoughts. In addition to this, we have been refining Celestial Energy to strengthen our bodies and minds right beside it the whole time.

In the initial stages in this darkness, Celestial energy was the only tool we could use to move. When enemies attacked, it was clearly the strongest energy to focus on and master.

Yet, as a thin and tight tethered layer of vibrations wraps around my sword, many more fundamental understandings wash through me. I have to focus and not let the potential of my attack overwhelm my own mind.

My red blade collides with the tip of the demon's white spear.

This time, instead of being bounced away, the layers of invisible Noble Vibrations tethered throughout its weapon are sliced through with my sword.

Unfortunately, the pressure and activation of my own Royal Vibrations aren't perfect.

It's my first attempt at such a feat, so the moment they achieve the goal I've set, to slice through the weapon's barrier, my Vibrations dissipate.

They've followed the intent I've given them, and nothing more.

When my blade collides against the bare soul spear's material, piercing through its entire outer layer, my sword's layer of defenses has been completely dissolved too.

The only reaction we get is a weak explosion of Celestial Energy, one that sends us both backward less than 10 meters.

Both of our eyes widen in awe.

The demon's, because it knows I just broke through its defenses; and mine, because I've just comprehended another interesting rule of this Vibration tethering technique.

I step back and contemplate what I've seen and felt further while Maria steadies herself with the knowledge I've just gained too.

She runs forward, and we jump together in the air to attack before the demon can take the offensive itself.

The icy blue sword aims forward, with a much denser layer of Royal Vibrations around its outside than the last exchange. She goes in for a kill shot but has to redirect her blow once the demon shakes itself out of confusion and counters.

Even so, Maria slices through the outer barrier of its spear's defensive layers just like I did before, but she's added an additional layer of intent to her strike.

I grin and mentally take in this data as I watch a second layering of her Royal Vibrations stay strong even once she collides with the spear's base material. The demon is pushed back... but Maria and I stay moving forward in the air.

Her second layer of intent was created to push back the exact reaction she saw happen to mine.

She laughs into the empty void as the demon skids to a halt over 20 meters away, and we spin in the air as our Celestial Energy Cycle moves through her into me.

When I come crashing down on the spear that points up at me in a defensive stance, my tethered layers of Royal Vibrations have already planned out exactly how this exchange will go.

My ether senses stay focused, as I slice through the outer layer of Noble Vibrations' defenses; push away the attacking spear to the side, pushing it into the rock wall; then use our downward momentum to slice again at the demon's chest.

I tear through its Noble Vibration layering but add an additional layer of piercing intent to slice through the actual skin of this beast.

A wide fiery gash opens up as this fourth and final layer of vibrations dissipates once I've broken through its flesh; and I release a wave of my cycle's peak of Celestial fire.

The Noble Demon is sent flying backward again, skidding to a halt at the mouth of the cave; pulsing bright white Celestial light as it desperately heals its wound and puts out the fire burning across its chest.

My attack wasn't deep enough to pierce its cores, but as Maria and I land to the ground 20 meters from this creature, both of us stare at it with a far different look than we did moments prior.

Everything makes sense.

I've used Vibrations in this way by accident in the Green Zone, I just never noticed it entirely because it was always guided by pure mana or ether commands, and strengthened by the divine threads surrounding it.

When building structures, I would see clearly in my mind the end result I wanted; and the breakthrough to a High Noble opened my eyes to my ability to use these Vibrations to channel my intent and enter a flow state to build and create whatever I desired on a massive scale.

Yet now, I'm seeing that this is not as abstract as it seems.

This intent can be channeled.

The will or desire to make a sharp blade, or to repel something back, with nothing but pure Vibrations. It is possible.

Anything is possible...

This sense of awe and confidence flows through both myself and Maria as we stare forward at a demon with an overwhelming amount of Celestial Energy surging through it; yet our own bodies fade to dark as we share a fraction of its power and cycle it back and forth to optimize its use.

Yet, the demon is the one that is scared, as the fiery wound on its chest won't heal as fast as it wants it to; and Maria steps forward to take the lead and attack again as her cycle is now coming around.

Her stride veers off to the side, and I follow, understanding clearly what she will do.

Both of us kick off the wall of the cave to spin and fly toward this demon's side.

It reflexively pulses Celestial Energy into its spear and twists its body to block, but doing so siphons out some of the energy in its chest suppressing the flames, a minor burst makes it hesitate.

Maria's icy blade comes crashing down on its spear, slicing through its layer of defenses and crashing down on the pure Soul Weapon with far more violence and confidence than their last exchange.

This time, she does not use a vibration of intent to send the spear bouncing backward, but instead sends a ripple into the spear itself.

There are over a dozen complex layers of intent tethered into this wave she's created, compounding on the knowledge we've already gained from the last few attacks.

Instantly, the tip of the Demon's spear starts to vibrate with an aura that is not its own; and a blue icy streak of Celestial Energy twists through the core of its weapon.

If these Celestial Energies were to collide with their raw power, the sheer amount of the Demon's energy would overwhelm and devour Maria's icy energy in an instant.

However, there is a defensive barrier surrounding it as it plunges through, like a hyper-focused attack.

The outer layers of Royal Vibrations are dissipating as they get further from Maria, the source; and she loses full control over them, but this was predicted.

All of the layers of intent are stripped away, but the attack manages to make the base of the spear glow light blue before releasing the final barrier. It triggers an outward explosion with the only goal being to destroy the defenses of this Demon's hand. It releases a concentrated wave of Celestial Energy into its right palm; and a streak of ice freezes its flesh up to its elbow.

The Demon lurches backward, and a few of its fingers even crack and shatter off, but more waves of its Celestial Energy come to heal it before it loses its entire arm.

The grip on its spear is loosening, and we gain enough momentum to land beside the opposite cave wall.

My cycle begins to build up, and I lock my eyes on the injured Noble.

The easy prey it set its sights on is overpowering and outsmarting it. I can sense a very distinct fluctuation in its Vibrations and aura, that is true fear.

The Demon's feet pivot, and I yell into the void, "You're not leaving so soon!" but nothing can hear me.

A wave of fire comes surging out from my Soul Energy Core as I cycle the wave Maria has sent me and lunge forward with over a dozen layered Vibrations in my blade, ready to cause some serious damage myself.

Even the soul armor on my arms and legs is starting to become useful. I release minor Vibrations of intent to move faster through my boots, and the propulsion forward off the ground becomes heightened.

When I swing at the Demon's unguarded side, it panics and tries to block across its body.

Yet, I've layered multiple Royal Vibrations of sharpness, and a steady unwavering strike into my sword.

It is filling up with all of the Celestial Energy I have, and with the focus I have on it now; it can cut through anything in its path.

The defenses of Noble Vibrations are sliced through like butter.

The Noble's will is already shaken, so the layers are even weaker than they were at the start of our battle, yet this strike could have sliced through something at least three times as strong.

My grin grows as my layers of intent do not disperse, because they're not done yet.

The pointed end of this Demon's spear is sliced clear through and shatters under the pressure of my will.

It is an easy feat.

Yet, keeping my concentration as a massive burst of Celestial Energy erupts out from it, and the events that follow, are not as simple...

I've created two layers of defense over the upper half of my body, and this is enough to repel the initial wave of raw Celestial Energy away with no problem.

A variable I was not expecting to intervene, however, is the presence of a Dragon swooping down from the dark sky above.

This Demon has pivoted to run away, and even made it out from the mouth of the cave, so I thought it was getting desperate.

Instead, it's called for reinforcements.

Half a dozen of my layers of Vibrations instantly dissipate, as the paths of certainty connected to them dissolve as my logical mind believes they are no longer possible.

Though, there is still room for me to land serious damage.

I grit my teeth and swing downward anyway, slicing through its shoulder rather than directly through its head.

I kick off the air with vibrations layering one of my boots, out of the direct flight path of where this dragon's open mouth swoops downward; yet still get to make full use of the sharpness, steady weapon, and lastly a stacked layer of explosive intent I've drawn inspiration from Maria's last attack on.

The fiery blade pierces through its noble defenses, and through its skin and bone.

In between each layer of sharpness, another defensive layer is released; as the density of the Celestial Energy inside this Demon's body is thick, and my energy alone is not enough.

Once halfway through the cut, every single one of my attacking layers remaining has dissipated and been overwhelmed. Only a final few are left, releasing an explosion of Celestial fire, all tethered with the pure intent of destruction without limits.

The bright red blast sends me flying backward, but it forces the Demon to stumble and fall too.

Its left arm is blown off in a ball of flames, a large portion of its torso exposed, showing ribs, and the burst of destruction even made its way down to its hip and upper leg; making it impossible to walk without a limp.

The Dragon that ruined my plan of a perfect kill swoops down right where I would have been and chomps down on the Demon's remaining body, then kicks off the hard black ground with its two back legs to pivot away as well.

It's retreating...

A flap of its massive white wings sends it upward out of my ether senses, but that is not saying much as my cycle flows into Maria as we both stare upward.

Information on what she wants to do flows through me, and my eyes widen.

I channel a single layer of Vibrations into both of my boots and nod, running forward; then releasing the intent of propulsion as she hits the peak of her cycle.

We jump upward into the void, away from the cave wall, and the tip of Maria's icy blade manages to touch the end of the dragon's pointed tail.

A dense layer of ice forms between the two, and we are connected to this flying beast, thrust upward following it into the darkness.
