"How is this possible? I felt your strengths when you entered the membrane. You were not capable of this power. I'm certain... Could the meaningless rambles of that Dragon possibly be true...?

Very strange shifts are happening in the void all around us.

Not only am I receiving data from my own senses, but I'm also receiving a live spectate feed directly linked to Ember's consciousness.

It shows a very strange contrast of events.

From the golden dragon's point of view, being a witness in the void, Maria and I are still stabbing this Demon in the chest with our blades.

Time is passing, but it appears as though the speed in which it is has shifted drastically... and there is a very strange invisible bubble of lag.

It appears as though we're frozen in time in the same pose as moments ago, yet at the outer edges of the shattered soul tie array there are bursts of purple gel and potent silver threads exploding outward into the void.

Many of the fractured portions of the arrays where glyphs are broken apart and leaking energy show reflections of the following clash. It is like glitching fragments of time are catching up to the current present moment, yet Ember is perceiving them at random scattered instances.

The more energy that hits the bubble, shattering it further, makes more and more of these reflections glitch and burst out into the void.

It is a fascinating phenomenon to witness in the back of my mind while I swing my sword at the Demon again. This time, invoking its innate abilities, allowing potent bits of my aura to manifest deep crimson copies of my sword in this heavy pool of purple consciousness.

It takes a considerable amount of mental strain, and I feel the very act of doing so force my cores to merge closer.

Instead of the millions of sword copies I managed to summon in the Purple Zone, the maximum I'm able to conjure are two additional manifestations hovering over my shoulders.

Unlike the blade in hand, that holds a sea of heavy silver threads foreign to my body, the copies I summon fold out of the void, just like the summoned threads that tether my energy forms together. They feel exactly the same in my mind, like it is energy I fully command.

On the other side of the Demon, an overwhelming silver, white, blue, and rainbow-hued glow begins emanating from the core of Maria's sword. It glistens and pulses in her eyes, cores in her chest, halo above her head, and the angel wings that propel her forward with a single flap.

An infinitely thin line of crystalline light cuts through the darkness as she slashes forward with her sword. Blue and white-tinted aura is left behind, leaving a static silver sensation covering what looks like a rainbow mirror, freezing the demonic gel it slices through.

Noctus lets out another screech that echoes through the void, letting out a pulse of silver threads in order to move out of the way from this life-threatening strike.

In his own pool of consciousness, he is far more nimble than us, but obviously is limited by the amount of silver threads left at his disposal.

The thin icy line of devastation still manages to slice off his entire arm at the shoulder, and creates what looks like a slanted, shifted cut through space in between the two parts.

His silver arm that was already brutally damaged by the first confrontation now floats away from him through the void. Its demonic pressure slowly being overwhelmed by an icy rainbow essence.

Even though Noctus dodged a fatal strike, he still used up another large portion of energy, and positioned himself in the void moving toward the direction my swords are slicing down.

Maria and I don't have his agility, but our minds are still also perfectly synced, allowing for her attacks to act as perfect positioning moves for mine.

My sword aims right for the center of the Demon's back, yet the next explosive Realm Wave that erupts from his lower half to propel him upward makes it clear I won't be getting an easy kill shot either.

The sword in my grasp slices through half his remaining arm, and the two floating blades by my side land one in his leg, and the other lodges deep in his stomach as he turns to leave.

The brutal heavy force of my true soul sword easily tears through this Demon's flesh and destroys his hand in a fiery red metallic glow. However, the copies are not as powerful.

They only manage to stab halfway through, and the further away from my cores they get, the weaker my control over them becomes.

I mentally detonate the two manifested blades before our distance becomes too great.

Enormous red-stained gaping holes explode, terrorizing the Demon's pristine silver primordial form.

Quickly, as I lose my mental hold on these detonated manifestations, I already begin channeling my focus to create more.

The sensation of multiple Realm Waves triggering from the depths of this Demon's core permeates through his consciousness.

The weight of his silver threads remaining in his body quickly diminishes, he glows less bright as the total density wanes.

However, with every wave he sends out, I have to counter with my own.

Instead of solely attacking, I have to take one step back and defend.

The lost limbs and enormous holes in his body begin to heal before my eyes, but in a single slash I'm able to send a replicated mirrored Realm Wave of my own through the void to destroy multiple pulses he's sent my way.

He's getting desperate... At first glance it appears as though he's burning through every last thread left in his Immortal Core to fend off our strikes. Doing so would only buy him a few more exchanges, leaving him far too weakened to fight back afterward.

Yet, as I take in the simultaneous spectate feed of Ember's vision outside this array, I watch the crimson eyes of that golden dragon tighten with an extremely serious demeanor. His gaze only focuses on a single reflection of cracked passing time, and it leads deep into the center of that Demon's chest.
