Fourteen of the elite Wraiths Nian Zu just fought... three were enough to give him trouble, so how could Rain, even a version of him capable of slipping past his guards unseen and unleashing the Mountain Collapsing Stomp, manage against fourteen, much less a combined forty? The boy had a proven knack for seeing through Concealment, but even this couldn’t make up for a vast disparity in strength. “At least now we know why they removed the bodies.” These killers looked no different from a regular Imperial Warrior, and could’ve simply strolled through the gates in plain view to avoid the patrols of Experts on high alert for Concealed individuals. Had Akanai warned them in advance, Nian Zu might have been able to keep these Wraiths from entering as easily as they did, since they had measures in place to prevent infiltration as well.

“Enough of this dancing about,” Akanai said, shaking Nian Zu from his thoughts. “Speak your mind and be done with it.”

It was easy to forget he was speaking to a senior, rather than a fresh faced girl only a little older than Yuzhen. Feng Dao De would have liked Akanai, though perhaps a little too much considering the old goat was survived by twelve wives and forty children. “Are we certain,” he Sent, resisting the urge to cradle his Runic Shield, “The Wraiths Rain fought were there to kill him?”

“His injuries would support that theory,” she Sent, not at all put off by what Nian Zu was suggesting, meaning she had already considered it herself. “The boy took several near fatal wounds, and might well have died if he wasn’t so proficient at Healing. I’m told that he’s been out of sorts all day, ambling about in a waking fugue and barely responding to commands, but he’s acting with agency and ate quite the hearty breakfast and lunch as well, though that means little considering how healthy his appetite was yesterday.”

“So we have a recently recovered Rain who is strong enough to single-handedly see off a forty Wraith attack, only for the survivors to run rampant in the Citadel.” Heaving a sigh mid-Sending, he shook his head and added, “You understand how this looks?”

“Indeed. I too fear that the boy has turned or worse. Perhaps the Wraiths were sent there to collect him, much like the enemy has been collecting Demons and other Defiled talents.”

How could anything be worse than turning Defiled? Stifling the urge to ask, Nian Zu stayed on point and Sent, “You fear. Not feared. So you have yet to clear him?” And still let him wander about free? Sometimes, he questioned the wisdom of the Bekhai and their ways, but it worked for them thus far and he could only pray it would continue working for the interim.

“...I cannot say for certain,” she began, her tone cautiously optimistic, “But I believe it is still Rain in there, the same boy the pup brought home from the mines. What this means for us, I am not sure, but... I have faith in him, and believe he would never hurt the people he loves and cares about.”

“Then I hope your faith is well placed.” For if Falling Rain had turned Defiled, then the Empire might well be on its last legs.

The office door opened and an Imperial Messenger entered, his chest heaving with exertion from the journey as he knelt and bowed his head. Though he’d left orders not to be disturbed, the Imperial Messenger arrived bearing a scroll sealed with the emergency signet, which meant he carried news of the utmost importance. Dismissing the Sound Barrier around them, Nian Zu came to his feet and prompted the Messenger to speak. “Suihua Harbour has come under heavy attack and Brigadier Zheng He requests reinforcements.”

Damn it all to hell. The Wraiths were a precursor to an attack, one meant to knock him off guard. “Send word to Major General Han BoHai,” he commanded, even while Sending to the man himself. Lacking the necessary details, he frowned at the still kneeling Messenger and said, “The scroll, if you will?”

“By your command, General.”

That was all the warning he had, a single slip of the tongue, for Imperial Messengers spoke with the Emperor’s voice and would never lower His status by answering in so servile a manner. Leaping back as the blade slashed through empty air, Nian Zu drew his mace and flung it underhanded into his assailant's chest, an attack which landed just as the disguised Wraith’s head toppled off his neck. Barely able to keep his jaws closed, he nodded at Akanai in thanks, for even if he hadn’t noticed the slip, she had matters well in hand.

Two more debts he’d incurred today, different from the ones laid at the Enemy’s feet, but just as important he pay them back.

Grimacing as he picked up the discarded scroll, he inspected the seal and read the contents with a scowl. “The Messenger was a Wraith, but the armour, banner, and message are all real. The harbour has truly come under attack, and now I must wonder if any other Imperial Messengers bearing vital news were also intercepted.”

After a short pause, Akanai responded to the rhetorical question. “Unsure, but there are attacks being carried out all along the Western Border even as we speak, small Defiled raiding parties looking to slip through and cause chaos.” In answer to the unasked question, she shrugged and Sent, “I set up a Khishig Sending line as soon as I arrived last year. One can never be too careful when it comes to military intelligence.”

Making the woman a Colonel General would be a disservice to her skills, not just her foresight, but the sheer loyalty she inspired in her Martial Warriors. Even Nian Zu himself would be hard pressed to find enough Sending capable Warriors willing to take a post as boring and unrewarding as relay Sender, but alas, the Empire had no higher rank to offer her. “Your insight and advice would be appreciated in these troubling times,” he said, acknowledging her as his intellectual superior for the first time ever. Pulling out a map of the Western Border, he held it out for Akanai to inspect and said, “If you would be so kind as to mark down the locations of each attack?”

Despite a long and stressful day spent hunting Wraiths, Nian Zu’s work was not yet done, for the Enemy was on the offensive once more. There would be bloody days ahead, but this meant there would be plenty of opportunities to collect on his debts and interest to boot. The mystery of Falling Rain would have to wait, but so long as the boy didn’t try to seize control of the defences using his Office of Legate, Nian Zu supposed it would be fine to sit and wait.

After all, there were many reasons why he couldn’t simply order the boy killed, the least of which was because he really didn’t want it to come to this. Like Akanai, he also had faith in Falling Rain, for Nian Zu truly believed that boy was the Chosen Son of the Mother Above.

And if he had truly turned against them, then the Mother might well have forsaken them all...

Chapter Meme
