The incidental reminder of his lost love and the nostalgia of fighting in close quarters reminded Nian Zu of a different time, an earlier time when he was still several decades removed from becoming a Colonel General. When first signing on for a fifty year term with the Imperial Army, it seemed like a noble and glorious endeavour, but at thirty four years of age, he had long since regretted the decision. His age only hammered home how much longer he had to serve, for he would be sixty-eight when his term of service came to an end, and the realization that he would be twice his current age at retirement was a harsh one indeed. It came hot on the heels of his promotion to Major, one he believed was long overdue, and in truth, it was, because the Society had made it so. Having been betrayed by family, Clan, and Society, Nian Zu trusted nothing and no one, for even supposed friends could turn into deadly enemies once money and politics entered the mix. As such, Nian Zu had never taken a Mentor, not after uncovering two would-be prospects who’d been sent by his enemies to ruin him, and thus could only rely upon himself to progress along the Martial Path.

Not a problem for Nian Zu, at least not until recently. Others called him a prodigious talent, but he never bought into it and worked harder than any three of his peers combined. For this, the Mother Above rewarded his efforts with Insights aplenty. Core Creation had come easily to him, like learning how to breathe in a different, yet wholly natural way, and after signing his life away to the Imperial Army, he quickly moved up the ranks thanks to his many high-profile duels against Society adherents and speedy progress through the Martial milestones. Aura Condensation and Natal Palace Formation were both easily achieved, to the point where he hardly even remembered how it happened anymore, for success had arrived as naturally as facial hair upon his chin or swelling muscles along his frame, just another facet of his life as a Martial Warrior.

And so, when he encountered his first bottleneck in Domain Development, a term he had never even heard of at the time, it left him at a loss on how to proceed.

While there were rumours aplenty regarding Auras and Natal Palaces, there wasn’t much publicly known about the next milestone, so he suffered through two years without significant progress which sent him spiralling into depression. Hardly surprising considering the Martial Path was all he had, for he lived an empty, meaningless life devoid of joy and good company. By day, he served on the Wall and duelled when the occasion demanded it, and by night, he trained alone in a bastion occupied by half a million soldiers, admired by some, mocked by others, and shunned by all who were wary of the Society’s long reach. He had peers and subordinates, but no friends, lovers, or even comrades in arms, a quiet, lonely existence in which he played his part and did nothing else. Not a problem so long as he lived in the moment, caring not where he was headed or what goals he hoped to achieve as he proceeded ever forward without aim or direction.

And then after two years of stagnation, he was finally promoted to Major alongside several of his peers, people he thought he’d left far behind but were now hot on his heels and threats to be wary of.

Thus, the veil lifted on the Society’s long con, for they left Nian Zu to run free and his reputation to grow while delaying his promotion so that his well-instructed peers would have more time to catch up. Now when they defeated him, they would prove the Society’s superiority, for while Nian Zu’s talent allowed him to stand out as a youth, without the Society to nurture him, he was nothing more than a rose stuck in dog-shit. His promotion had been delayed because the Imperial Army only fostered Major-level talents, for junior officers were all too readily available. As a Major, however, he was finally given access to the information he needed to progress along the Martial Path, since increased Martial Strength was a requirement for further promotion. In the official paperwork that came along with his new rank, there was a caveat that he could only keep his rank if he was able to Develop a Domain, which was actually Nian Zu’s first time ever seeing these words used in reference to the Martial Path.

And thus the Society bought their sons and daughter time while delaying Nian Zu’s progress along the Martial Path.

Though he despaired over all the wasted time, he did not give up hope, for according to a helpful hint from his immediate commander, Feng Dao De, Nian Zu would have never been cleared for promotion if he hadn’t already shown signs of a Developing Domain. Granted, the older Warrior had helped move things along, not because he wanted to help Nian Zu in particular, but because he believed a soldier’s contributions merited reward, else it was bad for overall troop morale. Thus, on the older Warrior’s advice, Nian Zu made a trip to the Northern Wall’s library to borrow all manner of literature, most of which touched upon the subject of becoming ‘One with the World’. The library was well-frequented by many adherents of the Society and lackies hoping to curry favour by bothering Nian Zu, so he spent most of his time in a dingy, run-down bar known for watering down their drinks and keeping the dining room well-lit long into the night.

Seated at his table one fateful night, Nian Zu was poring over dry memoirs and flowery poems when a stranger walked in. An incident worth noting in and of itself, here in this rarely patronized bar, especially by someone like this. A silver spoon noble son, from the looks of it, blessed with the unblemished skin and pleasing proportions of a Martial Warrior combined with the plump curves associated with good eating and a lack of dedicated effort. Easy to imagine why someone of means would come to a bar like this, and Nian Zu was right in assuming it wasn’t to save coin on candles.

“Congratulations,” the stranger began, the memory still fresh in Nian Zu’s mind like it just happened yesterday. “On the promotion,” he clarified, helping himself to a seat despite Nian Zu’s scowl, but not before laying down a silk handkerchief first. “Long overdue, but alas, your studies will have to wait.”

Despite relying on the safety his post in the Imperial Army provided, Nian Zu had long since learned the Mother provided for those who looked after themselves, so he drew his mace and slapped it down atop the table. “Your company is neither desired nor tolerated,” he began, inwardly reflecting on how those words were untrue, for the stranger seemed exactly Nian Zu’s type, a roguish intellectual who didn’t like getting his hands dirty yet would do so regardless if given proper motivation. A man of taste, but not one to shy at doing what is necessary, a trait all too uncommon in men of means. All the more reason to be wary of him and his maddeningly charming smile to boot, for they were the ones who tended to get things done. “Leave now of your own volition, or three seconds from now when I throw you out the door.”

It wouldn’t be the first time he’d done something of the sort, but the bar’s owner was understandably forgiving towards his only repeating client. The stranger had come prepared however, having done his research beforehand, and he didn’t mince words trying to convince Nian Zu to listen. “In less than three minutes time,” he began, jumping to his feet with hands raised and palms open as he walked backwards towards the door, “Teng Wei Sheng will walk through that door and pick a fight. Do what you will, but I suggest you refrain from humiliating him, as he was led to mistakenly believe you mocked his older brother soon after his death.”

Nothing could be farther from the truth. Teng Wei Sheng died out on patrol, but not before alerting the rest of his squad about the waiting Defiled ambush. Nian Zu disliked the man in life, but there was nothing to be gained from mocking his heroic death, and even if there were, it was not something he would do. Nian Zu even said as much, to which the stranger stopped in his tracks and shrugged in response. “Wei Sheng is not the sharpest sword in the armoury,” he began, flashing that irascible smile before hurriedly explaining, “But he’s made the wrong sorts of friends who seek to use him for their own advantage. The Baiji Sect has thus far worked to shield you and other wayward Adherents from open retribution, albeit for no reason other then to annoy those who wish it were otherwise, but if you butt heads with the Sect Leader’s nephew and humiliate him in public, then things might change for the worse.” Shrugging, he added, “I tried explaining as much to Wei Sheng, but I wager he’s taken one too many punches to the head and failed to get through.”

After taking in all this information, Nian Zu narrowed his eyes and asked, “Your name?”

“Shing Du Yi,” the man said as he scurried out the door leaving his handkerchief behind, and thus closing the door on Nian Zu’s first meeting with the love of his life.

Despite all the personal journals, academic dissertations, and flowery poetry he’d gone through, none of it helped Nian Zu break through his bottleneck. No, he had Du Yi to owe for this, a fact he never understood until recently, when Dastan Zhandos mentioned One with the Self in Sinuji and Nian Zu took the time to consider it. Many hours spread over the last few months, in fact, as he was never one to dwell upon another person’s Martial Path, but something about One with the Self just made sense to him, and he wanted to understand why.

Before meeting Du Yi, Nian Zu had lived a life without meaning. Out of some sense of filial love and deep-rooted shame, he kept his ‘deviant tastes’ a secret and lived a celibate life, but Du Yi changed all that. As another outcast of the Society, Du Yi had been the one to direct Nian Zu towards the truth, one night many months after their first encounter, but before they became lovers. “Everyone is right to call you a black sheep, but not for the reasons you think,” Du Yi said, flashing his crooked grin and downing a cup of wine before continuing. “The sheep didn’t choose its colour, nor can it ever hope to change, but this does not make it less of a sheep than the others.” Taking Nian Zu’s hand, Du Yi looked him in the eyes and added, “You think being different means you’re nothing like the rest of us, and it’s true, but we’re all different in our own way, because that is how the Mother made us.”

This was the turning point in Nian Zu’s life, the moment when he learned to accept himself and stop fighting who he was. He still had to hide his love from the world at large and only ever met Du Yi in secret, but Nian Zu stopped pretending he was a man of stone without need of love or affection, both of which Du Yi provided in spades. He also taught him that there was joy to be had in life, and though he was dead and gone, the lessons he taught Nian Zu still remained, and he would not give into despair.

One with the Self. He was Nian Zu, Living Legend and Colonel General of the Empire, both lofty titles indeed, but he was also Situ Nian Zu, a remorseful son who mourned his parents despite all their flaws, and a regretful man who never got to marry the person he loved. Above all else, however, he was a man who held duty in high esteem, and while his duty to the Empire was to remain alive, he owed it to the man he loved to keep Du Yi’s daughter safe.

Nian Zu was not the girl’s father, nor would he ever be, but he would stand for Du Yi where he knew the man would be, always between danger and his beloved daughter.

This single affirmation was enough to bring his Domain out in full force, as he accepted his flaws and the world wholly accepted him in turn. Where it usually covered the span of two metres, now his Domain extended out to encompass the entire room and even beyond, bringing the world into focus with a clarity unlike anything he’d ever experienced before. The countless strands of the carpet, the number of beams in the roof, the concentrated scent of blood wafting in through the open window, Nian Zu became aware of all this and more without ever impacting his ability to focus on the important details. Ten Wraiths had come to take his life, and three lay dead upon the floor. The remaining seven used their uncanny abilities to hide from Nian Zu’s senses, but they could not hide from his empowered Domain. Though their conjured apparitions possessed their own Domains and were indistinguishable from the real Wraith, they had no weight or substance of their own, which meant only the real Wraiths scuffed their boots against hardwood and left indents in the carpet.

Once he was able to pick out their positions, defeating them was as easy as turning a hand. Charging forward shield first, he slammed into a Wraith and smashed his mace into the knee of a second while his third foe stepped out of position. They’d expected their many shadows to keep Nian Zu in check, but he was not fooled by them any longer. Finishing off his dazed and crippled foes, he gave his back to the third Wraith and struck down one of Gerel’s opponents, one who’d strayed too far to avoid an incidental attack from the young and impatient man. Difficult to say if it was luck or skill, but Gerel almost landed a hit on one foe, but left himself vulnerable to the other who wasted no time mourning his ally. Plunging the dagger deep into the Bekhai Warrior’s shoulder, the Wraith’s glee was short-lived as the plucky young dragon grinned and head-butted his foe unconscious.

