Wraiths.

Why did it have to be Wraiths?

Of all the Father’s foul minions, Nian Zu hated Wraiths the most. Over his long years of service, he’d come close to death more times than he cared to count, and most of those close shaves were made at the business end of a poisoned Wraith dagger. They were not the strongest foes one might face, nor were they particularly effective considering how often their attacks ended in failure, but their tactics were aggravating to defend against and occupied precious man-power that could be better utilized. They were cowards and opportunists, lurking in shadows to prey upon unsuspecting foes, and despite their low chance of success, they made up for this through volume of attacks. He’d lost many a friend and comrade to their contemptibly craven ways, and the aftermath was never pleasant to look upon. To date, the worst scene of carnage Nian Zu ever had the misfortune to walk into was a successful raid on a hospital tent, when the Enemy Wraith snuck into the Citadel during a long, drawn out battle and targeted a hospital tent hours after hostilities ceased.

Wounded soldiers and fatigued Healers, these were their targets of choice. Wraiths were no hunters or killers, but scavengers and opportunists. A pox on them all, and a pox on the Father for giving life to these foul miscreations.

Ordinarily, once the advantage of surprise was lost, the Wraiths’ made for easy targets, as few were capable of Concealing themselves from Domain. This bunch didn’t even bother maintaining their Concealment, charging in as bold as could be once their presence was made known due to Yukun’s last second warning, one Sent to bypass the Sound Barrier they had in place. Were it not for his timely message, the Wraiths might well have succeeded here today, but Nian Zu seized the initiative and launched an attack before the would-be assassins were in place. Still, caution prevailed above all else when dealing with these slippery assassins, so Nian Zu deployed his Domain to keep track of his foe despite seeing the Wraith’s eyes widen in shock before him, a pale, pasty figure garbed in dark, satiny Western robes charging headlong into the fray.

A good thing too, for even as Nian Zu’s mace caved in his assailant’s skull, his Domain billowed out and uncovered nine more killers closing in around him.

Seven now, as Rang Min and Gerel took action, their longswords piercing through their chosen targets with startling speed. Though Nian Zu dispatched his foe first, this was due to the difference in weapon alone, for his mace hung freely upon his sash while their longswords were kept sheathed to one side, and thus required more time to draw and attack. Both men surpassed Nian Zu in terms of hand and foot speed however, so they had no issue responding to the second wave of attackers, while Nian Zu used the time he earned from his faster kill to raise the alarm and put his gift from Baatar to use for the very first time.

“Wraiths in the Citadel! All stations on alert! Wraiths in the Citadel!”

A blur of motion and a glint of light, these were the adversaries Nian Zu faced, stealthy creatures of air and shadow. Were it not for the chorus of chimes ringing off his new Runic shield, he might have wondered if his eyes were playing tricks on him, but no. The Enemy was here and intent on claiming his life, but Nian Zu would not sell it so cheaply. There was no need to speak or Send with his allies as they split the opponents between them, with Nian Zu charging forward to take three for himself while Rang Min and Gerel engaged two each on the flanks. Alas, given their relative starting positions, this meant crossing paths with his old nemesis and keeping Rang Min to his right, which gave the former Patriarch a tempting target if he should choose to take it. Thankfully, they were all too busy with their respective enemies to entertain thoughts of double dealing, and for all his flaws, Rang Min was not a man known for killing people in the dark.

No, when he had someone killed, he liked to make a public spectacle of things and rarely ever got his own hands dirty. That was simply his style, and it was an effective one at that, else he would not have survived as Situ Clan Patriarch for so long.

Putting aside his reservations, Nian Zu used his Runic shield to maximum effect and relied on honed intuition and innate Domain to track his foes’ positions. Having coveted one since seeing young Rain present four shields to Legate Shen ZhenWu, the long wait finally came to an end this past new years celebration when Baatar presented him with a gorgeous Runic Shield on behalf of his barely functioning son. Crafted by the multi-talented Medical Saint, these items were in extremely short supply, not only because of limited materials, but also because the Medical Saint could not be bothered to put much time into making them, unless it was for Falling Rain’s direct benefit. Though more than willing to outfit most of the boy’s elites with shields, the eccentric half-hare threw a fit when Baatar suggested they gift one to Nian Zu. It took an entire year to convince the Medical Saint otherwise, but it was well worth the wait. A rounded targe-style shield that measured a full meter in diameter, the massive Runic item covered more than a third of Nian Zu’s towering frame even without crouching and left precious few targets for opponents attacking from the left, allowing him to all but disregard them as he advanced upon his foes. Contrary to what most Warriors might think, the key to defeating Wraiths was to close in fast and kill them as quickly as possible, as their strength, speed, and skill left much to be desired. Surprise was their greatest weapon, with poison coming in next, but what few understood was that their third and fourth hidden weapons were patience and cunning.

The first few Wraiths had revealed themselves so as to distract Nian Zu from the second wave. Who knew if there was a third, fourth, or fifth wave of assassins already moving into place? Best to finish this quick and check on Yukun and the other guards outside, though he feared the worst considering they had yet to make an appearance.

Seizing the opportunity as it presented itself, Nian Zu broke formation and bull-rushed the two leftmost Wraiths with his shield while swinging his mace at the one on his right. Confident of killing his foe should the Wraith try to block, he tracked his ethereal foe with his Domain and readied to change course to follow his target’s inevitable dodge, but then something inexplicable happened before his very eyes. The doomed Wraith split into two – no, four separate forms, separate and distinct shadowy figures each in possession of their own Domains that scattered off in four directions, and for the life of him, Nian Zu could not pick one to follow. His mace swung through empty air as the four apparitions rallied for their counter, leaving him rushing to recover and come up with a move to protect him against all four.

How was this possible? Were there four Wraiths moving as one? Why would they even do such a thing?

These were the thoughts running through Nian Zu’s mind as he calmly picked out the best route of defence. Parry the rightmost Wraith’s low attack and follow through with a block on the one to the left, then counterattack the middle two to force them away. His mace moved without conscious direction to execute his will, the actions ingrained in muscle memory from a long lifetime of diligent practice, yet nothing he ever encountered before prepared him for what came next. As his mace swept low to intercept the Wraith’s blade, his weapon passed harmlessly through his foe’s as if it were made of mist and light. So unexpected, Nian Zu experienced a momentary flash of panic as he unconsciously dodged the incoming attack before registering what happened, thereby ruining his entire plan and allowing the other three attacks through.

A quick jerk of his shield kept him safe from harm, but to his surprise, he only registered one impact when there should have been three. The relief was momentary as he sensed the other initial two Wraiths split into eight and launch their attacks from a myriad of angles, and were it not for the shield’s coverage, Gerel advancing on the left, and the limited space inside Yuzhen’s office, Nian Zu might well have taken an injury from the Wraiths’ poisoned blades. Already having some sense of his cunning foes’ game, he kept track of the impacts registering against his shield and figured out their trick. “There are only seven Wraiths,” he shouted, blocking a flurry of attacks as all three of them were driven back. “It is a trick of Concealment and Domain.”

Those were all the words he could squeeze out before being forced to focus on his opponents once more, for even his impenetrable Runic shield was not immune to the effects of natural law. The flurry of attacks were not the strongest he’d weathered, but they were not so insignificant as he would have expected from mere Wraiths. Though he’d heard tales of Runic items capable of blunting the effects of direct impacts, these shields were the Medical Saint’s first foray into Runic Inscription and lacked anything besides the most basic effects. The shield would negate Amplifications to some extent and remain virtually indestructible so long as the wielder had enough Chi to supply it, but there was no innate Deflection or dampening effect against impacts, and none of the flashier effects a Runic Craftsman like OuYang Yuhuan could craft. Still an impressive offering for the Medical Saint’s first Runic Inscription, especially considering OuYang YuSheng, Patriarch of his Clan and Yuhuan’s beloved younger brother, was still working on small rings and basic helmets despite years of personal lessons from his talented older sister.

Growling in frustration, Nian Zu sought out an opening amidst the swarm of shadowy apparitions arrayed against him. Were it not for his allies and Yuzhen behind him, he might well have admitted defeat and fled to fight another day. It was almost embarrassing to be pushed this hard by mere Wraiths, who were rarely all that skilled in actual combat, but these foes were unlike any he’d ever faced before. No, strike that, for he’d seen something like this before, when facing off against the Confessor in Fort Sinuji. Concealment was generally used to direct attention away from a subject, but the Confessor had somehow almost used the skill in reverse, drawing Nian Zu’s attention to arm and hand movements that weren’t really there. These Wraiths were doing the same thing, only on a much larger scale, launching a dizzying array of illusory attacks to feint and disorient their targets. Nian Zu had been able to see through the Confessor’s movements with relative ease, as the torturer only Concealed his arm movements while leaving his body’s posture uncovered, but these Wraiths were masters of Concealment and created shadowy duplicates of themselves that moved in ways indistinguishable from the original. This left him unable to differentiate reality from illusion through Domain alone, for each illusory foe also possessed their own distinct Domain.

Now this was a trick worth learning, something even Warriors of the Empire could use to good effect. Though these damnable bastards were only of middling strength, their speed was respectable and their tricks infuriating to go against. Three foes were simple enough to keep track of, but twelve? His eyes were even less than useless, an actual hindrance in this battle as his body reacted to sight despite knowing what he saw wasn’t real. Their flurry of movements overwhelmed his mind and left him helpless to act as he scrambled to block illusory attacks and make up for inadvertently exposed openings to the real Wraiths. At this rate, it would only be a matter of time before one of those poisoned daggers nicked flesh and set off a chain of events that would lead to his death.

Thankfully, they only had one blade each, else Nian Zu would be at a loss to block all their possible attacks, for even with his beloved Runic Shield, there was no way to guard high, low, left, and right all at the same time. Thankfully, his allies were a capable pair and helped guard his flanks, allowing him to press forward once more and in turn take pressure off them. By protecting his front and leaving his sides exposed, he wanted to draw the Wraiths in to attack and expose them to Gerel and Rang Min’s longswords, both of which possessed enough range to engage their foes without too much risk, an advantage Nian Zu’s weapon lacked. A defensive centre and offensive flankers, this was a tried and true tactic that scaled well no matter the number of combatants involved, one which they all fell into without need for orders or conversation. It felt strange to rely on his oldest and most hated foe to keep him safe, but war and politics made for strange bedfellows, as Du Yi used to always say.

