Pausing long enough to see Gerel plunge his longsword into the fallen Wraith, Nian Zu backhanded the assailant approaching him from behind, still yet to understand that his movements were clear as day to Nian Zu’s eyes. Bones snapped as the Wraith died and Nian Zu considered stepping back to let Rang Min die. He was always of the opinion that the man was too dangerous to leave alive, for he cared about nothing and no one save for himself and his son, who he saw as an extension of himself. Gulong was Rang Min’s attempt to live vicariously through his son and have the loving father figure he’d always wanted, but the boy was spoiled rotten to the core and took advantage of his father’s indulgent love, a combination which drove them both to ruin.

Were their positions reversed, Rang Min would likely have left Nian Zu to die, but luckily for him, Nian Zu would never betray a Clansman, even one who’d been cast out from the Clan. A moment’s hesitation was all he took before hurling his mace at the Wraiths, killing both in one blow as the weapon pulped both their heads before bouncing off the office wall to land back in Nian Zu’s hand.

The room fell silent save for the sound of their panting breaths as Rang Min took Nian Zu’s measure. An eternity passed in an instant as they both considered what could have been if they’d put aside their differences and worked together from the start. When word of his father’s death arrived, Nian Zu was already considering if he should return to the fold and pledge allegiance to the Clan Patriarch. Then he was ambushed on his way home for the funeral, by killers Rang Min arranged, an event that culminated in him killing the Patriarch, his own grandfather, to take his place. What drove the man to commit such an atrocity, to murder the man who raised him like a son?

Seeing the question in Nian Zu’s eyes, Rang Min scoffed and shook his head, only to fall still as guards stormed into the room and secured the perimeter. “You think my Grandfather a paragon of virtue,” he Sent, his calm tones laced with uncharacteristic vitriol, “But you never knew the man. For love of Clan and Society, he drove my father to his death by killing my mother shortly after I was born, all because she was not a woman worthy of the Clan. Because of my low birth, nothing I did was ever good enough, not like the high-born Situ Nian Zu.” The last was said with a sneer, which was reportedly more emotion than Rang Min showed when Jia Ying cast him out, and Nian Zu was taken aback by the raw and intense hatred in his eyes. “He would have made you Patriarch you know, all because of blood and talent, so I showed him what a low-born Situ Clansman could do.” Straightening his sleeves to calm himself, he continued after a deep breath. “Most think our enmity was born of envy, and they would be right, but I never feared your Martial Skills, not even after seeing the heights you have risen to. I only ever feared your blood-line and gullibility, for you would have been the perfect puppet dancing on the Elder’s strings. Were it not for Jia Ying’s careful preparations and many concessions, I wager Chi Gan would have approached you soon enough with a plan to overthrow me, for you are a fool and an idealist, one all too easily manipulated.”

Though his words were cutting, Nian Zu heard a ring of truth in his tone, for he would truly make for an awful Clan Patriarch. Du Yi had said as much many a time, back when other Clansmen and Society Adherents still saw fit to include Nian Zu in their plans and attempted to sway him to their cause. Either way, Rang Min was a beaten dog now, one who was clearly terrified for his son, as well he should be. Jia Ying was a ruthless woman, one who would not hesitate to do whatever necessary to protect her own son, and Gulong was stuck firmly within her clutches.

“The past is the past,” Nian Zu Sent, shaking his head as he turned away. “I never hated you, nor do I hold any grudge against you or your boy. Aid Yuzhen well, and I will speak with Jia Ying about freedom for Gulong.” Neither Jia Ying nor Rang Min were capable of bringing back the Situ Clan of Nian Zu’s youth, the imagined, close-knit family that stuck together through thick and thin, but he would not let his Clan’s failings affect how he treated his kin.

The Bekhai looked after their own. Why should the Empire do any less?

Reminded of his comrade, Nian Zu turned to see how Gerel was doing, but contrary to his expectations, the Bekhai Warrior was up and about with Yuzhen at his side, the bloodied Wraith dagger in his hands and the wound already sealed shut. “So the rumours are true,” Rang Min muttered, eyes widening ever so slightly in muted surprise. “The Legate’s prowess in Healing is not due to phenomenal talent, or at least not his own.”

Flashing a feral grin, Gerel retorted, “A frog in a well, that is what you are, for you know not –”

Pinching his side to seal his lips, Yuzhen did a fine job appearing calm and in control, but the white-knuckled grip on her sword gave the game away. “The Bekhai have several young talents of note,” she declared, her icy glare doing little to faze Rang Min. “The Legate and my husband are but two of many.”

No doubt they were speaking about the rumoured Healing method, one so simple even an uneducated Warrior could pick it up. Yet another miracle which sprang from their victory on the second lines, one of many that had yet to be explained. The Healers of Central had yet to come to an agreement on how the technique worked, for they did not understand how to put it to use, because most Warriors capable of utilizing this newfangled technique lacked the education necessary to properly describe it. They only knew it was now possible to Heal without possessing an in-depth knowledge of the human body, and Yuzhen had prevented Gerel from inadvertently confirming Falling Rain knew how to use it as well. Still, the minor slip was enough for Rang Min to draw his own conclusions, and the snake of a man no doubt filed away this knowledge for future use.

While they played their games of lies and half-truths, Nian Zu took control and declared Yuzhen’s office his command centre from which he would oversee the defences. Standard protocol during a Wraith attack was for high ranking officers to remain in place and await sufficient reinforcements before moving to a central location, a measure to make sure they were not to be ambushed en route, but it grated on his nerves to sit here while soldiers under his command fought and died. Ten soldiers had already died for him, six of Yuzhen’s guards and four of Nian Zu’s, including one of his best and brightest, Singing Spear Shi Yukun. Without his warning, they all might have died in Yuzhen’s office, but it came at a great cost. To think, this humble Warrior and Hero of the Empire, a man who’d taken up arms at Sinuji and Castle Jianghu and survived two of the bloodiest battles to date, would fall here in the heart of the Citadel where the Empire was strongest. This Warrior fulfilled his duty and saved the day, though it would bring little comfort to his grieving family. Shi Yukun’s parents would now have need to bury their son, and his children their father, two tribulations no person should ever have to experience, all because Shi Yukun had pledged to keep Nian Zu safe.

Defiled Chieftains and Demons were the Father’s most powerful minions, but for Nian Zu, Wraiths would forever be the most hated.

This death marked yet another debt to be laid at the Enemy’s feet, one of many incurred on this bloody day. The Wraiths who succeeded at their tasks were quick to fade away, blending into the shadows where they were invisible to all but the keenest of inspections from Warriors considered high priority targets. Since those were all under lock and guard, the Wraiths were all but free to pick and choose their targets as they pleased, and they did not limit themselves to Elites. They slaughtered soldiers and civilians with little rhyme or reason, set fire to warehouses full of much needed food and equipment, and one Wraith group even targeted a stable full of warhorses, though that ended poorly as their improved Concealment proved to be of little use against the well-trained beasts.

It gave Nian Zu some small measure of satisfaction to learn the two Wraiths were kicked and stomped to death by a warhorse when they approached her without caution. A better death than they deserved, but alas, not all horses could be so brave.

Thankfully, the Royal Guardians protecting the Imperial Scions were more than up to the task, else the Emperor might take umbrage at Nian Zu’s failure to protect them. They came under heavy attack as well, but they’d been playing Mah Jong together and thus were easily secured. Why all four were in the Northern Citadel, he did not know nor did they care to say, only that they had a meeting with Consort Zheng Luo that had been delayed by Falling Rain’s unexpected recovery.

Over the next half day, Nian Zu’s people clashed directly with the Wraiths on five more occasions, three of those attacks led by Akanai herself. Considering her formidable strength and ability to match the monstrous Bai Qi in single combat, Akanai was high on the list of assets to protect, but the woman refused to ‘hide in a box and wait for death’. Instead, she set out to hunt the Wraiths using herself as bait, with her elite Khishig guards proving themselves more than a match for their foes. These were not the leather-clad, bow wielding, quin-riding Khishigs Nian Zu was familiar with, but a small, elite group of veiled Warriors whose origins he was uncertain of. Gerel was no help there, simply shrugging when asked and saying nothing more, and even Yuzhen was of no help here. “He won’t even tell me,” she Sent, and Nian Zu detected a hint of petulance in her voice. Du Yi had spoiled her rotten, and it would have been a miracle if she turned out even half as competent as she did, but somehow she managed to exceed all expectations. “I believe they’re independent from the Bekhai,” she continued, unwilling to let secrets lie, “And only loosely associated with the Khishigs. I would look to the Medical Saint for answers, as I suspect he is their tie to the Bekhai, but this is only my personal conjecture.”

Despite Akanai’s heroic efforts, Nian Zu’s tally of the dead grew as the hours passed by, and still the Enemy forces had yet to be caught. It wasn’t until mid-afternoon that he finally felt confident enough to call off the search, but not before ordering his people to remain under heavy guard at all times. It was only then that he had time to consider the implications, sitting behind Yuzhen’s desk with Akanai across from him. “This morning you claimed the boy came under attack from Wraiths,” he began, drumming his fingers across the desk in barely concealed unease. “Is it possible these attacks were carried out by the survivors?”

“Not only possible, I would say it is likely.” Seeming utterly at ease and unperturbed by the attacks, Akanai looked none the worse for wear after a long day’s work. The woman was something else, and he’d long since petitioned to have her raised to the rank of Colonel General, but the matter was out of his hands. The Emperor’s Seal was required in order to appoint anyone to the rank of General Officer, meaning Major Generals and higher, but the Imperial Clan cut off all communications after Legate Shen ZhenWu’s injury and Yang Jixing’s death. No doubt they were still discussing how to best discipline their ‘barbarian subjects’, but Nian Zu cared little for what the Imperial Clan thought about them so long as the promised coin kept coming. The Outer Provinces would have long since beggared themselves paying for the Western Wall and the soldiers to defend it, though according to Yuzhen, the future looked promising as these investments began paying dividends, especially after Falling Rain cut out so many middlemen by populating the border with millions of working class families.

Nian Zu was stalling for time, letting his mind wander because he did not want to have this difficult conversation, but there was nothing to be done about it. The words had to be said, and from the looks of things, Akanai knew it as well. “If this is the case,” he began, wishing he’d asked Yuzhen for help choosing his words, just like he used to ask Du Yi, “Then how is it Rain still draws breath?”

Thankfully, Akanai was a frank and forthright woman who took no offence at his straightforward question. “I asked myself the same question and can only hope it is because he was stronger than they were.”

“Stronger than twenty-six confirmed Wraiths?”

“At least forty,” she corrected, looking both sickly and proud at the same time. “We assumed he killed between seven to ten Wraiths out by the district, but that was before we knew these Wraiths carried only one blade each. Now we can assume he killed at least fourteen, as that is the number of unique shattered blades we uncovered, and we know there were more on scene to remove the bodies.”

