She studied the circle carefully, all the details laid bare for her to see, but she could find no flaw in the runic connections. At least most people can’t see this, she thought, reminding herself that someone would need a specialized perception skill to see what she saw. At least Runic Script, or some form of mana sight or a trap detection skill probably. Otherwise, it would make for a very poor trap if everyone could tell what it did from a distance.

Just to double-check, she swapped to the eyesight of her nearest Kobold, relieved to find the entire runic circle was simply not visible at all.

No wonder Lyeneru’s guide insists that mana sight is an essential skill. She already considered her Arcane Insight skill to be one of the best perception skills, but if other dungeons used similar approaches for their traps, being able to see them would be an incredible, life-saving advantage.

The Fire Assassin had some way to conceal his mana from me. It was a crucial observation, in her opinion. If she truly wanted the best traps, she would need to do some research into how that had been achieved. He was an illusion mage, she thought, which wouldn’t do her much good, but it didn’t mean there weren’t arcane solutions to the same problem – but she probably wouldn’t need to add mana cloaking to her traps for a while. She simply made a note to ask Ryn to look into it.

Ali stepped over her new runic circle. The mana within the construct twisted, with several runes flipping into different shapes, but other than that, nothing happened.

Inspiration – Linked Magic – level 15 (Arcane)Creates an Inspiration aura within the circle.Detect: FaeCounter: 1/3Runic Circle

Her circle was entirely unchanged, with the crucial exception that the counter had incremented. She stepped outside the circle.

“Go stand there,” she instructed, and her Acolyte shuffled into the circle.

“Here, Mistress?”

“Yes,” Ali answered absently, studying the shifts in the runic structure of the Detect trigger. Nothing changed, and the counter remained fixed at one. She made the slime step – err, blob? wobble? – into the circle too, being thorough with her testing. It, too, caused no change.

She stepped into the circle again, noting the counter increasing to two, and then one more time where it briefly reached three before resetting back to zero. Immediately, the circle filled with the blue glow of Inspiration, and she felt her mana regeneration quickening.

It works! Even though her trigger-linked Inspiration circle was strictly less useful than an ordinary Inspiration circle, she was elated with her success. Her possibilities had exploded, and her mind was filled with more and more ideas.

I could just set the Detect spell to trigger on Healer, she thought. But then she recalled that Mato identified as a Druid, and Malika as a Monk – and both of them had healing magic. She had far too little experience with the typical adventurer or delving group composition to make a good decision here, but perhaps it was something she could ask Ryn to research, or she could ask Vivian Ross next time she stopped by the guild. At least with the Counter or the Timer, her trap would trigger on any group composition.

“Hi, Ali, I’m back.”

Ryn popped into the library atrium with a shower of her distinctive golden mana tinged with violet sparks and flew down to where Ali stood beside her creation.

How is her arcane mana so similar to mine? Ali wondered briefly as she studied the golden cascade of free-floating mana drifting away in the wake of her Teleportation spell.

Ryn landed beside her, her eyes flickering across the table and the open books and notes that lay there. “What are you working on? Was the trigger magic book helpful?”

“It’s perfect, thanks Ryn! Come and see this!” Ali spent the next ten minutes excitedly explaining what she had done, showing Ryn her notes and demonstrating the circle and its properties, enjoying the pleasure of Ryn’s enthusiastic interest and engaged questions.

“Can you detect class levels?” Ryn asked when Ali paused in her excited explanation.

“Yes, anything Identify can see,” she answered.

“Can you make an alarm for high-level people?” Ryn asked. “Does it work through stealth?”

“I didn’t think of that,” Ali said, quickly returning to the table and making some notes for her future testing. Perhaps the level of the detect spell limited how high level it could identify. She wasn’t quite sure.

“Are you going to go make some now?” Ryn asked.

“I still need to find a good offensive spell and learn it before I can make a good trap,” Ali said, scrunching her brow. “Grasping Roots is all good and well for the sewer, but I need something with more bite.”

“What about your barrier magic?” Ryn suggested, picking the obvious choice, but then she added her own personal spin on the idea. “You could block off passages or imprison people for a while.” She suggested, entirely skipping Ali’s thoughts of making traps by removing barriers out from under peoples’ feet.

“Like the Bone Prison?” Ali wondered aloud.

“What’s that?”

“Oh, a spell the Wights used,” Ali answered, her mind still mostly absorbed with the new idea. “A cage of bone that sprang up out of the ground to prevent you from moving.”

“Something like that,” Ryn nodded.

“The problem is, I still need to take care of the monster,” Ali observed. Her barrier was good for trapping things, but she doubted her new triggers were up for the task of duplicating her barrier trick that had killed the invisible flying mage with his own fireball.

They continued brainstorming back and forth for ages, and Ali found herself having just as much fun with the discussion as she had had learning the trigger technique in the first place. By the time they were done, Ali had several pages of her notebook covered with ideas to explore.

“Oh, I almost forgot, I found some fun books at the Myrin’s Keep library.” Ryn deposited a pile of books on the table. “There’s a nature magic book in there, perhaps you can find some good trap spells?”

“Oh, cool!” Ali exclaimed, her eyes lighting up at the sight of the new books. She copied them quickly while Ryn busied herself organizing the shelves. She seemed to be constantly refining the book ordering and placements, but Ali left her to it.

When she opened the nature-magic book Ryn had brought, she immediately found the perfect trap spell. Sitting down with her Sage of Learning active, she quickly learned the Poison Cloud spell. It wasn’t a particularly high-level spell, and it wouldn’t work on zombies, but she decided it would be perfect for testing out her designs in the sewers.

Poison Cloud mixed with Grasping Roots could make a pretty good challenge. She sighed through her teeth. For newbies, yes.

***

Ali examined her work with a happy smile. Several new runic circles decorated the crumbling brickwork of the final room before the entrance down into the Forest Cavern. With her current Poison Cloud being a level eight spell, she had kept her new traps to the latter areas of the sewer where she had placed the higher-level monsters. She wanted a challenge for the novices, but she recalled Havok’s enthusiasm and Aiden’s bright-eyed optimism the day they’d earned their classes and knew she couldn’t be too mean to people who had just unlocked their class for the first time.

Of course, now that they all had a few levels under their belts, it shouldn’t be as much of a problem. She studied her creation.

Poison Cloud – Linked Magic – level 8 (Nature / Arcane)Creates a Poison Cloud within the circle.Detect: Humanoid (exclude Minions)Counter: 0/3Runic CircleRunic Script has reached level 24.

This will work. Ali was particularly proud of her discovery of an obscure option for her Detect trigger, tucked away in a corner of her book. She had learned that if she excluded any minions, her own creatures would not trigger the traps. The option seemed designed to ignore pets, familiars, and Beast Tamer companions, but it was ideal for her. Now she wouldn’t need to teach her Kobold warriors to avoid stepping in her poison traps. Setting up the conditions reminded her how much she had liked her logic teacher back in school.

I have my first real traps! She grinned to herself, it wasn’t so long ago that she was terrified of finding out she was a dungeon, and now she was making proper dungeon traps. Take that, Lyeneru Silverleaf!

***

Name: Aliandra AmarielRace: FaeTitles: AncientActive Buffs: Empowered SummonerClass: Grove Warden – level 50- Arcane Insight – level 26- Arcane Recall – level 6- Barrier – level 37- Grimoire of Summoning – level 29- Runic Script – level 24- Sage of Learning – level 20- Martial Insight – level 29- Empowered Summoner – level 24- Domain Mastery – level 19- Minion Teleport – level 10General Skills- Reading – level 11- Identify – level 13- Sculpting – level 5- Inspiration – level 8Aptitudes- Languages: Ancient Dal'mohran, Elvish, Dwarven, Common, Draconic, Goblin, Ahn Khen- Mana (Affinities): Nature, Arcane- Tiny (Racial): The effects of Strength and Vitality are reduced by 50%- Magical (Racial): The effects of Wisdom and Intelligence are increased by 50%- Domain (Class): Your maximum mana increases with the size of your domain, up to +100%- Domain: -10% maximum health per day domain withdrawal. You have Domain SenseAttributes- Vitality: 59- Strength: 6- Endurance: 17- Dexterity: 36- Perception: 95- Intelligence: 230 (+52)- Wisdom: 266 (+87)Equipment- Body: Tailored Cotton Clothing – level 45- Hands: Wooden Bracelet – level 11- Ring: Silver Guild Ring – level 30Resistance: 648Magical Damage Reduction: 31.64%+21% to mana regeneration.Health: 295/295Stamina: 170/170Mana: 1622/7980 (6358 Reserved)Grimoire Imprints1- Stone2- Wood3- Armor (Body)4- Arrow5- Axe6- Bone Bracelet (Hands)7- Book8- Bow9- Coin10- Dagger11- Shield12- Sword13- Creeper14- Grass15- Moss16- Mushroom17-19- Tree20- Wildflower21- Bat22- Dragon23- Elemental24- Goblinoid25,26- Kobold27- Ooze28- Wolf29-

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledgehttps://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledgehttps://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg
