Will Ali be ok with making money for this? Calen wondered. It was literally the scenario that Ali had said bothered her. On the other hand, it was the perfect answer to the problem he had with sustained damage.

Perhaps I can make enough money by then, he thought. At least he had some idea of how it might be done.

“Come, Calen. Let me introduce you to our Guildmaster, Nathaniel Sunstrider. He also serves on the Elven Council of Archmages,” Lyeneru said and led him from the guild hall and deeper into the tree. “It was him who sponsored my guild membership many years ago now.”

Nathaniel Sunstrider! The legendary Archmage? With a fluttering heart, Calen scrambled after Lyeneru. “Wait, wait… I can’t meet Nathaniel Sunstrider with only one boot on!”

***

Name: Calen AveryRace: Half-ElfActive Buffs: Blessing of the Dawn, Mirage ArmorClass: Archer of Light – level 43- Radiant Archery – level 26- Arrows of Brilliance – level 30- Motes of Light – level 14- Explorer – level 26- Blessing of the Dawn – level 21- Eclipse – level 22- Eyes of the Archon – level 23- Righteous Fury – level 15- Azrael's Wings – level 14- Mirage Armor – level 6General Skills- Bowcraft – level 7- Wood Carving – level 3- Cartography – level 10Aptitudes- Languages: Common- Mana (Affinity): Light- Perceptive (Racial): +11 to Perception- Quick (Racial): +5 to Dexterity- Timing (Class): You have an innate sense of timingPatrons & Tithes- Deity: The Wanderer- Mentor: Lyeneru SilverleafAttributes- Vitality: 70 (+24)- Strength: 13- Endurance: 31- Dexterity: 256 (+107)- Perception: 199 (+83)- Intelligence: 242 (+131)- Wisdom: 50Equipment- Weapon: Hunter's Bow – level 30- Body: Leather Armor – level 20- Hands: Bracers of Accuracy – level 10- Ring: Silver Guild Ring – level 30- Ring: Pathfinder Initiate Guild Ring – level 40Evasion: 729Dodge: 37.71%+5% to Accuracy rating.Health: 700/700Stamina: 310/310Mana: 350/500 (150 Reserved)

Ali was still shaking when she entered the library, but the cool and quiet atmosphere immediately calmed her down. This was her comfort zone, her happy space, but she had to remind herself she had been attacked even in here, and to not let her guard down.

“Aunt Lira?” she called out, her voice echoing slightly in the softly lit wide open space, but her aunt did not immediately appear. She must be busy.

Ali’s unexpected adventures in the Forest Cavern had shaken her more than she liked to admit, and it would have been nice to have someone to talk it over with over tea, but it wasn’t urgent. More than anything, her experience had confirmed that her new strategy was far more effective than she had imagined.

That was rule two, she thought. Using her monsters to flush out the invisible assassin had been the only way she could have imagined surviving that encounter. She didn’t want to guess what might have happened if his invisibility persisted after shooting his fireball – she had come to rely so much on Arcane Insight to see mana, but he had found a way to cloak even that.

Rule three also. After Lyeneru had pointed out that her slime could detect conventional stealth, she had deduced that acquiring monsters with a diversity of perception skills would benefit her greatly. Her reasoning had just been confirmed, in the most spectacular and immediate fashion.

She dispelled her barrier, letting her Kobolds and slime down, and walked over to the couch. It had taken more than an hour for her monsters to collect all the zombie corpses for her to deconstruct, but it was time well spent – she wasn’t about to leave them lying about, stinking the place up as they rotted.

Oh, she thought, eyeing the couch. Ryn got it fixed! She glanced about, and sure enough, on her favorite walnut table, she spied a fresh pile of books with what appeared to be a note on top. Her lethargy vanished in a flash as she skipped up to the table and sat, excited to see what Ryn had managed to dig up.

Ali,

The money-grubbers at the Vertias Library demanded an additional deposit of forty gold to borrow magical books. I couldn’t find you to ask, so I took the money from your account. I hope you don’t mind. It does mean that your account is low again.

I found the book on arcane triggers you requested in their collection – it’s the plain-looking one bound in black. I also had the couch repaired, I’m not sure what happened, but it looked like something burned it. I’ll be back after I search the Myrin’s Keep library for your other requests.

– Ryn.

Ali smiled at the note, happy to see Ryn making such an important decision for herself. The gold was not a problem for her, and the access to knowledge seemed well worth it. But after growing up in Dal’mohra, Ali couldn’t imagine how much poorer people were for not having free access to the knowledge of books.

Forty gold. It must be a fortune for most of the common townsfolk. Likely the libraries supported themselves on the patronage of the wealthy, nobles, rich merchants, and the like. However, no normal person was going to pay forty gold when they were struggling to find food, pay rent, make interest payments, or pay for protection scams.

Maybe one day… she thought, glancing at the small collection of books on her shelf, grimacing at the amount of work it would take to turn this into even a tiny library, let alone restore it to some semblance of its former glory.

She put the note to the side, and then quickly copied the books Ryn had brought, making a neat pile on the table for her to shelve later. Ali wasn’t quite sure how Ryn’s organization system worked, so she would leave it up to her to decide where they went.

Then she reached for the small, nondescript book and picked it out of the pile, laying it on the table in front of her. She examined it carefully. She didn’t know exactly how other dungeons created their traps – the details were unclear in Lyeneru’s accounts – but she had high hopes that within the pages of this book, she might find a clue. Or at least, a way to fake it well enough with her Runic Script skill.

She would never have considered runic circles for traps given how bright they appeared, but it turned out that none of her friends could see them easily. She always had to point out where she made them so that they could find them. It was only when she realized that they required mana sight to see that everything made sense: she had observed the novices tripping up her Grasping Roots in the sewer, and the circles worked exceptionally well on zombies. It just went to show how familiar she had become with her Arcane Insight that she hadn’t realized she wasn’t using her mundane vision when creating them at all.

The unassuming volume resting on the table had none of the typically ostentatious mana-embossed runes evident on the cover. It was a no-frills textbook, probably made for some obscure class at the university or marketed to specific scholarly mages or crafters. With a rising sense of anticipation prickling across her skin, she reached out and opened it.

Trigger magic is the simple approach of using one magic to cast another. Widely regarded as a niche field, this nonetheless should not be ignored by the aspiring archmage for its sheer versatility. By far the largest collection of useful triggers can be found in the Arcane affinity. In its simplest form, a Timer spell may be linked to an Arcane Blast, resulting in the Arcane Blast being cast with a delay pre-determined by the caster. There are many different types of links and triggers, useful for just about any occasion, and they can even be chained for more complex effects.

– Excerpt from Arcane Trigger Magic by Archmage Ridelus Brightspark.

She paged through the book finding it organized in a straightforward manner, showing a single trigger spell per chapter, and offering tips and hints on how to attach various other spells to them, variations, and suggested uses. She still had it memorized from when she had duplicated it, but something about physically turning the pages helped her to focus.

Perfect.

She sat at the table with the book opened at the table of contents and retrieved a blank notebook. It would take a bit of work for her to extract what she needed – the book was clearly an academic work, focusing on the most basic example spells, likely chosen for their utility to illustrate the theory, rather than actual usefulness.

Still, there seemed to be many applications to crafting, such as a combination that would activate a heat enchantment when placed into water and deactivate when it reached a specific temperature. Useful for heating a bath. Really? The sacrifices a girl must make… She paged further, pausing at a chapter devoted to the creation of the ubiquitous doorway chimes she had found all over town. There was even an example of how to create an alarm when anyone other than the owner opened a spellbook.

Typical Archmage paranoia, she thought, grinning. Most archmages she had met had been rather possessive of their secrets, choosing only to share when they got academic recognition for publishing their work.

She placed Lyeneru’s book on the table beside the arcane trigger manual and opened it to the chapter on the poison dungeon, reviewing the account of the trap that had almost wiped their party.

What makes a good trap? She considered the problem for a while. This dungeon had been considered devious because the trap had been unexpected and surprising – it had triggered only as the third person walked over it, and it had happened when they were distracted by other monsters. The effect of the trap was much more dramatic for having targeted the healer specifically. Deadly, not dramatic, she corrected, considering the account soberly. It had nearly killed someone.

This is who I need to become. She shuddered softly at the idea, but the point of making dungeon traps was to be deadly – she had to keep reminding herself of this fact. She wouldn’t make anything too devious in the sewer to avoid killing the novices, but she would make good use of them to test her spells. Her real traps would need to protect her against zombies and people like Roderik or that fire assassin, and for that, they would need teeth. Just like Lyeneru said. Layers. I need layers of defenses.

She sat up a little straighter and turned the page.

I need a versatile way to determine the trigger conditions, an element of surprise, and a good effect. She paged through the triggers, appreciating the author’s effort to present them in a clearly organized manner.

Hmm, this one looks good. Detect. She marked the spell down in her notebook. Detect was a perfect answer for how to initiate her traps. It was a proximity detection trigger that cast Identify on anything coming into range and could trigger based on a simple, but versatile set of predefined conditions. The textbook showed an example of having it detect humanoids, but Ali could see how she could easily tweak it to detect any specific category of creature. She could even have it detect class types or level ranges – almost anything Identify could reveal.

Here's another good one. Timer. While not useful for duplicating the poison dungeon’s trap, Archmage Ridelus expounded greatly on the versatility of this simple Timer trigger, and Ali decided it would be a great way to add unpredictability to her traps. The textbook example was a delayed Fireball. It was also one of the simplest spells she had seen in the book and would be a great way to practice. All it did was trigger after a preset elapsed time, anywhere from zero to many centuries, although why anyone would need a timer that triggered after so long, she couldn’t imagine.

Counter looks interesting too. She chose the Counter trigger simply because Lyeneru’s story had so inspired her. Counter, it seemed, would trigger after a specific number of things. Ali wanted to try to make a humanoid Detect and link it to a Counter for the number three and see if she could duplicate the strategy of the poison dungeon Lyeneru had described in such detail.

But I probably won’t link it to a pit trap, she thought. Although the book did contain inverse triggers – spells that would disable things when they triggered, instead of turning them on. She could conceivably set such a trigger to turn off her barrier spiral staircase, causing people on it to fall, but she decided to leave the exploration of those till later. Instead, she took a quick look at the runic spell options she already knew, writing two lists in her notebook.

Runic Nature Spells1 – Restoration2 – Grasping Roots3 – Cure Poison4 – Cure DiseaseRunic Arcane Spells1 – Cleanse 2 – Inspiration3 – Teleportation Locus4 – Static Teleport

Not a lot of offensive options, she realized, inspecting her lists – curing an invader of poisons and diseases wouldn’t make for a trap with any impact. She decided she could worry about that later, for now, she could use any spell just to learn how the triggers worked.

She channeled her mana, dropping into the study trance of her Sage of Learning, and began to work her way through the three spells she had selected.

Sage of Learning has reached level 20.

It had been too long since she had truly had the time to sit down and study magic, and she found her mind racing with new possibilities and connections, imagining all the ways she could use her new spells.

She flipped the pages to the section where Archmage Ridelus described how the trigger links worked, and she began to design her first linked compound spell. She didn’t need it to serve a purpose, but she did want to explore the ways in which magic was linked, so she picked Inspiration as her payload – the anchor or locus for her new creation. Then she sketched in a Detect trigger and a Counter trigger, referencing the manual regularly to understand how the runes needed to be adjusted to facilitate the connections.

There seemed to be several tricky principles, but fortunately, the Archmage seemed to be gifted at clear, if decidedly dry explanations, and Ali grasped the ideas quickly.

So, it should work like this…

She inscribed the runes on the floor of the library with her Runic Script skill. It took several tries before she perfected the more subtle links, but suddenly it snapped together with a ringing chime, and she smiled as her first creation of linked trigger magic glowed in a bright golden circle of runes on the ground.

Inspiration – Linked Magic – level 15 (Arcane)Creates an Inspiration aura within the circle.Detect: FaeCounter: 0/3Runic CircleRunic Script has reached level 23.

