It was day three of our delve and we still had no idea how devious the poison dungeon really was. We had fought our way through several densely populated caverns filled with scorpions, spiders, and venomous snakes and already Faelor, our tank, was complaining about how much he hated the dungeon. Near the evening, we found a tunnel leading to what looked like a decent place to camp. As we carefully made our way through the dark passage, two things happened simultaneously. Several giant spiders dropped on us from hidden cracks in the roof. And Seraphine fell into a concealed pit trap filled with snakes. It was only through luck and grit that we escaped with our lives. That day, we discovered that the dungeon had learned to delay activating its traps until the third or fourth person had walked over it, targeting the healer or the mage. Removing our healer in the middle of a surprise battle was such a devastating tactic that it earned the dungeon many nasty names in the language of my Dwarven colleague, which I will not reproduce here.– The Unexplored Lands, by Lyeneru Silverleaf, Elven Pathfinders Guild.

Calen followed Lyeneru through the great wooden doors set directly into the side of a huge branch.

“The Pathfinders Guild,” Lyeneru said, gesturing to the room.

Calen held his breath and stared. The fabled Pathfinders Guild had been a feature in all his favorite stories growing up, he could scarcely believe he stood in its hallowed halls. The welcome hall was larger than he expected, a beautiful space of elegantly curved mahogany walls, warmth, and life – all seemingly grown from the heartwood of the tree itself. It smelled… of adventure, he thought dazedly. Adventure and ancient myths and languid evenings spent reminiscing with one’s lifelong friends.

Dumbfounded, staring like an idiot, he followed Lyeneru as she led the way further in.

“We’ll get you signed up first,” she said.

Calen found himself entering a wide open-plan reception area, tastefully decorated with plush rugs, comfortable furniture, and a wealth of forest plants.

People bustled back and forth, going about their business, with only a few stopping to glance at him before continuing on their way. The vast majority were Elves, and most of those were Wood Elves – many at a higher level than his skills could identify. Yet, somehow, the space did not feel crowded.

Some lyrical words in the tongue of the Elves caught Calen’s attention. The receptionist, a green-haired male Elf, greeted Lyeneru with a respectful bow and Calen with a curious stare. With Lyeneru’s advice still fresh in his mind, he returned the gaze, but his discomfort mounted rapidly.

Thankfully, Lyeneru broke the moment. “This is Calen Avery. I am registering him as an initiate-rank member under my mentorship.”

“Of course,” the receptionist said, taking his cue from Lyeneru and answering in flawless Common. Turning around, he retrieved a thick package from a closet behind him and placed it on the table in front of Calen. “You’ll find your cloak and ring in there. Please channel some mana into this panel so that we can register your class and mana signature for the records.”

Calen did as instructed, and after a few more formalities, he was officially registered. With rising anticipation, he tore open the package to reveal a thick cloak of stunning forest-oak-green. He carefully unfolded it, marveling at the texture, and the pathfinder guild logo proudly emblazoned on the back.

“Put it on,” Lyeneru said.

He did not need to be told twice. Somebody pinch me, he thought as he fastened the cloak around his shoulders and turned to show it off.

“It looks good on him,” the receptionist said, nodding to Lyeneru.

“He earned it,” Lyeneru said. “Go on, put the ring on too.”

Calen picked up the delicate silver ring, fashioned to look like a wreath of leaves. “Um… I can’t…”

“Oh, I’m sorry,” the receptionist said. “Here you go.”

Immediately, Calen’s notification chime sounded as the elf shared the ring’s identification with him.

Pathfinder Initiate Guild Ring – level 40An elegant silvery ring crafted in the shape of a wreath of leaves signifying membership with the Pathfinders Guild.Owner: Calen AveryQuests: --+30 Intelligence+24 VitalityMana: Teleport yourself and one other to Ciradyl. Recharge: 7 days.Created by Nathaniel Sunstrider.Ring

“Thanks,” he managed, blushing with embarrassment that he needed help to identify his ring.

“It’s no problem,” the Elf said. “It’s surprisingly common for rangers and scouts to have Advanced Identify skills that do not work on items. You would not be the first to ask.”

“Aah. Thank you,” Calen said, somewhat mollified. He glanced at his other hand wearing the ring of the Adventurers Guild, but before he could ask, Lyeneru answered his question.

“You should check with your Adventurers Guild, but most towns and guilds count it as a point of prestige to have a Pathfinder as a member. You do not need to give up your other guild, and in fact, it will likely prove to be as much of an asset for you as for them.”

“Ok,” Calen said, studying the ring’s abilities. That must be what she used to bring us here, he thought, observing the seven-day recharge teleport skill enchanted onto the silver band. Useful. Then his eyes caught the pair of attribute enchantments for intelligence and vitality. Wow! An uncommon item! Those are decent boosts.

Lyeneru led him away toward a towering board plastered with parchments and notices. She coughed, “I just assumed you’d be ok having me as a mentor when I signed you up. Are you ok keeping my mentorship enchantment?”

“What?” Calen spluttered for a second as the implication of her words sank in. It’s not temporary? “Uh… yes? I… I mean yes, of course!”

Lyeneru chuckled softly, “Well, then, I have a few rules. You skipped the novice rank, and so you are missing a lot of the training fundamentals. For the first couple of months, I will pay to teleport you back home every time you visit, provided you take one of the foundational classes. We take training seriously, and so should you – it will save your life. I ask that you take at least one class a month, preferably more. You can sign up on this board here.” She tapped the board with a finger.

Calen stared at the enormous wall-spanning board covered with magically signed postings of training classes. There were hundreds of them, offered directly by the guild, or by externally contracted trainers, an overwhelming array spanning everything from knitting to advanced military strategy on the level of commanding battalions.

“Uh… what should I take first?” The amount of choice left him more than a little at a loss for how to decide.

“Advanced Archery for sure, your technique needs a few professional pointers. Pick up a melee weapon proficiency for backup when you can’t use a bow. Dagger Mastery works well with dexterity classes. Scouting, Stealth,” she pointed to several classes on the board, tapping each one with a finger to punctuate her suggestions. Then she studied him speculatively with her head tipped a little to the side. “I’d also recommend a gathering skill, so you can sell more things for mana potions, perhaps Skinning? It synergizes with Dagger Mastery.”

He grimaced at how obvious his dependence on mana potions must be for her to point it out again. But he still hadn’t found a cheaper alternative that was even remotely effective. “Sounds like a pretty standard setup?”

“Nothing wrong with that,” Lyeneru said. “You can forge your own path, but do you really want to be making mistakes with your skills and choices?”

“I understand,” he answered, trying not to sound surly. No need to antagonize her…

“Look, you already have a unique enough mana affinity, Calen. Light and Illusion mixed with archery is going to be enough of a challenge to navigate – there’s nothing wrong with picking a tried and tested approach for the rest of your fundamentals.”

“That’s probably true,” Calen grimaced, recalling how difficult it had been to unlock Ambush and learn to use his shining damage enchantments from stealth.

“I will also set you some missions occasionally, mostly fieldwork,” she continued. “Check your ring’s quest log regularly – I can use it to communicate these missions with you without paying for a Sending, or a Telepath.”

“I should tell my friends I’m going to be busy,” he said, thinking of Ali, Mato, and Malika. He would miss their adventures together.

“You’ve read my book, right?”

Calen nodded.

“What’s rule five of the Dungeon Survival Guide?”

“Teamwork,” he answered automatically.

“As a Pathfinder, I expect you to make use of your assets,” she said. “All your assets. Good friends, teammates, and allies are often your strongest assets. You will need them for what we’re doing.”

“I can bring Ali, Mato, and Malika?”

“Unless I explicitly ask you to do something solo for training, yes you may,” she said. “And you probably should.”

It was only when the sense of relief surged through him that he realized how much he was worried about missing his friends.

“Can I ask you some questions about leveling up?”

Lyeneru nodded.

“Your class is similar to mine, right? I mean prioritizing dexterity, intelligence, and perception mainly?”

“Yes.”

“I keep running out of mana and stamina,” he said, finally admitting it out loud. “Do you have some tips? Should I find some regeneration equipment or just keep buying mana potions?” She had joked about his potion addiction twice now, and it was something he was rather embarrassed about. However, he had not been able to find any information on how to solve the problem. He was honestly jealous of Malika’s seemingly inexhaustible supply of stamina, Mato’s regeneration skills, and Ali’s deep mana pool.

“This style is based on two damage attributes – none of our primary attributes improves resources. Most people with this kind of class specialize in maximizing their peak damage because they cannot sustain it. This is why your Ambush advancement is so powerful,” she explained. “It makes this kind of class functional above level fifty. With your illusion skills, you could work toward true invisibility, invest heavily in critical damage, and become an incredible assassin.”

“Assassin?” he said, wincing.

“Assassins are good in dungeons, Calen,” Lyeneru said. “This kind of build specializes in hunting monsters they can kill instantly or focuses on kiting. Stealth, Ambush, and very high burst damage – it’s the same profile as an assassin, or a rogue, but at range. An invisible sniper.”

“I see,” Calen said. It was not the direction he had envisioned for himself, and the idea of aiming for an Assassin specialization somewhere down the line didn’t sit well with him. She must have seen him frown though, because she continued.

“Imagine having a member of your party who can sneak up on a monster pack and assassinate the healer from a distance. How valuable is that?”

“Aah, I see,” he said, suddenly understanding what her focus was. It was something of a niche role, but he could see how effective it would be under the right circumstances. Was it right for him, though?

Before he could dwell upon it, she added, “Regeneration won’t help you much because it is a percentage based on your total mana or stamina. The simplest approach would be to invest in skills that use all your mana for the maximum power and then combine it with your stealth and ambush. Put just enough of your attribute points into wisdom and endurance that you can cast your biggest attack.”

“But that’s not what you’re doing,” Calen noted. “You seem to have high damage output, and you can sustain it indefinitely.” One of the most valuable experiences he earned from his trip was the opportunity to study her in action. She seemed just as relentless as Malika but with a vast well of personal power to back it up.

“Good, you’re observant,” Lyeneru said. “But my approach is either ridiculously expensive or you will need to get incredibly lucky. It’s not worth pursuing.”

“Assuming I have a dungeon as a friend,” he said, “and she has a lake full of mana-purified water to sell, and a spellbook that can make Ancient Dal’mohran gold coins, how would I do it?”

Lyeneru shot him a complex look. But she raised an arm, “Here, look at this.” At the same time, Calen’s notification chime sounded as she shared the item with him.

Vampiric Bracer of the Bat – level 64A sleek, masterfully crafted leather bracer designed for archery.+45 DexterityGain +3.5% of your attack damage as mana over 30 secondsGain +2% of your attack damage as health over 30 secondsRequirements: Intelligence 128, Dexterity 128Created by Zor’kan.Hands – Bracer – Leather / Bone

“You’re wearing a level sixty-four bracer?” Calen asked incredulously. She must be at a far higher level than that. At least nearly two hundred to face that Death Knight. The bracer seemed heavy, made from delicately tooled red leather and inlaid with heavy studs made of bone that created a set of abstract-looking patterns. The bone studs were absent on the inside of the forearm, leaving a smooth leather surface that would not interfere with a bowstring.

“Yes,” Lyeneru said, “I saved an Aman Rak troll leatherworker from a slaver ring once. Trolls seldom acknowledge debt towards members of other races, but the slavers who had captured him were quite powerful and had an artifact to force his compliance. He was motivated to make me this as a token of his gratitude, or perhaps to preserve his honor. It’s hard to know with trolls sometimes.”

Calen glanced at the mana signature inscribed on the bracer. Zor’kan.

“For my skills and class, nothing comes close to the effectiveness of this bracer. With those two leech enchantments, all my most frequently used attacks generate more mana and stamina than they cost. Instead of stacking regeneration, I simply maximize my damage, increasing my resource return because of that bracer, and I abuse skills with reservation or percent of maximum mana costs because they are relatively cheap when you have low mana or stamina pools. Like that Heaven’s Strike skill that you were offered at level forty.”

“Where do I get one?”

“I know of only one Gnomish enchanter who can make a weaker version of this. But he will charge an enormous fee for it, and you’re not at a high enough level to use it. Once you advance, I will give you his details and you can decide.”

