Orthenon’s forefinger and middle finger fell to the deck. The [Steward]’s face twisted with pain and fury. His blade blurred—Rasea’s stomach opened. She stepped back, clutching at her guts to hold them in.
“Get—”
He was gone. He’d taken his fingers too. Rasea swore and looked around. Then she ducked as something struck the mast.
Reim’s army was attacking the ship. One of the half-Giants hurled a huge stone. It tore through one of the sails.
“I think we have their attention, Captain!”
Some of the [Pirates] were loosing arrows at the [Army of the King]. They were actually clinging to the ship, trying to board it as the wave swept the foot soldiers around. Rasea saw Zamea raise her axe and throw it.
“[Evasive Turn]!”
The [Helmsman] dodged the huge axe. Rasea saw the Illusionist on horseback, coming their way.
“I think you’re right, Vree. Well then. All hands, brace! [Helmsman]—get us out of here!”
The Illuminary turned again. It shot back into the surf. And then—out to sea. Rasea heard an enraged bellow from the half-Giants. She waved at them.
Reim’s army watched the Illuminary go. Then—they realized the [Pirates] were still firing the ship-mounted weapons as they sped away. The land-based army fell back in disarray.
“Where’s his Majesty?”
Teres stared at the [Pirate]’s ship. The Minotaur’s warships were sailing into the distance. With the Sharphorns. But Rasea’s ship was still turning. Trying to hit the half-Giants who were grimly retreating.
“Ulyse is dead. Where is King Reimarch?”
Orthenon rode towards them. He was covered in saltwater. And…his right hand was missing two fingers. Teres gasped. Ytol looked around.
The King of Destruction pulled himself out of the surf. Flos Reimarch looked around. He was shaking with fury. The Illuminary had nearly drowned him.
“Savere’s [Pirates]? I will crush Savere and the Siren!”
The King of Destruction would have remained on the beach as the Illuminary kept firing. But they had no way of catching or boarding the ship. And—the House of Minos was gone and Medain’s army had retreated to the walls.
With the High King and the King of Jecrass. Worse—Teres felt the strength of the [Army of the King] leaving her. The King of Destruction was raving with fury. Orthenon pressed a bandage against his hand.
“We have to reattach them. Get the [Healer] and sew them on. Maybe…”
Mars was looking around. Reim’s army was milling around in confusion. They had been…
Defeated? But all of their opponents had fled the field! And yet—Teres looked at the King of Destruction, swearing vengeance on Savere and Rasea Zecrew. The battered army. Then, one of the remaining [Mages] stepped away from the shell-shocked Esiela.
“Your Majesty.”
Flos Reimarch turned with a snarl. The next words made him go still.
“Nerrhavia’s Fallen has just declared war on Reim. So have the Claiven Earth, Savere…and a dozen other nations.”
Ytol looked up. Mars silently wiped at her face. Orthenon looked southwards, towards distant Reim. Hellios, Germina—all of their seized lands were now neighbors to nations which had declared war.
Silently, the King of Destruction removed his helmet and threw it into the sand. He took a deep breath…and then he sighed.
“Orthenon?”
“Yes, your Majesty.”
The [Steward] bowed, gravely. Teres saw Flos shake his head.
“Tell Takhatres to recall from his campaign against the Empire of Sands. I can no longer do without his tribe here. And prepare the army to move. We must…safeguard our borders.”
He looked back to sea. Darkly, breathing hard. Then he shook his head.
“But how did she know I would be there? And why?”
 
—-
 
Rasea Zecrew was laughing. She’d never been happier. The Illuminary had gone after one of the House of Minos’ warships and they’d stolen its armaments. Now, they were safely at sea.
Nothing could spoil her mood. She’d made an enemy of the King of Destruction, her sister, Revine Zecrew, the Siren of Savere was screaming at her, and the Illuminary had just become the most famous [Pirate] ship and crew in the world.
There were no downsides here. She turned and tipped her hat as she waved for someone to mute her sister’s ravings. She hadn’t ordered the Illuminary to go to war.
But someone had hired her. Rasea would have frankly done it for the joy of it. But she’d taken a lesson from the House of Minos. Why do something for free when you could be paid?
“If the King of Destruction gives us another run at him, we’ll keep fighting. But I assume this is enough for our pay?”
“Quite. You will find your payment at the following coordinates. A pleasure, Captain Rasea.”
The voice was distorted by magic. Or someone muffling their voice with a scarf. It didn’t matter. Rasea was pretty certain she knew who had hired her.
“Well, contact our ship if you’d like any more…favors.”
The [Pirate Lady] didn’t hear a response. She turned away.
“Alright, lads. Let’s go get the rest of our pay. Then—whoever levels most gets a cask of the finest drink we’ve got! Here’s to pricking the King of Destruction himself! We’d better get our full pay. Or I’ll sail right over to Wistram and burn their isle down!”
Her crew cheered. And the Illuminary set sail once more. Rasea sighed. It was a good day, a glorious day. The person on the other end had tried to pretend they were the Elusive Lot. But the Elusive Lot was more entertaining than that. Rasea shook her head.
“That’s one mean Lamia.”
Then she set sail as half of Chandrar made war on Reim. The House of Minos had done its duty. The King of Destruction had suffered his first—real defeat.
The King of Duels was Medain’s prisoner, leaving only his daughter to rule. And as High King Perric reflected after a few, bracing drinks—
It had gone mostly according to his plan.
