He looked at Ozem’s blank eyes. The Minotaur grabbed at the blade and the King of Destruction let go. Ozem stepped forwards—
“Loose.”
Ytol spoke and the bows loosed again. He had seen high-level [Warriors] die. Ozem lashed around him with the blade. But the Humans had fallen back.
“Ytol!”
The King of Destruction was enraged. But the [Onslaught General] just laughed.
“Well done.”
He tried to say that to Ytol. The [Death Commander] saluted him.
The Minotaur wished he had the energy to fight beyond death. But—the arrows struck him again. With the last…pulled…
…return…
 
—-
 
The [General] collapsed, the throwing axe in his hands. Arrows had taken his life. Flos Reimarch, the King of Destruction, was trembling with fury. Even so—the Minotaur had deserved better.
“The Minotaurs are within five miles of their ships, your Majesty. Orthenon will catch them before then.”
“One moment.”
Flos dismounted and strode over. The axe in Ozem’s hands. He recognized it.
“The Minotaur King’s weapon.”
He reached for it. It wasn’t even held tightly in Ozem’s grasp. Flos lifted it up—then his arm jerked.
Something was…pulling the axe. Like it had returned to Ozem’s hand time and time again. The King of Destruction yanked it back towards him. And he felt—
The King of Minotaurs reached out for her axe. The King of Destruction’s arm bulged as he tried to hold onto it.
“Your Majesty!”
Several [Riders] came forwards. Flos gritted his teeth.
“I will see you dead.”
He spoke to the air. The King of Minotaurs said nothing at all. She stood, and pulled. The blade she had given to Ozem—slowly moved back through the air. Towards her.
Flos Reimarch’s feet left the ground. Teres saw dozens of people jump and try to pull him down.
“Your Majesty! Let go!”
The King of Destruction refused to. But he could not use his strength in this tug-of-war. He rose higher. Higher. He looked down and cursed.
“Inreza!”
He bellowed once—and then let go. He landed heavily. The Minotaur King’s axe soared through the air as she relaxed. The King of Destruction picked himself up.
“The last of her army dies.”
 
—-
 
The warship’s sails were painted red by the fading light. Seler heard shouting. She gave one last order.
“Maweil’s Third Axes will turn and stand!”
They did. The [Steward] rode down on them with his escort. The ships were so close…
But the remaining thousand Sharphorns would never make it. Less than four miles…but the [Steward] was upon them.
Seler had failed General Ozem. The knowledge was bitter, but she took heart. They ran—until the [Steward] slew the last Minotaur and came on again. The King of Destruction was not far behind.
“Warriors of Minos. Here we stand. Turn.”
The Minotaurs turned. The [Steward] slowed. The last thousand Sharphorns placed themselves in the sand. Seler raised her axe and bellowed at the warships.
“Return to the House of Minos!”
No one would be joining them. She heard a distant bellow from the ships as she turned. Once more—the House of Minos’ [Warriors] sang.
 
“We sail until the world’s end
Bring death to foe and aid to friend.”
 
Seler joined the warriors of Maweil. She saw the [Steward] slowing.
 
—-
 
They were singing again. The House of Minos’ last [Warriors] faced the Steward of the King of Destruction. Orthenon held up a hand. He saw the warships unfurling their sails.
“Lord Orthenon, do we attack?”
“The warships will repel us before we are able to stop them. Wait for his Majesty. He will want to be here.”
The King of Destruction was only a minute behind them. The [Ruinbringer Steward] saw the Minotaurs spreading out on the sand. For a glorious, honorable death. He wasn’t interested in them.
He felt…uneasy. The [Army of the King] had been used. The Emperor of Sands, Reim’s countless enemies would not miss this opportunity. But there was an opportunity here.
Medain’s army. Orthenon’s head turned. They were still not at their capital. Countless [Soldiers] had surrendered. But Mars—
Yes. Orthenon calculated it. She’d catch High King Perric. And he could surrender or die; the Illusionist would capture him.
Medain might fall today, if all was well. And Jecrass as well. That might turn a victory out of this costly battle. Orthenon cared not for the Minotaurs here. They were young. He might have let them go, but the King of Destruction would not. Their deaths were meaningless.
“Lord Orthenon—”
One of his [Riders] interrupted Orthenon watching the fleeing High King. He looked ahead at the pointing finger. The white sails had turned crimson.
All seven of them. He frowned.
“A warship is coming.”
The [Rider] pointed. Orthenon stared at a distant ship.
“Reinforcements?”
“They’ll have to make it here. Wait for his Majesty. We’ll finish the Minotaurs first.”
One of Medain’s fleet, perhaps. The [Steward] turned back. Then looked forwards again. The ship was making for the coast at speed. Faster than the Minotaur’s warships, which had slowed.
“It’s…going to ground itself.”
Orthenon stared at the distant ship. He had been raised in the Empire of Drath. The King of Destruction was shouting, pointing at the Minotaurs. Orthenon felt…his…instincts…
“Your Majesty. Fall back! Fall—”
He turned. The enemy warship was landing. It was coming on faster, and faster. It was going to run ashore. And then he saw the light.
The distant ship began glowing.
Only one ship in the world did that. The ship began to shine. And still—it didn’t stop.
“Prepare for irregular reinforcements! With me!”
The [Steward] raced towards the shore. The Illuminary shot forwards. He saw a woman with a huge, classic [Pirate]’s hat standing at the prow of her ship.
Captain Rasea Zecrew. One of the most famous [Pirates] in the world.
 
—-
 
She was crying. The [Pirate Lady] kept sniffing and dabbing at her eyes as the wind howled around her. Her ship was headed straight for the shore.
“What a time to be alive. Look there. There’s the legend of this era.”
She pointed. The King of Destruction had noticed her at last. Her crew was laughing. Cheering. The [Helmsman] took them forwards as the winds blew into the sails and the Illuminary picked up more speed.
“The King of Destruction. I wish I had been born when he was at his strongest.”
Rasea brushed a tear out of her eyes. Then she pointed.
“Okay, enough crying. Full speed ahead!”
The Illuminary shot past the Minotaurian warships, the startled Sharphorns. Onto the beach, towards the King of Destruction, the advancing [Stewards], the half-Giants.
The [Pirate]’s ship went aground—and then kept going. Orthenon stared as the ship shot over the first hundred meters of beach. The waters came with it. No—he saw something pushing the ship.
“A w—turn! Turn and—”
The Illuminary shot over the beach towards the cavalry. They tried to split in front of the [Pirate]’s ship. And it kept going! The wave had left the ocean and was rolling under the ship, pushing it!
“[The Eternal Wave]! Get them, lads! Open fire!”
Rasea Zecrew laughed as her ship split the riders in twain. Horses and [Soldiers] screamed as the waters sucked them under. She saw the [Helmsman] spin the wheel.
Orthenon saw an arrow pointing at him. He flung himself left a second before the stolen ballista fired. The Illuminary started spitting projectiles like a Minotaurian warship.
Seler and the Sharphorns stared as the Illuminary shot onto the beach, turning. The King of Destruction’s momentum slowed. And Flos Reimarch saw the fastest ship in the world coming right at…
“Your Majesty! Watch out! Turn! Turn!”
Teres heard Ytol shouting. She saw the King of Destruction galloping left, across the sand. The Illuminary turned—
And ran him over. The King of Destruction and his horse vanished beneath the wave and prow of the ship.
 
—-
 
“Hey, did we just run him over?”
Rasea looked around as her ship cut straight through the King of Destruction’s army. She shrugged.
“I hope he’s not dead. Alright, lads! Just like we practiced! [Mark Target]! [Ship: Homing Missiles]! Fire!”
Magical bolts began shooting from the Illuminary’s sides. They shot upwards at a huge figure.
A half-Giant. Zamea staggered as the first volley hit her. One of the ballistae boomed and struck her in the navel.
“They’re big, Captain!”
“Well shoot them harder! Helmsman, port, turn to port! We’re running out of water!”
The ship swung left and the wave carried it across the beach. It shot back towards the sea as it kept firing. Rasea looked around.
“Here they come!”
“Kill them!”
The [Shepherd] and half a dozen half-Giants were charging at the ship. Rasea saw one blocking their way.
“[Ship: Burst of Speed]!”
It shot past the half-Giant as he tried to block them and missed. There was no faster ship! And her crew was one of the most feared.
Rasea was laughing. She grabbed a rope.
“Here we go—swing the boom!”
The [Helmsman] obeyed. Rasea leapt—and the rope swung her up. She arced with half a dozen of her crew, landed. The half-Giant looked at the figures on his shoulders.
Rasea stabbed him in the eye. Her crew cut the half-Giant across the neck, and then leapt. The circling Illuminary caught them.
“What—what is she doing?”
The [Pirate Captain] was assailing the army. The King of Destruction was nowhere to be seen! Teres stared. Then she saw the Illuminary coming back this way.
“Formation—”
Ytol hesitated. What formation did you take against a charging ship? He changed orders.
“Scatter! Evade them!”
Again, the pirate ship sailed onto dry land. Past the Minotaurs. They were making for the warships. Rasea’s ballistae sang again and another half-Giant cried out.
“Alright, I think we got them! Anyone see the King of Destruction?”
The [Pirates] shook their heads. Rasea pointed.
“That way! Straight for the capital!”
Medain’s army was fleeing through the gates. But the Illusionist was fighting the Golden Ranks. Now—the Illuminary swung left. It shot across the coastline as Orthenon galloped after it. Rasea walked across the decks.
“Where’s the good ballista?”
She saw one of the [Pirates] waving. The [Pirate Captain] seized the ballista, waited.
“Spells incoming!”
The King of Destruction’s army had seen the Illuminary’s attack. Parasol Stroll and the [Archers] were shooting arrows and launching spells. But again—the ship was moving so fast. It was an army of one!
“[Ship: Armor-piercing Shot].”
Rasea aimed the ballista and fired it. The bolt struck Mars in the chest and sent her flying. High King Perric backed up as he saw the ship coming his way.
“Try to run him over too!”
The Illuminary swung close, but it was running out of speed. [The Eternal Wave] was vanishing. It swung back as the High King fled through the gates.
Rasea was laughing. Mars the Illusionist swore and charged after the ship, but she was on foot. Parasol Stroll was launching fireballs and spells at the ship.
Ulyse snarled. He saw the ship passing by—then turn. The [Mages] put up a barrier—but the ship shot past them towards the tide again, to pick up more momentum. He whirled to Esiela.
“Punch a hole through their hull! Aim for…”
Someone landed on the ground. She’d swung off the ship. Amid the wet ground, Rasea Zecrew drew her sword. Eighteen [Pirates] had joined her. Selphids, a Gnoll, a Centaur with two crossbows—
Ulyse whirled.
“Are you mad? The King of Destruction will hunt you down for this!”
The Drowned Woman’s fish-half lit up. Half-Anglerfish. Rasea grinned with her pointed teeth.
“I’m hoping he’ll try. What’s life without a challenge? Say—do you think this will make him angry? [Antimagic Blade].”
“[Forcew—]”
Esiela saw Ulyse raise his staff. Rasea stabbed him through the throat. She spun, cutting down another [Mage]. Then she winked.
“Here comes the Illusionist! Alright, go!”
The Illuminary shot past them again. The [Pirates] seized the ropes and were hauled up. Two didn’t make it. A spell snared one and Mars hacked another apart at the waist. She turned—but the wave knocked her and Esiela over. Drenched in water, the [Grand Mage] stared down at Ulyse’s blank face.
“They’re all after us now, Captain. What’s the plan?”
“Keep fighting until it gets too hot! Swing us back towards the Illusionist. I want to see—wait!”
The [Pirate Captain] whirled. She saw the horse racing, riderless next to her vessel, a moment before the [Steward] pulled himself up on the deck.
He had dropped his spear. He drew his sword now.
“You are all dead.”
Orthenon’s voice was cold. He alone had managed to catch the [Pirate]’s ship. He unsheathed his blade.
The Illuminary’s crew grinned. Rasea turned.
“I always wanted to see how good you were, King’s Steward! But I don’t think you brought enough friends.”
One of the [Pirates] brought up a wand and loosed a spell. Orthenon pivoted. He cut the spell—then leapt across the decks. The [Pirate] slashed—Orthenon ran him through and put his back to the railing. But he’d wasted too much time.
“[Ship: Slippery Decks].”
Rasea raised her hand. The surface of the Illuminary’s decks turned oily. Orthenon’s footing slipped. And every [Pirate] with a clear shot unloaded bows, spells, and crossbows.
A ballista fired across the ship. It blew apart the railing; the [Steward] was gone. He was backing up, slashing at six [Pirates] including Rasea herself who were pressing him from all sides. He snarled—
“[Sword Art: The—]”
“[Fireball]!”
The [Pirates] fighting him dove backwards as one shot the spell. The [Steward] cut through the fireball. Rasea leapt into the gap. Stabbing—
He was quick. She blinked and stumbled backwards. He’d slashed her chest right open. The [Pirates] shot again and the [Steward] blurred backwards. Rasea raised a potion to her trembling lips.
“Kraken’s blood, that was close.”
She laughed. The [Ruinbringer Steward] had cut down another [Pirate]. But—they were so high-level. He slid across the decks, striking at them. Rasea tilted her head. She looked ahead and nodded at the [Helmsman]. She leapt—
The ship rammed into Zamea’s leg and the half-Giantess screamed in agony. The impact knocked everyone who wasn’t prepared for it off their feet. Which was a quarter of her crew. And Orthenon. He stumbled.
Rasea Zecrew leapt for him. She brought down her sword and the [Steward] pivoted. He blocked her strike, cut one of the Centaur’s crossbow bolts in half. He grabbed the railing. Rasea brought her sword down.
“[Flash Cut].”
She was aiming for his chest. The [Steward] saw the blow and raised his hand. Rasea changed the angle of the cut.
