Again, the ring flashed, turning the blow. So Raelt pushed the blade—slowly—through the woman’s throat as she hit him with the hilt of her sword. He cut left.
The High King and the Golden Ranks saw the former Gold-rank adventurer clutching at her throat. And again, the [King of Challenges] stabbed. Again and again.
The man was supposed to be a [Fencer]. He picked up the woman’s sword as more of the Golden Ranks closed in. He brought it down on a helm, covering his daughter.
“Seize her.”
The High King rode forwards at last. He went for Jecaina, cutting through the [Soldiers] who were throwing themselves forwards like insane [Berserkers]. He saw her riding, trying to break through as another, common [Soldier] blocked her way—
And there was Raelt again. He had a hatchet this time. He brought it down on the man’s shoulder. He rose, stumbling—someone had shot an arrow through his shoulder.
“Perric.”
He looked up. The High King hesitated. He tried to maneuver past Raelt. Jecaina—the King of Duels was blocking the way. The Golden Ranks held back, their bravado challenged and found wanting.
They were afraid to die. Raelt was breathing hard. He looked back, once.
Geril was grabbing at Jecaina. The old [Retainer] looked back once.
“Your Majesty—”
A wall of Medain’s [Soldiers] stood between the [King] and his escape. But he just smiled. Or bared his teeth.
“Fight me, Perric.”
The High King hesitated. He saw Raelt lunge.
A beast made of a man hacked at the Golden Ranks. It bit off a man’s ear and buried a dagger in a woman’s eye. They dragged it back, but it kept fighting. It screamed his name.
The High King fled. He chased the daughter, riding forwards. Jecrass’ army was broken. Many still fought, but the rest were falling back, trying to protect their [Princess].
“Ride! Ride!”
Geril was shouting in Jecaina’s ear. She looked back once. The High King was pursuing her with his Golden Ranks. He was…his army had encircled Jecrass’. They slowed as they fought clear. Just a bit closer, a bit…
“I have you at last!”
The High King caught up with her. He swung his sword sideways and Jecaina reached for a sword she didn’t have. The enchanted blade sheared through the [Soldier] who brought up his shield to guard her.
A copy of her father. The High King raised his sword again, to behead her horse.
“[Full Power Blow].”
Geril hit the High King with his halberd. His blade glanced off Perric’s armor and the High King recoiled. He whirled his blade.
“Wretch!”
He cut Geril once and Jecaina cried out. The old retainer’s eyes flickered.
“[Bellhammer’s Impact].”
He hit the High King again. This time the impact nearly took the High King off his horse. His mount reared—and Jecaina’s horse finally won clear of the press of bodies. She rode, Geril right behind her.
“Stop her! I command you! Stop—”
Perric’s voice sounded behind her, more distant with each word. Jecaina saw more of the Golden Ranks following. Twice—they tried for her. She fended them off with a blade she seized at last from one of the [Soldiers] protecting her. But it was Geril who fended them off.
“[My Life, My King]…”
He murmured and brought the halberd down, forcing a Gold-rank to reel backwards. The second blow cut a man to the quick.
The old man forced the pursuers back, and Jecrass’ horses did the rest. Arrows aimed for her mount, but the others covered her. Geril actually caught an arrow.
He had never seemed stronger. Unstoppable, even by the Golden Ranks. Jecaina was looking back.
“Father—”
Raelt hadn’t followed them. She’d thought—thought he would break free, follow them.
“Captured, my lady. You must ride. Jecrass needs her—her [Queen].”
Geril rode with them, almost sedately. He looked at her. She turned to him.
“Me? But I—”
“Without the [King], you must replace him. That man is not worthy of ruling Jecrass. Your father…could not have abided by your imprisonment.”
“It was my fault, though.”
Jecaina’s eyes stung. She felt something bop her on the head. Gently. The haft of Geril’s halberd. He shook his head at his charge.
“Not at all, your Majesty. These things—you mustn’t blame yourself. Now go on, Jecaina. My lovely child. They’re waiting for you.”
“Go? But what about—”
The old retainer was gone. Jecaina looked back and saw his horse galloping next to her. She stopped. But the other seized her and carried her onwards. He was gone. He’d been dead the moment the High King swung his sword.
She fled, tears in her eyes. The King of Jecrass lay in chains, and the High King looked ahead and told himself—it was fine. He had Jecrass’ ruler. All that remained was the King of Destruction.
Tragedy, loss, the King of Duel’s capture, it had all happened before the other two armies had met. As Jecaina fled, the second battle began ahead of her.
 
—-
 
News of the battle between Medain and Jecrass reached Reim’s army as the Minotaur’s force finally came within range. They seemed both huge and small—giant bull-people, but so few. Jecaina saw them in tight formation around their two-dozen artillery pieces.
Laughably small compared to the huge vanguard that Flos had marched north with his and Orthenon’s Skills. In the distance, Medain’s army was reforming. Battered—but vast.
“They’ll threaten our flanks soon, milord. If the battle with the House of Minos drags on…we’ll be outnumbered. Apparently, King Raelt freed his daughter before falling into captivity.”
“We will rescue the King of Jecrass, then. Our mission has just changed slightly. As for our flanks—pull up those two battalions there—we’ll keep two thousand horse in reserve to ward off a charge—but this battle should be over before he can reach us.”
Indeed, even Jecrass’ fleeing, broken army had yet to reach the impending battlefield. They were travelling wide anyways; Jecrass was still at war with Reim.
It was the House of Minos who now advanced.
“Your orders, your Majesty?”
Flos of Reim looked ahead. At General Ozem.
“I think it is him. I recognize that armor. He was on one of the warships. Do you remember, Mars?”
The Illusionist hesitated. Then she ducked her head.
“Always, lord. But this isn’t the time to be lost in the past. They are a dangerous foe.”
“I know that. But permit me my memory. I swore upon my waking that I would settle things with the King of Minotaurs. This…will be a fine first step. Is all in readiness?”
He turned his head and regarded his army.
“Ready, King of Destruction.”
Shepherd Zamea boomed, shouldering her vast axe.
“The Rustängmarder stand ready to march. But your advance will be slower than the rest of the army’s sire. That is my command.”
[Death Commander] Ytol bowed. The King of Destruction flicked his eyes to him, but nodded shortly.
“The Serpent Hunters are prepared.”
Jelaim called out.
“Parasol Stroll will begin spellcasting as soon as they are within range.”
Ulyse and [Grand Mage] Esiela stood at the front, their catalysts shimmering with power. Flos nodded at them. Then he looked ahead.
“My [Steward].”
Orthenon raised his spear. He was circling, ready to charge the Minotaur’s flanks and their siege weapons.
Last, the King of Destruction looked at the two riding with him.
“You will stay back, Teres. I have battled the Minotaurs in their strength only once. But—I think this engagement will be too dangerous for you yet.”
“B—”
Teres caught herself, and then nodded. She rode backwards, stationing herself with Ytol. She saw the wariness in Flos’ eyes.
“The last time we fought them, they barely had time to open up with those damn war weapons of theirs. It was all boarding action, aside from their damn King’s axes destroying ships. It’s giving me an uneasy feeling. As well as that axe their leader’s carrying. It’s a Gold-rank slayer. Stick with the Rustängmarder, your majesty.”
Mars the Illusionist was last. He nodded at her advice.
“I don’t intend to give them any advantage, Mars. First them—then this High King. Now, my Illusionist—will you do me the honors of beginning this battle with your challenge?”
She smiled.
“I would accept nothing less.”
Mars the Illusionist rode through the ranks, at the head of the army. The [Soldiers] slowed. And Teres heard their cheer again. Flos began it himself.
“Mars! Mars the Illusionist! Mars of Reim!”
She dismounted from her horse as she reached the head of the army and began to stride forwards on foot to the cheers. Across from his army, the House of Minos’ force had slowed and begun their final preparations.
 
—-
 
“We are nearly within range, General Ozem. Your targets?”
The Minotaur who spoke was lamed. One of his arms was shriveled, deformed, unable to function. He was the [Master of Artillery].
“The [Steward]. Then—target the half-Giants. The catapults are to attack the bulk of the army on foot. Honor to you, Nervhetti.”
The [General] replied and the Minotaur grinned. He clasped his good hand to his breast.
“A privilege, General Ozem!”
He stepped back and almost all was ready. The annoying [Mage] had fallen back to what she considered to be a safe distance. Ozem looked forwards.
Neriha, the First Horn, was shading her eyes to squint ahead.
“You know, I don’t think this King of Destruction has seen our artillery perform.”
“Last time we boarded him too fast. We would have taken him in combat—until the Gardener overwhelmed our warships.”
She grunted.
“Ah, yes. That brave Beastkin. How many ships did the [Gardener] of Reim down?”
“Three?”
Ozem couldn’t remember. He should have—but he was focused ahead.
“You can stop the Illusionist?”
“We’ll find out. The fact that our [King] is watching me is actually somewhat worrying, Ozem. I feel quite nervous!”
The two Minotaurs looked at each other. And then they burst out laughing. They weren’t the only ones. The old veterans in Ozem’s vanguard laughed at this as well. The Sharphorns in the ranks, the green [Warriors] who hadn’t seen many battles—they were all at least Level 16, but that was something a child could boast of—were too stiff by comparison.
“Ah, Neriha, I’ll miss this. Don’t let her slay you.”
Ozem saw the Minotauress grin. Then—he saw the Illusionist making her way through the ranks and his blood began to hum. Even in the ambush, she had slain so many of the House of Minos’ warriors.
Mars the Illusionist. One of the greatest living warriors this world had to offer. It was useless to compare her to the other Named Adventurers and legendary fighters of their time. Even Neriha. Anything before they met was useless speculation. And the [Vanguard] of the King of Destruction had left countless ‘legends’ in the ground.
The chant began from Reim. The Minotaurs were silent—until their [General] faced them. He had a compulsion to speak, a rare one.
“Master of Artillery. Hold fire until the Illusionist’s challenge and my signal.”
His voice was a steady shout, audible to all. Even the distant [Mage]. The Master of Artillery raised his hand in acknowledgement. General Ozem looked across the Minotaurs.
“I feel nostalgic, looking at this army. Not that we have ever faced the King of Destruction on land. Like Neriha, I feel slightly nervous. I have never fought before an audience besides my foe.”
The veterans chuckled and the Sharphorns listened to the old [Onslaught General], untensing a bit at the humor. Ozem waited. Then he looked back.
“The House of Minos has taken gold and jewels to do battle with the King of Destruction. Supplies, food, artifacts—[Mercenary]’s pay to battle Reim. To some—that is what the House of Minos is. But we did not make war the first time for payment. Nor this.”
He looked back and pointed. His other hand still held the sacred axe, the relic gifted to him.
“Look there, young Sharphorns. You see our enemy. A man. But a [King]. Perhaps the greatest of Human rulers you will ever meet. Do not scorn him. The House of Minos never made war because we found the King of Destruction dishonorable or a weak foe.”
Ozem shook his head. His horns, decorated with his victories in battle from the beginning—slaying a century-old Hobgoblin, their oldest foe—gleamed.
“No. She made war to halt a man—a Human man—who would rule this world unchecked. So we ended the King of Destruction’s dream and put him into slumber! So once, now again. The House of Minos shall suffer no tyrant.”
At this, there was some sporadic cheering, again from the Sharphorns. Those who knew better were silent. Ozem waited.
“But. That is not why we are here.”
He gestured to the two thousand veterans of countless battles. Most were as old as Ozem himself. They grinned behind their scars, hefting weapons they had known better than any lover. Ozem looked at Neriha and she grinned. He pointed back, towards the warships and their distant homes and bellowed to them.
“We are the ones who cannot live in peace. Brothers and sisters, we are the House of Minos’ failures! Because we find rest in only battle. And—because we could not find a glorious death and lived far too long! We must thank our King—and the King of Destruction—that this is our battlefield! And if we dare to win again, we will return to the House of Minos as failures once more!”
Now they laughed, the old ones. They cheered raggedly. Each one was like Ozem. Addicted to battle. Married to war. The King of Minotaurs had called for warriors to fight the King of Destruction here and win her victory with the Sharphorns. Ozem and Neriha had answered her. He would have begged for an opportunity like this.
Because he was going to win. Ozem had not sailed across the oceans, waited for months on ships while the High King threw petulant fits—just to lose in front of the watching world. He turned and spread his arms, laughing. Greeting the army in front of him like an old friend.
“King of Destruction. You kept us waiting far too long.”
 
—-
 
The arrogance of Minotaurs.
“Honor bound fools. They’re forgetting his greatest weapon. You shouldn’t have paid him.”
The angry voice came from one of her heads. The Empress of Sands watched. She was still in control of herself.
“Oh be quiet. I’m sure this Minotaur [General] has everything planned.”
“They’re making a mistake.”
She turned to look at the old man.
“It’s all in your head.”
Groans from around the room. The other heads hated her puns. But they watched. Now—both armies were stationary. Reim’s army crept forwards slightly. They were entering into the lines of fire. The best [Archers] and spells could travel as much as a mile—the [Grand Mage] could certainly hit the Minotaurs from that range.
