Orthenon was fighting the [Lineholders] who refused to let him leave. Mars finally hacked apart Neriha’s arm. The Minotauress was dead. But she had never let go.
The King of Destruction tried to surge backwards. But there were the Greathammers.
“Bring the King of Destruction down. [Thunderstrike Impact].”
One brought his hammer down and Flos Reimarch went deaf. He lost his footing—went down.
The Rustängmarder around him were fighting. The [King] pulled himself up as he saw a body fall to the ground. He looked up and a Minotaur grinned at him. Flos raised his shield.
This time, the blow broke the enchantment. The [King] fell back as he slashed. But the Greathammer was immune to pain. Both of them were warriors. They’d fight to the death.
The [Soldiers] around Flos charged—and were cleared by a vast swing. The King of Destruction snarled. He saw the Minotaur swing his hammer up.
 
—-
 
Teresa saw the [Onslaught General] coming. She drew her sword as Ytol rode forwards.
“Milady Teres, that way.”
He pointed. One of the Minotaurs broke off as Teres tried to ride left, through the press of bodies. The female Minotaur had a greatsword, the Minotaur [Elite Bodyguard]. She swung—Teres brought up her sword.
“[Flawless Parry]—”
The impact was too powerful for her Skill. Teres saw the sword meet her desperate attempt to parry. Her hand went numb. The blade sheared through her horse—
She landed on the ground. Breathless. The Minotauress whirled her sword.
“[Sword Art: Kraken’s Tendrils Lash].”
Teres heard screams, bodies falling. She raised her sword feebly. The Minotauress looked down at her as Ozem roared a challenge at Ytol. Teres saw the Minotauress raise her sword. She heard a voice. Faint, but perfectly audible in her ears.
“[Army of the King].”
Something—moved through the King of Destruction’s army. The world changed. Teresa Atwood heard a voice, as the Minotauress’ eyes flickered. That voice, speaking in her head. She looked up.
 
—-
 
General Ozem saw the Minotauress raising her sword to bring it down on the young woman the King of Destruction seemed to care about. The [King] was down. The Minotauress brought her greatsword down.
The King of Destruction used his Skill.
The Minotauress recoiled. Ozem saw a [Soldier], a common [Spearman], leap into her, burying his spear through her armor. He heard the Skill. Saw it.
[Army of the King]. The King of Destruction’s…Ozem brought up his axe and blocked a blow from the [Death Commander]. Suddenly—his vanguard’s momentum slowed. Ozem heard his [Dangersense] going off. He bared his teeth. The [Soldiers] of Reim looked up as their [King]’s Skill ran through them. They turned. Ozem saw the Minotauress yank the spear out of her chest, striking at the [Spearman] who dodged with unnatural grace.
Then the young woman rose. Her sword slashed, and a shadowy flicker cut the Minotauress as well. It parted her armor and the Minotauress staggered. The young Human stepped forwards and drove her blade home. Ozem looked around.
 
—-
 
[The Army of the King]. The words ran through her head. Different. If Teres had to describe them—she would call them radiant.
 
[Temporary Level 35 Trained Bladeswoman!]
[Skill – Shadowcut Blade obtained!]
[Skill – Acrobat’s Form obtained!]
[Skill – Sword: Keening Edge obtained!]
[Skill – Enhanced Strength obtained!]
 
The words burned. Teres’ body came alive.
Eight levels. He had given her eight levels and the Skills to go with it. She raised her head. Her sword had cut the Minotauress in a moment. She felt stronger—faster, even with Skills aside.
It wasn’t just her. The [Soldiers] around her surged forwards. Suddenly—they were on even footing with all but the best of the Minotaurs! And the Skill affected them all.
General Ozem backed away from [Death Commander] Ytol, trading blows with the man. Now his force was outnumbered against a foe on even ground. No—Teres looked at a [Soldier] who had been just Level 11. He had gained more levels than she.
 
—-
 
The Greathammer Minotaur was lanced from a dozen blades. Flos Reimarch stood up. He wiped at his bloody mouth.
“[Army of the King]. We are men and women who fight Minotaurs, monsters and great foes. This is why I am [King]. Come, House of Minos. If you wished to see my wrath—now you shall. Kill them all.”
His [Soldiers] poured forwards. It was, as many had said, a Skill with so many limits. But when he used it, his army was invincible.
For one battle.
 
—-
 
The tide had turned. Ozem felt his army shudder as the King of Destruction’s army turned into a sea of elite monsters. He backed up, his battleaxe swinging. Strong they might be, but they had not earned these levels!
But there were so many. Medain’s army had halted its advance. They were turning, instantly going from offense to retreat.
It had happened at last. The [Army of the King] had been forced. The King of Destruction had used his greatest trump card. He would be bereft of it for a crucial month.
But he would destroy any foe on this battlefield. The Sharphorns were suddenly under-leveled and outnumbered. The veterans fell back, trading blows as equals now. Ozem looked around.
And finally—he laughed.
“I win, King of Destruction! This is the House of Minos’ victory!”
He roared. The Minotaurs around him heard his cheer and bellowed as well. They fell, laughing.
“Sound the retreat! [Lineholders], hold back Reim’s army!”
The [General] turned. The Humans looked up at him, not comprehending. Perhaps the one-legged [Death Commander], tied to his saddle, understood. He stared darkly at Ozem, unwilling to risk his life.
He had won. General Ozem had forced the King of Destruction’s hand. All of it, the sacrifice of Neriha, the death of his brothers and sisters—
“Let the world celebrate their victories in the days that follow. Today, it was the House of Minos who took on the King of Destruction’s army.”
The [General] bared his teeth. Only one thing remained, now.
“Fall back. Sharphorns, to the ships!”
The order went out across the army. The House of Minos’ soldiers pulled back. The young, those new to war were in full retreat. A quarter of them had fallen already; but the veterans were yanking them out of their battle-fury. Ordering them behind them.
“We will make a stand here. Carve through the King of Destruction’s army and buy the young time to make for the ships! Unleash the artillery without limit!”
Ozem’s voice was a roar. His comrades of old shouted as they fought alone among the sea of Humans. Here they died! The [General] spun, his battleaxe laying left and right. They cut at him; he broke a healing potion against his flesh.
“General!”
Someone seized him. A [Venerable Warrior]—in his eighties, older than Ozem himself!
“Galran! Come to die together?”
Ozem’s eyes were red with bloodfury at last. The old Minotaur grabbed him. His eyes were red too. But he could still think. He pointed back.
“Someone must lead the retreat! [General], that last task is yours. Go. Go!”
The Minotaur did not want to. Someone slashed at Galran and the Minotaur roared. He brought his maul down.
“The last duty is yours. The young might yet live! We will cut you a path!”
They had a future. Ozem hesitated. He saw the Sharphorns moving back. But slower—they needed his Skills. He looked at his comrades.
“You have given me victory, friends. Die well.”
They turned their backs to him, fighting. Ozem ran through enemy [Soldiers], hacking, fighting to escape. They pierced his armor—but another potion bought him time. Behind him—Galran and the Minotaurs made a stand.
 
—-
 
The House of Minos was retreating. Reim’s army poured forwards. They were slowed; the Minotaurs buried deep within their ranks fought until they were brought down. And they died slowly, with the weight of their levels and age keeping them fighting long past their lifespans.
But they did die. It was inevitable. And finally—the Minotaur’s artillery was silenced. The [Mages] overwhelmed them with spells.
The [Master of Artillery] struck the bolt against his ballista as the enemy closed in around him. It was the last explosion. And it bought time.
The Sharphorns and the last of Ozem’s veterans fell back with the [General] himself. They were pursued.
Flos’ army was reforming. Now—the King of Destruction had demanded a mount. His Rustängmarder had been torn down to a dozen, including Ytol. One of the half-Giants lay wounded. The Serpent Hunters had taken fierce casualties, and five of Parasol Stroll had died.
And he had used his Skill. The King of Destruction’s fury was palpable.
“Run them down. Not one of the Minotaurs will live.”
Orthenon was already in pursuit. The Minotaurs were moving as fast as possible. Ozem was using every Skill to hasten their progress back to the coastline. But it was far to go.
Another army was in full-retreat as well. Medain’s army was hurrying back to their capital.
“Milord. The King of Jecrass.”
“I know!”
Flos Reimarch snapped. He looked at Medain’s army.
“Kill the Minotaurs. Then we will wipe out Medain’s army. The [Army of the King] will not rest until this battle is done. Take the foot, Mars. Kill High King Perric and bring me his head.”
His forces split. The cavalry and half-Giants raced after the House of Minos. And High King Perric’s forces saw a horde of fast-moving infantry closing.
“Leave the heavy foot behind! Golden Ranks, with me!”
He began to race for the capital. But the King of Destruction’s army was nearly as fast as horses, some of them. Both forces ran for the coastline, the beaches, the distant Minotaur warships and the capital’s walls.
General Ozem looked back and saw the King of Destruction and the [Steward] riding on him. He looked at his army.
He had won. They had won a great victory.
Now, it was time to die.
 
—-
 
They ran. Sprinted, without regard for their endurance. They were trying to outrun horses.
Ozem ran with them. Every inch of him longed to have been with his comrades. But he had a duty. Honor and duty.
The young. He should have fought closer to the coastline. The House of Minos had asked for those unafraid to die. But these—they had a future.
“Sharphorns. Drop armor. Drop secondary weapons. Drop shields!”
His voice made the Minotaurs hesitate. Then the younger Minotaurs dropped their gear. Shields, armor, throwing axes—everything. They carried only one weapon.
“Run! Pick up the pace! Who is the highest commander living?”
“General!”
A young voice. A [Sea Captain]—she slowed.
“Your name!”
He knew it, vaguely. The Minotauress carried a long axe.
“Seler of Maweil!”
She saw the old Minotaur grin.
“Good. When I fall, you will take command. Get your force to the ships if possible. If not—”
“Ozem!”
The roar came from behind them. Both Minotaurs looked back.
The King of Destruction was coming. Orthenon was shooting at the Minotaur’s side. The [General] raised his voice.
“[Lineholders], make your stand here!”
The last of the Minotaurs turned. They formed a shield, waiting. The King of Destruction could have raced past them. But he was too furious. He came at them as the Minotaurs began to sing.
 
“From the House of Minos we march to war
And the axes rise and fall once more…”
 
The younger Minotaurs slowed as they looked back. Their instincts told them to stay. Not to flee! But the [General] roared at them.
“Retreat! Are you [Warriors] or beasts? The House of Minos has need of every axe! Run!”
They ran. The [Lineholders] sang as they clashed with the King of Destruction. They bought precious minutes.
[Longstriders]. [Fearless Charge]. [Vigor of Champions]—he was not a [General] who had the Skills for speed.
“[Vanguard: Haste]! Go!”
His last Skill was ready to use. The Minotaurs blurred. But the King of Destruction had countless vassals capable of matching that speed. Ozem looked back.
“Wipe them out. Orthenon—take those ships!”
The King of Destruction was ordering the [Ruinbringer Steward] ahead, to take the warships. The skeleton crew would fight—but if they needed to, they would have to retreat.
Alas. The [Steward] flashed past them with a smaller group. Ozem didn’t know if the Sharphorns or crews would be able to fight him off long enough to escape. It didn’t matter.
The King of Destruction was nearly upon them. Now—Ozem turned. He planted his feet on the ground.
“Greathammers, Axes of Maweil. This is where we stand. All of you—with me.”
The veterans stopped. Seler of Maweil looked back.
“[General]!”
“This is strategy, Seler of Maweil. I am blessed to be both [Soldier] and [General]. I see the glory of both! Go! May you return to the House of Minos. Now, my brothers and sisters—let us bring the King of Destruction down!”
The last of them joined Ozem as he drew his battleaxe and waited. The King of Destruction slowed. His [Death Commander] rode with him. And that young woman. He was intelligent, at least. If he charged—Ozem would kill him.
For a heartbeat, the King of Destruction looked at Ozem. Then he led his army forwards with a roar. General Ozem ran across the ground with a roar.
Behind him, the ship’s sails blew in the wind.
 
—-
 
The Minotaurs were outnumbered, wounded, and exhausted from running for nearly an hour. The Sharphorns were close to the ships. Close enough to be running over dunes and onto sand, at least.
But the Steward was nearly upon them and the warships. And the King of Destruction’s vanguard not far behind. Ozem’s forces held them at bay for a minute.
Five minutes. The King of Destruction’s riders could not all press together; that gave the Minotaurs the advantage. They besieged the knot of Minotaurs, loosing arrows and spells.
The old Minotaurs fell slowly. They drank potions, shielding each other, overlapping Skills. Taunting their foes to close combat.
Fourteen minutes. It was down to a melee. Flos Reimarch had charged Ozem, and the two met as Mars’ forces neared the capital with Medain’s army still fleeing. Those left behind had surrendered rather than fight.
“Wretches!”
Zamea brought down her axe. A group of Minotaurs disappeared. The half-Giants had caught up with the [Riders]. Ozem saw them tearing forwards, striding past his forces.
Out of potions. The [General]’s armor was torn. Bloody. He saw the King of Destruction raging forwards, killing the last of his [Bodyguards].
“Ozem.”
“King of Destruction.”
The Minotaur raised his ruined battleaxe, the edge damaged, enchantment broken. He charged forwards and Flos rode down on him.
“Loose.”
[Death Commander] Ytol’s voice was clipped. Eight bows sang. Ozem staggered. Flos’ head turned—but then they clashed. The Minotaur swung his axe—the [King] knocked the blade aside and swung it down.
