Each one knew the song. Young and old, male and female, they marched as they sang. Passing by the dying [Soldiers] from Jecrass and Medain, towards the King of Destruction. Reim’s army could hear them, in the distance.
It was a song anyone who came from the House of Minos knew. Home.
 
“From days of war and wrath we ran
Exiled from every land
Searching for our honor lost
And found the House of Minos’ sands.
 
In days of old our savage kind
Lost our pride and lost our minds
To keep our wisdom the King decreed:
This land was ours as fate designed.
 
By rock and sand the holds arose
And the House of Minos built its throne
Maweil sails and Beriad creates
Hammerad protects and Samad grows.
 
Now watch and wait, and guard this land
That never may dishonor stand
When the King calls our fleets to war
We remind the world of our names once more.
 
From the House of Minos we march to war
And the axes rise and fall once more
Until the last horn will break
Let nations tremble and empire quake!”
 
—-
 
Each to their own. Venaz and Calruz saw Minotaurs within the ranks of the Sharphorns and one of the old vanguards swung up their blades. And they joined in.
 
“Where does the warrior fall?
What end see I, large or small?
Laugh at death, and stand ever tall!
From the House of Minos, Hammerad calls.”
 
Each to a holding. Maweil was next, Bezale’s home, and Ozem’s.
 
“We sail until the world’s end
Bring death to foe and aid to friend
Those whom the House of Minos offend
Maweil’s sails your doom portends.”
 
Perhaps then—the others understood. Zevara looked at Calruz and Bezale and saw part of it. She sat there, next to his cell.
As he marched, General Ozem smiled. It was quiet again. He looked forwards, to the King of Destruction.
It would be glorious. Both armies slowly advanced towards each other over many miles. And behind them—almost as an afterthought—the battle between Jecrass and Medain reached its zenith.
 
—-
 
Princess Jecaina of Jecrass saw war in its entirety for the first time. She saw battle—not as [Soldiers] returning home, wounded, triumphant, or absent—but as her father had known it.
“Fall back! To the High King! Rally on me!”
“Forwards! Guard the [Princess]!”
Men and women crashed around her, horses impaling themselves on pikes, their riders falling from saddles, hacking at each other. There was no finesse here, no patterns of attack and defense except on a larger scale.
The [Soldiers] were packed so tightly in places by both sides pressing forwards that they had no room to maneuver. They were literally shoved into their enemy’s swords by those behind them.
All for her. Jecaina saw a [Soldier] reaching for her, only to be taken down by a spear-cast from afar. She cried out in horror—until she saw the golden wave on his chest and realized he’d been a [Soldier] from Medain.
She had picked up a shortsword from the ground. It felt so heavy and awkward rather than the foil or rapier she carried. But she swung it, knocking down a blade coming at her. She found a shield covered in gore and hesitated—then she seized it.
“The [Princess]! Secure the—”
They didn’t even know where she was. The fighting rounded on the shouter, a [Knight-Captain] desperately fighting forwards. The [Princess] raised her buckler. For a moment she stared in horror at someone’s intestines, still stuck to the rim.
Then—a screaming [Knight] charged her and she brought the shield up and felt the shock of impact as he swung a mace. She lashed out, hacking at his helmet and armor. She tried to step back—collided with someone who threw her forwards.
He was right. Jecaina couldn’t use her footwork. And the other [Knight] just kept charging at her, trying to pull aside her shield and bring his mace down on her body for a killing blow. If he knew she was the [Princess] of Jecrass—the battle had driven him to madness.
“[Fencer’s Riposte]!”
An opening. Jecaina’s blade flicked across the opening as the mace rebounded. If the other [Knight] had possessed a shield; but it had been torn from his arm.
Her shortsword caught him in the tiniest of gaps between helmet and armor. His gorget failed him. Jecaina felt the sick impact—and pulled her sword back.
He clutched at a throat spilling crimson. But he still attacked her—or tried to. Jecaina brought her sword down on his helmet, like a hammer. She struck again and again, crying out.
He fell limp. Jecaina stood over him, shuddering. Just for a second—
She had killed someone. Not a monster. A person.
Her. She had killed…her. Jecaina looked at the female [Knight] and realized that. Then someone grabbed her.
“[Pr—]”
She slashed at the person grabbing her. The [Soldier] stumbled, staring down at the gash in his armor. Jecrass’ armor.
“Oh.”
Jecaina lowered her blade in shock. The [Soldier] fumbled desperately. For a potion.
“[Princess] J—”
His chest exploded in a gout of fire. Jecaina saw the short spear run the [Soldier] through as the enchanted tip burst through armor and flesh. A [Warrior] in armor painted with gold-leaf pointed at her.
“The [Princess] is here! Rally on me!”
Medain’s Golden Ranks carved through the [Soldiers] around her. Former adventurers, wielding the same artifacts they’d possessed in their career. Compared to that—Jecaina struck forwards in a quick stab. She saw the [Warrior] step back and his spear whirled.
“[Overcut Arc]!”
The fiery tip sheared through her unenchanted sword. Jecaina stumbled backwards as the Gold-rank advanced. Even compared to Medain’s [Knights], they were in another class.
“To the [Princess]!”
A figure burst through the crowd. A warrior mounted on a fiery horse. Jecaina recognized it. Nightmare. The horse was dark, possessed of incredible night-vision and stealth; a carnivorous predator.
The enchanted barding was aflame. The horse screamed and charged. The Gold-rank adventurer brought up his spear and swore.
“[Phantom Spearwall]!”
Jecaina saw the horse charge forwards onto the spectral spears. They pierced the animal’s hide and it screamed. But then—it kept moving. Jecaina saw the mouth open and razor teeth biting at the adventurer.
“Nightmare! Get over here!”
The rider struck at the adventurer with a spear and the two exchanged blows as more of Medain’s elites moved forwards. The rider turned.
“Princess! That way!”
He pointed and the Gold-rank jabbed. Jecaina saw a burst of fire. She turned—and ran. She heard a voice, saw, for a moment, at the center of the fighting, a figure on foot.
“Jecaina!”
Raelt of Jecrass was fighting without his horse. He had his parrying dagger and sword; both were covered up to the hilts in red. He looked—Jecaina saw his head turning.
“Father!”
She shouted—and felt an impact on her back. Jecaina turned; one of the Golden Ranks had thrown something.
A net. The adventurer grinned as he hauled her back.
“To me! We’ve got the [Princess]!”
The battle turned around Jecaina in a moment. But—she saw Jecrass’ [Riders] plunging forwards, fighting in the press. But they were light cavalry! They weren’t meant for a fight like this. And half were on foot. Which meant they’d lost their mounts.
Medain’s army had finally caught up. Now—the Golden Ranks and fastest of their infantry were amid the fighting. Jecaina fought wildly, but the net thrower’s bindings were like steel. She was dragged backwards, into their grip again.
So helpless. Jecaina wanted to shout. One Gold-rank—or even two! But an army surrounded her. She was dragged backwards as Medain’s ranks closed around her.
Then she saw a tall man. Not as tall as her father. He had a crown, and he was strong, armored in numerous artifacts and surrounded by the Golden Ranks, his elites. High King Perric looked down at Jecaina with a triumphant look on his face.
“Princess Jecaina. You have inconvenienced us quite a bit.”
High King Perric gestured to his soldiers.
“Take her to the capital at once. Force Jecrass’ soldiers back. Don’t tear them completely to bits. We need their army to take on the King of Destruction.”
“Let go of me! You have no right, you coward!”
Jecaina fought the hands around her. Perric looked at her with a flash of anger at that last word. But he turned past her.
“Amplify my voice. Raelt of Jecrass! Your daughter is my captive! Pull your forces back now!”
His words boomed across the battlefield. Jecrass’ soldiers stopped fighting and saw, at last, Jecaina being dragged onto a horse. The Golden Ranks surrounding her. She saw a man on the ground look up. His circlet of gold—her father met her eyes.
“There you are.”
Raelt muttered. He’d been so worried, looking for her among the bodies, the fighting. So—he stumbled forwards.
“Your Majesty—”
Geril was next to him. The old retainer had fought through everything to stay with him. General Lael? She might be in the fighting. Or dead. Raelt didn’t know. Right now—he didn’t care.
There she was.
King Perric frowned as he saw Raelt stumbling forwards. The man looked half-dead, covered in blood and wounds.
“King Leysars, you will turn your army to do battle with the King of Destruction! Your daughter is—”
Could he even hear him? Perric raised his voice. And he saw the King of Duel’s eyes turn towards him.
“Perric.”
Raelt came to a stop. He seemed to take in the odds only now. Medain’s elites, standing fresh and ready and Jecrass’ exhausted army.
The King of Destruction had managed to transport a vast army with him. But Raelt’s desperate riders hadn’t a chance. Not against Medain’s full army.
The Gold-ranks were cheering their leader, one of them. The High King drew his enchanted sword, the Wavebreaker of Medain, a heirloom of his house, and pointed it at Raelt. He wore a Ring of Ironskin along with the Greater Arrowguard Ring, and an Amulet of Solidity, which could resist both aura and spell. His boots were [Haste]-capable for two minutes. His armor…
Raelt pointed his rapier at Perric.
“Fight me, you little coward.”
His voice was unenchanted. But it was loud enough. The cheering stopped. High King Perric looked down at Raelt. The [King of Challenges] swayed on his feet.
“You are in no position to make demands. I—we say again—”
“Fight me, Perric. And I’ll kill you like the pig you are.”
The [King of Challenges] began to walk forwards. His soldiers advanced. He was looking at Jecaina. She tried to call out to him.
“Father, don’t—”
“Don’t be a fool! She’s my prisoner! Her life is in my hands!”
Raelt was just looking at Jecaina. Perric put his sword out, towards Jecaina. The King of Jecrass looked at his daughter. Then up at the King of Medain.
“You cannot have her. I said, I challenge you, Perric. As [Kings]! Fight me!”
He roared. And his army shouted.
“Challenge! Duel!”
The High King hesitated. He was armed in twelve artifacts, each more powerful than the last. Raelt looked dead. But…he had brought the King of Destruction near to death. Twice. More than that…
“You’ve forsworn yourself in a duel before, King Leysars. You have no right. Turn your army now and—”
The King of Duels stared at his daughter. Then the Golden Ranks. They were tensed, wary. Each one was a former Gold-rank adventurer. And they had a sixth sense about what might come next.
Not easy foes. They were fully prepared to fall back with Jecaina and their [King] rather than fight. And Raelt had no more tricks. No more River Wardens, either, not with him.
His daughter. Raelt shook his head slightly. Behind him was the King of Destruction’s army. They might be able to crush Medain’s forces. But they would have to take the capital in a siege first, if Medain’s army had Jecaina. And Flos had sworn his oath.
If the Minotaurs weren’t here…if he had noticed earlier, or made peace earlier.
If, if, if. Raelt’s life was plagued by those kinds of things. A ruler, no, a [King] was haunted by them, no matter what they did. His head bowed.
The King of Duels turned away, lowering his rapier and dagger. The High King smiled. Jecaina stirred. She saw Raelt walking, his posture light, relaxed.
Perfect. She opened her mouth. But.
She wanted to be saved. 
Her father looked back. Her father. Her dad. King Perric of Medain might have sired children dozens of times with all his wives. But he was no parent.
Jecaina saw Raelt neatly turn, his body compact, moving on his heel. He raised his rapier as he took a step, as if to bow or kneel.
The [King of Challenges] vanished. He stepped across the distance between himself and Jecaina. Covered it in a moment.
A [Fencer’s Lunge]. He buried the rapier in the head of the Gold-rank who held Jecaina. Enchanted rapier piercing through Skill and artifact.
[Royal Arms]. The other Golden Ranks recoiled, crying out. Raelt withdrew the sword.
“[Triple Slash].”
He cut across a second Gold-rank adventurer, aiming at one covered in leather armor. Enchanted, but leather. Blood flew.
“You fool. Capture him! Him and his daughter!”
Perric reacted first. His Golden Ranks closed in. They were, after all, Gold—
A [King] looked at them. He was, after all, a [King].
[Flurry Blades]. Both his rapier and dagger moved. An adventurer threw himself sideways to avoid. Jecaina saw Raelt spin, seeking another target.
He moved away from a slashing blade with [Flash Step], moving out of range. His rapier flickered. The air moved. [Wind Cutter] took the woman in the eyes.
“Go.”
The King of Duels slapped the horse’s side. Jecaina looked down at him. And then realized—the Gold-ranks around her had fallen back, to take cover. She felt the horse start, then move.
“Stop him!”
The High King saw it all and roared. His Golden Ranks surged forwards.
“Horselords and Jecrass! For the King of Duels!”
The [Soldiers] charged. They broke forwards, on foot, on horse, and Jecaina thought she saw them glowing. Just for a moment. It came from her father. Men and women seemed larger. And they fell upon Medain’s army like—like—
[Aura of the Lion]. Jecaina’s horse made a furious sound. It planted its front hooves and suddenly kicked.
A Gold-rank [Warrior] had been grabbing for her. He had dozens of Skills, possibly with [Ironskin] or [Greater Endurance]…
The horse’s hooves still kicked him in the face. Raelt saw another grabbing for Jecaina’s leg. He stepped over and ran the man through the chest.
Someone knocked him aside. A woman with a shield. Raelt tried to drag the rapier free—but it was caught in the screaming adventurer. So he let go of it.
“I’ve got him! I’ve got—”
The [King] leapt. He wrenched her shield down and swept his parrying dagger across her throat. The Gold-rank shouted and one of her rings flashed.
The blade turned. Raelt’s vision spun as she buffeted him with her shield. She was strong! He dragged his dagger up and stabbed again.
