Nathan shook his head but didn’t respond, once again reminded of the giant gap between Questors and everybody else. He’d come to realize how privileged his life on Earth had been in comparison to Davrar, without fear of death or hunger and with the choice to do just about anything that could pay the bills. The Heirs had been lucky themselves, as the name suggested. But they’d grown up under the threat of monsters, knowing that they would risk their lives to protect their community. Gemore didn't have strict rules, but it was close enough to the edge of survival that everybody was expected to contribute.

Though I wonder if the Liber Physicae will change that.

But as far as he could tell, these Questors had only rarely faced hardship of any sort, unless you counted being denied the finest luxuries as hardship. They didn’t understand the value of money and seemed to treat any scarcity as a novelty. They also had a massive blind spot about how mortals in Davrar lived. He thought about trying to educate them, right then and there, on exactly how good they had it, and the way their behavior betrayed their ignorance of how the vast majority of people on Davrar lived.

But he couldn’t imagine that conversation going well. His Inspiration skill would help, but how could you explain to somebody that they were incredibly privileged without offending them? They still needed this pair to help them navigate Ostren. Maybe when they’d reached the Blinded Mountain, he could give it a try.

After all, this was exactly the problem that they needed to fix with Davrar.

At least they're not wallowing in their apathy. They don't understand the evils of the system.

Permanent Talent 1: Magical Destruction 3

Permanent Talent 2: Immortal Body 7

Permanent Talent 3: Skystride 4

Class: End of Magic level 1281

Bottomless Stamina : 129100/129100

Indomitable

The Undeniable Strike of the Antimage

Stamina Burn

Momentum Mastery

Stoneflesh

Arcane Nullification

Galefoot

Close Quarters Mastery

Boundless Aura

Denial of Mysticism

The Ending of Magic

Aura Projection

Selective Dispel

The Living World

Class: Death of Legends level 891

Limitless Focus: 9010/9010

Legendary Blows

Out of Sight

Magical Mimicry

Antimemetic

The Hidden Strike

Nondetection

Mana Control

Lethality Prediction

Wizardly Immunity

Communication Countermeasures

Sorcerous Sabotage

Legendkiller

Bane of Myth

To the Ends of Davrar

Utility skills:

Tranquility 8

Inspiration 10

Impulse 6

The Sense of Magic 2

Forewarning 7

The Truth of Magic 3

Evasion 3

Wizard’s Palace 3

Veracity 4

Whiplash 3

Visibility Control 7

High-tier Disguise 10

High-tier Battle Cry 5

Aura Mastery 3
