As the forgewagon crested a small rise in the road, Rain spotted Ameliah waiting for them in the distance, standing next to a wooden bridge over a frozen stream. She had the hood of her cloak raised, and Rain was sure that he’d have missed her completely had Detection not warned him that she was there. He raised his hand to wave, and Ameliah waved back. Instead of slipping back into the trees, she started walking toward them.

“Looks like we’re stopping here,” Rain said to Tallheart, pointing. “Distance should be close enough. Drive over the stream before you stop. We’ll probably end up melting it when we camp, so we’d better do it now.”

Tallheart nodded, pulling back on one of the levers, sending them crunching off the road and down toward the bank. It looked like he had decided to drive straight over the ice rather than try the bridge, which was probably wise. That thing looks like it’s on its last legs.

They crossed without incident—the stream wasn’t that deep and was probably frozen through. Rain’s legs were burning as he dismounted from the bouncing forgewagon, and he almost fell as his knee buckled. Hmm. I guess it’s not as healed as I thought.

“Problem?” Ameliah asked, walking up to them.

“Hurt my knee,” Rain said. “I healed it, but it looks like the damage was worse than I thought. I’m not very good at judging levels of pain anymore. Physical pain, anyway.” Damn headaches.

“Here, let me see,” Ameliah said, laying her hand on his shoulder. Rain forced his face to remain neutral as he felt Tissue Scan sweep through him. She doesn’t know that I know what that skill actually does. Play it cool, Rain. It’ll only be weird if you make it weird.

“Yeah, you definitely hurt it. You’ve got a torn ligament.”

Rain shivered as the rush of healing flowed through him. Barely recognized aches and pains vanished in an instant as his health overflowed his cap, leaving him with only the dull throbbing behind his eyes. “Whoa.”

“How did it happen?” Ameliah asked.

Rain rubbed at his neck, “Uh, I kinda did it to myself. Imbalance. The ring, you know?”

“Have I mentioned how ridiculous that thing is?” Ameliah asked, glancing at Tallheart.

“Yes, you have,” Rain said. “Tallheart says he’ll make you one, by the way, as soon as we can find another Arcane GranCryst. Seems like something like that would be pretty useful for a Jack. All your stats are equal, right?”

Ameliah nodded. “Yes, they are. As nice as it would be to have something like that, it wouldn’t really work for me, though.”

“Why not?” Rain asked.

“It’s a Jack thing,” Ameliah said with a shrug. “Balance works better.”

“Mmm,” Tallheart said, not looking up from where he was fiddling with something underneath the forgewagon. “I can make something more suited to you once I have the materials.”

“You really don’t have to,” Ameliah said, “but thanks.”

“Mmm,” Tallheart said.

Ameliah’s eyes flicked to the side, and Rain turned to see Vanna approaching them. “We’re stopping?” she asked, looking at Ameliah questioningly.

“I think we should,” Ameliah said, glancing at Rain playfully. “Do you agree, Captain?”

Rain snorted. “Yes, I suppose I do.”

“Good,” Vanna said. “I was about to say something if you didn’t call a halt soon. A few people are having trouble. I think we should slow down the pace a bit tomorrow.”

Rain frowned. “You’re probably right, but I don’t like hearing it. It’ll take us forever to get anywhere at this pace. How hard do you think I can push them before they start hating me for it?”

Vanna considered for a moment, then shrugged. “We can try to keep this pace, I suppose. Managing a company is a bit different from a work crew. I knew how much my crew could take, but…” She shook her head. “I couldn’t tell you if the ones having trouble are actually at their limits, or if they’re just whiners. I haven’t known them long enough.”

“We will march for as long as is needed,” said Tarny, having joined them as Vanna was speaking. “Lord Rain, do not concern yourself with such matters. Your task is to lead; ours is but to follow.”

Rain thought he hid his sigh admirably. Who talks like that? He didn’t bother telling Tarny to stop calling him ‘Lord.’ There was no point. “Thank you, Tarny, but I don’t want anyone to hurt themselves by working too hard before they’re ready. I’ll call a few more stops tomorrow for rest, but we’ll be marching the whole day, instead of just half.”

“Yes, my lord,” Tarny said, bowing.

“No bowing, Tarny,” Rain said. “For the last time.”

“Sorry, my lord,” Tarny said.

Rain did sigh this time. He glared at Ameliah, who was smirking at him. “What?”

“Nothing,” she said, turning away. “I’m going to get started on the fortifications. It shouldn’t take me more than an hour. Do you want to set up right here?”

“One moment,” Rain said, checking with Detection. He didn’t feel any significant sources of metal in the earth below them, so he nodded. “Nothing around that’s worth moving for. There’s a bit of iron in the soil, but not much. Unless you’re low, Tallheart, I wouldn’t bother.”

“Mmm,” Tallheart said. “I am fine at the moment. Ameliah, if you would not mind, I would prefer some walls so I may rest in peace.”

“Sure,” Ameliah said. “Whatever you’d like. I’m going to set up a few partitions anyway so we can have some privacy.”

“Thanks, Ameliah,” Rain said. “Do you need any help?”

Ameliah shook her head. “I’ll be fine.” She pointed. “I left a Stumper in the trees over there. If you want to get some people breaking it down, that would be good. I’m hungry enough to eat the thing raw at this point. I shouldn’t have skipped breakfast.”

“I’ll see it done, my lady,” Tarny said, bowing to her. She rolled her eyes but didn’t correct him.

“Get Carten and Jamus to go with you,” Rain said, hiding his smile as he glanced at Tarny. “I don’t sense anything around, but you never know, even with the trees. Speaking of, pass out the axes. We’ll need firewood.”

“I’ll take care of all that stuff,” Vanna said before Tarny could reply. “Anything else, Rain? What are you going to do?”

Rain considered. “I’ll go wander around, I guess. See how everyone’s doing and listen to any problems they’re having so I know what needs fixing. After that, I’m going to work on the codes. I want to talk to people about that once we’re dug in. Ameliah, do you think you’d be able to do some healing once you’re done with the walls? I’m guessing we’ll have some blistered feet to deal with. Is that too frivolous, you think, using Healing Word for something like that?”

“I don’t mind,” Ameliah said. “It’s not like mana is a problem with you around.”

Rain grinned. “On that note, I should find Kettel. He needs to rank up his spells. I’m gonna make him in charge of starting all the fires. Something to keep him out of trouble.”

“Cunning, my lord,” Tarny said. “You are killing two birds with one stone, to use your expression. Perhaps three birds. I will find him and send him to you.”

“Thanks, Tarny,” Rain said, glancing at him. Asskisser.

“Before I forget, Rain, here,” Ameliah said, tossing him a sack. “That’s everything that I found today. There’s something like a hundred Tel, plus a couple Chem-Crysts. No Cold-Crysts, even though I ran into some new Cold-Aspect monsters out there. I’ll go over them later once everyone has eaten.”

“Awesome,” Rain said, peering into the sack. “How much of this do you want to keep? You did all the work, basically. I need to write down the rules for how this stuff works.”

“It’s fine,” Ameliah said with a shrug. “A hundred Tel makes no difference to me. But you’re right; others are going to care. Whatever you do, make sure you keep the math simple. I’m still not convinced I understand that whole Rankin thing, and you’ve explained it to me like six times.”

“Simple, right. Probably for the best,” Rain said, laughing. “At least until after math class. I’ll see if I can come up with an idea, and we can discuss it along with the other thing.”

“What other thing?” Vanna asked.

“Rules for who gets priority for blues and such. That’s the main thing I wanted to go over tonight. We need to straighten that out before we actually find one. Maybe I can find a way to solve both problems at once. Anyway, daylight’s burning. Let’s get to work.”

“Daylight is burning,” Tarny repeated as if tasting the individual words. “You have a marvelous way with words, my lord, as always.”

Rain pinched the bridge of his nose. “Tarny, nobody likes a brown-noser.”

“A…brown…noser?”

“I’ll explain it to you later,” Rain said.

Rain stood surveying the gathered members of Ascension. They were standing in a large open room of mud walls with no ceiling. The walls were thicker than they were tall and would be sufficient to stop a Stumper. Smaller monsters could climb them, but those could be dealt with by the defenders. At the moment, there was nothing in range of Detection, and little chance of something spawning nearby. The closest trees had been felled, providing fuel for the fires burning atop the wall. A few of those also had been set up with cauldrons, filled with chunks of both river-ice and Fungiform Stumper. Delicious.

There was a gap in the wall that led to a similar room, except with some partitions to break up the space. That room was to be for sleeping, while this one was for more general use. The sleeping-room was deserted at the moment, as Rain had called a meeting. The main room was cramped with everyone gathered, thanks to the fact that the sleds were in there with them. The forgewagon, at least, was still outside. Ameliah would put some walls up around it later to keep it safe overnight.

Rain cleared his throat, and when no one reacted, clapped his hands sharply, then waved. “Attention, everyone. We’ve got a few things to talk about.” After waiting a few moments for the conversation to die down, Rain cleared his throat again. “Right. So today, we marched for eleven point nine kilometers. There’re five kilometers to the league, more or less, so that’s a little over two leagues. I’m going to be teaching you all about kilometers later tonight; don’t worry about it now. We’re going to try to keep up this same pace tomorrow. As slow as that is, we’ll be going for the whole day, or until we reach the village of Essed, whichever happens first. Any questions about that before I start on what we’re doing for the rest of the day today?”

Several hands rose.

“Yes?” Rain said, pointing at Mahria.

“Are you going to let us loot Essed?” she asked.

“Yes, though that isn’t the term I would use,” Rain said, nodding to her. “There are likely supplies there that we will need. We’ll look for survivors first, then give any dead we find a proper funeral. Only then will we take what we need. That includes coins, Tel, Crysts, and the like, which are of no use to the dead. All of that will get split up according to the codes, which is one of the reasons I called this meeting.”

“Good,” Mahria said. “As long as you’re not going to do something stupid like burying their valuables with them.”

Rain frowned at her tone, but he decided not to make an issue of it, as he’d seen something else that needed dealing with. “Staavo,” he said, staring at the old man who was fiddling with the generator near the back wall.

“What?”

“Would you mind leaving that alone until I’m done talking please?” Rain said.

“But it’s almost—ow!”

“Thank you, Jamus,” Rain said, shaking his head. “Anyway, the codes. As the captain, I’ve decided that I want anyone to be able to submit an idea for a new rule or a modification. Anyone who has an idea can call a meeting like this, and then we’ll discuss it and have a vote. If there’s more than seventy-five percent in favor, it gets added to the codes. On that note, that will be the first thing we add. All in favor, raise your hand.”

Rain raised his own hand to demonstrate. After a moment, a few more hands joined his until about half of the members had their hands raised.

“Excuse me, Rain,” said Samson, who didn’t have his hand raised. “I have a comment, but I can’t raise my hand without voting. May I speak?”

“Go ahead,” Rain said. “You can put your hands down, everyone. We’ll have a little discussion, then we’ll vote again.”

“Thank you,” said Samson. “I have a question on the rule you just proposed. Won’t it be chaos if everyone is allowed to just submit rules? Won’t we be spending all of our time voting on ideas if just anyone can submit stuff whenever they want? Wouldn’t it be better to just have a few people in charge of working on the codes, then only call a vote when they feel it is ready for everyone?”

“Good,” Rain said, nodding. “Yes, eventually, we’ll want to do something like that. A direct democracy—everyone votes on everything—really only works when you don’t have that many people. Fifty is already pushing it. Like I said, though, it’s not just adding stuff, but also changing it. This first rule is only so we have something to use as a base to build on. We can amend it later.”

“I suppose I can agree to that,” Samson said, nodding.

“Anyone else?”

“Who is in charge of writing all this down?” asked Romer.

Rain shrugged. “I made sure to bring plenty of paper. Are you volunteering?”

“I suppose I am,” said Romer. “I am a scribe, after all.”

“Great, thanks,” Rain said. “Okay, let’s have another vote. Hands up if you think it should take a seventy-five percent majority to modify the codes. Romer can figure out some formal language for the rule later, and we can have another vote to confirm it. For now, we’re just going on the spirit of the thing.”

Hands started going up, but someone spoke up before Rain finished counting.

“What is seventy-five percent?”

“Hmm?” Rain asked, searching for the speaker. “Finn, was that you?”

“Yeah,” said Finn.

Rain spotted him and nodded. He hadn’t had much of a chance to talk to him after the entrance interview; he only knew that the man had been one of the merchant’s guards trapped in the Lee. His full name was Finnbogi. “I’m sorry, what was the question?”

“What does seventy-five percent mean?” Finn asked. Rain blinked. Oh.

Percent was a thing—Staavo was familiar with the concept at any rate—but most people used smaller fractions.

