After all, the Champion had already died from the first blow. Defiled were tough, but not so tough they could survive losing half their head.

The faceless corpse fell to one side, revealing the crowd of angry and surprised Defiled to Jorani. Now that the fight was over, he belatedly realized he was closer to the Enemy than to his people. Not the safest place to stand, but running would get him killed even quicker. Arm still raised from his killing blow, he flicked his wrist to slough off the blood before striking a triumphant stance, hiding his fear and uncertainty with false bravado while staring down the Defiled horde.

He had so many questions, like what just happened? Why did he think the Defiled would accept him? Why did they think he’d join them? Why did the Champion’s Aura stop affecting him? Was he actually secretly strong but didn’t know it because he was surrounded by freaks and monsters? Why weren’t the Defiled charging already?

Seconds ticked by and Jorani realized the Defiled were treating him with respect, not exactly backing away but less than enthusiastic about engaging him. Ha, his skills scared them away, did it? Well, Jorani couldn’t blame them, that uppercut was something else. How did he do it? Reinforcement, Amplification, his special brand of Honing, and... something else.

Wait... The Defiled weren’t looking at him. They were looking past him.

“Well done lad.” A meaty hand clapped Jorani on the shoulder and he almost fell to his knees. Staggering from the impact, he turned to curse the damned fool but quickly held his tongue. With his tangled beard and ragged robes, Lei Gong didn’t look the part of an Expert, but he certainly carried himself like one. There was just something intangible and indefinable about him, something that transcended his shabby appearance and elevated him to a man, nay, a warrior worthy of respect.

Oh wait. Never mind. Jorani realized what it was. The old man was sober for once. That’s why he looked so different.

Oblivious to Jorani’s rude, yet honest thoughts, Lei Gong steadied Jorani and nodded sagely. “You’ve come a long way since Sanshu,” he said, and Jorani knew he wasn’t talking about distance. “Seems for once, this old man has lost a bet, but can’t say I’m angry about it. Next time though, how about you tremble a little less? You had this old man thinking he’d have to run in and save yer ass.”

“Told you we wouldn’t need to step in.” Appearing out of the shadows, Daxian didn’t even spare Jorani a glance. “We’ll settle our accounts later. There’s work to be done.”

“That there is. Feel like another wager? Say... which one of us kills more Defiled? Same stakes as before?”

“No.”

“Come now, where’s yer competitive spirit?”

“I learned from you. Never make a bet you’re not confident of winning.”

“Scared?”

“Not fear, but pragmatism.”

“Bah. Yer no fun. Give an old man a chance to win it back, yea? Ye only made the bet because ye didn’t want to... Err, by the by lad, you can put yer arm down now.” With a roguish wink, Lei Gong continued, “You did good work here, bought enough time for yer people. Mister Rustram and his lot will be around soon enough, so what say we get the festivities started?” Without waiting for an answer, Lei Gong raised his cane and pointed it at the Defiled. Lightning flashed and thunder roared as the old man reminded everyone why he was called the Lord of Thunder. A bolt of lightning lanced across the field and illuminated the world before crashing into the Defiled. The sight left Jorani blind for several seconds, but soon the stench of burnt flesh wafted over on the breeze, lifting his spirits as the tension melted from his body.

Finally, the heavy hitters were here and poor little Jorani could finally take a break.

“Come on lad,” Lei Gong cackled, unleashing a second bolt of lightning while dragging Jorani towards the Defiled. “Stay close and show this old man what else you’ve learned in our time apart.”

Reluctant to abandon face to turn and run, Jorani quietly followed along while desperately blinking to clear his vision, reasoning that the safest place to be was beside two powerful Experts. Together, the three of them led the charge against the Defiled, and Jorani’s vision returned just in time to see Daxian smash five or six Defiled aside with a single strike. Then Jorani watched him do it again. And again.

With spear in hand, the Virtuous cleared away the chaff while Lei Gong followed closely behind, conjuring a storm of lightning to wreak havoc across the battlefield. With little to do except clean up the odd stray Daxian sent his way, Jorani used his time to look around and get a better feel for the overall battle. Crashing into a veritable wall of Defiled flesh, Dastan’s cavalry scattered weapons and bodies before them as they cut a swathe through the Enemy ranks. Erkin’s scouts followed soon after, protecting the rear while simultaneously picking off the scattered remnants still reeling from Dastan’s charge. Having learned from his mistakes, Dastan had directed the charge at an angle instead of going head first into the clump, so despite their best efforts to hold the cavalry in place, the sheer mass of the Guonei chargers proved too much for the Defiled to hold in place and the cavalry soon pushed through and emerged bloodied but whole.

In between the booming of thunder and rumbling of hoof-beats, Jorani made out a familiar sound, the twang of crossbows and whistle of bolts. No, just one crossbow, he soon realized, a single shooter working alone. Across the battlefield, he spotted signs of the marksman’s work as a Defiled warrior toppled over with a bolt in his eye and no enemy in sight, his death going largely unnoticed in the chaos of battle. The dead man’s companion was the sole exception, but after turning around to seek out the killer, he was shot down a few seconds later from a different angle. Pride swelled in Jorani’s chest as he put the pieces together, whooping with joy at the news of Siyar’s safe return. Though he had yet to spot the sneaky smuggler, Jorani didn’t know anyone else who could evade detection like that while also using a crossbow.

It wasn’t just Siyar who stood out either. Still standing on Squeaky, Ral wielded his massive quarter-staff with unnatural grace. Always spinning this way or that, the weapon danced in Ral’s hands as it broke bones and ended lives, never still even for an instant. Barely recognizable beneath all the blood and viscera, Erkin’s head moved back and forth on a swivel while guiding Ral to where he was needed most. No slouch in battle himself, the squad leader brandished his broken spear about, likely more comfortable with the improvised club than an actual weapon on account of his humble origins as a Syndicate bruiser. Less impressive were Jinoe and Ronga as the inseparable duo covered each others flanks, while Kimi’s beastly she-quin eviscerated everyone in its path, her feral personality well-suited for her mentally unhinged rider.

Chest swelling with pride, Jorani raised his voice in a wordless scream of triumph and his people echoed it proudly. Who would have thought a rag-tag group of thieves, smugglers, crooks, and vagabonds would do so well against the Defiled? They weren’t the best warriors around, but they were his people, and they’d be damned if they let the bossman down.

Well... technically, they were Erkin’s people, but not for long. The bruiser had potential, but he wasn’t ready for command, so Jorani would have to step back in. Today marked a new beginning, a new Jorani, one who would no longer drink (to excess) and wholeheartedly pursue his goals (or lower his standards). Perhaps he would take another look at Kimi. While she was a little more intense and fiercer than Jorani liked, it’d be nice to marry a woman strong enough to protect him and their future children, not to mention the angry she-quin Kimi would come with.

They lived in a dangerous world, and new and improved though he might be, Jorani wasn’t too proud to admit he’d need all the help he could get.

Chapter Meme
