A behemoth dropped down from above. I raised a hand, several singularities goring it apart. As its blue blood rained onto the scout and me in a vile downpour, I kept my eyes on the shining dunes. I centered on those beaming hills. Ah, the beautiful dunes. Peace, tranquility, and serenit-

Another behemoth barreled down from above, interrupting the moment. I glowered at it before sending a psionic wave through its mind. Ten Daniels stuffed its psyche until the creature's ego burst, its spirit exploding into fragmented mush. The corpse flopped against the sand, its body still living but its mind dead.

Watching it fall, I heard each beat of its heart, all its organs in perfect order. I took deep breaths of the toxic air here, and I put a hand on the side of my head. Closing my eyes, I settled my anger. From beside me, the scouting golem trembled for a moment. Its fear worked like a whip, and it lashed me with shame. I had to get the hell out of here.

This place was changing me, and not for the better.

Changing my attention, I peered down. Sharp spires of rainbow bone pooled at the bottom of the dunes here, but we found swaths of the desert where the bone orbs went missing. Rulers may have intended on donating the opal shards to avoid conscription. If so, I gave them props; it was a good idea.

It wouldn't be enough to take the number one spot, though.

Several other scouting golems met up with me, having different reports. I got a picture of the situation from them. They found several underground tunnels in the desert along the ossuary where the rainbow bone piles began. From those burrows, strange creatures gathered the rainbow bones piling here, and they brought them back to some hidden ruler.

A few culprits popped into my head, not least of which being the colossal rainbow bone pile. However, I hoped it was Valgus Uuriyah. The ruler held many captured eldritch on him, and he had the potential to control even primevals based on our fight. It kind of felt desperate for me to hope for an enemy, but being in battle was better than being alone.

Exploring further, I darted towards one of the tunnels, the opal bones stretching out of the side of a desert's dune. I walked into the expanse of opal before my scout followed behind me. Before it entered, I raised my hand,

"Don't. This entity could destroy you down to the atom."

The scout raised a hand, "But it is the same for you, creator."

I gave it a hollow smile, "The difference is, I won't die. You will."

"But-"

I waved my hand, "Thanks, but I've got this. Go back to your post."

The scout's hand lowered, and it turned to explore Leviathan-7 once more. My smile turned genuine as I walked off, a sense of surprise popping up in my chest. It wasn't from the golem's concern but from the golem objecting to my command. Even if it was only a slight challenge, it stood out from the monotonous, 'Yes, creator' that I usually got.

Pacing into the opal tunnel, I scowled at the shining opals. The short-lived flight out of this hellhole ended faster than one fight with a primeval. Darting into the depths, I raced through the winding tunnel, and I became a whirlwind of motion. A dozen twists and turns blurred in my eyes, no branches or divets present in the shiny, smooth surface. A few minutes of this passed, and I slammed into a patch of flattened bone. It popped up out of nowhere, being almost invisible from the other angles of opal.

And so, my heels collided into the radiant floor, cracks in the rainbowed remains forming underfoot. A burst of powdered bone splashed into the air like electrified glitter. I chose not to breathe, the sparkling dust worse than broken glass. Walking through the shining cloud, I gazed around. The sleek surface of opals pooled into a sort of bubble that branched off into several other tunnels.

Raising a brow, my eyes set onto a fountain at the center of this room. It bubbled and frothed, the lurching of the liquid like living light. It almost squealed out in pain as the bubbles burst along the surface, and it whispered for me to drink in its delicacy. Stepping up, those whispers strengthened into silent wails that rebounded in my head.

I smiled at the cute fountain, the subtle psionic attack almost laughable. After dipping my hand into the mixture, it coated my hand in light, energy coursing from it. My armor assimilated the fluid, the power becoming my own. Scooping up more with my hands, I drank from the water, and it burned in my belly like fire and ash.

And vitality.

I reached out my hands, grasping them with confusion spreading over my face. While this wouldn't grant me an incredible boost, the fact I even noticed it bewildered me. Before taking it all in, I waited a moment to see the other impacts of the mixture. The side effects took hold like I swallowed hornets.

Rainbow needles expanded from my stomach, throat, and mouth. They drilled through the skin and injected some kind of pain-inducing poison. Barely noticing it, I tilted my head at the fountain. It seemed like it was made to both tempt and kill. Interesting. Moments passed before the rainbow needles oozed out a psionic poison and attack all at once.

Once again, I stumbled back in astonishment. The mental whiplash tore one Daniel apart, the mind in tatters. It regenerated before noting how this reminded it of time magic. I agreed before scooping up the rest of this, er, stuff. It was difficult to even give it a name based on its hodgepodge of abilities, but there it was, existing whether I named it or not.

Taking the ossuary juice, I scooped in the entire fountain at once with my dimensional shield. It fell into the abyss of my pocket dimension before I gained complete awareness of it. My eyes widened as I found five blue cores at the bottom of the mixture, bits and pieces of primordials dribbling out of the cleaved fountain.

I pocketed the rest of the demonic sluice before heading deeper into the tunnel system. Minutes later, I found another of these fountains. Unlike before, I didn't attempt drinking the stuff, and I shoved it into my dimensional storage for later. After taking seven more fountains, the psionic beast I walked within roared out in rage.

Understanding its frustration, I put a hand on a wall and set out to calm it. We warred for a moment, its wrath facing my serenity. Placing all of my minds on the task, the behemoth tore through one of my minds after the other. The entity destroyed each Daniel in a row like a charging animal. It gouged and ripped and gored while I disintegrated into psionic shreds.

I died many times before giving it a sad smile. This was what I did to myself every waking moment. How could an attack like this stop me? It couldn't, and it didn't. In time, the bone beast calmed, its surging flows of energy becoming tame. Pacing further into this large trap, I sensed a primeval below.

After flowing through the tunnel, I surged towards the monster as a glowing liquid. As I reached it, the primeval turned to me, having drunk one of the shining reservoirs. Unlike me, it gorged on the entire fountain.

So to did the fountain gorge on it.

A writhing mass of shining spines erupted out of its back, the stone beast twitching with random movements. It gurgled at me, and I raised my hands. While I locked eyes with it, I shouted, "Come on. My fists itch, and your face looks like a backscratcher."

I winced at what I just said before watching it rush at me. It kept going forward before dashing past me. Lowering my hands, I watched the primeval go out into the distance and up the tunnels. Following it, we both ran through this chasm in the colossal bone pit. A few minutes later, we bolted back into the dunes of sand.

The red dunes burned in the overwhelming light of Leviathan. In that sweltering heat, we crushed through dune after dune. A sandstorm whirled behind us before we reached the bottom of several dunes. The converted primeval grabbed a big ball of rainbow bones, picked it up, and ran off back to the ossuary.

Of course. It was the giant consciousness all along.

I fell onto my knees, not because I had to but because I wanted to. Several sandworm behemoths popped out of the ground, trying to eat me. I splashed the bone fluid over the monsters, watching them suffer. I thought to add to that suffering, but I stopped myself. Gazing at my hands, I wondered what was wrong with me.

The minds and I came to a consensus - we lost our sense of normalcy. It wasn't something I was ever aware of, yet it remained with me most of the time. Even if I lost most of what made up my life sometimes, I held onto something from before it changed. However, I lost everything here.

Schema's lacking presence eliminatedTorix's books to read. I could reread ones through my memory, but that was it. My emptied dimensional storage meant none of the other trinkets existed outside of what I put in my pocket dimension. Unless I wanted to chat with Lehesion's lopped-off tail, that wasn't exactly a bonus.

Scratching my hair, I closed my eyes, trying to swim through my memories. Once more, behemoths interrupted my train of thought. I killed them, keeping a fit of explosive anger in check. Laying back on the side of a sand dune, I made a few sand angels in the dust. It gave me a nostalgic feeling as if I were a child in the snow again. In my ears, a low, droning voice ebbed in,

"And fate has decided we meet again, I see. It's good to see you again."

I looked up, and Shalahora gazed back down at me. My eyes widened as he tilted his shadowy face at me,

"You...appear troubled."
