Those questions and a dozen others piled on in tandem, and as always, I rushed to fix them. As primordial mana oozed over me, droplets of the mana funneled upward. They rained into a surging, semitranslucent ooze of navy blue. It piled up at the end of navy blue fire that burned on my skin. I clapped my hands together, the mana coursing into my body until I almost burst.

Clarity infused into my mind, and I smiled at all that was to be done. It was time to get to work.

Chapter Begin

**********************************************************************

-Daniel-

I brushed my hands together, metallic rings resonating from the clanging claps of my palms. The echoes radiated through another city's barrier, the swirling field of blue strata no less beautiful than the first time I built one. Anytime I crafted anything, I wanted peace, quiet, and beautiful scenery. My cities on Leviathan-7 fit the bill.

Taking a deep breath, I put my hands on my hips. This would be my fourth attempt at making one of these, and I hoped it would work. Implanting a blue core into the golem's body, I inspected the next model of my primordial core golems. They proved more challenging to get right than the ascendant and quintessence models.

Those assault and constructor models fit into their mana types well, everything syncing up. On the other hand, primordials had a bad habit of going haywire. Given the motivations I gave them, the mishaps weren't mutinies exactly, but they came close at times. That chaos stemmed from the primordial golems being the most independent of any golem type.

These golems, directors as I called them, could think for themselves, and while that let them manage cities, it also meant the golems could go against me if they wanted to. Not directly, but in a roundabout way. For that reason, I had to get specific with the wording behind the motivations I put in them.

I tried out a variety of directives with each dungeon heart, but few made it past my initial prototype phase. Most primordial cores carried a sinister air I didn't like, so I never put suspicious ones in an actual golem body. I probed each and every finished heart, ensuring some quality control. Despite that caution, my three previous attempts blew up in my face.

My first attempt worked wonders for my first city. Under the primordial's management, the blue cores and rainbow bones rained in. It was all roses and sunshine until I placed another primordial over a different city. Like two ticking time bombs, both golems met, disagreed, and waged war with each other.

They wanted the other golem's territory so they could help me more. It turned out that 'help Daniel' was too vague a motivation for them. After that, I started the quality controls and added some constraints. My next director ended up trying to gather more dungeon hearts instead of the bones. That was fine until it tried dismantling my cored golems to get more blue cores.

The third test ended up the worst of them all. By then, I piled up a lot of motivations and constraints, the complexity of the code mounting. With an advanced mind, the last director tried changing their internal code to help facilitate their goals. Once again, I applauded the initiative, but tampering with the cipher was a dangerous game. They paid the price for it.

Without the know-how, the director ended up turning themselves into an endlessly growing pile of flesh. It was both grotesque and remarkably unhelpful. This last set of changes would either work, or I'd scrap the idea altogether.

The first adjustment added self-satisfaction, so these golems carried a solid amount of pride. This stopped them from morphing their own code. The second shift involved a heap of humility. Having the primordials understand their limitations prevented them from doing too much, which had been the main problem prior.

Though a bit contradictory, I hoped the two contrasting traits would stabilize the golem. As the primordial soldier clicked on, I telepathically linked to it with my breath held. It radiated back,

"Ah, it's very good to see you, creator. How are you?"

I raised an eyebrow, always impressed by their verbal skills,

"I'm doing well. What's your goal?"

"Well, firstly, it's to not make a mess of things. Secondly, it's to manage the others as best as I'm able. That's honestly about it...Ah, and to follow your orders, creator. That goes without saying, however."

I gave him a nod, assigning two assault golems as his guards. They'd keep him in line and report any issues to me if the situation went haywire. Crossing my fingers, I put some faith in this golem. He sounded sane, and I needed the help. Running twenty-four cities by myself was weighing on me.

Reminding me of all those places, another assault golem landed beside me. A waft of wind blew past me as I turned to it, the dark metal of the golem sheening under Leviathan's light. In its palms, dozens of blue cores crackled like orbs of lightning. Good, today's harvest was alright. I raised an arm, the spheres whirling into my pocket dimension.

They funneled into the vast pile I amassed, well over two hundred of them clanking around in my storage. The dungeon hearts radiated out in that void, a testament to what I accomplished here. Staring down at another cityscape dotting the distant horizon, I took note of my progress.

I finished twenty-four cities with connecting road systems, made hundreds of core golems, and progressed in time magic. Despite everything, it didn't feel like enough, and it seemed as though the three-month deadline should've already arrived. It hadn't.

In all honesty, I was getting worried that Schema sent us here to raid our empires while we were gone. If that was the case, I'd ensure the AI regretted that dearly when I returned. Despite that unease, I trusted Schema. It wasn't based on blind faith, however. It was based on a hunch.

Closing my eyes, I reached out and released the hastening of time around me. The broken minds in my wake flowed in, every Daniel numb to it by now. The standard dimensional rules rushed in around me, and that 'other' coursed thick as tar. Getting a feel for it, I couldn't help but trust this feeling.

In the last weeks, I gained the ability to sense time's flow. At least I think I did. Here on Leviathan-7, time thickened to an absurd extent, far more than I could ever hope to match. My hastening only added to my temporal compression, and I couldn't accomplish this same feat without Leviathan's temporal warp.

If this black hole worked like a normal one, time's flow would be thin and wispy. From what I could tell, that's how time worked. The more present, the faster stuff went, and the less present, the slower stuff went. I could've been messing up my terminology and presenting a complete and utter oversimplification. However, this understanding worked had for me so far. It wasn't like I was an armchair astrophysicist with access to the internet.

That would make poking holes in my theory easy, after all.

Anyways, I used this normal state of time to gauge the progress of my time manipulation. From many trials, I found my temporal acceleration increased time's flow by about0 25% while moving. When standing still, my time coursed several times faster for me than usual. This skewed my priorities big time.

At first, I hoped to multiply my own time's pace, but that would require years of training which I didn't have here. Instead of a brute force approach, I focused more on mastering my application of temporal manipulation. When brainstorming, devising runes, or thinking up improvements, I always stood still. I paired that compression with my Mass Manipulation skill, a simple ability that shrunk my physical size.

While seemingly small, every millimeter I crunched inward was another my wake could compress.

It gave me a temporal dilation that left the world crawling in slow motion when standing still. The slowed worldly pace made cipher rewrites or brainstorming trivial investments since each minute of thinking equated to only seconds spent moving. This warped how I handled everything, and I contemplated every minute decision until it radiated with efficiency.

Those incremental improvements resulted in a streamlined city-building process. Despite those advancements, I failed at building a city twice. The first defeat stemmed from the rainbow bones. We bothered them too much, and they kept erupting gamma bursts. After several hours, we moved on to greener pastures while the bones settled down. Our second loss came from an underground pocket of primevals.

Thirty of them rested under the opal bones, so we retreated to avoid losses. Over the last couple of hours, we picked them off one by one when it was convenient, but we stopped the orbital bombardments after that. If we hadn't faced the primevals all at once, I could've planted two cities in the time it took to make one.

Speaking of cities, we finished this one a few hours before I got to crafting. At this point, I owned many settlements surrounding my first settlement. This web of cities gave me over hundreds of guards golems and about a hundred assault golems to improve my assaults with. They darkened Leviathan-7's sky with their numbers, surging into each new zone like a volley of arrows.

But these arrows learned fast and loved war. The assault golems waged it at all moments, each one a spiral of violence and hate. Their ferocity would imbed fear in our enemies, the packs like hungry sharks when facing a weakened foe. The apex of those opponents, the primevals, no longer slowed me down when I established cities. Well, outside of freak occurrences like the thirty primeval blow-ups.

Without worrying about fighting, I put all of my efforts towards the rune carving and city building. Each hub I planted gained me another piece of Leviathan-7 as my own. The roads stretched for dozens of miles between these hubs, and we continued the expansion each day. By now, I ran while making the tunnel structures between the cities.

Those tunnels expanded outwards in circles from my initial building point, creating a ring of settlements. The first ring of cities numbered six, making a hexagon around the alpha settlement. The second ring rounded the first one, the twelve cities maintaining a hexagonal shape. I positioned the towns in that same ratio, keeping everything roughly equidistant from each other.

While it sounded complicated, it was essentially just a controlled expansion. It prevented me from creating a line of cities that defended itself poorly. This denser, symmetrical frontier made the maintenance of new cities less of a hassle, something I came to dread. If I had a quarter for each time I managed a city's defense against some primevals, I'd probably have, like, thirty bucks.

Terribly analogies aside, I kept hopes high that this new primordial golem wouldn't be an abject failure like the last one. For now, I poured my efforts back into expansion. As I did, I frowned. I dragged my hands down my face, wanting to see Althea again. Or Torix. Or anyone, for that matter. Althea led the loneliness front, though.

At this point, the isolation sank its teeth into me, and I detested being on this planet. No matter what I thought up, I couldn't reason those emotions away anymore. The golems helped, and so did having a Manifold Mind. At the same time, those all came from me. In a way, I spoke to myself, about myself, and for myself.

In other words, I was in a complex conversation with just me, and it drove me insane. At times, I questioned whether all of this was real or not, mainly because of how alien and strange everything was. Having all of my life ripped away for so long left me wondering if I died and this was hell. But it couldn't be. Because I couldn't die.

Snapping me out of my nihilistic stupor, a scouting golem landed beside me. They were just normal golems sent out to explore, but I liked calling them by their roles. It helped keep everything organized, something I wished I could offload to Torix.

Poor lich had to take a lot of offloading. Damn, I missed the guy.

I linked to the scouting golem, and it radiated back to me,

"Hello, creator. We have found an oddity in the deserts of this planet."

I frowned, "What is it?"

"The bone piles spread through the dunes are missing through vast swaths of land."

I tapped my chin, a dozen minds thinking back at once, "Something's collecting the bones then, so there are several possibilities." I smiled, "It sounds like some rulers were harvesting the easiest to grab bone sources. Either that or...something else is taking them." I peered down, giving the rainbow bones a few stomps,

"Like this big bone thing."

The scout spoke out, "Do you wish for us to find the source of the oddities?"

My brow crinkled, my mind drifting off to the idea of talking to someone. I shook my head, "No, I've got this. Let me handle it."

The scout gave a bow while raising its hands, "Of course, creator. We shall continue surveying the continent, and I shall lead you there."

It pressed its feet into the ground, darting away. I followed, putting a hand on its shoulder. Mana siphoned from me into it, and the golem picked up the pace. In minutes, we passed the wafting forests of kelp, the algae thinning. The desert came in force, pockets of kelp spawning behemoths here still.

I gazed at the red dunes, the light of Leviathan forever beaming down its brilliance here. It cast a permanent mid-morning shine onto the dunes, lighting piles of sand into majestic, glowing pyramids. I gawked at the beauty, glad to be out of the damn ossuary for once. The madness there felt like it was crawling under my skin, and I enjoyed the peace here.

