With all that was happening across most of the capital, they couldn't just walk in through Phoenix Academy's front gates. But ultimately, they weren't going through the front door anyway. Everything the Neath did, it did under the skin. And Shiv knew enough about human biology to know that there were a great many other systems circulating beneath the epidermis.

The circulatory system, for one. Blood surged along its channels and fueled the body. The architecture of a city was not so different. Buildings and streets were the skin, but connected to them were sewers, springs, and underfloor chains carrying mana. Spells needed to be directed from place to place. Water needed to be dispensed in every home for hydration and cleaning purposes. And from every home also came rubbish and biological waste.

That was how he discovered where the forger's den was. Though he'd been drawn across a series of brass pipes before finally being teleported into another section of the city altogether, he had expected himself to be under some kind of ordinary building, perhaps a residence or an even larger brewery.

The truth was beyond his ability to suspect.

The moment they stepped out of the chamber, waves of oppressive heat washed over Shiv. It wasn't nearly extreme enough to cause him any harm, but Adam hissed, Irons tensed, and the goblin forger stifled a slight growl of discomfort. "I always hate coming out this way. This is your fault, you bastards. I could be getting moved through the pipes, but now my den’s getting burned. Everything’s gonna get stripped down.”

The air was so dry, Shiv felt his tongue shrivel. There was a faint shimmer in the air from the extreme temperatures passing through this place. Worse yet was the wailing whistle that constantly climbed and climbed. They weren't in a normal tunnel. The walls were made from some kind of heat-resistant material; the texture was rubbery, and its coloring was pitch black. Even so, steam rose off from the sides, and Shiv guessed that the insides of the insulating matter had coolant stored within.

A small squad of Pathbearers was waiting for them as well. They were dressed in heat-resistant armor, pulsing waves of cold radiated forth from them, and they held their weapons high, lowering them only when Custiel gave the say-so. One among them was dense with Biomancy mana.

They weren't dressed like the others. In fact, Shiv didn't even know what kind of being they were. They resembled a humanoid ant to some extent, but their face was mostly a slit with teeth running down the middle like a zipper. The rest of their body was chitinous as well, with several lashing antennae extended behind them. The strange creature stood amongst the other Pathbearers and made a series of hand signs using their forearms. They directed their silent language at Custiel, but the goblin just waved them off.

"Yeah, yeah, Reggie, I'm fine," Custiel said. "Came to an agreement with our friends here. Turns out everything was a bit of a misunderstanding."

Shiv could have said something, but the Educator let out a haughty hmph. At least she was going along with things for now. If she complained any further, he might've just gotten into a fight with her out of pure annoyance.
