Daphne bit her lip. Despite herself, she felt her hand waver slightly. The entire thing sounded crazy, but it also made sense in a weird way. The sneaking around, meeting up to talk at the wall at night—obviously Pyre wouldn’t want to risk anyone finding out that her little brother was a ghost. She’d mentioned growing up by the Shards, and there would definitely be enough ichor concentration there for spirits to form.

Even the fact that transferring points had apparently brought back his consciousness wasn’t all too farfetched. Ghosts were known to degrade more and more with time, so a sudden burst of intelligence at the beginning of formation could very well stave that off. Daphne knew if she ever found Eduard dead and turned into a ghost, she’d probably throw everything at the wall to find something that would keep him himself, too.

It would even explain that pause Pyre had made when Daphne had asked her about her family. She’d noted it as another suspicious sign at first, but having a ghost little brother would make that pause make all too much sense. Hell, if Daphne really thought about it, when she was listening in on Pyre and Callan’s conversation, she’d thought she’d heard laughing. It was so faint that she’d thought she’d misheard, but more and more she was starting to think that she’d been right. Pyre had been laughing, and this whole situation might just be a lot less malicious than she’d thought it was.

She still wasn’t completely convinced, though.

Daphne turned to Callan and studied him again. He looked distinctly uncomfortable, but he didn’t move away either.

“Prove you’re a ghost,” she suddenly said. He blinked, so Daphne repeated herself.

“Prove you’re a ghost. You look pretty solid to me.”

Callan eyed her warily, but slowly, he stepped—no, floated—out from behind Pyre. He coughed. “Uh, I can look solid when I focus.” In the next instant, all the colors disappeared from his body, and he became silvery and transparent. Daphne jumped. Another flash and he was back to opaque.

“…And you’re completely conscious? You’re not some insane angry spirit?”

Callan frowned. “Do I look mindless and vengeful to you?” he sounded slightly offended.

At this point, Daphne was increasingly convinced that their story was true (insane as that sounded), but that didn’t exclude the possibility that they were still here to sneak around the manor or drain people or any other number of things.

A part of her, the part that was still clinging to some kind of a connection with Pyre, wanted to be able to accept this as it was. She hadn’t seen them do anything but talk, after all. Neither of them had attacked her so far, and Pyre hadn’t harmed anyone in the manor or garrison that she knew of. Still, she had to be sure.

Daphne opened her mouth to question them some more, but before the words could escape, a jolt of pain suddenly burst through her chest.

The spell at her fingertip extinguished as she stumbled forward, blinding pain screaming through her nerves as black spots began to appear in her vision. She vaguely felt herself hit the ground, but it was hard to make anything out through the pain. Shit shit shit, she thought. She’d overdone it with her magic. She should’ve known her luck would run out.

As more and more of those black spots appeared, Daphne was vaguely aware of voices above her. Pyre and Callan were still there, she realized. As her consciousness faded, she had the hysterical thought that dying of ichor-poisoning or getting killed because she’d collapsed now of all times would be an unbelievably pathetic way to go out.

The voices faded and her vision blurred. The last thing Daphne saw before blacking out was the image of Pyre stepping closer.
