Erick turned away from Tasar and scanned the area. He saw no overt displays of magic upon anyone. No [Scry] eyes anywhere. No runic webs. No open displays of magic at all. One guy over there was gardening with clippers and— Ah! The gardener used [Grow] on the plant— Oh. It was a specific [Grow]. Now that Erick looked down the row of trees lining the sky road, he saw that every single one was straight-trunked and spherical of canopy. The gardener’s spell had fluffed the tree out, and then the guy conjured a ladder to reach the canopy, to trim it down to proper shape and size.

Tasar saw where Erick was looking, and said, “That guy has been taking care of those six trees on that road since I lived here nearly 500 years ago. I learned the hard way not to make that guy angry. Anyone you see using any magic at all should be considered extremely dangerous. It is a privilege to use magic in the open where it could disturb other people, and that privilege has been hard earned.”

Erick looked around. From their vantage point on the side of the bridge he saw at least twenty five people openly using magics, though they were small magics, for sure. A conjured broom, to sweep out the storefront. [Fabricate] to make a dress out of cloth. A [Prestidigitation] to prod the fire in a bakery…

Hmm. Odd. Wrought didn’t wear clothes or need to eat fleshy-people food.

Erick asked, “Dresses and baked goods?”

Tasar smiled fondly as she looked toward the bakery, three towers over and one level down. “Now there’s a man we might be able to talk to, if you want. Getting there might be dangerous.” She looked toward the bridge with the trees. “Have to walk past him.”

“… No. Let’s not do that. Just tell me… Why the dresses and baked goods?”

“Well, we do eat food for the taste of it and some people do wear clothes instead of metal. But it’s about being the people we strive to protect, more than anything.” Tasar looked toward the dress shop that Erick had seen, saying, “The seamstress will sell one red dress to a woman who comes by at 9 in the morning, but who isn’t sure if she wants the dress. The woman comes back at 10 and buys it, though no money changes hands; we’re beyond money here… Which. I suppose I can tell you that practically every green-white wrought here has [Duplicate], and the seamstress has the spell, too. That’s how she has her fabrics to make her red dress, and also a black dress that she doesn’t sell, and a blue suit that she sells to a man getting married to his wife tomorrow. The marriage is always tomorrow, too.” Tasar softly smiled. “156 is on a one-day rotation, but there’s a larger weekly rotation that happens in some neighborhoods. 161 is full-weekly rotation. One small area which we will not venture is on a year rotation; they’re outliers, though.”

Erick nodded, and softly said, “This is all kind of terrifying, but I can see the appeal of living the same day over and over. Nothing changes, meaning nothing bad happens.”

Tasar reluctantly, but knowingly accepted Erick’s words when he mentioned his terror, but then her small smile returned as he spoke of nothing bad happening. She said, “It’s nice to know that tomorrow is going to be the same as the day before. I tried it for a while but… I didn’t fit in.”

“I hope it’s not offensive to ask, but…” Seeing that Tasar was waiting for Erick to ask the obvious, to ask about her own history here, Erick went in a slightly different direction, asking, “Sitnakov promised you elevation to Heavy. What is required for that?”

“… That’s not where I thought you would go.” Tasar thought for a second, then looked away, back to her home neighborhood, saying, “My elevation to Heavy is more me humoring that man than anything that will truly happen. Such an elevation is reserved for royalty born improperly, and I’m just a bastard. I have been more than fine with this designation for a long, long time, and besides, I’m not going to spit in my mother’s face like that.”

“Ah. Well. That’s…” It was rather personal, is what it was. Erick focused on the actuality of the theoretical process, “I was theorizing that all it would take would be a lot of adamantium, but if [Duplicate] is already here then you’re already a post-scarcity society so such a transition to adamantium must take something more than extra adamantium.”

“Yes. It does take more than that.”

Erick waited a moment, wondering if Tasar would elaborate.

She did not.

Erick said, “So this deepening of Truth through routine, instead of expanding Truth to encompass more... Is this how the Script works? Directly through the repetition of the wrought?”

Tasar scrunched her face a little. Unsure, she said, “… No?” More strongly, she said, “That’s not how the Script works, but then again, none of us actually know how the Script truly functions. It’s theorized that this tendency toward routine might be a side effect of the Script, but… Some people find their glory in routine; in making sure that home is safe, and that other people are free to experience ‘events’.” She added, “One thing that routine does work on, though, is magic, and a lot of us need a lot of power to keep this home safe, so… That gardener over there deepens his Truth of Pruning with every repetition of his path. He is very skilled at pruning monsters down to size. The baker has a Truth of Bolstering, with support spells that spread like fire and make generals and archmages envious of the armies he leads. The seamstress has a Truth of Mending, and with that, she’s one of the best wrought-specialized Healers you will ever see.

“But interrupting that routine does nothing bad for the Script. This entire neighborhood has mobilized for war time and time again, at the single warcry of King Alfonin. It has happened before and it will likely happen again. Months at war…” Tasar said, “If a disruption of routine is all it took to break the Script, the Script would already be broken.”

Erick had a small epiphany. “Ah. It’s trauma. That’s why routine.”

Tasar’s face turned a bit softer, as she said, “That’s the more accepted reasoning. Immortals live a very long time. We see a lot of shit. We…” Her voice trailed off; she thought about speaking more, but she decided against it.

“I understand trauma; war response. Maybe not as much as some people, but I understand it both personally, and through helping others.” Erick added, “We called it post traumatic stress disorder, back home.”

“We have therapy services. I’ve used them myself after going through a few… wars, and otherwise.” Tasar said, “One of the best things they ever told me was not to compare my trauma to that of others, for there is no comparison except that everyone hurts in different ways, to different degrees.”

Erick smiled. “That’s what I’ve told people a few times, too.”

“Ah?” Tasar glanced his way, her eyes briefly going wide as though she had fucked up. “Oh. I suppose you would have known this already, and you’ve lost your whole world. Sorry. Sometimes it’s hard to gauge where other people are in their lives, and you look rather young. I apologize for my misstep.”

Erick chuckled a little, saying, “Veird is home but I did have another, yeah. Aside from a few things I don’t really miss Earth. And hey! I have Jane, so it’s all good. Plus, if I hadn’t fallen here with Jane then I would have likely died of cancer; either this year or the next.”

Tasar went still. When she mentally returned to the moment, she seemed stiffer, as she spoke from on high, “We have ways to grant immortality to mortals should you prove yourself worthy.”

She had returned to her persona of ‘distant immortal’, but Erick could tell it was just a facade that she wore to distance herself from the pain of losing people. That much was as easy to see as the sun on a cloudless day.

Erick decided to tease her about her reaction, saying, “Unless your people plan on killing me then I should be sticking around for many, many years to come, even without your immortality methods.” Tasar turned his way, letting her mask fall and her incredulity show, so Erick added, “There were dozens of theorized methods toward non-magical immortality back where I came from. I just need to figure out a few of them. Phagar even said that he’d allow a single cast of such a spell, too, if only to plug that hole in the Script.”

Tasar’s eyes went wide. “… I did not know you were that close to Phagar.”

Odd reaction. Tasar had a lot of odd reactions… Almost as though she hadn’t been spying on Erick all this time? What an odd thing for her to pretend at.

Erick said, “I included my acceptance of Phagar’s Championship when I handed out that point-of-view memory of Last Shadow’s Feast. Phagar told me that he wouldn’t accept such a thing in such dire circumstances and I’m kinda glad that he denied me, but yeah. Phagar’s a good guy. We talk sometimes.”

“Ah. That ‘report’ of yours.” With complete seriousness, Tasar said, “I did not believe it. Almost no one did.”

Erick blinked a few times, then laughed. He asked, “Do you believe it now?”

“Your power is undeniable but there were holes in your report.”

“Well of course there were holes.” Erick asked, “If you had gone through what I had, would you have given a complete accounting to the entire world? Some witnessed events should not be spread out to everyone.”

“Will you give a full accounting at the inquiry?”

“Nope.” Erick said, “And you evaded my question. Would you have given a full account to the entire world?”

“… No.” Tasar said, “My own report would have been considerably smaller, and would have gone through the proper protocols for dealing with the Dark to ensure I was not compromised. But what you did was more than that. It was a wide-ranging statement to the world, and it played right into the Dark’s claws to fit his narrative of becoming something else than who he has always been.”

Erick had a quick rejoinder for that, but he waited a suitable amount of seconds to allow Tasar’s words to have some weight; she seemed to need that. Then he said, “I much prefer wide ranging open honesty than allowing the majority of people to remain unenlightened.”

“Unfettered Truth has been the cause of many Forgotten Campaigns.”

Erick paused.

He listened to the wind and the small voices of people carrying on all around them, as he thought.

Eventually, he said, “Regarding the inquiry… I’ll answer questions. I’ll speak truths. Though I don’t really understand what you people need to question me for, anyway. You’ve probably had spies on me since I landed on Veird. Don’t you know everything already?”

“The inquiry will be an official hearing where you present yourself for evaluation, the judges decide Stratagold’s official stance with you, and then we go from there.” Tasar said, “I get the feeling that you think an inquiry is a bad thing, but that could not be further from the truth. An inquiry is what every single group of people at the embassy wishes they could have, because a successful inquiry means the weight of Stratagold falls behind you, lifting you to new glories with manufacturing and magical assistance and help with monsters and other problems. Consider a successful inquiry as the wrought version of Kirginatharp’s bargain of trade.”

For a moment, Erick felt untethered.

His entire worldview shifted in the moment.

Tasar continued, “Enduring Forge succeeded in their inquiry around 100 post-Sundering, and they’ve fallen to the Dark several times, only to be propped back up by the wrought city of Titanite. Oceanside exists due to the Headmaster, yes, but Stratagold falls behind Kirginatharp whenever there are any threats too big to handle. I wasn’t there when it happened, but it is my understanding that the Fall of Quintlan is partially due to not a single nation on the Surface being able to satisfy an inquiry.” She said, “You don’t need an inquiry to succeed in this world; just look at Songli. But it helps, a lot.” She added, “We have limits, obviously, but a lot of those limits might relax now that the Dark Clergy has been purged or Blessed into submission.”

Erick felt a bit better about everything…

But he kept his expectations low. Maybe he would try to do this ‘inquiry’ thing correctly.

He said, “Okay. That’s a lot better than what I was expecting out of an inquiry.”

“Don’t misunderstand in the other direction, Erick.” Tasar said, “An inquiry is very much a judgment. But the good outcome is great for you and your descendants. The bad outcome is exile and distancing.” Tasar didn’t need to mention the truly bad outcome, but it was there; unsaid.

Erick turned his thoughts toward the future, thinking about what he desired, and no more easy words seemed ready to be said. So he simply stood by Tasar, the two of them staring out at the land in front of them. Tasar likely saw a lot more than he saw, by simple virtue of knowing these people, and knowing their routines. The black-green wrought seemed happy as she gazed upon her homeland. Happier than Erick had ever seen her, though admittedly he had not seen a lot of her. That would change in the coming months, with or without approval from Stratagold and the Church of Rozeta’s inquiry.

And so, Erick watched. He listened. He did not judge, but...

The whole thing with wrought and routines was a little freaky, but as Erick stood there, letting his mind wander while the gardener trimmed his trees and the baker baked his bread, it seemed nice. It wasn’t long before Erick noticed a rhythm to it all, as the seamstress clipped her threads in time to the gardener snipping small branches, as the people walked across skybridges talking of whatever, and a woman sat on her porch and turned the pages of her book in time to it all...

To always know what was going to happen next. To never worry about the danger of a disrupted life...

There was a certain allure here. But this kind of life wasn’t for Erick, and he still found it really weird, no matter how much he realized that this was just the wrought’s culture.

Erick broke the personable silence between him and Tasar, asking, “Do you have [Duplicate]?”

Tasar pulled herself away from the sights around her, turning to Erick. “Yes, but you’ll never see me use it outside of private spaces where I am absolutely sure that no one else can ever see. Here is okay. Outside of Stratagold? Never.” She added, “And only for essentials. They tell us all when we gain that spell to never leave a trace of it anywhere you go.”

“Have the Geodes ever considered transitioning the rest of Veird to a post-scarcity society?”

