“I’m basically stealing it, myself.” Erick smiled as he said, “I’ve stolen so much from back home. It’s worked out quite well for me.”

“Oh.” Tasar laughed. “It has, hasn’t it.”

“Very much so.”

They spoke more of shipping and logistics.

Eventually the night —or was it day?— came to an end, and Erick made a crass joke about needing to get back to his own daily routine, which Tasar didn’t understand at first, but which Erick explained had to do with the bathroom. She chuckled again. And then Tasar paid for the meal and they went their separate ways.

On his way back to Yggdrasil Erick picked up a whole bunch of fabrics that Sergeant Kapra and her people had procured for him. He thanked them, then brought all his new supplies back with him to Yggdrasil, to one of his [Sealed Privacy Ward]s, where he rapidly copied what he wanted and destroyed the originals. He was probably being overly paranoid, but…

A little bit of paranoia was prudent.

Outside of the sights of anyone else, Erick switched over to his Other Form and had a second dinner of [Renew] and mana cycling. After doing some more necessities in a conjured toilet and [Cleanse]ing away the proof of his fleshy nature, he hopped into bed and examined his current situation.

He felt good there, under the covers, under the light. He felt good here, next to Stratagold. The inquiry certainly didn’t seem nearly as scary now as it had yesterday. In fact, a successful inquiry could be a rather good opportunity to ensure that Candlepoint got more help—

Ah. They probably wouldn’t go for that. If what Rozeta had said was true, then every shadeling had within them a backdoor which Melemizargo could use to take them over.

Well… A good inquiry would still help Erick to take back all of the Crystal Forest from the mimics. If Tasar wanted to take back Glaquin, too, then maybe he could help her with that, as well. Tasar seemed nice enough, now that they weren’t on opposite sides of a battlefield. Honestly, she had always seemed decent, but also distant. Knowing what he now knew, perhaps her distance was just her not wanting to get near mortals; a perfectly reasonable desire. Attachments between mortals and immortals never worked out well. Mortal and immortal cultures just didn’t mix.

And apparently, immortals were mostly post-scarcity, too; yet another point of contention.

It would probably be difficult to bring all of Veird into a post-scarcity society, considering all the boons granted to everyone by the Script already made them much, much more post-scarcity than Earth, and yet there were still problems of murder and mayhem everywhere, and that wasn’t even taking into consideration all the monsters.

There were quite a lot of problems to fix out there, and Erick could fix a lot of them, couldn’t he? Like. Yeah. He had had these thoughts before, and he had been solving problems for a while now, but…

He could actually do this.

And a [Renew] runic web would solve all the problems of bad actors learning runework from a runic web! Every problem had a solution, and Erick had lots of time to solve them all, now that he was apparently immortal, too. Probably wouldn’t go telling people about his immortality for a few decades, though. If he lived that long.

Most immortals didn’t make it past a year outside of their specific societies.

Erick might not last a year, either.

… Maybe he should purposefully throw the inquiry to keep Stratagold out of his life.

Maybe.

As Erick closed his eyes and fell into the embrace of sleep, a few more thoughts crossed his mind. He should talk to some people about their inquiry experiences to see how much of what Tasar said was true, and he should see what Silverite has to say about her own experiences with the Geodes. Erick and Silverite had never been close, but Erick was technically in Spur’s Army, so maybe Silverite would have some good advice.

Anyway, Geode society was weird as fuck.

- - - -

Erick woke, got ready for the day with another swim and another [Renew] session, then he made himself some nicer clothes out of the materials he had gotten from Sergeant Kapra. As he turned cloth into pants and other assorted high-class items, Erick got back to thinking about what a ‘post-scarcity’ society would actually look like.

Veird already was post-scarcity for the most part. All basic needs could be met with a bit of Script assistance. People could already [Teleport] anywhere, and protect their homes from smaller monsters, or feed themselves with [Grow]. All one needed to do was learn how to work the system in their favor, and while the Registrars didn’t give away secrets, they certainly made sure that everyone knew how to interact with the Script, and what all the blue boxes and terms meant. Past that, one needed to interact with other people to learn how to best take control and use the magic granted by the Script.

So in that sense, Veird was practically 75% post-scarcity already. [Duplicate] wasn’t necessary to have a good life in the current socioeconomic environment. What was necessary to a good life was participation in the lives of others. If [Duplicate] was in the Open Script, then that would solve practically all physical needs. It would also absolutely tank the gold-based economy.

Maybe if the economy moved away from the gold standard to some sort of…

Runic inscription banknotes?

Runes couldn’t be stamped out of a press, after all. Someone had to actually use their power to carve into the history of an item, to physically and magically create a rune. Putting [Renew] into a banknote seemed like a safe thing to do, too, but that banknote would have to be capable of taking in [Renew], which would mean the banknote would have to be made of metal.

So coins with runes of [Renew] in them. The goal here was to make a currency that everyone could use and benefit from, after all, and what better way to do this than to make currency that could actually be used on existing magic. Such a tax system could actually be ‘1500 units of [Renew]’. Maybe the actual currency could be mana, then…

That would leave warriors out in the cold, though.

And besides that, Erick wanted to transition away from gold and other heavy metals because it was annoying to use gold due to the weight of it all, but having metallic currency might end up a necessity. Maybe coins were fine, anyway, since most large transactions took place through Mage Bank; physical currency only changed hands when dealing with small amounts of the stuff.

It would be easy to test runic coins for authenticity, too, since in Erick’s hypothetical world everyone had [Renew], and they could just channel into a suspect coin to see if it was real or a product of [Duplicate]. Hmm. Interesting thoughts, there.

Erick put on his new clothes and looked up at Yggdrasil, asking, “I want to talk to Poi again and to some people over at Nelboor. Want to help me?”

Yggdrasil had been playing with the fish down in the lake, seeing if he knew all of them and naming a few, but at Erick’s words he focused on him, instead. “Yes! I help.”

Erick nodded. Then he got to talking to people.

- - - -

Poi sent, ‘I can’t talk too much about inquiries for that would be breaking protocols, but I can say that… I can say that Tasar wasn’t lying. Maybe misrepresenting the danger? There is a danger there, but it’s also an opportunity. Obviously whatever sort of inquiry you attend won’t be the normal sort of inquiry. They’d judge everything you ever did and… It’s going to be tough for you.’

Erick mentally nodded ‘That’s sort of what I figured already.’

Poi mentally shrugged, then sent, ‘Silverite is not able to talk right now but she can in ten minutes. Is there someone else you want to talk to before that?’

‘Yeah. I need to make sure that Enduring Forge made out okay. Maybe I can speak to their mayor, Arakag?’

‘When they found out you were okay they sent us a missive. Let me remember…’ Poi sent, ‘To Archmage Erick Flatt: We are relieved to hear that you have survived your trip through the Teleport Pad unscathed and are recuperating near Stratagold. If ever you feel like returning to Enduring Forge, you will be well received.’ He sent, ‘There was more about rune work and wishing you well on the creation of [Renew]. Do you want me to recite the whole letter?’

‘No. That’s fine.’ Erick asked, ‘Did they say anything about Darabella? What happened to the people who made the Teleport Pad?’

‘They were in deep shit for a while, but when you turned up alive things cooled down.’

‘I’ll need to make an apology to them when I get back to the Surface. What about Nirzir? Was she okay?’

‘Nirzir was not okay, but she got better. She’s actually in Spur right now, along with a bunch of other people from Songli.’

Erick connected a few dots. ‘But you can’t tell me more than that because then you’d be talking about what’s happening at Spur.’

‘Correct.’

‘… Whatever is happening… Why would Nirzir… It’s some sort of monster hunting but why would anyone… Are the monsters made of gold?— No no. That can’t be it— Did you know that [Duplicate] is rampant down here? That they have Teleport Stations?’ Erick sent, ‘It boggles the mind. I am boggled.’

‘Those things are kept deeply secretive. I’m surprised you got one near Yggdrasil.’

‘Everything is happening so fast down here I’m not sure I can stomach all of it.’ Erick sent, ‘Anyway. You have monsters and Nirzir is there, for some reason.’

Poi stoically sent, ‘I’m sure I don’t know what they’re here for, but Nirzir has enjoyed rooming in one of the extra rooms and talking with Kiri. She’s working well with Jane, too, while one of Nirzir’s bodyguards is a prognosticator who is getting along well with Teressa. Everyone is doing great, so don’t worry about us— Silverite is ready. I’m connecting you now.’

‘Way to dodge the questions, Poi,’ Erick sent, as he waited—

‘Hello, Erick,’ Silverite sent, ‘I understand you’re headed into an inquiry?’

‘Hello, Silverite.’ Erick sent, ‘I’m headed into an inquiry with the Church of Rozeta and a few others, and to have ‘Bright Tea’ at the White Palace. Got any words of wisdom for me?’

With a serious tone, Silverite asked, ‘How many days has it been since they invited you to these events? Have they given you specific dates to meet with them?’

‘About five, now. And no; no specific dates. Whenever I’m ready it will happen.’

Silverite relaxed with a soft chuckle, then sent, ‘Let’s speak of the inquiry first. Have they offered you counsel?’

‘… Uh. I’m not sure. Tasar the Summoner is my ‘keeper’, for now, though that is just what I’ve been calling her and I don’t think it’s her official title. They want her to stick with me till the end of the Worldly Path. They wanted to wipe my memory of the Core and force me off the Path, but that’s not happening. Instead, I have Tasar and some responsibilities to the Headmaster, and we’re going to hunt down a Wizard different from Melemizargo in order to gain the spark —or whatever— is required to make a [Gate] summon.’

A heavy joy and relief flooded out from Silverite, but she kept her tone even, ‘Good. Tasar is a decent sort; used to mortals, anyway. If she’s at your side for the final part of your Path, then you might actually make it to the end.

‘That said, and about your inquiry: Stratagold was not my home Geode, but I’ve dealt with them a lot, mostly through the various teams that they send out to recover dangerous magics that have usually been stolen into Ar’Kendrithyst. They want things certain ways and anyone standing outside of those parameters are —best case— ruthlessly abandoned to the Dark. Exile and cutoff from all support is their usual option for dealing with problematic people, for even a dangerous person is still a tool they can throw against the Dark. If you can prove yourself as worthy of their benediction and capable of acting in their desired ways, then they will stand firmly with you against all odds.

‘I don’t know how you’ve interacted with them so far, but based on what you’ve done and are looking to do I can only assume that they want to help, now that you’re finally down there and forcing the issue. Visiting the Core without proper clearance is a dark mark, and it will be a problem, but hopefully not a large one.

‘So here’s what you need to do: I highly doubt that Tasar would be your official counsel for the inquiry, but you should ask her if she is. If she is, then have her help you prepare for the inquiry. If she is not, then you need to hire an inquiry preparatory committee and prepare for a year before going into that meeting; the lives of Geode wrought are much slower than other wrought. But! This seems like an outlier of a time, so they might want something sooner. Ask about your timeline, and find out. You’re probably going to wind up hiring an emergency IPC, which is fine. Hire three; you got money. Take whatever advice from them you feel like taking, and then move on.

‘You don’t actually need Stratagold to make any future plans work, but many future plans will be easier with them at your back.’ Silverite sent, ‘I’ve been told that you want to do some runic web stuff? You’re going to need a Geode’s backing to get that working, otherwise they’ll come in and shut you down. They’ll be nice about shutting you down, but even if you’re making runic web breakthroughs and solving world problems with your runes, if you aren’t working within their system they’ll confiscate every runic structure you make until you run out of resources. Violent escalation will be met in kind, but they usually won’t even confront you. They’ll just steal that shit out from under you. Constant, horrible theft is likely the worst possible outcome from a failed inquiry. Thankfully, Mage Bank isn’t operated by them or else they’d go in and take your money and leave you destitute, too, but Mage Bank was created in response to them doing that when Geode Bank was the main bank— Eh. That’s all ancient history.’ Silverite sent, ‘Get an EIPC and prepare well. You want Stratagold on your side, Erick’

Toward the end Silverite’s voice was strained with hard emotions. Erick almost asked what had been stolen from Spur, or otherwise, but that would be a topic for another day.

Erick sent, ‘Thank you. I’ll keep all that in mind.’

Silverite mentally nodded, then sent, ‘Now this Bright Tea thing is more dangerous— Which is happening first, Bright Tea, or the inquiry?’

‘Whichever I want, I think.’

